exterior--that was polished; but there were a sensualism and want of
principle about him that could be felt.

They had been in the house only a week or two, when their oldest child,
a beautiful boy, was taken ill. He had fever, and complained of
distress in his back and pain in his head. The mother appeared anxious,
but the father treated the matter lightly, and said he would be well
again in a few hours.

"I think you'd better call in a doctor," Mrs. Darlington heard the
mother say, as her husband stood at the chamber door ready to go away.

"Nonsense, Jane," he replied. "You are easily frightened. There's
nothing serious the matter."

"I'm afraid of scarlet fever, Henry," was answered to this.

"Fiddlesticks! You're always afraid of something," was lightly and
unkindly returned.

Mrs. Marion said no more, and her husband went away. About half an hour
afterwards, as Mrs. Darlington sat in her room, there was a light tap
at her door, which was immediately opened, and Mrs. Marion stepped in.
Her face was pale, and it was some moments before her quivering lips
could articulate.

"Won't you come up and look at my Willy?" she at length said, in a
tremulous voice.

"Certainly, ma'am," replied Mrs. Darlington, rising immediately. "What
do you think ails your little boy?"

"I don't know, ma'am; but I'm afraid of scarlet fever--that dreadful
disease."

Mrs. Darlington went up to the chamber of Mrs. Marion. On the bed lay
Willy, his face flushed with fever, and his eyes wearing a glassy
lustre.

"Do you feel sick, my dear?" asked Mrs. Darlington, as she laid her
hand on his burning forehead.

"Yes, ma'am," replied the child.

"There are you sick?"

"My head aches."

"Is your throat sore?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Very sore?"

"It hurts me so that I can hardly swallow."

"What do you think ails him?" asked the mother, in anxious tones.

"It's hard to say, Mrs. Marion; but, if it were my case, I would send
for a doctor. Who is your physician?"

"Dr. M----."

"If you would like to have him called in, I will send the waiter to his
office."

Mrs. Marion looked troubled and alarmed.

"My husband doesn't think it any thing serious," said she. "I wanted
him to go for the doctor."

"Take my advice, and send for a physician," replied Mrs. Darlington.

"If you will send for Dr. M----, I will feel greatly obliged," said
Mrs. Marion.

The doctor was sent for immediately. He did not come for two hours, in
which time Willy had grown much worse. He looked serious, and answered
all questions evasively. After writing a prescription, he gave a few
directions, and said he would call again in the evening. At his second
