
"Gon. Here is everything advantageous to life.
Ant. True; save means to live."
TEMPEST.


Fleda's fatigue did not prevent her being up before sunrise
the next day. Fatigue was forgotten, for the light of a fair
spring morning was shining in at her windows, and she meant to
see aunt Miriam before breakfast. She ran out to find Hugh,
and her merry shout reached him before she did, and brought
him to meet her.

"Come, Hugh! I'm going off up to aunt Miriam's, and I want
you. Come! Isn't this delicious?"

"Hush!" said Hugh. " Father's just here in the barn. I can't
go, Fleda."

Fleda's countenance clouded.

"Can't go! what's the matter? can't you go, Hugh?"

He shook his head, and went off into the barn.

A chill came upon Fleda. She turned away with a very sober
step. What if her uncle was in the barn, why should she hush?
He never had been a check upon her merriment  never; what was
coming now? Hugh, too, looked disturbed. It was a spring
morning no longer. Fleda forgot the glittering wet grass that
had set her own eyes a-sparkling but a minute ago; she walked
along, cogitating, swinging her bonnet by the strings in
thoughtful vibration, till, by the help of sunlight and sweet
air, and the loved scenes, her spirits again made head and
swept over the sudden hindrance they had met. There were the
blessed old sugar maples, seven in number, that fringed the
side of the road  how well Fleda knew them! Only skeletons
now, but she remembered how beautiful they looked after the
October frosts; and presently they would be putting out their
new green leaves, and be beautiful in another way. How
different in their free-born luxuriance from the dusty and
city-prisoned elms and willows she had left! She came to the
bridge then, and stopped with a thrill of pleasure and pain to
look and listen. Unchanged!  all but herself. The mill was
not going; the little brook went by quietly chattering to
itself, just as it had done the last time she saw it, when she
rode past on Mr. Carleton's horse. Four and a half years ago!
And now how strange that she had come to live there again.

Drawing a long breath, and swinging her bonnet again, Fleda
softly went on up the hill, past the saw-mill, the ponds, the
factories, the houses of the settlement. The same, and not the
same! Bright with the morning sun, and yet, somehow, a little
browner and homelier than of old they used to be. Fleda did
not care for that  she would hardly acknowledge it to herself
 her affection never made any discount for infirmity. Leaving
the little settlement behind her thoughts as behind her back,
she ran on now towards aunt Miriam's, breathlessly, till field
after field was passed, and her eye caught a bit of the smooth
lake, and the old farm-house in its old place. Very brown it
looked, but Fleda dashed on, through the garden, and in at the
front door.

Nobody at all was in the entrance-room, the common sitting-
room of the family. With trembling delight, Fleda opened the
well-known door, and stole noiselessly through the little
passage-way to the kitchen. The door of that was only on the
latch, and a gentle movement of it gave to Fleda's eye the
tall figure of aunt Miriam, just before her, stooping down to
look in at the open mouth of the oven, which she was at that
moment engaged in supplying with more work to do. It was a
huge one, and, beyond her aunt's head, Fleda could see in the
far end the great loaves of bread, half baked, and more near a
perfect squad of pies and pans of gingerbread just going in to
take the benefit of the oven's milder mood. Fleda saw all
this, as it were, without seeing it; she stood still as a
mouse and breathless, till her aunt turned, and then  a
spring and a half shout of joy, and she had clasped her in her
arms, and was crying with her whole heart. Aunt Miriam was
taken all aback  she could do nothing but sit down and cry
