"Is she your sister's oldest child?" asked Ida, repaying the caress.

"Yes. She has two younger; a boy and a girl. The babe is my namesake."

"My brother is named Charles Arthur; after uncle Charley and uncle
Arthur," ventured Elle.

"And you love him very dearly,--do you not?" said Ida.

"Yes ma'am; I love papa and mamma, and aunt Carry, and uncle Charley,
and uncle Arthur, and grandpa, and sister and brother," said the child,
running over the names with a volubility that showed how used she was
to the repetition.

"Will you love me too?" asked Ida. The anxiety with which she awaited
the reply will not be sneered at by those who have been, like her,
starvelings in affection.

"Yes, you too, but I don't know what to call you."

"My name is Ida."

"Miss Ida, or cousin Ida?"

"Cousin!" exclaimed Ida, catching at the word. "Call me cousin!"

"Elle claims as relatives, all whom she loves," observed Carry; "and we
encourage her in the practice. Miss is formal; and the absence of any
such prefix gives a disrespectful air to a child's address."

"She speaks of her uncles. Have you brothers?"

"She alludes to Mr. Dana's brothers," said Carry, with a slight blush,
which Ida remembered afterwards. "They were wards of my father's; and
we regard them as a part of the family."

Ida amused herself by coaxing forth Elle's prattle; and related, as
reward for her sociability, a marvellous fairy tale, which expanded
her eyes to their utmost circle, and interested even Carry. Mrs. Dana
entered at the finale.

"Papa has come, Elle, and would be happy to see Miss Ross. Tea is
ready, too. I hope she has not annoyed you,"--to Ida.

"Annoyed! oh no, ma'am! we are good friends, and have had a nice talk,
have we not, darling?"

Playing with a child is a very puerile amusement--what room is there
for the exercise of the reasoning faculties; what opportunity for
gaining new views of the world or of truth? Still Ida was happier, and
she was silly enough to think, wiser. A germ was set, which should be
developed by and by.

Mr. Dana was in the supper-room. He was tall and dark, grave-looking
when silent; but as he acknowledged the introduction to herself, and
stooped to kiss Elle, his smile rendered him exceedingly handsome. The
proud tenderness of his wife was beautiful to behold; and he unbent all
that was stern in his nature, in her presence, or Carry's. The repast
went off delightfully. There were no sarcastic flings at society and
individuals, and clash of combat, imperfectly drowned by courteous
phraseology, such as characterized similar occasions at Mr. Read's.
Free to act and speak, without dread of criticism, Ida acquitted
herself well. She and her entertainers were equally charmed; and Carry
sat by, contented with the success of her benevolent efforts. Mr.
Dana's business required his attention immediately after supper; Mrs.
Dana sat with the girls awhile, then repaired to her nursery. "We shall
not be troubled by visitors to-night," said Carry. "What say you to
adjourning to our chamber? It is more snug than these empty parlors."

They visited the nursery in their way. Elle opened her eyes as her
friend kissed her coral lips, but their lids fell again directly, and
her "good night" died in a drowsy murmur. The boy was sleeping soundly,
and little Carry lay quietly wakeful upon her mother's lap. "These are
my treasures," said the fond parent, smiling at Ida's admiration of the
group.

"Treasures she would not barter for the wealth of both Indies," added
Carry. "You are a diplomatist, Ida, you have found sister's blind side
by praising her pets."

