yet."

"Mother--shall I go and ask him?--or wait till after supper?"

"O you sha'n't go," said her mother. "Wait till after supper and we'll
send Cindy. He won't care about his name till he gets his tea, I'll
warrant. But what made you so long getting the door open, child? Does
it stick?"

"Why," said Faith, baring her arms and entering upon sundry quick
movements about the room, "it was open and he didn't know it."

"Didn't know it!" said Mrs. Derrick,--"my! I hope he ain't
short-sighted. Now Faith, I'm not going to have you burn your face for
all the school teachers in Connecticut. Keep away, child, I'll put on
the kettle myself. Cindy must have found her beau again--it's as
tiresome as tiresome can be."

"It's just as well, mother; I'd rather do it myself. Now you go in and
find what his name is, and I'll have everything together directly. The
oven's hot now."

"I'll go in presently," said Mrs. Derrick; "but as to asking him what
his name is--la, child, I'd just as soon ask him where he came from."
And in deep thought on the subject, Mrs. Derrick stepped briskly about
the kitchen.

"Faith," she said, "where shall I ask him to sit?"

"Will you pour out tea--or shall I, mother?"

"What's that to do?"

"Why I was thinking--but it don't matter where you put him. There's
four sides to the table."

"Don't talk of my putting him anywhere, child--I'm as afraid of him as
can be." And Mrs. Derrick went back to see how time went with her guest.

It went fast or slow, I suppose, after all, somewhat according to the
state of his appetite. One hour and ten minutes certainly had slipped
away--if he was hungry he knew that another ten minutes was following
in train--when at length the parlour door opened again and Faith stood
there, with a white apron on and cheeks a good deal heightened in
colour since the date of their last appearance.

"Mother, tea's ready. Cindy hasn't got back." And having made this
gentle announcement, Faith disappeared again, leaving it to her mother
to shew the way to the supper-room.

This was back of the parlour and communicated with the kitchen, from
which Faith came in as they entered, bearing a plate of white biscuits,
smoking hot, in her hand. The floor was painted with thick yellow
paint, smooth and shining; plenty of windows let in plenty of light and
the sweet evening air; the table stood covered with a clean brownish
table-cloth,--but what a supper covered that! Rosy slices of boiled
ham, snowy rounds of 'milk emptyings', bread, strawberries,
pot-cheeses, pickles, fried potatoes, and Faith's white cakes, with tea
and coffee!

Now as Faith had laid the clean napkin for the stranger at the foot of
the table, opposite her mother, it cannot be thought presumption in him
that he at once took his seat there; thus relieving Mrs. Derrick's mind
of an immense responsibility. Yet something in his manner then made her
pause and look at him, though she did not expect to see him bow his
head and ask for a blessing on the meal before them. If that was
presumption, neither of his hearers felt it so,--the little flush on
the mother's cheek told rather of emotion, of some old memory now
quickened into life. Her voice even trembled a little as she said,--

"Will you have tea or coffee, sir?"

And Faith offered her biscuit.

"Or there's bread, if you like it better, sir."

"The biscuits are best," said her mother,--"Faith's biscuits are always
good."

And he took a biscuit, while a very slight unbending of the lines of
