"Oh, do, dear uncle, do!" said Agnes, earnestly. "I am sure that he has
been grievously tempted and misled, for he seems to have a noble and
gentle nature; and he spoke so feelingly of his mother, who is a saint
in heaven; and he seemed so earnestly to long to return to the bosom of
the Church."

"The Church is a tender mother to all her erring children," said the
monk.

"And don't you think that our dear Holy Father the Pope will forgive
him?" said Agnes. "Surely, he will have all the meekness and gentleness
of Christ, who would rejoice in one sheep found more than in all the
ninety-and-nine who went not astray."

The monk could scarcely repress a smile at imagining Alexander the
Sixth in this character of a good shepherd, as Agnes's enthusiastic
imagination painted the head of the Church; and then he gave an inward
sigh, and said, softly, "Lord, how long?"

"I think," said Agnes, "that this young man is of noble birth, for his
words and his bearing and his tones of voice are not those of common
men; even though he speaks so humbly and gently, there is yet something
princely that looks out of his eyes, as if he were born to command; and
he wears strange jewels, the like of which I never saw, on his hands
and at the hilt of his dagger,--yet he seems to make nothing of them.
But yet, I know not why, he spoke of himself as one utterly desolate
and forlorn. Father Francesco told me that he was captain of a band of
robbers who live in the mountains. One cannot think it is so."

"Little heart," said the monk tenderly, "you can scarcely know what
things befall men in these distracted times, when faction wages war
with faction, and men pillage and burn and imprison, first on this
side, then on that. Many a son of a noble house may find himself
homeless and landless, and, chased by the enemy, may have no refuge
but the fastnesses of the mountains. Thank God, our lovely Italy hath
a noble backbone of these same mountains, which afford shelter to her
children in their straits."

"Then you think it possible, dear uncle, that this may not be a bad
man, after all?"

"Let us hope so, child. I will myself seek him out; and if his mind
have been chafed by violence or injustice, I will strive to bring him
back into the good ways of the Lord. Take heart, my little one,--all
will yet be well. Come now, little darling, wipe your bright eyes, and
look at these plans I have been making for the shrine we were talking
of, in the gorge. See here, I have drawn a goodly arch with a pinnacle.
Under the arch, you see, shall be the picture of our Lady with the
blessed Babe. The arch shall be cunningly sculptured with vines of ivy
and passion-flower; and on one side of it shall stand Saint Agnes with
her lamb,--and on the other, Saint Cecilia, crowned with roses; and
on this pinnacle, above all, Saint Michael, all in armor, shall stand
leaning,--one hand on his sword, and holding a shield with the cross
upon it."

"Ah, that will be beautiful!" said Agnes.

"You can scarcely tell," pursued the monk, "from this faint drawing,
what the picture of our Lady is to be; but I shall paint her to the
highest of my art, and with many prayers that I may work worthily.
You see, she shall be standing on a cloud with a background all of
burnished gold, like the streets of the New Jerusalem; and she shall be
clothed in a mantle of purest blue from head to foot, to represent the
unclouded sky of summer; and on her forehead she shall wear the evening
star, which ever shineth when we say the Ave Maria; and all the borders
of her blue vesture shall be cunningly wrought with fringes of stars;
and the dear Babe shall lean his little cheek to hers so peacefully,
and there shall be a clear shining of love through her face, and a
heavenly restfulness, that it shall do one's heart good to look at
her. Many a blessed hour shall I have over this picture,--many a hymn
shall I sing as my work goes on. I must go about to prepare the panels
forthwith; and it were well, if there be that young man who works in
stone, to have him summoned to our conference."

"I think," said Agnes, "that you will find him in the town; he dwells
next to the cathedral."

"I trust he is a youth of pious life and conversation," said the monk.
"I must call on him this afternoon; for he ought to be stirring himself
up by hymns and prayers, and by meditations on the beauty of saints and
