and stripes, he was not even tempted by the bait; and he turned his
thoughts from it without the necessity of a "Get thee behind me, Satan,"
in dismissing it.

"Where is this Somers?" asked Langdon.

"He is at the Continental," replied Coles. "He has been appointed fourth
lieutenant of the Chatauqua; but what a position for a man of his
abilities! He is better qualified to command the ship than the numskull
to whom she has been given. Waldron, the first lieutenant, is smart: he
ought to be commander; though I think Somers did all the hard work in
Doboy Sound, for which Waldron got the credit, and for which he was
promoted. Pillgrim, the second lieutenant, is a renegade Virginian."

"We had some hopes of him, at one time," said Langdon.

"He is worse than a Vermont Yankee now--has been all along, for that
matter. I tried to do something with him, but he talked about the old
flag, and other bosh of that sort."

"Let him go," added Langdon, with becoming resignation.

"Let him go! He never went. He has always been a Yankee at heart. If the
navy department wouldn't trust him, it was their fault, not his, for the
South has not had a worse enemy than he since the first gun was fired at
Sumter. He is none the better, and all the more dangerous to us, because
he gives the South credit for skill and bravery."

Somers was pleased to hear this good account of Lieutenant Pillgrim; not
because he had any doubt in regard to his loyalty, but because it
confirmed the good impression he had received of his travelling
companion. If the conspirators would only have graciously condescended
to resolve the doubts in his mind in regard to some indefinite previous
acquaintance he had had with the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua, he
would have been greatly obliged to them. They did not do this, and
Somers was still annoyed and puzzled by the belief, patent to his
consciousness, that he had somewhere been intimate with the "renegade
Virginian," before they met at the house of Commodore Portington.

"Now, Langdon, you must contrive to meet Somers, sound him, and bring
him over. You must be cautious with him. He is a young man of good
morals--never drinks, gambles, or goes to bad places. He is a perfect
gentleman in his manners, never swears, and is the pet of the
chaplains."

"I think I can manage him."

"I know you can; I have picked you out of a hundred smart fellows for
this work."

"How will it do for me to put on a white choker, and approach him as a
doctor of divinity."

"You can't humbug him."

"If I can't, why should I try?"

"If you should pretend to be a clergyman, and he smelt the whiskey in
your breath, he would set you down as a hypocrite at once."

"That's so," thought Somers.

"He wouldn't listen to a preacher who drank whiskey. He is a fanatic on
these points."

Somers could not imagine where Coles had obtained such an intimate
knowledge of his views and principles; though, if he wanted his services
in the Confederate navy, it was probable he had made diligent inquiries
in regard to his opinions and habits.

"I think I could blind him as a D.D., but I am not strenuous."

"You had better get acquainted with him in some other capacity."

"As you please; I will think over the matter, and be ready to make a
strike to-morrow morning. What time is it?"

"Quarter past ten."

"So late! I must be off at once."
