
She descended to the drawing-room, and met the man who had injured her.
He had come with the resolve to stake his all upon a single cast. His
fortunes were desperate. Through the mother’s love for the daughter whom
she had mourned so long, whom, as he believed he had it in his power
to restore to her, he hoped to obtain her consent to a marriage, which
would retrieve his fortunes, and gratify his ambition.

Mrs. Clifton seated herself quietly. She did not, as usual, offer him
her hand. Full of his own plans, he did not notice this omission.

“How long is it since Ida was lost?” inquired Somerville.

Mrs. Clifton started in some surprise. She had not expected him to
introduce this subject.

“Eight years,” she said.

“And you believe she yet lives?”

“Yes, I am certain of it.”

John Somerville did not understand her aright. He felt only that a
mother never gives up hope.

“Yet it is a long time,” he said.

“It is--a long time to suffer,” she said. “How could any one have the
heart to work me this great injury? For eight years I have led a sad and
solitary life,--years that might have been made glad by Ida’s presence.”

There was something in her tone which puzzled John Somerville, but he
was far enough from suspecting the truth.

“Rose,” he said, after a pause. “Do you love your child well enough to
make a sacrifice for the sake of recovering her?”

“What sacrifice?” she asked, fixing her eyes upon him.

“A sacrifice of your feelings.”

“Explain. You talk in enigmas.”

“Listen, then. I, too, believe Ida to be living. Withdraw the opposition
you have twice made to my suit, promise me that you will reward my
affection by your land if I succeed, and I will devote myself to the
search for Ida, resting day nor night till I am able to place her in
your arms. Then, if I succeed, may I claim my reward?”

“What reason have you for thinking you should find her?” asked Mrs.
Clifton, with the same inexplicable manner.

“I think I have got a clew.”

“And are you not generous enough to exert yourself without demanding of
me this sacrifice?”

“No, Rose,” he said, “I am not unselfish enough.”

“But, consider a moment. Will not even that be poor atonement enough for
the wrong you have done me,”--she spoke rapidly now,--“for the grief and
loneliness and sorrow which your wickedness and cruelty have wrought?”

“I do not understand you,” he said, turning pale.

“It is enough to say that I have seen the woman who is now in
prison,--your paid agent,--and that I need no assistance to recover Ida.
She is in my house.”

What more could be said?

John Somerville rose, and left the room. His grand scheme had failed.



CHAPTER XXVII. CONCLUSION.



“I AM beginning to feel anxious about Jack,” said Mrs. Crump. “It’s
