and compelled in a court of justice to pay for the boat he had
destroyed.

"You had no right to run into my boat--no more right than I had to set
your house on fire."

"We will see."

He relapsed into a dignified silence; but he was thinking, I fancy,
how very pleasant it would be for him to pay three or four hundred
dollars for the Splash; not that he would care much for the money, but
it would make him appear so ridiculous in the eyes of the students.

The men were pulling for the shore; but I observed that Mr. Parasyte
did not head the boat towards the pier, where the boys were waiting
our return. Probably he feared that they would attempt to resist his
mighty will, and deliver me from his hands. He intended, therefore, to
land farther down the lake, and convey me to the Institute buildings
by some unfrequented way.

For my own part, I was not much disturbed by Mr. Parasyte's intentions
or movements. The only thing that really distressed me was the loss of
my boat; for the Splash had been one of my best and dearest friends. I
was a little sentimental in regard to her; and her destruction gave me
a pang of keen regret akin to anguish. I had cruised all over the lake
in her; had eaten and slept in her for a week at a time, and I
actually loved her. She was worthy to be loved, for she had served me
faithfully in storm and sunshine. It is quite likely that I had some
feelings of revenge towards the tyrant who had crushed her, and I was
thinking how he could be compelled to pay for the damage he had done.

As soon as I had, in a measure, recovered my equanimity, I tried to
obtain the bearings of the spot where the Splash had disappeared
beneath the waters, so that, if I failed to obtain justice, I might
possibly recover my boat. If raised, she was in very bad condition;
for her side was stove in, and I feared she could not be repaired so
as to be as good as she was before.

As the row-boat neared the shore, I made my preparations to escape
from my captor; for it was not my intention to be borne back in
triumph to the Institute, as a sacrifice to the violated discipline of
the establishment. When the boat touched the beach, I meant to jump
into the water, and thus pass the men, who were too powerful for me. I
changed my position so as to favor my purpose; but Mr. Parasyte had
been a schoolmaster too many years not to comprehend the thought which
was passing through my mind. He picked up the boat-hook, and it was
clear to me that he intended with this instrument to prevent my
escape.

The boat was beached; but I saw no good chance to execute my purpose,
and was forced to wait till circumstances favored me. The spot where
we had put in was over two miles distant from the Institute by the
road, though not more than one by water. Mr. Parasyte directed one of
the men to go to a stable, near the shore, and procure a covered
carriage, compelling me to keep my seat in the stern of the boat near
him, while the messenger was absent. He still held the boat-hook in
his hand, with which he could fasten to me if I made any movement.

When the vehicle came, the principal placed me on the back seat, and
took position himself at my side. One of the men was to drive, while
the other was directed to await his return, and then pull the boat
back. I was forced to acknowledge to myself that Mr. Parasyte's
strategy was excellent, and that I was completely baffled by it; but
as I was satisfied that my time would soon come, I was content to
submit, with what patience I could command, to the captivity from
which I could not escape.

The vehicle was driven to the front door of the Institute; and the
boys, who were still on the shore of the lake, watching for the return
of the boat, did not have any notice of the arrival of the prisoner. I
was conducted to the hall of the principal's apartments first, and
then to a vacant chamber on the third floor. Mr. Parasyte performed
this duty himself, being unwilling to intrust my person to the care of
one his subordinate teachers. A suit of clothes belonging to a boy of
my own size was sent to me, and I was directed to put it on, while my
own dress was dried at the laundry fire. This was proper and humane,
and I did not object.

When I had changed my clothing, Mr. Parasyte presented himself. By
this time he had thoroughly cooled off. He looked solemn and dignified
