to the conclusion that I had a great deal to learn before I could be a
carpenter. However, I intended to make a beginning as soon as I could.

  [Illustration: PHIL AND CAPTAIN DAVIS. Page 67.]

"The Daylight is just coming in, Phil," said Captain Davis, as I came
in to supper after the tramps of the second day in the city.

"I am so glad!" I exclaimed.

"Eat your supper, Phil, and I will go with you then to the place where
she lies."

"Do you suppose the Gracewoods are on board of her?"

"I have no doubt they are; but I should not be at all alarmed even if
they were not."

"Why not?"

"They may have missed the boat; but we won't guess at anything again.
The Daylight passed us just as you came on board, and will make a
landing below."

I bolted my supper, and was so excited I could not have told whether I
was eating bread or shavings. When the captain had finished his meal,
we hastened down the levee, and were soon on board of the Daylight. The
passengers were just going on shore, and I watched the stairs by which
they were descending to the main deck to catch the first glimpse of any
familiar face. But I was disappointed; and when the last one came down,
my heart sank within me.

Captain Davis ascended to the cabin, and I followed, actually trembling
with anxiety. We found the clerk in his office, at work upon the
manifest.

"Did you take on any passengers at Delaware City?" asked Captain Davis.

"Yes; a dozen of them."

"Any by the name of Gracewood?"

"No," replied the clerk, after he had consulted the list.

"Are you sure, sir?" I asked, unwilling to believe the unpleasant
statement.

"Very sure."

"Please to look again," said I.

"You must excuse me; I am very busy. There is the list; you can
examine it for yourself."

I looked over the names, but that of Gracewood did not occur.

"They are not here, Phil," said Captain Davis.

"No, they are not," I replied, gloomily.

"We will wait a little while, till the hurry is over, and then we may
ascertain something about your friends."

We went out upon the boiler deck, where we could overlook everything
that transpired. The deck hands were landing freight and baggage, and
everybody was hurrying as though his life depended upon his celerity.

"I shall believe they were all drowned if I don't hear something from
them soon," I said.

"That is not at all probable, and I shall not believe anything of that
kind till I have positive evidence of it. It is just as easy, and a
great deal more pleasant, to think everything is right with them,
instead of wrong, until we get the facts."

"You haven't the same interest in the matter that I have, captain."

"That may be; but I don't believe in making myself miserable about
anything on mere guesswork. I think it is all right with your friends.
But I must say, if you don't hear from them to-day, we must make
