
"Because," said he, "I have something to propose to you which I hope may
prove a better thing. Hestermann & Co. sent for me yesterday in secret
session. The head manager of their whole set of magazines and papers has
resigned, and is going to travel in Europe, and they want me to take the
place."

"Good! I am heartily glad of it," said I. "I always felt that you were
not in the position that you ought to have. You will accept, of course."

"Whether I accept or not depends on you," he replied.

"I cannot understand," said I.

"In short, then," said he, "the responsibility is a heavy one, and I
cannot undertake it without a partner whom I can trust as myself--I
mean," he added, "whom I can trust more than myself."

"You are a thousand times too good," said I. "I should like nothing
better than such a partnership, but I feel oppressed by your good
opinion. Are you sure that I am the one for you?"

"I think I am," said he, "and it is a case where I am the best judge;
and it offers to you just what you want--a stable position, independence
to express yourself, and a good income. Hestermann & Co. are rich, and
wise enough to know that liberality is the best policy."

"But," said I, "their offers are made to you, and not to me."

"Well, of course, their acquaintance with me is of old standing; but I
have spoken to them of you, and I am to bring you round to talk with
them to-morrow; but, after all, the whole power of arranging is left
with me. They put a certain sum at my disposal, and I do what I please
with it. In short," he said, smiling, "I hold the living, and you are my
curate. Well," he added, "of course you need time to think matters over;
here is paper on which I have made a little memorandum of an arrangement
between us; take it and dream on it, and let me know to-morrow what you
think of it."

I went to my room and unfolded the agreement, and found the terms
liberal beyond all my expectations. In fact, the income of the principal
was awarded to me, and that of the subordinate to Bolton.

I took the paper the next evening to Bolton's room. "Look here, Bolton,"
said I, "these terms are simply absurd."

"How so?" he said, lifting his eyes tranquilly from his book. "What's
the matter with them?"

"Why, you give me all the income."

"Wait till you see how I'll work you," he said, smiling. "I'll get it
out of you; you see if I don't."

"But you leave yourself nothing."

"I have as much as I would have, and that's enough. I'm a literary monk,
you know, with no family but Puss and Stumpy, poor fellow, and I need
the less."

Stumpy upon this pricked up his ragged ears with an expression of lively
satisfaction, sat back on his haunches, and rapped the floor with his
forlorn bit of a tail.

"Poor Stumpy," said Bolton, "you don't know that you are the homeliest
dog in New York, do you? Well, as far as you go, you are perfect
goodness, Stumpy, though you are no beauty."

Upon this high praise, Stumpy seemed so elated that he stood on his hind
paws and rested his rough fore-feet on Bolton's knee, and looked up with
eyes of admiration.

"Man is the dog's God," said Bolton. "I can't conceive how any man can
be rude to his dog. A dog," he added, fondling his ragged cur, "why,
he's nothing but organized love--love on four feet, encased in fur, and
looking piteously out at the eyes--love that would die for you, yet
cannot speak--that's the touching part. Stumpy longs to speak; his
poor dog's breast heaves with something he longs to tell me and can't.
Don't it, Stumpy?"

