didn't expect to run into it so near Sweden."

"That's Gabogginholm."

"Is it in Germany?"

"No; it's an island, at least a hundred and fifty miles from Germany.
The Baltic is rather a big thing out here."

"How do you remember those long names, Scott?"

"What long names?"

"Such as the name of that island. I couldn't recollect such a word ten
minutes."

"Nor I either. I know them by instinct."

"What did you say the name of the island is?"

"Gastringumboggin."

"That isn't what you said before."

"I've forgotten what I did say it was. You musn't ask me twice about a
name, for I say I can't remember," laughed Scott.

"You are selling me."

"Of course I am; and you go off cheaper than any fellow I ever saw
before. I haven't the least idea what the land is, except that it must
be an island not less than a hundred and fifty miles from Prussia."

"That's Bornholm," said Walker, a seamen, who had heard the name from
the officers. "It's an island twenty-six miles long and fifteen wide,
belongs to Denmark, and has thirty-two thousand inhabitants, and a lot
of round churches on it. That's what the fellows on the quarter-deck
say."

"Precisely so," replied Scott. "You have learned your lesson well.
What is the principal town on that island?"

"I don't know," answered Walker.

"Stubbenboggin," said Scott.

"Who told you so?"

"My grandmother," laughed the wag, as he turned on his heel, and
walked away.

Towards night the wind subsided, and the squadron was almost becalmed;
but a light breeze sprang up after dark, and in the morning the ship
was off the southern point of Oland, an island ninety miles long by
ten wide, and well covered with forests. On the narrow strait which
separates it from the main land is Calmar, a town of historic
interest, in Sweden. At noon the southern point of Gottland was seen,
and Scott insisted upon calling it "Gabungenboggin," though the real
name was soon circulated. It is eighty miles long by thirty-three
wide, and contains fifty-four thousand inhabitants. Wisby is the only
town. The island is noted for its beautiful climate, which makes it a
pleasant resort for summer tourists.

At sunrise on the following morning, the ship leading the squadron was
approaching the islands which cover the entrance to the harbor of
Stockholm. Pilots were taken by the several vessels, and the fleet
entered the archipelago, through which it was to sail for thirty
miles. At first the openings were very wide, and not much of the shore
could be seen; but soon the distances grew less, and the shores were
studded with villages and fine residences. The little steamers--some
of them not so large as the ship's first cutter--began to appear; and
at eight o'clock the Young America let go her anchor between Staden
and Skeppsholm, off the quay near the palace, which was crowded with
steamers.

"Here we are, Laybold," said Scott, when the sails had been furled,
and every rope coiled away in its place.

"That's so. What's that big building on the shore?"

