small central lot was not enclosed in any of the allotments, they took
it as an indication that there was to be their church, and accordingly
erected there a prayer-booth, where they could hold those weekly
prayer-meetings which often seem with the negroes to take the place of
all other recreations. The neighboring farmers were not particularly
well disposed towards the little colony. The native Floridian farmer is
a quiet, peaceable being, not at all disposed to infringe the rights of
others, and mainly anxious for peace and quietness. But they supposed
that a stampede of negroes from Georgia and Carolina meant trouble for
them, meant depredations upon their cattle and poultry, and regarded it
with no friendly eye; yet, nevertheless, they made no demonstration
against it. Under these circumstances, the new colony had gone to work
with untiring industry. They had built log-cabins and barns; they had
split rails, and fenced in their land; they had planted orange-trees;
they had cleared acres of the scrub-palmetto: and any one that ever has
seen what it is to clear up an acre of scrub-palmetto will best
appreciate the meaning of that toil. Only those black men, with sinews
of steel and nerves of wire,--men who grow stronger and more vigorous
under those burning suns that wither the white men,--are competent to
the task.

But old Cudjo had at last brought his land from the wild embrace of the
snaky scrub-palmetto to the point of bearing a bale of cotton like the
one on the wharf. He had subdued the savage earth, brought her under,
and made her tributary to his will, and demonstrated what the soil of
East Florida might, could, and would do, the cotton-worm to the contrary
notwithstanding.

And yet this morning he stood by his cotton, drooping and dispossessed.
The white man that had engaged to take up land for these colonists had
done his work in such a slovenly, imperfect manner, that another
settler, a foreigner, had taken up a tract which passed right through
old Cudjo's farm, and taken the land on which he had spent four years of
hard work,--taken his log-cabin and barn and young trees, and the very
piece that he had just brought to bearing that bale of cotton. And there
he stood by it, mournful and patient. It was only a continuation of what
he had always experienced,--always oppressed, always robbed and cheated.
Old Cudjo was making the best of it in trying to ship his bale of
cotton, which was all that was left of four years' toil.

"What!" said the Professor to him, "are you the old man that has been
turned out by that foreigner?"

"Yes, sah!" he said, his little black eyes kindling, and quivering from
head to foot with excitement. "He take ebry t'ing, ebry t'ing,--my
house I built myself, my fences, and more'n t'ree t'ousand rails I split
myself: he take 'em all!"

There is always some bitter spot in a great loss that is sorer than the
rest. Those rails evidently cut Cudjo to the heart. The "t'ree t'ousand
rails" kept coming in in his narrative as the utter and unbearable
aggravation of injustice.

"I split 'em myself, sah; ebry one, t'ree t'ousand rails! and he take
'em all!"

"And won't he allow you any thing?"

"No, sah: he won't 'low me not'ing. He say, 'Get along wid you! don't
know not'ing 'bout you! dis yer land mine.' I tell him, 'You don't
know old Cudjo; but de Lord know him: and by'm by, when de angel Gabriel
come and put one foot on de sea, and t'odder on de land, and blow de
trumpet, he blow once for old Cudjo! You mind now!'"

This was not merely spoken, but acted. The old black kindled, and
stepped off in pantomime. He put, as it were, one foot on the sea, and
the other on the land; he raised his cane trumpetwise to his mouth. It
was all as vivid as reality to him.

None of the images of the Bible are more frequent, favorite, and
operative among the black race than this. You hear it over and over in
every prayer-meeting. It is sung in wild chorus in many a "spiritual."
The great angel Gabriel, the trumpet, the mighty pomp of a last
judgment, has been the appeal of thousands of wronged, crushed,
despairing hearts through ages of oppression. Faith in God's justice,
faith in a final triumph of right over wrong,--a practical faith,--such
had been the attainment of this poor, old, deformed black. That and his
bale of cotton were all he had to show for a life's labor. He had
learned two things in his world-lesson,--work and faith. He had learned
the power of practical industry in things possible to man: he had
