
"Hasbrook?"

"Yes, his name is Jacob Hasbrook."

"He was with us in the library of Captain Patterdale the day we were
there, when the man had a sun-stroke."

"Was he? Well, I don't remember that. Folks say he is a big rascal, and
the licking he got was no more than he deserved. He was laid up for a
month after it; but now he and the sheriff are trying to find out who
did it."

Donald was interested, in spite of himself, and for the time even forgot
the pleasant smile of Nellie, which was a great deal for him to forget.

"Has he any idea who it was that beat him?"

"I don't know whether he has or not. He only asks questions, and don't
answer any. You know I met you over to Turtle Head the morning after the
affair in Lincolnville."

"I remember all about it," answered Donald.

"I saw you in the Juno afterwards. By the way, Don John, you didn't
tell me how you happened to be in the Juno at that time. I don't
recollect whether you had her at Turtle Head, or not. I don't think I
saw her there, at any rate."

"No matter whether you did or not. Go on with your story, for we are
almost to Mr. Rodman's house," replied Donald, impatiently.

"Well, after I left you, I ran over towards Saturday Cove," continued
Laud. "You know where that is."

"Of course I do."

This was the place towards which Captain Shivernock had gone in the
sail-boat, and where Laud had probably seen him, when he gave him the
money paid for the Juno. Laud did not say that this was the time and
place he had met the captain, but Donald was entirely satisfied on this
point.

"From Saturday Cove I ran on the other tack over to Gilky's Harbor,"
added Laud.

"Did you see anybody near the cove?"

"I didn't say whether I did or not," replied Laud, after some
hesitation, which confirmed Donald's belief that he had met the captain
on this occasion. "Never mind that. Off Gilky's Harbor I hailed Tom
Reed, who had been a-fishing. It seems that Tom told Hasbrook he saw me
that forenoon, and Hasbrook has been to see me half a dozen times about
it. I don't know whether he thinks I am the fellow that thrashed him, or
not. He has pumped me dry about it. I happened to let on that I saw you,
and Hasbrook wants to talk with you."

By this time they reached Mr. Rodman's house, and to the surprise of
Donald, Laud Cavendish coolly walked into the grounds with him.




CHAPTER XI.

THE WHITE CROSS OF DENMARK.


Laud Cavendish was at Donald's side when they entered the grounds of Mr.
Rodman, where the tables were spread under the trees in the garden. As
the collation was in honor of the launch of the Maud, of course the
young boat-builder was a person of no little consequence, and being with
him, Laud was permitted to enter the grounds unchallenged; but they soon
separated.

Donald was disturbed by what Laud had told him, and he did not wish to
answer any questions which might be put to him by Hasbrook, who was
evidently working his own case, trying to ascertain who had committed
the outrage upon him. He did not wish to tell whom he had seen on that
Saturday forenoon, and thus violate the confidence of Captain
