could not persist in objection.

On reaching the Home, Mrs. Birtwell found in the office the man in
whose care Mr. Ridley had been placed. Remembering what Mr. G----had
said of this man, a fresh hope for Ethel's father sprang up in her
soul as she looked into his clear eyes and saw his firm mouth and
air of conscious poise and strength. She did not see in his manly
face a single scar from the old battle out of which he had come at
last victorious. Recognizing her, he called her by name, and not
waiting for her to ask the question that looked out of her face,
said:

"It is all right with him."

A cry of joy that she could not repress broke from Ethel. It was
followed by sobbing and tears.

"Can we see him?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.

"The doctor will not think it best," replied the man. "He has had a
pretty hard night, but, the worst is over. We must keep him quiet
to-day."

"In the morning can I see him?" asked Ethel lifting her eyes, half
blinded by tears, to the man's face.

"Yes; I think I can say yes," was the reply.

"How soon?"

"Come at ten o'clock."

"You'll let me call and ask about him this evening, won't you?"

"Oh yes, and you will get a good report, I am sure."

The care and help and wise consideration received in the Home by Mr.
Ridley, while passing through the awful stages of his mania, had
probably saved his life. The fits of frenzy were violent, so
overwhelming him with phantom terrors that in his wild and desperate
struggles to escape the fangs of serpents and dragons and the horrid
crew of imaginary demons that crowded his room and pressed madly
upon him he would, but for the restraint to which he was subjected,
have thrown himself headlong from a window or bruised and broken
himself against the wall.

It was the morning of the second day after Mr. Ridley entered the
Home. He had so far recovered as to be able to sit up in his room, a
clean and well ventilated apartment, neatly furnished and with an
air of home comfort about it. Two or three pictures hung on the
walls, one of them representing a father sitting with a child upon
each knee and the happy mother standing beside them. He had looked
at this picture until his eyes grew dim. Near it was an illuminated
text: "WITHOUT ME YE CAN DO NOTHING."

There came, as he sat gazing at the sweet home-scene, the beauty and
tenderness of which had gone down into his heart, troubling its
waters deeply, a knock at the door. Then the matron, accompanied by
one of the lady managers of the institution, came in and made kind
inquiries as to his condition. He soon saw that this lady was a
refined and cultivated Christian woman, and it was not long before
he felt himself coming under a new influence and all the old desires
and purposes long ago cast away warming again into life and
gathering up their feeble strength.

Gradually the lady led him on to talk to her of himself as he would
have talked to his mother or his sister. She asked him of his
family, and got the story of his bereavement, his despair and his
helplessness. Then she sought to inspire him with new resolutions,
and to lead him to make a new effort.

"I will be a man again," he exclaimed, at last, rising to this
declaration under the uplifting and stimulating influences that were
around him.

Then the lady answered him in a low, earnest, tender voice that
trembled with the burden of its great concern:

"Not in your own strength. That is impossible."

