Hermann's son, who was also named Hermann, and who by Kaiser Otto the
Great was made Duke of Saxony. So then, when Hermann Billing was made
the Kaiser's lieutenant of the kingdom in Northern Germany, upon
occasion of Otto's journey into Italy, Hermann made his faithful Walo a
graf, that is, one of the chief judges of the country; and he travelled
about and wrought justice and righteousness, and was, as the Scripture
says of an upright judge, "for a terror to evil-doers and the praise of
them that did well." He married Odelinde, a noble young lady, who also
loved the Saviour, and had been brought up by the good cloister ladies
at the Quänenburg. They led a happy and God-fearing life, but they had
no children. When now both of them were old and advanced in years,
Odelinde one day was reminding her husband of the blessing she had
received from the pious training of the cloister ladies; and she asked
him whether, as they had no children, and were rich, they might not
found another cloister with their money, in which noble young girls
should be educated by good cloister sisters. Walo complied with her wish
gladly; for he loved the kingdom of God, and at that time the cloisters
were simply the abodes of piety; they were not yet places of idleness,
but of diligence; not homes of lawlessness, but of modesty; not of
superstition, but of faith.

"'About four miles from his place on the river Böhme lay a wide tract of
meadow land, bordered by a magnificent thick wood of oaks and beeches.
When Walo travelled through the country as graf, he had often been
greatly pleased with this spot; and it had occurred to him that such
beauty ought not to remain any longer given up to wild beasts, but
should become a dwelling-place for men. This thought recurred now
vividly to his mind. His wife desired to see the place too. So they went
to view it, and decided to build a cloister there, around which then
other human dwellings would grow up, but the cloister itself should be
the home of pious ladies whose special business should be the bringing
up of nobly-born young girls. The wood was rooted up' (roden is to
root up); 'and on the Rode' (that is, the space cleared) 'the cloister
was built, which thereupon was called Walo's Rode; about which later
the village Walsrode was settled, which still later spread itself out
into a little city, having the cloister to thank for its origin. Walo
not only built the cloister at his own expense, but also endowed it for
its support with the tithes of the Bekedorf village, which belonged to
the manor. It is but a little while since the Bekedorfers bought off
these tithes.

"'I must state, however, that in my extracts from the chronicle there
occurs a divergence from the usual dates. That is, I have formerly read
under a picture of Graf Walo in the cloister church at Walsrode the
number of the year 986. In my extracts, on the other hand, it is said
that the cloister was founded by Walo in the year of grace 974, and
consecrated by Bishop Landward of Münden. The last can be explained by
the fact that the valley of the Oerze belonged to the see of Münden and
not to the nearer Verden, and therefore Walsrode also being founded from
hence, must be consecrated by the Münden bishop. But as to the
difference of the two dates, I can do nothing further to clear that up,
since I am no investigator of history, but have singly written down what
I have found.'"




CHAPTER XIII.


"I like that," said Maggie sedately.

"How curiously near it seems to bring the Middle Ages!" said Meredith.
"The picture of Graf Walo!--and Pastor Harms has seen it."

"Why couldn't Walo build a schoolhouse without making a cloister of it?"
asked Maggie.

"There were really reasons, apart from religious ones," Mr. Murray
replied. "You remember your views of old castles on the Rhine, perched
up on inaccessible heights?"

"It must have been very inconvenient," said Flora. "Imagine it!"

"It would have been worse than inconvenient to live below in the valley.
A rich noble could not have been sure of keeping any precious thing his
house held--unless his retainers were very numerous and always on duty;
and in that case the lands would have come by the worst. The only really
secure places, Maggie, were the religious houses."

