BERMUDA POTATOES.

Put on in boiling water; cook until a fork will go in easily; dry off,
and serve in their skins.


ALICE’S PUDDING.

  1 quart of milk.
  4 eggs.
  1 cup dry crumbs.
  ½ cup of strawberry or other sweet jam.
  ½ cup of sugar.

Sprinkle the bottom of a buttered bake-dish with crumbs. Pour in the
jam, and cover this with the rest of the crumbs, wet with a little
milk. Scald the remainder of the milk, and pour, gradually, upon the
beaten eggs and sugar. Heat and stir three minutes; put it, spoonful by
spoonful, upon the crumbs, so as not to displace them, and when all is
in, bake until well set and slightly colored by the heat. Eat cold—with
cream, if you can get it.


COFFEE AND WHIPPED CREAM.

Whip a little cream in a syllabub churn, and lay a spoonful upon the
surface of each cup of made coffee.



  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  A Good White Soup.
  Ham and Eggs.      Succotash.
  Oyster Salad.      Stewed Potatoes.
  ——
  Plain Macaroni Pudding.
  ——


A GOOD WHITE SOUP.

Skim the stock set aside yesterday; heat and season, then strain
through thin muslin, and return to the fire. Skim again; add a great
spoonful of butter, cut up in flour, and boil up. Have ready in your
tureen a cupful of hot milk, in which has been soaked half a cupful of
bread-crumbs; beat into these the whites of two eggs; pour in the soup,
by degrees, stirring in well, and serve.


HAM AND EGGS.

Cut slices of ham of equal size; cover with boiling water, and cook ten
minutes, then let them get cold. Cut off the rind and fry in their own
fat, until browned. Lay upon a hot dish; strain the fat, returning it
to the pan with a little butter, and when hot break in the eggs. Fry
upon one side; trim off the ragged edges, and lay upon the ham. Dust
with pepper, and serve.


SUCCOTASH.

Open a can of succotash; drain off the liquor, cut the beans into short
lengths, and put on in boiling water, salted. Cook twenty-five minutes;
drain off the water, and add as much cold milk. When this is hot, stir
in a great spoonful of butter, cut up in flour; pepper and salt, cook
three minutes more and serve.


OYSTER SALAD.

Cut the oysters into thirds; pull the hearts out of nice lettuce heads
and shred up one-third as much as you have oysters. Make a dressing in
the proportion of two tablespoonfuls of best oil to four of vinegar;
one teaspoonful of salt and the same of sugar; half as much pepper, and
made mustard. Rub all up well, and pour over oysters and lettuce just
before serving.


STEWED POTATOES.
