consequence.

"I think you are mistaken," he replied very promptly.

"How could I be mistaken when the ball whistled by my head?" I
demanded.

"It might not have been within ten feet of your head, though it sounded
as though it were within a few inches. I shot a wild turkey as I came
up, and I fired in the direction of the steamer. It occurred to me that
the ball might have gone through her, and I confess that I was very
careless," replied Cornwood.

"I think you were, extremely careless," I added coldly.

"But I am sure the ball could not have gone within ten feet of you, or
I should have seen you," protested the guide.

"Where is the turkey you shot?" asked Ben, who appeared to have some
doubts in regard to the truth of the story.

"I threw him down on the forecastle as I came on board," answered
Cornwood.

We walked to that part of the steamer, and there lay the wild turkey,
as handsome a bird as I had ever seen. This evidence satisfied me, for
as the Floridian had never failed to do anything he promised, or
disappointed the party in regard to fish and game, he was in high favor
with all on board, at least with those in the cabin.

"Colonel Shepard and Mr. Garningham have shot no end of deer and wild
turkey, and they have stacked the game about two miles from the
landing," continued the guide. "They have more than we could bring, and
I volunteered to come up for a mule team."

"Buck and Hop are taking care of the pair we used this afternoon; you
can take the others," I replied.

Cornwood went on shore, and in a short time I saw him drive down the
shore into the woods.

"Do you believe that story about the wild turkey?" asked Ben, when
Cornwood had gone ashore.

"I see no reason to disbelieve it," I replied, looking with interest at
the engineer.

"Do you? Well, I don't; and I didn't believe it when he told it,"
replied Ben, as he pointed with his jack-knife at a place in the wild
turkey which he had partly dissected. "Do you see that?"

"I do not see anything but blood and meat," I answered.

"You don't! Well, there is the ball that whistled within ten feet of
your head when you were walking on the main deck."

Ben Bowman applied his knife-blade to the turkey, and pried out the
bullet, which had lodged against the breastbone.

I took it in my hand. If his story was true, this was not the ball that
passed near my head. We made another search for the man who had fired
at me, but we looked in vain.




CHAPTER XXX.

SHOOTING IN THE FOREST AND BEING SHOT.


Before supper-time, the mule team came in with a load of game. Washburn
had gone out with the sportsmen this time, for during my absence he
would not leave the steamer for a moment. I counted seventeen deer, the
smallest kind I had ever seen, and twenty-one wild turkeys. The next
day the sport was resumed, and I joined the party. At the suggestion of
Colonel Shepard, we took a couple of landing-nets, though what for I
could not imagine. But we had not gone half a mile before I discovered
the use of them.

