until the dish is full. Cover closely and steam in a moderate oven
twenty or twenty-five minutes. Turn out upon a hot dish and pour over
it a good pudding-sauce.

This is considered a wholesome breakfast dish, and is certainly good.
In this case omit the sauce, sift powdered sugar over the top, and eat
with the same.


NEWARK PUDDING.

    1 cup fine bread-crumbs soaked in a pint of the milk.
    1 quart of milk.
    5 eggs.
    2 tablespoonfuls rice-flour.
    ½ lb. raisins seeded, cut in two, and dredged with flour.
    Vanilla or bitter almond extract.
    2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, and a half-teaspoonful soda.

Beat the yolks light; add the soaked bread-crumbs and milk; stir to a
smooth batter, put in the rice-flour, wet up first with cold milk; the
reserved pint of milk, the seasoning, butter, the fruit, lastly the
whites whipped stiff. Bake an hour in a buttered mould; turn out and
pour sauce over it, serving hard sauce also with it.


Or,

You may boil the mixture two hours in a floured cloth or buttered mould.


BAKED PLUM PUDDING.

    1¼ lb. of flour.
    1 lb. raisins seeded, cut in two, and dredged with flour.
    ½ lb. suet, freed from strings and powdered.
    1 cup sugar.
    2 oz. citron, shred fine.
    5 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately.
    Nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves—one teaspoonful each.
    Milk to make a thick batter of the flour. Begin with two cups, and
        add more if necessary.

Beat the yolks and sugar together; add the suet and spice, then the
flour, moistening the mixture gradually with milk until you can move
the spoon in it. Dredge the fruit and put in by degrees; finally, stir
in the beaten whites. Beat all very hard and long before baking in a
buttered mould. It will require at least an hour and a half in a
moderate oven.

Turn out, and eat with rich sweet sauce.


BELLE’S DUMPLINGS.

    1 quart prepared flour.
    2½ tablespoonfuls lard and butter mixed.
    2 cups of milk, or enough to make a soft dough.

Roll out a quarter of an inch thick, cut into oblong pieces, rounded
at the corners; put a great spoonful damson, cherry, or other tart
preserve in the middle and roll into a dumpling. Bake three-quarters
of an hour, brush over with beaten egg while hot, set back in the oven
three minutes to glaze.

Eat hot with brandy or wine sauce.


Or,

You may make a roll-pudding of it by rolling out the paste into an
oblong sheet, spreading thickly with the preserves, folding it up as
one would a travelling-shawl to be put into a strap, pinching the ends
together that the juice may not escape, and boiling in a floured cloth
fitted to the shape of the “roley-poley.” Boil an hour and a half.


BOILED PUDDINGS.

You can boil puddings in a bowl, a mould, or a cloth. The mould should
