hung curtains of the same material. In this garden-like expanse Owen
took his seat, collected himself and what he had to say in one quick
moment of review, and then began.

First, he asked her to pardon what was, in one way, the great liberty he
was taking in speaking at all; in excuse he could only say that it
seemed to him important--important to her own household. And in no
household the world held had he a deeper, a more sincere, interest than
in her own.

Madam Carroll begged to recall to his remembrance that that was saying a
great deal--"no household in the world."

He did not answer this little speech, archly made. He took up his main
subject. He told her that he had been unwilling to speak to her of it at
all; that he should have greatly preferred speaking to the Major; but
that had not been possible, at least for the present, as she was aware.
The matter concerned itself with some facts he had lately learned about
a person who had been generally received in Far Edgerley and also at the
Farms--a person of whose history they really knew nothing, this--this
musician--

"Are you pretending you do not know his name?" asked Madam Carroll. "I
can tell you what it is if you have forgotten; it will make your story
easier: Dupont--Louis Eugene Dupont."

Owen was astounded by her manner; he had never seen anything like it in
her before. Her large blue eyes--of a blue lighter than his own--looked
at him calmly, almost, it seemed to him, with a calm impertinence.

"I had not forgotten his name," he answered, gravely. "I have had too
much reason to remember it. He has given me anxiety for some time past,
Madam Carroll. I have felt that he was not the person to be received
among us as he has been received. We are rather a secluded mountain
village, you know, and there has been little here to tempt him into
betraying himself; but I have suspected him from the first, and now--"

"You are rather inclined to suspect people, aren't you?" said Madam
Carroll, with the same calm gaze.

"Major Carroll would have suspected him also had he ever met him."

"As it happens, my husband has met him. It was at one of our receptions;
early in the evening, I think, before you came."

"And he said nothing?"

"Nothing."

"I must go on in any case," said Owen; "I can do no otherwise. For it is
not for my own sake I am speaking--"

"Are you sure of that?" said his hostess, interrupting him again without
ceremony. This time her tone had an amusement in it, an amusement not
unmixed with sarcasm.

"I should do it just the same though I were on the eve of leaving Far
Edgerley forever, never expecting to see any of you again," he answered,
with some heat.

"It could hardly be a final parting, even then; for the world is not so
large as you suppose, Mr. Owen. It hardly seems necessary, on the whole,
to be so tragic," answered the lady, again adjusting the ruffle of her
overskirt, and laughing a little.

Owen was bewildered. He had thought that he knew her so well, he had
thought that she was of all his parish his best and kindest friend; yet
there she sat, within three feet of him, looking at him mockingly,
turning all his earnest words into ridicule, laughing at him.

He was no match for her in little sarcasms, and he was in no mood for
that kind of warfare. He said no more about himself and his feelings; he
simply gave her a plain outline of the facts which had recently come
into his possession.

Madam Carroll replied that she did not believe them. Such stories were
always in circulation about handsome young men like Louis Dupont. They
were told by other men--who were jealous of them.

Owen, who had grown a little pale, quietly gave her his proofs. The
