from the pavement. Joe and Ronald stood and watched them idly, absorbed in
their own thoughts.

Presently a booby sleigh drawn by a pair of strong black horses floundered
up the hill and stopped at the door.

"Oh, Ronald, there is Sybil, and she will see I have been crying. You must
amuse her, and I will come back in a few minutes." She turned and fled,
leaving Ronald at the window.

A footman sprang to the ground, and nearly lost his footing in the snow as
he opened a large umbrella and rang the bell. In a moment Sybil was out of
the sleigh and at the door of the house; she could not sit still till it
was opened, although the flakes were falling as thickly as ever.

"Oh"--she exclaimed, as she entered the room and was met by Ronald, "I
thought Joe was here." There was color in her face, and she took Ronald's
hand cordially. He blushed to the eyes, and stammered.

"Miss Thorn is--she--indeed, she will be back in a moment. How do you do?
Dreadful weather, is not it?"

"Oh, it is only a snowstorm," said Sybil, brushing a few flakes from her
furs as she came near the fire. "We do not mind it at all here. But of
course you never have snow in England."

"Not like this, certainly," said Ronald. "Let me help you," he added, as
Sybil began to remove her cloak.

It was a very sudden change of company for Ronald; five minutes ago he was
trying, very clumsily and hopelessly, to console Joe Thorn in her tears,
feeling angry enough with himself all the while for having caused them.
Now he was face to face with Sybil Brandon, the most beautiful woman he
remembered to have seen, and she smiled at him as he took her heavy cloak
from her shoulders, and the touch of the fur sent a thrill to his heart,
and the blood to his cheeks.

"I must say," he remarked, depositing the things on a sofa, "you are very
courageous to come out, even though you are used to it."

"You have come yourself," said Sybil, laughing a little. "You told me last
night that you did not come here every day."

"Oh--I told my cousin I had come because I was so lonely at the hotel. It
is amazingly dull to sit all day in a close room, reading stupid novels."

"I should think it would be. Have you nothing else to do?"

"Nothing in the wide world," said Ronald with a smile. "What should I do
here, in a strange place, where I know so few people?"

"I suppose there is not much for a man to do, unless he is in business.
Every one here is in some kind of business, you know, so they are never
bored."

Ronald wished he could say the right thing to reestablish the half-intimacy he had felt when talking to Sybil the night before. But it was
not easy to get back to the same point. There was an interval of hours
between yesterday and to-day--and there was Joe.

"I read novels to pass the time," he said, "and because they are sometimes
so like one's own life. But when they are not, they bore me."

Sybil was fond of reading, and she was especially fond of fiction, not
because she cared for sensational interests, but because she was naturally
contemplative, and it interested her to read about the human nature of the
present, rather than to learn what any individual historian thought of the
human nature of the past.

"What kind of novels do you like best?" she asked, sitting down to pass
the time with Ronald until Josephine should make her appearance.

"I like love stories best," said Ronald.

"Oh, of course," said Sybil gravely, "so do I. But what kind do you like
best? The sad ones, or those that end well?"

"I like them to end well," said Ronald, "because the best ones never do,
you know."

"Never?" There was something in Sybil's tone that made Ronald look quickly
