them. A shrewd boy in Burlington collected a dollar and a half from a
lady in the absence of her husband, by delivering her a bogus telegraph
despatch."

"I never thought of the matter in this light before, captain," added Mr.
Brookbine. "If uniforms are of any use, I don't object to them,
certainly."

"But we are not telegraph boys, gas men, or conductors," Ben Ludlow
objected.

"No, you are not; but the other day two of our students went into a
saloon in Genverres, and each of them drank a glass of lager beer. I
don't believe they would have done it if they had worn the uniform of
the Beech Hill Industrial School."

This statement produced a decided sensation among the students, and they
thought they understood the object which the uniform was expected to
accomplish.

"I don't allow any boy to use intoxicating drinks while under my
control. If I can't prevent it, I will expel the pupil; for I will not
have his ruin on my conscience. I expect every student to have a proper
regard for the credit and honor of this school, and conduct himself,
wherever he may be, in such a manner as to cast no discredit or
dishonor upon it."

Captain Gildrock spoke with more feeling than usual, and his remarks
made a deep impression upon the students. They promptly applauded what
he had said, thus indicating that they would respect the good name of
the institution. The principal did not check their demonstration on the
present occasion, and he seemed to be pleased with it.

"The students of the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, on the other
side of the lake, don't wear any uniform," suggested Ben Ludlow, who
realized that he had been thoroughly beaten in the argument. "Colonel
Buckmill, the principal of the Institute, says that gentlemen, such as
his pupils are, don't need uniforms."

"Of course Colonel Buckmill has a perfect right to his own opinion on
this subject, as I have to mine," replied Captain Gildrock. "The
Chesterfields will wear no uniform, but the Beech Hill students will
wear a uniform. I think we need not argue the question any more. The
uniform is ready, and you will put it on in the morning. It is merely a
plain suit of blue, with our initials on the cap."

Some of the boys did not like the idea of a uniform. Something had been
said about it before, and the topic had been discussed in the boats. A
few thought it interfered with their independence. It would enable every
person in the city to know them at sight.

If they got into mischief, or visited improper places, the uniform would
betray them. The principal knew that two of them had drank beer in a
saloon: he did not say what further information he had on this subject,
and the students were not disposed to prolong the discussion in this
direction.

Though they did not like to face the beer question, the boys were
disposed to be a little sullen over the new order. They had not been in
the school long enough to attain a very high state of discipline, and
most of them had wills of their own. A large proportion of them had been
in the habit of having their own way, and, to them, wearing a uniform
was about the same thing as being placed under guard all the time.

"One thing more," interposed the principal, as the students were about
to leave the shop. "As I announced on the day the school was opened, I
intend to offer a prize for the best plan of a boat-house, to be
erected by the students on the border of Beech Hill Lake. I shall submit
the offer the first thing to-morrow morning, after you have put on your
uniforms."

The boys had been very much interested in the proposed new house; not so
much on account of the accommodations it was to furnish them, as because
they were to build the house themselves. Not a few of them had already
considered plans for the structure, and the prizes would introduce a new
element of excitement. But somehow the announcement fell rather coldly,
and some of the pupils were more inclined to get up a rebellion against
the new uniform than to compete for the prize.

Captain Gildrock left the shop, and went to the house. He could not help
