frolicsome puppies, and led easy lives,--petted, fed and admired, till
they grew so big and bold that, like other young creatures, their pranks
made mischief as well as fun.

Tom would steal all the good things he could lay his paws on in kitchen
or dining-room, and cook declared she couldn't have the rascal loose;
for whole pans of milk vanished, sheets of ginger-bread were found in
his den under the back steps, and nearly every day he was seen
scrambling off with booty of some sort, while the fat cook waddled
after, scolding and shaking the poker at him, to the great amusement of
the boarders on the piazza. People bore with him a long time; but when
he took a lively trot down the middle of the long dinner-table one day,
after eating all he liked, and smashing right and left as he scampered
off, with a terrible clatter of silver, glass, and china, his angry
master declared he wouldn't have such doings, and chained him to a post
on the lawn. Here he tugged and growled dismally, while good little
Jerry frisked gayly about, trying to understand what it all meant.

But presently his besetting sin got him into trouble likewise. He
loved to climb, and was never happier than when scrambling up the rough
posts of the back piazza to bask in the sun on the roof above, peeping
down with his sharp little eyes at the children, who could not follow.
He roosted in trees like a fat brown bird, and came tumbling down
unexpectedly on lovers who sought quiet nooks to be romantic in. He
explored the chimneys and threw into them any trifle he happened to
find,--being a rogue, and fond of stealing hats, balls, dolls, or any
small article that came in his way. But the fun he liked best was to
climb in at the chamber windows and doze on the soft beds; for Jerry
was a luxurious fellow and scorned the straw of his own den. This habit
annoyed people much, and the poor bear often came bundling out of
windows, with old gentlemen whacking him with canes, or ladies throwing
water after him.

One evening, when there was a dance and every one was busy down stairs,
Jerry took a walk on the roof, and being sleepy, looked about for a
cosey bed to take a nap in. Two brothers occupied one of these rooms,
and both were Jerry's good friends, especially the younger. Georgie was
fast asleep, as his dancing days had not yet begun, and Charlie was
waltzing away down stairs; so Jerry crept into bed and nestled down
beside his playmate, who was too sleepy to do anything but roll over,
thinking the big brother had come to bed.

By and by Charlie did come up, late and tired, and having forgotten a
lamp, undressed in the moonlight, observing nothing till about to step
into bed; then, finding something rolled up in the clothes, thought it a
joke of the other boys, caught up a racket and began to bang away at the
suspicious bundle. A scene of wild confusion followed, for Jerry growled
and clawed and couldn't get out; Georgie woke, and thinking his
bed-fellow was his brother being abused by some frolicsome mate, held on
to Jerry, defending him bravely, till a rent in the sheet allowed a
shaggy head to appear, so close to his own that the poor child was
painfully reminded of Red Riding Hood's false grandmother. Charlie was
speechless with laughter at this discovery, and while Jerry bounced
about the bed snarling and hugging pillows as he tried to get free,
terrified Georgie rushed down the hall screaming, "The wolf! the wolf!"
till he took refuge in his mother's room.

Out popped night-capped heads, anxious voices cried, "Is it fire?" and
in a moment the house was astir. The panic might have been serious if
Jerry had not come galloping down stairs, hotly pursued by Charlie in
his night-gown, still belaboring the poor beast, and howling, "He was in
my bed! He scared George! I'll thrash him!"

Then the alarmed ladies and gentlemen laughed and grew calm, while the
boys all turned out and hunted Jerry up stairs and down, till he was
captured and ignominiously lugged away to be tied in the barn.

That prank sealed his fate, and he went to join his brother in
captivity. Here they lived for a year, and went to housekeeping in a den
in the bank, with a trough for their food, and a high, knotted pole to
climb on. They had many visitors, and learned a few tricks, but were not
happy bears; for they longed to be free, and the older they grew, the
more they sighed for the great forest where they were born.

The second summer something happened that parted them forever. Among the
children that year were Fred and Fan Howard, two jolly young persons of
twelve and fourteen. Of course the bears were very interesting, and Fred
tried their tempers by tormenting them, while Fan won their hearts with
cake and nuts, candy and caresses. Tom was Fred's favorite, and Jerry
was Fan's. Tom was very intelligent, and covered himself with glory by
