Jacobs."  And Mr. Benson followed his daughter across the track, glad to
get out of the bustle.

Yes, Tilda was there, and at work so energetically that they dared not
approach, but stood looking and laughing for a moment.  Two pails of
water stood near her, and with a long-handled dipper she was serving all
she could reach; those which were packed on the upper tier she could
only refresh by a well-aimed splash, which was eagerly welcomed, and
much enjoyed by all parties,--for Tilda got well showered herself, but
did not care a bit, for it was a melting July day.

"That is a very little thing to do, but it is the cup of cold water
which we have forgotten," said Miss Alice, softly, while the air was
full of cries of longing as the blue lake shone before the thirsty
beasts.

"Jacobs, we must attend to this."

"Benson, we will.  I ’ll look into the matter, and report at the next
meeting."

That was all they said; but Alice clapped her hands, for she knew the
thing would be done, and smiled like sunshine on the two old gentlemen,
who presently watched the long train rumble away, with shakes and nods
of the gray heads, which expressed both pity and determination.

The other train soon followed, and Patty came running over with her
empty tray and a handful of silver to join Tilda, who sat down upon her
upturned pail, tired out.

"Papa will see to it, children; and, thanks to you, the sheep will soon
be more comfortable," said Miss Alice, joining them.

"Oh, goody!  I hope they’ll be quick; it’s so hot, there ’s ever so many
dead ones to-day, and I can’t help ’em," answered Tilda, fanning herself
with her bonnet, and wiping the drops off her red face.

Miss Alice took a pretty straw fan out of her pocket and handed it to
her, with a look of respect for the faithful little soul who did her
duty so well.

"Ask for me when you come to the farm to-night.  I shall have some hats
and aprons for you, and I want to know you better," she said,
remembering the broad-brimmed hats and ready-made aprons in the village
store.

"Thank you, ma’am.  We ’ll come.  Now we won’t have to do this wet work
we ’d like to be neat and nice," said Patty, gratefully.

"Do you always sell all your berries down here?" asked Miss Alice,
watching Tilda tie up the dimes.

"Yes, indeed; and we could sell more if both of us went.  But ma said we
were making lots of money, and it was n’t best to get rich too fast,"
answered Tilda, wisely.

"That’s a good thing for us to remember, Benson, especially just now,
and not count the cost of this little improvement in our cattle cars too
closely," said Mr. Jacobs, as the old gentlemen came up in time to hear
Tilda’s speech.

"Your mother is a remarkable woman; I must come and see her," added Mr.
Benson.

"Yes, sir; she is.  She’d be pleased to see you any day."  And Tilda
stood up respectfully as her elders addressed her.

"Getting too rich, are you?  Then I suppose it would n’t do to ask you
to invest this in your business for me?" asked Mr. Jacobs, holding up
two silver dollars, as if he felt bashful about offering them.

Two pairs of eyes sparkled; and Patty’s hand went out involuntarily, as
she thought how many things she could get with all that money.

"Would they buy a lamb? and would you like to use it that way?" asked
Tilda, in a business-like tone.

"I guess Miller would let you have one for that sum if Miss Alice makes
the bargain, and I should very much like to start a flock if you would
attend to it for me," answered Mr. Jacobs, with a laughing nod at the
