into the house as fast as her size and flounces permitted, leaving
Rosy breathless with surprise and indignation.

Burning to resent this terrible outrage, she climbed quickly up the
steps, and astonished the irate old gentleman on the other side by
the sudden apparition of a golden head, a red childish face, and a
dirty little finger pointed sternly at him, as this small avenging
angel demanded,--

“Missionary man, how COULD you kill my cousin’s cat?”

“Bless my soul! who are you?” said the old gentleman, staring at
this unexpected actor on the field of battle.

“I’m Button-Rose, and I hate cruel people! Tabby’s dead, and now
there isn’t any one to play with over here.”

This sad prospect made the blue eyes fill with sudden tears; and the
application of the dirty fingers added streaks of mud to the red
cheeks, which much damaged the appearance of the angel, thought it
added pathos to the child’s reproach.

“Cats have nine lives, and Tabby’s used to being chucked over the
wall. I’ve done it several times, and it seems to agree with her,
for she comes back to kill my chicks as bold as brass. See that!”
 and the old gentleman held up a downy dead chicken, as proof of
Tabby’s sin.

“Poor little chicky!” groaned Rosy, yearning to mourn over the dear
departed and bury it with tender care. “It WAS very naughty of Tab;
but, sir, you know cats are made to catch things, and they can’t
help it.”

“They will have to help it, or I’ll drown the lot. This is a rare
breed, and I’ve but two left after all my trouble, thanks to that
rascal of yours! What are you going to do about it?” demanded Mr.
Dover, in a tone that made Rosy feel as if she had committed the
murder herself.

“I’ll talk to Tabby and try to make her good, and I’ll shut her up
in the old rabbit-house over here; then I hope she will be sorry and
never do it any more,” she said, in such a remorseful tone that the
old gentleman relented at once, ashamed to afflict such a tender
little soul.

“Try it,” he said, with a smile that made his yellow face pleasant
all at once. Then, as if ready to change the subject, he asked,
looking curiously at the little figure perched on the wall,--

“Where did you come from? Never saw any children over there before.
They don’t allow ‘em.”

Rosy introduced herself in a few words, and seeing that her new
acquaintance seemed interested, she added with the wheedling smile
Papa found so engaging,--

“It’s pretty lonely here, I guess; so p’r’aps you’ll let me peep at
your nice garden sometimes if it doesn’t trouble you, sir?”

“Poor little soul! it must be desperately dull with those three
tabbies,” he said to himself, as he stroked the dead chicken in his
hand, and watched the little face bent toward him.

“Peep as much as you like, child; or, better still, come over and
run about. I like little girls,” he added aloud, with a nod and a
wave of welcome.

“I told ‘em I was sure you did! I’d love to come, but they wouldn’t
let me, I know. I’m so sorry about the fight. Couldn’t you make it
up, and be pleasant again?” asked Rosy, clasping her hands with a
beseeching gesture as her bright face grew sad and serious
remembering the feud.

“So they’ve told you that nonsense already, have they? Nice
neighbors THEY are,” said the old gentleman, frowning as if ill
pleased at the news.

“I’m glad I know; p’r’aps I can be a peace-maker. Mamma says they
are good to have in families, and I’d like to be one if I could.
Would you mind if I tried to peace-make a little, so I could come
