go on the stage. After all, why should I not? Is society so alluring
that I should sacrifice for it that which is to me infinitely
preferable? If I have not done so already it is because of my mother.
But should I decide to do so, there are years of study before me yet. In
which case I could not marry, that is self-evident, not only because I
would not marry a man who would suffer me to sing in public--don't
interrupt--but also because--well, you told me that you understood the
possibilities of the human voice, and you must know what the result
would be. But even independent of that, you said a moment ago that I did
not love you. Well, I don't. I don't love you. Tristrem, listen to me. I
don't love you as you would have me. I wish I did. But I like you. I
like you as I can like few other men. Tristrem, except my mother, I have
not a friend in the world. Women never care for me, and men--well, save
in the case of yourself, when their friendship has been worth the
having, it belonged to someone else. Give me yours."

"It will be hard, very hard."

Miss Raritan moved from where she had been standing and glanced at the
clock. "You must go now," she said, "but promise that you will try."

She held her hand to him, and Tristrem raised it to his lips and kissed
the wrist. "You might as well ask me to increase my stature," he
answered. And presently he dropped the hand which he held and left the
house.

It was a perfect night. The moon hung like a yellow feather in the sky,
and in the air was a balm that might have come from fields of tamaris
and of thyme. The street itself was quiet, and as Tristrem walked on,
something of the enchantment of the hour fell upon him. On leaving Miss
Raritan, he had been irritated at himself. It seemed to him that when
with her he was at his worst; that he stood before her dumb for love,
awkward, embarrassed, and ineffectual of speech. It seemed to him that
he lacked the tact of other men, and that, could she see him as he
really was when unemotionalized by her presence, if the eloquence which
came to him in solitude would visit him once at her side, if he could
plead to her with the fervor with which he addressed the walls, full
surely her answer would be other. She would make no proffer then of
friendship, or if she did, it would be of that friendship which is born
of love, and is better than love itself. But as he walked on the
enchantment of the night encircled him. He declined to accept her reply;
he told himself that in his eagerness he had been abrupt; that a girl
who was worth the winning was slow of capture; that he had expected
months to give him what only years could afford, and that Time, in which
all things unroll, might yet hold this gift for him. He resolved to put
his impatience aside like an unbecoming coat. He would pretend to be but
a friend. As a friend he would be privileged to see her, and then, some
day the force and persistence of his affection would do the rest. He
smiled at his own cunning. It was puerile as a jack-straw, but it seemed
shrewdness itself to him. Yes, that was the way. He had done wrong; he
had unmasked his batteries too soon. And such batteries! But no matter,
of his patience he was now assured. On the morrow he would go to her and
begin the campaign anew.

He had reached the corner and was on the point of turning down the
avenue, when a hansom rattled up and wheeled so suddenly into the street
through which he had come, that he stepped back a little to let it pass.
As he did so he looked in at the fare. The cab was beyond him in a
second, but in the momentary glimpse which he caught of the occupant, he
recognized Royal Weldon. And as he continued his way, he wondered where
Royal Weldon could be going.

The following evening he went to dine at the Athenæum Club. The house in
Waverley Place affected him as might an empty bier in a tomb. The bread
that he broke there choked him. His father was as congenial as a
spectre. He only appeared when dinner was announced, and after he had
seated himself at the table he asked grace of God in a low, determined
fashion, and that was the end of the conversation. Tristrem remembered
that in the infrequent vacations of his school and college days, that
was the way it always had been, and being tolerably convinced that that
was the way it always would be, he preferred, when not expected
elsewhere, to dine at the club.

On entering the Athenæum on this particular evening, he put his hat and
coat in the vestiary and was about to order dinner, when he was accosted
by Alphabet Jones.

"I say, Varick," the novelist exclaimed--(during the winter they had
seen much of each other), "do you know who was the originator of the
cloak-room? Of course you don't--I'll tell you; who do you suppose now?
