It is probable that, if her second editor had not been young and very
gracious, her courage would again have flown off on deriding wings; as
it was, it did not even threaten desertion.

She found the editor engaged in nothing more depressing than the perusal
of a letter. He smiled most promisingly when she announced herself as
the mysterious “Quirus,” but folded his hands deprecatingly.

“I am sorry I cannot use that poem,” he said, “but I am afraid it is
impossible. It has decided merit, and, in view of the awful stuff we are
obliged to publish, it would be a welcome addition to our pages. I don’t
mind the strength of the poem or the plot; you have made your meaning
artistically obscure. But there is one word in it which would make it
too strong meat for the readers of this magazine. I refer to the word
‘naked.’ It is quite true that the adjective ‘naked’ is used in
conjunction with the noun ‘skies;’ but the word itself is highly
objectionable. I have been trying to find a way out of the difficulty. I
substituted the word ‘nude,’ but that spoils the meter, you see. Then I
sought the dictionary.” He opened a dictionary that stood on a revolving
stand beside him, and read aloud: “‘Naked—uncovered; unclothed; nude;
bare; open; defenseless; plain; mere.’ None of these will answer the
purpose, you see. They are either too short or too long; and ‘open’ does
not convey the idea. I am really afraid that nothing can be done.
Suppose you try something else and be more careful with your vocabulary.
I trust you catch my idea, because I am really quite interested in your
work. It is like the fresh breeze of spring when it is not”—here he
laughed—“the torrid breath of the simoon. I have read some of your
other verse, you see.”

“I think I understand you,” said Hermia, leaning forward and gazing
reflectively at him. “Manner is everything. Matter is a creature whose
limbs may be of wood, whose joints may be sapless; so long as he is
covered by a first-class tailor he is a being to strut proudly down to
posterity. Or, for the sake of variety, which has its value, the
creature may change his sex and become a pink-cheeked, flax-haired,
blue-eyed doll. Hang upon her garments cut by an unconventional hand,
looped eccentrically and draped artistically, and the poor little doll
knows not herself from her clothes. Have I gazed understandingly upon
the works of the literary clock?”

The editor threw back his head and laughed aloud. “You are very clever,”
he exclaimed, “but I am afraid your estimate of us is as correct as it
is flattering. We are a set of cowards, but we should be bankrupt if we
were not.”

Hermia took the manuscript he had extracted from a drawer, and rose. “At
all events you were charitable to read my verses,” she said, “and more
than good to attempt their re-form.”

The editor stood up also. “Oh, do not mention it,” he said, “and write
me something else—something equally impassioned but quite
irreproachable. Aside from the defect I mentioned, there were one or two
verses which I should have been obliged to omit.”

Hermia shrugged her shoulders. She might repeatedly work the lovers up
to the verge of disaster, then, just before the fatal moment, wrench
them apart and substitute asterisks for curses. The school-girls would
palpitate, the old maids thrill, the married women smile, and the men
grin. No harm would be done, maidens and maids would lay it down with a
long-drawn sigh—of relief?—or regret?

Hermia kept these reflections to herself and departed, thinking her
editor a charming man.

When she reached the sidewalk she stood irresolute for a moment, then
walked rapidly for many blocks. The Mecca of her pilgrimage was another
publishing-house. She stepped briskly upstairs and asked for the editor
with a confidence born of excitement and encouragement. After a short
delay she was shown into his office, and began the attack without
preliminary.

“I have brought you some verses,” she said, “which have been declined by
two of your esteemed contemporaries on the ground of
unconventionality—of being too highly seasoned for the gentle palates
to which they cater. I bring them to you because I believe you have more
courage than the majority of your tribe. You wrote two books in which
you broke out wildly once or twice. Now I want you to read this while I
am here. It will take but a few moments.”

The editor, who had a highly non-committal air, smiled slightly, and
