
Primrose ran away and in five minutes came back in a soft, gray silken
gown, narrow and quite short in the skirt, a kerchief of sheer mull
muslin crossed on her bosom, and all her hair gathered under a plain
cap. Madam Wetherill was hardly through explaining that she had always
been a Church of England woman, and one thing she had admired in Mr.
Penn more than all his other wisdom, was his insistence that everyone
should be free to worship as he chose.

"Oh, Primrose!" he cried in delight. "What queer gift do you possess of
metamorphosis? For one would declare you had never known aught outside
of a gray gown. And each change brings out new loveliness. Madam
Wetherill, how do you keep such a sprite in order?"

"She lets me do as I like, and I love to do as she likes," was the quick
reply, as she laid her pretty hand on the elder woman's shoulder, and
smiled into her eyes.

"She is a spoiled child," returned madam fondly. "But since I have
spoiled her myself, I must e'en put up with it."

"But Mrs. Wharton spoils me too, and thinks the best of the house must
be brought out for me. And even Aunt Lois has grown strangely
indulgent."

"I believe I should soon get well in this atmosphere. And of course,
Primrose," with a certain amused meaning, "you will never rest until I
am of your way of thinking and have forsworn the king. Must I become a
Quaker as well?"

"Nay, that is as thou pleasest," she said with a kind of gay
sententiousness.

All of life was not quite over for him, Philemon Nevitt decided when he
went back to Mrs. Grayson's house. It had been quite a famous house when
the Declaration of Independence was pending, and held Washington, and
Hancock, and many another rebel worthy. Then it had been a great place
again in the Howe winter. Madam Wetherill had generously invited him to
make her house his home, but he had a delicacy about such a step.

Early in December hostilities at the south ceased and the British
evacuated Charleston. Preparations were made for a discussion of the
preliminaries of peace. John Adams, John Jay, Benjamin Franklin,
Jefferson, and Laurens were, after some discussion, named commissioners
and empowered to act. General and Mrs. Washington came up to
Philadelphia.

There was not a little wrangling in the old State House, for it was not
possible that everyone should agree. And if the men bickered the women
had arguments as well. Some were for having an American King and
degrees of royalty that would keep out commoners, but these were mostly
Tory women.

There was not a little longing for gayety and gladness after the long
and weary strife, the deaths, the wounded soldiers, and all the
privations. The elder people might solace themselves with card-playing,
but the younger ones wanted a different kind of diversion.

The old Southwark Theater was opened under the attractive title of
"Academy of Polite Science." Here a grand ovation was given to General
Washington, "Eugenie," a play of Beaumarchais, being acted, with a fine
patriotic prologue. The young women were furbishing up their neglected
French, or studying it anew, and the French minister was paid all the
honors of the town. The affection and gratitude shown the French allies
were one of the features of the winter.

Philemon Henry was proud enough of his pretty sister, and the still
fine-looking grand dame Mrs. Wetherill. Then there was piquant Polly
Wharton with her smiles and ready tongue, and even Andrew Henry was
recreant enough to grace the occasion, which seemed to restore an
atmosphere of amity and friendly alliance.

There was more than one who recalled the gay young Andr√© and his
personations during the liveliest winter Philadelphia had ever known.

Dancing classes were started again, and the assemblies reopened. Many of
the belles of that older period were married; not a few of them, like
Miss Becky Franks, had married English officers, and were now departing
for England since there was no more glory to be gained at war, and these
heroes were somewhat at a discount.
