conversation with her. In spite of her long residence in Rome, as a
Roman, and among Romans, she had remained altogether English in nature.
Laura, English on both sides by her birth, had far less of prejudice
than her mother, and was altogether more of a cosmopolitan in every way.
On the present occasion, Ghisleri led the conversation so as to speak of
her. He began by asking the Princess where she herself meant to spend
the summer, and whether she intended to be with her daughter.

"I hope to be with her a great part of the time," she answered. "I do
not like to think of her as travelling about the world alone. Indeed, I
do not at all approve of her living without a companion, as she insists
upon doing. She is far too young, and people are far too ready to talk
about her."

"She has such wonderful dignity," answered Ghisleri, "that she could do
with impunity what most women could not do at all. Besides, her mourning
protects her for the present, and her child. She is looking wonderfully
well--do you not think so?"

"Yes. When one thinks of all she has suffered, it is amazing. But she
was always strong."

"I should suppose so. Any one else would have caught the scarlet fever."

"As for that," said the Princess, unsuspiciously, "people rarely have it
twice."

"She has had it, then."

"Oh, yes. Both the girls had it at the same time, when they were little
things. Let me see--Laura must have been six years old then. They had it
rather badly, and I remember being terribly anxious about them."

"I see," answered Ghisleri, carelessly. "That accounts for it. But to go
back to what we were speaking of, I wonder that Lady Herbert does not
spend the summer with you at Gerano, if you go there as usual."

"I do not think she will consent to that," said the Princess, rather
coldly. "She says she prefers the north for the baby. It is quite true
that it is often very hot at Gerano."

"Donna Adele was good enough to ask me to go out and spend a day or two
while she is there. It must be very pleasant just now, in the spring
weather."

"Why do you not go?" asked the Princess, with more warmth, for she
preferred that Ghisleri should be where he could not see Laura every
day, as she believed he now did. "You would be doing them both a
kindness. Poor Adele was obliged to go to the country against her
will--she is in such a terribly nervous state. I really do not know what
to make of it."

"What news have you of her?" inquired Ghisleri, in a tone of polite
solicitude. "Is she at all better?"

"She was better after the first few days. Then it appears that she had a
fright--I do not quite understand how it was from what Francesco wrote
to my husband--but it seems to have been one of those odd
accidents--optical illusions, I suppose--which sometimes terrify
people."

"How very unfortunate! What did she fancy she saw?"

"It was absurd, of course!" answered the Princess, who had no special
reason for being reticent on the subject. "It seems that there was a
blue cloak of hers hanging somewhere in her dressing-room,--at a window,
I believe,--and she went in suddenly very early in the morning before it
was quite broad daylight, and took the cloak for a man. In fact she
thought it was poor dear Arden. You know he always used to wear blue
serge clothes. Francesco saw it himself afterwards and says that it was
extraordinarily like. But I cannot understand how any one in their
senses could be deceived in that way. Adele is dreadfully overwrought
and imaginative. She has danced too much this winter, I suppose."

When Ghisleri went away he was almost quite persuaded that Adele was
conscious of having communicated the fever to Arden. Of course, it might
all be mere coincidence, but to him the evidence seemed strong. He wrote
a note to Adele, asking whether he might avail himself of her
invitation, and spend a day at Gerano. Her answer came by return of
post, begging him to come at once, and to stay as long as possible. The
