“I’ll let you know by that time.”

Jerry Cooper walked away in a state of excitement. He felt that he would
rather stay in Sacramento and carry on his own old business, with which
he was thoroughly acquainted, than undertake gold-mining, of which he
knew nothing. He was a man of fifty, and was not so enterprising as he
had been when half the age.

“It seems a good chance,” he reflected. “But how will I get the money?”

He had five hundred dollars left, perhaps more; but all this would have
to be paid down for the shop, without leaving anything to provide for
his family in the interval before he got to earning an income.

“If I only had the money I would take the shop,” he said to himself. “I
wonder if I could borrow any. I might send home for some, but it would
come too late.”

He walked slowly back to the hotel and restaurant.

In front of it Mrs. Cooper was waiting for him.

“I’m glad you’ve come, father,” she said. “I was afraid you would be
gone all day.”

“Were you discontented, mother?”

“No; it isn’t that; but I’ve had an offer for the wagon and oxen.”

“You have?”

“Yes; quarter of an hour after you went away a man came in and inquired
of the landlord who owned the team. He was referred to me, and asked me
if I wanted to sell. I told him I didn’t know what your plan might be,
but finally he offered me eight hundred dollars, or a thousand if Dobbin
were thrown in.”

“You should have accepted,” exclaimed her husband excitedly.

“I didn’t dare to. I didn’t know what you would say. But he’s coming
back again, and—there he is!”

Fifteen minutes later the bargain was struck and the money paid, cash
down.

“That settles it!” decided the blacksmith. “Mother and I will stay in
Sacramento.”




                             CHAPTER XVIII.
                             A TRUE FRIEND.


The next morning, as Grant was enjoying a few minutes’ rest, breakfast
being over, he was surprised by the entrance of Giles Crosmont. It
seemed pleasant to see a familiar face.

“I am glad to see you, Mr. Crosmont,” he said warmly. “Will you have
breakfast?”

“No; I am staying at the hotel and have already breakfasted. I have come
in to see you.”

“I am glad to see you, sir. I was afraid we would not meet again. How
did you know where to find me?”

“I met Tom Cooper on the street early this morning.”

“Tom has gone to the mines.”

“So he told me. That is, he told me he was to start this morning. You
intended to go to the mines, did you not?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Then why didn’t you go?”

“I hadn’t money enough,” answered Grant candidly.
