“Oh, you will be careful of thim, won’t you?”

“Careful! I’ll treat ’em as if they was aiggs. An’ I’ll make the boys
stan’ roun’, so’s to keep the house—well—decent!” and he made a funny,
meaning face. “Je-ru-sa-lem! what a hole we had when youse come! An’ now
it’s like a pallis.”

Not like the palace Dil remembered in the book that had been such a
treat to her and Bess.

Everybody made it easy for Dil. Mrs. Brian would see to the boys, and
Mrs. Wilson offered to keep Nelly until her return. Still, it was Friday
before Dil could really make up her mind.

On Saturday Dil took Nelly and went up to Madison Square. The policeman
kept out of her way; he could not bear to face her look of
disappointment. But just at the last she took him inadvertently.

“You see, I’m sure he’ll come soon,” she said with a confidence that
seemed like a presentiment. “’Cause he’ll be thinkin’ ’bout the Sat’day
he made the picture of Bess an’ me. An’ I want him to know where I’ve
gone; so I’ve writ it out. I’ve been studyin’ writin’.”

“She looks like a ghost,” the man said to himself as his eyes followed
her. “She’s that changed in a year no one would know her except for her
eyes. If he don’t come soon, he won’t see her at all, to my thinking.
Hillo! what a scheme! I’ll hunt him up. Why didn’t I think of it before!
John Travis! Seems to me I’ve heard something about John Travis.”

Sunday was a soft, cloudy day, with a touch of rain. Every boy stayed at
home—you couldn’t have driven them away. They promised to give Mrs.
Brian the rent every night, so as to be provided for next Monday. They
sang some of their prettiest songs for her; they didn’t know many hymns,
but they had a spirit of tenderest devotion in their hearts.

The boys said good-by to her the next morning in a rather sober fashion.
Patsey and Owen were going to take her to the ferry. Mrs. Brian brought
down her satchel, and Dil put in her white dress, some aprons, and
various small matters. She was to wear her best pink gingham. Mrs.
Wilson was full of hope, Mrs. Brian extremely jolly, and was sure Barnum
would want her for a “fat girl” when she came back.

Dil’s similitudes were very limited, but Cinderella and the fairy
godmother did come into her mind.

Miss Lawrence was in the waiting-room with half a dozen girls. She came
and greeted Dil cordially, and told her she looked better already. The
child’s eyes brightened with a sunny light.

Owen said good-by in a boy’s awkward fashion, and gave her the bag.
Patsey was reluctant, and he turned slowly away.

Then he came back.

“Good-by, Dil, dear,” he said again with deep tenderness as he stooped
to kiss her. He was so much taller, though only a few months older. And
always Patsey Muldoon was glad he came back for that kiss.

Then Miss Lawrence bought tickets and ushered her small procession, nine
of them now, through the narrow way and out on the boat. They huddled
together at first like a flock of sheep. Dil noticed one little
hump-backed girl, who had large, light eyes and golden hair in ringlets.
She was not like Bess, and yet she moved Dil’s sympathetic heart. Had a
drunken father “hurted her”?

She felt shy of the others, they all seemed in such spirits. As they
were going off the boat, she drew nearer the unfortunate child and
longed to speak.

An impudent leer crossed the other face.

“Who yer lookin’ at? Mind yer own biz. I’m jes’ as good as youse!” was
the unexpected salutation.

“Yes,” answered Dil meekly, her enthusiastic pity quenched.

Dil’s seat was in the window end, and her companion a stolid little
German with two flaxen tails down her back. So she sat quite still. The
morning had been so full of excitement she could hardly think. She had
been just whirled about, pushed into the adventure.
