The two companies of cavalry near the river and the battery were taking
their rations from their haversacks, and Captain Woodbine did not
disturb them. By this time Major Lyon's command had halted in the road,
the head of the column near Cuffy's house. A trooper, running his
horse, was approaching; and Deck saw that it was his brother Artie, who
rode up to the staff-officer, saluted him, and reported the arrival of
the squadron by order of his father.

As soon as he had delivered his message, he grasped the hand of the
lieutenant; for they had not yet come together in the hurry of the
events of the afternoon. The meeting was such as two loving brothers
could not help making it. Artie congratulated Deck on his escape and
his present safety; for the story of his adventure with Fronklyn had
been circulated through both companies, and there was no occasion for
the lieutenant to repeat it.

"I say, Deck! what is going on here? What is that battery of light
artillery and the two companies of cavalry doing here?" inquired Artie
very earnestly.

"They seem to be taking a late dinner out of their haversacks," replied
Deck, who was not a whit wiser than his brother.

"I could see that for myself," added Artie, laughing.

"That is all I know about it; and if you want to know anything more,
you must ask Captain Woodbine, for I fancy he is the only person on the
ground who understands the matter."

"I should as soon think of asking General Thomas, if he were here; for
I suppose he knows all about it wherever he is."

"No doubt of it; and the captain is his only mouthpiece about this
region. But if we wait a while I have no doubt we shall know all about
the situation, though I do not expect to be supplied with a copy of the
staff-officer's orders."

"Of course not."

"Orderly!" called the officer mentioned.

Artie, who answered to this designation near his father, rode up to the
captain, and saluted him with even more than usual deference; for just
now he seemed to be a sort of mysterious personage, in whom all power
in this locality resided.

"If you have finished your interview with your brother, for I do not
wish to hurry you, as we are in no special haste while the three
companies are eating their dinner, you will deliver this order to Major
Lyon."

"We have finished, Captain," replied Artie, surprised at the kindness
of the staff-officer, who had been writing in his memorandum-book, and
had torn out the leaf, which he tendered to the orderly.

Artie took the folded paper, and galloped back to the head of the
Riverlawn column. Though he was a boy of eighteen, like his brother,
but really only his cousin, he was not tempted to read the order he was
carrying, greatly as his curiosity was stimulated; for it was a matter
of honor with both of the young men to "mind their own business," and
especially not to meddle with that of others; and either of them would
have been a model postmaster, in whose keeping even postal-cards would
have been sacred.

The three companies nearest to the river finished their dinner, and
Deck looked the men over as they prepared to resume their places in the
ranks. The horses had all been supplied with a feed of oats, poured
upon the cleanest spots to be found on the grass, which had been
somewhat kicked up by the tramp of horses. The men went to their
steeds, and the lieutenant thought they were fine-looking men; and some
few of them were as tall and bony as Life Knox. The members of the
battery "hitched up" their animals again, and then took their seats on
their horses and the gun-carriages and caissons.

Major Lyon, evidently in obedience to the order he had just received,
had given his commands to the captains of the two companies, and they
were marching them into the field behind the ferry-house; and in a few
minutes they had formed in double ranks on the west side of the ground,
north and south. Then the two other companies of cavalry formed in the
same manner on the north side of the field, east and west. The battery
