she knew her son had for many weeks spent all his time.

"Well? They're extraordinarily well," said Ash. He got up and walked
restlessly about the room. After a while he stopped, and now he seemed
to have forgotten his mother's presence, for his eyes rested upon her
without seeing her. "One of them is a little too well," he said,
menacingly; "let him look to himself--that's all." And then into his
face, his mother, watching him, saw coming slowly something she knew.
The expression changed him so completely that the ladies who had seen so
much of him would not have recognized their visitor. His mother
recognized him. That expression on her son's face was her life's long
terror.

He left the room. She listened as long as she could hear his steps;
then, after sitting for some time with her head upon her arms on the
table before her, she rose, and went slowly to put on her bonnet and
shawl. Coming back, still slowly, she paused, and for five minutes stood
there motionless. Then her hands dropped desparingly by her sides, and
her worn face quivered. "O God, O our Father, I really don't know what
ter do!" she murmured, breaking into helpless sobs, the stifled,
difficult sobs of a person unaccustomed to self-expression, even the
self-expression of grief.

She did not go out. Instead of that, she went back to the inner room and
knelt down.


IV

The next morning three carriages and two persons on horseback were
following the long road that stretches southward from Salerno to PÃ¦stum.

In the first carriage old Mrs. Preston sat enthroned amid cushions and
shawls; opposite she had placed her nephew Arthur, first because he was
slim, second because he was a man (Mrs. Preston was accustomed to say,
"Too much lady talk dries my brain"); the second carriage held Isabella
Holland and the Abercrombie girls; in the third, a landau drawn by two
spirited horses, were Mrs. Ash and her son. The two persons on horseback
were Pauline Graham and Griffith Carew.

In the soft spring air the mountains that rise all the way on the left
at no great distance from the road had in perfection the vague, dreamy
outlines and violet hues that form so characteristic a feature of the
Italian landscape. Up in the sky their peaks shone whitely, powdered
with snow. The flat plain that stretches from the base of the mountains
to the sea had beauty of another kind; often a fever-swept marsh, it
possessed at this season all a marsh's luxuriance of waving reeds and
flowers and tasselled jungles, with water birds rising from their
feeding-places, and flying along, low down, with a slow motion of their
broad wings, their feet stretched out behind. Troops of buffalo could be
seen here and there. At rare intervals there was an oasis of cultivated
ground, with a solitary farm-house. On the right, all the way, the
Mediterranean, meeting the flat land flatly, stretched forward from
thence into space, going on bluely, and rising a little on the horizon
line, as though it were surmounting a low hill.

Occasionally the carriages passed a little band of the small,
quick-stepping Italian soldiers.

"Oh, I say, did you know, aunt, that people were murdered by brigands on
this very bridge only ten years ago?" said Arthur, as they rolled across
a stone causeway raised in the form of an arch over a sluggish stream.

"I should like very much to see the brigands who did it!" Mrs. Preston
answered, smacking her lips contemptuously.

Arthur at least was very sure that no ten brigands could have vanquished
his aunt.

"This, girls, is the ancient Tyrrhenian Gulf," began Isabella to her
companions, waving one neatly gloved hand towards the sea. Isabella,
owing to the singularly incessant death of relatives, was always in
mourning; her neat gloves therefore were sable. "The temples we are
about to visit are very ancient also, having been built ages ago by
Greeks, who came from--from Greece, of course, naturally; and never
ceased to regret it. And all this shore, and the temples also, were
sacred to Neptune, or Poseidon, as he was called in Greek. And the
Greeks lamented--but I will read you that later at the threshold of the
temples; you cannot fail to be interested."

