"I suppose I shall really never care for them again," he said.

He looked at them with a sort of affection and touched some of the
things lightly, arranging them a little better.  Then he shut the lid
down, turned the key, and held it out to his mother.

"There you are," he said.  "Anyhow, the blocks helped me to remember.
Sixty-three, wasn’t it, mother?"

"Sixty-three," repeated Helen, mechanically.

Then, for the second time on that evening, she turned her face to the
cushion of her chair, and shook from head to foot, and sobbed aloud. She
had realized what the number meant. Sixty-three times, in the course of
years, had Henry Harmon struck his son upon the head. It was strange
that Archie should have any wits at all, and it was no wonder that they
were not like those of other men.  And it had all been a secret, kept by
the child first, then by the growing boy, then by the full-grown man,
till his thews and sinews had toughened upon him and he had turned and
paid back blow for blow, all at once.  And last of all the father had
struck her, with a thought of revenge, perhaps, as well as in passion,
because he dared not raise his hand against his strong son.

Again she saw the words of her telegram, ’Henry Harmon, New York.
Forgiven,’ and they were in letters of fire that her tears could not
quench.  She had not known how much she was forgiving.  Archie knelt
beside her in wonder, for he had never seen her cry in his life. He
touched her arm lovingly, trying to see her face, and his own softened
strangely, growing more human as it grew more childlike.

"Don’t, mother!  Please don’t cry like that! If I had thought you would
cry about it, I’d never have told you.  Besides, it couldn’t have hurt
him so very much--"

"Him!"

Helen’s voice rang out, and she turned, with a fierce light in her angry
eyes.  In a quick movement her arms ran round Archie’s neck and drew him
passionately to her breast, and she kissed his head, again and again,
always his head, upon the short, thick hair, till he wondered, and
laughed.

When they were quiet again, sitting side by side, her battle began once
more, and she knew that it must all be fought over on different ground.
She had forgiven Henry Harmon, as well as she could, for her own wrongs;
but there were others now, and they seemed worse to her than anything
she had suffered.  It was just to think so, too, for she knew that at
any time she could have left Harmon without blame or stain.  It had been
in her power, but she had chosen not to do it.

But the boy had been powerless and silent through long years.  She had
never even guessed that his father had ever struck him cruelly.  At the
merest suspicion of such a thing she would have turned upon her husband
as only mothers do turn, tigresses or women. But Archie had kept his
secret, while his strength quietly grew upon him, and then he had paid
the long score with his own hands. Out of shame, Harmon had kept the
secret, too.

Yet she had said in one word that she forgave him, and the word
determined the rest of her life.  A suffering, a short, sad respite, and
then suffering again; that was to sum the history of her years.  She
must suffer to the end, more and more.

And all at once it seemed to her that she could not bear it.  For
herself she might have forgiven anything.  She had pardoned all for
herself, from the first neglect to the scar on her forehead.  But it was
another matter to forgive for Archie.  Why should she?  What justice
could there be in that?  What right had she to absolve Harmon for his
cruelty to her child?

She must ask Archie if he forgave his father. She could no longer decide
the question alone, and Archie had the best of rights to be consulted.
Wimpole’s words came back to her, asking whether it could do Archie any
good to be under the same roof with his father; and all at once she saw
that her whole married life had been centred in her son much more than
in herself.

Besides, he must be told that his father had recovered, for every one
must know it soon, and people would speak of it before him, and think it
very strange if he were ignorant of it.  She hid from herself the
