toward murder. She sat there and thought until morning on the part to
which she had been born; the ego dully attempting to understand, to
realise that its imperious demands receive little consideration from the
great Law of Circumstance, and are usually ignored.




XXIII


The next morning Magdaléna did as wise a thing as if inspired by reason
instead of blind instinct: she got on her horse and rode for six hours.
When she returned home she was exhausted of body and inert of brain. She
found a note from Helena awaiting her.

     DEAREST 'LÉNA,--What a tornado and an idiot you must think
     me! I cannot explain my extraordinary departure. I suppose I was in
     such a nervous state that I was obsessed in some mysterious manner
     and went off like a rocket. I can assure you I feel like a stick
     this morning. You will forgive me, won't you? for you know that
     although my affections do fluctuate for some people, they never do
     for you.

     Well! this morning I had a scene with papa. He was very angry,
     talked about honour and all that sort of thing, said that I was an
     unprincipled flirt, and that I expected too much of a man. But when
     I said I could not understand how so perfect a man as himself could
     wish his daughter to marry a rake, he never said another word, but
     went off and wound up with Mr. Trennahan. I don't know what they
     said to each other; I don't care. It's all too dreadful to think
     about, and I never want to hear the subject mentioned again.

     We're going to Monterey this afternoon to remain till the end of
     the season, and then we'll go to the Blue Lakes for a little before
     settling down for the winter. I'm tired of Menlo. Can't you come to
     Monterey for a week or two? Do think about it. I haven't a minute
     to go over to Fair Oaks to say good-bye, but perhaps you'll come to
     the train. HELENA.

Magdaléna got some luncheon from the pantry, then went to bed and slept
until six o'clock. At dinner Mr. Polk said to her,--

"I saw Trennahan this afternoon in a hack with a lot of luggage on
behind, and I stopped the driver and got in, and went to the ferry with
him. His engagement with Helena Belmont is broken, it seems, and he is
off for Samoa. Looked like the devil, but was as polite as ever, and
asked me to say good-bye to all of you."

Don Roberto looked up. "When he coming back?" he asked.

"You know as much about that as I do; or as he does, I guess. He told me
that he was going to explore the South Seas thoroughly, and that ought
to take as many years as he's got left, and more too."

It was two or three days before Magdaléna realised what a relief it was
to have Trennahan out of the country. It moved him back among the
memories, and struck from her imagination agitating possibilities. And
he belonged to no woman! He could never be hers, but at least she could
love him. Already she had begun to do so with a measure of calm. She
could hide him in her soul and count him wholly hers; and the prospect
seemed far sweeter and more satisfactory than she should have imagined
of such immaterial union. And some day, she believed, he would write to
her. He had spoken authoritatively of the permanence of their
friendship, and of its necessity to him. He had not loved her, as men
count love, but for a little she had been to him something more than
other women had been. The spiritual sympathy which had been rudely
interrupted, but had surely existed, taught her this. In time he would
become conscious again of the bond, and his letters alone would be
something to live for.

And she had much else. In the evenings when her father was weeding on
the lawn, she devoted herself to her uncle; and he seemed grateful for
her attentions, slight as was his response. He was visibly shrinking to
his skeleton, although he neither coughed nor complained, and went to
town every morning with the regularity of his youth. But his gaunt face
was less savagely determined, his eyes had lost the hard surface of
metal; and one evening when Magdaléna slipped her hand into his, he
clasped and held it until Don Roberto, gloomy and perspiring, came
panting across the drive.
