"I think not."

"Besides, there will be considerable expense."

"The money left by his father will pay that till I am older and am
earning more."

"Not many boys of your age would dare to assume such a charge."

"Perhaps not, but Fred is such a sweet boy I cannot help loving him."

"Look here, Rupert, won't you let me share the expense? I am rich and
have no family ties?"

"Thank you, Mr. Packard. I am very much obliged to you, but I should
like to feel that I am Fred's sole guardian. I want him to learn to love
me."

"I don't know but you are right. I won't interfere if you don't wish me
to."

That evening Rupert took Fred to Mr. Benton's.

"I have brought you another boarder," he said.

Mrs. Benton looked surprised.

"Is it a relation of yours?" she asked.

"He is my son."

The good lady looked amazed.

"My adopted son," amended Rupert, with a smile; and then he told her of
the sudden death at the hotel, and little Fred's bereavement. Mrs.
Benton's heart went out to the little orphan, and she stooped and kissed
him.

"Will you live with me?" she asked.

"I am going to live with him," said little Fred, taking Rupert's hand.

"He will live here, too."

"Then I will stay," answered the child, gravely. "I am to stay with him
till papa comes back."

They had told the little boy that his father had gone on a long journey,
and wished him to stay with Rupert during his absence. He had acquiesced
quietly, for he was a docile child, and transferred his affection to
Rupert, of whose love he felt assured.

"Now, Mrs. Benton, I must make a bargain with you for Fred's board."

Mrs. Benton at first refused to accept anything, protesting that a child
would be little expense, but Rupert told her that the father had left
money, and finally induced her to accept three dollars a week.

"I am afraid that is too little," said the bell-boy.

"No; it will help pay the rent, and I shall like to have Freddie here as
a companion for Harry."

So it was arranged, and the little boy was provided with a happy and
comfortable home at small expense.

Two days later Giles Packard sought out Rupert during an interval of the
bell-boy's labors.

"How is the little boy?" asked the cattleman.

"He is well, and he seems to be happy. He thinks his father is away on a
journey."

"The journey we must all take some time," said Packard, gravely. "Then
you won't accept my help towards paying for the child's maintenance?"

"It won't be necessary, Mr. Packard. I am to pay only three dollars a
week for his board."

