
"Oh, I guess not. If you've played on the stage that's enough. Why can't
you call round some evening? Luella would so like to see you."

"Thank you, Mrs. Gately. If I can get anything to do, I will call."

Jed finished his breakfast. He ate heartily, for he had no idea where he
should get another meal.

"I guess I'll be going," he said, as he rose from the table. "You have
been very kind."

"Oh, that's nothing. I hope you'll meet that rascally Graham and make
him give up your money."

"I am afraid there is little hope of that. Good morning, and thank you!"

And so Jed passed out of the hospitable house into the inhospitable
street, without a cent of money or a prospect of earning any.




CHAPTER XXV.

WITHOUT A PENNY.


There is nothing that makes one feel so helpless as to be without a
penny in a strange city. If Jed had had even a dollar he would have felt
better.

The fact of his poverty was emphasized when a boy came up to him and
asked him to buy a morning paper. Jed instinctively felt in his pocket
for a penny, but not even a cent was forthcoming.

"I have no change," he said, by way of excuse.

"I can change a dollar," responded the newsboy, who was more than
usually enterprising.

"I wish I could," thought Jed, but he only said, "No, it is no
matter."

So he walked along Broadway, fairly well dressed, but, so far as money
went, a pauper. Yes, though no longer an inmate of the Scranton
poorhouse, he was even poorer than when he was there, for then he had a
home, and now he had none.

"I wonder when it is all going to end?" reflected poor Jed despondently.
Then his anger was excited when he thought of the unprincipled rascal
who had brought him to this pass.

"If I could only get hold of him," muttered Jed vengefully, "I would
give him something to remember me by."

All the while Jed walked on, though his walk was aimless. He was as well
off in one part of the city as another, and only walked to fill up time.

He found himself passing a drug store. Just outside the door he saw the
sign "Boy wanted," and with a little kindling of hope he entered the
store.

Just behind the counter stood a man with a sandy beard, who appeared to
be the proprietor. To him Jed addressed himself.

"I see you want a boy," he said.

"Yes; do you want a place?"

"Yes, sir."

"I hardly think you would be satisfied with the wages we pay, unless
you particularly wish to learn our business."

"What do you pay, sir?"

"Three dollars a week."

Three dollars a week! It was certainly better than no income at all, but
