
She heard Paul’s step on the stairs, as he came up whistling. Directly
afterwards he entered the room.

“What’s the matter?” he asked, looking from one to the other.

“The ould man’s in a great taking about bein’ robbed, Paul,” answered
Mrs. Hogan. “He says some savings bank books have been taken from his
clothes.”

“Where are they, Paul?” wailed the old man.

“They are safe, Jerry. I took them from your pockets, and the railroad
shares, too, and have left them with a Safe Deposit Company, for safe
keeping.”

“Are you sure they are safe, Paul?”

“Yes, much safer than they would be here. Of course Mrs. Hogan is
honest, but other persons might come into the room.”

“Bring them back to me, Paul. I want to see them.”

“I can if you insist upon it, Jerry. But you are too sick to look after
them. Besides, suppose your son should come in some day. He could rob
you easily, and you would never see your property again. Shall I show
you the receipt for them?”

“Yes.”

Paul drew from his pocket the receipt given him by the Safe Deposit
Company, and displayed it to the old man.

“Let me keep this?” said Jerry.

“Yes, if you like.”

This seemed to satisfy him, and he clutched the paper with a deep sigh
of relief.

“Shure, and you’ve calmed him down, Paul,” said Mrs. Hogan. “Was it
really true about the books?”

“It was really true, Mrs. Hogan. He has a good deal of money, though he
doesn’t look it.”

“Thin it’s a fool he is to live as he does, whin he might live like a
gintleman.”

“He will never live differently. When he dies it will go to his son,
who will get through with it in short order.”

Then Mrs. Hogan told Paul about the visit of Ellen Barclay, and her
discovering a relation in old Jerry.

“I wish she might have some of the money. Shure, she nades it with her
young children.”

“I would much rather she would have it than his son, who is a ruffian
and a burglar.”

“And you’ll help her to it, if you can, Paul?”

“Yes, I will. I don’t want Jerry’s money myself. I am young, and my
prospects are good. All I want is that it should go into the right
hands.”




CHAPTER XXVIII. JERRY FINDS A NEW RELATION.


Ellen Barclay came over the next evening according to appointment, and
had an interview with Paul. She had at first been disposed to look upon
him with suspicion, as likely to divert Jerry’s money from his legal
heirs, but the interview dispelled all such ideas. The telegraph boy
was so frank and free spoken, and showed such an interest in helping
her, that she was strongly impressed in his favor. He even told her the
particulars of his first encounter with her husband, and in what manner
