PRIEST. Pater Noster in Cœlo--gone without absolution, poor soul! An
attractive heretic--merciful to the poor of my parish.

DR. GAZELL. He drove too fast a horse. And he drove the horse too fast.
I always told him so. But I am greatly agitated by this!

DR. CARVER (reading aloud). Now “The Universe” had it already in type:
“Dr. Thorne was dragged for some distance before the horse broke free.
He was found near the buggy, which was a wreck. The robe was over him,
and his face was hidden. Life was extinct when he was discovered, which
was not for an unaccountably long time. His watch had stopped at five
minutes past seven o’clock. He was not immediately identified. By some
unpardonable blunder the body of the distinguished and favorite
physician was taken to the morgue.”

DR. GAZELL. That accounts for it.

DR. CARVER (reads on). “It was not until nearly midnight that the
mistake was discovered. A message was dispatched to the elegant
residence of the popular doctor. Mrs. Thorne is a young and beautiful
woman, on whom, with their only child, an infant son, this blow falls
with uncommon cruelty.”

DR. THORNE (utters a long, heartrending moan. But no person hears the
sound. He stretches out his hands. The crowd shrinks from but does not
see him. Staring at the bulletin, he stands apart. He raises his
clenched right hand in the air; speaks). It is a dastardly lie! It is
one of those cursed canards manufactured to harass men--and--break the
hearts of women. God!--She has seen it by this time. Let me pass! Let me
go to her! You may kill her with this, but you can’t kill me.
Gentlemen, make way for me! I am Dr. Thorne!

(The crowd pays no attention to this outcry.)

Enter NEWSBOY (shrilly piping).

NEWSBOY. “Earth!” “Universe!” Latest--8.30. All about the accident! Dr.
Thorne killed instantly--Mrs. Fayth still breathin’--“Earth,” sir? Two
cents, sir.

(DR. THORNE clutches the newsboy by the arm, and would tear the paper
from him. DR. THORNE’S fingers grope over it--touch it. He tries
several times to obtain it. The paper remains in the hands of the boy.)

Enter BRAKE, the broker.

(DR. THORNE staggers against BRAKE, who is reading “The Universe.”)

[Exit the Suburban, consulting his watch.

DR. THORNE (more gently; addresses the loafer). Jerry! Is that you,
Jerry! Tell these gentlemen, will you, that I am Dr. Thorne? I should
take it--kindly--of you, Jerry.

LOAFER (stares; mutters). Divil a cint did he charrge me for ’t.

DR. THORNE (addresses the broker). Oh, Brake! I am glad to see you! I
couldn’t get down to save my Santa Ma. But that is of no
consequence.... I’ve been hurt--an accident--and I am confused. I am
suffering from hallucinations. They have got beyond my control. I
wonder if you wouldn’t call a cab for me? I thought Dr. Gazell would
take me home in his carriage,--but he didn’t seem to hear me when I
spoke to him. If you’ll call a cab, I’ll get home--to my wife.

[Exeunt DR. GAZELL, DR. CARVER, and
BRAKE, without replying.

(DR. THORNE watches them with a piteous expression; stands back and
apart from the crowd.)



END OF ACT I.




ACT II.


