pathetic prettiness, gentle brown eyes with wistful brows, under
ordinary brown hair. She was rather little, and was dressed with a sort
of unaccented propriety, which was as far from distinction as it was
from pretension.

When Gaites got back to his car, a few minutes before the train was to
start, he found the seat where he had left his hand-bag and light
overcoat more than half full of a bulky lady, who looked stupidly up at
him, and did not move or attempt any excuse for crowding him from his
place. He had to walk the whole length of the car before he came to a
vacant seat. It was the last of the transverse seats, and at the moment
he dropped into it, the girl who had watched the unloading of the piano
with him passed him, and took the sidewise seat next the door.

She took it with a weary resignation which somehow made Gaites ashamed
of the haste with which he had pushed forward to the only good place,
and he felt as guilty of keeping her out of it as if he had known she
was following him. He kept a remorseful eye upon her as she arranged her
bag and umbrella about her, with some paper parcels which she must have
had sent to her at the station. She breathed quickly, as if from final
hurry, but somewhat also as if she were delicate; and tried to look as
if she did not know he was watching her. She had taken off one of her
gloves, and her hand, though little enough, showed an unexpected vigor
with reference to her face, and had a curious air of education.

When the train pulled out of the station into the clearer light, she
turned her face from him toward the forward window, and the corner of
her mouth, which her half-averted profile gave him, had a kind of
piteous droop which smote him to keener regret. Once it lifted in an
upward curve, and a gay light came into the corner of her eye; then the
mouth drooped again, and the light went out.

Gaites could bear it no longer; he rose and said, with a respectful bow:
"Won't you take my seat? That seems such a very inconvenient place for
you, with the door opening and shutting."

The girl turned her face promptly round and up, and answered, with a
flush in her thin cheek, but no embarrassment in her tone, "No, I thank
you. This will do quite well," and then she turned her face away as
before.

He had not meant his politeness for an overture to her acquaintance, but
he felt as justly snubbed as if he had; and he sank back into his seat
in some disorder. He tried to hide his confusion behind the newspaper he
opened between them; but from time to time he had a glimpse of her round
the side of it, and he saw that the hand which clutched her bag all the
while tightened upon it and then loosened nervously.


II.

"Ah, I see what you mean," said Gaites, with a kind of finality, as his
friend Birkwall walked him homeward through the loveliest of the lovely
old Burymouth streets. Something equivalent had been in his mind and on
his tongue at every dramatic instant of the afternoon; and, in fact,
ever since he had arrived from the station at Birkwall's door, where
Mrs. Birkwall met them and welcomed him. He had been sufficiently
impressed with the aristocratic quiet of the vast square white old
wooden house, standing behind a high white board fence, in two acres of
gardened ground; but the fine hallway with its broad low stairway, the
stately drawing-room with its carving, the library with its panelling
and portraits, and the dining-room with its tall wainscoting, united to
give him a sense of the pride of life in old Burymouth such as the raw
splendors of the millionaire houses in New York had never imparted to
him.

"They knew how to do it, they knew how to do it!" he exclaimed, meaning
the people who had such houses built; and he said the same thing of the
other Burymouth houses which Birkwall showed him, by grace of their
owners, after the mid-day dinner, which Gaites kept calling luncheon.

"Be sure you get back in good time for tea," said Mrs. Birkwall for a
parting charge to her husband; and she bade Gaites, "Remember that it
is tea, please; not dinner;" and he was tempted to kiss his hand to
her with as much courtly gallantry as he could; for, standing under the
transom of the slender-pillared portal to watch them away, she looked
most distinctly descended from ancestors, and not merely the daughter of
a father and mother, as most women do. Gaites said as much to Birkwall,
and when they got home Birkwall repeated it to his wife, without
injuring Gaites with her. If he saw what Birkwall had meant in marrying
