"Did you know that Monsieur Eyre is here?"

"Kelly Eyre?"

"Oui, monsieur. He returns with an order from the governor of Lorient
for the balloon."

I was astonished, and asked where Eyre had gone.

"He is in your room," she said, "loading your revolver. I hope you
will not permit him to go alone to Paradise."

"I'll see about that," I muttered, and hurried up the stairs and down
the hallway to my bedchamber.

He sprang to the door as I entered, giving me both hands in boyish
greeting, saying how delighted they all were to know that my injury
had proved so slight.

"That balloon robbery worried me," he continued. "I knew that Speed
depended on his balloon for a living; so as soon as we entered Lorient
I went to our consul, and he and I made such a row that the governor
of Lorient gave me an order for the balloon. Here it is, Mr.
Scarlett."

His heightened color and excitement, his nervous impetuosity, were not
characteristic of this quiet and rather indifferent young countryman
of mine.

I looked at him keenly but pleasantly.

"You are going to load my revolver, and go over to Paradise and take
that balloon from these bandits?" I asked, smiling.

"An order is all right, but it is the more formal when backed by a
bullet," he said.

"Do you mean to tell me that you were preparing to go over into that
hornet's nest alone?"

He shrugged his shoulders with a reckless laugh.

"Give me my revolver," I said, coldly.

His face fell. "Let me take it, Mr. Scarlett," he pleaded; but I
refused, and made him hand me the weapon.

"Now," I said, sternly, "I want to know what the devil you mean by
attempting suicide? Do you suppose that those ruffians care a straw
for you and your order? Kelly, what's the matter with you? Is life as
unattractive as all that?"

His flushed and sullen face darkened.

"If you want to risk your life," I said, "you have plenty of chances
in your profession. Did you ever hear of an aged aÃ«ronaut? Kelly, go
back to America and break your neck like a gentleman."

He darted a menacing glance at me, but there was nothing of irony in
my sober visage.

"You appear here," I said, "after the others have sailed from
Lorient. Why? To do Speed this generous favor? Yes--and to do yourself
the pleasure of ending an embittered life under the eyes of the woman
who ruined you."

The boy flinched as though I had struck him in the face. For a moment
I expected a blow; his hands clinched convulsively, and he focussed me
with blazing eyes.

"Don't," I said, quietly. "I am trying to be your friend; I am
trying to save you from yourself, Kelly. Don't throw away your
life--as I have done. Life is a good thing, Kelly, a good thing. Can
we not be friends though I tell you the truth?"

The color throbbed and throbbed in his face. There was a chair near
him; he groped for it, and sat down heavily.

"Life is a good thing," I said again, "but, Kelly, truth is better.
And I must tell you the--well, something of the truth--as much as you
