
Outside, before the door, on the wide pavement of the great square,
they had to wait again while their carriage, which Milly had kept,
completed a further turn of exercise, engaged in by the coachman for
reasons of his own. The footman was there, and had indicated that he
was making the circuit; so Kate went on while they stood. "But don't
you ask a good deal, darling, in proportion to what you give?"

This pulled Milly up still shorter--so short in fact that she yielded
as soon as she had taken it in. But she continued to smile. "I see.
Then you can tell."

"I don't want to 'tell,'" said Kate. "I'll be as silent as the tomb if
I can only have the truth from you. All I want is that you shouldn't
keep from me how you find out that you really are."

"Well then, I won't, ever. But you see for yourself," Milly went on,
"how I really am. I'm satisfied. I'm happy."

Kate looked at her long. "I believe you like it. The way things turn
out for you----!"

Milly met her look now without a thought of anything but the spoken.
She had ceased to be Mr. Densher's image; she was all her own memento
and she was none the less fine. Still, still, what had passed was a
fair bargain, and it would do. "Of course I like it. I feel--I can't
otherwise describe it--as if I had been, on my knees, to the priest.
I've confessed and I've been absolved. It has been lifted off."

Kate's eyes never quitted her. "He must have liked you."

"Oh--doctors!" Milly said. "But I hope," she added, "he didn't like me
too much." Then as if to escape a little from her friend's deeper
sounding, or as impatient for the carriage, not yet in sight, her eyes,
turning away, took in the great stale square. As its staleness,
however, was but that of London fairly fatigued, the late hot London
with its dance all danced and its story all told, the air seemed a
thing of blurred pictures and mixed echoes, and an impression met the
sense--an impression that broke, the next moment, through the girl's
tightened lips. "Oh, it's a beautiful big world, and everyone, yes,
everyone----!" It presently brought her back to Kate, and she hoped she
didn't actually look as much as if she were crying as she must have
looked to Lord Mark among the portraits at Matcham.

Kate at all events understood. "Everyone wants to be so nice?"

"So nice," said the grateful Milly.

"Oh," Kate laughed, "we'll pull you through! And won't you now bring
Mrs. Stringham?"

But Milly after an instant was again clear about that. "Not till I've
seen him once more."

She was to have found this preference, two days later, abundantly
justified; and yet when, in prompt accordance with what had passed
between them, she reappeared before her distinguished friend--that
character having, for him, in the interval, built itself up still
higher--the first thing he asked her was whether she had been
accompanied. She told him, on this, straightway, everything; completely
free at present from her first embarrassment, disposed even--as she
felt she might become--to undue volubility, and conscious moreover of
no alarm from his thus perhaps wishing that she had not come alone. It
was exactly as if, in the forty-eight hours that had passed, her
acquaintance with him had somehow increased, and his own knowledge in
particular received mysterious additions. They had been together,
before, scarce ten minutes; but the relation, the one the ten minutes
had so beautifully created, was there to take straight up: and this
not, on his own part, from mere professional heartiness, mere bedside
manner, which she would have disliked--much rather from a quiet,
pleasant air in him of having positively asked about her, asked here
and there and found out. Of course he couldn't in the least have asked,
or have wanted to; there was no source of information to his hand, and
he had really needed none: he had found out simply by his genius--and
found out, she meant, literally everything. Now she knew not only that
she didn't dislike this--the state of being found out about; but that,
on the contrary, it was truly what she had come for, and that, for the
time at least, it would give her something firm to stand on. She struck
herself as aware, aware as she had never been, of really not having had
from the beginning anything firm. It would be strange for the firmness
