the words out.

"Well, it's all here," said Mr. Bushell's partner, and he put the money in
his pocket, and Frank turned and went out of the store.

He felt light, light as cotton, and gladder than he almost ever was in his
life before. He was so glad that he forgot to be afraid in the bridge. The
fellows who were the most afraid always ran through the bridge, and those
who tried not to be afraid walked fast and whistled. Frank did not even
think to whistle.

His father was sitting out on the front porch when he reached home, and
he asked Frank if he had got rid of his money, and what Mr. Bushell's
partner had said. Frank told him all about it, and after a while his
father asked, "Well, Frank, do you like to have the care of money?"

"I don't believe I do, father."

"Which was the greater anxiety to you last night, Mr. Bushell's money, or
your brother?"

Frank had to think awhile. "Well, I suppose it was the money, father. You
see, it wasn't my own money."

"And if it had been your own money, you wouldn't have been anxious about
it? You wouldn't have cared if you had lost it, or somebody had stolen it
from you?"

Frank thought again, and then he said he did not believe he had thought
about that.

"Well, think about it now."

Frank tried to think, and at last he said. "I reckon I should have cared."

"And if it had been your own money, would you have been more anxious about
it than about your brother?"

This time Frank was more puzzled than ever; he really did not know what to
say.

His father said: "The trouble with money is, that people who have a great
deal of it seem to be more anxious about it than they are about their
brothers, and they think that the things it can buy are more precious than
the things which all the money in the world cannot buy." His father stood
up. "Better go to bed, Frank. You must be tired. There won't be any
thunder-storm to-night, and you haven't got a pocketful of money to keep
you awake."




XI

HOW JIM LEONARD PLANNED FOR PONY
BAKER TO RUN OFF ON A RAFT


Now we have got to go back to Pony Baker again. The summer went along till
it got to be September, and the fellows were beginning to talk about when
school would take up. It was almost too cold to go in swimming; that is,
the air made you shiver when you came out, and before you got your clothes
on; but if you stood in the water up to your chin, it seemed warmer than
it did on the hottest days of summer. Only now you did not want to go in
more than once a day, instead of four or five times. The fellows were
gathering chinquapin acorns most of the time, and some of them were
getting ready to make wagons to gather walnuts in. Once they went out to
the woods for pawpaws, and found about a bushel; they put them in
cornmeal to grow, but they were so green that they only got rotten. The
boys found an old shanty in the woods where the farmer made sugar in the
spring, and some of the big fellows said they were coming out to sleep in
it, the first night they got.

It was this that put Jim Leonard in mind of Pony's running off again. All
the way home he kept talking to Pony about it, and Pony said he was going
to do it yet, some time, but when Jim Leonard wanted him to tell the time,
he would only say, "You'll see," and wag his head.

Then Jim Leonard mocked him and dared him to tell, and asked him if he
would take a dare. After that he made up with him, and said if Pony would
