Valbonais liked him very much. There was one son a trapper, though he
did not take very long journeys. Then there were two bright girls who
were not averse to having such an attractive cousin.

Through them he came to know the Renauds, and Barbe he thought extremely
winsome. Before a fortnight had passed he was in the merrymakings and
dances, and having a most enjoyable time. It did not trouble him now
that he had been in more than one peril of his life.

The lieutenant-governor who had proved himself so unworthy was recalled.
M. Cruzat was fortifying the town more securely than it had ever been,
but for some time any body of Indians going back and forth roused a
feeling of distrust and fear. Pleasure parties were careful not to trust
themselves too far away.

Mère Lunde begged Wawataysee to remain with them, as M. Marchand was
taking charge of the business. When Mattawissa came in with her pretty
work and various articles, many of which went down to New Orleans, she
and the young wife made very good friends.

“She will take every one away from me,” thought the child with a
swelling heart, and she grew more reserved. Even Mère Lunde had to yield
to the sweetness of Wawataysee. Sometimes she sang really beautiful
Indian songs and described vividly the dances and entertainments, though
there were many in which only old women were allowed.

July began to ripen fruits and fill the farmers with joy at the prospect
of abundant crops. But Renée counted the weeks sadly. She was growing
pale and thinner, and roamed about like an unquiet ghost. She would not
play with the children, but rambled desolately by herself and
occasionally stole down to the end of the stockade and ventured out to
see her grandfather. He seemed nearly always at home now, sitting
outside his neglected-looking cabin smoking his pipe and patching his
clothes or making moccasins, on which he put stout soles of skin. He
would nod and occasionally push a stool to her, which was the round of a
log, and motion her to be seated.

One day he said sharply: “Has anything been heard of Gaspard Denys? Some
traders have come in.”

She knew that. They had been at the shop.

“They have not seen him,” she admitted sorrowfully.

“There would be news if he had been killed.”

“Oh! oh!” A sharp pang went to the child’s heart. To have another put
her dread into words was like confirming it.

“That might be,” said the old man. “The pitcher may go to the spring
without spout or handle, but it gets an unlucky knock at the last.”

She was silent.

“He made me give you to him. He bound me with signing a paper. Then if
you are his, what he has comes naturally to you. There is the house and
the garden. And the shop, with all its stores. Gaspard Denys has a
strong box. There may be gold and silver in it. It belongs to you.”

Renée stared at him. His skin was browner than ever, and his face
wrinkled in every direction. His hair was unkempt, his eyes were so
squinted up that they looked like two sparks merely.

“Oh,” she cried, “what should I want with it all, and no Uncle Gaspard?”

“It will be a good dot. It will make you a good marriage when the time
comes. And they must not get it away from you.”

“They? Who?” in surprise.

“That man and his half-Indian wife. Ah, I have seen people before, men
who can plan adroitly. And I tell you now he shall not have it. When the
time comes I shall turn him out neck and heels, and we will see! I shall
not have you cheated out of your rights, Renée de Longueville.”

“I don’t understand. If it is M. Marchand you mean——” and she eyed the
old man resolutely.

“Who asked him to come in there? Gaspard Denys locked up his place, and
he and that old woman opened it. They had no right, I say.”
