important, papa?'

"'I should say so. The cashier of the local trust has compromised an
astral body, and has squandered on her all our funds, including a lot
of first mortgages on Nirvana. I suppose he's been dabbling in futures
and is short in his accounts. I sha'n't be gone long.'

"'Then, good-night, papa,' she said, kissing him; 'try to be back by
eleven.' I sat stupidly staring at them.

"'Oh, it's only to Bombay--I sha'n't go to Thibet
to-night--good-night, my dear,' said the professor.

"Then a singular thing occurred. The professor had at last succeeded
in disentangling his coat-tails, and now, jamming his hat over his
ears, and waving his arms with a batlike motion, he climbed upon the
seat of his chair and ejaculated the word 'Presto!' Then I found my
voice.

"'Stop him!' I cried, in terror.

"'Presto! Presto!' shouted the professor, balancing himself on the
edge of his chair and waving his arms majestically, as if preparing
for a sudden flight across the Scheldt; and, firmly convinced that he
not only meditated it, but was perfectly capable of attempting it, I
covered my eyes with my hands.

"'Are you ill, Mr. Kensett?' asked the girl, quietly.

"I raised my head indignantly. 'Not at all, Miss Wyeth, only I'll bid
you good-evening, for this is the nineteenth century, and I'm a
Christian.'

"'So am I,' she said. 'So is my father.'

"'The devil he is,' I thought.

"Her next words made me jump.

"'Please do not be profane, Mr. Kensett.'

"How did she know I was profane? I had not spoken a word! Could it be
possible she was able to read my thoughts? This was too much, and I
rose.

"'I have the honor to bid you good-evening,' I began, and reluctantly
turned to include the professor, expecting to see that gentleman
balancing himself on his chair. The professor's chair was empty.

"'Oh,' said the girl, smiling, 'my father has gone.'

"'Gone! Where?'

"'To--to India, I believe.'

"I sank helplessly into my own chair.

"'I do not think he will stay very long--he promised to return by
eleven,' she said, timidly.

"I tried to realize the purport of it all. 'Gone to India? Gone! How?
On a broomstick? Good Heavens,' I murmured, 'am I insane?'

"'Perfectly,' she said, 'and I am tired; you may take me back to the
hotel.'

"I scarcely heard her; I was feebly attempting to gather up my numbed
wits. Slowly I began to comprehend the situation, to review the
startling and humiliating events of the day. At noon, in the court of
the HÃ´tel St. Antoine, I had been annoyed by a man and a cat. I had
retired to my own room and had slept until dinner. In the evening I
met two tourists on the sea-wall promenade. I had been beguiled into
conversation--yes, into intimacy with these two tourists! I had had
the intention of embracing the faith of Pythagoras! Then I had mewed
like a cat with all the strength of my lungs. Now the male tourist
vanishes--and leaves me in charge of the female tourist, alone and at
night in a strange city! And now the female tourist proposes that I
take her home!

"With a remnant of self-possession I groped for my eye-glass, seized
