"Yes, they are interested in the same iron company,--and from what
father says, I think they are going to have trouble before long."

"I hope your father comes out ahead."

"It is this way: Father has a controlling interest and Mr. Bangs is
doing his best to get it away from him. If Mr. Bangs can get control he
will, so father says, join the company of a larger concern, and then
father will be about wiped out and he won't get more than half of what
is really coming to him."

"But wouldn't that be fraud?"

"Yes, morally, but not legally--so father says," answered Jack, and
heaved a sigh. "I hope it all comes out right."

"And so do I--for your sake as well as for your folks," added Randy,
heartily.




CHAPTER II

AT THE FISHING HOLE


The fishing hole for which the two boys were bound was on the river
about a mile and a half above the town. At this point the stream was
thirty to forty feet wide and ten to fifteen feet deep. It was lined on
one side with sharp rocks and on the other by thick trees and bushes.
At the foot of some of the rocks, where the river made a bend, there
was a deep hole, and this some of the lads, including Randy and Jack,
considered an ideal place for fishing.

The boys did not row directly for the hole, being afraid they might
scare the fish away. Instead they landed below the spot, tied fast to a
tree root between the stones, and then crawled over the big rocks until
they reached a point from which they could cast into the hole with
ease.

They soon baited up. Randy was ready first, but he gave his companion
the chance to make the initial cast. Scarcely had Jack's hook touched
the water when there came a jerk and the line was almost pulled from
the boy's hands.

"You've got him!" cried Randy, excitedly. "Good for you!"

"If I don't lose him before I get him on the rocks!" answered Jack. But
his fears were groundless, for a few seconds later the catch lay at his
feet--a fish weighing at least a pound and a half.

"That's the way to do it," said Randy.

"You might have had him--if you had cast in first," answered his
companion, modestly.

"I'll try my luck now," and Randy cast in without delay. Then Jack also
tried it again, and both boys began to fish in earnest. Soon Randy got
a bite and brought in a fish weighing as much as the first catch.

"Now we are even," said Jack.

In an hour Randy had four good-sized fish to his credit and Jack had an
equal number. Then Jack's luck fell away and Randy got three more while
his companion got nothing.

"There is no use of talking, you are a better fisherman than I," said
Jack.

"I think you drop down too deep," answered Randy. "Try it this way,"
and he showed his friend what he meant.

After that Jack's success was a trifle better, but still Randy kept
ahead of him.

When the boys had caught twenty fish between them they decided to give
up the sport. Randy knew where they could find some blackberries, and
leaving their fish in a hole among the rocks, where there was a small
pool of water, they tramped away from the river to where the blackberry
