have told you that you would hate all this sort of thing. You had a mere
taste of it in English country-houses, where entertaining has reached
such a point of perfection that a man never feels so much at home as
when in some one's else house. If you had waited for a London season you
would have been as quickly disillusioned. You have the most impossible
ideals--"

"I can realize them when I am alone," said Isabel, defiantly. "I shall
be as happy as ever on the ranch, the day after to-morrow."

"That sort of happiness will do very well for a while--living in your
imagination and all that. But what is it going to lead to?"

"Lead to? It is enough in itself."

"You can't live on moonshine for ever. I told you before that I
understood your particular form of idealism; but although I believe that
man will certainly be happier when he lives more within that structure
of infinite variety, himself, less and less dependent upon the
aggregations Life has devised for amusing and tormenting him, still we
must reach that condition by very slow degrees; if we take it with a
leap the result will be an ugly and disastrous selfishness. If you can
prove to the world that you have found happiness in the cultivation of
the higher faculties, you will serve a purpose in life, for you will
encourage a certain class of women born with such serious lacks, in the
health or the affections, or even in the power to endure the mere
monotonies of married life, that they are better off alone; but who
often feel themselves a failure and drop into morbidity and decay. That
means contact for your highness, however. If you sit down by your marsh
for the rest of your life and dream, you miss the whole point. And when
time forced you to realize the uncompromising selfishness of such a
life--where would your happiness be then?"

"Now you are talking by the book. Why are we so sure that it is a part
of our duty to make others happy? That may be but one more superstition
to rout. If we manage to be happy ourselves, and through the exercise of
the higher faculties alone, we may be serving an end decreed from the
beginning; by some subtle process, as incomprehensible as even the
commonplaces of life, add to the sum of happiness, and so serve life far
better than by scattering ourselves all over the surface. But I told you
something of this before and have not forgotten the result."

"Neither have I, but one can get accustomed to any idea. What I want to
know is--do you leave youth entirely out of your calculations?"

"Oh--youth! Well--it is possible I might not if I had not lived through
its tragedy already--for which I am thankful."

"You have had romance and tragedy, and you are a very experienced young
woman, but you have not had happiness," said Gwynne, shrewdly. "That,
too, is a birthright, and sooner or later you will demand it. Social
conquests have palled in seven days. In time chickens also will cease to
satisfy, and books, and dreams, and sunsets, and liberty. The peculiar
conditions and events of your first quarter-century demanded an interval
before beginning again; and filled with all you have deliberately
chosen--all, that is, but chickens, which are a work not of God but of
supererogation. But intervals come to an end like other things. When
this finishes you will suddenly demand happiness--the real thing."

"You mean that I will fall in love again, I suppose."

"I mean that you will love."

"Now you are hair-splitting. Are you qualifying to contribute
fictionized essays to the American magazines?"

"I am stating facts and don't care a hang about sarcasm. Just now you
have spasms when some aspect of nature exalts you. I have watched you
with considerable amusement. But it is natural enough--merely a sort of
forerunner of what will happen when nature establishes her currents with
your own interior landscapes. Then there will be earthquakes and
hurricanes--your cultivated realism and inherent romanticism will become
hopelessly mixed, and you will be really happy."

"More likely, such moments are the forerunners of a state which shall be
an eternal exaltation. Personal immortality is only to be desired if it
insures the lifting of our faculties to their highest power of
expression. Anything else would mean a boundless ennui. As for my
present inertia, is it not the duty of some few to pass their lives in
appreciation of the past? Heaven knows there are enough looking out for
