"You've a few ladies to take leave of, also," he said briskly.

"Really, Portlaw!"--in gentle admonition.

"Haw! Haw!" roared Portlaw, startling the entire caf√©; "you'd better get
busy. There'll be a run on the bank. There'll be a waiting line before
Malcourt & Co. opens for business, each fair penitent with her little
I.O.U. to be cashed! Haw! Haw! Sad dog! Bad dog! The many-sided
Malcourt! Come on; I've got a motor across the--"

"And I've an appointment with several superfluous people and a girl,"
said Malcourt drily. Then he glanced at the blond companion of the count
who continued crumbling bread between her brilliantly ringed fingers as
though she had never before seen Louis Malcourt. The price of diamonds
varies. Sometimes it is merely fastidious observance of convention and a
sensitive escort. It all depends on the world one inhabits; it does
indeed.




CHAPTER XIV

STRATEGY


An hour or two later that afternoon Wayward and Constance Palliser,
Gussie Vetchen, and Livingston Cuyp gazed with variously mingled
sentiments upon the torpid saurians belonging to one Alligator Joe in an
enclosure rather remote from the hotel.

Vetchen bestowed largess upon the small, freckled boy attendant; and his
distinguished disapproval upon the largest lady-crocodile which, with
interlocked but grinning jaws, slumbered under a vertical sun in
monochromatic majesty.

"One perpetual and gigantic simper," he said, disgusted.

"Rather undignified for a thing as big as that to lay eggs like a hen,"
observed Cuyp, not intending to be funny.

Wayward and Miss Palliser had wandered off together to inspect the
pumps. Vetchen, always inquisitive, had discovered a coy manatee in one
tank, and was all for poking it with his walking-stick until he saw its
preposterous countenance emerge from the water.

"Great heavens," he faltered, "it looks like a Dutch ancestor of
Cuyp's!"

Cuyp, intensely annoyed, glanced at his watch.

"Where the mischief did Miss Suydam and Malcourt go?" he asked Wayward.
"I say, Miss Palliser, you don't want to wait here any longer, do you?"

"They're somewhere in the labyrinth," said Wayward. "Their chair went
that way, didn't it, boy?"

"Yeth, thir," said the small and freckled attendant.

So the party descended the wooden incline to where their sleepy black
chairmen lay on the grass, waiting; and presently the two double chairs
wheeled away toward that amusing maze of jungle pathways cut through the
impenetrable hammock, and popularly known as the labyrinth.

But Miss Suydam and Mr. Malcourt were not in the labyrinth. At that very
moment they were slowly strolling along the eastern dunes where the vast
solitude of sky and sea seemed to depress even the single white-headed
eagle standing on the wet beach, head and tail adroop, motionless,
fish-gorged. No other living thing was in sight except the slim, blue
dragon-flies, ceaselessly darting among the beach-grapes; nothing else
stirred except those two figures on the dunes, moving slowly, heads bent
as though considering the advisability of every step in the breaking
sands. There was a fixed smile on the girl's lips, but her eyes were
mirthless, almost vacant.

"So you've decided to go?" she said.

"Portlaw decides that sort of thing for me."

"It's a case of necessity?"
