lightly tapped his left ear. He instantly turned the other towards her.

'Remember the gospel,' he said. '"If thine enemy smite thee on one
cheek----"'

Again she laughed, but she would not touch him a second time, and she
turned away. He sprang to his feet, and there was a flash of light in
his eyes, and his hands trembled; for he was behind her, and the
temptation to catch her in his arms was almost too strong for him. At
that moment the door opened without any warning knock.

'The master is coming up the stairs,' said Pina quietly, and instantly
she disappeared again.

Don Alberto started, but Ortensia was calm.

'Stay here and say you have come to see him,' she said, and before he
could answer she was in her own room and the door was shut.

Don Alberto was himself again in a moment, for no experienced woman of
the world could have done the right thing with more instant decision
than Ortensia had shown. He understood, too, that he had so thoroughly
frightened the wretched Pina that she was henceforth his slave, on whom
he could count as safely as Stradella had depended on her in Venice.
With the instinct of an old hand he glanced quickly round the room to
see that no object had been displaced in a way to excite suspicion, and
he then sat down in a straight chair, folded one knee over the other,
and waited for Stradella's coming.

The musician entered a few moments later and stared in surprise as Don
Alberto rose to meet him with outstretched hand and a friendly smile.

'Your servant told me that you would not be back for some time,' said
Altieri, 'but I insisted on coming in. Pray forgive the intrusion, for
the matter is very urgent.'

Stradella had taken his hand rather coolly, but he did not mean his
visitor to see that he was displeased, and he now politely pushed a
chair forward, and took another himself.

'I am glad to find you here,' he said, 'for I also wished to see you in
order to thank you once more for the use of this apartment.'

'But you are not going away?' cried Don Alberto in astonishment.

'Not from Rome. But I have at last found a dwelling which will just suit
us, and we mean to move on Saint John's Day.'

'On Saint John's Day!' repeated Don Alberto, with still more evident
surprise. 'Really! Indeed! I assure you that I did not expect this, my
dear Maestro, and I am almost inclined to think it a breach of
friendship. Are you not well lodged here? Are the rooms too small for
you and your lady? Or do you find them hot, or noisy? I do not
understand.'

'Pray put it down to an artist's foolish love of independence,'
Stradella answered with suavity. 'It is one thing for you rich nobles to
accept favours from each other; you can return them; but we poor
musicians cannot, and so we set a limit to what we think we may fairly
receive.'

'You give what we never can,' objected Don Alberto, 'for you give us
your genius and its works, and I suspect you have some reason hidden
away of which you do not care to speak. I can only tell you how sorry I
am that you should leave this house, where I had hoped you would live
whenever you came to Rome, and where you will always be welcome if you
wish to return.'

'It is impossible to be more courteous, and I wish I could express my
gratitude as well as you have worded your most kind invitation.'

The musician bowed rather formally from his chair as he spoke, but Don
Alberto was not pleased.

'Come, come, my dear Stradella,' he said familiarly, 'one would take us
for a couple of courtiers making compliments at each other. We used to
be good friends and comrades a year ago. Have you forgotten that
carnival season, and how we supped together on ten consecutive nights in
ten different eating-houses, with those two charming ladies from Genoa?
Ah, my dear fellow, how you have changed! But you were not married
