"Good for you! What is it?"

"I can't tell you yet"--laughingly--"it's confidential business----"

"Oh, I know. Some old, fat man wants you to catalogue his collection."

"No! He isn't fat, either. You are the limit, Cynthia!"

"All the same, look out for him," retorted Cynthia. "I know man and
his kind. Office experience is a liberal education; the theatre a
post-graduate course. Are you coming to the dance to-morrow night?"

"Yes. I suppose the usual people will be there?"

"Some new ones. There's an awfully good-looking newspaper man from
Yonkers. He has a car in town, too."

Something--some new and unaccustomed impatience--she did not understand
exactly what--prompted Jacqueline to say scornfully:

"His name is Eddie, isn't it?"

"No. Why do you ask?"

A sudden vision of Desboro, laughing at her under every word of an
unsmiling and commonplace conversation, annoyed her.

"Oh, Cynthia, dear, every good-looking man we meet is usually named Ed
and comes from places like Yonkers."

Cynthia, slightly perplexed, said slangily that she didn't "get" her;
and Jacqueline admitted that she herself didn't know what she had meant.

They gossiped for a while, then Cynthia ended:

"I'll see you to-morrow night, won't I? And listen, you little white
mouse, I get what you mean by 'Eddie'."

"Do you?"

"Yes. Shall I see you at the dance?"

"Yes, and 'Eddie,' too. Good-bye."

Jacqueline laughed again, then shivered slightly and hung up the
receiver.

Back before her bedroom fire once more, Grenville's volume on ancient
armour across her knees, she turned the illuminated pages absently, and
gazed into the flames. What she saw among them apparently did not amuse
her, for after a while she frowned, shrugged her shoulders, and resumed
her reading.

But the XV century knights, in their gilded or silvered harness, had
Desboro's lithe figure, and the lifted vizors of their helmets always
disclosed his face. Shields emblazoned with quarterings, plumed armets,
the golden morions, banner, pennon, embroidered surtout, and the
brilliant trappings of battle horse and palfry, became only a confused
blur of colour under her eyes, framing a face that looked back at her
out of youthful eyes, marred by the shadow of a wisdom she knew
about--alas--but did not know.

       *       *       *       *       *

The man of whom she was thinking had walked back to the club through a
driving rain, still under the fascination of the interview, still
excited by its novelty and by her unusual beauty. He could not quite
account for his exhilaration either, because, in New York, beauty is
anything but unusual among the hundreds of thousands of young women who
work for a living--for that is one of the seven wonders of the city--and
it is the rule rather than the exception that, in this new race which is
evolving itself out of an unknown amalgam, there is scarcely a young
face in which some trace of it is not apparent at a glance.

Which is why, perhaps, he regarded his present exhilaration humorously,
or meant to; perhaps why he chose to think of her as "Stray Lock,"
instead of Miss Nevers, and why he repeated confidently to himself:
"She's thin as a Virgin by the 'Master of the Death of Mary'." And yet
that haunting expression of her face--the sweetness of the lips upcurled
at the corners--the surprising and lovely revelation of her
