omelette, golden without, frothy within.

De Fresnoy glanced up. “Countermand the pear. Instead, bring me paper
and ink.”

“Perfectly, monsieur le baron.”

Slowly de Fresnoy attacked the food. After a mouthful he said to
Silverstairs:

“When the writing materials come we can get off a note to Barouffski.
If he has any explanation he can advance it. Otherwise--on guard!”

After another mouthful he said to Verplank:

“You have fought before?”

“I have not had the occasion.”

“Nor I,” interjected Silverstairs. “It is against the law in England.”

Gravely, as though he were receiving valuable information de Fresnoy
bowed. “So it is here. But with us it is custom that rules, not law.
No jury would convict an honourable man for fighting a fair fight.
Besides, dueling is in our blood. It will not disappear as chivalry
has. It will last as long as there are French men--and French women.
And yet, in saying that chivalry has disappeared, I am in error. Not
later than the week before last a cousin of mine, a young man truly
charming, married a monster.”

He pushed aside his plate. “Well, then, Léopold, am I to sit here the
entire day?”

Serviceably, a buvard in his hand, the waiter approached. “I have
subventioned a new pen for the use of monsieur le baron.”

“There, Léopold, your sins are remitted. See at once if the chasseur is
free.”

De Fresnoy looked at Silverstairs. “With your permission, in our joint
names, I write.”

He looked at Verplank. “Will you pardon me if I ask how your name is
spelled?”

Verplank, getting at his case, extracted a card.

De Fresnoy glanced at it. Then, taking that new pen, he read, as he
wrote, aloud.

    M. le Comte Barouffski.

    Monsieur: M. Verplank has requested the Earl of Silverstairs
    and myself to arrive at an understanding with two of your
    friends concerning an incident which occurred last evening in
    the Avenue Cours la Reine.

    Lord Silverstairs and I will be obliged if, as soon as
    possible, you will ask one of your friends to appoint a meeting
    at which we may deliberate.

    Receive, Monsieur, the expression of my distinguished
    sentiments.

    Baron de Fresnoy

He looked over at Silverstairs. “Is that to your liking? Good! We will
send it to the Little Club where the answer is to be left and we will
have a reply to-day. En attendant, there are matters that claim me.”

With a movement of the chin he summoned the waiter.

A little byplay followed; the presentation of the bill, the click of
gold on porcelain, the carelessly gathered change, the meagre tip, the
reappearance of the hat, the bowing waiters, the craning necks, and the
departure of de Fresnoy, an umbrella under his arm, a cigar between his
teeth.

Verplank, emptying a glass of Chablis, looked out of the window. A
panorama was forming. He saw the room at Coronado, Leilah as she told
