exactly what the astute Ahmed did.  But Kathlyn's curiosity the next
morning neutralized the advantage gained.

A group of masked dancers, peripatetic, was the cause.  Confident that
they had outstripped pursuit, she saw no reason why she should not
witness the dancing.

How Umballa came upon them suddenly, like a thunderbolt, confiscating
the elephants; how they fled to a near-by temple, bribed the dancers
for masks and garments, fled still farther into the wooded hills, and
hid there with small arms ready, needs but little telling.  Umballa
returned to the city satisfied.  He had at least deprived them of their
means of travel.  Sooner or later they would founder in the jungle,
hear of the arrival of the younger daughter and return.

Ahmed was grave.  Lal Singh had gone.  Now that the expedition had
practically failed, his place was back in the shoe shop in the bazaars.
Yes, Ahmed was grave.  He was also a trifle disheartened.  The fakir
had said that there would be many disappointments, but that in the end
. . .  He might be a liar like all the other Hindus.  Yet one part of
his foretelling was correct: many disappointments.

"Kit," said her father, "Ahmed warned you not to stop."

"I am sorry."

It was on the tip of her tongue to retort that his own carelessness was
the basic cause of the pursuit; but she remembered in time what her
father had been through.

"There is a village not far," reminded Ahmed.  "They are a friendly
people.  It is quite possible, with the money we have, to buy some
horses, small but sturdy.  But there is one thing I do not understand,
Sahib."

"And what is that?" asked the colonel.

"The readiness with which Umballa gave up the pursuit.  It's a long
walk; let us be getting forward."

Late that afternoon they were all mounted once more, on strong
tractable ponies, with water and provisions.  And the spirits of all
rose accordingly.  Even Ahmed became cheerful.

"We'll make it, please God!" said the colonel.  "Give me a telegraph
office.  That's all I need just now."

"Two days, Sahib," said Ahmed, "we will reach the sea."

They rode all through the night, stopping only at dawn for breakfast
and a cat nap after.  Then forward again till they came upon a hunter's
rest house, deserted.  Here they agreed to spend the night.  Beyond the
rest house were half a dozen scattered mud huts, occupied by natives
who pretended friendliness, lulling even the keen Ahmed into a sense of
security.  But at dawn, when they awoke cheerfully to pick up the
trail, they found their horses and provisions gone.

The colonel, Bruce and Ahmed, still armed, never having permitted the
rifles out of their keeping, set out grimly in pursuit of the thieves,
while Kathlyn proceeded to forage on her own initiative.

She came presently upon a magnificent ravine, half a mile in depth.
There was a broad ledge some fifteen feet below.  It was evidently used
as a goat path, for near at hand stood a shepherd's hut.  Stirred by
the spirit of investigation, she made preparations for descent by
attaching the rope she had brought along to a stout boulder.

Panthers!

They were coming up the pathway behind her.  It would be simple enough
to descend; but how to get back to the rest house?  There was no time
to plan; she must act at once.  She must drop down to the ledge and
trust to her star.

She called out loudly as she swung downward.  The shepherd came running
out of his hut, dumfounded at what he saw.




