chauffeur knocked it out of his fist and hit him in the face two heavy,
merciless blows, hurling him senseless across the stairs. And all the
while the blond young chauffeur was smiling his fixed and murderous
smile. And he was like a tiger now in every movement as he knelt,
rummaged in the fallen men's pockets, found the key to the handcuffs,
leaned over and unlocked them as Guild held out his manacled hands.

[Illustration: "The chauffeur hit him ... two heavy, merciless blows,
hurling him senseless across the stairs"]

"Please watch them, sir," he said cheerfully. "I must find a curtain or
something----"

He ran into the living-room, ripped off a long blue curtain, tore it
into strips with his powerful blond hands, grinning cheerfully all the
while.

"Best to tie them up, sir--this way--allow me, sir--this is the better
way--the surer----"

Guild, working hard, he scarcely knew why, felt a touch on his arm.

"Are they dead?" whispered Karen Girard unsteadily.

"No--stunned."

"Are they robbers?"

The blond chauffeur looked up, laughed, then rolled a strip of cloth
into a ball for a gag.

"I'm not entirely sure what they are," said Guild. "I'll tell you what I
think when we're in the car."

The chauffeur completed his business, looked over the results of his
efforts critically, rose to his feet, still smiling.

"Now, sir, if you please--and madam--" And he possessed himself of the
luggage.

"Take the door-key, if you please, sir. Lock it on the outside. Thank
you. This way, if you please, sir. I took it upon myself to bring the
car up to the kitchen entrance."

The car stood there; the bags were flung in; Karen Girard stepped into
the tonneau; Guild followed. At the same moment a woman appeared, coming
along the brick walk.

"My maid of all work," exclaimed Karen. "What shall I say to her?"

"Anything, madam, but send her home," whispered Bush.

The girl leaned from the car and called out: "I have locked the house
and am going away for the day, Mrs. Bulger. Please come tomorrow, as
usual."

The woman thanked her, turned and went away again down the brick walk.
They watched her out of sight.

"Now!" said Guild to the chauffeur, "drive to the Holland steamship
wharf at----"

"I know, sir," smiled the blond chauffeur.

Which reply troubled the young man exceedingly, for it was evident to
him now that, if not herself a spy, this young girl in his charge was
watched, surrounded and protected by German agents of a sinister
sort--agents known to her father, in evident communication with him, and
thoroughly informed of the fact that he wanted his daughter to leave
England at once and under the particular escort of Guild.

Nor had Guild the slightest doubt that the two men who had followed and
handcuffed him were British Government agents, and that if this young
girl's maid had really been arrested for espionage, and if the Edmeston
people, too, were suspected, then suspicion had been also directed
toward Miss Girard and naturally also to him, who was her visitor.

Guild's troubled gaze rested once more upon the young girl beside him.
At the same moment, as though he had spoken to her she turned and looked
at him out of eyes so honest, so fearless that he had responded aloud
