presently; then I shall bring him back and possess him again. He has
a long and cruel and odious life before him, but I will change that,
for I have no feeling against him and am quite willing to do him a
kindness. I think I shall get him burned.”

He had such strange notions of kindness! But angels are made so, and do
not know any better. Their ways are not like our ways; and, besides,
human beings are nothing to them; they think they are only freaks. It
seems to me odd that he should put the astrologer so far away; he could
have dumped him in Germany just as well, where he would be handy.

“Far away?” said Satan. “To me no place is far away; distance does not
exist for me. The sun is less than a hundred million miles from here,
and the light that is falling upon us has taken eight minutes to come;
but I can make that flight, or any other, in a fraction of time so
minute that it cannot be measured by a watch. I have but to think the
journey, and it is accomplished.”

I held out my hand and said, “The light lies upon it; think it into a
glass of wine, Satan.”

He did it. I drank the wine.

“Break the glass,” he said.

I broke it.

“There--you see it is real. The villagers thought the brass balls were
magic stuff and as perishable as smoke. They were afraid to touch them.
You are a curious lot--your race. But come along; I have business. I
will put you to bed.” Said and done. Then he was gone; but his voice
came back to me through the rain and darkness saying, “Yes, tell Seppi,
but no other.”

It was the answer to my thought.




CHAPTER VIII


Sleep would not come. It was not because I was proud of my travels and
excited about having been around the big world to China, and feeling
contemptuous of Bartel Sperling, “the traveler,” as he called himself,
and looked down upon us others because he had been to Vienna once and
was the only Eseldorf boy who had made such a journey and seen the
world’s wonders. At another time that would have kept me awake, but
it did not affect me now. No, my mind was filled with Nikolaus, my
thoughts ran upon him only, and the good days we had seen together at
romps and frolics in the woods and the fields and the river in the long
summer days, and skating and sliding in the winter when our parents
thought we were in school. And now he was going out of this young life,
and the summers and winters would come and go, and we others would rove
and play as before, but his place would be vacant; we should see him
no more. To-morrow he would not suspect, but would be as he had always
been, and it would shock me to hear him laugh, and see him do lightsome
and frivolous things, for to me he would be a corpse, with waxen hands
and dull eyes, and I should see the shroud around his face; and next
day he would not suspect, nor the next, and all the time his handful of
days would be wasting swiftly away and that awful thing coming nearer
and nearer, his fate closing steadily around him and no one knowing it
but Seppi and me. Twelve days--only twelve days. It was awful to think
of. I noticed that in my thoughts I was not calling him by his familiar
names, Nick and Nicky, but was speaking of him by his full name, and
reverently, as one speaks of the dead. Also, as incident after incident
of our comradeship came thronging into my mind out of the past, I
noticed that they were mainly cases where I had wronged him or hurt
him, and they rebuked me and reproached me, and my heart was wrung with
remorse, just as it is when we remember our unkindnesses to friends who
have passed beyond the veil, and we wish we could have them back again,
if only for a moment, so that we could go on our knees to them and say,
“Have pity, and forgive.”

Once when we were nine years old he went a long errand of nearly two
miles for the fruiterer, who gave him a splendid big apple for reward,
and he was flying home with it, almost beside himself with astonishment
and delight, and I met him, and he let me look at the apple, not
thinking of treachery, and I ran off with it, eating it as I ran, he
following me and begging; and when he overtook me I offered him the
