
Perhaps, after all, the profession was all right, but the people who
practiced it were weird and incompetent.  And as for me I was perfectly
aware that I had no taste, no color sense, no glimmering idea of
composition.

Doubtless my artistic and financial success had been due to my utter
incapacity.

I proceeded to masticate the cud of bitterness.


I had been masticating longer than I realized for the light in the room
was already growing less when a knock came at my door; and I shoved my
unuttered verses into the drawer and grunted out, "Come in!"

It was Thusis, transfigured, sparkling, mischievous, audacious.  And she
was the most beautiful thing I ever saw.

Her magnificent ruddy hair, unloosened, framed her face, its upcurled,
burnished ends falling to her waist.

Otherwise she was an exquisite French doll in knee-skirts and sash and
all over pale blue ribbons.

"I’m going to have a good time if I do murder to-morrow, Michael.  Do
you like my costume? Really?  That is so sweet of you!  You always are
the most satisfactory of men!  And you should see Clelia!  She’s like me
only her ribbons and sash are primrose.  She is really charming."

"Thusis," said I, "you and Clelia shall sit at table and Smith and I are
going to turn waiters!  No!" as she exclaimed in protest, "let’s be
logical in our grotesqueries!  This little world of ours here in
Schwindlewald is already absurd enough with you and Clelia waiting on
table.  Let’s turn it completely upside down and stand it on its head."

She finally consented, forced by my gay ardour, and, I think,
mischievously pleased at the prospect of protest from the Queen.

All over the house, now, I could hear snatches of loud laughter as my
Teutonic guests began to gather and visit one another in their costumes.
Thusis fled; and I opened the door and broke the news to Smith.

"Get into your evening duds," I added, "and announce dinner.  We’re all
going stark mad and I’m glad of it."

So I dressed, and found him ready when I was; and we went downstairs
into the large lounging room where Raoul was fitting disks into the
music-box.

He laughed when we told him our intentions, and then we went into the
kitchen and informed Josephine Vannis.  That stately Juno condescended
to smile on us.  She was rather tremendously imposing as a baby with
bonnet and stick-out skirts—as though somebody had decked out a
masterpiece of Praxiteles.

Retiring, Smith murmured: "Only the Parthenon possesses such
awe-inspiring symmetry; only the Acropolis could vie with her.  Did you
ever see such superb underpinning in all your life?"

Stunned by such stupendous symmetry I admitted that I never had.  And we
went away to announce dinner.

But it was not until the noisy company were gathered in the dining-room
that the Queen perceived the two empty chairs and began to realize my
intentions. And she came to me and made angry representations, refusing
to be seated on the right of a servant, or, indeed, to suffer servants
at all at table, and saying that if she chose to admit my waitresses to
the dancing hall, it was because such privileges sometimes were
graciously permitted to the peasantry who never misunderstood such
condescension.

"Madame," said I, "my housekeeper, Thusis, sits in my place at table
this evening.  And if, madame, you are so deeply concerned about it,
comfort yourself with the explanation that in my housekeeper you behold
your host; she is my vice-reine, or vice-roy, or vice-regent—whatever
you like best, madame! She represents me!  In her you see embodied the
inviolable authority of the master of this house wherein you are a
guest!  However, madame, if you prefer to be served alone in the bar, I
will have a table set there for you——"
