
She seemed to have no stock of paraphernalia with which to aid the
performance; no assistant, no orchestral diversion, nor did she serve
herself with any magician's patter. She did her work close to the
footlights.

Behind her loomed a black curtain; the strip of stage in front was bare
even of carpet; the orchestra remained mute.

But when she needed anything--a little table, for example--well, it was
suddenly there where she required it--a tripod, for instance, evidently
fitted to hold the big iridescent bubble of glass in which swarmed
little tropical fishes--and which arrived neatly from nowhere. She
merely placed her hands before her as though ready to support something
weighty which she expected and--suddenly, the huge crystal bubble was
visible, resting between her hands. And when she tired of holding it,
she set it upon the empty air and let go of it; and instead of crashing
to the stage with its finny rainbow swarm of swimmers, out of thin air
appeared a tripod to support it.

Applause followed, not very enthusiastic, for the sort of audience which
sustains the shows of which her performance was merely an entr' acte
is an audience responsive only to the obvious.

Nobody ever before had seen that sort of magic in America. People
scarcely knew whether or not they quite liked it. The lightning of
innovation stupefies the dull; ignorance is always suspicious of
innovation--always afraid to put itself on record until its mind is made
up by somebody else.

So in this typical New York audience approbation was cautious, but every
fascinated eye remained focused on this young girl who continued to do
incredible things, which seemed to resemble "putting something over" on
them; a thing which no uneducated American conglomeration ever quite
forgives.

The girl's silence, too, perplexed them; they were accustomed to gabble,
to noise, to jazz, vocal and instrumental, to that incessant
metropolitan clamour which fills every second with sound in a city whose
only distinction is its din. Stage, press, art, letters, social
existence unless noisy mean nothing in Gotham; reticence, leisure,
repose are the three lost arts. The megaphone is the city's symbol; its
chiefest crime, silence.

The girl having finished with the big glass bubble full of tiny fish,
picked it up and tossed it aside. For a moment it apparently floated
there in space like a soap-bubble. Changing rainbow tints waxed and
waned on the surface, growing deeper and more gorgeous until the
floating globe glowed scarlet, then suddenly burst into flame and
vanished. And only a strange, sweet perfume lingered in the air.

But she gave her perplexed audience no time to wonder; she had seated
herself on the stage and was already swiftly busy unfolding a white veil
with which she presently covered herself, draping it over her like a
tent.

The veil seemed to be translucent; she was apparently visible seated
beneath it. But the veil turned into smoke, rising into the air in a
thin white cloud; and there, where she had been seated, was a statue of
white stone the image of herself!--in all the frail springtide of early
adolescence--a white statue, cold, opaque, exquisite in its sculptured
immobility.

There came, the next moment, a sound of distant thunder; flashes lighted
the blank curtain; and suddenly a vein of lightning and a sharper peal
shattered the statue to fragments.

There they lay, broken bits of her own sculptured body, glistening in a
heap behind the footlights. Then each fragment began to shimmer with a
rosy internal light of its own, until the pile of broken marble glowed
like living coals under thickening and reddening vapours. And,
presently, dimly perceptible, there she was in the flesh again, seated
in the fiery centre of the conflagration, stretching her arms
luxuriously, yawning, seemingly awakening from refreshing slumber, her
eyes unclosing to rest with a sort of confused apology upon her
astounded audience.

As she rose to her feet nothing except herself remained on the stage--no
d√©bris, not a shred of smoke, not a spark.

