be in the world. Of such company am I, also, but it saddens me not at
all."

I went to her and showed her my deed, and she looked down on it, her
hands clasped on the churn handle.

"So that," said she, "is a lawful deed! I have never before been shown
such an instrument."

"You shall have leisure enough to study this one," said I, "for I convey
it to you."

"Sir?"

"I give Summer House to you," said I. "Here is the deed. When I go to
Johnstown again I will execute it so that this place shall be yours."

She gazed at me in dumb astonishment.

"Meanwhile," said I, "you shall keep the deed.... And now you are, in
fact, if not yet in title, mistress of Summer House. And I think, this
night, we should break a bottle of Sir William's Madeira to drink health
to our new ch√¢telaine."

She came from her churn and caught my arm, where I had turned to ascend
the steps.

"You are jesting, are you not, my lord?"

"No! And do not use that term, 'lord,' to me."

"You--you offer to give me--me--this estate!"

"Yes. I do give it you."

There was a tense silence.

"Why do you offer this?" she burst out breathlessly.

"Why should I have two estates and you have none, Penelope?"

"But that is no reason!" she retorted, almost violently. "For what
reason, then, do you give me Summer House? It--it must be you are
jesting, my lord!----"

At that, displeasure made me redden, and I damned the title under my
breath.

"If you please," said I, "you will have done with all these 'sirs' and
'my lords,' for I am a plain yoeman of County Tryon and wear a buckskin
shirt. Not that I would criticise Lord Stirling or any such who still
care to wear by courtesy what I have long ago worn out," I added, "but
the gentry and nobility of Tryon travel one way and I the other; and my
friends should remember it when naming me."

She stood looking at me out of her brown eyes, and slowly their troubled
wonder changed to dumb perplexity. And, looking, took up her apron's
edge and stood twisting it between both hands.

"I give you Summer House," said I, "because you are orphaned and live
alone and have nothing. I give it because a maid ought to possess a
portion; and, thirdly, I give it because I have enough of my own, and
never desired more of anything than I need. So take the Summer House,
Penelope, with the cattle and fowl and land; for it gives you a station
and a security among men and women of this odd world of ours, and lends
to yourself a confidence and dignity which only sheerest folly can
overthrow."

She came, after a silence, slowly, and took me by the hand.

"John Drogue," says she in a voice not clear, "I can not take of you
this estate."

"You shall take it! And when again, where you sit a-knitting, the young
men gather round you like flies around a sap-pan--then, by God, you
shall know what countenance to give them, and they shall know what
colour to give their courting!--suitors, gallants, Whig or Tory--the
whole damned rabble----"

"Oh," she cried softly, "John Drogue!" And fell a-laughing--or was it a
