made clear. Meantime, my people, I bid you go your way in peace. Let
there be no more disturbance, to bring upon you the contempt of
those who do not understand your troubles, nor share the heartbreak
of the poor. My people, take my peace with you!” He stretched out
his arms in invocation, and there was a murmur of applause, and the
crowd began slowly to disperse.

Which seemed to remind my friend the policeman that he had authority
to exercise. He began to poke his stick into the humped backs of
poor Jewish tailors, and into the ample stomachs of fat Jewish
housewives. “Come on now, get along with you, and let somebody else
have a bit o’ the street.” I pushed my way forward, by virtue of my
good clothes, and got through the press about Carpenter, and took
him by the arm, saying, “Come on now, let’s see if we can’t get to
the Labor Temple.”



XXV


There was a crowd following us, of course; and I sought to keep
Carpenter busy in conversation, to indicate that the crowd was not
wanted. But before we had gone half a block I felt some one touch me
on the arm, and heard a voice, saying, “I beg pardon, I’m a reporter
for the ‘Evening Blare’.”

Now, of course, I had known this must come; I had realized that I
would be getting myself in for it, if I went to join Carpenter that
morning. I had planned to warn him, to explain to him what our
newspapers are; but how could I have foreseen that he was going to
get into a riot before breakfast, and bring out the police reserves
and the police reporters?

“Excuse us,” I said, coldly. “We have something urgent--”

“I just want to get something of this gentleman’s speech--”

“We are on our way to the Labor Temple. If you will come there in a
couple of hours, we will give you an interview.”

“But I must have a story for our first edition, that goes to press
before that.”

I had Carpenter by the arm, and kept him firmly walking. I could not
get rid of the reporter, but I was resolved to get my warning
spoken, regardless of anything. Said I: “This is a matter extremely
urgent for you to understand, Mr. Carpenter. This young man
represents a newspaper, and anything you say to him will be read in
the course of a few hours by perhaps a hundred thousand people. If
it is found especially senational, the Continental Press may put it
on its wires, and it will go to several hundred papers all over the
country--”

“Twelve hundred and thirty-seven papers,” corrected the young man.

“So you see, it is necessary that you should be careful what you
say--far more so than if you were speaking to a handful of Mexican
laborers or Jewish housewives.”

Said Carpenter: “I don’t understand what you mean. When I speak, I
speak the truth.”

“Yes, of course,” I replied--and meantime I was racking my poor wits
figuring out how to present this strange acquaintance of mine most
tactfully to the world. I knew the reporter would not tarry long; he
would grab a few sentences, and rush away to telephone them in.

“I’ll tell you what I’m free to tell,” I began. “This gentleman is a
healer, a man of very remarkable gifts. Mental healing, you
understand.”

“I get you,” said the reporter. “Some religion?”

“Mr. Carpenter teaches a new religion.”

“I see. A sort of prophet! And where does he come from?”

I tried to evade. “He has just arrived--”

