its pages.

After reading a few sentences, and commenting upon them, some remark
directed the attention of Mrs. Wallingford to the antiquated secretary,
which was the one I had purchased when the furniture of the Allen house
was sold.

“I have reason to remember this old secretary,” she said. “It was here
that the will was found which cut off our interest in the estate of my
uncle.”

As she spoke in a pleasant way, she pulled out a drawer--the very one
which had suggested concealment, when I first got possession of the
piece of furniture--and said--

“This is where the will lay concealed.”

And she pressed against the side firmly, when a portion of it yielded,
and there sprung up another drawer, or receptacle, placed in vertically.

We were all very much interested in this curious arrangement. The drawer
could not be pulled out much beyond half its depth; the secret portion
lying within this limit.

As I stood looking at the drawer, a sudden thought flashed through my
mind, and I pressed my hand against the other side. It began to yield!
I pressed harder, and up sprung a corresponding secret receptacle, from
which a paper fell out. A hard substance rattled on the solid wood. It
was a gold locket, tied with a piece of blue ribbon; and attached, with
a seal, to the folded paper.

It was some moments before a hand reached forth to lift the document.
It was at length taken up by Mr. Wallingford. As he did so, the locket
swung free, and we saw that it contained a braid of dark hair. Unfolding
the paper, and stepping back to the light, he read, in a low, firm
voice, as follows:

“I, John Allen, being of sound mind, do make this as my last will and
testament, revoking, at the same time, all other wills. I give and
bequeath all my property, real and personal, to my sister Flora, if
living; or, if dead, to her legal heirs--reserving only, for my wife,
Theresa Garcia, in case she survive me, a legacy of five hundred dollars
a year, to be continued during her natural life. And I name as
my executors, to carry out the provisions of this will, Doctor
Edward-----and James Wilkinson, of the town of S----, State of
Massachusetts.”

Then followed the date, which was recent, compared with that of the
other wills, and the signatures of the testator and witnesses, all in
due form. The witnesses were men in our town, and well known to us all.

At the reading of her mother’s name, Mrs. Wallingford sat down quickly,
and, covering her face, leaned over upon the centre table. I saw that
she was endeavoring to control a strong agitation.

I was the first to speak.

“The ways of Providence are past finding out,” said I. “Let me
congratulate you on this good fortune.”

As I spoke, Mrs. Wallingford rose from the table, and, going to her
husband, placed her hands upon his arms, and looking up into his face,
fondly and tearfully, said:--

“Dear Henry! For your sake, my heart is glad to-night.”

He laid the will down, as if it were a thing of little value, and
kissing her, said:--

“This cannot add to our happiness, Blanche, and may bring care and
trouble.”

“Not more trouble than blessing,” she replied, “if rightfully used.”

The locket attached to the will excited our curious interest. It was, we
felt sure, the same that Captain Allen’s mother had sent to him by the
hands of Jacob Perkins. Doubtless, some memory of his mother, stirred by
the sight of this locket, had caused him to revoke his former will, and
execute this one in favor of his sister. There was no room to question,
for a moment, its genuineness. It had all legal formality, and the men
who witnessed the signature were living and well known to us all. I was
named as one of the executors. So there was some perplexing business
before me; for, in taking things as they were, it was not probable that
the executors under the former will would be able, promptly, to give a
satisfactory account of their trust, or to hand over the property in a
shape acceptable to the right heirs.

But, of this, more anon. Our good friends went home early after this
singular discovery, showing more bewilderment than elation of manner. I
think that Constance and I were gladder in heart than they.



CHAPTER XXV.



The first thing done was to place the will on record; the next to give
proper legal notice of its existence to the executors under the previous
will, Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd. Mr. Dewey, on the announcement
of this discovery, unhesitatingly declared the paper a forgery; but the
witnesses to the signature of Captain Allen were living, and ready to
attest its genuineness. They remembered, very distinctly, the time when
their names were appended to the document. It was only a year before the
Captain’s death. They were walking past the Allen House, when the old
man called them in, and asked them to witness the signing of a paper. Of
its contents they had no knowledge, as he did not make any communication
on the subject. But he signed it in their presence, and their signatures
showed this will to be the paper then executed.

Notwithstanding this, it came to our ears, that Mr. Dewey persisted in
alleging fraud, forgery, and the complicity of these witnesses. And
from the manner of Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd, in the first brief
interview I had with them, it was plain that they were far from being
satisfied that all was right. Their manner was that of men utterly
confounded. If the property in question had been held by them as really
their own, they could hardly have exhibited more feeling.

After the will was entered at the proper office, and thus made public,
the following paragraph appeared in our “Weekly Star”--

“Remarkable Discovery of a Will.--A singular circumstance happened in
our town last week, no less than the discovery of a new and more recent
will of the late Captain Allen, by which all of his large property is
devised to his sister and her heirs. It was found in a secret drawer,
contained in an antiquated French Secretary, which Dr.----bought when
the furniture of the Allen House was sold, previous to a renovation
of the old mansion for the residence of Mr. Ralph Dewey. The late Mrs.
Montgomery, who resided for a time at the Allen House, was sister to
Captain Allen, and her daughter is now the wife of our townsman, Henry
Wallingford, Esq. We congratulate the parties on the good fortune which
has come to their door.”

The marriage of Mr. Dewey took place within a month after the discovery
of this will, and he brought his new wife to S----, installing her as
mistress of the Allen House. She was a showy woman, past thirty, with
a pair of brilliant black eyes, and a dark, rich complexion. Her long,
thin nose, and delicate, but proudly arching lips, showed her to possess
will and determination. It was the rumor in S----, that she brought her
husband a considerable fortune. But she was not well received among us.
The families of Judge Bigelow, and Joshua Kling, Cashier of the Clinton
Bank, called immediately. Something later called the wives of two
Directors in the Bank, and afterwards the wives of one or two citizens
who had embarked some capital in the cotton mills. Beyond this, no
advances were made towards an acquaintance with the new Mrs. Dewey.

It shocked my sensibilities to see this woman dashing about through
S----in the elegant equipage once the pride of the now humbled daughter
of Squire Floyd, who, since the divorce granted on her application, had
lived in strict retirement in her father’s house. The only time when she
was seen abroad, was on the Sabbath, at church, with her two children.
The oldest, a daughter, in her thirteenth year; and the youngest, a boy,
ten years of age. The terrible ordeal passed through by this unhappy
woman, had told upon her severely. In a year, she seemed to have lived
ten. All the fine roundness of her face and person had given way, and
she presented the appearance of one who had come out of a long and
exhausting illness.

Constance made it a point of duty to visit her often. She found her
states of mind exceedingly variable. Sometimes she was in patient,
tranquil states, and sometimes she manifested great bitterness of
spirit, complaining of man’s cruel selfishness, and God’s injustice.
The marriage of Mr. Dewey disturbed her considerably. One day, not long
after this event, Constance called to see her. She was in one of her
darker moods; and all the comforting suggestions which my good wife
could make, seemed to go for nothing. They were sitting near a window,
overlooking the street, when Delia suddenly turned pale, and caught her
breath. A carriage went sweeping by at the moment, drawn by two spirited
horses.

“Is that the woman?” she exclaimed, as soon as she recovered herself.

“That is the woman,” Constance replied.

Delia clutched her hands so tightly that her arms quivered, and grew
rigid; while her pale face darkened with an expression so like revenge,
that Constance felt a shudder of fear in her heart.

“If my prayers for her are answered,” said the excited woman, speaking
through her closing teeth, “she will find that day the darkest in the
calendar of her life, when she stepped between me and my husband. I have
only curses for her in my heart. Only curses!”

Constance, startled, and almost frightened by this wild burst of
feeling, endeavored to soothe her; but the storm was too fierce to own
the power of her gentle persuasions, and raged on for its brief season.

“I thought her mind had given way,” said my wife, on relating what she
had seen and heard. “It was fearful to look upon a human creature so
terribly moved.”

“The trial to her feelings must have been very.... [Gap in original]

“But I thought the severe discipline through which she had passed, had
chastened and subdued her,” answered Constance. “I saw, or believed that
I saw, the beginnings of a new and true life in her soul. But over all
this, passion has swept with its besom of destruction.”

“The better states,” I replied, “may not have been destroyed in this
evil whirlwind. Such states, when once formed, usually retire and hide
themselves until the storm has spent its fury.”

“I pray that it may be so in this case,” said Constance. “But from what
I saw to-day, my fears are on the other side.”

In the mean time we were taking such steps as the responsibility of our
position required, towards getting possession of the property,
which, under the will of Captain Allen, must come into our hands. My
co-executor, Mr. James Wilkinson, a merchant of S----, was for adopting
the most summary proceedings. He was annoyed at the questions, doubts,
and delays which Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd permitted to intervene;
and more especially by the intermeddling of Dewey, towards whom, from
some cause, he entertained hostile feeling.

As a matter of course, we were guided in all our movements by Mr.
Wallingford. At the earliest term of court, we brought forward the claim
of Mrs. Wallingford, under the last will and testament of her uncle.
A feeble effort was made to throw doubt upon the genuineness of the
document; but the oath of the witnesses to the signature of Captain
Allen settled the question beyond the reach of cavil, and the executors
under the first will were ordered to transfer, by a certain date, all
property belonging to the estate into our hands.

I saw plainly enough, from the beginning, that the idea of giving an
account of their stewardship was not an agreeable one to either of the
executors under the old will. The direction which the property must take
was one that would not admit of any holding back or covering up on their
part. They would be required to exhibit clean hands.

The property clearly shown as having passed into their possession, was
the old mansion and valuable grounds, which had been sold, under an
order of the court, at a heavy sacrifice--bringing only thirty-five
thousand dollars, instead of sixty thousand, its real value--and the
proceeds re-invested. Then there was other town property worth twenty
thousand dollars, and stocks valued at as much more: making seventy-five
thousand dollars in all as the principal. Interest added, would swell
the sum for which they must give account to over one hundred thousand
dollars.

It was found, on looking into the business, that the whole of this
immense sum was invested in the cotton mills. The search made into the
legal condition of these mill properties was not satisfactory. There
were several mortgages against them, one of which, for twenty-five
thousand dollars, was held by the Clinton Bank as collateral security
for loans.

After various delays and failures on the part of the old executors to
meet us in a satisfactory manner, we all assembled, by appointment, in
the office of Judge Bigelow. Mr. Dewey I was surprised to find present.
But it was plain that he was there either by the consent or request
of the Judge and Squire. The court had given a certain time for the
executors under the first will to make up their accounts, and hand over
the property in trust. That time had expired.

There was manifest embarrassment on the part of Judge Bigelow and his
associate; while Dewey looked stern and dogged. We soon got into
the centre of the business, and found it pretty earnest work. It was
admitted by the executors that the greater portion of the estate was in
the cotton mills. How to get it out was the question.

“I had always understood,” said Mr. Wallingford, “that the mills were
chiefly owned in New York.”

“The New York interest is large,” replied Squire Floyd, in a husky
voice.

“And can be increased, no doubt, to almost any extent, in order to
enable you to withdraw the trust investments,” resumed Mr. Wallingford.

“Why cannot you let it remain where it is for the present? The
investment is safe and the interest sure,” said Judge Bigelow.

“There isn’t safer security in the state,” spoke up Mr. Dewey, with
animation.

“It isn’t the kind of security we wish to hold,” said Mr. Wilkinson
firmly. “We have given heavy bonds, and prefer to get the property in a
different shape.”

Here followed a chilling silence, which was broken by Mr. Wallingford.

“There is one way in which this can be arranged,” said he.

All eyes were turned upon him.

“If it is not convenient to transfer to new parties interests of such
magnitude, we will take, at a fair valuation, the Allen House and
grounds appertaining thereto, including the mill site.”

Mr. Dewey was on his feet in a moment, and said--

“Never!” with considerable excitement of manner.

Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd looked at each other in a bewildered
manner, and then at Mr. Dewey, who was walking the floor with many signs
of disturbance.

“This is the family property,” continued Mr. Wallingford, coolly--“and
ought never to have been sold. It is but fair that it should come back.”

“It can’t go back,” spoke up Mr. Dewey. “The present owners will not let
it pass out of their hands.”

“If that is the case,” said Mr. Wallingford, “we shall have to look in
another direction. It occurred to me that this might suit all parties,
and lead to an easy arrangement. But if that cannot be--if the present
owners, to use Mr. Dewey’s words, will not let it go back--then my
suggestion falls to the ground, and we must look to the investments as
they stand. We do not press the matter.”

I observed Mr. Dewey closely; the amount of feeling he displayed having
drawn my attention upon him. Once or twice I saw him dart malignant
glances towards Mr. Wallingford. And so, by degrees, I began to have
a glimpse of what was passing in his mind. To go out from that elegant
home, and let Wallingford succeed him as the owner, was something to
which his proud heart could not submit--Wallingford, the once despised
and contemned student of his uncle! That was too bitter a humiliation.

As nothing could then be decided, another meeting, to take place in
three or four days, was agreed upon, and we separated.



CHAPTER XXVI.



As my profession kept me going about all the while, I had opportunities
for observing the movements of other people. The day following the
meeting referred to in the last chapter, I saw Dewey, the Judge, and
the Squire together several times, and always in earnest talk. As I came
home, towards evening, I saw them all entering Mr. Dewey’s residence. It
was plain that there was trouble in the camp.

On the next day, Mr. Dewey left town. I noticed him going into a car at
the depot. When the time came for our meeting, a postponement was asked
for. I felt like demurring, but Mr. Wallingford readily consented.

“Give them a little more time,” said he, as we walked away from Judge
Bigelow’s office. “It will come out as we desired. The easiest way for
them to arrange with us, is to let us have the Allen House property,
which is owned by the firm of which Dewey is a member; and it is with a
view to this, I have no doubt, that he is now in New York.”

So we waited a few days longer. The return of Mr. Dewey took place in
the course of a week, when I received a note from Judge Bigelow, asking
a private interview. I found him and his nephew alone. They received me
in a pleasant, affable way; and the Judge said that he wished to have
a little talk with me before another formal meeting of the executors.
I answered that it would give me pleasure to confer with him; though I
could neither accept nor propose any thing, standing alone.

“It is not with a view to that, Doctor,” replied the Judge, his
countenance putting on a shade of gravity that nearly obliterated the
smiles with which he at first received me. “But I thought it might
help to a better issue, if two of the parties representing the opposite
interests in this case were to have a little informal conversation.”

“I am ready to hear any thing you have to say, Judge, and shall be very
happy if I can aid, in any thing, the satisfactory adjustment of these
matters.” My answer, I thought, appeared to give him confidence, and he
said--

“Without doubt you can aid, Doctor. The position in which Squire Floyd
and myself find ourselves placed, is one of some embarrassment. In
making investments of the property which came into our hands, we had
reference, of course, to its security and productiveness; at the same
time looking to a period, still some years in advance, when our trust
would cease, and the property pass in due course to the heir-at-law. To
realize on these investments now, would be to damage the interests of
others; and I cannot feel that it would be right for you to urge this.
The discovery of a new will, bearing a later date, is a thing wholly
unexpected. We had no warning to prepare for the summary action growing
out of its appearance, and, as I have just intimated, cannot proceed
without injury to others.”

“I do not believe,” said Mr. Dewey, “that the court, if the case was
fairly stated, would require this speedy settlement of the trust. And it
is my advice, that the whole matter be referred back for a new award as
to time. A year longer should be conceded to the executors under the old
will.”

“That would be equitable,” said the Judge.

“I am afraid,” I made answer to this, “that Mr. Wallingford will not
consent to any postponement.”

“He won’t? The hound!” I was startled by the fierceness of Dewey’s
tone of voice, and, turning to look at him, saw on his countenance an
expression of malignant hatred.

“Ralph!” said Judge Bigelow, in a warning voice.

“I can’t repress my indignation,” answered the nephew. “What demons from
the nether hell have conspired to give him power over us? If it had
been any other man in the world I could have borne it patiently.”

“Ralph! Ralph!” interposed the Judge, in a deprecating voice.

“It is no use, uncle. I cannot keep down my feeling,” was replied. “To
see you hunted by this hound, who owes you everything.”

“Pardon me, Mr. Dewey,” said I, “but I cannot hear such language used
towards a gentleman of irreproachable character. Mr. Wallingford is not
entitled to the epithet you give; and I warn you, not to repeat that, or
anything like it, in my presence.”

“You warn me!”

A gleam shot towards me from his evil eyes.

“Ralph! silence!” The Judge spoke sternly.

“Yes, in all soberness, I warn you,” said I, fixing my gaze upon him,
and holding his eyes until they fell to the floor. “Mr. Wallingford is
not the man to permit any one to use language about him, such as you
have indulged in. If you make use of another opprobrious epithet, I will
communicate the fact to him immediately. And let me say, that, unless
a different temper is manifested, I must terminate this interview at
once.”

Judge Bigelow drew his nephew aside, and talked for some time with him,
in a low, earnest tone; after which the latter apologized, though with
an ill grace, for the intemperance of his manner--alleging that an old
wound smarted whenever Wallingford crossed his path.

The result of this confidential talk was not as favorable on my mind as
Judge Bigelow had hoped to make it. I pitied his embarrassment; but the
conduct of Dewey confirmed my previous view of the case, which was to
require a transfer of the property specified by Mr. Wallingford, or
press for an immediate foreclosure of the mill investments. There was, I
felt satisfied, hazard in delay.

When our next formal meeting took place, Dewey was again present. It was
in my thought to suggest that he was not a party covered by the business
to be considered, when Mr. Wallingford said, in his mild, grave way--

“I believe this is a meeting of the Executors under the two wills of
Captain Allen.”

The meaning of his remark could not be misunderstood, for he glanced
towards Mr. Dewey as he spoke. That individual, however, did not choose
to regard himself as referred to, and made no sign. But Mr. Wallingford
was not the man to let a deliberate purpose fall to the ground. He
had come with the intention of objecting to Dewey’s presence at the
conference, and to insist upon his retiring, as a preliminary to
business.

No one replying to Mr. Wallingford’s remark, he said, further--

“I do not mean to be uncourteous, but I must suggest the propriety of
Mr. Dewey’s withdrawal.”

“I am an interested party,” said Dewey, with ill-concealed anger.

“Ah! I was not before aware of this,” replied Wallingford, and he
looked inquiringly towards the Judge and Squire. They showed an uneasy
perplexity of manner, but did not respond.

“In what way are you interested?” queried Mr. Wallingford.

“I am one of the guardians to the heir under an existing will.”

“A will that the decision of our court has rendered null and void,” was
promptly answered. “We have not met to consider questions in which Leon
Garcia, or his representative, has any concern. Our business refers to
other matters.”

Dewey moved uneasily, and seemed struggling to keep down his rising
displeasure. But he did not, manifest any intention to withdraw.

“Had we not better proceed to business?” suggested Squire Floyd.

“Not while Mr. Dewey remains,” said I, firmly taking the side of Mr.
Wallingford.

“Somebody will repent himself of this!” exclaimed the ill-governed man,
passionately, starting to his feet, and striding from the office.

“I don’t understand this individual’s conduct,” remarked Wallingford, in
a serious way. “Why has he presumed to intermeddle in our business? It
has a bad look.”

He knit his brows closely, and put on a stern aspect, very unusual to
him.

“You probably forget,” said Judge Bigelow, “that you have proposed a
change of ownership in property now occupied by him?”

“That was simply to give you more latitude in settling up the estate
in your hands. I said we were willing to accept that property at a fair
valuation, thinking it would offer a desirable mode of liquidation. It
is for you to say yea or nay to us; not Ralph Dewey. If you cannot gain
his consent to the transfer, there is an end of that proposal.”

I really commiserated the embarrassment shown by the Judge and Squire.
They seemed to be in a maze, without perceiving the right way of
extrication. Dewey appeared to have over them some mysterious influence,
above which they had not power to rise.

“If Ralph will not consent--”

“Ralph must consent!” exclaimed Squire Floyd, with a sudden energy of
manner, and the exhibition of a degree of will not shown before. “Ralph
must consent! The mode of adjustment proposed by Mr. Wallingford is
the one easiest for us to accomplish, and I shall insist on Dewey’s
giving up his opposition. There is a vast deal more of pride than
principle involved in his objection.”

The Squire was breaking away from his fetters.

“It is plain,” added Squire Floyd, “that his partners wish that property
to go in preference to any other. And it must go.”

This was a style of remark quite unexpected on our part; and only added
firmness to our purpose. The interview was not prolonged in discussion.
We merely reaffirmed our ultimatum, and gave one week for the two men to
decide in what manner to close their trust.



CHAPTER XXVII.



The decision was as I expected it to be; and the old property came back
into the family. There were few hearts in S----, that did not beat with
pleasure, when it was known that Mr. Wallingford and his lovely wife
were to pass from Ivy Cottage to the stately Allen House.

I think the strife between Mr. Dewey and the old executors was severe,
and that he yielded only when he saw that they were immovable. An
open rupture with Squire Floyd was a consequence of his persistent
determination to have the Allen property transferred; and after the
settlement of this business, they held no personal communication with
each other.

The change in Mr. Dewey’s appearance, after it became a settled thing
that he must remove from the splendid mansion he had occupied for years,
was remarkable. He lost the impressive swagger that always said, “I am
the first man in S----;” and presented the appearance of one who
had suffered some great misfortune, without growing better under the
discipline. He did not meet you with the free, open, better-than-you
look that previously characterized him, but with a half sidelong falling
of the eyes, in which there was, to me, something very sinister.

As far as our observation went, Mr. Wallingford put on no new phase of
character. There was about him the same quiet, thoughtful dignity of
manner which had always commanded involuntary respect. He showed no
unseemly haste in dispossessing Mr. Dewey of his elegant home. Two
months after the title deeds had passed, I called in at Ivy Cottage, now
one of the sweetest, little places in S----, for Constance, who had
been passing the evening there. Not in any home, through all the region
round, into which it was my privilege to enter, was there radiant, like
a warm, enticing atmosphere that swelled your lungs with a new vitality,
and gave all your pulses a freer beat, such pure love--maternal and
conjugal--as pervaded this sanctuary of the heart. I say maternal,
as well as conjugal, for two dear babes had brought into this home
attendant angels from the higher heaven.

A soft astral lamp threw its mellow rays about the room. Mr. Wallingford
had a book open in his hand, from which he had been reading aloud to his
wife and Constance. He closed the volume as I entered, and rising, took
my hand, saying, with even more than his usual cordiality--

“Now our circle is complete.”

“Excuse me from rising, Doctor,” said Mrs. Wallingford, a smile of
welcome giving increased beauty to her countenance, as she offered the
hand that was free--the other held her babe, just three months old,
tenderly to her bosom.

“What have you been reading?” I asked, as I seated myself, and glanced
towards the volume which Mr. Wallingford had closed and laid upon the
table.

“A memorable relation of the Swedish Seer,” he replied, smiling.

“Touching marriage in heaven,” said I, smiling in return.

“Or, to speak more truly,” he replied, “the union of two souls in
heaven, into an eternal oneness. Yes, that was the subject, and it
always interests me deeply. Our life here is but a span, and our brief
union shadowed by care, pain, sickness, and the never-dying fear of
parting. The sky of our being is not unclouded long. And therefore I
cannot believe that the blessedness of married love dies forever at the
end of this struggle to come into perfect form and beauty. No, Doctor;
the end is not here. And so Blanche and I turn often with an eager
delight to these relations, feeling, as we read, that they are not mere
pictures of fancy, but heavenly verities. They teach us that if we
would be united in the next world, we must become purified in this.
That selfish love, which is of the person must give place to a love for
spiritual qualities. That we must grow in the likeness and image of God,
if we would make one angel in His heavenly kingdom.”

His eyes rested upon Blanche, as he closed the sentence, with a look
full of love; and she, as if she knew that the glance was coming, turned
and received it into her heart.

I did not question the faith that carried them over the bounds of time,
and gave them delicious foreshadowings of the blessedness beyond. As I
looked at them, and marked how they seemed to grow daily into a oneness
of spirit, could I doubt that there was for them an eternal union? No,
no. Such doubts would have been false to the instincts of my own soul,
and false to the instincts of every conscious being made to love and be
loved.

“The laying aside of this earthly investiture,” said Wallingford,
resuming, “the passage from mortal to immortal life, cannot change our
spirits, but only give to all their powers a freer and more perfect
development. Love is not a quality of the body, but of the spirit, and
will remain in full force, after the body is cast off like the shell of
a chrysalis. Still existing, it will seek its object. And shall it seek
forever and not find? God forbid! No! The love I bear my wife is not,
I trust, all of the earth, earthy; but instinct with a heavenly
perpetuity. And when we sleep the sleep of death, it will be in the
confident assurance of a speedy and more perfect conjunction of our
lives. On a subject of such deep concern, we are dissatisfied with the
vague and conjectural; and this is why the record of things seen and
heard in the spiritual world by Swedenborg--especially in what relates
to marriages in heaven--has for us such an absorbing interest.”

“Are you satisfied with the evidence?” I ventured to inquire, seeing him
so confident.

“Yes.”

He answered quietly, and with an assured manner.

“How do you reach a conclusion as to the truth of these things?”

“Something after the same way that you satisfy yourself that the sun
shines.”

“My eyes testify to me that fact. Seeing is believing,” I answered.

“The spirit of a man has eyes as well as his body,” said Wallingford.
“And seeing is believing in another sense than you intimate. Now
the bodily eyes see material objects, and the mind, receiving their
testimony, is in no doubt as to the existence, quality, and relation of
things in the outer world. The eyes of our spirits, on the other hand,
see immaterial objects or truths; and presenting them to the rational
and perceptive faculties, they are recognized as actual existences, and
their quality as surely determined as the quality of a stone or metal.
If you ask me how I know that this is quartz, or that iron; I answer, By
the testimony of my eyes. And so, if you ask how I satisfy myself as to
the truth of which I read in this book; I can only reply that I see it
all so clearly that conviction is a necessity. There is no trouble in
believing. To attempt disbelief, would be to illustrate the fable of
Sisyphus.”

He spoke calmly, like one whose mind had risen above doubt. I objected
nothing further; for that would have been useless. And why attempt to
throw questions into his mind? Was there anything evil in the faith
which he had adopted as exhibited in his life? I could not say yes. On
the contrary, taking his life as an illustration, good only was to be
inferred. I remembered very well when his mind diverged into this
new direction. Some years had intervened. I thought to see him
grow visionary or enthusiastic. Not so, however. There was a change
progressively visible; but it was in the direction of sound and rational
views of life. A broader humanity showed itself in his words and
actions. Then came the subtler vein of religious sentiments, running
like pure gold through all that appertained to him.

If, therefore, he was progressing towards a higher life, why should I
question as to the way being right for him? Why should I seek to turn
him into another path when there was such a broad light for his eyes on
the one he had chosen? “By their fruits ye shall know them.” And by his
fruits I knew him to be of that highest type of manhood, a Christian
gentleman.

I noticed, while Mr. Wallingford spoke so confidently of their reunion
in heaven, that his wife leaned towards, and looked at him, with eyes
through which her soul seemed going forth into his.

As the conversation flowed on, it gradually involved other themes, and
finally led to the question On my part, as to when they were going to
leave Ivy Cottage.

“That is quite uncertain,” replied Mr. Wallingford. “I shall not hurry
the present occupant. We have been so happy here, that we feel more
inclined to stay than to remove to a more ambitious home.”

“I hear that Mr. Dewey is going to build,” said I.

“Where?”

“He has been negotiating for the property on the elevation west of the
Allen House.”

“Ah!”

“Yes. The price of the ground, five acres, is ten thousand dollars.”

“The site is commanding and beautiful. The finest in S----, for one
who thinks mainly of attracting the attention of others,” said Mr.
Wallingford.

“If he builds, we shall see something on a grander scale than anything
yet attempted in our neighborhood. He will overshadow you.”

“The rivalry must be on his side alone,” was Mr. Wallingford’s reply.
“No elegance or imposing grandeur that he may assume, can disturb me in
the smallest degree. I shall only feel pity for the defect of happiness
that all his blandishments must hide.”

“A splendid Italian villa is talked of.”

Mr. Wallingford shook his head.

“You doubt all this?” said I.

“Not the man’s ambitious pride; but his ability to do what pride
suggests. He and his compeers are poorer, by a hundred thousand dollars,
than they deemed themselves a few short months ago.”

“Have they met with heavy losses?” I asked, not understanding the drift
of his remark.

“The estate in trust has been withdrawn.”

“How should that make them poorer?”

“It makes them poorer, in the first place, as to the means for carrying
on business. And it makes them poorer, in the second place, in the loss
of an estate, which, I am sorry to believe, Mr. Dewey and a part of his
New York associates regarded as virtually their own.

“But the heir was approaching his majority,” said I.

“And growing up a weak, vicious, self-indulgent young man, who, in the
hands of a shrewd, unscrupulous villain, might easily be robbed of his
fortune. You may depend upon it, Doctor, that somebody has suffered a
terrible disappointment, and one from which he is not likely soon to
recover. No--no! We shall see nothing of this princely Italian villa.”

“I cannot believe,” I replied, “that the executors who had the estate in
trust were influenced by dishonorable motives. I know the men too well.”

“Nor do I, Doctor,” he answered, promptly. “But, as I have before said,
they were almost wholly under the influence of Dewey, and I think that
he was leading them into mazes from which honorable extrication would
have been impossible.”

“Have you given Dewey any notice of removal?” I inquired.

“No--and shall not, for some time. I am in no hurry to leave this place,
in which the happiest days of my life have passed. Any seeming eagerness
to dispossess him, would only chafe a spirit in which I would not
needlessly excite evil passions. His pride must, I think, lead him at a
very early day to remove, and thus make a plain way before me.”

“How long will you wait?” I asked.

“Almost any reasonable time.”

“You and he might not take the same view of what was reasonable,” said
I.

“Perhaps not. But, as I remarked just now, being in no hurry to leave
our present home, I shall not disturb him for some months to come. No
change will be made by us earlier than next spring. And if he wishes to
spend the winter in his present abode, he is welcome to remain.”

There was no assumed virtuous forbearance in all this; but a sincere
regard for the feelings and comfort of Dewey. This was so apparent, that
I did not question for a moment his generous consideration of a man who
would not have hesitated, if the power were given, to crush him to the
very earth.

Many thoughts passed in my mind, as I pondered the incidents and
conversation of this evening. In looking back upon life, we see the sure
progress of causes to effects; and in the effects, the quality of the
causes. We no longer wonder at results--the only wonder is, that they
were not foreseen. Wise maxims, some of the garnered grains of our
fathers’ experiences, are scattered through the books we read, and daily
fall from the lips of teachers and friends; maxims which, if observed,
would lead us to honor and happiness. But who gives them heed? Who makes
them the rule of his conduct?

We might wonder less at the blind infatuation with which so many press
onward in a course that all the wisdom of the past, as well as all the
reason of the present, condemns, if it were possible to rub out our
actions, as a child rubs from his slate a wrong sum, and begin the work
of life over again. But this cannot be. We weave hourly the web that is
to bind us in the future. Our to-days hold the fate of our to-morrows.
What we do is done for ever, and in some degree will affect us
throughout infinite ages.

“Poor Delia Floyd!” My thought had turned to her as I lay awake,
long after the small hours of the morning, busy with incidents and
reflections which had completely banished sleep from my eyes. In the
strong pity of my heart, I spoke the words aloud.

“What of her?” said Constance, in a tone of surprise. And so intruding
thought had kept her awake also!

“Nothing more than usual,” I answered. “But I cannot sleep for thinking
of her unhappy state, and what she might have been, if obeying her own
heart’s right impulses, and the reason God gave her, she had accepted
a true man, instead of a specious villain for her husband. The scene in
Ivy Cottage to-night stands in most remarkable contrast with some things
I witnessed at the Allen House before she went out thence a wretched
woman for life. She staked everything on a desperate venture, and has
lost. God pity her! for there is no help in any human arm. To think of
what she is, and what she might have been, is enough to veil her reason
in midnight darkness.”

“Amen! God pity her!” said Constance. “For truly there is no help for
her in mortal arm.”



CHAPTER XXVIII.



The conduct of Mr. Wallingford, in regard to the estate which had
fallen into his hands, rather puzzled Dewey. He had anticipated an early
notification to remove, and, true to his character, had determined
to annoy the new owner by vexatious delays. But after the passage of
several weeks, in which came to him no intimation that he must give up
the possession of his elegant home, he began to wonder what it could
mean.

One day, not long after the conversation with Wallingford, mentioned in
the last chapter, I met Mr. Dewey in the street. He stopped me and said,
in half-sneering way,

“What of our honorable friend? Impatient, I suppose, to see the inside
of the Allen House?”

“No,” I replied, “he has no wish to disturb you for the present.”

“Indeed! You expect me to believe all that, of course.”

There was a rudeness in his manner that was offensive; but I did not
care to let him see that I noticed it.

“Why should you not believe my remark?” said I. “Is it a new thing in
your experience with men to find an individual considerate of another?”

“What do you mean by considerate of another?”

My form of speech touched his pride.

“Mr. Wallingford has manifested towards you a considerate spirit,” said
I, speaking slowly and distinctly. “It naturally occurs to him that,
as you are so pleasantly situated at the Allen House, an early removal
therefrom might be anything but desirable. And so he has rested quietly
up to this time, leaving a decision as to the period with yourself.”

“Humph! Very unselfish, truly!”

His lip curled in disdain.

“If you feel restive under this concession in your favor,” said I,
putting on a serious manner, “I would suggest independence as a remedy.”

He looked at me curiously, yet with a scowling contraction of his brows.

“Independence! What am I to understand by your remark?”

“Simply this, Mr. Dewey. You are in the occupancy of property belonging
to Mr. Wallingford, and by his favor. Now, if you cannot receive a
kindness at his hands, in the name of all that is manly and independent,
put yourself out of the range of obligation.”

I was not able to repress a sudden feeling of indignation, and so spoke
with warmth and plainness.

“Thank you for your plainness of speech, Doctor,” he retorted, drawing
himself up in a haughty manner.

“As to removing from the Allen House, I will do that just when it suits
my pleasure.”

“Mr. Wallingford, you may be assured,” said I, “will not show any
unseemly impatience, if you do not find it convenient to make an early
removal. He knows that it cannot be agreeable for you to give up the
home of years, and he is too much of a Christian and a gentleman to do
violence to another’s feelings, if it can be in any way avoided.”

“Pah! I hate cant!”

He threw his head aside in affected disgust.

“We judge men by their actions, not their words,” said I. “If a man
acts with considerate kindness, is it cant to speak of him in terms of
praise? Pardon me, Mr. Dewey, but I think you are letting passion blind
you to another’s good qualities.”

“The subject is disagreeable to me, Doctor. Let us waive it.”

“It was introduced by yourself, remember,” I replied; “and all that I
have said has been in response to your own remarks. This much good has
grown from it. You know just how Mr. Wallingford stands towards you, and
you can govern yourself according to your own views in the case. And now
let me volunteer this piece of advice. Never wantonly give offence to
another, for you cannot tell how soon you may find yourself in need of
