
"Let me see," said he, "if anything is the matter. Hard to find out,
through this thick boot! How does it feel now?"

"It pains me very much, these two or three minutes."

The Captain looked at Daisy's face again, and then without more ado took
his knife and cut the lacings of the boot. "How is that?" he asked.

"That is a great deal better."

"If it hadn't been, you would have fainted again directly. Let us
see--Daisy, I think I had better cut the boot off. You have sprained the
ankle, or something, and it is swollen."

Daisy said nothing, and the Captain went on very carefully and tenderly
to cut the boot off. It was a very necessary proceeding. The foot was
terribly swollen already. Again the Captain mused, looking from the
child's foot to her face.

"How is the pain now?"

"It aches a good deal."

He saw it was vastly worse than her words made it.

"My little soldier," said he, "how do you suppose I am going to get you
down the hill, to where we left our carriage?"

"I don't know," said Daisy. "You can't carry me."

"What makes you think so?"

"I don't know," said Daisy,--"but I don't think you can." And she was
a little afraid, he saw.

"I will be as careful as I can, and you must be as brave as you can, for
I don't see any other way, Daisy. And I think, the sooner we go the
better; so that this foot may have some cold or hot lotion or
something."

"Wait a minute," said Daisy hastily.

And raising herself up to a sitting position, she bent over her little
head and covered her eyes with her hand. The Captain felt very
strangely. He guessed in a minute what she was about; that in pain and
fear, Daisy was seeking an unseen help, and trusting in it; and in awed
silence the young officer was as still as she, till the little head was
raised.

"Now," she said, "you may take me."

The Captain always had a good respect for Daisy; but he certainly felt
now as if he had the dignity of twenty-five years in his arms. He raised
her as gently as possible from the ground; he knew the changed position
of the foot gave her new pain, for a flush rose to Daisy's brow, but she
said not one word either of suffering or expostulation. Her friend
stepped with her as gently as he could over the rough way; Daisy
supported herself partly by an arm round his neck, and was utterly mute,
till they were passing the place of luncheon; then she broke out,--

"Oh! the trilobite!"

"Never mind the trilobite."

"But are you going to lose it, Capt. Drummond?"

"Not if you want it. I'll come back for it another day--if I break my
furlough."

"I could hold it in my other hand--if I had it."

The Captain thought the bottle of claret might chance to be the most
wanted thing; nevertheless he stopped, stooped, and picked up the
fossil. Daisy grasped it; and they went on their way down the mountain.
It was a very trying way to both of them. The Captain was painfully
anxious to step easily, which among rocks and bushes he could not always
do, especially with a weight in his arms; and Daisy's foot hanging down,
gave her dreadful pain because of the increased rush of blood into it.
Her little lips were firmly set together many a time, to avoid giving
her friend the distress of knowing how much she suffered; and once the
Captain heard a low whisper not meant for his ear but uttered very close
to it,--"O Lord Jesus, help me." It went through and through the
Captain's mind and heart. But he only set his teeth too, and plunged on,
as fast as he could softly, down the rough mountain side. And if ever
anybody was glad, that was he when they reached the wagon.

There was a new difficulty now, for the little vehicle had no place in
which Daisy could remain lying down. The seat was fast; the Captain
could not remove it. He did the best he could. He put Daisy sideways on
the seat, so that the hurt foot could be stretched out and kept in one
position upon it; and he himself stood behind her, holding the reins. In
that way he served as a sort of support for the little head which he
sometimes feared would sink in a swoon; for while she lay on the ground
and he was trying measures with the wagon, the closed eyes and pale
cheeks had given the Captain a good many desperately uneasy thoughts.
Now Daisy sat still, leaning against him, with her eyes open; and he
drove as tenderly as he could. He had a frisky horse to manage, and the
Captain congratulated himself for this occasion at least that he was a
skilled whip. Still the motion of the wagon was very trying to Daisy,
and every jar went through the Captain's foot up to his heart.

"How is it, Daisy?" he asked after they had gone some distance.

"It isn't good, Capt. Drummond," she said softly.

"Bad, isn't it?"

"Rather."

"I have to make this fellow go slowly, you see, or he would shake you
too much. Could you bear to go faster?"

"I'll try."

The Captain tried cautiously. But his question, and possibly Daisy's
answer, were stimulated by the view of the western horizon, over which
clouds were gathering thick and fast. Could they get home in time? that
was the doubt in both minds.

"Capt. Drummond," said Daisy presently, "I can't bear this shaking."

"Must I go slower?"

"If you please."

"Daisy, do you see how the sky bodes yonder? What do you suppose we
shall do if those clouds come up?"

"I don't know," she answered. But she said it with such a quiet tone of
voice, that the Captain wondered anew. He had hoped that her fears might
induce her to bear the pain.

"Daisy, do you think it will come up a storm?"

"I think it will."

"How soon? you know the signs better than I do. How soon will it be
here?"

"It will come soon, I think."

Yet there was no anxiety in Daisy's voice. It was perfectly calm, though
feeble. The Captain held his peace, looked at the clouds, and drove on;
but not as fast as he would have liked. He knew it was a ride of great
suffering to his little charge, for she became exceedingly pale; still
she said nothing, except her soft replies to his questions. The western
clouds rolled up in great volumes of black and grey, rolling and
gathering and spreading at a magnificent rate. The sun was presently hid
behind the fringe of this curtain of blackness; by and by the mountains
were hid beneath a further fringe of rain; a very thick fringe. Between,
the masses of vapour in the sky seemed charging for a tremendous
outburst. It had not come yet when the slow going little wagon passed
through Crum Elbow; but by this time the Captain had seen distant darts
of lightning, and even heard the far-off warning growl of the thunder. A
new idea started up in the Captain's mind; his frisky horse might not
like lightning.

"Daisy," said he, "my poor little Daisy--we cannot get to Melbourne--we
must stop and wait a little somewhere. Is there any house you like
better than another? I had best turn back to the village."

"No, don't,--stop!" cried Daisy, "don't go back, Capt. Drummond; there
is a place nearer. Turn up that road--right round there. It is very
near."

The Captain obeyed, but pulled in the reins presently as he heard a
nearer growl of the coming thunder. "Daisy, where is it? I don't see
anything."

"There it is, Capt. Drummond--that little house."

"That?" said the Captain; but there was no more time now for retreat
or question. He sprang out, threw the reins two or three times over the
gate-post; then executed the very difficult operation of taking Daisy
out of the wagon. He could not do it without hurting her; she fainted on
his shoulder; and it was in this state, white and senseless, that he
carried her into Mrs. Benoit's cottage. The old woman had seen them and
met him at the door. Seeing the state of the case, she immediately and
with great quickness spread a clean covering over a comfortable chintz
couch which stood under the window, and Daisy was laid there from her
friend's arms. Juanita applied water and salts too, deftly; and then
asked the Captain, "What is it, sir?"

"There's a foot hurt here," said the Captain, giving more attention to
the hurt than he had had chance to do before. "Pray heaven it is not
broken! I am afraid it is,--the ankle--or dislocated."

"Then Heaven knows why it is broken," said the old woman quietly. "The
gentleman will go for a doctor, sir?"

"Yes, that must be the first thing," said Capt. Drummond gravely. "Where
shall I find him?"

"Dr. Sandford--the gentleman, knows the road to Mr. St. Leonard's?"

"Yes--the Craigs--I know."

"Dr. Sandford is half way there--where the gentleman remembers a great
brown house in the middle of the cedar trees."

The Captain beat his brain to remember, thought he did, and was starting
away, but turned back to see Daisy's eyes open first; fearing lest she
might be alarmed if he were not by her when she came to herself. There
was a bright flash and near peal of thunder at the moment. Juanita
looked up.

"The gentleman will not fear the storm? There is work here"--touching
the foot.

The Captain remembered that Daisy herself had directed him to the house,
and dashed away again. The clouds were growing blacker every moment. In
the darkening light Juanita bent over Daisy and saw her eyes open.

"Does my little lady know Juanita?"

Daisy sighed, looked round the room, and then seemed to recollect
herself.

"O I am here!" she said. "Where is Capt. Drummond?"

"The gentleman is gone for the doctor, to see to the hurt foot. How is
it now, dear?"

"It hurts me a good deal."

Juanita's first business was to take off the stocking; this could only
be done by cutting it down. When it was removed, a very
sorrowful-looking little foot was seen. Juanita covered it up lightly,
and then turned her attention again to Daisy's pale face.

"What can I give my little lady?"

"I am Daisy Randolph."

"What may I do for Miss Daisy? to give her some comfort."

"Juanita,--I wish you would pray for me again."

"What does Miss Daisy want of the Lord?"

"My foot hurts me very much, and I want to be patient. And, Juanita, I
want to thank him too."

"What for, Miss Daisy?"

"Because--I love him; and he has made me so happy."

"Praise the Lord!" came with a most glad outburst from Juanita's lips;
but then she knelt down, and so uttered her warm petitions for help
needed and so her deep thanksgiving for help rendered, that Daisy was
greatly overcome and poured out her tears as the prayer went on. When it
was ended, Juanita went about her room for a little while, making
certain arrangements that she foresaw would be necessary; then came and
sat down. All this while the storm had been furious; the lightning
hardly ceased, or the thunder, and both were near; but the two inmates
of the little cottage seemed hardly to be conscious what was going on
outside its walls. There was a slight lessening now of the storm's fury.

"Has it gone well with my little lady then, since she gave Juanita the
rose branch?"

This was the new opening of conversation. Daisy hesitated a little what
to answer; not for want of confidence, for there was something about the
fine old woman that had won her completely.

"I don't know"--she said at length, slowly. "It has been very hard to do
right, Juanita."

"But has my little lady kept her Lord's words?"

"Yes, Juanita, I did; but I don't know whether I should, if it hadn't
been for what you said."

"And did she meet the trouble too?"

Juanita saw that she had, for a flush rose on Daisy's poor pale cheeks,
and her face was strangely grave. She did not answer the question
either; only as the flash passed away she looked placidly up and said,

"I am not in trouble now, Juanita."

"Bless the Lord!" was the utterance of Juanita's heart. "The Lord knows
how to deliver out of trouble, Miss Daisy."

"Yes," said Daisy. "O!"--she exclaimed suddenly, with a new light
breaking all over her face--but then she stopped.

"What is it, my love?"

"Nothing--only I am so glad now that my foot is hurt."

Juanita's thanksgiving rose to her lips again, but this time she only
whispered it; turning away, perhaps to hide the moisture which had
sprung to her eyes. For she understood more of the case than Daisy's few
words would have told most people.

Meantime Capt. Drummond and his frisky horse had a ride which was likely
to make both of them remember that thunderstorm. They reached Dr.
Sandford's house; but then the Captain found that the doctor was not at
home; where he was, the servant could not say. The only other thing to
do seemed to be to go on to Melbourne and at least let Daisy have the
counsel of her father and mother. To Melbourne the Captain drove as fast
as his horse's state of mind would permit.

The drawing room was blazing with lights as usual, and full of talkers.

"Hollo!" cried Gary McFarlane, as the Captain entered,--"here he is. We
had given you up for a fossil, Drummond--and no idea of your turning up
again for another thousand years. Shouldn't have known where to look
for you either, after this storm--among the aqueous or the igneous
rocks. Glad to see you! Let me make you acquainted with Dr. Sandford."

"I am glad to see you, sir," said the Captain involuntarily, as he shook
hands with this latter.

"You haven't left Daisy somewhere, changed into a stone lily?" pursued
McFarlane.

"Yes," said the Captain. "Dr. Sandford, I am going to ask you to get
ready to ride with me. Mr. Randolph, I have left Daisy by the way. She
has hurt her foot--I threw down a stone upon it--and the storm obliged
her to defer getting home. I left her at a cottage near Crum Elbow. I am
going to take Dr. Sandford to see what the foot wants."

Mr. Randolph ordered the carriage, and then told his wife.

"Does it storm yet?" she asked.

"The thunder and lightning are ceasing, but it rains hard."

The lady stepped out of the room to get ready, and in a few minutes she
and her husband, Capt. Drummond and the doctor, were seated in the
carriage and on their way to Mrs. Benoit's cottage. Capt. Drummond told
how the accident happened; after that he was silent; and so were the
rest of the party, till the carriage stopped.

Mrs. Benoit's cottage looked oddly, when all these grand people poured
into it. But the mistress of the cottage never looked more like herself,
and her reception of the grand people was as simple as that she had
given to Daisy. Little Daisy herself lay just where her friend the
Captain had left her, but looked with curious expression at the others
who entered with him now. The father and mother advanced to the head of
the couch; the Captain and Juanita stood at the foot. The doctor kept
himself a little back.

"Are you suffering, Daisy?" Mr. Randolph asked.

The child's eyes went up to him. "Papa--yes!"

She had begun quietly, but the last word was given with more than quiet
expression, and the muscles about her lips quivered. Mr. Randolph
stooped and pressed his own lips upon them.

"I have brought Dr. Sandford to look at your foot, Daisy. He will see
what it wants."

"Will he hurt me, papa?" said the child apprehensively.

"I hope not. No more than is necessary."

"It hurts to have anybody touch it, papa."

"He must touch it, Daisy. Can't you bear it bravely?"

"Wait, papa!"--

And again the child clasped her two hands over her face and was still.
Mr. Randolph had no idea what for, though he humoured her and waited.
The Captain knew, for he had seen more of Daisy that day, and he looked
very grave indeed. The black woman knew, for as Daisy's hands fell from
her face, she uttered a deep, soft "Amen!" which no one understood but
one little heart.

"Papa--I am ready. He may look now."

Juanita removed the covering from the foot, and the doctor stepped
forward. Daisy's eyes rested on him, and she saw gratefully a remarkably
fine and pleasant countenance. Mrs. Randolph's eyes rested on the foot,
and she uttered an exclamation. It was the first word she had uttered.
Everybody else was still, while the doctor passed his hands over and
round the distressed ankle and foot, but tenderly, and in a way that
gave Daisy very little pain. Then he stepped back and beckoned Juanita
to a consultation. Juanita disappeared, and Dr. Sandford came up to Mr.
Randolph and spoke in a low tone. Then Mr. Randolph turned again to
Daisy.

"What is it, papa?" asked the child.

"Daisy, to make your foot well, Dr. Sandford will be obliged to do
something that will hurt you a little--will you try and bear it? He will
not be long about it."

"What is the matter with my foot, papa?"

"Something that the doctor can set right in a few minutes--if you will
try and bear a little pain."

A little pain! And Daisy was suffering so much all the while! Again her
lip trembled.

"Must he touch me, papa?"

"He must touch you."

Daisy's hands were clasped to her face again for a minute; after that
she lay quite still and quiet. Mr. Randolph kept his post, hardly taking
his eye off her; Mrs. Randolph sat down where she had stood; behind the
head of Daisy's couch, where her little daughter could not see her; and
all the party indulged in silence. At length the doctor was ready and
came to the foot, attended by Juanita; and Mr. Randolph took one of
Daisy's hands in his own. With the other the child covered her eyes, and
so lay, perfectly still, while the doctor set the ankle bone which had
been broken. As the foot also itself had been very much hurt, the
handling of necessity gave a great deal of pain, more than the mere
setting of the broken bone would have caused. Mr. Randolph could feel
every now and then the convulsive closing of Daisy's hand upon his;
other than that she gave no sign of what she was suffering. One sign of
what another person was feeling, was given as Dr. Sandford bound up the
foot and finished his work. It was given in Juanita's deep breathed
"Thank the Lord!" The doctor glanced up at her with a slight smile of
curiosity. Capt. Drummond would have said "Amen," if the word had not
been so unaccustomed to his mouth.

Mrs. Randolph rose then, and inquired of the doctor what would be the
best means of removing Daisy?

"She must not be moved," the doctor said.

"Not to-night?"

"No, madam; nor to-morrow, nor for many days."

"Must she be left here?"

"If she were out in the weather, I would move her," said the doctor;
"not if she were under a barn that would shed the rain."

"What harm would it do?"

The doctor could not take it upon him to say.

"But I cannot be with her here," said Mrs. Randolph; "nor anybody else,
that I can see."

"Juanita will take care of her," said the doctor. "Juanita is worth an
army of nurses. Miss Daisy cannot be better cared for than she will be."

"Will you undertake the charge?" said Mrs. Randolph, facing round upon
Daisy's hostess.

"The Lord has given it to me, madam,--and I love to do my Lord's work,"
was Juanita's answer. She could not have given a better one, if it had
been meant to act as a shot, to drive Mrs. Randolph out of the house.
The lady waited but till the doctor had finished his directions which he
was giving to the black woman.

"I don't see," then she said to her husband, "that there is anything to
be gained by my remaining here any longer; and if we are to go, the
sooner we go the better, so that Daisy may be quiet. Dr. Sandford says
that is the best thing for her."

"Capt. Drummond will see you home," said her husband. "I shall stay."

"You can't do anything, in this box of a place."

"Unless the child herself desires it, there is no occasion for your
remaining here over night," said the doctor. "She will be best in quiet,
and sleep, if she can. You might hinder, if your presence did not help
her to this."

"What do you say, Daisy?" said her father tenderly, bending over
her;--"shall I stay or go? Which do you wish?"

"Papa, you would not be comfortable here. I am not afraid."

"Do you want me to go?" said her father, putting his face down to hers.
Daisy clasped her two arms round his neck and kissed him and held him
while she whispered,

"No, papa, but maybe you had better. There is no place for you, and I am
not afraid."

He kissed her silently and repeatedly, and then rose up and went to look
at the storm. It had ceased; the moon was struggling out between great
masses of cloud driving over the face of the sky. Mrs. Randolph stood
ready to go, putting on her "capuche" which she had thrown off, and
Juanita laying her shawl round her shoulders. The doctor stood waiting
to hand her to the carriage. The Captain watched Daisy, whose eye was
wistfully fixed on her mother. He watched, and wondered at its very
grave, soft expression. There was very little affection in the Captain's
mind at that moment towards Mrs. Randolph.

The carriage was ready, and the lady turned round to give a parting look
at the child. A cold look it was, but Daisy's soft eye never changed.

"Mamma," said she whisperingly, "won't you kiss me?"

Mrs. Randolph stooped instantly and gave the kiss; it could not be
refused, and was fully given; but then she immediately took Doctor
Sandford's arm and went out of the house. The Captain reverently bent
over Daisy's little hand, and followed her.

The drive was a very silent one till Dr. Sandford was left at his own
door. So soon as the carriage turned again, Mrs. Randolph broke out.

"How long did he say, Mr. Randolph, the child must be left at that
woman's cottage?"

"He said she must not be moved for weeks."

"She might as well stay forever," said Mrs. Randolph,--"for the effect
it will have. It will take a year to get Daisy back to where she was! I
wish fanatics would confine their efforts to children that have no one
else to care for them."

"What sort of fanaticism has been at work here, Mrs. Randolph?" the
Captain enquired.

"The usual kind, of course; religious fanaticism. It seems to be
catching."

"I have been in dangerous circumstances to day, then," said the Captain.
"I am afraid I have caught it. I feel as if something was the matter
with me."

"It will not improve you," said Mrs. Randolph drily.

"How has it wrought with Daisy?"

"Changed the child so that I do not recognize her. She never set up her
own will before; and now she is as difficult to deal with as possible.
She is an impersonation of obstinacy."

"Perhaps, after all, she is only following orders," said the Captain
with daring coolness. "A soldier's duty makes him terribly obstinate
sometimes. You must excuse me,--but you see I cannot help appreciating
military qualities."

"Will you be good enough to say what you mean?" the lady asked with
sufficient displeasure of manner.

"Only, that I believe in my soul Daisy takes her orders from higher
authority than we do. And I have seen to-day--I declare! I have seen a
style of obedience and soldierly following, that would win any sort of a
field--ay, and die in it!" added the Captain musingly. "It is the sort
of thing that gets promotion from the ranks."

"How did all this happen to-day?" asked Mr. Randolph, as the lady was
now silent. "I have heard only a bit of it."

In answer to which, Capt. Drummond went into the details of the whole
day's experience; told it point by point, and bit by bit; having a
benevolent willingness that Daisy's father and mother should know, if
they would, with what sort of a spirit they were dealing. He told the
whole story; and nobody interrupted him.

"It is one thing," said the Captain thoughtfully as he concluded,--"it
is one thing to kneel very devoutly and say after the minister, 'Lord,
have mercy upon us, and write all these laws in our hearts;'--I have
done that myself; but it gives one an entirely different feeling to see
some one in whose heart they are written!"

"There is only one thing left for you, Capt. Drummond," said Mrs.
Randolph slightly; "to quit the army and take orders."

"I am afraid, if I did, you would never want to see me settled in Mr.
Pyne's little church over here," the Captain answered, as he helped the
lady to alight at her own door.

"Not till Daisy is safely married," said Mrs. Randolph laughing.




CHAPTER XVI.


Till the sound of the carriage wheels had died away in the distance,
Juanita stood at the door looking after them; although the trees and the
darkness prevented her seeing anything along the road further than a few
yards. When the rustle of the breeze among the branches was the only
thing left to hear, beside the dripping of the rain drops shaken from
the leaves, Juanita shut the door and came to Daisy. The child was lying
white and still, with her eyes closed. Very white and thin the little
face looked, indeed; and under each eyelid lay a tear glistening, that
had forced its way so far into notice. Juanita said not a word just
then; she bustled about and made herself busy. Not that Juanita's busy
ways were ever bustling in reality; she was too good a nurse for that;
but she had several things to do. The first was to put up a screen at
the foot of Daisy's couch. She lay just a few feet from the door, and
everybody coming to the door and having it opened, could look in if he
pleased; and so Daisy would have no privacy at all. That would not do;
Juanita's wits went to work to mend the matter. Her little house had
been never intended for more than one person. There was another room in
it, to be sure, where Mrs. Benoit's own bed was; so that Daisy could
have the use and possession of this outer room all to herself.

Juanita went about her business too noiselessly to induce even those
closed eyelids to open. She fetched a tolerably large clothes-horse from
somewhere--some shed or out-building; this she set at the foot of the
couch, and hung an old large green moreen curtain over it. Where the
curtain came from, one of Mrs. Benoit's great locked chests knew; there
were two or three such chests in the inner room, with more treasures
than a green moreen curtain stowed away in them. The curtain was too
large for the clothes-horse to hold up; it lay over the floor. Juanita
got screws and cords; fixed one screw in the wall, another in the
ceiling, and at last succeeded in stretching the curtain neatly on the
cords and the clothes-horse, where she wanted it to hang. That was done;
and Daisy's couch was quite sheltered from any eyes coming to the door
that had no business to come further. When it was finished, and the
screws and cords put away, Juanita came to Daisy's side. The eyes were
open now.

"That is nice," said Daisy.

"It'll keep you by yourself, my little lady. Now what will she have?"

"Nothing--only I am thirsty," said Daisy.

Juanita went to the well for some cold water, and mixed with it a
spoonful of currant jelly. It was refreshing to the poor little dry
lips.

"What will my love have next?"

"I don't know," said Daisy--"my foot aches a good deal, and all my leg.
I think--Juanita--I would like it if you would read to me."

Juanita took a somewhat careful survey of her, felt her hands, and
finally got the book.

"Is there too much air for my love from that window?"

"No, it is nice," said Daisy. "I can see the stars so beautifully, with
the clouds driving over the sky. Every now and then they get between me
and the stars--and then the stars look out again so bright. They seem
almost right over me. Please read, Juanita."

Mrs. Benoit did not consider that it made much difference to Daisy where
she read; so she took the chapter that came next in the course of her
own going through the New Testament. It was the eighth chapter of Mark.
She read very pleasantly; not like a common person; and with a slight
French accent. Her voice was always sweet, and the words came through it
as loved words. It was very pleasant to Daisy to hear her; the long
chapter was not interrupted by any remark. But when Mrs. Benoit paused
at the end of it, Daisy said,

"How can anybody be ashamed of him, Juanita?"

The last verse of the chapter has these words--

"Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me, and of my words, in this
adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be
ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy
angels."

"How can anybody be ashamed of him, Juanita?"

"They not see the glory of the Lord, my lady."

"But we do not see it yet."

"My love will see it. Juanita has seen it. This little house be all full
of glory sometimes, when Jesus is here."

"But that is because you love him, Juanita."

"Praise the Lord!" echoed the black woman. "He do shew his glory to his
people, before he come with the holy angels."

"I don't see how anybody can be ashamed of him," Daisy repeated,
uttering the words as if they contained a simple impossibility.

"My little lady not know the big world yet. There be ways, that the Lord
know and that the people not know."

"What do you mean, Juanita?"

"My lady will find it," said the black woman folding her arms. "When all
the world go one way, then folks not like to go another way and be
looked at; they be ashamed of Christ's words then, and they only think
they do not want to be looked at."

A colour came all over Daisy's face--a suffusion of colour; and tears
swam in her eyes.

"I didn't like to be looked at, the other night!" she said, in a
self-accusing tone.

"Did my love turn and go with the world?"

"No, I didn't do that."

"Then Jesus won't turn away neither," said the black woman.

"But I ought not to have felt so, Juanita."

"Maybe. My love is a little child. The good Lord shall 'stablish her and
keep her from evil. Now she must not talk no more, but trust the Lord,
and go to sleep."

"I can't sleep, Juanita--my leg aches so."

"That will be better. Is my love thirsty again?"

"Very thirsty! I wish I had some oranges."

"They would be good," said Juanita, bringing another glass of jelly and
water for Daisy. And then she sat down and sang softly; hymns in French
and English; sweet and low, and soothing in their simple and sometimes
wild melody. They soothed Daisy. After a time, wearied and exhausted by
all her long day of trial, she did forget pain in slumber. The eyelids
closed, and Juanita's stealthy examination found that quiet soft
breathing was really proving her fast asleep. The singing ceased; and
for a while nothing was to be heard in the cottage but the low rush and
rustle of the wind which had driven away the storm clouds, and the
patter of a dislodged rain drop or two that were shaken from the leaves.
Daisy's breathing was too soft to be heard, and Juanita almost held her
own lest it should be too soon disturbed. But the pain of the hurt foot
and ankle would not suffer a long sleep. Daisy waked up with a sigh.

"Are you there, Juanita?"

"I am here."

"What o'clock is it?"

Juanita drew back the curtain of the window by Daisy's couch, that the
moonlight might fall in and shew the face of the little clock. It was
midnight.

"It won't be morning in a great while, will it?" said Daisy.

"Does my lady want morning?"

"My foot hurts me dreadfully, Juanita--the pain shoots and jumps all up
my leg. Couldn't you do something to it?"

"My dear love, it will be better by and by--there is no help now for it,
unless the Lord sends sleep. I s'pose it must ache. Can't Miss Daisy
remember who sends the pain?"

The child answered her with a curious smile. It was not strange to the
black woman; she read it and knew it and had seen such before; to
anybody that had not, how strange would have seemed the lovingness that
spread over all Daisy's features and brightened on her brow as much as
on her lips. It was not patient submission; it was the light of joyful
affection shining out over all Daisy's little pale face.

"Ay, it isn't hard with Jesus," said the black woman with a satisfied
face. "And the Lord is here now,--praise his name!"

"Juanita--I have been very happy to-day," said Daisy.

"Ay? how has that been, my love?"

"Because I knew he was taking care of me. It seemed that Jesus was so
near me all the time. Even all that dreadful ride."

"The Lord is good!" said the black woman with strong expression. "But my
love must not talk."

She began to sing again.

  "O what shall I do, my Saviour to praise!
   So faithful and true, so plenteous in grace.
   So good to deliver, so strong to redeem
   The weakest believer that hangs upon him."

"O that's good, Juanita!" said Daisy. "Hush!--Juanita, it is very late
for anybody to be out riding!"

"Who is out riding, Miss Daisy?"

"I don't know--I hear a horse's feet. Don't you hear?--there!"

"It's some young gentleman, maybe, going home, from a dinner-party."

"Don't draw the curtain, Juanita, please! I like it so, I can look out.
The moonlight is nice. Somebody is very late, going home from a dinner
party."

"They often be. Miss Daisy, the moonlight will hinder you sleeping, I am
afraid."

"I can't sleep. It's so good to look out! Juanita--there's that horse's
feet, stopping just here."

Juanita went to her door, and perceived that Daisy spoke truth. Somebody
down at her little wicket had dismounted and was fastening his horse to
the fence. Then a figure came up the walk in the moonlight.

"Juanita!" cried Daisy with an accent of joy, though she could not see
the figure from where she lay,--"it's papa!"

"Is she asleep?" said the voice of Mr. Randolph the next minute softly.

"No, sir. She knows it's you, sir. Will his honour walk in?"

Mr. Randolph with a gentle footfall came in and stood by the side of the
couch.

"Daisy--my poor little Daisy!"--he said.

"Papa!--"

This one word was rich in expression; joy and love so filled it. Daisy
added nothing more. She put her arms round her father's neck as he
stooped his lips to her face, held him fast and returned his kisses.

"Cannot you sleep?" The question was very tenderly put.

"I did sleep, papa."

"I did not wake you?"

"No, papa. I was awake, looking at the moonlight."

"Pain would not let you sleep, my poor darling?"

The sympathy was a little too trying. Tears started to the child's eyes.
She said with a most gentle, loving accent, "I don't mind, papa. It will
be better by and by. I am very happy."

An indignant question as to the happiness which had been so rudely
shaken, was on Mr. Randolph's lips. He remembered Daisy must not be
excited; nevertheless he wondered, for he saw the child's eyes full, and
knew that the brow was drawn with pain; and the poor little thin face
was as white as a sheet. What did she mean by talking about being happy?

"Daisy, I have brought you some oranges."

"Thank you, papa!--May I have one now?"

Silently and almost sternly Mr. Randolph stood and pared the orange with
a fruit knife--he had thought to bring that too--and fed Daisy with it,
bit by bit. It was pleasant and novel to Daisy to have her father serve
her so; generally others had done it when there had been occasion. Mr.
Randolph did it nicely, while his thoughts worked.

"What are you going to do to-night, papa?" she said when the orange was
finished and he stood looking at her.

"Stay here with you."

"But papa, how can you sleep?"

"I can do without sleeping, if it is necessary. I will take a chair here
in the doorway, and be near if you want anything."

"O shall not want anything, papa, except what Juanita can give me."

He stood still watching her. Daisy looked up at him with a loving face;
a wise little face it always was; it was gravely considerate now.

"Papa, I am afraid you will be uncomfortable."

"Can nobody bear that but you?" said Mr. Randolph, stooping down to kiss
her.

"I am very happy, papa," said the child placidly; while a slight tension
of her forehead witnessed to the shooting pains with which the whole
wounded limb seemed to be filled.

"If Mr. Randolph pleases--" said the voice of Juanita,--"the doctor
recommended quiet, sir."

Off went Mr. Randolph at that, as if he knew it very well and had
forgotten himself. He took a chair and set it in the open doorway, using
the door-post as a rest for his head; and then the cottage was silent.
The wind breathed more gently; the stars shone out; the air was soft
after the storm; the moonlight made a bright flicker of light and shade
over all the outer world. Now and then a grasshopper chirruped, or a
little bird murmured a few twittering notes at being disturbed in its
sleep; and then came a soft sigh from Daisy.

On noiseless foot the black woman stole to the couch. Daisy was weeping;
her tears were pouring out and making a great wet spot on her pillow.

"Is my love in pain?" whispered the black woman.

"It's nothing--I can't help it," said Daisy.

"Where is it--in the foot?"

"It's all over, I think; in my head and everywhere. Hush, Juanita; never
mind."

Mrs. Benoit, however, tried the soothing effect of a long gentle
brushing of Daisy's head. This lasted till Daisy said she could bear it
no longer. She was restless.

"Will my love hear a hymn?"

"It will wake papa."

Mrs. Benoit cared nothing for that. Her care was her poor little charge.
She began immediately one of the hymns that were always ready on her
tongue, and which were wonderfully soothing to Daisy. Juanita was old,
