did not like the surroundings, even independent of the villainous odors
that rose from the groggery, and those that were engendered in the
apartment where he sat. Slush and tar were agreeable perfumes, compared
with those which assaulted his sense in this chamber; and he hoped Mrs.
Barron would humiliate her pride to an extent which would permit him to
make a speedy exit from the house.

Mrs. Barron, however, appeared not to be in a hurry, and Somers waited
ten minutes by his watch, which seemed to expand into a full hour before
he heard a sound to disturb the monotony of the chamber's quiet. But
when it was disturbed, it was in such a manner that he forgot all about
the place and the odors, the hour and the occasion, and even the poor
sailor, who had so piteously appealed to him for assistance.

In the rear of the room in which Somers sat, there was a door
communicating with another apartment. The house was old and out of
repair; and this door, never very nicely adjusted, was now warped and
thrown out of place, so that great cracks yawned around the edges, and
whatever was said or done in one room, of which any knowledge could be
obtained by the sense of hearing, was immediately patent to the
occupants of the other. Somers heard footsteps in the rear room, though
the parties appeared not to have come up the stairs by which he had
ascended. The rattling of chairs and of glass ware next saluted his
ears; but as yet Somers had not the slightest interest in the business
of the adjoining apartment, and only wished that Mrs. Barron would
speedily complete the preparations for his reception.

"It's dangerous business," said one of the men in the rear room; which
remark followed a smack of the lips, and a rude depositing of the glass
on the table, indicating that the speaker had just swallowed his dram.

The man uttered his remark in a loud tone, exhibiting a strange
carelessness, if the matter in hand was as dangerous as the words
implied.

"I know it is dangerous, Langdon," said another person, in a voice which
instantly riveted the attention of the listener.

Somers heard the voice. It startled him, and he had no eye, ear, or
thought for anything but the individual who had last spoken. If he had
considered his position at all, it would only have been to wish that
Mrs. Barron might be as proud as a Chestnut Street belle, in order to
afford him time to inform himself in relation to the business of the men
who occupied the other room.

"You have been shut up in Fort Lafayette once," added the first speaker.

"In a good cause I am willing to go again," replied the voice so
familiar to the ears of Somers. "I lost eighty thousand dollars in a
venture just like this. I must get my money back."

"If you can, Coles."

Coles! But Somers did not need to have his identity confirmed by the use
of his name. He knew Coles's voice. At Newport he had lain in the
fore-sheets of the academy boat, and heard Coles and Phil Kennedy mature
their plan to place the Snowden on the ocean, as a Confederate cruiser.
He had listened to the whole conversation on that occasion, and the
knowledge he had thus obtained enabled the government to capture the
steamer, and defeat the intentions of the conspirators.

The last Somers had known of Coles, he was a prisoner in Fort Lafayette.
Probably he had been released by the same influence which set Phil
Kennedy at liberty, and permitted him to continue his career of treason
and plunder. Coles had lost eighty thousand dollars by his speculation
in the Snowden, for one half of which Kennedy was holden to him; but the
bond had been effectually cancelled by the death of the principal. Coles
wanted his money back. It was a very natural desire; but Somers could
not help considering it as a very extravagant one, under present
circumstances.

The listener could not help regarding it as a most remarkable thing,
that he should again be within hearing of Coles, engaged in plotting
treason. Such an event might happen once; but that it should occur a
second time was absolutely marvellous. If our readers are of the opinion
that the writer is too severely taxing their credulity in imposing the
situation just described upon them, he begs they will suspend their
judgment till the sequel justifies him.

It was so strange to Somers, that he could not help thinking he had been
brought there by some mysterious power to listen to and defeat the
intentions of the conspirators. He was not so far wrong as he might have
been. It was Coles who spoke; it was Coles who had been in Fort
Lafayette; and it was Coles who had lost eighty thousand dollars by the
Snowden. All these things were real, and Somers had no suspicion that he
had inhaled some of the vile compounds in the bar below, which might
have thrown him into a stupor wherein he dreamed the astounding
situation in which he was actually placed.

Somers listened, and when Coles had mixed and drank his dram, he spoke
again.

"I can and will get my money back," said he, with an oath which froze
the blood of the listener.

"Don't believe it, Coles."

"You know me, Langdon," added the plotter, with a peculiar emphasis.

Langdon acknowledged that he did know him; and as there was, therefore,
no need of an introduction, Coles proceeded.

"You know me, Langdon; I don't make any mistakes myself."

Perhaps Langdon knew it; but Somers had some doubts, which, however, he
did not purpose to urge on this occasion.

"Phil Kennedy was a fool," added Coles, with another oath. "He spoiled
all my plans before, and I was glad when I heard that he was killed,
though I lost forty thousand dollars when he slipped out. He spilt the
milk for me."

Somers thought not.

"Phil was smart about some things; but he couldn't keep a hotel. Why,
that young pup that finally gave him his quietus, twirled him around his
fingers, like he had been a school girl."

"Thank you, Mr. Coles; but I shall have the pleasure of serving you in
the same way before many weeks," thought Somers, flattered by this warm
and disinterested tribute to his strategetic ability.

"You mean Somers?" said Langdon.

"I mean Somers. The young pup isn't twenty-one yet, but he is the
smartest man in the old navy, by all odds, whether the others be
admirals, commodores, lieutenants, or what not."

"That's high praise, Coles."

"It's true. If he wasn't an imfernal Yankee, I would drink his health in
this old Bourbon. Good liquor--isn't it, Langdon?"

"Like the juice of a diamond."

"I would give more for this Somers than I would for any four rear
admirals. He has just been appointed to the Chatauqua; but he will be in
command of some small craft down South, before many months, doing more
mischief to us than any four first-class steamers in the service. He is
as brave as a young lion; knows a ship from keel to truck, and is as
familiar with every bolt and pin of an engine as though he had been a
machinist all his life."

"Big thing, eh, Coles?"

"If I had this Somers, I could make his fortune and mine in a year, and
have a million surplus besides."

"What would you do with him?"

"I would give him the command of my steamer. I would rather have him in
that place than all the old grannies in the Confederate navy."

Somers thought Mr. Coles was rather extravagant. He had no idea that Mr.
Ensign Somers was one tenth part of the man which the amiable and
patronizing Mr. Coles declared he was; and he was impatient to have the
speaker announce his intentions, rather than waste any more time in such
unwarrantable commendation.

But instead of telling what he intended to do, he confined himself most
provokingly to what he had failed to do, giving Langdon minute details
of the capture of the Theban and the Snowden, dwelling with peculiar
emphasis on the agency of Somers in the work. This was not interesting
to the listener, but something better soon followed.




CHAPTER IV.

THE FRONT CHAMBER.


"But I am going to get back the money I lost, and make a pile besides,"
said Coles, when he had fully detailed the events attending the loss of
the Snowden.

"If you can," added the sceptical Langdon.

"Of course there is some risk, but my plans are so well laid that a
failure is hardly possible," continued Coles.

"It was possible before."

"Nothing but an accident could have defeated my plan before. Everything
worked to my satisfaction, and I was sure of success."

"But you failed."

"I shall not fail again."

"I hope not."

"Then believe I shall not," retorted Coles, apparently irritated by the
doubts and fears of his companion.

"It is not safe to believe too much," added Langdon, with a kind of
chuckle, whose force Somers could hardly understand; "you believed too
much before."

"I have been more cautious this time, and I wouldn't give anybody five
per cent. to insure the venture."

Somers was becoming very impatient to hear the particulars of the plan,
for he was in momentary fear of being summoned to the bedside of the
wounded sailor. Coles was most provokingly deliberate in the discussion
of his treasonable project; but when the naval officer considered that
the conversation was not especially intended for him, he did not very
severely censure the conspirators for their tardiness.

"I don't understand what your plan is," said Langdon.

"Nor I either," was Somers's facetious thought.

"I will tell you all about it. Are there any ears within hail of us?"

"Not an ear."

"Is there anybody in the front room?"

"No."

"Are you sure?"

"The old woman told me the front room was not occupied. She sent in
there an officer who wanted to see a sick sailor upstairs; but he is
gone before this time."

"Perhaps not; make sure on this point before I open my mouth. I have no
idea of being tripped up this time," said the cautious Coles.

"I will look into the front room," added Langdon, "though I know there
is no one there."

Somers was rather annoyed at this demonstration of prudence; but it was
quite natural, and he was all the more interested to hear the rest of
the conference. Dismissing for a moment the dignity of the quarter deck,
he dropped hastily on the floor, and crawled under the bed, concluding
that Langdon, who was already fully satisfied the front room was empty,
would not push his investigations to an unreasonable extent. But he had
already prepared himself for the worst, and if his presence were
detected, he resolved to take advantage of the high estimation in which
he was held, and, for his country's good, proposed to offer his valuable
services in getting the piratical ship to sea. He could thus obtain the
secret, and defeat the purposes of the conspirators.

He fortunately avoided the necessity of resorting to this disagreeable
course, for Langdon only opened the door, and glanced into the chamber
he occupied.

"The room is empty," he reported to Coles, on his return.

"There are cracks around this door big enough to crawl through. Somebody
may go into that room without being heard, and listen to all I say."

"There is no danger."

"But there is danger; and I will not leave the ghost of a chance to be
discovered. Langdon, lock that front room, and put the key in your
pocket. I must have things perfectly secure before I open my mouth."

Langdon complied with the request of his principal; the door was locked,
and Somers, without much doubt or distrust, found his retreat cut off
for the present. But, at last, everything was fixed to the entire
satisfaction of Coles. The glasses clinked again, indicating that the
worthies had fortified themselves with another dose from the bottle.
Somers crawled out from under the bed, and heedless of the dust which
whitened his new uniform, placed himself in a comfortable position,
where he could hear all that was said by the confederates.

Coles now told his story in a straightforward, direct manner, and Somers
made memoranda on the back of a letter of the principal facts in the
statement. The arch conspirator had just purchased a fine iron
side-wheel steamer, captured on the blockade, called the Ben Nevis. She
was about four hundred tons burden, and under favorable circumstances
had often made sixteen knots an hour. It had already been announced in
the newspapers that the Ben Nevis would run regularly between New York
and St. John. Coles intended to clear her properly for her destined
port, where she could, by an arrangement already made, be supplied with
guns, ammunition, and a crew. She was to clear regularly for New York,
but instead of proceeding there was to commence her piratical course on
the ocean.

This was the plan of the worthy Mr. Coles, which Langdon permitted him
to develop without a single interruption. But the prudent, or rather
critical, confederate raised many objections, which were discussed at
great length--so great that Somers, possessed of the principal facts,
would have left the room, if the door had not been locked, and escaped
from the house, so as to avoid the possibility of being discovered. The
wounded sailor could be attended to on the following day.

"But one thing we lack," continued Coles, after he had removed all the
objections of his companion.

"More than one, I fear," said the doubtful Langdon.

"Well, one thing more than all others."

"What is that?"

"A naval officer to command her."

"There are plenty of them."

"No doubt of it; but they are not the kind I want. I need a man who will
play into my hand, as well as grind up the Yankees. I have no idea of
burning all the property captured by my vessel."

"Why don't you take command yourself?"

"I have other business to do."

"There are scores of Confederate naval officers in Canada and New
Brunswick," suggested Langdon.

"I know them all, and I wouldn't trust them to command a mud-scow. In a
word, Langdon, I want this Somers, and I must have him."

"But he is a northern Yankee. He would sooner cut his own throat than
engage in such an enterprise."

"Thank you for that," said Somers to himself. "If you had known me all
my lifetime, you couldn't have said a better or a truer thing of me."

"I know he is actually reeking with what he calls loyalty. He will be a
hard subject, but I think he can be brought over."

"Perhaps he can."

"It must be done; that is the view we must take of the matter."

"It will be easier to believe it than to do it."

"This is to be your share of the enterprise."

"Mine?"

"Yes."

"Well, I think you have given me the biggest job in the work."

"It can be done," said Coles, confidently. "Somers is a mere boy in
years, though he is smarter and knows more than any man in the navy in
the prime of life."

"I'm afraid he is too smart, and knows too much to be caught in such a
scrape."

"No; he is young and ambitious. Offer him a commission as a commander in
the Confederate navy, to begin with. I have the commission duly signed
by the president of the Confederacy, countersigned by the secretary of
the navy, with a blank for the name of the man who receives it, which I
am authorized to fill up as I think best. Somers must have this
commission."

"If he will take it."

"He will take it. In the old navy he is nothing but a paltry ensign. He
has been kept back. His merit has been ignored. He must stand out of the
way for numskulls and old fogies. Even if the war should last ten years
longer, he could not reach the rank, in that time, which I now tender
him. He will at once be offered the command of a fine steamer, and may
walk the quarter deck like a king. He is ambitious, and if you approach
him in the right way, you can win him over."

Somers listened with interest to this precious scheme. He did not even
feel complimented by the exalted opinion which such a man as Coles
entertained of him. It would be a pleasant thing for a young man like
him to be a commander, and have a fine steamer; but as he could regard
only with horror the idea of firing a gun at a vessel bearing the stars
and stripes, he was not even tempted by the bait; and he turned his
thoughts from it without the necessity of a "Get thee behind me, Satan,"
in dismissing it.

"Where is this Somers?" asked Langdon.

"He is at the Continental," replied Coles. "He has been appointed fourth
lieutenant of the Chatauqua; but what a position for a man of his
abilities! He is better qualified to command the ship than the numskull
to whom she has been given. Waldron, the first lieutenant, is smart: he
ought to be commander; though I think Somers did all the hard work in
Doboy Sound, for which Waldron got the credit, and for which he was
promoted. Pillgrim, the second lieutenant, is a renegade Virginian."

"We had some hopes of him, at one time," said Langdon.

"He is worse than a Vermont Yankee now--has been all along, for that
matter. I tried to do something with him, but he talked about the old
flag, and other bosh of that sort."

"Let him go," added Langdon, with becoming resignation.

"Let him go! He never went. He has always been a Yankee at heart. If the
navy department wouldn't trust him, it was their fault, not his, for the
South has not had a worse enemy than he since the first gun was fired at
Sumter. He is none the better, and all the more dangerous to us, because
he gives the South credit for skill and bravery."

Somers was pleased to hear this good account of Lieutenant Pillgrim; not
because he had any doubt in regard to his loyalty, but because it
confirmed the good impression he had received of his travelling
companion. If the conspirators would only have graciously condescended
to resolve the doubts in his mind in regard to some indefinite previous
acquaintance he had had with the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua, he
would have been greatly obliged to them. They did not do this, and
Somers was still annoyed and puzzled by the belief, patent to his
consciousness, that he had somewhere been intimate with the "renegade
Virginian," before they met at the house of Commodore Portington.

"Now, Langdon, you must contrive to meet Somers, sound him, and bring
him over. You must be cautious with him. He is a young man of good
morals--never drinks, gambles, or goes to bad places. He is a perfect
gentleman in his manners, never swears, and is the pet of the
chaplains."

"I think I can manage him."

"I know you can; I have picked you out of a hundred smart fellows for
this work."

"How will it do for me to put on a white choker, and approach him as a
doctor of divinity."

"You can't humbug him."

"If I can't, why should I try?"

"If you should pretend to be a clergyman, and he smelt the whiskey in
your breath, he would set you down as a hypocrite at once."

"That's so," thought Somers.

"He wouldn't listen to a preacher who drank whiskey. He is a fanatic on
these points."

Somers could not imagine where Coles had obtained such an intimate
knowledge of his views and principles; though, if he wanted his services
in the Confederate navy, it was probable he had made diligent inquiries
in regard to his opinions and habits.

"I think I could blind him as a D.D., but I am not strenuous."

"You had better get acquainted with him in some other capacity."

"As you please; I will think over the matter, and be ready to make a
strike to-morrow morning. What time is it?"

"Quarter past ten."

"So late! I must be off at once."

Somers heard the clatter of glass-ware again, as the conspirators took
the parting libation. He listened to their retreating footsteps, heard
Langdon return the key, and then began to wonder what had become of Tom
Barron and his mother. He had waited more than two hours in the front
room, and no summons had come for him to see the wounded sailor. It was
very singular, to say the least; but while he was deliberating on the
point, a hand was placed on the door of the chamber. The key turned, and
a person entered.

Now, Somers had a very strong objection to being seen after what had
occurred. If discovered in this room, Coles might see him, and finding
his plans discovered, might change them so as to defeat the ends of
justice. And the listener felt that, if detected in this apartment by
the conspirators, they would not scruple to take his life in order to
save themselves and their schemes.

For these reasons Somers decided not to be seen. The person who entered
the room was a rough, seafaring man, and evidently intended to sleep
there, which Somers was entirely willing he should do, if it could be
done without imperilling his personal safety. He therefore crawled under
the bed again, as quietly as possible. Unfortunately it was not quietly
enough to escape the observation of the lodger, who, not being of the
timid sort, seized him by the leg, dragged him out, and with a volley of
marine oaths, began to kick him with his heavy boot.

Somers sprang to his feet, and attempted to explain; but the indignant
seaman struck him a heavy blow on the head, which felled him senseless
on the floor.




CHAPTER V.

SOMERS COMES TO HIS SENSES.


When Somers opened his eyes, about half an hour after the striking event
just narrated, and became conscious that he was still in the land of the
living, he was lying on the bed in his chamber at the Continental. By
his side stood Lieutenant Pillgrim and a surgeon.

"Where am I?" asked the young officer, using the original expression
made and provided for occasions of this kind.

"You are here, my dear fellow," replied the lieutenant.

This valuable information seemed to afford the injured party a great
deal of consolation, for he looked around the apartment, not wildly, as
he would have done if this book were a novel, but with a look of
perplexity and dissatisfaction. As Mr. Ensign Somers was eminently a
fighting man on all proper occasions, he probably felt displeased with
himself to think he had given the stalwart seaman so easy a victory; for
he distinctly remembered the affair in which he had been so rudely
treated, though there was a great gulf between the past and the present
in his recollection.

"How do you feel, Mr. Somers?" asked the surgeon.

"The fact that I feel at all is quite enough for me at the present time,
without going into the question as to how I feel," replied the patient,
with a sickly smile. "I don't exactly know how I do feel. My ideas are
rather confused."

"I should think they might be," added the surgeon. "You have had a hard
rap on the head."

"So I should judge, for my brain is rather muddled."

"Does your head pain you?" asked the medical gentleman, placing his hand
on the injured part.

"It does not exactly pain me, but it feels rather sore. I think I will
get up, and see how that affects me."

Somers got up, and immediately came to the conclusion that he was not
very badly damaged; and the surgeon was happy to corroborate his
opinion. With the exception of a soreness over the left temple, he felt
pretty well. The blow from the iron fist of the burly seaman had stunned
him; and the kicks received from the big boots of the assailant had
produced sundry black and blue places on his body, which a man not
accustomed to hard knocks might have looked upon with suspicion, but to
which Somers paid no attention.

The surgeon had carefully examined him before his consciousness
returned, and was fully satisfied that he had not been seriously
injured. Somers walked across the room two or three times, and bathed
his head with cold water, which in a great measure restored the
consistency of his ideas. He felt a little sore, but he soon became as
chipper and as cheerful as an early robin. His first thought was, that
he had escaped being murdered, and he was devoutly thankful to God for
the mercy which had again spared his life.

The doctor, after giving him some directions in regard to his head, and
the black and blue spots on his body, left the room. He was a naval
surgeon, a guest in the hotel, and promised to see his patient again in
the morning.

"How do you feel, Somers?" asked Lieutenant Pillgrim, who sat on the
bed, gazing with interest, not unmixed with anxiety, at his companion.

"I feel pretty well, considering the hard rap I got on the head."

"You have a hard head, Somers."

"Why so?"

"If you had not, you would have been a dead man. The fellow pounded you
with his fist, which is about as heavy as an anvil, and kicked you with
his boots, which are large enough and stout enough to make two very
respectable gunboats."

"Things are rather mixed in my mind," added Somers, rubbing his head
again, as if to explain how a strong-minded young man like himself
should be troubled in his upper works.

"I am not surprised at that. You have remained insensible more than half
an hour. I was afraid, before the surgeon saw you, that your pipe was
out, and you had become a D.D. without taking orders."

"I think I had a narrow escape. What a tiger the fellow was that pitched
into me!"

"It was all a mistake on his part."

"Perhaps it was; but that don't make my head feel any better. Who is he,
and what is he?"

"He is the captain of a coaster. He had considerable money in his
pocket, and he thought you had concealed yourself in his room for the
purpose of robbing him. When he saw that you were an officer in the
navy, he was overwhelmed with confusion, and really felt very bad about
it."

"I don't know that I blame him for what he did, under the circumstances.
His conclusion was not a very unnatural one. I don't exactly comprehend
how I happen to be in the Continental House, after these stunning
events."

"Don't you?" said Pillgrim, with a smile.

"If I had been in condition to expect anything, I should naturally have
expected to find myself, on coming to my senses, in the low groggery
where I received the blows."

"That is very easily accounted for. I happened to be at the house when
you were struck down. I was in the lower room, and heard the row. With
others I went up to see what the matter was. I had a carriage in the
street, and when I recognized you, the captain of the coaster, at my
request, took you up in his arms like a baby, carried you down into the
street, and put you into the vehicle, and you were brought here. I
presume this will fill up the entire gap in your recollection."

"It is all as clear as mud now," laughed Somers. "Mr. Pillgrim, I am
very grateful to you for the kind offices you rendered me."

"Don't mention it, my dear fellow. I should have been worse than a brute
if I had done any less than I did."

"That may be; but my gratitude is none the less earnest on that account.
Those are villainous people in that house, and I might have been
butchered and cut up, if I had been left there."

"I think not. The captain of the coaster is evidently an honest man; at
any rate he is very sorry for what he did. But, Somers, my dear
fellow,--you will pardon me if I seem impertinent,--how did you happen
to be in such a place?" continued Mr. Pillgrim, with a certain
affectation of slyness in his look, as though he had caught the
exemplary young man in a house where he would not have been willing to
be seen.

"How did you happen to be there?" demanded Somers.

"I don't profess to be a very proper person. I take my whiskey when I
want it."

"So do I; and the only difference between us is, that I never happen to
want it."

"I did not go into that house for my whiskey, though. It is rather
strange that we should both happen into such a place at the same time."

"Rather strange."

"But I will tell you why I was there," added Pillgrim. "I received a
letter from a wounded sailor, asking me to call upon him, and assist him
in obtaining a pension."

"Did you, indeed!" exclaimed Somers, amazed at this explanation. "You
have also told how I happened to be there."

"How was that?"

"I received just such a letter as that you describe," replied Somers,
taking the dirty epistle from his pocket, which he opened and exhibited
to his brother officer.

"The handwriting is the same, and the substance of both letters is
essentially the same. That's odd--isn't it?" continued the lieutenant,
as he drew the epistle he had received from his pocket. "I got mine when
I came in, about ten o'clock; and thinking I might go to New York in the
morning for a couple of days, I thought I would attend to the matter at
once."

Somers took the letters, and compared them. They were written by the
same person, on the same kind of paper, and were both mailed on the same
day.

"This looks rather suspicious to me," added Pillgrim, reflecting on the
circumstances.

"Why suspicious?"

"Why should both of us have been called? Tom Barron claims to have
served with me, as he did with you. I don't remember any such person."

"Neither do I."

"Did you find out whether there was any such person at the house as Tom
Barron?"

"The woman at the bar told me there was a wounded sailor there whose
description answered to that contained in the letter."

"So she told me. Did you see him?"

"No."

"I did not; and between you and me, I don't believe there is any Tom
Barron there, or anywhere else. This business must be investigated,"
said Pillgrim, very decidedly.

Somers did not wish it to be investigated. He was utterly opposed to an
investigation, for he was fearful, if the matter should be "ventilated,"
that more would be shown than he was willing to have exhibited at the
present time; in other words, Coles would find out that his enterprising
scheme had been exposed to a third person.

"I don't care to be mixed up in any revelations of low life, Mr.
Pillgrim; and, as I have lost nothing, and the hard knocks I received
were given under a mistake, I think I would rather let the matter rest
just where it is."

"Very natural for a young man of your style," laughed the lieutenant.
"You are afraid the people of Pinchbrook will read in the papers that
Mr. Somers has been in bad places."

"They might put a wrong construction on the case," replied Somers,
willing to have his reasons for avoiding an investigation as strong as
possible.

"I can hand these letters over to the police, and let the officers
inquire into the matter," added Pillgrim. "They need not call any
names."

"I would rather not stir up the dirty pool. Besides, Tom Barron and his
mother may be in the house, after all. There is no evidence to the
contrary."

"I shall satisfy myself on that point by another visit to the house. If
I find there is such a person there, I shall be satisfied."

"That will be the better way."

Just then it occurred to Somers that Coles might have seen him while he
was insensible, and was already aware that his scheme had miscarried. He
questioned Pillgrim, therefore, in regard to the persons in the bar-room
when he entered. From the answers received he satisfied himself that
the conspirators had departed before the "row" in the front room
occurred.

"Now, Somers, I am going down to that house again before I sleep," said
the lieutenant. "This time, I shall take my revolver. Will you go with
me?"

"I don't feel exactly able to go out again to-night. My head doesn't
feel just right," replied Somers, who, however, had other reasons for
keeping his room, the principal of which was the fear that he might meet
Coles there, and that, by some accident, his presence in the front room
during the conference might be disclosed.

"I think you are right, Somers. You had better keep still to-night,"
said Pillgrim. "Shall I send you up anything?"

"Thank you; I don't need anything."

"A glass of Bourbon whiskey would do you good. It would quiet your
nerves, and put you to sleep."

"Perhaps it would, but I shall lie awake on those terms."

"Don't be bigoted, my dear fellow. Of course I prescribe the whiskey as
a medicine."

"You are no surgeon."

"It would quiet your nerves."

"Let them kick, if nothing but whiskey will quiet them," laughed Somers.
"Seriously, Mr. Pillgrim, I am very much obliged to you for your
kindness, and for your interest in me; but I think I shall be better
without the whiskey than with it."

"As you please, Somers. If you are up when I return, I will tell you
what I find at the house."

"Thank you; I will leave my door unfastened."

Mr. Pillgrim left the room to make his perilous examination of the
locality of his friend's misfortunes. Somers walked the apartment,
nervous and excited, considering the events of the evening. He then
seated himself, and carefully wrote out the statement of Coles in regard
to the Ben Nevis, and the method by which he purposed to operate in
getting her to sea as a Confederate cruiser, with extended memoranda of
all the conversation to which he had listened. Before he had finished
this task, Lieutenant Pillgrim returned.

"It is all right," said he, as he entered the room.

"What's all right?"

"There is such a person as Thomas Barron. The facts contained in the
letters are essentially true."

"Then no investigation is necessary," replied Somers, with a feeling of
relief.

"None whatever; to-morrow I will see that the poor fellow is sent to the
hospital, and his mother provided for."

Mr. Pillgrim, after again recommending a glass of whiskey, took his
leave, and Somers finished his paper. He went to bed, and in spite of
the fact that he had drank no whiskey, his nerves were quiet, and he
dropped asleep like a good Christian, with a prayer in his heart for the
"loved ones at home" and elsewhere.

The next morning, though he was still quite sore, and his head felt
heavier than usual, he was in much better condition, physically, than
could have been expected. After breakfast, as he sat in the parlor of
the hotel, he was accosted by a gentleman in blue clothes, with a very
small cap on his head.

"An officer of the navy, I perceive," said the stranger, courteously.

"How are you, Langdon?" was the thought, but not the reply, of Somers.




CHAPTER VI.

LIEUTENANT WYNKOOP, R. N.


The gentlemanly individual who addressed Somers wore the uniform of an
English naval officer. By easy and gentle approaches, he proceeded to
make himself very agreeable. He was lavish in his praise of the
achievements of the "American navy," and was sure that no nation on the
face of the globe had ever displayed such skill and energy in creating a
war marine. Somers listened patiently to this eloquent and just tribute
to the enterprise of his country; and if he had not suspected that the
enthusiastic speaker was playing an assumed character, he would have
ventured to suggest that the position of John Bull was rather equivocal;
that a little less admiration, and a little more genuine sympathy, would
be more acceptable.

"We sailors belong to the same fraternity all over the world," said the
pretended Englishman. "There is something in sailors which draws them
together. I never meet one without desiring to know him better. Allow me
to present you my card, and beg the favor of yours in return."

He handed his card to Somers, who read upon it the name of "Lieutenant
Wynkoop, R. N." It was elaborately engraved, and our officer began to
have some doubts in regard to his new-found acquaintance, for the card
could hardly have been got up since the interview of the preceding
evening. This gentleman might not be Langdon, after all; but whether he
was or not, it was proper to treat him with respect and consideration.
Somers wrote his name on a blank card, and gave it to him.

"Thank you, Mr. Somers: here is my hand," said Lieutenant Wynkoop, when
he had read the name. "I am happy to make your acquaintance."

Somers took the offered hand, and made a courteous reply, to the
salutations of the other.

"May I beg the favor of your company to dinner with me in my private
parlor to-day?" continued Mr. Wynkoop. "I have a couple of bottles of
fine old sherry, which have twice made the voyage to India, sent to me
by an esteemed American friend residing in this city."

"Thank you, Mr. Wynkoop. To the dinner I have not the slightest
objection; to the wine I have; and I'm afraid you must reserve it for
some one who will appreciate it more highly than I can. I never drink
wine."

"Ah, indeed?" said the presumed representative of the royal navy, as he
adjusted an eye-glass to his left eye, keeping it in position by
contracting the muscles above and below the visual member, which gave a
peculiar squint to his expression, very trying to the risibles of his
auditor.

"I should be happy to dine with you, but I don't drink wine," repeated
Somers, in good-natured but rather bluff tones, for he did not wish to
be understood as apologizing for his total abstinence principles.

"I should be glad to meet you in my private parlor, say, at four
o'clock, whether you drink wine or not, Mr. Somers."

"Four o'clock?"

"It's rar-ther early, I know. If you prefer five, say the word," drawled
Mr. Wynkoop.

"I should say that would be nearer supper time than four," replied
Somers, who had lately been in the habit of dining at twelve in
Pinchbrook.

"Earlier if you please, then."

"Any hour that is convenient for you will suit me."

"Let it be four, then. But I must acknowledge, Mr. Somers, I am not
entirely unselfish in desiring to make your acquaintance. The operations
of the American navy have astonished me, and I wish to know more about
it. I landed in New York only a few days since, and I improve every
opportunity to make the acquaintance of American naval officers. I have
not yet visited one of your dock yards."

"I am going over to look at my ship this forenoon, and I should be
delighted with your company."

"Thank you! thank you!" exclaimed Mr. Wynkoop. "I shall be under great
obligations to you for the favor."

They went to the navy yard, visited the Chatauqua, and other vessels of
war fitting out there. Mr. Wynkoop asked a thousand questions about
ships, engines, and armaments; and one could hardly help regarding him
as the most enthusiastic admirer of naval architecture. Though the
gentleman spoke in affected tones, Somers had recognized the voice of
Langdon. This was the person, without a doubt, who was to lure him into
the Confederate navy, who was to crown his aspirations with a
commander's commission, and reward his infidelity with the command of a
fine steamer.

Somers was very impatient for the inquiring member of the royal navy to
make his proposition; for, strange as it may seem to the loyal reader,
he had fully resolved to accept the brilliant offers he expected to
receive; to permit Coles to place the name of "John Somers" in the blank
of the commander's commission which he had in his possession; and even
