
"I will join the class, for I have studied Greek and French, but I
don't know anything about navigation."

"The lesson to-day in navigation is, 'To regulate a chronometer by
means of a transit instrument;' and I have no doubt you will find it
very interesting," laughed the commodore.

"I have no doubt I shall, but I'm afraid my interest will centre in
your perplexity."

"Thank you; but I have learned my lesson, and don't intend to be
perplexed. Just as soon as a breeze comes, we shall get under way."

"That means to start, I suppose."

"'Only this, and nothing more;' but if I should say start, my shipmates
would laugh at me, and declare that I was not fit to be an officer."

The recitations commenced, and the guests were as much interested in
them as they had been in other proceedings on board. But at ten in
the forenoon, there was a good sailing breeze, and the students were
dismissed from the steerage.

"Now you are going to start--I mean, to get under way," said Miss
Gurney.

"We are," replied the commodore, as he gave the order to run up the
signal for sailing at once. "Captain Cantwell."

"Commodore Lincoln," replied the captain, touching his cap to his
superior.

"You will get the ship under way immediately."

"Dear me! how fine!" exclaimed Julia. "But why don't he do it?"

"Pass the word for Mr. Cumberland," added the captain to one of the
midshipmen.

The first lieutenant reported himself, and received his orders from the
captain. The boatswain's whistle rang through the ship, and the call
was heard from the consorts.

"All hands, up anchor!" shouted the executive officer, when the crew
had mustered; and the anchor was heaved up to a short stay.

"Stations for loosing sail," continued Cumberland; and the order was
repeated by the officers forward, "Lay aloft, sail-loosers!"

The seamen scrambled up the rigging like cats, and Miss Gurney
expressed her delight in many exclamations. In a few moments the white
sails dropped down, and all hands aloft, except a few whose duty it was
to remain and overhaul the rigging, descended to the deck.

"Sheet home and hoist away!" said the first lieutenant; and up went the
yards. "Top up the spanker boom."

At this last order the sheet men were obliged to take their stations,
and De Forrest cast off the sheet.

"Why, that is Mr. De Forrest," said Julia, as she recognized her late
travelling companion.

"That's De Forrest, certainly; but we don't call anyone mister, unless
he is an officer," replied Lincoln.

"But how different he looks!"

"A little change in his appearance."

"Good morning, Mr. De Forrest," said the fair girl, seeing that he was
disengaged, while the other hands were walking away with the lift.

"Good morning, Miss Gurney," replied the runaway, sheepishly, as he
counted the seams in the quarter-deck.

"But I thought you were an officer," added the astonished maiden.
"Where are your gold lace and gold-banded cap?"

"I'm not an officer now."

"Belay the sheet," said the fourth lieutenant.

"Man the bars!" shouted the executive officer; and De Forrest had a
chance to escape.

"What does it mean? Mr. De Forrest said he was an officer," continued
Julia.

"He was; but when he came on board yesterday, he was reduced to the
steerage."

"That's too bad! But why was it?"

"I am sorry to tell you the truth, but he ran away from the ship."

"Is it possible? Such a nice young man!"

"Unfortunately it is true."

As the jib and flying-jib were run up, the ship began to move through
the water, and De Forrest was called aft again to help set the spanker.
In a few moments everything was drawing, and the ship went off on the
port tack. The starboard watch had the deck, and the port watch went
below to attend to their lessons again. The commodore was obliged to
leave his pretty friend, who preferred to remain on deck. De Forrest
was one of the two hands at the wheel, in charge of a quartermaster,
and his mortification was as long continued as it was deep.

"I didn't see you again after you left us yesterday,  Mr. De Forrest,"
said Julia.

"You will excuse me, but I am not allowed to talk with any one while at
the wheel," stammered he.

"His conduct was such that I declined to permit him to return, and I
promised to explain the matter to you," interposed the principal.

And he did explain the matter in full, and in the culprit's hearing.
De Forrest could not help seeing that he had sunk to zero in the
estimation of the fair girl, who, after this, hardly looked at him.
At eight bells the commodore came on deck again, and entertained Miss
Gurney, till the squadron anchored off Neufahrwasser, the port of
Danzig, at an early hour in the afternoon.

"I am sorry we have arrived so soon," said she, when the ship had
anchored.

"Why?"

"Because I suppose I must leave you now."

"Aren't you tired of going to sea?"

"No, indeed! I think it is so delightful!"

"Then I hope you will stay with us longer. We are going to look at
Danzig, and then sail for Swinemünde."

"Will you allow us to stay any longer?"

"Certainly; we shall be very glad to have you remain on board as long
as you will."

The principal indorsed this request, and the Kinnairds assented.

"You will see something new on board to-morrow, if you stay," added
Lincoln. "To-morrow will be the first day of the month, and we have an
election of officers."

"And will you be the commodore next month?"

"I don't know," laughed Lincoln. "Perhaps I shall not have votes
enough."

"O, I hope you will!"

"Thank you, Miss Gurney; my position is certainly a very comfortable
one, for I have but little to do, except to entertain the ship's
guests, which in this instance is an exceedingly pleasant duty."

"You are very kind, Commodore Lincoln. I wish I was a young man,"
added Miss Gurney.

"I don't; I'm afraid I shouldn't like you half so well if you were."

"But if I were I should be a sailor, and would study till I became a
commodore," replied the young lady, blushing.

"You overrate the office."

"Nothing could be more delightful than to live in the cabin, and go
from place to place in this beautiful ship."

"If you were on board in a gale of wind, perhaps you would not think
her so very beautiful."

"Well, I think so now."

The conversation was interrupted by the call for all hands to go on
shore. The boats were lowered, and the ship's guests were invited to
take passage in the commodore's barge. De Forrest pulled the stroke oar
in this boat, and his disgust was intolerable. The fair Miss Gurney sat
directly in front of him, chatting with the commodore. He had flattered
himself that this young lady had some regard for him, and he had
accompanied her party from city to city, solely for the sake of being
with her--she was so fascinating. He had permitted her to lead him to
the shores of the Baltic, where he had been captured by the principal.
And this was the reward of all his devotion! Thus she gave him the cold
shoulder, and bestowed her smiles upon the commodore! It was real agony
to him, and the coxswain was obliged to call out to him more than once
to mind his stroke.

The company landed, except De Forrest and Beckwith, whose liberty had
been stopped, and they were handed over to the care of Peaks, the
boatswain, who put them both into the fourth cutter, and pulled back to
the ship, leaving the other forward officers in charge of the rest of
the boats. The party took the train at Neufahrwasser, and in a quarter
of an hour were in Danzig.

"Large vessels used to go up to the city," said Dr. Winstock, who was
in the compartment with Lincoln and the Kinnairds; "but on the breaking
away of the ice in the Vistula in 1840, a new passage to the sea was
opened, and the water was diverted from the deep channel."

"Danzig is a great grain city--isn't it?" asked Lincoln.

"Yes; immense quantities of wheat come down the Vistula from the grain
regions of Prussia, Poland, and other countries. It was formerly the
greatest grain port in the world, but is now far surpassed by Chicago.
It is five miles from the Baltic. The granaries are on an island in the
river, where no dwelling-house can be built, and no fires or lights are
allowed."

The company left the train in the city, and went to the cathedral,
commenced by one of the Grand Masters of the Teutonic order in the
fourteenth century, and finished in the sixteenth. It is a fine church,
and has fifty chapels, founded by the chief citizens as burial-places
for their families. The principal curiosity in the church is a picture
of the Last Judgment, painted for the pope, but captured by pirates on
its way from Bruges to Rome. It was retaken by a Danzig vessel, and
placed in this cathedral, but in 1807 was carried to Paris by the
French. It was reclaimed after the war by the King of Prussia, who
offered forty thousand thalers for the privilege of retaining it in
Berlin; but when the owners declined the offer, he returned it to them.

Danzig is one of the oldest cities in Germany, and resembles Nuremburg
in the quaint old structures which it contains, and the walk through
the Langgasse, the principal street, and the Long Market, was full of
interest to the students. At half past seven all hands had collected
at the railroad station, and before nine were on board the vessels. As
the breeze was both fresh and fair, the squadron got under way, and the
next day it was far out in the Baltic.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE STRANDED STEAMER IN THE BALTIC.


On the morning of the first day of July, at nine o'clock, the squadron
had accomplished half the distance from Danzig to the mouth of the
Oder, or rather to Swinemünde, on the outlet of the Haff to the Baltic.
This Haff is the estuary of the Oder, and forms a considerable lake
inside of the two islands which separate it from the sea.

All hands were called, and the merit-roll for the preceding month
was read by the principal, so that the students might know who were
eligible to the elective offices. There was hardly a change in the
relative rank, for very little had been done upon the lessons during
the month. The most remarkable event was, that Scott came out No.
16, which gave him the rank of fourth midshipman. The joker was a
first-class seaman, and probably he owed his good fortune largely to
the several examinations in nautical matters, though he had exerted
himself more than ever before in the scholastic department. The reading
of his name in this connection called forth a shout of applause. As
usual, Lincoln and Cumberland had the highest number of marks, and
Cantwell was the third. De Forrest and Beckwith stood at the foot of
the list, for they had been absent from most of the recitations during
the month. Cumberland was not eligible to the office of commodore.
Lincoln, Cantwell, and the two captains of the consorts were the only
candidates for this position.

"Of course Cantwell will be chosen," sneered De Forrest. "This thing is
played out, and all I want is a chance to get off."

"I don't believe you will find any such chance," replied Beckwith. "I
don't think we have made anything by running away."

"We had a good time while we were away."

"I didn't. You tagged after that girl, and made me follow you. Now she
has cut you."

"I'll get even with Lincoln on that yet."

"I don't believe you will. It isn't his fault. When the girl found out
that you had run away from the ship, she wouldn't look at you again.
That's the whole of it," replied Beckwith.

While they were talking, the word was passed for all hands to assemble
in the waist to hold a caucus for the nomination of officers.

"Scott has got into the cabin, and I don't believe he will lead all the
fellows in the steerage by the nose now," said De Forrest. "I suppose
he will try to make Cantwell commodore."

The meeting was organized by the choice of Ryder, the second master, as
chairman, and Vroome as secretary.

"The meeting is ready for business," said the chairman.

"I move that Captain Langdon, of the Josephine, be nominated for
commodore," shouted De Forrest.

"Second the motion," added Lincoln, promptly.

"Question," called several.

The motion was put, and voted down without a count.

De Forrest tried again with the name of Captain Wolff, of the Tritonia,
in order to throw out Lincoln and Cantwell, and Beckwith seconded his
motion.

"I don't think this is a fair thing, Mr. Chairman," said De Forrest. "A
great deal has been said about fair play; but now the ship's company of
the Young America want to nominate for commodore, without giving the
students in the consorts any voice in the matter."

"I desire to say, for the information of the last speaker, that an
arrangement has been made by which the ship is to have the office of
commodore for two months out of four, while the consorts are to have it
the other two months," interposed Cumberland.

"I don't recognize any such arrangement," replied De Forrest, angrily.

This remark was greeted with a shout of laughter, for the runaway spoke
as though he had the control of the whole matter.

"If the speaker had been on board at Cronstadt when the agreement was
made, he would understand it better," said the chairman. "The question
is upon the nomination of Captain Wolff."

It was voted down almost unanimously.

"I move that Captain Cantwell be nominated," said Billy Bobstay, who
was filled with gratitude at the generous conduct of the captain
towards him.

"I second the motion," added Lincoln.

"Mr. Chairman, I wish to decline being considered a candidate. I cannot
accept the nomination on any conditions," said Cantwell, in a loud,
clear, and decided voice.

His remark was hailed with the most emphatic applause; and Cantwell
hastened to Billy Bobstay, and begged him to withdraw his motion, which
he did.

"If there is no objection, the motion may be withdrawn," said the
chairman.

"I object," interposed Lincoln.

"Then I hope the ship's company will vote it down, as a favor to me, if
for no other reason," added Cantwell.

"Question!" called the impatient seamen.

It was voted down, but in a mild and gentle manner, which indicated
that the students did not do so from any ill will to Cantwell.

"Now, Mr. Chairman, I nominate Commodore Lincoln for reëlection,"
continued the captain.

The motion was seconded, and carried with only a single voice against
it, and that was De Forrest's, his "no" being uttered in the most
malignant tone.

"Mr. Chairman," shouted Scott, as soon as this question was settled, "I
made a speech somewhere up north of here, among the eternal solitudes
of nature, and all that sort of thing, you know. I went in for fair
play then, as I do now. Some of us didn't vote the regular nominations
at the election, and the consequence was, that Captain Cantwell
was chosen. I think he has made a very good captain, and been very
courteous and gentlemanly to all hands. I shall therefore move that he
be nominated again."

"Mr. Chairman," said Cantwell, interrupting the applause which
followed the joker's speech. "I am very much obliged to those who
have supported me, and for this kind response to the motion of the
last speaker; but I have already made up my mind not to accept the
nomination of captain. In the excitement of the last election, I was
chosen to a position for which I was not as competent as many others. I
have done my best to improve in seamanship, but I will no longer occupy
a place for which others are better fitted than I am."

Scott persisted, and Cantwell was nominated; but he positively declined
to accept the nomination, though most of the students supposed he was
declining for effect, at first. Finally, the principal interposed,
for there could be no doubt that the captain was fully in earnest.
Cumberland was then nominated for captain, and Cantwell for first
lieutenant. Judson, Norwood, and Sheridan were selected for the
other three elective places. The balloting was commenced, and all
the nominees of the caucus were chosen. The result of the vote for
commodore was signalled from each of the consorts, and Lincoln was
reëlected.

"That's what I call fair play," said Scott.

"Yes, it is; but those same fellows will be chosen as long as they
remain in the ship," replied Wainwright, who was now the fourth master.

"Well, they don't remain much longer," replied Scott. "Nearly all of
the fellows in the highest offices will be graduated this summer, and
I suppose they will leave. That will open the way for others. I wonder
how I shall feel in a frock coat."

"Probably you will feel good, as all the others do," answered
Wainwright, as he led the way into the cabin, where he was presented by
the commodore to Miss Gurney and the Kinnairds.

"I am glad to see you here, Scott," said Cantwell, taking him by the
hand.

"I'm afraid there is some blunder in the reckoning," replied Scott.

Lincoln had been most heartily congratulated by the ship's guests on
his reëlection, and Miss Gurney could not help expressing to Cantwell
her admiration of his unselfish conduct. Everybody seemed to be
satisfied with the result of the election, except De Forrest. The new
plan, of which he claimed the authorship, worked very well, and the
students were obtaining some experience in the machinery of politics.
Clyde Blacklock, who, when he found it was useless to attempt to run
away, or to resist the authority of the ship, had exerted himself to
learn and to do his duty, was particularly pleased with the result of
his struggles during the month. He was a young man of good parts, and
had the English love of invigorating sports. He had taken kindly to his
duty, and had made great proficiency during the two months he had been
on board. He was the coxswain of the second cutter, and he was prouder
of the position than many who had won places in the cabin. Some of the
crew of the boat were inclined to sneer at him, but he took especial
pains to conciliate them.

On the afternoon of the election day it rained, and the guests were
compelled to remain in the cabin; but the young officers who were not
on duty did their best to entertain them. At night a dense fog set in;
but the wind was fair, and the squadron held on its course, and having
the starboard tacks aboard, the fog-horns were blown every two minutes.
The next morning, at seven bells, pilots were taken, just as the fog
began to lift, though it still lay over the land on the port bow.
Repeated whistles, as of a steamer, were heard from this direction,
and the pilot of the ship declared that some vessel was in distress,
probably a steamer, which had run ashore in the fog.

"Steamer aground on the port bow," shouted the lookout forward, half an
hour later.

"I see her!" exclaimed Captain Cumberland, who had placed himself in
the lee mizzen-shrouds. "She is on a sand-bank."

The ship was within half a mile of the steamer, but the pilot declared
that it was not prudent to go any nearer. Two guns from the grounded
vessel announced that she needed assistance.

"Mr. Cantwell, call all hands; clear away the second cutter," said the
captain.

"All hands, on deck; second cutters, clear away your boat!" piped the
boatswain, when the first officer had given the order.

"Now, heave her to," added the captain.

"Man the main clew-garnets and buntlines!" shouted Cantwell; and his
orders were repeated by the other officers at their stations. "Let go
the lee braces! Down with the helm, quartermaster!"

"Down, sir," responded the quartermaster at the wheel.

"Up mainsail! Brace her aback!"

The ship rounded up into the wind, the main topsail swung round, and
in a few moments the headway of the vessel was checked.

"Mr. Scott, in charge of the second cutter!" continued the first
lieutenant.

Scott leaped lightly into the boat.

"Lower away!" said Cantwell, as soon as it was prudent to drop the boat
into the water.

"Up oars!" shouted Clyde Blacklock, the new coxswain, proud and happy
to have a real duty to perform. "Let fall! Give way together!" And away
went the second cutter over the waves towards the stranded steamer.

Mr. Lowington thought it best to send another boat, and the first
cutter, pulling twelve oars, was despatched, in charge of Sheridan.
The second cutter was far ahead of her, and was the first to reach the
unfortunate vessel, which proved to be one of the mail steamers from
Stockholm. She had run her bow hard on a sand-bank, and then toppled
over on her starboard side, her stern nearly submerged in the deep
water.

"Way enough!" said Clyde, as the cutter approached her gangway.

Scott stood behind the bowman, ready to step on board as soon as the
boat was secured.

"O Clyde! My son!" shouted a lady among the passengers. "Save us! Save
us!"

"That's my mother!" exclaimed the coxswain, as Scott leaped upon the
deck.

"Don't be alarmed, madam. You are perfectly safe," said the fourth
midshipman, as he approached the captain, whom he easily recognized by
his dress and appearance. "You seem to be in a tight place."

  [Illustration: THE STRANDED STEAMER. PAGE 330.]

The captain, who was a German, did not seem to understand this remark,
though he spoke English.

"You belong to the boy-ship?" said he.

"The Academy Ship, sir. What can we do for you?" replied Scott.

"I want a steamer to pull me off."

"Then I don't know that we can do anything for you."

"You can send a steamer, if you are going on to Swinemünde. My
passengers are very much frightened, though there is no danger, unless
we have a storm."

"We will take off your passengers, sir."

"Thank you; that will relieve them. I have only ten."

The second cutter was swung round, and the officers of the steamer
assisted the passengers into the boat. As the first cutter soon
arrived, a part of them were placed on board of her.

"O Clyde, Clyde!" exclaimed Mrs. Blacklock, as she hugged her boy. "I
thought I should never see you again."

"Come, mother, don't be too demonstrative. You will make all the
fellows laugh at me."

"I'm so glad to see you, Clyde!" added Miss Celia Blacklock, his sister.

Clyde kissed them both, and then begged them to allow him to attend to
his duty.

"Up oars!" shouted he, with vigor. "Shove off!"

"I am so glad to get out of that steamer!" added Mrs. Blacklock. "I
thought we should all be drowned."

"Let fall!" said Clyde, too much interested in his new duties even to
heed his mother. "Stern, all! Give way!"

"And I'm very, very glad to find you again, Clyde!" continued the lady.

"Oars! Now give way together!" and Clyde gathered up his tiller-ropes,
and for the first time had an opportunity to attend to his mother, whom
he had not seen for nearly three months.

The young Englishman was an only son, and his mother a widow, who
had been utterly unable to manage him, after she had spoiled him by
early indulgence. The youth had a freak, when he saw the Academy Ship,
that he should like to join her, but soon changed his mind. As the
institution seemed to be the only means of saving him from his own
folly and wilfulness, Mrs. Blacklock had reluctantly permitted Mr.
Lowington to take the control of him. Though he had run away, and had
been subjected to sharp but excellent discipline, he had done very well
as soon as he found it was no longer possible for him to have his own
way.

"I have been looking for you these two months, Clyde," said his mother.
"Where have you been?"

Clyde told her where he had been.

"I went to St. Petersburg, but the ship had not been there, and I
returned to Stockholm, and have spent the last month in Sweden."

"We were rusticating among the islands in the Gulf of Bothnia while you
were looking for me."

"Why haven't you written to me, Clyde?"

"I did not know where you were."

"I hope you have had enough of the sea," sighed his mother.

"I am just beginning to like it first rate. Don't you see I am an
officer?"

"Are you the captain of the ship?"

"Well, no; not exactly that, mother; but I am in command of this boat."

Scott turned away, and laughed, as did the stroke oarsman, who also
heard the remark.

"I want you to go with me now. I am very, very lonely without you,"
added Mrs. Blacklock.

"Not much, as the Americans say," replied Clyde, shaking his head.

"Much what, my son?"

"I don't want to leave the ship. I have done very well, and I am going
to be the captain of her one of these days. I have been studying
geometry, and algebra, and navigation, and French, and German; and a
fellow can learn something in that ship. It's the best school I ever
went to.--Way enough!" said the new coxswain, as the cutter approached
the gangway of the Young America, the steps of which had been rigged
out as soon as it was seen that ladies were coming on board.

The passengers of the stranded steamer were assisted to the deck, the
boats hoisted up, and the ship filled away. Mrs. Blacklock and her
daughter, as well as the others, were cordially welcomed on board by
the principal. Breakfast was immediately served for them, and they were
made as happy as possible by the young officers, though only a few of
the new guests spoke English.

"I want to take Clyde away now, Mr. Lowington," said Mrs. Blacklock,
as the ship was entering the harbor of Swinemünde.

"I would not, madam. He is doing exceedingly well on board," replied
the principal. "He was surly and dissatisfied for a time, but now he
takes an interest in his studies, and is making rapid progress. He is a
good sailor, too."

"But I miss him very, very much."

"I dare say you do; but you ought to think of the boy's good. I never
had a more hopeful case in the ship than he is just now. I am confident
we shall make a man of him if you allow us to do so."

Clyde was called up to speak for himself, and he begged that his mother
would not think of such a thing as removing him. He would write to her
every week. The weak lady finally consented, when the youth declared
that he would be captain of the ship in due time.

The squadron came to anchor at Swinemünde, and a boat was immediately
sent on shore, with the passengers who wished to land, and with an
officer to inform the agents of the steamer of her condition.

Arrangements had already been made for sight-seeing in this part of
Germany, and the whole ship's company were to make an excursion to
Berlin and other places. The Kinnairds and the Blacklocks were to go
with them. The party, after remaining on board over Sunday, embarked in
the regular steamer for Stettin, which is a four-hours' trip, on Monday
and arrived at two o'clock in the afternoon. Having an hour or more to
spare before taking the train for Berlin, they had an opportunity to
see the principal street of the town, and to visit the old castle, but
there was nothing of special interest in the place.

The train left Stettin at half past three, and arrived in Berlin at
six. The officers and seamen had again been arranged in four divisions,
so as not to overwhelm any hotel, and to enable those in charge of them
to exercise a proper supervision. Dr. Winstock had gone up to the city
to make arrangements for their accommodation, and was at the station
on the arrival of the tourists with omnibuses and droschkes enough
to convey them to the hotels. The Kinnairds, with the surgeon and
the commodore, went to the Hotel de Rome, Unter den Linden, as the
principal street of the city is called.




CHAPTER XIX.

BERLIN, POTSDAM, AND DRESDEN.


Berlin is built on a plain, and there is nothing in the site to
recommend it. Like a drunken man, it is on the Spree, which wanders
through the centre of the city, with a branch that forms an island,
and a canal that winds around the city, and through the adjacent
country, so that the Oder on the east and the Elbe on the west are
united. The streets are generally broad, with plenty of squares and
other open spaces. The houses are of brick, covered with stucco, upon
which the Baltic fogs that prevail here have a bad effect, injuring
the appearance of the buildings. The principal street, on which the
palaces, museum, and hotels are situated, a very wide avenue, in
imitation of the Champs Elysée in Paris, but not at all to be compared
with it, is Unter den Linden. The middle of it is a broad gravelled
walk, with double rows of lime and other trees to shade it for
pedestrians. On each side of this is a narrow roadway for equestrians.
Outside of these roads, and separated from them by a fence and a line
of trees, are two streets for general use.

The weather was warm and pleasant, and Dr. Winstock proposed a
ride through Unter den Linden, which is about a mile in length,
terminating in the palace at one end, and the Brandenburg Gate at the
other. Two droschkes--four-wheeled carriages, with one or two seats,
similar to the voitures de place of Paris--were procured. Lincoln
and Miss Gurney, with the doctor, occupied one of them. The great
avenue was full of people, and the scene was very lively. The party
drove towards the palace first, near which the hotel is located. In
a moment the doctor stopped the carriage at the colossal statue of
Frederick the Great, one of the most magnificent monuments in Europe.
The Statue itself is seventeen feet high, resting on a granite pedestal
twenty-five feet high, on the sides of which are bronze figures in high
relief, life size, of thirty-one persons, including the heroes of the
Seven Years' War, and the eminent men of the great monarch's reign.

"The king lives in that house," said Dr. Winstock, pointing to a very
plain edifice nearly opposite the statue. "He may often be seen sitting
at the corner window. There is the queen now, at the second story
window."

Of course this was a genuine sensation, and the party gazed at her
majesty, who stood before the window. She wore a white dress, and
though she was nearly sixty, she looked much younger.

"Is that the queen?" asked Lincoln.

"That is Queen Augusta," replied the surgeon.

"She don't look like a queen."

"Of course she is human," laughed the doctor.

"But she looks like any other woman."

"Certainly she does. If you met her in the street you could not
distinguish her from any other lady."

"Have you seen Queen Victoria, commodore?" asked Miss Gurney.

"I have not."

"I have seen her several times; and she isn't a bit different from any
other woman; but I suppose on state occasions, when she wears the crown
and her robes, she looks like a queen."

"Did you think, Lincoln, that kings and queens went about with crowns
on their heads and sceptres in their hands?"

"Well, no, sir; but I had an idea that they must appear different from
other people."

After a drive to the garden opposite the Royal Palace, the party
proceeded through Unter den Linden, pausing a moment at the
Brandenburg Gate, an immense triumphal arch, on which is a car of
Victory, carried to Paris by Napoleon, but returned, after much
negotiation, in 1814. Beyond this is the Thiergarten, or "garden of
animals," a vast tract of land, covered with trees, with roads and
paths through it. Very little has been done to make a park of this
territory, so that it does not compare with the Bois de Boulogne in
Paris, or with Central Park in New York, which is, without doubt, the
finest in the world. It was well filled with people at this hour;
but generally it is dull and monotonous, like a drive through the
woods in the country. Half an hour's ride brought the party to the
Zoölogical Gardens, which contains a very large collection of animals,
and a fine park. Part of the latter is used as a beer garden, in
which there is a large, semicircular, covered stage for the music.
There are also several buildings for restaurants, though most of the
people were seated at little tables under the trees. A band of about
one hundred pieces was playing German airs when the tourists entered,
and two or three thousand people were present in the grounds. Ladies
and gentlemen, in groups of three or four, were seated at the tables.
Nearly all the men were smoking and drinking wine or beer. A few of
the ladies drank beer, but most of them were partaking of chocolate,
ice-creams, tea, and coffee. The scene was peculiarly German, and
everybody seemed to be happy. From this place the party went to Kroll's
Garden, where the same scene appeared, though it contains a large hall,
with a stage where opera is given at twenty-five cents a ticket, with
a good seat. The excursionists returned to the hotel, and the next
morning the business of sight-seeing was commenced in earnest by the
entire company.

They walked to the Lustgarten, an open space at the end of Unter
den Linden, on the three sides of which are the Royal Palace, the
Cathedral, and the Museum. The first is a vast structure, owing more
of its grandeur to its size than to its beauty. At the gate are some
bronze horses, held by grooms, like those on Monte Cavallo, at Rome,
presented by Nicholas of Russia. The ascent to the second story is by
a winding inclined plane, up which a carriage can be driven. In the
guard-room the visitors were provided with felt slippers, worn over the
boots or shoes, to avoid scratching the polished floors. The apartments
are magnificently furnished, but they need not be described, for every
palace contains substantially the same series of rooms. The White
Hall is the most elegant, containing the statues of the Brandenburg
Electors, and allegorical figures of the eight Prussian Provinces
before the recent wholesale annexation. In one room there is a silver
gilt mantel, representing one of pure metal which Frederick the Great
melted down to obtain the money to build the new palace at Potsdam, in
order to show the princes of Europe that his funds were not exhausted.
The new chapel is very rich, and has a lofty dome, from which it is
lighted. The floor is of the most beautiful marble, and the walls and
ceiling are elegantly frescoed. The palace formerly had the reputation
of being haunted by a "White Lady" who appeared only to announce the
death of a member of the royal family.

The company passed through the Cathedral, and entered the Museum, which
is a very handsome edifice. Its art collections are hardly excelled
in Europe. Besides vast galleries of painting and sculpture, it
contains antiquities from the north, and from Egypt, and curiosities
from distant lands, which are among the finest in the world; but the
students were more interested in the historical collection than in
anything else, particularly the relics of Frederick the Great. Among
the latter are the cast of him taken after death, the bullet with
which he was wounded at Rossbach, a wax figure of him, clothed in the
uniform he wore on the day of his death, his books, cane, and a flute.
A dress of the Great Elector, his pipes, and a glass case containing
the stars, orders, and decorations of Napoleon, taken at Waterloo by
the Prussians, in the carriage now at Madame Tussaud's exhibition in
London, are also to be seen in this Museum. The beautiful frescoes in
the grand hall were carefully examined, and their allegorical meaning
explained.

The party went through the Arsenal, and then visited the Aquarium,
a private exhibition. The various apartments were in the shape of
grottoes of artificial rocks, in which the tanks were ingeniously
arranged. The animals were fishes, reptiles, and birds, of which there
was an endless variety; and the students generally were more pleased
with this exhibition than with anything else they saw in Berlin.

After dinner, a portion of the party went out to Charlottenberg in the
horse car. The town contains a palace built by Frederick I. The gardens
are prettily laid out, but almost the only attraction of the place is
the monument of Queen Louisa, the most beautiful and amiable princess
of her day. She was the wife of Frederick William III., and the mother
of the present king. The monument is the reclining form of the queen in
marble, on a sarcophagus. It is the work of Rauch, the great sculptor,
and is universally appreciated. By its side is a similar monument to
the king, her husband. They are contained within a Doric temple.

Some of the party who did not visit Charlottenberg went to the Town
Hall, under which is a vast beer hall and restaurant, where they had
an opportunity to see the manners of the Germans. The same students
went to the Jewish synagogue, a large building in Oriental style,
holding four thousand people, which cost a million dollars. It contains
a gallery for the women, and has a lofty dome. On the backs of the
settees were the names of persons who had purchased seats at a
thousand thalers each. It is said that those who built this synagogue
realize a handsome percentage on their investment from the letting
of seats. The Bourse is a handsome building, the interior of which
is seventy feet high, with a gallery for visitors extending across
the middle, over a partition which divides the grain and the stock
exchanges.

The next day the entire company went to Potsdam, which may be called
the city of palaces, for there are not less than five royal residences
in the town. It is eighteen miles from Berlin, and was the favorite
summer-home of Frederick the Great, as it is of the present king.
Carriages of all sorts and kinds were gathered for the use of the
party, and they drove to Babelsberg, which is several miles from the
railroad station. As they approached their destination, they crossed
the River Havel, which here widens in a broad lake. The carriages were
left at the entrance of the grounds, and a walk through a pleasant
grove brought the tourists to a lovely lawn, bordering on the river,
and presenting one of the most beautiful landscapes to be found in
any country. This region is diversified by gentle elevations, on one
of which stands the castle or chateau of the present king. The estate
is his private property, and he pays all the expenses of keeping it,
even to the soldiers who are sometimes on duty there. The castle is
built on the side of a hill, with an entrance from the lawn, though
the principal one is on the other side, one story higher. The party
entered at the rear, and came into small apartments, cosily furnished.
The skins and heads of several deer, killed by the king, are displayed
here. Up one flight the rooms are larger, but they are entirely
different from those usually found in palaces. They are elegantly but
simply furnished, and contain a great variety of objects of art, with
small paintings of the best artists: indeed, everything about them
indicates the highest taste and refinement. The queen's rooms are very
cosy and home-like. Up stairs are the apartments of the Grand Duchess
of Baden, the king's daughter, and of the crown prince. His majesty's
bed-room is exceedingly plain, having a narrow bed with chintz
curtains. On the wall over the bed hangs a water-color picture, given
him by the queen at their silver wedding. Near this chamber is the
king's working room; and the students gazed curiously at the books open
on the table, the pens with which his majesty wrote, and various other
articles he used. In the room are chairs for the ministers when he
holds a council here. The view from the windows of the lawn, the lake,
and the grove is very fine. Babelsberg, for quiet beauty and taste,
cannot be surpassed.

The students did not enter the Marble Palace on the banks of the lake.
In the water are several miniature vessels and a little steamer, all of
them for the amusement and instruction of the little folks. Passing the
Russian village, which contains eleven houses like those to be found
in Russia, belonging to the better class in the country, built by a
party sent here by Nicholas, the sight-seers arrived at the gardens of
Sans Souci. They are rather stiffly laid out, with plenty of fountains,
statues, fish-ponds, and other ornaments. On a hill, with a very long
flight of steps leading down to the principal avenue of the garden,
is the Palace of Sans Souci,--"without care,"--built by Frederick the
Great in 1745. At the end of the terrace are the graves of his favorite
dogs, and of the horse he rode in many of his battles. In his will he
directed that he should be buried among them, but his request was not
heeded. In the palace the room where he breathed his last is shown. A
clock, which he always wound up himself, stopped at the instant of his
death, and still indicates the time--twenty minutes past two.

On the hill near the palace is the historic windmill of Sans Souci,
separated from it only by a road. Frederick the Great wished to extend
his grounds in the direction of the mill, but the miller refused
to sell it. In a lawsuit with the owner the king was defeated, and
submitted to the decision. He was so well pleased with Prussian
justice, that he pulled down the original mill, which was a very small
one, and erected for the miller the present one, on a much larger
scale. In the reign of Frederick William IV., the miller who owned it,
doubtless a descendant of the one who defeated the monarch at law,
became embarrassed, and offered to sell it; but the king settled on him
a sum sufficient to extricate him from his difficulties, declaring that
the mill was a national monument, and belonged to Prussian history.

Not far from the mill is the orangery of the palace, and the Raphael
