bewildered fascination. In truth the Christmas tree was a beautiful
spectacle. The fairy-like beauty was what Matilda thought of at first;
then she began gradually to notice how its branches were laden with
other things besides lights, and how the little company was all on
tiptoe with eagerness. With a certain faint flutter at her own heart,
Matilda stood on her perch and watched.

Presently a tall young fellow, one of the oldest among the boys, took
his stand by the tree with a long gilt rod in his hand. The crowd fell
back a bit, and hushed its murmur and rustle. No danger of anybody
seeing Matilda; not an eye turned her way. The lad with the gilt rod,
who also was decorated with a favour of red and white ribbands, now
lifted down from the tree one of its many packages, looked close at it,
and called aloud the name written thereon. A name Matilda did not know.
The crowd stirred in out place and a little figure came forward and
took the package. Matilda wanted to know what it was, very much; but
the little girl herself made no haste to discover. A slight private
examination she gave, and with a smile and a blush clasped her little
hand upon the package and looked to see what would be next. The play
went on after this fashion; the presiding gilt rod was quick in its
operations, as indeed it had need to be; names were called out in rapid
succession; and presently the whole circle was astir, with coming and
going, explanations and questions and whispers of delight, now and then
a spring or a dance of exultation; and still the gilt rod went on
hooking down things from the tree and signalling the owners to come and
take possession.

"Mrs. Laval!--from Matilda. I suppose Mrs. Laval knows who Matilda
is?"--said the master of ceremonies. A new thrill went all through the
distant possessor of that name. "That's my obelisk!" she thought. "I
wonder if she will like it? Yes, she knows Matilda, a little."

"Norton Laval!--from his sister. I didn't know that Norton had a
sister."

"The things you don't know are always more than the things you do know,
Edward Foster," said Norton coming forward to receive his watch-guard.

"'You' meaning--whom?" said gilt rod, hooking down another
ribband-looped parcel. "By virtue of my office I know so many things
just now, that I grow conceited, and am surprised to find myself
ignorant any where. Matilda Laval!--from her mother."

With a great leap of her heart, Matilda jumped down from her ottoman
and made her way as she could through the throng. The tall boy with the
gilt rod presented to her a small square packet, sealed and tied.
Matilda's fingers clasped upon it as she stepped back; and then for the
first time that evening she found Judy at her side. Perhaps Judy would
have spoken, if the next call had not been,

"Matilda Laval!--from Mrs. Bartholomew."

Flushing and trembling, Matilda stepped forward again and received a
second little packet, much like the former. Then Judy herself was
called; everybody by this time was getting his hands full; and still
the Christmas tree blazed on as brightly as ever.

Presently Matilda got a third present; this was from David; much
larger. She was very much astonished; for without opening she could
guess that it was something valuable; it was hard and square and heavy.
Of all there, not a child was in such private ecstasies as she. Her
flushed cheeks told it; otherwise she was quite undemonstrative. Though
I say wrong; for eyes and lips were abundantly expressive of tremulous
joy.

"Is that my present?" said Judy, by her side again. "No, it is David's.
Do you know what it is?"

"No," Matilda whispered.

"I don't either. Why don't you look?"

"I will look by and by."

"Nonsense!" said Judy; but Matilda was called off again to take what
Judy had prepared for her.

"That isn't much," said that young lady, when Matilda fell back to her
former place; "it's only bonbons. What has aunt Zara given you?"

"I don't know yet, Judy."

"O look. And mamma. Mamma wouldn't tell me. Those are their gifts in
your hand there, aren't they? Look, and see. I can guess," said Judy
peering round Matilda to see the packets.

"No, you can't," said Norton at the other side. He was fastening his
guard-chain in its place. "You don't know, and she don't know. I like
people who can keep cool, and not dash their heads under water the
first thing."

"Stuff!" said Judy. "I want her to get her head above water; she don't
see anything now, nor know anything."

"Her head's all right," said Norton composedly. "Knowledge'll come in
time. I guess there's a good deal of it to come, too."

"What has David got, Norton?"

"Loads of books," said Norton. "And a rifle."

"A rifle!" screamed Judy.

"And a dressing-case. And a dressing-gown. And a riding-whip. And a
watch-chain."

"And what have you got, Norton?" Matilda asked.

"Just what I wanted," said Norton, with a smile of confidence and
secret good fellowship which was most pleasant to Matilda; it made her
feel not quite so much alone in that crowd. "You shall see," he went
on. "Hallo! you're called. Give me some of your traps to hold for you,
Pink; you have not got a hand to take anything more."

So Matilda gave him her bonbons and box, if it were a box, to hold,
while she went for ward again. This present was from Norton, and of
itself filled her arms. Wrapped up in papers as it was, she could not
know more of it than that. She came back to Norton with high-coloured
cheeks and eyes very bright indeed.

"What's that?" said Judy. "What has Norton given you? it's big enough.
Pshaw! I know; it's a desk."

"A desk!" exclaimed Matilda in tones of delight.

"Keep your own counsel, Judy," said Norton coolly. "You have no idea of
keeping other people's."

"Norton," said Esther coming up to them, "who is the witch?"

"Can't tell, even if I know," said Norton. "I keep other people's
counsel."

"But where are we to see her?"

"In her den, of course."

"Where's that?"

"You will know when the time comes."

"Then she won't come in here among us all?"

"I reckon not," said Norton. "She'll see only one at a time, I hear."

"What for?" said Esther.

"Ah, what for!" echoed Norton. "I don't know, I can tell you. And
what's more, I don't know yet whose notion it is. Now, Pink, I propose
we go upstairs and put these things away. Supper will be in a few
minutes, and then what will you do with your hands full? Come!"

And away he and Matilda went, slipping out of the room as quietly as
they could, and then running upstairs, till they found a quiet corner
and breathing place in Matilda's room.

"Now, Pink, don't you want to look?" said Norton turning up the gas. He
had his own curiosity too, it seems. But he did not interfere with her;
he looked on, smiling and superior, while Matilda's trembling fingers
pulled off the papers, from his package-first. Judy had spoken truly;
it was an elegant little desk, all fitted and filled. Matilda's heart,
Norton could see, was quite full with that.

"Come!" said he gayly, "let us see David's choice. I don't know what it
is, David don't tell all his mind."

And he stopped, for Matilda uttered a little scream of pleasure.
David's choice had been a work-box. It was of pretty fancy wood,
charmingly lined and fitted up.

"Pretty well for David!" said Norton "He thinks you know what to do
with a work box, and reason too. Good for him. But now, Pink, guess
what this is!"

And Norton possessed himself of the little parcel which bore his
mother's handwriting and held it up before Matilda.

"I can't guess."

"Try. What would you like, Pink? What would you like better than
anything else? Think."

"Oh Norton!" said Matilda with changing colour, "I don't know; I am
afraid to guess. It's something small; could it be a locket with her
hair?"

Norton with a delighted face put his hand with the parcel close to
Matilda's ear, with the other hand forbidding her to touch it.
"Listen!" he said. Matilda listened, and absolutely grew pale with
intensity of excitement.

"I hear something, Norton!" she said seizing the package.

"Ah, you do!" said Norton. "Now you know? Yes, just look at it. Isn't
it a beauty? I was with mamma when she got it. There's no mistake in
that, Pink; it's a splendid watch, Bars and Bullion said;--I mean, the
man at Bars and Bullion's, and I believe it was Bullion himself. Do you
like it? Now Pink, we must not stay a minute longer; supper will be on
hand, and you want some, don't you. Come! Put these away, and come."

Matilda could do it, even without looking at her bonbons or Mrs.
Bartholomew's present, and with only a glance at her watch. She locked
up her treasures and went down with Norton; a happy child, if there was
one in the city that night.




CHAPTER II.


Supper was just served when they got downstairs. It was another variety
of this wonderful evening. The dining-room long table was so beautiful
with lights, fruits, greens, and confections, with setting of plate and
glass, that to Matilda it was almost as much of a sight as the
Christmas tree had been. But the others were accustomed to this sort of
thing, and fell to tasting, with very little rapture about the seeing.
What a buzz the room was in, to be sure! Tongues were fairly unloosed
over oysters and sandwiches; and all the glory of the Christmas tree
was to talk about, with comparisons of presents, plans, and prospects.
Matilda looked on, half bewildered, but so very happy that it hardly
occurred to her to remember that she might like something to eat too.
Everybody was attending upon the wants of the guests, though certainly
Matilda did notice that Judy had a plateful of something, and was
eating as busily as she was talking. Doing neither, for she knew nobody
to talk to, Matilda waited, and thought of her watch, in a trance of
rapture.

"Why, my dear, is nobody attending to you?" she heard the voice of Mrs.
Lloyd say at last. "Have you had nothing all this while?"

"No, ma'am--they are all so busy."

But David came up at the minute, and Matilda had no longer anything to
complain of. He served her very kindly, and Matilda found that she was
very hungry. She got a chance, however, to thank David for her work-box.

"I am sure you deserve it," he said. "What did Judy give you?"

He looked very little pleased, Matilda thought, when she told him. But
he only helped her carefully to everything she would have, and said no
more about it.

A third wonder to Matilda that evening was the style and amount of
eating that went on. The ices were in beautiful fruit forms; and she
thought when she had demolished one of them she had done enough,
especially as caramel, and candied fruits, and other confections were
awaiting her attention. But the circulation of these little ices went
on at a rate that proved Matilda's moderation to be shared by few, and
she heard one little lady say to another, herself with a plateful, "Is
that your third or your fourth?" Slowly munching candied grapes,
Matilda looked on and marvelled. Presently Norton came to see if she
wanted anything, and then Esther joined them, and the talk was of the
witch again.

"We are going to see her now," said Norton. "Just as soon as we have
done with the table."

"What's it all for?" inquired Esther.

"I don't know," said Norton, shaking his head. "Some crotchet of
somebody's. I don't know anything about it. Only everybody is invited
to go and see the witch; and the witch's den is in the little reception
room on the other side of the hall; and we must go in one by one; and
we must answer every question we are asked, or we shall get no good of
our interview. So much I am informed of."

"What good shall we get if we do answer all the questions?" Esther
asked.

"If I was a wizard, maybe I could tell you, Esther. You should ask
David. There used to be witches and wizards, too, among his people."

"They were forbidden," said David gravely.

"But they were there, all the same," said Norton.

"Not all the same," said David; "for it was death by the law; and no
good ever came of them, and nobody good ever went to them."

"O David," said Matilda timidly, but the occasion was too tempting to
be lost,--"do you know what they did? Did they only play tricks? or was
there anything real about it?"

Perhaps David took a different view of the occasion; for after one
earnest look into Matilda's face, as if he would answer her, he turned
it off with lightly saying that the witches were real, for Saul had
them all put to death that he could find; and then saying that he would
go and look after this particular witch. And presently he came back and
proclaimed that she was ready to receive visitors.

"Who are to go, Davie? Who are to go to see her?" were the inquiries
huddled one upon another.

"Everybody," said David. "One at a time."

"What are we to do? What are we to say?"

"Answer questions."

"The witch's questions?"

"Certainly."

"Why must we answer her questions? and what will she ask us about?"

"Really you must judge for yourselves, about the one thing; and find
out for yourselves, about the other. I cannot tell you."

"Will you answer her questions?"

"Perhaps."

"O come along!" was the cry then; "you can't get anything out of him.
Who will go first?"

Caramel and ices had done their utmost, and now the witch became the
absorbing interest. And as those who came back from the witch s den, it
was found, would tell nothing of what had transpired there, the
interest was kept up at white heat. First one went, and then another.
Of course the young people of the household were the last.

The witch's den, when Norton entered it, was a place he did not
recognize; though in reality it was manufactured out of the little
corner reception room. Dark drapery enclosed and mystified the space
into which he was admitted; the light came from he could not see where,
and was dim enough too; and the witch was not to be seen. Nor,
distinctly, anything else. Norton took his stand as he had been
directed in front of a dark curtain and waited. The first question
demanded his name, and when that had been answered the voice went on,--

"What do you want of the witch?"

"That depends on what she can do," said Norton.

"Power unlimited."

"Then I wish she would cast a spell upon Mrs. Lloyd."

"To what effect?"

"That she would let me have the little corner attic room for a
greenhouse."

"How would you warm it?"

"It wouldn't want much more warming than it has now. A gas stove would
do, I think."

"You may go. You shall hear from me in the course of the week."

Norton went out in high glee. "She's a brick, that witch!" he
exclaimed. "Go along, Judy--and make haste; people are taking leave
now. I don't know whose the voice is, though," he went on; "I couldn't
make it out. I guess"--But Norton stopped; and Judy went in.

"Are you in want of anything, Judy Bartholomew?" the unseen witch asked.

"I haven't got all I want," said Judy; "if you mean that."

"State what is needed."

"There are a great many things," said Judy unblushingly; "but the two
things I wish for most particularly are--to give a ball, for one; and
to have a diamond ring, for the other."

"Short of these two things, all your wishes are satisfied then?"

"No," said Judy hesitatingly,--"I didn't say that. I want lots of
things besides; but those two most."

"You may go. The witch always wants time. Have you any debts to pay? of
money? of any other sort?"

"No indeed," said Judy decidedly.

"Is there anybody to whom you would like to do a kindness?"

"Not that I know of."

"You may go. Your wants shall be considered."

Judy came out triumphant. She would have had her brother go next, but
he insisted that Matilda should precede him. So Matilda went into the
darkened, mysterious boudoir of the receptions.

"Who is this?" said the voice.

And a gentle answer came; not like Judy's proclaiming of herself, yet
clear and frank too.

"Matilda Laval, what would you like of all things, if you could have
it?"

Matilda hesitated. "There are so many things"--she began,--"it isn't
very easy"--

"So many things you would like?"

"Yes, ma'am. Not for myself," she added, in a kind of horror at being
supposed to entertain such wishes under the flood of good things that
had come upon her that evening.

"Well, go on. It is for yourself in one way. Say what, of all you can
think of, would give you most pleasure."

Matilda's hands came together with a certain pang of hope, as she
answered.

"If I could make somebody comfortable that I know of;--a poor, good
girl, who is not comfortable at all."

"One of your sisters?"

"O no, ma'am; no relation."

"What is the matter with her, and how could you make her comfortable?"

"She is a very poor girl," said Matilda, so eager that she did not know
what to bring out first;--"she lives in a cellar room with a wet mud
floor, and no bed to sleep on that is like a bed; of course she cannot
be very clean, nor have any comfort at all; and I should like to make
them comfortable."

"Who is she?"

"A very poor girl, that goes to Sunday school. But she is very good."

"Does she live there alone?"

"O there are three of them; her mother and little brother."

"Then why does not the mother earn money and live better?"

"She works for it; she sews; but the people give her almost nothing for
her work; and Sarah sweeps a crossing."

"How did you come to know all this?"

"I saw Sarah in Sunday school; and I heard about her from my teacher,
and he shewed me the place where she lives. He knows she is good."

"And what do you want to do for her?"

"I want to get her out of that place, and into a decent room, and give
her a comfortable bed."

"What is her name?"

"Sarah Staples."

"How long would she keep decent, do you think?"

"Always," said Matilda confidently. "I am sure she would be just as
nice as she possibly could. Where she is, she has no chance."

"Well, go; the witch will look into it."

Matilda went out, hardly knowing what to think, or whether she might
hope anything from this very doubtful interview. Just as she reached
the door, she was called back.

"Have you no wishes for yourself, little girl?"

"No, ma'am; thank you."

"Is there nothing in the world you would like?"

"I suppose, a great many things," said Matilda; "but I have got so many
now, I am afraid to wish."

"Why?"

"I don't think I ought to wish for anything more, for myself."

"You are the first person I ever saw, young or old, who put an 'ought'
before his wishes. Most people put it after them. Well, as a reward,
tell the one more thing, for yourself, that you would wish for if you
could have it."

Matilda thought, and hesitated. She did not at all like to tell her
thought. At last the witch urged her to speak out and be quick.

"If I were to choose--and wish for anything more," Matilda said
slowly,--"which I don't; but if I did wish for anything more, it
would be for a beautiful picture I have seen."

"Aha!" said the witch. "Where did you see it?"

"At Goupil's."

"And what picture was it?"

"It was the picture of the woman searching for the lost piece of money."

"Well. You are an odd child. You may go; and if there is anybody else
to come, let them make haste. I am as tired as if I were not a witch."

A minute after David entered the den.

"I know who you are," said the witch. "Speak your heart's desire; and
in one word, if you can."

"In one word, Hebrew."

"What of Hebrew?"

"To learn it."

"Learning is a thing I cannot do for you."

"No, but the means."

"What means?"

"Permission, time, books, and a teacher."

"You are another odd one. Is that your dearest heart's wish, David
Bartholomew?"

"I think it is the greatest I have, at present."

"Well. Leave it with me and go."

"Hallo, David!" exclaimed Norton as he came out into the hall; "the
people are all gone; the last one just had the door shut behind him."

"It's time," said David.

"Takes more than a party to shake you out of your gravity," said
Norton. "Time? why yes, it's past twelve."

"Sunday!" exclaimed Matilda.

The other three, they were together in the hall, all burst out laughing.

"It's Sunday; and Christmas is over, and the Christmas tree," said
Norton. "But the fruits keep. Extraordinary tree! Well, Pink; we have
got to go and sleep now. Do you want to take another look at the tree?"

They all went into the drawing-room which had been the scene of so much
festivity. The tree stood there yet in its tub, with ribbands and gilt
work hanging to it; but the lights were burnt out, and the splendour
was gone, and its riches were scattered. It was a thing of the past
already.

"The fruits will keep," Norton repeated. "Did you find out who the
witch was, David?"

"I thought I knew."

"I knew I knew," said Norton; "but she had somebody else to speak for
her. What a jolly witch! We shall hear from her some of these days.
Well, good night."

Kisses and thanks and good nights had to be exchanged with the older
members of the family; and Sunday was well begun when at last Matilda
shut her door behind her. She had to take one look at her watch; it was
no doubt a little beauty; and to Matilda's vision it was a very fruit
and embodiment of fairyland. Beyond even her wildest dreams of what was
possible from a Christmas tree. Her own watch! She could scarcely
believe it, even with the watch lying securely in her hand. And with
the delicate minute hand pointing but fifteen minutes off from one o'
clock, she still stood gazing and rapt. Then as the hand went on to
fourteen minutes, and thirteen, Matilda started and laid it down. To
have her own watch telling her it was time to go to bed! But she must
just look at Mrs. Bartholomew's present.

Hurriedly she untied the box and pulled off the silver paper. And
within the silver paper inside the box lay a dainty gold bracelet.

It was extremely pretty, and had cost a great deal, no doubt. It was
very kind of Judy's mother to give it. Nevertheless round the bracelet
crept a sort of cobweb of thoughts and feelings which were not all of
pleasure. It was too late to examine into them now. Matilda wrapped up
the trinket again and put it away, and went to bed; as happy as it
seemed possible for her to be.

Sunday morning was high and bright, it must be confessed, when she
awoke. Bells were ringing, the eight o' clock  bells she thought they
must be; but indeed they were the bells for Sunday school. Matilda did
not guess that, and so was not in an immediate hurry to get out of bed
and end the luxurious rest which the excitements and late hours of the
day before had made so welcome and so long. She lay still, shut her
eyes, and opened them upon the morning brightness, with a thrilling and
bounding rapture of recollection that there was a little gold watch in
her drawer which owned her for its mistress and would be her
inseparable friend and servant--and adornment--thenceforward. Matilda
lay still for very happiness. Turning her head a little towards the
window the next time she opened her eyes, it seemed to her that she saw
a picture standing there against the wall. Matilda shut her eyes and
told herself that she was not dreaming and had no business to see
visions in broad daylight. "I have been thinking so much about that
picture I suppose, and talking about it to the witch, that is the
reason I thought I saw it. But what did I see, that looked like a
picture?" She opened her eyes now and raised herself on her elbow to
look, for this was curious. More curious still! there, against the
wall, in plain view, in the broad light, stood the beautiful engraving
that had so captivated her.

"It's there!" was Matilda's thought. "The very thing! But what is it
there for?"

A half-formed suspicion made her jump out of bed very spryly and run to
the picture. There was a little ticket stuck in between the glass and
the frame.

"For Matilda Laval--with Mrs. Lloyd's thanks and approbation."

Matilda looked, rushed back into bed, and arranged herself so that she
could comfortably see the picture, while she thought about it.

"Mrs. Lloyd's thanks"--thanks for what? She must know, she must know,
about the shawl. Yes, she must; I guess mamma told her. And it is mine!
it is mine! There she is, that beautiful thing, the woman hunting for
her lost money; the odd little lamp, and all. It is mine to keep.
Certainly I ought not to wish for another thing for a whole year to
come; I have got so much. This and my watch. O delightful!--I ought to
be good! How lovely the light from that little old lamp is. And that is
the way Jesus looks for us--for people who are lost; lost in the dark.
So he looked for me, and found me. And there are such a great many
more lost, that are not found yet. Lost in the dark!--And if He cares
for them so, he must wish his servants to care too, and to look for
them, and save all they can. Then that woman with her pretty lamp just
shews me what I ought to do and how I ought to feel.--

Musing on in this way, very happy, leaning on her elbow to look at the
picture, too warm in the soft air of her room to be disturbed by the
necessity of getting dressed, Matilda noticed at last that the bells
had stopped ringing. It was eight o' clock past, she thought, and time
to get up; but she would look at her watch to see how eight o' clock
looked on its pretty white face. Lo, it was nine! Sunday schools
already beginning their services, while she stood there in her
night-gown; dressing and breakfast yet to be gone through. But the
afternoon was the time for school in the place where Matilda went; so
all was not lost.

And so ended the doings of that Christmas night.




CHAPTER III.


The experience of the morning certainly was rather scattering in its
tendency, as far as any sober thought or work was concerned. The young
people were brimful of life and fun and excitement; and it was not
possible for Matilda to escape the infection. Nevertheless after lunch
she had firmness enough left to put on her coat and hat and trudge off
to Sunday school by herself. Norton said he had not "slept out," and
would not go. Matilda went, with her little watch safe in her breast.

Getting out into the cold air and setting her feet upon the snowy
streets, had somewhat the effect of breaking a spell. For a while, that
seemed now a very long while, Matilda had been in a whirl of
expectation and pleasure and in a kind of dream of enchantment; nothing
but soft luxury and visions of delight and one thing after another to
make the child think she had got into very fairyland. But the streets
outside were not fairyland; and the sharp air pinched her cheek with a
grip which was not tender or flattering at all. The sense began to come
back to Matilda that everybody was not having such rose-coloured dreams
as she, nor living in summer-heated rooms. Nay, she saw children that
were ill dressed, on their way like her; some who were insufficiently
dressed; a multitude who were not nicely dressed; the contrast was very
unpleasant, and a certain feeling of uneasiness and of responsibility
and of desire to make other people comfortable crept over her anew.
Then she remembered that she could not reach many, she could not do
much; and she came into school and took her seat at last with a
concentrated desire to do at least something effectual towards rescuing
Sarah Staples from her miserable circumstances. After the lesson was
done and the scholars were dismissed, Matilda asked Mr. Wharncliffe if
she could speak to him?

"Is it a minute's work? or several minutes?" he inquired.

"I don't know, sir; I think, several minutes."

"Then wait a minute, and we will walk home together."

Matilda liked that, and presently in the clear late light of the waning
winter afternoon, she and her teacher sallied forth into the street
hand in hand.

"Now what is it?" he asked.

"About Sarah, Mr. Wharncliffe."

"Well? What about her?"

"I have been thinking a great deal, Mr. Wharncliffe, how to manage it;
because I had not a great deal of money myself, and I did not know
whether I could get help or no; but now I think I shall have some
help; and I wanted to consult you to know what I had best do."

"What do you want to do?"

"First, I want to get her out of that dreadful place into a comfortable
room somewhere."

"Suppose you do it, how is she going to stay in it?"

"What do you mean, sir?"

"The rent of such a room as you speak of would be, say seventy-five
cents or a dollar a week. How are Sarah and her mother to pay that?"

"O I should have to pay it for them. I could do that, I think."

"For how long?"

Matilda looked at her teacher and did not immediately answer. She had
not looked ahead so far as that.

"It is necessary to take all things into consideration," he said,
answering her look. "You would not wish to put Sarah and her mother
into a place of comfort for a little while, merely to let them fall out
of it again?"

"O no, sir!"

"How are they to be maintained in it?"

Matilda pondered.

"I could take care of the rent, I think, I mean we could, for a
while; for a year, perhaps; by that time couldn't they pay it, don't
you think?"

"How?"

"By their work; by their earnings."

"But now, and for a long time past, their work has not enabled them to
pay for anything better than they have got."

"Couldn't they do something better, Mr. Wharncliffe? something else?
that would give them more money?"

"What work could you help them to, that would pay better?"

"I don't know, sir," said Matilda, looking up wistfully in her
teacher's face. "I don't know anything about such things. Can you
tell me? What work is there that they could get. What the other poor
people do?"

"There are other things," said Mr. Wharncliffe thoughtfully. "There are
better and better paying sorts of sewing; what Mrs. Staples does is
very coarse, and she gets very little for it. But machine work
now-a-days puts hand work at a disadvantage."

"What is machine work, sir?"

"Work done on a sewing machine. With a machine a woman can do I
suppose, ten times as much in a day, and with more ease to herself."

"Well, wouldn't Mrs. Staples work on a machine?"

"I do not know. I think she used to take in washing once. She could do
that again, if she had a better room and conveniences."

"And does that pay better?"

"I believe so. Indeed I am sure."

"Then she might do washing," said Matilda; "and Sarah might sew on a
machine, Mr. Wharncliffe."

"She has not got one, you know."

"If we could get her one? Wouldn't that be nice, Mr. Wharncliffe?"

"My dear child, a good sewing machine costs a good deal of money."

"But if we could, Mr. Wharncliffe? I said if."

"Nothing could be better. Perhaps, by and by, it might be managed. In
the mean time, Sarah might learn, and possibly get work; or get a
machine and pay for it gradually by doing work for the makers. Such
arrangements are made."

"How much does a sewing machine cost?"

"From forty five to sixty dollars."

"Forty five," repeated Matilda gravely. "But, Mr. Wharncliffe, in the
first place the thing to do is to get them out of that place into a new
room. Might we not do that? and don't you think the rest can be
managed, somehow?"

"If we do that, the rest must be managed, if possible. It is always
greater kindness and a far greater benefit, Matilda, to help poor
people to take care of themselves, than to save them that care."

"Why, sir?"

"People are better and happier and stronger, working for their living
and earning it, and keeping the sense of independence, than they are
when living on the money of other people and losing their own
self-respect. That is very ruinous to character. Avoid it always, in
all your efforts to help people."

"Yes, I see," said Matilda thoughtfully. "But, Mr. Wharncliffe, Sarah
and her mother cannot do anything to get in a better way while they
live in that cellar. They want some help just at first. Don't they?"

"Certainly; and I think we have struck the right line of action to
pursue for them. Help to put them in the way of being comfortably
independent, is just what they want."

"Then the first thing is a lodging," said Matilda, with a relieved and
brightening face. "How can we find one, Mr. Wharncliffe? I don't want
them to know about it till we get it all settled and ready for them to
move into."

"Ready for them?" said Mr. Wharncliffe inquiringly.

"Yes, sir; you know they have nothing to put into a nice room now, if
they had one."

"Aren't you laying plans beyond your means?"

"Beyond mine; but I shall have some help. I don't know exactly how
much, but some."

"Well, you will let me help too if necessary," said the gentleman. "And
I will look out for a lodging."

"O thank you! Will you, sir?"

"To be sure. That is one way I am going to help."

"And when you have found one, you will let me know?"

"Whom else? Certainly, I will. I shall take no step without your
direction."

"O thank you, sir!" said Matilda again.

They had been walking up the Avenue during this talk, to have
uninterrupted time for it; now they had turned about to come home.
Clear and bright and cold the sun was leaving the streets and lingering
about the house roofs and chimneys; and the steeples of churches were
shining marks of light on one side, on the other dark spires against
the western sky. Mr. Wharncliffe and Matilda quickened their steps,
which the frosty air made it pleasant to do. She supposed that the
subject of their conversation was ended for the present, and so was
somewhat surprised to hear the next question from her companion. It
came out after some little pause.

"Matilda what has put this in your head?"

"This we have been talking of? Why I wanted to make Sarah comfortable.
I could not bear to have her in that dreadful place. Mr. Wharncliffe,
don't you think it is dreadful?"

"I do think it is dreadful; and your feeling very natural. Then you
want to go to this expense and trouble for the comfort of knowing that
she is comfortable?"

"I think so," said Matilda, somewhat puzzled. "I could not bear to
think of her there."

"All perfectly right, Matilda," said her friend smiling. "I only want,
while you are taking care of Sarah, to take care of you."

"How, sir?"

"There are so many ways in which good things may be done; and I wish
you to take the best."

"What ways do you mean, sir? I do not understand."

"There is one way of doing kind things, merely or chiefly to save one's
self from the uncomfortable feeling that the sight of misery gives.
Kind people of that sort are benevolent in spots, just when they see or
hear of something that touches them, and never at any other time.
Others do kind things because they like to have a name for generosity,
and giving money costs them nothing."

Matilda looked inquiringly up in Mr. Wharncliffe's face. "It made me
very uncomfortable to see Sarah in that place," she said; "and to think
of her in it."

"A third sort of kindness," Mr. Wharncliffe went on smiling, "is done
because people love the Lord Jesus, and so love all whom he loves, and
like to do the work he wants done."

"But it makes them feel badly to see people suffering?" said Matilda.

"Undoubtedly. They are the tenderest of all. But they will do as much
for people they never saw, as for those at hand; and their spring of
kindness never dries up. It is a perpetual flow. When they do not see
objects on which to spend it, they seek them out."

Matilda pondered matters a little. Then she lifted a very honest face
towards her companion.

"Which reason did you think made me want to do this for Sarah, sir?"

