the room, muttering to himself. "If he disobeys my orders, I'll thrash
him worse than--Hasbrook was thrashed."

"It is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime, and revolting to the
instincts of a gentleman," added Laud.

"Do you mean to say that I am suspected of a crime, you long-eared
puppy?" yelled the captain.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Shivernock, but it isn't agreeable to a
gentleman to be called by such opprobrious names," said Laud, rising
from his chair, and taking his round-top hat from the table. "I am
willing to leave you, but not to be insulted."

Laud looked like the very impersonation of dignity itself, as he walked
towards the door.

"Stop!" yelled the captain.

"I do not know that any one but Hasbrook suspects you of a crime," Laud
explained.

"I'm glad he does suspect me," added the strange man, more gently.
"Whoever did that job served him just right, and I envy the man that did
it."

"Still, it is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime."

"It wasn't a crime."

"People call it so; but I sympathize with you, for like you I am
suspected of a crime, of which, like yourself, I am innocent."

"Are you, indeed? And what may your crime be, Mr. Cavendish?"

"It is in this connection that I wish to state my particular business
with you."

"Go on and state it, and don't be all night about it."

"I may add that I also came to warn you against the movements of
Hasbrook. I will begin at the beginning."

"Begin, then; and don't go round Cape Horn in doing it," snarled the
captain.

"I will, sir. Captain Patterdale--"

"Another miserable psalm-singer. Is he in the scrape?"

"He is, sir. He has lost a tin box, which contained nearly fourteen
hundred dollars in cash, besides many valuable papers."

"I'm glad of it; and I hope he never will find it," was the kindly
expression of the eccentric nabob for the Christian nabob. "Was the box
lost or stolen?"

"Stolen, sir."

"So much the better. I hope the thief will never be discovered."

Laud did not say how he happened to know that the tin box had been
stolen, for Captain Patterdale, the deputy sheriff, and Nellie were
supposed to be the only persons who had any knowledge of the fact.

"It appears that in this tin box there was a certain fifty-dollar bill,
which had been torn into four parts, and mended by pasting two strips of
paper upon it, one extending from right to left, and the other from top
to bottom, on the back."

"Eh?" interposed the wicked nabob. "Wait a minute."

The captain opened an iron safe in the room, and from a drawer took out
a handful of bank bills. From these he selected three, and tossed them
on the table.

"Like those?" he inquired, with interest.

"Exactly like them," replied Laud, astonished to find that each was the
counterpart of the one he had paid Donald for the Juno, and had the
"white cross of Denmark" upon it.

"Do you know how those bills happened to be in that condition, Mr.
Cavendish?" chuckled the captain.

"Of course I do not, sir."

"I'll tell you, my gay buffer. I have got a weak, soft place somewhere
in my gizzard; I don't know where; if I did, I'd cut it out. About three
months ago, just after I brought from Portland one hundred of these new
fifty-dollar bills, there was a great cry here for money for some
missionary concern. I read something in the newspaper, at this time,
about what some of the missionaries had done for a lot of sailors who
had been cast away on the South Sea Islands. I thought more of the
psalm-singers than ever before, and I was tempted to do something for
them. Well, I actually wrote to some parson here who was howling for
money, and stuck four of those bills between the leaves. I think it is
very likely I should have sent them to the parson, if I hadn't been
called out of the room. I threw the note, with the bills in it, on the
table, and went out to see a pair of horses a jockey had driven into the
yard for me to look at. When I came back and glanced at the note, I
thought what a fool I had been, to think of giving money to those
canting psalm-singers. I was mad with myself for my folly, and I tore
the note into four pieces before I thought that the bills were in it.
But Mrs. Sykes mended them as you see. Go on with your yarn, my buffer."

"That bill I paid to Don John for the Juno," continued Laud. "He paid it
to Mr. Leach, the sail-maker, who paid it to Captain Patterdale, and he
says it was one of the bills in the tin chest when it was stolen. Don
John says he had it from me."

"Precisely so; and that is what makes it unpleasant to be suspected of a
crime," laughed Captain Shivernock. "But you don't state where you got
the bill, Mr. Cavendish. Perhaps you don't wish to tell."

"I shall tell the whole story with the greatest pleasure," added Laud.
"I was sailing one day down by Haddock Ledge, when I saw a man tumble
overboard from a boat moored where he had been fishing. He was staving
drunk, and went forward, as I thought, to get up his anchor. The boat
rolled in the sea, and over he went. I got him out. The cold water
sobered him in a measure, and he was very grateful to me. He went to his
coat, which he did not wear when he fell, and took from his pocket a
roll of bills. He counted off ten fifties, and gave them to me. Feeling
sure that I had saved his life, I did not think five hundred dollars was
any too much to pay for it, and I took the money. I don't think he would
have given me so much if he hadn't been drunk. I asked him who he was,
but he would not tell me, saying he didn't want his friends in Boston
to know he had been over the bay, and in the bay; but he said he had
been staying in Belfast a couple of days."

"Good story!" laughed the wicked nabob.

"Every word of it is as true as preaching," protested Laud.

"Just about," added the captain, who hadn't much confidence in
preaching.

"You can see, Captain Shivernock, that I am in an awkward position,"
added Laud. "I have no doubt the man I saved was the one who stole the
tin box. He paid me with the stolen bills."

"It is awkward, as you say," chuckled the strange man. "I suppose you
wouldn't know the fellow you saved if you saw him."

"O, yes, I think I should," exclaimed Laud. "But suppose, when Captain
Patterdale comes to me to inquire where I got the marked bill, I should
tell him this story. He wouldn't believe a word of it."

"He would be a fool if he did," exclaimed Captain Shivernock, with a
coarse grin. "Therefore, my gay buffer, don't tell it to him."

"But I must tell him where I got the bill," pleaded Laud.

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the eccentric, shaking his sides as though they
were agitated by a young earthquake. "Tell him I gave you the bill!"

The captain seemed to be intensely amused at the novel idea; and Laud
did not object; on the contrary, he seemed to appreciate the joke. It
was midnight when he left the house, and went to the Juno to sleep in
her cabin. If he had gone home earlier in the evening, he might have
seen Captain Patterdale, who did him the honor to make a late call upon
him.




CHAPTER XV.

LAUD CAVENDISH TAKES CARE OF HIMSELF.


Donald did not sleep very well in the cabin of the Maud, not only
because his bed was very hard and uncomfortable, but because he was
troubled; and before morning he fully realized the truth of the saying,
in regard to certain persons, that "they choose darkness, because their
deeds are evil." He wished he had not consented to keep the secret of
either Captain Shivernock or Laud Cavendish, and was afraid he had
compromised himself by his silence. When he turned out in the morning,
he believed he had hardly slept a wink all night, though he had actually
slumbered over six hours; but a person who lies awake in the darkness,
especially if his thoughts are troublesome, lengthens minutes into
hours. But Donald welcomed the morning light when he awoke, and the
bright sun which streamed through the trunk ports. He went to the shop,
and for two hours before his men arrived worked on the tender of the
Maud.

The mast of the yacht was stepped during the forenoon, and after dinner
the rigger came to do his part of the work. Samuel Rodman was now so
much interested in the progress of the labor on the new yacht, that he
spent nearly all his time on board of her. The top mast, gaff, and boom
were all ready to go into their places, and the Maud looked as though
she was nearly completed. All the members of the Yacht Club were
impatient for her to be finished, for the next regatta had been
postponed a week, so that the Maud could take part in the affair; and
the club were to go on a cruise for ten days, after the race.

There was no little excitement in the club in relation to the Maud.
Donald had confidently asserted his belief, weeks before, that she would
outsail the Skylark, not as a mere boast, but as a matter of business.
His father had made an improvement upon the model of the Sea Foam, which
he was reasonably certain would give her the advantage. The young
boat-builder had also remedied a slight defect in the arrangement of
the centre-board in the Maud, had added a little to the size of the jib
and mainsail, and he hoped these alterations would tell in favor of the
new craft, while they would not take anything from her stiffness in
heavy weather.

"I believe the old folks are as much interested in the next race as the
members of the club, Don John," said Rodman, one day, as he came upon
the wharf.

"I am glad they are," replied Donald, laughing. "It will make business
good for Ramsay & Son."

"Half a dozen of them are going to make up a first prize of one hundred
dollars for the regatta; so that the winner of the race will make a good
thing by it," added Rodman.

"That will be a handsome prize."

"If the Maud takes it, Don John, the money shall be yours, as you are to
sail her."

"O, no!" exclaimed Donald. "I don't believe in that. The prize will
belong to the boat."

"If you win the race in the Maud, I shall be satisfied with the glory,
without any of the spoils."

"Well, we won't quarrel about it now, for she may not win the first
prize."

"Well, the same gentlemen will give a second prize of fifty dollars,"
continued Rodman. "But don't you expect to get the first prize, Don
John?"

"I do; but to expect is not always to win, you know."

"You have always talked as though you felt pretty sure of coming in
first," said Rodman, who did not like to see any abatement of confidence
on the part of the boat-builder.

"It is the easiest thing in the world to be mistaken, Sam. If the Maud
loses the first prize, I may as well shut up shop, and take a situation
in a grocery store, for my business would be ruined."

"Not quite so bad as that, I hope," added Rodman.

"Mr. Norwood is waiting to see how she sails, before he orders a yacht
for Frank. Can't you invite Frank and his father to sail with us in the
race?"

"Certainly, if you desire it, Don John," replied Rodman. "Mr. Norwood is
a big man, and he will be a capital live weight for us, if it happens to
blow fresh."

"I hope it will blow; if it don't, the Christabel is sure of the first
prize. I want just such a day as we had when the Sea Foam cleaned out
the Skylark."

"That was a little too much of a good thing. You came pretty near taking
the mast out of the Sea Foam that day."

"Not at all; our masts don't come out so easily as that, though I think
the mast of the Sea Foam would snap before she would capsize."

"I like that in a boat; it is a good thing to have a craft that will
stay right side up. The fellows have got another idea, Don John."

"Well, ideas are good things to have. What is it now?" asked Donald.

"They are going to build a club-house over on Turtle Head."

"On Turtle Head! Why don't they have it down on Manhegan?" which is an
island ten miles from the coast of Maine.

"It will be only a shanty, where the fellows can have a good time, and
get up chowders. They talk of hiring a hall in the city, and having
meetings for mutual improvement during the fall and winter."

"That will be a capital idea."

"We can have a library of books on nautical and other subjects, take the
newspapers and magazines, and hang up pictures of yachts and other
vessels on the walls. I hope, when you get the Maud done, you will not
be so busy, Don John, for you don't attend many of our club meetings."

"I hope to be busier than ever. You see, Sam, I can't afford to run with
you rich fellows. I don't wear kid gloves," laughed Donald.

"No matter if you don't; you are just as good a fellow as any of them."

"Everybody uses me first rate; as well as though my father had been a
nabob."

"Well, they ought to; for it is brains, not money, that makes the man.
We want to see more of you in the club. You must go with us on our long
cruise."

"I am afraid I can't spare the time. Ten days is a good while; but it
will depend upon whether I get the job to build Mr. Norwood's yacht."

Donald would gladly have spent more time with the club, but his
conscience would not permit him to neglect his business. He felt that
his success depended entirely upon his own industry and diligence; and
he never left his work, except when the occasion fully justified him in
doing so. He attended all the regattas as a matter of business, as well
as of pleasure; and he had seen the Sea Foam beaten twice by the
Skylark since he won the memorable race in the former. Edward Patterdale
was fully satisfied, now, that a skilful boatman was as necessary as a
fast boat, in order to win the honors of the club, and he wished Donald
to "coach" him, until he obtained the skill to compete with the
commodore. Donald had promised to do it, as soon as he had time, and the
owner of the Sea Foam hoped the opportunity would be afforded during the
long cruise.

The work on the Maud was hurried forward as rapidly as was consistent
with thoroughness, and in a few days she was ready for the last coats of
paint. The boat-builder was favored with good, dry weather, and on the
day before the great regatta, she was ready to receive her furniture and
stores. The paint was dry and hard; but when the stove-dealer came with
the little galley for the cook-room, the deck was carefully covered with
old cloths, the cushions were placed on the transoms, the oil-cloth
carpet was laid on the floor by Kennedy, who was experienced in this
kind of work, and Samuel Rodman was as busy as a bee arranging the
crockery ware and stores which he had purchased. It only remained to
bend on the sails, which was accomplished early in the afternoon.

With Mr. Rodman, Samuel, and the two workmen on board, Donald made a
trial trip in the new craft. The party went down the bay as far as Seal
Harbor; but the wind was rather light for her, and she had no
opportunity to show her sailing qualities, though with her gaff-topsail
and the balloon-jib, she walked by everything afloat that day.

"I am entirely satisfied with her, Don John," said Mr. Rodman, as the
Maud approached the city on her return. "I think she will sail well."

"I hope she will, sir," replied Donald. "To-morrow will prove what there
is in her."

"She is well built and handsomely finished, and whether she wins the
race or not I shall be satisfied. I never looked upon a handsomer yacht
in my life. You have done your work admirably, Don John."

"Mr. Kennedy did the joiner work," said Donald, willing to have his
foreman, as he called him, share the honors of the day.

"He did it well."

"I only did just what my boss ordered me to do," laughed Kennedy; "and
I want to say, that I didn't do the first thing towards planning any
part of her. Don John hasn't often asked for any advice from me. He is
entitled to all the credit."

"I have no doubt you did all you could to make the job a success," added
Mr. Rodman.

"I did; and so did Walker," said Kennedy, indicating the other ship
carpenter. "Both of us did our very best, never idling a moment, or
making a bad joint; and I can say, there isn't a better built craft in
the United States than this yacht. Not a knot or a speck of rot has been
put into her. Everything has been done upon honor, and she will be stiff
enough to cross the Atlantic in mid-winter. I'd rather be in her than in
many a ship I've worked on."

"I'm glad to know all this," replied Mr. Rodman. "Now, Don John, if the
firm of Ramsay & Son is ready to deliver the Maud, I will give you a
check for the balance due on her."

Donald was all ready, and after the yacht had been moored off the wharf
where she had been completed, the business was transacted in the shop. A
bill of sale was given, and the boat-builder received a check for four
hundred dollars, which he carried into the house and showed to his
mother. Of course the good lady was delighted with the success of her
son, and Barbara laughed till she shook her curls into a fearful snarl.

"You have done well, Donald," said Mrs. Ramsay. "I thank God that you
have been so successful."

"I have paid nearly all my bills, and I shall make about two hundred and
fifty dollars on the job," added the young boat-builder. "I think I can
build the next one for less money."

"You may not get another one to build, my son."

"That depends upon the race to-morrow. If I beat the Skylark, I'm sure
of one."

"Don't be too confident."

"I am to sail the Maud to-morrow, and if there is any speed in her, as I
think there is, I shall get it out of her. To-morrow will be a big day
for me; but if I lose the race, the firm of Ramsay & Son is used up."

Donald put the check in his wallet, and went out to the shop again,
where he found Samuel Rodman looking for him. The owner of the Maud was
so delighted with the craft, that he could not keep away from her, and
he wanted to go on board again.

"Bob Montague is going to give you a hard pull to-morrow, Don John,"
said Rodman, as they got into the tender.

"I hope he will do his best; and the harder the pull, the better,"
replied Donald.

"If we only beat him," suggested Rodman.

"I expect to beat him; but I may be mistaken."

"Bob hauled up the Skylark on the beach this afternoon, and rubbed her
bottom with black lead."

"I am glad to hear it."

"Glad? Why?"

"It proves that he means business."

"Of course he means business."

"I wonder if he knows I am to build a yacht for Mr. Norwood, in case I
win this race."

"I don't believe he does. I never heard of it till you told me."

"He is such a splendid fellow, that I was afraid he would let me beat
him, if he knew I was to make anything by it."

"I think it very likely he would."

"But I want to beat the Skylark fairly, or not at all."

"There comes Laud Cavendish," said Rodman, as the Juno came up the bay,
and bore down upon the Maud. "He was blackballed in the club the other
day, and he don't feel good. Let's go ashore again, and wait till he
sheers off, for I don't want to see him. He will be sure to go on board
of the yacht if we are there, for he is always poking his nose in where
he is not wanted."

Donald, who was at the oars, pulled back to the shore. The Juno ran
close up to the Maud, tacked, and stood up the bay.

"He is gone," said Rodman. "I don't want him asking me why he was
blackballed. He is an intolerable spoony."

"Don John!" called some one, as he was shoving off the tender.

Donald looked up, and saw Mr. Beardsley, the deputy sheriff, who had
been working up the tin box case with Captain Patterdale.

"I want to see you," added the officer.

Donald wondered if Mr. Beardsley wanted to see him officially; but he
was thankful that he was able to look even a deputy sheriff square in
the face.

He jumped out of the tender, and Rodman went off to the yacht alone. We
are somewhat better informed than the young boat-builder in regard to
the visit of the sheriff, and we happen to know that he did come
officially; and in order to explain why it was so, it is necessary to go
back to the point where we left Mr. Laud Cavendish. He slept in the
cabin of the Juno after he left the house of Captain Shivernock. He did
not sleep any better than Donald Ramsay that night; and the long surges
rolled in by the paddle-wheels of the steamer Richmond, as she came into
the harbor early the next morning, awoke him.

The first thing he thought of was his visit to the house of the strange
man; the next was his breakfast, and he decided to go on shore, and get
the meal at a restaurant. The Juno was moored near the steamboat wharf,
where the Portland boat made her landings. This was a convenient place
for him to disembark, and he pulled in his tender to the pier. As he
approached the landing steps, he saw Captain Shivernock hastening down
the wharf with a valise in his hand. It was evident that he was going up
the river, perhaps to Bangor. Laud did not like the idea of the
captain's going away just at that time. Donald had told Captain
Patterdale that the mended bill came from him, and of course the owner
of the tin box would immediately come to him for further information.

"Then, if I tell him Captain Shivernock gave it to me, he will want to
see him; and he won't be here to be seen," reasoned Laud. "I can't
explain why the captain gave me the money, and in his absence I shall be
in a bad fix. I must take care of myself."

Laud went to the restaurant, and ate his breakfast; after which he
returned to the Juno. He took care of himself by getting under way, and
standing over towards Castine, where he dined that day. Then he
continued his voyage down the bay, through Edgemoggin Reach to Mount
Desert, where he staid several days, living upon "the fat of the land"
and the fish of the sea, which go well together. When he was confident
that Captain Shivernock had returned, he sailed for Belfast, and arrived
after a two days' voyage. The strange man had not come back, and Laud
thought it very singular that he had not. Then he began to wonder why
the captain had laughed so unreasonably long and loud when he told him
to say that he had given him the mended bill. Laud could not see the
joke at the time; but now he concluded that the laugh came in because
he was going away on a long journey, and would not be in town to answer
any questions which Captain Patterdale might propose.

Mr. Cavendish was disturbed, and felt that he was a victim of a
practical joke, and he determined to get out of the way again.
Unfortunately for him, he had shown himself in the city, and before he
could leave he was interviewed by Captain Patterdale and Mr. Beardsley.
The white cross of Denmark was pleasantly alluded to again by the
former, and exhibited to Laud. Did he know that bill? Had he ever seen
it before?

He did not know it; had never seen it.

It was no use to say, in the absence of that gentleman, that Captain
Shivernock had given him the bill. It would be equally foolish to tell
the Haddock Ledge story in the absence of the generous stranger, who had
declined to give his name, though he was kind enough to say that he had
spent a few days in Belfast. Since neither of these fictions was
available in the present emergency, Laud "went back" on Donald Ramsay.
He did not love the boat-builder, and so it was not a sacrifice of
personal feeling for him to do it. On the contrary, he would rather
like to get his "rival," as he chose to regard him, out of the way.

"But you paid him a considerable sum of money some two months ago,"
suggested Captain Patterdale.

"Not a red!" protested Laud. "I never paid him any money in my life."

"You bought the Juno of him."

"No, sir; nor of any one else. She don't belong to me."

"But you are using her all the time."

"Captain Shivernock got tired of her, and lets me have the use of her
for taking care of her."

"Didn't you say you owned her, and that you were going to change her
name from Juno to Nellie?" demanded the captain, sternly.

"I did; but that was all gas," replied Laud, with a sickly grin.

"If you would lie about one thing, perhaps you would about another,"
said the captain.

"I was only joking when I said I owned the Juno. If you will go up to
Captain Shivernock's house, he will tell you all about it."

That was a plain way to solve the problem, and they went to the strange
man's house. Laud knew the captain was not at home; but his persecutors
gave him the credit of suggesting this step. Sykes and his wife were at
home. They did not know whether or not Captain Shivernock had given Laud
the use of the Juno, but presumed he had, for the young man was in the
house with him half the night, about ten days before. Thus far
everything looked well for Laud; and the Sykeses partially confirmed his
statements.

"Now, Captain Patterdale, I have answered all your questions, and I wish
you would answer mine. What's the matter?" said Laud, putting on his
boldest face.

"Never mind what the matter is."

"Well, I know as well as you do. I used to think Don John was a good
fellow, and liked him first rate. I didn't think he would be mean,
enough to shove his own guilt upon me," replied Laud.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Captain Patterdale.

"Though I knew about it all the time, I didn't mean to say a word."

"About what?"



"About your tin trunk. We didn't keep any such in our store! I knew what
you meant all the time; but I didn't let on that Don John had done it."

"Done what?"

"Stolen it. That day I was in the library with Don John and Hasbrook, I
was discharged from Miller's, because I wanted to go away to stay over
Sunday. I had a boat down by Ramsay's shop, and I went there to get off.
Well, captain, I saw Don John have the same tin trunk I saw in your
library."

"Are you telling the truth?"

"Of course I am. I wouldn't go back on Don John if he hadn't tried to
lay it to me. If you search his house and shop, I'll bet you'll find the
tin trunk, or some of the money and papers."

Captain Patterdale was intensely grieved, even to believe Laud's
statement was possibly true; but he decided to have the boat-builder's
premises searched before he proceeded any further against Laud. Mr.
Beardsley was to do this unpleasant duty, and for this purpose he called
on Donald the night before the great race.

The deputy sheriff did his work thoroughly, in spite of the confidence
of Donald and the distress of his mother and sister. Perhaps he would
not have discovered the four fifty-dollar bills concealed in the bureau
if Donald had not assisted him; but he had no help in finding a lot of
notes and other papers hidden under a sill in the shop. The boat-builder
protested that he knew nothing about these papers, and had never seen
them before in his life.

Mrs. Ramsay and Barbara wept as though their hearts would break; but
Donald was led away by the sheriff.

That night Captain Shivernock returned by the train from Portland.




CHAPTER XVI.

SATURDAY COVE.


Mr. Beardsley, the deputy sheriff, conducted Donald to the elegant
mansion of Captain Patterdale. Perhaps no one who saw them walking
together suspected that the boat-builder was charged with so gross a
crime as stealing the tin box and its valuable contents. Some persons do
not like to walk through the streets with sheriffs and policemen; but
Donald was not of that sort, for in spite of all the evidence brought
against him, he obstinately refused to believe that he was guilty. Even
the fact that several notes and other papers had been found in the shop
did not impair his belief in his own innocence. Captain Patterdale was
in his library nervously awaiting the return of the officer, when they
arrived.

"Don John, I hope you will come out of this all right," said he, as they
entered.

"I have no doubt I shall, sir," replied Donald. "If I don't, it will be
because I can't prove what is the truth."

Mr. Beardsley reported the result of the search, and handed the captain
the four fifty-dollar bills with the papers.

"I have no doubt all these were in the tin box," said the nabob, sadly.
"The bills are like those paid me by Hasbrook, and these notes are
certainly mine. I don't ask you to commit yourself, Don John, but--"

"Commit myself!" exclaimed Donald, with a look of contempt, which, in
this connection, was sublime. "I mean to speak the truth, whether I am
committed or not."

"Perhaps you will be able to clear this thing up," added Captain
Patterdale. "I wish to ask you a few questions."

"I will answer them truly. The only wrong I have done was to conceal
what I thought there was no harm in concealing."

"It is not wise to do things in the dark."

"You will excuse me, sir, but you have done the same thing. If I had
known that your tin box was stolen, I should have understood several
things which are plain to me now."

"What, for instance?"

"If I had known it, I should have brought these bills to you as soon as
Laud paid them to me, to see if they belonged to you. And I should have
known why Laud was digging clams on Turtle Head."

"Laud says he paid you no money."

"He paid me three hundred and fifty dollars for the Juno--these four
bills and the three I paid Mr. Leach."

"He persists that he don't own the Juno, and says that Captain
Shivernock lets him have the use of her for taking care of her,"
continued the nabob.

Donald's face, which had thus far been clouded with anxiety, suddenly
lighted up with a cheerful smile, as he produced the cover of an old
tuck-diary, which contained the papers of Ramsay & Son. He opened it,
and took therefrom the bill of sale of the Juno, in the well-known
writing of Captain Shivernock.

"Does that prove anything?" he asked, as he tossed the paper on the
desk, within reach of the inquisitor.

"It proves that Captain Shivernock sold the Juno to you, and
consequently he has not owned her since the date of this bill," replied
the nabob, as he read the paper.

"Is it likely, then, that Captain Shivernock lets Laud have the use of
her for taking care of her?" demanded Donald, warmly.

"Certainly not."

"Is it any more likely that, if I own the Juno, I should let Laud use
her for nothing, for he says he never paid me a dollar?"

"I don't think it is."

"Then you can believe as much as you please of the rest of Laud's story,
which Mr. Beardsley related to me as we walked up," added Donald.

"He says he saw you have the tin box, Don John."

"And I saw him digging clams in the loam on Turtle Head."

"What do you mean by that?"

"I think he buried the tin box there. I saw where he had been digging,
but I didn't know any tin box had been stolen then, and thought nothing
of it," answered Donald.

At this moment there was a tremendous ring at the door bell, a ring
that evidently "meant business." Captain Patterdale opened the door
himself, and Captain Shivernock stalked into the room as haughtily as
though he owned the elegant mansion. He had been to Newport and Cape May
to keep cool, and had arrived a couple of hours before from Portland.
Mrs. Sykes had told him all the news she could in this time, and among
other things informed him that Captain Patterdale and the deputy sheriff
had called to inquire whether Laud had the use of the boat for taking
care of her. By this he knew that the tin trunk matter was under
investigation. He was interested, and possibly he was alarmed; at any
rate, he went to his safe, put the roll of fifty-dollar bills in his
pocket, and hastened over to Captain Patterdale's house.

"When people come to my house, and I'm not at home, I don't like to have
them talk to my servants about my affairs," blustered the strange man.

"I don't think we meddled with your affairs any further than to ask if
Laud Cavendish had the use of the Juno for taking care of her,"
explained Captain Patterdale.

"It don't concern you. Laud Cavendish does have the use of the Juno for
taking care of her."

"Indeed!" exclaimed the good nabob, glancing at Donald.

"Indeed!" sneered the wicked nabob. "You needn't indeed anything I
say. I can speak the truth better than you psalm-singers."

"I am very glad you can, Captain Shivernock, for that is what we are in
need of just now," laughed the good nabob. "And since we have meddled
with your affairs in your absence, it is no more than right that we
should explain the reason for doing so. A tin box, containing nearly
fourteen hundred dollars in bills, and many valuable papers, was stolen
from this room. Three persons, Jacob Hasbrook, Laud Cavendish, and Don
John here, passed through the library when they left the house."

"Hasbrook stole it; he is the biggest scoundrel of the three," added the
wicked nabob.

"Perhaps not," continued the good nabob. "A bill which I can identify
came back to me the other day. Don John paid it to Mr. Leach, and he to
me. Don John says Laud Cavendish paid him the bill."

"And so he did," protested Donald, as the captain glanced at him.

"And I gave it to Laud Cavendish," added Captain Shivernock; thus
carrying out the programme which had been agreed upon the night before
he went on his journey.

Possibly, if Mr. Laud Cavendish had known that the wicked nabob had
returned, he would have hastened to see him, and inform him of the
change he had made in the programme. If he had done so, their stories
might have agreed better. Captain Patterdale, Mr. Beardsley, and Donald
were astonished at this admission.

"For what did you pay it to him?" asked the good nabob.

"None of your business what I paid it to him for. That's my affair,"
bluffed the wicked nabob.

"But this bill was in the box."

"But how do you know it was? I suppose you will say next that I stole
the box."

"I hope you will assist me in tracing out this matter," said the good
nabob, as he produced the mended bill. "This is the one; I call it the
white cross of Denmark."

Captain Shivernock picked up the bill, and took from his pocket his own
roll of fifties.

"You must admit that the bill is peculiar enough to be easily
identified," added Captain Patter dale.

"I don't admit it," said the strange man, as he threw the four mended
bills together on the desk.

"Now, which is it?"

The wicked nabob laughed and roared in his delight when he saw the
confusion of the good nabob.

"They are very like," said the good.

"But three of them are mine, and haven't been out of my hands since the
'white cross of Denmark' was put upon them," added the wicked, still
shaking his sides with mirth.

"Still I can identify the one that was in the box. That is it;" and
Captain Patterdale held up the right one. "This has been folded, while
yours have simply been rolled, and have not a crease in them. Hasbrook
paid me the money that was stolen."

"The villain swindled it out of me," growled the wicked.

"But he folded his money, however he got it," continued the good.

"I can bring you a dozen bills with the white cross on them," blustered
the wicked, "and all of them folded like that one."

"Can you tell where you got it, captain?"

"From the bank," replied he, promptly; and then more to have his hit at
the missionaries than to explain the white cross, he told how the bills
were torn. "That's all I have to say," he added; and he stalked out of
the house, in spite of the host's request for him to remain, without
giving a word or even a look to Donald.

"I am astonished," said Captain Patterdale. "Can it be possible that he
paid that bill to Laud?"

Perhaps this was the joke of the strange man--simply to confuse and
confound a "psalm-singer."

"It looks as though we had lost the clew," said the deputy sheriff. "At
any rate, Don John's story is confirmed."

"Why should the captain give Laud so much money?" mused the nabob.

"I know," said Donald. "I told you, in the first place, that I knew
where Laud got the money to pay for the Juno; but it was a great secret
affecting another person, and he wished me not to tell."

"I remember that, Don John," added the captain.

"He told me that Captain Shivernock gave him the money; but he would not
tell me why he gave it to him; but I knew without any telling, for the
captain gave me sixty dollars, besides the Juno, for holding my tongue."

"About what?" asked the nabob, deeply interested in the narrative.

"I don't understand the matter myself; but I will state all the facts,
though Captain Shivernock threatened to kill me if I did so. On the
morning after the Hasbrook outrage, while I was waiting on Turtle Head
for the Yacht Club to arrive, the captain came to the Head, saying he
had walked over from Seal Harbor, where he had got aground in his boat.
I sailed him down, and on the way he gave me the money. Then he said I
was not to mention the fact that I had seen him on Long Island, or
anywhere else. I didn't make any promises, and told him I wouldn't lie
about it. Then he gave me the Juno, and took my boat, which he returned
that night. After I went up in the Juno, I met Laud, and offered to sell
him the boat. When we parted, he stood over towards the Northport shore,
where Captain Shivernock had gone, and I thought they would meet; but I
lost sight of them."

"Then you think the captain paid Laud the money when they met."

"That was what I supposed when Laud paid me for the boat. I believed it
was all right. I had a talk with Laud afterwards about it, and I told
him how he got the money. He did not deny what I said."

"This was the morning after the Hasbrook outrage--was it?" asked Mr.
Beardsley.

"Yes, it was; but I knew nothing about that till night."

"We can easily understand why the captain did not want to be seen near
Lincolnville," added the sheriff. "It was he who pounded Hasbrook for
swindling him."

"No, sir; I think not," interposed Donald. "I inquired into that matter
myself. Mr. Sykes and his wife both told me, before the captain got
home, that he left his house at four o'clock in the morning."

"I am afraid they were instructed to say that," said the nabob.

"They shall have a chance to say it in court under oath," added the
officer; "for I will arrest the captain to-morrow for the outrage. I
traced the steps of a man over to Saturday Cove, in Northport, and that
is where he landed."

"Was it the print of the captain's boot?" asked the nabob.

"No; but I have a theory which I shall work up to-morrow. Don John's
evidence is the first I have obtained, that amounts to anything."

"If he pounded Hasbrook, why should he run over to Seal Harbor, when he
had a fair wind to come up?" asked Donald.

"To deceive you, as it seems he has," laughed Mr. Beardsley. "Probably
getting aground deranged his plans."

"But he ran over to Northport after we parted."

"Because it was a better place to conceal himself during the day. Sykes
says he went down to Vinal Haven that day. I know he did not. Now, Don
John, we must go to Turtle Head to-night, and see about that box."

"I am ready, sir."

"I will go with you," added Captain Patterdale; "and we will take the
Sea Foam."

