tender flesh, cursed her, and then, in a blind fury, cast her from
him almost into the middle of the street, where she lay motionless,
half buried in the snow. For some moments he stood looking at the
prostrate form of his wife, on which the snow sifted rapidly down,
making the dark garments white in so short a space of time that she
seemed to fade from his view. It was this, perhaps, that wrought a
sudden change in his feelings, for he sprang toward her, and taking
her up in his arms, called her name anxiously. She did not reply by
word or sign, He carried her back to the pavement and turned her
face to the lamp; it was white and still, the eyes closed, the mouth
shut rigidly.

But Mrs. Abercrombie was not unconscious. Every sense was awake.

"Edith! Edith!" her husband cried. His tones, anxious at first, now
betrayed alarm. A carriage went by at the moment. He called to the
driver, but was unheard or unheeded. Up and down the street, the air
of which was so filled with snow that he could see only a short
distance, he looked in vain for the form of a policeman or citizen.
He was alone in the street at midnight, blocks away from his
residence, a fierce storm raging in the air, the cold intense, and
his wife apparently insensible in his arms. If anything could free
his brain from its illusions, cause enough was here. He shouted
aloud for help, but there came no answer on the wild careering
winds. Another carriage went by, moving in ghostly silence, but his
call to the driver was unheeded, as before.

Feeling the chill of the intensely cold air going deeper and deeper,
and conscious of the helplessness of their situation unless she used
the strength that yet remained, Mrs. Abercrombie showed symptoms of
returning life and power of action. Perceiving this, the general
drew an arm around her for support and made a motion to go on again,
to which she responded by moving forward, but with slow and not very
steady steps. Soon, however, she walked more firmly, and began
pressing on with a haste that ill accorded with the apparent
condition out of which she had come only a few moments before.

The insane are often singularly quick in perception, and General
Abercrombie was for the time being as much insane as any patient of
an asylum. It flashed into his mind that his wife had been deceiving
him, had been pretending a faint, when she was as strong of limb and
clear of intellect as when they left Mr. Birtwell's. At this thought
the half-expelled devil that had been controlling him leaped back
into his heart, filling it again with evil passions. But the wind
was driving the fine, sand-like, sharp-cutting snow into his face
with such force and volume as to half suffocate and bewilder him.
Turning at this moment a corner of the street that brought him into
the clear sweep of the storm, the wind struck him with a force that
seemed given by a human hand, and threw him staggering against his
wife, both falling.

Struggling to his feet, General Abercrombie cursed his wife as he
jerked her from the ground with a sudden force that came near
dislocating her arm. She gave no word of remonstrance nor cry of
pain or fear, but did all in her power to keep up with her husband
as he drove on again with mad precipitation.

How they got home Mrs. Abercrombie hardly knew, but home they were
at last and in their own room, the door closed and locked and the
key withdrawn by her husband, out of whose manner all the wild
passion had gone. His movements were quiet and his voice when he
spoke low, but his wife knew by the gleam of his restless eyes that
thought and purpose were active.

Their room was in the third story of a large boarding-house in a
fashionable part of the city. The outlook was upon the street. The
house was double, a wide hall running through the centre. There were
four or five large rooms on this floor, all occupied. In the one
adjoining theirs were a lady and gentleman who had been at Mr. and
Mrs. Birtwell's party, and who drove up in a carriage just as the
general and Mrs. Abercrombie, white with snow, came to the door.
They entered together, the lady expressing surprise at their
appearance, at which the general growled some incoherent sentences
and strode away from them and up the stairs, Mrs. Abercrombie
following close after him.

"There's something wrong, I'm afraid," said the gentleman, whose
name was Craig, as he and his wife gained their own room. They went
in a carriage, I know. What can it mean?"

"I hope the general has not been drinking too much," remarked the
wife.

"I'm afraid he has. He used to be very intemperate, I've heard, but
reformed a year or two ago, A man with any weakness in this
direction would be in danger at an entertainment such as Mr. and
Mrs. Birtwell gave to-night."

"I saw the general taking wine with a lady," said Mrs. Craig.

If he took one glass, he would hardly set that as a limit. It were
much easier to abstain altogether; and we know that if a man over
whom drink has once gained the mastery ventures upon the smallest
indulgence of his appetite he is almost sure to give way and to fall
again. It's a strange thing, and sad as strange."

"Hark!"

Mr. Craig turned quickly toward the door which when opened made a
communication between their apartment and that of General and Mrs.
Abercrombie. It was shut, and fastened on both sides, so that it
could not be opened by the occupants, of either room.

A low but quickly-stifled cry had struck on the ears of Mr. and Mrs.
Craig. They looked at each other with questioning glances for
several moments, listening intently, but the cry was not repeated.

"I don't like that," said Mr. Craig. He spoke with concern.

"What can it mean?" asked his wife.

"Heaven knows!" he replied.

They sat silent and listening. A sharp click, which the ear of Mr.
Craig detected as the sound made by the cocking of a pistol, struck
upon the still air. He sprang to his feet and took a step or two
toward the door leading into the hall, but his wife caught his arm
and clung to it tightly.

"No, no! Wait! wait!" she cried, in a deep whisper, while her face
grew-ashen pale. For some moments they stood with repressed
breathing, every instant expecting to hear the loud report of a
pistol. But the deep silence remained unbroken for nearly a minute;
then a dull movement of feet was heard in the room, and the opening
and shutting of a drawer.

"No, general, you will not do that," they heard Mrs. Abercrombie
say, in a low, steady tone in which fear struggled with tenderness.

"Why will I not do it?" was sternly demanded.

They were standing near the door, so that their voices could be
heard distinctly in the next room.

"Because you love me too well," was the sweet, quiet answer. The
voice of Mrs. Abercrombie did not betray a single tremor.

All was hushed again. Then came another movement in the room, and
the sound of a closing drawer. Mr. and Mrs. Craig were beginning to
breathe more freely, when the noise as of some one springing
suddenly upon another was heard, followed by a struggle and a
choking cry. It continued so long that Mr. Craig ran out into the
hall and knocked at the door of General Abercrombie's room. As he
did so the noise of struggling ceased, and all grew still. The door
was not opened to his summons, and after waiting for a little while
he went back to his own room.

"This is dreadful," he said. "What can it mean? The general must be
insane from drink. Something will have to be done. He may be
strangling his poor wife at this very moment. I cannot bear it. I
must break open the door."

Mr. Craig started toward the hall, but his wife seized hold of him
and held him back.

"No, no, no!" she cried, in a low voice. "Let them alone. It may be
her only chance of safety. Hark!"

The silence in General Abercrombie's room was again broken. A man's
firm tread was on the floor and it could be heard passing clear
across the apartment, then returning and then going from side to
side. At length the sound of moving furniture was heard. It was as
if a person were lifting a heavy wardrobe or bureau, and getting it
with some difficulty from one part of the room to the other.

"What can he be doing?" questioned Mrs. Craig, with great alarm.

"He is going to barricade the door, most likely," replied her
husband.

"Barricade the door? What for? Good heavens, Mr. Craig! He may have
killed his wife. She may be lying in there dead at this very moment.
Oh, it is fearful! Can nothing be done?"

"Nothing, that I know of, except to break into the room."

"Hadn't you better rouse some of the boarders, or call a waiter and
send for the police?"

The voice of Mrs. Abercrombie was heard at this moment. It was calm
and clear.

"Let me help you, general," she said.

The noise of moving furniture became instantly still. It seemed as
if the madman had turned in surprise from his work and stood
confronting his wife, but whether in wrath, or not it was impossible
to conjecture. They might hear her fall to the floor, stricken down
by her husband, or cry out in mortal agony at any moment. The
suspense was dreadful.

"Do it! I am ready."

It was Mrs. Abercrombie speaking again, and in a calm, even voice.
They heard once more and with curdling blood, the sharp click of a
pistol-lock as the hammer was drawn back. They held their breaths in
horror and suspense, not moving lest even the slightest sound they
made should precipitate the impending tragedy.

"I have been a good and true wife to you always, and I shall remain
so even unto death."

The deep pathos of her quiet voice brought tears to the eyes of Mr.
and Mrs. Craig.

"If you are tired of me, I am ready to go. Look into my eyes. You
see that I am not afraid."

It was still as death again. The clear, tender eyes that looked so
steadily into those of General Abercrombie held him like a spell,
and made his fingers so nerveless that they could not respond to the
passion of the murderous fiend that possessed him. That was why the
scared listeners did not hear the deadly report of the pistol he was
holding within a few inches of his wife's head.

"Let me put it away. It isn't a nice thing to have in a lady's
chamber. You know I can't bear the sight of a pistol, and you love
me too well to give me the smallest pain or uneasiness. That's a
dear, good husband."

They could almost see Mrs. Abercrombie take the deadly weapon from
the general's hand. They heard her dress trailing across the room,
and heard her open and shut and then lock a drawer. For some time
afterward they could hear the low sound of voices, then all became
silent again.

"Give me that pistol!" startled them not long afterward in a sudden
wild outbreak of frenzied passion.

"What do you want with it?" they heard Mrs. Abercrombie ask. There
was no sign of alarm in her tones.

"Give me that pistol, I say!" The general's voice was angry and
imperious. "How dared you take, it out of my hand!"

"Oh, I thought you wished it put away because the sight of a pistol
is unpleasant to me."

And they heard the dress trailing across the room again.

"Stop!" cried the general, in a commanding tone.

"Just as you please, general. You can have the pistol, if you want
it," answered Mrs. Abercrombie, without the smallest tremor in her
voice. Shall I get it for you?"

"No!" He flung the word out angrily, giving it emphasis by an
imprecation. Then followed a growl as if from an ill-natured beast,
and they could hear his heavy tread across the floor.

"Oh, general!" came suddenly from the lips of Mrs. Abercrombie, in a
surprised, frightened tone. Then followed the sound of a repressed
struggle, of an effort to get free without making a noise or outcry,
which continued for a considerable time, accompanied by a low
muttering and panting as of a man in some desperate effort.

Mr. and Mrs. Craig stood with pale faces, irresolute and powerless
to help, whatever might be the extremity of their neighbor. To
attempt a forcible entry into the room was a doubtful expedient, and
might be attended with instant fatal consequences. The muttering and
panting ceased at length, and so did all signs of struggling and
resistance. The madman had wrought his will, whatever that might be.
Breathlessly they listened, but not a sound broke the deep silence.
Minutes passed, but the stillness reigned.

"He may have killed her," whispered Mrs. Craig, with white lips. Her
husband pressed his ear closely to the door.

"Do you hear anything?"

"Yes."

"What?"

They spoke in a low whisper.

"Put your ear against the door."

Mrs. Craig did so, and after a moment or two could hear a faint
movement, as of something being pulled across the carpet. The sound
was intermittent, now being very distinct and now ceasing
altogether. The direction of the movement was toward that part of
the room occupied by the bed. The listeners' strained sense of
hearing was so acute that it was able to interpret the meaning of
each varying sound. A body had been slowly dragged across the floor,
and now, hushed and almost noiselessly as the work went on, they
knew that the body was being lifted from the floor and placed upon
the bed. For a little while all was quiet, but the movements soon
began again, and were confined to the bed. Something was being done
with the dead or unconscious body. What, it was impossible to make
out or even guess. Mrs. Abercrombie might be lifeless, in a swoon or
only feigning unconsciousness.

"It won't do to let this go on any longer," said Mr. Craig as he
came back from the door at which he had been listening. "I must call
some of the boarders and have a consultation."

He was turning to go out, when a sound as of a falling chair came
from General Abercrombie's room, and caused him to stop and turn
back, This was followed by the quick tread of heavy feet going up
and down the chamber floor, and continuing without intermission for
as much as five minutes. It stopped as suddenly as it had begun, and
all was silent again. They knew that the general was standing close
by the bed.

"My God!" in a tone full, of anguish and fear dropped from his lips.
"Edith! Edith! oh, Edith!" he called in a low wail of distress.
"Speak to me, Edith! Why don't you speak to me?"

They listened, but heard no answer. General Abercrombie called the
name of his wife over and over again, and in terms of endearment,
but for all Mr. and Mrs. Craig could tell she gave back no sign.

"O my God! what have I done?" they heard him say, the words followed
by a deep groan.

"It is my time now;" and Mr. Craig ran out into the hall as he said
this and knocked at the general's door. But no answer came. He
knocked again, and louder than at first. After waiting for a short
time he heard the key turn in the lock. The door was opened a few
inches, and he saw through the aperture the haggard and almost
ghastly face of General Abercrombie. His eyes were wild and
distended.

"What do you want?" he demanded, impatiently.

"Is Mrs. Abercrombie sick? Can we do anything for you, general?"
said Mr. Craig, uttering the sentences that came first to his
tongue.

"No!" in angry rejection of the offered service. The door shut with
a jar, and the key turned in the lock. Mr. Craig stood for a moment
irresolute, and then went back to his wife. Nothing more was heard
in the adjoining room. Though they listened for a long time, no
voice nor sound of any kind came to their ears. The general had, to
all appearance, thrown himself upon the bed and fallen asleep.

It was late on the next morning when Mr. and Mrs. Craig awoke. Their
first thought was of their neighbors, General and Mrs. Abercrombie.
The profoundest silence reigned in their apartments--a silence
death-like and ominous.

"If he has murdered her!" said Mrs. Craig, shivering at the thought
as she spoke.

"I hope not, but I shouldn't like to be the first one who goes into
that room," replied her husband. Then, after a moment's reflection,
he said:

"If anything has gone wrong in there, we must be on our guard and
make no admissions. It won't do for us to let it be known that we
heard the dreadful things going on there that we did, and yet gave
no alarm. I'm not satisfied with myself, and can hardly expect
others to excuse where I condemn."






CHAPTER XIV.





WHEN Mr. and Mrs. Craig entered the breakfast-room, they saw, to
their surprise, General Abercrombie and his wife sitting in their
usual places. They bowed to each other, as was their custom on
meeting at the table.

The face of Mrs. Abercrombie was pale and her features pinched. She
had the appearance of one who had been ill and was just recovering,
or of one who had endured exhausting pain of mind or body. She arose
from the table soon after Mr. and, Mrs. Craig made their appearance,
and retired with her husband from the room.

"The general is all out of sorts this morning," remarked a lady as
soon as they were gone.

"And so is Mrs. Abercrombie," said another. "Dissipation does not
agree with them. They were at the grand party given last night by
Mr. and Mrs. Birtwell. You were among the guests, Mrs. Craig?"

The lady addressed bowed her affirmative.

"A perfect jam, I suppose?"

"Yes."

"Who were there? But I needn't ask. All the world and his wife, of
course, little bugs and big bugs. How was the entertainment?"

"Splendid! I never saw such a profusion of everything."

"Fools make feasts for wise men to eat," snapped out the sharp voice
of a lady whose vinegar face gave little promise of enjoyment of any
kind. Nobody thinks any more of them for it. Better have given the
money to some charity. There's want and suffering enough about,
Heaven knows,"

"I don't imagine that the charity fund has suffered anything in
consequence of Mr. Birtwell's costly entertainment," replied Mr.
Craig. "If the money spent for last night's feast had not gone to
the wine-merchant and the caterer, it would have remained as it
was."

The lady with the vinegar face said something about the Dives who
have their good things here, adding, with a zest in her voice, that
"Riches, thank God! can't be taken over to the other side, and your
nabobs will be no better off after they die than the commonest
beggars."

"That will depend on something more than the money-aspect of the
case," said Mr. Craig. "And as to the cost of giving a feast, what
would be extravagance in one might only be a liberal hospitality in
another. Cake and ice cream for my friends might be as lavish an
expenditure for me as Mr. Birtwell's banquet last night was for him,
and as likely to set me among the beggars when I get over to the
other side."

"Then you don't believe that God holds rich men to a strict account
for the manner in which they spend the money he has placed in their
hands? Are they not his almoners?"

"No more than poor men, and not to be held to any stricter
accountability," was replied. "Mr. Birtwell does not sin against the
poor when he lavishes his hundreds, or it may be thousands, of
dollars in the preparation of a feast for his friends any more than
you do when you buy a box of French candies to eat alone in your
room or share with your visitors, maybe not so much."

There was a laugh at the expense of the vinegar-faced lady, who did
not fail in a sharp retort which was more acid than convincing. The
conversation then went back to General Abercrombie and his wife.

"Didn't she look dreadful?" remarked one of the company.

"And her manner toward the general was so singular."

"In what respect?" asked Mrs. Craig.

"She looked at him so strangely, so anxious and scared-like. I never
knew him to be so silent. He's social and talkative, you know--such
good company. But he hadn't a word to say this morning. Something
has gone wrong between him and his wife. I wonder what it can be?"

But Mr. and Mrs. Craig, who were not of the gossiping kind, were
disposed to keep their own counsel.

"I thought I heard some unusual noises in their room last night
after they came home from the party," said a lady whose chamber was
opposite theirs across the hall. "They seemed to be moving furniture
about, and twice I thought I heard a scream. But then the storm was
so high that one might easily have mistaken a wail of the wind for a
cry of distress."

"A cry of distress! You didn't imagine that the general was
maltreating his wife?"

"I intimated nothing of the kind," returned the lady.

"But what made you think about a cry of distress?"

"I merely said that I thought I heard a scream; and if you had been
awake from twelve to one or two o'clock this morning, you would have
thought the air full of wailing voices. The storm chafed about the
roof and chimneys in a dreadful way. I never knew a wilder night."

"You saw the general at the party?" said one, addressing Mr. Craig.

"Yes, a few times. But there was a crowd in all the rooms, and the
same people were not often thrown together."

"Nothing unusual about him? Hadn't been drinking too much?"

"Not when I observed him. But--" Mr. Craig hesitated a moment, and
then went on: "But there's one thing has a strange look. They went
in a carriage, I know, but walked home in all that dreadful storm."

"Walked home!" Several pairs of eyes and hands were upraised.

"Yes; they came to the door, white with snow, just as we got home."

"How strange! What could it have meant?"

"It meant," said one, "that their carriage disappointed
them--nothing else, of course."

"That will hardly explain it. Such disappointments rarely, if ever,
occur," was replied to this.

"Did you say anything to them, Mr. Craig?"

"My wife did, but received only a gruff response from the general.
Mrs. Abercrombie made no reply, but, went hastily after her husband.
There was something unusual in the manner of both."

While this conversation was going on General Abercrombie and his
wife stood in the hall, she trying, but in vain, to persuade him not
to go out. He said but little, answering her kindly, but with a
marked decision of manner. Mrs. Abercrombie went up slowly to their
room after he left her, walking as one who carried a heavy load. She
looked ten years older than on the day previous.

No one saw her during the morning. At dinner-time their places were
vacant at the table.

"Where are the general and his wife?" was asked as time passed and
they did not make their appearance.

No one had seen either of them since breakfast.

Mrs. Craig knew that Mrs. Abercrombie had not been out of her room
all the morning, but she did not feel inclined to take part in the
conversation, and so said nothing.

"I saw the general going into the Clarendon about two o'clock," said
a gentleman. "He's dining with some friend, most probably."

"I hear," remarked another, "that he acted rather strangely at Mr.
Birtwell's last night."

Every ear pricked up at this.

"How?" "In what way?" "Tell us about it," came in quick response to
the speaker's words.

"I didn't get anything like a clear story. But there was some
trouble about his wife."

"About his wife?" Faces looked eagerly down and across the table.

"What about his wife?" came from half a dozen lips.

"He thought some one too intimate with her, I believe. A brother
officer, if I am not mistaken. Some old flame, perhaps. But I
couldn't learn any of the particulars."

"Ah! That accounts for their singular conduct this morning. Was
there much of a row?" This came from a thin-visaged young man with
eye-glasses and a sparse, whitish moustache.

"I didn't say anything about a row," was the rather sharp reply. "I
only said that I heard that the general had acted strangely, and
that there had been some trouble about his wife."

"What was the trouble?" asked two or three anxious voices--anxious
for some racy scandal.

"Couldn't learn any of the particulars, only that he took his wife
from a gentleman's arm in a rude kind of way, and left the party."

"Oh! that accounts for their not coming home in a carriage," broke
in one of the listeners.

"Perhaps so. But who said they didn't ride home?"

"Mr. Craig. He and Mrs. Craig saw them as they came to the door,
covered with snow. They were walking."

"Oh, you were at the party, Mr. Craig? Did you see or hear anything
about this affair?"

"Nothing," replied Mr. Craig. "If there had been any trouble, I
should most likely have heard something of it."

"I had my information from a gentleman who was there," said the
other.

"I don't question that," replied Mr. Craig. "A trifling incident but
half understood will often give rise to exaggerated reports--so
exaggerated that but little of the original truth remains in them.
The general may have done something under the excitement of wine
that gave color to the story now in circulation. I think that very
possible. But I don't believe the affair to be half so bad as
represented."

While this conversation was going on Mrs. Abercrombie sat alone in
her room. She had walked the floor restlessly as the time drew near
for the general's return, but after the hour went by, and there was
no sign of his coming, all the life seemed to go out of her. She was
sitting now, or rather crouching down, in a large cushioned chair,
her face white and still and her eyes fixed in a kind of frightened
stare.

Time passed, but she remained so motionless that but for her
wide-open eyes you would have thought her asleep or dead.

No one intruded upon her during the brief afternoon; and when
darkness shut in, she was still sitting where she had dropped down
nerveless from mental pain. After it grew dark Mrs. Abercrombie
arose, lighted the gas and drew the window curtains. She then moved
about the room putting things in order. Next she changed her dress
and gave some careful attention to her personal appearance. The cold
pallor which had been on her face all the afternoon gave way to a
faint tinge of color, her eyes lost their stony fixedness and became
restless and alert. But the trouble did not go out of her face or
eyes; it was only more active in expression, more eager and
expectant.

After all the changes in her toilette had been made, Mrs.
Abercrombie sat down again, waiting and listening. It was the
general's usual time to come home from headquarters. How would he
come? or would he come at all? These were the questions that
agitated her soul. The sad, troubled humiliating, suffering past,
how its records of sorrow and shame and fear kept unrolling
themselves before her eyes! There was little if anything in these
records to give hope or comfort. Ah! how many times had he fallen
from his high estate of manhood, each time sinking lower and lower,
and each time recovering himself from the fall with greater
difficulty than before! He might never rise again. The chances were
largely against him.

How the wretched woman longed for yet dreaded the return of her
husband! If he had been drinking again, as she feared, there, was
before her a night of anguish and terror--a night which might have
for her no awaking in the world. But she had learned to dread some
things more than death.

Time wore on until it was past the hour for General Abercrombie's
return, and yet there was no sign of his coming. At last the loud
clang of the supper-bell ringing through the halls gave her a sudden
start. She clasped her hands across her forehead, while a look of
anguish convulsed her face, then held them tightly against her heart
and groaned aloud.

"God pity us both!" she cried, in a low, wailing voice, striking her
hands together and lifting upward her eyes, that were full of the
deepest anguish.

For a few moments her eyes were upraised. Then her head sunk forward
upon her bosom, and she sat an image of helpless despair.

A knock at the door roused her. She started to her feet and opened
it with nervous haste.

"A letter for you," said a servant.

She took it from his hand and shut and locked the door before
examining the handwriting on the envelope. It was that of her
husband. She tore it open with trembling hand and read:

"DEAR EDITH: An order requiring my presence in Washington to-morrow
morning has just reached me, and I have only time to make the train.
I shall be gone two or three days."

The deep flush which excitement had spread over the face of Mrs.
Abercrombie faded off, and the deadly pallor returned. Her hands
shook so that the letter dropped out of them and fell to the floor.
Another groan as of a breaking heart sobbed through her lips as she
threw herself in despairing abandonment across the bed and buried
her face deep among the pillows.

She needed no interpreter to unfold the true meaning of that letter.
Its unsteady and blotted words and its scrawled, uncertain signature
told her too well of her husband's sad condition. His old enemy had
stricken him down, his old strong, implacable enemy, always armed,
always lying in wait for him, and always ready for the unguarded
moment.






CHAPTER XV.





DOCTOR HILLHOUSE was in his office one morning when a gentleman
named Carlton, in whose family he had practiced for two or three
years, came in. This was a few weeks before the party at Mr.
Birtwell's.

"Doctor"--there was a troubled look on his visitor's face--"I wish
you would call in to-day and examine a lump on Mrs. Carlton's neck.
It's been coming for two or three months. We thought it only the
swelling of a gland at first, and expected it to go away in a little
while. But in the last few weeks it has grown perceptibly."

"How large is it?" inquired the doctor.

"About the size of a pigeon's egg."

"Indeed! So large?"

"Yes; and I am beginning to feel very much concerned about it."

"Is there any discoloration?"

"No."

"Any soreness or tenderness to the touch?"

"No; but Mrs. Carlton is beginning to feel a sense of tightness and
oppression, as though the lump, whatever it may be, were beginning
to press upon some of the blood-vessels."

"Nothing serious, I imagine," replied Dr. Hillhouse, speaking with a
lightness of manner he did not feel. "I will call about twelve
o'clock. Tell Mrs. Carlton to expect me at that time."

Mr. Carlton made a movement to go, but came back from the door, and
betraying more anxiety of manner than at first, said:

"This may seem a light thing in your eyes, doctor, but I cannot help
feeling troubled. I am afraid of a tumor."

"What is the exact location?" asked Dr. Hillhouse.

"On the side of the neck, a little back from the lower edge of the
right ear."

The doctor did not reply. After a brief silence Mr. Carlton said:

"Do you think it a regular tumor, doctor?"

"It is difficult to say. I can speak with more certainty after I
have made an examination," replied Doctor Hillhouse, his manner
showing some reserve.

"If it should prove to be a tumor, cannot its growth be stopped? Is
there no relief except through an operation--no curative agents that
will restore a healthy action to the parts and cause the tumor to be
absorbed?"

"There is a class of tumors," replied the doctor, "that may be
absorbed, but the treatment is prejudicial to the general health,
and no wise physician will, I think, resort to it instead of a
surgical operation, which is usually simple and safe."

"Much depends on the location of a tumor," said Mr. Carlton. "The
extirpation may be safe and easy if the operation be in one place,
and difficult and dangerous if in another."

"It is the surgeon's business to do his work so well that danger
shall not exist in any case," replied Doctor Hillhouse.

"I shall trust her in your hands," said Mr. Carlton, trying to
assume a cheerful air. "But I cannot help feeling nervous and
extremely anxious."

"You are, of course, over-sensitive about everything that touches
one so dear as your wife," replied the doctor. "But do not give
yourself needless anxiety. Tumors in the neck are generally of the
kind known as 'benignant,' and are easily removed."

Dr. Angier came into the office while they were talking, and heard a
part of the conversation. As soon as Mr. Carlton had retired he
asked if the tumor were deep-seated or only a wen-like protuberance.

"Deep-seated, I infer, from what Mr. Carlton said," replied Dr.
Hillhouse.

"What is her constitution?"

"Not as free from a scrofulous tendency as I should like."

"Then this tumor, if it should really prove to be one, may be of a
malignant character."

"That is possible. But I trust to find only a simple cyst, or, at
the worst, an adipose or fibrous tumor easy of removal, though I am
sorry it is in the neck. I never like to cut in among the large
blood-vessels and tendons of that region."

At twelve o'clock Doctor Hillhouse made the promised visit. He found
Mrs. Carlton to all appearance quiet and cheerful.

"My husband is apt to worry himself when anything ails me," she
said, with a faint smile.

The doctor took her hand and felt a low tremor of the nerves that
betrayed the nervous anxiety she was trying hard to conceal. His
first diagnosis was not satisfactory, and he was not able wholly to
conceal his doubts from the keen observation of Mr. Carlton, whose
eyes never turned for a moment from the doctor's face. The swelling
was clearly outlined, but neither sharp nor protuberant. From the
manner of its presentation, and also from the fact that Mrs. Carlton
complained of a feeling of pressure on the vessels of the neck, the
doctor feared the tumor was larger and more deeply seated than the
lady's friends had suspected. But he was most concerned as to its
true character. Being hard and nodulated, he feared that it might
prove to be of a malignant type, and his apprehensions were
increased by the fact that his patient had in her constitution a
taint of scrofula. There was no apparent congestion of the veins nor
discoloration of the skin around the hard protuberance, no
pulsation, elasticity, fluctuation or soreness, only a solid lump
which the doctor's sensitive touch recognized as the small section
or lobule of a deeply-seated tumor already beginning to press upon
and obstruct the blood vessels in its immediate vicinity. Whether it
were fibrous or albuminous, "benignant" or "malignant," he was not
able in his first diagnosis to determine.

Dr. Hillhouse could not so veil his face as to hide from Mr. Carlton
the doubt and concern that were in his mind.

"Deal with me plainly," said the latter as he stood alone with the
doctor after the examination was over. "I want the exact truth.
Don't conceal anything."

Mr. Carlton's lips trembled.

"Is it a--a tumor?" He got the words out in a low, shaky voice.

"I think so," replied Doctor Hillhouse. He saw the face of Mr.
Carlton blanch instantly.

"It presents," added the doctor, "all the indications of what we
call a fibrous tumor."

"Is it of a malignant type?" asked Mr. Carlton, with suspended
breath.

"No; these tumors are harmless in themselves, but their mechanical
pressure on surrounding blood-vessels and tissues renders their
removal necessary."

Mr. Carlton caught his breath with a sigh of relief.

"Is their removal attended with danger?" he asked.

"None," replied Dr. Hillhouse.

"Have you ever taken a tumor from the neck?"

"Yes. I have operated in cases of this kind often."

"Were you always successful?"

"Yes; in every instance."

Mr. Carlton breathed more freely. After a pause, he said, his lips
growing white as he spoke:

"There will have to be an operation in this case?"

"It cannot, I fear, be avoided," replied the doctor.

"There is one comfort," said Mr. Carlton, rallying and speaking in a
more cheerful voice. "The tumor is small and superficial in
character. The knife will not have to go very deep among the veins
and arteries."

Doctor Hillhouse did not correct his error.

"How long will it take?" queried the anxious husband, to whom the
thought of cutting down into the tender flesh of his wife was so
painful that it completely unmanned him.

"Not very long," answered the doctor.

"Ten minutes?"

"Yes, or maybe a little longer."

"She will feel no pain?"

"None."

"Nor be conscious of what you are doing?"

"She will be as much in oblivion as a sleeping infant," replied the
doctor.

Mr. Carlton turned from Dr. Hillhouse and walked the whole length of
the parlor twice, then stood still, and said, with painful
impressiveness:

"Doctor, I place her in your hands. She is ready for anything we may
decide upon as best."

He stopped and turned partly away to hide his feelings. But
recovering himself, and forcing a smile to his lips, he said:

"To your professional eyes I show unmanly weakness. But you must
bear in mind how very dear she is to me. It makes me shiver in every
nerve to think of the knife going down into her tender flesh. You
might cut me to pieces, doctor, if that would save her."

"Your fears exaggerate everything," returned Doctor Hillhouse, in an
assuring voice. "She will go into a tranquil sleep, and while
dreaming pleasant dreams we will quickly dissect out the tumor, and
leave the freed organs to continue their healthy action under the
old laws of unobstructed life."

"When ought it to be done?" asked Mr. Carlton the tremor coming back
into his voice.

"The sooner, the better, after an operation is decided upon,"
answered the doctor. "I will make another examination in about two
weeks. The changes that take place in that time will help me to a
clearer decision than it is possible to arrive at now."

After a lapse of two weeks Doctor Hillhouse, in company with another
surgeon, made a second examination. What his conclusions were will
appear in the following conversation held with Dr. Angier.
