one. Sell cheaper stock to new men. That will make a demand at once."

"Undersell! We used to call that a cut-throat business, Mr. Eastman;"
and a flush stained the fine face, now rather worn and thin.

"It is what we must come to. There is next to no premium on gold, and
the first man who touches bottom will be the lucky one, to my thinking.
Cheap goods, cheap every thing, will be the next cry. The farmers must
dispose of their wool, and labor must come down. Why, ordinary workmen
have been living like princes."

The delicate brows were drawn thoughtfully.

"I always hated to grind workmen down to a bare subsistence," spoke the
honest, loyal gentleman, as God made him. Trade had not warped body and
soul. He was an aristocrat, if you please, and his home was as sacred to
refinement and elegance as a ducal palace. A common person would have
stood in his hall until his errand was done, and he would never even
have asked a workman to take a seat in his office; but his soul was
honorable, if haughty.

"Let me manage it," with a confident nod. "We'll keep the topmost wave,
as you will see."

So to New York Horace Eastman went, and arranged for a large
auction-sale of goods, which was a remarkable success, and created quite
a ripple in the sea of stagnation. Then he contracted to deliver another
lot by the first of January, at certain prices. And now either
manufacturer must give up profits, or workman yield his margin, and be
contented with daily bread alone.

"There really was no need of workmen owning houses, having Brussels
carpets and pianos," argued Eastman. "They were in some degree
answerable for the hard times. Every one wanted to out-do his neighbor.
They were not content to live as their fathers had lived; and, where the
mothers wore print dresses, the daughters must have silk. They had gone
on altogether too fast."

Yet only a few years ago workingmen had been urged to put their money
into homes. Rows of houses had been built for them, and sold on such
ridiculously easy terms, only a trifle down. The interest would not be
as much as rent. Then the fascinating shopkeeper had flaunted his wares
in the faces of the thrifty housewives. "A good article is cheapest in
the end. This Brussels will outwear two ingrain carpets, at a very
little advance on the first cost. No moths will trouble it, once down it
is there for years, saving worry and hard work;" and the buyer was
persuaded. Then there must be new furniture, and so on to the end. Was
it altogether their fault? The old things were passing away. The world
was awaking from its Rip-Van-Winkle nap. There was to be a wider
outlook, a liberal cultivation, a general rising of every one.

So there had been years of plenty, and men had pulled down the old
storehouses to build new ones.

Such people as the Eastmans and the Lawrences could not economize at a
moment's warning. The screws must be put on elsewhere.

At first the workmen looked at each other in blank dismay. Winter was
coming on--a hard one it bid fair to be. Coal had risen, and in spite of
the abundant harvest the absolute staples of life had not much decreased
by the time they reached the consumer. Coffees were high: pease, beans,
and chiccory were sold at a reduction, to be sure, and you could get
lumpy heavy flour that spoiled your bread, and poor butter, and teas
that were colored and doctored; and this was cheap living.

There was a stormy wrangle. Meetings were held, and speakers figured out
the actual cost of living. Less than the present rates meant loss,
privation, and want in the end. So a strike was determined upon.

Jack Darcy, being foreman of one department, stood, as it were, between
the upper and nether millstone, at present just escaping both. He
thought it hard that the men should have this second reduction so soon,
and it did seem to him reasonable that profits ought to yield a little,
that there ought to be a sympathy between them. Personally, he should be
comfortable enough; but if he had a wife and three or four children, a
helpless, bedridden mother, or a drunken father, or a do-nothing
brother, hanging upon him, what then?

He advised a little moderation and patience. It might be better to take
the wages now, and wait until spring--

"They doant give up any thing, as we sees," broke in an elderly English
weaver. "The great house is full of every thing, and coal eno' burning
in the greenhouses to ripen a few bunches of grapes out of God's own
season, as would keep many of us warm. Who puts our coal down a dollar
in the ton, or takes it off of house-rent when wages come down? I'll
work as cheap as the next one if ye'll gi' me a cheap house to live in
and cheap beef and bread. I doant care for money in the savin's bank, or
a house that they tax all out o' sight. When I'm old I'll go to the
poorhouse, I will; but I'm danged if I like starvin' before then, and
they a-ridin' over us in their carriages. I left 'em over yonder"--with
a nod of the head--"for that."

"What do you think of it?" asked a thin, hungry-looking man, fingering
his Cardigan nervously. "See here! If I could have one more prosperous
year, I'd be through the woods, have the house I've worked so hard for
settled upon my old woman, and would be out of the reach of misfortune.
But this thing hits me hard, it does."

"I don't believe striking will succeed just now," said Jack candidly.
"And it's a bad time. Two or three weeks lost time will more than cover
the odds in wages."

"I don't want to lose time. I'd rather keep straight on."

"It's the principle of the thing," broke in another. "I'd lose six
months before I'd give in an inch. I'd have struck the other time."

There was a call for the overseers, and Jack left the group. Eastman was
talking to several of the men in his office. A fine, portly figure he
had, indicating rich living and good wines; a man still on the sunny
side of forty, stout, rather florid, a full dark beard and hair, but
with eyes that were light and furtive; eyes that could stare you out of
countenance, and yet not meet yours ordinarily, with a frank, outward
look. He always went handsomely dressed, and wore diamond shirt-studs,
an expensive seal-ring, a substantial watch-chain with two or three
costly charms. He had not a flashy look, but the sign and seal of
gentlemanliness was wanting in that intensely selfish face.

He had heard of the disaffection. There was not much to say except that
the new scale of prices would go into effect next Monday morning. He
never asked a man to work for any less wages than he, the workman,
considered his services worth. Here was the work, and the wages Hope
Mills could afford to pay. They could take it, or leave it. There were
plenty of men at Coldbridge, thrown out by the failure of Kendrick &
Co., who would be glad to come. He could fill any vacant place.

But the ball grew and grew by handling. There were union-meetings and
violent harangues, much of them truth, too, but badly and unwisely
used. And the result was that the men demanded the old wages, were
peremptorily refused, and struck. The great engine subsided, and a
Sunday stillness reigned. Down at Hull's Iron Works the same proceedings
were going on, but the saloons seemed to profit by it.

Jack hung around the mill for a while, then went down stairs. The
chilliness in the air made him draw his coat together by one button, and
slip his hands into his pockets. He sauntered through several streets,
nodding to one and another, or exchanging a few words. Once again his
advice was asked.

"I think you had better come to work to-morrow," he said. "Don't muddle
your brains with beer or bad whiskey: that will not make the way any
clearer."

"A good enough lad!" was the surly comment, "but why grudge a man a sup
of beer when he can't have wine like the big folks?"

Jack had hardly planned for the enforced idleness. He did not want to go
home and read, he could not call on Sylvie thus early in the morning,
neither did he feel in the humor for argument with any of the men. So he
stopped at the door of a small office, and turned the knob rather
hesitatingly.

"Hillo, Darcy, is that you? Come in, come in! Sullen gray day, isn't it?
Off on a strike, eh?"

Jack laughed,--the sound with no real music in it, the sort of
lip-service merely.

"Come in, old fellow; don't be afraid. I've neither pistol nor bludgeon,
and I'll promise to treat you civilly."

The man's accents were clear and curt, with a certain ring of out-door
freshness,--a capital voice to travel with up mountain-sides and through
forests. The face, too, indicated a kind of joyous strength; for the
blue eyes were merry and baffling, the laughing lips a brilliant
scarlet, the nose neither Grecian nor aquiline, but slightly
retrouss√©; a bronze moustache with long curling ends that were
undeniably red, and hair a little darker, slightly curling as well. A
broad-shouldered man with the deep breathing of intense vitality;
healthy nerves that could enjoy laziness to the full, as well as a brisk
walk across the country.

A glance at the interior showed the place to be a doctor's office. On
one side a long case with glass doors above and drawers underneath,
filled with bottles and books and papers, perhaps in not the most
systematic order; at the farther end a fire in an open-front stove; a
luxurious Turkish lounge covered with russet leather, and a bright wool
blanket thrown carelessly over it; several capacious armchairs; and in
one, with his legs stretched out on another, sat Dr. Philip Maverick,
eight and twenty or thirty years old, perhaps.

"How nice and cosey you are! I really did not know what to do with
myself. Yes, we are all on a strike, I am sorry to say."

"Bad time," and Maverick shook his head. "What's the prospect? Have a
cigar."

"The prospect is that the weakest goes to the wall, of course," answered
Jack. "Maverick, I am dreadfully muddled on this point. I have thought
of it all the week. It is hard on the men. I know the general advice
is to economize more closely, but how can you do it just at the
beginning of winter? One cannot move to a cheaper tenement, fire and
lights cost more, and provision is a little dearer. Low living in winter
does not conduce to a healthy state in the spring. Then, on the other
hand, if they are going to make such sales as they did last month, they
cannot pay the wages, and realize what they consider a fair profit. But
why shouldn't the Lawrences and the Eastmans and many others give up
something, as well?"

Jack turned an anxious face to his listener.

"All you manufacturers have been crazy the last few years," he said,
delicately shaking the ashes from his cigar. "The country was such an
extensive purchaser through the war, that your dreams became Utopian.
Then everybody came home with some money and no clothes, and the people
were large consumers. Now everybody has been clothed, and the stores are
full, and here is a glutted market. Over-production, my dear fellow."

"Then I do believe it would be better to leave off for a while. Still
that would not suit as well. Half a loaf is better than no bread, to a
hungry man. But, after all," said Jack, knitting his brows, "I don't
altogether believe in the cry of over-production. The boys of war times
are men now. They are pushing in everywhere for work. They want food,
shelter, raiment. There are a great many more people in this town than
there were five years ago. Even if we only depended on the natural
increase of population"--

"But, you see, people are forever crowding into cities," interposed Dr.
Maverick.

"I have a fancy they do not come much faster than they are called,"
returned Jack dryly. "See what we have been doing around here. The small
outlying farms have been bought up by speculators, cut up, destroyed for
farming purposes. Their owners with families of children had to go
somewhere. 'Come to the mills and factories,' was shouted in their ears,
and they came. Now they are here, depending on their labor for bread,
and Eastman will bring fifty or a hundred more from Coldbridge; and in
the spring, if there is any difficulty, some more will come. The old
ones cannot go back to their farms if they would. Their fertile gardens
lie cut up into waste squares, their fruit-trees have been despoiled:
they must starve here, or tramp to some other crowded town, and perhaps
starve there. Will your farmer take in half a dozen hands at a moment's
notice? Can they put themselves down in any country place, and go to
work?"

Maverick studied Jack intently, and then gave a low whistle.

"Upon my word, Darcy, you have been going over the subject. Take the
stump. And of course you go against capital?"

"No, I don't," returned Jack shortly. "Only it does seem to me that
there ought to be some place where capital and labor could strike hands.
It appears to me, both have been to blame. We cannot condemn men for
crowding into cities, when there has been a steady call for them. We do
blame them for not laying up a little money against a rainy day; but
many of them have. Look at the cottages that have been sold to
workingmen. Look at the bank savings. To-day, perhaps, as many poor men
could pay their whole indebtedness, according to the ratio, as the rich.
But we fly at the laboring classes, when it is only human nature
cropping out. Your millionnaire puts his money into whatever he thinks
will bring him the greatest return; your poor man puts his capital, his
capacity, health, and strength, where it will earn him the most money."

"Well, I don't see but they are both right enough," said Maverick. "And
unless you are running over into communistic ideas"--

"I am not," was the decisive reply. "Some one much wiser than I said,
ages ago, 'He among you that will not work, let him not eat:' yet," with
a humorous laugh, "if the rule were strictly enforced, there would more
than one go hungry, I'm thinking. The great consolation would be that
the right man would suffer, not the innocent and guiltless."

"I really do not see what you are driving at, Darcy," and the other
studied him curiously.

"Well, I told you in the beginning I was muddled. I don't pretend to see
my way clear, only I think we have just begun the fight. It is as much
of an irrepressible conflict as that other, for which so many brave men
gave their lives. And one point in it no one seems to take note of. We
are proud of the increase of population in our country. Every city,
town, and hamlet boasts of it, and the depopulated places run to slow
decay. We welcome these people; and yet they must eat to live, and the
majority of them must work, or they will have nothing to eat. I think
the most of them labor cheerfully, and my experience is that idleness is
the worst foe of man. But, on the other hand, every year invention so
protects and fortifies capital, that one must do a larger business or
employ fewer men. In five years the condition of labor has greatly
changed at Hope Mills, and in five years more it will change again. This
is the inexorable law of nature, or, I ought to say, growing
intelligence."

"Then I should say we wanted wider markets and a better classification
of labor."

A quick light came into Jack's eyes.

"I think you have hit it, Maverick," he answered. "But what is
everybody's business is nobody's; and we are so apt to forget that the
world does move, and the condition of things changes all the time," and
Jack's eyes dropped thoughtfully.

"See here, Darcy, take Brock's Hall, and talk to the men to-morrow
night," began the doctor eagerly. "They will listen to you because to a
certain extent you are in sympathy with them, one of their number; and
you do seem to have some clear ideas on the subject. No: we'll say
Wednesday night, and I will get out some posters."

Jack laughed. "What shall I tell them? I can't see how to get about the
remedy clearly myself. The trade-unions have not hit it either. When
they say to a man, 'Because I will not work for a certain sum, you shall
not,' they lean on a reed that will surely break, and pierce themselves.
Hunger is stronger than theory. No: I shall have to give the point a
more thorough study before I become a blatant apostle."

Philip Maverick blew out a curling whiff of smoke, and looked at his
visitor through it. Darcy gave him a curious feeling, as if a good deal
of excellent material were running to waste, that if shaped and trained,
and brought up to higher purposes, might be of much good service to the
world. Did he realize it himself? He was twenty-four, and had a good
position as things went; and Dr. Maverick had heard the women of the
house were prudent and thrifty, and had a nice home. Was Darcy bounded
in by conservatism, or afraid of losing? or was he honest when he said
he did not know just what to do? Yet he did not look like the kind of
man to go plodding all his days.

"Darcy, you puzzle me!" he began abruptly. "With that great body of
yours, those strong arms and hands that look as if they could wrest
Nature's secrets from her mighty soul, with that brow, and the resolute
mouth, it seems as if you ought to be in better business than making
cloth: pardon me. You don't use up half your energy. You ought to be
planning a ship-canal across Darien, or tunnelling mountains. You're the
square man; and how upon earth did you ever get fitted so smoothly to a
round hole?"

Jack laughed, and told his story very simply. To him there was neither
romance nor heroism in it, just a plain every-day sort of compulsion.
The tunnelling would have been much more to his mind.

"Go on with the problem," said Dr. Maverick abruptly. "In the next five
years I think we will all have use for our wits. We are going to see
another change in matters, that will require more wisdom than is needed
in mere money-making. See here, I'm interested in the thing. Let us go
out, and hear what the men say about it."

Maverick rose, and put on his great-coat, and lighted another cigar.
Then the two started together.

Maverick had been in the town just six months. He had studied medicine
in Philadelphia and Paris, taken a three-years ramble over Europe, when
a college friend begged him to come to Yerbury, and step into a vacant
place. And he had what he fancied an excellent reason for it.




CHAPTER VIII.


THE men were, for the most part, in sullen earnest. From their narrower
outlook they could not see that capital was on the eve of a great
revulsion; that credit had been stretched to its utmost. They had their
own pet plans, their own indolences and careless habits; and, as was
natural, their own desires were the sweetest to them.

There were labor-meetings and harangues. There was a good deal of talk
about the rights of labor and the tyranny of capital; of the rich mill
and factory owners living in palaces, and the men in hovels; of what
England had done, and of what we surely were coming to,--the rich
growing richer, and the poor poorer. But Jack remarked that of the
speakers there was not one who owned a little plot of ground, or had a
bank-account. Two of them were disaffected English weavers, a third an
Irishman, and the only Yerbury man was a quick-tongued, but shiftless
fellow who had started in business for himself, and failed; a kind of
handy Jack-at-all-trades, and correspondingly good for nothing.

Before the close of the week the men in Watkins's shoe-shop had struck.
There was quite an army of them now. The saloons were filled daily and
nightly. Jack thought, with a little grimness, that they might better
save their money for next week's bread.

Several of the men in his room dropped in to see what he thought; and
the result was, that on the following Monday morning ten of them
presented themselves with a tolerably cheerful demeanor, and accepted
the situation. By Tuesday night every vacant place was filled with
hungry, haggard-looking men from Coldbridge. They were jeered at, and
annoyed in various ways: the Yerbury men were called rats and turncoats
and cowards. The mills were driven. There was another great and
successful sale; in fact, amid the failures and difficulties about, Hope
Mills loomed up like a star of the first magnitude.

In the spring Mrs. Eastman and Miss Lawrence went to Europe; and Fred
joined a party of young men on a pleasure-tour through California. Even
Mrs. Lawrence was persuaded to try Saratoga in the summer. The great
house was muffled, and left in the charge of servants; but greenhouses,
graperies, and all the elegant adjuncts were cared for as assiduously as
ever. David Lawrence used to think it over. Sometimes he was tempted to
sell out his palatial residence, but who was there to buy? Other men had
been caught with just such elephants on their hands. The papers were
full of offers "at an immense sacrifice."

Business grew duller and duller. There was a very great overplus of
every thing, it seemed, in the world. Harvests were so abundant, and
prices so low, they were not worth the moving. Fruit lay and rotted on
the ground: you could get nothing for it. And yet there were wan-eyed
and hungry women and children who would have feasted regally on this
waste. Mothers of families turned and patched and darned, and said there
could be no new garments this winter, while store-shelves groaned under
the accumulation of goods. Men were failing on this side and that; the
Alton & West Line Railway stock came down with a crash, and banks were
shaky. Hope Mills were closed for a month to make some repairs, as
business was rather slow just now.

There was a great quaking in real estate as well. The large
property-owners held on stiffly: times would improve; land was worth
more to-day than ever, because every year there were more people, and
they required more houses, and the thing would somehow right itself.

Jack had taken his two feminines off to a great roomy farmhouse, where
they had a horse at their command. Sylvie and Miss Barry were summering
at the White Mountains. Dr. Maverick found a good deal of sickness among
the poorer classes, low fevers and various troubles, that he knew well
enough came from insufficient diet. But what was to be done? There was
so little work, so much lost time, the inexorable rent, and the
importunate grocer's bill. Up on Hope Terrace the luscious grapes fell
to the ground, and were swept up as so much litter; the fresh, lovely
vegetables passed their prime unheeded, and were tossed in the
garbage-pit.

September came in hot and sultry. Hope Mills started, but many another
place did not open. There was a strange, deathly-quiet undercurrent,
like the awful calm before a thunder-shower. Wages took another tumble,
and now no one had the courage to make much of a fight.

The second week in October there came an appalling crash. Yerbury Bank
closed its doors one morning,--the old bank that had weathered many a
gale; that was considered as safe and stanch as the rock of Gibraltar
itself; that held in trust the savings of widows and orphans, the
balance of smaller business-men who would be ruined: indeed, it would
almost ruin Yerbury itself.

There was the greatest consternation. People flew up the street,
bank-book in hand; but the dumb doors seemed only to give back a
pitiless glance to entreaties. What was it? What had happened? "Every
penny I had in the world was in it," groaned one; and the saddening
refrain was repeated over and over, sometimes with tears, at others with
curses.

The old officers of Yerbury Bank had been men of the highest integrity.
Some were dead; some had been pushed aside by the new, fast men who
laughed at past methods, as if honor, honesty, and truth were virtues
easily outgrown. Among these were the Eastmans. George was considered
shrewd and far-sighted, and for two years had been one of the directors,
as well as Horace. They paid the highest rate of interest, which
attracted small savings from all around. There had been no whisper or
fear about it, so solid was its olden reputation. There were people who
would as soon have doubted the Bible.

Two days after this, George Eastman sailed for Europe, on a sudden
summons,--his wife's illness. There had been a meeting called, and a
short statement made. Owing to sudden and unexpected depreciation in
railway-bonds and improvement-bonds, and what not, it was deemed best to
suspend payment for the present. In a few weeks all would be straight
again, with perhaps a trifling loss to depositors. Already the directors
had been very magnanimous. Mr. Eastman and several others had turned
over to the bank a large stock of mortgages: in fact, the virtue of
these men was so lauded that the losses seemed to be quite thrown into
the background.

But the examination revealed a sickening mass of selfishness and
cupidity; transactions that were culpably careless, others dishonorable
to the last degree. If the larger depositors had not been warned, there
was certainly a remarkable unanimity of thought, as, for the past
fortnight, they had been steadily drawing out their thousands. Wild
railroad-speculations, immense mortgages on real estate that now lay
flat and dead: scanty available assets that would hardly pay twenty
cents on a dollar.

This was what David Lawrence heard when he returned from St. Louis, a
heavy-hearted, dispirited man. Two recent failures had borne heavily
upon him. If last winter had been dull, there was no adjective to apply
to this. His first step was to mortgage Hope Terrace. He had deeded it
to his wife, unincumbered; but now it appeared his only chance of
salvation. Mrs. Lawrence made a feeble protest at first, and demanded
that Fred should be sent for, but there was no time. He met his pressing
notes, and was tided over; but, oh! what was to be the end of it all?

An indignation-meeting was called; and so high ran popular feeling, that
new directors were appointed for the bank. Mr. Lawrence would have fain
declined, but the community insisted. In this time of general distrust,
they came back to the loyal gentleman, who, whatever his pride might be,
had never deceived one of them.

Alas! had he not enough perplexity of his own, that this new sorrow and
shame should stare him in the face, bow him to the earth?

Not his own son, thank God! not any blood kin; and yet his daughter's
husband, his fair Gertrude, of whom he had been so proud years ago! He
went back suddenly to that old time, and seemed to see them all again as
little children, a merry household; and his pale, delicate Fred, for
whom his heart beat so anxiously. How they had welcomed his coming!--a
son to hand down the name, a son to lean upon in his old age. Nay, those
were the extremes of life: why should not men count on their sons
through the burden and heat of middle life? Why wait until the evening
for comfort?

Where was he now? Did he think of the one who had toiled that he might
spend? for, now that he looked at it with awesome calmness, like a thing
standing apart, it was one long, dreary pilgrimage of toil. To what end?
Was gathering together riches the noblest use of a man made in God's
image? Ah, how poor and paltry an aim!

Surely he had done something beside that! A pleasant home of culture and
artistic beauty, a circle of refined people gathered about him, the evil
and want and woe of the world shut carefully out by silken curtains and
plate-glass. His daughters he had been proud of. No m√©salliance, no
common tastes, as he had sometimes fancied that he had detected in that
pretty little Sylvie Barry. And his son?

There had been no positive evil in his life. A young man's follies
perhaps, but few vices, if any, thank God! He would never be a
libertine, a drunkard, a gambler, a thief. But was negative goodness
all? These twenty-four years spent in shaping and culturing, but to what
end? Could he call him back from his pleasure now, and have him take up
this struggle grown too heavy to fight single-handed? and would he be
manful, brave, clear-sighted, and unrepining? No. He felt the change
would be too great. The soul so used to ease and luxury, fine linen and
soft couches, delicate appetites, indolent habits, intellectual pursuits
and graces, to be put in rough harness of business at once, would be
cruel, nay, worse, like chaining humming-birds to a dray-wagon. And
Irene, flitting like a butterfly through elegant salons, how would she
be content with poverty and a cottage?

And was this all the work of his own hands? Had he laid up no treasure
against the time of adversity, made no homes into which he might be
received in his trial hour? For two years he had struggled manfully,
earnestly; and all this time at his very gate there had been a traitor,
turning aside the stream until there was nothing but a barren desert
left.

The crown of his life was poverty and ruin! For himself he could give up
luxuries, and come to plain fare; but what of the others? This last news
had swept away all hope.

He sought Horace Eastman, and confronted him with his deceit and wrong:
somehow he could not bring himself to call it by its true name, crime,
and fasten it on the man there and then. There was a high-bred delicacy
about David Lawrence, a little of the old knightly chivalry that in past
times held a man back from striking a fallen foe. And then he was not
quite sure. The dishonorable work lay between the two men, and he
forbore to blame this one wrongly.

He need not have wasted his pity on this man, or have so nicely worded
his charges. Horace Eastman stood there, surprised to be sure, for he
had counted upon getting away before this turn in the wheel of fortune.
For the last year, though he had been outwardly triumphant, and had
carried business matters with a hopefully high hand, he had known what
the end must be, and made ready for it with a kind of exultant elation
at the sense of difficulties surmounted and deceptions carried on
successfully. He really despised the man before him, that he had
sufficient faith in human nature to be deceived. Starting from the
principle that all men are rogues when opportunity offers, he felt no
more guilty now, than if he had followed any other well-known law of
nature. He stood before Mr. Lawrence bland and composed: there was no
vulnerable point to strike, so he need put on no armor. Many a time he
had reasoned the matter out to his own satisfaction, that the failure of
Hope Mills was inevitable. What with losses, dull times, and extravagant
living, it would surely come. That he owed his employer any thing in
integrity and sharp fighting with adverse circumstances, would never
enter the mind of such a man, so inwrapped in self.

"There were some irregularities for your son-in-law's benefit," with an
insolent half smile, half sneer. "He was to explain them to you. There
have been accommodations for the mills occasionally. You were away: what
else could I have done?"

A cold shiver ran over David Lawrence. That part of courage allied to
hope seemed crushed out of him as if by torture. Could he drag his
daughter's name through the mire? for it would be that in any attempt to
bring Eastman to the point of responsibility.

"Do you know how much this--this defalcation will amount to?" He would
call the monstrous thing by its right name now, though he shuddered in
every limb, and a cold perspiration stood in great beads about his thin
temples. A third person witnessing his hesitation might fancy him
faltering and shrinking in the path of dishonor, rather than the other.

"I really have no idea," bracing up his broad, full shoulders with
portentous dignity: "George managed that matter. No doubt there are some
memoranda," pausing with an indifferent air as if it were a matter of a
few dollars.

"The bank must be made good, Mr. Eastman."

"Well; as you think best, as you think best;" nodding confidently, as if
the repayment were the easiest thing in the world. "Let me see,--would
it not be better to write to George?"

What impression could he make upon this man? To appeal to conscience,
justice, or any latent sense of right, would be a waste of words. With
him success was right, and failure the blunder or sin. He was to "do
well unto himself," to gain the world's verdict of approval. That solid
flesh made by good eating and drinking, not debauchery or
intemperance,--the man had few of these gross vices,--that complacent
strength, that keen, concentrating force than could bend all energies in
the one direction, never looking back when he had once set his mind to a
thing, experiencing no remorse for those he crushed under his feet so
long as he went to success over them, knowing no disinterestedness,
trading simply upon the credulity, honor, and honesty of others: he had
chosen him for some of these very qualities. Do men gather grapes of
thistles?

"Bring the books to my office. I shall go over them to-night," was the
haughty command.

Eastman bowed and withdrew. The books were sent by the errand-boy. Then
he threw himself into his luxurious Russia-leather chair, rested his
feet upon the edge of the desk, settled his hands comfortably in his
pockets, and began to consider. A man would be foolish to stay and be
caught in the ruin of a falling house. He might not be crushed, to be
sure; but there would be the d√©bris, and he had no fancy for clearing
that away. Not only the mills, but Yerbury, would fall flat. He did not
care to retire to a garden, and raise strawberries and corn: the clink
of gold was more melodious to his ear than the voices of nature. There
was a place for talent like his: the quick sight and keen discrimination
were still able to give the rusty old world a lift out of ruts it had
stopped in, and send it on with a rush. He had money in some
silver-mines: he might go West, and attend to that, then take a run over
to England, and see George. After all, was George really to blame for
getting hold of his wife's portion? He had married Miss Lawrence,
believing in good faith that she was the daughter of a millionnaire;
and, if he had been sharp enough to save something from the general
ruin, lucky for him!

On the whole, Mr. Eastman thought it would be well to go to New York for
a few days until the storm blew over. Jeffries the book-keeper could
attend to all that was needed. Mr. Lawrence would find Hope Mills in a
bad plight, to be sure; but he would not be the first man who had come
to ruin. Mr. Eastman put his desk in order,--he never kept any tell-tale
papers,--walked leisurely out of Hope Mills with that serene, impassable
face and high heart no misfortune could daunt.

David Lawrence spread the books open before him. It would be an endless
task. One fact kept burning into his brain like fire. The Eastmans, or
Hope Mills, owed Yerbury Bank seventy thousand dollars, the hard
earnings and self-denials of poor and middle-class people. How it stung
his haughty pride, unused even to dishonorable thoughts! If he had been
an exact master, he had also been a just and honest one. Shame and
disgrace stared him square in the face, where they would have but looked
askance at Horace Eastman.

It had been quite impossible to take cognizance of every thing after the
business grew so unwieldy. Then he thought of his son again with
passionate longing. Never had he so wanted some of his own kin to lean
upon, to take counsel with, to consider what must be done toward saving
honor: that was no social figment with him, but a deep, heaven-abiding
truth.

Heaven! By some strange turn of thought it entered his mind. He was so
tired, he had been so tired for months and months, so engrossed with
cares and business, that he had hardly stepped inside a church. How they
used to go in the old days; how proud he had been of his four pretty
children, of his tall handsome girls, and his manly son! Respectability,
and setting a good example,--these had been his motives for
church-going. Bits of sermons came back to him: how strange that he
could remember them! There was a rest from labor, a refreshing of soul.
Oh, how dark and arid, how confused and chaotic, his felt! Was there a
something he had never known?

Then he pulled himself together mentally, roused his dreaming brain, and
said something must be done. Fred must come back, and face the terrible
truth. As well send for him now.

He wrote out a message, and rang the bell. A tall, slim youth answered
it.

"I want this telegram sent immediately," he said in his quiet tone of
command. "Is Farrell anywhere about?"

"I can take it, sir, if you please: I often do."

"Very well."

Back to the books again with their long lines of figures. Did he think
he would find the shame and ruin here in bold black and white? He
studied them until they all ran together, and his brain seemed to become
a mass of luminous light with black motes floating about in it. The
tense agony abated. Strange visions haunted him, frivolous fancies, and
wonders that had puzzled him in boyhood; heroic fragments of bygone
declamation; the incidents of a week ago; a picture of some bold
scenery, and he in the cars, whirling by.

"Am I going crazy?" he asked with a ghastly expression. Then he took
several turns about the room, listened to the noise of the great engine,
and assured himself that he was sane.

Had he better go home? He was so tired! In all his life he had never
been so utterly exhausted. Then in a sudden, fretful mood of
contradiction he wondered he should think of fatigue when his limbs felt
strong, and his body knew no physical pain.

"I must shake it off!" he declared resolutely. Of what avail would be
going home to a wife's peevish complaints, and sit by himself to study
out this tangle? As well stay here, and master it. And that palace
yonder was home, and these were the comforts for which he had spent his
years and his energies! This was what he had laid up. An inheritance
incorruptible--why would these things come back to him?

The mill-bell began its clang. He listened to the tramp through the
passage-ways, the confusion of voices. He went to the window. The great
gates for the work-hands were around on the other side; but he could see
the motley procession filing down the street. Not gay and cheerful as in
bygone days: they seemed to drag along, these girls and women in shabby
clothes, their shawls drawn around their shoulders. Old men and
boys--why, where had vigorous middle life disappeared? So many faces had
a hard, discontented look, that pierced him like the sharp point of
ingratitude. Had he not brought himself to ruin to give the people
employment? If he had shut down the mill three years ago, he would have
been a rich man.

Well, why had he not? Was it thought for them? Had the prospect of their
starving lain heavily on his soul?

Ah, the love of money-getting, the fiend of covetousness! But what would
these people have done? Some one had once said, "What is that to thee?
Follow thou me." Was it in a sermon?

He lighted the gas, and went on wearily with his books. Some one opened
the door softly, and peered in. It was Farrell, the day-man. When he saw
Mr. Lawrence he touched his cap respectfully.

"Pardon me, sir: I saw a light"--

"Yes, I am going to stay--all night, I think: I shall be busy. When does
the night-man come?"

"At seven, sir."

"I will send a note up to Hope Terrace, Farrell. Could you take it?"

The man thought of his long day's work and his waiting supper. "Yes," he
answered rather reluctantly.

"Stop in, then, when you go."

Farrell went off grumbling. He would go home to supper first, that he
would. These men had no souls. That long walk-- Some people always rode
in chaises, were born with silver spoons in their mouths, and looked on
the rest of the world as mere lackeys!

There was some wine in the closet, and Mr. Lawrence took a glass to
clear his brain. He rarely used it save at dinner. Then back to the
tormenting books,--columns of business that appeared incredible now. How
had all this money slipped away?

Farrell tapped, and came in.

"Jackson's here now, sir. Is the note ready?"

"Yes. There is some change. Get a hack, Farrell: it is too far to walk.
Did Mr. Eastman"--

There was so long a pause that Farrell said,--

"Mr. Eastman went to New York. He said he might not be back to-morrow."

Mr. Lawrence nodded, as if that were sufficient. He would not peer into
the man's business.

"If you should want any thing, sir, Jackson will be at hand," said the
man kindly; for the thin, pale face, and strange, nervous light in the
eyes startled him.

"Jackson," he began, when outside, "Mr. Lawrence is going to stay a bit,
maybe all night. He has a great pile of books before him; but I'm afraid
he's queer some way. His eyes look wild and strange. Keep a lookout,
will you"--

"You don't mean that he's likely to shuffle? Are things as bad as that?
Has he got a pistol?"

"I don't know, I'm sure. Maybe I'm wrong;" and Farrell counted over the
money in his hand. "Anyhow, I would walk up and down this hall, and
listen."

Jackson nodded, and Farrell went his way; yet now he thought the brisk
walk would not hurt him. Jackson heeded his bidding, but all was quiet.
Once he went in the next room, and climbed up to a high sliding window,
used for ventilation. Mr. Lawrence sat there poring over the books. At
twelve it was the same. Jackson tolled off the hour of midnight. Every
thing was safe in the great building. Then he settled himself in an
easy-chair, and presently fell into a doze.

Meanwhile Mr. Lawrence studied the books in a dazed, bewildered way.
Here and there a balance had been struck, and it all looked fair. But
there was a terrible wrong somewhere!

The figures danced before his eyes in lurid lights and grotesque shapes,
with grinning faces, flying, whirling, in a wild, demoniac waltz. The
room was full. The procession he had watched to-night winding out from
the mill, stopped and jeered, and pointed skinny fingers at him. Then
he was at the bank, and they came in troops, wringing their hands, and
cursing him. Strange tales that he had read mixed with them in
inextricable confusion. Pictures of the past hurried by with panoramic
distinctness; and hark! what was that? The grand trump of the Judgment
Day? It tolled and tolled again, like a thunder-peal. Was any one dead?

He was so tired! He put his arms down on the desk, and leaned his face
on them. If he could sleep off this intolerable weariness!

He was a boy again, wading through the limpid brook, stepping from stone
to stone, and sometimes plashing over. Was that the dried sweetness of
balsam,--the pungent odor of pennyroyal and water-mint,--the clean,
resinous fragrance of the pines? Out there were lily-pads,--great
golden-hearted chalices, with long, sinuous greenish-pink stems under
the shady, transparent water. How cool and peaceful! The sky overhead
was of palest blue with white flecks, and somewhere a bird was singing.
If he could go to it; if he could stay amid all this sweet quiet, and
forget-- What was it he wanted to forget? Not his little Fred, surely!
How proud he should be of him in his manhood. What a help and comfort!

There was a strange, sudden darkness. The head drooped a little one
side, and the visions had come to an end.




CHAPTER IX.


WHEN Farrell returned to his post in the morning, Jackson reported Mr.
Lawrence asleep in the office. No one thought of him again until about
ten o'clock, when some protested notes came in. Jeffries knocked at the
door, opened it softly, spoke, but received no answer; then stepped
nearer, and peered curiously at the face. It was ghastly white, the eyes
wide open and staring, and with a shriek Jeffries alarmed the whole
establishment.

Old Dr. Lecounte came, pronounced him dead, and then sent for Dr.
Maverick, to whom he had taken a great liking. Between them both they
found a faint sign of life; and he was removed to his elegant mansion on
Hope Terrace, where his wife went into immediate and violent hysterics.
They remained several hours, and decided it to be that terrible death in
life, entire paralysis of brain, nerve, and muscle. He might linger some
days; he might drop away any moment.

Horace Eastman, looking over the news items the next morning, saw this
account, and returned at once to Yerbury. Certainly fortune had favored
him. Affairs were in wild confusion. He learned that a telegram had been
sent to young Mr. Lawrence, and an answer received. He would be back
next Monday. Mrs. Minor came up, and brought an experienced nurse.

The mill kept open until Saturday. Then Mr. Eastman called the men
together.

He was very much puzzled to know what to do, he said. He had resigned
his position as superintendent of the mills, nearly a month ago; but
Mr. Lawrence had begged him to stay on until he could come to some
decision. The affairs were in a very embarrassed condition, and now
suspension was imperative. What Mr. Lawrence would have done, he could
not tell; but he did not feel justified in taking the responsibility. He
was most truly sorry--he could say it from his heart--for those whose
cheerful faces and light steps he had watched year after year, until he
came to have a friendly feeling for them all; and he was shocked at the
result of all this trouble to his dear friend, to whom he was bound by a
deeper tie than that of mere business. But there had been two years of
unparalleled depression, and Mr. Lawrence had made a brave fight. No one
beside himself knew all the difficulties that had beset his old friend's
path. It was not only here in Yerbury that trade was dull: it was from
the Atlantic to the Pacific. England, Germany, and France were suffering
as deeply as ourselves. Production had been overdone by most of the
employers using their best efforts to keep their hands at work in the
face of a falling market, or no market at all. Shelves were packed with
goods everywhere. We were on the eve of a great change, and it would be
some time before values would become stable again. If the balance of
trade (high-sounding, but imperfectly understood term) could once more
turn in our favor; if we could export our surplus goods, and find new
markets,--as no doubt we would,--every shop and factory would soon be
ringing with the cheerful sound of labor. It would be a hard winter; but
he, for one, believed the spring would open auspiciously, that business
would revive, homes be prosperous, and every heavy heart light. Let them
all take courage for their own future and that of Hope Mills in the
hands of its young master. He regretted deeply that there was no money
to pay them with to-night; but that would doubtless be attended to
soon. He wanted to bid them a cordial good-by, and beg them to stand by
young Mr. Lawrence.

There was some rather faint cheering. Troubled eyes questioned
despondent eyes; what were they to do with winter coming on? First it
was the bank, now the mills, and what next God only could tell.

Fred Lawrence reached Yerbury Monday evening; and at midnight the faint,
fluttering soul of his father passed over that mighty river. There had
been no return to consciousness. Mrs. Lawrence still lay in her darkened
room, unable to bear any sound beyond that of the trained nurse.

To say that Fred was shocked, would feebly express his emotion. He had
never dreamed of his father's dying,--never dreamed of any thing like
misfortune happening to him, of any keener suffering than some temporary
annoyance. He felt quite helpless. His old philosophies did not inspire
him with courage, or open a way out of this dark present. There was to
be a funeral; there were business complications; some one had to think
of the future; the mill was shut up, the fortune swept away, and he had
been stranded on a strange shore, knowing not which way to turn.

Eastman was still in Yerbury. He was intensely sympathetic with the
bereaved family. In fact, now that he would never have to meet the eye
of the man he had so deeply wronged, his spirits rose, his pity
overflowed. Fred was quite touched by it. Hamilton Minor, with his
rather brusque business ways, jarred against his sorrow.
