
"I think you were fortunate to escape with your lives," I added.

"I know we were, Captain--I don't know your name any better than you
did mine; and it strikes me that you are a very young fellow to be in
command of a steamer, though she is a very small one."

"My name is Alexander Garningham, and I am generally called Captain
Alick. I have been on the water most of the time since I was ten years
old, either on the sea or on the great lakes. I have had as rough a
time on Lake Superior as we had last night, if not a rougher." I told
my story as briefly as I could.

"Your education has not been neglected, Captain Alick," continued
Captain Mayfield. "If you had not managed the Sylvania so well last
night, most of us must have perished; for I have no doubt that the
Olive went to pieces before midnight. She was a well-built vessel, but
rather old. The gale kept forcing her up to the sharp coral rocks, and
she was grinding off her timbers at a very rapid rate when we left her.
If there had been any chance for her I would not have left her. I had
reduced sail at dark, when it began to freshen into a gale. We had the
wind on the beam, and the bark was behaving very well."

"It began to blow the heaviest about six bells," I added.

"We did not get the worst of it. We had the foretop-mast staysail, fore
and main topsails, and the spanker set. The Gulf Stream was with us,
and we were making not less than ten knots an hour. I expected soon to
see Carysfort Light. Our course was north, a quarter east, and I had no
doubt I was making it good."

"I am afraid not."

"Of course I know now that I did not make it good; but I can't see any
reason why I did not."

"I can," I interposed. "It was for the same reason that we were drifted
so far to the northward and westward. When the wind comes strong from
an easterly direction the current of the Gulf Stream is partly turned
to the westward."

"I have read that in the Coast Pilot; but I have been through these
waters so many times without noticing anything of the kind, that I did
not think of it last night. The first hint I had that anything was
wrong was when the Olive struck on the rocks. I knew from the sound of
the crash that she had stove a hole in her bow. She flew back, and then
the wind jammed her on again. I sent hands aloft to furl the topsails,
and others to haul down the jib and take in the spanker. But she drove
on the rocks all the same; and I knew that would be the end of her."

I invited the captain to visit the cabin, for I thought he would wish
to see his wife and daughter. Our passengers were all at breakfast, and
engaged in talking over the events of the night. Captain Mayfield was
invited to join them, and I advised him to do so, while I went back to
the deck to attend to the wants of the rest of the ship's company of
the Olive. The sailors were all on deck, and the mate was in the
pilot-house with Washburn. Gopher had made provision for feeding the
addition to our passengers. I invited the two mates of the Olive down
into the fore-cabin to breakfast, while the cook and steward were
supplying the sailors on the forecastle. I found that Gopher had been
liberal in his supplies, both as to quantity and quality, for the
wrecked people.

By eight o'clock breakfast had been served to all on board. I had not
slept above four hours in two nights, though my short nap had refreshed
me a little. Washburn and all the rest of the crew had been on duty
most of the night, and they were very much fatigued. Moses Brickland
had served a double watch, and Ben Bowman had worked like a trooper
most of the night. I decided, as it was pleasant and plain sailing, to
send all hands to their berths, and take the helm myself, with Ben at
the engine; for he declared that he could stand it with only two hours'
sleep a week. Captain Mayfield and his two mates soon joined me in the
pilot-house. I was so sleepy myself that I could not help gaping and
yawning.

"You've had a hard night of it, Captain Alick, while I have had a whole
night below," said Captain Mayfield. "Myself and my mates have all seen
service in a steamer, and we should be very glad to relieve you."

"Thank you, Captain. I acknowledge that I am rather worn out; but a
little steamer like the Sylvania has her ways, and is peculiar," I
replied.

"Let Beach take the wheel, and you shall see whether he can handle
her," persisted Captain Mayfield.

Beach was the second mate, and I assented. I gave him the course, and
he kept her steady to it. I lay down on the bench abaft the wheel, and
before I knew it I didn't know anything. But I slept only a few
minutes, and when I waked I found the first mate at the wheel. He was
simply trying his hand at it. A little while after the captain took his
turn. We could see the Keys, the spindles and buoys on the reefs, and
it was hardly possible for any mishap to occur on board.

I asked one of them to help me heave the log, as I had sent all my
ship's company below to make up their sleep, except the second
engineer. Captain Mayfield would not permit me to do anything about it.
He called a couple of his seamen, and went aft to do it. He soon
reported twelve knots, with the remark that he did not suppose the
steamer to be capable of such a high rate of speed. He then begged me
to turn in. He was perfectly familiar with the coast and the soundings.
He sent two of his men on the topgallant forecastle to serve as
lookouts, and declared that the mates should keep the wheel all the
time. I was too sleepy to resist, and I turned in. I was soon fast
asleep. The motion of the vessel was now quite steady, though she rose
and fell upon the long seas.

It was two o'clock in the afternoon when I woke, for the new captain
would not permit me to be called. Gopher had dined all on board but the
crew, who had turned in before I did. Ben Bowman had waked himself, and
gone to the engine-room to relieve Moses, at eleven. The attentive cook
had a fresh dinner ready for me; and before I had finished it most of
the other sleepers appeared.

I went to the pilot-house and looked at the log-slate. It had been
faithfully kept during the absence of Washburn and myself. The last
entry was American Shoal, with the time of passing it.

"Where are we now, Captain Mayfield?" I asked.

"Do you see that beacon with a big B on the vane?" he said, pointing to
the beacon, which was within fifty yards of the steamer's bow. "That is
the Eastern Sambo, about a dozen sea miles from Key West."

"You have been making time since I went to sleep."

"We have logged twelve knots every time," he replied. "We shall have a
head wind after we have passed the Western Sambo, or soon after, and we
must take in sail."

I directed Washburn to call all hands and take in sail, with the
assistance at the sheets and halyards of the crew of the Olive.

"Where do you suppose the Islander is about this time?" I asked of
Washburn, after he had taken in sail and squared the yards.

"She may be at the bottom," replied the mate.

Captain Mayfield asked me what I meant, and I told him all about the
Islander.

"Her captain must have understood the navigation, or he would not have
gone inside on such a night as last we had," added Captain Mayfield. "I
don't think you will see the other steamer till you get to Key West, in
little more than an hour."

"He may have gone to the bottom in the hurricane," I suggested.

"He could make a harbor in several places; at Tavernier, for instance.
He may even have run through some opening to the other side of one of
the Keys, and been entirely protected from the heavy sea. He had to be
pretty well acquainted in there to do this. Do you know where he
shipped his crew?"

"At Jacksonville, Florida," I replied.

"Then very likely he had one or more of the Conchs, or natives, who
come from the Bahama Islands, on board. They are fishermen and
wreckers, and know every inch of bottom all along the reefs. I think
you will see the other steamer as soon as you get to Key West, for I
have no doubt she has got there first, if she was going there at all.
Western Sambo, three, five," continued Captain Mayfield. "Make a note
of it, Mr. Dana."

After some further conversation with the captain, I was confident the
Islander could not get by Key West without being seen by Cornwood, if
the steamer in which he was to come to Cedar Keys had not been detained
by the storm. Captain Mayfield did not believe the steamer with
Jacksonville passengers on board had been detained, as she had an
inside passage during all the worst of the hurricane. It was probable
that the agent of Colonel Shepard had arrived in the fore-noon, if not
in the morning.

Our pilot ran the Sylvania about two miles beyond the Western Sambo,
and then headed the vessel to the north-west. He asked me the draught
of the Sylvania, and I gave it to him as nine feet, which was her depth
in the water when her coal-bunkers were full of anthracite coal. The
course was varied considerably to avoid shoal places and reefs; but
Captain Mayfield gave me the sailing directions as we went along, and I
compared them with those in the Coast Pilot. All the passengers had
come on deck when it was announced that we were close in to Key West.
Colonel Shepard was very anxious about the Islander.

The city of Key West is located on the western end of an island of the
same name. Near it is Fort Taylor, a vast structure built on an
artificial island, and connected with Key West by a long bridge. On a
hill is Whitehead Light, and on the north side of the island are
several observatories. The town, consisting mostly of cottages, is near
these towers.

When we were off Fort Taylor, we had a full view of the harbor, but the
Islander was not to be seen.

"There she goes!" exclaimed Washburn, pointing to the north-west.

She carried no sail; but when I looked through the glass I made out her
rig, though she was four miles away.




CHAPTER XV.

A PARTIAL SOLUTION OF THE MYSTERY.


"What does Captain Blastblow mean? Does he mean to run away with the
Islander?" demanded Colonel Shepard, when he realized that his
steam-yacht was again trying to elude him.

"He must have seen the Sylvania," I replied, very much perplexed by the
conduct of the captain of the Islander. "If he stopped at Key West at
all, he must have seen us before he started."

"Is it possible to overtake her, Captain Alick?" asked Colonel Shepard,
nervously.

"As the case now stands, Captain Blastblow is running away from us. He
has some object in view which we cannot comprehend. I have no doubt we
can overtake her, for she can't run in behind any keys, or dodge into
any unfamiliar channels."

"But I ought not to ask you to pursue her any farther," continued the
owner of the runaway steam-yacht. "I know your party wish to stop here,
and I will not compel them to go any farther."

"I think we can see all we want to of Key West from the deck,"
interposed my father. "At any rate, if we wish to spend any time in Key
West, it will be easy enough to come back here, for we have the whole
summer before us, and the winter, too, if the summer is not long
enough."

"I have no desire to stop here, and Margie would much rather continue
with her friend, Miss Edith, than stop at this place," added Mr.
Tiffany. "We are all quite interested in solving the problem of the
intentions of the captain of the Islander."

"We will leave the whole matter to Alick; and whatever he does we will
not complain," said my father.

"You are very considerate and kind, gentlemen, and I am under very
great obligations to you and to Captain Alick for all the favors you
have extended to me," replied the colonel.

"If it is left to me we will chase the Islander," I added. "But we must
land our shipwrecked passengers here, and that will take a little time;
and I want a pilot, for I don't like to lose any time in those shoal
waters and crooked channels."

"Get your boats all ready, Captain Alick, and it won't take five
minutes to land me and my men, and I will put your steamer where you
can get a pilot in two minutes," interposed Captain Mayfield. "I have
no doubt we should have all perished if you had not come to the wreck
at no small peril to your vessel; and I hope the time will come when I
shall have a chance to do something for you."

"Oh, that's all right," I replied. "I hope I never shall be in a
situation to need such help as we had a chance to give you, Captain
Mayfield."

I gave the order to clear away the boats, the davits were swung out,
and the falls manned ready to drop them into the water without a
moment's delay. The ship's company of the Olive shook hands with me,
and thanked me very warmly for what the Sylvania had done for them. I
was sorry to part with them so hastily, but the anxiety of the colonel
seemed to admit of no other course. Captain Mayfield ran the steamer
within a hundred yards of the shore by Tift's observatory. He rang to
back her, and as soon as she had lost her headway, the two boats were
dropped into the water, with two hands in each. They were then brought
up to the gangway steps, which had been rigged out for the use of the
ladies, who were all ready to embark.

We assisted Mrs. Mayfield and her daughter into the stern-sheets of
one, and the captain joined them. The boat shoved off, when the mate
and four of the sailors had stowed themselves away. The captain and the
ladies waved their adieus as soon as Dyer and Hop began to pull. Before
the port boat was off the second mate and the rest of the seamen had
piled into the starboard boat, and both were off at nearly the same
time.

I saw the seamen in both boats assisting the oarsmen, and the boats
went through the water at a lively rate. Not more than two minutes had
elapsed before the party were all on shore. Several men hastened up to
Captain Mayfield, and I saw him select one of them, who immediately
jumped into the port boat. It was hardly a minute more before the boats
were under the falls. They were rapidly hoisted up, and swung inboard.
The men leaped out of them, and Washburn rang to back the boat into
deeper water. The men secured the boats, and the person sent off went
into the pilot-house.

I looked at the clock and found we had lost less than ten minutes in
landing the wrecked party, during which time the Islander had made over
a mile. Moses Brickland had been attending to the furnaces while the
boats were absent with the two firemen, and I was sure that he had a
good head of steam on. The pilot was a swarthy person, with long black
hair, and I had no doubt he was a Conch, as Captain Mayfield had
described them to me. He was well dressed in seaman's blue clothes. I
rather liked the looks of the man, and began to feel confidence in him
as soon as I saw him.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Pilot," I said, giving him my hand, when I
went into the pilot-house after assuring myself that the boats were
well secured.

"Thank you, Captain Alick," he replied with a smile.

"As you seem to know my name, it is no more than fair that I should
know yours," I replied, as good-naturedly as he had spoken.

"I am called Captain Cayo, but my name is Cazador, which is the Spanish
for 'Hunter.' But it don't make much difference what you call me. Cayo
is Spanish for Key, and people here are so used to the word that they
have given it me for a name. Where are you bound, Captain Alick?"

"To New Orleans, or rather we are bound to overhaul the little steamer,
just like this one, which left here not more than half an hour before
we arrived," I replied.

"I should have thought it was the same steamer if I had seen both of
them at the same time," replied Captain Cayo, who had taken the wheel
when he first came into the pilot-house, for he had been engaged to
take the Sylvania through the North-West Channel, as it is called. "You
wish to overhaul the Islander, do you?"

"Her owner is on board of this steamer, and he is very anxious to get
on board of her," I answered.

"Very well; if the Sylvania has the speed we will overhaul her, Captain
Alick," added the pilot.

"Where did you learn my name, Captain Cayo, for you called me by it
before any one had used it on board; and those who came off in the boat
with you invariably call me Captain Garningham?" I inquired, taking up
one of the points which had attracted my attention from the first.

"I heard you called so by a gentleman who arrived here by the morning
steamer from Cedar Keys."

"Who was the gentleman?" I asked, with interest.

"I don't remember his name, if I heard it at all."

"What time did the Islander get to Key West?"

"Not more than two hours before the Sylvania. I went on board of her to
offer my services as pilot. The captain did not want a pilot, for he
had a Conch on board who used to live in the city."

"Then this man is now piloting the Islander through this channel?"

"I suppose he is; but I don't think he is a pilot, for he is taking the
steamer a long way to the eastward of the bar-buoy. She went pretty
near a shoal with only five feet of water on it. I shall make one
sea-mile in going five compared with the course of the Islander."

"I am very glad to hear it. What sort of a looking-person was it that
came in the morning-boat from Cedar Keys?" I asked.

The pilot described Cornwood as though he were a novelist. Of course I
had no difficulty in supposing it was he. In order to get the most
reliable intelligence from the pilot, I told him all about the abrupt
departure of the Islander from Jacksonville without her owner and his
family. I stated my belief that Captain Blastblow was avoiding us, and
that he had put to sea as soon as he discovered the Sylvania headed in
for Key West. I told him the sudden departure of the other steamer was
a great mystery to her owner and all the rest of us.

"I am sure I don't know anything about the matter, Captain Alick. I
don't believe the Islander intended to stop at the city, for the man
from Cedar Keys----"

"His name is Cornwood," I interposed.

"Cornwood went off in a boat and hailed the Islander. She would not
stop till he flourished a letter. I was out in my boat looking for any
craft that wanted a pilot, and I was close aboard of her. When she
stopped I climbed aboard on one side while Cornwood got aboard on the
other side. Instead of delivering the letter to the captain, he said it
was for a person supposed to be on board. The captain indulged in
strong talk; but Cornwood made some statement I did not hear, which
seemed to satisfy him. The steamer came to anchor just outside of Fort
Taylor. When the captain told me he did not want a pilot, I left the
steamer. As I pulled away, I saw that a sharp lookout was kept over the
stern of the Islander, which I can understand now, if I could not
then."

"You don't know whether or not Cornwood delivered any letter to the
captain of the Islander?" I inquired, with deep interest.

"Very likely he did, but not while I was on board. I pulled up the
harbor, and landed the other side of the Lazaretto. Before I reached
the shore I saw Cornwood and a swellish-looking fellow rowing to the
same landing-place. Cornwood was talking very earnestly to the swell,
and continued to do so after they got ashore."

"What did the swell look like?" I asked, wondering who he could be, for
I had seen all the crew of the Islander, and could remember no one that
looked like a swell.

Captain Cayo gave a minute description of the person; but it would have
applied as well to one swell as to another.

"Did you see anything more of Cornwood and this swell?" I asked,
somewhat excited over the narrative, and hoping to get some clue to the
conspiracy for running off the Islander.

"Cornwood and the young fellow took a seat on a bench near the
landing-place, and talked for a full hour. Before they got through I
had a sight of this steamer coming up by the West Sambo. I passed quite
near them, on my way up the hill to the lighthouse, to see if I could
make out your steamer. As I did so, I heard Cornwood call the other
fellow Nick."

"Nick!" I exclaimed, looking at Washburn.

"That explains it all," added the mate.

"What does it explain?" asked the pilot, who seemed to be quite as much
interested in the case as Washburn and myself were.

"It explains another story I have not told, and which I did not suppose
had anything to do with this matter of the running off of the
Islander."

I related the affair of the robbery of the messenger of the bank,
giving all the details of the case, including the unexplained
disappearance of Nick Boomsby. The case looked as plain as day to
Washburn and myself. Nick had taken possession of the package of money,
and concealed it somewhere under the counter; and doubtless there were
holes and corners enough there where it could be put without its being
seen by his father. He wanted to get out of Jacksonville as soon as
possible after the robbery. He had applied to me, with his pathetic
story about being compelled to sell whiskey, and wanted to be taken as
a passenger in the Sylvania.

"Nick had the card written by Colonel Shepard, which he delivered the
night before we sailed," said Washburn.

"I should like to know what was written on that card," I added.

"Probably it was nothing more than an intimation from the colonel that
he should be ready to sail the next morning. He had not room enough on
a card to go into the particulars," answered Washburn. "You saw him
write the card, Alick."

"There was not more than a line or two on it, for it was done in half a
minute, signature and all."

"Captain Blastblow had steam up in the morning, as directed," continued
Washburn. "Nick observed the writing closely, and wrote a letter such
as he wanted for use the next morning. Captain Blastblow is not to
blame, unless it is for letting Nick deceive him."

The case looked plain enough now.




CHAPTER XVI.

ACROSS THE GULF OF MEXICO.


We had arrived at only a partial solution of the mystery, though we had
done enough to relieve Captain Blastblow from any evil intentions in
the premises. What Cornwood's connection with the affair was did not
yet appear. He could not have known that Nick Boomsby was on board of
the Islander, for he had gone to St. Augustine, where we had put in on
account of stress of weather. He could not have known that we intended
to put into St. Augustine, for we had no intention to do so when we
left Jacksonville.

Possibly Cornwood had put one thing and another together until he
believed Nick had taken the four thousand dollars, and had made his
escape in the Islander. It looked as though Cornwood had some
connection with the robbery, for the Islander had hurried on her way to
New Orleans, if she was bound there, as soon as the Sylvania came in
sight. If he had delivered the letter to Captain Blastblow, the latter
would have remained in Key West until the arrival of her owner, as
instructed by the written message.

"Cornwood and Nick did a good deal of talking, it appears, while the
Islander was here," said Washburn, "though we don't know what it was
all about."

"I have no doubt Cornwood took the management of the case at this
point," I replied. "Nick must have forged one letter to induce Captain
Blastblow to start the Islander without her owner and his family; and I
have no doubt Cornwood forged another to make him continue the voyage."

"I hope we shall know all about the matter in a few hours more," said
Washburn.

"You understand the entire situation now, Captain Cayo, and see why we
want to overhaul the Islander," I continued.

"I see the whole of it, and I will do the best I can to outsail the
other steamer; but that depends more on your vessel than on me,"
replied the pilot. "Will you let your men heave the log?"

We had been driving the Sylvania to her utmost, and Ben Bowman reported
that we were making eleven and a half knots, which was doing
exceedingly well in the teeth of a fresh north-west wind. Captain Cayo
went to the westward of the bar-buoy, while the Islander had gone to
the eastward of it more than a mile. I saw that we had gained a mile by
this course, and the Islander was not more than four miles ahead of us.

I gave the pilot my views of the relative speed of the two vessels,
though I told him that Captain Blastblow might get a higher rate of
speed out of her than any one had done before.

"We shall soon see which sails fastest," said Captain Cayo. "The
Islander has laid her course for the South-west Pass of the
Mississippi. All you have to do is to follow her. There is our
pilot-boat; and this is as far as we usually take vessels."

"But I don't care to have you leave us here, Captain Cayo," I replied.
"It is clear enough that the Islander intends to keep out of our way.
She may run in among the Dry Tortugas, and having a pilot on board, she
could easily elude us."

"She might do that when she finds you are gaining on her, as I see you
are, for we have made half a knot on her since we came out of the
channel. But if we leave the pilot-boat behind, I can't get off the
steamer when you don't want me any longer. Besides, it looks like a
change of weather, and pilots are in demand when it is foggy or blows,
at this season of the year."

"What sort of weather do you expect next?" I asked.

"The wind will work round to the south-west, and then it will be
foggy," replied the pilot, scanning the horizon.

"Can't you go to New Orleans, or remain on board till we meet a steamer
for Key West?" I suggested.

"I should be very happy to go to New Orleans with you, for there will
be no steamer for Key West for several days. But I am not a pilot for
the Mississippi River, and you will have to pay another just the same
as though I were not on board."

He named his price, besides expenses; and as it was reasonable, I
accepted it at once. My experience the night before, when I found the
Sylvania was ten miles from where I supposed she was, made me extremely
cautious. I felt entirely competent to take the steamer to the
South-east Pass of the Mississippi; but it was evident that Cornwood
had obtained control of the Islander, acting as the agent of Colonel
Shepard, and that he would not permit the Sylvania to come near her if
he could avoid it. Probably the Conch who had acted as her pilot so far
would understand the channels of the Tortugas, and could easily take
the Islander where I should not care to follow her.

The pilot-boat lay very nearly in our course, and a boat put off from
her as we approached. Captain Cayo stopped the steamer when the boat
was abreast of her. He jumped upon the rail, and told the oarsmen that
he was going to New Orleans.

"Now start her, Mr. Mate," said he to Washburn, as he crawled over the
rail to the deck.

"Now Cornwood will believe the pilot has left you," said Captain Cayo.
"The Islander is still two miles off, and I don't think her people
could see me when I crawled back over the rail."

It was a dead calm on the Gulf of Mexico, and the Sylvania was still
making eleven and a half knots an hour. I calculated that we had gained
two knots on the Islander, one by taking the shorter course, and one by
outsailing her.

"I think we had better keep her more to the southward," said Captain
Cayo, after he had taken a survey of the horizon, especially in the
southwest, where a pile of clouds seemed to be gathering.

"Why to the southward?" I asked.

"I think the captain of the Islander must see by this time that we are
gaining on him, and that it is only a question of three or four hours
when we shall overhaul her," replied the pilot. "If I were in his
place, I should steer for the Tortugas, and leave you five or ten miles
behind by dodging into some shallow channel. By keeping to the
southward, we shall be in a better position to head her off."

"I see; and we are almost up with the Tortugas. If we keep to the
southward, we shall be right in her course if she attempts to run for
those islands."

"Right you are, Captain Alick," added the pilot, as he changed the
course to due west. "There is a breeze coming up from the southward,
which is quite a regular thing towards night. It will blow fresh for
some hours, just about a whole sail breeze. I think you had better get
your sails set, for the one that uses the wind first will make the
most."

I told the mate to call all hands, and put on every rag of canvas we
could set. Before he had the foretopsail shaken out, the breeze came,
though it was very light. By the time the rest of the sails were set,
it was blowing lively. It was five o'clock in the afternoon, and we
were fairly up with the Tortugas, and at least a mile to the southward
of the Islander. If she attempted to get in among the islands, she must
run across our course, and less than a mile ahead of the Sylvania. We
could easily cut her off.

"She can't get in among those islands now without running into us," I
said, after I had carefully surveyed the situation.

"That is as true as preaching," added Captain Cayo, laughing, when he
saw that the other steamer was checkmated if she had intended to resort
to any stratagem to avoid us. "We may as well put the steamer on her
course for the South-east Pass."

He suited his action to the words. The wind was freshening, and the log
indicated that we were making twelve knots strong. Moses was still
crowding on all the steam the boiler would bear, and I am sure the
yacht never sailed any faster.

At six I estimated that the Islander was not more than a mile ahead of
us, and another hour would wipe out all the difference.

"This wind is good for us in one way, and bad in another," said Captain
Cayo, shaking his head after a searching gaze to windward.

"You mean that we are likely to have some fog," I added.

"Not only likely to have a fog, but sure of it. It is miles deep to the
southward and westward."

"Of course the Islander will be able to keep out of the way in a fog;
and we can't help ourselves," I replied, trying to yield as gracefully
as possible to the necessity of giving up our point.

I had hardly uttered the words before the fog swept down upon us. It
was very dense, and we could not see a ship's length ahead of us; at
about the same time the wind suddenly subsided. We could see nothing of
the Islander, and I had no doubt she had already shifted her course to
the north or the south.

"The game is all up, Captain Cayo," I said, very mournfully.

"Up for the present," replied the pilot, as he called through the
speaking-tube for the engineer to stop the steamer.

Captain Cayo put his head out of one of the front windows of the
pilot-house, and listened attentively for several minutes. I understood
that he had used the speaking-tube instead of ringing the gong, so that
those on board of the Islander should not hear the sound, as they
might, it was now so still.

"Go ahead," continued the pilot through the tube. "She has headed to
the northward, and we will see what we can do on the same tack."

The pilot headed the Sylvania to the north. I hoped the wind would
breeze up again and carry off the fog; but there was no indication of
it. Our sails made so much noise, flapping and pounding against the
spars, that I was obliged to order all sail taken in. When we had gone
an hour on the present course, the pilot ordered the engineer to stop
her, as before. Washburn and Ben Bowman were on the top-gallant
forecastle, and they listened with all their might. We all did the
same, but we could not catch a sound of any kind. If the Islander had
been within a mile of us we could have heard the clang of her screw.
She had either stopped her engine, or gone off on some other course. We
went ahead again, headed to the north-west.

"We might keep this up all night, and not find her," said Captain Cayo,
disgusted with the situation.

"What had we better do?" I asked.

"We can't do anything. We can't fight against the fog. Are you sure the
Islander will go to New Orleans if we let her alone?"

"I feel reasonably sure of it," I replied. "Captain Blastblow evidently
is not engaged in the conspiracy; and I don't believe Cornwood could
induce him to disregard the instructions of his owner. His course
indicates that he intends to go there, only he seems to be determined
to keep out of the way of the Sylvania."

"I have no doubt Cornwood and Nick Boomsby want to go to New Orleans,"
added the pilot. "I don't see why it won't be just as well to pick them
up there as it will be here."

"But they will not allow themselves to be picked up," I answered. "They
will get ashore as soon as the Islander reaches New Orleans, whether
they get there before or after we do."

"If I wanted to make sure of the rogues, I should get to New Orleans as
quickly as I could."

"We should be sure to get there before the Islander," I added.

"So much the better. When you get there, procure a couple of officers,
and run back down the river till you meet the other steamer. Throw your
officers on board of her, and they will then have no chance to escape.
If we wait here all night, the Islander will make the best of her way
to her destination, while we are waiting for the fog to clear off, and
of course the rogues will put themselves out of sight," said Captain
Cayo.

"I think it is the surer way to run for New Orleans. I don't know that
we need any officers," I replied. "We can run into the Mississippi,
find some place of concealment, and pounce on the Islander when they
least suspect our presence."

"I like that plan still better," replied the pilot.

We agreed upon this course, and the Sylvania was headed for the
South-east Pass of the Mississippi. We gave her full speed, and on
Tuesday afternoon we were off the pass. It was a dull passage. We took
a pilot, and as we had no difficulty in crossing the bar, we were soon
in the river. The whole region was swamps and lagoons, about as
uninteresting as we could expect to find.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE SYLVANIA IN AMBUSH.


As soon as we were in the river, the Mississippi pilot was discharged,
and we continued on our voyage up the stream. We did not know by which
pass the Islander would come in, and we kept on till daylight in the
morning. We then ran up to the shore, which was covered with small
trees. The place we had chosen was at a bend of the mighty stream,
where we could not be seen until the Islander was close upon us. We
made fast to a tree, and sent Hop Tossford ashore to watch at the bend
for the approach of the other steamer.

As the water was deep enough for the Islander in whatever part of it
she went, I thought she would come within a few yards of our position,
as that would lead her up stream by the shortest way. Our passengers
had spent their time in the usual manner on the voyage, and one day at
sea was very like any other day when the weather was fine. We had
passed out of the fog before midnight, and the two days on the Gulf had
been as pleasant as possible. Some of them landed on the high bank of
the river where we had made fast; but we required them to keep within
call.

In the pilot-house we had voted that it was not best to say anything
about Cornwood's relations with Nick, and none of the passengers even
knew that Nick was on board of the Islander. We simply told them that
we had lost the other steamer in the fog, and we were afraid we should
miss the Islander in New Orleans if we delayed to look for her in the
fog.

The pilot took the spare berth in the fore cabin, and made himself
entirely at home on the steamer, as I desired he should. We had
arranged our plan for the capture of the Islander when she came up the
river; and none of us had any doubts in regard to her coming. Captain
Cayo was to have the duty of taking possession of the person of
Cornwood, and Buck Lingley was to do the same kindness to Nick. Colonel
Shepard was to be close at hand to deal with Captain Blastblow, if he
objected to the proceedings.

All the forenoon passed away without a sight of the Islander. We dined,
and began to inquire if there was any way by which the Islander could
get to New Orleans without passing the point where we had taken
position. We could find none she was likely to take. We were beginning
to believe our well-laid plan had miscarried, when Ben Bowman, who was
on the lookout for the prize, hastened on board with the intelligence
that the Islander was within four miles of us.

We had covered our topmasts with green branches to prevent the people
on the Islander from suspecting our presence before she turned the
bend. A little point covered with trees a short distance below us
concealed the hull of the Sylvania, and I was satisfied that she could
not be seen by Cornwood before it would be too late to keep out of our
way.

"All hands on deck," I said to Washburn, as soon as Ben Bowman had
announced the approach of the runaway steamer.

"All on deck, sir, except Ben Bowman," returned the mate, as soon as he
had given the call.

The second engineer had returned to the point to observe and report
upon the movements of the Islander. He informed me that the steamer
seemed to be making the shortest course the bends of the stream would
permit, and she was headed for the point behind which the Sylvania was
concealed.

I had arranged my plan of operations. Our steamer was headed up the
stream, and held by a single hawser leading to the bowsprit-bitts. We
had passed the rope around the tree, and made the end fast on board, so
that we could let go without any one going on shore to do so. The
strong current of the river would carry the steamer's head away from
the shore, and we had only to dart out alongside the Islander, and make
fast to her. We had rigged out our fenders, so that neither steamer was
likely to be damaged by a collision.

Ben Bowman and Buck Lingley were to carry a line on board of the prize,
and make fast the instant we came alongside of her. Colonel Shepard was
to get on board of the Islander as quick as he could, and give his
orders to Captain Blastblow. I did not apprehend any difficulty in
carrying out the programme. I was confident that the captain of the
runaway vessel would respect the orders of his owner. We had banked our
fires in the morning, so that the noise of escaping steam need not warn
the Islander of the presence of another steamer. As soon as Ben
reported the runaway within four miles, Moses Brickland had caused the
fires to be replenished, and he calculated upon having a full head of
steam when we were ready to run out from our hiding-place.

In about half an hour from the time the Islander was discovered, Ben
Bowman came on board. We could hear the clang of her screw by this
time. I stationed Ben at the hawser, and directed him to let go and
haul in the rope as quickly as possible when I gave the word. Buck
Lingley and Landy Perkins were to help him make quick work of it.
Captain Cayo was stationed where he could make a sure thing of the
capture of Cornwood as soon as he leaped on board.

Nearer and nearer came the Islander to the point. As soon as she showed
her bowsprit beyond it, I was to give the word to cast off. I could see
nothing to prevent the success of the elaborate plan we had made, and I
was satisfied that Colonel Shepard would be in possession of his
steam-yacht within five minutes.

"Let go and haul in!" I called to Ben Bowman, at the hawser.

The assistant engineer did not permit an instant to elapse before he
and his two helpers were hauling on the rope with all their might.

The moment I saw that the hawser was running free, I rang the gong to
go ahead, with the helm hard a-starboard. I heard the screw turn a
couple of times, and then it stopped. I did not quite understand this.
The next thing I saw was Moses rushing on the forecastle.

"The propeller is fouled in a root or a rope, Alick!" exclaimed he.
"Back her a stroke or two, and it may clear itself."

I rang to back her as he rushed aft to the engine-room. By this time
the Islander was fairly abreast of us, and I feared that our elaborate
scheme had failed. But we were seventy-five miles from New Orleans, and
there was time enough for as lively a race as ever was seen on the
"Father of Waters."

I rang again to stop the engine, and then to start it. It went hard,
and I heard some snapping near the stern. It was evident that the screw
had been fouled in a root, and I was afraid it might have been twisted
into the propeller. I stopped the engine again. When I found the screw
did not move freely I ran aft, and found Hop Tossford had climbed over
the stern with a boat-hook in his hand, and was punching in the
direction of the propeller.

"It's a crocodile!" he exclaimed. "There it goes!"

I saw the creature rise to the top of the water. Hop was English, and
Englishmen are apt to call all saurians by this name. I should not have
expected to see the real alligator so near the salt water, for I had
heard that only crocodiles proper lived or thrived in salt water. It
may have been one washed out from some bayou by the high water, which
was prevailing at this time, or it may have been the real crocodile. I
did not stop then to reason about this case in natural history; but as
soon as I saw the mangled reptile, which was about ten feet long, on
the surface of the water, I hastened to the pilot-house, and started
the screw again. This time it moved freely, and I concluded that the
saurian had been resting on the blades of the propeller when it began
to turn.

By this time the Islander had made about a quarter of a mile, as I
judged, against the swift current. But there was now no chance for her
to dodge us. Our fires were in excellent condition, for the fireman had
been forcing them for twenty minutes.

"A miss hit," said Captain Cayo, coming into the pilot-house, when it
was clear that the capture would not come off immediately.

"I suppose that alligator went down to drink when we came up to the
bank of the river," I replied. "But he has the worst of it, for the
screw has smashed him."

I saw the saurian floating motionless down stream, and the screw had
evidently made short work of him.

"I am sorry the rascal interfered with our affair," added the pilot.

"The game is not up yet. We shall have an opportunity to learn which is
the faster steamer," I replied.

"The current must be running five or six miles an hour here," said
Captain Cayo.

"About five miles an hour is the usual rate of the Mississippi," I
answered. "But it runs just as fast for the Islander as it does for the
Sylvania."

"That's true; and I doubt if either steamer is making more than six or
seven knots an hour."

"The Islander is sheering off from us towards the middle of the river,
and that is where she is making her mistake."

"Why so?" asked the pilot.

"Because the current is swifter in the middle of the stream than near
the banks, for the friction of the shore has some effect on its flow."

"That is bringing it down to a fine point," said Captain Cayo,
laughing, for he was entirely unused to river navigation.

I kept the Sylvania as near the shore as I deemed it prudent to go,
