
"Why do you stop there?" said Garda. She came to him, took his arm, and
led him behind the easel. "The picture--the picture's the thing to look
at!"

The sketch--it was in water-colors--represented the little arena, which
was in itself a brilliant picture, done by Nature's hand. It was an open
oval space about fifteen feet in diameter, entirely bare of trees or
bushes, and covered with low green, through which rose lightly slender
leafless stalks, each holding up, several inches above the herbage, a
single large bright-faced flower; the flowers did not touch each other,
they were innumerable spots of gold and bright lavender, which did not
blend; on three sides the thick dark chaparral, on the fourth the dark
myrtles, enclosed this gayly decked nook, and seemed to have kept it
safely from all the world until now. The artist was making a very good
sketch, good, that is, in the manner of the new foreign school.

"Isn't it beautiful--wonderful?" insisted Garda.

"Very clever," Winthrop answered.

The artist laughed. "You hate the manner," he said. "Many people do; I
think I hate it a little myself, now and then." And he began to sing
softly to himself as he worked:

    "'Oh, de sun shines bright in my ole Kentucky home,
          'Tis summah, de darkies are gay--'"

"'Twas his singing, you know, that attracted my attention," said Garda
to Winthrop, under cover of the song. She did not seem to be explaining
so much as repeating a narrative that pleased herself. "I had climbed up
here to hide myself from you, when I heard singing; I followed the
sound, and--here he was!"

"You have met him before, of course?" was Winthrop's reply.

"Never in the world--that is the beauty of it; it's so delightful to
meet people you have never met before. And then to find him here in the
woods, where I didn't expect to see anybody, save perhaps you, later,
coming slowly along. And isn't it nice, too, that we shall have a new
person to add to our excursions, and parties! For they were getting to
be a little dull,--don't you think so? always the same people. He is a
cousin of Mr. Moore's," she added, "or rather his mother was; he has
just been telling me about it." She did not bring out this last fact as
though it were the most important. Important?--the only important point
was that she should be pleased. She had kept Winthrop's arm during this
time; now she relinquished it, and turned back to the easel.

    "'De corn-tops ripe, an' de meddars all abloom,
          In my ole Kentucky home far away,'"

sang the stranger; and this time he let out his voice, and sang aloud.
It was a very good voice. But Winthrop did not admire it.

"The others have probably no idea what has become of us," he said to
Garda; "shall we go and look for them?"

"Yes," answered Garda; "of course they must be wondering. You go; I will
wait here; go and bring Mr. Moore to see his cousin."

"It will be quite easy for Mr.---- for this gentleman--"

"Spenser," said the artist, good-humoredly, as he painted on.

"--to see Mr. Moore at any time in Gracias," continued Winthrop, without
accepting the name. For the life of him he could not put full confidence
in this impromptu relationship which Garda had discovered, any more than
he could in this, as one might say, impromptu man, whom she had also
unearthed, miles from any inhabited point, on a wild shore. If the
stranger were indeed a cousin of the Rev. Mr. Moore's, why had he not
made himself known to him before this? He must have come through
Gracias; Gracias was not so large a place that there could have been any
difficulty in finding the rector of St. Philip and St. James'; nor was
it so busy a place that one could have been pressed for time there.

"The truth is," answered Spenser, after he had completed a bit of work
which seemed much to his mind--"the truth is," he repeated, looking at
it critically, with his head on one side, "that I have, so far at least,
rather shirked my good cousin; I am ashamed to say it, but it is true.
You see, I only faintly remember him; but he will very clearly remember
me, he will have reminiscences; he will be sure to tell me that he knew
me when I was a dear little baby! Now I maintain that no man can really
welcome that statement, it betokens recollections into which he cannot
possibly enter; all he can do is to smirk inanely, and say that he fears
he must have been a bad little boy."

"I know Mr. Moore will say it," said Garda, gleefully; "I know he will!
Do go and call him," she said to Winthrop; "he will walk down to Jupiter
Inlet if you don't stop him."

But Winthrop stood his ground; Mr. Moore's cousin or not Mr. Moore's
cousin, he did not intend to leave Garda Thorne alone again with this
chance, this particularly chance acquaintance. True, this was a very
remote place, to which city rules did not apply; but the very seclusion
had been like a wall, probably the girl had never made a chance
acquaintance in all her life before.

"I will go myself, then," said Garda, seeing that he did not move. She
did not seem annoyed, she was, in truth, very seldom ill-tempered. On
the present occasion Winthrop might have been better pleased if she had
showed some little signs of irritation; for she was simply not thinking
of him at all, she was thinking only of Mr. Moore's cousin.

She crossed the flower-decked space quickly, and entered the myrtle
grove; Winthrop followed her. When they reached the verge, "There they
are," she said, looking southward.

"I don't know how I am to get you down," said Winthrop. "You could jump
across from the drift-wood, but you cannot jump back upon it; it's not
steady."

"I don't want to go down," said Garda. "They must come up." And she
called, in a long note, "Mar--garet!" "Mar--garet!"

Mrs. Harold heard her and turned.

"There! I've called her Margaret to her face!" exclaimed the girl.

"To her back, you mean."

"I never did it before. But I was sure to do it some time; we always
call her Margaret when we talk about her, mamma and I; and we talk about
her by the hour."

"Mr. Moore and I together can perhaps get you down," said Winthrop,
trying the edge of the sand-cliff to see if a niche could be trodden
out.

"How odd you are--when I tell you I'm not going down! The others are to
come up. Mr. Moore will be enchanted to see his cousin; I am sure I
was--though he isn't mine."

Winthrop asked himself whether he should take this opportunity to give
this beautiful Florida girl a first lesson in worldly wisdom. Then he
reflected that what he had admired the most in her had been her frank
naturalness, the freedom with which she had followed her impulses,
without pausing to think whither they might lead her. So far, her
impulses had all been child-like, charming. As regarded this present
one, though it was child-like also, he would have liked, with it, a
little more discrimination; but discrimination is eminently a trait
developed by time, and time, of course, had not yet had a chance to do
much for Edgarda Thorne.

He decided to leave her to herself, and to return for the moment to his
old position (from which he had rather departed of late), the position
of looking on, without comment, to see what she would do or say next.
What she did was simple enough. She directed, with much merriment, the
efforts of the Rev. Mr. Moore, as in response to her request he climbed
up the jagged pile of drift-wood first, in order to show Mrs. Harold the
best footholds, his butterfly pole much in his way, but not
relinquished; for had not that butterfly flown inland? When he was
safely landed on Patricio, Margaret Harold followed him. Winthrop, in
spite of the difficulties of descent, wished to come down and assist
her; but this she would not allow, and assistance, indeed, was plainly
worse than useless in such a place. Nor did she betray any need of it;
she climbed with an ease which showed a light foot and accurate balance,
and was soon standing by Garda's side.

When they reached the little flower cove it immediately became apparent
that the mother of this singing, painting stranger had really been (she
had been dead many years) a cousin of Middleton Moore's, Winthrop
himself, unless he was prepared to believe in an amount of plotting for
which there seemed no sufficient motive, being forced to acknowledge the
truth of the story. The conversation between the clergyman and Spenser
went on with much animation. Mr. Moore was greatly interested, he was
even excited; and they talked of many things. At last he said, with
feeling, "I remember you so well, Lucian, as a baby; I was in the same
house with you once for a whole week when you were just able to walk
alone."

"Ah, yes! I am afraid I was rather a bad little boy," Spenser answered.

"You were rather--rather animated," the clergyman admitted, mildly.

Garda, who, as usual, had her arm in Margaret's, leaned her head on
Margaret's shoulder and gave way to soft laughter.

Middleton Moore talked, enjoying his adventure greatly. But though he
talked, he did not question, he was too complete a southerner for that;
he leaned on his butterfly pole, and regarded Lucian with the utmost
friendliness, not thinking, apparently, of the fact that he had come
upon this interesting young relative quite by chance, and that this same
young relative must have passed through Gracias (if indeed he were not
staying there) without paying him a visit, though he knew that his
cousin was rector of St. Philip and St. James'; he had confessed as
much. Lucian, who had left his easel, now moved towards it again, and
stood scanning his work with the painter's suddenly absorbed gaze--as
though he had forgotten, for the moment, everything else in the world
but that; then he sat down, as if unable to resist it, and began to add
a touch or two, while (with his disengaged faculties) he was good enough
to give to his cousin, of his own accord, a brief account of himself in
the present, as well as the past. It seemed that he was by profession a
civil engineer (as he had already told Garda), and that the party of
which he was chief were engaged in surveying for a proposed railway,
which would reach Gracias-á-Dios (he thought) in about seventy-five
years. However, that was nothing to him; there was undoubtedly a company
(they had got an English lord in it), and he, Lucian, was willing to
survey for them, if it amused them to have surveying done; that part of
the scheme, at least, was paid for. His party were now some distance
north of Gracias, they had reached one of the swamps; it had occurred to
him that it was a good time to take a day or two, and come down and see
the little old town on the coast; and as he was a dabbler in
water-colors, he had not been able to resist doing some of the little
"bits" he had found under his hand. "I was coming to see you, sir,
to-morrow," he concluded. "The truth is, I had only these rough clothes
with me; I have sent back for more."

"To the swamp?" said Garda.

"To the swamp--precisely; I keep them there very carefully in a dry
canoe."

"You must not only come and see us, Lucian, you must come and stay with
us," said the clergyman, cordially; "Penelope will hear of nothing
else," he added, bending in his near-sighted way to look at the picture,
and putting his nose close to Lucian's pinks and blues. "Isn't it
rather--rather bright?" he asked, blinking a little as he drew back. Mr.
Moore's idea of a picture was a landscape with a hill in the background,
a brook and willows in front, a church spire peeping out somewhere in
the middle distance, and a cow or two at the brook's edge, all painted
in a dark, melancholy--what he himself would have called a
chaste--green, even the cow partaking in some degree of that decorous
hue.

"It's not brighter than the reality, is it?" said Lucian.

"I--don't--know," answered Mr. Moore, straightening himself, and looking
about him as if to observe the reality, which he evidently was now
noting for the first time. "You have put in a butterfly," he added,
returning to his inspection; "that is--if it isn't a bird? There are no
butterflies here now; has there been one here?"

"There should have been; it's the very place for them," Lucian declared.

"I don't think, Lucian, that there's any certainty about that; I myself
have often searched for them in places where it seemed to me they
should be; they are never there."

Garda again gave way to merriment, hiding it and her face on Margaret's
shoulder.

"Hasn't your sky rather too vivid a blue, Lucian?" Mr. Moore went on,
his face again close to the picture.

"Well, sir, that's as we see it; I see that color in the sky, you
know."

"How can you see it if it is not there?" demanded his relative, with his
temperate dwelling upon his point. And he transferred his gaze from the
sketch to the young man.

"But it is there for me. It's the old question of the two kinds of
truth."

"There are not two kinds, I think, Lucian," responded the clergyman, and
this time he spoke with decision.

"There are two ways of seeing it, then. We state or believe a thing as
we see it, and we do not all see alike; you see the hues of a sunset in
one way, Turner saw them in another; he painted certain skies, and
people said there were no such skies; but Turner saw them."

"The fault was still there, Lucian; it was in his vision."

"Or take another instance," continued Spenser. "A man has a wife whom he
loves. She has grown old and faded, there is no trace of beauty left;
but he still sees her as she was; to him she does not merely seem
beautiful, she is beautiful."

The eyes of Garda and Margaret met, one of those rapid exchanges of a
mutual comprehension which are always passing between women unless they
happen to be open enemies; even then they are sometimes forced to
suspend hostilities long enough for one of these quick passwords of
intelligence;--men are so slow! The mutual thought of the two women now
was--Mrs. Penelope. Certainly she was old and faded, and very certainly
also her husband regarded her as much of a Venus as it was proper for a
clerical household to possess. Their entertainment continued as they saw
that the clergyman made no personal application of Spenser's comparison,
but merely considered the illustration rather an immoral one.

As if to change the subject, this good man now demanded, in his equable,
unresonant voice, "How do you return to Gracias, Lucian?"

"There's a contraband with a dug-out waiting for me over on the Espiritu
side," answered Spenser; "I walked across."

"Ah! we are sailing," remarked the clergyman, in a gently superior
tone; little as he himself enjoyed maritime excursions, he felt that
this was the proper tone to take in the presence of his host, the owner
of the Emperadora. "We shall reach home, probably, much earlier than
you will," he went on, looking off at the chaparral with an abstracted
air.

Winthrop, smiling at this innocent little manoeuvre, invited Spenser to
return to Gracias with them; he could send one of his men across to tell
the contraband of the change of plan. Spenser accepted the offer
promptly. He packed his scattered belongings into small compass, and
slung them across his shoulder; his easel, under his manipulation,
became a stout walking-stick.

"That is a very convenient arrangement," said the clergyman.

"Yes; I am rather proud of it. I invented it myself."

"Ah, that's your father in you," said Mr. Moore, unconsciously betraying
something that was almost disapproval; "your father was a northern man.
But your mother, Lucian, was a thorough southerner; she had no taste
for invention."

"She wouldn't have had it even if she had been a northern woman, I
fancy," responded Spenser; "women are not inventors. I don't mind saying
it before Mrs. Harold and Miss Thorne, because they haven't the air of
wishing to be; it's a particular sort of air, you know."

"Is your invention strong?" asked Winthrop. "I don't know how we are
going to get the ladies down to the beach, unless we make a perch for
them by driving that stick of yours and Mr. Moore's butterfly pole into
the sand-drift half-way down. From there, with our help, they might
perhaps jump the rest of the distance; we should have to tread out some
sort of footing for ourselves."

Mr. Moore involuntarily glanced at his green pole, and then at Margaret
and Garda, as if estimating their weight.

"We shall certainly snap it in two," exclaimed Garda, gayly. "Snip,
snap, gone!"

"But there's a descent not so very far above here," said Spenser; "I've
found it once, and I think, if you will trust me, I can find it again."
He led the way into the chaparral, and the others followed.

The chaparral, a thicket of little evergreen oaks, rose, round the
flower cove, to a height of ten feet. But soon it grew lower, and they
came out upon a broad stretch of it not much over four or four and a
half feet in height, very even on the top, extending unbroken to the
south as far as they could see, and rising gently on the west, in the
same even sweep, over the small ridge that formed Patricio's backbone;
their heads were now well above the surface of this leafy sea.

"There's my track," said Spenser.

It was a line which had been made across the foliage by his passage
through it; the leaves had been rippled back a little, so that there was
a trail visible on the green surface like that left by a boat which has
passed over a smooth pond; they made their way towards this trail.

The little oaks were not thorny, but their small stubborn branches grew
as closely at the bottom as at the top, so that it was necessary to push
with the ankles as well as with the shoulders in order to get through.

"Deep wading," said Lucian, who led the way.

"Wading?" said Garda. "Drowning! These leaves are like waves. And I'm
sure that fishes are biting my ankles. Or else snakes! I shall sink
soon; you'll hear a gurgle, and I shall have gone."

Spenser, laughing, turned and made his way back to her from the front at
the same moment that Winthrop, who was last, pushed his way forward from
behind; they reached her at the same moment, and placed themselves, one
on each side, so that they could make her progress easier.

The Rev. Mr. Moore, who had been calling back a careful explanation that
the Florida snakes, that is, the dangerous ones, were not found in
chaparral, was now left at the head of the party, to keep the course for
them by the line of rippled leaves. This duty he performed with much
circumspection, lifting the long butterfly pole high in the air every
now and then, and stretching it forward as far as he could to tap the
line of rippled leaves, as much as to say, "There you are; quite
safe." He had the air of a magician with his wand.

"I shall have to stop for a moment," said Margaret Harold, after a
while, speaking for the first time since their entrance into the
chaparral; she was next to Mr. Moore in their little procession, but a
distance of ten or fifteen feet separated them, while Garda, with
Spenser and Winthrop, was at a still greater distance behind. Winthrop
waited only an instant after she had spoken (long enough, however, to
give Spenser and the clergyman the opportunity, in case they should
desire it); he then made his way forward and joined her.

"Here--lean on me," he said, quickly, as soon as he saw her face; he
thought she was going to faint.

Margaret, though she was pale, smiled, and declined his help; she only
wished to rest for a moment, she said; the chaparral had tired her. She
stood still, embosomed in the foliage, her eyes closed, the long dark
lashes lying on her checks. Winthrop could see now more clearly how
delicate her face was; he remembered, too, that though she was tall, she
was a slender woman, with slender little hands and feet; her grace of
step, though remarkable, had probably not been of much use in forcing a
way through chaparral. But her cheeks were growing whiter, he was afraid
she would fall forward among the bristling little branches; he pushed
his way nearer and supported her with his arm. Garda meanwhile, her
fatigue forgotten, had started to come to her friend, Spenser helping
her, while Mr. Moore, his pole carefully held out over the trail (as
though otherwise it would disappear), watched them with anxiety from the
front.

But now Margaret was recovering, the color had come back to her face in
a flood; she opened her eyes, and immediately began to push her way
forward again, as if she wished to show Winthrop that he need have no
further fears. He stayed to aid her, nevertheless.

"Why didn't you go to her?" said Garda to Lucian Spenser, as they
resumed their former pace after Margaret's recovery. "I mean why didn't
you start before Mr. Winthrop did? There was time."

"He had the better right; he knows her."

"It wasn't a question of knowing, but of helping. As to knowing--you
don't know me."

"Oh yes, I do!" answered Spenser.

"But you have never seen me until to-day. Now please don't tell me that
I am so much like some one else that you feel as if you had known me for
ages."

"You are like no one else, your type exists only in dreams--the dreams
of artists mad on color. It's in my dreams that I have seen you," he
went on, surveying her with the frankest, the most enjoying admiration.
"Aren't you glad you're so beautiful?"

"Yes," responded Garda, with serene gravity. "I am very glad indeed."

They came before long to the descent of which he had spoken; it was a
miniature gorge, which led down to the beach in the scallop where Garda
had begun her race. As soon as they reached the lower level, Garda went
to Margaret and took her hands. "Do you really feel better!" she said.
"We'll stay here a while and rest."

Margaret refused, saying that the feeling of fatigue had passed away.

"You have got more color than usual," said Garda, scanning her face.

"A sure sign that I am perfectly well again," answered Margaret,
smiling.

"A sure sign that you are very tired," said Evert Winthrop.

Margaret made no reply, she began to walk northward, with Garda, up the
beach; Lucian Spenser kept his place on the other side of Garda; but
Winthrop joined the Rev. Mr. Moore, who was alone.

Mr. Moore improved the occasion, he related the entire history of the
Spenser, or rather the Byrd family, the family of Lucian's mother
(connections of the celebrated Colonel Byrd). That is, their history in
the past; as to the present and its representative, he seemed quite
without information.

The present representative spent several days at the rectory; and
probably imparted the information which was lacking. During his visit he
formed one, as Garda had anticipated, of the various little parties
which Betty still continued to arrange and carry out for the
entertainment of her dearest Katrina; then he took leave of the rector
and his wife, and returned to the camp in the swamp.

Three days later he came back to remain some time; he took a room at the
Seminole, saying that his hours were quite too uncertain for a
well-regulated household like that of the Moores.

His hours proved to be uncertain indeed, save that a certain number of
them were sure to be spent with Garda Thorne. A few also were spent in
bringing Torres out of his seclusion. For Lucian took a fancy to the
young Cuban; "I don't think you half appreciate him," he said, in his
easy, unattached way--unattached to any local view. "He's a perfect mine
of gold in the way of peculiarities and precious oddities; he repays you
every time."

"I was not aware that oddities had so much value in the market,"
remarked Dr. Kirby, dryly.

"My dear sir, the greatest!" said Lucian, still in his detached tone.

The Doctor was not very fond of Lucian. The truth was, the Doctor did
not like to be called "my dear sir;" the possessive pronoun and the
adjective made a different thing of it from his own Johnsonian mode of
address.

"I appreciate Mr. Torres," Garda remarked, "I always have appreciated
him. He's like a thunder-cloud on the edge of the sky; you feel that he
could give out some tremendous flashes if he pleased; some day he will
please."

"I'll tell him that," said Spenser, who, among his other
accomplishments, had that of speaking Spanish.

Whether he told or not, the young Cuban at any rate appeared among them
again. He was tired, possibly, of the consumption of his soul. But there
was this advantage about Torres, that though he might consume his own,
he had no desire to consume the soul (or body either) of any one else;
whereas Manuel appeared to cherish this wish to an absolutely sanguinary
degree. The dislike he had had for Evert Winthrop was nothing compared
with the rage with which he now regarded Lucian Spenser. To tell the
truth, Lucian trespassed upon his own ground: if Manuel was handsome,
Lucian was handsomer still. "A finer-looking young man than Lucian
Spenser," Mrs. Rutherford had more than once remarked, "is very seldom
seen." And Kate Rutherford was a judge.

Lucian having no horse, as Winthrop had, could not, as Garda expressed
it, ride over the pine barrens in every direction and stop at East
Angels; but he had a fisherman's black boat, with ragged sail, and
though it was not an Emperadora, it could still float down the
Espiritu with sufficient swiftness, giving its occupant an opportunity
to stop at the same old Spanish residence, where there was a convenient
water-landing as well as an entrance from the barrens. The occupant
stopped so often, and his manner when he did stop was so different from
that of their other visitors, that Mrs. Thorne felt at last that duty
demanded that she should "make inquiries." This duty had never been
esteemed one of the principal ones of life at Gracias-á-Dios; Mrs.
Thorne's determination, therefore, showed that her original New England
maxims were alive somewhere down in her composition still (as Betty
Carew had always declared that they were), in spite of the layer upon
layer of Thorne and Duero traditions with which she had carefully
overlaid them. She was aware that it was a great inconsistency on her
part to revert, at this late day, to the methods of her youth. But what
could she do? The Thornes and Dueros were dead, and had left no
precedents for a case like this; and Lucian Spenser was alive
(particularly so), and with Garda almost all the time.

"She asked me," said the Rev. Mr. Moore to his wife, "what I knew, that
was 'definite,' about Lucian, which seemed to me, Penelope, a very
singular question, Lucian being so near and dear a relative of ours. I
did not, however, comment upon this; I simply gave her a full account of
the Spenser family, or rather of the Byrds, his mother's side of the
house, going back (in order to be explicit) through three generations.
Strange to say, this did not appear to satisfy her; I will not say that
she interrupted me, for she did not; but she had nevertheless, in some
ways, an appearance of--of being perhaps somewhat impatient."

"Oh, I know!" said Mrs. Moore, nodding her head. "She coughed behind
her hand; and she shook out her handkerchief, holding it by the exact
middle between her forefinger and thumb; and she tapped on the floor
with the point of her slipper; and she settled her cuffs; and then she
coughed again."

"That is exactly what she did! You have a wonderful insight, Penelope,"
said her husband, admiringly.

"Give me a woman, and I'll unravel her for you in no time--in no time
at all," answered Penelope. "But men are different--so much deeper;
you yourself are very deep, Middleton."

The clergyman stroked his chin meditatively; his eyes wandered, and
after a while rested peacefully on the floor.

"There! I know just what you're thinking of now," resumed his wife from
her sofa; "I can tell you every word!"

Her husband, who at that moment was thinking of nothing at all, unless
it might be of a worn place which he had detected in the red and white
matting at his feet, raised his eyes and looked at her with amiable
expectancy. He had long ago learned to acquiesce in all the discoveries
respecting himself made by his clever Penelope; he even believed in them
after a vague fashion, and was much interested in hearing the latest.
But he was so unmitigatedly modest, he took such impersonal views of
everything, including himself, that he could listen to her eulogistic
divinations by the hour without the least real appropriation of them, as
though they had been spoken of some one else. He thought them very
wonderful, and he thought her almost a sibyl as she brought them forth;
but no glow of self-appreciation followed, this frugal man was not
easily made to glow. At present, when his wife had unrolled before him
the interesting thoughts which she knew he was thinking (and the rector
himself was always of the opinion that he must be thinking them
somewhere, in some remote part of his mind which for the moment he had
forgotten), she concluded, triumphantly, as follows: "I can always tell
what you are thinking of from the expression of your face, Middleton;
it's not in the least necessary for you to speak." Which was on the
whole, perhaps, fortunate for Middleton.

Mrs. Thorne, not having succeeded in obtaining "definite" information
from the Rev. Mr. Moore, addressed herself, at length, to Evert
Winthrop. Something that was almost a friendship had established itself
between these two; Mrs. Thorne found Winthrop very "satisfying," she
mentioned that she found him so; she mentioned it to Margaret Harold,
with whom, also, she now had an acquaintance which was almost intimate,
though in this case the intimacy had been formed and kept up principally
by herself. "Yes, extremely satisfying," she repeated; "on every subject
of importance he has definite information, or a definite opinion, and
these he gives you--when you ask for them--with the utmost clearness.
Touch him anywhere," continued the lady, tapping her delicately starched
handkerchief (which she held up for the purpose) with her little
knuckle, "anywhere, I say," she went on, still tapping, "and--he
resounds."

"Dear me, mamma! is he hollow?" said Garda, while Margaret gave way to
laughter. But Mrs. Thorne liked even Margaret's laughs; Margaret too she
found "very satisfying," she said.

When she spoke to Winthrop about Lucian Spenser, however, she found him
perhaps not so satisfying as usual.

"I know nothing whatever about Mr. Spenser," he answered.

"We are seeing a good deal of him at present," remarked the little
mother, in a conversational tone, ignoring his reply. "It's rather
better--don't you think so?--to know something--definite--of those one
is seeing a good deal of?"

"That is the way to learn, isn't it--seeing a good deal of them?"
Winthrop answered.

Mrs. Thorne coughed in her most discreet manner, and looked about the
room for a moment or two. Then, "Do you like him, Mr. Winthrop?" she
said, her eyes on the opposite wall.

"My dear lady, what has that got to do with it?"

"Much," responded Mrs. Thorne, modestly dropping her eyes to the carpet.
"A man's opinion of a man, you know, may be quite different from a
woman's."

"There is his cousin, Mr. Moore."

"I have already asked Mr. Moore; he knows only Mr. Spenser's
grandfathers," replied Mrs. Thorne, dismissing the clergyman, as
informant, with a wave of her dry little hand.

"Dr. Kirby, then."

"Dr. Kirby" said the lady, with an especial emphasis on the name, as
though there were a dozen other doctors in Gracias--"Dr. Kirby speaks
well of Mr. Spenser. But we should not count too much upon that, for
Dr. Kirby looks upon him, as I may say, medically."

"Good heavens! does he want to dissect him?" said Winthrop.

Mrs. Thorne gave her guarded little laugh. "No; but he says that he is
such a perfect specimen, physically, of the Anglo-Saxon at his best. He
may be; I am sure I am willing. But we are not all ethnologists, I
suppose, and something more definite in the way of a background than
ancient Saxony, or even Anglia, would be, I think, desirable, when, as I
remarked before, one is seeing so much of a person."

There was a short silence, which Winthrop did not break. Then he rose,
and took up his hat and whip; he had been paying one of his afternoon
visits at the old house. "Don't be uneasy," he said, in the
half-protecting tone which he often adopted now when speaking to the
little mistress of East Angels; "if you are seeing much of this Mr.
Spenser, you and your daughter, you must remember that you are also
seeing much of others as well; of Manuel Ruiz, of young Torres, even of
myself; there's safety in numbers."

"Mr. Spenser is not in the least like any of you; that is my trouble,"
Mrs. Thorne declared, with emphasis. "I do not mean," she added, with
her anxious particularity, "that you are in the least like Manuel or
Adolfo, Mr. Winthrop; of course not."

Winthrop did not reply to this beyond a smile. He took leave, and went
towards the door.

Mrs. Thorne's gaze followed him; then with her quick step she crossed
the room, and stopped him on the threshold. "Mr. Winthrop, do you like
to see my little girl showing such an interest in this Lucian Spenser?"
Her voice was almost a whisper, but her bright eyes met his bravely.

For a moment he returned her gaze. Then, "I like it immensely," he said,
and went down the stairs.

Soon after this, however, there was what Mrs. Thorne called "definite"
information about Lucian Spenser in circulation in Gracias; it was even
very definite. He might have the background of honorable grandfathers
which Mr. Moore attributed to him, but for the foreground there was only
himself, himself without any of the adjuncts of wealth, or a fixed
income of any kind, even the smallest. He was a civil engineer
(apparently not a very industrious one); he had whatever emoluments that
profession could bring in to a man who painted a good many pictures in
water-colors; and he had nothing more. This he told himself, with the
utmost frankness.

"Nothing more?" commented Mrs. Rutherford, with appreciative emphasis.
"But he has always his wonderful good looks; that in itself is a
handsome fortune."

"His good looks, I confess, I have never seen," answered Mrs. Thorne,
who was paying a morning visit at the eyrie. Garda was at that moment on
the eyrie's east piazza with Lucian, and the mother knew it; true,
Margaret Harold, Dr. Kirby, and Adolfo Torres were there also; but Mrs.
Thorne had no difficulty in picturing to herself the success with which
Lucian was engrossing Garda's attention.

"You've never seen them? You must be a little blind, I should think,"
said Mrs. Rutherford, pleasantly. Mrs. Rutherford was not fond of Mrs.
Thorne.

"I am blind to the mere sensuous delights of the eye," responded the
little mother, the old Puritan fire sparkling for a moment in her own
blue ones. Then she controlled herself. "I cannot admire his
expression," she explained. "His nature is a very superficial one; I am
surprised that Mrs. Harold should listen to him as she does."

"Oh, as to that," remarked Mrs. Rutherford, "he amuses her, you know;
Margaret and I are both very fond of being amused. However, we do not
complain; we find a vast deal of amusement in Gracias; it's a very funny
little place," added the northern lady, with much tranquil entertainment
in her tone, paying back with her "funny" her visitor's "sensuous."
(Mrs. Rutherford could always be trusted to pay back.)

That evening she announced to her niece, "Little Madam Thorne has
designs upon Evert."

Margaret looked up from her book. "Isn't she rather old for that sort of
thing?"

"That sort of thing? Do you mean designs? Or attractions? Attraction
is not in the least a matter of age," answered Mrs. Rutherford, with
dignity. She disposed her statuesque hands upon her well-rounded arms,
and looked about the room as though Margaret were not there.

"I meant her feelings," replied Margaret, smiling. "There's such a thing
as age in feelings, isn't there?"

"Yes; and in manner and dress," said Mrs. Rutherford, accepting this
compromise. "Certainly Mrs. Thorne is a marked example of all three. I
don't think any one of our family ever looked so old as she does,
even at ninety! But how could you suppose I meant that she had designs
upon Evert for herself? For Garda, of course."

"Garda is very young."

"Why don't you say she's a child! That is what they all say here, I
think they say it too much. To be sure, she is only sixteen, barely
that, I believe, and with us, girls of that age are immature; but Garda
Thorne isn't immature, she talks as maturely as I do."

"She does--in some ways," admitted Margaret.

"She talks remarkably well, if you mean that," responded Mrs.
Rutherford, who always felt called upon to differ from her niece. "And
she is certainly quite pretty."

"She is more than pretty; she is strikingly beautiful."

"Oh no, she isn't," replied Mrs. Rutherford, veering again; "you
exaggerate. It's only because you see her here in this dull little
place."

"I think it would be the same anywhere, Aunt Katrina."

"Well, we shall not have to compare, fortunately. She will stay here, of
course, where she belongs, she will probably marry that young Torres.
But that little ill-bred mother's designs upon Evert--that is too
amusing. Evert, indeed! Evert has more coolness and discrimination than
any man I have ever known."

The man of discrimination was at that moment strolling slowly through
the St. Luz quarter, on his way to the Benito; he reached it, and walked
out its silver floor. The tide was coming in. On that low coast there
were no rocks, the waves reached the shore in long, low, unbroken
swells, like quiet breathing; they had come evenly in from deep water
outside, and now flowed softly up the beach a little way and then back
again, with a rippling murmurous sound that was peace itself. Warm as
was the land, still dreaming of the sun, the ocean was warmer still;
the Gulf Stream flowed by not far from shore, and the air that came from
the water was soft on the cheek like a caress. From the many orange
groves of the town dense perfume was wafted towards him, he walked
through belts of it. At last, at the point's end, he found himself
bathed in it; he threw the light overcoat he had been carrying down upon
the sand, and stretched himself upon it, with his back against an old
boat; lying there, he could look down the harbor and out to sea.

He was thinking a little of the scene before him, but more of Garda--her
liking for the new-comer. For she had confessed it to him herself;
confessed, however, was hardly the term, she had no wish apparently to
conceal anything; she had simply told him, in so many words, that she
had never met or known any one so delightful as Lucian Spenser. This was
innocent enough, Garda was, in truth, very childlike. True, she was not
shy, she was very sure of herself; she talked to him and to everybody
with untroubled ease. Her frankness, indeed, was the great thing; it had
an endless attraction for Evert Winthrop. His idea had been (and a very
fixed belief it had grown to be) that no girl was frank after the age of
long clothes; that the pretty little creatures, while still toddling
about, developed the instinct to be "good" rather than outspoken; and
that the "better" they were, the more obedient and docile, the less
outspoken they became. He could not say that he did not admire
obedience. But the flower of frankness had come to seem to him the most
fragrant of the whole bouquet of feminine virtues, as it certainly was
the rarest. He had told Mrs. Thorne that he liked to see Garda show her
preference for Spenser, and this had been true, to a certain extent; he
knew that he had felt a distinct pleasure in the swiftness with which
she had turned from him to the younger man as soon as she found that the
younger man pleased her more. For it showed that she was not touched by
the attractions of a large fortune, that they were not attractions to
her; and Winthrop held (he knew that many persons would not agree with
him) that young girls are more apt to be influenced by wealth, more apt
to be dazzled by it, to covet it, than older women are. The older women
know that it does not bring happiness in its train, that it may bring
great unhappiness; the young girls do not know, and, from their very
ignorance, they do not care, because they have not learned as yet what a
cruel, torturing pain unhappiness may be. Garda Thorne was poor, and
even very poor; she had a strong natural taste for luxury. Yet her
passing amusement was evidently far more to her than anything else; she
simply did not give a thought to the fortune that lay near. And even her
amusement was founded upon nothing stable; Lucian, though she considered
him so delightful, was by no means devoted to her. He openly admired her
beauty (Winthrop thought too openly), he preferred her society to that
of any one in Gracias; but all could see that Gracias was probably the
limit, that in other and larger places he would find others to admire;
that he was, in short, a votary of variety. In spite of this, Garda
found him supremely entertaining, and that was enough for her; she
followed him about, always, however, in her indolent way, in which there
was no trace of eagerness. But if she were not eager, she seemed to
consider him her own property; she always wished to be near him, so that
she could hear all he was saying, she laughed far oftener when with him
than she did when with any one else.

Winthrop was always attracted by Garda's laugh; he seemed to hear it
again as he lay there in the moonlight, breathing the dense perfume from
the groves, and looking at the warm, low, glittering sea. "There isn't a
particle of worldliness about her," he said to himself. "What a contrast
to Margaret!"

He did not leave the perfumed point until it was midnight and high tide.




CHAPTER X.


Lucian Spenser's good looks were of the kind that is conspicuously
attractive while the youth, which accompanies them, lasts, his face and
figure being a personification of radiant young manhood at its best; the
same features, the same height and bearing, would have had quite a
different aspect if robbed of the color, the sunniness--if one may so
express it--which was now the most striking attribute of the whole. He
was tall and broad-shouldered, but slender still, he had a bearing which
was graceful as well as manly; his hair of a bright golden color had a
burnished look, which came from its thick mass being kept so short that
the light could find only an expanse of crisped ends to shine across.
His eyes were blue, the deep blue which is distinguishable as blue, and
not gray or green, across a room; this clear bright color was their
principal beauty, as they were not large. They were charming eyes, which
could turn to tenderness in an instant; but though they could be tender,
their usual expression was that of easy indifference--an expression
which, when accompanied by a becoming modesty and frankness, sits well
upon a strong, handsome young man. He had a well-cut profile, white
teeth gleaming under a golden mustache, a pleasant voice, and a
frequent, equally pleasant laugh. No one could resist a certain amount
of admiration when he appeared; and the feeling was not dimmed by
anything in his manner, for he was good-humored and witty, and if, as
has been said, he was rather indifferent, he was also quite without
egotism, and quite without, too, that tendency to underrate others which
many excellent persons possess--a tendency which comes oftenest from
jealousy, but often, too, from a real incapacity to comprehend that
people may be agreeable, and happy, and much admired, and even good,
with tastes and opinions, appearance and habits, which differ totally
from their own. Lucian Spenser underrated nobody; on the contrary, he
was apt to see the pleasant side of the people with whom he was thrown.
He took no trouble to penetrate, it was not a deep view; probably it was
a superficial one. But it was a question--so some of his friends had
thought--whether this was not better than the strict watch, the sadly
satisfactory search for faults in the circle of their own families and
acquaintances, which many conscientious people keep up all their lives.

A day or two after his midnight musings on the beach, Evert Winthrop was
coming down Pacheco Lane towards the eyrie when he heard, in a long,
sweet, distant note, "Good-by." It came from the water. But at first he
could not place it; there were two or three fishermen's boats passing,
but the fishermen of Gracias were not in the habit of calling "good-by"
in clear English accents to each other; their English was by no means
clear, it was mixed with Spanish and West Indian, with words borrowed
from the not remote African of the Florida negro, and even with some
from the native Indian tongues; it was a very patchwork of languages.
Again came the note, and Winthrop, going forward to the edge of the low
bank, looked over the water. The course of one of the boats, the
smallest, had brought it nearer, and he now recognized Lucian Spenser in
the stern, holding the sail-rope and steering, and Garda Thorne, facing
him, seated in the bottom of the boat. Garda waved her hand, and called
again "Good-by." They glided past him, and he raised his hat, but did
not attempt conversation across the water; in a few minutes more Lucian
had tacked, and the boat turned eastward down the harbor, the sail,
which had swung round, now hiding their figures from his view. Winthrop
left the bank, crossed the green-carpeted lane, and went up the outside
stairway to the eyrie's drawing-room. It was inhabited at present by
tea-leaves. Celestine, loathing, as Minerva Poindexter, the desultory
methods of Cindy, the colored girl who was supposed to act as
parlor-maid, was in the habit of banishing her at intervals from the
scene, and engaging personally in an encounter with the dust according
to her own system. The system of Celestine was deep and complicated,
beginning with the pinning of a towel tightly over her entire head in a
compact cap-like fashion of much austerity, followed, as second stage,
by an elaborate arrangement of tea-leaves upon the carpet, and
ending--but no one knew where it ended, no one had ever gone far enough.
It was at the tea-leaf stage that Winthrop found her.

"She's gone out with Mrs. Carew," Celestine replied, in answer to his
inquiry for Mrs. Rutherford. "You see she got her feet all sozzled last
night coming home across the plazzer from church with that there Dr.
Kirby, and so she took cold, of course. And there's nothin' so good
for a cold as half an hour outside in this bakin' sun, and so I told
her."

"You don't speak as though you altogether approved of evening service,
Minerva?" Winthrop answered, amused by her emphasis.

"Well, I don't, and that's a fact, Mr. Evert. In the mornin' it's all
very well; but in the evenin', I've noticed, the motive's apt to be
mixed, it's pretty generally who you come home with. My mother used to
say to Lovina (that was my sister) and me, 'Girls, in the evenin's I
don't like to have you go loblolloping down to meetin' and straddlin'
