as your uncle, to take it from you. Give it to me!"

"I won't!" said Sam, desperately.

"Won't, hey?" repeated Wolverton, grimly. "Well, we'll see about that."

He raised the horse-whip, and in an instant Sam's legs--he was standing
now--felt the cruel lash.

"Won't, hey?" repeated his uncle. "We'll see."

"Help!" screamed Sam. "Will no one help me?"

"I reckon not," answered his uncle, mockingly, and he raised his whip
once more.

But before the lash could descend, it was snatched from him, and,
turning angrily, he confronted Bob Burton, fierce and indignant, and saw
Clip standing just behind him.




CHAPTER XI.

AN ANGRY CONFERENCE.


"You ought to be ashamed of yourself, you brute!" exclaimed Bob.

"Do you want me to thrash you, too?" snarled Wolverton, angrily.

"You can try, if you want to," returned Bob, contemptuously.

"Sam, what was he going to whip you for?" asked Bob, turning to his
unfortunate friend.

"I'll answer that question," said Wolverton, "though it's no concern of
yours. The boy has been robbing me."

"What have you to say, Sam?"

"It's not true."

"What do you charge him with taking, Mr. Wolverton?"

"A dollar."

"It's the one your mother gave me, Bob."

"To be sure! I saw her give it to you myself."

"He lies, and you swear to it," said Wolverton, with a sneer.

"Mr. Wolverton, you have brought a false charge against your nephew, and
you know it. If you don't care to take his word or mine, you can come
over to our house and ask my mother whether Sam's story is true."

"It doesn't matter whether it's true or false," said Wolverton,
doggedly. "Sam is under my charge, and I have a right to any money he
comes by."

"I always knew you were mean," said Bob, contemptuously, "but this is
ahead of anything I ever imagined. Do you still accuse Sam of robbing
you?"

"I don't know whether he did or not."

"You can easily satisfy yourself by calling on my mother."

"I mean to call on your mother, but it won't be on this business," said
Wolverton, opening his mouth and showing the yellow fangs which served
for teeth.

"You are at liberty to call on any business errand," said Bob.

"Indeed, you are very kind, remarkably kind, considering that the ranch
is as much mine as your mother's."

"How do you make that out?"

"I have a mortgage on it for half its value."

"I deny it. The ranch is worth much more than six thousand dollars.
Besides, the time has not yet come when you have the right to
foreclose."

"There you are wrong, young man! As the interest has not been promptly
paid, I can foreclose at any time."

"You will have to see my mother about that," said Bob, carefully
concealing the fact that the receipt had been recovered.

"I thought you would change your tune," said Wolverton, judging from
Bob's calmer tone that he was getting alarmed.

Bob smiled, for he felt that he had the advantage, and foresaw
Wolverton's discomfiture when the receipt was shown him.

"I am not quite so excited as I was," he admitted. "When I saw you with
the whip uplifted I was ready for anything."

"Give me back the whip!" said Wolverton, menacingly.

"Will you promise not to use it on Sam?"

"I'll promise nothing, you young whipper-snapper! What business have you
to interfere between me and my nephew?"

"The right of ordinary humanity."

"Give me the whip."

"Then make me the promise?"

"I won't."

"Then I propose to keep it."

"I will have you arrested for theft."

"Do so. I will explain matters to Judge Turner."

Judge Turner, the magistrate before whom such cases came, heartily
despised and hated Aaron Wolverton, as the latter knew full well. He
would certainly dismiss any charge brought against Bob by such a man.
This consideration naturally influenced him.

"Very well," he said, though with an ill grace, "if your mother gave Sam
the money, I retract the charge of theft. Nevertheless, as his
guardian, I demand that the dollar be given to me."

"Give it to me to keep for you, Sam," said Bob.

Sam gladly took it from his pocket, and threw it towards Bob, who
dexterously caught it.

"Now, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, quietly; "you will have to demand the
money from me; Sam hasn't got it."

"You'll have to pay for your impudence, Robert Burton!" said Wolverton,
wrathfully. "You forget that you are all in my power."

"You may find yourself mistaken, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob. "At any rate,
I don't think I shall lose any sleep on that score."

"You can tell your mother I shall call this evening," continued
Wolverton. "I expect her to be ready with the interest, which is long
overdue."

"I will give her your message, Mr. Wolverton. Now, Clip, let us go on.
Mr. Wolverton will excuse us, I know, when I tell him that we have an
errand in the village."

"Yah, yah!" laughed Clip, gleefully; not that there was anything
particular to laugh at, but because it took very little to excite Clip's
risibilities.

Mr. Wolverton turned upon Clip with a frown. He had not forgotten the
trick Clip played upon him when he was upset in the river, and he would
have liked nothing better than to flog him till he roared for mercy.

"What is that black ape grinning about?" he demanded.

Clip ought to have felt insulted, but he was only amused.

"Yah, yah!" he laughed again.

Aaron Wolverton made a dash at him with his recovered whip, but Clip
nimbly jumped to one side and laughed again.

"Didn't do it dat time, Massa Wolverton," said Clip, showing his teeth.

"I'll get even with you yet, you black monkey!"

If Clip had been alone, Wolverton would have proceeded then and there to
carry out his threat. But he had a wholesome respect for Bob, whose
physical strength and prowess he well knew. It made him angry whenever
he thought of this boy, who seemed born to be a thorn in his side. He
was stronger than Wolverton, though the land agent was a man grown, and
it was humiliating to Wolverton to be obliged to admit this fact.

But he had one consolation in the mortgage he held upon the Burton
ranch. Here the law was on his side, and he saw his way clear to annoy
and injure Bob and his family, without running any risk himself. As for
the chance of the mortgage ever being paid off, that he thought
extremely small. If Richard Burton were still alive, he would have been
right, but Bob, young as he was, bade fair to be a better manager than
his father. He was not so sanguine, or, if the truth must be told, so
reckless in his expenditures. Besides, he knew, though his father was
ignorant of it, that Wolverton, for some reason which he could not
penetrate, was a bitter enemy of the family, and that his forbearance
could not be depended upon.

When Bob and Clip had left the scene Aaron Wolverton turned to Sam, and
scowled at his unfortunate nephew, in a way which was by no means
pleasant or reassuring.

"I've a good mind to flog you for all the trouble you've brought upon
me," he said.

"I don't see what I've done, uncle."

"You don't, hey? Haven't you sided with that upstart, the Burton boy?"

Sam was judiciously silent, for he saw his uncle was very much
irritated.

"Why did you give that dollar to him?"

"He told me to."

"Suppose he did; is he your guardian or am I?"

"You are, Uncle Aaron."

"I'm glad you are willing to admit it. Then why did you give him the
dollar?"

"Because his mother gave it to me. If you had given it to me, I wouldn't
have done it."

"You'll have to wait a good while before I give you a dollar."

Sam was of the same opinion himself, but did not think it wise to say
so.

"You deserve to be punished for what you have done," said his uncle,
severely.

"I wish I were as strong and brave as Bob," thought Sam. "I don't see
how he dares to stand up before Uncle Aaron and defy him. He makes me
tremble."

The truth was, Sam was not made of heroic mold. He was a timid boy and
was easily overawed. He lacked entirely the qualities that made Bob so
bold and resolute. He could admire his friend, but he could not imitate
him.

"Now, come home," said Wolverton, shortly.

Sam followed his uncle meekly.

When they reached home Sam was set to work. At twelve o'clock the bell
rang for dinner. Sam dropped his axe (he had been splitting wood) and
entered the kitchen, where the frugal meal was spread. His uncle was
already sitting in his place, and Sam prepared to sit down in his usual
chair.

"Samuel," said his uncle, "you have disobeyed me. You do not deserve any
dinner."

Sam's countenance fell, for he was very hungry.

"I am very hungry," he faltered.

"You should have thought of that when you disobeyed me and gave your
money to the Burton boy. This is intended as a salutary lesson, Samuel,
to cure you of your stubbornness and disobedience."

"You are quite right, Aaron," said Miss Sally in her deep voice. "Samuel
needs chastening."

Poor Sam slunk out of the door in a state of depression. Not being
ordered to return to his work, he went out into the street, where he met
Bob and Clip, and to them he told his tale of woe.

"Your uncle is as mean as they make 'em," said Bob. "Here, go into the
baker's and buy some doughnuts and pie."

He handed Sam a quarter, and the hungry boy followed his advice, faring
quite as well as he would have done at his uncle's table. Rather to Mr.
Wolverton's surprise, he worked all the afternoon without showing signs
of hunger, and that gentleman began to consider whether, after all, two
meals a day were not sufficient for him.




CHAPTER XII.

WOLVERTON'S WATERLOO.


Though the receipt was lost, Wolverton could not give up his plan of
extorting the interest from Mrs. Burton a second time. It might have
been supposed that he would have some qualms of conscience about robbing
the widow and the fatherless, but Mr. Wolverton's conscience, if he had
any, gave him very little trouble. He would have thought himself a fool
to give up one hundred and fifty dollars if there was the slightest
chance of securing them.

Towards evening of the day on which Bob had interfered with him, he took
his hat and cane, and set out for Burton's Ranch.

It so happened that Bob answered the bell. He had been sitting with his
mother, chatting about their future plans.

"Good-evening, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, who felt it incumbent upon him
to be polite to a guest, even though he disliked him.

"Evening," returned Wolverton, curtly. "Is your mother at home?"

"Yes, sir. Will you come in?"

Wolverton had not the good manners to acknowledge the invitation with
thanks, but strode into the sitting-room, following Bob.

The widow anticipated his visit, having been informed by Bob that he had
announced his intention of coming.

"Good-evening, Mr. Wolverton. Take a seat," she said, pointing to a
chair a few feet from her own. "Robert, take Mr. Wolverton's hat."

Wolverton looked at the widow with a hungry gaze, for she was the only
woman, he had ever loved.

"If she would only marry me, all her troubles would be over," he said to
himself. "She's a fool to refuse."

We, who have some idea of Mr. Wolverton's character and disposition, are
more likely to conclude that marriage with such a man would be only the
beginning of trouble.

"I've come on business, Mrs. Burton," said the visitor, in an aggressive
tone.

"State it, if you please, Mr. Wolverton," the widow answered, calmly.

"Hadn't you better send your son out of the room? We'd better discuss
this matter alone."

"I have no secrets from Robert," said the widow.

"Oh, well, just as you please; I don't care to have him interfere in
what doesn't concern him."

"Any business with my mother does concern me," said Bob; "but I will try
not to give you any trouble."

"The business is about that interest," Wolverton began, abruptly.

"What interest?"

"You must know what I mean--the interest on the mortgage."

"My husband paid it on the day of his death."

"It's easy enough to say that," sneered Wolverton, "but saying it isn't
proving it, as you must have the good sense to know."

"When my husband left me on that fatal morning, he told me that he was
going to your office to pay the interest. I know he had the money and
with him, for he had laid down the wallet, and I saw the roll of bills."

"Why didn't he pay it, then? That's what I'd like to know."

"Didn't he pay it to you, Mr. Wolverton?" asked Mrs. Burton, with a
searching glance. "Carry back your memory to that day, and answer me
that question."

Mr. Wolverton showed himself a little restive under this interrogatory,
but he assumed an air of indignation.

"What do you mean, widder?" he demanded, bringing down his cane with
emphasis upon the floor. "Do you doubt my word?"

"I think you may be mistaken, Mr. Wolverton," said Mrs. Burton,
composedly.

"Who has been putting this into your head, widder? Is it that boy of
yours?"

Bob answered for himself:

"I don't mind saying that I did tell mother that I thought the money had
been paid."

"Humph! you think yourself mighty smart, Bob Burton," snarled Wolverton.
"Nat'rally you'd like to get rid of paying the interest, if you could;
but you've got a business man to deal with, not a fool."

"You are no fool where money is concerned, there's no doubt about that.
But I want to ask you one thing, if my father didn't pay you the money
which mother can testify to his carrying with him on the morning of his
death, what became of it?"

"How should I know? Did you search his wallet when he was brought home?"

"Yes."

"And you didn't find the money?"

"No."

"So you conclude that he paid it to me. Let me tell you, young man, that
doesn't follow. He may have been robbed when he was lying on the ground
insensible."

"I think very likely he was," returned Bob, quietly.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Wolverton, uneasily. "Who could
have robbed him?"

"Possibly some one that we wouldn't be likely to suspect."

"What does he mean? Can he possibly suspect me?" thought Wolverton,
fixing his eyes on Bob's face. "But no! I certainly didn't take any
money from him."

"You may be right," he said aloud; "but that hasn't anything to do with
my claim for interest. Whether your father was robbed of the money, or
spent it, is all one to me. It wasn't paid to me, I can certify."

"Would you be willing to swear that the money was not paid to you that
day, Mr. Wolverton?"

"Do you mean to insult me? Haven't I told you it was not paid?"

"Do you expect me to pay it to you, then?" asked Mrs. Burton.

"Widder, I am surprised you should ask such a foolish question. It lies
in a nutshell. I'm entitled to interest on the money I let your husband
have on mortgage. You admit that?"

"Yes."

"I'm glad you admit that. As your husband didn't pay, I look to you for
it. I can say no more."

Mrs. Burton took a pocket-book from a pocket in her dress, and handed it
to Robert. Bob opened it, and drew therefrom a folded paper.

"Mr. Wolverton," he said, quietly, "I hold in my hand a receipt signed
by yourself for the interest--one hundred and fifty dollars--dated the
very day that my poor father died. What have you to say to it?"

Mr. Wolverton sprang to his feet, pale and panic-stricken.

"Where did you get that paper?" he stammered, hoarsely.






CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT BOB FOUND IN THE CREEK.


"When my poor husband left your office this receipt was in his
possession," answered Mrs. Burton.

"I deny it," exclaimed Aaron Wolverton, in a tone of excitement.

"Where else should it be?" inquired the widow, eying him fixedly.

"I don't know. How should I?"

"So you deny that the signature is yours, Mr. Wolverton?"

"Let me see it."

"I would rather not," said Bob, drawing back the receipt from
Wolverton's extended hand.

"That's enough!" said Wolverton quickly. "You are afraid to show it. I
denounce it as a base forgery."

"That will do no good," said the boy, un-terrified. "I have shown the
receipt to Mr. Dornton, and he pronounces the signature genuine."

"What made you show it to him?" asked Wolverton, discomfited.

"Because I thought it likely, after your demanding the interest the
second time, that you would deny it."

"Probably I know my own signature better than Mr. Dornton can."

"I have no doubt you will recognize it," and Bob, unfolding the paper,
held it in such a manner that Wolverton could read it.

"It may be my signature; it looks like it," said Wolverton, quickly
deciding upon a new evasion, "but it was never delivered to your
father."

"How then do you account for its being written?" asked Mrs. Burton, in
natural surprise.

"I made it out on the day your husband died," Wolverton answered glibly,
"anticipating that he would pay the money. He did not do it, and so the
receipt remained in my desk."

Bob and his mother regarded each other in surprise. They were not
prepared for such a barefaced falsehood.

"Perhaps you will account for its not being in your desk now," said Bob.

"I can do so, readily," returned Wolverton, maliciously. "Somebody must
have stolen it from my desk."

"I think you will find it hard to prove this, Mr. Wolverton."

"It is true, and I don't propose to lose my money on account of a stolen
receipt. You will find that you can't so easily circumvent Aaron
Wolverton."

"You are quite welcome to adopt this line of defense, Mr. Wolverton, if
you think best. You ought to know whether the public will believe such
an improbable tale."

"If you had the receipt why didn't you show it to me before?" Wolverton
asked in a triumphant tone. "I came here soon after your father's death,
and asked for my interest. Your mother admitted, then, that she had no
receipt."

"We had not found it then."

"Where, and when, did you find it?"

"I do not propose to tell."

Wolverton shook his head, satirically.

"And a very good reason you have, I make no doubt."

"Suppose I tell you my theory, Mr. Wolverton."

"I wish you would," and Wolverton leaned back in his chair and gazed
defiantly at the boy he so much hated.

"My father paid you the interest, and took a receipt. He had it on his
person when he met with his death. When he was lying outstretched in
death"--here Bob's eyes moistened--"some one came up, and, bending over
him, took the receipt from his pocket."

Mr. Wolverton's face grew pale as Bob proceeded.

"A very pretty romance!" he sneered, recovering himself after an
instant.

"It is something more than romance," Bob proceeded slowly and gravely.
"It is true; the man who was guilty of this mean theft from a man made
helpless by death is known. He was seen at this contemptible work."

"It is a lie," cried Wolverton, hoarsely, his face the color of chalk.

"It is a solemn truth."

"Who saw him?"

"I don't propose to tell--yet, if necessary, it will be told in a court
of justice."

Wolverton saw that he was found out, but he could not afford to
acknowledge. His best way of getting off was to fly into a rage, and
this was easy for him.

"I denounce this as a base conspiracy," he said, rising as he spoke.
"That receipt was stolen from my desk."

"Then we do not need to inquire who took it from the vest-pocket of my
poor father."

"Robert Barton, I will get even with you for this insult," said
Wolverton, shaking his fist at the manly boy. "You and your mother."

"Leave out my mother's name," said Bob, sternly.

"I will; I don't think she would be capable of such meanness. You, then,
are engaged in a plot to rob me of a hundred and fifty dollars. To
further this wicked scheme, you or your agent have stolen this receipt
from my desk. I can have you arrested for burglary. It is no more nor
less than that."

"You can do so if you like, Mr. Wolverton. In that case the public shall
know that you stole the receipt from my poor father after his death. I
can produce an eye-witness."

Wolverton saw that he was in a trap. Such a disclosure would injure him
infinitely in the opinion of his neighbors, for it would be believed.
There was no help for it. He must lose the hundred and fifty dollars
upon which, though he had no claim to it, he had so confidently
reckoned.

"You will hear from me!" he said, savagely, as he jammed his hat down
upon his head, and hastily left the apartment. "Aaron Wolverton is not
the man to give in to fraud."

Neither Bob nor his mother answered him, but Mrs. Burton asked
anxiously, after his departure:

"Do you think he will do anything, Bob?"

"No, mother; he sees that he is in a trap, and will think it wisest to
let the matter drop."

This, in fact, turned out to be the case. Mortifying as it was to give
in, Wolverton did not dare to act otherwise. He would have given
something handsome, mean though he was, if he could have found out,
first, who saw him rob the dead man, and next, who extracted the stolen
receipt from his desk. He was inclined to guess that it was Bob in both
cases. It never occurred to him that Clip was the eye-witness whose
testimony could brand him with this contemptible crime. Nor did he think
of Sam in connection with his own loss of the receipt. He knew Sam's
timidity, and did not believe the boy would have dared to do such a
thing.

All the next day, in consequence of his disappointment, Mr. Wolverton
was unusually cross and irritable. He even snapped at his sister, who
replied, with spirit:

"Look here, Aaron, you needn't snap at me, for I won't stand it."

"How will you help it?" he sneered.

"By leaving your house, and letting you get another housekeeper. I can
earn my own living, without working any harder than I do here, and a
better living, too. While I stay here, you've got to treat me decently."

Wolverton began to see that he had made a mistake. Any other housekeeper
would cost him more, and he could find none that would be so economical.

"I don't mean anything, Sally," he said; "but I'm worried."

"What worries you?"

"A heavy loss."

"How much?"

"A hundred and fifty dollars."

"How is that?"

"I have lost a receipt, but I can't explain how. A hundred and fifty
dollars is a great deal of money, Sally."

"I should say it was. Why can't you tell me about it?"

"Perhaps I will some time."


About two months later, while Bob was superintending the harvesting of
the wheat--the staple crop of the Burton ranch--Clip came running up to
him in visible excitement.

"Oh, Massa Bob," he exclaimed, "there is a ferry-boat coming down the
creek with nobody on it, and it's done got stuck ag'inst a snag. Come
quick, and we can take it for our own. Findings is keepings."

Bob lost no time in following Clip's suggestion. He hurried to the
creek, and there, a few rods from shore, he discovered the boat stranded
in the mud, for it was low tide.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE BOAT AND ITS OWNER.


The boat was shaped somewhat like the popular representations of Noah's
ark. It was probably ninety feet in length by thirty-eight feet in
width, and was roofed. Bob recognized it at once as a ferry-boat of the
style used at different points on the river, to convey passengers and
teams across the river. It was a double-ender, like the much larger
ferry-boats that are used on the East River, between New York and
Brooklyn.

The creek on which the Burton ranch was located was really large enough
for a river, and Bob concluded that this boat had been used at a point
higher up.

"I wish I owned that boat, Clip," said Bob.

"What would you do with it, Massa Bob?"

"I'll tell you what I'd do, Clip; I'd go down to St. Louis on it."

"Will you take me with you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, eagerly.

"I will, if I go, Clip."

"Golly, won't that be fine!" said the delighted Clip. "How long will you
stay, Massa Bob?"

Clip supposed Bob intended a pleasure trip, for in his eyes pleasure was
the chief end of living. But Bob was more practical and business-like.
He had an idea which seemed to him a good one, though as yet he had
mentioned it to no one.

"Get out the boat, Clip," he said, "and we'll go aboard. I want to see
if the boat will be large enough for my purpose."

Clip laughed in amusement.

"You must think you'self mighty big, Massa Bob," he said, "if you think
there isn't room on that boat for you an' me."

"It would certainly be large enough for two passengers like ourselves,
Clip," answered Bob, smiling; "for that matter our rowboat is large
enough for two boys, but if I go I shall carry a load with me."

Clip was still in the dark, but he was busying himself in unloosing the
rowboat, according to Bob's bidding. The two boys jumped in, and a few
strokes of the oars carried them to the ferry-boat. Fastening the
flat-bottomed boat, the two boys clambered on deck.

Bob found the boat in good condition. It had occurred to him that it had
been deserted as old and past service, and allowed to drift down the
creek, but an examination showed that in this conjecture he was
mistaken. It was sufficiently good to serve for years yet. This
discovery was gratifying in one way, but in another it was a
disappointment. As a boat of little value, Bob could have taken
possession of it, fairly confident that no one would interfere with his
claim, but in its present condition it was hardly likely to be without
an owner, who would appear sooner or later and put in his claim to it.

"It seems to be a pretty good boat," said Bob.

"Dat's so, Massa Bob."

"It must have slipped its moorings and drifted down the creek during the
night. I wish I knew who owned it."

"You an' me own it, Massa Bob. Finding is keeping."

"I am afraid it won't be so in the present case. Probably the owner will
appear before long."

"Can't we get off down de river afore he comes, Massa Bob?"

"That wouldn't be honest, Clip."

Clip scratched his head in perplexity. He was not troubled with
conscientious scruples, and was not as clear about the rights of
property as his young patron. He was accustomed, however, to accept
whatever Bob said as correct and final. In fact, he was content to let
Bob do his thinking for him.

"What was you goin' to take down de ribber, Massa Bob?" he asked.

"I'll tell you what I was thinking of, Clip. You know we are gathering
our crop of grain, and of course it must be sold. Now, traders ask a
large commission for taking the wheat to market, and this would be a
heavy tax. If I could load it on board this boat, and take it down
myself, I should save all that, and I could sell it myself in St.
Louis."

"Can I go, too?" asked Clip, anxiously.

"You shall go if I do," answered Bob.

"When will you know?" asked Clip, eagerly.

"When I find out whether I can use this boat. I had thought of building
a raft, but that wouldn't do. No raft that I could build would carry our
crop to St. Louis. This boat will be just the thing. I think it must
have been used for that purpose before. See those large bins on each
side. Each would contain from fifty to a hundred bushels of wheat. I
only wish I knew the owner. Even if I couldn't buy the boat, I might
make a bargain to hire it."

Bob had hardly finished his sentence when he heard a voice hailing him
from the bank.

Going to the end of the boat, he looked towards the shore, and saw a
tall angular figure, who seemed from his dress and appearance to be a
Western Yankee. His figure was tall and angular, his face of the kind
usually described as hatchet face, with a long thin nose, and his head
was surmounted by a flapping sombrero, soft, broad-brimmed, and
shapeless.

"Boat ahoy!" called the stranger.

"Did you wish to speak to us?" asked Bob, politely.

"I reckon I do," answered the stranger. "I want you to take me aboard
that boat."

"Is the boat yours?" asked Bob.

"It doesn't belong to anybody else," was the reply.

"Untie the boat, Clip. We'll go back!" ordered Bob.

The two boys dropped into the rowboat, and soon touched the bank.

"If you will get in we'll row you over," said Bob. "When did you lose
the boat?"

"It drifted down last night," answered the new acquaintance. "I've been
usin' it as a ferry-boat about twenty miles up the creek. Last night I
thought it was tied securely, but this morning it was gone."

"I don't see how it could have broken away."

"Like as not some mischievous boy cut the cable," was the answer. "Any
way, here it is, and here am I, Ichabod Slocum, the owner."

"Then the boat and its owner are once more united."

"Yes, but that don't take the boat back to where it belongs. It's
drifted down here, easy enough; mebbe one of you boys will tell me how
it's goin' to drift back."

"There may be some difficulty about that," answered Bob with a smile.
"How long have you owned the boat?"

"About two years. I've been usin' her as a ferry-boat between Transfer
City and Romeo, and I've made a pretty fair livin' at it."

Bob was familiar with the names of these towns, though he had never been
so far up the creek.

"I'm afraid you'll have trouble in getting the boat back," he said. "It
will make quite an interruption in your business."

"I don't know as I keer so much about that," said Ichabod Slocum,
thoughtfully. "I've been thinkin' for some time about packin' up and
goin' farther west. I've got a cousin in Oregon, and I reckon I might
like to go out there for a year or two."

"Then, perhaps you might like to dispose of the boat, Mr. Slocum," said
Bob, eagerly.

"Well, I might," said Ichabod Slocum, cautiously. "Do you know of
anybody around here that wants a boat?"

"I might like it myself," was Bob's reply.

"What on airth does a boy like you want of a ferry-boat?" asked Slocum,
in surprise.

"I have a plan in my head," said Bob; "and think it would be useful to
me."

"There ain't no call for a ferry-boat here," said Ichabod.

"No; you are right there. I may as well tell you what I am thinking of.
Our crop of grain is ready to harvest, and I should like to load it on
this boat and carry it down to St. Louis and sell it there myself."




CHAPTER XV.

BOB BUYS THE FERRY-BOAT.


"Good!" said Mr. Slocum. "I like your pluck. Well, there's the boat. You
can have it if you want it--for a fair price, of course."

"What do you call a fair price?" asked Bob.

"I don't mind sayin' that I bought it second-hand myself, and I've got
good value out of it. I might sell it for--a hundred and twenty-five
dollars."

Bob shook his head.

"That may be cheap," he answered; "but I can't afford to pay so much
money."

"You can sell it at St. Louis when you're through usin' it."

"I should have to take my risk of it."

"You seem to be pretty good on a trade, for a boy. I reckon you'll sell
it."

"Do you want all the money down. Mr. Slocum?"

"Well, I might wait for half of it, ef I think it's safe. What's your
security?"

"We--that is, mother and I--own the ranch bordering on the other side of
the creek. The wheat crop we are harvesting will probably amount to
fourteen hundred bushels. I understand it is selling for two dollars a
bushel or thereabouts." (This was soon after the war, when high prices
prevailed for nearly all articles, including farm products.)

"I reckon you're safe, then," said Mr. Slocum. "Now we'll see if we can
agree upon a price."

I will not follow Bob and Mr. Slocum in the bargaining that succeeded.
The latter was the sharper of the two, but Bob felt obliged to reduce
the price as much as possible, in view of the heavy mortgage upon the
ranch.

"I shall never breathe easy till that mortgage is paid, mother," he
said. "Mr. Wolverton is about the last man I like to owe. His attempt to
collect the interest twice shows that he is unscrupulous. Besides, he
has a grudge against me, and it would give him pleasure, I feel sure, to
injure me."

