secret hiding-place had not been discovered.

"How much longer are you going to stay in St. Victor?" he asked after a
pause.

"I don't know," answered Fred slowly. "I may take a fancy to go away
any day."

"I wish I could go too. I am tired of this place."

"I suppose you are waiting for Mr. Sinclair to recover."

"Yes," answered Bowman, but there was hesitation in his tone.

A sudden suspicion entered Fred's mind. Was Bowman meditating giving
his confederate the slip, and deserting him, taking the bonds with him?
Had he perhaps taken the package from its hiding-place and got it
concealed about his person? A careful scrutiny satisfied Fred that this
was not the case. But it was quite possible that he would make another
visit the next day, and remove the bonds then.

"I must lose no time," he thought, "or I shall lose my opportunity."

They reached the hotel in time for dinner.

"What are you going to do this afternoon?" asked Bowman.

"I haven't thought particularly," answered Fred indifferently.

"Suppose we play poker? The landlord has a pack of cards."

"I don't know the game."

"It won't take long to learn. I will show you how it is played."

"I don't care for cards. I may call on Mr. Sinclair."

Bowman shrugged his shoulders.

"You must enjoy his society," he said.

"I don't go there for enjoyment. My visit may cheer the poor man."

"All right! I'll see if the landlord isn't going to drive somewhere."

"I hope he is," thought Fred. "It will get Bowman out of the way."

About half-past two Bowman entered the public room where Fred was
reading.

"I'm going for a drive," he announced. "I'll see you at supper."

"Very well!"

Fred waited till Bowman drove out of the yard, and then, taking his
gun, went off himself. But he did not turn his steps in the direction
of Sinclair's cottage. He had ascertained that there was a way of going
by land to that part of the woods where he had met his young companion
of the morning. He had made up his mind to repair to the spot now on
the chance of finding the boy, and securing the bonds that very
afternoon. He felt that there was no time to be lost.

It would have been easier and shorter to take the boat, and the
landlord would have made no objection. But some one might see him out
on the lake, and this would excite Bowman's suspicions, especially when
he discovered that the bonds were missing. So Fred chose the land route
as the wiser one to take under the circumstances.

The distance was quite two miles, but Fred did not mind that. The prize
for which he was striving was too great for him to shrink from such a
trifle as that.

He reached the other side of the pond, but no one was in sight. He
walked about anxiously looking here and there.

"I hope I shall not have my walk for nothing," he said to himself.

But luck was in his favor. Walking at random he all at once heard a
boy's whistle. He quickened his steps, and almost directly, to his
great delight, he recognized, sauntering along, the very lad he had
taken out in the boat in the morning.

"Hallo, there!" he cried.

The boy turned quickly.

"Oh, it's you, is it?"

"Yes."

"I thought you were to meet me to-morrow morning."

"So I was, but I did not dare to wait. I think Bowman will get the
bonds to-morrow, and make a bolt of it."

"Then what do you propose to do?"

"I want you to get the package for me to-day."

"Do you think I will get into any trouble?" asked the boy cautiously.
"It won't be stealing, will it?"

"It would be if the bonds were Bowman's, but they are not. They belong
to a rich banker in New York, as I have already told you, and in
showing me where they are you are aiding justice."

"Will I get the hundred dollars, sure?"

"Yes, I will guarantee that. What is your name?"

"John Parton."

"I will take it down. As soon as I get back to New York I will see that
the money is sent you."

"I'll chance it," said the boy. "You look honest, and I believe you."

"Go on, then, and I will follow you."

John led the way into the thickest part of the wood. He paused in front
of a large tree, partly gone to decay. The trunk was hollow, containing
a large cavity.

"The package is there," he said.

"Get it for me," returned Fred, "and there your task will end. I will
undertake the rest."

In less than five minutes the package was placed in Fred's hands.

He opened his vest and placed it inside, carefully pinning it to the
waistcoat, so that it might not slip down.

"It will be awkward to carry," he said, "on account of its size. I wish
it were safe in Mr. Wainwright's possession."

Then a new idea came to him.

"Is there any express office near here?" he asked.

"The nearest is at Hyacinth, five or six miles away."

"I should like to go there. Do you know where I can hire a team?"

"We are not using ours to-day," said John.

"Then," said Fred promptly, "I will hire it, paying any price your
father considers satisfactory, and I will engage you to drive me over.
You know the way?"

"I've been there hundreds of times."

"Then it is all right. Do you think we can have the team? I'll pay two
dollars for that, and a dollar for your services as driver."

"It's a go! Come right along! Our house is less than half a mile away."

Then the two boys emerged from the woods, and made their way to a
comfortable farmhouse, situated in the midst of fertile fields. John
went into the house, and presently came out with his mother.

"Are you the young man that wants to go to Hyacinth?" she asked.

"Yes, ma'am."

"Well, I don't know of any objection. Don't stay too long."

"I'll be back in time for supper, mother."

"Did your mother ask you what I was going for?" asked Fred.

"No; I told her you wanted to take a ride."

"That will answer. I wish there was enough snow left for sleighing."

The horse was quickly harnessed to an open buggy, and the two boys got
in. John took the reins, and turned out of the yard. Soon they were
speeding over the road that led to Hyacinth. It was a pleasant drive,
but Fred was too much occupied by thoughts of what he carried to pay
much attention to the scenery.

At length they turned into the principal street of Hyacinth.

The express office was just across the way from the railway depot.

Fred entered and inquired, "How soon will a package start for New
York?"

"In about an hour."

"As it is valuable, I will get you to put it up securely, and seal it."

"Very well."

The agent wrapped it up in some thick brown paper, gave it to Fred to
direct, and then laid it carefully away.

"Do you wish to insure it?" he asked. "What is the value?"

"I will insure it for five hundred dollars."

Fred knew that this would secure extra care, and he did not care to
name the real worth lest it might tempt some employee to dishonesty.

"Now," he said, as they left the office, "I feel easy in my mind."

But when the boys were half way home, they overtook another buggy,
containing two occupants. One of them was the landlord of the Lion Inn,
the other was Paul Bowman.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

BOWMAN'S PANIC.

Paul Bowman, who was driving, the landlord having given up the reins to
him, checked the horse and hailed Fred in evident surprise.

"Where have you been?" he inquired abruptly.

"I have been to ride," answered Fred, with an appearance of unconcern.

"I thought you were going to call on Sinclair."

"So I was, but after you left I decided to take a walk in another
direction. I met John, and engaged him to take me to drive."

"Are you going home now?"

"Yes, I think so. Can you take me to the hotel, John?"

"Yes," answered his companion readily.

"Then we will follow along behind Mr. Bowman."

Of course there could be no private conversation, so John and he spoke
on indifferent topics. When they reached the hotel Fred jumped from the
buggy.

"Good-by, John," he said. "You will hear from me soon," he added in a
significant tone.

Then he joined Bowman, who was wholly unsuspicious of the disaster that
had befallen him.

"I should like to go over to Sinclair's," thought Fred, "but I suppose
Bowman will expect me to keep him company."

But in this he was agreeably disappointed.

At seven o'clock the landlord drove round, and Bowman sprang into the
buggy.

"Sorry to leave you, Fred," he said, "but we are going to Vaudry on a
little business. Hope you won't be lonely."

"Never mind me, Mr. Bowman. I think I will go over to see Mr. Sinclair.
He will probably expect me. Have you any message?"

Bowman looked significantly at the landlord.

"Tell him I will call to-morrow or next day," he said. "At present I am
very busy."

The two drove away, leaving Fred and a stable boy named Jack looking
after them.

"He's going to skip to-morrow," said Jack confidentially.

"Who?"

"Mr. Bowman."

"How do you know?" asked Fred in excitement.

"I heard him say so to the boss. He doesn't want you to know it."

"Why not?"

"He is afraid you will tell his partner, the sick man."

Fred whistled.

"That is news," he said. "I suspected it might be so, but didn't know
for sure."

"Shall you tell Mr. Sinclair?"

"Yes, I think I ought to do so."

"That's so! He's a nicer man than old Bowman."

Fred, immersed in thought, walked over to the cottage. James Sinclair
received him with evident joy.

"I expected you this afternoon," he said. "The hours seemed very long."

"I was employed on very important business," said Fred significantly.

"You don't mean----"

"I mean," said Fred, bending over and whispering in the sick man's ear,
"that I have found the bonds."

"Where are they?"

"On the way to New York, by express."

"What a burden off my heart!" ejaculated Sinclair fervently. "Tell me
about it," he added, after a pause.

Fred did so.

"Now," he added, "there will be nothing to prevent your coming to New
York and taking your old place."

"I think I shall recover now," responded Sinclair. "Your news makes me
feel fifty per cent. better."

"I have more news for you."

"What is it?"

"Bowman is planning to leave St. Victor to-morrow, without a word to
you. He means to leave you in the lurch."

"He can go now. I shall be glad to part with him--and forever."

"That is his intention, but when he finds the bonds have disappeared, I
don't know what he may decide to do."

"When do you mean to start for New York?"

"I would start to-night if I could."

"You can. There is a train which passes through St. Victor at ten
o'clock this evening. But, no, on second thought it goes to Ottawa."

"I don't care where it goes. I don't wish to remain in St. Victor any
longer than is absolutely necessary. Besides, if Bowman suspects and
follows me he will be likely to think I have gone in a different
direction."

"I am sorry to have you go, Mr. Fenton."

"We shall meet again soon, I hope in New York."

Fred reached the inn at nine o'clock, left the amount of his bill in an
envelope with the boy Jack, and walked over to the station, where he
purchased a ticket for Ottawa. While he was in the depot building
Bowman and the landlord drove by. Before they had reached the inn the
train came up and Fred entered the rear car.

He breathed a sigh of relief as the cars quickened their speed and St.
Victor faded in the distance.

Meanwhile Bowman and the landlord reached the hotel. Jack, the
stable-boy, came forward and took charge of the team.

"Here is a letter for you, Mr. Bluff," he said.

"A letter!" repeated the landlord, with a look of wonder. He opened it
and uttered a cry of surprise.

"The boy's gone!" he ejaculated.

"What boy?" asked Bowman, not suspecting the truth.

"Young Fenton."

"Gone away! What do you mean?"

"Read that."

He passed the note to Bowman, who read as follows:

DEAR SIR:--I am called away on business. I enclose the amount due you.
If it is not right I will communicate with you as soon as I have
reached New York. Remember me to Mr. Bowman.

                                    FRED FENTON.

"Called away on business!" repeated Bowman suspiciously. "That is
queer. What did the boy say?" he asked of Jack. "When did he first
speak of going away?"

"I think he made up his mind sudden, sir."

"Did he say where he was going?"

"He said he was goin' back to New York."

"Received a summons from his employer, I suppose."

"Very likely, sir."

"Do you know if he went to see Mr. Sinclair?"

"Yes, sir. He went fust part of the evenin'."

"Then Sinclair can tell me about it."

"Very likely, sir."

Not daring to take Jack too deeply into his confidence, Fred had told
him that he was going to New York, which was true, or would be very
shortly.

"If he had waited till to-morrow we might have gone together," thought
Bowman, "at least a part of the way. It will be some time before I
shall dare to set foot in New York."

Bowman went to bed with a vague feeling of uneasiness for which he
could not account. He felt that it would be impossible for him to
remain in the dull little village any longer. Should he, or should he
not, go to see Sinclair before he went away? On the whole he resolved
to secure the bonds first, and then decide.

The next day after breakfast he strolled down to the lake, got out the
boat, and rowed rapidly toward the farther shore. There was no time to
waste now. He tied the boat to a sapling growing close to the bank, and
struck into the woods.

He made his way at once to the tree which he had used as a safe deposit
vault, and with perfect confidence thrust in his hand. But the package
which his fingers sought for seemed to have slipped out of reach. He
continued his search anxiously, with increasing alarm, but in vain.

A terrible fear assailed him. He peered in through the cavity, but
neither sight nor touch availed. Gradually the terrible thought was
confirmed--the parcel had been stolen! Thirteen thousand five hundred
dollars, nearly the entire proceeds of his crime, had vanished--but
where?

He staggered to a stump close by, and sitting down, buried his face in
his hands. What was he to do? He had but twenty-five dollars left.

"Who can have taken it?" he asked himself with feverish agitation.

He rose and made his way mechanically back to the boat.

An hour later he staggered into the little cottage occupied by his sick
partner. His hair was disheveled, his manner wild.

"What is the matter, Bowman?" asked Sinclair.

"We are ruined!" said Bowman in a hollow voice. "The bonds are gone!"

"When did you miss them?" asked Sinclair quickly.

"To-day. They were safe yesterday. Do you think it was the boy?"

"What could he know of the bonds? Did you ever speak to him about
them?"

"Of course not. What shall I do?"

"Inquire whether any one has been seen near the place where you hid
them. Do your best to recover them."

This advice struck Bowman favorably. He devoted the remainder of the
day to the inquiry, but learned nothing. There was no further occasion
to remain in St. Victor. He left the inn in the evening, forgetting to
pay his reckoning.




CHAPTER XXXV.

FRED'S REWARD.

John Wainwright, the wealthy banker, sat in his office looking over the
letters that had come by the morning mail. Some of them he turned over
to his confidential clerk to answer. Others, more important, he
reserved to reply to with his own hand.

"Busy, Wainwright?" asked a gentleman, Arthur Henderson, entering
without ceremony.

"I always have something in hand, but I have time enough for an old
friend."

"By the way, have you heard anything of the bonds you lost some time
since?"

"I know where they are."

"You do?"

"Yes, they are in Canada."

Henderson laughed.

"That means that you will never get them back."

"I don't know. I have sent a messenger to recover them."

"Who is it?"

"My office boy."

Henderson stared.

"I suppose that is a joke."

"By no means."

"What is the age of your office boy?"

"I should judge from his appearance that he is sixteen."

"Do you mean to say that you have intrusted a boy of sixteen with so
important a commission?"

"I do."

"Really, Wainwright, I don't like to criticise, but it appears to me
that you have taken leave of your senses."

The banker laughed good-humoredly.

"Perhaps I ought not to be surprised at that."

"Then you acknowledge your lack of wisdom?"

"By no means. What I have done I would do again."

"Couldn't you find a more suitable messenger?"

"Not readily."

"It would have been worth while to go yourself, as the amount is
considerable."

"That would never have answered. I should be recognized, and excite
suspicion."

"Do you really expect that boy to recover the bonds?"

"I think it possible, at any rate."

"Suppose he does, what is to hinder his keeping them himself?"

"His honesty."

"Pardon me, Wainwright, but I have had a pretty extensive experience,
and I would be willing to wager ten to one that you will never see your
bonds again."

"I never bet, and hold that betting is no argument. But I too have had
some experience of men and consider my chance of recovering the stolen
property fairly good."

"How long since your messenger started on his expedition?"

"About two weeks."

"Have you heard from him?"

"Yes, once. There are reasons why it is imprudent for him to write too
often."

Henderson smiled significantly.

"I dare say he is having a good time at your expense. What was the
amount of your loss?"

"About fifteen thousand dollars."

"Since you won't bet, I will make you a proposal. If the boy recovers
your bonds and restores them to you I will offer him a place in my own
counting-room at twenty dollars a week."

"I don't think in that case I should be willing to lose his services. I
would pay him as much as he could get elsewhere."

"There is very little chance of my being called upon to redeem my
promise."

At that moment an express messenger entered the office.

"Here is a parcel for you, sir," he said.

It was a small package wrapped in brown paper, carefully tied and
sealed.

John Wainwright paid the express charges, receipted for the package,
and then eagerly opened it.

It was the same package which Fred had expressed from Hyacinth.

The banker's eyes were full of triumph.

"What do you say to that, my friend?" he asked.

"What is it?"

"The missing bonds. Nothing could have happened more apropos."

"You don't mean to say--"

"Listen. Let me read you this letter from the messenger you thought me
foolish in sending to Canada."

Here is a copy of Fred's letter.

JOHN WAINWRIGHT, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR: I have at length recovered the bonds which were stolen
from you, and send them by express herewith. I have not time to go into
details, but will only say that I found them in a hollow tree. I
secured them in the nick of time, for I have reason to think that
to-morrow they would have been removed by Bowman, who has got tired of
St. Victor, and will probably leave the neighborhood to-morrow. I do not
dare to keep the bonds in my possession, as I may be followed, but
consider it safer to express them to you at once. I shall go back to
New York by a roundabout way, but shall probably arrive very nearly as
soon as the package.

                            Yours respectfully,

                            FRED FENTON.

P. S. The money and U. S. bonds have been used, but you will find
$13,500 in other securities in this package. They would have been spent
too, but the holder found it impossible to negotiate them.

"There, Henderson, what do you think of that?" asked Mr. Wainwright, in
a quiet tone of triumph. "I was a fool, was I, to trust this boy?"

"I don't know what to say, but my offer holds good. If you will release
the boy I will take him into my employment at twenty dollars a week."

"I will give him as much as he can get elsewhere," repeated the banker.

There was a quick step heard outside, and Fred Fenton entered the
office.

"Good morning, Mr. Wainwright," he said. "Did you receive the package?"

"It just reached me, Fred. Shake hands, my boy. You have justified my
confidence in you."

"I did my best, sir."

"Tell me all about it. My curiosity is excited."

Fred gave a rapid account of his adventures in search of the missing
bonds. It was listened to with equal interest by the banker and his
friend.

"Wainwright, introduce me," said Henderson abruptly.

"Fred," said the banker smiling, "let me make you acquainted with my
friend, Arthur Henderson. He is a commission merchant. He may have a
proposal to make to you."

"Young man, if you will enter my employment I will pay you twenty
dollars a week," said merchant.

Fred looked amazed.

"That is a great deal more than I am worth," said.

"Then you accept?"

Fred looked wistfully at Mr. Wainwright.

"I should not like to leave Mr. Wainwright," he said.

"Especially as he has raised your pay to twenty-five dollars a week,"
said the banker smiling.

"You can't be in earnest, sir?"

"When you get your first week's salary on Saturday, you will see that I
am in earnest."

"I see, then, that I must do without you," said the merchant.
"Wainwright, I take back all I said. I advise you to keep Fred by all
means as long as he will stay with you."

The banker had opened his check book and was writing out a check. He
tore it from the book and handed it to Fred. It ran thus:


No. 10,531

            PARK NATIONAL BANK.
            Pay to the order of FRED FENTON
            ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS.

$1000.

                                  JOHN WAINWRIGHT.


"Is this for me?" asked Fred in amazement.

"Yes. I ought perhaps to make it more, for it is less than ten per
cent. of the value of the bonds."

"How can I thank you, sir?" ejaculated Fred, feeling uncertain whether
he was awake or dreaming. "I feel like a millionaire."

"Have you been home yet, Fred?"

"No, sir; I came here at once."

"Go home, then, and spend the rest of the day with your mother. Do you
want to cash the check this morning?"

"No, sir."

"Indorse it, then, and I will hand you the money in bills to-morrow."

Fred, his face radiant with joy, left the office, and going to the
nearest station on the Sixth Avenue Elevated Road bought a ticket and
rode up town.

There a surprise awaited him.




CHAPTER XXXVI.

A LETTER FROM TOM SLOAN.

When Fred presented himself at home, after a fortnight's absence, his
mother and little brother were overjoyed.

"It's been awfully lonely since you went away, Fred," said Albert.

"I have felt like Albert," said Mrs. Fenton. "But it was not that that
worried me most. I was afraid you might meet with some accident."

"I've come home safe and sound, mother, as you see. But you don't ask
me whether I succeeded in my mission."

"I don't know what your mission was."

"No; it was a secret of Mr. Wainwright's, and I was bound to keep it
secret. I can tell you now. I was sent to Canada to recover over ten
thousand dollars' worth of stolen bonds."

Mrs. Fenton looked amazed.

"A boy like you!" she said.

"I don't wonder you are surprised. I was surprised myself."

"But who had the bonds, and how did you recover them?"

"Two men were in the conspiracy. One of them was sorry for the theft,
and ready to help me. The other meant to keep them. He had taken them
away from his partner and hidden them in the forest."

"And you found them?"

"Yes; sit down and I will tell you the story."

Fred did so, and when it was finished he added: "How much do you think
Mr. Wainwright paid me for my trouble?"

"He ought to pay you handsomely."

"What would you consider paying me handsomely?"

"Fifty dollars," answered his mother.

"He gave me a thousand dollars!"

"A thousand!" ejaculated Mrs. Fenton, incredulous.

"Yes."

"Where's the money?" asked Albert.

"He gave it to me in a check. I shall collect it to-morrow, and invest
it in some safe way."

"I can't realize it, Fred," said Mrs. Fenton. "Why, it will make us
rich."

"But that isn't all. My salary is raised to twenty-five dollars a
week."

"I never heard of such wages being given to a boy like you."

"It was my second offer this morning. A merchant, a friend of Mr.
Wainwright, offered me twenty dollars to go into his office."

"That is better than being a train boy, Fred."

"Yes; but I was glad to work on the trains when I had nothing better to
do."

Just then the peculiar whistle of the postman was heard.

"Run down-stairs, Albert, and see if there are any letters for us,"
said Fred.

The little boy returned in a moment with an envelope directed to Fred
Fenton, and postmarked Central City, Colorado. He opened it hastily,
and exclaimed: "This is from Mr. Sloan, who visited us a few months
since."

"Read it, Fred."

The letter was written in rather an illegible hand, and the spelling
was rather eccentric, for Mr. Sloan was not a scholar. As corrected it
ran thus:

FRIEND FRED--I suppose you haven't forgotten your old friend Tom Sloan.
I have often thought of how I enjoyed myself at your home, and wished I
could call in and take a cup of tea with you and your mother.

About that land you asked me to see, I've got good news for you.
There's a town built around it, and the price has gone up to fancy
figures. There's a party here that wants to buy it for five thousand
dollars, but I think I can get a little more. If your mother will send
me a power of attorney, I will sell it, and send you on the money. I'll
do my best for you. No wonder that old skinflint, your uncle, wanted to
buy it. He'd have made a big thing out of it. He was a fool not to take
it at your own figures.

I hope you are all well, and I shouldn't wonder if I might see you
pretty soon. I've been lucky myself, and made a respectable pile. Old
Tom Sloan doesn't get left if he can help it.

Well, good-by. Send on the power of attorney by return of mail.

Yours till death,

TOM SLOAN.

"Five thousand dollars!" ejaculated Mrs. Fenton. "I can't believe it."

"You will, mother, when you get the money. There's no time to be lost.
I'll go out at once and get the power of attorney, and we'll write at
once, telling Mr. Sloan to do whatever he thinks best. Do you agree to
that, mother?"

"Yes, Fred. He is a good man and I trust him entirely."




CHAPTER XXXVII.

COUSIN FERGUSON.

In a fortnight Fred received from Colorado an order on a New York
banker for six thousand five hundred dollars, being the purchase money
on the Colorado lands.

He at once carried it to Mr. Wainwright, and invested it in securities
recommended by that gentleman.

"I congratulate you heartily, Fred," said the banker. "I didn't know
that I was taking into my employ a young man of fortune."

"It has come upon me so suddenly that I can't realize it myself."

"I consider you worthy of your good luck, my boy. You ought to save up
money out of your wages."

"I intend to sir, but I am going to give my mother a better home now
that I can afford it, and will see that my little brother has a better
education than I have had."

"It is not too late to supply the deficiency in your own case. You
cannot do better than join the evening classes of the Young Men's
Christian Association, and do what you can to improve yourself."

"I will follow your advice, Mr. Wainwright. Now that I am no longer
anxious about money matters, I want to qualify myself for a better
social position."

Only two days after the receipt of the money from Colorado, another
letter, as unexpected as Mr. Sloan's, reached Mrs. Fenton. The
substance of it was comprised in the closing paragraph "Send your son
round to my house this evening I am prepared to make you a better offer
for the Colorado laud. It's of little value, but some day may be worth
more than at present. As you are straitened in means I can better
afford to wait than you, and I shall feel satisfaction in relieving
your necessities."

Fred read this letter attentively. "I hate a hypocrite," he said. "Mr.
Ferguson pretends that he wants to help us, while he is scheming to
cheat us out of a large sum, relying upon our ignorance of the
increased value of the land."

"Shall I write and tell him that we have sold the land?" asked Mrs.
Fenton.

