
"No, sir; that is not my name, and I supposed that you spoke to some
other man," pleaded the late man-servant of the mansion at Bonnydale.

The lieutenant gazed earnestly into the face of the sailor, for he was
willing to admit to himself the possibility of a mistake. Walsh, or
whatever his name might have been, was a man of robust form, not more
than an inch or two short of six feet in height. He was clean-shaved,
with the exception of his upper lip, whereon he sported a rather long
dark brown mustache, of which a Broadway dandy might have been vain. As
a servant, he had been rather obsequious, though Christy had observed
that he used very good language for one in his menial position. As the
officer examined his form and features, and especially regarded the
expression in general, he was satisfied that he could not be mistaken.

"I did not speak to another man; I spoke to you," added Christy, as he
intensified the gaze with which he confronted the man, resorting to the
tactics of a sharp lawyer in the cross-examination of an obdurate
witness.

"I ask your pardon, sir, but you called me Welch, or some such name,"
replied the late servant, as Christy was sure he was in spite of his
denial.

"I called you Walsh; and that is the name to which you responded at two
o'clock this morning," persisted the lieutenant.

"That is not my name, sir; and I refer you to the ship's papers to prove
it. I am not the man to be ashamed of my name, which is not Welch or
Walsh, sir, if you will excuse me for saying so."

"Will you deny that you were employed as a servant at the house of
Captain Passford, at Bonnydale on the Hudson?" demanded Christy, with
not a little energy in his tones and manner.

"Where, sir, if you please?" asked the sailor, with a sort of bewildered
look.

"At Bonnydale!"

"Boddyvale? I never heard of the place before in my life, sir," answered
the runaway servant.

Possibly the man under examination was not wholly responsible for his
distortion of the name of Captain Passford's estate, as Christy was
beginning to reap the penalty of his imprudence the night before, in
exposing himself barefooted and half-clothed to the chill midnight
air, and was developing a cold in the head that already affected his
enunciation.

"Bonnydale!" repeated the officer, after using his handkerchief, and
thus improving his utterance of the word.

"I never heard of the place before, sir," persisted the seaman.

"Byron!" called a boatswain's mate from the forecastle.

"That's my name--Byron, sir, at your service," said the man, as he
touched his cap to the lieutenant, and rushed forward in answer to the
call of his superior, evidently glad to escape from the inquisition to
which he had been subjected. "On deck!" he added, as he made his way to
the forecastle.

Christy was a passenger on board of the Vernon, and he had nothing to
do. The commanding officer appeared to be engaged in the details of his
duty, though the steamer was in charge of a pilot. He could see from
his shoulder straps that he was an ensign, and the officers in the waist
and on the forecastle were of the same rank. If there were any other
passengers on board of the vessel who were commissioned officers, they
were not visible on the deck, though they might be in their staterooms,
arranging their affairs for the voyage.

The young lieutenant leaned against the rail, and gave himself up to the
consideration of what had occurred since he came on board. He had been
bewildered by one mystery the night before, and he could not help asking
himself if the conduct of Walsh had anything to do with the visit of the
intruder at Bonnydale. He could not trace out any connection between the
two events; but, on the other hand, he was unable to satisfy himself
that the mysterious visit, the sudden disappearance of the man-servant,
and the denial of his identity by the latter, were not in some manner
related to each other.

He had no premises on which to base an argument for or against one thing
or another. All was dark to him, and he could not get hold of anything.
After he had raised up a variety of suppositions, and combated
vigorously with them, the darkness seemed only to become more dense,
and he was compelled to abandon the subject without arriving at any
reasonable explanation. Under the instruction of his father, he had
cultivated "a judicial mind," which compelled him to reject all mere
speculation.

Christy was not disposed to believe that he was a brilliant officer,
or to accept unchallenged the extravagant praise that had been bestowed
upon him. He endeavored to follow the Gospel injunction "not to think of
himself more highly than he ought to think." But while he tried to keep
the flower of modesty in full bloom in his soul, he could not deny that
he had given the enemies of his country a great deal of trouble, and
subjected them to some heavy losses. Then he recalled the conspiracy on
board of the Bronx while he was acting-commander of her; and though it
was for the interest of the Confederacy to get rid of so active an
officer, he believed it was the vessel and not himself that the
conspirators desired to obtain.

Before the Vernon reached The Narrows, everything on her deck had been
put in order by the large crew, and less activity prevailed on board.
Christy thought it was time for him to report to the commander, and he
moved aft for this purpose. He did not even know the name of this
gentleman, and he saw no one to introduce him formally; but the ensign
in command had doubtless received an order to take him as a passenger to
the Gulf.

Before he reached the sacred limits of the quarter-deck, Christy met a
quartermaster, of whom he inquired the name of the commander.

"He has a good name for the captain of a fighting ship," replied the
petty officer, respectfully touching his cap to the shoulder straps of
the inquirer. "The commander is Captain Battleton."

"Captain Battleton," repeated Christy, to assure himself that he had
correctly understood the name.

"Captain Battleton," added the quartermaster. "I hope you are feeling
better to-day, sir."

"I am feeling very well to-day, except that I have started a cold in the
head," replied Christy, astonished at this display of interest in the
state of his health.

"I am glad to hear it, sir, for you appeared to be quite sick last night
when you came on board," added the quartermaster.

"Did I, indeed? I was not aware of it. I came on board last night? I was
not aware of that fact," said Christy.

The petty officer did not hear his remarks, for he had been called by
the second lieutenant in the waist, and, with a touch of his cap,
hastened away. The lieutenant opened his eyes very wide, as he looked
down at the seams in the deck, and wondered whether he were asleep or
awake. He had been quite sick, and he had come on board the night
before! It was very strange that he was not at all aware of either of
these facts. He felt reasonably confident that he had slept in his own
chamber at Bonnydale the night before, and at that time he was certainly
in a very robust state of health, however it might be at the present
moment. Even now, he could not complain of anything more severe than an
embryo cold in the head, which the medicine his mother had given him
would probably reduce to a state of subjection in a day or two.

At first, he was disposed to be amused at the answers the quartermaster
had given him, for it was evident to him then that he had been mistaken
for another person. It looked as though some officer had come on board,
and reported under his name, for he had not yet learned anything in
regard to the gentleman who had appeared to be quite sick when he
reported himself. It had the elements of another mystery in it. But the
petty officer could easily have made an honest mistake; and this was the
solution he accepted, without bothering his bewildered brain any further
about it.

The commander appeared to be less occupied at this moment than he had
been before, and Christy stepped forward to the quarter-deck, and
politely saluted him. Captain Battleton was not less punctilious in his
etiquette. He was a young man, though he was apparently six or seven
years older than Christy. He was an ensign, and looked like a gentleman
who was likely to give a good account of himself when he was called to
more active duty than that of commanding a store ship.

"Good-morning, Lieutenant Passford!" said Captain Battleton, as he
extended his hand to his passenger. "I am glad to see that you are
better."

Christy was utterly confounded at this salutation.




CHAPTER IV

THE SICK OFFICER IN THE STATEROOM


Captain Battleton spoke to Christy as though he had met him before, and
needed no introduction. He was glad to see that the young officer was
better, which indicated that he had been sick. He was confounded by the
situation, for he had not been sick an hour, and he had never seen the
commander of the Vernon in his life. The petty officer had told him that
he appeared to be quite sick when he came on board the night before.

What he had learned within the last few moments was even more perplexing
than the mysterious visitation at Bonnydale. Then the appearance of
Walsh on board, and his denial of his identity, were still in his mind,
and he wondered whether or not all these strange circumstances had any
connection. But he was standing in the presence of the commander of the
steamer, and he had no time to reach a conclusion of any kind,
satisfactory or otherwise.

Christy took the offered hand of Captain Battleton, and looked earnestly
into his face to determine whether he had ever seen him before; but the
face was entirely new to him. He was quite confident that he had never
seen the commander before. There was something rather ludicrous in the
situation, and he felt as though he was taking part in a farce; at any
rate, there was nothing serious or compromising in it, and in spite of
the confusion in his mind, he could not help smiling.

"I thank you, Captain Battleton, for your very kind interest in the
state of my health, but with the exception of the first signs of a cold
in the head, I never was better in my life," said Christy in reply to
the salutation of the commander, still holding his hand.

"Then you have improved wonderfully since last evening," added Captain
Battleton.

"I am glad to be informed of the fact, for I am not conscious of any
such improvement as you describe. In fact, I am not in quite so good
condition in a sanitary point of view as I was last evening, for I took
my cold about midnight, or a little later, last night," added Christy,
his smile becoming a little more pronounced.

It was now the turn of Captain Battleton to be puzzled, if not
mystified, by the statement of his passenger, and he looked inquiringly
into his face as if to ascertain if he was not the victim of a practical
joke. But naval officers on duty are not given to pleasantries; and if
he had any such suspicion, he banished it at once, for there was nothing
in the appearance of the lieutenant to warrant it.

"Pardon me, Mr. Passford, but were you not sick when you came on board
of the Vernon last evening?" asked the commander, with something like a
frown upon his brow as the situation became more bewildering.

"If you will excuse me for making an indirect reply, captain, I did not
come on board of the Vernon last evening," answered Christy, his smile
becoming still more decided; and if he had not been on the quarter-deck
of a vessel in service, he might have suspected that he was himself the
victim of a practical joke.

"You did not come on board of the Vernon last evening!" exclaimed
Captain Battleton, gazing very earnestly into the face of his passenger.

"I did not, captain," replied Christy quietly, though he was amused
rather than disquieted by the earnestness of the commander.

"You did not?"

"Certainly not; and if my simple affirmation is not enough, I could
prove that I slept in my father's house at Bonnydale last night, took
my breakfast there this morning, and was in the city of New York at ten
o'clock this forenoon," answered Christy, in the best of humor.

"This is very strange," said Captain Battleton, fixing his gaze upon
the planks on which he stood, possibly considering whether he or his
passenger was dreaming or out of his head.

"If I were still at Brooklyn doubtless I could find the boatman who put
me on board of the Vernon not more than an hour ago," continued Christy,
willing to convince his auditor that he was entirely in earnest in his
statement.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Passford, but I did not intend to question the
truth of your reply to my question," said the commander, fearing that he
had overstated his doubts. "I am simply bewildered, confused, confounded
by this interview."

"So am I, captain," added the lieutenant, laughing outright at the
perplexity in which both of them were involved. "I have told you the
simple truth in regard to my movements."

"And you did not come on board of the Vernon last evening?"

"Emphatically I did not."

"You were not sick last evening?"

"I was not; not even as sick as I am at this moment," replied Christy,
using his handkerchief.

"I don't understand it," said Captain Battleton, shaking his head.

"Now, captain, will you permit me ask what you do not understand, for I
assure you I am profoundly ignorant of the situation which perplexes
you. I was ordered to be on board of the Vernon at one o'clock, and I
found her under way at eleven. I happened to find a boatman before I
left the ferry-boat, who put me on board, or I should have missed my
passage. That is simply all I know about the matter."

"When I called upon you in your stateroom this morning, you told me
that"--

"I beg your pardon, Captain Battleton, but I have not been in any
stateroom, sick or well, on board of the Vernon, and I respectfully
suggest that it was quite impossible for you to have called upon me this
morning, or at any other time," Christy interposed, very pleasantly,
though quite as perplexed as the commander.

"Of course I shall not raise an issue as to your veracity, Mr. Passford,
but after the statement you have made to me, I must change the form of
my phraseology," continued the commander, using a smile to cover any
possible doubts or suspicions in his mind. "When I called at the
stateroom of the officer who reported on board last evening as
Lieutenant Christopher Passford, he told me that I was expected to
get under way and proceed to my destination as soon as the officer and
the seamen were on board."

"Did he bring you an order to this effect?" asked Christy more
seriously.

"He did not, and perhaps I have made a mistake, though my superior
officer told me at the yard that it would be safe for me to obey the
verbal order," replied Captain Battleton, looking somewhat troubled.

"I have no intention to meddle with what does not concern me, captain.
It appears that Lieutenant Passford has already reported to you," said
Christy; and this was the astounding fact to him of the situation.

He was absolutely confident that he was himself Lieutenant Christopher
Passford, and as absolutely confident that the other officer could not
be that person, whoever else he might be. The commander appeared to be
considering what Christy had suggested to him in regard to his orders,
and the passenger had a minute or two to think of the situation in which
he found himself placed. But what was the use to think of it? He was at
the end of a blind alley, where there was no light from any direction
except that by which he had entered it. He had no premises from which to
reason, and it was useless to consider the matter.

"Mr. Passford, I find myself placed in a very unpleasant position," said
the commander, after he had deliberated a few minutes. "I have stated
the facts to you; and the deduction I have to draw from them is, that I
have two persons by the name of Lieutenant Passford on board."

"That seems to me to be a correct deduction," added Christy.

"The brilliant officer who bears this name is too well known to hide his
light under a bushel. I have not the honor to be personally acquainted
with him, and therefore I am unable to decide which of the gentlemen who
report to me under that name is the real one."

"Precisely so."

"You will pardon me if I add that I think one or the other of them must
be an impostor," added Captain Battleton with some diffidence.

"That is a perfectly justifiable conclusion; and it rests with you to
decide which is the genuine Lieutenant Passford, and which is the
impostor," replied Christy frankly. "You will be perfectly justified
in calling upon both for all the evidence they are able to present.
I suggest that each of them must carry his commission about him, as
well as his orders from the department; and it seems to me that these
documents will enable you to decide without any delay;" and Christy
involuntarily put his hand upon his breast pocket, where he carried
these valuable papers.

He could feel the envelope that contained them, and he was satisfied of
the triumph which awaited him when the evidence should be required of
the two claimants of the name. At the same time he felt that he was
moving in a cloud of mystery, which had begun to enfold him in the
middle of the preceding night.

"I thank you for the suggestion, Mr. Passford, and I must say that you
seem to be entirely fair," said the commander.

"If I am the impostor, I do not know myself; but I have no desire to
forestall your decision. You saw the sick officer when he came on board
last evening, and you have visited him in his stateroom to-day. Do I
look enough like him to be taken for him?" asked Christy with a smile,
as he placed himself in an attitude to be scrutinized by the commander.

"I am sure that you do, sir; and when I saw you on the quarter-deck for
the first time, I had no doubt you were the officer who came on board
sick last evening," replied Captain Battleton.

"That makes it all the more remarkable, for I was not aware that there
was any officer in the navy who resembled me so closely," added Christy
more bewildered than before, and beginning to scent a plot of some kind
against him or his country.

"I must say that any man who will take upon himself the position and
reputation of the real Lieutenant Passford is a bold man, and even, if
he succeeds in taking his place, he will fail in playing the rôle."

"I should thank you, Captain Battleton, for the compliment, if I were
not under suspicion of being some other person. May I ask when it will
be convenient for you to settle the question, for it is not pleasant for
me to feel that I am looked upon as even a possible impostor?"

"I shall not regard you as an impostor, Mr. Passford, for I mean to be
entirely impartial, and I shall not brand you even in thought until the
evidence warrants me in doing so," replied the commander, as he called
the surgeon who was just coming on deck. "How do you find your patient,
Dr. Connelly?"

"I find him--I thought I found him; but he appears to be on deck,"
replied the surgeon, as he fixed his gaze upon Christy, preluded by
a start, dramatic enough to prove that he was astonished to find his
patient was not in his room below. "I left him not five minutes ago, for
I have not yet been able to discover what ails him. He complained of a
severe headache and pains in his bones; but he has not a particle of
fever, or any symptom of anything that I can discover. I am glad to see
you on deck, Mr. Passford. How is your headache?"

"If I have had any headache, I have entirely recovered from it," replied
Christy, laughing heartily. "I came on board only an hour ago, doctor,
and I have had no headache, thank you."

"Looking at you more closely, I see that you are not my patient, and you
will excuse me for giving you a headache. But you resemble my patient
very closely," added the doctor.

"I did not answer your question, Mr. Passford," interposed Captain
Battleton. "In an hour we will settle the question."

Christy seated himself and began to consider the strange situation.




CHAPTER V

LIEUTENANT PASSFORD AND HIS APPARENT DOUBLE


The Vernon continued on her course, and in another hour the pilot
had been discharged. Christy had puzzled his brains over the events of
the day and the night before without being able to arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion. He was extremely anxious to see the officer
who had taken his name and assumed his character, as he was to obtain
all the information within his reach. His reflections assured him
that some one had chosen the rôle of an impostor for the purpose of
accomplishing some treasonable object, and he was anxious to fathom the
mystery for his country's sake rather than his own.

Captain Battleton would soon begin his investigation, and Christy was
confident that the sick officer would be proved to be the impostor. He
was not at all worried or even disturbed in regard to the result, for he
felt that "truth is mighty and must prevail." His only solicitude was to
unravel the plot. Bands of Confederates had been put on board of several
steamers for the purpose of capturing them; and it was possible that
this plan had been adopted to obtain possession of the Vernon, for she
was a good vessel, and was fitted out as a man-of-war.

It was plain enough to Christy that the remarkable attempt of one or the
other of the officers on board as passengers to personate the other had
been explained to those on the quarter-deck, for he observed that they
all regarded him with curiosity, and were interested in the matter. As
the surgeon passed near him he spoke to him.

"Does your patient below seem to be improving, doctor?" he asked.

"He still complains that his head and his bones ache, so that I cannot
say he is improving," replied Dr. Connelly.

"How old a man does he appear to be?"

"I should take him for a young man of twenty or twenty-one, but he says
he is only eighteen. He is a very young officer to be put in charge of
a steamer, for I understand that he is ordered to the command of the
Bronx. But then he has made a reputation as the commander of that
vessel, which doubtless justifies his appointment."

"Does he talk at all?"

"Oh, yes; he has told me about some of his exploits; and as he seems to
forget his aches when he speaks of them, I have encouraged him to talk
as much as possible."

"Is he really sick, doctor?" asked Christy, with a smile which meant
something.

"He says he is, and I have to take his word for it," replied the
surgeon, with a corresponding smile.

"I heard you tell the captain that you could not make out the nature of
his malady."

"I cannot so far, though that does not prove that he is not sick; but I
will venture to say he could not get his discharge from the navy on his
present symptoms. He may have drunk too much wine or whiskey recently,
though he certainly was not in liquor when he came on board."

"How is your patient, Dr. Connelly?" asked Captain Battleton, joining
them at this moment.

"About the same the last time I saw him. He ate all the toast I sent
to him, and seemed to enjoy it. I don't think he is in a dangerous
condition," replied the surgeon.

"I am glad to hear it. Have you informed him that we have another
lieutenant on board of the Vernon?" continued the commander.

"No, captain: I have not. That is not my affair, and I don't meddle with
what does not concern me."

"An excellent rule. Is he aware of the fact that there is another
Richmond in the field?"

"If he is, he has said nothing to me about the matter."

"Do you think he could go out into the cabin, doctor?" asked the
captain. "I wish to see him on a matter of the utmost importance.
Is he dressed?"

"He is; he dressed himself this morning, and sits up part of the time."

"Then you will oblige me by getting him into the cabin; I mean my cabin.
I will be there in ten minutes."

The surgeon went below, leaving the commander and Christy together.

"Can you make anything of this affair yet, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain
Battleton.

"I can come to no conclusion in regard to it, though I may be able to
do so when I have seen my double," replied Christy, whose curiosity
in regard to the sick officer was strongly excited. "It looks like a
conspiracy of some kind, but I can go no farther in the direction of a
solution."

The commander looked at his watch after they had conversed a little
while longer, and then invited Christy to visit his cabin with him.
The other Lieutenant Passford was seated in an arm-chair at the table.
Christy looked at him with the deepest interest, but the back of the
other was turned to him, and he did not get a full view of his face. The
sick man was dressed in the naval uniform with the shoulder straps of a
lieutenant.

"I wish to introduce a gentleman to you; Lieutenant Passford, let me
make you acquainted with Lieutenant Passford," said the commander as he
led the way into the captain's cabin.

"Thank you, Captain Battleton; I shall be very happy to make the
acquaintance of Lieutenant Passford," said the occupant of the cabin,
rising as he spoke, and approaching Christy. "Corny Passford!" exclaimed
the sick officer. "I did not expect to see you here. This gentleman is
my own cousin, Captain Battleton, though I am sorry to say that he is
a rebel; but for all that he is one of the finest fellows in the known
world, and you will appreciate everything about him except his politics,
which I do not admire myself."

Christy was not stunned or overwhelmed by this impudent speech. He
looked at the speaker, and promptly recognized his cousin Corny. He was
astonished at the brazen assurance of the other, for he had always
seemed to him to be a fairly modest young man. Corny extended his hand
to Christy, and it was accepted.

"I am very glad to see you, Corny," said he of the South, "and not the
less glad because the meeting is so unexpected."

"It is certainly very unexpected on my part, Corny," replied Christy,
who began to comprehend the object of his cousin; but there was
something so ludicrous in the situation that he was more disposed
to laugh than to look upon it seriously.

"I am very glad to see you, Corny," continued he who bore that name in
reality. "I did not expect to find you on board of the Vernon. How are
uncle Homer, aunt Lydia, and Gerty?"

"I have not seen my uncle Homer for several months; but I had not the
remotest idea that you had an uncle Homer," replied Christy, laughing
heartily, for the situation seemed so amusing to him that the serious
part of his cousin's obvious plan had so far hardly dawned upon him.
"I should like to inquire of you, as one good turn deserves another,
in regard to the health of your father and mother and Gerty."

"My father is quite well, but he left Bonnydale last Tuesday to go to
Washington, and had not returned when I left home. My mother is quite
well, and so is Florry," replied the sick officer, who did not appear
to be suffering from a very severe headache just then, for he was quite
cheerful and animated.

"This appears to be a family party," interposed Captain Battleton, who
was very much amused to hear each of the young officers call the other
by the same name, and both of them appeared to be Corny Passford.

"It is a family party, captain," replied the sick officer, smiling as
cheerfully as though he had never had any practical knowledge of
headache and pains in the bones, which was the description of his malady
given to the surgeon. "As I have hinted before, my cousin Corny is a
rebel of the first order; and you can imagine my astonishment at finding
him in the uniform of a lieutenant on board a United States naval
vessel."

"Good, Corny!" exclaimed Christy, dropping upon the divan of the cabin
and laughing heartily.

"I can easily imagine your astonishment, Mr. Passford, for it seems to
me to be a very remarkable state of things," added the captain, as he
looked from one to the other of the claimants. "One thing seems to be
admitted by both of you, that you are both Passfords, and that you are
cousins."

"So far we do not disagree by the breadth of a hair. My cousin Corny was
raised in the South, while I was raised in the North," continued the
sick passenger.

"I don't like to contradict my cousin, but I was brought up in the
North," said Christy, hoping Captain Battleton would notice the
difference in the phraseology.

"Then you were both brought up in the North," suggested the captain.

"Not at all, for, as I said, my cousin Corny was brought up in the
South, at Glenfield, near Mobile," protested the ailing officer, who
was careful this time not to use the word "raised."

"Where were you yesterday, Corny?" asked Christy, suddenly suppressing
his mirth.

"I was in New York, preparing to come on board of the Vernon."

"Then you were not at Bonnydale?" demanded Christy sharply.

"Of course I was there; but it was a pretty day, and I went to the city
to attend to some affairs of mine," replied the sick man, with the first
signs of embarrassment he had exhibited.

"In spite of the fact that it was a pretty day, I should think you would
have spent your last day on shore with your mother and sister as I did,"
replied Christy.

"I was sick, and I wished to be as near the Vernon as possible. I felt
better in the afternoon and attended to my affairs; but I got bad again
in the afternoon, and I came on board in the evening, for I was afraid I
should not be able to do so in the morning," answered the invalid,
becoming as lively as before.

"Gentlemen, this seems to be a strange muddle," said the captain,
who was not disposed to listen any longer to the sparring between the
cousins. "At the suggestion of the lieutenant who came on board this
forenoon, I have taken the earliest opportunity to settle the question
as to which is the original and genuine Mr. Passford who was ordered on
board of the Vernon as a passenger for the Gulf, and who, I am informed,
is appointed to the command of the Bronx. I have not much time to spare,
and if you do not object, I shall call in the first lieutenant and the
surgeon to take part in this conference. I am perplexed, and I desire
witnesses if not assistants in these proceedings."

"I have not the slightest objection to the presence of as many officers
as you may choose to call in," added the invalid.

"I shall be equally reasonable," said Christy. "The more witnesses there
are the better it will suit me."

Captain Battleton struck a bell on his table, and sent the steward who
answered it to procure the attendance of the officers indicated, and
they soon presented themselves.

"Gentlemen, Lieutenant Salisbury, the executive officer of the Vernon,"
said the captain. "Both of these gentlemen are Lieutenant Christopher
Passford," he added, with a twinkle of the eye. "Dr. Connelly, you have
both met."

"Are we to understand that one of these officers is the double of the
other?" asked the first lieutenant, who seemed to be disposed to take in
the situation as a pleasantry of the commander.

"Hardly; both of them claim to be the same officer, and I have invited
you to assist me in deciding which is the real Mr. Passford."

The entire party then seated themselves at the table.




CHAPTER VI

THE CONFERENCE IN THE CAPTAIN'S CABIN


Captain Horatio Passford lived at Bonnydale on the Hudson. He was rich
in several millions of dollars, but he was richer in the possession of
a noble character, one of the most prominent traits of which was his
patriotism. He had presented his large and fast-sailing steam yacht to
the government of the nation at the beginning of the struggle. His motto
was, "Stand by the Union," and from the first he had done everything in
his power to sustain his country against the assaults of dissolution.

  [Illustration: The Conference in the Captain's Cabin.--Page 70.]

He had a wife, a daughter, and a son, and his family were as patriotic
as he was himself. At sixteen Christy, the son, had gone into the navy.
He had learned to be a sailor and an engineer in his repeated cruises in
the Bellevite, his father's large steam yacht, now a man-of-war in the
navy. In two years the young man had worked his way up to the rank of
lieutenant. He was very large for his age, and his nautical and
mechanical education had prepared him for service to a degree which
made him almost a prodigy, though his courage and skill had been fully
equalled, if not surpassed, by other naval officers not older than
himself.

Homer Passford, the only brother of his father, had early in life
settled in Alabama, and become a planter, where he had made a
respectable fortune, though he was a poor man compared with the northern
brother. He had a wife, a son, and a daughter. At the beginning of the
war of the Rebellion he had promptly espoused the cause of the South,
and from his point of view, he was fully as patriotic as his brother on
the other side. He was ready to give himself, his son, and his fortune
to the independence of the South. His character was quite as noble as
that of his brother, and he had done all he could in person and with his
wealth to insure the success of the Southern cause.

His son Cornelius followed the lead of his father, and was faithful
to the teachings given him in his southern home. He had enlisted as a
soldier; but when it was found that he could be more serviceable to the
Confederacy in certain irregular enterprizes, he was detached for this
service. He had been engaged in an attempt to capture the Bellevite in
connection with older and more skilful persons. The plan had failed,
Corny had been severely wounded, and while on parole had lived at
Bonnydale. From there he had been sent to a military prison, and had
been exchanged. From that time, Christy knew nothing about him until he
met him on board of the Vernon.

Corny was two years older than Christy; but the latter looked even more
mature than the former. The resemblance between them had hardly been
noticed by the two families, though Christy had spent several months
at different times at the plantation of his uncle. But the resemblance
was noted and often spoken of by persons outside of the families,
the members of which, being in the habit of seeing them often together,
did not notice the similarity of features and expression. Both of them
resembled their fathers, who were often mistaken the one for the other
in their early years.

After he found that the sick officer was his cousin Corny Passford,
Christy began to apprehend the object of his southern relative in
presenting himself as the bearer of his name and rank in the navy,
though he had no time to consider the subject. Corny had given him no
opportunity to look the matter over, for he had talked most of the time
as opportunity was presented.

Captain Battleton seated himself in the armchair which Corny had
abandoned, and placed a quire of paper before him as though he intended
to take notes of the proceedings. Christy was not at all disturbed
by the formal aspect the affair was assuming, for he felt entirely
confident that poor Corny would be a prisoner of war at its conclusion.
He had his commission and his orders in his pocket, and he was positive
that they would vindicate him.

"I reported to the department that I had only a single vacant stateroom
in the ward room of the Vernon, and I was ordered to receive Lieutenant
Christopher Passford as a passenger, as I could not take another
officer," said the captain. "It is not a serious question compared
with others at issue, but the occupation of the single room, now in
possession of the gentleman who came on board last evening, depends
upon the result of our present inquiry."

"I should say there would be no difficulty in settling this question,"
said Mr. Salisbury.

"These gentlemen are cousins, and both of them bear the name of
Passford," added the captain, as he raised his finger, pointing to
Corny. "Will you give us your name in full, if you please?"

"Christopher Passford," replied the invalid officer, with the most
unblushing effrontery.

"Your father's name?"

"Horatio Passford."

"Where does he live?"

"At Bonnydale, on the Hudson," replied Corny confidently.

"Excuse me, Captain Battleton; may I ask a question?" interposed the
first lieutenant.

"Certainly, Mr. Salisbury. This is not a court-martial, but an informal
investigation, and I shall be glad to have you and Dr. Connelly entirely
free to ask any questions you please," replied the captain, who was
anything but a martinet.

"Where did you say your father lived, Mr. Passford?" asked the executive
officer.

"At Bonnydale, on the Hudson," answered Corny, as we may call him now
that the reader knows who he is.

"Is Bonnydale the name of the town or city in which your father lives?"

"It is the name of my father's place," replied Corny; and Christy, who
was observing him very closely, saw that he was a little disturbed.

"Bonnydale sounds like a fancy name, such as any gentleman might give to
his estate, as Sunnyside was the home of Washington Irving. Is this the
fact?" asked Mr. Salisbury.

"I suppose it is," answered Corny, with increasing confusion.

"Don't you know?"

"We always called it Bonnydale; and I know no other name for it."

"But Bonnydale is not an incorporated town. In what city or town is your
father's place situated?"

"I know no name but Bonnydale," replied Corny; and the flush of fever or
something else was on his cheeks now.

"Nothing more, captain," said the first lieutenant; and the stock of the
other claimant mounted a little.

"Mr. Passford," continued the captain, indicating Christy with his
finger, "your father's name, if you please."

"Horatio Passford," replied Christy with a smile.

"Where does he live?"

"At Bonnydale, on the Hudson."

"Permit me, Captain Battleton," interposed Mr. Salisbury; and the
commander nodded his acquiescence. "Is Bonnydale the name of the town
or city in which your father lives, Mr. Passford?"

"It is the name of my father's place," answered Christy, using the same
words that Corny had.

"Bonnydale sounds like a fancy name, such as any gentleman might give
to his estate," continued Mr. Salisbury, smiling, as he repeated the
phrases he had used before. "Is this the fact?"

"It is; the name was given to the estate by my mother," replied Christy,
unable to follow Corny any farther.

"In what town or city is your father's estate situated?"

"It is within the limits of the town of Montgomery."

"Nothing further, captain," said the executive officer; and the stock of
this particular Lieutenant Passford mounted another trifle.

"Your cousin, who, according to your statement, was raised in the South,
seems to be better informed in regard to the geography of Bonnydale than
you do," added Captain Battleton.

"He is always inquiring into things that I don't care a straw about,"
replied Corny, vexed that he had been tripped up in a matter so simple.

The commander was disposed to carry the investigation a little farther
in the same direction, and he sent Christy into the ward room, where
he was instructed to remain until he was sent for. Captain Passford,
senior, was well known to all the officers present by reputation, and
he had assisted Dr. Connelly in procuring his appointment, so that the
latter had had occasion to visit Bonnydale three times.

The captain asked Corny a hundred questions in regard to the estate,
making memoranda of his answers. Once he suggested to the surgeon that
he had better examine the pulse of his patient, for he did not wish to
overtask him in the investigation. The subject of the inquiry declared
that his headache had almost disappeared, and he needed no indulgence on
account of his health.

After half an hour of questioning, Corny was sent to the ward room, and
Christy was called to the captain's cabin. About the same questions were
put to him as to his cousin; but both of them were prompt in their
answers. In the last two years, Corny had been more at Bonnydale than
Christy, and he was quite as much at home there, so that there was no
reason why he should not be able to describe the mansion and its
surroundings as accurately as the genuine Lieutenant Passford.

So far, Corny, with the single exception of his failure to give the
geography of the estate, stood quite as well as his cousin. Then the
first lieutenant questioned them both, as they were seated at the table,
in a very general way. In their answers, Corny used the word "raised,"
while Christy was "brought up." Several phrases in more common use at
the South than at the North were noted in his answers, which did not
appear in the diction of Christy.

When the questioning was finished, the leaning of the trio of officers
was in favor of Christy; but not one of them said anything in the
presence of the two Passfords. The captain declared that he had already
used up too much time in the inquiry, and he must close the conference
very soon. Then he asked if either of the gentlemen had any papers they
wished to present in support of his identity.

"I have my commission as a lieutenant, and my orders to take passage
in the Vernon, and to take command of the Bronx on my arrival at the
station of the Eastern Gulf squadron," said Corny, as he pulled a huge
envelope from his breast pocket; and Christy could not but notice the
perfect confidence with which he spoke.

"I have precisely the same papers," added Christy, with as much
assurance as his cousin.

"I had nearly forgotten the most important evidence that can be
presented in this matter," said the captain with a smile. "I dare say
that each of the gentlemen will produce his commission, his orders, and
his appointment to the command of the Bronx; and I don't know how we can
decide between the papers. It looks as though the Bronx was likely to
have two commanders."

"Here are my papers, captain," added Corny, as he passed his envelope
across the table to the commander.

"This is not an official envelope," said the captain, as he took the
package, and then fixed his gaze on the owner of the documents.

"No, sir; it is not. I had the misfortune to leave it on the table at
Bonnydale, and Walsh, the man-servant, supposing it to be of no value,
threw it into the fire," replied Corny promptly.

The commission and other papers were all right in every respect. Christy
handed his envelope to the commander, and he broke it open. It contained
nothing but a lot of blank paper.

