water on the port hand; what the soundings were on the starboard hand
had not yet been demonstrated. The steamer was moving at her ordinary
speed. The Fatimé had turned her head to the south; and, though she was
still nearly a mile distant, her engine gong could be heard when it rang
for the vessel to go ahead.

The pirate soon changed her course, with the apparent intention of
"cutting across lots," in order to reach the Maud. A hand was heaving
the lead, indicating that Mazagan was not sure of his soundings. She
went ahead on the new course not more than the eighth of a mile before
she came about, showing that the depth of water was not satisfactory to
her commander.

"If the tide were not rising, I should know better what to do; for we
might go back to the angle in the channel, out of the reach of the guns,
and remain there till the morning tide, and then work out into deep
water," said Captain Scott, after he had observed the movements of the
enemy for a couple of minutes. "But with two feet more water, the Fatimé
can go at least up to the verge of the ledge, and that plan would not
work anyhow."

"Another gun!" cried Felix, as he caught the flash.

The enemy was a little nearer than before, but the shot fell hardly less
than half a mile from the Maud. Mazagan had "swung to" in order to fire
this shot, but resumed his course at once. Scott desired to gain some
time by leaving the channel, and heading to the south-east. Morris was
sounding with his boathook, and reported only thirteen feet when the
Maud began to move in that direction.

"Twelve feet and a half!" shouted the first officer a little later.

"This won't do," said Scott, shaking his head. "The water shoals to the
southward, and all we can do is to face the music."

"What do you mean by that, Captain?" asked Louis.

Scott made a couple of crosses on his diagram, and passed it to his
companion.

"The cross on your left is our present position near the outlet of the
channel," the captain explained. "On the port we have the ledge, and we
can't run over that. On the starboard the water is too shoal for us. We
can go neither to the right nor the left."

"Therefore you must run dead ahead."

"Precisely so, or right into the guns of the enemy."

"Couldn't you retreat up the channel again?" asked Louis; and it began
to look to him as though "the end of all things had come;" and it even
appeared possible that he might be captured, after all.

"Heave the lead, Flix!" called the captain, without answering the
question.

"And a half two!" reported the Milesian.

"That means fifteen feet," said the captain. "The Fatimé could come into
this position now, or at least within an hour. After we had run as far
as we could go up the channel, we should hardly be more than four
hundred and fifty feet from her, and she could batter the Maud to pieces
at her leisure. We must face the music. That is our only safety, if
there is any safety anywhere."

"I am with you, Captain Scott. But we are taking all the shot, and
giving none. I am not a nonresistant in such a situation as this," said
Louis. "We can't run away, and we must fight!"

"I am glad the suggestion comes from you, Louis," replied Scott.
"Morris, bring out your company of riflemen! You will act as
sharpshooters, and pay particular attention to the bridge and
pilot-house of the enemy."

"Ay, ay, Captain!" returned Woolridge.

Louis left the pilot-house to join the ranks. Don came up from the
fire-room, and Morris led his force to the hurricane deck, which
commanded the best view of the enemy. By this time the Fatimé was within
the eighth of a mile of the Maud. Her engineer was forcing her to her
best speed; but she was coming head on, and could not use her broadside
guns without swinging to, which Mazagan seemed to be unwilling to do, as
it caused considerable delay every time it was done.

She was coming in ahead of the Maud, and her starboard gun would soon be
available at a distance of not more than twenty yards. The work of the
riflemen on the upper deck was evidently having its effect, and one man
had been seen to fall on the bridge of the pirate.

Suddenly the helm of the Fatimé was put to starboard, and the steamer
presented her broadside to the Maud. The gun was discharged then, and
the shot struck the house on deck of the little steamer, tearing its way
through the galley. Scott, perhaps maddened by the crashing boards
behind him, put the helm to port. Felipe was driving the engine to its
full power, and the bow of the Maud struck the broadside of the Fatimé,
crushing in about six feet of her plates. Then he rang to back her, and
the little steamer went clear of the disabled pirate.




CHAPTER XIII

THE CATASTROPHE TO THE FATIMÉ


If the strength of the little Maud was never fully tested before, it was
done on the present occasion; and the construction and material of the
Fatimé at the same time. The story of the manner in which the
Guardian-Mother had run into and made a hole in the side of the Viking
had been many times repeated on board of the ship while the "Big Four"
were on board of her; for this affair had interested Scott more than any
other item of her voyage.

The young captain had done at this time precisely the same thing that
Captain Ringgold had at another; and the blow had not been given by
accident on either occasion. When at the distance of sixty feet from the
Maud, the pirate had swung to and discharged her starboard gun, the shot
from which had passed through the galley. She was under full steam; her
port gun was no doubt all ready, and another turn of the wheel would
have enabled her to send another shot through the Maud.

To Captain Scott it was the critical moment of the conflict. Another
ball from the enemy might go through the boiler or the engine, or
disable his beloved little craft in some other manner; and he did what
seemed to be the only thing he could do for the salvation of the Maud
and his ship's company. He had disabled his vindictive enemy.

Up to the moment when the Maud struck the decisive blow, the five
"sharpshooters," as Scott had called them, had used their rifles; but
the people of the Fatimé had taken refuge under her top-gallant
forecastle, or behind whatever would afford them shelter from the
bullets, and not many of them appeared to have been hit. Besides, the
situation was altogether too novel and exciting for the party to act
with anything like coolness, and the smoke from the twelve-pounder
concealed the enemy at the most critical moment. They had discharged the
rifles at random, rather than with careful aim at each shot.

The moment the collision came, the voice of the captain called the party
to the main deck; for the battle appeared to him to be ended. The enemy
could not board the Maud, for she had backed at least fifty feet from
the disabled steamer; but all hands were needed there in case they
attempted to do so with their boats, of which she had one on each
quarter.

"Don!" shouted Scott, as soon as the rifle-party appeared on the
forecastle, and while the little steamer was still backing.

"On deck, sir," promptly responded the second engineer.

"Go below forward, and see what damage has been done to us," added the
captain. "Flix, heave the lead!"

However it may have been with the others on board of the Maud, the young
commander was in full possession of all his faculties, in spite of the
tremendous excitement which must have pervaded the minds of all on board
of the little craft. His first care was for the Maud, and he looked all
about him to ascertain what mischief had been done. He sent Pitts to the
galley to report on the effect of the shot there.

"And a quarter seven!" reported Felix.

This was the first mark on the chart outside of the shoal line from one
to two miles from the shore. The captain now turned his attention to the
condition of the Fatimé. Louis had gone into the pilot-house to receive
any orders the commander had to give him. The collision had been a
surprise to him. It had not occurred to him that Captain Scott would
resort to such an extreme measure, though he had hinted at something of
the kind early in the morning.

"I suppose we may consider the battle as ended, Louis," said Scott, as
the other took his place on the opposite side of the wheel, where he
could see out of the front window on the port.

"I should say that it was decidedly ended, and in the most decisive
manner," replied Louis, though his thoughts were not a little scattered
and confused by the exciting events of the last few moments. "What
next?"

"If the pirates undertake to board us with their boats, we must be ready
to repel them," replied Scott.

"Board us! Why, the water is pouring into that hole in her side as
through a mill-sluice!" exclaimed Louis.

"But they are lowering their boats; and it remains to be seen what they
intend to do with them."

All the hands on board of the Fatimé appeared to be Moors, for they were
all dressed in Oriental costume. By this time she was letting off steam
with a tremendous racket. The crew were casting loose the boats at the
quarter davits. If there was an English engineer on board of her, he had
clothed himself in Moorish costume, for no one in a European dress could
be seen.

"She is settling in the water," said Louis, as he observed the condition
of the disabled vessel.

"In a word, Louis, she is going to the bottom!" exclaimed Captain Scott.
"Do you see anything of Mazagan?"

"I have been looking for him, but I can't make him out," replied Louis.

By this time one of the boats was in the water, and the men were
crowding into her without any order or method in their movements. No one
appeared to be in command, and every one was acting for himself. There
must have been a couple of officers besides the captain; but no one
exerted his authority. The other boat was soon in the water, and all
who had not found a place in the first one crowded into her, some of
them jumping overboard in their haste to save themselves.

The first boat shoved off from the side of the Fatimé, and all the
people of the Maud watched it, some of the firing party seizing their
rifles, and preparing to use them, to ascertain what the pirates
intended to do. It contained ten men, as Morris counted them. The four
men at the oars gave way as soon as it was clear of the vessel, but the
head of the boat was directed to the shore.

"Those villains have had fighting enough, and I don't believe they will
give us any more trouble," said Captain Scott, when the boat was fairly
in motion for the shore. It was evident enough that they could do
nothing to save the steamer, and they had abandoned her. The other boat
presently came out from the farther side of the vessel, and it contained
only seven persons, from which it appeared that the Fatimé's ship's
company consisted of only seventeen men, unless some of them had been
killed or wounded, and left on board.

"This looks like the end of the Fatimé, and I don't believe she will
give us any further trouble in our voyage, wherever we may go," said
Captain Scott, while all hands were watching the passage of the two
boats to the shore.

"But why don't she sink?" asked Louis.

"Though that is a big hole in her side, the most of it was above water
in the first of it, and the brine did not flow in very rapidly; but she
is settling very fast now, and it is a question of only a few minutes
with her now," replied the captain, as he rang three bells upon the gong
in the engine-room to back her. "We are rather too near her if she makes
much of a stir-about when she goes down."

"Help! Help! Save me! Save me!" came in rather feeble tones from the
wreck of the Fatimé.

At the same time the form of a man was seen staggering to the end of the
bridge.

"That's Captain Mazagan!" shouted Felix from the forecastle.

"Mazagan!" exclaimed Louis.

"Shall we do anything for that man, Captain Scott?" asked Don, coming to
the front windows of the pilot-house. "If we do, it must be done in a
hurry, for that craft is going to the bottom in less than two minutes."

"Of course we shall save him," replied the captain, looking at Louis.

"Certainly, we must save him!" added Louis with an earnestness that
impressed his companion. "Don't let us forget that we are Christians at
such a moment as this! How shall it be done, Captain? Give your orders,
and count me in as the first volunteer."

"Get the boat into the water, Morris! Be lively about it. Louis and
Felix will go in it to save this man if they can," replied the captain.

The boat on the hurricane deck was a small and light one, and the first
officer had it in the water almost in the twinkling of an eye. Louis and
Felix leaped into it, and in another instant they were pulling for the
wreck. It was a smooth sea, and the distance was not more than fifty
feet; for the captain had rung to stop the backward motion as soon as
the cry from the survivor reached his ears.

"Mind your eye, Louis!" shouted Scott, as soon as they were in motion.
"She may go down at any moment! When I shout to you, back out as fast as
you can! I will watch her, and let you know when she is likely to make
her last dive!"

"Ay, ay!" returned Louis.

"I beg you, Captain Scott, not to let them go any farther," said Don
very earnestly. "She is settling fast by the stern, and she will go down
by the time they get alongside of her. She has settled so that the hole
is more than half under water."

"That is so!" exclaimed Scott, as he glanced at the stern of the wreck.
"Hold on! Hold on!" he shouted with all the force of his lungs. "Back
out!"

The two rowers obeyed the order promptly, and backed water with all
their might; and it was fortunate that they did so, or they would have
been caught in the swirl of the sinking vessel. Before they had
retreated twenty feet, the stern of the Fatimé suddenly went down, with
a mighty rush of the water around her to fill up the vacant space inside
of her, and then she shot to the bottom, disappearing entirely from the
gaze of the beholders, as well in the two boats of the ship's company
that had abandoned her, as of those on board of the Maud.

"That is the end of the pirate!" exclaimed Captain Scott, with a sort of
solemnity in his tones and manner, as though he regarded the fate of the
steamer as a retribution upon her for the use to which she had been
applied.

"Amen!" responded Don at the window of the pilot-house.

The burden of his responsibility began to weigh upon his mind as Captain
Scott witnessed the last scene of the drama. But his thoughts were
recalled to the present moment when he saw Louis and Felix, the
commotion of the water having subsided, pulling with all their might
back to the scene of the catastrophe.

The little boat had not been far enough away from the turmoil of the
water to be unaffected by it; and for a moment the puny craft had rolled
and pitched as though it would toss its passengers into the bay. A
skilful use of the oars had saved the boat from being upset, and Louis
and Felix began to survey the scene of the uproar as soon as the waves
ceased the violence of their motion.

"Mazagan has gone to the bottom with her!" exclaimed Felix, as he looked
about the various objects that had floated away from the wreck as it
sank to the bottom.

"Perhaps not," replied Louis. "He was on the end of the bridge, and he
may have floated off and come to the surface. Give way again, Flix!"

"There he is!" shouted the Milesian, as he bent to his oar with his
boatmate. "His head just up out of the water, as though he had just come
up from the bottom."

A few more strokes brought the boat to the point where Felix had seen
the head just as it rose again. He rushed to the bow, and seized the
drowning man by the collar of his vest, for he wore no coat, and dragged
him to the middle of the boat. He seemed to be exhausted or insensible,
for he did not speak. With a great deal of difficulty they labored to
get him in; but the boat was so small that they did not succeed at once.

"All right, Flix; hold him where he is, if you can. The captain has
started the Maud, and she will be here in a moment," said Louis. "Pass
the painter of the boat under his arms, and make it fast if he is too
much for you, though it will be but for a moment."

"I can hold him in the water easily enough, my darling. I wonder what
made him come up," replied Felix.

"I suppose he was lighter than the water. But here is the Maud."

The little steamer ran alongside the tender, and Don and Pitts leaped
into it. By the order of the captain they drew the insensible form into
the boat, which was then taken on board with the victim in it. It was
shoved aft to the cabin door, in which Morris had made up a bed for the
sufferer.

The engineer and the cook proceeded to examine him. In his right
shoulder they found a bullet-wound, which he must have received while on
the bridge, doing his best for the destruction of the Maud. The cook
declared that it was not a very bad wound, and not at all likely to be
fatal. Pitts brought some brandy from the medicine-chest, and gave him a
small quantity of it.

This stimulant revived him, and then he wanted to talk; but Pitts would
not permit him to do so. He remained with him, while Louis and Felix
went forward to report to the captain, and Don went to the engine-room
to tell Felipe the news.




CHAPTER XIV

THE CONSULTATION IN THE PILOT-HOUSE


Felipe Garcias, the first engineer of the Maud, had filled the same
position on board of her when she was owned and used by Ali-Noury Pacha.
He was a young man of eighteen now, a native of the Canary Islands, and
a very religious Catholic. The orgies conducted by His Highness on board
of the little steamer, not to say the crimes, had disgusted and revolted
the pious soul of the youth, and he had rebelled against his master.

For this he had been abused; and he had run away from his employer,
departing alone in the Salihé, as she was then called. After an
adventure with the unreformed Scott, the "Big Four" had been picked up
at sea in an open boat, and conveyed to Gibraltar, where the Fatimé had
followed the Guardian-Mother from Funchal.

Felipe quieted his conscience for taking the steam-yacht by causing her
to be made fast to the Pacha's steamer, and leaving her there. At that
distance from his home the little craft was an elephant on the hands of
the owner, and he had sold her for a nominal price to one who had
disposed of her to the present owners. Don had been himself an engineer
on board of the Fatimé; but he had been threatened when he criticised
affairs which occurred on board of her, and he was ill-treated. He
escaped from her at Gibraltar, and had been employed by Captain Ringgold
in his present capacity.

"The Fatimé has gone to the bottom, Felipe," said Don as he entered the
engine-room. "There will be no more defiance of the laws of God and man
on board of her, for the present at least."

"God is good, and God is just," replied the chief engineer; but he did
not understand English quite well enough to comprehend the remark of
Don, who proceeded to repeat and explain it.

Captain Scott still remained at the wheel, and had not left it for a
moment. He was thinking all the time of what he had done, and wondering
what his recording angel had written down in regard to his action in the
greatest emergency of his lifetime.

"Mazagan is wounded in the shoulder; but Pitts thinks it will not prove
to be a fatal wound," said Felix as he went into the pilot-house.

"Has he come to his senses?" asked the captain.

"He has; and he wants to talk."

"I should like to hear him talk; for there are some things about this
affair which I do not yet understand."

"The cook says he must not talk yet, and he is taking charge of the
case."

"Where is Louis?"

"He was looking on, and doing what he could for the wounded man. Do you
know, Captain Scott, I believe it was the ball from his rifle that
struck Mazagan!" said Felix, with an impressive expression on his face.

"Nonsense, Flix!" exclaimed Scott. "How under the canopy can you tell
who fired the shot, when five of you were firing at the same time?"

"Within my knowledge Louis has defended himself with a revolver in his
hand three times, and in every one of them he hit his man in the right
shoulder," replied Felix. "He never fires to kill; he is a dead shot,
and he can put the ball just where he pleases every time. If Mazagan had
been shot dead, I should know that Louis did not do it."

"I remember that the fellow in the Muski was hit in the right shoulder,"
added the captain.

"That disables a man without making a very dangerous wound. But,
Captain, darling, don't whisper a word to Louis that he did it, for it
might make him feel bad."

"I won't say a word; but ask him to come to the pilot-house, for I want
to see him, Flix," said Scott, as he had had no opportunity since the
catastrophe to speak to the one he regarded as the most important
personage on board of the Maud.

In fact, but a very few minutes had elapsed since the event occurred.
Those on the wreck had made haste to escape before they should be
carried down with it, and they were still pulling at no great distance
from the Maud for the shore. Louis appeared at the door of the
pilot-house very promptly; for he imagined that his presence before the
wounded man was not agreeable to him, and that it emphasized in his mind
the disastrous failure of his expedition to this island.

"What next, Louis?" asked the captain with a smile on his face; for he
believed he had stolen his friend's first question "after the battle."

"That is for you to decide, Captain Scott, and I intend to avoid any
interference with the duties of the commander," replied Louis.

"But when the commander asks for advice it may be given without
offence," suggested Scott. "We have just got out of the tightest place
in which we have ever been placed, and our experience hitherto has been
boy's play compared with this day's work."

"That is very true; this is by all odds the most serious affair in which
we have ever been engaged," answered Louis, as he seated himself on the
divan.

"I am not going to beat about the bush for a moment, my dear fellow; and
before we talk about anything else, even of what we will do next in this
trying situation, I want to say that I am very much troubled in my mind
in regard to the consequences of what I have done," continued Scott,
as he seated himself by the side of his friend and model on the divan.

"I don't wonder that you are troubled; so am I, for I think we may well
regard what has happened as an extraordinary event," added Louis.

"I say what I have done; for I purposely abstained from asking advice
of you or any other fellow, after I had decided what to do, even if
there had been time for me to consult you. In other words, I took the
entire responsibility upon myself; and there I purpose to have it rest."

"Of course you had no time to ask the opinion of any fellow, even if it
could have been of any use to you."

"I believe I did the best I could. The shallow water at the south of us
prevented me from running away in that direction, as I tried to do, and
the only avenue out of the difficulty was directly ahead of the Maud."

"I understand it all perfectly, for I could measure the situation from
the upper deck," said Louis.

"I headed the steamer to the east. Then came that shot through the
galley. The Fatimé was coming about in order to bring her port gun to
bear upon us. She could not well avoid hitting us if she had tried to do
so, we were so near. If the ball went through the engine or the boiler,
both of which were exposed to the fire, that would have been the last of
us. Half of us might have been scalded to death; or, at the best,
Mazagan might have knocked the Maud all to pieces at his leisure after
he had disabled the vessel."

"Precisely so."

"I might have hoisted a white rag, and surrendered, permitting the
pirate to take you on board his steamer; but if I had done that, I
could never have held up my head again, and I could never have looked my
recording angel in the face to tell him I had let the pirate take Louis
Belgrave out of the Maud."

"It would not have ended in just the way you have pictured it, Captain
Scott," added Louis with a smile. "I think enough of the ship's company
would have stood by me to enable me to make an effectual resistance, and
Mazagan might have got a bullet through his left breast instead of
through his right shoulder."

"Every fellow would have stood by you, my dear fellow, as long as you
stood yourself," replied the captain. "If Mazagan had disabled the Maud,
he could have retired out of reach of our rifle balls, and knocked a
hole through the vessel with his guns, and sunk her. Then he would have
had nothing to do but to pick up his millionaire, and ransom him with
double the sum he demanded in Cairo."

"Perhaps you are right, Captain Scott; but I think we need not discuss
what might have been. We know what is; and this is the problem with
which we have to deal."

"Bluntly, Louis, I desire to ask you whether you approve or disapprove
what I have done as the captain of the Maud?" continued Scott rather
nervously for him.

"I wholly and heartily approve of what you have done!" protested Louis
with emphatic earnestness, and without an instant's hesitation.

"My dear Louis, give me your hand!" exclaimed Scott, springing to his
feet; they clasped hands in front of the wheel, and the captain seemed
disposed to extend it to an embrace. "You have removed all my doubts and
anxiety by what you said and the manner in which you said it. If you
approve my action, I believe the commander will do the same."

"While I do not accept your view of what might have followed if you had
done otherwise, I believe you did the best thing that could be done. If
the end had not come just as you say, it would have amounted to the same
thing. Let us leave the subject now, and come back to the question you
asked me when I came in. What shall be done next?" said Louis.

"I don't think we can do anything but wait here till the Guardian-Mother
comes. If we go to sea, she will not know where to find us," replied
Captain Scott. "What do you think of it, Louis?"

"I am decidedly opposed to remaining where we are. Though you and I may
agree that what has been done is all right, the officers of the Turkish
government in authority on this island may not be of that opinion. There
is no town, or anything like one, in sight, and I have not been able to
make out even a single house or habitation of any kind."

"It is an exceedingly rough-looking country on shore. There are nothing
but mountains and forests to be seen. The nearest town put down on the
chart is more than ten miles distant, though there may be a village or
houses behind those hills on the shore to the south of us. If any of
the inhabitants had heard the three shots fired by the pirate, they
would have shown themselves before this time."

"But I think we had better be farther from the island. When the
Guardian-Mother comes, she must take the same course which we followed
yesterday," persisted Louis. "I quite agree with you that we must remain
in this vicinity. It is almost as calm outside the bay as it is inside.
How is the water off the cape?"

"There are eight fathoms half a mile from the point. I think you are
right, on the whole, Louis; for we don't care to meet any Turkish
officers of any kind," replied the captain, as he rang the gong to go
ahead.

The sound of the bell brought all hands except Morris, who had
volunteered to stay with the patient in the cabin, to the forecastle.
Pitts had gone to the galley to ascertain the condition of his wares
after the passage of a twelve-pound shot through his quarters. The stove
had not been struck, but it had knocked about everything else into the
utmost confusion. He was arranging things as well as he could; for it
was now five o'clock in the afternoon, and time to think of getting
supper.

"How is your patient, Pitts?" asked Louis, coming to the door.

"He is doing well enough, though he has a good deal of pain. I suppose
the ball is still in his shoulder, and he will not be much better till
that is removed, Mr. Belgrave," replied the cook. "We are under way
again, sir."

"We are running out to the cape to wait for the Guardian-Mother,"
returned Louis, as he joined the others on the forecastle.

The two boats from the wreck had made a landing on a point near the
conic rock on the ledge. The course of the Maud took her within half a
mile of them; for she passed over the outer extremity of the ledge.

"They are making signals to us," said Felix to the captain. "There goes
a white cloth on a pole."

A little later a boat put off pulled by four men, with another in the
stern sheets. The captain rang to stop the screw; for he was curious to
know what the men wanted.

"Let the boat come alongside," said he.

There was not force enough to do any mischief if the Moors had been so
disposed. Don was sent for to do the talking; but the first person Louis
saw was Jules Ulbach, who had been Mazagan's assistant in his
operations. Louis talked with him in French. His first statement was
that his employer had been shot in the shoulder, and had gone down with
the wreck. The spokesman for the steamer did not deem it advisable to
contradict this statement.

Then Ulbach begged for a passage to some port from which he could return
to Paris. A few words passed between the captain and Louis, and the
request was peremptorily refused. The Frenchman begged hard, declaring
that the island was a desolate place, and he should starve there. The
men had come to beg some provisions, as they had not a morsel to eat.

"Give them all they want to eat," replied the captain when the request
was translated to him.

"The Guardian-Mother!" suddenly shouted Felix at the top of his lungs.

All hands gave three rousing cheers, to the astonishment of the
Frenchman and those in the boat. Pitts came out of the galley to
ascertain the cause of the demonstration, and he made out for himself
the bow of the ship passing the point of the cape. A plentiful supply of
food was put into the boat, and the Maud continued on her course.




CHAPTER XV

THE ARRIVAL OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER


The appearance of the Guardian-Mother in the offing was hailed with
rejoicing by every person belonging to the Maud. Off on an independent
cruise as the boys were, and "when the cat's away the mice will play,"
it would not have been strange if they had enjoyed their freedom from
the restraining presence and influence of the commander; but no such
feeling pervaded the minds of the ship's company.

Not even the captain of the little steamer had felt that he was in
possession of any unusual liberty. It might have been otherwise with him
and his companions if the threatening presence of the Fatimé had not
been a serious damper upon them. As it was, the voyage to Cyprus had
resulted in a tremendous event.

Whatever Scott had said to Louis Belgrave about knocking a hole in the
side of the pirate, as Captain Ringgold had done with the Viking, had no
bearing whatever upon what he had actually done when the critical moment
had come in the encounter. He declared rather lightly that he would
proceed to this extremity if he were the captain of the larger steamer;
but it had not occurred to him to do such a reckless deed with the
little Maud, when his opponent was a steamer of four hundred tons.

Captain Scott and his companions had expected to see the Guardian-Mother
long before she appeared. The commander might naturally have felt some
anxiety in regard to the safety of the Maud in the gale of the night
before, though it had not been a very severe storm; and Scott and Louis
supposed he would make all possible haste to be near her. Instead of
that, she was fully ten hours behind her, even with her superior speed
and more weatherly ability. They could not explain her delay, and it was
useless to attempt to do so.

"What do you suppose will become of those fellows from the pirate,
Captain Scott?" asked Louis, looking at the people from the Fatimé on
the shore.

"I haven't the least idea, and I don't think I shall trouble my head
with the question," replied the captain. "We have given them provisions
enough to keep them alive for several days, and they can make their way
to some town. I don't consider their condition as at all desperate. If
Captain Ringgold thinks it necessary, he will do whatever he deems
advisable."

"I don't consider those men as pirates, or hold them responsible for the
acts of Captain Mazagan," added Louis. "They had to obey his orders, and
I doubt if they had any knowledge of his intentions."

"I did not see a single person, as well as I could make them out in the
boats, who looked like an Englishman. Probably the foreign engineers
retired from the Pacha's service when Mazagan took command of her. They
knew the meaning of piracy. At any rate, the steamer was not officered
nor manned as she was when we saw her at Gibraltar. Don says her cabin
was magnificently furnished, as he had seen through the open door, for
he had never been into it. But he is certain that she is an old steamer,
built for a steam-yacht, but sold by her owner at a big price when she
became altogether behind the times."

"She could not have been very strongly built, or the Maud would not have
knocked a hole in her so easily," said Louis.

"It has been repeated over and over again that the Maud was constructed
of extra strength when she was built. Who was that man of whom she was
purchased?"

"Giles Chickworth, a Scotchman," replied Louis, as he recalled the
character.

"He declared that she was the strongest little vessel of her size that
ever was built. Don examined the inside of her bow immediately after the
blow was struck, and I have done so since. She has not started a plate
or a bolt. But then we had all the advantage. We struck the pirate
fairly on the broadside with the part of our craft where she is the
strongest, and where there could be no give or spring. It does not seem
so strange to me as I think it over."

"Pitts," called the captain a little later, while they were still
watching the approach of the ship, "how is your patient?"

"About the same, sir; I don't see any change in him," replied the cook.
"But he will have the doctor to-night, and that will put him in the way
of getting well."

"Does he talk any?"

"He would talk all the time if I would let him; but I don't answer him
when he asks questions, and I leave him alone most of the time."

"What is the condition of the galley?" asked the captain.

"It is in very bad condition, sir; the cannon-ball tore away all the
shelves on the starboard side, and knocked the tins and dishes all to
pieces. But I can get supper after a fashion," replied the cook.

"You may let the supper go to-night, and we will get it on board of the
ship. We shall be alongside of her in less than fifteen minutes," said
the captain. "Set the colors astern, Flix."

The Maud was going at full speed, and, as the two steamers were
approaching each other, they came within hail off Cape Arnauti. At this
time the captain ordered three cheers to be given; for he wished to make
a demonstration of some kind, and this was the only way within his
means. They were given with hearty good-will, and the seamen responded
from the Guardian-Mother, and both vessels whistled as snappers. Then
the ship stopped her screw, and the sound of escaping steam came from
her.

"Maud, ahoy!" shouted Captain Ringgold from her top-gallant forecastle.

"On board the Guardian-Mother!" responded Captain Scott.

"Come alongside!" added the commander.

"Alongside, sir!" replied the captain.

The Maud made a sweep around, and when she had come about, she came
alongside on the port side of the ship. The gangway was already lowered.
All the cabin party had been watching the approach to the island from
the promenade; but as soon as the Maud came alongside, they all hastened
to the main deck to greet the young cruisers, who had been absent from
the ship about thirty hours.

"Come on board, all of you!" called the commander from the head of the
gangway.

"I think we had better not say anything about what has happened in the
presence of the party," said Scott, as he started to mount the steps.

"Not a word," added Louis; and Morris and Felix repeated the words.

The "Big Four" ascended the gangway stairs to the main deck. The captain
was permitted to pass without any assaulting embraces, but Louis dropped
lovingly and submissively into the arms of his mother, as did Morris
when Mrs. Woolridge presented herself. Felix hung back, for he knew what
awaited him. The commander stepped aside to make room for these
demonstrations.

"Come to my room, all of you, as soon as the others are at liberty,"
said the commander in a low tone to Captain Scott.

"I will, sir," replied he, fully understanding what was meant.

"I am so glad to see you again, Louis!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, as she
continued to hug her boy. "You have had a terrible time, haven't you, my
dear?"

"What makes you think so, mother?" asked Louis, wondering what she
meant; for it seemed impossible that she could know anything about the
"Battle of Khrysoko," as it afterwards came to be called.

"Why, you were out in a terrible storm last night," replied Mrs.
Belgrave. "I was afraid you would be cast away, my son, and I prayed for
you half the night."

"Then your prayers were effectual, for I am safe," answered Louis with a
smile.

"But wasn't it an awful tempest, my boy?" she asked, hugging the young
man with a new impulse.

"Not at all, my dear mother. We had a gale of wind, and it made a rough
night of it; but we got into this bay about eight o'clock this morning
all right," returned Louis, reciprocating her caresses. "But you must
not worry so about me, mother. We were in no danger at any time from the
gale or the heavy sea."

"Here is the commander, and he wants to see you, I know," she said,
stepping aside for him.

Captain Ringgold took the hand of the owner of the ship, and pressed it
warmly.

[Illustration: "SHE SPREAD OUT HER ARMS AND RUSHED UPON HIM." Page
147.]

"He says he has been in no danger from the storm, Captain," added the
lady.

"He knows best about that; but I told you the Maud would go through it
all right," added the commander as he turned to greet Morris.

"Where in the world is Felix?" cried Mrs. Blossom; for the Milesian,
actually dreading the onslaught of the excellent woman who was not his
mother, had dodged in at the door of the boudoir.

"I'm looking for you, grandma," said he, stepping out on the deck.

As soon as she saw him, she spread out her arms and rushed upon him; but
Felix put up his left arm and warded off the burden of the attack,
taking her by the hand with the right.

"How glad I am to see you, grandma!" he exclaimed, still holding her by
the right hand, with his left on guard. "I am delighted to be with you
again. The Guardian-Mother did not come into the bay, and I was afraid
you had all gone to the bottom in the gale."

"Don't you call me 'grandma' again, Felix," protested the worthy woman
quite warmly; for the Milesian had twice applied the opprobrious
appellation to her. "If you ever do it again, I will never hug you
another time!"

"Then I will call you so till my dying day!" Felix declared, to the
great amusement of all those within hearing.

"I am not your grandma! I am only thirty-six years old, and I am not
far enough into years to be the grandmother of a great strapping boy
like you."

"It is only a pet name. But you didn't go to the bottom of the sea after
all, grandma."

"There it is again!"

"Of course it is, grandma. But I will make a fair trade with you. If you
will promise never to hug me any more, I will agree never to call you
grandma again."

"That is fair," said Mrs. Belgrave.

They retired to the boudoir to talk over the matter; but the agreement
was ratified between them. The "Big Four" were cordially greeted by all
the passengers and by all the officers of the ship; but they were
careful not to drop any hint of what had transpired in Khrysoko Bay.
Before the exchange of salutations was finished the gong rang for
dinner.

"For a reason to be given later on, Captain Ringgold, I must ask you to
give the engineers and cook of the Maud their supper to-night," said
Captain Scott at a favorable moment.

The commander sent for Baldy Bickling, the second cook, and ordered him
to provide for them; and Mr. Boulong to send an engineer and a couple of
hands on board of the Maud while the party came on board to supper. The
company in the cabin were in a very jovial state of feeling, and it
would take a chapter to record all the jokes of Dr. Hawkes and Uncle
Moses. It was an excellent dinner even for the Guardian-Mother; for both
the chief steward and the chief cook were artists in their line, and it
was heartily enjoyed by all at the table.

The commander was impatient to hear the report of Captain Scott on his
expedition, and the commander of the Maud was almost as impatient to
learn what had delayed the ship; but fully an hour was spent at the
table, for no one wished to break in upon the agreeable occasion. How he
knew it he could not have told in detail; but the commander was
satisfied, that something important had occurred in the experience of
the young navigators, though not a word had yet been spoken, and he had
failed to notice the ragged hole through the Maud's deck-house at the
location of the galley.

He had expected to find the Fatimé near the little steamer; but though
he had swept the bay with his spy-glass, he could not find her, for she
was no longer visible. Probably she had fallen over on the rocky and
irregular bottom, and that had carried even her short masts under water.
As soon as the party rose from the table, Louis and Morris detached
themselves from their mothers, and hastened to the commander's room,
where they found Captain Scott and Felix.

"I don't see anything of the Fatimé in this bay," said Captain Ringgold,
when he had closed and locked his doors.

"But she is there, sir," replied Scott mysteriously to the commander.

"Where? I looked the bay over with my glass, and I think if she were
