
"We did. We did not care to stay in Buffalo, where we had been
accustomed to live in good style, so we came to New York, where we could
live according to our change in circumstances among those who had never
known us. I thought I might get employment that would enable me to
support my mother and sister in tolerable comfort. I did get a place
with Tenney & Rhodes, but I only earned five dollars a week. Just before
meeting you I lost that, and had you not come to our assistance I don't
know what would have become of us."

"I feel repaid for whatever I have done for you," said Frank Sylvester,
kindly. "Has this Mr. Lorimer a family?"

"He has a wife and one son."

"Were your families intimate?"

"Yes. We occupied adjoining houses. Julian Lorimer was about my age, and
attended the same school. I never liked him, however. He had a very
high opinion of himself, and put on airs which made him generally
unpopular."

"Did he put on airs with you?"

"Not till after the failure. My father moved out of his house, but Mr.
Lorimer remained in his, and appeared to live in about the same style as
before, while we moved into a few rooms in an unfashionable part of the
city. After this Julian took very little notice of me."

"You haven't met him since you came to New York?"

"No; I rather wonder I haven't, but I suppose I shall some day."

The time came sooner than he anticipated.

Rupert was crossing Eighth Avenue near Forty-second Street one day, when
he came near being run into by a bicycle. The rider gave a note of
warning, and then stopped short in surprise.

"Rupert Rollins!" he said, in a half tone of inquiry.

"Is it you, Julian?" asked Rupert, recognizing his former schoolmate.

"Yes. Are you living in New York?"

"Yes."

"Whereabouts?"

"At present I am staying in Harlem."

"I heard you and your mother were living in a tenement house down town."

"My mother is not living in the city," returned Rupert, coldly.

He did not care to give Julian any more information than was absolutely
necessary.

"Where is she, then?"

"In Rutherford, New Jersey."

"Why don't you live there, too?"

"Because I expect to be employed in New York."

"Then you are out of work now?"

"Yes."

"Why don't you live in the Newsboys' Lodge? That is cheap."

"Have you ever lived there?"

"Do you mean to insult me? I live in a nice house on One Hundred and
Sixteenth Street."

"So do I."

"You are bluffing."

"Why should I? What good would it do me?"

Further inquiry developed the fact that they lived in neighboring
blocks.

"I don't see how you can afford to live on such a street."

"I am at present visiting a friend--Mr. Sylvester."

"Is he rich?"

"Yes. I believe so."

"I suppose you know that my father has a nice new store on Third Avenue,
near Forty-second Street?"

"I heard something of the kind," said Rupert, briefly.

"He's doing a staving business--a good deal larger than he did in
Buffalo."

Rupert made no comment.

"You said you were out of employment, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"You might call round at the store. Perhaps pa can find a place for you
as a cash boy, though you would be rather large for that."

"How much does he pay his cash boys?"

"Two and a half a week."

"I hardly think I could live on that," said Rupert, smiling.

"It is better than being out of work."

"That is true, but I shouldn't like to be getting more and more
behindhand every week. Are you attending school?"

"Yes, but I think of going into business soon."

"Perhaps," suggested Rupert, "you will take one of the cash boys'
places."

"You must be crazy. When I go into business it won't be into a retail
store. I will get a place in some wholesale establishment. There's a
better chance to rise there."

"I didn't know but you would go to college."

"I am not very fond of study. Pa would send me to Columbia College or to
Harvard, if I wanted to go, but I prefer a life of business. I want to
become a merchant prince."

"It would certainly be agreeable. I shall be satisfied if I can be
successful enough to support my mother and sister in comfort. That is my
ambition."

"Oh, I dare say. You are a poor boy, you know."

"Look here, Julian, there's one thing I don't understand. Your father
and mine were partners, and I supposed in the same circumstances. Both
failed together. Yet your father now has a large store of his own, and
we are poor. Can you tell me why?"

"I'm not good at conundrums. I'll have to be going. If you want a place
as cash boy I'll ask pa to fit you out. Ta ta!" And Julian dashed off on
his wheel.

"I hope some time to be a successful and honorable man of business,"
thought Rupert, as he followed his former schoolfellow with his glance.
"My ambition would not be satisfied with anything short of this."




CHAPTER IX.

RUPERT BECOMES A BELL-BOY.


Rupert found a pleasant home at the house of Mr. Sylvester, but he was
anxious as soon as possible to secure employment. His friend was active
in his behalf, but the general depression in business was such that
there seemed to be no opening anywhere.

One evening at supper Mr. Sylvester said: "I have been hoping to find
you a place in a wholesale establishment in Pearl Street. I learned that
one of the younger clerks was about to leave, but he has decided to stay
six months longer, and, of course, we can't wait as long as that."

"No, Mr. Sylvester, it would seem like six years to me."

"Even if your wants were all provided for in that time?"

"I feel that I ought to be at work, and not depending on your
generosity. I would rather work for two dollars a week than remain
idle."

"That is the right spirit, Rupert. You will be glad, then, to hear that
I have at last found employment for you."

"But I thought you just said----"

"That I could not get you a place in Pearl Street. True, but this is a
different position--very different. It is that of bell-boy in a hotel."

"What are the duties, Mr. Sylvester?"

"You will be at the command of the clerk, and will have to run up and
downstairs, answering calls from the guests, or carrying messages from
the office. In fact, you will be a general utility clerk, and I have no
doubt will get terribly tired the first few days."

"Never mind. I can stand that. If I make enough to pay my way I shall be
satisfied."

"You will be better paid than if you were in a mercantile house. You
will receive five dollars a week and get your meals at the hotel."

Rupert's face brightened.

"Why, that is excellent," he said. "When I was at Tenney & Rhodes' I
only received five dollars weekly and had to furnish my own meals."

"True, but you were then in the line of promotion. Here you cannot
expect to rise any higher unless you qualify yourself to be a hotel
man."

"At any rate I am willing to try it. Where is the hotel?"

"It is the Somerset House, on lower Broadway. It is not a fashionable
hotel, but comfortable and of good reputation. I am somewhat acquainted
with the office clerk, who was an old schoolmate of mine, and at my
request he has given you this position."

"I hope I shall give satisfaction. I shall be a green hand."

"The duties are easily understood and learned. If you show that you are
desirous of succeeding you will make a good impression, and you will get
on well."

"When am I to commence work?" asked Rupert.

"I will take you down town with me to-morrow morning, and introduce you
to Mr. Malcolm, the clerk. I suppose you will be expected to go to work
directly."

"I should prefer that."

"One thing I must tell you. You will have to secure a room outside, as
the employees are not expected to sleep in the hotel. All the rooms are
reserved for guests."

"What will my hours be?"

"From seven in the morning till seven in the evening. By this
arrangement you will have your evenings to yourself."

Rupert went to bed in good spirits. He was of an active temperament, and
enjoyed occupation. It would be pleasant to him also to feel that he was
earning his own living.

In the morning Mr. Sylvester went down town with him.

The Somerset House was a hotel of moderate size, only five stories in
height, which is low for a city hotel. I may as well say here that I
have not given the correct name of the hotel for obvious reasons. So far
as our story is concerned, the name I have chosen will do as well as any
other.

"Those who frequent this hotel are not of the fashionable class,"
explained Mr. Sylvester, "but it is largely patronized by traveling
salesmen and people from the country. The rates are moderate, and those
come here who would not feel able to afford the Fifth Avenue or hotels
of that grade."

The entrance was neat, and Rupert was well pleased with the aspect of
his new place of employment.

At some distance from the doorway was the office, and behind the reading
room.

"Mr. Malcolm," said Sylvester to a pleasant-looking man of thirty-five,
who stood behind a counter, "this is the young man I mentioned to you.
He will be glad to fill the position of bell-boy, and from my
acquaintance with him I feel quite sure he will suit you. His name is
Rupert Rollins."

The clerk smiled pleasantly.

"We shall soon know each other better," he said. "I hope you are strong,
for you will have a good deal of exercise here."

"I think I can stand it," said Rupert. "I shall soon get used to it."

"I have a plan of the rooms here," went on the clerk. "Take it and go
upstairs and look about you on the different floors. It will be
necessary that you should learn the location of the rooms."

"I will leave you now, Rupert," said Mr. Sylvester. "You can come back
to my house to-night, and to-morrow you can look up a room near the
hotel."

For the first few days Rupert got very tired. He would have to go
upstairs perhaps thirty or forty times during the day, sometimes to the
fifth floor. There was an elevator in the Somerset Hotel, but the
bell-boys were not allowed to use it.

When a guest registered and was assigned to a room on one of the upper
floors he was conducted to the elevator, but the bell-boy, carrying his
valise, was obliged to walk upstairs, and meet him at the landing-place.
Often Rupert felt that there was an injustice in this, and that no harm
would be done if he were also allowed to use the elevator. However, he
was not foolish enough make any complaint, but by his pleasant manners
and cheerful alacrity won the good opinion of Mr. Malcolm, the clerk.

The Somerset Hotel was on the European and American systems combined. If
a guest preferred simply to lodge at the hotel he could do so, and take
his meals either at the hotel restaurant or in any other.

One day a guest registered who was assigned to No. 143, on the fifth
floor.

To Rupert was assigned the duty of carrying up the valise. He found it
unusually heavy, and more than once as he climbed the stairs he felt
that he would be glad to reach his destination. At the elevator landing
he met the owner of the valise, a middle-aged man with a brown,
sunburned face.

"You found it rather a heavy tug, didn't you?" he asked, with a smile.

"Your clothes seem to be heavy," returned Rupert.

"It isn't clothes merely," said the stranger. "I come from Colorado, and
I have some specimens of quartz inside. Here, give me the valise, and
lead the way to my room."

Rupert did so.

When they reached No. 143 the stranger drew a fifty cent piece from his
pocket and handed it to Rupert.

"Take it," he said. "You deserve something for carrying such a load."

"Thank you, sir," said Rupert. "I don't find many guests so liberal."

"Shall I tell you why I am so liberal? It is because when I was a boy,
rather older than you, I was for four months a bell-boy in a Chicago
hotel."

"Were you, indeed, sir?" said Rupert, with interest. "Did you retire on
a fortune?"

"No; fees were few and far between. However, I saved a little and
borrowed a little more, and made my way first to Nevada, and afterwards
to Colorado. I have been pretty well prospered, and now I come home to
see my old father and mother in Maine."

"I hope you will find them well."

"Thank you, my boy, I heartily hope so. It is seventeen years since I
have seen their dear old faces, and it will be a good day for me when we
meet again."

"Are your father and mother both living?"

"Both at last accounts."

"Then you are luckier than I am. My father is dead."

"That is unfortunate. You are young to have lost a parent."

"Can I do anything for you, sir? Have you all that you need?"

"Yes," answered the guest, with a look at the washstand. "What I want
first is water and towels, for I have just got in from a long railroad
journey. Those seem to be provided. If I want anything else I will
ring."

"Fifty cents!" repeated Rupert. "I wish I could be as well paid every
time I carry a valise up stairs. Then I should get rich fast."

During the second week a tall, thin man with long hair flowing down over
his coat collar registered at the Somerset.

"No. 119," said the clerk. "Front!"

Rupert answered the summons.

"Take this gentleman's valise to No. 119."

Rupert thought the stranger a very singular-looking man. His long,
unkempt locks were of yellowish hue, and his eyes were shifty and
evasive. But of course in a hotel frequented by all sorts of people, no
special attention was paid to any particular guest.

Rupert met him upstairs and conducted him to his room.

"Take the valise inside," said the guest.

Rupert did so, when he was startled by the guest locking the door,
making him a prisoner.

"Now, boy," he said, his eyes lighted with an insane gleam, "you must
prepare to die!"

"What?" exclaimed Rupert, startled. "What do you mean?"

"I am commanded by God to offer you up as a sacrifice, even as Abraham
offered up his son Isaac."

As he spoke he drew a knife from his breast and advanced toward the
hapless bell-boy.




CHAPTER X.

A BELL-BOY'S EXPERIENCES.


It was evident that the guest whom Rupert had conducted to his room was
a maniac of the most dangerous character. The man's face was terrible to
look upon. His small, ferret-like eyes seemed to dilate with ferocious
cunning. He was a man not perhaps robust or strong, but too strong for a
boy of sixteen. And Rupert was alone with him.

It was terrible to think that he was to become the victim of such a man.
Apart from the pain of death, it was made more terrible at the hands of
an insane man.

What should he do?

Rupert had read somewhere that to openly combat an insane person is
dangerous. It is advisable to humor his delusions. Fortunately he had
read a story recently in which a man had escaped death by this very
means. It was a desperate chance, but Rupert resolved to make use of
it. Instead of showing the fear he really felt, he forced himself to
appear calm.

"You are mistaken," he said; "the boy you are to sacrifice is under the
bed."

The maniac was just about to lunge with his knife, but Rupert's words
made him pause.

"Look under the bed and you will see him," continued the bell-boy.

The bed was at the other end of the room. The maniac went over to it,
and, getting on his knees, began to peer underneath.

Here was Rupert's opportunity. He sprang to the door, turned the key,
but did not dare to stop to lock it on the outside, and dashed into the
entry. The door of the next room chanced to be open. He darted inside,
and bolted himself in.

He was just in time. The maniac, discovering the ruse, rose to his feet,
and, knife in hand, ran into the hall with a blood-curdling cry. He
looked in vain for Rupert, who was nowhere to be seen. The staircase was
near. He ran down, flight after flight, till he reached the office
floor, and made a great sensation as he dashed through it with his drawn
knife.

Here, however, he had some one more formidable than a boy to contend
with. Two burly porters sprang upon him, and felled him to the floor.
The knife was taken from him, and the clerk, horror-struck, leaning over
him, asked, "What did you do with the boy?"

"I tried to kill him, but he escaped," said the lunatic. "But I will
have him yet!"

"Call two policemen," said Mr. Malcolm. "One of you go upstairs and find
the bell-boy."

Rupert remained in his temporary refuge, not daring to come out. He
heard his unpleasant acquaintance leaving the adjoining room, but was
apprehensive that he might return. At length he heard some one calling,
"Rupert, where are you?" and recognized it as the voice of one of the
other bell-boys. He opened the door and came out.

"Where is the insane man?" he asked quickly.

"He was captured in the office, and his knife taken from him. How did
you escape from him?"

"Wait till I go down stairs and I will tell you."

When Rupert reached the office he was eagerly questioned. He gave the
particulars of his unpleasant interview with the crank.

"I congratulate you on your presence of mind," said the clerk. "You had
a narrow escape from a terrible fate."

"Where is he now?"

"On his way to the station-house. You need not be afraid that he will
come back. He is sure to be locked up."

Later in the day the proprietor of the hotel sent for Rupert.

"My boy," he said, "you ran a terrible risk this morning. It was in my
service, and I feel that I ought in some way to express my appreciation
of your remarkable courage and presence of mind. Here are fifty dollars,
which I hope you will find of service."

It was not alone the gift, but the kind words, that gratified Rupert. He
was able to buy a new suit for best, and a few other articles of which
he had need.

During the day he had a call from a man connected with one of the daily
papers, who wished his photograph to reproduce in connection with an
account of the incident. This, however, Rupert declined to give, not
caring for notoriety. The account of the crank's onset, however,
appeared, and a good many curious visitors were attracted to the
Somerset Hotel.

Among these was Julian Lorimer. Rupert's name had not been mentioned in
the account, and Julian was surprised to meet him.

"How came you here?" he asked.

"I am employed here," answered Rupert, quietly.

"What are you?"

"A bell-boy."

"Is that so? Can you tell me who it was that was nearly killed by a
crazy crank yesterday?"

"I was the one."

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Julian, in amazement. "Was he really so
dangerous?"

"He came near killing me."

"Humph! That was rather unpleasant. Do you get good pay here?"

"Yes, very good--enough to support me."

"It isn't much of a position, though."

"If you will find me a better one I will give this up," said Rupert,
smiling.

"I am expecting to go into a wholesale house soon."

"I hope you will succeed in getting such a place. It is rather hard
getting business positions now."

"Oh, my father is well known in the city. He can find me one."

"That will be in your favor."

Here Rupert was called off by a summons from the office, and the
interview terminated. He had not told Julian of the handsome gift
received from the proprietor, as he knew that his old schoolfellow had
no real interest in his welfare.

One who is employed in an American hotel has an excellent opportunity to
study human nature. It is free to all comers, and among those who sit in
the lobby or use the reading room there are always some who are not
guests. The larger proportion of these are respectable persons, but some
are adventurers who may be on the lookout for victims.

One young man, stylishly dressed and sporting an eyeglass and a cane,
Rupert had more than once noticed. He came in from time to time, bought
a sheet of paper and an envelope at the news stand, and wrote a letter
at one of the tables in the reading room. Rupert, whose acquaintance
with the city was limited, decided from his dress that he belonged to
some prominent family. It was noteworthy, however, that he always
entered alone. He sometimes, however, entered into conversation with one
of the guests of the hotel. Those from the country seemed to have his
preference.

This surprised Rupert, who wondered what attraction rural visitors could
have for a young man of his elegant appearance.

One day an old man of sixty registered from a town in Orange County. His
face was weather-beaten, and he looked like a farmer. His clothing was
rusty, and appeared to have been worn for several years.

He might have been taken for a poor man, but Rupert had seen him draw
out a large wallet full of bills, and judged that, if not rich, he was
in comfortable circumstances.

It so happened that the young man already referred to had also seen the
wallet, and he at once began to pay attention to the rural visitor.
Watching his opportunity, he sat down beside him in the reading room one
afternoon.

"It is a pleasant day, sir," he said, sociably.

"So 'tis, so 'tis," said the old man, feeling flattered by attention
from a young man of such distinguished appearance.

"I suppose you live in the country?"

"Yes, I am from Orange County."

"The finest part of the State. If my business did not keep me in the
city I should like very much to make my residence there."

"What might your business be?" asked the old man, with natural
curiosity.

"I am a broker, sir, in Wall Street. Of course you have heard of Wall
Street."

"Oh, yes," answered the old man, proud of his familiarity with the name
of this famous street. "Is it a pooty good business?"

"Well, that depends on circumstances. Sometimes I make money hand over
hand, but for the last month I give you my word I probably haven't made
over two hundred dollars."

"Two hundred dollars in a month!" repeated the farmer. "Why, that's
doing first rate, I call it."

The young man shrugged his shoulders.

"Not for a broker," he said. "Why if I make less than five hundred I
don't call it much."

"Five hundred dollars a month?" asked the farmer, much impressed.

"Yes."

"Why, that's six thousand dollars a year."

"Exactly. You are good in arithmetic," said the young man, languidly.

"Is--is there any chance to go into that business?" asked the Orange
County man, eagerly.

"My friend, I would hardly advise you to go into it. You are rather old
to begin a new business."

"That's so, but I don't ask for myself. I've got a son--he's my
youngest son--a young man of twenty-five, who's anxious to get something
to do in the city. He ain't much good on a farm--don't seem to like it.
He's read a good many books and stories about New York city, and he
wants to come here. I wish I could get him a chance to learn the broker
business. You haven't a place in your office now, have you?"

The young swell laughed in his sleeve.

"I've hooked the old man," he said to himself. "Now if I work my cards
right, I shall be able to make something out of him."

"My friend," he said, "I can't tell you at once, but I will think it
over, and--see you to-morrow morning."

He had not intended to finish his sentence thus, but just then he espied
at the door of the reading room a small, quiet-looking man whose glance
rested for a moment upon him. He knew--he had reason to know--that this
was Richard Darke, a well-known detective.

He rose from his seat and sauntered to the door, and in two minutes he
was one of the motley crowd that throng Broadway.




CHAPTER XI.

RUPERT RECEIVES A COMMISSION.


The detective, as he left the reading room, passed Rupert, who was just
entering.

"Let me see," he said, tapping Rupert on the shoulder, "you are the
bell-boy who came near being murdered by a crank?"

"Yes, sir."

"You escaped very cleverly. You are evidently a sharp boy. Keep your
eyes open, don't you?"

"Yes, sir; except when I'm asleep."

"We detectives have to keep our eyes open all the time, but we can't be
everywhere at once. Now I feel a little inclined to make you my
deputy--not permanently, but for a time."

"All right, sir."

"Have you noticed rather a flashy young man, looking like a dude, with
an eyeglass and cane?"

"Yes, sir; he is frequently in the hotel."

"You know, of course, that he isn't a guest?"

"Yes, sir. We bell-boys know who are guests and who are not."

"Possibly you may have wondered what his business is here?"

"Yes, sir."

"He is a confidence man. His business is to pick up victims, and make
what he can out of them. Do you see that old gentleman over by the
window?"

"Yes, sir."

"He is an honest and probably well-to-do old farmer, I judge. That
fellow has been having a talk with him. When he saw me he had business
elsewhere. But he hasn't given up his scheme for bleeding the old man.
Probably he will have another interview with him to-morrow. Now I should
like to have you keep your eye on the two. Find out if you can what the
man is after. I can't, for he knows me by sight. I want to foil his
schemes and save the old man from loss. Here is my address."

The detective placed in Rupert's hand a small, plain card, bearing the
name,

     RICHARD DARKE.

Below he put his address, which need not be given here.

"Don't say anything about this," he said, "except to me. Should you
mention it to anyone else in the hotel the fellow would soon see that he
was watched, and we might fail to catch him. I am reposing considerable
confidence in a boy."

"Yes, sir, but you will not regret it."

"I believe you," said the detective, cordially. "I'll see you again
soon."

"One moment, Mr. Darke. What is the young man's name?"

"He has several. The one he uses most frequently is Clarence Clayton."

"I will remember it, sir."

Clarence Clayton left the Somerset Hotel in good spirits. He felt like
an angler who was on the point of landing a fine fish.

"I wonder if old Darke saw me talking with that old Granger," he
soliloquized. "I hope not. Probably he knows me, though thus far I have
escaped having my picture in the Rogues' Gallery. Those old fellows know
everybody. Fortunately there is no regular detective at the Somerset,
and I shall be able to finish my negotiations with my country friend
before he drops in again."

Mr. Clarence Clayton was getting low in funds. Somehow fortune had not
favored him of late, and the sums he had realized out of recent victims
were very small. Yet he felt so confident of success in the present
instance that he sauntered up to the Sinclair House, at the corner of
Broadway and Eighth Street, and going into the restaurant, which has a
high reputation for choice viands, he ordered an appetizing repast at a
cost of a dollar.

He was scarcely half through when a young man, got up in very much the
same style, came in and sat down opposite him.

"Ha, Clayton!" he said, "so you're in luck."

"How do, Mortimer? What makes you think so?"

"Your extravagant spread. It isn't permitted to failures like your
humble servant to dine in such princely style."

"Then why come here at all?"

"I am only going to order fish balls and coffee, but I want those good,
and shall get them good here. Have you made a ten-strike?"

"No; business is dull with me, but I think I'm on the track of a fair
thing."

"What is it, and where?"

"Wouldn't you like to know, Mortimer?" said Clarence, putting one finger
waggishly on one side of his nose. "There isn't enough in it for two."

"Oh, I don't want to interfere with you, of course. I thought I'd like
to know whereabouts you are operating at present."

"What do you say to the Windsor Hotel?"

"Isn't that rash? Don't the detective know you?"

"He can't be everywhere, the worthy man. Your friend Clarence knows what
he is about. You won't interfere with me?"

"Of course not."

In spite of this assurance Mortimer made it in his way to drop into the
Windsor Hotel later in the evening, but of course he did not see
Clarence Clayton, who had put him on the wrong scent.

A good dinner was not the end of Clayton's extravagance. He dropped into
the Star Theatre, and enjoyed an attractive play, though it cost him a
dollar.

"Josiah Onthank will pay for it, I hope," he said, for he had
ascertained from the hotel register the name of his Orange County
friend. "It will cost something," he laughed, "to get his son into my
office in Wall Street. Oh, Clarence, you're a sly one, you are!"

Rupert was free from his duties at seven o'clock, but, remembering the
commission he had received, he sought out the farmer and opened a
conversation with him.

"How do you like New York?" he asked.

"It's a big city," answered the farmer. "I haven't been here before for
twenty years."

"Have you ever traveled on the Elevated cars?"

"No, I'm a little mite afeard to travel so high in the air. Suppose the
train should go through?"

"I don't think there's any danger, sir. The road is strongly built."

"I s'pose I'm timid, but I guess I won't ventur'. My son Ephraim
wouldn't mind. I came to the city mostly on his account. He wanted me to
see if there wasn't an opening here. He's got sick of the farm and wants
to be a city man. Are you at work here?"

"Yes, I'm a bell-boy in this hotel."

"Does it pay you well?"

"Yes, sir. I get five dollars a week and my board."

"That's good for a boy like you. It's more than I pay my hired man, and
he's twenty-eight. Is your work hard?"

"I have to run upstairs and down a good deal. I got pretty tired at
first."

"I met quite a slick young man here this afternoon; he says he's a
broker in Wall Street. He knows how to make money."

"Does he, sir?" inquired Rupert, getting interested.

"Yes; he says he made two hundred dollars last month, and he thinks
that pretty small."

"I should think it a good deal to make."

"He doesn't have to work very hard, either. Ephraim would like being a
broker. He always did like to dress up, but at home he can't do it till
evenin' after he has milked the cows and finished the chores."

"Did the gentleman mention his name to you?"

"Yes, he said his name was Clarence Clayton. He thinks he may be able to
take my son Ephraim into his office."

"Did he tell you where his office was?"

"Well, down in Wall Street somewhere. I s'pose there's a good deal of
money made in Wall Street."

"And a good deal lost, too," suggested Rupert.

"When are you going to see Mr. Clayton again?"

"To-morrow morning. He's goin' down to show me his office, and he'll
think it over whether he can take Ephraim or not."

"I suppose he is a rich man."

"I expect he is. He dresses fine. Ephraim would like to dress that way,
but he hasn't the shape for it. I should feel proud to have him doin' as
well as Mr. Clayton."

"I hope you won't mind my giving you a little advice, Mr. Onthank, even
if I am a boy."

"Go ahead, sonny! I'm sure you mean well."

"Don't make any arrangements with Mr. Clayton to take your son till you
have had a chance to talk over the matter with some one. I have a
friend, a very experienced man, and I am sure his advice would be worth
taking."

"You don't think there's anything wrong about Mr. Clayton, do you?"
asked the farmer, startled.

"I don't say that, but if he wants you to pay him some money for giving
your son a a place, don't do it till you have mentioned it to me."

"I won't. There won't be no harm in that."

"And don't tell him who it is you are going to consult. Supposing he
wasn't all right, it would put him on his guard."

"Thank you, sonny, you are a young boy, but I guess you've got a level
head."

"I hope so," laughed Rupert.

"Do you know where there's a good place to take supper--a good country
supper? I've been to the hotel eatin' houses, but it don't exactly suit
my country taste."

"Yes, Mr. Onthank, I think I can find a place that will suit you."

Rupert took the farmer to a plain restaurant not far away, where he got
some cream toast, a good cup of strong tea, and a piece of apple pie.

"That's good," said the farmer, with a sigh of satisfaction. "It's
better than all them fancy dishes I get at some places. There ain't
nothing like plain home livin'."

Rupert didn't part from Mr. Onthank till nine o'clock, when the farmer
