“It’s too bad, it is upon my honor.”

“Then you will return me the papers?”

“I couldn’t do that. I am a poor man, and the money that Wentworth is
to give me is of great importance to me. If you could raise five or six
hundred dollars, I might afford to return them to you.”

“That will be quite impossible, Mr. Standish.”

“Then I am afraid I must retain the papers. It goes to my heart to do
it, I assure you. I am a very tender-hearted man, Gerald, but I am a
poor man, and I feel that I must not injure my own interests. I will
do what I can for you, however, and I may be able to persuade Mr.
Wentworth to give you something. Now I must bid you good morning.”

Samuel Standish opened the door, and prepared to go out.

“In an hour you will be released,” he said. “I shall leave directions
with Tip.”

As he went downstairs, Gerald settled back in his chair, trying to
resign himself to remaining for another hour in the shabby room.




CHAPTER XXIX.

GERALD IS RELEASED.


AT length the door was opened and Gerald was free to leave his place of
confinement.

There was a cunning smile on Tip’s weazened face.

“I say, boss,” he said. “Ain’t you goin’ to give me somethin’ for
lettin’ you out?”

Gerald was amused in spite of himself.

“I ought rather to punish you for getting me into such a scrape.”

“’Twasn’t me. ’Twas Uncle Sam that made me do it.”

“I know that, and for that reason I will forgive you. You were paid for
luring me in here, and ought to be satisfied with that. So Mr. Standish
is your uncle?”

“That is what he says. I couldn’t swear to it.”

“Perhaps he will leave you some money in his will.”

“He ain’t got no money,” said Tip contemptuously. “He’s strapped most
of the time. Did you give him any?”

“No.”

“Didn’t he take your pocketbook?”

“No.”

Tip looked puzzled.

“Then what did he want you shut up for?”

“I had some papers that he wanted.”

“Did you give them to him?”

“Yes.”

“War they worth much?”

“He thought they were.”

Tip was silent a moment.

“I wish I’d known that,” he said, after a pause.

“Suppose you had?” inquired Gerald curiously.

“I’d have let you out before he came for five dollars.”

“That is very kind of you, Tip. What would your uncle have done to you?”

“He’d have licked me, but I’d stand a lickin’ any time for five
dollars.”

“I see, Tip, you are a sharp boy. I haven’t any hard feelings against
you. I hope you will grow up a good man.”

Tip shook his head.

“It ain’t likely,” he said. “There ain’t many good boys round here.
This ain’t a Sunday-school neighborhood.”

“I am afraid it isn’t,” thought Gerald. “I fear Tip isn’t likely to
turn out a good man or a model citizen. He is smart enough, but he
isn’t using his smartness in the right way.”

“Where have you been, Gerald?” asked Mr. Brooke, when his secretary
returned to the hotel. “You don’t often come back late to lunch.”

“I was unavoidably detained, Mr. Brooke. In other words, I was
imprisoned.”

“Is that true?” asked the English tourist in surprise. “Please explain
yourself.”

Gerald did so.

“So the papers were taken?”

“Yes, they are gone,” answered Gerald, smiling. “I should like to see
Mr. Wentworth when he discovers that he has been duped.”

“He and his agent will both be disappointed. Do you know if he is in
the city?”

“I believe he is at the Southern Hotel.”

“Waiting till his agent has secured the papers, I presume?”

“I suppose so.”

“Really, Gerald, this is an excellent joke. I don’t think he will make
any further attempt to rob you. We can afford to laugh, but it might
have been quite otherwise.”

Meanwhile Mr. Standish made his way slowly towards the Southern Hotel.
He was plunged in deep thought. Should he give up the papers to Mr.
Wentworth, or should he stand out for a larger sum? He had been
promised two hundred dollars, but his principal had repeatedly offered
a thousand dollars for them, and he persuaded himself that he ought to
receive at least half this amount. He could not quite make up his mind
what to do, and was still in a state of indecision when he reached the
handsome hotel where Mr. Wentworth was a guest.

He entered the office, and did not have far to look, for Bradley
Wentworth was standing at the news counter where he had just purchased
a Chicago paper.

“Well?” he said eagerly when he saw Standish enter. “What news?”

“I’ve got the papers,” nodded Standish.

“You have? Give them to me.”

“Wait a minute, Mr. Wentworth. I want to see you alone.”

“Oh, very well! Come up-stairs.”

They boarded the elevator and stopped at the second landing, where Mr.
Wentworth led the way to a front room, of which he unlocked the door
and bade Standish enter.

“Give me the papers,” he said, “and I will give you a check.”

Samuel Standish made no motion to get the papers. Wentworth eyed him in
some surprise.

“What is the matter?” he asked.

Standish cleared his throat.

“You agree to give me two hundred dollars,” he said, “while I find that
you have more than once offered the boy a thousand dollars for them.”

“Who told you that?”

“Gerald himself.”

“It is a lie,” said Wentworth harshly. “Do you think I am a fool?”

“No; I think you are a very shrewd man. The papers are worth all that
you offered for them?”

“How do you know? How can you judge?” demanded Wentworth hastily.

“I have read them, and the boy explained the circumstances.”

Bradley Wentworth turned red. He saw that his secret was exposed, and
that this man knew that he had once been a forger.

“You can’t depend upon what the boy told you,” he said.

“It is confirmed by the letters.”

“You had no right to read the letters. It was a breach of faith.”

“I don’t look at it in that light. I wanted to be sure that they were
the papers I was instructed to secure.”

“Very well. I will excuse you. Give me the papers and I will give you
two hundred dollars, as I promised.”

“I must have five hundred,” said Standish firmly. “Even then you will
save five hundred. If you had bargained with the boy you would have
been obliged to give him a thousand.”

Then ensued a wordy wrangle, not necessary to detail. Wentworth, after
trying in vain to keep Standish to the original agreement, finally
paid him three hundred and fifty dollars, two hundred in bills and one
hundred and fifty in a check payable to the order of Samuel Standish.
Though he had not secured as much as he desired, Mr. Standish was
reasonably satisfied, not for years having had so large a sum in his
possession.

Bradley Wentworth was about to examine the papers when a bell-boy came
up with a telegram. Wentworth tore it open hastily.

It was an urgent summons to return, as matters of importance demanded
his presence at the factory.

He thrust the papers into his pocket.

“I am called home to Seneca,” he said. “I must catch the next train for
Chicago, if possible. I will not detain you any longer, as I have no
time to give you.”

“All right, Mr. Wentworth! I don’t want to interfere with your plans.
My acquaintance with you has been very agreeable, and, as I trust, for
our mutual advantage. I hope you may some time have further occasion to
employ my services. Good day, sir!”

Bradley Wentworth was already packing his valise, and did not think it
necessary to notice his agent’s farewell greeting.

“Three hundred and fifty dollars!” soliloquized Standish. “Did I ever
have as much money before? I can’t remember the occasion. Mr. Samuel
Standish, you can afford to live comfortably for a time. Did I do well
to part with the papers, or should I have stood out for a larger sum?
It is hard to tell. They must be worth more to the boy than this, but
it is not likely he had money enough to buy them. On the whole, Samuel,
you have probably done as well as you could.”

It will be remembered that Mr. Standish had a room at the Lindell. As
he entered the hotel he met Gerald in the corridor.

“So you have got back?” he said with a pleasant smile.

“Yes,” answered Gerald.

“I thought Tip could be relied upon. I prefer you won’t cherish any
hard feelings on account of the events of the morning.”

“Have you still got the papers, Mr. Standish?” asked Gerald abruptly.

“No.”

“Then I suppose you have given them to Mr. Wentworth?”

“Yes; I would much rather have given them back to you, but I judged
that you had not money enough to purchase them.”

“Mr. Standish,” said Gerald composedly, “I wouldn’t give five dollars
to have the papers back.”

“But,” stammered Standish, “you said Mr. Wentworth offered you a
thousand dollars for them.”

“For the originals, yes. Those I delivered to you were copies.”

Standish seemed transfixed with amazement.

“But the originals? Where are they?” he asked.

“Where neither you nor Mr. Wentworth can get hold of them.”

When Standish had recovered from his astonishment he burst into a
hearty laugh.

“The old man’s been fooled,” he said. “Serves him right for being so
mean.”




CHAPTER XXX.

TIDINGS OF THE FUGITIVE.


IT was not until Bradley Wentworth was on board the train that was to
bear him to Chicago that he drew out the letters which he had secured
through the agency of Standish and examined them.

He almost leaped from his seat in anger and disappointment.

“They are fraudulent, and not worth the paper they are written on,”
he at once decided. “And I have actually given that scoundrel three
hundred and fifty dollars for them. Why didn’t I take the precaution to
examine them before handing over the money?”

He examined them again. They might be fraudulent, for the handwriting
was not his, but they were word for word similar to the genuine letters
which he had written many years since to Warren Lane. The question
arose, Who had copied them? Was it Standish? He dismissed this
supposition as very improbable, and adopted the theory that the genuine
letters were not in existence—that Warren Lane had given these to his
son as a record of what had passed between himself and Wentworth.

“In that case,” he reflected with satisfaction, “the boy has no
hold upon me. I have only to deny all knowledge of the letters and
stigmatize them as part of a conspiracy to extort money from me on
false charges. It is worth three hundred and fifty dollars to find this
out.”

So Wentworth’s anger was succeeded by a feeling of satisfaction.

“It is better to pay three hundred and fifty dollars than a thousand,”
he reflected, “and that was the sum I was ready to give Gerald. On the
whole my meeting with this fellow Standish was a fortunate one. I shall
destroy these letters, and with them will perish the only evidence of
my crime.”

When Mr. Wentworth reached home he found among his letters the
following written in a regular schoolboy hand:

  “DEAR SIR:

 “Your son Victor and I are in hard luck. We are staying at a poor
 boarding-house in Kansas City, and have only enough money to pay this
 week’s board. I have sent to my guardian for a remittance, and expect
 it within a few days, but Victor’s money gave out some time since.
 As I know you are a rich man I do not feel called upon to pay his
 expenses. I shall have only enough left for myself.

 “Will you telegraph money at once to Victor, No. 125 H. Street, and I
 will advise him to take the money and go home.

  “Yours respectfully,

  “ARTHUR GRIGSON.”

Bradley Wentworth read this letter with a mixture of feelings. He had
been very anxious about his son, but he was not a soft-hearted man, and
now that he knew him to be alive his heart hardened.

“He hasn’t suffered enough,” he said to himself. “If I forgive him
too quickly he will do the same thing again. He has dared to disobey
me, and he must be made to understand that he has been guilty of a
serious offense. This fellow Grigson has the hardihood to suggest that
I telegraph money to Kansas City. If I should do so he would probably
claim a share of it, and instead of returning, the two would very
likely continue their journey.”

Under the influence of these feelings Mr. Wentworth wrote the following
letter:

  “MR. ARTHUR GRIGSON:

 “You have done me the honor to write me suggesting that I should
 telegraph money to my son, who took the bold step of leaving
 the school, where I had placed him, without my permission. Your
 letter contains no expression of regret for this flagrant act of
 disobedience, and I assume that neither you nor Victor feels any. No
 doubt you find it inconvenient to be without money, and it naturally
 occurs to you to apply to me. You may say to Victor that as he appears
 to think himself independent of me, and has shown a disregard for my
 wishes, I think it may be well for him to keep on a little longer. I
 do not feel under any obligation to help him home from Kansas City,
 since he went there without my permission. Whenever he returns home,
 and shows proper regret for his disobedience I will consider what I
 may be disposed to do for him.

  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”

Hard as his nature was Bradley Wentworth did not send away this letter
without momentary compunction. So far as he was capable of affection
he was attached to his son. But he was a man who required implicit
obedience, and Victor’s flight had excited his sternest indignation. He
was a proud man, and was not willing to show signs of softening though
he really yearned to see his absent son.

He held the letter in his hands undecided whether to send it or not,
but pride finally gained the ascendency, and he dropped it into the box
in which he deposited his outgoing mail.

“He will see that I am not to be trifled with,” he soliloquized, as he
closed his lips firmly.

So the letter went on its cruel mission.




CHAPTER XXXI.

THE YOUNG RUNAWAYS.


IN a small, plainly furnished room in Kansas City sat two boys of
sixteen and seventeen. One of them was Victor Wentworth, the other his
schoolmate and the companion of his flight, Arthur Grigson.

Victor looked despondent. He had a pleasant but weak face, in which
little or no resemblance could be traced to his father. The latter’s
hard nature was wholly wanting in Victor. He resembled his mother, now
dead, who had been completely under the domination of her husband.

“I wonder if our letters will come to-day, Arthur,” he said anxiously.

“I hope so. I expected before this that your father would telegraph
money.”

“You don’t know my father, Arthur,” said Victor sadly. “No doubt he is
very angry with me, and I am not sure that he will send me any money at
all.”

“You are an only son, are you not?”

“Yes.”

“And your father is very rich?”

“Yes.”

“Then he won’t be such a beast as to refuse. Isn’t he rather close with
you?”

“Yes.”

“Rather mean, in fact. It costs money to telegraph. I presume it is on
this account that he has written you by mail.”

“If he doesn’t write, what shall I do?” said Victor. “I have only
twenty-five cents left, and that will barely buy my dinner.”

“I haven’t much more,” said Arthur, “but I don’t worry.”

“No, for you have money of your own, and are sure to get something.”

“I am not one of the worrying kind,” said Arthur. “I wouldn’t be as
nervous as you are on any account.”

“I can’t help it.”

“If your father is like you he will be so worried about you that he
will be sure to send the money, or else come on himself. Perhaps he
will do that.”

Victor shook his head.

“He isn’t like me at all, Arthur. He is a very stern man. Oh, how
foolish I was to leave school, but you persuaded me to do it!”

“Oh, you throw all the blame on me, do you?” returned Arthur in an
unpleasant tone. “You were in for it as much as I was.”

“I didn’t know what I was doing,” said Victor in an unsteady voice.

“Do try to be more manly! One would think you were in danger of going
to prison!” exclaimed the stronger-minded Arthur, in ill-concealed
disgust.

“I don’t know but I shall. I can’t starve, and I may have to steal when
my money is gone.”

“You’d better get a place and work. That will be better than to starve
or go to jail.”

“That is true. I didn’t think of that,” said Victor, brightening up.
“But I don’t know what I can do. I never did any kind of work. I am
afraid no one will employ me.”

“Then set up in business for yourself. You can sell papers if you can’t
do anything else. That is, if you are not too proud to do it.”

“I am not too proud to do anything,” said the miserable Victor, “if I
can make a living!”

“Good for you! That shows that you are not a snob, any way. What do you
think your rich and aristocratic father would say if he should learn
that his son was a newsboy?”

“He wouldn’t like it, and I don’t like it myself, but I shall not be
ashamed to do it, if it is necessary.”

“I admire your spunk, Victor.”

“I am afraid I haven’t got much,” said Victor, shaking his head. “Oh,
what a fool I have been! If I were only out of this scrape, I’ll never
get into another.”

“It may all come right. It’s time we got letters. When we do we’ll
start for home.”

At this instant there was a knock at the door, and the landlady, a
stout woman with a red face, appeared.

“Here’s two letters just come!” she said.

Both boys sprang to their feet in excitement.

“One for each of us!” said Victor gladly.

“No; they are both for Mr. Grigson.”

Victor dropped into his seat in despondency.

“None for me!” he murmured.

“Better luck next time!” said the landlady. Meanwhile Arthur had torn
open one of his letters.

“Hurrah!” he said. “There’s fifty dollars inside.”

“Who is the other from?”

“It is postmarked Seneca. It must be from your father.”




CHAPTER XXXII.

ARTHUR GRIGSON’S TREACHERY.


“OPEN the letter, quick!” cried Victor in feverish anxiety. “I don’t
see why father didn’t write to me.”

The letter was opened. The reader is already acquainted with
its contents. Arthur read it aloud, and Victor turned sick with
disappointment.

“Well,” ejaculated Arthur, “if that isn’t a cold-blooded message for a
man to send to his own son! And he rolling in wealth!”

“I was afraid he would refuse to send me some money,” said Victor.
“What is that last sentence?”

“He says if you will come home he will see whether he will forgive
you—that’s the upshot of it.”

“But I can’t go home without money unless you will pay my way. You
will, won’t you, Arthur? I’ll pay you back just as soon as I can.”

“But you can’t, you know,” returned Arthur coldly. “Your father has
always given you a very small allowance, and you can’t save anything
out of that.”

“I will be sure to pay you some way.”

“You are very ready with your promises, but promises ain’t cash. Look
here, Victor, I’ve got only fifty dollars.”

“That’s a big sum.”

“It’s got to last me some time. As for giving you fifteen or twenty
dollars, I can’t do it, and that settles it.”

“Are you going home?”

“I shall take the next train for Chicago.”

“And leave me here?” faltered Victor, turning pale.

“I don’t see what else I can do,” returned Arthur, his face hardening.

“But I shall starve.”

“No; I will leave you two or three dollars, and I advise you to buy
some papers if you can’t get any other position.”

“How meanly you are treating me!” said Victor indignantly.

“I am sorry, of course, but it is the best I can do——”

“But for you I should not be here. Please remember that!”

“You were very ready to come when I proposed it,” retorted Arthur.

“You promised to see me through. I didn’t have money enough to come.”

“Well, I’ve kept my promise as well as I could. I was looking over
my accounts yesterday, and I find that I have spent for you thirteen
dollars and sixty-seven cents. Of course I shall never see a cent of it
back.”

“I will pay it if I live,” said Victor, his companion’s meanness
bringing a flush to his cheek. “I have just found you out. If I had
known how mean you were I would never have left school in your company.”

“I wish you hadn’t. I didn’t suppose your father was such a miser. I
knew you were an only son, and I expected that he would come to your
help if you needed it. You mustn’t be so unreasonable. I am going out
to get my bill changed. Will you come, too?”

“I suppose I may as well,” said Victor, in a spiritless tone.

Arthur made his way to a railroad ticket-office and purchased a ticket
to Chicago.

Victor turned away to hide the indignant tears that rose to his eyes
as he thought of his companion’s base desertion. It was on his lips to
beg Arthur to buy another ticket, but his pride checked him. He felt
that he had humiliated himself enough already.

On their way back they passed a periodical store.

On the window outside was a sign—

  “BOY WANTED!”

“There’s your chance for a situation, Victor,” said Arthur, half in
joke.

Victor looked at the sign, and made up his mind. It was absolutely
necessary for him to get employment, and he might as well work here as
anywhere.

“Wait a minute,” he said.

He went in, expecting to meet a man, but found that the shop was kept
by a middle-aged woman. Victor had never been obliged to rough it, and
he colored up with embarrassment as he prepared to apply for the place.

“I see you want a boy,” he said.

“Yes,” said the woman, very favorably impressed by Victor’s neat
appearance. “Have you ever worked in a store of this kind?”

“No; I have always attended school.”

“I won’t ask if you’re honest, for your looks speak in your favor.
Would you be willing to sleep in the back part of the store?”

“Yes,” answered Victor, relieved to think that this would save him the
expense of a room.

“When can you come?”

“At one o’clock if you wish. After I have eaten dinner.”

“Then I will engage you. You will receive four dollars and a half a
week. Is that satisfactory?”

“Yes,” answered Victor thankfully.

He went out and told Arthur of his success. His companion was relieved,
for, selfish as he was, it troubled him to think that Victor would be
left in destitution.

“Good!” he said. “Now I advise you to write home, and see what your
father has to say. I will leave you three dollars to buy your meals
till your first week’s pay comes in.”

Mrs. Ferguson, the good Scotch lady who kept the periodical store,
would have been very much surprised if she had learned that the quiet
looking boy whom she had just engaged was the son of a man worth over
three hundred thousand dollars. Her mind was occupied with other
matters or she would have questioned Victor more closely in regard to
his history and antecedents. He was glad she did not, for he would
have felt some embarrassment in confessing that he had run away from
school and was a fugitive from home.

He felt obliged to accept the three dollars offered him by Arthur
Grigson, since it was necessary to have money to pay for his meals in
the interval that must elapse before he would receive his first week’s
pay.

“I will pay you back, Arthur,” said he gratefully, as he took the money
from the boy who had been the cause of his trouble.

“Oh, that’s just as you like.”

“I would prefer to do it. I don’t care to be under any further
obligations to you.”

“Oh, don’t be foolish! You didn’t expect I’d strip myself of money to
give you a chance to go home?”

“You would have more than money enough to get us both home. I wouldn’t
have treated you as you have treated me.”

“Yes, you would, and I wouldn’t have blamed you. I may go over to
Seneca and tell your father how I left you. Maybe he’ll open his heart
and send you twenty dollars.”

Victor did not reply, but knowing his father as he did, he cherished
no such hopes. He tried to put a good face on the matter, however,
reflecting that he was at any rate safe from starving, and would be
able to live.

In the afternoon he went to work, and though evidently unused to
business soon learned to do what was required of him. He seemed so
willing that Mrs. Ferguson felt pleased with him, and did not regret
her hasty choice of a boy who had no recommendations to offer.

The store closed at eight o’clock, and the shutters were put up.

Now came the hardest trial for Victor.

He had always been accustomed to a luxurious, or at all events, cozy
bedroom, even at school. Now he was to sleep in a dark store, for the
gas was put out, except one small jet in the rear. His bed was a small,
narrow one, only about eighteen inches wide, and close behind the dark
counter.

“This is where you will sleep,” said Mrs. Ferguson. “The bed is small,
but I guess you will find it wide enough.”

“I guess I can make it do,” answered Victor.

“You are to get up at seven o’clock and open the store. Then you will
sweep the floor and dust the books. I shall come at eight, and will
then let you off for half an hour for breakfast.”

“All right, ma’am.”

Mrs. Ferguson went out, and Victor, not feeling yet like sleep, sat
down on the side of the bed and began to reflect.

Only a few weeks ago he had been a member of a classical school,
recognized as the son of a rich man, and treated with the more
consideration on that account. Now he was a friendless boy, obliged to
earn a scanty living by his own labor. It might be considered quite
a come-down, but, strange as it may seem, Victor was not altogether
despondent. He inherited from his father a taste for business, and had
already begun to take an interest in his duties. He would indeed have
liked a larger income, for he was compelled to eat at cheap and poor
restaurants, but at any rate he felt happier than he had done when
traveling in Arthur Grigson’s company.

At length he went to sleep, and slept comfortably for three hours or
more. Then he suddenly awoke, and none too soon. The window at the rear
of the store, leading out into the back yard, was half open, and he saw
the figure of a large man crawling through.

“It must be a burglar!” thought Victor, and his heart sank within him.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

INTERVIEWING A BURGLAR.


VICTOR was not a brave boy, and it must be confessed that he felt
dismayed when he saw the burglar, and realized that he was in danger of
serious personal injury, perhaps death. This, however, was not his only
feeling. He felt responsible for the safety of the goods in the store,
having been left on guard. In an emergency one can think rapidly.

Prudence suggested to Victor to lie quite still and counterfeit sleep.
Resistance would of course be futile, for he was rather a delicate boy
of sixteen, and the burglar was nearly six feet in height and looked as
if he might weigh a hundred and eighty pounds.

The burglar, when he had effected his entrance, looked about him to get
his bearings.

His glance fell on Victor.

“Ha! a boy!” he exclaimed, and with one stride he reached the pallet
on which the shop-boy slept.

Stooping over, and flashing the dark lantern into Victor’s face he saw
his eyelids move.

“He is not asleep! He is only shamming,” he decided, and shook him
roughly.

Victor opened his eyes and looked with alarm into the rough, bearded
face and fierce, forbidding eyes of the midnight intruder.

“Well, do you know who I am?” growled the burglar.

“I never saw you before.”

“That isn’t what I mean. Do you know why I am here?”

“To rob the store, I suppose,” answered Victor with a troubled look.

“Right, my chicken! Did you see me get into the window?”

“Yes.”

“And then you closed your eyes and pretended to be asleep?”

“Yes.”

“I’m on to that trick. Do you see this?” and the burglar displayed a
piece of iron which Victor supposed to be a “jimmy.”

“Yes,” answered Victor, gazing at it as if fascinated.

“A little tap on your head with it and you’d be done for. That’s what
I call a hint to you to act sensibly and not interfere with what don’t
concern you. Now where’s the money?”

“I don’t think Mrs. Ferguson leaves any here. I expect she carries all
away with her.”

“You expect!” repeated the burglar frowning. “Don’t you know?”

“How long have you been employed in this store?”

“I only came this afternoon.”

“That accounts for it. Are you sure there is no money here?”

“I don’t think there is.”

“I’ll look about and see. If you know what’s best for yourself you’ll
keep quiet.”

Victor was compelled to look on in helpless anxiety while the burglar
rummaged the store. He managed to find a couple of dollars in small
change, which he pocketed grumblingly. A few small ornamental articles
he also took, and then made his exit from the window after a parting
threat to Victor.

No sooner had he left the store than the latter sprang from the bed,
drew on his pantaloons hurriedly, and running to the outer door
unlocked it, and standing in the doorway looked up and down the street.

By great good luck a policeman was just turning the corner. When he
saw the boy in partial undress at the door of the bookstore he ran up,
apprehending mischief.

“What’s the matter, bub?” he asked.

“The store has just been entered from the rear and the burglar, after
stealing what he thought worth taking, made his escape through the back
yard.”

Instantly the policeman tapped for assistance and three brother
officers made their appearance. After a hurried conference, two went
through the store to the back, while the other two reconnoitered
in front. The chances were in favor of the burglar’s escape, but
apprehending no danger he had made his way into the next yard and
was trying to enter the adjoining store. His imprudence cost him his
liberty.

In five minutes he was brought again through the window with a stout
policeman on each side. He scowled menacingly at Victor.

“You betrayed me, you young scoundrel!” he said.

“Keep your mouth shut!” said one of his captors.

“Answer me, did you call the police?” demanded the burglar, not heeding
the command.

“Yes,” answered Victor.

“I’ll get even with you, for betraying your old pal.”

“What?” ejaculated Victor.

“He’s one of us,” said the burglar, addressing the policemen. “We got
him into the store on purpose to help us. He only got the place this
afternoon.”

Then for the first time Victor fell under suspicion.

“Is this true?” asked one of the officers turning to the boy.

“It is true that I got the place this afternoon.”

“And you know this man!”

“No; I never saw him before in my life.”

“That’s a lie, John Timmins, and you know it,” broke in the burglar
audaciously.

“Is your name John Timmins?” asked the policeman with increased
suspicion.

“No, sir. My name is Victor Wentworth.”

“Good, John. It does credit to your invention,” said the burglar
laughing. “That’s a high-toned name you’ve got now.”

“Is this true that you are saying? Do you know the boy?”

“Of course I do. His father, Dick Timmins, is my pal. I thought we
could trust the boy, but he’s betrayed me, the young rascal, expectin’
a reward for his honesty. Oh, he’s a sly one, John is.”

Victor could hardly believe his ears. He understood at once that this
man was acting from revengeful motives, but he saw also that the story
made an impression on the police.

“You’ll have to go with us,” said one of the officers. “This man has
made a charge against you, and you will have to disprove it.”

Victor was compelled to dress hurriedly and accompany the officers to
the station-house. He was questioned by the sergeant, who recognized
the burglar and suspected his motive.

“What is your name?” he asked.

