
The voices seemed to be receding; I sprang to my grating; the
Governor's bland voice still sounded at some distance down the
passage; Mrs. Hamilton's saucy laughter rang faintly and more faintly.

Half a dozen keepers were lounging just outside of my cell. I summoned
one of them sharply.

"Tell General Gage that Mrs. Hamilton knows me!" I said. "A guinea for
you when she comes!"

The lout stared, grinned, and finally shambled away, pursued by the
jeers of his comrades. Then they turned their wit against me, begging
to know if I had not some message for my friends the Grand Turk and
the Emperor of China.

I waited in an agony of suspense; after a long time I knew that the
keeper had not delivered my message.

In the fierce returning flood of despair at the loss of this
Heaven-sent chance for life, I called out for Bishop to come to me; I
struck at the iron bars until my hands were bathed in blood.

At length Bishop arrived, in a rage, demanding to know if I had lost
my senses to create such an uproar when his Excellency, Governor Gage,
had come to inspect the prison.

In vain I insisted that he take my message; he laughed an ugly laugh
and refused. Mrs. Bishop, whose infant was now very sick, came out,
wrapped in her shawl, carrying the baby to the prison hospital for
treatment, and a wrangle began between her and Bishop concerning
supper.

My words were lost or ignored; Bishop demanded his supper at once, and
his wife insisted that she must take the child to the hospital. The
precious moments flew while they stood there under my grating,
disputing and abusing each other, while the sick child wailed
ceaselessly and dug its puny fingers into the sores on its head.

Presently a keeper passed, saying that the Governor wished to know
what such indecent noise meant; and Bishop, red with rage, turned on
his wife and cursed her ferociously until she retreated with the
moaning child.

"Draw me a measure o' buttry ale; d'ye hear, ye slut?" he growled,
following her. "If I'm to eat no supper till you get back, I'll want a
bellyful o' malt to stay me!"

But Mrs. Bishop waddled on contemptuously, declaring she meant to go
to the hospital, and that he could die o' thirst for aught she cared.

Dulcima, who stood in her doorway across the corridor, watched the
scene stolidly. Bishop turned on her with an oath, and ordered her to
draw his evening cup; she unhooked the tankard which hung under the
lanthorn, hesitated, and looked straight at her father. He gave her a
brutal shove, demanding to know why she dawdled while he thirsted, and
the girl moved off sullenly, with flaming cheeks and eyes averted.

When she returned from the buttry I saw the warden take the frothing
tankard, brush the foam away with his forefinger, and drain the
measure to the dregs.

He handed the empty tankard to his daughter, smacking his lips with a
wry face, and drawing the back of his hand across his chin. Then he
became angry again.

"Ugh!" he muttered; "the ale's spoiled! What's in it, you baggage?" he
demanded, suddenly swinging around on his daughter. "Draw me a cider
cup to wash this cursed brew out o' me!"

There was a crash. The girl had dropped the tankard at her feet.

Quick as a flash Bishop raised his hand and dealt his daughter a blow
on the neck that sent her to her knees.

"Break another pot and I'll break your head, you drab!" he roared.
"Get up or I'll--"

He choked, gasped, lifted his shaking hand to his mouth, and wiped it.

"Curse that ale!" he stammered; "it's sickened me to the bones! What
in God's name is in that brew?"

He turned and pushed open his door, lurching forward across the
threshold with dragging feet. A moment later Dulcima passed my cell,
her trembling hands over her eyes.

I went to my cot and lay down, face buried, teeth set in my lip. A
numbness which at moments dulled the throbbing of my brain seemed to
settle like chains on every limb.

Dully I waited for the strokes of the iron bell sounding the seventh
hour; a lassitude crept over me--almost a stupor. It was not despair;
I had long passed that; it was Hope, slowly dying within my body.

A few moments afterwards a strange movement inside my cell aroused me,
and I opened my hot eyes.

In the dusk I saw the figure of a man seated beside my cot; peering
closer, I perceived his eyes were fixed steadily on me. I sat up on my
bed and asked him what he desired.

He did not answer. A ray of candle-light stealing through the barred
window fell on the bright barrel of a pistol which lay across his
knees.

"What do you wish?" I repeated, the truth dawning on me. "Can you not
watch me from the corridor as well as in my cell?"

There was no reply.

Then at last I understood that this gray shape brooding there at my
bedside was a guard of the death-watch, pledged never to leave me,
never to take his eyes from me for an instant until the warden of the
prison delivered me into the hands of the sheriff on the morrow for my
execution.

Ding-dong! Ding-dong! The prison bell was at last striking the seventh
hour. I lay still in my blanket, counting the strokes which rang out
in thin, peevish monotony, like the cracked voice of a beldame
repeating her petty woes.

At the last jangle, and while the corridor still hummed with the thin
reverberations, I rose and began to pace my narrow cell, head bent on
my breast, but keeping my eyes steadily on the grating.

The guard of the death-watch observed me sullenly. I drank from my pot
of water, bathed my feverish face, and walked to the grating.

The lanthorn above Bishop's doorway burned brightly; the corridor was
quiet. No sound came from Mount's cell. I could hear rain drumming on
a roof somewhere, that was all.

Bishop was due at seven o'clock to inspect our bolts and bars; he had
always arrived punctually. I watched his door. Presently it occurred
to me that I had not seen Bishop since six o'clock when he had gone
into his room, cursing the ale which his daughter had fetched him.
This was unusual; he had never before failed to sit there on his
threshold after supper, smoking his long clay pipe, and blinking
contentedly at our steel bolts.

Minute after minute passed; behind me I heard my guard beating a
slight tattoo with his heavy boots on the stones.

Suddenly, as I stood at my grating, I saw Dulcima Bishop step from the
warden's door, close it behind her, and noiselessly lock it on the
outside. The light of the lanthorn fell full on her face; it was
ghastly. The girl stood a moment, swaying, one hand on the door; then
she made a signal towards Mount's cell; and the next instant I saw
Jack Mount bound noiselessly into the corridor. He caught sight of me,
held up a reddened, dripping knife, pointed to my cell door, and
displayed a key.

Instantly I turned around and sauntered away from the grating towards
my tumbled bed. As I passed the death-watch, he rose and walked over
to the outer window where my pot of water stood to cool.

Eying me cautiously he lifted the jug and drank, then set the pot back
and silently resumed his seat, laying his pistol across his knees.

How was I to get at him? If Mount made the slightest noise in the
corridor, the guard was certain to go to the grating.

Pretending to be occupied in smoothing out my tumbled bedding, I
strove to move so that I might get partly behind him, but the fellow's
suspicions seemed to be aroused, for he turned his head as I moved,
and watched me steadily.

To spring on him meant to draw his fire, and a shot would be our
undoing. But whatever I did must be done now; I understood that.

As I hesitated there, holding the blanket in my hands as though I
meant to fling it on the bed again, the lamp in the corridor suddenly
went out, plunging my cell in darkness.

The guard sprang to his feet; I fairly flung my body at him, landing
on him in a single bound, and hurling him to the stone floor.

Instantly the light of the lanthorn flooded my cell again; I heard my
iron door opening; I crouched in fury on the struggling man under me,
whose head and arms I held crushed under the thick blanket. Then came
a long, silent struggle, but at last I tore the heavy pistol from his
clutch, beat him on the head with the steel butt of it until, through
the blanket over his face, red, wet stains spread, and his straining
chest and limbs relaxed.

Pistol in hand, I rose from the lifeless heap on the floor, and turned
to find my cell door swinging wide, and Dulcima Bishop watching me,
with dilated eyes.

"Is he dead?" she asked, and broke out in an odd laugh which stretched
her lips tight over her teeth. "Best end him now if he still lives,"
she added, with a sob; "death is afoot this night, and I have done my
part, God wot!"

I struck the man again--it sickened me to do it. He did not quiver.

She lifted the lanthorn from the floor and motioned me to follow. At
the end of the corridor Mount stood, wiping his reeking knife on the
soft soles of his moccasins.

"The trail's clear," he whispered, gayly; "now, lass, where is the
scullions' stairway? Blow out that light, Cardigan! Quiet, now--quiet
as a fox in the barn! Give me your hand, lass--and t'other to the
lad."

The girl caught me by the arm and blew out the light, then she drew me
into what seemed to be an impenetrable wall of darkness. Groping
forward, I almost fell down a steep flight of stone steps which
appeared to lead into the bowels of the earth. Down, down, then
through a passage, Mount leading, the girl fairly dragging me off my
feet in her excitement, and presently a wooden door creaked open, and
a deluge of icy water dashed over me.

It was rain; I was standing outside the prison, ankle-deep in mud, the
free wind blowing, the sleet driving full in my eyes.

"Oh, this is good, this is good!" muttered Mount, in ecstasy,
spreading out his arms as though to take the world to his sick heart
once more. "Smell the air, lad! Do you smell it? God! How sweet is
this wind in my throat!"

The girl shivered; her damp, dishevelled hair blew in her face. She
laid one shaking hand on Mount's wet sleeve, then the other, and bowed
her head on them, sobbing convulsively.

Mount bent and kissed her.

"I swear I will use you kindly, child," he said, soberly. "Come, lass,
gay! gay! What care we for a brace o' dead turnkeys? Lord, how the
world will laugh at Billy Bishop when they hear I stole his girl,
along with the prison keys! Laugh with me, lass! I mean honestly and
kindly by you; I'm fit for a rope at the gibbet's top if I use you
ill!"

"Would--would you truly wed me?" she stammered, raising her white face
to his.

He swore roundly that he would wed her and end his days in serving her
on his marrow-bones for gratitude.

And, as he made his vow, a startling change passed over her face; she
laughed, turned her bright, feverish eyes on us with a reckless toss
of her head, and drew the poison-flask from her bosom.

"You think," she said, "that we no longer need this little friend to
sorrow? You are wrong!"

And, ere Mount or I could move, she raised the tiny flask betwixt
forefinger and thumb, and dropped the dark scarlet contents between
her teeth.

"I drink to your freedom, Jack," she said, blindly, reeling into
Mount's arms. "Your--freedom--Jack," she gasped, smiling; "my father
drank to it--in ale. He lies dead on the floor of it. All
this--for--for your freedom, Jack!"

Mount was kneeling in the mud; she lay in his arms, the sleet
pattering on her upturned face.

"For your freedom," she murmured, drowsily--"a maid must burn in hell
for that. I burn, I burn! Oh, the fire in me, Jack!"

Her body writhed and twisted; her great bright eyes never left his.
Presently she lay still. A moment later the prison bell broke out
wildly through the storm, and a gunshot rang from the north
guard-house.

We placed the dead child under a tree in the new grass, and covered
her face with willow branches, all silky with the young buds of April.
Then, bending almost double, we ran south along the prison wall,
turning west as the wall turned, and presently came to the wooden
fence of King's Chapel.

Mount gained the top of the fence from my shoulders, and drew me up.
Then we dropped.

There were lights moving in Governor's Alley and the mews; through the
sleet great snow-flakes whirled into the slush of the filthy street.
The prison bell rang frantically behind us.

"It's the alarm, Jack!" I whispered.

He gave me a dull look, then shivered in his wet buckskins.

"She can't lie out there in the sleet," he muttered, blood-shot eyes
roving restlessly in the darkness. "I am going back!"

"For God's sake, don't do that!" I begged; but he cursed me and
brushed me aside.

Back over the wall he dropped. I started to follow, but he shoved me
roughly and bade me mind my own concerns.

I leaned against the foot of the wall; the sleet pelted me; I bared my
throat to it. After a while I heard Mount's labouring breath on the
other side of the wall, and I climbed up to aid him.

He held the dead child in his arms; I took the body from him; he
climbed over, and received it again, bearing it as though it were but
a snow-flake's weight in his great arms.

"Go you and find a pick and spade in the mews, yonder," he said. There
was a fixed stare in his eyes that alarmed me. "Damn you," he said,
"it is the least we can do!"

"Jack," I said, "we cannot stay here to be taken again! You cannot
bury her now; the ground is frosted; people will hear us!"

He glared at me, then swung his heavy head right and left. The next
moment he started running through the storm, cradling the burden in
his arms. I followed, not knowing what he meant to do.

At the King's Chapel gate he turned in along a dim gravel path, hedged
with dripping box. Around us lay the headstones of the dead, with here
and there a heavy tomb looming up in the storm around us.

For a moment he halted, peering about him. A square white sepulchre
surmounted a mound on his right; he motioned me to hold the dead child
and stepped forward, laying his hands on the slab. Then, with a heave
of his powerful back, he lifted the huge stone, laying open the
shadowy sepulchre below.

Again he took the dead in his arms, wiped the rain-drops from the
face, laid the limp form in the sepulchre, and smoothed the clothing.
Together we replaced the slab; it taxed all my strength to lift one
end of it. The bell of the prison clanged frantically.

Mount stood back, breathing heavily, hands hanging. I waited in
silence.

"What a little thing she was!" he muttered; "what a
child--to--do--that! Do you think she will lie easy there?"

"Yes," I said.

At the sound of my voice Mount roused and turned sharply to me.

"The thief and the thief-taker's daughter!" he whispered, with a
ghastly laugh. "They'll make a book of it--I warrant you!--and hawk it
for a penny in Boston town!"

He touched the slab, all glistening with sleet, gripped the edge of
the sepulchre, turned, and shook his fist at the prison. Then, quietly
passing his arm through mine, he led the way out of the chapel yard,
guiding me between the soaking hedges to the iron gate, and so out
into the black alley.

Almost immediately a man shouted: "Stop thief! Turn out the guard!"
and a soldier, in the shadow of the wall, fired at us.

Mount glared at him stupidly, hands dangling; the soldier ran up to
him and presented his bayonet, calling on us to give up.

The sound of his voice appeared to rouse Mount to fury; he seized the
musket, wrenched it from the soldier, and beat him into the mud. Then
swinging the weapon by the barrel, he knocked down two bailiffs who
were closing in on us, and started after another, with a yell of rage.

"Jack! Jack!" I cried. "Are you mad? Follow me; quick! We can't stay
here, you great fool!"

He heard me, halted, hurled the musket after his flying foe, and broke
out into a harsh laugh.

"Come on, lad," he said. "I did but mean to warm my blood and purge it
of the prison rust. Truly I think we must make for the purlieus till
they lose our trail!"

Through reeking lanes, foul alleys, and muddy mews where gaunt dogs
battled over scraps with gaunter children, we ran, or lurked to
listen, shunning the bleared lanthorn-light, shining through the
storm.

At times the horror of that flight even now appalls me--that flight
through the starving town o' Boston, where old women mouthed at us
with their scurvy-cankered gums; where, slinking along dead walls, we
stumbled over old men patiently picking with skinny fingers in the
rotted herbage for roots to stay their starved stomachs' craving;
where, in doorways, naked children, with bellies bloated by famine,
stared at us out of hollow eyes.

The town appeared to be alive with British soldiery; mounted pickets
roved through the streets; parties of officers passed continually;
squad after squad of marines crossed our path, and at first we thought
that all this show of troops was due to us and our escape, the hour
being late for so many troops to be abroad.

"There's something else in the wind," muttered Mount, as we hid in
Belcher's Lane to avoid a party of dragoons; "all this pother is never
made on our account. There's deviltry a-brewing, lad. We had best
start for the 'Wild Goose.'"

Through the mud of Cow Lane, Flounder Mews, and Battery Marsh we crept
on, on, along back roads and shiny lanes, then, alarmed by a galloping
dragoon, we threaded the marshy alleys to the north, from Hancock's
Wharf clear around the peninsula to Back Street and Link Alley.

From thence through Hog Alley and Frog Lane south towards the Neck,
only to be frightened north once more by the mad gallop of dragoons,
and so to hide in Mackerel Lane.

And I am minded, as I recall that night's skulking flight, of a bandy
little watchman who, at the mere sight of us, did drop his lanthorn
and make off, bawling for aid, until Jack came up with him and fetched
him a clip which knocked him and his noisy rattle into the mud of
Mackerel Lane.

We fled as though all Boston ran snapping at our shin-bones, and at
last we turned, unmolested, into Green Lane, and so came in sight of
the "Wild Goose Tavern." Then, as we dropped into a breathless trot
and began to plod across Chambers Street, a man, standing in the
shadow of a tree, started forward as we came up.

Mount halted and drew his knife, snarling like a jaded wolf.

"Mount! Cardigan!" cried the man.

"Paul!" exclaimed Mount, eagerly.

The goldsmith wrung our hands with a grip of iron.

"It is the beginning of the end," he said. "The Grenadiers are to
march. I've a horse on the Charlestown shore. Gage has closed the
gates on the Neck."

"What do the Grenadiers want?" asked Mount, all on fire again, fagged
and exhausted as he was.

"They want the cannon and stores at Concord," replied Revere, in a
low, eager voice. "I'm waiting for Clay Rolfe. If the Grenadiers march
by land, Rolfe hangs a lamp in the steeple of the Old North; if they
take boats, he hangs two lamps. I guess they mean to cross the bay.
The boats have been moored under the sterns of the war-ships for a
week. I've a good horse across the water; I'll have the country-folk
out by daylight if the troops stir an inch to-night. Wait; there's
Rolfe now!"

A dark cloaked figure came swiftly out of the mews, swinging two
unlighted lanthorns. It was Clay Rolfe, our landlord at the "Wild
Goose," and he grasped our hands warmly, laughing in his excitement.

"Your boatman is ready under Hunt's Wharf, Paul," he said. "You had
best row across the bay while the rain lasts. It will clear before
midnight, and the Somerset is moored close to the Lively
to-night."

"Yes," said Revere, "I've no mind to run the fleet yonder under a full
moon." And he offered his hand to us, one after another, giving our
hands a terrific squeeze.

"Don't forget, Rolfe," he said--"one if by land; two if by sea!"

Rolfe turned to us.

"Gage has officers watching every road outside of Boston; but Paul
will teach them how fast news can travel." He glanced at the sky; rain
fell heavily. "It won't last," he muttered; "there'll be a moon
to-night; Paul, you had best row across now. The oars are muffled."

They saluted us and walked rapidly down Green Lane, wrapped to the
eyes in their riding-cloaks.

"If Shemuel is at the 'Wild Goose,'" I said, "perhaps he has news for
me."

We entered the inn and found it deserted by all save a servant, who
recognized us and bade us welcome.

"The Grenadiers are out to-night, sir," he said to me. "All our
company has gone to join the Alarm Men at Lexington and Concord. There
is not a soul here, sir, except me."

"Where is Shemuel?" I asked.

"He is watching the Province House, sir; General Gage entertains
to-night. It is all a ruse to quiet suspicion, sir. But we know what
is on foot, Mr. Cardigan!"

Mount had dropped into a chair; the rain dripped from the red thrums
of his buckskins; his fox-skin cap was soaked. There was blood on his
hands; the servant brought a basin and towel.

"God knows what will happen at Concord," he said; "Mr. Hancock has
gone there; Mr. Revere is to ride through Middlesex to raise the
farmers. Have you seen the dragoons, sir? They do be riding and
capering about town, stopping all mounted travellers. They stopped the
Providence coach an hour since, and there was a fight with the
towns-people in Beacon Street. The tents of the marines are down on
the Mall; some say the storm tore them down."

So gossiping, the lad served us with bread, cheese, pickled beef, and
a noggin of punch, and we listened, tearing at our food, and gulping
it like famished beasts o' the woods.

He brought me my clothes of buckskin, and I tore my rotten prison rags
from me--alas! the shreds of that same silver-velvet suit which I had
put on six months since, to wed with Silver Heels.

We stripped to the buff; the lad soused us well with steaming water
and again with water like ice.

Mount encased his huge frame in his spare buckskins. I once more
dressed in my forest dress, refreshed and fortified by food and water
which seemed truly to wash away the prison taint from our skins as the
hot bowl of spirits washed the stale prison cheer from within.

The lad brought us our arms, and I could have shouted aloud my joy as
I belted in my knife, hatchet, and bullet-pouch, and flung my rifle
across my shoulder.

"Where is my horse?" I asked. "Have you looked to him, lad? By Heaven,
if aught of mischance has come to him--"

"The great black horse Warlock, sir?" cried the lad. "He is stabled in
the mews, sir. Mr. Rolfe has had him cared for like a baby; the head
groom takes him out every day, Mr. Cardigan, and the horse is all
satin and steel springs, sir."

"Where is he? Get a lanthorn," I said, huskily.

A moment later, in the mews, I heard a shrill whinny, and the tattoo
of shod hoofs dancing.

"Warlock!" I cried.

The next instant my arms were around his neck.




CHAPTER XXVI


It was nearly ten o'clock; a freezing rain still swept the black
Boston streets, with now and again a volley of hail, rattling on
closed shutters and swinging shop-signs.

In the dark mews behind the "Wild Goose Tavern" had gathered a shadowy
company of horsemen, unfortunate patriots who had not been quick
enough to leave the city before the troops shut its landward gates.

Caught by the Governor's malignant move, separated from their
companies of Minute Men, these half-score gentlemen had met at the
"Wild Goose" to consult how best they might leave the city and join
their comrades at Lexington and Concord.

Some were for riding to the Neck and making a dash across the
causeway; some wanted boats, among the latter, Jack Mount, who
naturally desired to rid the town of his person as speedily as might
be.

"There's a hempen neck-cloth to fit my pipes in Queen Street," he
said, plaintively, "and I desire it not, having no mind for flummery.
Let us find a flat-boat, in God's name, and get us to Charlestown with
our horses while the rain endures."

"Ay," replied an officer of Roxbury Minute Men, "but what if our
horses neigh in mid-stream?"

"The Somerset ran out her deck-guns at sunset," added another. "What
if she turned her swivel on us?"

"And how if they swept us off the causeway with a chain-shot?" asked
Mount.

"What think you, Mr. Cardigan?" demanded an officer of Sudbury
militia, leaning forward in his wet saddle to pat the dripping neck of
his roan.

"I only know that I shall ride this night to Lexington," I said,
impatiently, "and I am at your service, gentlemen, by land or sea.
Pray you, decide quickly while the rain favours us."

"Is there a man among us dare demand a pass of the Governor?" asked
the Sudbury officer, abruptly. "By Heaven, gentlemen, it is death by
land or by sea if we make to force the lines this night!"

"And it is death to me if I stay here cackling," muttered Mount, as we
caught the distant gallop of dragoons through stony Wiltshire Street.

We sat moodily in our saddles, huddled together in the darkness and
rain, listening to the sound of the horses' feet on the pavement.

"I'd give a thousand guineas if I were on the Charlestown shore with
Revere," muttered an officer.

"The Governor might sell you a pass for ten," observed another,
sneeringly. "It will cost him a penny to keep his pretty bird o'
paradise in plumes."

"If John Hancock were here he would get us a pass from Mrs. Hamilton,"
remarked the Sudbury officer.

There was a silence, then one or two men laughed.

"Is Mrs. Hamilton at Province House?" I asked, not understanding the
careless handling of her name among these gentlemen.

Again came laughter.

"It is easy to see that you have been in prison," observed the Sudbury
officer. "Mrs. Hamilton rules at Province House, and leads Tommy Gage
by the nose--"

"By the left hand," interrupted another, maliciously.

"You mean that Mrs. Hamilton is--is--" I began.

"Town scandal," said the officer.

"It may be a lie," observed a young man mounted on a powerful gray.

"It is a lie," I said, with an ugly emphasis.

"Is that remark addressed to me, sir?" demanded the Sudbury officer,
sharply.

"And to company, also," I replied.

"Gentlemen!" cried the Roxbury officer, "are we to have quarrels among
us at such a time?"

"Certainly," said I, "if you or your company affront me. Tattle is
dirty work for a gentleman's tongue, and the sooner that tongue is
stopped with honest mud the better."

"I've called a gentleman out for less than that," said an old officer,
dryly.

"I am at your service," I replied, disgusted.

"And I'm with you, lad," said Mount, walking up to my stirrup. "I have
no stomach for those who wink at a woman's name."

"I also," said the young man on the gray, gravely.

A constrained silence followed, broken by the Sudbury officer.

"Hats off to the beautiful Mrs. Hamilton, gentlemen! Cardigan is
right, by God! If we stand not for our women, who will?"

And he stretched out his hand in the rain. I took it; others offered
me their hands.

"I ride to Province House," I said, briefly. "Jack, fetch a cloak to
hide your buckskins and wait me here. Gentlemen, I wish you fortune in
your journey."

As I rode out into Cambridge Street, thunder boomed in the east, and I
saw the forked lightning racing through inky heavens, veining the
storm with jewelled signs.

"God writes on heaven's wall!" I said, aloud.

A strange exultation stirred me; the dark world lay free and wide
before me, and I would ride it, now, from end to end, till Silver
Heels was mine and Butler's soul had dropped back into that pit from
whence it had crawled to hide within his demon's body.

In Hillier's Lane I put Warlock to a gallop, but drew bridle in muddy
Sudbury Street, where, from the darkness, a strident voice called on
me to halt.

"Who comes there?" repeated the voice. I heard the trample of horsemen
and the clink of sabres striking stirrups.

"Coureur-de-bois for Province House!" I answered, calmly. A chafing
temper began to heat my blood; I gathered my bridle and dropped one
hand on my hatchet.

"On whose affairs ride you?" demanded the spectral dragoon, laying his
horse broadside across mine.

"On my own affairs!" I cried, angrily; "pull out there!--do you hear
me, fellow?"

A lanthorn was lifted to my face.

"Let the forest wild-cat go," muttered an officer, riding back to the
picket as I crowded my horse against the dragoon who had hailed me.

Without giving them a glance I pushed through the cluster of horsemen,
and heard them cursing my insolence as I wheeled into School Street
and cantered along Governor's Alley.

There were torches lighted in the mews; an hostler took Warlock; I
swung out of the saddle and stepped back to a shelter from the storm.

Through the rain, up Marlborough Street, down School Street, and along
Cornhill, drove the coaches and carriages of the Tory quality, all
stopping at the brilliantly lighted mansion, where, as an hostler
informed me, the Governor was giving a play and a supper to the
wealthy Tory families of Boston and to all the officers of the British
regiments quartered in the city. I knew the latter statement was
false.

I stood for a while in the rain among the throng of poor who had come
to wait there, in patience, on the chance of a scrap from the
servants' quarters after the servants had picked the bones their
surfeited masters would scarcely deign to lick.

At first, as the coaches dashed up and the chairs jogged into the
gateway, a few squalid watchers in the crowd fought to open the
carriage-doors, hoping for a coin flung to them for their pains; but
the sentinels soon put a finish to this, driving the ragged rabble
savagely, with thrusts of their musket-butts, out into Marlborough
Street. Under the gate-lanthorn's smeared reflections I saw the poor
things huddled in a half-circle, pinched and chattering and white with
hunger, soaked to the bone with the icy rain, yet lingering, God knows
why, for a brief glimpse of My Lady in pink silk and powder, picking
her way from her carriage across the puddles, while My Lord minced at
her side and the footman ran behind to cover them both with a
glistening umbrella.

The stony street echoed with the clatter of shod horses, the rattle of
wheels, the shouts of footmen, and the bawling of chair-bearers.

Once, when the wind sharpened, shifted, and blew the slanting rain
from the north, a warm odour of roasted butcher's meats came to us,
and I could hear a hollow sound rising from the throng, which was like
a groan.

In the Province House fiddlers were fiddling; it was chill enough in
the street, but it was doubtless over-hot within, for servants came
and threw open the windows and we could hear the fiddles plainly and
the sweet confusion of voices and a young girl's laughter.

A hoarse cry broke out, wrung from the very vitals of the wretches
around me.

"Silence!" shouted the officer of the gate-guard, striding out in his
long rain-cloak and glaring about him, with tasselled stick upraised.
The rain powdered his gilded French hat and laced vest, and he stepped
back hastily under shelter.

There was perfect quiet for an instant, then a movement near me, a
mutter, a quick surging of people, a cry: "Give room! Back there! Bear
him up!"

A voice broke out, "He is starving; the smell o' meat sickens him!"

Two men staggered past, supporting a mere lad, whose deathly face hung
on his rain-soaked cotton shirt.

"He has the spotted sickness!" muttered a chair-bearer near me; "it's
death to take his breath! Let me pass!"

"The pest!" cried another, shrinking back, and stumbling away in a
panic.

The officer watched the scene for a moment, then his heavy, inflamed
face darkened.

"Back there! Be off, I say!" he bawled. "Ye stinking beggars, d'ye
mean to poison us all with the pest? Turn out the gate-guard! Drive
those filthy whelps up Cornhill!" he shouted to the corporal of the
guard.

The soldiers came tumbling out of the gate-lodge, but before they
could move on the throng another officer hurried up, and I heard him
sharply recalling the soldiers and rebuking the officer who had given
the order.

"No, no, that will not do," he said. "The town would flame if you
drive the citizens from their own streets. Let them stand there. What
harm are they doing?"

"The lout yonder fell down with the spotted pest," remonstrated the
first officer. "Faugh! The rabble's rotten with scurvy or some filthy
abomination--"

"They'll harm no one but themselves," replied the other in a sad
voice, which sounded strangely familiar to me, so familiar that I
involuntarily stepped out into the lighted space under the gate and
peered at him through the rain, shielding my eyes with my hands.

The officer was Mr. Bevan.

Should I speak to him? Should I count on his friendship for me to get
me an audience with the Governor? Here was a chance; he could vouch
for me; so could Mrs. Hamilton.

As I hesitated somebody beside me clutched my elbow, and I swung
around instantly, one hand on my hunting-knife.

The next moment Saul Shemuel almost rolled at my feet in an ecstasy of
humble delight, sniffling, writhing, breathing hard, and clawing at my
sleeve in his transports at sight of me.

I seized his arm, drew him along the wall, and into the dusky mews.

Impatient, yet touched, I suffered his mauling, demanding what news he
might have, and he, beside himself with joy and excitement, could
scarce find breath to pant out the news which concerned me. "I haf
seen Foxcroft," he gasped. "Mr. Foxcroft he hass come to-day on dot
Pomona frigate to Scarlet's Wharf, twelve weeks from Queenstown,
sir. It wass printed in dot Efening Gazette, all apout Foxcroft how
he iss come from Sir Peter Warren to make some troubles for Sir John
Johnson mit dot money he took from Miss Warren, sir!"

"Foxcroft! Here?" I stammered.

"Yess, sir; I ran mit my legs to Queen Street, und I told him how you
wass in dot prison come, und he run mit his legs to Province House,
but too late, for we hear dot bell ring und dose guns shooting. Und I
said, 'Gott of Isaac, I bet you Jack Mount he hass run avay!' Und Mr.
Foxcroft he sees some dragoon soldiers come into Cornhill, calling
out: 'Dose highwaymens is gone! Vatch 'em by dot Mall!' So Mr.
Foxcroft he comes to Province House mit me, sir, und he iss gone in to
make some troubles mit Governor Gage apout Sir John Johnson und dot
money of Miss Warren! Ach, here iss Mr. Foxcroft, now, sir--"

I turned to confront a stout, florid gentleman, swathed in a
riding-cloak, whose little, angry eyes snapped as he cried: "Governor
Gage is a meddling ass! I care not who listens to me, and, I repeat,
he is a meddlesome ass! Sir Peter Warren shall hear of this, damme! Am
I a free agent, damme? I take it that I am a free agent, yet I may not
leave this town to-night for lack of a pass. But I'll go! They shall
not stop me! No, damme if they shall!"

The hostlers were all staring at him; I stepped towards him, eagerly,
but the peppery and inflamed barrister waved me off.

"Damme, sir!" he bawled; "who the devil are you, sir? Take your hands
from me, sir! I wish to go to my client in Lexington, and this Tory
peacock will give me no pass! I will not suffer this outrage; I will
appeal to--"

I gave him a jerk that shook the breath from his body, whispering in
his ear: "Be silent, in Heaven's name, sir! I am Michael Cardigan!"

At first, in his passion, astonishment, and incredulity, he found no
voice to answer me; but as Shemuel eagerly vouched for me, Mr.
Foxcroft's fury and suspicion subsided.

"You? Cardigan?" he repeated. "Well, where the devil have you been,
sir, and what the devil have you been about, sir? Eh? Answer me that,
now!"

"I've been in prison, under sentence of death," I replied. "Where have
you been, sir, to leave your client, Miss Warren, at the mercy of
Walter Butler?"

At that he took fire, and, with trembling fist quivering towards
heaven, he justified his absence in warm terms.

"I've been in England, sir, that's where I've been!" he cried. "I've
been there to find out why your blackguard of a kinsman, Sir John
Johnson, should rob my client of her property. And I've found out that
your blackguard Sir John has not only robbed her of her means, but of
the very name she has a right to! That's what I've done, sir. And if
it does not please you, you may go to the devil!"

His impudence and oaths I scarcely noted, such a fierce happiness was
surging through me to the very bones. I could have hugged the choleric
barrister as he stood there, affronting me at every breath; I fairly
beamed upon him when he bade me go to the devil, and, to his
amazement, I seized his fat hands and thanked him so gratefully that
the defiance died on his lips and he stared at me open-mouthed.

"My dear sir, my dear, dear friend," I cried, "I will get you your
pass to clear the Neck to-night, and we will go together to find my
cousin, Miss Warren. Wait me here, sir; I will leave Boston this night
or my name is not Cardigan!"

Then bidding Shemuel keep an eye on Warlock, I hurried around to the
gate-house, where the rabble still slunk, watching the lighted windows
with famished eyes.

The clouds in mid-heaven had caked into snowy jets of fleece, and now
the full moon of April flooded the soaked pavements with pools of
silver.

The sentry halted me as I entered the court-yard, but when I asked for
Mr. Bevan, he called to a comrade to take my message. The next moment
Bevan stepped out into the moonlight.

"What is it, my man? Can I serve you?" he said, pleasantly, peering at
me.

"Do you not know me, Mr. Bevan?" I asked.

"Cardigan!" he stammered, "is that you, Cardigan--"

He was close to me at a stride, both hands on my shoulders, his
kindly, troubled eyes full of wonder and pity. Perhaps I appeared to
him somewhat haggard and careworn, and then the rain had chilled and
pinched me.

"I am not in want," I said, trying to smile.

"But--but why are you not among the guests at Province House?" he
asked, quickly. "The son of Captain Cardigan needs no friend at court,
I fancy."

He linked his gilded sleeve in my arm and drew me past the
guard-house, and ere I could protest, I found myself inside the
cloak-room among a company of old beaux and young fops, all in the
hands of footmen and body-servants who were busily dusting the
