your superiors? Get up, sir, instantly!"

Indian "got," weak-kneed and trembling.

"The examination will be held," continued the cadet, "in the Observatory
Building, at once. Gentlemen, you will conduct Mr. Smith there and await
my arrival."

The bogus officer desired time to change his uniform, as he knew it
would be risky to cross the parade in his borrowed clothing.

Now the Observatory Building is situated far away from the rest of the
academy, upon the hillside near Fort Putnam. And thither the party set
out, the cadets freely discussing the probable fate of the unhappy
plebe. It was the almost unanimous verdict that one who was so
unutterably stupid as never to have heard of the great Joseph Smith
would not stand the ghost of a show. All of which was comforting to the
listening victim.

The Observatory was deserted and lonely. The door was locked, and the
party gained entrance by the windows, which alone was enough to excite
one's suspicion. But Indian was too scared to think.

The lord high chief quartermaster presently slipped in, once more
bedecked with medals and mustache.

The examining party got to work at once in a very businesslike and
solemn manner. The physical examination was to come first, they said. It
had been the opinion of the Army Board that Mr. Smith was far too fat to
make a presentable cadet. The surgeons were busy that afternoon in
trying to piece together several plebes who had been knocked all to
pieces by the yearlings for being too "B. J."--this was the explanation
of the lord high chief quartermaster--and so it would be necessary to
examine Indian here, and at once, too. And if it were found, as, indeed,
would most probably be the case, that he was too fat, why then it would
be necessary for him to reduce weight immediately.

Several schemes were suggested as to how this might be done. There was
the Shylock, the Shakespearian method, of a pound of flesh from near the
heart. Cadet Corporal So-and-So suggested that several veal cutlets from
the legs--each an inch thick--would serve. A veal cutlet an inch thick
he estimated--his great grandfather on his mother's other side had been
a butcher, he stated--would weigh three pounds. Then Acting Cadet
Sergeant Somebody-Else suggested a Turkish bath, the jockey's method,
together with very violent exercise. This plan was adopted finally as
being the least likely to be fatal in its results.

But just then somebody suddenly thought of the fact that it would be
best to weigh the subject first, which was considered a good idea, but
for the fact that they had no scales. This trouble "feazed" the crowd at
first. Then the lord high chief quartermaster said that he was a
first-rate judge of weight, having slaughtered hogs in his youth, and
could tell by the feel. So Mr. Joseph Smith must be immediately
"boosted" up and balanced upon the cadet's outstretched hand, there to
be shaken and otherwise tested, while the man below made audible
calculations by means of trigonometrical formulas as to what was his
actual weight.

The result of this experiment, as might have been expected, was by no
means very definite. The lord high chief, etc., thought the weight was
too much, but he couldn't be sure. And then Cadet "Admiral" Jones
proposed another scheme. He had been a juggler "when he was young;" he
was used to tossing heavy weights; in fact, he just happened to know
that he could throw three hundred pounds exactly twelve feet, the height
of the ceiling. It was obvious, therefore, that if Indian weighed over
that he would not reach the ceiling; but if he should go through the
ceiling that would mean just as clearly that he was under the limit and
need not "reduce."

In vain did the frightened boy protest that he weighed only one hundred
and fifty; the test must be made, and made it was. Indian's terrified
form did not once get near the ceiling, and so reduce he must. The
cadets formed a circle about the room.

"Now," said the commanding official, "now you must manage to reduce
weight quickly this way, or we shall try the veal cutlet scheme. So
you'll find it best to hurry. We want you to run around the outside of
this circle. We'll give you just ten and one-quarter minutes by my watch
(which runs very fast, by the way) to get around fifty times. And in
the course of that you must manage to perspire fifteen pounds of weight
(enough to make you go through the ceiling). This is equal to half a
gallon of water. Now then! Take off your coat, sir. Ready! Set!! Go!!!
Why don't you start, sir? There now! Hurry up! One second--two
seconds--three--four--fi'--six--sev'n--eight--nine--ten--'leven! Faster!
Faster!! Hurry up! One minute! You haven't lost a pound yet! What! Out
of breath already? Faster! That's right! Keep it up now!"

The scene at this stage of the "examination" is left to the imagination;
Indian, wild-eyed, panting and red, plunging wildly around in a dizzy
circle of a dozen laughing cadets. And in the center the lord high with
his watch slowly telling off the minutes.

"Two minutes there, two minutes! Come now, hurry up! Don't begin to lag
there! Why don't you stop that panting? There goes the first drop of
perspiration. Hooray, there's another! It'll soon be a gallon now. Two
and a quarter!"

Poor Joseph kept it up to five, by which time he was so dizzy that he
could not stand up; which was the best reason in the world why he sank
down utterly breathless in the corner. And there he lay gasping, the
cadets in vain trying to get him to rise.

"I think," said the presiding officer, nearly convulsed with
laughter--"I think that is reduction enough for the present, and I say
we proceed to the 'mental.'"

A conference was held over in one corner of the room, as to what the
questions should be; and then in an evil hour (for them) an idea struck
one of the cadets.

"See here, fellows," said he. "I think he's been examined enough. Let's
get somebody else. Let's get---- Who's that learned chap?"

"Stanard?"

"Oh, yes, Stanard! The Parson! Let's get him."

The idea took with a rush. It would be so much more fun to fool the
learned Parson! And in a minute or two half the party, including the
lord high chief quartermaster, was on its way back to barracks to hunt
up the new victim, while the rest stayed to resuscitate Indian and to
write out a list of questions for the "mental examination."




CHAPTER VII.

THE EXAMINATION OF THE PARSON.


The "examining board" had the good luck to come upon the Parson in a
secluded spot near the Observatory. The Parson had left the library for
a walk, his beloved Dana under his arm and the cyathophylloid coral in
one of his pockets. The "committee" made a rush at him.

"Mr. Stanard?" inquired the lord high, etc.

Mr. Stanard bowed in his grave, serious way, his knees stiff, and his
head bobbing in unison with his flying coat tails.

"Mr. Stanard, I have been sent by the Army Board to read the inclosed
notice to you. Ahem!"

Mr. Stanard peered at the speaker. His mustache fooled the Parson, and
the Parson bowed meekly.

Once more the cadet took out the official envelope and with a
preliminary flourish and several "ahems!" began to read:

"United States Military Academy, West Point, June 20th. Cadet Peter
Stanard, of Boston, Massachusetts, it has just been ascertained, was
admitted to the duties of conditional cadet through an error of the
examining board. A re-examination of Cadet Stanard is hereby ordered to
be conducted immediately under the charge of the--ahem!--superintendent
of ordnance, in the Observatory Building. By order of the Academy Board.
Ahem!"

Now, if Cadet Peter Stanard had been a cadet just a little longer he
would never have been taken in by that device, for Cadet Peter Stanard
was no fool. But as it was, he did not see that the order was absurd.

He went.

Again the procession started with the same comments as before; this
time, however, the door was not locked, and the party entered, sought
out another room where stood several solemn cadets at attention,
respectfully saluting the superintendent of ordnance, ex-lord high.

"Cadet Stanard," said the latter, "take a chair. Here is pencil and
paper. What is that book there. Geology? Well, give it to me until
afterward. Now, Mr. Stanard, here are ten questions which the board
expects you to answer. These are general questions--that is, they are
upon no particular subject. The board desires to test your general
stock of information, the--ahem!--breadth, so to speak, of your
intellectual horizon. Now you will be allowed an hour to answer them.
And since I have other duties in the meantime, I shall leave you,
trusting to your own honor to use no unfair means. Mr. Stanard,
good-day."

Mr. Stanard rose, bobbed his head and coat tails and sat down. The
superintendent marched out, the cadets after him. The victim heard a key
turn in the door; the Parson glanced at the first question on the
paper--

"I. When are cyathophylloid corals to be found in fossiliferous
sandstone of Tertiary origin?"

"By the bones of a Megatherium!" cried the Parson, "The very thing I was
looking for myself and couldn't find."

And forthwith he seized his pencil, and, without reading further, wrote
a ten minutes' discourse upon his own researches in that same line.

"That's the best I can do," said he, wiping his brow. "Now for the
next."

"II. Name any undiscovered island in the Pacific Ocean."

The Parson knitted his brows in perplexity and reread the question.

"Undiscovered," he muttered. "Undiscovered! Surely that word is
undiscovered. U-m-yes! But if an island is undiscovered how can it have
any name? That must be a mistake."

In perplexity, the Parson went on to the next one.

"III. If a dog jumps three feet at a jump, how many jumps will it take
him to get across a wall twelve feet wide?"

"IV. In what year did George Washington stop beating his mother?"

A faint light had begun to dawn upon Stanard's mind; his face began to
redden with indignation.

"V. What is strategy in warfare? Give an example. If you were out of
ammunition and didn't want the enemy to know it, would it be strategy to
go right on firing?"

"VI. If three cannibals eat one missionary, how many missionaries will
it take to eat the three cannibals?"

"VII. If a plebe's swelled head shrinks at the rate of three inches a
day, how many months will it be before it fits his brains?"

And Stanard seized the paper, tore it across the middle and flung it to
the floor in disgust. Then he made for the door.

"There's going to be a fight!" he muttered. "I swear it by the Seven
Hills of Rome!"

The Parson's blood was boiling with righteous indignation; he had
"licked" those same cadets before, or some of them, and he meant to do
it again right now. But when he reached the door he halted for a moment
to listen to a voice he heard outside.

"I tell you I cannot do it! Bless my soul!"--the Parson recognized the
sound. "I tell you I have lost enough weight already. I can't run again.
Now, I'll go home first. Bless my soul!"

"Oho!" said the Parson. "So they got poor Indian in this thing, too.
Um--this is something to think over."

With his usual meditative manner he turned and took his seat again,
carefully pulling up his trousers and moving his coat tails as he did
so. Clearing his throat, he began to discuss the case with himself.

"It is obvious, very obvious, that my condition will in no way be
ameliorated by creating a suspicion in trying to make a forceful exit
through that locked door.

"It would be a more efficacious method, I think, in some way to manage
to summon aid. Perhaps it would be well to endeavor to leave in secret."

And with this thought in mind he went to the window.

"It would appear," he said, gravely, as he took in the situation, "that
the 'high-thundering, Olympian Zeus' smiles propitiously upon my plan."

And with this classic remark he stuck one long shank out of the window,
followed it with another just as long, and stood upon the cornice over
the door of the building, which chanced to be in reach. From there he
half slid, half tumbled to the ground, arose, arranged his necktie
carefully, gazed about him solemnly to hear if any one had seen him, and
finally set out at a brisk pace for barracks, taking great, long
strides, swinging his great, long arms, and talking sagely to himself in
the meanwhile.

"When the other two members of our--ahem!--alliance are made aware of
the extraordinary condition of affairs," he muttered, "I think that I am
justified in my hypothesis when I say there will be some excitement."

There was.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE RESCUE PARTY.


Mark and Texas were seated on the steps of barracks when the Parson came
through the sally port. The two were listening to the music of the band
at the Saturday afternoon hop in the Academy Building, and also watching
several cadets paying penalties by marching sedately back and forth in
the area.

Stanard strolled in slowly with no signs of excitement. He came up and
sat down beside the two in his usual methodical way.

"Good-afternoon, gentlemen," said he. "Good-afternoon. I have something
to deliberate upon with you if it is perfectly agreeable."

It was agreeable, and so the Parson told his story, embellishing it with
many flourishes, classical allusions and geological metaphors. And when
he finished Texas sprang up in excitement.

"Wow!" he cried. "Let's go up thar an' clean out the hull crowd."

"It is best to deliberate, to think over our plan of attack," returned
the Parson, calmly, and with a mild rebuke in his tone, which reminded
Texas of his promise never to get excited again, made him sit down
sheepishly.

"I think," put in Mark, "that we ought to think up some scheme to scare
'em off, or get away with Indian, or something. It's a harmless joke,
you know, so what's the use of fighting over it?"

"Oh," growled Texas, in disgust.

"If we could only manage to turn the tables on them," continued Mark.
"Shut up a while, and let's think a few minutes."

And then there was silence, deep and impressive, while everybody got his
"ratiocinating apparatus," as the Parson called it, to work. Mark was
the first to break it.

"Look here, Parson," said he, "what's the name of all those chemicals of
yours that you hid up the chimney for fear the cadet officers 'd make
you give 'em up?"

The Parson rattled off a list of unpronounceable names, at the mention
of one of which Mark sprang up.

"Get it! Get it! you long-legged Boston professor, you!" he shouted.
"Never mind why! But I've got something in my pocket that'll--gee whiz!
Hurry up!"

The Parson did as he was commanded, and in about as much of a hurry as
was possible for him. And Mark tucked the bottle under his coat and the
three set off in haste to the rescue, Texas grumbling meanwhile and
wanting to know why in thunderation a square stand-up fight wasn't just
as good as anything.

An Indian war party could not have made a more stealthy entrance than
did the three. They climbed in one of the windows on the lower floor,
the basement, and then listened for any sound that might tell them what
was going on above. They heard voices conversing in low tones, but no
signs of hazing; the reason of that fact being that Indian was just then
locked in another room hard at work on his "mental examination," the
same one that had been given to Stanard. And poor Indian was striving
his best to think of the name of any undiscovered island which he had
ever heard of.

Mark took the big bottle from under his coat, set it on the floor and
took out the cork. From his pocket he took a paper containing a thick
black powder. This he poured carefully into the bottle, put in the cork,
and then turned and made a dash for the window. Outside, the three made
for the woods nearby and hid to watch.

"Just wait till enough of that dissolves," said Mark. "Just wait."

Meanwhile, upstairs, the hilarious cadets were chuckling merrily over
the predicament of their two victims. The lord high, etc., and
superintendent had carefully timed the hour that the Parson was to have
for his answers; the hour was up, and the official had arisen, turned
the key, and was in the very act of opening the door when suddenly--

Bang! a loud report that shook the doors and windows of the building and
made the cadets spring up in alarm. They gazed in one another's
frightened faces, scarcely knowing what to think. And then up the
stairway slowly rolled a dense volume of heavy smoke, that seemed to
fill the building in an instant.

"Fire! Fire!" yelled the whole crowd at once, and, forgetting both their
victims in the mad excitement, they made a wild dash down the stairs for
the door.

"Fire! Fire!" rang out their cries, and a moment later a big bell down
at barracks sounded the alarm--"Fire! Fire!"

And over in the woods three conspirators sat and punched one another for
joy.




CHAPTER IX.

HEROISM OF THE PARSON.


The cadets of the academy are organized into a fire department for the
safety of the post. It is the duty of the cadets upon the sounding of
the alarm--three strokes of the bell, or a long roll on the drum, or
three shots, as the case may be--to fall into line immediately and
proceed to the scene of the fire. One brigade has charge of a hand
engine, another forms a bucket line, etc.

West Point was, of course, thrown into the wildest excitement on the
instant that the cry was raised. The cadets poured in from every
direction, and in a few moments were on the way at double-quick. Army
officers, the soldiers of the regular army at the post, infantry and
cavalry, all made for the scene.

The Observatory Building was found to be in imminent peril, apparently;
there were no flames in sight, but smoke was pouring from every crevice.
Prompt and quick to act, some heroic young cadet leaped up the steps and
burst in the door with an ax, though it was not locked and needed only
a turn of the knob to open it. The moment an opening was made a cloud of
smoke burst forth that drove the party back before it, and at the same
instant a cry of horror swelled up from the fast-arriving crowd.

With one accord everybody glanced up to one of the windows on the floor
above. There stood a figure, nothing but the head visible in the smoke,
a figure of a badly-frightened lad, yelling at the top of his lungs for
help! help! help! And the crowd gazed at him in terror. It was Indian,
apparently in peril of his life!

Who should save him? Who? The thought was in everybody's mind at the
moment, and yet every one hesitated before that barrier of blinding
smoke. And then--then suddenly a roar of cheers and shouts swelled up as
a hero came to the fore. When every one else trembled this hero alone
was bold. He had dashed wildly from the woods, a tall, lanky,
long-haired figure. He had fought his way through the craven crowd, his
coat tails flying and his long elbows working. He had dashed up the
steps, his light green socks twinkling with every stride. And now, while
the crowd shouted encouragement, he plunged desperately into the thick
of the smoke and was lost to view.

The crowd waited in breathless suspense--one minute--two--and still the
imperiled lad stood at the window and the hero did not appear. Could it
be that he was lost--overcome by smoke and flame? The throng below hated
to think of it and yet--no, there he was! At the doorway again! Had he
failed to accomplish his noble purpose? Had he been driven back from the
work of rescue? No! No! He had succeeded; he had gotten what he wanted!
As he dashed wildly out again the people saw that he carried under his
arm a great, leather-bound volume.

"Dana's Geology" was safe!

And a moment or two later somebody put up a ladder and the unfortunate
"Mormon" climbed down in haste.

Meanwhile, what of the fire? Encouraged by the example of the "hero,"
the cadets rushed in to the attack. But, strange to say, though they had
hand engines and buckets and ladders, they could find no fire to attack.
Several windows having been smashed, most of the smoke had escaped by
this time--there had really been but very little of it, anyway, just
enough for excitement. There is a saying that where there is smoke
there must be flame, and, acting on this rather dubious statement, the
gallant fire brigade hunted high and low, searching in every nook and
corner of the building, and even searching the desk drawers to see if
perchance the cunning fire had run away and hidden there. And still not
a sign of flame.

The mystery got more and more interesting; the whole crowd came in--the
smoke having all gone by this time--to see if, perchance, a little more
diligent search might not aid; and the people kept coming until finally
the place was so packed that there was no room for the fire anyway. And
so finally every one gave it up in disgust and went home, including the
gallant fire brigade. And the three conspirators in the woods went, too,
scarcely able to hide their glee.

"It's jest one on them ole cadets!" vowed Texas.

Of course, the Army Board ordered a strict investigation, which was
made--and told nothing. All that was found was a few bits of broken
glass in one room, and an "examination paper" in another. Indian was
hauled up, terrified, to explain; he described his hazing, but
steadfastly refused names--which was good West Point etiquette--he
vowed he knew nothing about the fire--which was the truth--also West
Point etiquette. And since Indian was mum, and there was no one else to
investigate, the investigation stopped, and the affair remained a West
Point mystery--a mystery to all but three.




CHAPTER X.

MORE TROUBLES.


"No, sir! I wouldn't think of it, not for a moment. The fellow's a
coward, and he don't deserve the chance."

And Cadet Corporal Jasper brought his fist down on the table with a
bang.

"No, sir," he repeated. "I wouldn't think of it!"

"But he wants to fight!" exclaimed the other.

"Well, he had a chance once; why didn't he fight then? That's what I
want to know, and that's what he won't tell us. And as far as I'm
concerned Mallory shall lie in the bed he's made. I wouldn't honor him
with another chance."

It was an afternoon late in June, and the two speakers were discussing
some ice cream at "the Dutchwoman's" and waiting for the call to
quarters before dress parade.

"If that fellow," continued Corporal Jasper, "had any reason on earth
for getting up at midnight, dodging sentry and running out of barracks,
to stay till reveille, except to avoid fighting you that morning, now,
by jingo! I want to know what it is! The class sent me to ask him, and
he simply said he wouldn't tell, that's all. His bluff about wanting
another chance won't work."

"Well, if we don't," protested Williams, the other man, a tall,
finely-built fellow, "if we don't, he'll go right on getting fresh,
won't he?"

"No, sir, he won't! We'll find a way to stop him. In the first place,
he's been sent to Coventry. Not a man in the academy'll speak to him; he
may not mind that for a while, but I think he won't brave it out very
long. Just you watch and see."

"The only trouble with that," said Williams, "is that he's not cut by
all the fellows. I've seen three of the plebes with him."

"What!" cried the other, in amazement. "Who?"

"Well, there's that fellow he seconded in the fight----"

"Texas, you mean?"

"Yes, Texas. Then that long-legged scarecrow Stanard was out walking
with him this very day. And I saw that goose they call the Indian
talking to him at dinner, and before the whole plebe class, too."

"Well, now, by jingo! they'll find it costs something to defy the
corps!" exclaimed Jasper. "It's a pretty state of affairs, indeed, if
three or four beasts can come up here and run this place as they please.
They'll find when an order's given here they'll obey, or else they can
chase themselves home in a hurry. That fellow Mallory must be a fool!
There's never been a plebe at this academy's dared to do half what he's
done."

"That's why I think it would be best to lick him. I'm not sure I can do
it, you know, but I think it would be best to try."

"That fellow started out to be B. J. at the very start," growled the
excitable corporal, after a moment's thought. "Right at the very start!
'Baby' Edwards was telling me the other day how way last year this
fellow met with an accident--fell off the express or something--and
while he was staying down at the Falls Baby and a couple of other
fellows thought he was a candidate, and started in to haze him. He was
sassy as you please then. And after that he went out West, where he
lives, and did some extraordinary thing--saved an express, I believe,
and sent in an account to a paper for a lot of money. Of course that got
him dead stuck on himself, and then he goes and wins a cadetship here
and thinks he can run the earth. He was so deucedly B. J. he had to go
and lock Edwards and Bull Harris in an icehouse down near the Falls!"

"You see what's happened now," he continued, after a moment's pause.
"Your challenge brought him up with a round turn, and he saw his bluff
was stopped. He was afraid to fight, and so he hid, that's all. But, by
jingo, he'll pay for it if I've got anything to say in the matter!"

And the little corporal made the dishes on the table rattle.

Corporal Jasper and Cadet Williams had finished their council and their
ice cream by this time, and arose to go just as the roll of drum was
heard from "Camp McPherson." The two strolled off in the direction of
the summons, Jasper just as positive and vehement as ever.

"You shan't fight him," he declared. "And if sending him to Coventry
doesn't do any good, we'll find some other way, that's all! And we'll
keep at him till he learns how to behave himself if it takes the whole
summer to do it."

This was the young cadet officer's parting vow, as he turned and entered
his tent.




CHAPTER XI.

DISADVANTAGES OF "COVENTRY."


"Sir, the parade is formed!"

Thus spoke the cadet adjutant as he approached the lieutenant in
command, and a moment later, at the word, the battalion swung around and
marched across the campus. It was the evening dress parade of perhaps
the best drilled body of troops in the country, and West Point was out
in holiday attire to see it.

Seated on the benches beneath the trees on the western edge of the
parade ground was a crowd of spectators--visitors at the post and nearly
the whole plebe class besides. For this was Saturday afternoon holiday,
and the "beasts" had turned out in a body to witness the performance of
what they were all hoping some day to be.

It was a "mighty fine" performance, and one that made those same beasts
open their eyes with amazement. Spotless and glittering in their
uniforms were the cadets, and they went through all manner of difficult
evolutions in perfect unison, marching with lines as straight and even
as the eye could wish. It is a pretty sight, a mass of gray in a setting
of deep green--the trees that encircle the spot, and it made the poor
homesick "beasts" take a little interest in life once more.

Among these "beasts" were Mark and Texas. They sat under the trees a
little apart from the crowd and watched the scene with interest. Mark
had seen dress parades before; Texas had not, and he stared with open
eyes and mouth, giving vent to an exclamation of amazement and delight
at intervals.

"Look a' yere, Mark," he cried, "d'you think we'll ever be able do that
a' way. Honest, now? I think I'll stay!"

"Even after you get through fightin?" laughed Mark.

"I don't think I want to fight any more," growled Texas, looking glum.
"Since you an' me fit, somehow fightin' ain't so much fun."

"What's the fun o' fightin' ef you git licked?" he added, after a
moment's thought.

"I never tried it," said the other, laughing. "But I suppose you'll be
real meek now and let them haze you."

"Yaas!" drawled Texas, grinning. "Yes, I will! Them ole cadets git after
me, now, by jingo, I'll go out there an' yank some of 'em out that
parade an' lick them all t'once. But say! look at that chap on a horse."

"That chap's the commandant," said Mark, "and he's going to review the
parade for a change."

"I wish I was in it," exclaimed Texas, "an' I wish I knew all that
rigamarole they're doin' now"--that "rigamarole" being the
manual-at-arms. "I jest believe if I had somebody to teach me 'cept that
'ere yellin' tomcat of a Cadet Spencer I'd learn in a jiffy, dog on his
boots!"

"There he is now," said Mark, "in the second line there. And there on
the outside with his chevrons is Corporal Jasper, 'the committee.' They
look very different when they're in line."

"Nothin' 'd make that red-headed, freckle-faced coyote of a drill-master
look different," growled Texas. "I jes' wish he was bigger'n me so's I
could git up a scrap with him. Jest think o' that little martinet a
yellin' at me an' tellin' me I didn't have any sense. To-day, for
instance, d'you remember, he was tryin' to show Indian how to march an'
move his legs, an' Indian got twisted up into a knot; an' durnation,
jist because I laughed, why he rared round an' bucked fo' an hour!
What's the harm in laughing, anyhow?"

And Texas glared so savagely at his tormentor as the line swept by just
then that Mark concluded there was no harm and laughed.

"You're getting to be very stupid company, Texas," said he. "You never
do anything but growl at the cadets. I wish I had some diversion."

And Mark turned away in mock disgust and glanced down the archway of
trees.

"Here she comes," he said, after a moment's pause. "That's she walking
up the path with a cadet and another girl."

Texas turned as Mark spoke, and looked in the direction of his nod.

"So that's Mary Adams!" he exclaimed. "Well! well! That's the girl you
dodged barracks for, and risked your commission, and missed the fight,
and got called a coward, and sent to Coventry, and lots else. I swear!"

"That's the one," said Mark, smiling.

"She's stunning pretty," added Texas, as the trio drew near. "Gee-whiz!
I don't blame you."

"I liked her right well myself," admitted the other. "That is after I
saw her with that brother of hers. She certainly is a good sister to
him. But the cadets say she's something of a flirt, and Wicks Merritt
advised me to leave her alone, so I guess I shall."

"Sunday school teacher!" said Texas, laughing. "We'll have to call you
Parson, instead of Stanard. But I guess you're right. That's not a very
beautiful looking cadet she's with."

The three were passing then, and Mark arose.

"I guess I'll have to go speak to her," said he. "She's beckoning to me.
Wait a moment."

Texas watched his friend approach the group; he could not hear what was
said, however, and so he turned away to watch the parade. By doing it he
missed an interesting scene.

Mary Adams welcomed Mark with a look of gratitude and admiration that
Mark could not fail to notice. She had not forgotten the magnitude of
the service he had done for her. And then she turned to her two
companions.

"Miss Webb," she said, "let me present Mr. Mallory."

The other girl bowed, and Mary Adams turned to the cadet.

"Mr. Murray, Mr. Mallory," said she.

And then came the thunderclap. Mark put out his hand; the cadet quietly
put his behind his back.

"The cadets of this academy, Miss Adams," said he, "do not speak to Mr.
Mallory. Mr. Mallory is a coward!"

It was a trying moment; Mark felt the blood surge to his head, his
fingers twitched and his lip quivered. He longed to spring at the
fellow's throat and fling him to the ground.

It was a natural impulse. Texas would have done it. But Mark controlled
himself by the effort of his life. He clinched his hands behind him and
bit his tongue, and when he spoke he was calm and emotionless.

"Miss Adams," he said, "Mr. Murray and I will settle that later."

The two girls stared in amazement, "Mr. Murray" gazed into space, and
Mark turned without another word and strode over to where his friend was
sitting.

"Texas!" he muttered, gripping him by the shoulder. "Texas, there's
going to be a fight."

"Hey!" cried Texas, springing to his feet. "What's that? Whoop!"




CHAPTER XII.

THE EMBASSY OF THE PARSON.


"What's happened?" cried Texas, as soon as he'd managed to get calm
enough to talk coherently. "What's happened?"

"Sit down," said Mark, laughing in spite of himself. "Sit down and stop
your dancing. Everybody in the place is staring at you."

Texas sat, and then Mark described to him just what had happened. As
might have been expected, he was up in arms in a moment.

"Where is that feller? Now, look a 'yere, Mark, leggo me. Thar he goes!
Say, if I don't git him by the neck an'----"

The excitable youth was quieted after some ten minutes' work or so, and
immediate danger was over.

"And now," said Mark, "where's the Parson?"

"Over in library," responded the other, "a fossilizin'. What do you want
with him?"

"You be good," said Mark, "and I'll let you see. Come on."

They found the Parson as Texas had said, and they managed to separate
him from the books and drag him over to barracks. Then Mark, who by this
time had recovered his usual easy good-nature, told of "Mr. Murray's"
insult again.

"Now, I haven't the least objection," he continued, "of being sent to
Coventry. In fact, so long as it means the cadets' leaving me alone, I
rather like the idea. But I don't propose to stand a thing like that
which just happened for a moment. So there's got to be a fight, and if
they won't let me, I'll have to make 'em, that's all."

"Um," said the Parson, looking grave. "Um."

"Now, as for that fellow Murray," added Mark, "I don't propose to fight
him."

"Wow!" shouted Texas. "What in thunder do you mean? Now if you don't, by
jingo! I'll go and do it myself!"

"Take it easy," said Mark, laughing. "You see, Williams is the man the
class has selected to beat me; he's the best fighter. Now, if I beat
anybody else it won't do me the least bit of good; they'd still say I'm
afraid of Williams. So I'm going to try him first. How's that, Texas?"

"Reckon you're right," admitted Powers, rather sheepishly. "I 'spose
you'll let me go and arrange it, hey?"

"I'd as soon think of sending a dynamite bomb," laughed Mark. "You'd be
in a fight before he'd said three words. That's what I wanted the Parson
for. I think he'd be grave and scholarly even if they ate him."

"Thank you," said the Parson, gravely. "I should try."

"Wow!" growled Texas.

And thus it happened that the Parson set out for "Camp McPherson," a
short while later, his learned head full of prize fighting and the
methods and practice of diplomacy.

It was rather an unusual thing for a plebe to do--this venturing into
"camp;" and the cadets stared at the Parson, wondering what an amount of
curiosity he must have to go prospecting within the lines of the enemy.
The Parson, however, did not act as if curiosity had brought him; with a
businesslike air and a solemn visage he strode down the company street,
and, heedless of the cadets who had gathered at the tent doors to see
him, halted in front of one before which he saw "Billy" Williams
standing.

"Mr. Williams?" said the Parson.

Mr. Williams had been engaged in vigorously drying his face; he paused,
and gazed up out of the towel in surprise, and one of his tent mates,
Cadet Captain Fischer, ceased unwinding himself from his long red sash
and stared.

"My name is Stanard," said the Parson--"Peter Stanard."

"Pleased to meet you," said Williams, stretching out a long, brawny arm.

There was a twinkle in the yearling's eye as he glanced at the skinny
white fingers which Stanard put out in return. And, taking in the
stranger's lank, scholarly figure, Williams seized the hand and squeezed
with all his might.

He expected to hear a howl, but he was disappointed. The Parson drew up
his "prehensile muscles," as he called them. The result was that Cadet
Williams turned white, but he said nothing about it, and invited the
stranger into his tent.

The Parson deposited himself gently in one corner and drew up his long
legs under him. Then he gazed out of the tent and said--"ahem!"

"Warm day," said Williams, by way of a starter.

"It is not that the temperature is excessively altitudinous," responded
the Parson, "but the presence of a larger proportion of humidity retards
perspiratory exudation."

"Er--yes," said Williams. "Yes, I think that's it."

"I have come--ahem!" continued Stanard, "as a representative of Mr.
Mallory."

The other bowed.

"Mr. Mallory desires to know--if you will pardon my abruptness in
proceeding immediately to the matter in hand--to know if it is not
possible for you to fulfill a certain--er--engagement which you had with
him."

"I see," said Williams, thoughtfully, and he tapped the floor with his
foot for a minute or so.

"Mr. Mallory, of course, understands," he continued at last, "that I
have no grudge against him at all."

"Certainly," said the Parson.

"In fact, I rather admire Mr. Mallory, on the whole, though some of his
actions have been, I think, imprudent. In this matter I am simply the
deputy of the class."

"Exactly," said the Parson, bowing profusely.

"Therefore, I fight when the class says so, and when they say no, what
reason have I for fighting? Now, the class thinks that Mr. Mallory has
had chance enough, and----"

"But they don't know the circumstances!" protested Stanard, with more
suddenness than was usual with him.

"They do not," responded the other. "But they'd like to."

"I do not know them myself," said the Parson. "But I have faith enough
in Mr. Mallory to take his word that it was unavoidable."

"You must have a good deal," added Williams, his handsome face looking
grave, "a good deal to risk being sent to Coventry."

"I am willing. Examples of yet higher devotion to a fides amicus, so
to speak, are by no means extraordinary. Take the popular instance of
Damon and Pythias, or, if you look for one yet more conspicuous, I would
mention Prylocates and Tyndarus, in the well-known play of 'The
Captive,' by Plautus, with which you are doubtless familiar."

And the Parson closed his learned discourse with his favorite occupation
of wiping his brow.

"The risk is your own," responded the yearling, calmly. "You must not
mind if the class resents your view of the case."

There was a few moments' silence after that, during which the Parson
racked his head to think what to say next.

"You refuse, then, to fight Mr. Mallory?" he inquired at last.

"Absolutely!" responded the other. "Absolutely, until the class so
directs."

Then the Parson drew a long breath, and prepared for the culminating
stroke.

"What I say next, Mr. Williams," said he, "you will understand is said
with all possible politeness and good feeling, but it must be said. Mr.
Mallory has been insulted by some cadets as a coward. He must free
himself from the suspicion. Mr. Williams, if a plebe should strike an
older cadet, would that make a fight necessary?"

"Most certainly," said Williams, flushing.

