
"Oh, this is the most beautiful, for there are so many flowers and
lovely places. And--I think I like the pleasant weather best."

"How many cousins have you?"

"None," answered Laverne rather regretfully.

"Oh, isn't that queer? I have four over to Oaklands. And two in
London. And one of father's sisters married a Mexican, and lives way
down to Santa Barbara. They have ever so many children with queer
names. Aunt Amy died a little while ago, and as she hadn't any
children, she left some money to us and the Oakland cousins. But not
to have any----"

Olive Personette looked very sympathetic. Presently she said, "How
many little girls do you know?"

"Only three, and they are Spanish. There were none where we lived
before. It was a kind of wild place. I like this ever so much better."

"Did you love them?"

Laverne considered, while her eyes wandered off into space.

"I think I didn't really love them. I liked them. They came up to
learn English, and Miss Holmes and I studied Spanish. And we played
about. They had a queer old house and a lovely garden, with fruit and
flowers, and tame birds, and everything. And I had a squirrel I tamed.
We brought him up here, and I kept him two weeks in a little pen, but
when I let him out he ran away."

"I'll tell you what I'll do. We'll make believe to ourselves that we
are cousins. Mother said she hoped I would like you a good deal. You
see, Isabel begins to go with big girls, and they just push you out
when they tell secrets, and they have so many to tell. Do you know any
secrets?"

Laverne shook her head gravely.

"But sometimes you do bad things and you don't want to tell anybody."

"Why, I tell Uncle Jason everything. And----"

Did she ever do anything very bad? She didn't always study when Miss
Holmes told her to, and she sometimes tore her frocks scrambling up or
down the hills. She had been brought up to be truthful and obedient,
and now these traits were part of her nature.

"Well, it's this way--you must not tell your uncle the things I tell
you, and you must find something to tell me--when Miss Holmes is cross
to you."

"But she isn't ever cross."

"Oh, yes, everybody has a cross streak in her, or him. I'm cross
often. And I do hope our new mother won't scold. Father said she was
so good to Aunt Amy, and Aunt Amy was dreadful at times. Then the Mrs.
Barr we had for housekeeper was just awful. She said naughty words,
too, like the men. No one is good always. You can't be. And when I get
in a taking I'm a terror at school. Miss Carson once wrote a note to
father, but I begged so she tore it up. I wanted a watch for Christmas
and I was afraid he would not give it to me if he knew. That was a
secret I've kept until now, but he gave me the watch. I let it fall
and it had to go away to be repaired. And I have three rings. See, are
they not pretty? That garnet is getting tight. I'll have to give it
away," and she laughed.

Her new mother came around to them.

"Are you making friends?" she asked. "That is right. Laverne, are you
having a nice time? Come and see the dancing."

They were waltzing up and down the spacious hall. There had been
dancing on shipboard among the men, but this was something that
fascinated the little girl. The beautiful dresses and sparkling
jewels, the delicate laces that floated like clouds, and among the men
were two or three young Spaniards. One of them wore a beautiful
fringed sash about his waist.

"Do you go to dancing school?

"No," replied Laverne.

"But you will. I began last winter. Isabel dances. See, some one has
taken her out. Oh, dear, I wish I could grow up in a night, just three
years. Wouldn't it be funny to have it happen in your sleep?"

Jason Chadsey had been looking about for his little girl. He had
insisted at first that he could not come, that he was too old, and
such a plain fellow, that he would look queer among the fine people.
But Mrs. Personette had written him a special invitation, and he had
compromised with Miss Holmes by promising to come for them. He knew
Mr. Personette a little in a business way, and he was really
gratified at Miss Alwood's good fortune. So he had gone to the
tailor's and treated himself to a new suit of clothes, and looked
fully five years younger.

Laverne stared at him a moment, then a lovely smile illumined her face
as she slipped her hand in his and rather bashfully introduced her new
friend.

"I have been making the acquaintance of your brother and your sister,"
he said. "I hope you and my little girl will be friends."

"Oh, we have promised to," declared Olive. "I am coming to see her
pony, and I am very glad to know her."

He nodded and escorted the children about, or rather followed Olive,
who gracefully made herself mistress of the occasion and chatted with
an ease that amused him. But it was getting late, and as he had
performed his round of duties, he proposed now that they should return
home. Olive kissed her new friend with much fervor.

"Parties are just splendid," Laverne said, as she danced alongside of
Uncle Jason. "Can't you have a party unless you are married?"

"Oh, yes, there are birthday parties and Christmas parties and parties
just for fun."

"But you have to know a good many people, don't you?"

"I think I have seen three or four little girls have a party."

"I know four now."

"And perhaps by Christmas you will know four more," returned Uncle
Jason.

She was very tired and sleepy when she reached home, and they all
retired. And it so happened she slept late the next morning and had
her breakfast alone. Pablo had found it very lonely without them and
had decided to accept Mr. Chadsey's offer. So she ran out now to say
good-morning to him and Pelajo.

Something scampered along at her feet, and then made a sudden dash
among the vines. Two bright eyes peeped out and there was a peculiar
little chatter.

"Why, if it isn't Snippy," she cried. "Snip, Snip!" and she knelt down
in the gravelly path. "Snip!"

There was a sudden rush, and the squirrel ran up her arm, across her
shoulders, and fairly nestled in the little curve below her ear. And
then he began to chatter as if he was telling over his journey and his
tribulations and expressing his joy. Surely no squirrel was ever more
eloquent to his mate in love-making time. Laverne laughed until the
tears came into her eyes, and she had a vague suspicion that she was
crying as well, but it was for very joy.

Snippy wriggled out of the warm embrace presently and questioned her
with his bright beady eyes, as if the voice might have led him into a
mistake. But no, this was his little mistress sure enough.

She gathered him up and ran into the kitchen where Miss Holmes was
making a pie.

"Oh," she cried, "Snippy has come back, my dear, darling Snippy."

He had come by his name in a rather unexpected fashion. When Laverne
first had him tame enough to come into the house, throw his beautiful
bushy tail up his back, and let the feathery end droop over his ears
like a bit of Spanish lace, a trick of the Se√±oras, and eat a fragment
of cracker, Miss Holmes said one day, "He looks so pert and snippy one
has to smile at his daintiness."

They had tried on several names that did not seem to fit. It was easy
enough to get something for a dog or a horse.

"Oh, that will just do, Snippy," and Laverne danced around in delight.
"Then we can call him Snip when we are in a hurry--he is such a dear
little dot, too. His tail is as big as his body; Snippy, Snippy!"

Perhaps there was something in the sound that attracted him, for he
glanced up out of brightest eyes and winked as if he approved it.

He did soon come to know his name. Perhaps it was because it became
connected with some tidbit, for when the little girl called him she
always had a dainty morsel for him.

He glanced about the room now, and then thrust his head under
Laverne's arm. Miss Holmes spoke and he peered out. Yes, he knew that
voice surely, but the place was strange.

"Oh, Snippy, you can't imagine how glad I am to have you. I've been
homesick for you, though I like this place better, and we're nearer
the grand ocean, and can look over into the Golden Gate, and golden it
is in the sunset. Oh, why did you run away?"

Snippy said something in his own language and struggled to get free.
She let him run down her skirt and leap to the floor. He glanced round
with sharp, inquiring eyes, then ran to one corner where, in the old
place, he used to find nuts and perhaps a crust. Oh, it wasn't the
same place. He fairly scolded, up went his tail, and he scampered out
of the door. Laverne ran, calling him. Over the path, the rockery
Uncle Jason had built for her, plunging into the great ferns that grew
as high as her head, and shook off an odorous fragrance at being
disturbed.

"Oh, Snippy! Snippy!" in a beseeching tone.

The little girl sat down on a stone and cried. Sorrow had followed so
on the heels of delight. Bruno came and put his nose in her hand and
looked comfort out of great wistful eyes.

Miss Holmes came out presently.

"I think he will come back," she said hopefully. "You see he found the
way once and he can again. And now come in and study a lesson. There
is nothing like work to lighten sorrow."

"If he only would come back! Bruno, if you see him, come and tell me
at once."

Bruno nodded sagaciously.




CHAPTER VII

A TASTE OF GAYETY


May was beautiful enough to make the heart leap for joy. Rose-bushes
sent up spikes of pink and blood-red blossoms or clambered over
hillocks, lilies stood up among the ferns and bushes, and the poppies
that grew everywhere seemed to dance with joy, as they flung out their
silken leaves in a dazzle, wooed by the wind. Bees were busy enough
with their bustle and humming, birds were singing everywhere.
Squirrels and rabbits scudded about, little harmless lizards came out
and sunned themselves on the stones, and great flying iridescent bugs
that shot across the air with golden and green rays. Oh, how
enchanting it all was. It stirred the little girl with unutterable
thoughts.

"Laverne," Miss Holmes called. Oh, was it lesson time!

"Come, dear, Mrs. Personette has the carriage here, and we are going
to take a look at the great German Mayday festival. Come quick, and
slip in another frock."

For what with building dams for waterfalls, making paths and rockeries
and flower beds, the little girl was not always in company trim.

"Oh, Uncle Jason was talking about that, and he was so sorry he could
not get away, but some vessels were coming in. Oh, yes, I'll hurry."

There were baths and sundry conveniences in many of the houses in this
new city. Perhaps no place in the world had ever worked such marvels
in five years. But Jason Chadsey had not come to luxuries yet.
However, the little girl did very well without them. She washed and
dressed in a trice.

Mrs. Personette and Olive were in the big carriage. Isabel and Howard
had taken the buggy. She greeted them cordially. Olive made room for
Laverne, or rather beckoned her to her own seat.

The Germans were holding a grand festival at Russ's Garden. There was
a big flag flying from the great marquee, and numerous lesser ones.
There were the park of shade trees, the houses of refreshment, the
arches wreathed with flowers, and German flags vying with the Stars
and Stripes. Gay beds of flowers were interspersed that lent richest
coloring. The broad driveway was thronged with carriages already, but
none were allowed inside.

The Turner Gesang Verein was really the leader of the festivities.
The members were dressed in brown linen, loose and baggy, and marched
from their headquarters with banners flying and the band playing
inspiriting airs from Vaterland. And when they all assembled before
the marquee, "Das Deutsche Vaterland" swelled out on the balmy air
in a most rapturous manner. They were in their home atmosphere again,
they hardly remembered the land giving them shelter. The grand
choruses went up in a shout. The instruments seemed fairly to beat
waves of music on the air.

It appeared, indeed, as if all the Germans in the city had gathered
there, and even at this time there were about two thousand. And then
the games began. They leaped and balanced, they performed various
athletic feats, the victor being crowned with shouts, as well as
winning a prize. They danced, the boys and men with each other, many
of them in native garments of the provinces from which they had
emigrated, and some were amusing in motley array.

Outside there were booths with tables for refreshments, where wives
and children congregated, and the place was patrolled by policemen to
keep roughs away. The onlookers drove around or were on horseback;
among them were the old Californians in leggings, sash, and sombrero,
and a few Spaniards, who looked on haughtily at these people who were
fast superseding the old stock.

There were not many places of amusement really proper for women and
children of the better class. The circus had been the pioneer
entertainment, then the theatre. Even at a concert of vocal music
given by the favorite, Stephen C. Massett, where front seats were
reserved for ladies, only four were present. A neat little theatre had
been destroyed by fire; the Jenny Lind had shared the same fate, until
a Mr. Maguire erected a large stone theatre destined for first-class
amusements and that had been taken for the city hall. But the year
before Mr. and Mrs. Baker, fine actors, had succeeded in establishing
a new era in the Californian drama, and given it a style and
excellence, and catered to the best class of people, who had begun to
give tone to society.

Laverne hardly heeded Olive's chatter, she was so interested in the
gay scene. There had never been anything like it to her. And the music
stirred her wonderfully. They drove slowly round and round, watched
the athletes and held their breath at some of the daring feats.

"Oh, you should hear Howard talk of the circus performers and what
they do," exclaimed Olive. "There's a flying leap when a man comes
over the head of the audience, and catches a big hoop on the stage,
and hangs suspended while the audience applauds, and a woman that
rides on two horses, changing about, and sometimes stands up. She's a
foreigner of some sort."

"I should think they would be afraid;" and Laverne shuddered.

"Oh, no; they're trained, you see. And the races are splendid. We can
go to them. And they used to have bull-baits at the Mission, but they
don't allow it now."

"Bull-baits?" echoed Laverne.

"Oh, bull-fights," laughed Olive. "That's real Spanish, you know. Why,
it seems all right to them, of course. And there are dog-fights and
cock-fights here--I don't see much difference, only the bulls are
bigger and stronger."

Then a Turk halted at the carriage which had been stopped in the
press. He had a great clapper, which made a hideous noise, and a voice
that went through your ears. A tray was suspended from a leathern
strap that passed around his neck. He wore a gay fez, and a jacket
embroidered with gold thread much tarnished, and full Turkish trousers
of red silk so soiled one could hardly tell the color. His swarthy
skin and long, waxed mustache gave him a fierce look.

"Oh, mother, get some candy," cried Olive, "I'm just dying for some."

Fortunately it was done up in a kind of soft Chinese paper, and so
kept from the dust. Then in a jar he had some curious shredded stuff
that looked like creamy ravellings.

"Oh, we will drive around and get some at Winn's," said her mother.

"Oh, Laverne, don't you want some real Turkish candy?"

Laverne looked undecided.

"Oh, do, do," pleaded Olive, and Mrs. Personette yielded.

The ravelly stuff was very funny and melted in your mouth, and the
candy seemed saturated with all flavors.

"Of course, Winn's is much better," declared Olive, with an air. "Oh,
mother, can't we go to Winn's and have some lunch!"

"I've been considering that," returned her mother.

The two friends had so much to talk about that the children's chatter
had not really reached them. Old times and beliefs that seemed of some
bygone century rather than a decade or two, so utterly had this
Western coast outgrown them.

"Have you seen Howard anywhere?" asked Mrs. Personette.

"No," returned Olive. Then in a lower tone--"They're off, having a
good time, I know. Let Isabel alone for that; mother needn't think
she'll know everything," and the girl laughed.

They drove around once more. Now a good many were seated at the
refreshment tables, smoking, drinking beer, and laughing over jokes of
the old fatherland. Of course, before night they would be rather
uproarious. They had seen the best part of the celebration.

"I do wish we could find the children," said Mrs. Personette. "We
might have lunch together."

At Washington and Montgomery Streets was the new establishment of Mr.
Winn, who had been twice burned out and had not lost his courage. It
seemed the fate of nearly all of the old settlers, and would have
ruined and discouraged a community with less pluck. For, after all,
while there were no end of toughs and roughs and adventurers, there
was still some of the best blood of the Eastern cities, full of
knowledge and perseverance.

Winn's was a large refectory of the highest order. It was furnished in
the most elegant and tasteful manner, and the service was admirable.
Indeed, it had come to be quite a calling place for the real society
people, where they could meet a friend and sit over their tea or
coffee and exchange the news of the day, which meant more really than
in any other city. For every twenty-four hours something stirring was
happening. Every fortnight now a steamship came in. New people, new
goods, letters from the States, messages to this one and that from
friends thousands of miles away.

The large rooms were connected by arches with costly draperies. Tables
here and there for guests, sofas, easy-chairs, a stand for flowers,
the papers of the day and magazines that had to be old before they
reached these Western readers. Silks and satins rustled, skirts were
beginning to be voluminous, bonnets had wreaths of flowers under the
brim, and it was the day of shawls, India, cashmere, and lace. Now and
then a dark-eyed Se√±orita wore hers in some graceful folds that made a
point over the curls on her forehead. But women mostly had their hair
banded Madonna-wise that gave some faces a very serene and placid
look. Long ringlets were another style. Demi-trains were also in
vogue, and at Winn's at luncheon time, it had the appearance of a
fashionable reception. Children wore stiffly starched skirts and gypsy
hats with wreaths of flowers. Laverne's were forget-me-nots, with
streamers of blue ribbon, and her soft light hair was braided in two
tails, tied with a blue ribbon about halfway, the rest floating loose.

They had a dainty luncheon. Mrs. Personette received nods from this
one and that one, for already she was becoming quite well known.

"Oh," she said presently, "do you know the school children are to have
their walk on Monday, a Mayday walk, quite an institution, I believe.
And Laverne ought to go to school, do you not think so? And this is to
be quite an event. She must see it, and you as well."

"Alice Payne is to be Queen of the May, and seven maids of honor from
the different schools," said Olive. "Why, I could take Laverne with
me. You'd have to wear your white frock, that's all."

Laverne glanced up eagerly, with a dainty flush. Could she really take
part in it?

It was true Jason Chadsey had not been very anxious to push his
little girl forward. They had lived too far from schools before, and
she was too much of a stranger to go around alone.

"It will be just splendid! And you will see so many girls. Of course,
we have lived here a long while and know almost everybody."

"Of all the thousands," appended her mother, rather humorously. "Then
you must be a 'Forty-niner.'"

Olive colored. "We're older than that," she answered, with some pride.
"Father is a real Californian."

"And you children will belong to the old aristocracy when birth begins
to count. I suppose that will come in presently."

"It always does," returned Miss Holmes. "Think of the pride of Boston
over her early immigrants."

They drove around the garden and then took the two guests home. Miss
Holmes expressed her pleasure warmly.

"Oh," laughed Mrs. Personette, "when we were on our long journey,
coming to a strange land, who could have imagined that in so short a
time I should be riding round in my carriage! And I seemed to have no
special gift or attraction. Truly it is a Golden State."

Laverne had a great deal to tell Uncle Jason. She was so bright and
happy, and had seen so much. And then there was the procession for
Monday. Could she go?

Certainly, it was not possible to deny the eager, appealing face and
pleading voice.

After supper, when she was in bed and Uncle Jason reading his papers,
Miss Holmes broached the subject of school.

The first schools, as happens in most new places, were private
enterprises. The earliest of all had been among the old residents
before the great influx, and in 1847 the old plain little schoolhouse
was erected on Portsmouth Square. It was used for many purposes.
Religious bodies held their first meetings here, and the early public
amusements were given, even political and benevolent assemblies. It
was dignified as a Court House under Judge Almond, and at length
turned into a station house until it went the way of transitory
things. To this effort for education succeeded a real public school,
with a board of trustees of prominent men, there being sixty children
of school age in a population of a little over eight hundred,
including Indians. Then suddenly the gold fever swept the town like
wildfire, the public-school project was dropped, and the Rev. Albert
Williams collected twenty-five pupils into a pay-school. In the spring
of 1850, Mr. and Mrs. Pelton, who had succeeded the clergyman, and
gathered in a large number of pupils, applied to the city for adequate
recompense, and it was virtually made a public school. In January, a
beautiful lot at Spring Valley, on the Presidio Road, was purchased,
and a school was built in a delightful road of evergreens.

Soon after this the city started again and in time had seven schools,
though several private schools were in a very flourishing condition.
But many children were sent East to finishing academies, or to
Monterey and other Southern towns to convent schools. Still the cause
of education began to demand more attention, as the necessity for
good citizenship became more strenuous.

Uncle Jason glanced up from his paper when Miss Holmes spoke of the
school.

"Not that I find it at all troublesome to teach her, and she is the
most tractable child I ever saw. Then she is so eager to get to the
very foundation of things. Why, you would hardly believe how much she
knows about botany. I found an old book--but the flowers here are so
different. And I really love to teach now that I am well and strong. I
could almost go in school again."

"Oh, don't think of such a thing. We couldn't do without you," he
exclaimed earnestly. "But you think--a school----" and he paused, his
eyes fixed on the floor as if he was ruminating.

"Laverne needs the companionship of children, comparing thoughts with
them, playing, the harmless rivalry of studying together. When it
comes to that, I could have a small school. You see she will be
growing older all the time."

"Frankly, which would be best? You are more capable of deciding, since
you have had a wider experience in this matter."

"Oh, the school. You see she must take a place with other people. She
has no relatives, and friends must stand in their stead."

He turned back to his paper, but he was not reading. The little girl
was all his. He had a feeling when they left Maine that nothing and no
one should come between them. Every thought, every desire should
cluster about her. He would make a fortune for her. His first plan in
going to California was to start to the gold fields for the sake of
adventures. He would cut loose from all old recollections. He would
leave Laverne Westbury a comfortable and satisfied wife and mother. He
had no bitterness against his rival now. It had all been so different.
Many a night on shipboard he lived over those few sad weeks and hugged
to his heart the consolation that she had loved him, and that fate had
been cruel to both. And then, conscious of the finer strain of
fatherhood that had so long lain fallow in his soul, the child slipped
into the place, and aims were changed for him. There would be enough
for him to do in the new town where everything was needed, and he
could turn his hand to almost anything. But he must keep to her, she
was the apple of his eye, and he would go groping in sorrowful
darkness without her.

He had a curious feeling at first that he must hide her away lest her
father should start up from somewhere and claim her, and was glad to
light on that out-of-the-way place. The long voyage had been like
living in the same village with these people. The New England
reticence of Miss Holmes appealed to him in a peculiar manner, he was
reticent himself. Then the child took the greatest fancy to her. She
was rather timid about this new world while the others were ready for
adventures. And when he offered her a home for the care of the child
she was very willing to accept it for the present. Her belief was that
when she was rested and in her usual health she should teach school
again.

Her two friends had teased her a little about finding a possible
lover in Jason Chadsey. She had the fine feminine delicacy that shrank
from the faintest suspicion of putting herself in the way of such a
possibility. He was a sturdy, upright, plain-spoken fellow, not at all
her ideal, and she still had the romance of girlhood. She came to know
presently by her womanly intuition that marriage had no place in his
thoughts, that were centred in the little girl. Perhaps, her mother
was his only sister, a deserted wife, she gathered from childish
prattle of Laverne's. She knew so little about her past. Uncle Jason
had come when they were in great want, and her mother had died. And
now, Jason Chadsey knew it would be best for this idea to gain
credence. He would always be her uncle.

But he had some duties toward her. She could not always remain a
child, a plaything. That was the sorrow of it. There must be a rich,
delightful life before her. She must have the joys her mother had
missed, the prosperity that had not come to her.

He looked up from the paper presently.

"About the school," he began. "Yes, I have been considering it. And
you will have quite enough to do to keep the house and have the
oversight of her; I will make it an object for you to stay. We get
along comfortably together, though sometimes I feel I am a queer
unsocial Dick, much occupied now with business. But it is all for her.
She is the only thing out of a life that has been all ups and downs,
but, please God, there'll be some clear sailing now. I like San
Francisco. I like the rush and bustle and newness, the effort for a
finer civilization that has strength and purpose in it. Heaven knows
there is enough of the other sort, but the dross does get sifted out
and the gold is left. It will be so here, and these earnest men ten
years hence will be proud of the city they are rearing."

He glanced at her steadily, forgetting he had wandered from the main
question.

"You will not leave us----"

"I? Oh, no;" yet she colored a little.

"There will be enough to do if the child does go to school. And you
can walk down for her in the afternoon, wherever it is, and have
little outings. I am glad you are so fond of her, and she loves you.
She isn't the kind to strew her love broadcast."

"Yes, I am very fond of her," was the reply.




CHAPTER VIII

GIRLS AND GIRLS


They rambled over the hills on Sunday, for Miss Holmes had given her
ankle a little wrench and was applying hot fomentations. Up there was
the Presidio, and over here the beautiful ocean, blue as the sky
to-day, except where the swells drove up on the rocks and, catching
the sun, made spray of all colors. The ground squirrels ran about,
scudding at the slightest sound of human beings, which they seemed to
distinguish from the rustling and whispering of the trees, or the
tinkle of a little stream over the stones. It ran under a crevice in
the rock that was splitting apart now by some of Nature's handiwork
and came out over west of their house where it dropped into a little
basin. Here was a blasted pine that had been struck by some freak of
rare lightning, then piles of sand over which cactus crept. And here
was a deer-trail, though civilization had pretty well scared them
away.

But the birds! Here was the jay with his scolding tongue, the swallows
darting to and fro in a swift dazzle, the martins in bluish purple,
the tanager in his brilliant red, the robin, thrush, meadowlark, the
oriole, and the mocking birds that filled the air with melody this May
Sunday. And nearly every foot of ground was covered with bloom. Now
and then the little girl hopped over a tuft that she might not crush
the beautiful things. Great clouds of syringas and clusters of white
lilies filled the air with a delicious fragrance. And the wild lilac
with its spikes of bloom nodding to the faintest breeze. Wild barley
and wild oats, and a curious kind of clover, and further down the
coarse salt grass with its spear-like blades.

They sat down on some stones and glanced over the ocean. There were
two vessels coming up the coast and some seamews were screaming. It
was all wild and strange, almost weird, and no little girl could have
dreamed that in a few years streets would be stretching out here. As
for trolleys going to and fro, even grown people would have laughed at
such a thing.

They talked of the great procession that was to be the next day. And
then Uncle Jason wondered how she would like going to school
regularly.

"I shall like girls," she said. "There are no boys where Olive goes.
She thinks boys are more fun."

"But you don't go to school for the mere fun."

"They make so much noise in the street. And some times they sing such
funny songs. But they were nice about sledding back home, only there's
no snow here."

"Are you ever homesick?"

"You know I was sick sometimes on the ship."

"But to go back, I mean."

"There wouldn't be any one--I've almost forgotten who were there.
Mother, you know----" with a pitiful sort of retrospection.

"Yes, yes," hurriedly.

"Would you want to go?"

"Oh, no, no!" with some vehemence.

She came and leaned against his knee, put her arms about his neck, and
her soft cheek against his weather-beaten one.

"I should never want to go anywhere without you," she replied, with
grave sweetness.

"You are all I have, my little darling."

"And I haven't any one else. Olive has such a lot of cousins. She goes
over to Oaklands to see them."

There was a long pause and the wind rushed by laden with perfumes.
They heard the lapping of the surf against the rocks. The strange
beauty penetrated both souls that were not so far apart after all.

"Uncle Jason, did you ever have a wife?" she asked, with a child's
innocence.

"No, dear." Sometime he would tell her the story of his love for her
mother.

"Then you won't want to marry any one?"

"Marry! I?" Had that Personette girl put some nonsense into her head
about Miss Holmes? He colored under the weather-browned skin.

"You see, Mr. Personette's wife had died, and I suppose he had to
marry some one again to look after the children."

"Would you like me to marry some one to look after you?" in a half
humorous tone.

"Why, Miss Holmes can do that," she returned, in surprise.

"She seems to do it very well." There was a lurking smile about the
corners of his mouth.

"I like her. No, I shouldn't like any one else coming in. Perhaps she
would not stay. No, Uncle Jason, I don't want you to marry any one,"
she said, simply. "And when I get old I shall not marry, though Carmen
means to. And we will live together always. Oh," with a bright little
laugh, "let's promise. Put your little finger--so." She hooked hers in
it. "Now, you must say: Honest and true, I love but you!"

He uttered it solemnly. He had said it to one other little girl when
he was a big boy.

Then she repeated it, looking out of clear, earnest eyes.

After that she gathered a great armful of flowers and they rambled off
home.

"Who do you think has been here?" inquired Miss Holmes, with a laugh
in her very voice.

"Who--Olive, perhaps. Or, maybe, Dick Folsom."

"No. Guess again."

She cudgelled her wits. "Not Snippy?"

"Yes, Snippy. He actually came into the house and looked so sharply at
me that I told him you would be home about noon. Then I gave him a bit
of cracker, and when he had eaten a little he scampered off with the
rest. I think he has been planning a house near us."

"Oh, wouldn't that be splendid! I'm just going to scatter a path of
cracker bits as Hop o' my Thumb did."

"But if he eats them up how much wiser will you be?"

Laverne looked nonplussed. "Well, he will have them at any rate," and
she nodded her head with satisfaction.

Pablo had built a stone fireplace and was roasting some ducks out of
doors. He was sure he couldn't do it any other way.

"I must go and view the camping process," and Uncle Jason laughed.
"How is your ankle?"

"Oh, quite on the mend," she answered.

Pablo had built a stone fireplace and was roasting the ducks over a
great bed of coals that he was burning at one side. It might be
wasteful, as when the Chinaman first roasted his pig, but it was
filling the air with a savory smell, and they were browned to a turn.

"They look just delicious," announced Laverne. She took the platter
out and Pablo carried them in with a proud air.

And delicious they certainly were. The little girl was hungry, and
Uncle Jason said he had not enjoyed anything so much in a long while.
She insisted she should wash up the dishes while Uncle Jason took his
usual nap. Then she went out and dropped some cracker crumbs and
strictly forbade Bruno to touch them.

"If you would like to go down to the Estenegas I will get one of the
horses," Uncle Jason said. His Sundays were always devoted to her.

So she went out and talked to Pelajo while Pablo harnessed him. He
said very plainly that she had quite neglected him of late and he did
not like it. He did not want to be thrown over for new friends.

All along the road the beauty of the May met them, and it stirred both
riders, making them respond to the joy of motion and the sweetness of
all blooming things, the merriment of the birds, the touch of the wind
in the trees as a voice playing on a flute. He thought it was all the
delight of owning the little girl who would always be his. How he
would care for her in old age, and he quite forgot that he would be
there decades and decades first. But he suddenly felt so young, with
all these signs of youth about him, the magnetism of the air in this
wondrous land.

Here was the old house. They were straightening the road, digging away
hills, filling up hollows, and a corner of it had tumbled down. There
seemed a damp, marshy smell of the newly turned earth, and two trees
had fallen and begun to wither up. The wood doves were calling
plaintively.

"Oh, I wouldn't come back for anything!" cried Laverne. "Did we have
nice times here, and did we really like it?"

"This is the hand of improvement. Sometime, when we are trotting over
a nice level road, with pretty houses and grounds, we shall admire it
again."

But it was lovely enough at the Estenegas, out of doors. The children
were wild with delight. It seemed as if Carmencita had suddenly shot
up into a tall girl. And in the autumn she was to go to Monterey, to
the old convent, where Do√±a Conceptione de Arguello had gone after her
Russian lover had been killed, and where she had finally become Mother
Superior and lived to old age, always praying for his soul.

"But I am going only for accomplishments. And it seems the distant
cousin of the Estenegas wishes a wife who will grace the great house
and carry on the honors. Mamacita is very proud that he made the
offer. And the children will go up to the Mission to stay all the week
at the Sisters' School."

"And they must visit me sometimes. The new home is so much pleasanter.
I am going to school also, and I have some new friends. It is splendid
to be in the heart of the city." Then she told them about the day at
Russ's garden, and that on to-morrow, Monday, she was going out to
walk with hundreds of children.

The Spanish girl's eyes grew larger and larger at all the wonders.
They walked up and down with their arms about each other and were full
of childish happiness. Then Se√±ora Estenega summoned them to
refreshments on the balcony, now a wilderness of roses. Uncle Jason
did not care much for the Spanish sweetmeats and candied fruits, the
freshly ripened ones were more to his taste and he had been quite
spoiled again by New England living. But he knew how to be polite.

It was quite dusk when they reached home. Olive Personette had been
over. They would call for her to-morrow, and she was to be dressed in
white, sure. It would be a greater thing than the German Festival.

And great it surely was! There had never been such an event in San
Francisco. There were over a thousand children, and each one carried a
bouquet of flowers. Miss Holmes had found some white ribbon and
trimmed her gypsy hat, and the little girl with her fair hair looked
like a lily. There were crowds of people in the streets to see them,
proud mothers and aunts. Each school had a distinctive banner, and
there was a band of music. The Queen of May wore a wreath, and so did
her maids of honor.

When they had gone through the principal thoroughfares and been
cheered enthusiastically, they moved to the schoolhouse on Broadway,
where they had a little sort of play dialogue, and sang some beautiful
songs. A few brief addresses were made, and San Francisco declared
itself proud of its children that day, the children who were to be the
future men and women of the city.

Then there was quite a feast, which the young people enjoyed mightily.
How they laughed and talked and declared they would not have missed it
for anything.

Afterward they dispersed. The Personette carriage was waiting, with
instructions to take home all it would hold, so they crowded in. And
at the gate stood Uncle Jason.

"Oh," the little girl exclaimed, with a tired sigh, "it was just
splendid. If you had only been there!"

"Do you think I would have missed it? I came up to see the procession
and I picked you out, walking with Olive. Why, I was as proud of you
as if you had been the Queen."

"But the Queen was lovely. And the play! I couldn't hear all of it,
there was such a crowd, and I had to stand up to see. Wasn't it good
of Olive to ask me! And she wanted to take me home to dinner."

"I couldn't have eaten dinner without you." He kissed her over and
over again. He was so glad to see her happy. Not that she was ever a
sad little girl.

Miss Holmes was very much improved and regretted she could not have
gone out to see the procession. Snippy had called, and all the cracker
bits were gone, but she had seen the wood doves carrying off some of
the crumbs.

"I guess Snippy has moved for good," said Uncle Jason. "It's rather
funny, too. You must have charmed him."

She gave a pleased laugh.

Nearly midnight of that happy day the bells rang out with their
dreadful alarm. Uncle Jason sprang up, and before he was dressed he
saw the blaze. Citizens turned out en masse. The Rassete House on
Sansome Street was in a sheet of flame. A fine five-story hotel, full
of lodgers, who had to flee for their lives. The firemen were quite
well organized now and made great efforts to keep it from spreading,
remembering the former big fires. In this they were quite successful.
Other generous people were taking in the four hundred homeless ones,
and it was found the next day that no lives had been lost, which was a
source of thanksgiving.

A little later there were some imposing ceremonies near the Presidio,
just at the foot of the hill. This was the commencement of the
Mountain Lake Water Works, a much-needed project. There were various
artesian wells, and water was brought in tanks from Sausalito, but the
supply was inadequate in case of fires and the city was growing so
rapidly. The rather curious Mountain Lake was not large, but a short
distance from its northern margin a stream of water gushed through the
ground, which was a great spring or a subterranean river from the
opposite shores. It was begun with great rejoicing, but like all large
undertakings it had progressed slowly.

Indeed, San Francisco had so many things on its hands. There were
plans for the State Marine Hospital and other benevolent institutions.
Churches too were urging demands on a generous people who felt they
must make an effort to redeem the standing of the city. The toughs had
been somewhat restrained, but the continual influx of miners with
their pouches of gold, ready for any orgies after having been deprived
of the amenities of social life, and the emigration from nearly all
quarters of the globe constituted a class very difficult to govern,
who drank, gambled, frequented dance houses, quarrelled, and scrupled
