to a buckboard, in the meantime sending the housekeeper back to the
house to get his hat and coat.

"Where do you suppose you'll find him?" asked Mrs. Felton.

"Somewhere along the road most likely."

"Maybe he'll hide on you."

"He had better not. If he does that, I'll call on the squire about him."

"Can you do that?"

"O' course I can. Didn't he try to burn down the barn? The squire can
make out a warrant for his arrest."

"It would be awful to have him arrested."

"Well, he brought it on himself," answered Abner Balberry, doggedly. "He
had no right to try to set the barn afire. Next thing you know, Mrs.
Felton, he'll be a-trying to burn us up in our beds."

"Oh, I don't think Nat would be as bad as that."

"You don't know thet boy as well as I do. He's sly an' stubborn, and
he'll do 'most anything when he's crossed. But I'll fix him! Jest you
wait an' see!"

"How far will you follow him?"

"As far as it's necessary. If he thinks he can git away from me he'll
find out, sooner or later, he is mistaken."

"You don't know when you'll be back?"

"No. It may be I'll have to wait in town till the squire opens his
office--that is, if I can't find Nat."

"But you are going to look for him yourself first?"

"Yes."

With this answer Abner Balberry drove off in the darkness. Mrs. Felton
watched him and heaved a long and deep sigh.

"Too bad!" she murmured. "If he catches Nat it will surely go hard with
that boy. Well, I didn't think he was bad enough to set fire to a
barn!"




CHAPTER V

THE SALE OF A COW


Totally unconscious of what had taken place at the farm after his
departure, Nat, in company with his friend, Sam Price, proceeded on his
way to Brookville.

On the journey Nat told his friend of many things that had happened to
him and of his uncle's meanness.

"I don't wonder you want a change," said Sam. "I'd want a change
myself."

At last they came in sight of Brookville, and Nat drove the cow to the
yard of Jackson the butcher.

The butcher was a fat, good-natured man of middle age. But he was a
shrewd business man and first-class at driving a bargain.

"What do you want, boy?" he asked of Nat.

"Do you want to buy a cow, Mr. Jackson? Sam says you were out looking
for cows day before yesterday."

"I did want cows then, but I've got nearly all I want now."

"Oh, then I'll go elsewhere," answered Nat.

"Hold on, not so fast. What do you want for your cow?"

"Thirty dollars."

"Phew! you don't want much."

"She's worth it. You can milk her or use her for meat, just as you
choose."

"Whose cow is she?"

"Mine."

"Yours?" And the butcher gazed at Nat curiously.

"Yes. I've owned her ever since she was a little calf."

"And now you are tired of her?"

"Not exactly that, but I want to use the money. Will you buy her?"

"Yes, but not for thirty dollars."

"How much will you give?"

"Twenty dollars."

"I don't care to sell for twenty dollars."

"That's the best I can do."

"Then I'll have to go elsewhere. Come, Jennie," and Nat turned to drive
the cow from the butcher's yard again.

"Hold on!" cried the meat man. "I'll give you twenty-two dollars."

"Make it twenty-five and I'll accept. I can't take less. I ought to get
thirty dollars."

There was some more talk, and in the end, the butcher agreed to pay
twenty-five dollars and did so. He wanted a receipt, and Nat wrote it
out for him.

"So you are Nat Nason," said the butcher. "I used to know your father. A
very nice man."

"He was a nice man."

"Live with your uncle now, don't you?"

"I have been living with him, yes. Good-day, and much obliged," returned
the boy, and to avoid being questioned further he left the yard at once,
followed by Sam.

"You made a good bargain on the cow," said Sam. "I reckon you got every
cent she was worth."

"She was a good cow, Sam. I'm rather sorry to part with her. She was
almost like a friend."

"What are you going to do next?"

"Strike out for the city."

"I wish you luck."

"You won't tell my uncle?"

"Not a word. But, say."

"Well?"

"When you get to the city write and tell me how you like it."

"I will, Sam, and you must tell me the news from home, and how my uncle
gets along without me."

So it was arranged; and a few minutes later the two lads separated, and
Sam Price started for home.

Brookville was on a small branch railroad running to Cleveland, and by
consulting a time-table Nat learned that a train for Cleveland would
leave in ten minutes. He lost no time in purchasing a ticket, and spent
the rest of the time in eating some of the lunch he had brought along.
With over twenty-three dollars still in his pocket he felt rich, and
bought some peanuts and a cake of sweet chocolate.

When the train came along there were scarcely any passengers aboard, so
he had little difficulty in getting the seat he wanted. He sat down by a
window, with his bundle beside him, and gave himself up to thinking and
to looking at the scenery as it whirled past.

Nat had traveled but little on the cars, so the ride to Cleveland was
intensely enjoyable. The different places passed were so interesting
that he soon forgot to think about his prospects, or of what he was to
do when he arrived at the city on the lake.

"Next stop is Cleveland!" cried the conductor, standing at the open
doorway. "All change, for trains east and west!"

A moment later the train rolled into the smoky station, and bundle in
hand, Nat left the car and stepped onto the platform. From there he
walked to the street, where he gazed in some bewilderment at the crowds
of people and the swiftly moving street cars.

"Paper!" cried a newsboy. "Morning paper?"

"No, I don't want any paper," answered Nat.

"All about the big fire in Chicago, boss. Take a paper?"

"Yes, I'll take one," said Nat, and passed over the necessary change.
Off darted the newsboy, to be lost in the crowd on the other side of the
street. Nat gazed at the paper, to find that a tenement had burned out
in Chicago, with the loss of one life.

"That's not such a terrible thing--for a big city like Chicago," he
mused, and then noticed that the newspaper was two days old.

"That boy stuck me!" he muttered, and a cloud crossed his face. "I
wonder where he is?"

The boy could not be found, and in a moment Nat concluded it would be a
waste of time to look for him.

"He caught me for a greeny, true enough," he thought. "I've got to keep
my eyes open after this."

From one street Nat passed to another, gazing into the shop windows,
and wondering what he had best do next. He had at first calculated to go
to New York without delay, but now thought it would do no harm to remain
in Cleveland a day or two.

"Perhaps I'll never get here again," he reasoned. "And I might as well
see all there is to see."

Noon found him on one of the main streets. He was now hungry again, and
coming to a modest-looking restaurant, he entered and sat down at a side
table.

"What will you have?" asked the waiter, coming up to him.

"Give me a regular dinner," said Nat, seeing the sign on the wall:

     Regular Dinner, 11 to 2. 30 cents.

The waiter walked off, and presently returned with some bread and
butter.

"Pea or tomato soup?" he asked.

"What's that?" questioned the boy.

"Pea or tomato soup?"

"I don't want any soup--I want a regular dinner."

At this the waiter smiled, for he saw that Nat was green.

"We serve soup first--if the customer wants it."

"And what do you serve after that?"

"One kind of meat, vegetables, coffee or milk, and pie or pudding."

"Oh! Well bring me the meat and other stuff. I never cared for soup
anyway."

"Roast beef or lamb?"

"Roast beef."

The waiter went off, and presently Nat was supplied with all he cared to
eat. The food was good, and he took his time, finishing off with a piece
of lemon meringue pie, a dainty of which he was exceedingly fond, but
which Mrs. Felton had seldom dared to make.

"Thirty cents, but I guess it was worth it," he thought, as he left the
restaurant.

Nat had never seen Lake Erie, and toward the middle of the afternoon he
walked down in the direction of the water. The shipping interested him
greatly, and it was dark before he realized that the day was gone
without anything definite being accomplished.

"Gracious, how time flies when one is in the city!" he thought.
"To-morrow, I must make up my mind what to do next. If I don't, I'll
have my money spent, and no job, either."

As it grew darker the boy felt the necessity of looking for
accommodations for the night. Seeing a sign on a house, Furnished Rooms
by the Day, Week, or Month, he ascended the stoop, and rang the bell. A
young Irish girl answered his summons.

"Can I get a bed for to-night?" asked Nat.

"I guess yez can--I'll call Mrs. O'Hara," said the girl.

The landlady soon showed herself, and said she could let Nat have a hall
room for fifty cents. To the boy's notion this seemed rather high.

"I can't take less," said Mrs. O'Hara, firmly.

"Very well; I'll take the room for to-night," answered Nat. "Can I put
my bundle up there now?"

"To be sure."

Fortunately for Nat, the room proved clean and well-kept, and the bed
was better than the one he had used at the farm. Tired out, the boy
slept soundly until seven o'clock, when he lost no time in dressing and
going below.

"Will you want the room again to-night, Mr. Nason?" asked the landlady.

"I don't think so," answered Nat. It made him feel a foot taller to be
addressed as Mr. Nason. "If I want it, I'll let you know by supper
time."

"Very well."

With his bundle under his arm, Nat left the house, and walked down the
street toward one of the main thoroughfares of Cleveland. Then he
stopped at a restaurant for breakfast.

"Now, I've got to make up my mind what to do," he told himself. "Maybe I
had better go back to the depot and see about a train and the fare to
New York."

After making several false turns, the boy found his way to the depot,
and there hunted up the ticket office, and procured a time-table. He was
just looking into the time-table when he felt a heavy hand placed on his
shoulder.

"So I've found you, have I?" came harshly from Abner Balberry. "You
young rascal, what do you mean by runnin' away?"




CHAPTER VI

NAT ON LAKE ERIE


Nat was so completely astonished by the unexpected appearance of his
uncle and guardian, that for the moment he did not know what to say or
do.

"Thought you was goin' to run away, didn't you?" continued Abner
Balberry, with a gleam of triumph in his small eyes.

"Let go of me," answered Nat, trying to pull away.

"I ain't a-goin' to, Nat Nason. You're a-goin' back with me, an' on the
next train."

"I'm not going back, Uncle Abner."

"What!"

"I said I'm not going back, so there," repeated Nat, desperately. "You
don't treat me half decently, and I'm going to strike out for myself."

"Jest to hear the boy! You are a-goin' back. Nice doin's, I must say!
What did you mean by trying to burn down the barn?"

"Burn down the barn?"

"That's wot I said."

"I never burned down any barn. Is the barn burned down?"

"No; because I put out the fire."

"When was this?"

"You know well enough."

"I don't know a word about it, Uncle Abner."

"You set the barn afire."

"Never!"

"You did! An' you've got to go back."

"Uncle Abner, I never set fire to a thing," gasped Nat. "I left because
you worked me to death, and because you wouldn't let me have my supper.
After this, I'm going to earn my own living in my own way."

"You're goin' back," snarled the farmer.

For answer, Nat gave a sudden jerk and pulled himself from his uncle's
grasp. Then he started to run from the depot at his best speed.

"Hi! stop!" yelled the farmer. "Stop thet boy. I'm his guardian, and he
is runnin' away from me."

The cry was taken up on all sides, and soon a crowd of a dozen men and
boys were in pursuit of Nat, who by this time had reached the street.

Nat had always been fleet of foot, and now a new fear lent strength to
his flying feet. He was accused of setting fire to the barn! Perhaps his
uncle would have him arrested and sent to prison.

"He shan't do it," he muttered. "I must get away, somehow."

Down one street after another went poor Nat, with the crowd behind him
growing steadily larger. Some thought they were after a thief, and some
a murderer, and soon two policemen joined in the chase.

Coming to an alley way, Nat darted through it to a side street, and then
around a corner to a thoroughfare leading down to the docks. This threw
the crowd off the trail for a moment, and gave him a brief breathing
spell.

Reaching the docks fronting the lake, the boy came to a halt. Not far
off was a steamboat, getting ready to cast off.

"Where does that boat go to?" he asked of a man standing near.

"That's the boat for Buffalo," was the answer.

"And when does she leave?"

"She is getting ready to leave now."

"Then that's the boat I want," came from Nat, and he rushed to the end
of the dock, and up the gangplank with all speed. A moment later the
gangplank was withdrawn, and the steamboat started on her trip down Lake
Erie.

Trembling with excitement, Nat entered the cabin, and from the window
looked back to the dock they had just left. It was not long before he
beheld Abner Balberry and several others, on the dock, gazing up and
down in perplexity. They did not know whether the boy was on the boat,
or in hiding close by.

"What a narrow escape!" thought Nat, when the dock had faded from view.
"In another minute Uncle Abner would have collared me, sure."

"Had to run pretty hard to catch the boat, didn't you?" remarked a man
sitting beside him.

"Yes," answered Nat.

"Bound for Buffalo, I suppose."

"Yes."

"First visit to that city?"

"Yes."

"Well, it's a fine city to visit, I can tell you. Of course you'll run
up to look at Niagara Falls?"

"I hadn't thought of that."

"It's not very far away, you know. The trolley cars run from Buffalo to
the Falls and back."

"Then I'll certainly have to go up and look at the Falls," answered the
boy.

He was too excited to make up his mind just what to do next, and so
walked away from the man. Finding a secluded corner of the deck, he sat
down on a camp stool to think the situation over.

The fact that his uncle believed he had tried to burn down the barn
filled him with alarm. Certainly, the building must have been set on
fire, but who had done the base deed?

"Perhaps that man I took to be Uncle Abner!" he cried to himself. Up to
the present time he had forgotten about seeing that individual in the
semi-darkness while on the way to get the cow.

The weather was warm and pleasant, and had Nat been less disturbed in
mind he would have enjoyed the trip on Lake Erie thoroughly. Even as it
was, he gazed at the great lake in wonder.

"If this is only a lake, what must the ocean be!" he mused. "When I get
to New York, I'll have to take a trip to Coney Island, or some other
ocean beach."

The boat Nat was on carried more freight than passengers, and made half
a dozen landings before Buffalo was reached. But the boy thought the
craft one of the best on the lake, and wandered over her from end to end
with great interest. At noon he purchased a light lunch, and at supper
time a sandwich and a glass of milk.

"They charge pretty stiff prices on a boat," he thought, after paying
over his money. "I've got to live cheaper after this, or I'll be a
beggar before I settle down and find something to do."

It was dark when Buffalo was reached, and here Nat was more bewildered
than he had been on arriving at Cleveland. He followed the crowd up from
the dock to one of the main streets, and then stood on a corner, not
knowing which way to turn, or what to do next.

"What a terrible lot of people and cars!" was his mental comment. "It's
enough to make a fellow's head swim."

He felt that it would be useless to try to do anything that night, and
so looked around for a cheap lodging house. Soon he found a place where
beds could be had for twenty-five cents a night, and he entered.

"I'll take a bed," he said to the clerk at the desk.

"All right; twenty-five cents." And as the money was passed over, the
clerk continued: "Leave your valuables at the desk."

"Valuables?" repeated Nat. "You mean my watch?"

"You may leave it if you wish, and your money too."

"No; I'll keep them on me," answered the boy.

He was conducted to an elevator, and soon found himself on the fifth
story of the building. Here was a big room containing twenty cots, ten
on each side.

"Here you are; No. 134," said the attendant, and left him.

On several of the cots some men were already sleeping. They were not
pleasant-appearing individuals, and a few of them smelt strongly of
liquor.

"This isn't so nice," thought Nat. "But it's cheap, and that's
something."

Before retiring, he placed his bundle and his clothing under his pillow,
and stowed away his watch and money on his person.

Nat's actions were closely watched by a man who occupied the next cot on
the left. He was a seedy individual, with a face that was horribly
pockmarked.

"Reckon he's got a dollar or two," thought this man, who was known among
his associates by the name of Checkers.

Despite his surroundings, Nat slept soundly throughout the night, and
continued to sleep long after the sun came up.

While it was still early, Bob Checkers arose, dressed himself, and
slipped over to the sleeping boy's side. Making certain that nobody was
watching him, the fellow began a rapid search of Nat's clothing, and
afterwards of the lad's person.

Soon he came in contact with a small roll of bills, which Nat, in the
belief that they would be quite secure, had placed in a pocket of his
shirt. A thrill of delight shot through the fellow as his hand touched
them.

"Dis is de best yet!" he murmured to himself, and placing the bills in
his own pocket, he left the lodging house almost on a run.




CHAPTER VII

AN ADVENTURE AT NIAGARA FALLS


When Nat awoke it was so late that he leaped up and dressed with all
possible speed.

"I've got to get a hustle on me, if I mean to do anything," he told
himself. "It won't do to dream away one day after another."

He was anxious to get to New York, to try his luck, but being so close
to Niagara Falls, he decided to run up to that great wonder, and look at
it before striking out for the metropolis.

He had some loose change in his pocket, and did not immediately miss the
roll of bills which the sneak thief had so cleverly abstracted from his
person.

Leaving the lodging house, he looked up a cheap restaurant, where he
obtained a cup of coffee and some rolls for ten cents. Then, seeing a
car marked Niagara Falls, he jumped on board.

"Do you go to the Falls?" he asked of the conductor.

"Certainly."

Trolley riding was new to him, and he thoroughly enjoyed the trip, which
lasted the best part of two hours. The car landed him on the main street
of Niagara Falls, and he was told that the Falls themselves were just
beyond the public park. Listening, he could readily hear the thunder of
the waters--a thunder that goes on day and night, and has for ages.

Feeling dry, he treated himself to a glass of soda, and then asked
permission to leave his bundle in the shop where he made the purchase.

"All right," said the proprietor. "Leave it there, with your name on
it," and Nat did as requested.

He was soon down in the public park, and then went out on Goat Island.
The great falls were a revelation to him--just as they are to all
visitors--and he remained for a long time in one spot, gazing first at
the American Falls, and then at the Horseshoe or Canadian Falls.

"What an awful mass of water!" was his thought. "How grand! How very
grand!"

From Goat Island, Nat walked over to the Three Sisters. On the last of
the Three Sisters he sat down on a great rock to look at the rushing and
swirling rapids--a sight which to many is as grand as that of the Falls
themselves.

"No boat could ever live in that river," he thought, and he was right.

Sitting on a rock he got to thinking of his financial affairs, and felt
in his clothing for his bills, to count them over.

When he realized that the money was gone, a sudden cold sweat came out
on his brow. He looked around him, and gave a groan.

"I must have dropped the bills somewhere," he muttered. "But where?"
Never once did he imagine that he had been robbed, and it may be added
here, he never learned the truth.

To look for the money would have been a hopeless task, and Nat did not
attempt it. Having gazed around on the rocks, he sat down to review the
situation.

"Just twenty-two cents left," he mused, as he counted over his change.
"That won't do more than buy a dinner. And what am I to do after it is
gone? What a fool I was not to take care of my money. I'm a regular
greeny, after all!"

Nat was greatly depressed in spirits, and he gave a sigh that seemed to
come from his very soul. Then, gazing up once more, he gave a quick cry
of alarm.

A fashionably dressed young man had appeared before him, wearing a
button-hole bouquet, and light tan gloves. The fellow had a wild look in
his eyes, and was on the point of throwing himself headlong into the
swiftly flowing rapids.

"Don't!" screamed Nat, and with one mighty leap, he caught the
fashionably dressed young man by the arm, and forcibly hauled him
backwards.

"Let--let me go!" was the frightened return. "I--I--let me go!"

"You shan't throw yourself in the rapids!" said Nat. He held the young
man tightly. "It's death to do that! Don't you know it?"

"Yes, I know it," was the unsteady answer. Then of a sudden the young
man sank down in a heap on the rocks. "Great Heavens! what a narrow
escape!"

He was close to fainting, and Nat supported him until he appeared to
grow calmer. The wild look left his eyes, and they filled instead with
tears.

"I--I was going to--to----" He did not finish. "You--you saved me!"

"You mustn't do anything like that," said Nat. "It's awful to even think
about it."

"But I haven't got anything to live for," was the jerked-out answer.

"Oh, yes, you have." And Nat glanced at the well-dressed fellow, with
his gold watch and chain, and his large diamond stud. "You're not poor
like I am."

"Are you poor?"

"Am I? Wouldn't you think a fellow with only twenty-two cents was poor?"

"Is that all you have?"

"Yes. I had some bank bills, but I lost them. Twenty-two cents is all
I've got, but I wasn't going to commit suicide on that account."

The fashionably dressed young man gave a shiver.

"Don't mention it," he whispered. "I must have been clean crazy for the
minute. Let us go away from the river and the falls."

"I'm willing," answered Nat, and walked from the islands to the shore
park. Here they seated themselves on a bench, some distance away from
the water.

"What is your name, if I may ask?"

"Nat Nason. What's yours?"

"Paul Hampton. So you've only got twenty-two cents to your name? Well,
you are worse off than I am, after all. I've got money a-plenty."

"What made you dream of doing such a thing?" asked Nat, curiously.

"Would you like to hear my story? Well, it won't do any harm to tell it
to you, an utter stranger, and it will relieve my mind. Maybe you can
give me some advice."

"If I can I certainly will," answered Nat, promptly.

"Well, to start with," began Paul Hampton, "I am a graduate of Yale
University, and a lawyer by profession. I suppose you don't think I look
much like a lawyer."

"I don't know much about lawyers," answered Nat, cautiously.

"I practice in Niagara Falls, and also in Buffalo. I have not paid as
much attention to the profession in the past as I intend to pay in the
future."

"Maybe you don't need the money."

"That is one reason. But there is another, Nat. I fell desperately in
love. The fever is at an end now. You drove it out of me, when you
stopped me from jumping into the rapids."

Paul Hampton paused long enough to light a cigar. Then he leaned back,
and blew a cloud of smoke into the air.

"I was a big fool. I can realize it now," he went on. "I should have
passed Grace by long ago."

"Was that the name of the girl?"

"Yes. Her father is well-to-do, and gives her everything her heart
desires. Consequently, she has been leading me around like a puppy dog
tied to a string."

"I see. That is not very pleasant."

"I thought I loved her, but I fancy now that I was too good for her,"
continued the fashionably dressed young man. "But let me tell you the
whole story.

"I called on Grace for over a month, and finally told her that I loved
her. She said she thought her father would never consent to our
marriage. Then I asked her if she was willing to elope with me.

"I believe that angered her, but she didn't show it. She said she would
think it over, and the next day sent a note saying she would be ready
any time I fixed. Oh, what a fool I was to believe her!"

"And she wouldn't elope?" asked Nat.

"It was arranged that she should be in readiness the next morning at
four o'clock, and that I should procure a carriage and call for her. We
would drive to a minister in the next town, and be married, and then ask
her father's forgiveness."

"And she backed out?"

"The morning dawned dark and misty. I had obtained from a livery stable
the night before a carriage with a span of horses. At half-past three I
drove within a few yards of the house, when, according to agreement, I
saw a white handkerchief waving from a window.

"Very soon Grace made her appearance at the door. She was heavily
cloaked and veiled, and refused to speak while I hurried her into the
carriage. Off we went at a trot towards the next town. We drew up at the
door of the leading minister of the place, and I tried to assist my
companion to alight from the carriage, when she fell and hurt her ankle
on the curb."

"Well, that was too bad," said Nat, sympathetically.

"I asked her if she was hurt, when to my amazement she broke out into a
rich Irish brogue: 'It's almost kilt I am!' said she."

"Was she Irish?"

"Irish? No! It was not Grace at all, but her cook. She had put up a
cruel joke on me. And that wasn't the worst of it. Grace had told Biddy
that I was in love with her, and the ignorant cook believed it."

"And what did you do then?"

"What could I do? I told Biddy it was a trick, and I had to give her ten
dollars to keep from making a complaint to the police. Wasn't it
dreadful?"

"Yes, it was, but if I were you, Mr. Hampton, I'd consider myself lucky
to get rid of such a girl. Supposing she had married you? You would most
likely be miserable all your life with her."

At these words, Paul Hampton stared at Nat.

"You are right," he answered, presently. "I was a big fool. After this
I shall drop her entirely and stick to my law business."

"Perhaps some day she'll be sorry she treated you so unfairly--when she
sees how you are rising in your profession."

"Hope she does. But I don't want any more to do with her," went on Paul
Hampton, decidedly. "Let us talk about something else," he added, after
a pause. "Did you tell me you were worth only twenty-two cents?"

"I did."

"Do your folks live around here?"

"My parents are dead."

"Oh! Well, I want to reward you for what you did for me."

"I don't ask any reward."

"Nevertheless, you must accept something," answered the fashionably
dressed young man.




CHAPTER VIII

A FRESH START IN LIFE


Nat and his newly-found friend sat in the Niagara Falls Park until
nearly one o'clock, talking their affairs over. Then Paul Hampton asked
the boy to go with him for dinner.

"I want to prove to you that I am not as crazy as I seemed," said the
young man. "That was a sudden fit, that's all."

"Well, take my advice and don't get any more such fits," answered our
hero.

Paul Hampton led the way to one of the leading hotels of the town, and
showed Nat where he could wash and brush up before dining. Then the two
entered the dining hall, and the youth was treated to the finest spread
he had ever tasted.

"I didn't expect this, Mr. Hampton," said he, when the repast was over.

"Oh, that is not much. Do you smoke?"

"No, sir."

"I am glad to hear it. I think I smoke too much. Now, to get to
business. Where are you going to from here?"

"I am going to try my luck in New York, if I can manage to get there."

"I see. Well, I'll buy you a railroad ticket. How does that strike you?"

"You are very kind."

"When do you want to start?"

"I am not particular."

"Then supposing you make it to-morrow morning? You can spend the balance
of the day and the night with me. I want to do something more for you."

Nat demurred, but the young man would not listen, and in the end our
hero agreed to remain in Niagara Falls until the next morning. A
railroad ticket was purchased, and handed to the boy, and with it Paul
Hampton passed over a five-dollar bill.

"That is for running expenses," he said. "No, don't try to refuse it, or
I shall be angry with you."

As Nat's shoes were worn, the young man insisted upon purchasing another
pair, and then purchased the boy some collars and a necktie, and also a
new hat.

"There, now you are fixed to go to New York," said he, "and I wish you
the best of luck when you get there."

"Thank you very much."

"If you have time, write to me and let me know how you are making out."

"I will."

The night was spent in a hotel close to the railroad station, and early
in the morning Paul Hampton saw Nat on the train. All of the boy's
possessions had been put in a neat dress-suit case, also a present from
the young man.

"Here is a letter I want you to read after you are well on your way,"
said Paul Hampton, on parting, and he handed the missive over. "Be
careful of it, for I think it contains some advice that will do you
good."

"Thank you; I'll take care of it, and give it a good reading," answered
Nat, and in a moment more the train started, and the long journey to New
York City was begun.

Our hero sank back in his seat with a good deal of satisfaction. His
passage was paid through, and he had exactly four dollars and
seventy-five cents in his pocket.

"I ought to get something to do before I spend that amount," he told
himself. "Of course, it's not as much as if I had that roll of bills I
lost, but there is no use in crying over spilt milk."

The run down to Buffalo was quickly made, and then the train started on
its long journey to Albany and the great metropolis. After looking out
of the window for a while, our hero took the letter Paul Hampton had
given him, from his pocket and opened it. Inside was another envelope,
also sealed, and a bit of paper on which was written:

     "MY DEAR FRIEND:

     "Do not be discouraged, no matter what happens, when you arrive in
     New York. Try your best to get some good position. If you run short
     of funds inside of the next two months, open the envelope enclosed
     with this. It contains something that will help you on your way. Do
     not lose the envelope.

     "Ever your friend,
     "PAUL HAMPTON."

