"On the contrary," put in M. Ferraud; "with money he might be made to
put away his mad dream.  But I'm afraid that my story has made you all
gloomy."

"It has made me sad," Laura admitted.  "Think of the struggle, the
self-denial, and never a soul to tell him he is mad."

The scars faded a little, but Breitmann's eyes never wavered.

"The man hasn't a ghost of a chance."  To Fitzgerald it was now no
puzzle why Breitmann's resemblance to some one else had haunted him.
He was rather bewildered, for he had not expected so large an order
upon M. Ferraud's promise.  "Fifty years ago. . ."

"Ah!  Fifty years ago," interrupted M. Ferraud eagerly, "I should have
thrown my little to the cause.  Men and times were different then; the
world was less sordid and more romantic."

"Well, I shall always hold that we have no right to that treasure."

"Fiddlesticks, Laura!  This is no time for sentiment.  The questions
buzzing in my head are: Does this man know of the treasure's existence?
Might he not already have put his hand upon it?"

"Your own papers discredit that supposition," replied Cathewe.  "A
stunning yarn, and rather hard to believe in these skeptical times.
What is it?" he asked softly, noting the dead white on Hildegarde's
cheeks.

"Perhaps it is the smoke," she answered with a brave attempt at a smile.

The admiral in his excitement had lighted a heavy cigar and was
consuming it with jerky puffs, a bit of thoughtlessness rather
pardonable under the stress of the moment.  For he was beginning to
entertain doubts.  It was not impossible for this Napoleonic chap to
have a chart, to know of the treasure's existence.  He wished he had
heard this story before.  He would have left the women at home.
Corsica was not wholly civilized, and who could tell what might happen
there?  Yes, the admiral had his doubts.

"I should like to know the end of the story," said Breitmann musingly.

"There is time," replied M. Ferraud; and of them all, only Fitzgerald
caught the sinister undercurrent.

"So, Miss Killigrew, you believe that this treasure should be handed
over to its legal owner?"  Breitmann looked into her eyes for the first
time that evening.

"I have some doubt about the legal ownership, but the sentimental and
moral ownership is his.  A romance should always have a pleasant
ending."

"You are thinking of books," was Cathewe's comment.  "In life there is
more adventure than romance, and there is seldom anything more
incomplete in every-day life than romance."

"That would be my own exposition, Mr. Cathewe," said Breitmann.

The two fenced briefly.  They understood each other tolerably well;
only, Cathewe as yet did not know the manner of the man with whom he
was matched.

The dinner came to an end, or, rather, the diners rose, the dinner
having this hour or more been cleared from the table; and each went to
his or her state-room mastered by various degrees of astonishment.
Fitzgerald moved in a kind of waking sleep.  Napoleon IV!  That there
was a bar sinister did not matter.  The dazzle radiated from a single
point: a dream of empire!  M. Ferraud had not jested; Breitmann was
mad, obsessed, a monomaniac.  It was grotesque; it troubled the senses
as a Harlequin's dance troubles the eyes.  A great-grandson of
Napoleon, and plotting to enter France!  And, good Lord! with what?
Two million francs and half a dozen spendthrifts.  Never had there been
a wilder, more hopeless dreamer than this!  Whatever antagonism or
anger he had harbored against Breitmann evaporated.  Poor devil, indeed!

He understood M. Ferraud now.  Breitmann was mad; but till he made a
decisive stroke no man could stay him.  So many things were clear now.
He was after the treasure, and he meant to lay his hands upon it,
peacefully if he could, violently if no other way opened.  That day in
the Invalides, the old days in the field, his unaccountable appearance
on the Jersey coast; each of these things squared themselves in what
had been a puzzle.  But, like the admiral, he wished that there were no
women on board.  There would be a contest of some order, going forward,
where only men would be needed.  Pirates!  He rolled into his bunk with
a dry laugh.

Meantime M. Ferraud walked the deck alone, and finally when Breitmann
approached him, it was no more than he had been expecting.

"Among other things," began the secretary, with ominous calm, "I should
like to see the impression of your thumb."

"That lock was an ingenious contrivance.  It was only by the merest
accident I discovered it."

"It must be a vile business."

"Serving one's country?  I do not agree with you.  Wait a moment, Mr.
Breitmann; let us not misunderstand each other.  I do not know what
fear is; but I do know that I am one of the few living who put above
all other things in the world, France: France with her wide and
beautiful valleys, her splendid mountains, her present peace and
prosperity.  And my life is nothing if in giving it I may confer a
benefit."

"Why did you not tell the whole story?  A Frenchman, and to deny
oneself a climax like this?"

M. Ferraud remained silent.

"If you had not meddled!  Well, you have, and these others must bear
the brunt with you, should anything serious happen."

"Without my permission you will not remain in Ajaccio a single hour.
But that would not satisfy me.  I wish to prove to you your blindness.
I will make you a proposition.  Tear up those papers, erase the memory
from your mind, and I will place in your hands every franc of those two
millions."

Breitmann laughed harshly.  "You have said that I am mad; very well, I
am.  But I know what I know, and I shall go on to the end.  You are
clever.  I do not know who you are nor why you are here with your
warnings; but this will I say to you: to-morrow we land, and every hour
you are there, death shall lurk at your elbow.  Do you understand me?"

"Perfectly.  So well, that I shall let you go freely."

"A warning for each, then; only mine has death in it."

"And mine, nothing but good-will and peace."




CHAPTER XXI

CAPTAIN FLANAGAN MEETS A DUKE

The isle of Corsica, for all its fame in romance and history, is yet
singularly isolated and unknown.  It is an island whose people have
stood still for a century, indolent, unobserving, thriftless.  No
smoke, that ensign of progress, hangs over her towns, which are squalid
and unpicturesque, save they lie back among the mountains.  But the
country itself is wildly and magnificently beautiful: great mountains
of granite as varied in colors as the palette of a painter, emerald
streams that plunge over porphyry and marble, splendid forests of pine
and birch and chestnut.

The password was, is, and ever will be, Napoleon.  Speak that name and
the native's eye will fire and his patois will rattle forth and tingle
the ear like a snare-drum.  Though he pays his tithe to France, he is
Italian; but unlike the Italian of Italy, his predilection is neither
for gardening, nor agriculture, nor horticulture.  Nature gave him a
few chestnuts, and he considers that sufficient.  For the most part he
subsists upon chestnut-bread, stringy mutton, sinister cheeses, and a
horrid sour wine.  As a variety he will shoot small birds and in the
winter a wild pig or two; his toil extends no further, for his wife is
the day-laborer.  Viewing him as he is to-day, it does not seem
possible that his ancestors came from Genoa la Superba.

Napoleon was born in Ajaccio, but the blood in his veins was Tuscan,
and his mind Florentine.

These days the world takes little or no interest in the island, save
for its wool, lumber and an inferior cork.  Great ships pass it on the
north and south, on the east and west, but only cranky packets and
dismal freighters drop anchor in her ports.

The Gulf of Ajaccio lies at the southwest of the island and is
half-moon in shape, with reaches of white sands, red crags, and brush
covered dunes, and immediately back of these, an embracing range of
bald mountains.

A little before sunrise the yacht Laura swam into the gulf.  The
mountains, their bulks in shadowy gray, their undulating crests
threaded with yellow fire, cast their images upon the smooth tideless
silver-dulled waters.  Forward a blur of white and red marked the town.

"Isn't it glorious?" said Laura, rubbing the dew from the teak rail.
"And oh! what a time we people waste in not getting up in the mornings
with the sun."

"I don't know," replied Fitzgerald.  "Scenery and sleep; of the two I
prefer the latter.  I have always been routed out at dawn and never
allowed to turn in till midnight.  You can always find scenery, but
sleep is a coy thing."

"There's a drop of commercial blood in your veins somewhere, the blood
of the unromantic.  But this morning?"

"Oh, sleep doesn't count at all this morning.  The scenery is
everything."

And as he looked into her clear bright eyes he knew that before this
quest came to its end he was going to tell this enchanting girl that he
loved her "better than all the world"; and moreover, he intended to
tell it to her with the daring hope of winning her, money or no money.
Had not some poet written--some worldly wise poet who rather had the
hang of things--

  "He either fears his fate too much,
    Or his deserts are small,
  Who dares not put it to the touch
    To win or lose it all."

Money wasn't everything; she herself had made that statement the first
night out.  He had been afraid of Breitmann, but somehow that fear was
all gone now.  Did she care, if ever so little?

He veered his gaze round and wondered where Breitmann was.  Could the
man be asleep on a morn so vital as this?  No, there he was, on the
very bowsprit itself.  The crew was busy about him, some getting the
motor-boat in trim, others yanking away at pulleys, all the
preparations of landing.  A sharp order rose now and then; a servant
passed, carrying Captain Flanagan's breakfast to the pilot-house.  To
all this subdued turmoil Breitmann seemed apparently oblivious.  What
mad dream was working in that brain?  Did the poor devil believe in
himself; or did he have some ulterior purpose, unknown to any but
himself?  Fitzgerald determined, once they touched land, never to let
him go beyond sight.  It would not be human for him to surrender any
part of the treasure without making some kind of a fight for it,
cunning or desperate.  If only the women-folk remained on board!

Breitmann gazed toward the town motionless.  It was difficult for
Fitzgerald not to tell the great secret then and there; but his caution
whispered warningly.  There was no knowing what effect it would have
upon the impulsive girl at his side.  And besides, there might have
been a grain of selfishness in the repression.  All is fair in love or
war; and it would not have been politic to make a hero out of Breitmann.

"You haven't said a word for five minutes," she declared.  How boyish
he looked for a man of his experience!

"Silence is sometimes good for the soul," sententiously.

"Of what were you thinking?"

His heart struck hard against his breast.  What an opening, what a
moment in which to declare himself!  But he said: "Perhaps I was
thinking of breakfast.  This getting up early always makes me ravenous.
The smell of the captain's coffee may have had something to do with it."

"You were thinking of nothing of the sort," she cried.  "I know.  It
was the treasure and this great-grandson of Napoleon.  Sometimes I feel
I only dreamed these things.  Why?  Because, whoever started out on a
treasure quest without having thrilling adventures, shots in the dark,
footsteps outside the room, villains, and all the rest of the
paraphernalia?  I never read nor heard of such a thing."

"Nor I.  But there's land yonder," he said, without an answering smile.

"Then," in an awed whisper, "you believe something is going to happen
there?"

"One thing I am certain of, but I can not tell you just at this moment."

A bit of color came to her cheeks.  As if, reading his eyes, she did
not know this thing he was so certain of!  Should she let him tell her?
Not a real eddy in the current, unless it was his fear of money.  If
only she could lose her money, temporarily!  If only she had an ogre
for a parent, now!  But she hadn't.  He was so dear and so kind and so
proud of her that if she told him she was going to be married that
morning, his only questions would have been: At what time?  Why, this
sort of romance was against all accepted rules.  She was inordinately
happy.

"There is only one thing lacking; this great-grandson himself.  He will
be yonder somewhere.  For the man in the chimney was he or his agent."

"And aren't you afraid?"

"Of what?" proudly.

"It will not be a comedy.  It is in the blood of these Napoleons that
nothing shall stand in the path of their desires, neither men's lives
nor woman's honor."

"I am not afraid.  There is the sun at last What a picture!  And the
shame of it!  I am hungry!"

At half after six the yacht let go her anchor a few hundred yards from
the quay.  Every one was astir by now; but at the breakfast table there
was one vacant chair--Breitmann's.  M. Ferraud and Fitzgerald exchanged
significant glances.  In fact, the Frenchman drank his coffee hurriedly
and excused himself.  Breitmann was not on deck; neither was he in his
state-room.  The door was open.  M. Ferraud, without any unnecessary
qualms of conscience, went in.  One glance at the trunk was sufficient.
The lock hung down, disclosing the secret hollow.  For once the little
man's suavity forsook him, and he swore like a sailor, but softly.  He
rushed again to the deck and sought Captain Flanagan, who was enjoying
a pipe forward.

"Captain, where is Mr. Breitmann?"

"Breitmann?  Oh, he went ashore in one of the fruit-boats.  Missed th'
motor."

"Did he take any luggage?"

"Baggage?" corrected Captain Flanagan.  "Nothin' but his hat, sir.
Anythin' wrong?"

"Oh, no!  We missed him at breakfast."  M. Ferraud turned about,
painfully conscious that he had been careless.

Fitzgerald hove in sight.  "Find him?"

"Ashore!" said M. Ferraud, with a violent gesture.

"Isn't it time to make known who he is?"

"Not yet.  It would start too many complications.  Besides, I doubt if
he has the true measurements."

"There was ample time for him to make a copy."

"Perhaps."

"Mr. Ferraud?"

"Well?"

"I've an idea, and I have had it for some time, that you wouldn't feel
horribly disappointed if our friend made away with the money."

M. Ferraud shrugged; then he laughed quietly.

"Well, neither would I," Fitzgerald added.

"My son, you are a man after my own heart.  I was furious for the
moment to think that he had outwitted me the first move.  I did not
want him to meet his confederates without my eyes on him.  And there
you have it.  It is not the money, which is morally his; it is his
friends, his lying, mocking friends."

"Are we fair to the admiral?  He has set his heart on this thing."

"And shall we spoil his pleasure?  Let him find it out later."

"Do you know Corsica?"

"As the palm of my hand."

"But the women?"

"They will never be in the danger zone.  No blood will be spilled,
unless it be mine.  He has no love for me, and I am his only friend,
save one."

"Suppose this persecution of Germany's was only a blind?"

"My admiration for you grows, Mr. Fitzgerald.  But I have dug too
deeply into that end of it not to be certain that Germany has tossed
this bombshell into France without holding a string to it.  Did you
know that Breitmann had once been hit by a spent bullet?  Here,"
pointing to the side of his head.  "He is always conscious of what he
does but not of the force that makes him do it.  Do you understand me?
He is living in a dream, and I must wake him."

The adventurers were now ready to disembark.  They took nothing but
rugs and hand-bags, for there would be no preening of fine feathers on
hotel verandas.  With the exception of Hildegarde all were eager and
excited.  Her breast was heavy with forebodings.  Who and what was this
man Ferraud?  One thing she knew; he was a menace to the man she loved,
aye, with every throb of her heart and every thought of her mind.

The admiral was like a boy starting out upon his first
fishing-excursion.  To him there existed nothing else in the world
beyond a chest of money hidden somewhere in the pine forest of Aïtone.
He talked and laughed, pinched Laura's ears, shook Fitzgerald's
shoulder, prodded Coldfield, and fussed because the motor wasn't
sixty-horse power.

"Father," Laura asked suddenly, "where is Mr. Breitmann?"

"Oh, I told him last night to go ashore early, if he would, and arrange
for rooms at the Grand Hotel d'Ajaccio.  He knows all about the place."

M. Ferraud turned an empty face toward Fitzgerald, who laughed.  The
great-grandson of Napoleon, applying for hotel accommodations, as a
gentleman's gentleman, and within a few blocks of the house in which
the self-same historic forebear was born!  It had its comic side.

"Are there any brigands?" inquired Mrs. Coldfield.  She was beginning
to doubt this expedition.

"Brigands?  Plenty," said the admiral, "but they are all hotel
proprietors these times, those that aren't conveniently buried.  From
here we go to Carghese, where we spend the night, then on to Evisa, and
another night.  The next morning we shall be on the ground.  Isn't that
the itinerary, Fitzgerald?"

"Yes."

"And be sure to take an empty carriage to carry canned food and bottled
water," supplemented Cathewe.  "The native food is frightful.  The
first time I took the journey I was ignorant.  Happily it was in the
autumn, when the chestnuts were ripe.  Otherwise I should have starved."

"And you spent a winter or spring here, Hildegarde?" said Mrs.
Coldfield.

"It was lovely then."  There was a dream in Hildegarde's eyes.

The hotel omnibus was out of service, and they rode up in carriages.
The season was over, and under ordinary circumstances the hotel would
have been closed.  A certain royal family had not yet left, and this
fact made the arrangements possible.  It was now very warm.  Dust lay
everywhere, on the huge palms, on the withered plants, on the chairs
and railings, and swam palpable in the air.  Breitmann was nowhere to
be found, but he had seen the manager of the hotel and secured rooms
facing the bay.  Later, perhaps two hours after the arrival, he
appeared.  In this short time he had completed his plans.  As he viewed
them he could see no flaw.

Now it came about that Captain Flanagan, who had not left the ship once
during the journey, found his one foot aching for a touch and feel of
the land.  So he and Holleran, the chief-engineer, came ashore a little
before noon and decided to have a bite of maccaroni under the shade of
the palms in the Place des Palmiers.  A bottle of warm beer was
divided between them.  The captain said Faugh! as he drank it.

"Try th' native wine, Capt'n," suggested the chief-engineer.

"I have a picture of Cap'n Flanagan drinkin' the misnamed vinegar.  No
Dago's bare fut on the top o' mine, when I'm takin' a glass.  An'
that's th' way they make ut.  This Napoleyun wus a fine man.  He pushed
'em round some."

"Sure, he had Irish blood in 'im, somewheres," Holleran assented.  "But
I say," suddenly stretching his lean neck, "will ye look t' see who's
comin' along!"

Flanagan stared.  "If ut ain't that son-of-a-gun ov a Picard, I'll eat
my hat!"  The captain grew purple.  "An' leavin' th' ship without
orders!"

"An' the togs!" murmured Holleran.

"Watch me!" said Flanagan, rising and squaring his peg.

Picard, arrayed in clean white flannels, white shoes, a panama set
rakishly on his handsome head, his fingers twirling a cane, came
head-on into the storm.  The very jauntiness of his stride was as a red
rag to the captain.  So then, a hand, heavy and charged with righteous
anger, descended upon Picard's shoulder.

"Right about face an' back to th' ship, fast as yer legs c'n make ut!"

Picard calmly shook off the hand, and, adding a vigorous push which
sent the captain staggering among the little iron-tables, proceeded
nonchalantly.  Holleran leaped to his feet, but there was a glitter in
Picard's eye that did not promise well for any rough-and-tumble fight.
Picard's muscular shoulders moved off toward the vanishing point.
Holleran turned to the captain, and with the assistance of a waiter,
the two righted the old man.

"Do you speak English?" roared the old sailor.

"Yes, sir," respectfully.

"Who wus that?"

The waiter, in reverent tones, declared that the gentleman referred to
was well known in Ajaccio, that he had spent the previous winter there,
and that he was no less a person than the Duke of--But the waiter never
completed the sentence.  The title was enough for the irascible
Flanagan.

"Th'--hell--he--is!"  The captain subsided into the nearest chair,
bereft of future speech, which is a deal of emphasis to put on the
phrase.  Picard, a duke, and only that morning his hands had been
yellow with the stains of the donkey-engine oil!  And by and by the
question set alive his benumbed brain; what was a duke doing on the
yacht Laura?  "Holleran, we go t' the commodore.  The devil's t' pay.
What's a dook doin' on th' ship, and we expectin' to dig up gold in
yonder mountains?  Look alive, man; they's villany afoot!"

Holleran's jaw sagged.




CHAPTER XXII

THE ADMIRAL BEGINS TO DOUBT

"What's this you're telling me, Flanagan?" said the admiral perturbed.

"Ask Holleran here, sir; he wus with me when th' waiter said Picard wus
a dook.  I've suspicioned his han's this long while, sir."

"Yes, sir; Picard it was," averred Holleran.

"Bah!  Mistaken identity."

"I'm sure, sir," insisted Holleran.  "Picard has a whisker-mole on his
chin, sir, like these forriners grow, sir.  Picard, sir, an' no
mistake."

"But what would a duke . . ."

"Ay, sir; that's the question," interrupted Flanagan; and added in a
whisper: "Y' c'n buy a dozen dooks for a couple o' million francs, sir.
Th' first-officer, Holleran here, an' me; nobody else knows what we're
after, sir; unless you gentlemen abaft, sir, talked careless.  I say
'tis serious, Commodore.  He knows what we're lookin' fer."

Holleran nudged his chief.  "Tell th' commodore what we saw on th' way
here."

"Picard hobnobbin' with Mr. Breitmann, sir."

Breitmann?  The admiral's smile thinned and disappeared.  There might
be something in this.  Two million francs did not appeal to him, but he
realized that to others they stood for a great fortune, one worthy of
hazards.  He would talk this over with Cathewe and Fitzgerald and learn
what they thought about the matter.  If this fellow Picard was a duke
and had shipped as an ordinary hand foreward . . .  Peace went out of
the admiral's jaw and Flanagan's heart beat high as he saw the old
war-knots gather.  Oh, for a row like old times!  For twenty years he
had fought nothing bigger than a drunken stevedore.  Suppose this was
the beginning of a fine rumpus?  He grinned, and the admiral, noting
the same, frowned.  He wished he had left the women at Marseilles.

"Say nothing to any one," he warned.  "But if this man Picard comes
aboard again, keep him there."

"Yessir."

"That'll be all."

"What d' y' think?" asked Holleran, on the return to the Place des
Palmiers, for the two were still hungry.

"Think?  There's a fight, bucko!" jubilantly.

"These pleasure-boats sure become monotonous."  Holleran rubbed his
dark hands.  "When d' y' think it'll begin?"

"I wish ut wus t'day."

"I've seen y' do some fine work with th' peg."

They had really seen Picard and Breitmann talking together.  The
acquaintanceship might have dated from the sailing of the Laura, and
again it mightn't.  At least, M. Ferraud, who overheard the major part
of the conversation, later in the day, was convinced that Picard had
joined the crew of the Laura for no other purpose than to be in touch
with Breitmann.  There were some details, however, which would be
acceptable.  He followed them to the Rue Fesch, to a trattoria, but
entered from the rear.  M. Ferraud never assumed any disguises, but
depended solely upon his adroitness in occupying the smallest space
possible.  So, while the two conspirators sat at a table on the
sidewalk, M. Ferraud chose his inside, under the grilled window which
was directly above them.

"Everything is in readiness," said Picard.

"Thanks to you, duke."

"To-night you and your old boatman Pietro will leave for Aïtone.  The
admiral and his party will start early to-morrow morning.  No matter
what may happen, he will find no drivers till morning.  The drivers all
understand what they are to do on the way back from Evisa.  I almost
came to blows with that man Flanagan.  I wasn't expecting him ashore.
And I could not stand the grime and jeans a minute longer.  Perhaps he
will believe it a case of mistaken identity.  At any rate he will not
find out the truth till it's too late for him to make a disturbance.
We have had wonderful luck!"

A cart rumbled past, and the listener missed a few sentences.  What did
the drivers understand?  What was going to happen on the way back from
Evisa?  Surely, Breitmann did not intend that the admiral should do the
work and then be held up later.  The old American sailor wasn't afraid
of any one, and he would shoot to kill.  No, no; Breitmann meant to
secure the gold alone.  But the drivers worried M. Ferraud.  He might
be forced to change his plans on their account.  He wanted full
details, not puzzling components.  Quiet prevailed once more.

"Women in affairs of this sort are always in the way," said Picard.

M. Ferraud did not hear what Breitmann replied.

"Take my word for it," pursued Picard, "this one will trip you; and you
can not afford to trip at this stage.  We are all ready to strike, man.
All we want is the money.  Every ten francs of it will buy a man.  We
leave Marseilles in your care; the rest of us will carry the word on to
Lyons, Dijon and Paris.  With this unrest in the government, the army
scandals, the dissatisfied employees, and the idle, we shall raise a
whirlwind greater than '50 or '71.  We shall reach Paris with half a
million men."

Again Breitmann said something lowly.  M. Ferraud would have liked to
see his face.

"But what are you going to do with the other woman?"

Two women: M. Ferraud saw the ripple widen and draw near.  One woman he
could not understand, but two simplified everything.  The drivers and
two women.

"The other?" said Breitmann.  "She is of no importance."

M. Ferraud shook his head.

"Oh, well; this will be, your private affair.  Captain Grasset will
arrive from Nice to-morrow night.  Two nights later we all should be on
board and under way.  Do you know, we have been very clever.  Not a
suspicion anywhere of what we are about."

"Do you recollect M. Ferraud?" inquired Breitmann.

"That little fool of a butterfly-hunter?" the duke asked.

M. Ferraud smiled and gazed laughingly up at the grill.

"He is no fool," abruptly.  "He is a secret agent, and not one move
have we made that is unknown to him."

"Impossible!"

M. Ferraud could not tell whether the consternation in Picard's voice
was real or assumed.  He chose to believe the latter.

"And why hasn't he shown his hand?"

"He is waiting for us to show ours.  But don't worry," went on
Breitmann.  "I have arranged to suppress him neatly."

And the possible victim murmured: "I wonder how?"

"Then we must not meet again until you return; and then only at the
little house in the Rue St. Charles."

"Agreed.  Now I must be off."

"Good luck!"

M. Ferraud heard the stir of a single chair and knew that the
great-grandson was leaving.  The wall might have been transparent, so
sure was he of the smile upon Picard's face, a sinister speculating
smile.  But his imagination did not pursue Breitmann, whose lips also
wore a smile, one of irony and bitterness.  Neither did he hear Picard
murmur "Dupe!" nor Breitmann mutter "Fools!"

When Breitmann saw Hildegarde in the hotel gardens he did not avoid her
but stopped by her chair.  She rose.  She had been waiting all day for
this moment.  She must speak out or suffocate with anxiety.

"Karl, what are you going to do?"

"Nothing," unsmilingly.

"You will let the admiral find and keep this money which is yours?"

Breitmann shrugged.

"You are killing me with suspense!"

"Nonsense!" briskly.

"You are contemplating violence of some order.  I know it, I feel it!"

"Not so loud!" impatiently.

"You are!" she repeated, crushing her hands together.

"Well, all there remains to do is to tell the admiral.  He will,
perhaps, divide with me."

"How can you be so cruel to me?  It is your safety; that is all I wish
to be assured of.  Oh, I am pitifully weak!  I should despise you.
Take this chest of money; it is yours.  Go to England, to America, and
be happy."

"Happy?  Do you wish me to be happy?"

"God knows!"

"And you?" curiously.

"I have no time to ask you to consider me," with a clear pride.  "I do
not wish to see you hurt.  You are courting death, Karl, death."

"Who cares?"

"I care!" with a sob.

The bitterness in his face died for a space.  "Hildegarde, I'm not
worth it.  Forget me as some bad dream; for that is all I am or ever
shall be.  Marry Cathewe; I'm not blind.  He will make you happy.  I
have made my bed, or rather certain statesmen have, and I must lie in
it.  If I had known what I know now," with regret, "this would not have
been.  But I distrusted every one, myself, too."

She understood.  "Karl, had you told me all in the first place, I
should have given you that diagram without question, gladly."

"Well, I am sorry.  I have been a beast.  Have we not always been such,
from the first of us, down to me?  Forget me!"

And with that he left her standing by the side of her chair and walked
swiftly toward the hotel.  When next she realized or sensed anything
she was lying on her bed, her eyes dry and wide open.  And she did not
go down to dinner, nor did she answer the various calls on her door.

Night rolled over the world, with a cool breeze driving under her
million planets.  The lights in the hotel flickered out one by one, and
in the third corridor, where the adventurers were housed, only a wick,
floating in a tumbler of oil, burned dimly.

Fitzgerald had waited in the shadow for nearly an hour, and he was
growing restless and tired.  All day long he had been obsessed with the
conviction that if Breitmann ever made a start it would be some time
that night.  Distinctly he heard the light rattle of a carriage.  It
stopped outside the gardens.  He pressed closer against the wall.  The
door to Breitmann's room opened gently and the man himself stepped out
cautiously.

"So," began Fitzgerald lightly, "your majesty goes forth to-night?"

But he overreached himself.  Breitmann whirled, and all the hate in his
breast went into his arm as he struck.  Fitzgerald threw up his guard,
but not soon enough.  The blow hit him full on the side of the head and
toppled him over; and as the back of his head bumped the floor, the
world came to an end.  When he regained his senses his head was
pillowed on a woman's knees and the scared white face of a woman bent
over his.

"What's happened?" he whispered.  There were a thousand wicks where
there had been one and these went round and round in a circle.
Presently the effect wore away, and he recognized Laura.  Then he
remembered.  "By George!"

"What is it?" she cried, the bands of terror about her heart loosening.

"As a hero I'm a picture," he answered.  "Why, I had an idea that
Breitmann was off to-night to dig up the treasure himself.  Gone!  And
only one blow struck, and I in front of it!"

"Breitmann?" exclaimed Laura.  She caught her dressing-gown closer
about her throat.

"Yes.  The temptation was too great.  How did you get here?"  He ought
to have struggled to his feet at once, but it was very comfortable to
feel her breath upon his forehead.

"I heard a fall and then some one running.  Are you badly hurt?"

The anguish in her voice was as music to his ears.

"Dizzy, that's all.  Better tell your father immediately.  No, no; I
can get up alone.  I'm all right.  Fine rescuer of princesses, eh?"
with an unsteady laugh.

"You might have been killed!"

"Scarcely that.  I tried to talk like they do in stories, with this
result.  The maxim is, always strike first and question afterward.  You
warn your father quietly while I hunt up Ferraud and Cathewe."

Seeing that he was really uninjured she turned and flew down the dark
corridor and knocked at her father's door.

Fitzgerald stumbled along toward M. Ferraud's room, murmuring: "All
right, Mr. Breitmann; all right.  But hang me if I don't hand you back
that one with interest.  Where the devil is that Frenchman?" as he
hammered on Ferraud's door and obtained no response.  He tried the
knob.  The door opened.  The room was black, and he struck a match.  M.
Ferraud, fully dressed, lay upon his bed.  There was a handkerchief
over his mouth and his hands and feet were securely bound.  His eyes
were open.




CHAPTER XXIII

CATHEWE ASKS QUESTIONS

The hunter of butterflies rubbed his released wrists and ankles, tried
his collar, coughed, and dropped his legs to the floor.

"I am getting old," he cried in self-communion; "near-sighted and old.
I've worn spectacles so long in jest that now I must wear them in
earnest."

"How long have you been here?" asked Fitzgerald.

"I should say about two hours.  It was very simple.  He came to the
door.  I opened it.  He came in.  Zut!  He is as powerful as a lion."

"Why didn't you call?"

"I was too busy, and suddenly it became too late.  Gone?"

"Yes."  And Fitzgerald swore as he rubbed the side of his head.
Briefly he related what had befallen him.

"You have never hunted butterflies?"

"No," sharply.  "Shall we start for him while his heels are hot?"

"It is very exciting.  It is the one thing I really care for.  There is
often danger, but it is the kind that does not steal round your back.
Hereafter I shall devote my time to butterflies.  You can make
believe--is that what you call it?--each butterfly is a great rascal.
The more difficult the netting, the more cunning the rascal . . .  What
did you say?"

"Look here, Ferraud," cried Fitzgerald angrily; "do you want to catch
him or not?  He's gone, and that means he has got the odd trick."

"But not the rubber, my son.  Listen.  When you set a trap for a rat or
a lion, do you scare the animal into it, or do you lure him with a
tempting bait?  I have laid the trap; he and his friend will walk into
it.  I am not a police officer.  I make no arrests.  My business is to
avert political calamities, without any one knowing that these
calamities exist.  That is the real business of a secret agent.  Let
him dig up his fortune.  Who has a better right?  Peste!  The pope
will not crown him in the gardens of the Tuileries.  What!" with a ring
in his voice Fitzgerald had never heard before; "am I one to be
overcome without a struggle, without a call for help?  The trap is set,
and in forty-eight hours it will be sprung.  Be calm, my son.  Tonight
we should not find a horse or carriage in the whole town of Ajaccio."

"But what are you going to do?"

"Go to Aïtone, to find a hole in the ground."

"But the admiral!"

"Let him gaze into the hole, and then tell him what you will.  I owe
him that much.  Come on!"

"Where?"

"To the admiral, to tell him his secretary is a fine rogue and that he
has stolen the march on us.  A good chase will soften his final
disappointment."

"You're a strange man."

"No; only what you English and Americans call a game sport.  To start
on even terms with a man, to give him the odds, if necessary.  What!
have beaters for my rabbits, shoot pigeons from traps?  Fi donc!"

"Hang it!" growled the young man, undecided.

"My son, give me my way.  Some day you will be glad.  I will tell you
this: I am playing against desperate men; and the liberty, perhaps
honor, of one you love is menaced."

"My God!"

"Sh!  Ask me nothing; leave it all to me.  There!  They are coming.
Not a word."

The admiral's fury was boundless, and his utterances were touched here
and there by strong sailor expressions.  The scoundrel!  The black-leg!
And he had trusted him without reservation.  He wanted to start at
once.  Laura finally succeeded in calming him, and the cold reason of
M. Ferraud convinced him of the folly of haste.  There was a comic side
to the picture, too, but they were all too serious to note it; the
varied tints of the dressing-gowns, the bath-slippers and bare feet,
the uncovered throats, the tousled hair, the eyes still heavy with
sleep.  Every one of the party was in Ferraud's room, and their voices
hummed and murmured and their arms waved.  Only one of them did Ferraud
watch keenly; Hildegarde.  How would she act now?

Fitzgerald's head still rang, and now his mind was being tortured.
Laura in danger from this madman?  No, over his body first, over his
dead body.  How often had he smiled at that phrase; but there was no
melodrama in it now.  Her liberty and perhaps her honor!  His strong
fingers worked convulsively; to put them round the blackguard's throat!
And to do nothing himself, to wait upon this Frenchman's own good time,
was maddening.

"Your head is all right now?" as she turned to follow the others from
the room.

"It was nothing."  He forced a smile to his lips.  "I'm as fit as a
fiddle now; only, I'll never forgive myself for letting him go.  Will
you tell me one thing?  Did he ever offend you in any way?"

"A woman would not call it an offense," a glint of humor in her eyes.
"Real offense, no."

"He proposed to you?"

The suppressed rage in his tone would have amused if it hadn't thrilled
her strangely.  "It would have been a proposal if I had not stopped it.
Good night."

He could not see her eyes very well; there was only one candle burning.
Impulsively he snatched at her hand and kissed it.  With his life, if
need be; ay, and gladly.  And even as she disappeared into the corridor
the thought intruded: Where was the past, the days of wandering, the
