
The manager scanned the little slip of paper in his hand. "Ah, yes; we
have reserved a room for you, sir. The French style rather confused me."
This was not offered in irony, or sarcasm, or satire; mining in a Swiss
brain for the saving grace of humor is about as remunerative as the
extraction of gold from sea-water. Nevertheless, the Swiss has the
talent of swiftly substracting from a confusion of ideas one point of
illumination: there was a quality to the stranger's tone that decided
him favorably. It was the voice of a man in the habit of being obeyed;
and in these days it was the power of money alone that obtained
obedience to any man. Beyond this, the same nebulous cogitation that had
subdued the Arabs outside acted likewise upon him. Here was a brother.

"Mail?"

"I will see, sir." The manager summoned a porter. "Room 208."

The porter caught up the somewhat collapsed kit-bag, which had in all
evidence received some rough usage in its time, and reached toward the
roll. Mr. Ryanne interposed.

"I will see to that, my man," tersely.

"Yes, sir."

"Where is your guest-list?" demanded Mr. Ryanne of the manager.

"The head-porter's bureau, sir. I will see if you have any mail." The
manager passed into his own bureau. It was rather difficult to tell
whether this man was an American or an Englishman. His accent was
western, but his manner was decidedly British. At any rate, that tone
and carriage must be bastioned by good English sovereigns, or for once
his judgment was at fault.

The porter dashed up-stairs. Mr. Ryanne, his bundle still snug under his
arm, sauntered over to the head-porter's bureau and ran his glance up
and down the columns of visiting-cards. Once he nodded with approval,
and again he smiled, having discovered that which sent a ripple across
his sleeping sense of amusement. Major Callahan, room 206; Fortune
Chedsoye, 205; George P. A. Jones, 210.

"Hm! the Major smells of County Antrim and the finest whisky in all the
isle. Fortune Chedsoye; that is a pleasing name; tinkling brooks, the
waving green grasses in the meadows, the kine in the water, the fleeting
shadows under the oaks; a pastoral, a bucolic name. To claim Fortune for
mine own; a happy thought."

As he uttered these poesy expressions aloud, in a voice low and not
unpleasing, for all that it was bantering, the head-porter stared at
him with mingling doubt and alarm; and as if to pronounce these emotions
mutely for the benefit of the other, he permitted his eyes to open their
widest.

"Tut, tut; that's all right, porter. I am cursed with the habit of
speaking my inmost thoughts. Some persons are afflicted with insomnia;
some fall asleep in church; I think orally. Beastly habit, eh?"

The porter then understood that he was dealing not with a species of
mild lunacy, but with that kind of light-hearted cynicism upon which the
world (as porters know it) had set its approving seal. In brief, he
smiled faintly; and if he had any pleasantry to pass in turn, the
approach of the manager, now clothed metaphorically in deferentialism,
relegated it to the limbo of things thought but left unsaid.

"Here is a letter for you, Mr. Ryanne. Have you any more luggage?"

"No." Mr. Ryanne smiled. "Shall I pay for my room in advance?"

"Oh, no, sir!" Ten years ago the manager would have blushed at having
been so misunderstood. "Your room is 208."

"Will you have a boy show me the way?"

"I shall myself attend to that. If the room is not what you wish it may
be exchanged."

"The room is the one I telegraphed for. I am superstitious to a degree.
On three boats I have had fine state-rooms numbered 208. Twice the
number of my hotel room has been the same. On the last voyage there were
208 passengers, and the captain had made 208 voyages on the
Mediterranean."

"Quite a coincident."

"Ah, if roulette could be played with such a certainty."

Mr. Ryanne sighed, hitched up his bundle, which, being heavy, was
beginning to wear upon his arm, and signified to the manager to lead the
way.

As they vanished round the corner to the lift, the head-porter studied
the guest-list. He had looked over it a dozen times that day, but this
was the first instance of his being really interested in it. As his chin
was freshly shaven he had no stubble to stroke to excite his mental
processes; so he fell back, as we say, upon the consoling ends of his
abundant mustache. Curious; but all these persons were occupying or
about to occupy adjacent rooms. There was truly nothing mysterious
about it, save that the stranger had picked out these very names as a
target for his banter. Fortune Chedsoye; it was rather an unusual name;
but as she had arrived only an hour or so before, he could not
distinctly recall her features. And then, there was that word bucolic.
He mentally turned it over and over as physically he was wont to do with
post-cards left in his care to mail. He could make nothing of the word,
except that it smacked of the East Indian plague.

Here he was saved from further cerebral agony by a timely interruption.
A man, who was not of bucolic persuasion either in dress or speech,
urban from the tips of his bleached fingers to the bulb of his bibulous
nose, leaned across the counter and asked if Mr. Horace Ryanne had yet
arrived. Yes, he had just arrived; he was even now on his way to his
room. The urban gentleman nodded. Then, with a finger slim and
well-trimmed, he trailed up and down the guest-list.

"Ha! I see that you have the Duke of What-d'ye-call from Germany here.
I'll give you my card. Send it up to Mr. Ryanne. No hurry. I shall be in
again after dinner."

He bustled off toward the door. He was pursy, well-fed, and decently
dressed, the sort of a man who, when he moved in any direction, created
the impression that he had an important engagement somewhere else or was
paring minutes from time-tables. For a man in his business it was a
clever expedient, deceiving all but those who knew him. He hesitated at
the door, however, as if he had changed his mind in the twenty-odd paces
it took to reach it. He stared for a long period at the elderly
gentleman who was watching the feluccas on the river through the window.
The white mustache and imperial stood out in crisp relief against the
ruddy sunburn on his face. If he was aware of this scrutiny on the part
of the pursy gentleman, he gave not the least sign. The revolving door
spun round, sending a puff of outdoor air into the lounging-room. The
elderly gentleman then smiled, and applied his thumb and forefinger to
the waxen point of his imperial.

In the intervening time Mr. Ryanne entered his room, threw the bundle on
the bed, sat down beside it, and read his letter. Shadows and lights
moved across his face; frowns that hardened it, smiles that mellowed
it. Women hold the trick of writing letters. Do they hate, their
thoughts flash and burn from line to line. Do they love, 'tis lettered
music. Do they conspire, the breadth of their imagination is without
horizon. At best, man can indite only a polite business letter, his
love-notes were adjudged long since a maudlin collection of loose
sentences. In this letter Mr. Ryanne found the three parts of life.

"She's a good general; but hang these brimstone efforts of hers. She
talks too much of heart. For my part, I prefer to regard it as a mere
physical function, a pump, a motor, a power that gives action to the
legs, either in coming or in going, more especially in going." He
laughed. "Well, hers is the inspiration and hers is the law. And to
think that she could plan all this on the spur of the moment, down to
the minutest detail! It's a science." He put the letter away, slid out
his legs and glared at the dusty tips of his shoes. "The United Romance
and Adventure Company, Ltd., of New York, London, and Paris. She has the
greatest gift of all, the sense of humor."

He rose and opened his kit-bag doubtfully. He rummaged about in the
depths and at last straightened up with a mild oath.

"Not a pair of cuffs in the whole outfit, not a shirt, not a collar. Oh,
well, when a man has to leave Bagdad the way I did, over the back fence,
so to speak, linen doesn't count."

He drew down his cuffs, detached and reversed them, he turned his
folding collar wrong-side out, and used the under side of the foot-rug
as a shoe-polisher. It was the ingenius procedure of a man who was used
to being out late of nights, who made all things answer all purposes.
This rapid and singularly careless toilet completed, he centered his
concern upon the more vital matter of finances. He was close to the
nadir: four sovereigns, a florin, and a collection of battered coppers
that would have tickled the pulse of an amateur numismatist.

"No vintage to-night, my boy; no long, fat Havana, either. A bottle of
stout and a few rags of plug-cut; that's the pace we'll travel this
evening. The United Romance and Adventure Company is not listed at
present. If it was, I'd sell a few shares on my own hook. The kind Lord
knows that I've stock enough and to spare." He laughed again, but
without the leaven of humor. "When the fool-killer snatches up the last
fool, let rogues look to themselves; and fools are getting scarcer every
day.

"Percival Algernon! O age of poets! I wonder, does he wear high collars
and spats, or has she plumbed him accurately? She is generally right.
But a man changes some in seven years. I'm an authority when it comes to
that. Look what's happened to me in seven years! First, Horace, we shall
dine, then we'll smoke our pipe in the billiard-room, then we'll softly
approach Percival Algernon and introduce him to Sinbad. This independent
excursion to Bagdad was a stroke on my part; it will work into the
general plan as smoothly as if it had been grooved for the part. Sinbad.
I might just as well have assumed that name: Horace Sinbad, sounds well
and looks well." He mused in silence, his hand gently rubbing his chin;
for he did possess the trick of talking aloud, in a low monotone, a
habit acquired during periods of loneliness, when the sound of his own
voice had succeeded in steadying his tottering mind.

What a woman, what a wife, she would have been to the right man! Odd
thing, a man can do almost anything but direct his affections; they
must be drawn. She was not for him; nay, not even on a desert isle.
Doubtless he was a fool. In time she would have made him a rich man.
Alack! It was always the one we pursued that we loved and never the one
that pursued us.

"I'm afraid of her; and there you are. There isn't a man living who has
gone back of that Mona Lisa smile of hers. If she was the last woman and
I was the last man, I don't say." He hunted for a cigarette, but failed
to find one. "Almost at the bottom, boy; the winter of our discontent,
and no sun of York to make it glorious. Twenty-four hundred at cards,
and to lose it like a tyro! Wallace has taught me all he knows, but I'm
a booby. Twenty-four hundred, firm's money. It's a failing of mine, the
firm's money. But, damn it all, I can't cheat a man at cards; I'd rather
cut his throat."

He found his pipe, and a careful search of the corners of his
coat-pockets revealed a meager pipeful of tobacco. He picked out the
little balls of wool, the ground-coffee, the cloves, and pushed the
charge home into the crusted bowl of his briar.

"To the devil with economy! A pint of burgundy and a perfecto if they
hale us to jail for it. I'm dead tired. I've seen three corners in hell
in the past two months. I'm going as far as four sovereigns will take
me.... Fortune Chedsoye." His blue eyes became less hard and his mouth
less defiant. "I repeat, the heart should be nothing but a pump.
Otherwise it gets in the way, becomes an obstruction, a bottomless pit.
Will-power, that's the ticket. I can face a lion without an extra beat,
I can face the various countenances of death without an additional
flutter; and yet, here's a girl who, when I see her or think of her,
sends the pulse soaring from seventy-seven up to eighty-four. Bad
business; besides, it's so infernally unfashionable. It's hard work for
a man to keep his balance 'twixt the devil and the deep, blue sea;
Gioconda on one side and Fortune on the other. Gioconda throws open
windows and doors at my approach; but Fortune locks and bars hers, nor
knocks at mine. That's the way it always goes.

"If a man could only go back ten years and take a new start. Ass!"
balling his fist at the reflection in the mirror. "Snivel and whine over
the bed of your own making. You had your opportunity, but you listened
to the popping of champagne-corks, the mutter of cards, the inane drivel
of chorus-ladies. You had a decent college record, too. Bah! What a
guileless fool you were! You ran on, didn't you, till you found your
neck in the loop at the end of the rope? And perhaps that soft-footed,
estimable brother of yours didn't yank it taut as a hangman's? You heard
the codicil; into one ear and out the other. Even then you had your
chance; patience for two short years, and a million. No, a thousand
times no. You knew what you were about, empty-headed fool! And to-day,
two pennies for a dead man's eyes."

He dropped his fist dejectedly. Where had the first step begun? And
where would be the last? In some drab corner, possibly; drink, morphine,
or starvation; he'd never have the courage to finish it with a bullet.
He was terribly bitter. Everything worth while seemed to have slipped
through his fingers, his pleasure-loving fingers.

"Come, come, Horace; buck up. Still the ruby kindles in the vine. No
turning back now. We'll go on till we come bang! against the wall. There
may be some good bouts between here and there. I wonder what Gioconda
would say if she knew why I was so eager for this game?"

He went down to dinner, and they gave him a table in an obscure corner,
as a subtle reminder that his style was passé. He didn't care; he was
hungry and thirsty. He could see nearly every one, even if only a few
could see him. This was somewhat to his vantage. He endeavored to pick
out Percival Algernon; but there were too many high collars, too many
monocles. So he contented himself with a mild philosophical observance
of the scene. The murmur of voices, rising as the wail of the violins
sank, sinking as the wail rose; the tinkle of glass and china, the
silver and linen, the pretty women in their rustling gowns, the delicate
perfumes, the flash of an arm, the glint of a polished shoulder: this
was the essence of life he coveted. He smiled at the thought and the
sure knowledge that he was not the only wolf in the fold. Ay, and who
among these dainty Red Riding Hoods might be fooled by a vulpine
grandmother? Truth, when a fellow winnowed it all down to a handful,
there were only fools and rogues. If one was a fool, the rogue got you,
and he in turn devoured himself.

He held his glass toward the table-lamp, moved it slowly to and fro
under his nose, epicureanly; then he sipped the wine. Something like! It
ran across his tongue and down his throat in tingling fire, nectarious;
and he went half way to Olympus, to the feet of the gods. For weeks he
had lived in the vilest haunts, in desperate straits, his life in his
open hands; and now once more he had crawled from the depths to the
outer crust of the world. It did not matter that he was destined to go
down into the depths again; so long as the spark burned he was going to
crawl back each time. Damnable luck! He could have lived like a prince.
Twenty-four hundred, and all in two nights, a steady stream of gold into
the pockets of men whom he could have cheated with consummate ease, and
didn't. A fine wolf, whose predatory instincts were still riveted to
that obsolete thing called conscience!

"Conscience? Rot! Let us for once be frank and write it down as caution,
as fear of publicity, anything but the white guardian-angel of the
immortality of the soul. Heap up the gold, Apollyon; heap it up, higher
and higher, till not a squeak of that still small voice that once awoke
the chap in the Old Testament can ever again be heard. Now; no more
retrospection, Horace; no more analysis; the vital question simmers down
to this: If Percival Algernon balks, how far will four sovereigns go?"




CHAPTER III

THE HOLY YHIORDES


George drank his burgundy perfunctorily. Had it been astringent as the
native wine of Corsica, he would not have noticed it. The little nerves
that ran from his tongue to his brain had temporarily lost the power of
communication. And all because of the girl across the way. He couldn't
keep his eyes from wandering in her direction. She faced him diagonally.
She ate but little, and when the elderly gentleman poured out for her a
glass of sauterne, she motioned it aside, rested her chin upon her
folded hands, and stared not at but through her vis-à-vis.

It was a lovely head, topped with coils of lustrous, light brown hair;
an oval face, of white and rose and ivory tones; scarlet lips, a small,
regular nose, and a chin the soft roundness of which hid the resolute
lift to it. To these attributes of loveliness was added a perfect form,
the long, flowing curves of youth, not the abrupt contours of maturity.
George couldn't recollect when he had been so impressed by a face. From
the moment she had stepped down from the carriage, his interest had been
drawn, and had grown to such dimensions that when he entered the
dining-room his glance immediately searched for her table. What luck in
finding her across the way! He questioned if he had ever seen her
before. There was something familiar; the delicate profile stirred some
sleeping memory but did not wake it.

How to meet her, and when he did meet her, how to interest her? If she
would only drop her handkerchief, her purse, something to give him an
excuse, an opening. Ah, he was certain that this time the hydra-headed
one should not overcome him. To gain her attention and to hold it, he
would have faced a lion, a tiger, a wild-elephant. To diagnose these
symptoms might not be fair to George. "Love at first sight" reads well
and sounds well, but we hoary-headed philosophers know that the phrase
is only poetical license.

Once, and only once, she looked in his direction. It swept over him with
the chill of a winter wind that he meant as much to her as a tree, a
fence, a meadow, as seen from the window of a speeding railway train.
But this observation, transient as it was, left with him the indelible
impression that her eyes were the saddest he had ever seen. Why? Why
should a young and beautiful girl have eyes like that? It could not mean
physical weariness, else the face would in some way have expressed it.
The elderly man appeared to do his best to animate her; he was kindly
and courteous, and by the gentle way he laughed at intervals was trying
to bolster up the situation with a jest or two. The girl never so much
as smiled, or shrugged her shoulders; she was as responsive to these
overtures as marble would have been.

George's romance gathered itself for a flight. Perhaps it was love
thwarted, and the gentleman with the mustache and imperial, in spite of
his amiability, might be the ogre. Perhaps it was love and duty. Perhaps
her lover had gone down to sea. Perhaps (for lovers are known to do such
things) he had run away with the other girl. If that was the case,
George did not think highly of that tentative gentleman's taste. Perhaps
and perhaps again; but George might have gone on perhapsing till the
crack o' doom, with never a solitary glimmer of the true state of the
girl's mind. Whenever he saw an unknown man or woman who attracted his
attention, he never could resist the impulse to invent a romance that
might apply.

Immediately after dessert the two rose; and George, finding that nothing
more important than a pineapple ice detained him, got up and followed.
Mr. Ryanne almost trod on his heels as they went through the doorway
into the cosy lounging-room. George dropped into a vacant divan and
waited for his café à la Turque. Mr. Ryanne walked over to the
head-porter's bureau and asked if that gentleman would be so kind as to
point out Mr. George P. A. Jones, if he were anywhere in sight. He
thoughtfully, not to say regretfully, laid down a small bribe.

"Mr. Jones?" The porter knew Mr. Jones very well. He was generous, and
treated the servants as though they were really human beings. Mr.
Ryanne, either by his inquiry or as the result of his bribe, went up
several degrees in the porter's estimation. "Mr. Jones is over there,
on the divan by the door."

"Thanks."

But Ryanne did not then seek the young man. He studied the quarry from a
diplomatic distance. No; there was nothing to indicate that George
Percival Algernon Jones was in any way handicapped by his Arthuresque
middle names.

"No fool, as Gioconda in her infinite wisdom hath said; but romantic,
terribly romantic, yet, like the timid bather who puts a foot into the
water, finds it cold, and withdraws it. It will all depend upon whether
he is a real collector or merely a buyer of rugs. Forward, then, Horace;
a sovereign has already dashed headlong down the far horizon." The curse
of speaking his thoughts aloud did not lie heavily upon him to-night,
for these cogitations were made in silence, unmarked by any facial
expression. He proceeded across the room and sat down beside George. "I
beg your pardon," he began, "but are you not Mr. Jones?"

Mildly astonished, George signified that he was.

"George P. A. Jones?"

George nodded again, but with some heat in his cheeks. "Yes. What is
it?" The girl had just finished her coffee and was going away. Hang this
fellow! What did he want at this moment?

If Ryanne saw that he was too much, as the French say, he also perceived
the cause. The desire to shake George till his teeth rattled was
instantly overcome. She hadn't seen him, and for this he was grateful.
"You are interested in rugs? I mean old ones, rare ones, rugs that are
bought once and seldom if ever sold again."

"Why, yes. That's my business." George had no silly ideas about trade.
He had never posed as a gentleman's son in the sense that it meant
idleness.

Ryanne presented his card.

"How do you pronounce it?" asked George naïvely.

"As they do in Cork."

"I never saw it spelled that way before."

"Nothing surprising in that," replied Ryanne. "No one else has, either."

George laughed and waited for the explanation.

"You see, Ryan is as good a name as they make them; but it classes with
prize-fighters, politicians, and bar chemists. The two extra letters put
the finishing touch to the name. A jewel is all right, but what tells
is the way you hang it round your neck. To me, those additional letters
represent the jewel Ryan in the hands of a Lalique."

"You talk like an American."

"I am; three generations. What's the matter?" with sudden concern.

George was frowning. "Haven't I met you somewhere before?"

"Not to my recollection." A speculative frown now marred Ryanne's
forehead. It did not illustrate a search in his memory for such a
casualty as the meeting of George. He never forgot a face and certainly
did not remember George's. Rather, the frown had its source in the mild
dread that Percival Algernon had seen him somewhere during one of those
indispositions of the morning after. "No; I think you have made a
mistake."

"Likely enough. It just struck me that you looked something like a chap
named Wadsworth, who was half-back on the varsity, when I entered my
freshman year."

"A university man? Lord, no! I was turned loose at ten; been hustling
ever since." Ryanne spoke easily, not a tremor in his voice, although
he had received a slight mental jolt. "No; no college record here. But I
want to chat with you about rugs. I've heard of you, indirectly."

"From the carpet fellows? We do a big business over here. What have you
got?"

"Well, I've a rug up in my room I'd like to show you. I want your
judgment for one thing. Will you do me the favor?"

Since the girl had disappeared and with her those imaginary
appurtenances that had for a space transformed the lounging-room into a
stage, George saw again with normal vision that the room was simply a
common meeting-ground for well-dressed persons and ill-dressed persons,
of the unimpeachable, the impeccable, the doubtful and the peccant; for
in Cairo, as in ancient Egypt, there is every class and kind of humans,
for whom the Decalogue was written, transcribed, and shattered by the
turbulent Moses, an incident more or less forgotten these days. From the
tail of his eye he gave swift scrutiny to this chance acquaintance, and
he found nothing to warrant suspicion. It was not an unusual procedure
for men to hunt him up in Cairo, in Constantinople, in Smyrna, or in
any of the Oriental cities where his business itinerary led him. The
house of Mortimer & Jones was widely known. This man Ryanne might have
been anywhere between thirty and forty. He was tall, well set up, blond
and smooth-skinned. True, he appeared to have been ill-fed recently. A
little more flesh under the cheek-bones, a touch of color, and the
Irishman would have been a handsome man. George could read a rug a
league off, as they say, but he was a child in the matter of
physiognomy, whereas Ryanne was a past-master in this regard; it was
necessary both for his business and safety.

"Certainly, I'll take a look at it. But I tell you frankly," went on
George, "that to interest me it's got to be a very old one. You see,
it's a little fad of mine, outside the business end of it. I'm crazy
over real rugs, and I know something about every rare one in existence,
or known to exist. Is it a copy?"

"No. I'll tell you more about it when we get to my room."

"Come on, then." George was now quite willing to discuss rugs and
carpets.

Having gained the room, Ryanne threw off his coat and relighted his
cigar, which, in a saving mood, he had allowed to go out. He motioned
George to be seated.

"Just a little yarn before I show you the rug. See these cuffs?"

"Yes."

"You will observe that I have had to reverse them. Note this collar?
Same thing. Trousers-hems a bit frayed, coat shiny at the elbows."
Ryanne exhibited his sole fortune. "Four sovereigns between me and a
jail."

George became thoughtful. He was generous and kind-hearted among those
he knew intimately or slightly, but he had the instinctive reserve of
the seasoned traveler in cases like this. He waited.

"The truth is, I'm all but done for. And if I fail to strike a bargain
here with you.... Well, I should hate to tell you the result. Our consul
would have to furnish me passage home. Were you ever up against it to
the extent of reversing your cuffs and turning your collars? You don't
know what life is, then."

George gravely produced two good cigars and offered one to his host.
There was an absence of sound, broken presently by the cheerful crackle
of matches; two billowing clouds of smoke floated outward and upward.
Ryanne sighed. Here was a cigar one could not purchase in all the length
and breadth of the Orient, a Pedro Murias. In one of his doubtfully
prosperous epochs he had smoked them daily. How long ago had that been?

"Yonder is a rug, a prayer-rug, as holy to the Moslem as the idol's eye
is to the Hindu, as the Bible is to the Christian. For hundreds of years
it never saw the outside of the Sultan's palace. One day the late, the
recently late, Abdul the Unspeakable Turk, gave it to the Pasha of
Bagdad. Whenever this rug makes its appearance in Holy Mecca, it is
worshiped, and none but a Sultan or a Sultan's favorite may kneel upon
it. Bagdad, the hundred mosques, the old capital of Suleiman the Great,
the dreary Tigris and the sluggish Euphrates, a muezzin from the turret
calls to prayer, and all that; eh?"

George leaned forward from his chair, a gentle terror in his heart. "The
Yhiordes? By Jove! is that the Yhiordes?"

Admiration kindled in Ryanne's eyes. To have hit the bull's-eye with so
free and quick an aim was ample proof that Percival Algernon had not
boasted when he said that he knew something about rugs.

"You've guessed it."

"How did you come by it?" George demanded excitedly.

"Why do you ask that?"

"Man, ten-thousand pounds could not purchase that rug, that bit of
carpet. Collectors from every port have been after it in vain. And you
mean to tell me that it lies there, wrapped in butcher's paper?"

"Right-O!"

Ryanne solemnly detached a cuff and rolled up his sleeve. The bare
muscular arm was scarred by two long, ugly knife-wounds, scarcely
healed. Next he drew up a trousers-leg, disclosing a battered shin. "And
there's another on my shoulder-blade, the closest call I ever had. A man
who takes his life in his hands, as I have done, merits some reward. Mr.
Jones, I'll be frank with you. I am a kind of derelict. Since I was a
boy, I have hated the humdrum of offices, of shops. I wanted to be my
own man, to go and come as I pleased. To do this and live meant
precarious exploits. This rug represents one of them. I am telling you
the family secret; I am showing you the skeleton in the closet,
confidentially. I stole that rug; and when I say that the seven labors
of our old friend Hercules were simple diversions compared, you'll
recognize the difficulties I had to overcome. You know something of the
Oriental mind. I handled the job alone. I may not be out of the jungle
yet."

George listened entranced. He could readily construct the scenes through
which this adventurer had gone: the watchful nights, the untiring
patience, the thirst, the hunger, the heat. And yet, he could hardly
believe. He was a trifle skeptical. Many a rogue had made the mistake of
playing George's age against his experience. He had made some serious
blunders in the early stages of the business, however; and everybody, to
gain something in the end, must lose something at the start.

"If that rug is the one I have in mind, you certainly have stolen it.
And if it's a copy, I'll tell you quickly enough."

"That's fair. And that's why," Ryanne declared, "I wanted you to look at
it. To me, considering what I have gone through to get it, to me it is
the genuine carpet. To your expert eye it may be only a fine copy. I
know this much, that rare rugs and paintings have many copies, and that
some one is being hooked, sold, bamboozled, sandbagged, every day in the
week. If this is the real article, I want you to take it off my hands,"
the adventurer finished pleasantly.

"There will be a hue and cry."

"No doubt of it."

"And the devil's own job to get it out of Egypt." These were set phrases
of the expert, preliminaries to bargaining. "One might as well carry
round a stolen elephant."

"But a man who is as familiar with the game as you are would have little
difficulty. Your integrity is an established fact, on both sides of the
water. You could take it to New York as a copy, and no appraiser would
know the difference. It's worth the attempt. I'd take it to New York
myself, but you see, I am flat broke. Come; what do you or I care about
a son-of-a-gun of a Turk?" drolly.

"What do you want for it, supposing it's genuine?" George's throat was
dry and his voice harsh. His conscience roused herself, feebly, for it
had been a long time since occasion had necessitated her presence.

Ryanne narrowed his eyes, carefully balancing the possibilities. "Say,
one thousand pounds. It is like giving it away. But when the devil
drives, you know. It is beyond any set price; it is worth what any
collector is willing to pay for it. I believe I know the kind of man you
are, Mr. Jones, and that is why, when I learned you were in Cairo, I
came directly to you. You would never sell this rug. No. You would
become like a miser over his gold. You would keep it with your emeralds
(I have heard about them, too); draw the curtains, lock the doors,
whenever you looked at it. Eh? You would love it for its own sake, and
not because it is worth so many thousand pounds. You are sailing in a
few days; that will help. The Pasha is in Constantinople, and it will be
three or four weeks before he hears of the theft, or the cost," with a
certain grimness.

"You haven't killed any one?" whispered George.

"I don't know; perhaps. Christianity against paganism; the Occidental
conscience permits it." Ryanne made a gesture to indicate that he would
submit to whatever moral arraignment Mr. Jones deemed advisable to make.

But George made none. He rose hastily, sought his knife and, without so
much as by your leave, slashed the twine, flung aside the paper, and
threw the rug across the counterpane. It was the Yhiordes. There was not
the slightest doubt in his mind. He had heard it described, he had seen
a photograph of it, he knew its history and, most vital of all, he owned
a good copy of it.

Against temptation that was robust and energetic and alluring (like the
man who insists upon your having a drink when you want it and ought not
to have it), what chance had conscience, grown innocuous in the long
period of the young man's good behavior? Collectors are always honest
before and after that moment arrives when they want something
desperately; and George was no more saintly than his kind. And how deep
Ryanne and his confederates had delved into human nature, how well they
could read and judge it, was made manifest in this moment of George's
moral relapse.

[Illustration]

Bagdad, the jinns, Sinbad, the Thousand and One Nights, Alibaba and the
Forty Thieves: George was transported mentally to that magic city,
standing between the Tigris and the Euphrates, in all its white glory of
a thousand years gone. Ryanne, the room and its furnishings, all had
vanished, all save the exquisite fabric patterned out of wool and cotton
and knotted with that mingling love and skill and patience the world
knows no more. He let his hand stray over it. How many knees had pressed
its thick yet pliant substance? How many strange scenes had it mutely
witnessed, scenes of beauty, of terror? It shone under the light like
the hide of a healthy hound.

The nerves of a smoker are generally made apparent by the rapidity of
his exhalations. These two, in the several minutes, had filled the room
with a thick, blue haze; and through this the elder man eyed the
younger. The sign of the wolf gleamed in his eyes, but without
animosity, modified as it was by the half-friendly, half-cynical smile.

"I'll risk it," said George finally, having stepped off the magical
carpet, as it were. "I can't give you a thousand pounds to-night. I can
give you three hundred, and the balance to-morrow, between ten and
eleven, at Cook's."

"That will be agreeable to me."

George passed over all the available cash he had, rolled up the treasure
and tucked it under his arm. That somewhere in the world was a true
believer, wailing and beating his breast and calling down from Allah
curses upon the giaour, the dog of an infidel, who had done this thing,
disturbed George not in the least.

"I say," as he opened the door, "you must tell me all about the
adventure. It must have been a thriller."

"It was," replied Ryanne. "The story will keep. Later, if you care to
hear it."

"Of course," added George, moved by a discretionary thought, "this
transaction is just between you and me."

"You may lay odds on that," heartily. "Well, good night. See you at
Cook's in the morning."

"Good night." George passed down the corridor to the adjoining room.

And now, bang! goes Pandora's box.




CHAPTER IV

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE


That faculty which decides on the lawlessness of our actions: so the
noted etymologist described conscience. It fell to another distinguished
intellect to add that conscience makes cowards of us all. Ay. She may be
overcome at times, side-tracked for any special desire that demands a
clear way; but she's after us, fast enough, with that battered red
lantern of hers, which, brought down from all tongues crisply into our
own, reads--"Don't do it!" She herself is not wholly without cunning.
She rarely stands boldly upon the track to flag us as we come. She
realizes that she might be permanently ditched. No; it is far safer to
run after us and catch us. A digression, perhaps, but more pertinently
an application.

Temptation then no longer at his shoulder, George began to have qualms,
little chaps, who started buzzing into his moral ears with all that
maddening, interminable drone which makes one marvel however do
school-teachers survive their first terms. Among these qualms there was
none that pleaded for the desolate Turk or his minions whose
carelessness had made the theft possible. For all George cared, the
Moslem might grind his forehead in the soulless sand and make the air
palpitate with his plaints to Allah. No. The disturbance was due to the
fact that never before had he been wittingly the purchaser of stolen
goods. He never tried to gloze over the subtle distinction between
knowing and suspecting; and if he had been variously suspicious in
regard to certain past bargains, conscience had found no sizeable wedge
for her demurrers. The Yhiordes was confessedly stolen.

He paused, with his hand upon the door-knob of his room. If he didn't
keep the rug, it would fall into the hands of a collector less
scrupulous. To return it to the Pasha at Bagdad would be pure folly, and
thankless. It was one of the most beautiful weavings in existence. It
was as priceless in its way as any Raphael in the Vatican. And he
desired its possession intensely. Why not? Insidious phrase! Was it not
better that the world should see and learn what a wonderful craft the
making of a rare rug had been, than to allow it to return to the sordid
chamber of a harem, to inevitable ruin? As Ryanne said, what the deuce
was a fanatical Turk or Arab to him?

Against these specious arguments in favor of becoming the adventurer's
abettor and accomplice, there was first the possible stain of blood. The
man agreed that he had come away from Bagdad in doubt. George did not
like the thought of blood. Still, he had collected a hundred emeralds,
not one of which was without its red record. Again, if he carried the
rug home with his other purchases, he could pull it through the customs
only by lying, which was as distasteful to his mind as being a receiver
of stolen goods.

He had already paid a goodly sum against the purchase; and it was not
likely that a man who was down to reversing his collars and cuffs would
take back the rug and refund the money. The Yhiordes was his, happen
what might. So conscience snuffed out her red lantern and retired.

Some light steps, a rustle, and he wheeled in time to see a woman open a
door, stand for a minute in the full light, and disappear. It was she.
George opened the door of his own room, threw the rug inside, and
tiptoed along the corridor, stopping for the briefest time to ascertain
the number of that room. He felt vastly more guilty in performing this
harmless act than in smothering his mentor.

There was no one in the head-porter's bureau; thus, unobserved and
unembarrassed, he was free to inspect the guest-list. Fortune Chedsoye.
He had never seen a name quite like that. Its quaintness did not suggest
to him, as it had done to Ryanne, the pastoral, the bucolic. Rather it
reminded him of the old French courts, of rapiers and buckles, of
powdered wigs and furbelows, masks, astrologers, love-intrigues, of all
those colorful, mutable scenes so charmingly described by the genial
narrator of the exploits of D'Artagnan. And abruptly out of this age of
Lebrun, Watteau, Molière, reached an ice-cold hand. If that elderly
codger wasn't her father, who was he and what?

The Major--for George had looked him up also--was in excellent trim for
his age, something of a military dandy besides; but as the husband of so
young and exquisite a creature! Out upon the thought! He might be her
guardian, or, at most, her uncle, but never her husband. Yet (O
poisonous doubt!), at the table she had ignored the Major, both his
jests and his attentions. He had seen many wives, joyfully from a safe
distance, act toward their husbands in this fashion. Oh, rot! If his
name was Callahan and hers Chedsoye, they could not possibly be tied in
any legal bonds. He dismissed the ice-cold hand and turned again to the
comforting warmth of his ardor.

He had never spoken to young women without presentation, and on these
rare occasions he had broached the weather, suggested the possibilities
of the weather, and concluded with an apostrophe on the weather at
large. It was usually a valedictory. For he was always positive that he
had acted like a fool, and was afraid to speak to the girl again. Never
it failed, ten minutes after the girl was out of sight, the brightest
and cleverest things crowded upon his tongue, to be but wasted on the
desert air. He was not particularly afraid of women older than himself,
more's the pity. And yet, had he been as shy toward them as toward the
girls, there would have been no stolen Yhiordes, no sad-eyed maiden, no
such thing as The United Romance and Adventure Company, Ltd.; and he
would have stepped the even tenor of his way, unknown of grand passions,
swift adventure, life.

George was determined to meet Fortune Chedsoye, and this determination,
the first of its kind to take definite form in his mind, gave him a
novel sensation. He would find some way, and he vowed to best his old
enemy, diffidence, if it was the last fight he ever put up. He would
manoeuver to get in the way of the Major. He never found much trouble
in talking to men. Once he exchanged a word or two with the uncle or
guardian, he would make it a point to renew the acquaintance when he saw
the two together. It appeared to him as a bright idea, and he was rather
proud of it. Even now he was conscious of clenching his teeth strongly.
It's an old saying that he goes farthest who shuts his teeth longest. He
was going to test the precept by immediate practice.

He had stood before the list fully three minutes. Now he turned about
face, a singular elation tingling his blood. Once he set his mind upon a
thing, he went forward. He had lost many pleasurable things in life
because he had doubted and faltered, not because he had reached out
toward them and had then drawn back. He was going to meet Fortune
Chedsoye; when or how were but details. And as he discovered the Major
himself idling before the booth of the East Indian merchant, he saw in
fancy the portcullis rise and the drawbridge fall to the castle of
enchantment. He strolled over leisurely and pretended to be interested
in the case containing mediocre jewels.

"This is a genuine Bokhara embroidery?" the Major was inquiring.

"Oh, yes, sir."

"How old?"

The merchant picked up the tag and squinted at it. "It is between two
and three hundred years old, sir."

To George's opinion the gods themselves could not have arranged a more
propitious moment.

"You've made a mistake," he interposed quietly. "That is Bokhara, but
the stitch is purely modern."

The dark eyes of the Indian flashed. "The gentleman is an authority?"
sarcastically.

"Upon that style of embroidery, absolutely." George smiled. And then,
without more ado, he went on to explain the difference between the
antique and the modern. "You have one good piece of old Bokhara, but it
isn't rare. Twenty-pounds would be a good price for it."

The Major laughed heartily. "And just this moment he asked a hundred for
it. I'm not much of a hand in judging these things. I admire them, but
have no intimate knowledge regarding their worth. Nothing to-night," he
added to the bitter-eyed merchant. "The Oriental is like the amateur
fisherman: truth is not in him. You seem to be a keen judge," as they
moved away from the booth.

"I suppose it's because I'm inordinately fond of the things. I've really
a good collection of Bokhara embroideries at home in New York."

"You live in New York?" with mild interest. The Major sat down and
graciously motioned for George to do the same. "I used to live there;
twenty-odd years ago. But European travel spoils America; the rush
there, the hurry, the clamor. Over here they dine, there they eat.
There's as much difference between those two performances as there is
between The Mikado and Florodora. From Portland in Maine to Portland
in Oregon, the same dress, same shops, same ungodly high buildings. Here
it is different, at the end of every hundred miles."

George agreed conditionally. (The Major wasn't very original in his
views.) He would have shed his last drop of blood for his native land,
but he was honest in acknowledging her faults.

Conversation idled in various channels, and finally became anchored at
jewels. Here the Major was at home, and he loved emeralds above all
other stones. He proved to be an engaging old fellow, had circled the
globe three or four times, and had had an adventure or two worth
recounting. And when he incidentally mentioned his niece, George wanted
to shake his hand.

Would Mr. Jones join him with a peg to sleep on? Mr. Jones certainly
would. And after a mutual health, George diplomatically excused himself,
retired, buoyant and happy. How simple the affair had been! A fellow
could do anything if only he set his mind to it. To-morrow he would
meet Fortune Chedsoye, and may Beelzebub shrive him if he could not
manage to control his recalcitrant tongue.

As he passed out of sight, Major Callahan smiled. It was that old
familiar smile which, charged with gentle mockery, we send after
departing fools. It was plain that he needed another peg to keep company
with the first, for he rose and gracefully wended his way down-stairs to
the bar. Two men were already leaning against the friendly, inviting
mahogany. There was a magnum of champagne standing between their
glasses. The Major ordered a temperate whisky and soda, drank it,
frowned at the magnum, paid the reckoning, and went back up-stairs
again.

"Don't remember old friends, eh?" said the shorter of the two men,
caressing his incarnadined proboscis. "A smile wouldn't have hurt him
any, do you think?"

"Shut up!" admonished Ryanne. "You know the orders; no recognition on
the public floors."

"Why, I meant no harm," the other protested. He took a swallow of wine.
"But, dash it! here I am, more'n four thousand miles from old Broadway,
and still walking blind. When is the show to start?"

"Not so loud, old boy. You've got to have patience. You've had some good
pickings for the past three months, in the smoke-rooms. That ought to
soothe you."

"Well, it doesn't. Here I come from New York, three months ago, with a
wad of money for you and a great game in sight. It takes a week to find
you, and when I do.... Well, you know. No sooner are you awake, than
what? Off you go to Bagdad, on the wildest goose-chase a man ever heard
of. And that leaves me with nothing to do and nobody to talk to. I could
have cried yesterday when I got your letter saying you'd be in to-day."
