YNDAIA

At the mouth of the pass which led to the Vale Yndaia I lay with my
Indians that night, two mounting guard, then one, then two more, and
the sentinels changed every three hours throughout the night. But all
were excited and all slept lightly.

Within the Vale Yndaia, perhaps a hundred yards from the mouth of the
pass, stood the lonely little house of bark in which Madame de
Contrecoeur had lived alone for twenty years.

And here, that night, Lois lay with her mother; and no living thing
nearer the dim house than we who mounted guard--except for the little
birds asleep that Madame de Contrecoeur had tamed, and the small forest
creatures which had learned to come fearlessly at this lonely woman's
low-voiced call. And these things I learned not then, but afterwards.

Never had I seen such utter loneliness--for it had been less a
solitude, it seemed to me, had the little house not stood there under
the pale lustre of the stars.

On every side lofty hills enclosed the valley, heavily timbered to
their crests; and through the intervale the rill ran, dashing out of
the pass and away into that level, wooded strip to the fern-glade which
lay midway between the height of land and Catharines-town; and there
joined the large stream which flowed north. I could see in the darkness
little of the secret and hidden valley called Yndaia, only the heights
silhouetted against the stars, a vague foreground sheeted with mist,
and the dark little house standing there all alone under the stars.

All night long the great tiger-owls yelped and hallooed across the
valley; all night the spectral whip-poor-will whispered its husky,
frightened warning. And long after midnight a tiny bird awoke and sang
monotonously for an hour or more.

Awaiting an attack from Catharines-town at any moment, we dared not
make a fire or even light a torch. Rotten trunks which had fallen
across the stream we dragged out and piled up across the mouth of the
pass to make a defence; but we could do no more than that; and, our
efforts ended, my Indians sat in a circle cross-legged, quietly hooping
and stretching their freshly taken scalps by the dim light of the
stars, and humming their various airs of triumph in low, contented, and
purring voices. All laboured under subdued excitement, the brief and
almost silent slaughter in the ferns having thoroughly aroused them.
But the tension showed only in moments of abrupt gaiety, as when Mayaro
challenged them to pronounce his name, and they could not, there being
no letter "M" in the Iroquois language--neither "P" nor "B" either, for
that matter--so they failed at "Butler" too, and Philip Schuyler, which
aroused all to nervous merriment.

The Yellow Moth finished braiding his trophy first, went to the stream,
and washed the blood from his weapons and his hands, polished up knife
and hatchet, freshened his priming and covered it, and then, being a
Christian, said his prayers on his knees, rolled over on his blanket,
and instantly fell asleep.

One by one the others followed his example, excepting the Sagamore, who
yawning with repressed excitement, picked up his rifle, mounted the
abattis, and squatted there, his chin on a log, motionless and intent
as a hunting cat in long grass. I joined him; and there we sat
unstirring, listening, peering ahead into the mist-shot darkness, until
our three hours' vigil ended.

Then we noiselessly summoned the Grey-Feather, and he crept up to the
log defence, rifle in hand, to sit there alone until his three hours'
duty was finished, when the Yellow Moth and Tahoontowhee should take
his place.

It was already after sunrise when I was awakened by the tinkle of a
cow-bell. A broad, pinkish shaft of sunshine slanted through the pass
into the hidden valley; and for the first time in my life I now beheld
the Vale Yndaia in all the dewy loveliness of dawn. A milch cow fed
along the brook, flank-deep in fern. Chickens wandered in its wake,
snapping at gnats and tiny, unseen creatures under the leaves.

Dainty shreds of fog rose along the stream, films of mist floated among
sun-tipped ferns and bramble sprays. The little valley, cup-shaped and
green, rang with the loud singing of birds. The pleasant noises of the
brook filled my ears. All the western hills were now rosy where the
rising sun struck their crests; north and south a purplish plum-bloom
still tinted velvet slopes, which stretched away against a saffron sky
untroubled by a cloud.

But the pretty valley and its green grass and ferns and hills held my
attention only at moments, for my eyes ever reverted to the low bark
house, with its single chimney of clay, now stained orange by the sun.

All the impatience and tenderness and not ignoble curiosity so long
restrained assailed me now, as I gazed upon that solitary dwelling,
where the unhappy mother of Lois de Contrecoeur had endured captivity
for more than twenty years.

Vines of the flowering scarlet bean ran up the bark sides of the house,
and over the low doorway; and everywhere around grew wild flowers and
thickets of laurel and rhododendron, as in a cultivated park. And I saw
that she had bordered a walk of brook-pebbles with azaleas and
marsh-honeysuckles, making a little path to the brook over which was a
log bridge with hand rails.

But laurel, azalea, and rhododendron bloomed no longer; the flowers
that now blossomed in a riot of azure, purple, and gold on every side
were the lovely wild asters and golden-rod; and no pretty garden set
with formal beds and garnished artfully seemed to compare with this
wild garden in the Vale Yndaia.

As the sun warmed the ground, the sappy perfume of tree and fern and
grass mounted, scenting the pure, cool air with warm and balm-like
odours. Gauzy winged creatures awoke, flitted, or hung glittering to
some frail stem. The birds' brief autumn music died away; only the dry
chirring of a distant squirrel broke the silence, and the faint tinkle
of the cow-bell.

My Indians, now all awake, were either industriously painting their
features or washing their wounds and scratches and filling them with
balsam and bruised witch-hazel, or were eating the last of our parched
corn and stringy shreds of leathery venison. All seemed as complacent
as a party of cats licking their rumpled fur; and examining their
bites, scratches, bruises, and knife wounds, I found no serious injury
among them, and nothing to stiffen for very long the limbs of men in
such a hardy condition.

The youthful Night Hawk was particularly proud of an ugly knife-slash,
with which the Black Snake had decorated his chest--nay, I suspected
him of introducing sumac juice to make it larger and more showy--but
said nothing, as these people knew well enough how to care for their
bodies.

Doubtless they were full as curious as was I concerning Madame de
Contrecoeur--perhaps more so, because not one of them but believed her
the Sorceress which unhappy circumstances had obliged her to pretend to
be. Pagan or Christian, no Indian is ever rid of superstition.

Yet, devoured by curiosity, not one of them betrayed it, forbearing, at
least in my presence, even to mention the White Prophetess of the
Senecas, though they voiced their disappointment freely enough
concerning the escape of Amochol.

So we ate our corn and dried meat, and drank at the pretty rill, and
cleansed us of mud and blood, each after his own fashion--discussing
the scalping of the Eries the while, the righteous death of the
Black-Snake, the rout of Butler's army, and how its unexpected arrival
had saved Amochol. For none among us doubted that, another half hour at
most, and we had heard the cracking signal of Boyd's rifles across the
hideous and fiery space.

We were not a whit alarmed concerning Boyd and his party. Reconnoitring
Catharines-town from the north, they must have very quickly discovered
the swarm of partly crippled hornets, so unexpectedly infesting the
nest; and we felt sure that they had returned in safety to watch and
keep in touch with the beaten army.

Yet, beaten at Chemung, exhausted after a rapid and disorderly retreat,
this same defeated Tory army was still formidable and dangerous. We had
seen enough of them to understand that. Fewer men than these at
Catharines-town had ambuscaded Braddock; fewer still had destroyed
another British expedition; while in the north Abercrombie had been
whipped by an enemy less than a quarter as strong as his own force.

No, we veteran riflemen knew that this motley army of Butler and
McDonald, if it had indeed lost a few rattles, had however parted with
none of its poison fangs. Also, Amochol still lived. And it had been
still another Montour of the wily and accursed Frontenac
breed--"Anasthose the Huron"--who had encompassed the destruction of
Braddock.

That the night had passed without a sign of an enemy, and the dawn had
heralded no yelling onset, we could account for either because no
scouts from Catharines-town had as yet discovered the scalped bodies of
the Eries in the glade, or because our own pursuing army was so close
that no time could be taken by the Senecas to attack a narrow pass held
by five resolute men.

Now that the sun had risen I worried not at all over our future
prospects, believing that we would hear from our advancing army by
afternoon; and the Sagamore was of my opinion.

And even while we were discussing these chances, leaning against our
log abattis in the sunshine, far away across the sunlit flat-woods we
saw a man come out among the ferns from the southward, and lie down.
And then another man came creeping from the south, and another, and yet
another, the sunlight running red along their rifle barrels.

After them went both Oneidas, gliding swiftly out and speeding forward
just within the encircling cover, taking every precaution, although we
were almost certain that the distant scouts were ours.

And they proved to be my own men--a handful of Morgan's--pushing far in
advance to reconnoitre Catharines-town from the south, although our
main army was marching by the western ridges, where Boyd had marked a
path for them.

A corporal in my corps, named Baily, came back with the Oneidas,
climbed with them over the logs, sprang down inside, and saluted me
coolly enough.

His scout of four, he admitted, had made a bad job of the swamp
trail--and his muddy and disordered dress corroborated this. But the
news he brought was interesting.

He had not seen Boyd. The Battle of the Chemung had ended in a
disorderly rout of Butler's army, partly because we had outflanked
their works, partly because Butler's Indians could not be held to face
our artillery fire, though Brant displayed great bravery in rallying
them. We had lost few men and fewer officers; grain-fields, hay-stacks,
and Indian towns were afire everywhere along our line of march.

Detachments followed every water-course, to wipe out the lesser towns,
gardens, orchards, and harvest fields on either flank, and gather up
the last stray head of the enemy's cattle. The whole Iroquois Empire
was now kindling into flames and the track our army left behind it was
a blackened desolation, as horrible to those who wrought it as to the
wretched and homeless fugitives who had once inhabited it.

He added to me in a lower voice, glancing at my Indians with the
ineradicable distrust of the average woodsman, that our advanced guard
had discovered white captives in several of the Indian towns--in one a
young mother with a child at her breast. She, her husband, and five
children had been taken at Wyoming. The Indians and Tories had murdered
all save her and her baby. Her name was Mrs. Lester.

In one town, he said, they found a pretty little white child, terribly
emaciated, sitting on the grass and playing with a chicken. It could
speak only the Iroquois language. Doubtless its mother had been
murdered long since. So starved was the little thing that had our
officers not restrained it the child might have killed itself by too
much eating.

Also, they found a white prisoner--a man taken at Wyoming, one Luke
Sweatland; and it was said in the army that another young white girl
had been found in company with her little brother, both painted like
Indians, and that still another white child was discovered, which
Captain Machin had instantly adopted for his own.

The Corporal further said that our army was proceeding slowly, much
time being consumed in laying the axe to the plum, peach, and apple
orchards; and that it was a sad sight to see the heavily fruited trees
fall over, crushing the ripe fruit into the mud.

He thought that the advanced guard of our army might be up by evening
to burn Catharines-town, but was not certain. Then he asked permission
to go back and rejoin the scout which he commanded; which permission I
gave, though it was not necessary; and away he went, running like a
young deer that has lagged from the herd--a tall, fine, wholesome young
fellow, and as sturdy and active as any I ever saw in rifle-dress and
ruffles.

My Indians lay down on their bellies, stretching themselves out in the
sun across the logs, and, save for the subdued but fierce glimmer under
their lazy lids, they seemed as pleasant and harmless as four tawny
pumas a-sunning on the rocks.

As for me, I wandered restlessly along the brook, as far as the bridge,
and, seating myself here, fished out writing materials and my journal
from my pouch, and filled in the events of the preceding days as
briefly and exactly as I knew how. Also I made a map of Catharines-town
and of Yndaia from memory, resolving to correct it later when Mr. Lodge
and his surveyors came up, if opportunity permitted.

As I sat there musing and watching the chickens loitering around the
dooryard, I chanced to remember the milch cow.

Casting about for a receptacle, I discovered several earthen jars of
Seneca make set in willow baskets and standing by the stream. These I
washed in the icy water, then slinging two of them on my shoulder I
went in quest of the cow.

She proved tame enough and glad, apparently, to be relieved of her
milk, I kneeling to accomplish the business, having had experience with
the grass-guard of our army on more than one occasion.

Lord! How sweet the fragrance of the milk to a man who had seen none in
many days. And so I carried back my jars and set them by the door of
the bark house, covering each with a flat stone. And as I turned away,
I saw smoke coming from the chimney; and heard the shutters on the
southern window being gently opened.

Lord! What a sudden leap my heart gave as the door before me moved with
the soft sliding of the great oak bolt, and was slowly opened wide to
the morning sunshine.

For a moment I thought it was Lois who stood there so white and still,
looking at me with grey, unfathomable eyes; then I stepped forward
uncertainly, bending in silence over the narrow, sun-tanned hand that
lay inert under the respectful but trembling salute I offered.

"Euan Loskiel," she murmured in the French tongue, laying her other
hand over mine and looking me deep in the eyes. "Euan Loskiel, a
soldier of the United States! May God ever mount guard beside you for
all your goodness to my little daughter."

Tears filled her eyes; her pale, smooth cheeks were wet.

"Lois is still asleep," she said. "Come quietly with her mother and you
shall see her where she sleeps."

Cap in hand, coon-tail dragging, I entered the single room on silent,
moccasined feet, set my rifle in a corner, and went over to the couch
of tumbled fawn-skin and silky pelts.

As I stood looking down at the sweetly flushed face, her mother lifted
my brier-scarred hand and pressed her lips to it; and I, hot and
crimson with happiness and embarrassment, found not a word to utter.

"My little daughter's champion!" she murmured. "Brave, and pure of
heart! Ah, Monsieur, chivalry indeed is of no nation! It is a broader
nobility which knows neither race nor creed nor ancestry nor birth....
How the child adores you!"

"And you, Madame. Has ever history preserved another such example of
dauntless resolution and filial piety as Lois de Contrecoeur has shown
us all?"

Her mother's beautiful head lifted a little:

"The blood of France runs in her veins, Monsieur." Then, for the first
time, a pale smile touched her pallour. "Quand meme! No de Contrecoeur
tires of endeavour while life endures.... Twenty-two years, Monsieur.
Look upon her!... And for one and twenty years I have forced myself to
live in hope of this moment! Do you understand?" She made a vague
gesture and shook her head. "Nobody can understand--not even I, though
I have lived the history of many ages."

Still keeping my hand in hers, she stood there silent, looking down at
her daughter. Then, silently, she knelt beside her on the soft
fawnskin, drawing me gently to my knees beside her.

"And you are to take her from me," she murmured.

"Madame----"

"Hush, soldier! It must be. I give her to you in gratitude--and
tears.... My task is ended; yours at last begins. Out of my arms you
shall take her as she promised. What has been said shall be done this
day in the Vale Yndaia.... May God be with us all."

"Madame--when I take her--one arm of mine must remain empty--as half
her heart would be--if neither may hold you also to the end."

She bent her head; her grey eyes closed, and I saw the tears steal out
along the long, soft lashes.

"Son, if you should come to love me----"

"Madame, I love you now."

She covered her face with her slim hands; I drew it against my
shoulder. A moment later Lois unclosed her eyes, looked up at us; then
rose to her knees in her white shift and put both bare arms around her
mother's neck. And, kneeling so, turned her head, offering her
untouched lips to me. Thus, for the first time in our lives, we kissed
each other.


There was milk, ash-bread, corn, and fresh laid eggs for all our party
when Lois went to the door and called, in a clear, sweet voice:

* "Nai! Mayaro! Yon-kwa-ken-nison!"

[* "Oh, Mayaro! We are all assembled!"]

Never have I seen any Indian eat as did my four warriors--the Yellow
Moth cleaning his bark platter, where he sat on guard upon the logs at
the pass, the others in a circle at our threshold.

Had we a siege to endure in this place, there was a store of plenty
here, not only in apple-pit and corn-pit, but in the good, dry cellar
with which the house was provided.

Truly, the Senecas had kept their Prophetess well provided; and now,
before the snow of a not distant winter choked this pass, the place had
been provisioned from the harvest against November's wants and stress.

And it secretly amused me to note the ever latent fear born of respect
which my Indians endeavoured not to betray when in the presence of
Madame de Contrecoeur; nor could her gentle dignity and sweetness
toward them completely reassure them. To them a sorceress was a
sorceress, and must ever remain a fearsome and an awesome personage,
even though it were plain that she was disposed toward them most
agreeably.

So they replied to her cautiously, briefly, but very respectfully, nor
could her graciousness to the youthful Night Hawk for his unerring
arrow, nor her quiet kindness toward the others, completely reassure
them. They were not accustomed to converse, much less to take their
breakfast, with a Sorceress of Amochol, and though this dread fact did
nothing alter their appetites, it discouraged any freedom of
conversation.

Lois and her mother and I understood this; Lois and I dared not laugh
or rally them; Madame de Contrecoeur, well versed, God knows, in Indian
manners and customs, calmly and pleasantly accepted the situation; and
I think perhaps quietly enjoyed it.

But neither mother nor daughter could keep their eyes from each other
for any length of time, nor did their soft hand-clasp loosen save for a
moment now and then.

Later, Lois came to me, laid both hands over mine, looked at me a
moment in silence too eloquent to misunderstand, then drew her mother
with her into the little house. And I went back on guard to join my
awed red brethren.

So the soft September day wore away with nothing untoward to alarm us,
until late in the afternoon we saw smoke rising above the hills to the
southwest. This meant that our devastating army was well on its way,
and, as usual, laying waste the Indian towns and hamlets which its
flanking riflemen discovered; and we all jumped up on our breastworks
to see better.

For an hour we watched the smoke staining the pure blue sky; saw where
new clouds of smoke were rising, always a little further northward. At
evening it rolled, glowing with sombre tints, in the red beams of the
setting sun; then dusk came and we could see the reflection on it of
great fires raging underneath.

And where we were watching it came a far, dull sound which shook the
ground, growing louder and nearer, increasing to a rushing, thundering
gallop; and presently we heard our riflemen running through the
flat-woods after the frightened herds of horses which were bred in
Catharines-town for the British service, and which had now been
discovered and frightened by our advance.

Leaving the Mohican and the Oneidas on guard, I went out with the
Stockbridge, and soon came in touch with our light troops, stealing
westward through the flat-woods to surround Catharines-town.

When I returned to our breastworks, Lois and her mother were standing
there, looking at the fiery smoke in the sky, listening to the noise of
the unseen soldiery. But on my explaining the situation, they went back
to the little house together, after bidding us all good night.

So I set the first watch for the coming night, rolled myself in my
blanket, and went to sleep with the lightest heart I had carried in my
breast for many a day.

At dawn I was awakened by the noise of horses and cattle and the
shouting of the grass-guard, where they were rounding to the half-wild
stock from Catharines-town, and our own hoofed creatures which had
strayed in the flat-woods.

A great cloud of smoke was belching up above the trees to the
northward; and we knew that Catharines-town was on fire, and the last
lurking enemy gone.

Long before Lois was astir, I had made my way through our swarming
soldiery to Catharines-town, where there was the usual orderly
confusion of details pulling down houses or firing them, troops cutting
the standing corn, hacking apple-trees, kindling the stacked hay into
roaring columns of flame.

Regiment after regiment paraded along the stream, discharged its
muskets, filling the forests with crashing echoes and frightening our
cattle into flight again; but they were firing only to clean out their
pieces, for the last of our enemies had pulled foot before sunset, and
the last howling Indian dog had whipped his tail between his legs and
trotted after them.

Suddenly in the smoke I saw General Sullivan, mounted, and talking with
Boyd; and I hastened to them and reported, standing at salute.

"So that damned Red Sachem escaped you?" said the General, biting his
lip and looking now at me, now at Boyd.

Boyd said, glancing curiously at me:

"When we came up we found the entire Tory army here. I must admit, sir,
that we were an hour late, having been blocked by the passage of two
hundred Hurons and Iroquois who crossed our trail, cutting us from the
north."

"What became of them?"

"They joined Butler, Brant, and Hiokatoo at this place, General."

Then the General asked for my report; and I gave it as exactly as I
could, the General listening most attentively to my narrative, and Boyd
deeply and sombrely interested.

When I ended he said:

"We have taken also a half-breed, one Madame Sacho. You say that Madame
de Contrecoeur is at the Vale Yndaia with her daughter?"

"Guarded by my Indians, General."

"Very well, sir. Today we send back ten wagons, our wounded, and four
guns of the heavier artillery, all under proper escort. You will notify
Madame de Contrecoeur that there will be a wagon for her and her
daughter."

"Yes, General."

He gathered his bridle, leaned from his saddle, and looked coldly at
Boyd and me.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I shall expect you to take Amochol, dead or
alive, before this command marches into the Chinisee Castle. How you
are to accomplish this business is your own affair. I leave you full
liberty, except," turning to Boyd, "you, sir, are not to encumber
yourself again with any such force as you now have with you. Twenty men
are too many for a swift and secret affair. Four is the limit--and four
of Mr. Loskiel's Indians."

He sat still, gnawing at his lip for a moment, then:

"I am sorry that, through no fault apparently of your own, this
Sorcerer, Amochol, escaped. But, gentlemen, the service recognizes only
success. I am always ready to listen to how nearly you failed, when you
have succeeded; I have no interest in hearing how nearly you succeeded
when you have failed. That is all, gentlemen."

We stood at salute while he wheeled, and, followed by his considerable
staff, walked his fine horse away toward the train of artillery which
stood near by, the gun-teams harnessed and saddled, the guns limbered
up, drivers and cannoneers in their saddles and seats.

"Well," said Boyd heavily, "shall we be about this matter of Amochol?"

"Yes.... Will you aid me in placing Madame de Contrecoeur and her
daughter in the wagon assigned them?"

He nodded, and together we started back toward the Vale Yndaia in
silence.

After a long while he looked up at me and said:

"I know her now."

"What?"

"I recognize your pretty Lois de Contrecoeur. For weeks I have been
troubled, thinking of her and how I should have known her face. And
last night, lying north of Catharines-town, it came to me suddenly."

I was silent.

"She is the ragged maid of the Westchester hills," he said.

"She is the noblest maid that ever breathed in North America," I said.

"Yes, Loskiel.... And, that being true, you are the fittest match for
her the world could offer."

I looked up, surprised, and flushed; and saw how colourless and wasted
his face had grown, and how in his eyes all light seemed quenched.
Never have I gazed upon so hopeless and haunted a visage as he turned
to me.

"I walk the forests like a damned man," he said, "already conscious of
the first hot breath of hell.... Well--I had my chance, Loskiel."

"You have it still."

But he said no more, walking beside me with downcast countenance and
brooding eyes fixed on our long shadows that led us slowly west.



CHAPTER XXI

CHINISEE CASTLE

For twelve days our army, marching west by north, tore its terrible way
straight through the smoking vitals of the Iroquois Empire, leaving
behind it nearly forty towns and villages and more than two hundred
cabins on fire; thousands and thousands of bushels of grain burning,
thousands of apple, peach, pear, and plum trees destroyed, thousands of
acres of pumpkins, beans, peas, corn, potatoes, beets, turnips,
carrots, watermelons, muskmelons, strawberry, black-berry, raspberry
shrubs crushed and rotting in the trampled gardens under the hot
September sun.

In the Susquehanna and Chinisee Valleys, not a roof survived unburnt,
not a fruit tree or an ear of corn remained standing, not a domestic
animal, not a fowl, was left. And, save for the aged squaw we left at
Chiquaha in a new hut of bark, with provisions sufficient for her
needs, not one living soul now inhabited the charred ruins of the Long
House behind us, except our fierce soldiery. And they, tramping
doggedly forward, voluntarily and cheerfully placing themselves on half
rations, were now terribly resolved to make an end for all time of the
secret and fruitful Empire which had nourished so long the merciless
marauders, red and white, who had made of our frontiers but one vast
slaughter-house and bloody desolation.

Town after town fell in ashes as our torches flared; Kendaia,
Kanadesaga, Gothsunquin, Skoi-yase, Kanandaigua, Haniai, Kanasa; acre
after acre was annihilated. So vast was one field of corn that it took
two thousand men more than six hours to destroy it. And the end was not
yet, nor our stern business with our enemies ended.

As always on the march, the division of light troops led; the advance
was piloted by my guides, reinforced by Boyd with four riflemen of
Morgan's--Tim Murphy, David Elerson, and Garrett Putnam, privates, and
Michael Parker, sergeant.

Close behind us, and pretty well ahead of the rifle battalion, under
Major Parr, and the pioneers, followed Mr. Lodge, the surveyor, and his
party--Thomas Grant with the Jacob-staff, four chain-carriers, and
Corporal Calhawn. Usually we remained in touch with them while they ran
their lines through the wilderness, but sometimes we were stealing
forward, far ahead and in touch with the retreating Tory army,
patiently and persistently contriving plans to get at Amochol. But the
painted hordes of Senecas enveloped the Sorcerer and his acolytes as
with a living blanket; and, prowling outside their picket fires at
night, not one ridged-crest did we see during those twelve days of
swift pursuit.

Boyd, during the last few days, had become very silent and morose; and
his men and my Indians believed that he was brooding over his failure
to take the Red Priest at Catharines-town. But my own heavy heart told
me a different story; and the burden of depression which this young
officer bore so silently seemed to weight me also with vague and
sinister apprehensions.

I remember, just before sunset, that our small scout of ten were halted
by a burnt log bridge over a sluggish inlet to a lake. The miry trail
to the Chinisee Castle led over it, swung westward along the lake,
rising to a steep bluff which was gashed with a number of deep and
rocky ravines.

It was plain that the retreating Tory army had passed over this bridge,
and that their rearguard had set it afire.

I said to Boyd, pointing across the southern end of the lake:

"From what I have read of Braddock's Field, yonder terrain most
astonishingly resembles it. What an ambuscade could Butler lay for our
army yonder, within shot of this crossing!"

"Pray God he lays it," said Boyd between his teeth.

"Yet, we could get at him better beyond those rocky gashes," I
muttered, using my spyglass.

"Butler is there," said the Mohican, calmly.

Both Boyd and I searched the wooded bluffs in vain for any sign of
life, but the Sagamore and the other Indians quietly maintained their
opinion, because, they explained, though patches of wild rice grew
along the shore, the wild ducks and geese had left their feeding coves
and were lying half a mile out in open water. Also, the blue-jays had
set up a screaming in the yellowing woods along the western shore, and
the tall, blue herons had left their shoreward sentry posts, and now
mounted guard far to the northward among the reeds, where solitary
black ducks dropped in at intervals, quacking loudly.

Boyd nodded; the Oneidas drew their hatchets and blazed the trees; and
we all sat down in the woods to await the coming of our advanced guard.

After a little while, our pioneers appeared, rifles slung, axes
glittering on their shoulders, and immediately began to fell trees and
rebuild the log bridge. Hard on their heels came my rifle battalion;
and in the red sunshine we watched the setting of the string of
outposts.

Far back along the trail behind us we could hear the halted army making
camp; flurries of cheery music from the light infantry bugle-horns, the
distant rolling of drums, the rangers penetrating whistle, lashes of
wagoners cracking, the melancholy bellow of the beef herd.

Major Parr came and talked with us for a few minutes, and went away
convinced that Butler's people lay watching us across the creek. Ensign
Chambers came a-mincing through the woods, a-whisking the snuff from
his nose with the only laced hanker in the army; and:

"Dear me!" says he. "Do you really think we shall have a battle,
Loskiel? How very interesting and enjoyable it will be."

"Who drilled your pretty hide, Benjamin?" said I bluntly, noting that
he wore his left arm in a splint.

"Lord!" says he. "'Twas a scratch from a half-ounce ball at the
Chemung. Dear, dear, how very disappointing was that affair, Loskiel!
Most annoying of them not to stand our charge!" And, "Dear, dear,
dear," he murmured, mincing off again with all the air of a Wall Street
beau ogling the pretty dames on Hanover Square.

"Where is this damned Castle?" growled Boyd. "Chinisee, Chenussio,
Genesee--whatever it is called? The name keeps buzzing in my head--nay,
for the last three days I have dreamed of it and awakened to hear it
sounding in my ears, as though beside me some one stooped and whispered
it."

I pulled out our small map, which we had long since learned to
distrust, yet even our General had no better one.

Here was marked the Chinisee Castle, near the confluence of Canaseraga
Creek and the Chinisee River; and I showed the place to Boyd, who
looked at it curiously.

Mayaro, however, shook his crested head:

"No, Loskiel," he said. "The Chinisee Castle stands now on the western
shore. The Great Town should stand here!"--placing his finger on an
empty spot on the map. "And here, two miles above, is another town."

"And you had better tell that to the General when he comes," remarked
Boyd. And to me he said: "If we are to take Amochol at all, it will be
this night or at dawn at the Chinisee Castle."

"I am also of that opinion," said I.

"I shall want twenty riflemen," he said.

"If it can not be done with four, and my Indians, we need not attempt
it."

"Why?" he asked sullenly.

"The General has so ordered."

"Yes, but if I am to catch Amochol I must do it in my own way. I know
how to do it. And if I risk taking my twenty riflemen, and am
successful, the General will not care how it was accomplished."

I said nothing, because Boyd ranked me, but what he proposed made me
very uneasy. More than once he had interpreted orders after his own
fashion, and, being always successful in his enterprises, nothing was
said to him in reproof.

My Indians had made a fire, I desiring to let the enemy suppose that we
suspected nothing of his ambuscade so close at hand; and around this we
lay, munching our meagre meal of green corn roasted on the coals, and
ripe apples to finish.

As we ended, the sun set behind the western bluffs, and our evening gun
boomed good-night in the forest south of us. And presently came,
picking their way through the trail-mire, our General, handsomely
horsed as usual, attended by Major Adam Hoops, of his staff, and
several others.

We instantly waited on him and told him what we knew and suspected; and
I showed him my map and warned him of the discrepancy between its
marked places and the report of the Mohican Sagamore.

"Damnation!" he said. "Every map I have had lies in detail, misleading
and delaying me when every hour empties our wagons of provisions. Were
it not for your Indians, Mr. Loskiel, and that Sagamore in particular,
we had missed half the game as it lies."

He sat his saddle in silence for a while, looking at the unfinished log
bridge and up at the bluffs opposite.

"I feel confident that Butler is there," he said bluntly. "But what I
wish to know is where this accursed Chinisee Castle stands. Boyd, take
four men, move rapidly just before midnight, find out where this castle
stands, and report to me at sunrise."

Boyd saluted, hesitated, then asked permission to speak. And when the
General accorded it, he explained his plan to take Amochol at the
Chinisee Castle, and that this matter would neither delay nor interfere
with a prompt execution of his present orders.

"Very well," nodded the General, "but take no more than four men, and
Mr. Loskiel and his Indians with you; and report to me at sunrise."

I heard him say this; Major Hoops heard him also. So I supposed that
Boyd would obey these orders to the letter.

When the mounted party had moved away, Boyd and I went back to the fire
and lay down on our blankets. We were on the edge of the trees; it was
still daylight; the pioneers were still at work; and my Indians were
freshening their paint, rebraiding their scalp-locks, and shining up
hatchet, rifle, and knife.

"Look at those bloodhounds," muttered Boyd. "They did not hear what we
were talking about, but they know by premonition."

"I do not have any faith in premonitions," said I.

"Why?"

"I have dreamed I was scalped, and my hair still grows."

"You are not out of the woods yet," he said, sombrely.

"That does not worry me."

"Nor me. Yet, I do believe in premonition."

"That is old wives' babble."

"Maybe, Loskiel. Yet, I know I shall not leave this wilderness alive."

"Lord!" said I, attempting to jest. "You should set up as a rival to
Amochol and tell us all our fortunes."

He smiled--and the effort distorted his pale, handsome face.

"I think it will happen at Chinisee," he said quietly.

"What will happen?"

"The end of the world for me, Loskiel."

"It is not like you, Boyd, to speak in such a manner. Only lately have
I ever heard from you a single note of such foreboding."

"Only lately have I been dowered with the ominous clairvoyance. I am
changed, Loskiel."

"Not in courage."

"No," he said with a shrug of his broad shoulders that set ruffles and
thrums a-dancing on his rifle-dress.

We were silent for a while, watching the Indians at their polishing.
Then he said in a low but pleasant voice:

"How proud and happy must you be with your affianced. What a splendour
of happiness lies before you both! An unblemished past, an innocent
passion, a future stretching out unstained before you--what more can
God bestow on man and maid?... May bright angels guard you both,
Loskiel."

I made to thank him for the wish, but suddenly found I could not
control my voice, so lay there in silence and with throat contracted,
looking at this man whose marred young life lay all behind him, and
whose future, even to me, lowered strangely and ominously veiled.

And as we lay there, into our fire-circle came a dusty, mud-splashed,
and naked runner, plucking from his light skin-pouch two letters, one
for Boyd and one for me.

I read mine by the flickering fire; it was dated from Tioga Point:


"Euan Loskiel, my honoured and affianced husband, and my lover,
worshipped and adored, I send you by this runner my dearest affections,
my duties, and my most sacred sentiments.

"You must know that this day we have arrived at the Fort at Tioga Point
without any accident or mischance of any description, and, indeed, not
encountering one living creature between Catharines-town and this post.

"My beloved mother desires her particular and tender remembrances to be
conveyed to you, her honoured son-in-law to be, and further commands
that I express to you, as befittingly as I know how, her deep and
ever-living gratitude and thanks for your past conduct in regard to me,
and your present and noble-minded generosity concerning the
dispositions you have made for us to remain under the amiable
protection of Mr. Hake in Albany.

"Dear lad, what can I say for myself? You are so glorious, so
wonderful--and in you it does seem that all the virtues, graces, and
accomplishments are so perfectly embodied, that at moments, thinking of
you, I become afraid, wondering what it is in me that you can accept in
exchange for the so perfect love you give me.

"I fear that you may smile on perusing this epistle, deeming it,
perhaps, a trifle flowery in expression--but, Euan, I am so torn
between the wild passion I entertain for you, and a desire to address
you modestly and politely in terms of correspondence, as taught in the
best schools, that I know not entirely how to conduct. I would not have
you think me cold, or too stiffly laced in the formalities of polite
usage, so that you might not divine my heart a-beating under the dress
that covers me, be it rifle-frock or silken caushet. I would not have
you consider me over-bold, light-minded, or insensible to the deep and
sacred tie that already binds me to you evermore--which even, I think,
the other and tender tie which priest and church shall one day impose,
could not make more perfect or more secure.

"So I must strive to please you by writing with elegance befitting, yet
permitting you to perceive the ardent heart of her who thinks of you
through every blessed moment of the day.

"I pray, as my dear mother prays, that God, all armoured, and with His
bright sword drawn, stand sentinel on your right hand throughout the
dangers and the trials of this most just and bloody war. For your
return I pray and wait.

"Your humble and dutiful and obedient and adoring wife to be,

                        "Lois de Contrecoeur.

"Post scriptum: The memory of our kiss fades not from my lips. I will
be content when circumstances permit us the liberty to repeat it."


When I had read the letter again and again, I folded it and laid it in
the bosom of my rifle-shirt. Boyd still brooded over his letter, the
red firelight bathing his face to the temples.

After a long while he raised his eyes, saw me looking at him, stared at
me for a moment, then quietly extended the letter toward me.

"You wish me to read it?" I asked.

"Yes, read it, Loskiel, before I burn it," he said drearily. "I do not
desire to have it discovered on my body after death."

I took the single sheet of paper and read:


  "Lieutenant Thomas Boyd,
      "Rifle Corps,
          "Sir:

  "For the last time, I venture to importune you in behalf of one for
  whose present despair you are entirely responsible. Pitying her
