always carrying that Rajputana parrot.  You've seen the kind around the
palaces and forts: saber-blade wings, long tail-feathers, green and
blue and scarlet, and the ugliest little rascals going.  This one is
trained to do tricks."

"But the man!" impatiently.

He eyed her, mildly surprised.  "Oh, he puzzles us all a bit, you know.
Well educated; somewhere back a gentleman; from the States.  Of course
I don't know; something shady, probably.  They don't tramp about like
this otherwise.  For all that, he's rather a decent sort; no bounder
like that rotter we left at Mandalay.  He never talks about himself.  I
fancy he's lonesome again."

"Lonesome?"

"It's the way, you know.  These poor beggars drop aboard for the night,
merely to see a white woman again, to hear decent English, to dress and
dine like a human being.  They disappear the next day, and often we
never see them again."

"What do they do?"  The question came to her lips mechanically.

"Paddy-fields.  White men are needed to oversee them.  And then,
there's the railway, and there's the new oil-country north of Prome.
You'll see the wells to-morrow.  Rather fancy this Warrington chap has
been working along the new pipelines.  They're running them down to
Rangoon.  Well, there goes the last bag.  Will you excuse me?  The
lading bills, you know.  If he's with us tomorrow, I'll have him put
the parrot through its turns.  An amusing little beggar."

"Why not introduce him to me?"

"Beg pardon?"

"I'm not afraid," quietly.

"By Jove, no!  But this is rather difficult, you know.  If he shouldn't
turn out right . . ." with commendable hesitance.

"I'll take all the responsibility.  It's a whim."

"Well, you American girls are the eighth wonder of the world."  The
purser was distinctly annoyed.  "And it may be an impertinence on my
part, but I never yet saw an American woman who would accept advice or
act upon it."

"Thanks.  What would you advise?" with dangerous sweetness.

"Not to meet this man.  It's irregular.  I know nothing about him.  If
you had a father or a brother on board. . . ."

"Or even a husband!" laughing.

"There you are!" resignedly.  "You laugh.  You women go everywhere, and
half the time unprotected."

"Never quite unprotected.  We never venture beyond the call of
gentlemen."

"That is true," brightening.  "You insist on meeting this chap?"

"I do not insist; only, I am bored, and he might interest me for an
hour."  She added: "Besides, it may annoy the others."

The purser grinned reluctantly.  "You and the colonel don't get on.
Well, I'll introduce this chap at dinner.  If I don't. . . .

"I am fully capable of speaking to him without any introduction
whatever."  She laughed again.  "It will be very kind of you."

When he had gone she mused over this impulse so alien to her character.
An absolute stranger, a man with a past, perhaps a fugitive from
justice; and because he looked like Arthur Ellison, she was seeking his
acquaintance.  Something, then, could break through her reserve and
aloofness?  She had traveled from San Francisco to Colombo, unattended
save by an elderly maiden who had risen by gradual stages from nurse to
companion, but who could not be made to remember that she was no longer
a nurse.  In all these four months Elsa had not made half a dozen
acquaintances, and of these she had not sought one.  Yet, she was
asking to meet a stranger whose only recommendation was a singular
likeness to another man.  The purser was right.  It was very irregular.

"Parrot & Co.!" she murmured.  She searched among the phantoms moving
to and fro upon the ledge; but the man with the cage was gone.  It was
really uncanny.

She dropped her arms from the rail and went to her stateroom and
dressed for dinner.  She did not give her toilet any particular care.
There was no thought of conquest, no thought of dazzling the man in
khaki.  It was the indolence and carelessness of the East, where
clothes become only necessities and are no longer the essentials of
adornment.

Elsa Chetwood was twenty-five, lithely built, outwardly reposeful, but
dynamic within.  Education, environment and breeding had somewhat
smothered the glowing fires.  She was a type of the ancient repression
of woman, which finds its exceptions in the Aspasias and Helens and
Cleopatras of legend and history.  In features she looked exactly what
she was, well-bred and well-born.  Beauty she also had, but it was the
cold beauty of northern winter nights.  It compelled admiration rather
than invited it.  Spiritually, Elsa was asleep.  The fire was there,
the gift of loving greatly, only it smoldered, without radiating even
the knowledge of its presence.  Men loved her, but in awe, as one loves
the marbles of Phidias.  She knew no restraint, and yet she had passed
through her stirless years restrained.  She was worldly without being
more than normally cynical; she was rich without being either frugal or
extravagant.  Her independence was inherent and not acquired.  She had
laid down certain laws for herself to follow; and that these often
clashed with the laws of convention, which are fetish to those who
divide society into three classes, only mildly amused her.  Right from
wrong she knew, and that sufficed her.

Her immediate relatives were dead; those who were distantly related
remained so, as they had no part in her life nor she in theirs.
Relatives, even the best of them, are practically strangers to us.
They have their own affairs and interests, and if these touch ours it
is generally through the desire to inherit what we have.  So Elsa went
her way alone.  From her father she had inherited a remarkable and
seldom errant judgment.  To her, faces were generally book-covers, they
repelled or attracted; and she found large and undiminishing interest
in the faculty of pressing back the covers and reading the text.  Often
battered covers held treasures, and often the editions de luxe were
swindles.  But in between the battered covers and the exquisite
Florentine hand-tooling there ranged a row of mediocre books; and it
was among these that Elsa found that her instinct was not wholly
infallible, as will be seen.

To-day she was facing the first problem of her young life, epochal.
She was, as it were, to stop and begin life anew.  And she didn't know,
she wasn't sure.

There were few passengers aboard.  There were three fussy old English
maidens under the protection of a still fussier old colonel, who
disagreed with everybody because his liver disagreed with him.  Twenty
years of active service in Upper India had seriously damaged that
physiological function, and "pegs" no longer mellowed him.  The quartet
greatly amused Elsa.  Their nods were abrupt, and they spoke in the
most formal manner.  She was under grave suspicion; in the first place,
she was traveling alone, in the second place, she was an American.  At
table there was generally a desultory conversation, and many a barb of
malice Elsa shot from her bow.  Figuratively, the colonel walked about
like a porcupine, bristling with arrows instead of quills.  Elsa could
have shouted at times, for the old war-dog was perfectly oblivious.
There was, besides, the inevitable German tourist, who shelled with
questions every man who wore brass-buttons, until there was some
serious talk of dropping him astern some day.  He had shelled the
colonel, but that gentleman was snugly encased in the finest and most
impenetrable Bessemer, complacency.

Upon these Irrawaddy boats the purser is usually the master of
ceremonies in the dining-saloon.  The captain and his officers rarely
condescended.  Perhaps it was too much trouble to dress; perhaps
tourists had disgusted them with life; at any rate, they remained in
obscurity.

Elsa usually sat at the purser's right, and to-night she found the
stranger sitting quietly at her side.  The chair had been vacant since
the departure from Mandalay.  Evidently the purser had decided to be
thorough in regard to her wishes.  It would look less conspicuous to
make the introduction in this manner.  And she wanted to meet this man
who had almost made her cry out in astonishment.

"Miss Chetwood, Mr. Warrington."  This was as far as the purser would
unbend.

The colonel's eyes popped; the hands of the three maidens fluttered.
Warrington bowed awkwardly, for he was decidedly confused.

"Ha!" boomed the German.  "Vat do you tink uff . . . ."

And from soup to coffee Warrington eluded, dodged, stepped under and
ran around the fusillade of questions.

Elsa laughed softly.  There were breathing-spells, to be sure.  Under
the cover of this verbal bombardment she found time to inspect the
stranger.  The likeness, so close at hand, started a ringing in her
ears and a flutter in her throat.  It was almost unbelievable.  He was
bigger, broader, his eyes were keener, but there was only one real
difference: this man was rugged, whereas Arthur was elegant.  It was as
if nature had taken two forms from the same mold, and had finished but
one of them.  His voice was not unpleasant, but there were little sharp
points of harshness in it, due quite possibly to the dust.

"I am much interested in that little parrot of yours.  I have heard
about him."

"Oh!  I suppose you've heard what they call us?"  His eyes looked
straight into hers, smilingly.

"Parrot & Co.?  Yes.  Will you show him off to-morrow?"

"I shall be very happy to."

But all the while he was puzzling over the purser's unaccountable
action in deliberately introducing him to this brown-eyed,
golden-skinned young woman.  Never before had such a thing occurred
upon these boats.  True, he had occasionally been spoken to; an idle
question flung at him, like a bare bone to a dog.  If flung by an
Englishman, he answered it courteously, and subsided.  He had been
snubbed too many times not to have learned this lesson.  It never
entered his head that the introduction might have been brought about by
the girl's interest.  He was too mortally shy of women to conceive of
such a possibility.  So his gratitude was extended to the purser, who,
on his side, regretted his good-natured recommendations of the previous
hour.

When Elsa learned that the man at her side was to proceed to Rangoon,
she ceased to ask him any more questions.  She preferred to read her
books slowly.  Once, while he was engaging the purser, her glance ran
over his clothes.  She instantly berated her impulsive criticism as a
bit of downright caddishness.  The lapels of the coat were shiny, the
sleeves were short, there was a pucker across the shoulders; the
winged-collar gave evidence of having gone to the native laundry once
too often; the studs in the shirt-bosom were of the cheapest
mother-of-pearl, and the cuff-buttons, ordinary rupee silver.  The
ensemble suggested that since the purchase of these habiliments of
civilization the man had grown, expanded.

Immediately after dinner she retired to her state-room, conscious that
her balance needed readjusting.  She had heard and read much lore
concerning reincarnation, skeptically; yet here, within call of her
voice, was Arthur, not the shadow of a substance, but Arthur, shorn of
his elegance, his soft lazy voice, his half-dreaming eyes, his charming
indolence.  Why should this man's path cross hers, out of all the
millions that ran parallel?

She opened her window and looked up at the stars again.  She saw one
fall, describe an arc and vanish.  She wondered what this man had done
to put him beyond the pale; for few white men remained in Asia from
choice.  She had her ideas of what a rascal should be; but Warrington
agreed in no essential.  It was not possible that dishonor lurked
behind those frank blue eyes.  She turned from the window, impatiently,
and stared at one of her kit-bags.  Suddenly she knelt down and threw
it open, delved among the soft fabrics and silks and produced a
photograph.  She had not glanced at it during all these weeks.  There
had been a purpose back of this apparent neglect.  The very thing she
dreaded happened.  Her pulse beat on, evenly, unstirred.  She was a
failure.

In the photograph the man's beard was trimmed Valois; the beard of the
man who had sat next to her at dinner had grown freely and naturally,
full.  Such a beard was out of fashion, save among country doctors.  It
signified carelessness, indifference, or a full life wherein the
niceties of the razor had of necessity been ignored.  Keenly she
searched the familiar likeness.  What an amazing freak of nature!  It
was unreal.  She tossed the photograph back into the kit-bag,
bewildered, uneasy.

Meantime Warrington followed the purser into his office.  "I haven't
paid for my stateroom yet," he said.

"I'll make it out at once.  Rangoon, I understand?"

"Yes.  But I'm in a difficulty.  I have nothing in change but two
rupees."

The purser froze visibly.  The tale was trite in his ears.

"But I fancy I've rather good security to offer," went on Warrington
coolly.  He drew from his wallet a folded slip of paper and spread it
out.

The purser stared at it, enchanted.  Warrington stared down at the
purser, equally enchanted.

"By Jove!" the former gasped finally.  "And so you're the chap who's
been holding up the oil syndicate all these months?  And you're the
chap who made them come to this bally landing three days ago?"

"I'm the chap."

It was altogether a new purser who looked up.  "Twenty thousand pounds
about, and only two rupees in your pocket!  Well, well; it takes the
East to bowl a man over like this.  A certified check on the Bank of
Burma needs no further recommendation.  In the words of your
countrymen, go as far as you like.  You can pay me in Rangoon.  Your
boy takes deck-passage?"

"Yes," returning the check to the wallet.

"Smoke?"

"Shouldn't mind.  Thanks."

"Now, sit down and spin the yarn.  It must be jolly interesting."

"I'll admit that it has been a tough struggle; but I knew that I had
the oil.  Been flat broke for months.  Had to borrow my boy's savings
for food and shelter.  Well, this is the way it runs."  Warrington told
it simply, as if it were a great joke.

"Rippin'!  By Jove, you Americans are hard customers to put over.  I
suppose you'll be setting out for the States at once?" with a curious
glance.

"I haven't made any plans yet," eying the cheroot thoughtfully.

"I see."  The purser nodded.  It was not difficult to understand.
"Well, good luck to you wherever you go."

"Much obliged."

Alone in his stateroom Warrington took out Rajah and tossed him on the
counterpane of the bed.

"Now, then, old sport!" tapping the parrot on the back with the perch
which he used as a baton.  Blinking and muttering, the bird performed
his tricks, and was duly rewarded and returned to his home of iron.
"She'll be wanting to take you home with her, but you're not for sale."

He then opened his window and leaned against the sill, looking up at
the stars.  But, unlike the girl, he did not ask any questions.

"Free!" he said softly.




III

THE WEAK LINK

The day began white and chill, for February nights and mornings are not
particularly comfortable on the Irrawaddy.  The boat sped down the
river, smoothly and noiselessly.  For all that the sun shone, the
shore-lines were still black.  The dust had not yet risen.  Elsa passed
through the dining-saloon to the stern-deck and paused at the door.
The scene was always a source of interest to her.  There were a hundred
or more natives squatting in groups on the deck.  They were wrapped in
ragged shawls, cotton rugs of many colors, and woolen blankets, and
their turbans were as bright and colorful as a Holland tulip-bed.  Some
of them were smoking long pipes and using their fists as mouthpieces;
others were scrubbing their teeth with short sticks of fibrous wood;
and still others were eating rice and curry out of little copper pots.
There were very few Burmese among them.  They were Hindus, from Central
and Southern India, with a scattering of Cingalese.  Whenever a Hindu
gets together a few rupees, he travels.  He neither cares exactly where
the journey ends, nor that he may never be able to return; so long as
there is a temple at his destination, that suffices him.  The past is
the past, to-morrow is to-morrow, but to-day is to-day: he lives and
works and travels, prisoner to this creed.

Elsa never strolled among them.  She was dainty.  This world and these
people were new and strange to her, and as yet she could not quite
dominate the fear that some one of these brown-skinned beings might be
coming down with the plague.  So she stood framed in the doorway, a
picture rare indeed to the dark eyes that sped their frank glances in
her direction.

"No, Sahib, no; it is three hundred."

"James, I tell you it's rupees three hundred and twelve, annas eight."

Upon a bench, backed against the partition, almost within touch of her
hand, sat the man Warrington and his servant, arguing over their
accounts.  The former's battered helmet was tilted at a comfortable
angle and an ancient cutty hung pendent from his teeth, an idle wisp of
smoke hovering over the blackened bowl.

Elsa quietly returned to her chair in the bow and tried to become
interested in a novel.  By and by the book slipped from her fingers to
her lap, and her eyes closed.  But not for long.  She heard the rasp of
a camp-stool being drawn toward her.

"You weren't dozing, were you?" asked the purser apologetically.

"Not in the least.  I have only just got up."

"Shouldn't have disturbed you; but your orders were that whenever I had
an interesting story about the life over here, I was to tell it to you
instantly.  And this one is just rippin'!"

"Begin," said Elsa.  She sat up and threw back her cloak, for it was
now growing warm.  "It's about Parrot & Co., I'm sure."

"You've hit it off the first thing," admiringly.

"Well, go on."

"It's better than any story you'll read in a month of Sundays.  Our man
has just turned the trick, as you Americans say, for twenty thousand
pounds."

"Why, that is a fortune!"

"For some of us, yes.  You see, whatever he was in the past, it was
something worth while, I fancy.  Engineering, possibly.  Knew his
geology and all that.  Been wondering for months what kept him hanging
around this bally old river.  Seems he found oil, borrowed the savings
of his servant and bought up some land on the line of the new
discoveries.  Then he waited for the syndicate to buy.  They ignored
him.  They didn't send any one even to investigate his claim.  Stupid,
rather.  After a while, he went to them, at Prome, at Rangoon.  They
thought they knew his kind.  Ten thousand rupees was all he asked.
They laughed.  The next time he wanted a hundred thousand.  They
laughed again.  Then he left for the teak forests.  He had to live.  He
came back in four months.  In the meantime they had secretly
investigated.  They offered him fifty thousand.  He laughed.  He
wanted two hundred thousand.  They advised him to raise cocoanuts.
What do you suppose he did then?"

"Got some other persons interested."

"Right-o!  Some Americans in Rangoon said they'd take it over for two
hundred thousand.  Something about the deal got into the newspapers.
The American oil men sent over a representative.  That settled the
syndicate.  What they could have originally purchased for ten thousand
they paid three hundred thousand."

"Splendid!" cried Elsa, clapping her hands.  She could see it all, the
quiet determination of the man, the penury of the lean years, his
belief in himself and in what he had found, and the disinterested
loyalty of the servant.  "Sometimes I wish I were a man and could do
things like that."

"Recollect that landing last night?"

Elsa's gesture signified that she was glad to be miles to the south of
it.

"Well, he wasn't above having his revenge.  He made the syndicate come
up there.  They wired asking why he couldn't come on to Rangoon.  And
very frankly he gave his reasons.  They came up on one boat and left on
another.  They weren't very pleasant, but they bought his oil-lands.
He came aboard last night with a check for twenty thousand pounds and
two rupees in his pocket.  The two rupees were all he had in this world
at the time they wrote him the check.  Arabian night; what?"

"I am glad.  I like pluck; I like endurance; I like to see the lone man
win against odds.  Tell me, is he going back to America?"

"Ah, there's the weak part in the chain."  The purser looked
diffidently at the deck floor.  It would have been easy enough to
discuss the Warrington of yesterday, to offer an opinion as to his
past; but the Warrington of this morning was backed by twenty thousand
good English sovereigns; he was a different individual, a step beyond
the casual damnation of the mediocre.  "He says he doesn't know what
his plans will be.  Who knows?  Perhaps some one ran away with his best
girl.  I've known lots of them to wind up out here on that account."

"Is it a rule, then, that disappointed lovers fly hither, penniless?"

The mockery escaped the purser, who was a good fellow in his blundering
way.  "Chaps gamble, you know.  And this part of the world is full of
fleas and mosquitoes and gamblers.  When a man's been chucked, he's
always asking what's trumps.  He's not keen on the game; and the
professional gambler takes advantage of his condition.  Oh, there are a
thousand ways out here of getting rid of your money when the girl's
given you the go-by!"

"To that I agree.  When do we reach Prome?"

"About six," understanding that the Warrington incident was closed.
"It isn't worth while going ashore, though.  Nothing to see at night."

"I have no inclination to leave the boat until we reach Rangoon."

She met Warrington at luncheon, and she greeted him amiably.  To her
mind there was something pitiful in the way the man had tried to
improve his condition.  Buttons had been renewed, some with black
thread and some with white; and there were little islands of brown
yarn, at the elbows, at the bottom of the pockets, along the seams.  So
long as she lived, no matter whom she might marry, she was convinced
that never would the thought of this man fade completely from her
memory.  Neither the amazing likeness nor the romantic background had
anything to do with this conviction.  It was the man's utter loneliness.

"I have been waiting for Parrot & Co. all the morning," she said.

"I'll show him to you right after luncheon.  It wasn't that I had
forgotten."

She nodded; but he did not comprehend that this inclination of the head
explained that she knew the reason of the absence.  She could in fancy
see the strong brown fingers clumsily striving to thread the needle.
(As a matter of fact, her imagination was at fault.  James had done the
greater part of the repairing.)

Rajah took the center of the stage; and even the colonel forgot his
liver long enough to chuckle when the bird turned somersaults through
the steel-hoop.  Elsa was delighted.  She knelt and offered him her
slim white finger.  Rajah eyed it with his head cocked at one side.  He
turned insolently and entered his cage.  Since he never saw a finger
without flying at it in a rage, it was the politest thing he had ever
done.

"Isn't he a sassy little beggar?" laughed the owner.  "That's the way;
his hand, or claw, rather, against all the world.  I've had him half a
dozen years, and he hates me just as thoroughly now as he did when I
picked him up while I was at Jaipur."

"Have you carried him about all this time?" demanded the colonel.

"He was one of the two friends I had, one of the two I trusted,"
quietly, with a look which rather disconcerted the Anglo-Indian.

"By the actions of him I should say that he was your bitterest enemy."

"He is; yet I call him friend.  There's a peculiar thing about
friendship," said the kneeling man.  "We make a man our friend; we take
him on trust, frankly and loyally; we give him the best we have in us;
but we never really know.  Rajah is frankly my enemy, and that's why I
love him and trust him.  I should have preferred a dog; but one takes
what one can.  Besides . . ."  Warrington paused, thrust the perch
between the bars, and got up.

"Jah, jah, jah!  Jah--jah--ja-a-a-h!" the bird shrilled.

"Oh, what a funny little bird!" cried Elsa, laughing.  "What does he
say?"

"I've often wondered.  It sounds like the bell-gong you hear in the
Shwe Dagon Pagoda, in Rangoon.  He picked it up himself."

The colonel returned to his elderly charges and became absorbed in his
aged Times.  If the girl wanted to pick up the riff-raff to talk to,
that was her affair.  Americans were impossible, anyhow.

"How long have you been in the Orient?" Elsa asked.

"Ten years," he answered gravely.

"That is a long time."

"Sometimes it was like eternity."

"I have heard from the purser of your good luck."

"Oh!"  He stooped again and locked the door of Rajah's cage.  "I dare
say a good many people will hear of it."

"It was splendid.  I love to read stories like that, but I'd far rather
hear them told first-hand."

Elsa was not romantic in the sense that she saw heroes where there were
only ordinary men; but she thrilled at the telling of some actual
adventure, something big with life.  Her heart and good will went out
to the man who won against odds.  Strangely enough, soldier's daughter
though she was, the pomp and glamour and cruelty of war were detestable
to her.  It was the obscure and unknown hero who appealed to her: such
a one as this man might be.

"Oh, there was nothing splendid about the thing.  I simply hung on."
Then a thought struck him.  "You are traveling alone?"

"With a companion."  A peculiar question, she thought.

"It is not wise," he commented.

"My father was a soldier," she replied.

"It isn't a question of bravery," he replied, a bit of color charging
under his skin.

Elsa was amused.  "And, pray, what question is it?"  He was like a boy.

"I'm afraid of making myself obscure.  This world is not like your
world.  Women over here. . .  Oh, I've lost the art of saying things
clearly."  He pulled at his beard embarrassedly.

"I rather believe I understand you.  The veneer cracks easily in hot
climates; man's veneer."

"And falls off altogether."

"Are you warning me against yourself?"

"Why not?  Twenty thousand pounds do not change a man; they merely
change the public's opinion of him.  For all you know, I may be the
greatest rascal unhanged."

"But you are not."

He recognized that it was not a query; and a pleasurable thrill ran
over him.  Had there been the least touch of condescension in her
manner, he would have gone deep into his shell.

"No; there are worse men in this world than I.  But we are getting away
from the point, of women traveling alone in the East.  Oh, I know you
can protect yourself to a certain extent.  But everywhere, on boats, in
the hotels, on the streets, are men who have discarded all the laws of
convention, of the social contract.  And they have the keen eye of the
kite and the vulture."

To Elsa this interest in her welfare was very diverting.  "In other
words, they can quickly discover the young woman who goes about
unprotected?  Don't you think that the trend of the conversation has
taken rather a remarkable turn, not as impersonal as it should be?"

"I beg your pardon!"

"I am neither an infant nor a fool, Mr. Warrington."

"Shall I go?"

"No.  I want you to tell me some stories."  She laughed.  "Don't worry
about me, Mr. Warrington.  I have gone my way alone since I was
sixteen.  I have traveled all over this wicked world with nobody but
the woman who was once my nurse.  I seldom put myself in the way of an
affront.  I am curious without being of an investigating turn of mind.
Now, tell me something of your adventures.  Ten years in this land must
mean something.  I am always hunting for Harun-al-Raschid, or Sindbad,
or some one who has done something out of the ordinary."

"Do you write books?"

"No, I read them by preference."

"Ah, a good book!"  He inclined against the rail and stared down at the
muddy water.  "Adventure?"  He frowned a little.  "I'm afraid mine
wouldn't read like adventures.  There's no glory in being a stevedore
on the docks at Hongkong, a stoker on a tramp steamer between Singapore
and the Andaman Islands.  What haven't I been in these ten years?" with
a shrug.  "Can you fancy me a deck-steward on a P. & O. boat, tucking
old ladies in their chairs, staggering about with a tray of
broth-bowls, helping the unsteady to their staterooms, and touching my
cap at the end of the voyage for a few shillings in tips?"

"You are bitter."

"Bitter?  I ought not to be, with twenty thousand pounds in my pocket."

"Tell me more."

He looked into her beautiful face, animated by genuine interest, and
wondered if all men were willing so readily to obey her.

"It always interests me to hear from the man's own lips how he overcame
obstacles."

"Sometimes I didn't overcome them.  I ran away.  After all, the strike
in oil was a fluke."

"I don't think so.  But go on," she prompted.

"Well, I've been manager of a cocoanut plantation in Penang; I've
helped lay tracks in Upper India; had a hand in some bridges; sold
patent-medicines; worked in a ruby mine; been a haberdasher in the
Whiteaway, Laidlaw shop in Bombay; cut wood in the teak forests; helped
exterminate the plague at Chitor and Udaipur; and never saved a penny.
I never had an adventure in all my life."

"Why, your wanderings were adventures," she insisted.  "Think of the
things you could tell!"

"And never will," a smile breaking over his face.

How like Arthur's that smile was! thought the girl.  "Romantic persons
never have any adventures.  It is to the prosaic these things fall.
Because of their nearness you lose their values."

"There is some difference between romance and adventure.  Romance is
what you look forward to; adventure is something you look back upon.
If many disagreeable occupations, hunger and an occasional fisticuff,
may be classed as adventure, then I have had my run of it.  But I
always supposed adventure was the finding of treasures, on land and on
sea; of filibustering; of fighting with sabers and pistols, and all
that rigmarole.  I can't quite lift my imagination up to the height of
calling my six months' shovel-engineering on The Galle an adventure.
It was brutal hard work; and many times I wanted to jump over.  The
Lascars often got out of trouble that way."

"It all depends upon how we look at things."  She touched the
parrot-cage with her foot, and Rajah hissed.  "What would you say if I
told you that I was unconventional enough to ask the purser to
introduce you?"

The amazement in his face was answer enough.

"Don't you suppose," she went on, "the picture you presented, standing
on that ledge, the red light of the torch on your face, the bird-cage
in your hand,--don't you suppose you roused my sense the romantic to
the highest pitch?  Parrot & Co.!" with a wave of her hands.

She was laughing at him.  It could not be otherwise.  It made him at
once sad and angry.  "Romance!  I hate the word.  Once I was as full of
romance as a water-chestnut is of starch.  I again affirm that young
women should not travel alone.  They think every bit of tinsel is gold,
every bit of colored glass, ruby.  Go home; don't bother about romance
outside of books.  There it is safe.  The English are right.  They may
be snobs when they travel abroad, but they travel securely.  Romance,
adventure!  Bah!  So much twaddle has been written about the East that
cads and scoundrels are mistaken for Galahads and D'Artagnans.  Few men
remain in this country who can with honor leave it.  Who knows what
manner of man I am?"

He picked up the parrot-cage and strode away.

"Jah, jah!" began the bird.

Not all the diplomacy which worldly-wise men have at their disposal
could have drawn this girl's interest more surely than the abrupt rude
manner of his departure.




IV

TWO DAYS OF PARADISE

At first Elsa did not know whether she was annoyed or amused.  The
man's action was absurd, or would have been in any other man.  There
was something so singularly boyish in his haste that she realized she
could not deal with him in an ordinary fashion.  She ought to be angry;
indeed, she wanted to be very angry with him; but her lips curled, and
laughter hung upon them, undecided.  His advice to her to go home was
downright impudence; and yet, the sight of the parrot-cage, dangling at
his side, made it impossible for her to take lasting offense.  Once
upon a time there had been a little boy who played in her garden.  When
he was cross he would take his playthings and go home.  The boy might
easily have been this man Warrington, grown up.

Of course he would come and apologize to her for his rudeness.  That
was one of the necessary laws of convention; and ten years spent in
jungles and deserts and upon southern seas could not possibly have
robbed him of the memory of these simple ethics that he had observed in
other and better times.  Perhaps he had resented her curiosity; perhaps
her questions had been pressed too hard; and perhaps he had suddenly
doubted her genuine interest.  At any rate, it was a novel experience.
And that bewildering likeness!

She returned to her chair and opened the book again.  And as she read
her wonder grew.  How trivial it was, after all.  The men and women she
had calmly and even gratefully accepted as types were nothing more than
marionettes, which the author behind the booth manipulated not badly
but perfunctorily.  The diction was exquisite; there was style; but now
as she read there was lacking the one thing that stood for life, blood.
It did not pulsate in the veins of these people.  Until now she had not
recognized this fact, and she was half-way through the book.  She even
took the trouble to reread the chapter she had thought peculiarly
effective.  There was the same lack of feeling.  What had happened to
her since yesterday?  To what cause might be assigned this opposite
angle of vision, so clearly defined?

The book fell upon her knees, and dreamily she watched the perspective
open and divaricate.  Full in her face the south wind blew, now warmed
by the sun and perfumed by unknown spices.  She took in little sharp
breaths, but always the essence escaped her.  The low banks with their
golden haze of dust, the cloudless sky, the sad and lonely white
pagodas, charmed her; and the languor of the East crept stealthily into
her northern blood.  She was not conscious of the subtle change; she
only knew that the world of yesterday was unlike that of today.

Warrington, after depositing Rajah in the stateroom, sought the bench
on the stern-deck.  He filled his cutty with purser-loaned tobacco, and
roundly damned himself as a blockhead.  He had forgotten all the
niceties of civilization; he no longer knew how to behave.  What if she
had been curious?  It was natural that she should be.  This was a
strange world to her, and if her youth rosal-tinted it with romance,
what right had he to disillusion her?  The first young woman in all
these years who had treated him as an equal, and he had straightway
proceeded to lecture her upon the evils of traveling alone in the
Orient!  Double-dyed ass!  He had been rude and impudent.  He had seen
other women traveling alone, but the sight had not roused him as in the
present instance.  In ten years he had not said so much to all the
women he had met; and without seeming effort at all she had dragged
forth some of the half-lights of his past.  This in itself amazed him;
it proved that he was still weak enough to hunger for human sympathy,
and he of all men deserved none whatever.  He had been a fool as a boy,
a fool as a man, and without doubt he would die a fool.  He was of half
a mind to leave the boat at Prome and take the train down to Rangoon.

And yet he had told her the truth.  It was not right that a young and
attractive woman should wander about in the East, unattended save by a
middle-aged companion.  It would provoke the devil in men who were not
wholly bad.  Women had the fallible idea that they could read human
nature, and never found out their mistake until after they were
married.  He knew her kind.  If she wanted to walk through the bazaars
in the evening, she would do so.  If a man followed her she would
ignore the fact.  If he caught up with her and spoke, she would
continue on as if she had not heard.  If a man touched her, she would
rely upon the fire of her eyes.  She would never call out for help.
Some women were just that silly.

He bit hard upon the stem of his pipe.  What was all this to him?  Why
should he bother his head about a woman he had known but a few hours?
Ah, why lie to himself?  He knew what Elsa, usually quick and
receptive, did not know, that he was not afraid of her, but terribly
afraid of himself.  For things ripen quickly in the East, men and
women, souls and deeds.  And he was something like the pariah-dog;
spoken kindly to, it attached itself immediately and enduringly.

He struck the cutty against his boot-heel.  Why not?  It would be only
for two days.  At Rangoon their paths would separate; he would never
see her again.  He got up.  He would go to her at once and apologize
abjectly.  And thus he surrendered to the very devil he had but a
moment gone so vigorously discountenanced.

He found her asleep in her chair.  The devil which had brought him to
her side was thrust back.  Why, she was nothing more than a beautiful
child!  A great yearning to brother her came into his heart.  He did
not disturb her, but waited until five, that grave and sober hour, when
kings and clerks stop work for no logical reason whatever--tea.  She
opened her eyes and saw him watching her.  He rose quickly.

"May I get you some tea?"

"Thank you."

And so the gulf was bridged.  When he returned he set the cup and plate
of cakes on the arm of her chair.

"I was very rude a little while ago.  Will you accept my apologies?"

"On condition that you will never take your playthings and go home."

He laughed engagingly.  "You've hit it squarely.  It was the act of a
petulant child."

"It did not sound exactly like a man who had stoked six months from
Singapore to the Andaman Islands.  But there is one thing I must
understand before this acquaintance continues.  You said, 'Who knows
what manner of man I am?'  Have you ever done anything that would
conscientiously forbid you to speak to a young unmarried woman?"

Take care of herself?  He rather believed she could.  The bluntness of
her question dissipated any doubt that remained.

"No.  I haven't been that kind of a man," simply.  "I could look into
my mother's eyes without any sense of shame, if that is what you mean."

"That is all I care to know.  Your mother is living?"

"Yes.  But I haven't seen her in ten years."  His mother!  His brows
met in a frown.  His proud beautiful mother!

Elsa saw the frown, and realized that she had approached delicate
ground.  She stirred her tea and sipped it slowly.

"There has been a deal of chatter about shifty untrustworthy eyes," he
said.  "The greatest liars I have ever known could look St. Peter
straight and serenely in the eye.  It's a matter of steady nerves,
nothing more.  Somebody says that so and so is a fact, and we go on
believing it for years, until some one who is not a person but an
individual explodes it."

"I agree with you.  But there is something we rely upon far more than
either eyes or ears, instinct.  It is that attribute of the animal
which civilization has not yet successfully dulled.  Women rely upon
that more readily than men."

"And make more mistakes," with a cynicism he could not conceal.

She had no ready counter for this.  "Do you go home from Rangoon, now
that you have made your fortune?"

"No.  I am going to Singapore.  I shall make my plans there."

Singapore.  Elsa stirred uneasily.  It would be like having a ghost by
her side.  She wanted to tell him what had really drawn her interest.
But it seemed to her that the moment to do so had passed.

"Vultures!  How I detest them!"  She pointed toward a sand-bar upon
which stood several of these abominable birds and an adjutant, solemn
and aloof.  "At Lucknow they were red-headed.  I do not recollect
seeing one of them fly.  But I admire the kites; they look so much like
our eagles."

"And thus again the eye misleads us.  There is nothing that flies so
rapacious as the kite."

Little by little she drew from him a sketch here, a phase there.  She
was given glimpses into the life of the East such as no book or guide
had ever given; and the boat was circling toward the landing at Prome
before they became aware of the time.

Warrington rushed ashore to find the dry-goods shop.  His social
redemption was on the way, if vanity went for anything.  It was
stirring and tingling with life again.  With the money advanced by the
purser he bought shirts and collars and ties; and as he possessed no
watch, returned barely in time to dress for dinner.  He was not at all
disturbed to learn that the inquisitive German, the colonel and his
fidgety charges, had decided to proceed to Rangoon by rail.  Indeed,
there was a bit of exultation in his manner as he observed the vacant
chairs.  Paradise for two whole days.  And he proposed to make the most
of it.  Now, his mind was as clear of evil as a forest spring.  He
simply wanted to play; wanted to give rein to the lighter emotions so
long pent up in his lonely heart.

The purser, used to these sudden changes and desertions in his
passenger-lists, gave the situation no thought.  But Elsa saw a mild
danger, all the more alluring because it hung nebulously.  For years
she had walked in conformity with the cramped and puerile laws that
govern society.  She had obeyed most of them from habit, others from
necessity.  What harm could there be in having a little fling?  He was
so amazingly like outwardly, so astonishingly unlike inwardly, that the
situation held for her a subtle fascination against which she was in
nowise inclined to fight.  What had nature in mind when she produced
two men exactly alike in appearance but in reality as far apart as the
poles?  Would it be worth while to find out?  She was not wholly
ignorant of her power.  She could bend the man if she tried.  Should
she try?

They were like two children, setting out to play a game with fire.

She thought of Arthur.  Had he gone the length of his thirty-five years
without his peccadillos?  Scarcely.  She understood the general run of
men well enough to accept this fact.  Whomever she married she was
