
“My God!” cried Peter. “What do you take me for? I tell you they’ve
got loads of dynamite.”

“What have they done with it?”

“They’ve got some in their headquarters. About the rest I dunno.
They carried it off and I lost them last night. But then I found a
note in my pocket--they were inviting me to come in.”

“By God!” exclaimed the rat-faced man.

“We’ve got the whole thing, I tell you! Have you got your men ready?”

“Yes.”

“Well then, have them come to the corner of Seventh and Washington
Streets, and you come to Eighth and Washington. Meet me there just
as quick as you can.”

“I get you,” was the answer, and Peter hung up, and rushed off to
the appointed rendezvous. He was so nervous that he had to sit on
the steps of a building. As time passed and McGivney didn’t appear,
wild imaginings began to torment him. Maybe McGivney hadn’t
understood him correctly! Or maybe his automobile might break down!
Or his telephone might have got out of order at precisely the
critical moment! He and his men would arrive too late, they would
find the trap sprung, and the prey escaped.

Ten minutes passed, fifteen minutes, twenty minutes. At last an
automobile rushed up the street, and McGivney stepped out, and the
automobile sped on. Peter got McGivney’s eye, and then stepped back
into the shelter of a doorway. McGivney followed. “Have you got
them?” he cried.

“I d-d-dunno!” chattered Peter. “They s-s-said they were c-coming at
eight!”

“Let me see that note!” commanded McGivney; so Peter pulled out one
of Nell’s notes which he had saved for himself:

“If you really believe in a bold stroke for the workers’ rights,
meet me in the studios, Room 17, tomorrow morning at eight o’clock.
No names and no talk. Action!”

“You found that in your pocket?” demanded the other.

“Y-yes, sir.”

“And you’ve no idea who put it there.”

“N-no, but I think Joe Angell--”

McGivney looked at his watch. “You’ve got twenty minutes yet,” be
said.

“You got the dicks?” asked Peter.

“A dozen of them. What’s your idea now?”

Peter stammered out his suggestions. There was a little grocery
store just across the street from the entrance to the studio
building. Peter would go in there, and pretend to get something to
eat, and would watch thru the window, and the moment he saw the
right men come in, he would hurry out and signal to McGivney, who
would be in a drugstore at the next corner. McGivney must keep out
of sight himself, because the “Reds” knew him as one of Guffey’s
agents.

It wasn’t necessary to repeat anything twice. McGivney was keyed up
and ready for business, and Peter hurried down the street, and
stepped into the little grocery store without being observed by
anyone. He ordered some crackers and cheese, and seated himself on a
box by the window and pretended to eat. But his hands were trembling
so that he could hardly get the food into his mouth; and this was
just as well, because his mouth was dry with fright, and crackers
and cheese are articles of diet not adapted to such a condition.

He kept his eyes glued on the dingy doorway of the old studio
building, and presently--hurrah!--he saw McCormick coming down the
street! The Irish boy turned into the building, and a couple of
minutes later came Gus the sailor, and before another five minutes
had passed here came Joe Angell and Henderson. They were walking
quickly, absorbed in conversation, and Peter could imagine he heard
them talking about those mysterious notes, and who could be the
writer, and what the devil could they mean?

Peter was now wild with nervousness; he was afraid somebody in the
grocery store would notice him, and he made desperate efforts to eat
the crackers and cheese, and scattered the crumbs all over himself
and over the floor. Should he wait for Jerry Rudd, or should he take
those he had already? He had got up and started for the door, when
he saw the last of his victims coming down the street. Jerry was
walking slowly, and Peter couldn’t wait until he got inside. A car
was passing, and Peter took the chance to slip out and bolt for the
drug store. Before he had got half way there McGivney had seen him,
and was on the run to the next corner.

Peter waited only long enough to see a couple of automobiles come
whirling down the street, packed solid with husky detectives. Then
he turned off and hurried down a side street. He managed to get a
couple of blocks away, and then his nerves gave way entirely, and he
sat down on the curbstone and began to cry--just the way little
Jennie had cried when he told her he couldn’t marry her! People
stopped to stare at him, and one benevolent old gentleman came up
and tapped him on the shoulder and asked what was the trouble.
Peter, between his tear-stained fingers, gasped: “My m-m-mother
died!” And so they let him alone, and after a while he got up and
hurried off again.




Section 45


Peter was now in a state of utter funk. He knew that he would have
to face McGivney, and he just couldn’t do it. All he wanted was
Nell; and Nell, knowing that he would want her, had agreed to be in
the park at half past eight. She had warned him not to talk to a
soul until he had talked to her. Meantime she had gone home and
renewed her Irish roses with French rouge, and restored her energy
with coffee and cigarettes, and now she was waiting for him, smiling
serenely, as fresh as any bird or flower in the park that summer
morning. She asked him in even tones how things had gone, and when
Peter began to stammer that he didn’t think he could face McGivney,
she proceeded to build up his courage once more. She let him put his
arms about her, even there in broad daylight; she whispered to him
to get himself together, to be a man, and worthy of her.

What had he to be afraid of, anyway? They hadn’t a single thing on
him, and there was no possible way they could get anything. His
hands were clean all the way thru, and all he had to do was to stick
it out; he must make up his mind in advance, that no matter what
happened, he would never break down, he would never vary from the
story he had rehearsed with her. She made him go over the story
again; how on the previous evening, at the gathering in the I. W. W.
headquarters, they had talked about killing Nelse Ackerman as a
means of bringing the war to an end. And after the talk he had heard
Joe Angell whisper to Jerry Rudd that he had the makings of a bomb
already; he had a suit-case full of dynamite stored there in the
closet, and he and Pat McCormick had been planning to pull off
something that very night. Peter had gone out, but had watched
outside, and had seen Angell, Henderson, Rudd and Gus come out.
Peter had noticed that Angell’s pockets were stuffed, and had
assumed that they were going to do their dynamiting, so he had
phoned to McGivney from the drug-store. By this phoning he had
missed the crowd, and then he had been ashamed and afraid to tell
McGivney, and had spent the night wandering in the park. But early
in the morning he had found the note, and had understood that it
must have been slipped into his pocket, and that the conspirators
wanted him to come in on their scheme. That was all, except for
three or four sentences or fragments of sentences which Peter had
overheard between Joe Angell and Jerry Rudd. Nell made him learn
these sentences by heart, and she insisted that he must not under
any circumstances try to remember or be persuaded to remember
anything further.

At last Peter was adjudged ready for the ordeal, and went to Room
427 in the American House, and threw himself on the bed. He was so
exhausted that once or twice he dozed; but then he would think of
some new question that McGivney might ask him, and would start into
wakefulness. At last he heard a key turn, and started up. There
entered one of the detectives, a man named Hammett. “Hello, Gudge,”
 said he. “The boss wants you to get arrested.”

“Arrested!” exclaimed Peter. “Good Lord!” He had a sudden swift
vision of himself shut up in a cell with those Reds, and forced to
listen to “hard luck stories.”

“Well,” said Hammett, “we’re arresting all the Reds, and if we skip
you, they’ll be suspicious. You better go somewhere right away and
get caught.”

Peter saw the wisdom of this, and after a little thought he chose
the home of Miriam Yankovitch. She was a real Red, and didn’t like
him; but if he was arrested in her home, she would have to like him,
and it would tend to make him “solid” with the “left wingers.” He
gave the address to Hammett, and added, “You better come as soon as
you can, because she may kick me out of the house.”

“That’s all right,” replied the other, with a laugh. “Tell her the
police are after you, and ask her to hide you.”

So Peter hurried over to the Jewish quarter of the city, and knocked
on a door in the top story of a tenement house. The door was opened
by a stout woman with her sleeves rolled up and her arms covered
with soap-suds. Yes, Miriam was in. She was out of a job just now,
said Mrs. Yankovitch. They had fired her because she talked
Socialism. Miriam entered the room, giving the unexpected visitor a
cold stare that said as plain as words: “Jennie Todd!”

But this changed at once when Peter told her that he had been to I.
W. W. headquarters and found the police in charge. They had made a
raid, and claimed to have discovered some kind of plot; fortunately
Peter had seen the crowd outside, and had got away. Miriam took him
into an inside room and asked him a hundred questions which he could
not answer. He knew nothing, except that he had been to a meeting at
headquarters the night before, and this morning he had gone there to
get a book, and had seen the crowd and run.

Half an hour later came a bang on the door, and Peter dived under
the bed. The door was burst open, and he heard angry voices
commanding, and vehement protests from Miriam and her mother. To
judge from the sounds, the men began throwing the furniture this way
and that; suddenly a hand came under the bed, and Peter was grabbed
by the ankle, and hauled forth to confront four policemen in
uniform.

It was an awkward situation, because apparently these policemen
hadn’t been told that Peter was a spy; the boobs thought they were
getting a real dynamiter! One grabbed each of Peter’s wrists, and
another kept him and Miriam covered with a revolver, while the
fourth proceeded to go thru his pockets, looking for bombs. When
they didn’t find any, they seemed vexed, and shook him and hustled
him about, and made clear they would be glad of some pretext to
batter in his head. Peter was careful not to give them such a
pretext; he was frightened and humble, and kept declaring that he
didn’t know anything, he hadn’t done any harm.

“We’ll see about that, young fellow!” said the officer, as he
snapped the handcuffs on Peter’s wrists. Then, while one of them
remained on guard with the revolver, the other three proceeded to
ransack the place, pulling out the bureau-drawers and kicking the
contents this way and that, grabbing every scrap of writing they
could find and jamming it into a couple of suit-cases. There were
books with red bindings and terrifying titles, but no bombs, and no
weapons more dangerous than a carving knife and Miriam’s tongue. The
girl stood there with her black eyes flashing lightnings, and told
the police exactly what she thought of them. She didn’t know what
had happened in the I. W. W. headquarters, but she knew that
whatever it was, it was a frame-up, and she dared them to arrest
her, and almost succeeded in her fierce purpose. However, the police
contented themselves with kicking over the washtub and its contents,
and took their departure, leaving Mrs. Yankovitch screaming in the
midst of a flood.




Section 46


They dragged Peter out thru a swarming tenement crowd, and clapped
him into an automobile, and whirled him away to police headquarters,
where they entered him in due form and put him in a cell. He was
uneasy right away, because he had failed to arrange with Hammett how
long he was to stay locked up. But barely an hour had passed before
a jailer came, and took him to a private room, where he found
himself confronted by McGivney and Hammett, also the Chief of Police
of the city, a deputy district attorney, and last but most important
of all--Guffey. It was the head detective of the Traction Trust who
took Peter in charge.

“Now, Gudge,” said he, “what’s this job you’ve been putting up on
us?”

It struck Peter like a blow in the face. His heart went down, his
jaw dropped, he stared like an idiot. Good God!

But he remembered Nell’s last solemn words: “Stick it out, Peter;
stick it out!” So he cried: “What do you mean, Mr. Guffey?”

“Sit down in that chair there,” said Guffey. “Now, tell us what you
know about this whole business. Begin at the beginning and tell us
everything--every word.” So Peter began. He had been at a meeting at
the I. W. W. headquarters the previous evening. There had been a
long talk about the inactivity of the organization, and what could
be done to oppose the draft. Peter detailed the arguments, the
discussion of violence, of dynamite and killing, the mention of
Nelse Ackerman and the other capitalists who were to be put out of
the way. He embellished all this, and exaggerated it greatly--it
being the one place where Nell had said he could do no harm by
exaggerating.

Then he told how after the meeting had broken up he had noticed
several of the men whispering among themselves. By pretending to be
getting a book from the bookcase he had got close to Joe Angell and
Jerry Rudd; he had heard various words and fragments of sentences,
“dynamite,” “suit-case in the cupboard,” “Nelse,” and so on. And
when the crowd went out he noticed that Angell’s pockets were
bulging, and assumed that he had the bombs, and that they were going
to do the job. He rushed to the drug-store and phoned McGivney. It
took a long time to get McGivney, and when he had given his message
and run out again, the crowd was out of sight. Peter was in despair,
he was ashamed to confront McGivney, he wandered about the streets
for hours looking for the crowd. He spent the rest of the night in
the park. But then in the morning he discovered the piece of paper
in his pocket, and understood that somebody had slipped it to him,
intending to invite him to the conspiracy; so he had notified
McGivney, and that was all he knew.

McGivney began to cross-question him. He had heard Joe Angell
talking to Jerry Rudd; had he heard him talking to anybody else? Had
he heard any of the others talking? Just what had he heard Joe
Angell say? Peter must repeat every word all over. This time, as
instructed by Nell, he remembered one sentence more, and repeated
this sentence: “Mac put it in the `sab-cat.’” He saw the others
exchange glances. “That’s just what I heard,” said Peter--“just those
words. I couldn’t figure out what they meant?”

“Sab-cat?” said the Chief of Police, a burly figure with a brown
moustache and a quid of tobacco tucked in the corner of his mouth.
“That means `sabotage,’ don’t it?”

“Yes,” said the rat-faced man.

“Do you know anything in the office that has to do with sabotage?”
 demanded Guffey of Peter.

And Peter thought. “No, I don’t,” he said.

They talked among themselves for a minute or two. The Chief said
they had got all McCormick’s things out of his room, and might find
some clue to the mystery in these. Guffey went to the telephone, and
gave a number with which Peter was familiar--that of I. W. W.
headquarters. “That you, Al?” he said. “We’re trying to find if
there’s something in those rooms that has to do with sabotage. Have
you found anything--any apparatus or pictures, or writing--anything?”
 Evidently the answer was in the negative, for Guffey said: “Go
ahead, look farther; if you get anything, call me at the chief’s
office quick. It may give us a lead.”

Then Guffey hung up the receiver and turned to Peter. “Now Gudge,”
 he said, “that’s all your story, is it; that’s all you got to tell
us?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well then, you might as well quit your fooling right away. We
understand that you framed this thing up, and we’re not going to be
taken in.”

Peter stared at Guffey, speechless; and Guffey, for his part, took a
couple of steps toward Peter, his brows gathering into a terrible
frown, and his fists clenched. In a wave of sickening horror Peter
remembered the scenes after the Preparedness Day explosion. Were
they going to put him thru that again?

“We’ll have a show-down, Gudge, right here,” the head detective
continued. “You tell us all this stuff about Angell--his talk with
Jerry Rudd, and his pockets stuffed with bombs and all the rest of
it--and he denies every word of it.”

“But, m-m-my God! Mr. Guffey,” gasped Peter. “Of course he’ll deny
it!” Peter could hardly believe his ears--that they were taking
seriously the denial of a dynamiter, and quoting it to him!

“Yes, Gudge,” responded Guffey, “but you might as well know the
truth now as later--Angell is one of our men; we’ve had him planted
on these `wobblies’ for the last year.”

The bottom fell out of Peter’s world; Peter went tumbling heels over
head--down, down into infinite abysses of horror and despair. Joe
Angell was a secret agent like himself! The Blue-eyed Angell, who
talked dynamite and assassination at a hundred radical gatherings,
who shocked the boldest revolutionists by his reckless
language--Angell a spy, and Peter had proceeded to plant a
“frame-up” on him!




Section 47


It was all up with Peter. He would go back into the hole! He would
be tortured for the balance of his days! In his ears rang the
shrieks of ten thousand lost souls and the clang of ten thousand
trumpets of doom; and yet, in the midst of all the noise and
confusion, Peter managed somehow to hear the voice of Nell,
whispering over and over again: “Stick it out, Peter; stick it out!”

He flung out his hands and started toward his accuser. “Mr. Guffey,
as God is my witness, I don’t know a thing about it but what I’ve
told you. That’s what happened, and if Joe Angell tells you anything
different he’s lying.”

“But why should he lie?”

“I don’t know why; I don’t know anything about it!”

Here was where Peter reaped the advantage of his lifelong training
as an intriguer. In the midst of all his fright and his despair,
Peter’s subconscious mind was working, thinking of schemes. “Maybe
Angell was framing something up on you! Maybe he was fixing some
plan of his own, and I come along and spoiled it; I sprung it too
soon. But I tell you it’s straight goods I’ve given you.” And
Peter’s very anguish gave him the vehemence to check Guffey’s
certainty. As he rushed on, Peter could read in the eyes of the
detective that he wasn’t really as sure as he talked.

“Did you see that suit-case?” he demanded.

“No, I didn’t see no suit-case!” answered Peter. “I don’t even know
if there was a suit-case. I only know I heard Joe Angell say
`suit-case,’ and I heard him say `dynamite.’”

“Did you see anybody writing anything in the place?”

“No, I didn’t,” said Peter. “But I seen Henderson sitting at the
table working at some papers he had in his pocket, and I seen him
tear something up and throw it into the trash-basket.” Peter saw the
others look at one another, and he knew that he was beginning to
make headway.

A moment later came a diversion that helped to save him. The
telephone rang, and the Chief of Police answered and nodded to
Guffey, who came and took the receiver. “A book?” he cried, with
excitement in his tone. “What sort of a plan? Well, tell one of your
men to take the car and bring that book and the plan here to the
chief’s office as quick as he can move; don’t lose a moment,
everything may depend on it.”

And then Guffey turned to the others. “He says they found a book on
sabotage in the book-case, and in it there’s some kind of a drawing
of a house. The book has McCormick’s name in it.”

There were many exclamations over this, and Peter had time to think
before the company turned upon him again. The Chief of Police now
questioned him, and then the deputy of the district attorney
questioned him; still he stuck to his story. “My God!” he cried.
“Would you think I’d be mad enough to frame up a job like this?
Where’d I get all that stuff? Where’d I get that dynamite?”--Peter
almost bit off his tongue as he realized the dreadful slip he had
made. No one had ever told him that the suit-case actually contained
dynamite! How had he known there was dynamite in it? He was
desperately trying to think of some way he could have heard; but, as
it happened, no one of the five men caught him up. They all knew
that there was dynamite in the suit-case; they knew it with
overwhelming and tremendous certainty, and they overlooked entirely
the fact that Peter wasn’t supposed to know it. So close to the edge
of ruin can a man come and yet escape!

Peter made haste to get away from that danger-spot. “Does Joe Angell
deny that he was whispering to Jerry Rudd?”

“He doesn’t remember that,” said Guffey. “He may have talked with
him apart, but nothing special, there wasn’t any conspiracy.”

“Does he deny that he talked about dynamite?”

“They may have talked about it in the general discussion, but he
didn’t whisper anything.”

“But I heard him!” cried Peter, whose quick wits had thought up a
way of escape, “I know what I heard! It was just before they were
leaving, and somebody had turned out some of the lights. He was
standing with his back to me, and I went over to the book-case right
behind him.”

Here the deputy district attorney put in. He was a young man, a
trifle easier to fool than the others. “Are you sure it was Joe
Angell?” he demanded.

“My God! Of course it was!” said Peter. “I couldn’t have been
mistaken.” But he let his voice die away, and a note of bewilderment
be heard in it.

“You say he was whispering?”

“Yes, he was whispering.”

“But mightn’t it have been somebody else?”

“Why, I don’t know what to say,” said Peter. “I thought for sure it
was Joe Angell; but I had my back turned, I’d been talking to Grady,
the secretary, and then I turned around and moved over to the
book-case.”

“How many men were there in the room?”

“About twenty, I guess.”

“Were the lights turned off before you turned around, or after?”

“I don’t remember that; it might have been after.” And suddenly poor
bewildered Peter cried: “It makes me feel like a fool. Of course I
ought to have talked to the fellow, and made sure it was Joe Angell
before I turned away again; but I thought sure it was him. The idea
it could be anybody else never crossed my mind.”

“But you’re sure it was Jerry Rudd that was talking to him?”

“Yes, it was Jerry Rudd, because his face was toward me.”

“Was it Rudd or was it the other fellow that made the reply about
the `sab-cat’?” And then Peter was bewildered and tied himself up,
and led them into a long process of cross-questioning; and in the
middle of it came the detective, bringing the book on sabotage with
McCormick’s name written in the fly-leaf, and with the ground plan
of a house between the pages.

They all crowded around to look at the plan, and the idea occurred
to several of them at once: Could it be Nelse Ackerman’s house? The
Chief of Police turned to his phone, and called up the great
banker’s secretary. Would he please describe Mr. Ackerman’s house;
and the chief listened to the description. “There’s a cross mark on
this plan--the north side of the house, a little to the west of the
center. What could that be?” Then, “My God!” And then, “Will you
come down here to my office right away and bring the architect’s
plan of the house so we can compare them?” The Chief turned to the
others, and said, “That cross mark in the house is the sleeping
porch on the second floor where Mr. Ackerman sleeps!”

So then they forgot for a while their doubts about Peter. It was
fascinating, this work of tracing out the details of the conspiracy,
and fitting them together like a picture puzzle. It seemed quite
certain to all of them that this insignificant and scared little man
whom they had been examining could never have prepared so ingenious
and intricate a design. No, it must really be that some master mind,
some devilish intriguer was at work to spread red ruin in American
City!




Section 48


They dismissed Peter for the present, sending him back to his cell.
He stayed there for two days with no one to advise him, and no hint
as to his fate. They did not allow newspapers in the jail, but they
had left Peter his money, and so on the second day he succeeded in
bribing one of his keepers and obtaining a copy of the American City
“Times,” with all the details of the amazing sensation spread out on
the front page.

For thirty years the “Times” had been standing for law and order
against all the forces of red riot and revolution; for thirty years
the “Times” had been declaring that labor leaders and walking
delegates and Socialists and Anarchists were all one and the same
thing, and all placed their reliance fundamentally upon one
instrument, the dynamite bomb. Here at last the “Times” was
vindicated, this was the “Times” great day! They had made the most
of it, not merely on the front page, but on two other pages, with
pictures of all the conspicuous conspirators, including Peter, and
pictures of the I. W. W. headquarters, and the suit-case, and the
sticks of dynamite and the fuses and the clock; also of the “studio”
 in which the Reds had been trapped, and of Nikitin, the Russian
anarchist who owned this den. Also there were columns of speculation
about the case, signed statements and interviews with leading
clergymen and bankers, the president of the Chamber of Commerce and
the secretary of the Real Estate Exchange. Also there was a
two-column, double-leaded editorial, pointing out how the “Times”
 had been saying this for thirty years, and not failing to connect up
the case with the Goober case, and the Lackman case, and the case of
three pacifist clergymen who had been arrested several days before
for attempting to read the Sermon on the Mount at a public meeting.

And Peter knew that he, Peter Gudge, had done all this! The forces
of law and order owed it all to one obscure little secret service
agent! Peter would get no credit, of course; the Chief of Police and
the district attorney were issuing solemn statements, taking the
honors to themselves, and with never one hint that they owed
anything to the secret service department of the Traction Trust.
That was necessary, of course; for the sake of appearances it had to
be pretended that the public authorities were doing the work,
exercising their legal functions in due and regular form. It would
never do to have the mob suspect that these activities were being
financed and directed by the big business interests of the city. But
all the same, it made Peter sore! He and McGivney and the rest of
Guffey’s men had a contempt for the public officials, whom they
regarded as “pikers”; the officials had very little money to spend,
and very little power. If you really wanted to get anything done in
America, you didn’t go to any public official, you went to the big
men of affairs, the ones who had the “stuff,” and were used to doing
things quickly and efficiently. It was the same in this business of
spying as in everything else.

Now and then Peter would realize how close he had come to ghastly
ruin. He would have qualms of terror, picturing himself shut up in
the hole, and Guffey proceeding to torture the truth out of him. But
he was able to calm these fears. He was sure this dynamite
conspiracy would prove too big a temptation for the authorities; it
would sweep them away in spite of themselves. They would have to go
thru with it, they would have to stand by Peter.

And sure enough, on the evening of the second day a jailer came and
said: “You’re to be let out.” And Peter was ushered thru the barred
doors and turned loose without another word.




Section 49


Peter went to Room 427 of the American House and there was McGivney
waiting for him. McGivney said nothing about any suspicion of Peter,
nor did Peter say anything--he understood that by-gones were to be
by-gones. The authorities were going to take this gift which the
fates had handed to them on a silver platter. For years they had
been wanting to get these Reds, and now magically and incredibly,
they had got them!

“Now, Gudge,” said McGivney, “here’s your story. You’ve been
arrested on suspicion, you’ve been cross-questioned and put thru the
third degree, but you succeeded in satisfying the police that you
didn’t know anything about it, and they’ve released you. We’ve
released a couple of others at the same time, so’s to cover you all
right; and now you’re to go back and find out all you can about the
Reds, and what they’re doing, and what they’re planning. They’re
shouting, of course, that this is a `frame-up.’ You must find out
what they know. You must be careful, of course--watch every step you
take, because they’ll be suspicious for a while. We’ve been to your
room and turned things upside down a bit, so that will help to make
it look all right.”

Peter sallied forth; but he did not go to see the Reds immediately.
He spent an hour dodging about the city to make sure no one was
shadowing him; then he called up Nell at a telephone number she had
given him, and an hour later they met in the park, and she flew to
his arms and kissed him with rapturous delight. He had to tell her
everything, of course; and when she learned that Joe Angell was a
secret agent, she first stared at him in horror, and then she
laughed until she almost cried. When Peter told how he had met that
situation and got away with it, for the first time he was sure that
he had won her love.

“Now, Peter,” she said, when they were calm again, we’ve got to get
action at once. The papers are full of it, and old Nelse Ackerman
must be scared out of his life. Here’s a letter I’m going to mail
tonight--you notice I’ve used a different typewriter from the one I
used last time. I went into a typewriter store, and paid them to let
me use one for a few minutes, so they can never trace this letter to
me.

The letter was addressed to Nelson Ackerman at his home, and marked
“Personal.” Peter read:

“This is a message from a friend. The Reds had an agent in your
home. They drew a plan of your house. The police are hiding things
from you, because they can’t get the truth, and don’t want you to
know they are incompetent. There is a man who discovered all this
plot, and you should see him. They won’t let you see him if they can
help it. You should demand to see him. But do not mention this
letter. If you do not get to the right man, I will write you again.
If you keep this a secret, you may trust me to help you to the end.
If you tell anybody, I will be unable to help you.”

“Now,” said Nell, “when he gets that letter he’ll get busy, and
you’ve got to know what to do, because of course everything depends
on that.” So Nell proceeded to drill Peter for his meeting with the
King of American City. Peter now stood in such awe of her judgment
that he learned his lessons quite patiently, and promised solemnly
that he would do exactly what she said and nothing else. He reaped
his reward of kisses, and went home to sleep the sleep of the just.

Next morning Peter set out to do some of his work for McGivney, so
that McGivney would have no ground for complaint. He went to see
Miriam Yankovich, and this time Miriam caught him by his two hands
and wrung them, and Peter knew that he had atoned for his crime
against little Jennie. Peter was a martyr once more. He told how he
had been put thru the third degree; and she told how the water from
the washtub had leaked thru the ceiling, and the plaster had fallen,
and ruined the dinner of a poor workingman’s family.

Also, she told him all about the frame-up as the Reds saw it.
Andrews, the lawyer, was demanding the right to see the prisoners,
but this was refused, and they were all being held without bail. On
the previous evening Miriam had attended a gathering at Andrews’
home, at which the case was talked out. All the I. W. W.’s declared
that the thing was the rankest kind of frame-up; the notes were
obviously fake, and the dynamite had undoubtedly been planted by the
police. They had used it as a pretext to shut up the I. W. W.
headquarters, and to arrest a score of radicals. Worst of all, of
course, was the propaganda; the hideous stories with which they were
filling the papers. Had Peter seen this morning’s “Times?” A
perfectly unmistakable incitement to mobs to gather and lynch the
Reds!




Section 50


From Miriam’s, Peter went back to Room 427. It was Nell’s idea that
Nelse Ackerman would not lose a minute next morning; and sure
enough, Peter found a note on the dressing-table: “Wait for me, I
want to see you.”

Peter waited, and before long McGivney came in and sat down in front
of him, and began very solemnly: “Now Peter Gudge, you know I’m your
friend.”

“Yes, of course.”

“I’ve stood by you,” said McGivney. “If it hadn’t been for me, the
boss would have had you in the hole right now, trying to sweat you
into confessing you planted that dynamite. I want you to know that,
and I want you to know that I’m going to stand by you, and I expect
you to stand by me and give me a square deal.”

“Why, sure!” said Peter. “What is it?” Then McGivney proceeded to
explain: Old Nelse Ackerman had got the idea that the police were
holding back something from him. He was scared out of his wits about
this case, of course. He had himself shut up in a cupboard at night,
and made his wife pull down the curtains of her limousine when she
went driving. And now he was insisting that he must have a talk with
the man who had discovered this plot against him. McGivney hated to
take the risk of having Peter become acquainted with anybody, but
Nelse Ackerman was a man whose word was law. Really, he was Peter’s
employer; he had put up a lot of the money for the secret service
work which Guffey was conducting, and neither Guffey or any of the
city authorities dared try to fool him.

“Well, that’s all right,” said Peter; “it won’t hurt for me to see
him.”

“He’s going to question you about this case,” said McGivney. “He’s
going to try to find out everything he can. So you got to protect
us; you got to make him understand that we’ve done everything
possible. You got to put us right with him.”

Peter promised solemnly he would do so; but McGivney wasn’t
satisfied. He was in a state of trepidation, and proceeded to hammer
and hammer at Peter, impressing upon him the importance of
solidarity, of keeping faith with his fellows. It sounded exactly
like some of the I. W. W.’s talking among themselves!

“You may think, here’s a chance to jump on us and climb out on top,
but don’t you forget it, Peter Gudge, we’ve got a machine, and in
the long run it’s the machine that wins. We’ve broken many a fellow
that’s tried to play tricks on us, and we’ll break you. Old Nelse
will get what he wants out of you; he’ll offer you a big price, no
doubt--but before long he’ll be thru with you, and then you’ll come
back to us, and I give you fair warning, by God, if you play us
dirty, Guffey will have you in the hole in a month or two, and
you’ll come out on a stretcher.”

So Peter pledged his faith again; but, seeing his chance, he added:
“Don’t you think Mr. Guffey ought to do something for me, because of
that plot I discovered?”

“Yes, I think that,” said McGivney; “that’s only fair.”

And so they proceeded to bargain. Peter pointed out all the dangers
he had run, and all the credit which the others had got. Guffey
hadn’t got credit in the papers, but he had got it with his
employers, all right, and he would get still more if Peter stood by
him with the king of American City. Peter said it ought to be worth
a thousand dollars, and he said he ought to have it right away,
before he went to see the king. At which Guffey scowled ferociously.
“Look here, Gudge! you got the nerve to charge us such a price for
standing by your frame-up?”

McGivney generally treated Peter as a coward and a feeble bluffer;
but he had learned also that there was one time when the little man
completely changed his nature, and that was when it was a question
of getting hold of some cash. That was the question now; and Peter
met McGivney scowl for scowl. “If you don’t like my frame-up,” he
snarled, “you go kick to the newspapers about it!”

Peter was the bulldog again, and had got his teeth in the other
bulldog’s nose, and he hung right there. He had seen the rat-faced
man pull money out of his clothes before this, and he knew that this
time, above all other times, McGivney would come prepared. So he
insisted--a thousand or nothing; and as before, his heart went down
into his boots when McGivney produced his wad, and revealed that
there was more in the wad than Peter had demanded!

However, Peter consoled himself with the reflection that a thousand
dollars was a tidy sum of money, and he set out for the home of
Nelse Ackerman in a jovial frame of mind. Incidentally he decided
that it might be the part of wisdom not to say anything to Nell
about this extra thousand. When women found out that you had money,
they’d never rest till they had got every cent of it, or at least
had made you spend it on them!




Section 51


Nelse Ackerman’s home was far out in the suburbs of the city, upon a
knoll surrounded by forest. It was a couple of miles from the
nearest trolley line, which forced Peter to take a hot walk in the
sun. Apparently the great banker, in selecting the site of his
residence, had never once thought that anybody might want to get to
it without an automobile. Peter reflected as he walked that if he
continued to move in these higher circles, he too would have to join
the motor-driving class.

About the estate there ran a great bronze fence, ten feet high, with
sharp, inhospitable spikes pointing outwards. Peter had read about
this fence a long time ago in the American City “Times”; it was so
and so many thousand yards long, and had so and so many spikes, and
had cost so and so many tens of thousands of dollars. There were big
bronze gates locked tight, and a sign that said: “Beware the dogs!”
 Inside the gates were three guards carrying rifles and walking up
and down; they were a consequence of the recent dynamite conspiracy,
but Peter did not realize this, he took them for a regular
institution, and a symbol of the importance of the man he was to
visit.

He pressed a button by the side of the gate, and a lodgekeeper came
out, and Peter, according to orders, gave the name “Arthur G.
McGillicuddy.” The lodge-keeper went inside and telephoned, and then
came back and opened the gate, just enough to admit Peter. “You’re
to be searched,” said the lodge-keeper; and Peter, who had been
arrested many times, took no offense at this procedure, but found it
one more evidence of the importance of Nelse Ackerman. The guards
went thru his pockets, and felt him all over, and then one of them
marched him up the long gravel avenue thru the forest, climbed a
flight of marble steps to the palace on the knoll, and turned him
over to a Chinese butler who walked on padded slippers.

If Peter had not known that this was a private home he would have
thought it was an art gallery. There were great marble columns, and
paintings bigger than Peter, and tapestries with life-size horses;
there were men in armor, and battle axes and Japanese dancing
devils, and many other strange sights. Ordinarily Peter would have
been interested in learning how a great millionaire decorated his
house, and would have drunk deep of the joy of being amid such
luxury. But now all his thoughts were taken up with his dangerous
business. Nell had told him what to look for, and he looked.
Mounting the velvet-carpeted staircase, he noted a curtain behind
which a man might hide, and a painting of a Spanish cavalier on the
wall just opposite. He would make use of these two sights.

They went down a hall, like a corridor in the Hotel de Soto, and at
the end of it the butler tapped softly upon a door, and Peter was
ushered into a big apartment in semi-darkness. The butler retired
without a sound, closing the door behind him and Peter stood
hesitating, looking about to get his bearings. From the other side
of the room he heard three faint coughs, suggesting a sick man.
There was a four-poster bed of some dark wood, with a canopy over it
and draperies at the side, and a man in the bed, sitting propped up
with pillows. There were more coughs, and then a faint whisper,
“This way.” So Peter crossed over and stood about ten feet from the
bed, holding his hat in his hands; he was not able to see very much
of the occupant of the bed, nor was he sure it would be respectful
for him to try to see.

“So you’re--(cough) what’s your name?”

“Gudge,” said Peter.

“You are the man--(cough) that knows about the Reds?”

“Yes, sir.”

The occupant of the bed coughed every two or three minutes thru the
conversation that followed, and each time Peter noticed that he put
his hand up to his mouth as if he were ashamed of the noise.
Gradually Peter got used to the twilight, and could see that Nelse
Ackerman was an old man with puffy, droopy cheeks and chin, and dark
puffy crescents under his eyes. He was quite bald, and had on his
head a skull cap of embroidered black silk, and a short, embroidered
jacket over his night shirt. Beside the bed stood a table covered
with glasses and bottles and pill-boxes, and also a telephone. Every
few minutes this telephone would ring, and Peter would wait
patiently while Mr. Ackerman settled some complex problem of
business. “I’ve told them my terms,” he would say with irritation,
and then he would cough; and Peter, who was sharply watching every
detail of the conduct of the rich, noted that he was too polite even
to cough into the telephone. “If they will pay a hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars on account, I will wait, but not a cent
less,” Nelse Ackerman would say. And Peter, awe-stricken, realized
that he had now reached the very top of Mount Olympus, he was at the
highest point he could hope to reach until he went to heaven.

The old man fixed his dark eyes on his visitor. “Who wrote me that
letter?” whispered the husky voice.

Peter had been expecting this. “What letter, sir?”

“A letter telling me to see you.”

“I don’t know anything about it, sir.”

“You mean--(cough) you didn’t write me an anonynious letter?”

“No, sir, I didn’t.”

“Then some friend of yours must have written it.”

“I dunno that. It might have been some enemy of the police.”

“Well, now, what’s this about the Reds having an agent in my home?”

“Did the letter say that?”

“It did.”

“Well, sir, that’s putting it too strong. I ain’t sure, it’s just an
idea I’ve had. It’ll need a lot of explaining.”

“You’re the man who discovered this plot, I understand?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well, take a chair, there,” said the banker. There was a chair near
the bedside, but it seemed to Peter too close to be respectful, so
he pulled it a little farther away, and sat down on the front six
inches of it, still holding his hat in his hands and twisting it
nervously. “Put down that hat,” said the old man, irritably. So
