
I had heard of the little Athabasca girl, found in the forest by
Skenandoa and Spencer, and how she grew up like a boy at Askalege, with
the brave half-breed interpreter, Thomas Spencer; and how it was her
delight to roam the forests and talk--they said--to trees and beasts by
moonlight; how she knew the language of all things living, and could
hear the tiny voices of the growing grass! Legends and fairy tales, but
by many believed.

Yet, Sir William had seen the child at Askalege dancing in the stream of
sparks that poured from Spencer's smithy when the Oneida blacksmith
pumped his home-made bellows or struck fire-flakes from the cherry-red
iron.

I said: "Are you sure, Nick? For never have I seen an Indian maid play
boy in earnest."

"She is the little witch-maid of Askalege--their prophetess," he
repeated. "I saw her once at Oneida Lake, dancing on the shore amid a
whirl of yellow butterflies at their strawberry feast. God send she
favours our party, for the Oneidas will follow her."

I turned to the girl, who was standing quietly beside a young silver
birch-tree.

"Who are you, my sister, who wear a little blue moon on your brow, and
the dress and weapons of an adolescent?"

"Brother," she said in her soft Oneida tongue, "I am an Athabascan of
the Heron Clan, adopted into the Oneida nation. My name is Thiohero,[7]
and my privilege is Oyaneh.[8] Brother, I come as a friend to liberty,
and to help you fight your great war against your King.

[Footnote 7: The River-reed.]

[Footnote 8: The noble or honourable one. The feminine of Royaneh, or
Sachem, in the Algonquin.]

"Brother, I have spoken," she concluded, with lowered eyes.

Surprised and charmed by this young girl's modesty and quiet speech, but
not knowing how to act, I thanked her as I had the young men, and
offered her my hand.

She took it, lifted her deep, wide eyes unabashed, looked me calmly and
intelligently in the face, and said in English:

"My adopted father is Thomas Spencer, the friend to liberty, and Oneida
interpreter to your General Schuyler. My adopted uncle is the great
war-chief Skenandoa, also your ally. The Oneida are my people. And are
now become your brothers in this new war."

"Your words make our hearts light, my sister."

"Your words brighten our sky, my elder brother."

Our clasped hands fell apart. I turned to Tahioni:

"Brother, why are you in battle-paint?" I demanded.

At that the eyes of the Oneida youths began to sparkle and burn; and
Tahioni straightened up and struck the knife-hilt at his belt with a
quick, fierce gesture.

"Give me a name that I may know my brother," he said bluntly. "Even a
tree has a name." And I flushed at this merited rebuke.

"My name is John Drogue, and I am lieutenant of our new State Rangers,"
said I. "And this is my comrade, Nicholas Stoner, of Fonda's Bush, and
first sergeant in my little company."

"Brother John," said he, "then listen to this news we Oneidas bring from
the North: a Canada war-party is now on the Iroquois trail, looking for
Sir John to guide them to the Canadas!"

Taken aback, I stared at the young warrior for a moment, then,
recovering composure, I translated for Nick what he had just told me.

Then I turned again to Tahioni, the Wolf:

"Where is this same war-party?" I demanded, still scarce convinced.

"At West River, near the Big Eddy," said he. "They have taken scalps."

"Why--why, then, it is war!" I exclaimed excitedly. "And what people
are these who have taken scalps in the North? Are they Caniengas?"

"Mohawks!" He fairly spat out the insulting term, which no friendly
Iroquois would dream of using to a Canienga; and the contemptuous word
seemed to inflame the other Oneidas, for they all picked up their rifles
and crowded around me, watching my face with gleaming eyes.

"How many?" I asked, still a little stunned by this reality, though I
had long foreseen the probability.

"Thirty," said the girl Thiohero, turning from Nick, to whom she had
been translating what was being said in the Oneida tongue.

Now, in a twinkling, I found myself faced with an instant crisis, and
must act as instantly.

I had two good men on Maxon, the French trapper, Johnny Silver and
Benjamin De Luysnes; Nick and I counted two more. With four Oneida, and
perhaps Joe de Golyer and Godfrey Shew--if we could pick them up on the
Vlaie--we would be ten stout men to stop this Mohawk war-party until the
garrisons at Summer House Point and Fish House could drive the impudent
marauders North again.

Turning to Thiohero, I said as much in English. She nodded and spoke to
the others in Oneida; and I saw their eager and brilliant eyes begin to
glitter.

Now, I carried always with me in the bosom of my buckskin shirt a
carnet, or tablet of good paper, and a pencil given me years ago by
Sir William.

And now I seated myself on a rock and took my instruments and wrote:

     "Hans Creek, near
     Maxon Brook,
     June 13th, 1776.

     "To the Officer comm{d'ng} ye
     Garrison at ye Summer House
     on Vlaie,

     "Sir:

     "I am to acquaint you that this day, about two o'clock, afternoon,
     arrived in my camp four Oneidas who give an account that a Mohawk
     War Party is now at ye Big Eddy on West River, headed south.

     "By the same intelligence I am to understand that this War Party
     has taken scalps.

     "Sir, anybody familiar with the laws and customs of the Iroquois
     Confederacy understands what this means.

     "Murder, or mere slaying, when not accompanied by such mutilation,
     need not constitute an act of war involving nation and Confederacy
     in formal declaration.

     "But the taking of a single scalp means only one thing: that the
     nation whose warrior scalps an enemy approves the trophy and
     declares itself at war with the nation of the victim.

     "I am aware, sir, that General Schuyler and Mr. Kirkland and others
     are striving mightily in Albany to placate the Iroquois, and that
     they still entertain such hope, although the upper Mohawks are gone
     off with Brant, and Guy Johnson holds in his grasp the fighting men
     of the Confederacy, save only the Oneida, and also in spite of
     news, known to be certain, that Mohawk Indians were in battle-paint
     at St. John's.

     "Now, therefore, conscious of my responsibility, and asking God's
     guidance in this supreme moment, lest I commit error or permit hot
     blood to confuse my clearer mind, I propose to travel instantly to
     the West River with my scout of four Rangers, and four Oneidas, and
     ask of this Mohawk War Party an explanation in the name of the
     Continental Congress and His Excellency, our Com{'nder} in Chief.

     "Sir, I doubt not that you will order your two garrisons to prepare
     for immediate defense, and also to support my scout on the
     Sacandaga; and to send an express to Johnstown as soon as may be,
     to acquaint Colonel Dayton of what measures I propose to take to
     carry out my orders which are to stop the Sacandaga trail.

     "This, sir, it is my present endeavour to do.

     "I am, sir, with all respect,

     "Yr most obedient

     "John Drogue, L{ieut} Rangers."

When I finished, I discovered that Nick and the Oneidas had fastened on
their blanket-packs and were gathered a little distance away in animated
conversation, the little maid of Askalege translating.

Nick had fetched my pack; I strapped it, picked up my rifle, and walked
swiftly into the woods; and without any word from me they fell into file
at my heels, headed west for Fish House and the fateful river.

My scout of six moved very swiftly and without noise; and it was not an
hour before I caught sight of a Continental soldier on bullock guard,
and saw cattle among low willows.

The soldier was scared and bawled lustily for his mates; but among them
was one of the Sammons, who knew me; and they let us through with little
delay.

Fish House was full o' soldiers a-sunning in every window, and under
them, on the grass; and here headquarters guards stopped us until the
captain in command could be found, whilst the gaping Continentals
crowded around us for news, and stared at our Oneidas, whose quiet
dignity and war paint astonished our men, I think. To the west and
south, and along the river, I saw many soldiers in their shirts,
a-digging to make an earthwork; and presently from this redoubt came a
Continental Captain, out o' breath, who listened anxiously to what news
I had gathered, and who took my letter and promised to send it by an
express to Summer House Point.

A quartermaster's sergeant asked very civilly if I desired to draw
rations for my scout; and I drew parched corn, salt, dried fish, jerked
venison, and pork from the brine, for ten men; and Nick and I and my
Oneidas did divide between us the burthen.

"The dogs!" he kept repeating in a confused way--"the dirty dogs, to
take our scalps! And I pray God your painted Oneidas yonder may do the
like for them!"

I saw a horse saddled and a soldier mount and gallop off with my letter.
That was sufficient for me; I gave the Continental Captain the officers'
salute, and looked around at my men, who had made a green fire for me on
the grass in front of the house.

It was smoking thickly, now, so I took a soldier's watch-coat by the
skirts, glanced up at Maxon Ridge, then, flinging wide the garment above
the fire, kept it a-flutter there and moved it up and down till the
jetted smoke mounted upward in great clots, three together, then one,
then three, then one.

Presently, high on Maxon, I saw smoke, and knew that Johnny Silver
understood. So I flung the watch-coat to the soldier, turned, and walked
swiftly along the river bank, where sheep grazed, then entered the
forest with Nick at my heels and the four Oneidas a-padding in his
tracks.




CHAPTER XIV

THE LITTLE RED FOOT


By dusk we were ten rifles; for an hour after we left Fish House Johnny
Silver and Luysnes joined us on the Sacandaga trail; and, just as the
sun set behind the Mayfield mountains, comes rushing down stream a canoe
with Godfrey Shew's bow-paddle flashing red in the last rays and Joe de
Golyer steering amid the rattling rapids, nigh buried in a mountain of
silvery spray.

And here, by the river, we ate, but lighted no fire, though it seemed
safe to do so.

I sent Godfrey Shew and the Water-snake far up the Iroquois trail to
watch it. The others gathered in a friendly circle to munch their corn
and jerked meat, and the Frenchmen were merry, laughing and jesting and
casting sly, amorous eyes toward Thiohero, who laughed, too, in friendly
fashion and was at her ease and plainly not displeased with gallantry.

It had proved a swift comradery between us and our young Oneidas, and I
marvelled at the rapid accomplishment of such friendly accord in so
brief a time, yet understood it came through the perfect faith of these
Oneidas in their young Athabasca witch; and that what their prophetess
found good they did not even think of questioning.

Her voice was soft, her smile bewitching; she ate with the healthy
appetite of an animal, yet was polite to those who offered meat. And her
sweet "neah-wennah"[9] never failed any courtesy offered by these rough
Forest Runners, who now, for the first time in their reckless lives, I
think, were afforded a glimpse of the forest Indian as he really is when
at his ease and among friends.

[Footnote 9: Thank you.]

For it is not true that the Iroquois live perpetually in their paint;
that they are cruel by nature, brutal, stern, and masters of silence; or
that they stalk gloomily through life with hatchet ever loosened and no
pursuit except war in their ferocious minds.

White men who have mistreated them see them so; but the real Iroquois,
except the Senecas, who are different, are naturally a kindly, merry,
and trustful people among themselves, not quarrelsome, not fierce, but
like children, loving laughter and all things gay and bright and
mischievous.

Their women, though sometimes broad in speech and jests, are more truly
chaste in conduct than the women of any nation I ever heard of, except
the Irish.

They have their fixed and honourable places in clan, nation, and Federal
affairs.

Rank follows the female line; the son of a chief does not succeed to the
antlers, but any of his mother's relatives may. And in the Great Rite of
the Iroquois, which is as sacred to them as is our religion to us, and
couched in poetry as beautiful as ever Homer sang, the most moving part
of the ceremony concerns the Iroquois women,--the women of the Six
Nations of the Long House, respected, honoured, and beloved.

       

We ate leisurely, feeling perfectly secure there in the starlight of the
soft June night.

The Iroquois war-trail ran at our elbows, trodden a foot deep, hard as a
sheep path, and from eighteen inches to two feet in width--a clean,
firm, unbroken trail through a primeval wilderness, running mile after
mile, mile after mile, over mountains, through valleys, by lonely lakes,
along lost rivers, to the distant Canadas in the North.

On this trail, above us, two of my men lay watching, as I have said,
which was merely a customary precaution, for we were far out of earshot
of the Big Eddy, and even of our own sentries.

We were like one family eating together, and Silver and Luysnes jested
and played pranks on each other, and de Golyer and Nick entered into
gayest conversation with the Oneidas through their interpreter, the
River-reed.

As for Nick, I saw him making calf's eyes at the lithe young sorceress,
which I perceived displeased her not at all; yet she gaily divided
herself between translating for the others and keeping up a lively
repartee with Nick.

The Oneidas, now, had begun to shine up their war-hatchets, sitting
cross-legged and contentedly rubbing up knife, axe, and rifle; and I was
glad to see them so at home and so confident of our friendship.

Older men might not have been so easily won, but these untried young
warriors seemed very children, and possessing the lovable qualities of
children, being alternately grave and gay, serious and laughing, frank
and impatient, yet caressing in speech and gesture.

From Kwiyeh, the Screech-owl, I had an account of how, burning for
glory, these four youngsters had stolen away from Oneida Lake, and,
painting themselves, had gone North of their own accord, to win fame for
the Oneida nation, which for the greater part had espoused our cause.

He told me that they had seen Sir John pass, floundering madly northward
and dragging three brass cannon; but explained naïvely that four Oneidas
considered it unsafe to give battle to two hundred white men.

For a week, however, it appeared, they had hung on Sir John's flanks,
skulking for a stray scalp; but it was evident that the Baronet's people
were thoroughly frightened, and the heavy flank guards and the triple
line of sentries by night made any hope of a stray scalp futile.

Then, it appeared, these four Oneidas gave up the quest and struck out
for the Iroquois trail. And suddenly came upon nearly two score Mohawks,
silently passing southward, painted for war, oiled, shaved, and
stripped, and evidently searching for Sir John, to aid and guide him in
his flight to Canada.

Which proved to me the Baronet's baseness, because his flight was
plainly a premeditated one, and the Mohawks could not have known of it
unless Sir John had been in constant communication with Canada--a thing
he had pledged his honour not to do.

Others around me, now, were listening to the burly young Oneida's
account of their first war-path; and presently their young sorceress
took up the tale in English and in Oneida, explaining with lively
gestures to both red men and white.

"Not one of the Mohawks saw us," she said scornfully, "and when they
made a camp and had sent their hunters out to kill game, we came so near
that we could see their warriors curing and hooping the scalps they had
taken and painting on every scalp the Little Red Foot[10]--even on the
scalps of two little boys."

[Footnote 10: To show that the late owner of the scalp had died fighting
bravely.]

Nick turned pale, but said nothing. A sickness came to my stomach and I
spoke with difficulty.

"What were these scalps, little sister, which you saw the Mohawks
curing?"

"White people's. Three were of men,--one very thin and gray; two were
the glossy hair of women; and two the scalps of children----"

She flung back her blanket with a peculiarly graceful gesture:

"Be honoured, O white brothers, that these Mohawk dogs were forced to
paint upon every scalp the Little Red Foot!"

After a silence: "Some poor settler's family," muttered Nick; and fell
a-fiddling with his hatchet.

"All died fighting," I added in a dull voice.

Thiohero snapped her fingers and her dark eyes flamed.

"What are the Mohawks, after all!" she said in a tense voice. "Who are
they, to paint for war without fire-right given them at Onondaga? What
do they amount to, these Keepers of the Eastern Gate, since Sir William
died?

"They have become outlaws and there is no honour among them!

"Their clan-right is destroyed and neither Wolf, Bear, nor Tortoise know
them any longer. Nor does any ensign of my own clan of the Heron know
these mad yellow wolves that howl and tear the Long House with their
teeth to destroy it! Like carcajoux, they defile the Iroquois League and
smother its fire in their filth! Dig up the ashes of Onondaga for any
living ember, O you Oneidas! You shall find not one live spark! And this
is what the Canienga have done to the Great Confederacy!"

Tahioni said, looking straight ahead of him: "The Great League of the
Iroquois is broken. Skenandoa has said it, and he has painted his face
scarlet! The Long House crumbles slowly to its fall.

"Those who should have guarded the Eastern Gate have broken it down.
Death to the Canienga!"

Kwiyeh lifted his right hand high in the starlight:

"Death to the Canienga! They have defiled Thendara. Spencer has said it.
They have spat upon the Fire at the Wood's Edge. They have hewn down the
Great Tree. They have uncovered the war-axe which lay deep buried under
the roots.

"Death to the Canienga!"

I turned to Thiohero: "O River-reed, my little sister! Oyaneh! Is it
true that your great chief, Skenandoa, has put on red paint?"

She said calmly: "It is true, my brother. Skenandoa has painted himself
in red. And when your General Herkimer rides into battle, on his right
hand rides Skenandoa; and on his left hand rides Thomas Spencer, the
Oneida interpreter!"[11]

[Footnote 11: This was a true prophecy for it happened later at
Oriskany.]

Tahioni said solemnly: "And before them rides the Holder of Heaven. We
Oneidas can not doubt it. Is it true, my sister?"

The girl answered: "The Holder of Heaven has flung a red wampum belt
between Oneida and Canienga! Five more red belts remain in his hand.
They are so brightly red that even the Senecas can see the colour of
these belts from the Western Gate of the Long House."

There was a silence; then I chose De Luysnes and Kwiyeh to relieve our
sentinels, and went north with them along the starlit trail.

When I returned with Hanoteh and Godfrey Shew, the Oneidas were still
sitting up in their blankets, and the Frenchmen lay on theirs, listening
to Nick, who had pulled his fife from his hunting shirt and was trilling
the air of the Little Red Foot while Joe de Golyer sang the words of the
endless and dreary ballad--old-time verses, concerning bloody deeds of
the Shawanese, Western Lenape, and French in '56, when blood ran from
every creek and man, woman and child went down to death fighting.

I hated the words, but the song had ever haunted me with its quaint and
sad refrain:

      "Lord Loudon he weareth a fine red coat,
    And red is his ladye's foot-mantelle;
      Red flyeth ye flagge from his pleasure-boat,
    And red is the wine he loves so well:
      But, oh! for the dead at Minden Town,--
    Naked and bloody and black with soot,
      Where the Lenni-Lenape and the French came down
    To paint them all with the Little Red Foot!"

"For God's sake, quit thy piping, Nick," said I, "and let us sleep while
we may, for we move again at dawn."

At which Nick obediently tucked away his fife, and de Golyer, who had a
thin voice like a tree-cat, held his songful tongue; and presently we
all lay flat and rolled us in our blankets.

The night was still, save for a love-sick panther somewhere on the
mountain, a-caterwauling under the June stars. But the distant and
melancholy love-song and the golden melody of the stream pouring through
its bowlders blended not unpleasantly in my ears, and presently
conspired to lull me into slumber.

       

The mountain peaks were red when I awoke and spoke aloud to rouse my
people. One by one they sat up, owlish with sleep, yet soon clearing
their eyes and minds with remembering the business that lay before us.

I sent Joe de Golyer and Tahioni to relieve our sentinels, Luysnes and
the Screech-owl.

When these came in with report that all was still as death on the
Iroquois trail, we ate breakfast and drank at the river, where some
among us also washed our bodies,--among others the River-reed, who
stripped unabashed, innocent of any shame, and cleansed herself
knee-deep in a crystal green pool under the Indian willows.

When she came back, the disk of blue paint was gone from her brow, and I
saw her a-fishing in her beaded wallet and presently bring forth blue
and red paint and a trader's mirror about two inches in diameter.

Then the little maid of Askalege sat down cross-legged and began to
paint herself for battle.

At the root of her hair, where it made a point above her forehead, she
painted a little crescent moon in blue. And touched no more her face;
but on her belly she made a blue picture of a heron--her clan being the
Heron, which is an ensign unknown among Iroquois.

Now she took red paint, and upon her chest she made a tiny human foot.

I was surprised, for neither for war nor for any ceremony I ever heard
of had I seen that dread symbol on any Indian.

The Oneidas, also, were looking at her in curiosity and astonishment,
pausing in their own painting to discover what she was about.

Then, as it struck me, so, apparently, it came to them at the same
instant what their sorceress meant,--what pledge to friend and foe alike
this tiny red foot embodied, shining above her breast. And the two young
warriors who had painted the tortoise in blue upon their bellies, now
made each a little red foot upon their chests.

"By gar!" exclaimed Silver, "ees it onlee ze gens-du-bois who shall made
a boast to die fighting? Nom de dieu, non!" And he unrolled his blanket
and pulled out a packet of red cloth and thread and needle--which is
like a Frenchman, who lacks for nothing, even in the wilderness.

He made a pattern very deftly out of his cloth, using the keen point of
his hunting knife; and, as we all, now, wished to sew a little red foot
upon the breasts of our buckskin shirts, and as he had cloth enough for
all, and for Joe de Golyer, too, when we should come up with him, I and
my men were presently marked with the dread device, which was our
pledge and our defiance.

       

The sun had painted scarlet the lower Adirondack peaks when we started
north on the Sacandaga trail.

When we came up with our sentinels, I gave Joe time to sew on his
symbol, and the Oneida time to paint it upon his person. Then we
examined flint and priming, tightened girth and cincture, tested knife,
hatchet, and the stoppers of our powder horns; and I went from one to
another to inspect all, and to make my dispositions for the march to the
Big Eddy on West River.

We marched in the following fashion: Tahioni and Nick as left flankers,
two hundred yards in advance of us, and in sight of the trail. On the
right flank, the Water-snake and Johnny Silver at the same intervals.

Then, on the trail itself, I leading, Luysnes next, then the River-reed.
Then a hundred yards interval, and Joe de Golyer on the left rear,
Kwiyeh on the right rear, and Godfrey on the trail.

"And," I said, "if you catch a roving Tree-eater, slay him not, but
bring him to me, for if there be any of these wild rovers, the
Montagnais, in our vicinity, they should know something of what is now
happening in the Canadas, and they shall tell us what they know, or I'm
a Tory! Forward! Our alarm signal is the long call-note of the Canada
sparrow!"




CHAPTER XV

WEST RIVER


The Water-snake caught an Adirondack just before ten o'clock, and was
holding him on the trail as I came up, followed by Luysnes and Thiohero.

The Indian was a poor, starved-looking creature in ragged buckskins and
long hair, from which a few wild-turkey quills fell to his scrawny neck.

He wore no paint, had been armed with a trade-rifle, the hammer of which
was badly loosened and mended with copper wire, and otherwise he carried
arrows in a quiver and a greasy bow.

Like a fierce, lean forest thing, made abject by fear, the Adirondack's
sloe-black eyes now flickered at me, now avoided my gaze. I looked down
at the rags which served him for a blanket, and on which lay his
wretched arms, including knife and hatchet.

"Let him loose," said I to the Water-snake; "here is no Mengwe but a
poor brother, who sees us armed and in our paint and is afraid."

And I went to the man and offered my hand. Which he touched as though I
were a rattlesnake.

"Brother," said I, "we white men and Oneidas have no quarrel with any
Saguenay that I know about. Our quarrel is with the Canienga, and that
is the reason we wear paint on this trail. And we have stopped our
Saguenay brother in the forest on his lawful journey, to say to him, and
to all Saguenays, that we mean them no harm."

There was an absolute silence; Luysnes and Thiohero drew closer around
the Tree-eater; the Water-snake gazed at his captive in slight disgust,
yet, I noticed, held his rifle in a position for instant use.

The Saguenay's slitted eyes travelled from one to another, then he
looked at me.

"Brother," I said, "how many Maquas are there camped near the Big
Eddy?"

His low, thick voice answered in a dialect or language I did not
comprehend.

"Can you speak Iroquois?" I demanded.

He muttered something in his jargon. Thiohero touched my arm:

"The Saguenay says he understands the Iroquois tongue, but can speak it
only with difficulty. He says that he is a hunter and not a warrior."

"Ask him to answer me concerning the Maqua."

A burst of volubility spurted from the prisoner.

Again the girl translated the guttural reply:

"He says he saw painted Mohawks fishing in the Big Eddy, and others
watching the trail. He does not know how many, because he can not count
above five numbers. He says the Mohawks stoned him and mocked him,
calling him Tree-eater and Woodpecker; and they drove him away from the
Big Eddy, saying that no Saguenay was at liberty to fish in Canienga
territory until permitted by the Canienga; and that unless he started
back to Canada, where he belonged, the Iroquois women would catch him
and beat him with nettles."

As Thiohero uttered the dread name, Canienga, I could see our captive
shrink with the deep fear that the name inspired. And I think any
Iroquois terrified him, for it seemed as though he dared not sustain the
half-contemptuous, half-indifferent glances of my Oneidas, but his eyes
shifted to mine in dumb appeal for refuge.

"What is my brother's name?" I asked.

"Yellow Leaf," translated the girl.

"His clan?"

"The Hawk," she said, shrugging her shoulders.

"Nevertheless," said I, very quietly, "my Saguenay brother is a man, and
not an animal to be mocked by the Maqua!"

And I stooped and picked up his blanket and weapons, and gave them to
him.

"The Saguenays are free people," said I. "The Yellow Leaf is free as is
his clan ensign, the Hawk. Brother, go in peace!"

And I motioned my people forward.

Our flankers, who, keeping stations, had waited, now started on again,
the Water-snake running swiftly to his post on the extreme right flank.

After ten minutes' silent and swift advance, Thiohero came lightly to my
side on the trail.

"Brother," she whispered, "was it well considered to let loose that
Tree-eating rover in our rear?"

"Would the Oneida take such a wretched trophy as that poor hunter's
tangled scalp?"

"Neah. Yet, I ask again, was it wisdom to let him loose, who, for a
mouthful of parched corn, might betray us to the Mengwe?"

"Poor devil, he means no harm to anybody."

"Then why does he skulk after us?"

Startled, I turned and caught a glimpse of something slinking on the
ridge between our flankers; but was instantly reassured because no
living thing could dog us without discovery from the rear. And presently
I did see the Screech-owl run forward and hurl a clod of moss into the
thicket; and the Saguenay broke cover like a scared dog, running perdue
so that he came close to Hanatoh, who flung a stick at him.

That was too much for me; and, as the Tree-eater bolted past me, I
seized him.

"Come," said I, dragging him along, "what the devil do you want of us?
Did I not bid you go in peace?"

Thiohero caught him by the other arm, and he panted some jargon at her.

"Koué!" she exclaimed, and her long, sweet whistle of the Canada sparrow
instantly halted us in our tracks, flankers, rearguard, and all.

Thiohero, still holding the Saguenay by his lean, muscular arm, spoke
sharply to him in his jargon; then, at his reply, looked up at me with
the flaming eyes of a lynx.

"Brother," said she, "this Montagnais hunter has given an account that
the Maquas have prepared an ambuscade, knowing we are on the Great
Trail."

I said, coolly: "What reason does the Saguenay give for returning to us
with such a tale?"

"He says," she replied, "that we only, of all Iroquois or white men he
has ever encountered, have treated him like a man and not as an unclean
beast.

"He says that my white brother has told him he is a man, and that if
this is true he will act as real men act.

"He says he desires to be painted upon the breast with a little red
foot, and wishes to go into battle with us. And," she added naïvely, "to
an Oneida this seems very strange that a Saguenay can be a real man!"

"Paint him," said I, smiling at the Saguenay.

But no Oneida would touch him. So, while he stripped to the clout and
began to oil himself from the flask of gun-oil I offered, I got from
him, through Thiohero, all he had noticed of the ambuscade prepared for
us, and into which he himself had run headlong in his flight from the
stones and insults of the Mohawks at the Big Eddy.

While he was thus oiling himself, Luysnes shaved his head with his
hunting blade, leaving a lock to be braided. Then, very quickly, I took
blue paint from Thiohero and made on the fellow's chest a hawk. And,
with red paint, under this I made a little red foot, then painted his
fierce, thin features as the girl directed, moving a dainty finger
hither and thither but never touching the Saguenay.

To me she said disdainfully, in English: "My brother John, this is a
wild wolf you take hunting with you, and not a hound. The Saguenays are
real wolves and not to be tamed by white men or Iroquois. And like a
lone wolf he will run away in battle. You shall see, brother John."

"I hope not, little sister."

"You shall see," she repeated, her pretty lip curling as Luysnes began
to braid the man's scalp-lock. "You think him a warrior, now, because he
is oiled and wears war paint and lock. But I tell you he is only a wild
Montagnais hunter. Warriors are not made with a word."

"Sometimes men are," said I pleasantly.

The girl came closer to me, looked up into my face with unfeigned
curiosity.

"What manner of white man are you, John?" she asked. "For you speak like
a preacher, yet you wear no skirt and cross, as do the priests of the
Praying Indians."

"Little sister," said I, taking both her hands, "I am only a young man
going into battle for the first time; and I have yet to fire my first
shot in anger. If my white and red brothers--and if you, little
sister--do full duty this day, then we shall be happy, living or dead.
For only those who do their best can look the Holder of Heaven in the
face."

She gave me a strange glance; our hands parted. I gave the
Canada-sparrow call in the minor key--as often the bird whistles--and,
at the signal, all my scouts came creeping in.

"We cross West River here," said I, "and go by the left bank in the same
order of march, crossing the shoulder of the mountain by the Big Eddy,
then fording the river once more, so as to take their ambuscade from the
north and in the rear."

They seemed to understand. The Montagnais, in his new paint, came around
behind me like some savage dog that trusts only his owner. And I saw my
Oneidas eyeing him as though of two minds whether to ignore him or sink
a hatchet into his narrow skull.

"Who first sights a Mohawk," said I, "shall not fire or try to take a
scalp to satisfy his own vanity and his desire for glory. No. He shall
return to me and report what he sees. For it is my business to order the
conduct of this battle.... March!"

       

We had forded West River, crept over the mountain's shoulder, recrossed
the river roaring between its rounded and giant bowlders, and now were
creeping southward toward the Big Eddy.

Already I saw ahead of me the brook that dashes into that great
crystal-green pool, where, in happier days, I have angled for those huge
trout that always lurk there.

And now I caught a glimpse of the pool itself, spreading out between
forested shores. But the place was still as death; not a living thing
nor any sign of one was to be seen there--not a trace of a fire, nor of
any camp filth, nor a canoe, nor even a broken fern.

Moment after moment, I studied the place, shore and slope and hollow.

Tahioni, flat on his belly in the Great Trail, lay listening and looking
up the slope, where our Saguenay had warned us Death lay waiting.

The Water-snake slowly shook his head and cast a glance of fierce
suspicion at the Montagnais, who lay beside me, grasping his sorry
trade-rifle, his slitted gaze of a snake fixed on the forest depths
ahead.

Suddenly, Nick caught my arm in a nervous grasp, and "My God!" says he,
"what is that in the tree--in the great hemlock yonder?"

And now we began to see their sharpshooters as we crawled forward,
standing upright on limbs amid the foliage of great evergreens, to scan
the trail ahead and the forest aisles below--these Mohawk panthers that
would slay from above.

Under them, hidden close to the ground, lay their comrades on either
side of the little ravine, through which the trail ran. We could not see
them, but we never doubted they were there.

Four of their tree-cat scouts were visible: I made the sign; our rifles
crashed out. And, thump! slap! thud! crash! down came their dead
a-sprawling and bouncing on the dead leaves. And up rose their astounded
comrades from every hollow, bush and windfall, only to drop flat at our
rifles' crack, and no knowing if we had hit any among them.

A veil of smoke lay low among the ferns in front of us. There was a
terrible silence in the forest, then screech on screech rent the air, as
the panther slogan rang out from our unseen foes; and, like a dreadful
echo, my Oneidas hurled their war cry back at them; and we all sprang to
our feet and moved swiftly forward, crouching low in our own rifle
smoke.

There came a shot, and a cloud spread among the boughs of a tall
hemlock; but the fellow left his tree and slid down on t'other side,
like a squirrel, and my wild Saguenay was after him in a flash.

I saw the Oneidas looking on as though stupefied; saw the Saguenay,
shoulder deep in witch-hopple, seize something, heard the mad struggle,
and ran forward with Tahioni, only to hear the yelping scalp-cry of the
Montagnais, and see him in the tangle of witch-hopple, both knees on his
victim's shoulders, ripping off the scalp, his arms and body spattered
with blood.

The stupefaction of the Oneidas lasted but a second, then their battle
yell burst out in jealous fury indescribable.

I saw Tahioni chasing a strange Indian through a little hollow full of
ferns; saw Godfrey Shew raise his rifle and kill the fugitive as coolly
as though he were a running buck.

Nick, his shoulder against a beech tree, stood firing with great
deliberation at something I could not see.

The three Frenchmen, de Golyer, Luysnes, and Johnny, had gone around, as
though deer driving, and were converging upon a little wooded knoll,
from which a hard-wood hogback ran east.

Over this distant ridge, like shadows, I could see somebody's light feet
running, checkered against the sunshine beyond, and I fired, judging a
man's height, if stooping. And saw something dark fall and roll down
into a gully full o' last year's damp and rotting leaves.

Re-charging my rifle, I strove to realize that I had slain, but could
not, so fierce the flame in me was burning at the thought of the
children's scalps these Iroquois had taken.

"Is he down, Johnny Silver?" I bawled.

"Fairly paunched!" shouted Luysnes. "Tell your Oneidas they can take his
hair, for I shan't touch it."

But Johnny Silver, in no wise averse, did that office very cheerfully.

"Nom de Dieu!" he panted, tugging at the oiled lock and wrenching free
the scalp; "I have one veree fine jou-jou, sacré garce! I take two; mek
for me one fine wallet!"

Down by the river the rifles were cracking fast and a smoke mist filled
the woods. Ranging widely eastward we had turned their left flank--now
their right--and were forcing them to a choice between the Sacandaga
trail southward or the bee-line back to Canada by the left bank of West
River.

How many there were of them I never have truly learned; but that
scarcely matters to the bravest Indian, when ambuscaded and taken so
completely by surprise from the rear.

No Indians can stand that, and but few white men are able to rally under
such circumstances.

The Screech-owl, locked in a death struggle with a young Mohawk, broke
his arm, stabbed him, and took his scalp before I could run to his aid.

And there on the ground lay four other scalps, two of white children,
with the Little Red Foot painted on all.

I looked down at the dead murderer. He was a handsome boy, not twenty,
and wore a white mask of war paint and two bars of scarlet on his chin,
I thought--then realized that they were two thick streaks of running
blood.

"May his clan bewail him!" shouted the burly Screech-owl. "Let the
Mohawk women mourn their dead who died this day at West River! The
Oneida mock them! Koué!" And his terrific scalp-yell pierced the racket
of the rifles.

I heard a gruffling sound and thick breathing from behind a pine, where
the Water-snake was scalping one of the tree-cat scouts--grunting and
panting as he tugged at the tough and shaven skin, which he had grasped
in his teeth, plying his knife at the same time because the circular
incision had not been continuous.

Suddenly I felt sick, and leaned against a tree, fighting nausea and a
great dizziness. And was aware of an arm around my shoulder.
