and the determination that he would, be something in the world had
caused him to abandon his home, and, with all his worldly effects tied
in a blue cotton pocket handkerchief, to proceed to seek his fortune in
Newbury. And never did stranger in Yankee village rise to promotion with
more unparalleled rapidity, or boast a greater plurality of employment.
He figured as schoolmaster all the week, and as chorister on Sundays,
and taught singing and reading in the evenings, besides studying Latin
and Greek with the minister, nobody knew when; thus fitting for college,
while he seemed to be doing every thing else in the world besides.

James understood every art and craft of popularity, and made himself
mightily at home in all the chimney corners of the region round about;
knew the geography of every body's cider barrel and apple bin, helping
himself and every one else therefrom with all bountifulness; rejoicing
in the good things of this life, devouring the old ladies' doughnuts and
pumpkin pies with most flattering appetite, and appearing equally to
relish every body and thing that came in his way.

The degree and versatility of his acquirements were truly wonderful. He
knew all about arithmetic and history, and all about catching squirrels
and planting corn; made poetry and hoe handles with equal celerity;
wound yarn and took out grease spots for old ladies, and made nosegays
and knickknacks for young ones; caught trout Saturday afternoons, and
discussed doctrines on Sundays, with equal adroitness and effect. In
short, Mr. James moved on through the place

           "Victorious,
    Happy and glorious,"

welcomed and privileged by every body in every place; and when he had
told his last ghost story, and fairly flourished himself out of doors at
the close of a long winter's evening, you might see the hard face of the
good man of the house still phosphorescent with his departing radiance,
and hear him exclaim, in a paroxysm of admiration, that "Jemeses talk
re'ely did beat all; that he was sartainly most a miraculous cre'tur!"

It was wonderfully contrary to the buoyant activity of Master James's
mind to keep a school. He had, moreover, so much of the boy and the
rogue in his composition, that he could not be strict with the
iniquities of the curly pates under his charge; and when he saw how
determinately every little heart was boiling over with mischief and
motion, he felt in his soul more disposed to join in and help them to a
frolic than to lay justice to the line, as was meet. This would have
made a sad case, had it not been that the activity of the master's mind
communicated itself to his charge, just as the reaction of one brisk
little spring will fill a manufactory with motion; so that there was
more of an impulse towards study in the golden, good-natured day of
James Benton than in the time of all that went before or came after him.

But when "school was out," James's spirits foamed over as naturally as a
tumbler of soda water, and he could jump over benches and burst out of
doors with as much rapture as the veriest little elf in his company.
Then you might have seen him stepping homeward with a most felicitous
expression of countenance, occasionally reaching his hand through the
fence for a bunch of currants, or over it after a flower, or bursting
into some back yard to help an old lady empty her wash tub, or stopping
to pay his devoirs to Aunt This or Mistress That, for James well knew
the importance of the "powers that be," and always kept the sunny side
of the old ladies.

We shall not answer for James's general flirtations, which were sundry
and manifold; for he had just the kindly heart that fell in love with
every thing in feminine shape that came in his way, and if he had not
been blessed with an equal facility in falling out again, we do not know
what ever would have become of him. But at length he came into an
abiding captivity, and it is quite time that he should; for, having
devoted thus much space to the illustration of our hero, it is fit we
should do something in behalf of our heroine; and, therefore, we must
beg the reader's attention while we draw a diagram or two that will
assist him in gaining a right idea of her.

Do you see yonder brown house, with its broad roof sloping almost to the
ground on one side, and a great, unsupported, sun bonnet of a piazza
shooting out over the front door? You must often have noticed it; you
have seen its tall well sweep, relieved against the clear evening sky,
or observed the feather beds and bolsters lounging out of its chamber
windows on a still summer morning; you recollect its gate, that swung
with a chain and a great stone; its pantry window, latticed with little
brown slabs, and looking out upon a forest of bean poles. You remember
the zephyrs that used to play among its pea brush, and shake the long
tassels of its corn patch, and how vainly any zephyr might essay to
perform similar flirtations with the considerate cabbages that were
solemnly vegetating near by. Then there was the whole neighborhood of
purple-leaved beets and feathery parsnips; there were the billows of
gooseberry bushes rolled up by the fence, interspersed with rows of
quince trees; and far off in one corner was one little patch,
penuriously devoted to ornament, which flamed with marigolds, poppies,
snappers, and four-o'clocks. Then there was a little box by itself with
one rose geranium in it, which seemed to look around the garden as much
like a stranger as a French dancing master in a Yankee meeting house.

That is the dwelling of Uncle Lot Griswold. Uncle Lot, as he was
commonly called, had a character that a painter would sketch for its
lights and contrasts rather than its symmetry. He was a chestnut burr,
abounding with briers without and with substantial goodness within. He
had the strong-grained practical sense, the calculating worldly wisdom
of his class of people in New England; he had, too, a kindly heart; but
all the strata of his character were crossed by a vein of surly
petulance, that, half way between joke and earnest, colored every thing
that he said and did.

If you asked a favor of Uncle Lot, he generally kept you arguing half an
hour, to prove that you really needed it, and to tell you that he could
not all the while be troubled with helping one body or another, all
which time you might observe him regularly making his preparations to
grant your request, and see, by an odd glimmer of his eye, that he was
preparing to let you hear the "conclusion of the whole matter," which
was, "Well, well--I guess--I'll go, on the hull--I 'spose I must, at
least;" so off he would go and work while the day lasted, and then wind
up with a farewell exhortation "not to be a callin' on your neighbors
when you could get along without." If any of Uncle Lot's neighbors were
in any trouble, he was always at hand to tell them that "they shouldn't
a' done so;" that "it was strange they couldn't had more sense;" and
then to close his exhortations by laboring more diligently than any to
bring them out of their difficulties, groaning in spirit, meanwhile,
that folks would make people so much trouble.

"Uncle Lot, father wants to know if you will lend him your hoe to-day,"
says a little boy, making his way across a cornfield.

"Why don't your father use his own hoe?"

"Ours is broke."

"Broke! How came it broke?"

"I broke it yesterday, trying to hit a squirrel."

"What business had you to be hittin' squirrels with a hoe? say!"

"But father wants to borrow yours."

"Why don't you have that mended? It's a great pester to have every body
usin' a body's things."

"Well, I can borrow one some where else, I suppose," says the suppliant.
After the boy has stumbled across the ploughed ground, and is fairly
over the fence, Uncle Lot calls,--

"Halloo, there, you little rascal! what are you goin' off without the
hoe for?"

"I didn't know as you meant to lend it."

"I didn't say I wouldn't, did I? Here, come and take it.--stay, I'll
bring it; and do tell your father not to be a lettin' you hunt squirrels
with his hoes next time."

Uncle Lot's household consisted of Aunt Sally, his wife, and an only son
and daughter; the former, at the time our story begins, was at a
neighboring literary institution. Aunt Sally was precisely as clever, as
easy to be entreated, and kindly in externals, as her helpmate was the
reverse. She was one of those respectable, pleasant old ladies whom you
might often have met on the way to church on a Sunday, equipped with a
great fan and a psalm book, and carrying some dried orange peel or a
stalk of fennel, to give to the children if they were sleepy in meeting.
She was as cheerful and domestic as the tea kettle that sung by her
kitchen fire, and slipped along among Uncle Lot's angles and
peculiarities as if there never was any thing the matter in the world;
and the same mantle of sunshine seemed to have fallen on Miss Grace, her
only daughter.

Pretty in her person and pleasant in her ways, endowed with native
self-possession and address, lively and chatty, having a mind and a will
of her own, yet good-humored withal, Miss Grace was a universal
favorite. It would have puzzled a city lady to understand how Grace, who
never was out of Newbury in her life, knew the way to speak, and act,
and behave, on all occasions, exactly as if she had been taught how. She
was just one of those wild flowers which you may sometimes see waving
its little head in the woods, and looking so civilized and garden-like,
that you wonder if it really did come up and grow there by nature. She
was an adept in all household concerns, and there was something
amazingly pretty in her energetic way of bustling about, and "putting
things to rights." Like most Yankee damsels, she had a longing after the
tree of knowledge, and, having exhausted the literary fountains of a
district school, she fell to reading whatsoever came in her way. True,
she had but little to read; but what she perused she had her own
thoughts upon, so that a person of information, in talking with her,
would feel a constant wondering pleasure to find that she had so much
more to say of this, that, and the other thing than he expected.

Uncle Lot, like every one else, felt the magical brightness of his
daughter, and was delighted with her praises, as might be discerned by
his often finding occasion to remark that "he didn't see why the boys
need to be all the time a' comin' to see Grace, for she was nothing so
extror'nary, after all." About all matters and things at home she
generally had her own way, while Uncle Lot would scold and give up with
a regular good grace that was quite creditable.

"Father," says Grace, "I want to have a party next week."

"You sha'n't go to havin' your parties, Grace. I always have to eat bits
and ends a fortnight after you have one, and I won't have it so." And so
Uncle Lot walked out, and Aunt Sally and Miss Grace proceeded to make
the cake and pies for the party.

When Uncle Lot came home, he saw a long array of pies and rows of cakes
on the kitchen table.

"Grace--Grace--Grace, I say! What is all this here flummery for?"

"Why, it is to eat, father," said Grace, with a good-natured look of
consciousness.

Uncle Lot tried his best to look sour; but his visage began to wax
comical as he looked at his merry daughter; so he said nothing, but
quietly sat down to his dinner.

"Father," said Grace, after dinner, "we shall want two more candlesticks
next week."

"Why, can't you have your party with what you've got?"

"No, father, we want two more."

"I can't afford it, Grace--there's no sort of use on't--and you sha'n't
have any."

"O, father, now do," said Grace.

"I won't, neither," said Uncle Lot, as he sallied out of the house, and
took the road to Comfort Scran's store.

In half an hour he returned again; and fumbling in his pocket, and
drawing forth a candlestick, levelled it at Grace.

"There's your candlestick."

"But, father, I said I wanted two."

"Why, can't you make one do?"

"No, I can't; I must have two."

"Well, then, there's t'other; and here's a fol-de-rol for you to tie
round your neck." So saying, he bolted for the door, and took himself
off with all speed. It was much after this fashion that matters commonly
went on in the brown house.

But having tarried long on the way, we must proceed with the main story.

James thought Miss Grace was a glorious girl; and as to what Miss Grace
thought of Master James, perhaps it would not have been developed had
she not been called to stand on the defensive for him with Uncle Lot.
For, from the time that the whole village of Newbury began to be wholly
given unto the praise of Master James, Uncle Lot set his face as a flint
against him--from the laudable fear of following the multitude. He
therefore made conscience of stoutly gainsaying every thing that was
said in his behalf, which, as James was in high favor with Aunt Sally,
he had frequent opportunities to do.

So when Miss Grace perceived that Uncle Lot did not like our hero as
much as he ought to do, she, of course, was bound to like him well
enough to make up for it. Certain it is that they were remarkably happy
in finding opportunities of being acquainted; that James waited on her,
as a matter of course, from singing school; that he volunteered making a
new box for her geranium on an improved plan; and above all, that he was
remarkably particular in his attentions to Aunt Sally--a stroke of
policy which showed that James had a natural genius for this sort of
matters. Even when emerging from the meeting house in full glory, with
flute and psalm book under his arm, he would stop to ask her how she
did; and if it was cold weather, he would carry her foot stove all the
way home from meeting, discoursing upon the sermon, and other serious
matters, as Aunt Sally observed, "in the pleasantest, prettiest way that
ever ye see." This flute was one of the crying sins of James in the eyes
of Uncle Lot. James was particularly fond of it, because he had learned
to play on it by intuition; and on the decease of the old pitchpipe,
which was slain by a fall from the gallery, he took the liberty to
introduce the flute in its place. For this, and other sins, and for the
good reasons above named, Uncle Lot's countenance was not towards James,
neither could he be moved to him-ward by any manner of means.

To all Aunt Sally's good words and kind speeches, he had only to say
that "he didn't like him; that he hated to see him a' manifesting and
glorifying there in the front gallery Sundays, and a' acting every where
as if he was master of all: he didn't like it, and he wouldn't." But our
hero was no whit cast down or discomfited by the malcontent aspect of
Uncle Lot. On the contrary, when report was made to him of divers of his
hard speeches, he only shrugged his shoulders, with a very satisfied
air, and remarked that "he knew a thing or two for all that."

"Why, James," said his companion and chief counsellor, "do you think
Grace likes you?"

"I don't know," said our hero, with a comfortable appearance of
certainty.

"But you can't get her, James, if Uncle Lot is cross about it."

"Fudge! I can make Uncle Lot like me if I have a mind to try."

"Well then, Jim, you'll have to give up that flute of yours, I tell you
now."

"Fa, sol, la--I can make him like me and my flute too."

"Why, how will you do it?"

"O, I'll work it," said our hero.

"Well, Jim, I tell you now, you don't know Uncle Lot if you say so; for
he is just the settest critter in his way that ever you saw."

"I do know Uncle Lot, though, better than most folks; he is no more
cross than I am; and as to his being set, you have nothing to do but
make him think he is in his own way when he is in yours--that is all."

"Well," said the other, "but you see I don't believe it."

"And I'll bet you a gray squirrel that I'll go there this very evening,
and get him to like me and my flute both," said James.

Accordingly the late sunshine of that afternoon shone full on the yellow
buttons of James as he proceeded to the place of conflict. It was a
bright, beautiful evening. A thunder storm had just cleared away, and
the silver clouds lay rolled up in masses around the setting sun; the
rain drops were sparkling and winking to each other over the ends of the
leaves, and all the bluebirds and robins, breaking forth into song, made
the little green valley as merry as a musical box.

James's soul was always overflowing with that kind of poetry which
consists in feeling unspeakably happy; and it is not to be wondered at,
considering where he was going, that he should feel in a double ecstasy
on the present occasion. He stepped gayly along, occasionally springing
over a fence to the right to see whether the rain had swollen the trout
brook, or to the left to notice the ripening of Mr. Somebody's
watermelons--for James always had an eye on all his neighbors' matters
as well as his own.

In this way he proceeded till he arrived at the picket fence that marked
the commencement of Uncle Lot's ground. Here he stopped to consider.
Just then four or five sheep walked up, and began also to consider a
loose picket, which was hanging just ready to drop off; and James began
to look at the sheep. "Well, mister," said he, as he observed the leader
judiciously drawing himself through the gap, "in with you--just what I
wanted;" and having waited a moment to ascertain that all the company
were likely to follow, he ran with all haste towards the house, and
swinging open the gate, pressed all breathless to the door.

"Uncle Lot, there are four or five sheep in your garden!" Uncle Lot
dropped his whetstone and scythe.

"I'll drive them out," said our hero; and with that, he ran down the
garden alley, and made a furious descent on the enemy; bestirring
himself, as Bunyan says, "lustily and with good courage," till every
sheep had skipped out much quicker than it skipped in; and then,
springing over the fence, he seized a great stone, and nailed on the
picket so effectually that no sheep could possibly encourage the hope of
getting in again. This was all the work of a minute, and he was back
again; but so exceedingly out of breath that it was necessary for him to
stop a moment and rest himself. Uncle Lot looked ungraciously satisfied.

"What under the canopy set you to scampering so?" said he; "I could a'
driv out them critturs myself."

"If you are at all particular about driving them out yourself, I can
let them in again," said James.

Uncle Lot looked at him with an odd sort of twinkle in the corner of his
eye.

"'Spose I must ask you to walk in," said he.

"Much obliged," said James; "but I am in a great hurry." So saying, he
started in very business-like fashion towards the gate.

"You'd better jest stop a minute."

"Can't stay a minute."

"I don't see what possesses you to be all the while in sich a hurry; a
body would think you had all creation on your shoulders."

"Just my situation, Uncle Lot," said James, swinging open the gate.

"Well, at any rate, have a drink of cider, can't ye?" said Uncle Lot,
who was now quite engaged to have his own way in the case.

James found it convenient to accept this invitation, and Uncle Lot was
twice as good-natured as if he had staid in the first of the matter.

Once fairly forced into the premises, James thought fit to forget his
long walk and excess of business, especially as about that moment Aunt
Sally and Miss Grace returned from an afternoon call. You may be sure
that the last thing these respectable ladies looked for was to find
Uncle Lot and Master James tête-à-tête, over a pitcher of cider; and
when, as they entered, our hero looked up with something of a
mischievous air, Miss Grace, in particular, was so puzzled that it took
her at least a quarter of an hour to untie her bonnet strings. But James
staid, and acted the agreeable to perfection. First, he must needs go
down into the garden to look at Uncle Lot's wonderful cabbages, and then
he promenaded all around the corn patch, stopping every few moments and
looking up with an appearance of great gratification, as if he had never
seen such corn in his life; and then he examined Uncle Lot's favorite
apple tree with an expression of wonderful interest.

"I never!" he broke forth, having stationed himself against the fence
opposite to it; "what kind of an apple tree is that?"

"It's a bellflower, or somethin' another," said Uncle Lot.
