wished for a light then, but for once in her life hesitated
about ringing the bell; for she had heard Clam going up and
down and feared she might be busied for some one else. And she
thought, with a heart full, how dismal this coming on of night
would have been, but for the friend up stairs. Elizabeth
wished bitterly she could follow his advice.

She sat looking out of the open window into the duskiness, and
at the yellow lights of the street lamps which by this time
spotted it; thinking so, and feeling very miserable. By and by
Clam came in with a candle and began to let down the blinds.

"What are you going to do?" said her mistress. "You needn't
pull those down."

"Folks'll see in," said Clam.

"No they won't -- there's no light here."

"There's goin' to be, though," said Clam. "Things is goin'
straight in this house, as two folks can make 'em."

"I don't want anything -- you may let the lamps alone, Clam."

"I dursn't," said Clam, going on leisurely to light the two
large burners of the mantle lamps, -- "Mr. Winthrop told me to
get tea for you and do everything just as it was every night;
so I knowed these had to be flarin' up -- You ain't goin' to be
allowed to sit in the shades no longer."

"I don't want anything!" said Elizabeth. "Don't bring any tea
here."

"Then I'll go up and tell him his orders is contradickied,"
said Clam.

"Stop!" said her mistress when she had reached the door
walking off, -- "don't carry any foolish speech up stairs at
such a time as this; -- fetch what you like and do what you
like, -- I don't care."

The room was brilliantly lighted now; and Clam set the salver
on the table and brought in the tea-urn; and miserable as she
felt, Elizabeth half confessed to herself that her coadjutor
up stairs was right. Better this pain than the other. If the
body was nothing a gainer, the mind perhaps might be, for
keeping up the wonted habits and appearances.

"Ask Mr. Landholm to come down, Clam."

"I did ask him," said the handmaiden, "and he don't want
nothin' but biscuits, and he's got lots o' them."

"Won't he have a cup of tea?"

"He knows his own mind mostly," said Clam; "and he says he
won't."

"What arrangements can you make for his sleeping up there to-
night, Clam?"

"Him and me 'll see to it," responded Clam confidently. "I
know pretty much what's in the house; and the best of it ain't
too good for him."

So Elizabeth drank her cup of tea alone; and sat alone through
the long evening and mused. For still it was rather musing
than thinking; going over things past and things present;
things future she cared not much to meddle with. It was not a
good time, she said, for taking up her religious wants and
duties; and in part that was true, severely as she felt them;
for her mind was in such a slow fever that none of its pulses
were healthful. Fear, and foreboding, for her father and for
herself, -- hope springing along with the fear; a strong sense
that her character was different from what it ought to be, and
a strong wish that it were not, -- and a yet mightier leaning
in another direction; -- all of these, meeting and modifying
each other and struggling together, seemed to run in her veins
and to tell in each beat of the tiny timekeeper at her wrist.
How could she disentangle one from the other, or give a quiet
mind to anything, when she had it not to give?

She was just bitterly asking herself this question, when
Winthrop came in at the open parlour door; and the immediate
bitter thought which arose next was, did he ever have any but
a quiet mind to give to anything? The two bitters were so
strong upon her tongue that they kept it still; till he had
walked up to the neighbourhood of her sofa.

"How is my father, Mr. Landholm?" she said rising and meeting
him.

"As you mean the question I cannot answer it -- There is
nothing declarative, Miss Elizabeth. Yes," he said kindly,
meeting and answering her face, -- "you must wait yet awhile
longer."

Elizabeth sat down again, and looked down.

"Are you troubled with fears for yourself?" he said gently,
taking a chair near her.

"No --" Elizabeth said, and said truly. She could have told
him, what indeed she could not, that since his coming into the
house another feeling had overmastered that fear, and kept it
under.

"At least," she added, -- "I suppose I have it, but it doesn't
trouble me now."

"I came down on principle," said he, -- "to exchange the office
of nurse for that of physician; -- thinking it probably better
that you should see me for a few minutes, than see nobody at
all."

"I am sure you were right," said Elizabeth. "I felt awhile ago
as if my head would go crazy with too many thoughts."

"Must be unruly thoughts," said Winthrop.

"They were," said she looking up.

"Can't you manage unruly thoughts?"

"No! -- never could."

"Do you know what happens in that case? -- They manage you."

"But how can I help it, Mr. Landholm? There they are, and here
am I; -- they are strong and I am weak."

"If they are the strongest, they will rule."

Elizabeth sat silent, thinking her counsellor was very
unsatisfactory.

"Are you going to sit up all night, Miss Elizabeth?"

"No -- I suppose not --"

"I shall; so you may feel easy about being alone down here.
There could be no disturbance, I think, without my knowing it.
Let Clam be here to keep you company; and take the best rest
you can."

It was impossible for Elizabeth to say a word of thanks, or of
his kindness; the words choked her; she was mute.

"Can I do anything, Mr. Landholm?"

"Nothing in the world -- but manage your thoughts," he said
smiling.

Elizabeth was almost choked again, with the rising of tears
this time.

"But Mr. Landholm -- about that -- what is wrong cannot be
necessary; there must be some way of managing them?"

"You know it," he said simply.

But it finished Elizabeth's power of speech. She did not even
attempt to look up; she sat pressing her chin with her hand,
endeavouring to keep down her heart and to keep steady her
quivering lips. Her companion, who in the midst of all her
troubles she many times that evening thought was unlike any
other person that ever walked, presently went out into the
hall and called to Clam over the balusters.

"Is he going to give her directions about taking care of me?"
thought Elizabeth in a great maze, as Winthrop came back into
the parlour and sat down again. When Clam appeared however he
only bade her take a seat; and then bringing forth a bible
from his pocket he opened it and read the ninety-first psalm.
Hardly till then it dawned upon Elizabeth what he was thinking
to do; and then the words that he read went through and
through her heart like drawn daggers. One after another, one
after another. Little he imagined, who read, what strength her
estimate of the reader's character gave them; nor how that
same estimate made every word of his prayer tell, and go home
to her spirit with the sharpness as well as the gentleness of
Ithuriel's spear. When Elizabeth rose from her knees, it was
with a bowed head which she could in no wise lift up; and
after Winthrop had left the room, Clam stood looking at her
mistress and thinking her own thoughts, as long as she pleased
unrebuked.

"One feels sort o' good after that, now, don't they?" was her
opening remark, when Elizabeth's head was at last raised from
her hands. "Do you think the roof of any house would ever fall
in over his head? He's better'n a regiment o' soldiers."

"Is everything attended to down stairs, Clam?"

"All's straight where the Governor is," said Clam with a
sweeping bend of her head, and going about to set the room in
order; -- "there ain't two straws laid the wrong way."

"Where he is!" repeated Elizabeth -- "He isn't in the kitchen,
I suppose, Clam."

"Whenever he's in the house, always seems to me he's all
over," said Clam. "It's about that. He's a governor, you know.
Now Miss 'Lizabeth, how am I goin' to fix you for the night?"

"No way," said Elizabeth. "I shall just sleep here, as I am.
Let the lamps burn, and shut down the blinds."

"And then will I go off to the second story and leave you?"

"No, indeed -- Fetch something that you can lay on the floor,
and stay here with me."

Which Clam presently did; nothing more than a blanket however;
and remarked as she curled herself down with her head upon her
arm,

"Ain't he a handsome man, Miss 'Lizabeth?"

"Who? --" ungraciously enough.

"Why, the Governor."

"Yes, for aught I know. Lie still and go to sleep, Clam, if
you can; and let me."

Very promptly Clam obeyed this command; but her less happy
mistress, as soon as the deep drawn breaths told her she was
alone again, sat up on her sofa to get in a change of posture
a change from pain.

How alone! -- In the parlour after midnight, with the lamps
burning as if the room were gay with company; herself, in her
morning dress, on the sofa for a night's rest, and there on
her blanket on the carpet, Clam already taking it. How it told
the story, of illness and watching and desertion and danger;
how it put life and death in near and strong contrast; and the
summer wind blew in through the blinds and pushed the blinds
themselves gently out into the room, just as Elizabeth had
seen and felt in many a bright and happy hour not so long
past. The same summer breath, and the summer so different!
Elizabeth could hardly bear it. She longed to rush up stairs
where there was somebody; but then she must not; and then the
remembrance that somebody was there quieted her again. That
thought stirred another train, the old contrast between him
and herself, the contrast between his condition and hers, now
brought more painfully than ever home. "He is ready to meet
anything," she thought, -- "nothing can come amiss to him; -- he
is as ready for that world as for this -- and more!" --

The impression of the words he had read that evening came back
to her afresh, and the recollection of the face with which he
had read them, -- calm, happy, and at rest; -- and Elizabeth
threw herself off the sofa and kneeled down to lay her head
and arms upon it, in mere agony of wish to change something,
or rather of the felt want that something should be changed. O
that she were at peace like him! O that she had like him a
sure home and possession beyond the reach of sickness and
death! O that she were that rectified, self-contained, pure,
strong spirit, that he was! -- The utmost of passionate wish
was in the tears that wept out these yearnings of heart --
petitions they half were, -- for her mind in giving them form,
had a half look to the only possible power that could give
them fruition. But it was with only the refreshment of tears
and exhaustion that she laid herself on her couch and went to
sleep.

Clam had carried away her blanket bed and put out the lamps,
before Elizabeth awoke the next morning. It was a question
whether the room looked drearier by night or by day. She got
up and went to the window. Clam had pulled up the blinds. The
light of the summer morning was rising again, but it shone
only without; all was darkness inside. Except that light-
surrounded watcher up stairs. How Elizabeth's heart blessed
him.

The next thing was, to get ready to receive his report. That
morning's toilet was soon made, and Elizabeth sat waiting. He
might come soon, or he might not; for it was early, and he
might not know whether she was awake and risen yet. She was
unaccustomed, poor child, to a waiting of pain; and her heart
felt tired and sore already from the last forty-eight hours of
fears and hopes. Fears and hopes were in strong life now, but
a life that had become very tender to every touch. Clam was
setting the breakfast-table -- Could breakfast be eaten or not?
The very cups and saucers made Elizabeth's heart ache. She was
glad when Clam had done her work and was gone and she sat
waiting alone. But the breaths came painfully now, and her
heart was weary with its own aching.

The little knock at the door came at last. Elizabeth ran to
open it, and exchanged a silent grasp of the hand with the
newsbearer; her eyes looked her question. He came in just as
he came last night; calm and grave.

"I can tell you nothing new, Miss Elizabeth," he said. "I
cannot see that Mr. Haye is any better -- I do not know that he
is any worse."

But Elizabeth was weak to bear longer suspense; she burst into
tears and sat down hiding her face. Her companion stood near,
but said nothing further.

"May I call Clam?" he asked after a few minutes.

Elizabeth gave eager assent; and the act of last night was
repeated, to her unspeakable gratification. She drank in every
word, and not only because she drank in the voice with them.

"Breakfast's just ready, Mr. Winthrop," said Clam when she was
leaving the room; -- "so you needn't go up stairs."

The breakfast was a very silent one on Elizabeth's part.
Winthrop talked on indifferent subjects; but she was too full-
hearted and too sick-hearted to answer him with many words.
And when the short meal was ended and he was about quitting
the parlour she jumped up and followed him a step or two.

"Mr. Winthrop -- won't you say a word of comfort to me before
you go? --"

He saw she needed it exceedingly; and came back and sat down
on the sofa with her.

"I don't know what to say to you better than this, Miss
Elizabeth," he said, turning over again the leaves of his
little bible; -- "I came to it in the course of my reading this
morning; and it comforted me."

He put the book in her hands, but Elizabeth had to clear her
eyes more than once from hot tears, before she could read the
words to which he directed her.


"And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime
from the heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert
from storm and from rain."


Elizabeth looked at it.

"But I don't understand it, Mr. Landholm?" she said, raising
her eyes to his face.

He said nothing; he took the book from her and turning a few
leaves over, put it again in her hands. Elizabeth read; --


"And a man shall be as an hiding-place from the wind, and a
covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place; as
the shadow of a great rock in a thirsty land."


"Is that plainer?" he asked.

"It means the Saviour?" said Elizabeth.

"Certainly it does! To whom else should we go?"

"But Mr. Landholm," said Elizabeth after a minute's struggle,
"why do you shew me this, when you know I can do nothing with
it?"

"Will you do nothing?" he said.

The words implied that she could; an implication she would not
deny; but her answer was another burst of tears. And with the
book in her hand he left her.

The words were well studied that day! by a heart feeling the
blast of the tempest and bitterly wanting to hide itself from
the wind. But the fact of her want and of a sure remedy, was
all she made clear; how to match the one with the other she
did not know. The book itself she turned over with the
curiosity and the interest of fresh insight into character. It
was well worn, and had been carefully handled; it lay open
easily anywhere, and in many places various marks of
pencilling shewed that not only the eyes but the mind of its
owner had been all over it. It was almost an awful book to
Elizabeth's handling. It seemed a thing too good to be in her
hold. It bore witness to its owner's truth of character, and
to her own consequent being far astray; it gave her an opening
such as she never had before to look into his mind and life
and guess at the secret spring and strength of them. Of many
of the marks of his pencil she could make nothing at all; she
could not divine why they had been made, nor what could
possibly be the notable thing in the passage pointed out; and
longing to get at more of his mind than she could in one
morning's hurried work, she found another bible in the house
and took off a number of his notes, for future and more
leisurely study.

It was a happy occupation for her that day. No other could
have so softened its exceeding weariness and sadness. The
doctor gave her no comfort. He said he could tell nothing yet;
and Elizabeth could not fancy that this delay of amendment
gave any encouragement to hope for it. She did not see
Winthrop at dinner. She spent the most of the day over his
bible. Sickness of heart sometimes made her throw it aside,
but so surely sickness of heart made her take it up again.
