being is constantly warring against this Heavenly union; in
conjugial partners, hell is opposed to heaven, and it is only by a
steady looking to the Lord, that Heavenly love can be preserved. The
Lord opens the inmost degree of thought and feeling in the two, and
elevates their love to higher planes, and thus increases their joys
and felicities; and when it is a true spiritual love, an entire
union of heart and mind, then the two have entered heaven, and enjoy
its beautiful blessedness even while their material bodies yet dwell
upon this coarse outer world.

"How wonderful is the wisdom of the Lord! How blessed is His love,
in thus creating two that they may become a one! The sympathy, the
gentle affection, the loving tender confidence, that, like magnetic
thrills, makes one conscious of the inmost life of the other, gives
a charm--a fulness of satisfaction--a serene blessedness to
existence, that no isolated being can possibly conceive of, let
external circumstances be what they may.

"Conjugial love is independent of external circumstances; it is
heaven-derived, and receives nothing from the earth. It gives
heavenly joy to all of its surroundings. It is that glorious inner
sunshine of life, that blesses the poor man as boundlessly as the
rich. And how beautiful it is for two to realize that time and
space have nothing to do with their union. In each other they see
eternity; they know from whence their emotions flow, and know that
the fountain is Infinite. The Lord is the beginning and end; to
them, the first and the last. They live in Him, from Him, and
to Him. They love only His Divine image in each other; they seek
to do good to others, as organs of His Divine life. He is the glory
and blessedness of their whole being.

"And if such blissful emotions can be realized in this cold, hard,
ungenial, outer life, what must it be when the two pass into the
conscious presence of the Divine Father, and behold each other not
in angular material forms, and dead material light, but in the
Divine light of Heaven, in Heavenly forms,--radiant in intelligence
glowing in the rosy love of eternal youth--beautiful in the 'beauty
of the Lord?'"

How pure, how wise, how beautiful! Here is the true doctrine, that
man and woman are not equal in the sense so often asserted in these
modern times; that they are created with radical differences, and
that the life of neither is perfect until they unite in marriage
union--one man with one wife.




THE FAIRY WIFE.

AN APOLOGUE.


A MERCHANT married a Fairy. He was so manly, so earnest, so
energetic, and so loving, that her heart was constrained toward him,
and she gave up her heritage in Fairyland to accept the lot of
woman.

They were married; they were happy; and the early months glided away
like the vanishing pageantry of a dream.

Before the year was over he had returned to his affairs; they were
important and pressing, and occupied more and more of his time. But
every evening as he hastened back to her side she felt the weariness
of absence more than repaid by the delight of his presence. She sat
at his feet, and sang to him, and prattled away the remnant of care
that lingered in his mind.

But his cares multiplied. The happiness of many families depended on
him. His affairs were vast and complicated, and they kept him longer
away from her. All the day, while he was amidst his bales of
merchandise, she roamed along the banks of a sequestered stream,
weaving bright fancy pageantries, or devising airy gayeties with
which to charm his troubled spirit. A bright and sunny being, she
comprehended nothing of care. Life was abounding in her. She knew
not the disease of reflection; she felt not the perplexities of
life. To sing and to laugh--to leap the stream and beckon him to
leap after her, as he used in the old lover-days, when she would
conceal herself from him in the folds of a water-lily--to tantalize
and enchant him with a thousand coquetries--this was her idea of how
they should live; and when he gently refused to join her in these
childlike gambols, and told her of the serious work that awaited
him, she raised her soft blue eyes to him in a baby wonderment, not
comprehending what he meant, but acquiescing, with a sigh, because
he said it.

She acquiesced, but a soft sadness fell upon her. Life to her was
Love, and nothing more. A soft sadness also fell upon him. Life to
him was Love, and something more; and he saw with regret that she
did not comprehend it. The wall of Care, raised by busy hands, was
gradually shutting him out from her. If she visited him during the
day, she found herself a hindrance and retired. When he came to her
at sunset he was preoccupied. She sat at his feet, loving his
anxious face. He raised tenderly the golden ripple of loveliness
that fell in ringlets on her neck, and kissed her soft beseeching
eyes; but there was a something in his eyes, a remote look, as if
his soul were afar, busy with other things which made her little
heart almost burst with uncomprehended jealousy.

She would steal up to him at times when he was absorbed in
calculations, and throwing her arms around his neck, woo him from
his thought. A smile, revealing love in its very depths, would
brighten his anxious face, as for a moment he pushed aside the
world, and concentrated all his being in one happy feeling.

She could win moments from him, she could not win his life; she
could charm, she could not occupy him! The painful truth came slowly
over her, as the deepening shadows fall upon a sunny Day, until at
last it is Night: Night with her stars of infinite beauty, but
without the lustre and warmth of Day.

She drooped; and on her couch of sickness her keen-sighted love
perceived, through all his ineffable tenderness, that same
remoteness in his eyes, which proved that, even as he sat there
grieving and apparently absorbed in her, there still came dim
remembrances of Care to vex and occupy his soul.

"It were better I were dead," she thought; "I am not good enough for
him."

Poor child! Not good enough, because her simple nature knew not the
manifold perplexities, the hindrances of incomplete life! Not good
enough, because her whole life was scattered!

And so she breathed herself away, and left her husband to all his
gloom of Care, made tenfold darker by the absence of those gleams of
tenderness which before had fitfully irradiated life. The night was
starless, and he alone.




A BRIEF HISTORY, IN THREE PARTS, WITH A SEQUEL.

PART I.--LOVE.


  A GLANCE--a thought--a blow--
    It stings him to the core.
  A question--will it lay him low?
    Or will time heal it o'er?

  He kindles at the name--
    He sits and thinks apart;
  Time blows and blows it to a flame,
    Burning within his heart.

  He loves it though it burns,
    And nurses it with care;
  He feels the blissful pain by turns
    With hope, and with despair.



PART II.--COURTSHIP.


  Sonnets and serenades,
    Sighs, glances, tears, and vows,
  Gifts, tokens, souvenirs, parades,
    And courtesies and bows.

  A purpose and a prayer;
    The stars are in the sky--
  He wonders how e'en hope should dare
    To let him aim so high!

  Still hope allures and flatters,
    And doubt just makes him bold;
  And so, with passion all in tatters,
    The trembling tale is told.

  Apologies and blushes,
    Soft looks, averted eyes,
  Each heart into the other rushes,
    Each yields, and wins a prize.

  A gathering of fond friends,--
    Brief, solemn words, and prayer,--
  A trembling to the fingers' ends,
    As hand in hand, they swear.

  Sweet cake, sweet wine; sweet kisses,
    And so the deed is done;
  Now for life's waves and blisses,
    The wedded two are one.

  And down the shining stream,
    They launch their buoyant skiff,
  Bless'd, if they may but trust hope's dream,
    But ah! Truth echoes--"If!"



THE SEQUEL.--"IF."


  If health be firm--if friend be true--
    If self be well-controlled,
  If tastes be pure--if wants be few--
    And not too often told--

  If reason always rule the heart--
    If passion own its sway--
  If love--for aye--to life impart
    The zest it does to-day--

  If Providence, with parent care,
    Mete out the varying lot--
  While meek contentment bows to share,
    The palace, or the cot--

  And oh! if Faith, sublime and clear,
    The spirit upwards guide--
  Then bless'd indeed, and bless'd for ever,
    The bridegroom and the bride!




ELMA'S MISSION.


"EVER, evermore!" repeated a young man, bending with a smile over
the fair face that rested on his breast.

"Yes! evermore!" softly breathed the smiling lips upon which he
gazed, and evermore shone from the melting, heavenly eyes.

"And you believe all these bright fancies you have been telling me
of, darling?" asked the young man.

"Ah! yes--they are truth to me; they dwell in my heart of
hearts--they belong to the deepest and sweetest mysteries of my
being. I gaze out through the glory upon life, and I see no
coldness, no darkness--everything is coloured with bright radiance
from the eternal world. It is happiness that gives me this beautiful
view. I have known that the world was filled, with love, but I have
never so clearly seen it before. And sure I am that if I were to die
now, this same splendour of love would still be poured through my
soul; for it is myself, and I cannot lose it. If you were next week
in Europe, far from me, would not your inner world be illumined with
love and hope?"

"It certainly would!

"And can you doubt the durability, the truth and reality of this
inner-life? Can this clay instrument be of any moment farther than
it serves to develop life, in this, our first school?--we should not
confound the earthly dwelling with the free man who makes it his
temporary home. Ah! Horace, I feel, I am, sure, you will some day
enjoy all these ennobling thoughts with me, and then existence will
also be to you sublime."

An expression of radiant hope flitted over the young man's face, and
he kissed the soft lips and eyes of his betrothed, while he
murmured, "I would suffer the loss of all happiness on earth, I
would bear every stroke the Almighty might inflict, if I
could believe as you do, of a life beyond this. I am no unbeliever,
you know. I read my Bible daily, but beyond this world everything to
me is misty and dark. I shudder at the ghastliness of the grave, and
would forget that I cannot always clasp your warm heart to my own.
You were surely sent to be my good angel, to teach me all that is
gentlest and best in my nature, and this holy love must last
evermore. I have always smiled at the idea of love, at first sight,
but when I first saw your face, Elma, none ever was so welcome; yet
if you had not proved all that your face and manner promised, I
should not have fallen in love. I half-believe matches are made in
Heaven--ours will be Heaven-made, if any are. You think human beings
are made for each other, as the saying is, do you not?"

"Yes!" returned Elma, smiling, "I hope we are made to be partners
in this world, and a better one, but how can I know it? When my
happy womanhood first dawned, I had wild, sweet dreams that here on
earth I and many others would surely meet the true half that
belonged to us--one with whom every thought would find a response. I
have met many whose views are like mine, and yet whose natures are
so different that we could not see each other's souls; perhaps if
they had loved me, I could have seen more clearly--but my rebellious
heart went forth to meet you, although I tried so long to turn
away--although I trembled to think the religion of our natures was
so unlike."

"I once thought, love, that I should never win you--it was your pale
lips and the mournful intensity of your look, when we met after a
long absence, that gave me new hope; and I have often wondered,
Elma, why you gave so unhesitating an assent, when you had for
months at a time avoided me at every opportunity."

"It was because my views had changed in a manner--although still
believing in the fitness of two out of the whole universe for each
other, I began to think that on earth these very two might each have
a mission to others, and others to them, which would more fully call
out their characters, and perhaps develop the dark traits necessary
to be conquered--so that perfect harmony might be evolved from
chaos. It once seemed to me, with the views I held, that it would be
a sin for me to unite my destiny with one who did not sympathize
with me on all points. But the sad fate of Augusta Atwood made me
reflect deeply. She was my bosom friend, and never did mortal go to
the altar with brighter hopes--never did human being love more
unreservedly. She whispered to me as I arranged her hair on the
morning of her bridal:--'This seems to me like the beginning of my
heavenly life--there is not a height or depth of my soul that
Charles's nature does not respond to--I know that we two are truly
one." And so it seemed for two happy years--his character took every
one by surprise, perhaps himself, and now Augusta is a miserably
neglected wife, toiling on like an angel to reap good from her
desolated earth-life. Yet we see that her mighty love was not a true
interpreter. No doubt her lover was sincere at the time in believing
that they not only felt, but thought alike. I have known many
instances, very many, where two, perhaps equally good and true, have
thought themselves fitted for each other and none else; yet on the
death of one, they have found a companion who was still more
especially made for them. Thus we see that this is a matter where
there appears to be little certainty and many mistakes. Doubtless,
there are some few blessed ones who truly find their better--half;
but in this sinful, imperfect state of life, we cannot believe that
we are in an order sufficiently harmonious to have this a sure
thing. Perhaps one-third of the women in the world never even loved
half as well as they felt themselves capable of loving, simply
because no object presented himself who could call forth all the
music of a high and noble nature.

  "So many a soul o'er life's drear desert faring,
  Love's pure congenial spring unfound, unquaffed,
  Suffers, recoils, then thirsty and despairing
  Of what it would, descends and sips the nearest draught."

But, Elma, my child, it is not pleasant to me that you should have a
single doubt that we are not dearer to each other than any other
mortals could ever be in this world, or the beautiful one you love
to dream of."

"I am telling you, Horace, the thoughts that have been in my mind--I
only feel now that you are good and gifted, and I love you more than
I ever dreamed of loving."

"And you, sweet, are the breath of my life. It is heavenly to know
that God has given you, and you alone, to be the angel ministrant of
my oft tempestuous life: you have risen like a star over my cloudy
horizon--may the light of the gentle star shine on my path, until it
leads me unto the perfect day!"

"Only the light of the Sun of Righteousness can do that," returned
Elma; then, with a tear glistening on her lash, she added, "I hope
God will help me to be good and pure, that I may be a medium of
good, and not evil to you."

Most blessedly passed the days to that hopeful maiden; it was a
treasure full of all promise to have, not only the happiness of her
lover, but as she trusted, his best good committed to her charge,
next to God. When she knelt in the morning hour, her prayer was ever
a thanksgiving--she lifted up the gates of her soul that the King of
Glory might come in, and His radiant presence permeated her whole
being--she left to Him the control of her life, all the strange
mysteries of heavenly policy, which she felt and knew would ultimate
in perfecting her too worldly nature; and she went forth,
angel-attended, to her duties, fusing into them this effluent life
that dwelt so richly within her. Every word of kindness and love
that dropped from her soft, coral lips, bore with it a portion of
the smiling life that overflowed her spirit. When she arose, her
constant thought was, "Another day is coming, in which the work of
progress may go on: I may perhaps this day conquer some evil, or do
some humble good, that will fit me to be a still better angel to
Horace, and which shall beautify my mansion in the Heavens."

At length the bridal day came, and fled also like other days, save
that a sweeter brightness enwrapped the soul of Elma; so six months
or more flitted away in delicious dream-life, for outward things
made comparatively slight impression; Elma lived and loved more than
she thought. But one morning reflection and pain came together; the
latter led in the former, a long-forgotten friend, and the young
wife asked herself how far she had travelled onward and upward since
the bridal days, since her path had been all sunshine;--she bowed
her head and wept bitterly. "Not for me, at least," she sighed, "is
constant happiness a friend,--not yet am I fitted to enjoy the
highest harmony of life. 'Therefore, burn, thou holy pain, thou
purifying fire!' It is meet I should be wounded where my deepest
joys are lodged. I see that it is the lash of pain which must drive
me through the golden gates. Yes! I will arise, and thank my Father
that He has not been as unmindful of my eternal well-being as I
would be myself, if left to wander only among flowers of love and
gladness."

And what was this grief that awoke the bride from her blissful
dream? It would seem the merest nothing to the strong man of the
world, to the gay woman who glides, superficially through existence.
But many a young bride will understand how it might be more
sorrowful than the loss of houses and lands. It was the husband's
first frown, his first petulant word; it was the key that opened
Elma's understanding to the true estate of the past. She could no
longer blind her eyes, as she had done, to a certain worldliness in
her husband, and which had also reached her through him. This
morning, that revealed so much, Horace had impatiently exclaimed as
Elma held forth her Bible to him, as usual,--

"I have not time for that now, child!" and hastily kissing her, he
put on his hat, and went forth to his business.

A pale anguish settled on Elma's face as she sunk upon a chair.
