knew mamma was just gone out and there was no fear of
interruption. Papa read the letter, and read it, and looked up
at me.

"Do you know what this is, Daisy?"

"Papa, I guess. I know what it was meant to be."

"It is a cool demand of you," said papa.

I was glad, and proud; that was what it ought to be; that was
what I knew it suited papa that it should be. I stood by the
mantelpiece, waiting.

"So you knew about it?"

"Mr. Thorold said he would write to you, papa. I had been
afraid, and asked him not. I wanted him to wait till he could
see you."

"One sees a good deal of a man in his letters," said papa;
"and this is a man's letter. He thinks enough of himself,
Daisy."

"Papa, - not too much."

"I did not say too much; but enough; and a man who does not
think enough of himself is a poor creature. I would not have a
man ask me for you, Daisy, who did not in his heart think he
was worthy of you."

"Papa, you draw nice distinctions," I said half laughing.

"That would be simple presumption, not modesty; this is
manliness."

We were both silent upon this; papa considering the letter, or
its proposal; I thinking of Mr. Thorold's manliness, and
feeling very much pleased that he had shown it and papa had
discerned it so readily. The silence lasted till I began to be
curious.

"What shall we do now, Daisy?" papa said at last. I left him
to answer his own question.

"Hey? What do you wish me to do?"

"Papa, - I hope you will give him a kind answer."

"How can I get it to him?"

"I can enclose it to an aunt of his, whom I know. She can get
it to him. She lives in New York."

"His aunt? So you know his family?

"No one of them, papa, but this one; his mother's sister."

"What sort of a person is she?"

So I sat down and told papa about Miss Cardigan. He listened
with a very grave, thoughtful face; asking few questions, but
kissing me. And then, without more ado, he turned to the table
and wrote a letter, writing very fast, and handed it to me. It
was all I could have asked that it might be. My heart filled
with grateful rest.

"Will that do?" said papa as I gave it back.

"Papa, only one thing more, - if you are willing, that we
should sometimes write to each other?"

"Hm - that sounds moderate," said papa. "By the way, why was
not this letter written and sent sooner? What is the date? -
why, Daisy! -"

"What, papa?"

"My child, this letter, - it is a good year old, and more;
written in the beginning of last winter."

It took me a little while to get the full bearings of this;
then I saw that it dated back to a time quite anterior to the
circumstances of Faustina St. Clair's story, whatever that
amounted to. Papa was all thrown back.

"This is good for nothing, now, you see, Daisy."

"Oh, no, papa."

"For the purposes of action."

"Papa, it does not matter, the date."

"Yes, Daisy, it does; for it speaks of a man of last year, and
my answer would go to a man of this year."

"They are not different men, papa."

"I must be assured of that." He was folding up his letter, his
own, and I saw the next thing would be to throw it into the
fire. I laid my hand over his.

"Papa, don't do that. Let me have it."

"I cannot send it."

"Papa, let me have it. I will send it to Miss Cardigan - she
loves me almost as well as you do - I will tell her; and if
there is any truth in mamma's story, Miss Cardigan will know
and she will burn the letter, just as well as you. And so you
would escape doing a great wrong."

"You may be mistaken, my child."

"Then Miss Cardigan will burn the letter, papa. I can trust
her."

"Can I trust her?"

"Yes, papa, through me. Please let me have it. There shall
come no harm from this, papa."

"Daisy, your mother says he is engaged to this girl."

"It is a mistake, papa."

"You cannot prove it, my child."

"Time will."

"Then will be soon enough for my action."

"But papa, in the mean time? - think of the months he has been
waiting already for an answer -"

I suppose the tears were in my eyes, as I pleaded, with my
hand still upon papa's hand, covering the papers. He slowly
drew his hand away, leaving the letter under mine.

"Well!" - said he, - "do as you will."

"You are not unwilling, papa?"

"I am a little unwilling, Daisy; but I cannot deny you, child.
I hope you are right."

"Then, papa, add that one word about letters, will you?"

"And if it is all undeserved?"

"It is not, papa."

Papa set his teeth for a moment, with a look which, however,
wonted perhaps in his youthful days, I had very rarely seen
called up in him. It passed then, and he wrote the brief word
I had asked for, of addition to his letter, and gave it to me;
and then took me in his arms and kissed me again.

"You are not very wise in the world, my Daisy," he said; "and
men would say I am not. But I cannot deny you. Guard your
letter to Miss Cardigan. And for the present all this matter
shall sleep in our own bosoms."

"Papa," I asked, "how much did mamma know - I mean - how much
did she hear about me that was true?"

"It was reported that you had been engaged."

"She heard that."

"Yes."

"She has never spoken about it."

"She thinks it not necessary."

I was silent a moment, pondering, as well I might; but then I
kissed papa and thanked him, and went off and wrote and posted
my letter with its enclosure. Sufficient to the day is the
evil thereof.

CHAPTER XIX.

ONE FALLEN


I sent my letter, and waited. I got no answer. The weeks
rolled on, and the months. It was palpable, that delays which
had kept back one letter for a year might affect the delivery
of another letter in the same way; but it is hard, the
straining one's eyes into thick darkness with the vain
endeavour to see something.

The months were outwardly gay; very full of society life,
though not of the kind that I cared for. I went into it to
please mamma; and succeeded but partially; for she insisted I
was too sober and did not half take the French tone of easy,
light, graceful skimming over the surface of things. But mamma
could be deep and earnest too on her own subjects of interest.
The news of President Lincoln's proclamation, setting free the
slaves of the rebel States, roused her as much as she could be
roused. There were no terms to her speech or my aunt Gary's;
violent and angry against not only the President, but
everything and everybody that shared Northern growth and
extraction. - How bitterly they sneered at "Massachusetts
codfish;" - I think nothing would have induced either of them
to touch it; and whatsoever belonged to the East or the North,
not only meats and drinks, but Yankee spirit and manners and
courage, were all, figuratively, put under foot and well
trampled on. I listened and trembled, sometimes; sometimes I
listened and rejoiced. For, after all, my own affairs were not
the whole world; and a thrill of inexpressible joy went
through me when I remembered that my old Maria, and Pete, and
the Jems, and Darry, were all, by law, freed for ever from the
oppression of Mr. Edwards and any like him; and that the day
of their actual emancipation would come, so soon as the rights
of the Government should be established over the South. And of
this issue I began to be a little hopeful, beginning to
believe that it might be possible. Antietam and Corinth, and
Fredricksburg and New Orleans, with varying fortune, had at
least proclaimed to my ear that Yankees could fight; there was
no doubt of that now; and Southern prowess could not always
prevail against theirs. Papa ceased to question it, I noticed;
though mamma's sneers grew more intense as the occasion for
them grew less and less obvious.

The winter passed, and the spring came; and moved on with its
sweet step of peace, as it does even when men's hearts are all
at war. The echo of the battlefields of Virginias wept through
the Boulevards with met often; and it thundered at home. Mamma
had burst into new triumph at the news of Chancellorsville;
and uttered with great earnestness her wish that Jefferson
Davis might be able to execute the threat of his proclamation
and hang General Butler. But for me, I got no letter; and
these echoes began to sound in my ear like the distant outside
rumblings of the storm to one whose hearthstone it has already
swept and laid desolate. I was not desolate; yet I began to
listen as one whose ears were dim with listening. I met
Faustina St. Clair again with uneasiness. Not the torment of
my former jealousy; but a stir of doubt and pain which I could
not repress at the sight of her.

When the summer drew on, to my great pleasure we went to
Switzerland again. We established ourselves quietly at
Lucerne, which papa was very fond of. There we were much more
quiet than we had been the fall before; Ransom having gone
home now to take his share in the struggle, and our two
Southern friends who had also gone, having no successors like
them in our little home circle. We made not so many and not so
long excursions. But papa and I had good time for our
readings; and I had always a friend with whom I could take
counsel, in the grand old Mont Pilatte. What a friend that
mountain was to me, to be sure! When I was downhearted, and
when anything made me glad; when I was weary and when I was
most full of life; its grand head in the skies told me of
truth and righteousness and strength; the light and colours
that played and rested there, as it held, the sun's beams and
gave them back to earth, were a sort of promise to me of
beauty and life above and beyond this earth; yes, and of its
substantial existence now, even when we do not see it. They
were a little hint of what we do not see. I do not exactly
know what was the language of the wreaths of vapour that robed
and shrouded and then revealed the mountain, with the
exquisite shiftings and changings of their gracefulness; I
believe it was like, to me, the floating veil that hides God's
purposes from us, yet now and then parting enough to let us
see the eternal truth and unchangeableness behind it. I told
all my moods to Mont Pilatte, and I think it told all its
moods to me. After a human friend, there is nothing like a big
mountain. And when the news of Gettysburg and Vicksburg came;
and mamma grew furious; and I saw for the first time that
success was truly looming up on the horizon of the North, and
that my dear coloured people might indeed soon be free; that
night Mont Pilatte and I shouted together.

There came no particular light on my own affairs all this
time. Indeed mamma began to reproach me for what she called my
disloyal and treacherous sentiments. And then, hints began to
break out, very hard to bear, that I had indulged in
traitorous alliances and was an unworthy child of my house. It
rankled in mamma's mind, that I had not only refused the
connection with one of the two powerful Southern families
which had sought me the preceding year; but that I had also
discouraged and repelled during the past winter several
addresses which might have been made very profitable to my
country as well as my own interests. For what had I rejected
them all? mamma began to ask discontentedly. Papa shielded me
a little; but I felt that the sky was growing dark around me
with the coming storm.

One never knows, after all, where the first bolt will come
from. Mine struck me all unawares, while I was looking in an
opposite quarter. It is hard to write it. A day came, that I
had a father in the morning, and at night, none.

It was very sudden. He had been feeble, to be sure, more than
usual, for several days, but nobody apprehended anything.
Towards evening he failed - suddenly; sent for me, and died in
my arms, blessing me. Yes, we had been walking the same road
together for some time. I was only left to go on awhile longer
alone.

But Mont Pilatte said to me that night, "There remaineth a
rest for the people of God." And while the moon went down and
the stars slowly trooped over the head of the mountain, I
heard that utterance, and those words of the hymn -

"God liveth ever:
"Wherefore, soul, despair thou never."

I could go no farther. I could think no more. Kneeling at my
window-sill, under the starry night, my soul held to those two
things and did not loose its moorings. It is a great deal, to
hold fast. It was all then I could do. And even in the
remembrance now of the loneliness and desolate feeling that
came upon me at that time, there is also a strong sense of the
deep sweetness which I was conscious of, rather than able to
taste, coming from those words and resting at the bottom of my
heart.

I was in some measure drawn out of myself, almost immediately,
by the illness of my mother. She fell into a nervous
disordered condition, which it taxed all my powers to tend and
soothe. I think it was mental rather than bodily, in the
origin of it; but body and mind shared in the result, as
usual. And when she got better and was able to sit up and even
to go about again, she remained under the utmost despondency.
Affairs were not looking well for the Southern struggle in
America; and besides the mortification of her political
affections, mamma was very sure that if the South could not
succeed in establishing its independence, we should as a
family be ruined.

"We are ruined now, Daisy," she said. "There can be nothing
coming from our Magnolia estates - and our Virginia property
is a mere battle ground, you know; and what have we to live
upon?"

"Mamma, there will be some way," I said. "I have not thought
about it."

"No, you do not think but of your own favourite speculations.
I wish with all my heart you had never taken to fanatical
ways. I have no comfort in you."

"What do you mean by fanaticism, mamma?"

"I will tell you!" replied mamma with energy. "The essence of
fanaticism is to have your own way."

"I do not think, mamma, that I want to have my own way."

"Of course, when you have it. That is what such people always
say. They don't want to have their own, way. I do not want to
have mine, either."

"Is not Dr. Sandford attending to our affairs for us, mamma?"

"I do not know. Your father trusted him, unaccountably. I do
not know what he is doing."

"He will certainly do anything that can be done for us, mamma;
I am persuaded of that. And he knows how."

"Is it for your sake, Daisy?" mamma said suddenly, and with a
glitter in her eye which boded confusion to the doctor.

"I do not know, mamma," I said quietly. "He was always very
good and very kind to me."

"I suppose you are not quite a fool," she said, calming down a
little. "And a Yankee doctor would hardly lose his senses
enough to fall in love with you. Though I believe the Yankees
are the most impudent nation upon the earth. I wish Butler
could be hanged! I should like to know that was done before I
die."

I fled from this turn of the talk always.

It was true, however brought about I do not know, that Dr.
Sandford had been for some time kindly bestirring himself to
look after our interests at home, which the distressed state
of the country had of course greatly imperilled. I was not
aware that papa had been at any time seriously concerned about
them; however, it soon appeared that mamma had reason enough
now for being ill at ease. In the South, war and war
preparations had so far superseded the usual employments of
men, that next to nothing could be looked for in place of the
ordinary large crops and ample revenues. And Melbourne had
been let, indeed, for a good rent; but there was some trouble
about collecting the rent; and if collected, it belonged to
Ransom. Ransom was in the Southern army, fighting no doubt his
best, and mamma would not have scrupled to use his money; but
Dr. Sandford scrupled to send it without authority. He urged
mamma to come home, where he said she could be better taken
care of than alone in distant Switzerland. He proposed that
she should reoccupy Melbourne, and let him farm the ground for
her until Ransom should be able to look after it. Mamma and
Aunt Gary had many talks on the subject. I said as little as I
