
The men were prepared to repel an assault with the bayonets; but no
attack was made, for the Indians fled with the utmost precipitation
from the deadly spot. The soldiers promptly reloaded their muskets, and
the cannon was ready for another discharge.

"You can go now, Phil," said Lieutenant Jackson. "The battle is fought
for the present. They will not renew it."

"Where do you suppose the rest of the soldiers are--those who went up
the river yesterday?"

"Probably they have been holding back, so as not to alarm the enemy.
The noise of that twelve-pounder will inform them that the work has
commenced. Now, Phil, is it possible for these Indians to escape by any
other route than this by this river?"

"Not with their horses. They can cross over to the brook, and follow
that, which will lead them to their village, eight miles from here."

"Very well; I think we shall be able to capture a good portion of them
as soon as the other force closes upon them."

"I will go over to the island now, though I should like to stay and see
how the thing is coming out."

"Of course there can be no doubt of the result. I think we have already
convinced them that it is not safe to shoot down white men."

I glanced at the ground in front of the works, where many of the
savages were still writhing in the agony of their wounds. It was a
sickening sight, and I turned away from it. The soldiers were standing
up, and gazing at the bloody field. I walked down the road towards the
place where I had left the horses.

"Hyer, boy!" shouted a voice on the other side of the river, which I at
once recognized as that of Kit Cruncher, though I could not understand
how he happened to be here.

"Hallo, Kit! Is that you?" I responded.

"'Tain't nobody else. Hev you nary a boat over thar?"

"I have not."

"Who's that, Phil?" asked Mr. Jackson, calling to me from the fort.

"Kit Cruncher; the man who guided the other force."

"Tell the leftenant I want to speak to him, boy. I hev a message from
t'other officer."

I went back to the fort, and delivered the message of Kit. The soldiers
had some rubber army boats, which they carried with them to use in
crossing streams. A couple of men were sent to prepare one of them,
which was launched, and I paddled it across the river.

"I heerd the firin', boy, and the battle has begun," said Kit, as he
seated himself in the bottom of the boat.

"We fired only one volley at them, and that was all they would stop to
receive."

"You hev a big gun here."

"Yes, Mr. Gracewood's twelve-pounder. It knocks down everything before
it."

"I see it does. I was on t'other side of the Fish when the job was
done, and I see it all. I did my part, too; for I shot one Indian I
know."

"But where is the other party of soldiers?" I asked.

"They ain't more'n three miles from here; and I cal'late, when they
heerd that big gun, they begun to hurry up."

We landed, and I conducted Kit to Mr. Jackson, to whom the hunter
delivered a written order.




CHAPTER XXI.

IN WHICH PHIL SEES THE CONCLUSION OF THE WAR.


"We expected this fight earlier in the day," said Lieutenant Jackson,
as Kit and I appeared before him.

"The Injuns stopped to fish on the way, and to feed their stock,"
replied Kit, as he delivered the order of Lieutenant Pope. "The cap'n
sent me down to see if everything was all right on this side."

"And he orders me to send part of my force up the brook on our right."

"That's Kit's Brook," I added.

"I shall want a guide, then."

"I'm your man," interposed Kit. "And now's the right time to start, for
the fight will begin on t'other side in a few minutes."

A sergeant and ten men were detailed to move up Kit's Brook, in order
to prevent the Indians from escaping in that direction. Kit led the
party towards the stream, but they had hardly disappeared in the forest
before we heard the rattle of musketry in front of us. Lieutenant
Pope's force had come up with the Indians, and had attacked them. We
listened to the warlike sounds which came to us, and that was all we
could do. I was too much excited to leave the scene of conflict until
the battle had been decided.

The din of the strife gradually became more distinct as the combatants
approached, the Indians being driven before the soldiers. By this time
the sergeant and his party, who had gone up the brook with Kit, were
taking the enemy on the flank. Presently we saw a few of the Indians
rushing wildly through the woods, and occasionally a riderless horse
came into view. We realized that the savages had been routed,
scattered, and dispersed. We saw them swimming across the river, and
skulking into the woods. Lieutenant Jackson ordered his men to form in
front of the breastwork, for by this time the firing had ceased.
Leading them forward, they captured a few prisoners, who were sent to
the rear. As the two columns approached each other, the retreat of
about twenty of the savages was cut off, and they were surrounded. It
appeared that nearly fifty prisoners had been taken by both parties,
and not less than twenty horses, while as many more were running loose
in the forest.

"How are you, Jackson?" said Lieutenant Pope, as the two officers met.

"Very well, thank you. How is it with you?"

"I am all right. We have done our work thoroughly."

"We have, indeed."

"After it became nothing but butchery, I ordered my men to cease
firing," added Lieutenant Pope. "The enemy were badly cut up when we
came upon them. Didn't I hear a heavy gun here?"

"Yes, we have a twelve-pounder on our battery. We fired it but once,
loaded with canister;" and Mr. Jackson proceeded to explain how he had
obtained the gun.

"What shall we do with these prisoners?" continued Lieutenant Pope.
"They will be a nuisance to us, and I don't wish to feed them a great
while."

"We had better take them down to the clearing."

"There is feed enough for the horses down on Bear River," said I.

"We will send them down there," added Lieutenant Pope. "I have no idea
that these Indians will assemble again."

"No: they are completely scattered, and they will make their way back
to their village."

"But they may cause some trouble."

"Very true; and, Phil, you must hurry to the island. If you have boats
enough, you may take half a dozen men."

"We have three boats," I replied.

I went for my team, and Lieutenant Pope ordered the men who had come
with him to remain at the breastwork, while those under Mr. Jackson
conducted the prisoners and the horses to the clearing. The senior
officer rode down with me, and on the way I told him all that had
occurred since I left him the night before. He informed me that his
force had followed the band of Indians, three or four miles in their
rear, till they heard the firing in front, when they had pressed
forward with all speed, and intercepted the enemy, as they retreated,
not more than a mile from the breastwork.

"I don't think you will have any more trouble with the Indians," said
he, in conclusion. "They have been severely punished for the murder
they committed. If I can find the man who shot your father, I shall
make an example of him."

"I think he was the first Indian that fell," I replied. "Kit Cruncher
dropped a redskin as soon as Matt Rockwood was hit. I don't think they
will need any more punishing."

"I hope not."

When we reached the Castle, we found that two of the guard had gone
over to the island to protect Mr. Gracewood's property. Dinner was
ready, and as we were now in no haste, we sat down with the reunited
family. Ella was up, and had been improving rapidly. The news of the
total defeat of the Indians seemed to quiet her fears in regard to the
future.

"She does not wish to go upon Paradise Island again," said her father.

"She need not go there," I added; "though your house is much better
than the Castle."

"I have been thinking the matter over for some time, Phil. I have
concluded that we had better move my house over to the clearing, if you
will let us locate on your land."

"On my land?"

"I believe in squatter sovereignty, Phil Farringford, and I regard this
as your farm. The house is put up with screws, and can be readily taken
down."

"What will you do with your piano, sir?" I inquired.

"I must get some passing steamer to transport that. The box in which it
was brought up from St. Louis is still on the island."

"Our men shall assist you in moving the house," said Lieutenant Pope.

"It can be done in a couple of days, with force enough," added Mr.
Gracewood.

"We will go to work upon it to-morrow."

After dinner, Morgan and I went over to the island, where we found the
two soldiers domiciled in the house. The wounded Indian was there with
them. He had crawled into the front room before their arrival, and I
was pleased to learn that they had fed him, and done what they could
for his wounds. They had put a big plaster on his nose, and bound up
the back of his head. An assistant surgeon belonged to the detachment,
but he was attending the wounded soldiers and Indians above the
breastwork. None of the troops had been killed; one was severely and
two slightly wounded.

Probably the presence of the two soldiers on the island had prevented
the Indians from returning. Leaving Morgan at the house, I returned to
the clearing. On my arrival I found that Lieutenant Pope, after serving
out rations to his prisoners, which they had greedily devoured, had
assembled them in the field, for the purpose of having a "big talk"
with them. Two or three of them spoke English enough to act as
interpreters.

"Why have you done this?" asked Mr. Pope. "Why did you come down here,
steal the horses, and then murder the owner of them?"

The spokesman charged us with stealing the Indian horses and killing
one of their chiefs.

"How's that, Phil?" asked the officer.

"They stole our horses, and when we found them, we took two other
horses belonging to the thieves," I replied. "But we returned them when
they came for them, the next day. They demanded more horses, besides
corn, meat, and whiskey, which we refused to give them, and they
threatened us. Then about a dozen Indians came on horseback; but we had
taken up the bridge, so that they could not cross over the brook. When
old Matt came down, they shot him dead, without a word of talk. Then
Kit Cruncher fired, and brought down the foremost Indian. The rest of
them ran away. We defended ourselves in the block-house, and they did
not dare to come near us, for Kit was sure of his man every time he
fired. Then some more of them came down to the island, and when we
drove them away from the house, they carried off Miss Ella. That's the
whole story. Mr. Gracewood was here all the time, and he will tell you
the same thing."

Lieutenant Pope repeated my statement to the Indians, and insisted that
it was the whole truth.

"These people have been your friends," said he. "They have often given
you meat and corn when you were hungry, and have lived in peace with
you for many years. Our great father the president will not permit his
children in the forest to be murdered. If you kill one white man, or
steal his property, you shall be punished as you have been to-day. We
bought your lands in fair bargain, and we give you every year money,
blankets, food, and all you need. If the white man wrongs you, he shall
be punished."

"No!" exclaimed the Indian, whose experience, perhaps, did not verify
this statement.

"If you complain of him, and we can find him, he shall be punished,"
repeated the officer.

He proceeded to show that the Indians had been the aggressors in the
present difficulty; that they had murdered one of the settlers without
provocation. He enlarged upon the terrible consequences which would
follow if the Indians persisted in waging war upon the white man. If
the lieutenant had proved that he was powerful on the war-path, he also
demonstrated that he was equally potent in an argument, and the savages
were as completely overwhelmed by his logic as by his arms.

"Will you have peace or war?" demanded he, sternly.

"We make peace," replied the spokesman.

"Then bring your chiefs to me, and we will smoke the pipe of peace. We
wish you well, and will be friends if you are willing; if not, we will
go to your country, and destroy you with fire and sword. You may go;
take your horses, and all that belongs to you."

The savages seemed to be astonished at this unexpected decree. Their
spirit was broken by the heavy losses they had sustained. Their horses,
some of which were fine animals, were driven up, and a detachment of
the troops conducted them to the fort in the forest, where they were
sent on their way. Probably those who had escaped were already on their
way to the north. As it was no longer necessary to maintain the camp in
the forest, it was removed to the clearing. A portion of the breastwork
near the river was taken away to open the road, the dead Indians were
buried, and the war was practically ended. From what I had heard of
these Indians, I was confident that we should have no further trouble,
though Lieutenant Pope intended to visit the Indian village, and have a
talk with the chiefs before he returned to the fort.

The next morning our three boats conveyed twelve soldiers to the island
to commence the removal of Mr. Gracewood's house. The wounded Indian
was placed on a bed under a tree, and the soldiers commenced their
task. After they had gone to work with knives and screw-drivers to take
down the house, I returned to the clearing for Lieutenant Jackson, who
was to superintend the operation.




CHAPTER XXII.

IN WHICH PHIL UNDERTAKES A HEAVY JOB.


"How big is this house, Phil?" asked Lieutenant Jackson, as I rowed him
up to Paradise Island.

"It is thirty feet long and fifteen wide."

"I haven't heard anything said about the manner of transporting it,"
added the officer.

"We must raft it down. We have taken up all the ropes we have. Mr.
Gracewood told me how to handle the grand piano."

"The grand piano," laughed Mr. Jackson. "That's a pretty plaything to
have away back here in the woods."

"Mr. Gracewood sets his life by that piano. He used to smoke and play
upon it by the hour together. He is very fond of music."

"I should think he must be, to bring a grand piano out here. How heavy
is it?"

"It weighs about eight hundred pounds. Mr. Gracewood told me to have it
put in the box, and leave it here till some steamer can be hired to
bring it down."

"Tho rain and dampness will spoil it."

"He told me to wrap it up in the oil-cloth that belongs with it; but,
if you are willing, Lieutenant Jackson, we will astonish him by taking
it down with us."

"I think it would astonish me as much as him to see it done."

"We can do it."

"I hear that you are an engineer, Phil," added my passenger. "Morgan
says you engineered the job of transporting the gun."

"The grand piano is not more than two or three hundred pounds heavier
than the twelve-pounder."

"That is adding a third, and the gun was on wheels."

"No matter for that; we had but three to do that, and now we have a
dozen."

"How will you do it, Phil?"

I explained my plan, and Mr. Jackson thought it was practicable.

"I suppose Mr. Gracewood and his family intend to remain at the
clearing after we have moved the house," continued my companion in the
barge.

"I don't know. I don't believe his wife and daughter will be content to
stay a great while in this lonely place. They may live here during the
summer; but in winter we don't see anybody or anything for months."

"What do you do in winter?"

"I have been studying for several years."

"I thought you talked very well for a boy brought up in the woods."

"I don't have anything to do for six months in the year but take care
of the horses, and do the housework. I read and study about twelve
hours a day in winter. I took up Latin and French last season."

"Indeed! You will make a learned man if you keep on. Have you no desire
to see more of the world?"

"Sometimes I have. I don't think I shall stay here many years longer."

"I shouldn't think you would. Why do you study Latin and French?"

"Only because I like them. It is a very great pleasure to me to puzzle
