of the last time, and comparisons of herself now and herself then. The
evening fell by the time they reached Poughkeepsie; and shadowy visions
of Maria seemed to occupy all the place while the train stopped there.
Poor Maria! Matilda was glad to have the cars move on, since she could
get no nearer than visions. Then it grew dark; and she sat musing and
dreaming pleasant dreams, till the station of Shadywalk was whistled
for.

The old omnibus was in waiting, as usual, and it happened that no other
passenger occupied it to-night except their three selves and one cosy
old lady, who "didn't count," Norton said. It was dark; they could not
see the landscape.

"Briery Bank ought to be worth a good deal," said David, "when it takes
so long to reach it."

"So it is," said Norton.

"O it's lovely, David!" cried Matilda. "Not so much now, though, when
the leaves are not out."

"Are you going to the minister's to-night?"

"To be sure I am. Mr. Richmond would be very much surprised if I went
anywhere else."

"Well, when I get the beds uncovered, Pink, I'll come for you; and we
can see what we will do."

"You'll come with me to-night, Norton?"

"I'll let Davy see you there, while I make arrangements."

"What arrangements? O come now, Norton. Mr. Richmond will like to see
you."

"He can wait till to-morrow, I dare say," replied Norton. "Anyhow, I
can. You will be enough for to-night."

"What sort of a man is the one you are talking of?" David asked Norton.

"He's a brick," said Norton, and began to whistle; then interrupted
himself. "But he is Pink's friend, you understand, much more than mine."

"Some old tutor of yours?" said David smiling.

"Old! not exactly. Nor a tutor neither, that ever I heard; though he
does teach folks, or tries to. No, you're out, Davy. I tell you, he's a
brick."

"O we're going over the bridge now, Norton!" Matilda exclaimed. "We're
almost there. Look! I can see lights, can't I?"

There was no question about it in a few minutes more. Norton got out at
the Shadywalk hotel; and the omnibus lumbered on through Butternut
Street to the parsonage gate and drew up at last before the old brown
door. But it was too dark to see colours. Indeed David had some
difficulty in finding the knocker; and meanwhile the omnibus lumbered
off, while they were not attending. David knocked and knocked again.
Matilda was trembling with delight.

"There's nobody at home," said David. "It is all dark."

But at that instant a step was heard in the hall, and the door was
opened. A little light that came from within a door somewhere beyond
revealed nothing except the outline of a figure.

"Who is it?" said a voice. "My lamp's gone out; I guess it wants a new
wick. Who's here?"

"Don't you know me, Miss Redwood?" said Matilda's voice, quivering with
pleasure.

"Don't know anybody without I see 'em. I ain't called to guess who you
be, as I know. Come in, if you want to, and tell your errand. Is it me
or the minister you're after?"

"Miss Redwood, it's Matilda Laval. And I'm so glad to see you!" said
Matilda, waiving further recognition and throwing her arms round the
housekeeper's neck. "O I'm so glad to see you! Is Mr. Richmond at home?"

"Tilly Englefield!" exclaimed the housekeeper in her turn. "Wherever
did the child come from? Mr. Richmond?--no, he ain't to home yet, but
he will be directly. Come in, child, and take off your things. Who's
this other one?"

"My cousin David Bartholomew, Miss Redwood. O David, come in! Don't go,
till Mr. Richmond comes."

"Yes, come right in," said Miss Redwood heartily. "You're just in time
for tea; for the minister's been out as usual all the afternoon; he had
to ride to Suffield, and he ain't home yet. Come right in here."

She drew Matilda, and David followed, into the little dining room,
where the lamp shone and the tea table stood looking very hospitable.
David made some proposition of going back to the hotel and Norton; but
Matilda was very urgent that he should not, and Miss Redwood very
positive on the same subject; and to Matilda's surprise David made no
great opposition. He sat down quietly enough. Meanwhile the housekeeper
took off Matilda's wrappings and examined her with her eyes.

"La! it does look natural to see you!" she broke out. "But you ain't
so little as you was; and, my!--but I suppose it's New York."

"What's New York?" inquired Matilda laughing.

"Well, 'taint so easy to tell. I don't know myself. But it's all over
you, from the hair of your head down to the soles of your boots. You
ain't the same you was."

"Yes, I am, Miss Redwood; just the same!"

"La, child, you don't feel that you've growed, do you? Folks grow
in'ardly and out'ardly; and they change, too, in'ardly and out'ardly;
and it's other folks that see it, not them."

"But how do you think I'm changed, Miss Redwood? I am sure you're
mistaken."

The housekeeper gave another benevolent, keen look at her, smiling a
little, and then went off into her pantry without answering.

"It's all right I made gingerbread to-day," she said, coming out with a
beautiful loaf of that article. "Have you had any dinner? I'll be bound
you'd like some beef and eggs. Wait a bit, and you shall have it. Mr.
Richmond will be all ready for it too, after his ride. I reckon you
hain't much to do with handling of spiders now?" This with a sidelong
glance at Matilda.

"No, Miss Redwood; I haven't time for such things."

"How do ye expect to keep house one o' these days, if you don't know
how?"

"That's a great way off," said Matilda smiling.

"Just as it happens," said the housekeeper. "You're eleven or twelve
this summer; which is it? and you won't be any wiser in the kitchen
just by growing older in the parlour."

"I know some things now, Miss Redwood."

"La, child, knowledge ain't all; it's practice; and you ain't in the
way to practise much, I can see. That's the fashion now-a-days; young
heads filled full and clever, maybe; and hands as empty and useless as
ever hands kin be. Now I don't believe, for my part, that our hands was
given us to do nothin'."

"O no, nor I," said Matilda.

"Well, then, what be your hands learning? See if I'm wrong."

Matilda cast about how to answer, for in truth her hands had got no new
skill in the past months, although the old skill had come in play very
conveniently. While she hesitated, came the welcome sound of the
opening and closing front door. Mr. Richmond was returned. His steps
went however first upstairs, and then came down and went into the
study. Miss Redwood had disappeared and was getting her beef ready in
the kitchen. Matilda could wait no longer. Taking David's hand and
gently persuading him to allow of her leading, she went to the study
door and knocked.

Mr. Richmond had just made the fire blaze up; so they had light to see
each other by. David stood by and watched the greeting; it was very
glad and affectionate, he saw, on both sides, with a certain tender
confidence that impressed him. He was surprised also to see that Mr.
Richmond was so young a man and so handsome a man; and when the
brilliant eyes were turned on himself he was quite susceptible to their
fascination. Matilda lost no time.

"David Bartholomew, Mr. Richmond; one of my new cousins, you know. And
Mr. Richmond,--David knows about the Messiah in the Old Testament, and
he wants to know if the Messiah is Jesus; and so I wanted him to see
you, because you could tell him; and so I got him to come with me."

If David's shyness was at all disturbed by this speech, it was entirely
soothed again by Mr. Richmond's reception of it, and of him. The
genial, frank clasp of his hand, the kindly, free glance of the blue
eyes, quite won David, as it was apt to win everybody; and in a minute
more he found himself sitting at his ease in this strange house,
perfectly contented to be then, and interested to watch Matilda's
intercourse with her old friend and her pleasure in it. There was time
for but little, however, before Miss Redwood's activity had got the
"beef and eggs" and all the rest of the tea-table in a state of
readiness, and her call summoned them into the other room. David made a
little demur about staying, instantly overruled both by Mr. Richmond
and Matilda, and he sat down with the rest. And if he said little, the
other three tongues were busy enough.

"And how do you like New York?" inquired the housekeeper. Matilda's
answer was very unqualified.

"'Tain't no better a place than this, is it?" the lady asked rather
defiantly.

"It is a larger place, Miss Redwood," said the minister.

"Ain't Shadywalk big enough for a little mite of a thing like her?"

"I don't know," said the minister. "'Big enough' depends upon what she
wants, or what anybody wants. I knew a man once who said he had seen
everything in the world there was to be seen, and he was quite at a
loss what to do with himself. You perceive the world was not 'big
enough' for him. And another man once wrote, 'My mind to me a kingdom
is.' Difference of taste, you see."

"That first fellow thought his head was only made to set his eyes in, I
s'pose," said the housekeeper dryly.

"Seemed to be all the use he had for it," said the minister.

"But that other man," said Matilda,--"was he contented with himself all
alone, and wanted nothing else?"

"I hope not," said Mr. Richmond smiling. "That's a new view of the
case. Your king David hit the truth more surely," he went on addressing
David, "when he said, 'The Lord is the portion of my inheritance.'"

David's eye brightened; but then he said,

"I have read the words, but I never understood exactly what he meant."

"Your people, you remember, on taking possession of the promised land,
had it divided to them by lot; each tribe and family took its share as
it was portioned out to them by Joshua."

"Yes, I know," David answered.

"So from that time each family had its own inalienable lands, which
were the inheritance of that family; its portion and riches; for the
Hebrews were not in those days a commercial people."

David assented, looking a little surprised.

"What should a man mean, who declared, disregarding all this, that his
portion and inheritance was the Lord himself?"

The boy's keen, intelligent eyes looked deep into the intent blue ones
regarding him.

"Sir, I do not know," he said at length. "Was it, that he expected the
Highest would give him greater possessions?"

"Notice, he says not his inheritance is from the Lord, but is the
Lord himself."

"I don't understand it," said David.

"In another place, when he was nearly done with earthly possessions, he
says again, 'My flesh and my heart faileth; but God is the strength of
my heart and my portion for ever.' It is an inheritance that exists
beyond time, you see."

"I don't understand it, sir," David repeated.

"And in that sixteenth psalm he goes on to declare his content in his
portion, in that it is not of earth. 'The lines are fallen unto me in
pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.' There is a word in the
New Testament that explains it," Mr. Richmond went on, looking keenly
at David; "a word of one who was in the same case; and he says of the
children of God, 'And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint
heirs with Messiah.'"

David started and shivered, as if a nerve had suddenly been touched;
but Mr. Richmond went on to something else, as if he had not observed
it. All through supper time he was so gentle, pleasant, and spirited
too in his talk, that the boy who was unaccustomed to such society felt
the charm holding him; and Matilda who had not known it for long, felt
like a flower opening to the sunshine.




CHAPTER X.


After tea Mr. Richmond led the way back to his study. The first thing
he did there was to make the fire blaze up merrily; and then, just as
David was thinking how to take leave, the blue eyes came full round
upon him, with a look as bright as the fire shine.

"And so," he said, "you are seeking after your Messiah?"

David seemed tongue-tied; he said nothing; he bowed slightly.

"How far have you got?"

"Far enough to be confused, sir."

"Ay? How is that?"

"I feel myself too ignorant yet to be able to judge. Our wise men are
saying--I heard them saying--that if Messiah come not soon, he must
have come." David's colour changed even as he spoke.

"Do you know anything of the New Testament, the record of the life and
teaching, and death and resurrection, of Jesus?"

"Very little," David answered. "Matilda has shewn me passages in those
writings--which have struck me very much," he added, as if with
difficulty.

"I should think they would. Well, when a thing is to be done, the best
way is to do it. Suppose you take the book in your hands now, and let
me direct your attention to one or two things more."

David was very ready. He took the book Mr. Richmond placed in his hands
and drew near to the table, while Matilda on her part seized another
Bible and did likewise. Mr. Richmond had been lighting the lamp. Before
he had finished his preparations, David began.

"But that story of the resurrection is a very unlikely one."

"Do you think so? The same might be said of the crossing of the Red Sea
by your fathers."

"That is well enough attested by witnesses," said David, proudly
raising his head.

"So is this. If a thing can be made sure by the testimony of credible
witnesses, this has been; witnesses who were ready to go to the death
in support of their words, and who did so die, many of them."

"But," said David, "our Messiah was to be the King of our people; and
your Christ belongs to the Gentiles."

"Thank God he does!" said Mr. Richmond smiling. "But now let us see if
you are correct in that first statement."

"He was to be a King on David's throne," interrupted the boy.

"He is. Wait. Do you remember, in the promise to Abraham it was said
that all the families of the earth should be blessed in him?"

"Yes."

"And Isaiah declares, 'In that day there shall be a root of Jesse,
which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the
Gentiles seek.'"

"Yes, but they will come to Messiah; not the Messiah go to them," said
David, lifting his head with the same air again.

Mr. Richmond answered in words of Isaiah. "'Behold my servant, whom I
uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my Spirit
upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles.' And again in
the forty-ninth chapter--and Master Bartholomew, you know that these
words were spoken of Messiah--'And now, saith the Lord that formed me
from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him. Though
Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the
Lord, and my God shall be my strength. And he said, It is a light thing
that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and
to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give thee for a light
to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the
earth.'"

Matilda looked eagerly at David as these words were finished; the boy's
face was troubled and dark. He made no answer.

"Now let us see how those words were to be fulfilled," Mr. Richmond
went on. "It is a hard reading for you; but we are seeking the truth,
and you are seeking it. The apostle John, one of the servants and
witnesses of Christ, says, 'He came unto his own, and his own received
him not.'"

David looked up with a white face. "If that is true"--he said. "I just
want to know whether that is true!"

"You know Isaiah said it would be true. 'Who has believed our report?'
'He is despised and rejected of men;... we hid as it were our faces
from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.'"

"Some of the rabbis held that there were two Messiahs," David said.

"Because they knew not how to understand of one the various seemingly
contradictory things, which were and are all fulfilled in Jesus."

"Of Nazareth," said David.

"Yes, he lived there; but he was born in the city of David. Come, you
do not know him, and it is needful you should. Let us read this first
chapter of John all through."

They read slowly, with many interruptions. David had explanations to
ask, and then there were prophecies to consult. The boy's eagerness and
excitement infected his companions; the reading began to take on a sort
of life and death interest, though Mr. Richmond kept it calm, with some
difficulty.

His next proposition was, that they should go through the life of
Christ regularly; and they began with the first chapters of Luke.
Nothing that Matilda had ever known in her life was like the interest
of that reading. David was startled, curious, excited, as if he were
beginning to find the clue to a mystery; though he did not admit that.
On the contrary, he studied every step, would understand every
allusion, and verify every reference to the Old Testament scriptures.
The boy's cheeks were flushed now, like one in a fever. The hours flew.

"My boy," said Mr. Richmond, laying his hand on David's open book, "we
cannot finish what we want to do this evening."
