being tall and handsome, and hers. But she kept thinking as they walked,
"I hope he'll never he sorry," and she said it again, half in jest. He
pressed her hand against his heart, and met her look with one of protest
and reassurance, that presently melted into something sweeter yet. He
said, "What beautiful eyes you have! I noticed the long lashes when I
saw you on the Saguenay boat, and I couldn't get away from them."

"O please, don't speak of that dreadful time!" cried Kitty.

"No? Why not?"

"O because! I think it was such a bold kind of accident my taking your
arm by mistake; and the whole next day has always been a perfect horror
to me."

He looked at her in questioning amaze.

"I think I was very pert with you all day,--and I don't think I'm pert
naturally,--taking you up about the landscape, and twitting you about
the Saguenay scenery and legends, you know. But I thought you were
trying to put me down,--you are rather down-putting at times,--and I
admired you, and I couldn't bear it."

"Oh!" said Mr. Arbuton. He dimly recollected, as if it had been in some
former state of existence, that there were things he had not approved in
Kitty that day, but now he met her penitence with a smile and another
pressure of the hand. "Well, then," he said, "if you don't like to
recall that time, let's go back of it to the day I met you on Goat
Island Bridge at Niagara."

"O, did you see me there? I thought you didn't; but I saw you. You
had on a blue cravat," she answered; and he returned with as much the
air of coherency as if really continuing the same train of thought, "You
won't think it necessary to visit Boston, now, I suppose," and he smiled
triumphantly upon her. "I fancy that I have now a better right to
introduce you there than your South End friends."

Kitty smiled, too. "I'm willing to wait. But don't you think you ought
to see Eriecreek before you promise too solemnly? I can't allow that
there's anything serious, till you've seen me at home."

They had been going, for no reason that they knew, back to the country
inn near which you purchase admittance to a certain view of the falls,
and now they sat down on the piazza, somewhat apart from other people
who were there, as Mr. Arbuton said, "O, I shall visit Eriecreek soon
enough. But I shall not come to put myself or you to the proof. I don't
ask to see you at home before claiming you forever."

Kitty murmured, "Ah! you are more generous than I was."

"I doubt it."

"O yes, you are. But I wonder if you'll be able to find Eriecreek."

"Is it on the map?"

"It's on the county map; and so is Uncle Jack's lot on it, and a picture
of his house, for that matter. They'll all be standing on the
piazza--something like this one--when you come up. You'll know Uncle
Jack by his big gray beard, and his bushy eyebrows, and his boots, which
he won't have blacked, and his Leghorn hat, which we can't get him to
change. The girls will be there with him,--Virginia all red and heated
with having got supper for you, and Rachel with the family mending in
her hand,--and they'll both come running down the walk to welcome you.
How will you like it?"

Mr. Arbuton suspected the gross caricature of this picture, and smiled
securely at it. "I shall like it well enough," he said, "if you run down
with them. Where shall you be?"

"I forgot. I shall be up stairs in my room, peeping through the
window-blinds, to see how you take it. Then I shall come down, and
receive you with dignity in the parlor, but after supper you'll have to
excuse me while I help with the dishes. Uncle Jack will talk to you.
He'll talk to you about Boston. He's much fonder of Boston than you are,
even." And here Kitty broke off with a laugh, thinking what a very
different Boston her Uncle Jack's was from Mr. Arbuton's, and
maliciously diverted with what she conceived of their mutual
bewilderment in trying to get some common stand-point. He had risen from
his chair, and was now standing a few paces from her, looking toward the
fall, as if by looking he might delay the coming of the colonel and
Fanny.

She checked her merriment a moment to take note of two ladies who were
coming up the path towards the porch where she was sitting. Mr. Arbuton
did not see them. The ladies mounted the steps, and turned slowly and
languidly to survey the company. But at sight of Mr. Arbuton, one of
them advanced directly toward him, with exclamations of surprise and
pleasure, and he with a stupefied face and a mechanical movement turned
to meet her.

She was a lady of more than middle age, dressed with certain personal
audacities of color and shape, rather than overdressed, and she thrust
forward, in expression of her amazement, a very small hand, wonderfully
well gloved; her manner was full of the anxiety of a woman who had
fought hard for a high place in society, and yet suggested a latent
hatred of people who, in yielding to her, had made success bitter and
humiliating.

Her companion was a young and very handsome girl, exquisitely dressed,
and just so far within the fashion as to show her already a mistress of
style. But it was not the vivid New York stylishness. A peculiar
restraint of line, an effect of lady-like concession to the ruling mode,
a temperance of ornament, marked the whole array, and stamped it with
the unmistakable character of Boston. Her clear tints of lip and cheek
and eye were incomparable; her blond hair gave weight to the poise of
her delicate head by its rich and decent masses. She had a look of
independent innocence, an angelic expression of extremely nice young
fellow blending with a subtle maidenly charm. She indicated her surprise
at seeing Mr. Arbuton by pressing the point of her sun-umbrella somewhat
nervously upon the floor, and blushing a very little. Then she gave him
her hand with friendly frankness, and smiled dazzlingly upon him, while
the elder hailed him with effusive assertion of familiar acquaintance,
heaping him with greetings and flatteries and cries of pleasure.

"O dear!" sighed Kitty, "these are old friends of his; and will I have
to know them? Perhaps it's best to begin at once, though," she thought.

But he made no movement toward her where she sat. The ladies began to
walk up and down, and he with them. As they passed her, he did not seem
to see her.

The ladies said they were waiting for their carriage, which they had
left at a certain point when they went to look at the fall, and had
ordered to take them up at the inn. They talked about people and things
that Kitty had never heard of.

"Have you seen the Trailings since you left Newport?" asked the elder
woman.

"No," said Mr. Arbuton.

"Perhaps you'll be surprised then--or perhaps you won't--to hear that we
parted with them on the top of Mount Washington, Thursday. And the
Mayflowers are at the Glen House. The mountains are horribly full. But
what are you to do! Now the Continent"--she spoke as if the English
Channel divided it from us--"is so common, you can't run over there any
more."

Whenever they walked towards Kitty, this woman, whose quick eye had
detected Mr. Arbuton at her side as she came up to the inn, bent upon
the young girl's face a stare of insolent curiosity, yet with a front of
such impassive coldness that to another she might not have seemed aware
of her presence. Kitty shuddered at the thought of being made acquainted
with her; then she remembered, "Why, how stupid I am! Of course a
gentleman can't introduce ladies; and the only thing for him to do is to
excuse himself to them as soon as he can without rudeness, and come back
to me." But none the less she felt helpless and deserted. Though
ordinarily so brave, she was so beaten down by that look, that for a
glance of not unkindly interest that the young lady gave her she was
abjectly grateful. She admired her, and fancied that she could easily be
friends with such a girl as that, if they met fairly. She wondered that
she should be there with that other, not knowing that society cannot
really make distinctions between fine and coarse, and could not have
given her a reason for their association.

Still the three walked up and down before Kitty, and still she made his
peace with herself, thinking, "He is embarrassed; he can't come to me at
once; but he will, of course."

The elder of his companions talked on in her loud voice of this thing
and that, of her summer, and of the people she had met, and of their
places and yachts and horses, and all the splendors of their
keeping,--talk which Kitty's aching sense sometimes caught by fragments,
and sometimes in full. The lady used a slang of deprecation and apology
for having come to such a queer resort as Quebec, and raised her brows
when Mr. Arbuton reluctantly owned how long he had been there.

"Ah, ah!" she said briskly, bringing the group to a stand-still while
she spoke, "one doesn't stay in a slow Canadian city a whole month for
love of the place. Come, Mr. Arbuton, is she English or French?"

Kitty's heart beat thickly, and she whispered to herself, "O, now!--now
surely he must do something."

"Or perhaps," continued his tormentor, "she's some fair fellow-wanderer
in these Canadian wilds,--some pretty companion of voyage."

Mr. Arbuton gave a kind of start at this, like one thrilled for an
instant with a sublime impulse. He cast a quick, stealthy look at Kitty,
and then as suddenly withdrew his glance. What had happened to her who
was usually dressed so prettily? Alas! true to her resolution, Kitty had
again refused Fanny's dresses that morning, and had faithfully put on
her own travelling-suit,--the suit which Rachel had made her, and which
had seemed so very well at Eriecreek that they had called Uncle Jack in
to admire it when it was tried on. Now she knew that it looked
countrified, and its unstylishness struck in upon her, and made her feel
countrified in soul. "Yes," she owned, as she met Mr. Arbuton's glance,
"I'm nothing but an awkward milkmaid beside that young lady." This was
unjust to herself; but truly it was never in her present figure that he
had intended to show her to his world, which he had been sincere enough
in contemning for her sake while away from it. Confronted with good
society in these ladies, its delegates, he doubtless felt, as never
before, the vastness of his self-sacrifice, the difficulty of his
enterprise, and it would not have been so strange if just then she
should have appeared to him through the hard cold vision of the best
people instead of that which love had illumined. She saw whatever
purpose toward herself was in his eyes, flicker and die out as they fell
from hers. Then she sat alone while they three walked up and down, up
and down, and the skirts of the ladies brushed her garments in passing.

"O, where can Dick and Fanny be?" she silently bemoaned herself, "and
why don't they come and save me from these dreadful people?"

She sat in a stony quiet while they talked on, she thought, forever.
Their voices sounded in her ears like voices heard in a dream, their
laughter had a nightmare cruelty. Yet she was resolved to be just to Mr.
Arbuton, she was determined not meanly to condemn him; she confessed to
herself, with a glimmer of her wonted humor, that her dress must be an
ordeal of peculiar anguish to him, and she half blamed herself for her
conscientiousness in wearing it. If she had conceived of any such chance
as this, she would perhaps, she thought, have worn Fanny's grenadine.

She glanced again at the group which was now receding from her. "Ah!"
the elder of the ladies said, again halting the others midway of the
piazza's length, "there's the carriage at last! But what is that stupid
animal stopping for? O, I suppose he didn't understand, and expects to
take us up at the bridge! Provoking! But it's no use; we may as well go
to him at once; it's plain he isn't coming to us. Mr. Arbuton, will you
see us on board?"

"Who--I? Yes, certainly," he answered absently, and for the second time
he cast a furtive look at Kitty, who had half started to her feet in
expectation of his coming to her before he went,--a look of appeal, or
deprecation, or reassurance, as she chose to interpret it, but after all
a look only.

She sank back in blank rejection of his look, and so remained motionless
as he led the way from the porch with a quick and anxious step. Since
those people came he had not openly recognized her presence, and now he
had left her without a word. She could not believe what she could not
but divine, and she was powerless to stir as the three moved down the
road towards the carriage. Then she felt the tears spring to her eyes:
she flung down her veil, and, swept on by a storm of grief and pride and
pain, she hurried, ran towards the grounds about the falls. She thrust
aside the boy who took money at the gate. "I have no money," she said
fiercely; "I'm going to look for my friends: they're in here."

But Dick and Fanny were not to be seen. Instead, as she fluttered wildly
about in search of them, she beheld Mr. Arbuton, who had missed her on
his return to the inn, coming with a frightened face to look for her.
She had hoped, somehow never to see him again in the world; but since it
was to be, she stood still and waited his approach in a strange
composure; while he drew nearer, thinking how yesterday he had silenced
her prophetic doubt of him: "I have one answer to all this; I love you."
Her faltering words, verified so fatally soon, recalled themselves to
him with intolerable accusation. And what should he say now? If
possibly,--if by some miracle,--she might not have seen what he feared
she must! One glance that he dared give her taught him better; and while
she waited for him to speak, he could not lure any of the phrases, of
which the air seemed full, to serve him.

"I wonder you came back to me," she said after an eternal moment.

"Came back?" he echoed, vacantly.

"You seemed to have forgotten my existence!"

Of course the whole wrong, if any wrong had been done to her, was tacit,
and much might be said to prove that she felt needlessly aggrieved, and
that he could not have acted otherwise than as he did; she herself had
owned that it must be an embarrassing position to him.

"Why, what have I done," he began, "what makes you think... For heaven's
sake listen to me!" he cried; and then, while she turned a mute
attentive face to him, he stood silent as before, like one who has lost
his thought, and strives to recall what he was going to say. "What
sense,--what use," he resumed at last, as if continuing the course of
some previous argument, "would there have been in making a display of
our acquaintance before them? I did not suppose at first that they saw
us together."... But here he broke off, and, indeed, his explanation had
but a mean effect when put into words. "I did not expect them to stay. I
thought they would go away every moment; and then at last it was too
late to manage the affair without seeming to force it." This was better;
and he paused again, for some sign of acquiescence from Kitty, and
caught her eye fixed on his face in what seemed contemptuous wonder. His
own eyes fell, and ran uneasily over her dress before he lifted them and
began once more, as if freshly inspired: "I could have wished you to be
known to my friends with every advantage on your side," and this had
such a magnanimous sound that he took courage; "and you ought to have
had faith enough in me to believe that I never could have meant you a
slight. If you had known more of the world,--if your social experience
had been greater you would have seen.... Oh!" he cried, desperately, "is
there nothing you have to say to me?"

"No," said Kitty, simply, but with a languid quiet, and shrinking from
speech as from an added pang. "You have been telling me that you were
ashamed of me in this dress before those people. But I knew that
already. What do you want me to do?"

"If you give me time, I can make everything clear to you."

"But now you don't deny it."

"Deny what? I--"

But here the whole fabric of Mr. Arbuton's defence toppled to the
ground. He was a man of scrupulous truth, not accustomed to deceive
himself or others. He had been ashamed of her, he could not deny it, not
to keep the love that was now dearer to him than life. He saw it with
paralyzing clearness; and, as an inexorable fact that confounded quite
as much as it dismayed him, he perceived that throughout that ignoble
scene she had been the gentle person and he the vulgar one. How could it
have happened with a man like him! As he looked back upon it, he seemed
to have been only the helpless sport of a sinister chance.

But now he must act; it could not go so, it was too horrible a thing to
let stand confessed. A hundred protests thronged to his lips, but he
refused utterance to them all as worse even than silence; and so, still
meaning to speak, he could not speak. He could only stand and wait while
it wrung his heart to see her trembling, grieving lips.

His own aspect was so lamentable, that she half pitied him, half
respected him for his truth's sake. "You were right; I think it won't be
necessary for me to go to Boston," she said with a dim smile. "Good by.
It's all been a dreadful, dreadful mistake."

It was like him, even in that humiliation, not to have thought of losing
her, not to have dreamed but that he could somehow repair his error, and
she would yet willingly be his. "O no, no, no," he cried, starting
forward, "don't say that! It can't be, it mustn't be! You are angry now,
but I know you'll see it differently. Don't be so quick with me, with
yourself. I will do anything, say anything, you like."

The tears stood in her eyes; but they were cruel drops. "You can't say
anything that wouldn't make it worse. You can't undo what's been done,
and that's only a little part of what couldn't be undone. The best way
is for us to part; it's the only way."

"No, there are all the ways in the world besides! Wait--think!--I
implore you not to be so--precipitate."

The unfortunate word incensed her the more; it intimated that she was
ignorantly throwing too much away. "I am not rash now, but I was very
rash half an hour ago. I shall not change my mind again. O," she cried,
giving way, "it isn't what you've done, but what you are and what I
am, that's the great trouble! I could easily forgive what's
happened,--if you asked it; but I couldn't alter both our whole lives,
or make myself over again, and you couldn't change yourself. Perhaps you
would try, and I know that I would, but it would be a wretched failure
and disappointment as long as we lived. I've learnt a great deal since I
first saw those people." And in truth he felt as if the young girl whom
he had been meaning to lift to a higher level than her own at his side
had somehow suddenly grown beyond him; and his heart sank. "It's foolish
to try to argue such a thing, but it's true; and you must let me go."

"I can't let you go," he said in such a way, that she longed at least
to part kindly with him.

"You can make it hard for me," she answered, "but the end will be the
same."

"I won't make it hard for you, then," he returned, after a pause, in
which he grew paler and she stood with a wan face plucking the red
leaves from a low bough that stretched itself towards her.

He turned and walked away some steps; then he came suddenly back. "I
wish to express my regret," he began formally, and with his old air of
doing what was required of him as a gentleman, "that I should have
unintentionally done anything to wound--"

"O, better not speak of that," interrupted Kitty with bitterness,
"it's all over now." And the final tinge of superiority in his manner
made her give him a little stab of dismissal. "Good by. I see my cousins
coming."

She stood and watched him walk away, the sunlight playing on his figure
through the mantling leaves, till he passed out of the grove.

The cataract roared with a seven-fold tumult in her ears, and danced
before her eyes. All things swam together, as in her blurred sight her
cousins came wavering towards her.

"Where is Mr. Arbuton?" asked Mrs. Ellison.

Kitty threw her arms about the neck of that foolish woman, whoso loving
heart she could not doubt, and clung sobbing to her. "Gone," she said;
and Mrs. Ellison, wise for once, asked no more.

She had the whole story that evening, without asking; and whilst she
raged, she approved of Kitty, and covered her with praises and
condolences.

"Why, of course, Fanny, I didn't care for knowing those people. What
should I want to know them for? But what hurt me was that he should so
postpone me to them, and ignore me before them, and leave me without a
word, then, when I ought to have been everything in the world to him and
first of all. I believe things came to me while I sat there, as they do
to drowning people, all at once, and I saw the whole affair more
distinctly than ever I did. We were too far apart in what we had been
and what we believed in and respected, ever to grow really together. And
if he gave me the highest position in the world, I should have only
that. He never could like the people who had been good to me, and whom I
loved so dearly, and he only could like me as far as he could estrange
me from them. If he could coolly put me aside now, how would it be
afterwards with the rest, and with me too? That's what flashed through
me, and I don't believe that getting splendidly married is as good as
being true to the love that came long before, and honestly living your
own life out, without fear or trembling, whatever it is. So perhaps,"
said Kitty, with a fresh burst of tears, "you needn't condole with me so
