dissipated spendthrift. He married, and tormented his wife into an early
grave, and might have worn out his sister, but Providence kindly removed
him. Miss Honoria retrenched, paid off debts and mortgage by degrees,
and brought up Sylvie in a quaint, refined, old-world fashion.

Old Mrs. Darcy and Miss Barry exchanged formal calls, and discussed la
belle France. Sylvie took great delight in listening to grandmother's
stories of brave heroes and handsome women who figured in old legends.

Oddly enough, one of the many points of agreement between Jack and Fred
had been their aversion to girls in general. Fred judged them from his
sisters, who were always nagging, always exhorting him to be a
gentleman, and always holding up Jack Darcy to ridicule. Jack, on the
other hand, had a bashful fear of girls, and fancied they were laughing
at every little awkwardness; then they cried so easily, went off in a
huff if they could not have their own way, were silly, vain, and
tattling, ready enough to beg your assistance if there was a munching
cow by the roadside, a worm swinging from a tree, or a harmless mouse
running across the floor. The great fascination to the Darcy house was,
that the boys could sit in the large, clean kitchen, trying all sorts of
crude experiments, with Ann to clear away the d√©bris and find no
fault. Jack never wanted to go to the great house. In true boy fashion
he understood without any explanation. But they both liked little
Sylvie. She was taught at home except in music and drawing, and she was
as much interested in grandmother's heroes as the two boys.

On the other hand, the Hopes and the Barrys had always been great
friends; and, from some odd freak of unlikeness, Sylvie and Irene
Lawrence carried on the intimacy.

She stopped now, and talked about the kitten with Jack; and he carried
her milk-pail home to the gate.

It was a long, wearisome vacation to poor Jack. Fishing lost its charm,
even tramps in the woods became monotonous. He spent hours in his
father's shop, inspecting machinery, though he seldom asked a question
or ventured upon a remark. Indeed, some of the hands thought "Darcy's
boy wasn't over-bright." Yet here he laid the foundation of the problem
that was to vex and puzzle his soul in after-years. Here was the great,
whirring machinery, belts, bands, spindles, looms, and oftentimes a
stupid and stolid enough workman at one end, grinding out luxury and
elegance for David Lawrence, Esq.; that his family might tread on Wilton
and Axminster, dine from silver and crystal, dress in silks and velvets,
drive about with high-stepping bays, and scorn all beneath them. Once as
Jack was thinking it over he laughed aloud.

"You must feel very much amused," said a rather sour-looking man
standing near by, with a peculiar touchiness as if he had been laughed
at.

"No, I wasn't amused, I was only thinking"-- But Jack stopped in the
middle of his sentence. Could this man take any such position as that
of Mr. Lawrence?

Then he came across a volume of self-made men, which he eagerly
devoured. Every one seemed to have commenced life without a dollar, and
almost without friends. Were those the important factors in the race, to
be light-weighted? And he had a triple chain.

Fred returned, handsomer than ever, and doubly glad to get back to Jack.
There was just four days grace. They revisited old haunts, talked
endlessly and to little purpose, like so much of the talk of youth, and
now they were parting at the gate for the last time. Unlike girls they
exchanged no vows or kisses. It is not in boy-nature to be effusive.

"To think that I shall not be home until Christmas! If only you were
going with me, Jack, what jolly times we would have!"

"I could have gone," answered Jack with some pride, "that is, if I had
been prepared. Father was willing, and grandmother would have been proud
enough;" and just then Jack wondered why going to seek his fortune
appeared so much more terrible to them.

"Well, why not, Jack?" with impetuous eagerness. "It isn't too late."

"I don't want the years of study. I should come to hate the sight of a
book. No, I'll find out where I belong, some day. Don't worry about me,"
with an abrupt laugh.

"But I am so sorry!" Then they looked into each other's eyes. All these
years had been filled with such good, honest boy-love.

"Good-by, old chap!" cried Jack suddenly; for the wrench must come, and
lingering over it was painful. "I shall miss you lots! it seems so queer
to be without you! Of course you'll succeed: there's no use wishing
about that."

"It's a good wish from you, Jack. Good-by. I hate awfully to say it: I
hate to think that our jolly boyish frolics are over."

"But we'll have many a good row on the river, and tramps through the
woods. We can't outgrow every thing. And there'll be summers and
summers."

"Good-by."

The gate-latch clicked: Jack walked rapidly down the street, whistling
"Kathleen Mavourneen" unconsciously. Did he dream the simple faith of
boyhood had reached its culmination, and was henceforth to wane?

"Dear old Jack," thought Fred: "I don't know as he is quite Launcelot,
though I used to think so at first. But there was Sir Gawain and Sir
Bedevere and a host of worthies, and if he only would he could come up
to the highest. What makes him so obstinate and unambitious, I wonder?
Are there any King Arthurs and loyal knights nowadays, or only common
men and women?"

His sisters opened upon him with the fatal persistency of narrow
feminine natures.

"You may say what you like about Jack Darcy," he flung out angrily, "but
you'll never make me give him up,--never, never!"

"Do hush, children," interposed Mrs. Lawrence. "Fred, I hope you will
learn to modulate your voice, and not shriek so."

Sylvie put on her hat to go home. As she passed Fred she said just above
her breath,--

"You are right and brave. I wouldn't give up my friend because he was
poor; and Jack is so nice!"

"Much she knows about it," thought Fred, with a true boyish disdain. Yet
her approval of Jack was a virtue in his eyes.




CHAPTER II.


"FATHER!" exclaimed Jack a few days after this parting from his bosom
friend, "I think I will go in the mill for a year or two, if there is
any thing for me to do. Meanwhile my inspiration may come along."

"But what would you like best, Jack?"

"That's just the trouble," and the youthful brows knit in perplexity.
"All things seem alike to me: I haven't any choice."

Mr. Darcy drew a long breath that was almost a sigh. If Jack only would
evince some preference!

However, a place was found as under-bookkeeper. It was desperately
tiresome to Jack to sit perched on a high stool all day; and after three
months of it he begged to be put at something else.

At this period we had gone through our costly civil war; and, instead of
being exhausted as friends and enemies predicted, the machinery of
business appeared to have been set in motion with a new and overwhelming
impetus. Every thing was wanted; everybody had work or money; and the
most useless commodity found a purchaser: as if our anguish had crazed
us, and we went into a delirium of mental opium, and dreamed wild,
exhilarating dreams which we mistook for reality.

Yerbury had been a slow, solid, conservative town. Property was low,
taxes light and easily paid, a balance on hand in the treasury to
commence the new year, and very little pauperism in the town. Yerbury
officials utilized their inefficient population, and their county jail
was not made a palace of luxury. The old-fashioned element in the place
held crime as the result of sin instead of occult disease,--a thing to
be punished, rather than petted. It had good railroad connections,
plenty of water, with one navigable stream, and a variety of industries.
Iron, shoes, hats, paper, and clothing were manufactured to a
considerable extent, to say nothing of many smaller branches. Hope Mills
was the largest, the focus of the town, and had the prestige of being
handed down through three generations, though never as extensive as now.

Toward the west there was a succession of pretty hills that lay in the
broad sunshine, making you think somehow of Spanish slopes, covered with
vineyards, olives, and luxuriant verdure. Over beyond, a wide,
diversified country range, farms, woodland, hills and valleys, with a
branch of the river winding through, called, rather unromantically,
Little Creek.

On these slopes, the new part, dwelt the aristocracy. Streets wound
around in picturesque fashion to make easy grades, and many old
forest-trees were preserved by that means, giving the place an air of
years, rather than yesterday and improvement. There were two pretty
parks,--one devoted to Fourth-of-July orations from time immemorial;
there were churches of every denomination; a boarding and day school for
young ladies, the academy, some excellent district schools; a hall with
library and reading-room; a bank; rows of attractive shops and stores;
and, coming down in the scale of refinement, beer-saloons and
concert-halls, kept generally up to a certain point of morality. There
were so many laboring-men, and they must have something by way of
entertainment.

It struck Jack with a curious wonder. These stolid faces and plodding
steps were part of the human machines out of which wealth was being
ground. They went to the beer-shops at night in their dirty clothes,
smelling of grease and dye, drank beer, played a few games, and
harangued each other, and went home maudlin or stupefied. Perhaps it was
more comfortable than the slatternly wives and crying children. Did it
need to be so? If you gave the workingman a helping hand, did he turn
straightway into an unreasoning demagogue?

He was not likely to be tempted by such doings. His home had always
been too clean and pleasant. He still kept up with the boys, and joined
the lyceum club; but the intimate companionship of his life was gone.

Fred did not come home for Christmas. College-life was
delightful,--would be just perfect if dear old Jack were there. The
glowing letters kept alive his own secret dissatisfaction. But how
explain it to one who would be sure to say, "Get out of it all, Jack: no
one has any right to keep you in such a distasteful round, and thwart
your life-plans." To be sure, he had no life-plans.

One raw, cold March day, Mr. Darcy went out to repair a roof that had
leaked in the previous storm. He rarely minded wind or weather.

"I declare," he said that evening, dropping into his capacious armchair,
"I feel as if I should never get warmed through. I do believe we shall
have a tremendous snowstorm to take this chill out of the air. Jack,
read the paper aloud, won't you?"

Jack complied. Local items, bits of State news, and the general progress
of the country; the starvation of a nation at the antipodes, the
discovery of a wonderful silver-mine, plans for new railroads,--how busy
the world was! It stirred Jack's youthful blood.

"I'd like to be a railroad-president," said Jack suddenly.

His father stared, then laughed at the absurdity. "Why, you're only a
boy, Jack," he replied.

"I know it. But the boy who means to be a railroad-president must begin
somewhere. Or if I could own a silver-mine," he went on, with the
boundless audacity of youth.

"Could you find use for the silver?" asked his father humorously.

Jack flushed, and lapsed into dreams. Grandmother opposite was nodding
in her chair, her knitting still in her fingers. Jack left his vision
for a moment, to calculate if the old chest upstairs was not nearly full
of stockings. His mother sat sewing some trifle, and just raised her
eyes with that longing, beseeching glance mothers so often give to their
sons.

"If women only did not care so much for one," thought Jack, "or if there
had been a great family of us. And still I can't see the wonderful
difference between going to college, and going to seek your fortune.
Does two or three hundred miles more matter when you are once away?"

The snow came on through the night. There being nothing urgent on hand,
Mr. Darcy remained within; but Jack buffeted the storm gallantly. It
would be worse than this out in the new countries where he meant to go
some time.

The next day Mr. Darcy was out. There was a dull pain in his breast,
going through to his back, and he coughed a little. It went on thus for
forty-eight hours, when the pain became intense, and fever set in. Dr.
Kendrick was summoned; and, though the case was severe, it had no
alarming symptoms at first. Jack went to and fro with his merry whistle;
speculative he might be, but he was not introspective or morbid: wife
and mother watched at home.

There came one of those sudden and inexplicable turns in the disease.
Jack was stunned, incredulous. In his mother's eyes lay a look of
helpless terror he was never to forget.

"You'll care for them always, Jack; you'll never leave them," said his
father imploringly, in one lucid interval.

"Always," answered the young voice bravely.

"Thank you, my son, my dear boy;" and there was a fervent clasp of the
hand.

A few days later Bernard Darcy lay coffined in the pretty parlor, while
wife and mother were crushed with grief.

"Dust to dust, ashes to ashes;" and Jack dropped the first handful of
earth in his father's open grave. The two women clung to him,--he was
their all. Here lay his duty as long as God pleased.

It seemed for weeks after this as if Mrs. Darcy would follow her
husband. She looked so white and wan, she was so feeble that some days
she could not leave her bed. Grandmother rallied with that invincible
determination not to be beaten down if her prop was wrenched away.

Jack was now a few months past eighteen, stout, and growing tall
rapidly. There was about him a sturdy persistence and the good common
sense that lends an adaptiveness or pliability of disposition, so to
speak, that is often mistaken for content. Since he must stay here for
some years to come, he would devote himself to learning the business of
manufacturing woollen cloth. It entertained him more than keeping books.
For the sake of these two bereaved women, he would take an actual
interest in the work he had to do.

Looking back in after-years, he was glad he made the resolve, and stood
by it manfully. It gave ballast to his character, shaped him to a
definite purpose. A narrow life, to be sure; nay, more, a distasteful
one: but he did his best, and waited, and that was all that could be
asked of him.

Early in June there was a great commotion at the mansion on Hope
Terrace. Miss Agatha Lawrence was married to Hamilton Minor, one of the
great firm of brokers in Wall Street, 'Morgan, Minor, & Co.' For weeks
it had been the talk of the town. The trousseau came from Paris, and was
marvellous. The presents were on exhibition, and created a vast amount
of envy and admiration,--silver, jewels, pictures, crystal, china, and
laces. And last of all a sumptuous wedding,--every delicacy in season
and out of season, costly wines, pyramids of cake, and a lavish
profusion of flowers. Nothing so grand had ever occurred in Yerbury.

Fred and a stylish Miss Minor were to stand. He reached home just in
time; and, as he was to be off again with the bridal party, he sent a
note of regret to Jack.

Jack had too much good sense to feel hurt, though he was disappointed. A
few weeks later he took his mother and grandmother up to the mountains
for change of air, and enjoyed the vacation hugely himself. So it
happened he did not see Fred at all.

The second year letters languished, indeed failed, I may as well admit.
Jack was being rapidly inducted into the wisdom of the world, Fred into
the wisdom of society. They would never meet on the old plane again. The
mill-hand would be no companion for the son and heir of David Lawrence,
Esq.

It was not in Jack Darcy's nature to be bitter or cynical. He just
accepted the fact. Somewhere he and Fred had outgrown each other, and
the boyish interests, once such a bond of union. Fred would be an
educated and cultivated gentleman.

Why should he be left in the background? His ambition was suddenly
roused again, and he more than half wished himself in college. He went
back to his books; he joined a debating-society. There was no need of
being a mere clod because he had to work. David Lawrence was a
gentleman. And the next spring he took up a little botany and
horticulture with his gardening. Old Mr. Rising down the street, who had
been gardener to some great lord,--a peculiar, obstinate Englishman,
with his head crammed full of odd bits of knowledge,--took a fancy to
Jack. They discussed not only fruit and flowers, but trade in its
various aspects, as Mr. Rising had relatives at Manchester who had
soared to the ambitions of mills and factories.

Time sped on, and they came to the second summer. Miss Gertrude Lawrence
was a belle now, and the great house was constantly filled with guests.
The Lawrence equipages were seen in every direction. Mrs. Minor was up
frequently, in grand state. The lawn was gay with croquet-parties, the
evenings were brilliant with lights and music: they had two elegant
garden-parties, when the grounds were illuminated with colored lanterns,
and the teas were festivals in themselves. Fred had brought home two
college chums, and for the first fortnight was deeply engrossed. Then,
too, the girls no longer nagged at him. He was developing into an
elegant young man, with due regard for the proprieties.

He did go to call on Jack one evening. It was a duty, a rather awkward
and embarrassing one, and he took to himself great credit in the point
of moral courage. He understood thoroughly now what Agatha had striven
so sedulously to explain, the difference in social station. He was not
likely in the future to make a blunder on that side, but it would not do
to turn the cold shoulder to Jack all at once. "A boy's will's the
wind's will," he repeated with much complacency, and it was but natural
that it should veer in other directions. Jack was a good enough fellow,
but no Sir Galahad or Sir any one now.

He was a little shocked at Mrs. Darcy in her mourning dress and widow's
cap. She was pale, and with the extreme delicacy so often pronounced
characteristic of American women. Grandmother sat in state and dignity,
rather resentful of what she termed in her secret heart Fred's neglect,
but a thing she would not have confessed openly if she had been put to
torture. And Jack?

Frederic De Woolfe Lawrence studied him with a critical eye. A great,
lumbering, inelegant fellow! Jack seemed to have grown out in every
direction, without being finished up in any. He was taken somewhat at a
disadvantage, too: somehow he fancied, if he had met Fred alone in a
stray walk, there would have been less formality.

They talked about college. Fred was doing well, for he was by nature a
student. Society's arts and airs would never entirely uproot that love.
He meant to distinguish himself, and have one of the prize essays. Jack
was rather grave and quiet, hard to get on with, Fred thought; and he
was relieved when the duty was ended, and he could go with a good grace.

Jack lingered on the porch, clinching his fingers, and listening to the
jaunty retreating footstep. There was something different in Fred's walk
even, a buoyancy as if he could override any little difficulties that
fate might have in store for him. Jack smiled grimly. Fortune had
showered every good gift upon him. He would go proudly, successfully,
through life. He would be praised and honored--and for what?

For a moment Jack felt like wrestling with him, shoulder to shoulder, to
distance him, to defeat him, to lower his complacent pride. His
half-patronizing manner had stung keenly. Then the real nobility of his
nature cropped out, and he laughed at his own sudden heat and passion.

"It would be folly," he said softly to himself. "I could not distinguish
myself in any line he will be likely to follow. He must work his way: I
must work mine. He knows what he means to do; and there he has gone
ahead of me, for I really do not know my own mind. No, there's no
further basis for a friendship: the boy-love has had its day, and died.
After all, isn't that the history of every thing?" and Jack looked up to
the stars, still with a little wordless pain at his heart.

He heard during the next week that Fred had gone West with one of his
friends, who was nephew to a great railway magnate. It would be only a
