they look so jolly,” answered Jill, looking at Gus, Frank, and Jack, who
stood laughing, each with a large basket in his hands.

“Fair to middling. Just look in and see;” with which cheerful remark Gus
tipped up his basket and displayed a few bits of green at the bottom.

“I did better. Now, don’t all scream at once over these beauties;” and
Frank shook out some evergreen sprigs, half a dozen saxifrages, and two
or three forlorn violets with hardly any stems.

“I don’t brag, but here’s the best of all the three,” chuckled Jack,
producing a bunch of feathery carrot-tops, with a few half-shut
dandelions trying to look brave and gay.

“Oh, boys, is that all?”

“What shall we do?”

“We’ve only a few house-flowers, and all those baskets to fill,” cried
the girls, in despair; for Merry’s contribution had been small, and
Molly had only a handful of artificial flowers “to fill up,” she said.

“It isn’t our fault: it is the late spring. We can’t make flowers, can
we?” asked Frank, in a tone of calm resignation.

“Couldn’t you buy some, then?” said Molly, smoothing her crumpled
morning-glories, with a sigh.

“Who ever heard of a fellow having any money left the last day of the
month?” demanded Gus, severely.

“Or girls either. I spent all mine in ribbon and paper for my baskets,
and now they are of no use. It’s a shame!” lamented Jill, while Merry
began to thin out her full baskets to fill the empty ones.

“Hold on!” cried Frank, relenting. “Now, Jack, make their minds easy
before they begin to weep and wail.”

“Left the box outside. You tell while I go for it;” and Jack bolted, as
if afraid the young ladies might be too demonstrative when the tale was
told.

“Tell away,” said Frank, modestly passing the story along to Gus, who
made short work of it.

“We rampaged all over the country, and got only that small mess of
greens. Knew you’d be disgusted, and sat down to see what we could do.
Then Jack piped up, and said he’d show us a place where we could get
a plenty. ‘Come on,’ said we, and after leading us a nice tramp, he
brought us out at Morse’s greenhouse. So we got a few on tick, as we had
but four cents among us, and there you are. Pretty clever of the little
chap, wasn’t it?”

A chorus of delight greeted Jack as he popped his head in, was promptly
seized by his elders and walked up to the table, where the box was
opened, displaying gay posies enough to fill most of the baskets if
distributed with great economy and much green.

“You are the dearest boy that ever was!” began Jill, with her nose
luxuriously buried in the box, though the flowers were more remarkable
for color than perfume.

“No, I’m not; there’s a much dearer one coming upstairs now, and he’s
got something that will make you howl for joy,” said Jack, ignoring his
own prowess as Ed came in with a bigger box, looking as if he had done
nothing but go a Maying all his days.

“Don’t believe it!” cried Jill, hugging her own treasure jealously.
“It’s only another joke. I won’t look,” said Molly, still struggling to
make her cambric roses bloom again.

“I know what it is! Oh, how sweet!” added Merry, sniffing, as Ed set the
box before her, saying pleasantly,--

“You shall see first, because you had faith.”

Up went the cover, and a whiff of the freshest fragrance regaled the
seven eager noses bent to inhale it, as a general murmur of pleasure
greeted the nest of great, rosy mayflowers that lay before them.

“The dear things, how lovely they are!” and Merry looked as if greeting
her cousins, so blooming and sweet was her own face.

Molly pushed her dingy garlands away, ashamed of such poor attempts
beside these perfect works of nature, and Jill stretched out her hand
involuntarily, as she said, forgetting her exotics, “Give me just one to
smell of, it is so woodsy and delicious.”

“Here you are, plenty for all. Real Pilgrim Fathers, right from
Plymouth. One of our fellows lives there, and I told him to bring me a
good lot; so he did, and you can do what you like with them,” explained
Ed, passing round bunches and shaking the rest in a mossy pile upon the
table.

“Ed always gets ahead of us in doing the right thing at the right time.
Hope you’ve got some first-class baskets ready for him,” said Gus,
refreshing the Washingtonian nose with a pink blossom or two.

“Not much danger of his being forgotten,” answered Molly; and
every one laughed, for Ed was much beloved by all the girls, and his
door-steps always bloomed like a flower-bed on May eve.

“Now we must fly round and fill up. Come, boys, sort out the green and
hand us the flowers as we want them. Then we must direct them, and, by
the time that is done, you can go and leave them,” said Jill, setting
all to work.

“Ed must choose his baskets first. These are ours; but any of those you
can have;” and Molly pointed to a detachment of gay baskets, set apart
from those already partly filled.

Ed chose a blue one, and Merry filled it with the rosiest may-flowers,
knowing that it was to hang on Mabel’s door-handle.

The others did the same, and the pretty work went on, with much fun,
till all were filled, and ready for the names or notes.

“Let us have poetry, as we can’t get wild flowers. That will be rather
fine,” proposed Jill, who liked jingles.

All had had some practice at the game parties, and pencils went briskly
for a few minutes, while silence reigned, as the poets racked their
brains for rhymes, and stared at the blooming array before them for
inspiration.

“Oh, dear! I can’t find a word to rhyme to ‘geranium,’” sighed Molly,
pulling her braid, as if to pump the well of her fancy dry.

“Cranium,” said Frank, who was getting on bravely with “Annette” and
“violet.”

“That is elegant!” and Molly scribbled away in great glee, for her poems
were always funny ones.

“How do you spell anemoly--the wild flower, I mean?” asked Jill, who
was trying to compose a very appropriate piece for her best basket, and
found it easier to feel love and gratitude than to put them into verse.

“Anemone; do spell it properly, or you’ll get laughed at,” answered Gus,
wildly struggling to make his lines express great ardor, without being
“too spoony,” as he expressed it.

“No, I shouldn’t. This person never laughs at other persons’ mistakes,
as some persons do,” replied Jill, with dignity.

Jack was desperately chewing his pencil, for he could not get on at
all; but Ed had evidently prepared his poem, for his paper was half full
already, and Merry was smiling as she wrote a friendly line or two for
Ralph’s basket, as she feared he would be forgotten, and knew he loved
kindness even more than he did beauty.

“Now let’s read them,” proposed Molly, who loved to laugh even at
herself.

The boys politely declined, and scrambled their notes into the chosen
baskets in great haste; but the girls were less bashful. Jill was
invited to begin, and gave her little piece, with the pink hyacinth
basket before her, to illustrate her poem.

  “TO MY LADY

  “There are no flowers in the fields,
  No green leaves on the tree,
  No columbines, no violets,
  No sweet anemone.
  So I have gathered from my pots
  All that I have to fill
  The basket that I hang to-night,
  With heaps of love from Jill.”

“That’s perfectly sweet! Mine isn’t; but I meant it to be funny,” said
Molly, as if there could be any doubt about the following ditty:--

  “Dear Grif,
  Here is a whiff
  Of beautiful spring flowers;
  The big red rose
  Is for your nose,
  As toward the sky it towers.

  “Oh, do not frown
  Upon this crown
  Of green pinks and blue geranium
  But think of me
  When this you see,
  And put it on your cranium.”

“O Molly, you will never hear the last of that if Grif gets it,” said
Jill, as the applause subsided, for the boys pronounced it “tip-top.”

“Don’t care, he gets the worst of it any way, for there is a pin in that
rose, and if he goes to smell the mayflowers underneath he will find a
thorn to pay for the tack he put in my rubber boot. I know he will play
me some joke to-night, and I mean to be first if I can,” answered Molly,
settling the artificial wreath round the orange-colored canoe which held
her effusion.

“Now, Merry, read yours: you always have sweet poems;” and Jill folded
her hands to listen with pleasure to something sentimental.

“I can’t read the poems in some of mine, because they are for you; but
this little verse you can hear, if you like: I’m going to give that
basket to Ralph. He said he should hang one for his grandmother, and I
thought that was so nice of him, I’d love to surprise him with one all
to himself. He’s always so good to us;” and Merry looked so innocently
earnest that no one smiled at her kind thought or the unconscious
paraphrase she had made of a famous stanza in her own “little verse.”

  “To one who teaches me
  The sweetness and the beauty
  Of doing faithfully
  And cheerfully my duty.”

“He will like that, and know who sent it, for none of us have pretty
pink paper but you, or write such an elegant hand,” said Molly, admiring
the delicate white basket shaped like a lily, with the flowers inside
and the note hidden among them, all daintily tied up with the palest
blush-colored ribbon.

“Well, that’s no harm. He likes pretty things as much as I do, and I
made my basket like a flower because I gave him one of my callas, he
admired the shape so much;” and Merry smiled as she remembered how
pleased Ralph looked as he went away carrying the lovely thing.

“I think it would be a good plan to hang some baskets on the doors of
other people who don’t expect or often have any. I’ll do it if you can
spare some of these, we have so many. Give me only one, and let the
others go to old Mrs. Tucker, and the little Irish girl who has been
sick so long, and lame Neddy, and Daddy Munson. It would please and
surprise them so. Will we?” asked Ed, in that persuasive voice of his.

All agreed at once, and several people were made very happy by a bit of
spring left at their doors by the May elves who haunted the town that
night playing all sorts of pranks. Such a twanging of bells and
rapping of knockers; such a scampering of feet in the dark; such droll
collisions as boys came racing round corners, or girls ran into
one another’s arms as they crept up and down steps on the sly; such
laughing, whistling, flying about of flowers and friendly feeling--it
was almost a pity that May-day did not come oftener.

Molly got home late, and found that Grif had been before her, after all;
for she stumbled over a market-basket at her door, and on taking it
in found a mammoth nosegay of purple and white cabbages, her favorite
vegetable. Even Miss Bat laughed at the funny sight, and Molly resolved
to get Ralph to carve her a bouquet out of carrots, beets, and turnips
for next time, as Grif would never think of that.

Merry ran up the garden-walk alone, for Frank left her at the gate,
and was fumbling for the latch when she felt something hanging there.
Opening the door carefully, she found it gay with offerings from her
mates; and among them was one long quiver-shaped basket of birch bark,
with something heavy under the green leaves that lay at the top. Lifting
these, a slender bas-relief of a calla lily in plaster appeared, with
this couplet slipped into the blue cord by which it was to hang:--

  “That mercy you to others show
  That Mercy Grant to me.”

“How lovely! and this one will never fade, but always be a pleasure
hanging there. Now, I really have something beautiful all my own,” said
Merry to herself as she ran up to hang the pretty thing on the dark
wainscot of her room, where the graceful curve of its pointed leaves and
the depth of its white cup would be a joy to her eyes as long as they
lasted.

“I wonder what that means,” and Merry read over the lines again, while
a soft color came into her cheeks and a little smile of girlish pleasure
began to dimple round her lips; for she was so romantic, this touch
of sentiment showed her that her friendship was more valued than she
dreamed. But she only said, “How glad I am I remembered him, and how
surprised he will be to see mayflowers in return for the lily.”

He was, and worked away more happily and bravely for the thought of
the little friend whose eyes would daily fall on the white flower which
always reminded him of her.




Chapter XIX. Good Templars


“Hi there! Bell’s rung! Get up, lazy-bones!” called Frank from his room
as the clock struck six one bright morning, and a great creaking and
stamping proclaimed that he was astir.

“All right, I’m coming,” responded a drowsy voice, and Jack turned over
as if to obey; but there the effort ended, and he was off again, for
growing lads are hard to rouse, as many a mother knows to her sorrow.

Frank made a beginning on his own toilet, and then took a look at his
brother, for the stillness was suspicious.

“I thought so! He told me to wake him, and I guess this will do it;”
 and, filling his great sponge with water, Frank stalked into the next
room and stood over the unconscious victim like a stern executioner,
glad to unite business with pleasure in this agreeable manner.

A woman would have relented and tried some milder means, for when his
broad shoulders and stout limbs were hidden, Jack looked very young and
innocent in his sleep. Even Frank paused a moment to look at the round,
rosy face, the curly eyelashes, half-open mouth, and the peaceful
expression of a dreaming baby. “I must do it, or he won’t be ready for
breakfast,” said the Spartan brother, and down came the sponge, cold,
wet, and choky, as it was briskly rubbed to and fro regardless of every
obstacle.

“Come, I say! That’s not fair! Leave me alone!” sputtered Jack, hitting
out so vigorously that the sponge flew across the room, and Frank fell
back to laugh at the indignant sufferer.

“I promised to wake you, and you believe in keeping promises, so I’m
doing my best to get you up.”

“Well, you needn’t pour a quart of water down a fellow’s neck, and
rub his nose off, need you? I’m awake, so take your old sponge and go
along,” growled Jack, with one eye open and a mighty gape.

“See that you keep so, then, or I’ll come and give you another sort of a
rouser,” said Frank, retiring well-pleased with his success.

“I shall have one good stretch, if I like. It is strengthening to the
muscles, and I’m as stiff as a board with all that football yesterday,”
 murmured Jack, lying down for one delicious moment. He shut the open eye
to enjoy it thoroughly, and forgot the stretch altogether, for the bed
was warm, the pillow soft, and a half-finished dream still hung about
his drowsy brain. Who does not know the fatal charm of that stolen
moment--for once yield to it, and one is lost.

Jack was miles away “in the twinkling of a bedpost,” and the pleasing
dream seemed about to return, when a ruthless hand tore off the clothes,
swept him out of bed, and he really did awake to find himself standing
in the middle of his bath-pan with both windows open, and Frank about to
pour a pail of water over him.

“Hold on! Yah, how cold the water is! Why, I thought I was up;” and,
hopping out, Jack rubbed his eyes and looked about with such a genuine
surprise that Frank put down the pail, feeling that the deluge would not
be needed this time.

“You are now, and I’ll see that you keep so,” he said, as he stripped
the bed and carried off the pillows.

“I don’t care. What a jolly day!” and Jack took a little promenade to
finish the rousing process.

“You’d better hurry up, or you won’t get your chores done before
breakfast. No time for a ‘go as you please’ now,” said Frank; and both
boys laughed, for it was an old joke of theirs, and rather funny.

Going up to bed one night expecting to find Jack asleep, Frank
discovered him tramping round and round the room airily attired in
a towel, and so dizzy with his brisk revolutions that as his brother
looked he tumbled over and lay panting like a fallen gladiator.

“What on earth are you about?”

“Playing Rowell. Walking for the belt, and I’ve got it too,” laughed
Jack, pointing to an old gilt chandelier chain hanging on the bedpost.

“You little noodle, you’d better revolve into bed before you lose your
head entirely. I never saw such a fellow for taking himself off his
legs.”

“Well, if I didn’t exercise, do you suppose I should be able to do
that--or that?” cried Jack, turning a somersault and striking a fine
attitude as he came up, flattering himself that he was the model of a
youthful athlete.

“You look more like a clothes-pin than a Hercules,” was the crushing
reply of this unsympathetic brother, and Jack meekly retired with a bad
headache.

“I don’t do such silly things now: I’m as broad across the shoulders as
you are, and twice as strong on my pins, thanks to my gymnastics. Bet
you a cent I’ll be dressed first, though you have got the start,”
 said Jack, knowing that Frank always had a protracted wrestle with his
collar-buttons, which gave his adversary a great advantage over him.

“Done!” answered Frank, and at it they went. A wild scramble was heard
in Jack’s room, and a steady tramp in the other as Frank worked away at
the stiff collar and the unaccommodating button till every finger ached.
A clashing of boots followed, while Jack whistled “Polly Hopkins,” and
Frank declaimed in his deepest voice,

“Arma virumque cano, Trojae qui primus ab oris Italiam, fato profugus,
Laviniaque venit litora.”

Hair-brushes came next, and here Frank got ahead, for Jack’s thick crop
would stand straight up on the crown, and only a good wetting and a
steady brush would make it lie down.

“Play away, No. 2,” called out Frank as he put on his vest, while Jack
was still at it with a pair of the stiffest brushes procurable for
money.

“Hold hard, No. 11, and don’t forget your teeth,” answered Jack, who had
done his.

Frank took a hasty rub and whisked on his coat, while Jack was picking
