"Everything is changed to me since then," said Winthrop, abruptly. "I
have seen you brought back from the very threshold of death, I cannot
pretend to be the same."

"I am the same."

"Yes; you didn't see yourself--"

"Don't talk about it, please. It is true that, personally, I do not
realize it. But when I think of Mr. Moore, I do; and it makes me ill and
faint."

"Why shouldn't you begin your freedom--yes; but begin it here?" he went
on, returning to his argument. "Aunt Katrina has taken a new line about
you. Why shouldn't you take one about her? And about everything? The
people here are tiresome, of course; but people are tiresome everywhere,
sooner or later, unless one leads a life of just dipping in, never
staying long enough in any one place to get much below the surface. You
could set up your own horses, your own servants; you could rearrange
half the house to please yourself; you could carry it all out, as
regards Aunt Katrina, with a high hand; she wouldn't make a murmur, I'm
confident! And you could easily take some pleasant trips too from
here--to New Orleans and Cuba; there's really a great deal to see. And
if you are tired (as I should think you might well be) of always saying
where you are going, and where you have been, how long you have stayed
or intend to stay, and why, you could lay down a rule that no one should
ask you a question. If they should continue to do it, you might throw
something at them." His plan seemed to him so good as he unfolded it
that it made him jocular.

She returned no answer.

"You don't care at all for what I think, or wish."

"No, I don't."

He looked at her as she sat there with face averted, his expression was
that of angry helplessness. "All I want," he went on, trying to curb his
irritation, "is to feel that you are safe."

"I shall be safe wherever I am."

"No, you won't, a woman like you cannot be, alone. Of course you will do
all that is best and proper, but you are far too beautiful to be
knocking about the world by yourself."

"Aren't you confusing me a little with Garda?"

"Your sarcasms have no effect; if I were as innocent in other matters as
I am with regard to that effulgent young person, I should be quite
perfect. But we won't speak of her; we'll speak of you."

"I am tired of the subject." She looked towards the gate as if in search
of Celestine.

"She won't be here for some time yet. Bear with me a little, Margaret,
don't be so impatient of the few minutes I have secured with you; what
we're deciding now is important--your whole future."

"It is already decided."

He dashed his hand down upon his knee. "There's no use trying to argue
with women! A woman never comprehends argument, no matter how strong it
may be."

She was silent. Her face had a weary look, but there were in it no
indications of yielding.

"You appear to be determined to go," he began again; "if you do go, Aunt
Katrina will have the mental exercise of learning to get on without
either of us."

She looked up quickly; his eyes were turned away now, straying over the
tangled foliage of the crape-myrtles.

"I am sick of everything here," he went on--"East Angels, Gracias, the
whole of it. If you are tired of seeing the same few people always day
after day, what must I be? There are two spinster cousins of Aunt
Katrina's who might come down here for a while, and I dare say they
would come if I should ask them; with these ladies to manage the house,
with Dr. Reginald and Betty, Celestine and Looth, Aunt Katrina ought to
be tolerably comfortable."

Margaret had listened with keen attention. But she did not answer
immediately; when she did reply, she spoke quietly. "Yes, I should think
you would be glad to go north again, you have been tied down here so
long. I am sure we can assume now that there is at least no present
danger in Aunt Katrina's case; both of us certainly are not needed for
her, and therefore, as you did not speak of going, I thought I could.
But now that you have spoken, now that I see you do wish to go, I feel
differently, I give you the chance. The change I wished for I will
create here, I will create it by buying this house from you--that will
be a change; I can amuse myself restoring it, if one can say that, when
it's not a church."

"You would do that?" said Winthrop, eagerly. Then he colored. "I see;
it means that you will stay if I go!"

"I shall do very well here if I have the place to think about," she went
on, "I shall have the land cultivated; perhaps I shall start a new
orange grove. Of course I shall lose money; but I can employ the negroes
about here, and I should like that; as to the household arrangements,
Aunt Katrina would be staying with me, not I with her; that would make
everything different."

"Yes; I could not come here as I do now, bag and baggage."

"I should not ask you," she answered, smiling. "I believe in your heart
you like no woman to lead a really independent life."

"You're right, I do not. They're not fitted for it."

"Oh--"

"And they're not happy in it."

"It's so good of you to think of our happiness."

"All this is of no consequence, Margaret, it's quite beside the mark.
The real issue is this: if I stay, you go; if I go, you will stay."

"I thought you didn't like repetitions; you're always so severe on poor
Aunt Betty when she indulges in them."

"You've got the upperhand, and you know it, and are glorying," he said,
sullenly.

"Glorying!" said Margaret, with a sudden drop in her voice. "Well, we
will say no more about it," she added.

"Excuse me, we will say plenty more. I would do a great deal to keep you
here, there's no doubt of that. If I must, I must, I suppose! You may
have the place--though I'm fond of it still."

"It must be quite fair?" she said, looking at him hesitatingly.

"You mean that I am not to come back and hang about in the neighborhood?
Oh, rest content; I've had enough of the Seminole for a lifetime."

"I presume you will be in a hurry," he went on. "You will expect to have
the deeds made out to-morrow."

"Yes, I should rather have it done soon."

"Of course.--How you hate me!" He rose.

She did not speak.

"But I'm not surprised--stubborn fool, ineffable prig as I must have
seemed to you all these years! Take the place. And I'll go."

The gate clicked, Celestine was coming towards them.

"But though I acknowledge my own faults, don't imagine I admire such
perfection as you always exhibit," he went on. "It's too much, you're
too faultless; some small trace of womanly humility would be a relief,
sometimes." He left the garden. Celestine, coming up, found her patient
looking anything but rested. The next moment she put her hand over her
eyes, physical weakness had conquered her.

"Just what I expected, men haven't a spark of gumption," said Celestine,
indignantly. "He might have seen you weren't fit for talking; anybody
could have seen. There, Miss Margaret, there; don't feel so bad, you'll
soon be stronger now." And Celestine put one arm round her charge
tenderly.

The touch made Margaret's tears flow faster; leaning her head against
her faithful New England friend, she cried and cried as if her heart
would break.

"You're clean tuckered out, I declare," said Celestine, half crying
herself. "Everybody plagues you--I never see the beat! And they all seem
to think they've got a right to. Just get real mad, now, Miss Margaret,
for once; and stay so. My! wouldn't they be surprised?"

This was three months before. Margaret was now the owner of East Angels.

On the evening when she had returned from the landing with her ferns,
and had found Dr. Kirby talking with Aunt Katrina, she went to her own
room; here she threw off the long, closely fitting over-garment of dark
silk, and gave it and the Gainsborough hat to her maid; she had a maid
now.

"If you please, Mrs. Harold, there are five letters for you; they are on
the dressing-table."

"Very well; you need not wait, Hester, I shall not need you at present."

The woman went out with noiseless step. Margaret turned over the
letters, glancing at the superscriptions rather languidly. She did not
care much for what the mails brought her at present, excepting Garda's
short, rapturous notes with various foreign headings.

The last envelope of the pile--it is always the last letter that strikes
the blow--was inscribed in a handwriting that made her heart stop
beating. "Mrs. Lansing Harold" was scrawled there, in rather large,
rough letters; and within, at the end of the second page--there were
only two filled--the same name was signed without the "Mrs."

Lanse had come back to America. He was coming back to Florida. He was on
his way at that moment to Fernandina, having selected that place because
he had learned that she had "burned down the house on the point," which,
he thought she would allow him to say, was inconsiderate. He had made up
his mind not to take her by surprise, he would go to Fernandina, and
wait there. He was a cripple indeed, this time. And forever. No hope of
a cure, as there had been before. It wasn't paralysis, it was something
with a long name, which apparently meant that he was to spend the rest
of his days in bed, with the occasional variation of an arm-chair. This
last journey of his abroad had been a huge mistake from beginning to end
(the only one he had ever made--he must say that). But he didn't suppose
she would care to hear the particulars; and he should much prefer that
she should not hear them, it wasn't a subject for her. He had come
home this time for good and all, it would never be possible for him to
run away again, she might depend upon that. In such afflictions a man,
of course, counted upon his wife; but he wished to be perfectly
reasonable, and therefore he would live wherever she pleased--with his
nurses, his water-pillows, and his back rest--yes, he had come to that!
At present it wasn't clear to him what he was going to do to amuse
himself. He could use his hands, and he had thought of learning to make
fish-nets. But perhaps she could think of something better? And then,
with a forcible allusion to the difficulties of his present progress
southward, and a characteristic summing up of the merits of the hotel
where he, with his two attendants, was resting for a day, the short two
pages ended abruptly with his name.

His wife had sunk into a chair, she sat staring at it.




CHAPTER XXXII.


A week later, Margaret was out to walk on the barren.

She had walked far, though her step had been slow; it seemed to her that
her step would always be slow now, her effort must be to keep it steady.
She had reached a point where there rose on the green level a little
mound-like island of a different growth, its top covered with
palmetto-trees. She made her way to the summit; though the height of the
little hill was low, the view one obtained there was extensive, like
that from a small light-house in a salt-marsh. Where she stood there was
a cleared space--the ground had been burned over not long before; on
this brown surface the crosiers of new ferns were unrolling themselves,
and when tired of the broad barren, her eyes rested on their little
fresh stalks, green and woolly, though she no longer stooped to gather
them. She did not come home now laden with flowers and vines to plant in
the old East Angels garden; the life she had been trying to build up
there was suddenly stopped, a completely different one was demanding
her. She had been very free, but now she was called back--called back to
the slavery, and the dread.

Oh, blessed, twice blessed, are the women who have no very deep feelings
of any kind! they are so much happier, and so much better! This was what
she was saying to herself over and over again, as, with one arm round a
slender tree, so that she could lean her head against it, she stood
there alone on the little island, looking over the plain. Not to care
very deeply, too deeply, for anything, any one; and with that to be kind
and gentle--this was by far the happiest nature for women to have, and
of such the good were made. Mothers should pray for this disposition
for their daughters. Anything else led to bitter pain.

She thought of her own mother, of whom she had no recollection. "If you
had lived, mother, perhaps I should have been saved from this; perhaps I
should not be so wretched--" this was her silent cry.

She heard a sound, some one was coming through the high bushes below; a
moment more, and the person appeared. It was Evert Winthrop.

"You?" she said, breathlessly. "When did you come? How could you know
I was here?"

"For once I've been fortunate, I have never been so before where you
were concerned. I reached East Angels half an hour ago, Celestine said
you were out on the barren somewhere, and Telano happened to know the
road you had taken; then I met some negro children who had seen you
pass, and, farther on, a boy who knew you had come this way; he brought
me here. But I saw you a mile off myself, you are very conspicuous in
that light dress on the top of this mound."

"We had no idea you were coming--"

"I couldn't let you know beforehand, because I came myself as quickly as
a letter could have come; as soon as I knew you would need help, I
started."

"Help?"

"Yes, about Lanse."

"Lanse is not here."

"Oh, I know where he is, he is in Fernandina; established there in the
best rooms the hotel affords, with three attendants, and everything
comfortable. But this time he did not tell me his plans; he arrived in
New York, and then came southward, without letting me know a word of it.
I heard of him, though, almost immediately, and I started at once."

Margaret did not reply.

"You will need help," he went on.

"No, I think not."

"Then he has not written to you?--has made no demands? I shall think
better of him than I had expected to think, if that is the case; I
supposed, from his coming south, that he had intentions of molesting
you."

"It would not be molesting."

"Has he written to you?"

"Yes."

"What demands, then, does he make--is it money?"

"He wishes me to come back to him, as I did before. But he will live
wherever I prefer to live. He is quite willing to leave the choice of
the place to me." She spoke slowly, as though she were repeating
something she had learned.

"Very good. I suppose you told him that wherever you might prefer to
live, there would at least be no place there for Lansing Harold?"

"I haven't told him anything yet. He was willing to wait--he wrote that
he would give me a month."

"A month for what?"

"For my answer," she said, drearily.

"It won't take a month. That is what I have come down for--to answer in
your place."

She began to look about for the best way to descend.

"I sent the boy who brought me here to East Angels for the phaeton; it
will come before long, you won't have to walk back. Now, Margaret, let
us have no more useless words; of course you do not dream of doing as
Lanse wishes?"

"Yes, I think I shall do it."

"Do you mean to tell me that you wish to go back to that man--after all
he has done?"

"I do not wish to. But I must."

"You shall not!" he burst out. His face, usually so calm, was
surprisingly altered; it was reddened and darkened.

"Nothing you can say will make any difference," she answered, in the
same monotonous tone. Even his rage could not alter the helpless
melancholy of her voice.

"Do you think he deserves it--deserves anything? You actually put a
premium on loose conduct. You reward him for it, while--while other men,
who are trying, at least, to lead decent lives, are thrust aside."

"He is my husband."

"So good a one!"

"That has nothing to do with it."

"Nothing?"

"No; not with my duty."

"I believe you have lost your wits, you are demented," he said,
violently.

"Oh, I wish I were demented! Then my troubles would be over."

The despair of these words softened him. She had turned away, he
followed her. "Margaret, listen to reason. In some cases it is right
that a wife should go back to her husband, almost no matter what he has
done. But yours is not one of them, it would kill you."

"No more than it did before."

"But it's worse for you now."

"It's exactly the same."

"He left you a second time."

"I have only to thank him for that, haven't I? It gave me a respite.
Over there on the river, when I learned--when I knew--that he had really
gone, I could scarcely hide my joy--I had to hide myself to do it! It
was the relief, the delight, of being free."

"The law, you know, would free you forever."

"I shall never take advantage of it."

"Do you think you know better than the law?"

"Yes; the law only touches part of the truth. Its plea would not do for
