
IV.

“I don’t think my father would have got here alive with these things,”
 said young Mavering. “Did you see how I came to his rescue?”

Mrs. Pasmer instantly threw away all pretext of not having seen. “Oh
yes! my heart was in my mouth when you bore down upon him, Mr. Mavering.
It was a beautiful instance of filial devotion.”

“Well, do sit down now, Mrs. Pasmer, and take it comfortably,” said the
young fellow; and he got her one of the many empty chairs, and would not
give her the things, which he put in another, till she sat down and let
him spread a napkin over her lap.

“Really,” she said, “I feel as if I were stopping all the wheels of
Class Day. Am I keeping them from closing the Gymnasium, Mr. Mavering?”

“Not quite,” said the young man, with one of his laughs. “I don’t
believe they will turn us out, and I’ll see that they don’t lock us in.
Don’t hurry, Mrs. Pasmer. I’m only sorry you hadn’t something sooner.”

“Oh, your father proposed getting me something a good while ago.”

“Did he? Then I wonder you haven’t had it. He’s usually on time.”

“You’re both very energetic, I think,” said Mrs. Pasmer.

“He’s the father of his son,” said the young fellow, assuming the merit
with a bow of burlesque modesty.

It went to Mrs. Pasmer’s heart. “Let’s hope he’ll never forget that,”
 she said, in an enjoyment of the excitement and the salad that was
beginning to leave her question of these Maverings a light, diaphanous
cloud on the verge of the horizon.

The elder Mavering had been trying, without success, to think of
something to say to Miss Pasmer, he had twice cleared his throat for
that purpose. But this comedy between his son and the young lady’s
mother seemed so much lighter and brighter than anything he could have
said, that he said nothing, and looked on with his mouth set in its
queer smile, while the girl listened with the gravity of a daughter who
sees that her mother is losing her head. Mrs. Pasmer buzzed on in her
badinage with the young man, and allowed him to go for a cup of coffee
before she rose from her chair, and shook out her skirts with an air of
pleasant expectation of whatever should come next.

He came back without it. “The coffee urn has dried up here, Mrs. Pasmer.
But you can get some at the other spreads; they’d be inconsolable if you
didn’t take something everywhere.”

They all started toward the door, but the elder Mavering said, holding
back a little, “Dan, I think I’ll go and see--”

“Oh no, you mustn’t, father,” cried the young man, laying his hand with
caressing entreaty on his father’s coat sleeve. “I don’t want you to go
anywhere till you’ve seen Professor Saintsbury. We shall be sure to meet
him at some of the spreads. I want you to have that talk with him--” He
corrected himself for the instant’s deflection from the interests of his
guest, and added, “I want you to help me hunt him up for Mrs. Pasmer.
Now, Mrs. Pasmer, you’re not to think it’s the least trouble, or
anything but a boon, much less say it,” he cried, turning to the
deprecation in Mrs. Pasmer’s face. He turned away from it to acknowledge
the smiles and bows of people going out of the place, and he returned
their salutations with charming heartiness.

In the vestibule they met the friends they were going in search of.




V.

“With Mr. Mavering, of course!” exclaimed Mrs. Saintsbury: “I might have
known it.” Mrs. Pasmer would have given anything she could think of to
be able to ask why her friend might have known it; but for the present
they could only fall upon each other with flashes of self-accusal and
explanation, and rejoicing for their deferred and now accomplished
meeting. The Professor stood by with the satirical smile with which men
witness the effusion of women. Young Mavering, after sharing the ladies’
excitement fully with them, rewarded himself by an exclusive moment with
Miss Pasmer.

“You must get Mrs. Pasmer to let me show you all of Class Day that a
Senior can. I didn’t know what a perfect serpent’s tooth it was to be
one before. Mrs. Saintsbury,” he broke off, “have you got tickets for
the Tree? Ah, she doesn’t hear me!”

Mrs. Saintsbury was just then saying to the elder Mavering, “I’m so glad
you decided to come today. It would have been a shame if none of you
were here.” She made a feint of dropping her voice, with a glance at Dan
Mavering. “He’s such a nice boy,” which made him laugh, and cry out--

“Oh, now? Don’t poison my father’s mind, Mrs. Saintsbury.”

“Oh, some one would be sure to tell him,” retorted the Professor’s wife,
“and he’d better hear it from a friend.”

The young fellow laughed again, and then he shook hands with some
ladies going out, and asked were they going so soon, from an abstract
hospitality, apparently, for he was not one of the hosts; and so turned
once more to Miss Pasmer. “We must get away from here, or the afternoon
will get away from us, and leave us nothing to show for it. Suppose we
make a start, Miss Pasmer?”

He led the way with her out of the vestibule, banked round with pots
of palm and fern, and down the steps into the glare of the Cambridge
sunshine, blown full, as is the case on Class Day, of fine Cambridge
dust, which had drawn a delicate grey veil over the grass of the
Gymnasium lawn, and mounted in light clouds from the wheels powdering
it finer and finer in the street. Along the sidewalks dusty hacks and
carriages were ranged, and others were driving up to let people
dismount at the entrances to the college yard. Within the temporary
picket-fences, secluding a part of the grounds for the students and
their friends, were seen stretching from dormitory to dormitory long
lines of Chinese lanterns, to be lit after nightfall, swung between the
elms. Groups of ladies came and went, nearly always under the escort of
some student; the caterers’ carts, disburdened of their ice-creams and
salads, were withdrawn under the shade in the street, and their
drivers lounged or drowsed upon the seats; now and then a black waiter,
brilliant as a bobolink in his white jacket and apron, appeared on some
errand; the large, mild Cambridge policemen kept the entrances to the
yard with a benevolent vigilance which was not harsh with the little
Irish children coming up from the Marsh in their best to enjoy the sight
of other people’s pleasure.

“Isn’t it a perfect Class Day?” cried young Mavering, as he crossed
Kirkland Street with Miss Pasmer, and glanced down its vaulted
perspective of elms, through which the sunlight broke, and lay in the
road in pools and washes as far as the eye reached. “Did you ever
see anything bluer than the sky to-day? I feel as if we’d ordered the
weather, with the rest of the things, and I had some credit for it as
host. Do make it a little compliment, Miss Pasmer; I assure you I’ll be
very modest about it.”

“Ah, I think it’s fully up to the occasion,” said the girl, catching the
spirit of his amiable satisfaction. “Is it the usual Class Day weather?”

“You spoil everything by asking that,” cried the young man; “it obliges
me to make a confession--it’s always good weather on Class Day. There
haven’t been more than a dozen bad Class Days in the century. But you’ll
admit that there can’t have been a better Class Day than this?”

“Oh yes; it’s certainly the pleasantest Class Day I’ve seen;” said the
girl; and now when Mavering laughed she laughed too.

“Thank you so much for saying that! I hope it will pass off in unclouded
brilliancy; it will, if I can make it. Why, hallo! They’re on the other
side of the street yet, and looking about as if they were lost.”

He pulled his handkerchief from his pocket, and waved it at the others
of their party.

They caught sight of it, and came hurrying over through the dust.

Mrs. Saintsbury said, apparently as the sum of her consultations with
Mrs. Pasmer: “The Tree is to be at half-past five; and after we’ve seen
a few spreads, I’m going to take the ladies hone for a little rest.”

“Oh no; don’t do that,” pleaded the young man. After making this protest
he seemed not to have anything to say immediately in support of it. He
merely added: “This is Miss Pasmer’s first Class Day, and I want her to
see it all.”

“But you’ll have to leave us very soon to get yourself ready for the
Tree,” suggested the Professor’s lady, with a motherly prevision.

“I shall want just fifteen minutes for that.”

“I know, better, Mr. Mavering,” said Mrs. Saintsbury, with finality.
“You will want a good three-quarters of an hour to make yourself as
disreputable as you’ll look at the Tree; and you’ll have to take time
for counsel and meditation. You may stay with us just half an hour, and
then we shall part inexorably. I’ve seen a great many more Class Days
than you have, and I know what they are in their demands upon the
Seniors.”

“Oh; well! Then we won’t think about the time,” said the young man,
starting on with Miss Pasmer.

“Well, don’t undertake too much,” said the lady. She came last in the
little procession, with the elder Mavering, and her husband and Mrs
Pasmer preceded her.

“What?” young Mavering called back, with his smiling face over his
shoulder.

“She says not to bite off more than you can chew,” the professor
answered for her.

Mavering broke into a conscious laugh, but full of delight, and with his
handkerchief to his face had almost missed the greeting of some ladies
who bowed to him. He had to turn round to acknowledge it, and he was
saluting and returning salutations pretty well all along the line of
their progress.

“I’m afraid you’ll think I’m everybody’s friend but my own, Miss Pasmer,
but I assure you all this is purely accidental. I don’t know so
many people, after all; only all that I do know seem to be here this
morning.”

“I don’t think it’s a thing to be sorry for,” said the girl. “I wish we
knew more people. It’s rather forlorn--”

“Oh, will you let me introduce some of the fellows to you? They’ll be so
glad.”

“If you’ll tell them how forlorn I said I was,” said the girl, with a
smile.

“Oh, no, no, no! I understand that. And I assure you that I didn’t
suppose--But of course!” he arrested himself in the superfluous
reassurance he was offering, “All that goes without saying. Only there
are some of the fellows coming back to the law school, and if you’ll
allow me--”

“We shall be very happy indeed, Mr. Mavering,” said Mrs. Pasmer, behind
him.

“Oh, thank you ever so much, Mrs. Pasmer.” This was occasion for another
burst of laughter with him. He seemed filled with the intoxication of
youth, whose spirit was in the bright air of the day and radiant in the
young faces everywhere. The paths intersecting one another between the
different dormitories under the drooping elms were thronged with
people coming and going in pairs and groups; and the academic fete, the
prettiest flower of our tough old Puritan stem, had that charm, at
once sylvan and elegant, which enraptures in the pictured fables of the
Renaissance. It falls at that moment of the year when the old university
town, often so commonplace and sometimes so ugly, becomes briefly and
almost pathetically beautiful under the leafage of her hovering elms and
in, the perfume of her syringas, and bathed in this joyful tide of youth
that overflows her heart. She seems fit then to be the home of the poets
who have loved her and sung her, and the regret of any friend of the
humanities who has left her.

“Alice,” said Mrs. Pasmer, leaning forward a little to speak to her
daughter, and ignoring a remark of the Professor’s, “did you ever see so
many pretty costumes?”

“Never,” said the girl, with equal intensity.

“Well, it makes you feel that you have got a country, after all,” sighed
Mrs. Pasmer, in a sort of apostrophe to her European self. “You see
splendid dressing abroad, but it’s mostly upon old people who ought to
be sick and ashamed of their pomps and vanities. But here it’s the young
girls who dress; and how lovely they are! I thought they were charming
in the Gymnasium, but I see you must get them out-of-doors to have the
full effect. Mr. Mavering, are they always so prettily dressed on Class
Day?”

“Well, I’m beginning to feel as if it wouldn’t be exactly modest for
me to say so, whatever I think. You’d better ask Mrs. Saintsbury; she
pretends to know all about it.”

“No, I’m bound to say they’re not,” said the Professor’s wife candidly.
“Your daughter,” she added, in a low tone for all to hear, “decides that
question.”

“I’m so glad you said that, Mrs. Saintsbury,” said the young man. He
looked at the girl; who blushed with a pleasure that seemed to thrill to
the last fibre of her pretty costume.

She could not say anything, but her mother asked, with an effort at
self-denial: “Do you think so really? It’s one of those London things.
They have so much taste there now,” she added yielding to her own pride
in the dress.

“Yes; I supposed it must be,” said Mrs. Saintsbury, “We used to come in
muslins and tremendous hoops--don’t you remember?”

“Did you look like your photographs?” asked young Mavering, over his
shoulder.

“Yes; but we didn’t know it then,” said the Professor’s wife.

“Neither did we,” said the Professor. “We supposed that there had never
been anything equal to those hoops and white muslins.”

“Thank you, my dear,” said his wife, tapping him between the shoulders
with her fan. “Now don’t go any further.”

“Do you mean about our first meeting here on Class Day?” asked her
husband.

“They’ll think so now,” said Mrs. Saintsbury patiently, with a playful
threat of consequences in her tone.

“When I first saw the present Mrs. Saintsbury,” pursued the
Professor--it was his joking way, of describing her, as if there had
been several other Mrs. Saintsburys--“she was dancing on the green
here.”

“Ah, they don’t dance on the green any more, I hear,” sighed Mrs.
Pasmer.

“No, they don’t,” said the other lady; “and I think it’s just as well.
It was always a ridiculous affectation of simplicity.”

“It must have been rather public,” said young Mavering, in a low voice,
to Miss Pasmer.

“It doesn’t seem as if it could ever have been in character quite,” she
answered.

“We’re a thoroughly indoors people,” said the Professor. “And it seems
as if we hadn’t really begun to get well as a race till we had come in
out of the weather.”

“How can you say that on a day like this?” cried Mrs. Pasmer. “I didn’t
suppose any one could be so unromantic.”

“Don’t flatter him,” cried his wife.

“Does he consider that a compliment?”

“Not personally,” he answered: “But it’s the first duty of a Professor
of Comparative Literature to be unromantic.”

“I don’t understand,” faltered Mrs. Pasmer.

“He will be happy to explain, at the greatest possible length,” said
Mrs. Saintsbury. “But you shan’t spoil our pleasure now, John.”

They all laughed, and the Professor looked proud of the wit at his
expense; the American husband is so, and the public attitude of the
American husband and wife toward each other is apt to be amiably
satirical; their relation seems never to have lost its novelty, or to
lack droll and surprising contrasts for them.

Besides these passages with her husband, Mrs. Saintsbury kept up a full
flow of talk with the elder Mavering, which Mrs. Pasmer did her best to
overhear, for it related largely to his son, whom, it seemed, from the
father’s expressions, the Saintsburys had been especially kind to.

“No, I assure you,” Mrs. Pasmer heard her protest, “Mr. Saintsbury has,
been very much interested in him. I hope he has not put any troublesome
ideas into his head. Of course he’s very much interested in literature,
from his point of view, and he’s glad to find any of the young men
interested in it, and that’s apt to make him overdo matters a little.”

“Dan wished me to talk with him, and I shall certainly be glad to do
so,” said the father, but in a tone which conveyed to Mrs. Pasmer the
impression that though he was always open to conviction, his mind was
made up on this point, whatever it was.




VI.

The party went to half a dozen spreads, some of which were on a scale
of public grandeur approaching that of the Gymnasium, and others of
a subdued elegance befitting the more private hospitalities in the
students’ rooms. Mrs. Pasmer was very much interested in these rooms,
whose luxurious appointments testified to the advance of riches and
of the taste to apply them since she used to visit students’ rooms in
far-off Class Days. The deep window nooks and easy-chairs upholstered
in the leather that seems sacred alike to the seats and the shelves of
libraries; the aesthetic bookcases, low and topped with bric-a-brac; the
etchings and prints on the walls, which the elder Mavering went up to
look at with a mystifying air of understanding such things; the foils
crossed over the chimney, and the mantel with its pipes, and its
photographs of theatrical celebrities tilted about over it--spoke of
conditions mostly foreign to Mrs. Pasmer’s memories of Harvard. The
photographed celebrities seemed to be chosen chiefly for their beauty,
and for as much of their beauty as possible, Mrs. Pasmer perceived, with
an obscure misgiving of the sort which an older generation always likes
to feel concerning the younger, but with a tolerance, too, which was
personal to herself; it was to be considered that the massive thought
and honest amiability of Salvini’s face, and the deep and spiritualized
power of Booth’s, varied the effect of these companies of posturing
nymphs.

At many places she either met old friends with whom she clamoured over
the wonder of their encounter there, or was made acquainted with new
people by the Saintsburys. She kept a mother’s eye on her daughter, to
whom young Mavering presented everybody within hail or reach, and
whom she could see, whenever she looked at her, a radiant centre of
admiration. She could hear her talk sometimes, and she said to herself
that really Alice was coming out; she had never heard her say so many
good things before; she did not know it was in her. She was very
glad then that she had let her wear that dress; it was certainly
distinguished, and the girl carried it off, to her mother’s amusement,
with the air of a superb lady of the period from which it dated. She
thought what a simple child Alice really was, all the time those other
children, the Seniors, were stealing their glances of bold or timid
worship at her, and doubtless thinking her a brilliant woman of the
world. But there could be no mistake that she was a success.

Part of her triumph was of course due to Mrs. Saintsbury; whose
chaperonage; Mrs. Pasmer could see, was everywhere of effect. But it
was also largely due to the vigilant politeness of young Mavering, who
seemed bent on making her have good time, and who let no chance slip
him. Mrs. Pasmer felt his kindness truly; and she did not feel it the
less because she knew that there was but one thing that could, at his
frankly selfish age, make a young fellow wish to make a girl have a
good time; except for that reason he must be bending the whole soul of
egotistic youth to making some other girl have a good time. But all the
same, it gave her pause when some one to whom she was introduced spoke
to her of her friends the Maverings, as if they were friends of the
