
The sailors rendered an account of their expedition, and each
received as a reward a double allowance of brandy, and they were told
that the prisoners they had taken had been tortured and then shot. The
captain asked me particularly concerning Don Toribios, and as I was
able to give him favorable replies, he was greatly rejoiced, and
loaded me with praises.

"You must go on shore to him every morning or afternoon," said he,
"for this man is my best friend. But now go and rest, you seem very
weary; you shall be called when the breakfast is ready." I was indeed
rejoiced to be able to rest. I bandaged my wounds afresh, stretched
myself on my couch, and fell asleep immediately.


V.

After dinner, I was about to go on shore, in accordance with the
captain's orders, when, just as they were letting me down into the
boat, a large vessel appeared in sight. I was immediately assisted to
the mast-head, and commanded to report what vessel it was. I examined
it for a quarter of an hour through my spy-glass, and was at last
convinced that it was a large Dutch merchantman. The captain then had
me brought down, and communicated my discovery to the crew, who
received it with a loud "huzza."

"These Dutchmen," said he, "are rich prizes; they are sure to have
cash on board."

Instantly we weighed anchor, and the chase began. But the Dutchman was
suspicious, and tried every means of avoiding us; it was too late,
however, for we sailed twice as fast as he, and besides had the
advantage of the wind. To deceive him, we hoisted the English flag,
and fired a shot. He then turned towards us. Our captain supposed that
he would offer resistance, and accordingly, when he came within shot,
sent a ball into him from our forty-four pounder, which struck the
water by the side of the vessel, and then hoisted the blood-red pirate
flag.

"Send the captain, with his papers, on board," he shouted through the
speaking trumpet. As the fulfilment of this command seemed tardy to
the pirates, they enforced it by discharging a dozen muskets. This
produced the desired effect; the captain and supercargo immediately
came on board; they were both pale as death, and trembled with fear.
The pirate snatched their papers from them, and threw them to me
saying, "There! translate those things for me." Although I understood
very little Dutch, I managed to make out that the vessel was bound
from Antwerp for some Mexican port, and that it was freighted with
wine, cheese, hams, cloths and linens. The pirate was not a little
rejoiced to hear this, and ordered me to ask the amount of cash on
board. The Dutchman assured us that he had none.

"We will soon see for ourselves!" said the captain, and taking with
him the pilot and four sailors, he went on board of the merchantman.
In half an hour he called out to the schooner to come alongside. This
was done, and the Dutchman was again sent on board of his vessel,
where he was greeted with a blow from the flat of a sword that
stretched him on the deck. The inquiries concerning the money now
began afresh, accompanied by the threats of burning both ship and
crew, if money should actually be found on board. Then the Dutchman
was placed in confinement, while the crew were sent on board the
schooner, and down into the hold. Both ships sailed into the harbour
at sundown, that they might spend the night in safety. I received
permission to retire to the cabin, and there found a neat little
supper that the care of the benevolent cook had provided for me. The
salve that I had prepared for my wounds had an excellent effect, and I
was now quite free from pain.

The next morning the freight of the captured vessel was transferred to
the schooner, and I was again obliged to assist with my small
knowledge of Dutch. After dinner I was sent on shore again, to dress
Don Toribios' wounds. As they were healing rapidly, and the fever had
quite left him, I soon returned, his daughter having presented me with
a box of Havana cigars.

As night had not yet set in, they proceeded vigorously in transferring
the cargo of the Dutchman, and the goods were piled up high on the
deck of the schooner; they were not to be sold, as before, but taken
by a coasting vessel to Havana, and disposed of there. The next
morning the coaster appeared, and the transfer of the cargo began
again. While all were thus busied, the captain drew me aside, and said
to me in an unusually confidential tone, "I must accompany this
coaster some distance; we shall be gone four or five days. Therefore,
go on shore once more, and carry to Don Toribios as much physic as he
will want during this time, but be sure to be back before sunset."

I immediately obeyed, fulfilled my commission, and returned at the
appointed hour; the captain was making merry with the coaster, and as
I would take no part in their excesses, I retired to rest, but could
not sleep. The door of my cabin opened gently, to admit the cook; he
sat down by me, and said as softly as possible:

"While you were on shore to-day, the captain called together the crew,
and told them that during the course of four weeks they had all
learned to know the captive Englishman, and must be aware that he was
most useful in every capacity. 'But,' said the captain, 'he is not to
be trusted; I see that he meditates escape, day and night, and if his
plans should succeed, which is not impossible, the first English
man-of-war that he meets will have the secret of our retreat here, and
all will be over with us. I have, therefore, formed a resolution that
will certainly seem right to you all. We will let him finish the sails
that he is now at work upon, and then get rid of him. Some evening I
will get up a dispute with him; you will gather around us and take
sides, and in the heat of argument I will plunge my knife into his
bosom, and you will finish the business.' The crew consulted together,
and opinion was divided; only a few of the most bloody-minded agreed
to the thought of your murder; at last it was determined to have you
closely watched, and not to allow you to go on shore any more."

"Have it so then," cried the captain, angrily; "you will see what will
come of it."

"Now my friend," concluded the brave fellow, "now you know every
thing. I fear the captain has not given up his intention; therefore,
take your measures accordingly. If I can assist you in carrying out
any plan that you may form, rely upon my desire to serve you. God
grant, that if you escape, I may accompany you."

With these words he bade me good night and left me. What were my
sensations. "Am I then," I said to myself "to be thus cut off in the
midst of my youth? No! I will balk these monsters. I must attempt to
save myself even if the attempt cost me my life." These thoughts
occupied me during the night, and I did not sleep until towards four
o'clock in the morning.


VI.

At sunrise the schooner weighed anchor, in order to accompany the
coaster. Towards noon we discovered an English brig, which proved to
be a merchantman, and the customary pursuit and capture ensued. The
cargo consisted of rum, for the vessel was bound for Liverpool from
Jamaica. The English captain, who was an old acquaintance of mine,
offered to ransom his vessel, and begged me to make the arrangement
for him; this I gladly did, and the brig was ransomed for four hundred
doubloons and eight casks of rum. The Englishman, who had a
considerable amount of cash on board, pressed upon me, at parting,
twenty doubloons.

Towards evening the skies were covered with black clouds; the sea
began to rage, and every thing indicated an approaching storm. We
therefore ran into a little bay, sheltered by high rocks, and passed a
very quiet night, although a fearful storm was raging on the open sea,
and the rain fell in torrents. The next morning we set sail again and
conveyed the coaster almost to the place of her destination. On our
return voyage we captured a French vessel, but it was also ransomed,
and on the evening of the fourth day we reached again our old station,
where the Dutch brig had been left under the command of the pilot. The
Dutch captain and a great part of his crew had accompanied us.

The pirate was very well pleased with his short, profitable trip, and
gave orders to the steward to prepare a magnificent collation, to
which he invited his officers, the Dutch captain, and myself. As it
was too warm in the cabin the table was laid on deck; the steward had
done his best, and when the wine had begun to take effect, the
Dutchman informed me that he had a proposition to make. He spoke in
Dutch, and that no suspicion might be excited, I immediately informed
the captain of what he had said, and offered to carry on the
negociation. This was agreed to, and the Dutchman then informed me
that he had concealed upon his person, a heavy gold chain, a gold
watch set with brilliants, and two diamond rings, and that he would
give them all if the pirate would release his vessel and allow him to
depart, with provisions for eight days. I translated all this to the
captain as well as I could, and his countenance immediately beamed
with the friendliest expression.

"Tell the captain," he replied mildly, "that I accept his offer, and
if he will hand over to me the articles in question, I swear by the
holy virgin, that he shall depart to-morrow morning early, with eight
days' provisions, and sail whither he pleases."

I interpreted this to the captain, who hastened, joyfully, into the
cabin, and returned in a few minutes with the jewels, which he laid
before the captain, on the table.

"Done," said he, reaching his hand and filling his glass; "join me
captain and gentlemen all. By heaven, I will keep my word; you are all
witnesses."

We remained at table until eleven o'clock, when all retired; my
thoughts kept me awake during the whole night. Immediately after
sunrise, the Dutch vessel was supplied with the promised provisions,
besides six casks of water and two of Geneva. The captain took leave
of us all; put several pieces of gold into my hand, and betook himself
on board of his own ship. In half an hour he set sail, and with a
favourable wind was soon out of sight.

Towards eight o'clock, a boat appeared from the shore, and brought two
calves and two sheep, just killed, and a quantity of fowls,
vegetables, and fruit, as a present for the captain, from Don Toribios
and the other officials. They announced their intention, also, of
paying us a visit with their wives, in the afternoon, whereat the
captain was much pleased. Preparations were instantly made for their
reception, and the steward was busy enough; at half-past two the
little fleet appeared, and the guests arrived on board, where they
were served with refreshments. They talked, laughed, joked, played the
guitar, and sang, until near sunset, when the air grew cooler. Then
the seats and benches were cleared away; the old people betook
themselves, with their wine, to the cabin, and the young ones danced
until they were called to supper. The time was passed most pleasantly,
and I almost forgot that I was on board a pirate vessel. Don
Toribios, too, was very friendly, and called out as soon as he saw
me, "Going on excellently! all healed over!" I examined his wounds and
found it actually so. The old gentleman then applied himself
industriously to the wine, and appeared determined to make up for the
abstinence of two weeks. My warning, to be prudent, was not regarded
in the least.

The company found the entertainment so much to their liking that they
remained three hours longer on board than they had at first intended;
the moon was in her first quarter, but shone brighter than even the
full moon in England. A little after nine, the guests took leave of
the captain and entered their boats; the little fleet rowed away in
the glorious moonlight, and every thing was restored to order on board
of the schooner.

The captain was unusually gay and friendly; had three bottles of
Bordeaux brought, and called to me: "Sit down; we will drink another
glass together. Fill for yourself. I see you are a brave, fine fellow,
and if you conduct yourself well, you shall have such wages as you'll
get on no ship of the line, I can tell you. Come, drink; here's to our
noble profession!"

I was obliged to join him, and drank in this way almost a bottle full.
I succeeded, however, in allaying all his suspicion of me. Towards
midnight I threw myself upon my bed, but could not close my eyes, my
thoughts were so busy with plans of escape. Where shall I be, I asked
myself, in one--two weeks--in a month? If my plan succeeds, I shall be
upon my way home; but if not, where then? Of this last alternative I
would not think, and towards two o'clock I fell asleep.


VII.

The next afternoon I sat working at my sails, when a boat with three
negroes in it, pushed off from the shore, and approached the schooner.
The man at the helm had a large basket, covered with black, before
him, and the usually white aprons of the negroes were black. This
indicated a death, and I was very anxious to know which of yesterday's
company had so quickly had their joy turned to mourning; in the
meanwhile the boat arrived, and the chief negro came on board.

"Master dead!" he said, in his broken Spanish. "Don Toribios dead!
last night! Here a letter and presents for Senor captain and Senor
helmsman."

With these words he handed the captain four bundles of Havana cigars,
as many baskets of fruit, and two great pastries, besides four jars of
sweet-meats. This giving of presents is customary in Cuba in case of
any death, and I also received the due proportion of gifts. The negro
was dismissed with a present in money.

When the captain, after dinner, had taken his siesta, he made known to
the crew the death of Don Toribios, and ordered preparations to be
made for paying the last honors to his deceased friend. A hundred
bottles of wine, torches, crape, and whatever else is necessary upon
such occasions, were put into the long-boat, into which the captain
entered, with ten sailors, six musicians, and myself. We found horses
and mules waiting for us on the shore, and we soon reached the house
of death, before which a great many tar barrels were burning, and in
the centre stood a bier, upon which the coffin was placed. A number of
mourners, among whom were twelve or fifteen ladies, now greeted us. We
returned their salutations and entered the brilliantly lighted saloon,
hung with black, where sat the mother and daughter of the dead man,
dressed in the deepest mourning. We expressed our sympathy for them;
refreshments were handed round, and all were provided with torches.
The procession was then arranged. Our sailors carried the coffin; the
musicians commenced a mournful march; the priest, with the choristers,
led the way and the others followed in pairs; the captain conducted
the mother, and I the daughter. Our sailors sent up some rockets, and
at this signal the schooner fired minute guns for a half hour. After
the conclusion of the solemnity, we went to the funeral supper, and
the guests indulged in all kinds of gayety.

Midnight had past, when we broke up; towards two o'clock we got on
board the schooner and retired to rest. The next morning I returned to
my sails, but thought incessantly of my plan for escape, and how it
could be most prudently carried into execution, for the danger of such
an attempt was immense. I believed that I could possess myself of one
of the boats, but where could I find a companion to be depended upon?
Yet such a one was absolutely necessary. I could never row alone for
five or six leagues, which was the shortest distance that would place
me out of reach of the pirates. Whether I should confide in the
steward, I could not exactly decide. Imagine my astonishment when the
honest fellow came to me while the captain was taking his afternoon's
nap in the cabin, and began gently to whisper in my ear.

"My friend, we must fly. In a few days there will be horrible work on
board here; a new conspiracy has been formed against the captain, and
his death is inevitable. We must seize the first opportunity to get
away. I know these waters well, for I was born upon the Cuban coast.
You know that quantities of fishing boats come every evening to
exchange their fish for brandy, and their owners often remain all
night on board, while their boats are floating by the side of the
vessel. My plan is to get into one of these about midnight, and trust
ourselves to the wind and the current, until the next morning, when we
can find our way to Havana."

"Well, my honest friend," I replied, "I agree with you entirely; in
this way we cannot fail to succeed. We will, therefore, hold ourselves
in readiness any day, and God will not forsake us in our hour of
need."

Thus we separated.

When the captain awoke he complained of violent pain in his limbs, and
I saw clearly that a fever had attacked him. With his consent, I
opened a vein and took from him thirteen ounces of blood. His bed was
placed on the forward deck, and an awning spread above it, for the
cabin was too close and hot. I left him for the night and prescribed
almond milk and orange flower water.


VIII.

It was about sunset, the weather was sultry, and towards the south
masses of clouds were forming, which betokened a storm. The sea, too,
began to be disturbed. Two fishing boats, that had ventured too far
into the open sea, came alongside and asked to be allowed to lodge on
board for the night. The lieutenant granted their request, after
conferring with the captain, and told them to make fast their boats to
the stern of the vessel. They did so, and came on board, bringing with
them a large basket of the fish that they had caught.

After they had presented the captain and lieutenant with the two
finest fish in their basket, they exchanged the rest for rum and
brandy.

They took two of the dozen great bottles they received to treat the
crew with. The captain, who had no appetite, gave up his fish to the
crew, and the lieutenant invited his comrades and me to share his with
him.

When the steward came to receive the fish, I said to him, with
peculiar emphasis: "Well, steward! now or never! display your art!"

He understood me perfectly.

"Yes, indeed, Senor," he replied, significantly, "I will make an
English sauce for the gentlemen, such as they cannot find in all
Havana."

He went out, and I went to inquire after the captain.

"I feel much better," he replied to my inquiries; "only give me
something strengthening."

I retired to the cabin, wrote down what I wanted upon a card, and
sent it to the steward. I soon received two dozen oranges and sweet
lemons, a great bottle of Canary, half a loaf of bread, a pound of
sugar, three spoons full of East India cinnamon, and a bottle of old
Malaga wine. From these I prepared most artistically, a strong,
delicious drink. I mixed with it, finally, one hundred and fifty drops
of opium that I took from the medicine chest. The dose was rather
large, but I had to do, not with men, but with beasts. After I had
poured it all into a large bowl, I carried it to the captain, who
immediately took ten or twelve spoons full of it, and was quite
delighted; I told him that he might drink as much of it as he
pleased.

"Well," he said, kindly, "since you are so skilful, go and get two
dozen bottles of Bordeaux; you can share them with the officers."

I thanked him and turned to go.

"Stop!" he cried, "if I am well my men shall feel well too; they have
been grumbling for several days; I'll moisten their throats with rum;
we're perfectly safe here; tell the steward to roll a barrel on deck;
they shall drink until they can't stand."

The storm had, in the meantime, blown over; the sea was placid, and
the full moon was rising gloriously. The table was already spread; I
hastened to the cabin, taking with me the laudanum bottle from the
medicine chest, out of which I poured a stupefying dose into the
rum-cask and into every bottle of Bordeaux, except the one destined
for my own use, which I marked by a cut in the cork. Then I gave the
captain's orders to the steward, who immediately obeyed them, and the
crew expressed their gratitude by three cheers and a "Long live the
captain!"

I now placed the bottles of Bordeaux upon the table so that the one I
had marked stood by my plate. Eight o'clock struck during these
preparations; supper was brought and we immediately took our places.
The crew lay about on the deck, and seemed very good humored. When the
keenness of their appetite was appeased, they began to drink, and the
officers broke the necks of the bottles of Bordeaux.

I did not neglect the captain meanwhile; he was very well content, for
he had already emptied half the bowl. I perceived that the laudanum
was taking effect upon all, and when I returned to the officers I
found them all very much excited. They were relating their various
exploits so noisily that scarcely a word could be heard. On deck the
wildest confusion reigned, and the sailors were shouting their
horrible pirate songs. The noise lasted about a half an hour and then
grew fainter and fainter till it ceased entirely; the opium had done
its duty; all lay buried in profound slumber, just where they had been
drinking.

The steward and I delayed not an instant in taking advantage of this
favourable moment. We immediately put into one of the fishing boats, a
