'While I live, you are safe,' he said.

'Am I afraid? Go quickly,' she answered.

At that time the Sultan of Nejed was at war with the northern tribes of
Shammar, and the enemy had taken advantage of the month of Ramadhan, in
which few persons travel, to advance in great numbers to Riad. During
the three days' feast of Bairam they had moved on every night, slaying
the inhabitants of the villages so that not one had escaped to bring the
news, and in the daytime they had hidden themselves wherever they could
find shelter. But in the night in which Khaled and Zehowah were married
they reached the very walls of the city, and waiting until all the
people were asleep, a party of them had climbed up upon the ramparts and
had opened one of the gates to their companions after killing the
guards.

Khaled found his mare and mounted her without saddle or bridle in his
haste, then drawing his sabre he rode swiftly out of the palace into the
confusion. The enemy with their long spears were driving the
panicstricken guards and the shrieking people before them towards the
palace, slaughtering all whom they overtook, so that the gutters of the
streets were already flowing with blood, and the horses of the enemy
stumbled over the bodies of the defenders. The whole multitude of the
pursued and the pursuers were just breaking out of the principal street
into the open space before the palace when Khaled met them, a single man
facing ten thousand.

'I shall certainly perish in this fight,' he said to himself, 'and yet I
shall not receive the reward of the faithful, since Allah has not given
me a soul. Nevertheless certain of these dogs shall eat dirt before the
rest get into the palace.'

So he pressed his legs to the bare sides of his mare and lifted up his
sword and rode at the foe, having neither buckler, nor helmet, nor shirt
of mail to protect him, but only his clothes and his turban. But his arm
was strong, and it has been said by the wise that it is better to fall
upon an old lion with a reed than to stand armed in the way of a man who
seeks death.

'Yallah! The Sword of the Lord!' shouted Khaled, in such a terrible
voice that the assailants ceased to kill for a moment, and the terrified
guards turned to see whence so great a voice could proceed; and some who
had seen Khaled recognised him and ran to meet him, and the others
followed.

When the enemy saw a single man riding towards them across the great
square before the palace, they sent up a shout of derision, and turned
again to the slaughter of such of the inhabitants as could not extricate
themselves.

'Shall one man stop an army?' they said. 'Shall a fox turn back a herd
of hy√¶nas?'

But when Khaled was among them they found less matter for laughter. For
the sword was keen, the mare was swift to double and turn, and Khaled's
hand was strong. In the twinkling of an eye two of the enemy lay dead,
the one cloven to the chin, the other headless.

Then a strange fever seized Khaled, such as he had not heard of, and all
things turned to scarlet before his eyes, both the walls of the houses,
and the faces and the garments of his foes. Men who saw him say that his
face was white and shining in the dawn, and that the flashing of the
sword was like a storm of lightning about his head, and after each flash
there was a great rain of blood, and a crashing like thunder as the
horses and men of the enemy fell to the earth.

In the meantime, too, the soldiers of the city and the Bedouins of the
desert who were within the walls for the feast, took courage, and
turning fiercely began to drive the assailants back by the way they had
come, towards the market-place in the bazar. But those behind still kept
pressing forward, while those in front were driven back, and the press
became so great that the Shammars could no longer wield their weapons.
The enemy were crowded together like sheep in a fold, and Khaled, with
his men, began to cut a broad road through the very midst of them,
hewing them down in ranks and throwing them aside, as corn is harvested
in Egypt.

But after some time Khaled saw that he was alone, with a few followers,
surrounded by a great throng of the enemy, for some of his men had been
slain after slaying many of their foes, and some had not been able to
follow, being hindered at first by the heaps of dead and afterwards by
the multitude of their opponents who closed in again over the bloody way
through which Khaled had passed.

And now the Shammars saw that Khaled could not escape them, and they
pressed him on every side, but the archers dared not shoot at him for
fear of hitting their own friends, if their arrows chanced to go by the
mark. Otherwise he would undoubtedly have perished, since he had no
armour, and not even a buckler with which to ward off the darts. But
they thrust at him with spears and struck at him with their swords, and
wounded him more than once, though he was not conscious of pain or loss
of blood, being hot with the fever of the fight. He was hard pressed
therefore, and while he smote without ceasing he began to know that
unless a speedy rescue came to him, his hour was at hand. From the
borders of the market-place, the men of Riad could still see his sword
flashing and striking, and they still heard his fierce cry.

He looked about him as he fought, and he saw that he was now almost
alone. One after another, the few who had penetrated so far forward with
him into the press, were overwhelmed by numbers and fell bleeding from a
hundred wounds till only a score were left, and Khaled saw that unless
he could now cut his way free, he must inevitably perish. But the press
was stubborn and a man might as well hope to make his way through a herd
of camels crowded together in a narrow street. Then Khaled bethought him
of a stratagem. He alone was on horseback, for the enemy's riders had
ridden before, and he had met them in the street leading to the palace,
when he had himself slain many, and where the rest were even now falling
under the swords of the men of Riad. And the few men who were with him
were also all on foot. Therefore looking across the market-place he made
as though he saw a great force coming to his assistance, and he shouted
with all his breath, while his arm never rested.

'Smite, men of Nejed!' he cried. 'For I see the Sultan himself coming to
meet us with five hundred horsemen! Smite! Yallah! It is the Sword of
the Lord!'

Hearing these words, his men were encouraged, and of the enemy many
turned their heads to see the new danger. But being on foot they were
hindered from seeing by the throng. Yet so much the more Khaled shouted
that the Sultan was coming, and many of the heads that turned to look
were not turned back again, but rolled down to the feet of those to
whom they had belonged. The brave men who were with Khaled took heart
and hewed with all their might, taking up the cry of their leader when
they saw that it disconcerted their foes, so that the last took fright,
and the panic ran through the whole multitude.

'We shall be slain like sheep, and taken like locusts under a mantle,
for we cannot move!' they cried, and they began to press away out of the
market-place, forcing their comrades before them into the narrow
streets.

But here many perished. For while every man in Riad had taken his sword
and had gone out of his house to fight, the women had dragged up
cauldrons of boiling water, and also hand-mill stones, to the roofs, and
they scalded and crushed their retreating foes. Then too, as the
market-place was cleared, the soldiers came on from the side of the
palace, having slain all that stood in their way and taken most of their
horses alive, which alone was a great booty, for there are not many
horses in Nejed besides those of the Sultan, though these are the very
best and fleetest in all Arabia. But the Shammars of the north are great
horse-breeders. So the soldiers mounted and joined Khaled in the
pursuit, and a great slaughter followed in the streets, though some of
the enemy were able to escape to the gates, and warn those of their
fellows who were outside to flee to the hills for safety, leaving much
booty behind.

At the time of the second call to prayer Khaled dismounted from his mare
in the market-place, and there was not one of the enemy left alive
within the walls. Those who remember that day say that there were five
thousand dead in the streets in Riad.

Khaled made such ablution as he could, and having prayed and given
thanks to Allah, he went back on foot to the palace, his bay mare
following him, and thrusting her nose into his hand as he walked. For
she was little hurt, and the blood that covered her shoulders and her
flanks was not her own. But Khaled had many wounds on him, so that his
companions wondered how he was able to walk.

In the court of the palace the Sultan came to meet him, and fell upon
his neck and embraced him, for many messengers had come, from time to
time, telling how the fight went, and of the great slaughter. And Khaled
smiled, for he thought that he should now win the love of Zehowah.

'Said I not truly that he is as brave as the lion, and as strong as the
camel?' cried the Sultan, addressing those who stood in the court. 'Has
he not scattered our enemies as the wind scatters the sand? Surely he is
well called by the name Khaled.'

'Forget not your own men,' Khaled answered, 'for they have shared in the
danger and have slain more than I, and deserve the spoil. There was a
score of stout fellows with me at the last in the market-place, whose
faces I should know again on a cloudy night. They fought as well as I,
and it was the will of Allah that their enemies should broil
everlastingly and drink boiling water. Let them be rewarded.'

'They shall every one have a rich garment and a sum of money, besides
their share of the spoil. But as for you, my beloved son, go in and
rest, and bind up your wounds, and afterwards there shall be feasting
and merriment until the night.'

'The enemy is not destroyed yet,' answered Khaled. 'Command rather that
the army make ready for the pursuit, and when I have washed I will arm
myself and we will ride out and pursue the dogs until not one of them is
left alive, and by the help of Allah we will take all Shammar and lay it
under tribute and bring back the women captive. After that we shall
feast more safely, and sleep without fear of being waked by a herd of
hy√¶nas in our streets.'

'Nay, but you must rest before going upon this expedition,' objected the
Sultan.

'The true believer will find rest in the grave, and feasting in
paradise,' answered Khaled.

'This is true. But even the camel must eat and drink on the journey, or
both he and his master will perish.'

'Let us then eat and drink quickly, that we may the sooner go.'

'As you will, let it be,' said the Sultan, with a sigh, for he loved
feasting and music, being now too old to go out and fight himself as he
had formerly done.

Thereupon Khaled went into the harem and returned to Zehowah's
apartment. As he went the women gathered round him with cries of
gladness and songs of triumph, staunching the blood that flowed from his
wounds with their veils and garments as he walked. And others ran before
to prepare the bath and to tell Zehowah of his coming.

When she saw him she ran forward and took him by the hands and led him
in, and herself she bathed his wounds and bound them up with precious
balsams of great healing power, not suffering any of the women to help
her nor to touch him, but sending them away so that she might be alone
with Khaled.

'I have slain certain of your enemies, Zehowah,' he said, at last, 'and
I have driven out the rest from the city.' As yet neither of them had
spoken.

'Do you think that I have not heard what you have done?' Zehowah asked.
'You have saved us all from death and captivity. You are our father and
our mother. And now I will bring you food and drink and afterwards you
shall sleep.'

'So you are well pleased with the doings of the husband you have
married,' he said.

He was displeased, for he had supposed that she would love him for his
deeds and for his wounds and that she would speak differently. But
though she tended him and bound his wounds, and bathed his brow with
perfumed waters, and laid pillows under his head and fanned him, as a
slave might have done, he saw that there was no warmth in her cheek, and
that the depths of her eyes were empty, and that her hands were neither
hot nor cold. By all these signs he knew that she felt no love for him,
so he spoke coldly to her.

'Is it for me to be pleased or displeased with the deeds of my lord and
master?' she asked. 'Nevertheless, thousands are even now blessing your
name and returning thanks to Allah for having sent them a preserver in
the hour of danger. I am but one of them.'

'I would rather see a faint light in your eyes, as of a star rising in
the desert than hear the blessings of all the men of Nejed. I would
rather that your hand were cold when it touches mine, and your cheek hot
when I kiss it, than that your father should bestow upon me all the
treasures of Riad.'

'Is that love?' asked Zehowah with a laugh. 'A cold hand, a hot cheek, a
bright eye?'

Khaled was silent, for he saw that she understood his words but not his
meaning. It was now noon and it was very hot, even in the inner shade of
the harem, and Khaled was glad to rest after the hard fighting, for his
many slight wounds smarted with the healing balsam, and his heart was
heavy and discontented.

Then Zehowah called a slave woman to fan him with a palm leaf, and
presently she brought him meat and rice and dates to eat, and cool drink
in a golden cup, and she sat at his feet while he refreshed himself.

'How many did you slay with your own hand?' she asked at last, taking up
the good sword which lay beside him on the carpet.




CHAPTER IV


Khaled pondered deeply, being uncertain what to do, and trying to find
out some action which could win for him what he wanted. Zehowah received
no answer to her question as to the number of enemies he had slain and
she did not ask again, for she thought that he was weary and wished to
rest in silence.

'What do you like best in the whole world?' he asked after a long time,
to see what she would say.

'I like you best,' she answered, smiling, while she still played with
his sword.

'That is very strange,' Khaled answered, musing. But the colour rose
darkly in his cheeks above his beard, for he was pleased now as he had
been displeased before.

'Why is it strange?' asked Zehowah. 'Are you not the palm tree in my
plain, and a tower of refuge for my people?'

'And will you dry up the well from which the tree draws life, and take
away the corner-stone of the tower's foundation?'

'You speak in fables,' said Zehowah, laughing.

'Yet you imagined the fable yourself, when you likened me to a palm and
to a tower. But I am no lover of allegories. The sword is my argument,
and my wit is in my arm. The wall by the tree is the wall of love, and
the chief foundation of the tower is the love of Zehowah. If you destroy
that, the tree will wither and the tower will fall.'

'Surely there was never such a man as you,' Zehowah answered, half
jesting but half in earnest. 'You are as one who has bought a white
mare; and though she is fleet, and good to look at, and obedient to his
voice and knee, yet he is discontented because she cannot speak to him,
and he would fain have her black instead of white, and if possible would
teach her to sing like a Persian nightingale.'

'Is it then not natural in a woman to love man? Have you heard no tales
of love from the story-tellers of the harem?'

'I have heard many such tales, but none of them were told of me,'
Zehowah replied. 'Will you drink again? Is the drink too sweet, or is it
not cool?'

She had risen from her seat and held the golden cup, bending down to
him, so that her face was near his. He laid his hand upon her shoulder.

'Hear me, Zehowah,' he said. 'I want but one thing in the world, and it
was for that I came out of the Red Desert to be your husband. And that
thing I will have, though the price be greater than rubies, or than
blood, or than life itself.'

'If it is mine, I freely give it to you. If it is not mine, take it by
force, or I will help you to take it by a stratagem, if I can. Am I not
your wife?'

She spoke thus, supposing from his face that he meant some treasure that
could be taken by strength or by wile, for she could not believe a man
could speak so seriously of a mere thought such as love.

'Neither my right hand nor your wit can give me this, but only your
heart, Zehowah,' he answered, still holding her and looking at her.

But now she did not laugh, for she saw that he was greatly in earnest.

'You are still talking of love,' she said. 'And you are not jesting. I
do not know what to answer you. Gladly will I say, I love you. Is that
all? What is it else? Are those the words?'

'I care little for the words. But I will have the reality, though it
cost your life and mine.'

'My life? Will you take my life, for the sake of a thought?'

'A thought!' he exclaimed. 'Do you call love a thought? I had not
believed a woman could be so cold as that.'

'If not a thought, what then? I have spoken the truth. If it were a
treasure, or anything that can be taken, you could take it, and I could
help you. But if the possibility of possessing it lie not in deeds, it
lies in thoughts, and is itself a thought. If you can teach me, I will
think what you will; but if you cannot teach me, who shall? And how will
it profit you to take my life or your own?'

'Is it possible that love is only a thought?' asked Khaled, speaking
rather to himself than to her.

'It must be,' she answered. 'The body is what it is in the eyes of
others, but the soul is what it thinks itself to be, happy or unhappy,
loving or not loving.'

'You are too subtle for me, Zehowah,' Khaled said. 'Yet I know that this
is not all true.'

For he knew that he possessed no soul, and yet he loved her. Moreover he
could think himself happy or unhappy.

'You are too subtle,' he repeated. 'I will take my sword again and I
will go out and fight, and pursue the enemy and waste their country, for
it is not so hard to cut through steel as to touch the heart of a woman
who does not love, and it is easier to tear down towers and strongholds
of stone with the naked hands than to build a temple upon the moving
sand of an empty heart.'

Khaled would have risen at once, but Zehowah took his hand and entreated
him to stay with her.

'Will you go out in the heat of the day, wounded and wearied?' she
asked. 'Surely you will take a fever and die before you have followed
the Shammars so far as two days' journey.'

'My wounds are slight, and I am not weary,' Khaled answered. 'When the
smith has heated the iron in the forge, does he wait until it is cold
before striking?'

'But think also of the soldiers, who have striven hard, and cannot thus
go out upon a great expedition without preparation as well as rest.'

'I will take those whom I can find. And if they will go with me, it is
well. But if not, I will go alone, and they and the rest will follow
after.'

'It is summer, too,' said Zehowah, keeping him back. 'Is this a time to
go out into the northern desert? Both men and beasts will perish by the
way.'

'Has not Allah bound every man's fate about his neck? And can a man cast
it from him?'

'I know not otherwise, but if heat and hunger and thirst do not kill the
men, they will certainly destroy the beasts, whose names are not
