“I never heard such an infamous name! Nobody can ever call a person
that--a person they love. I wouldn’t call an enemy by such a name.
It sounds like an epithet.” After a moment, she added with a kind of
consternation, “Why, it would be my name! Letters would come with it
on.”

“Yes--Mrs. Spinal Meningitis Snodgrass.”

“Don’t repeat it--don’t; I can’t bear it. Was the father a lunatic?”

“No, that is not charged.”

“I am glad of that, because that is transmissible. What do you think was
the matter with him, then?”

“Well, I don’t really know. The family used to run a good deal to
idiots, and so, maybe--”

“Oh, there isn’t any maybe about it. This one was an idiot.”

“Well, yes--he could have been. He was suspected.”

“Suspected!” said Sally, with irritation. “Would one suspect there was
going to be a dark time if he saw the constellations fall out of the
sky? But that is enough about the idiot, I don’t take any interest in
idiots; tell me about the son.”

“Very well, then, this one was the eldest, but not the favorite. His
brother, Zylobalsamum--”

“Wait--give me a chance to realize that. It is perfectly stupefying.
Zylo--what did you call it?”

“Zylobalsamum.”

“I never heard such a name: It sounds like a disease. Is it a disease?”

“No, I don’t think it’s a disease. It’s either Scriptural or--”

“Well, it’s not Scriptural.”

“Then it’s anatomical. I knew it was one or the other. Yes, I remember,
now, it is anatomical. It’s a ganglion--a nerve centre--it is what is
called the zylobalsamum process.”

“Well, go on; and if you come to any more of them, omit the names; they
make one feel so uncomfortable.”

“Very well, then. As I said, this one was not a favorite in the family,
and so he was neglected in every way, never sent to school, always
allowed to associate with the worst and coarsest characters, and so of
course he has grown up a rude, vulgar, ignorant, dissipated ruffian,
and--”

“He? It’s no such thing! You ought to be more generous than to make such
a statement as that about a poor young stranger who--who--why, he is the
very opposite of that! He is considerate, courteous, obliging, modest,
gentle, refined, cultivated-oh, for shame! how can you say such things
about him?”

“I don’t blame you, Sally--indeed I haven’t a word of blame for you for
being blinded by--your affection--blinded to these minor defects which
are so manifest to others who--”

“Minor defects? Do you call these minor defects? What are murder and
arson, pray?”

“It is a difficult question to answer straight off--and of course
estimates of such things vary with environment. With us, out our way,
they would not necessarily attract as much attention as with you, yet
they are often regarded with disapproval--”

“Murder and arson are regarded with disapproval?”

“Oh, frequently.”

“With disapproval. Who are those Puritans you are talking about? But
wait--how did you come to know so much about this family? Where did you
get all this hearsay evidence?”

“Sally, it isn’t hearsay evidence. That is the serious part of it. I
knew that family--personally.”

This was a surprise.

“You? You actually knew them?”

“Knew Zylo, as we used to call him, and knew his father, Dr. Snodgrass.
I didn’t know your own Snodgrass, but have had glimpses of him from time
to time, and I heard about him all the time. He was the common talk, you
see, on account of his--”

“On account of his not being a house-burner or an assassin, I suppose.
That would have made him commonplace. Where did you know these people?”

“In Cherokee Strip.”

“Oh, how preposterous! There are not enough people in Cherokee Strip to
give anybody a reputation, good or bad. There isn’t a quorum. Why the
whole population consists of a couple of wagon loads of horse thieves.”

Hawkins answered placidly--

“Our friend was one of those wagon loads.”

Sally’s eyes burned and her breath came quick and fast, but she kept a
fairly good grip on her anger and did not let it get the advantage of
her tongue. The statesman sat still and waited for developments. He was
content with his work. It was as handsome a piece of diplomatic art as
he had ever turned out, he thought; and now, let the girl make her own
choice. He judged she would let her spectre go; he hadn’t a doubt of it
in fact; but anyway, let the choice be made, and he was ready to ratify
it and offer no further hindrance.

Meantime Sally had thought her case out and made up her mind. To the
major’s disappointment the verdict was against him. Sally said:

“He has no friend but me, and I will not desert him now. I will not
marry him if his moral character is bad; but if he can prove that it
isn’t, I will--and he shall have the chance. To me he seems utterly
good and dear; I’ve never seen anything about him that looked
otherwise--except, of course, his calling himself an earl’s son. Maybe
that is only vanity, and no real harm, when you get to the bottom of it.
I do not believe he is any such person as you have painted him. I want
to see him. I want you to find him and send him to me. I will implore
him to be honest with me, and tell me the whole truth, and not be
afraid.”

“Very well; if that is your decision I will do it. But Sally, you know,
he’s poor, and--”

“Oh, I don’t care anything about that. That’s neither here nor there.
Will you bring him to me?”

“I’ll do it. When?--”

“Oh, dear, it’s getting toward dark, now, and so you’ll have to put
it off till morning. But you will find him in the morning, won’t you?
Promise.”

“I’ll have him here by daylight.”

“Oh, now you’re your own old self again--and lovelier than ever!”

“I couldn’t ask fairer than that. Good-bye, dear.”

Sally mused a moment alone, then said earnestly, “I love him in spite of
his name!” and went about her affairs with a light heart.





CHAPTER XXV.

Hawkins went straight to the telegraph office and disburdened his
conscience. He said to himself, “She’s not going to give this galvanized
cadaver up, that’s plain. Wild horses can’t pull her away from him. I’ve
done my share; it’s for Sellers to take an innings, now.” So he sent
this message to New York:

“Come back. Hire special train. She’s going to marry the materializee.”

Meantime a note came to Rossmore Towers to say that the Earl of Rossmore
had just arrived from England, and would do himself the pleasure of
calling in the evening. Sally said to herself, “It is a pity he didn’t
stop in New York; but it’s no matter; he can go up to-morrow and see my
father. He has come over here to tomahawk papa, very likely--or buy out
his claim. This thing would have excited me, a while back; but it
has only one interest for me now, and only one value. I can say
to--to--Spine, Spiny, Spinal--I don’t like any form of that name!--I can
say to him to-morrow, ‘Don’t try to keep it up any more, or I shall have
to tell you whom I have been talking with last night, and then you will
be embarrassed.’”

Tracy couldn’t know he was to be invited for the morrow, or he might
have waited. As it was, he was too miserable to wait any longer; for his
last hope--a letter--had failed him. It was fully due to-day; it had
not come. Had his father really flung him away? It looked so. It was not
like his father, but it surely looked so. His father was a rather
tough nut, in truth, but had never been so with his son--still, this
implacable silence had a calamitous look. Anyway, Tracy would go to
the Towers and --then what? He didn’t know; his head was tired out with
thinking--he wouldn’t think about what he must do or say--let it
all take care of itself. So that he saw Sally once more, he would be
satisfied, happen what might; he wouldn’t care.

He hardly knew how he got to the Towers, or when. He knew and cared for
only one thing--he was alone with Sally. She was kind, she was gentle,
there was moisture in her eyes, and a yearning something in her face and
manner which she could not wholly hide--but she kept her distance. They
talked. Bye and bye she said--watching his downcast countenance out of
the corner of her eye--

“It’s so lonesome--with papa and mamma gone. I try to read, but I can’t
seem to get interested in any book. I try the newspapers, but they
do put such rubbish in them. You take up a paper and start to read
something you thinks interesting, and it goes on and on and on about how
somebody--well, Dr. Snodgrass, for instance--”

Not a movement from Tracy, not the quiver of a muscle. Sally was amazed
--what command of himself he must have! Being disconcerted, she paused
so long that Tracy presently looked up wearily and said:

“Well?”

“Oh, I thought you were not listening. Yes, it goes on and on about
this Doctor Snodgrass, till you are so tired, and then about his younger
son--the favorite son--Zylobalsamum Snodgrass--”

Not a sign from Tracy, whose head was drooping again. What supernatural
self-possession! Sally fixed her eye on him and began again, resolved
to blast him out of his serenity this time if she knew how to apply the
dynamite that is concealed in certain forms of words when those words
are properly loaded with unexpected meanings.

“And next it goes on and on and on about the eldest son--not the
favorite, this one--and how he is neglected in his poor barren boyhood,
and allowed to grow up unschooled, ignorant, coarse, vulgar, the comrade
of the community’s scum, and become in his completed manhood a rude,
profane, dissipated ruffian--”

That head still drooped! Sally rose, moved softly and solemnly a step or
two, and stood before Tracy--his head came slowly up, his meek eyes met
her intense ones--then she finished with deep impressiveness--

“--named Spinal Meningitis Snodgrass!”

Tracy merely exhibited signs of increased fatigue. The girl was outraged
by this iron indifference and callousness, and cried out--

“What are you made of?”

“I? Why?”

“Haven’t you any sensitiveness? Don’t these things touch any poor
remnant of delicate feeling in you?”

“N--no,” he said wonderingly, “they don’t seem to. Why should they?”

“O, dear me, how can you look so innocent, and foolish, and good, and
empty, and gentle, and all that, right in the hearing of such things as
those! Look me in the eye--straight in the eye. There, now then, answer
me without a flinch. Isn’t Doctor Snodgrass your father, and isn’t
Zylobalsamum your brother,” [here Hawkins was about to enter the room,
but changed his mind upon hearing these words, and elected for a walk
down town, and so glided swiftly away], “and isn’t your name Spinal
Meningitis, and isn’t your father a doctor and an idiot, like all the
family for generations, and doesn’t he name all his children after
poisons and pestilences and abnormal anatomical eccentricities of the
human body? Answer me, some way or somehow--and quick. Why do you sit
there looking like an envelope without any address on it and see me
going mad before your face with suspense!”

“Oh, I wish I could do--do--I wish I could do something, anything that
would give you peace again and make you happy; but I know of nothing--I
know of no way. I have never heard of these awful people before.”

“What? Say it again!”

“I have never--never in my life till now.”

“Oh, you do look so honest when you say that! It must be true--surely
you couldn’t look that way, you wouldn’t look that way if it were not
true--would you?”

“I couldn’t and wouldn’t. It is true. Oh, let us end this
suffering--take me back into your heart and confidence--”

“Wait--one more thing. Tell me you told that falsehood out of mere
vanity and are sorry for it; that you’re not expecting to ever wear the
coronet of an earl--”

“Truly I am cured--cured this very day--I am not expecting it!”

“O, now you are mine! I’ve got you back in the beauty and glory of your
unsmirched poverty and your honorable obscurity, and nobody shall ever
take you from me again but the grave! And if--”

“De earl of Rossmore, fum Englan’!”

“My father!” The young man released the girl and hung his head.

The old gentleman stood surveying the couple--the one with a strongly
complimentary right eye, the other with a mixed expression done with the
left. This is difficult, and not often resorted to. Presently his face
relaxed into a kind of constructive gentleness, and he said to his son:

“Don’t you think you could embrace me, too?”

The young man did it with alacrity. “Then you are the son of an earl,
after all,” said Sally, reproachfully.

“Yes, I--”

“Then I won’t have you!”

“O, but you know--”

“No, I will not. You’ve told me another fib.”

“She’s right. Go away and leave us. I want to talk with her.”

Berkeley was obliged to go. But he did not go far. He remained on the
premises. At midnight the conference between the old gentleman and
the young girl was still going blithely on, but it presently drew to a
close, and the former said:

“I came all the way over here to inspect you, my dear, with the general
idea of breaking off this match if there were two fools of you, but as
there’s only one, you can have him if you’ll take him.”

“Indeed I will, then! May I kiss you?”

“You may. Thank you. Now you shall have that privilege whenever you are
good.”

Meantime Hawkins had long ago returned and slipped up into the
laboratory. He was rather disconcerted to find his late invention,
Snodgrass, there. The news was told him that the English Rossmore was
come.

--“And I’m his son, Viscount Berkeley, not Howard Tracy any more.”

Hawkins was aghast. He said:

“Good gracious, then you’re dead!”

“Dead?”

“Yes you are--we’ve got your ashes.”

“Hang those ashes, I’m tired of them; I’ll give them to my father.”

Slowly and painfully the statesman worked the truth into his head that
this was really a flesh and blood young man, and not the insubstantial
resurrection he and Sellers had so long supposed him to be. Then he said
with feeling--

“I’m so glad; so glad on Sally’s account, poor thing. We took you for
a departed materialized bank thief from Tahlequah. This will be a heavy
blow to Sellers.” Then he explained the whole matter to Berkeley, who
said:

“Well, the Claimant must manage to stand the blow, severe as it is. But
he’ll get over the disappointment.”

“Who--the colonel? He’ll get over it the minute he invents a new
miracle to take its place. And he’s already at it by this time. But look
here--what do you suppose became of the man you’ve been representing all
this time?”

“I don’t know. I saved his clothes--it was all I could do. I am afraid
he lost his life.”

“Well, you must have found twenty or thirty thousand dollars in those
clothes, in money or certificates of deposit.”

“No, I found only five hundred and a trifle. I borrowed the trifle and
banked the five hundred.”

“What’ll we do about it?”

“Return it to the owner.”

“It’s easy said, but not easy to manage. Let’s leave it alone till we
get Sellers’s advice. And that reminds me. I’ve got to run and meet
Sellers and explain who you are not and who you are, or he’ll come
thundering in here to stop his daughter from marrying a phantom.
But--suppose your father came over here to break off the match?”

“Well, isn’t he down stairs getting acquainted with Sally? That’s all
safe.”

So Hawkins departed to meet and prepare the Sellerses.

Rossmore Towers saw great times and late hours during the succeeding
week. The two earls were such opposites in nature that they fraternized
at once. Sellers said privately that Rossmore was the most extraordinary
character he had ever met--a man just made out of the condensed milk of
human kindness, yet with the ability to totally hide the fact from any
but the most practised character-reader; a man whose whole being was
sweetness, patience and charity, yet with a cunning so profound, an
ability so marvelous in the acting of a double part, that many a person
of considerable intelligence might live with him for centuries and never
suspect the presence in him of these characteristics.

Finally there was a quiet wedding at the Towers, instead of a big one
at the British embassy, with the militia and the fire brigades and the
temperance organizations on hand in torchlight procession, as at first
proposed by one of the earls. The art-firm and Barrow were present at
the wedding, and the tinner and Puss had been invited, but the tinner
was ill and Puss was nursing him--for they were engaged.

The Sellerses were to go to England with their new allies for a brief
visit, but when it was time to take the train from Washington, the
colonel was missing.

Hawkins was going as far as New York with the party, and said he would
explain the matter on the road.
