for Fred, I don't know what would have happened."

The coat was carefully removed, and it was found that the chief damage
had been to the white dress. The little girl's injuries were of small
account.

Fortunately there was a physician present, who took Rose in hand, and
did what was needed to relieve her.

"It is a miracle that she was saved, Mr. Wainwright," he said. "But for
this brave boy----"

"Hush, doctor, I cannot bear to think of it," said Mr. Wainwright with
a shudder. "I can never forget what you have done for me and mine," he
added, turning to Fred, and wringing his hand. "I won't speak of it
now, but I shall always remember it."

Fred blushed and tried to escape notice, but the guests surrounded him
and overwhelmed him with congratulations. One little girl, the intimate
friend of Rose, even threw her arms round his neck and kissed him,
which caused Fred to blush more furiously then ever. But upon the whole
he bore himself so modestly that he won golden opinions from all.

The incident put an end to the party. As soon as it was understood that
Rose was in no danger, the guests began to take their leave.

George Swain and Fred went out together.

"Fred, you have shown yourself a hero," said his friend warmly.

"You would have done the same thing," said Fred.

"Perhaps I should, but I should not have acted so promptly. That was
the important point. You had your wits about you. I was sitting beside
you, but before I had time to collect my thoughts you had saved Rose."

"I acted on the impulse of the moment."

"How did you know just what to do--making her lie down, you know?"

"I read an account of a similar case some months since. It came to me
in a moment, and I acted upon it."

"If I ever catch fire, I hope you'll be on hand to put me out."

"Oh, yes," laughed Fred. "I'll stand you on your head directly."

"Thank you! It's a good thing to have a considerate friend."

"Did you have a pleasant evening, Fred?" asked Mrs. Fenton. "Are you
not home earlier than you expected?"

"Yes, mother. There was as an accident that broke up the party."

He described the affair, but said nothing of his own part in it.

The next morning, after Fred had taken breakfast and gone to business,
a neighbor came in.

"I congratulate you, Mrs. Fenton," she said. "You have a right to be
proud of Fred."

"Thank you," said the widow, puzzled. "I'm glad you think well of him."

"There's few boys that would have done what he did."

"What has he done?" asked Mrs. Fenton, stopping short on her way to the
pantry.

"You don't mean to say you don't know? Why, it's in all the papers."

"I am sure I don't know what you are talking about."

"Didn't I tell you how he saved the little girl from burning to death?"

"Was it Fred who saved her? He didn't tell me that."

"Of course it was. Read that, now!"

She put in the hand of the widow a copy of the Sun in which the whole
scene was vividly described.

"What do you say now, Mrs. Fenton?"

"That I am all the more proud of Fred because he did not boast of what
he did," and a look of pride shone in the widow's eyes.

That morning, when Raymond Ferguson entered the breakfast-room rather
later than usual, he found his father reading a paragraph in the Sun
with every appearance of surprise.

"What is it, papa?" asked Raymond.

"Read that!"

Raymond took the paper, and his eye was drawn to some conspicuous
headlines.

A NARROW ESCAPE FROM A TERRIBLE DEATH!

A BROKER'S DAUGHTER IN FLAMES!

SAVED BY A BOY'S HEROISM!

A TRAGIC SCENE AT A NEW YEAR'S PARTY!

"Why, it's Rose Wainwright!" said Raymond excitedly. "Whom do you think
I saw on his way to the party last evening?"

"Fred Fenton."

"How did you hear it?" asked Raymond in surprise.

"Read the account and you will understand."

This is what Raymond read:

Last evening a terrible tragedy came near being enacted at the house of
the well-known broker, John Wainwright. The occasion was a juvenile
party given by his little daughter Rose, eleven years of age. One part
of the entertainment provided was a series of tableaux upon a miniature
stage at one end of the dining-room. All went well till the third
tableau, in which the young hostess took part, She incautiously
approached too near the footlights, when her white dress caught fire
and instantly blazed up. All present were spellbound, and it seemed as
if the little girl's fate was sealed. Luckily one of the young guests,
Fred Fenton, retained his coolness and presence of mind. Without an
instant's delay he sprang upon the stage, directed the little girl to
lie down, and wrapped his coat around her. Thanks to his promptitude,
she escaped with slight injuries. By the time the rest of those present
recovered from the spell of terror, Rose was saved.

We understand that the brave boy who displayed such heroic qualities
was formerly a train boy on the Erie Railroad, but is now employed in
the office of Mr. Wainwright.

Raymond read this account with lowering brow. He felt sick with
jealousy. Why had he not been lucky enough to receive an invitation to
the party, and enact the part of a deliverer? He did not ask himself
whether, if the opportunity had been afforded, he would have availed
himself of it. It is fortunate for Rose that she had Fred to depend
upon in her terrible emergency, and not Raymond Ferguson. There was
little that was heroic about him. A hero must be unselfish, and Raymond
was the incarnation of selfishness.

"Your cousin seems to have become quite a hero," said Mr. Ferguson, as
Raymond looked up from the paper.

"Don't call him my cousin! I don't care to own him."

"I don't know," said his father, who was quite as selfish, but not as
malicious as Raymond. "I am not sure but it will be considered a credit
to us to have such a relative."

"Anybody could have done as much as he did," said Raymond in a tone of
discontent. "Here's some news of your train-boy, Luella," he continued,
as his sister entered the room.

"Has he been arrested?" asked Luella listlessly.

"Not at all! He turns out to be a hero," said her father.

"I suppose that is a joke."

"Read the paper and see."

The young lady read the account with as little pleasure as Raymond.

"How on earth came a boy like that at the Wainwrights' house?" she said
with a curl of the lip. "Really, society is getting very much mixed."

"Perhaps," said her father, "it was his relationship to the future
Countess Cattelli."

Luella smiled complacently. She had fallen in with an Italian count, an
insignificant looking man, very dark and with jet black hair and
mustache, of whom she knew very little except that he claimed to be a
count. She felt that he would propose soon, and she had decided to
accept him. She did not pretend to love him, but it would be such a
triumph to be addressed as the Countess Cattelli. She would let Alfred
Lindsay see that she could do without him.




CHAPTER XXVII.

A CONFIDENTIAL MISSION.

When Fred met Mr. Wainwright at the office the next morning his
employer greeted him with a pleasant smile, but did not stop to speak.
Fred felt relieved, for it embarrassed him to be thanked, and since the
evening previous no one had met him without speaking of his heroism.
Now Fred was inclined to be modest, and he could not possibly feel that
he had done anything heroic, though he was quite aware that he had
saved the life of Rose Wainwright. He looked upon it rather as a
fortunate opportunity for rendering his employer a valuable service.

At one o'clock Fred took his hat, intending to go to lunch. He lunched
at a quiet place in Nassau Street, and never spent over twenty-five
cents for this meal, feeling that he must give the bulk of his salary
to his mother.

He was just going out when he heard his name called.

Looking back, he saw that it was the broker himself who was speaking to
him. Mr. Wainwright had his hat on, and seemed about going out, too.

"You must go to lunch with me to-day, Fred."

"Thank you, sir," answered Fred respectfully.

They walked through Wall Street together, the broker chatting
pleasantly. On the way Fred met Raymond, who stared in surprise and
disgust as he saw the intimate terms on which Fred appeared to be with
his wealthy employer. Mr. Wainwright led the way into an expensive
restaurant of a very select character, and motioned Fred to sit down at
a table with him.

After the orders were given, he said: "I have invited you to lunch with
me, as I could not speak at the office without being overheard. Of
course the great service which you rendered me and mine last evening, I
can never forget. I do not propose to pay you for it."

"I am glad of that, sir," said Fred earnestly.

"I feel that money is entirely inadequate to express my gratitude, but
I shall lose no opportunity of advancing your interests and pushing you
on in business."

"Thank you, sir."

"Indeed, it so happens that I have an opportunity even now of showing
my confidence in you."

Fred listened with increased attention.

"Some months since," continued the broker, "a confidential clerk who
had been employed in my office for years suddenly disappeared, and with
him about fifteen thousand dollars in money and securities. As they
were my property, and no one else was involved, I did not make the loss
public, thinking that I might stand a better chance of getting them
back."

"But, sir, I should think the securities would be sold, and the amount
realized spent."

"Well thought of, but there was one hindrance. They were not negotiable
without the indorsement of the owner in whose name they stood."

"Yes, sir, I see."

"Sooner or later, I expected to hear from them, and I have done so.
Yesterday this letter came to me from my defaulting clerk."

He placed a letter, with a Canadian postmark in Fred's hand.

"Shall I read it?'" asked Fred.

"Yes, do so."

This was the letter:

MR. WAINWRIGHT,

DEAR SIR--I am ashamed to address you after the manner in which I have
betrayed your confidence and robbed you, but I do it in the hope of
repairing to some extent the wrong I have committed, and of restoring
to you a large part of the stolen bonds. If it depended on myself alone
I should have little difficulty, but I had a partner in my crime. I may
say indeed that I never should have robbed you had I not been
instigated to it by another, This man, who calls himself Paul Bowman, I
made acquaintance with at a billiard saloon in New York. He insinuated
himself into my confidence, inquired my salary, denounced it as
inadequate, and finally induced me to take advantage of the confidence
reposed in me to abstract the securities which you lost. He had made
all arrangements for my safe flight, accompanying me, of course. We
went to Montreal first, but this is so apt to be the refuge of
defaulters that we finally came to the small village from which I
address these lines.

There was a considerable sum of money which we spent, also five hundred
dollars in government bonds on which we realized. The other securities
we have not as yet been able to negotiate. I have proposed to Bowman to
restore them to you by express, and trust to your kindness to spare us
a criminal prosecution, and enable us to return to the States, for
which I have a homesick longing. But he laughs the idea to scorn, and
has managed to spirit away the bonds and conceal them in some place
unknown to me. Of course this makes me entirely dependent upon him. To
make matters worse, I have fallen sick with rheumatism, and am
physically helpless.

If you could send here a confidential messenger who could ascertain the
hiding-place of the bonds, I would thankfully consent to his taking
them back to you, and I would make no conditions with you. If you felt
that you could repose confidence in me once more. I would willingly
return to your employment, and make arrangements to pay you by degrees
the value of the money thus far expended by Bowman and myself. There
are still thirteen thousand five hundred dollars' worth of securities
left untouched in their original packages.

We are living in a small village called St. Victor, thirty miles from
the American line. We occupy a small cottage rather out of the village,
and go by our own names. Do not write to me, for the letter would be
seen by Paul Bowman, and defeat my plans, but instruct your messenger
to seek a private interview with me. I am detained at home by sickness
at present, but Bowman is away most of the day. He is fond of hunting,
and spends considerable of the day in the woods, while his evenings are
spent at the inn, where there is a pool table. I have managed to send
this to the post office by a small girl who comes here in the morning
to make the bed and sweep. Hoping earnestly that this communication may
reach you, I sign myself

                           Your repentant clerk,

                           JAMES SINCLAIR.

Fred read this letter with great interest. "He seems to write in good
faith," he said, as he handed it back.

"Yes; Sinclair is not so wicked as weak. I quite believe him when he
says that it was Bowman who instigated him to the deed."

"Do you think there is any chance of recovering the securities?" asked
Fred.

"That depends upon whether I can secure a discreet and trustworthy
messenger."

"Yes, sir; I suppose that is important."

"Perhaps you can suggest some one?" said the broker, eying Fred
attentively.

Fred shook his head.

"I have too few acquaintances to think of anyone who would be fit," he
answered.

"Would you undertake it yourself?" asked Mr. Wainwright.

"I?" stammered Fred in genuine surprise.

"Yes."

"But don't you think I am too young?"

"Perhaps your youth may be a recommendation."

"I don't see how, sir."

"By drawing away suspicion from you. Should I send a man, the
appearance of a stranger in a small place like St. Victor--I think it
has little more than a thousand inhabitants--would very likely excite
the suspicions of this Bowman, and so defeat the chances of success."

"Yes, sir, I see that."

"Of course your youth presents this objection--that you may not have
the requisite judgment and knowledge of the world for so delicate a
mission."

"That is what I am afraid of, sir."

"Still, I have observed you closely, and have found you prompt,
self-reliant, and possessed of unusual good sense. So, upon the whole,
having no other person in my mind, I have decided to send you to St.
Victor if you will consent to go."

"I will certainly go, sir, if you desire it, and will do my best to
succeed."

"That is all that any one could do, whatever might be his age and
experience. When will you be ready?"

"To-morrow, if you wish it, sir."

"The sooner the better. I shall provide you with ample funds to defray
your expenses. As to instructions, I have none to give. You must be
guided by circumstances, and fall back in times of perplexity upon your
natural shrewdness. Now let us address ourselves to the dinner."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

ST. VICTOR.

"So this is St. Victor," said Fred, as he got out of the train on the
Grand Trunk Railroad, and looked about him curiously.

It was a small, unpretending village, composed entirely of frame
houses, of modest size, and a few small stores kept, as the signs
indicated, by Frenchmen. On a little elevation stood a wooden Catholic
church, surmounted by a cross.

"It seems a quiet place," thought Fred. "I shall find it dull enough,
but if I accomplish my purpose I won't complain of that."

