Harry and Jack were brave boys, and not easily daunted, but the attitude
of the stranger was so menacing, and his frame so indicative of
strength, that they were both alarmed. Had their need of the provisions
been less urgent they would have surrendered them without a struggle,
but they felt that it was a question possibly of continued life or
starvation, and this inspired them to resistance.

Holding the basket in his hand, Harry retreated behind a tree, and began
to parley.

"You are asking too much," he said. "We have given you a meal. We need
the rest for ourselves."

"No palavering, boy!" said the tramp roughly. "I need it more than you
do. Give it to me, or I will kill you."

"If I only had some weapon," thought Harry.

While he was hesitating, the tramp with a quick movement sprang to where
he stood, clutched him by the collar, and flinging him on his back put
his knee on his breast, saying between his closed teeth, "Now I will
kill you, young jackanapes! I'll teach you to interfere with me."

Poor Harry thought his last moment had come. He was powerless against
his enemy, whose wild rage, shown in his distorted features, seemed
capable of anything. His sole helper was Jack, who flung himself on the
giant, and sought with his boyish strength to pull him away, but in
vain.

"I'll choke the life out of you, you young beast!" exclaimed the tramp,
preparing to clutch Harry by the throat. The moment was a critical one
for the poor boy, whose career came near ending then and there.

But assistance came when least expected.

A man who had approached, unseen by either of the three, jumped from the
underbrush and with one powerful blow sent the tramp sprawling on the
ground beside his intended victim.



"You're rather out of your reckoning, you mean skunk!" he exclaimed. "If
there's any killin' to be done round here, I'm goin' to do it."

"Obed Stackpole!" ejaculated the boys in heartfelt delight, and they
were rushing forward to greet him, but he waved them back.

"Yes," he said, "it's Obed himself. I'll talk to you in a minute, after
I've got through with this consarned villain."

By this time the tramp, though startled and dazed, was on his feet, and
preparing to make a desperate assault on the Yankee. But though quite as
strong, and possibly stronger than Obed Stackpole, he had now to
encounter a foe by no means to be despised. Moreover, he had laid down
his knotted stick, and Obed had secured it. It was a formidable weapon,
and Mr. Stackpole was quite ready to make use of it.

"Give me my stick!" shouted the tramp hoarsely.

"I mean to," responded the Yankee coolly. "Where will you have it?"

He stepped back warily, as the other advanced, holding the stick in a
strong grasp, while he kept his eyes steadily fixed on his opponent. He
was cool, but his enemy was enraged, and rage made him incautious.

He made a desperate clutch at the stick, but with a powerful sweep Obed
struck him on the side of the head, and he fell like an ox, stunned and
insensible.

"That settles you, my friend, I guess," said Obed. "You brought it upon
yourself, and you've got no one else to blame. Watch him, Harry, to see
that he doesn't come to himself, while I tie his hands."

Obed whipped a strong cord from his pockets, and secured the wrists of
the prostrate enemy, tying them securely together.

"Will you tie his feet, too?" asked Jack.

"No, it is not necessary. He can't do any harm now. I came in the nick
of time, boys, didn't I?"

"Indeed you did!" said Harry earnestly. "He was beginning to choke me."

"What was it all about?"

"We had given him a meal, but he wanted to make off with the basket
besides. As this would have left us utterly without food, I objected."

"The mean skunk! I'm glad I came up in time to settle him."

"Won't you have something to eat yourself, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Harry,
bethinking himself that his deliverer might need refreshment.

"I don't mind if I do," answered Obed. "The fact is, I'm feeling kinder
hollow. I feel a gnawin' at my vitals that isn't pleasant. This is prime
fodder; where did you raise it?"

While Obed was eating--with hearty relish, it may be added--Harry
related briefly what had befallen Jack and himself since they had parted
company.

"You're in luck, boys," was Obed's comment. "You fared better than I,
for you've had your square meals, while I've had only one besides
this."

"Where was that?" asked Harry.

"At the same place where you passed the night. I got there about an hour
after you left, as well as I can make out. The gal was very kind, and
gave me a tip-top breakfast. I ate till I was ashamed, and then left off
hungry. That's why I've got such an appetite now. Yesterday I didn't
have but one meal, and I've had to make up for that."

"Did Lucy tell you we had passed the night at her father's house?"

"Lucy! Seems to me you got mighty familiar," said Obed in a jocular
tone. "She didn't tell me what her name was. I suppose she looked upon
me as a dried-up old bach."

"She's a nice girl," said Harry emphatically.

"So she is. I'm with you there. But about your question--I asked her if
she had seen anything of two chaps about your size, and she told me
enough to show me I was on your track. She told me which way you went,
and I follered. She was a little shy at first, not knowin' but I might
be an enemy of yours, but when she'd made up her mind to the contrary
she up and told me everything. Well, I struck your trail, and here I
am."

"I for one am delighted to see you, Obed," said Harry cordially.

"And I for two," added Jack, smiling.

Mr. Stackpole seemed gratified by the pleasure evinced by the boys.

"Well," he said, "we're together once more, and now we must hold a
council of war, and decide what's to be done."

"With him?" asked Jack, pointing to the tramp.

"With him first of all; I take it you don't want me to invite him to
join our party?"

"His room is better than his company," said Harry.

"I agree with you. According to my idea, we may as well leave him where
he lies."

"But won't he starve?"

"He can get his hands free after awhile," said Obed, "but not till after
we are at a safe distance. You needn't be afraid about him. Anyhow the
world wouldn't lose much if he did take passage for another."

"That's so, Obed, but I wouldn't like to feel that we were responsible
for his death."

At this moment the prostrate man opened his eyes, and as his glance
lighted on Obed, they gleamed with the old look of rage. He tried to get
up, and of course discovered that his hands were tied.

"Loosen my hands, you scoundrel!" he exclaimed.

"If you mean me by that pet name, my esteemed friend," said Obed, "I
respectfully decline. I'd rather look at you with your hands tied."

"Do you want me to kill you?" demanded the tramp furiously.

"Not at present! when I do I'll let you know. Come, boys, we may as well
be going. This gentleman would rather be left alone."

"Unloose me first, and I won't harm you," said the other, trying to
struggle to his feet.

"I don't mean you shall. Good-by, my friend. I can't say I wish to meet
you again. I will take the liberty to carry off your stick, as you won't
need it with your hands tied."

Obed and the boys started off, followed by the most fearful execrations
from their late acquaintance. They had scarcely gone a quarter of a mile
when they met two mounted police, who halted their horses and inquired:
"Have you seen anything of a man, tall and spare, dark hair and eyes. We
have traced him to this neighborhood, and think he must be near."

"What has he done?" asked Obed curiously.

"Murdered a man at the mines, in a drunken brawl."

"We've just parted company with him," said Obed. "I found him
experimentin' on my young friend here, but come up in time to block his
game."

"Put us on his track, and we will share the reward of a hundred pounds
with you."

"I'll do it. Boys, stay here and I'll go back with these gentlemen. I'll
join you in an hour."

Obed was as good as his word. Within an hour he was back again, with the
two policemen, followed by the man whom we have called the tramp.

His hands were more securely fastened now by a pair of handcuffs.




CHAPTER XX.

THE BOYS ARRIVE AT BENDIGO.

"You are entitled to half the reward offered for the apprehension of
this man," said the leader of the police to Obed Stackpole. "I
congratulate you. Fifty pounds is a sum not to be despised."

"Especially when a man has been robbed of all he possesses by
bushrangers," said Obed. "If you'll excuse me, captain, why does your
government allow them rascals to roam round the country, plundering and
killing honest men?"

The captain of police shrugged his shoulders.

"We can't help it, my good man. We do all we can," he answered.

"In my country we would soon put a stop to it."

"You mean America?"

"Yes; the land of the Stars and the Stripes," said Obed proudly.

"It is more difficult here," observed the police captain. "The nature of
the country makes pursuit difficult. Besides, we have had so many
convicts sent out here in past years that there is a large proportion of
lawless men in the colony. Some of these men have made themselves very
formidable. There is Captain Stockton, for instance."

"Was, you mean, captain."

"I don't understand you."

"Captain Stockton is dead."

"Do you mean this? How do you know?" inquired the captain of police
eagerly.

"He was killed yesterday by one of his men."

"What evidence have you of this?" demanded the captain incredulously.

"Them two boys saw him shot," said Obed, indicating Harry and Jack.

"Tell me all about it, young man," said the captain to Harry. "It will
be good news at Bendigo. Returning miners are always in fear of this
famous bushranger, Stockton. He doesn't care so much to attack parties
bound to the mines, for they are not supposed to have much with them,
but those returning to Melbourne generally carry more or less gold, and
are worth capturing."

Harry gave a succinct account of his adventures while in the power of
the bushrangers, and the scene of which he had been a witness. The
captain of police listened attentively.

"This is good news," he remarked. "There will be a new captain
appointed, of course, but there is not another man connected with the
gang who can take Stockton's place or do as much mischief as he has
done."

"How far are we from Bendigo, captain?" asked Obed.

"Two days' journey, or perhaps more."

"A long distance, considering we have no money."

"You will have half the reward. Your share will be fifty pounds."

"That won't do us any good now, unless you'll be kind enough to advance
us a part of that sum."

"I would if I were able, but I am not provided with any money beyond
what I need. You and the boys may come with us, however, if you wish."

"I should like nothing better, captain. Once at Bendigo, and we'll
manage to shift for ourselves."

"Very well, so let it be."

I pass over the events of the next two days. Obed and the boys, after
all their troubles, found themselves provided with an official escort,
and on the morning of the third day arrived at the famous gold-fields of
Bendigo.

Ballarat and Mount Alexander preceded Bendigo in point of time, but
Bendigo has been far more productive. As the little party descended a
hill made white by the sandy dirt thrown out of the mines, they saw
below them Bendigo Creek, yellow as the Tiber, running sluggishly
through the valley, which on either side had been dug up by prospectors
for gold. All about on the slopes of the hills and in the valley were
rude huts, hastily put together, the homes of the miners. Some of them
were built of solid trunks of trees laid horizontally, after the
American backwoods order of architecture. The interstices were generally
daubed with clay to make them water-tight, and the roofs were covered
with sheets of bark, kept down by logs laid upon them. There were tents,
also, made of slabs, and covered with canvas. Still others were covered
with bullock hides.

To Harry and Jack the sight was a novel one, and they regarded the
extemporized village with interest.

Obed's eyes glistened, and he rubbed his hands with delight.

"This seems like home," he said. "It's just like Shantytown in
Californy, where I worked three months last year. I say, boys, how do
you like it?"

"I shouldn't like to live here very long," said Harry.

"I like shipboard better," said Jack.

"I agree with you, boys," said Obed, "but it'll suit me well enough if I
can find enough gold here. When I've made my pile, Australy won't hold
me long. I shall make tracks for America. We have no bushrangers
there."

"But you have Indians," retorted the police captain, who did not quite
relish the strictures upon the colony of which he was an official. "I
would rather be captured by a bushranger than scalped by an Indian."

"I agree with you, captain, but the Indians won't scalp you unless you
go where they are. I never saw one till I was past twenty-one."

"Indeed!" said the captain in evident surprise. "I thought they were all
over the country. Why, one of your countrymen told me they would
sometimes surprise families within ten miles of your great city of New
York, and scalp them all. He said he was brought up--raised, he called
it--twenty miles away, and was obliged to barricade the doors and
windows every night, and keep a supply of loaded muskets by the side of
his bed, to resist the Indians in case they made a night attack."

Obed laughed till the tears came to his eyes, and the two boys also
looked amused.

"Did you believe all this, captain?" he asked.

"Why not?" asked the captain, looking offended. "My informant was a
countryman of yours."

"He was stuffing you, captain."

"Stuffing me! I don't understand," said the captain, puzzled.

"He saw that you knew very little of America, and he practised a little
on your credulity--isn't that the word?"

"How do I know but you are doing the same now? Probably you want to give
me a favorable idea of your country."

"I only want you to judge it correctly, captain. Why, there aint no more
danger of being scalped in New York than in London."

"I presume not, in New York, but I am speaking of the neighborhood of
New York."

"So am I. I'll tell you what, captain, if you can find me a case of a
man that's been scalped within five hundred miles of New York within the
last fifty years, I'll give you my share of the reward. Of course if
it's in Canada, it don't count."

"I can't accept any such wager. I have no means of proving it, even if
it is so."

"That's true, squire; but I'll give you an idea. Harry, how many Indians
have you ever seen in your life?"

"About half a dozen," answered Harry, after a pause for reflection.

"And you, Jack?"

"I never saw one that I can remember."

"And yet you were both born in the States. You see, captain, Indians are
not so abundant in our country as you supposed. Jack has never seen an
Indian, but he has seen a bushranger; eh, Jack?"

"I have seen more than I wanted to," answered Jack, smiling.

By this time they had descended the hill, and were on the borders of the
mining settlement. They had now attracted the attention of the miners,
and when the prisoner was recognized there went up an angry shout, and a
band of swarthy, bearded men advanced menacingly to meet them.

"Give him to us!" they cried. "Give up the murderer! We will make short
work of him!"




CHAPTER XXI.

BUYING A CLAIM.

The face of the prisoner, as he met the angry glances of the miners,
