domain.

The captain of the sailing-ship could not collect even his freight
money, and he was forced to carry them off with him when his cargo was
completed. His consignee suggested to him that the Imam, or Sultan, of
Muscat would purchase his war material, and be glad to get it, and he
had sailed for that port; but among the rocks at the entrance to the
Persian Gulf his bark had been wrecked. The guns and ammunition were
saved, for they were the captain's private venture, and he had stored
them between decks.

The bottom of the bark was pounded and ground off, and the cargo in the
hold was a total loss; but an English steamer had taken off the ship's
company and the naval goods, and carried them to Aden. The unfortunate
captain sold them for the most he could get to the Parsee merchants, who
had kept them for years before they found a purchaser. They got their
money back, and they were satisfied.

As soon as the commander finished his business with the merchants he
hastened to join the party, who were still exploring the town. It
contains about twenty thousand inhabitants, and everything was as
Arabian as in the desert. He found his passengers just starting for a
ride of about five miles; and, after he had been introduced to the
officers, he went with them.

"Goodness gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Blossom, as they were getting into
the carriages, "what is the matter with that man?"

"Nothing is the matter with him, madam," replied an officer, laughing at
the manner of the excellent woman.

"Why, I thought he had a hornets' nest on the top of his head," she
added.

"He has nothing but his hair there."

"It would be just the thing for a mop."

"That is a Soumali Indian, and you will see a plenty of them," the
officer explained. "In fact, you will find every sort of people here.
These Soumalis are great dandies; for you see they dye their hair in red
or yellow, and I suppose they think they are handsome. Probably you
don't think so."

"I'm sure I don't. Why, the fellow has no clothes on but a sheet wrapped
around him, and don't even cover his chest with that!"

"That's his fashion; and if you dressed him up like one of those Sepoys
he would not feel easy. They have some fine horses and carriages here."

The vehicles had to stop presently when they met a caravan of camels,
which had long since ceased to be a novelty to the tourists. They were
driven, the officer said, by the real Bedouins of the desert, and by men
of all shades of color, from jet-black to pale copper hue. The donkeys
were not a strange sight; but when a couple of ostriches passed along
the street, the visitors were all eyes. They were seven feet high; and
they could capture a fly, if they would take such small game, off the
ceiling of a room eight feet high. They were tame, and like the monkeys,
gazelles, parrots, and other birds on the verandas, were kept as pets.

There were pretty little gardens along the roads; for the volcanic soil,
when dug up and fertilized, makes productive land. There were plenty of
rocks; but wherever there was a cleft or a seam, there was a growth of
something green. Thirty or forty miles back in the country, there are
green valleys and rippling streams. Abundant crops are raised within ten
miles of the town, and the garrison and the people of the town are
plentifully supplied with fruit and vegetables.

The officers showed the party through the fortifications, some of which
strongly reminded them of Gibraltar. Our friends were greatly pleased
with Aden, and especially with the attentions of the officers, who are
to some extent shut out from social relations. The commander added the
Parsee merchants and Mr. Gaskill to the number of invited guests, and
entered warmly into the spirit of the affair. Mr. Sage had replenished
his stores from the market, and he was in good condition to meet the
requirements of the occasion.

After a lunch at the Hôtel de l'Europe, Captain Ringgold left the
company to return on board of the ship, where the war material had
already been sent. The tourists found the town very like an English
city, and after Egypt and the isthmus they enjoyed the contrast. The
first cutter was waiting for him, and he went to the pier.

More than once during the forenoon he had obtained a view of the white
steamer anchored in the roads, and he had inquired in regard to her, but
had been able to obtain no very definite information concerning her. She
was a steam-yacht of about the size of the Guardian-Mother, as nearly
as he could judge, painted white, and she looked like a very beautiful
vessel.

Captain Ringgold had inquired in regard to her of the merchants. Had
they seen the owner who was making the cruise in her? They had. He was a
man thirty or thirty-two, with a fine black beard, and a lady had said
he was a remarkably handsome man. His informant thought he was a
foreigner, though he spoke English as fluently as the officers of the
garrison. He was dressed in the latest style of European garments when
he came on shore, and the Parsee had been unable to form an opinion in
regard to his nationality.

The carpenter of the Guardian-Mother had constructed something like a
magazine in the hold of the ship for the ammunition which had been taken
on board before she sailed. It was large enough for the new supply,
though some further precautions were taken for the safety of the
contents. The four twenty-four pounders were placed, two forward and two
aft, the former on the forecastle, and the latter in the space on deck
abaft the boudoir.

The guns were mounted on naval carriages, and portholes were to be
prepared on the passage to India. The two twelve-pounders were to remain
on the top-gallant forecastle, where they had always been; though they
had been used on the Fourth of July, and for saluting purposes only,
except in the Archipelago, where they had done more serious work, and
had doubtless saved Miss Blanche and Louis from capture.

The commander sincerely hoped there would never be an occasion to make
use of either the old or the new guns, for he was eminently a man of
peace; but he was prepared to defend his ship, either from pirates,
belligerent natives, or Captain Mazagan when he had recovered from his
wound. Probably he would not have thought of such a thing as increasing
his means of defence if Mazagan had not followed the ship as far as
Suez.

After he had looked over the white steam-yacht which lay beyond the
British steamer as well as he could, and gathered all the information in
regard to her and her commander, he could not help thinking of the last
threats of Mazagan. He had been assured that Ali-Noury Pacha was as
vindictive as ever, and that he had long before ordered a new steamer to
be built for him. Did the white steam-yacht belong to him?

Mazagan, evidently for the want of care, had irritated his wound, and
gone to the hospital at Suez. He could learn nothing in regard to him
there; but it was entirely impossible that he could have come to Aden,
for no steamer had passed the Guardian-Mother on her passage. The white
steamer had no doubt come through the canal before her.

The commander could not solve the problem. He decided to "take the bull
by the horns," and settle the question before he sailed the next day. He
had dressed himself in his best uniform in the morning, and he decided
to pay a visit to the white steam-yacht before he slept again. It was to
be a visit of ceremony; and he ordered the crew of the barge to put on
their clean white uniforms, for he intended to go in state.

All the passengers were still on shore, and there was no one to go with
him if he had desired any company. He wished to inform the Pacha, if the
owner proved to be he, and he was on board, that he was prepared for any
and every thing. If His Highness attempted any trickery or treachery in
the direction of the members of his party, or any one of them, he would
blow the white steamer out of the water, even if she belonged to the
Sultan of Morocco. In fact, he had worked himself up as much as he ever
could into an angry frame of mind.

If he was waiting for Mazagan to come to Aden,--for the pirate must have
written to him in regard to his intentions, if he had any,--the
persecution of the Americans was to be continued over the Indian Ocean.
He was to command this magnificent steamer, as he had the Fatimé, and
would be ready to retrieve his misfortunes in the past. But Captain
Ringgold was "reckoning without his host."

He descended the gangway steps, and took his seat in the stern-sheets of
the barge with compressed lips; for he intended to meet the Pacha face
to face, and this time at his own instigation. Possibly his crew were
physiognomists enough to wonder what had come over the captain; for
they had never seen him when he looked more in earnest. The captain
nodded at the cockswain, and the bowman shoved off. The crew gave way,
and no boat ever presented a finer appearance.

"To the white steam-yacht beyond the P. and O. steamer," said the
commander; and said no more.

The men bent to their oars, and they were soon in sight of the beautiful
vessel, as everybody called her; and Captain Ringgold could not but
indorse the general verdict; at least, he thought she was quite as
handsome as the Guardian-Mother, which was enough to say of any vessel
in his estimation. The barge made a landing at the platform of the
gangway.

"May I be permitted to go on board?" asked the captain of the sailor who
stood at the head of the steps.

"Yes, sir; she is open to ladies and gentlemen to-day," replied the man.

The commander ascended the steps to the bulwarks, where the seaman was
evidently doing duty as a sentinel, though he was not armed.

"What steamer is this?" asked the visitor; for he had not yet seen the
name of the steamer.

"The Blanche, sir," replied the man very respectfully; for the
commander's uniform had made its proper impression.

"The Blanche!" exclaimed the captain of the Guardian-Mother, starting
back as though a red-hot shot had struck him.

[Illustration: "CAPTAIN RINGGOLD, I AM DELIGHTED TO SEE YOU." Page
337.]

It was very remarkable that the steamer should have that name; but he
preserved his dignity, and concluded that the name had been given for
some member of the owner's family; and he saw a lady seated near the
rudder-head, who might be the owner of the name. He looked about the
deck,--what of it could be seen,--though most of it was covered by the
house, extended nearly from stem to stern, as on the Guardian-Mother.
Everything was as neat and trim as though she had been a man-of-war. He
could see two twelve-pounders on the side where he was; and he concluded
there were two more on the other side.

But if this craft was to chase and annoy his party, she was not well
enough armed to be a match for his own ship; and with the feeling he had
stirred up in his mind, he congratulated himself on the superiority of
the ship he commanded. The seaman informed him that he was at liberty to
look over the vessel, for it was believed to be the finest her
celebrated builders had ever completed.

"I desire to see the captain of this steamer," replied Captain Ringgold,
declining the permission extended to him.

"He is in his cabin, sir, and I will call him down," replied the man.

The captain gave him his card, and the sailor mounted to the promenade
deck. He had not been gone two minutes before the captain rushed down
the steps as though he were in a desperate hurry.

"Captain Ringgold, I am delighted to see you!" shouted the captain of
the Blanche before the visitor had time to make out who he was. "I am
glad to see you on the deck of my ship!" And he extended his hand to the
commander of the Guardian-Mother.

"Captain Sharp!" roared the visitor, seizing the offered hand, and
warmly pressing it.

It was a tremendous let-down for him, after he had roused all his
belligerent nature into action, to find Captain W. Penn Sharp in command
of the suspicious steamer.




CHAPTER XXXV

GENERAL NEWRY'S MAGNIFICENT YACHT


The biography of Captain Penn Sharp had been quite romantic within the
preceding year. In company with his brother he had been a detective in
New York during the greater portion of his lifetime. He had been an
honest and upright man; but in spite of this fact he had saved a
competence for a man of small desires before he was fifty years old. He
had never been married till the last year of his life.

He had what he called a "profession," and he had attended to it very
closely for twenty years or more. When he "had a case to 'work up,'" he
took it to his humble lodging with him, and studied out the problem.
There was nothing in his room that could be called a luxury, unless a
library of two hundred volumes were classed under that head; and he
spent all his leisure time in this apartment, having absolutely no
vices. He was a great reader, had never taken a vacation, and saved all
his money, which he had prudently invested.

In his younger days he had been to sea, and came home as the mate of a
large ship when he was twenty-two. His prospects in the commercial
marine were very promising; but his brother, believing he had peculiar
talent for the occupation in which he was himself engaged, induced him
to go into the business as his partner. He had been a success; but men
do not live as he did, depriving himself of rest or recreation, without
suffering for it. His health broke down.

Confident that a voyage at sea would build him up, he applied to Captain
Ringgold for any place he could offer him. Only the position of
quartermaster was available. He was glad to obtain this on board of such
a steamer. He had told his story, and the commander needed just such a
person. Mrs. Belgrave had married for her second husband a man who had
proved to be a robber and a villain. Her son Louis had discovered his
character long before she did, and, after fighting a long and severe
battle, had driven him away, recovering a large sum of money he had
purloined.

Captain Ringgold ascertained in Bermuda that the villain had another
wife in England. He promoted his quartermaster to the position of third
officer, and set him at work as a detective on the case. The recreant
husband had inherited a fortune in Bermuda, had purchased a steam-yacht,
and was still struggling to recover the wife who had discarded him,
believing the "Missing Million" was behind her.

The deserted English wife had been sent for by her uncle, who had become
a large sugar planter in Cuba. Sharp found her; and her relative had
died but a short time before, leaving her a large fortune. The wretch
who had abandoned her was arrested for his crimes, and sent back to New
York, and was soon serving a long sentence at Sing Sing. He had been
obliged to leave his steam-yacht, and it had been awarded to his wife.

By the influence of Captain Ringgold, Penn Sharp had been appointed
captain of her; and he had sailed for New York, and then for England, in
her. The lady was still on the sunny side of forty, and Sharp had
married her. After this happy event, they had sailed for the
Mediterranean; and the commander and passengers of the Guardian-Mother
had met them at Gibraltar. How Captain Penn Sharp happened to be in
command of the Blanche was a mystery to Captain Ringgold, though it was
possible that the million or more of Mrs. Penn Sharp enabled her to
support such a steam-yacht.

It seemed as though Captain Sharp would never release the hand of the
commander of the Guardian-Mother, who had not only been a good friend to
him in every sense of the word, but he had unintentionally put him in
the way of achieving the remarkably good fortune which had now crowned
his life.

"I don't know what to make of this, Captain Sharp," said he of the
Guardian-Mother. "Are you in command of this fine steamer?"

"Without a ghost of a doubt I am," replied he of the Blanche, with a
renewed pressure of the hand.

"Of course I am astonished, surprised, astounded, as I ought to be on an
occasion like this. About the last I knew of you, you had just got
married. Have you become so accustomed to married life that you are
ready to leave your wife on shore while you wander over the ocean
again?" asked the visitor in a good-humored, rallying tone.

"Not a bit of it, my dear Captain. My wife is worth more to me than all
the money she brought me, though she is as much of a millionaire as
young Mr. Belgrave, we find. She is on board of the Blanche at this
moment; and Ruth will be delighted to see you and all your people."

"I am glad all is so happy with you, and I may be tempted to marry
myself," laughed the commander.

"You are already tempted, and you will yield to the temptation."

"I have not been tempted like Adam in the garden; if I had been, I
should have swallowed the apple whole," replied Captain Ringgold, who
had never said so much before on this delicate subject to any person.
"It will have to be Adam this time that does all the tempting. But I
wish you would explain to me how you happen to be fixed up here like
Aladdin in one of his fairy palaces. I suppose, of course, you are
sailing in your own steamer?"

"Not at all; for though we have money enough now, we are not disposed to
throw it away upon a ship with so much style about her as the Blanche
carries over the ocean. But I have not asked you about your party on
board of the Guardian-Mother. I like that title, and if I had had the
naming of the Blanche, I should have called her the Protecting
Grandmother, or something of that sort."

"The company on board of my ship are all in excellent health and
spirits. By the way, we have a dinner party at six, and you and your
wife must assist; and it will be a most unexpected pleasure."

"I will go; but it is four now, and we haven't half time enough to do
our talking. But come to my cabin; and then, if you will excuse me for a
moment, I will notify Mrs. Sharp, so that she may be ready for the
dinner."

Captain Sharp sent the sailor at the gangway to show the visitor to his
cabin, while he went aft on his errand. Captain Ringgold found the cabin
consisted of two apartments, one of which was evidently his wife's
boudoir; and nothing could have been more elegant or convenient. In
fact, it was Oriental magnificence, though the portion appropriated to
the commander was fitted up with the usual nautical appliances. The
occupant of the cabin soon appeared; and he acted as though he wanted to
hug his visitor, though he satisfied himself by taking his hand again.
He evidently credited the captain of the Guardian-Mother with both his
wife and his fortune.

"Now take this arm-chair, Captain Ringgold, and we will have it out,"
said the commander of the Blanche. "My wife will be ready in an hour,
and she will be delighted to see Mrs. Belgrave and the rest of the
party; for she is particularly fond of that lady, though they have both
been in the same relation to Scoble."

"I think the name of Scoble has not been mentioned for nearly a year on
board of the Guardian-Mother. But you told me, Captain Sharp, that you
and your wife were not the owners of this fine craft," suggested the
visitor, leading to the solution of the mystery which perplexed him.

"We are not; and I am sailing in the employ of General Newry," answered
the other; and Captain Ringgold imagined that the name was spelled in
this manner, though there was a twinkle in the eyes of the speaker.

"General Newry; I never heard of him. One of those Englishmen who have
won their spurs and their fortunes in India, I suppose," added the
visitor.

"Not at all; and he is not even an Englishman."

"Not an Englishman!" exclaimed the puzzled captain. "Is he a Frenchman
with that name?"

"Not even a Frenchman."

"I came on board of the Blanche almost angry enough to break something,
for certain members of my party have been hunted and hounded the whole
length of the Mediterranean; and I am determined to put a stop to it,"
said Captain Ringgold, getting back some of the spirit in which he had
boarded the steamer. "I am of the same mind still."

"You will have no further trouble with your troublesome customer," said
Captain Sharp, with a very agreeable smile.

"How do you know?"

