trench and had Francesco by the back of the collar in a moment,
twisting the tough starched linen with all the might of his by no means
weak white hands. As Orsino had always said, Ippolito was more of a man
than anybody suspected, and there was the good blood of his good race in
him, and all the fearlessness.

In an instant he had dragged Francesco backwards, half strangled, up the
little declivity of the trench, and out into the middle of the road. So
far he had done nothing more, perhaps, than was necessary to save the
girl. But having got him out, the man's instinct against the wretch that
does violence to a woman took possession of him, and holding Francesco
by the back of the collar in front of him with his right hand, he struck
him half a dozen times quickly and violently on the side of the head
with his left fist, till Francesco, stunned and choked, suddenly fell in
a heap in the road.

Concetta had struggled to her feet at once, and stood leaning against
the corner of the wall. With a mad horror she saw that she had been
saved by the man she had wished to kill. The horse leisurely picked its
way up through the stones and stood waiting in the road.

At that moment, four peasants coming home from the hill farm came down
into the road from behind the other end of the long wall of the
cemetery. They naturally glanced downwards before going up towards the
village, and seeing the priest standing over a fallen man, they hurried
to the spot. Francesco was already beginning to get to his feet.
Ippolito drew back a little to be ready if he should be attacked, as he
naturally expected. But a moment later the peasants had recognised
Francesco, had helped him up, and were dusting his clothes, while they
scowled at Ippolito.

'It is well that you come, friends,' said Concetta's clear, low voice.
'A moment later and another Saracinesca would have killed another
Pagliuca.'

Ippolito stared at her, dumbfounded by her speech, and then looked at
the grim and angry faces of the lean brown men who surrounded Francesco.
He could not conceive that a woman whom he had saved from worse than
death but a moment earlier should turn upon him instantly, as she was
doing.

But she could not help it, for she was half mad, and the idea of
injuring the Saracinesca was always uppermost in her unsettled brain.
She had come to warn Francesco of danger, because she had loved his
brother, and loved the name; and she had done her best to make him do a
murder then and there.

'Help Don Francesco to his horse,' she said to the peasants. 'Take him
round to the back of Don Taddeo's house--not through the village--you
will meet the carabineers, and he is bleeding. They would see; there
would be questions. Go quickly--the patrol passed half an hour ago; the
next will come out in half an hour more.'

She foresaw everything. In a moment the men had helped Francesco to the
saddle, and they were moving away. He had not uttered a word, surprised,
bruised, and terrified as he was, and his lip was bleeding where
Concetta had bitten it. His face was white with fear, and he held a
handkerchief to his mouth, as he slowly rode away, leaving Concetta and
Ippolito standing in the road together.

Ippolito faced the girl quietly enough, but he meant to ask for an
explanation of some sort.

'Did you think that I should accuse him, though he is--what he is?' she
asked, speaking first. 'You saved me from that infamous beast--yes. I
thank you, though you are my enemy. But do not think that I value myself
higher than the blood of my bridegroom whom you killed. I would rather
lose body and soul together than not hurt a Saracinesca if I could, kill
you, if I could, give your bodies to dogs, if I could, send you
unconfessed to hell, if I could. And you thought that I would turn and
accuse a Corleone when I could accuse a Saracinesca? You do not know
us.'

She turned from him scornfully before he could answer a word. She had
found her little shawl, and she drew it about her face as she moved
away. He stood still a moment, looking after her in mute surprise. Then
he shook his head and turned towards Camaldoli, not yet understanding
that the beautiful girl was not quite sane, but speculating upon women
in general, as good priests sometimes do in total ignorance of the
subject.

Orsino looked grave when Ippolito told him at supper what had happened.

'The girl is mad,' he said sadly, for he was himself the cause of her
madness. 'And she is a Sicilian. We understand these people very little,
after all. I sometimes think we never shall.'

'Nobody could possibly understand that kind of woman,' observed
Ippolito.

'No. Put such a scene as that on the stage, if it were possible, and the
audience would hiss it, as a monstrous improbability. They would say
that the girl would fall at the feet of her preserver, forget her hatred
for ever, or possibly turn it all against the man from whom she had been
saved. Unfortunately things are different in real life. Poor Concetta
will hate us all the more because one of us has helped her in danger. It
is true that she is mad. All the people say so.'

'Because she sits half the day outside the cemetery? It is not a month
since Ferdinando died. One need not be mad to feel a great sorrow for a
whole month.'

'No. Perhaps not. I should like to know what that fellow is here for. It
means no good to anyone. I have no doubt that he is in communication
with the outlaws, and she is quite capable of trying to help them to
catch us.'

'Then you really believe in the existence of the brigands, after all,'
said Ippolito, with a laugh, for Orsino did not often speak of the
outlaws seriously.

'We all know that they exist. But we have trouble in realising that they
do. We know the names of many of them. Everybody does. But of course,
with so many soldiers about, we feel safe. I wish you would carry a
weapon, Ippolito.'

'I? I am a priest. Nobody will touch me.'

'Do not be too sure. There are even priests who wear a revolver under
their cassocks down here.'

'I could hardly carry a rifle,' remarked Ippolito, laughing again. 'And
imagine carrying a knife in these days--one of us! It sounds like the
last century.'

'A knife is a very good weapon, nevertheless. The peasants say that a
knife has more shots in it than a revolver, and does not miss fire.'

'I hate the idea of carrying a weapon.'

'Yes, no doubt. But suppose that matters had turned out a little
differently to-day, and that Francesco Pagliuca, instead of being an
abject coward, had turned upon you and fought you for his life. What
could you have done with your hands?'

'A priest has no business to be fighting,' said Ippolito. 'When he
fights he must take the consequences.'

'But you could not escape it to-day. The cause was just and urgent. As a
man, you could not have done otherwise.'

'Certainly not. I admit that, and the fellow was scared. He had a
Winchester rifle across his back. It got into the way when I twisted his
collar, I remember. Do you know that I never struck anyone before? It
was rather a curious sensation.'

'You have struck me often enough,' laughed Orsino. 'You used to fight
like a wildcat when we were little boys. It is a pity that you turned
priest.'

'I am very glad I did,' said Ippolito. 'Besides, I do not like fighting.
It was different when we were children and pummelled each other.'

'Look here,' said Orsino. 'I shall feel anxious about you after this
affair. Unless you will carry some weapon, I shall have you escorted to
Santa Vittoria and back by a carabineer.'

'How absurd!'

'I will, I assure you. If you were like that miserable Francesco
Pagliuca, I should send four men with you. But I know that you could
make a pretty good defence alone, if you had anything to fight with.'

'Of course if you insist in that way, I must. I utterly refuse to be
followed about by soldiers. It is too ridiculous. Have you got a knife?
Something that is easy to carry--'

'Two or three,' answered Orsino. 'There is a very nice bowie knife--one
of those American things made in England. It is convenient, for it has a
cross-hilt and a leathern sheath.'

He rose from the table and opened a drawer in an old-fashioned press,
from which he produced the weapon in question.

'There is a saddler in Rome who gets these things,' he observed, showing
it to his brother. 'You see it is really a dagger, for there is no
spring. It is made solid and straight and would go through anything, I
should think. Look at the thickness of the back of the blade, will you?
And the point is extremely fine. You could engrave with it, and yet it
is as strong as the rest.'

Ippolito turned the knife over and over.

'At all events it will be useful in cutting up the bits of leather I use
for mending the old organ,' he observed. 'My pocket knife is of hardly
any use.'

He sheathed the knife-blade and dropped it into the deep side pocket of
his cassock.

'Imagine me carrying a bowie knife!' he exclaimed, still inclined to
laugh.

'Imagine the feelings of Francesco Pagliuca this afternoon, if he had
thought you had one in your pocket, when you were behind him and
twisting his collar.' Orsino smiled grimly.

'My hands were good enough for such a beast,' answered Ippolito in a
tone of disgust.

Thus it was that Ippolito began to go armed, much against his will, for
he took his profession as a priest and a man of peace seriously. Orsino
was not even then half satisfied, and intended before long to try and
persuade him to carry a revolver instead of a knife.

But up at Santa Vittoria there was much talk of another sort on that
evening. As generally happens in such cases in Sicily, the carabineers
and the soldiers, though on the lookout for Francesco Pagliuca, were in
profound ignorance of the fact that he was now lodging for the second
night at the house of Taddeo the grocer, though there was now hardly a
man in the village who did not know it. The soldiers in Sicily are
matched as one to a thousand against a whole population of the most
reticent people in the world, bound together by that singular but
half-defined force, which is the mafia. Knowing the country perfectly
and well acquainted with the unchanging hours of the regular patrols in
the neighbourhood, Francesco might have stayed ten days in Santa
Vittoria in spite of the soldiers, even if he had been guilty of the
crimes which he did not at all mean to commit. Not a human being would
have informed against him, and if anyone had betrayed him, the
betrayer's own life would not have been worth much. They did not think
any the better of him, nor any the worse, because he was innocent of any
misdeed. He was a part of the idea of the mafia, a born Sicilian, who,
somehow, had been obliged to give up his birthright to Romans, who were
as much foreigners to the people of Santa Vittoria as Englishmen could
have been. It was their duty, to a man, for Sicily's sake and their own,
to stand by him as a Sicilian against all authority whatever. Besides,
they knew him, the Romans had killed his brother, whom they had also
known, and both he and his had always helped the outlaws against the
government. The peasants remembered and told their children how the
Corleone brothers had once led a dozen carabineers about the hills for
two days in search of the brigands, taking good care not to catch them.
It was not probable that the soldiers should ever get any information
against such popular persons, except by stratagem or accident.

And now Francesco sat in a long upper room at the back of Taddeo's
house, bathing his sore face with vinegar and water and telling his
story to the grocer and his brother, in his own way. And in many humble
little houses, the men were talking in low tones, telling each other how
the 'priest of the Saracinesca' had fallen upon Francesco Pagliuca,
after they had quarrelled over Ferdinando's grave, and had treacherously
twisted his collar and beaten him before he could get his gun into his
hand. And they discussed the matter in whispers. And one man, who had
loved Ferdinando, said nothing, but went out quietly from his house and
walked down over the black lands and set fire to three haystacks on the
Camaldoli estate, because the corn was not yet harvested, and there was
nothing else to burn at that time of year. In the morning everyone heard
of it and was glad, but no one ever knew who had set fire to the hay,
for the man who did it did not tell his wife.

But neither did Concetta tell her father truly what had happened to her.
She had been at the cemetery, she said, and the two gentlemen had met,
the priest and the layman, and had quarrelled, she knew not about what,
and the priest of the Saracinesca had caught Francesco Pagliuca
unawares by the neck. So her story corresponded with that of the
peasants and with that of Francesco.

For two reasons she could not tell her father the truth. If he had known
it, he would never have allowed her to leave the village alone again.
And he would most certainly have risen from the table, and would have
gone straight to Taddeo's house, where Francesco was, to kill him at
once, though Don Atanasio was an old man, having married very late in
life. It was true that since it was all over, and she had cast the blame
upon Ippolito, the hatred of her offended maidenhood for her cowardly
assailant was slowly and surely waking; and her white cheeks blushed
scarlet as though they had been struck, when she thought of it all. But
it was better that her father should not know, and she held her peace.
It was hardest of all to feel that she had almost had Francesco's rifle
in her hands, and that if he had not assailed her, there might by this
time have been one Saracinesca less in the world.

It would have done her good to see the haystacks flaming down in the
valley, and it would have brought a smile of satisfaction to her tragic
face to have heard what the peasants were whispering to one another in
all the little houses of the village that night.

No one said that it was a shame for an armed man to have been beaten by
an unarmed priest. They felt personally injured by what they called the
treachery of the latter in choking his antagonist, and they softly
cursed the Romans, and vowed to hurt them if they could. Generations of
their fathers had known generations of the Corleone, had been ground and
rack-rented by them, and had resisted their extortions with a cunning
that had often been successful. But now that the Pagliuca had lost their
birthright, that was all forgotten in the fact that they were Sicilians,
injured by Romans. No one said in defence of the Saracinesca that San
Giacinto had paid the Pagliuca more than twice the actual value of
Camaldoli. In the eyes of the peasants their old masters had been
ignominiously ejected from their home by Romans, and Ferdinando had done
a brave and honourable deed in trying to resist them. It was the duty of
every good Sicilian to stand by the Pagliuca against the Romans and
against the authorities, come what might. If this young Roman priest had
the overbearing courage to beat a Pagliuca on the high-road in broad
daylight, what might not his tall, black-browed brother be expected to
do, or what deed of violence might not follow at the hands of the
grey-haired giant who had been at Camaldoli, and who had momentarily
terrorised everyone? No one's life or property was safe while the
Saracinesca remained in the country. And they meant to remain. They had
cut down the brush around the house so that no one could creep up with a
rifle under safe cover, and they had strengthened the gate and were
restoring the tower. They had turned the monastery into a barrack for
the carabineers, and had quartered a company of infantry in the village.
Their power and their evident influence in Rome, since they had obtained
troops for their protection, made them ten times more hateful to men who
hated all authority. They wished that Ippolito had wounded Francesco
slightly with some weapon. Then he might have been arrested, and there
was not a man in the village who would have said a word in his favour.
Many would have perjured themselves to testify against him, in the hope
that he might really be sent to prison. The fact that he was a priest
went for nothing. He was not their own priest, and more than one
churchman had been in trouble in Sicily, before now.




CHAPTER XXVII


Francesco was no more able to understand Concetta's conduct than
Ippolito himself. He had expected a very different termination to the
affair, for he knew well enough that if the four peasants had caught him
as Ippolito had, they would very probably have torn him limb from limb,
in the most literal and barbarous sense of the word, in spite of any
sympathy they might have felt for his family until then. He vaguely
understood that Concetta had saved him for his dead brother's sake, and
out of hatred for the Saracinesca; but there was a sort of reckless
self-sacrifice in her act which it was beyond his cowardice and
selfishness to comprehend. He rarely addressed the saints, but he
inwardly thanked them for his safety as he rode round the outskirts of
the village and the back of Taddeo's house. He was still in a tremor of
fear, but he knew that he could easily twist and exaggerate the story of
the ignominious beating he had received, and thereby account for his
pallor and his nervousness. He knew that anything would be believed
against the Saracinesca.

It would be hard to give a single reason for his having chosen to come
up to Santa Vittoria to find a lodging, when he had left Rome in order
to see Aliandra in Randazzo. His timidity might have had something to do
with his decision, making him prefer the village where he was sure of
finding friends, whatever he might do, to the large town where there was
no one upon whom he could count. He had also told Basili, when he had
been to see him, that he had business in Santa Vittoria. Vaguely, too,
he guessed that Tebaldo might know where he was and follow him. But he
had not the slightest intention of doing any harm to the Saracinesca,
of whom, in his heart, he had always been afraid.

As soon as Concetta had spoken, he had known that he was safe, though it
was long before the effect of his fright had passed off. After what she
had said, he knew that no one in Santa Vittoria would believe any
statement which Ippolito might make about the encounter, and he set
himself to enlarge upon the impression she had given so as to show
himself in the most advantageous light possible.

He was not injured, and his bruises, though painful, had not disfigured
him, for Ippolito had struck him on the side of the head. As for his
lip, he told Taddeo that Ippolito had at first picked up a stone and
wounded him in the mouth with it. Taddeo was ready to believe anything,
and so was his brother, the fat sacristan, who had waited for Francesco
in the bridle-path until a late hour, and grievously lamented having
missed the fight, for in spite of his fat and his odd smile and the cast
in his eye, he was fond of fighting for its own sake, and no coward,
except in the presence of what he believed to be supernatural and
therefore irresistible.

Having eaten his supper and refreshed his spirits and nerves with some
of Taddeo's strongest wine, Francesco went to sleep in the great,
old-fashioned trestle bed, in sheets that smelt of lavender, though they
were of coarse linen. And early in the morning he got up, feeling almost
quite himself, and rode down to Randazzo in the early dawn. An
uncomfortable sensation assailed him as he passed the wall of the
cemetery, but he looked away and rode on, thinking of Aliandra Basili,
and concocting the story he should tell her to account for his wounded
lip. Of all things, he desired to make a good impression on her and her
father, for he had come from Rome with the determination to marry her if
he could.

It did not seem impossible, with Tebaldo out of the way, for she liked
him, and Basili himself would think it a good thing for his daughter to
marry a Pagliuca. Francesco's native cowardice had kept him out of the
sort of daring mischief which gives a man a bad character. He did not
gamble, he did not drink, and he could have a title, of course,
according to the southern custom of distributing that sort of social
distinction through all the members of a family. Aliandra might do far
worse, Basili thought; and though he knew that she had made up her mind
to get Tebaldo if she could, he also knew Tebaldo well enough to judge
that, as the head of his family, he would try to make an ambitious and
rich marriage. He frankly told Francesco that he had little influence
with his daughter, but that so far as he himself was concerned, he
approved of the marriage. Francesco had an equal share of the small
family fortune with his brother and sister, and it had been increased by
the addition of Ferdinando's, since the latter had left no will. In
former times Basili had warned his daughter against the brothers, but
their existence had changed since then. They now had a social position,
and friends in Rome, and were altogether much more deserving of
consideration.

Francesco found the notary's broken leg a distinct advantage in his
courtship; for Basili was, of course, helpless to move, in his room
upstairs, and when the young man had paid him a visit, he and Aliandra
had the house to themselves without fear of interruption. Then the two
could stay as long as they pleased in the sitting-room below, with the
blinds half closed and hooked together, and it was a cool and quiet
