This question of what he ought to do disturbed Ben not a little.
As an honorable boy he did not wish to benefit any longer than was
absolutely necessary by a deception which involved injustice and
fraud. He was living very comfortably, it is true, and his allowance
was a handsome one. He sent half of it to his mother, and this was
sufficient to provide all that was needed for her and his sister's
comfort. He had done this innocently, hitherto, but now that his
eyes were opened, his knowledge would make him an accomplice in the
conspiracy.

In his uncertainty he decided upon what was not, perhaps, the most
judicious course, to ask Major Grafton directly in regard to the
matter.

An opportunity soon came.

"Major Grafton," Ben began, "how long since did Philip die?"

The major regarded him suspiciously. The question put him on his
guard.

"A few months ago," he answered indifferently.

"Were you--his guardian?"

"You seem curious this morning, Philip," answered the major, coldly.

If Ben had been older and more experienced he would have been
able to get at the truth indirectly, but it was his nature to be
straightforward.

"I heard something yesterday that disturbed me," he said.

Major Grafton threw himself back in an easy-chair and fixed his eyes
searchingly on the boy.

"Tell me what you heard," he said, shortly, "and from whom."

"I was sitting on a bench near the lake when two ladies began
speaking about you--and me."

"Tell me what they said," broke in Grafton, impatiently.

"The truth must be told," thought Ben, "even if Major Grafton gets
offended."

"They said that Philip had a large fortune, and you were his
guardian. When he died the money was to go to some cousins in New
York. They said that you had concealed his death, and so continued
to draw the income of the property, and were palming off me for him.
They seemed to think I was your nephew, and was in the plot."

Major Grafton was a good deal disturbed by what Ben had told him. Of
course there was a strong chance that the truth would come out some
time, but he had hoped to keep it concealed for some years, perhaps.

"These ladies seem to have a large share of imagination," he said,
with a forced laugh. "From one fabrication you may judge all. You
know whether you are my nephew or not, and whether you are engaged
in any plot?"

"No, sir, of course not."

"The whole thing is ridiculous; I don't think you need trouble
yourself any more about it."

But Ben was not satisfied, and Major Grafton could see this from his
look.

"That was my reason for asking whether Philip had any property," he
continued, with an inquiring look.

"I must satisfy him in some way," thought the major, "or he will
compromise me."

"I wouldn't like to think I was keeping any property away from the
rightful owners," proceeded Ben.

"You can put yourself at ease," said the major, carelessly. "Those
ladies, whoever they are, know almost nothing about the matter.
Philip did have a little property, yielding scarcely enough for his
own expenses. At his death it fell to me. His grandfather was an
intimate friend of mine, and made the arrangement in gratitude for
my care of the boy."

"Then there were no cousins in New York?" asked Ben, doubtfully.

"Not that I am aware of. That is a lie out of whole cloth. There
is no one more unscrupulous than a female gossip. Did you speak to
either of the ladies?"

"No, sir."

"That was right. You might have made mischief and seriously offended
me. Do you often write home?"

"Every week, sir."

"I have no objection to that, but I must caution you against
repeating this nonsensical and absurd story. I have taken a great
deal of interest in you on account of your resemblance to poor
Philip, to whom I was tenderly attached. It is on that account I
engaged you to accompany me. You would not be likely to do as well
in New York?"

"No, sir; no one would think of paying me as liberally as you do."

"I am glad you appreciate the advantages of your position. I hope
you won't lose it by any foolishness," added Grafton, significantly.

Ben felt that there was no more to say, but he was far from
satisfied. He was thoroughly persuaded within himself that the story
was true, and that Major Grafton was acting a fraudulent part. How
could he find out?

He had not forgotten his visit to the office of Mr. Codicil, just
before they left New York. He had seen enough, then, to be aware
that between Major Grafton and the lawyer there were business
relations, and he suspected that they referred to the boy whose
place he had taken. This would seem to bear out and confirm the
story told by the two ladies. Now, if he should write a letter to
Mr. Codicil he might ascertain all he needed to know, and if all
was as he suspected he could refuse having any further part in the
conspiracy. He did not remember the exact location of Mr. Codicil's
office, but he did remember his first name, and he judged rightly
that a letter simply directed to the lawyer, and addressed New York,
would be likely to reach him.

Major Grafton, after the interview between Ben and himself, watched
our hero with ever-increasing suspicion. He felt that he was in the
boy's power. An indiscreet revelation would overthrow the fabric of
fraud which in his self-interest he had erected, and reduce him to
earning a precarious living at the gaming-table. In the case of an
average boy he would have been secure, from the boy's regard for
his own interest; but he saw that Ben was a conscientious boy, of
honorable impulses, and this disgusted him.

"The boy is dangerous," he decided. "I must place him where he can
do no mischief."

When a man is thoroughly unprincipled he can always find ways and
means for the carrying out of his iniquitous plans. Major Grafton
experienced no difficulty in devising a method for staving off the
threatened danger.

One day after a leisurely breakfast, during which Major Grafton had
been unusually chatty and affable, he said:

"Philip, I have a pleasure in store for you."

"What is it, sir?"

"We are going to take a long drive into the country."

"Thank you, sir. I shall enjoy it."

Fifteen minutes afterward an open carriage drove into the court-yard
of the hotel.

"Is this the carriage I ordered?" asked Major Grafton.

"It is for M. de Grafton," said the driver.

"But you are not the man I spoke to."

"No, it was my brother. He is obliged to stay at home; his wife is
taken suddenly sick."

"Very well; you will no doubt answer the purpose equally well.
Philip, take a seat inside."

Ben did so.

"Where shall I drive, monsieur?"

Major Grafton indicated the direction.

They drove over a broad, smooth road on the eastern shore of the
lake. It was a charming drive, not alone on account of the smooth
waters of the lake which were in constant view, but also on account
of the distant mountains and the picturesque Swiss habitations which
regaled their eyes.

They kept on uninterruptedly for nearly two hours, until Ben began
to marvel at the length of the drive.

Finally they came in sight of a large, picturesquely situated house,
surrounded by trees.

"We will descend here, Philip," said Major Grafton. "I want you to
see this chateau."

"Is there anything interesting connected with it?" asked Ben.

"Yes, I believe Voltaire once lived here," answered Grafton.

"I always thought he lived at the Chateau de Ferney."

"He also lived here for a few months," said Major Grafton, shortly.
"I think Calvin also lived here once."

Ben entered without suspicion. A suave, black-whiskered man welcomed
them. He seemed to recognize Major Grafton, and was voluble in his
protestations of joy at meeting them.

"Is this the boy you spoke of?" he asked.

"Yes," answered Grafton. "Philip," he said, "remain in this room a
few minutes while I speak with M. Bourdon."

"Certainly, sir."

He waited fifteen, twenty, thirty minutes, and no one came back.
Finally the door opened and the black-whiskered man made his
appearance--alone.

"Where is Major Grafton?" asked Ben.

The other smiled craftily.

"He is gone, M. Philippe."

"Gone! and without me?"

"You are to live with me, my son."

"I don't understand you. What sort of a place is this?"

"It is a maison de fous."

Ben was horror-struck. He knew now that he was in a lunatic asylum.
He could guess why he was placed there.




                           CHAPTER XXV.

                            IN A TRAP.


For a sane person to find himself suddenly incarcerated in a lunatic
asylum is enough to excite a thrill of horror in the most stolid.
Ben shuddered and started back, pale and sick with apprehension. He
was a brave boy, but it required more courage than he possessed to
preserve his coolness under such circumstances.

"What does it mean?" he ejaculated.

"It means, my friend," answered M. Bourdon, with a sardonic smile,
"that you are not quite right here," and he tapped his forehead
significantly.

He spoke English correctly, but with an accent, having, when a young
man, passed several years in England.

"It is a lie!" exclaimed Ben, indignantly, his terror giving place
to anger. "My mind is not in the least affected."

M. Bourdon shrugged his shoulders, with another aggravating smile.

"They all say so," he answered.

"I am as sane as you are!" continued Ben, hotly.

"Well, well, I may be a little touched myself--who knows?" said M.
Bourdon, or the doctor, as we may call him, in a tone of banter.

It was hard for Ben to restrain himself, so impressed was he by the
outrage of which he was the victim. It would have been a relief to
attack the doctor, and seek deliverance by forcible means, but a
glance at the well-knit frame of M. Bourdon, and the certainty of
his being able to summon assistance, deterred him and led him to
control his rash impulse. One thing he could do, and that was to
ascertain, if possible, Major Grafton's motive in subjecting him to
imprisonment.

"What proof have you that I am insane?" he asked, more calmly.

"Your appearance."

"You have not had time to examine me."

"The doctors are able to judge from very slight examination," said
M. Bourdon, smiling.

"Did Major Grafton tell you I was insane?" asked Ben.

"You mean the gentleman who came here with you?"

"Yes."

"He has assured me of it."

"What did he say? How did he tell you I had shown signs of insanity?"

"He said you had tried to drown yourself in the lake, and, being
foiled in that, had made an attempt to poison him. Surely this is
enough to warrant his sending you to me."

"Did he utter these infamous falsehoods?" demanded Ben, startled.

"Of course you pronounce them falsehoods, my young friend, and
doubtless you believe what you say. I am quite sure you have no
recollection of what you did. This is one of your sane periods. At
this moment you are as sane as I am."

"You admit that?" said Ben, in surprise.

"Certainly, for it is true. Your insanity is fitful--paroxysmal.
Half an hour hence you may stand in need of a strait-jacket. If you
were always as clear in mind as at present there would be no need of
detaining you. I would open my door and say, 'Go, my young friend.
You do not need my care.' Unfortunately, we do not know how long
this mood may last."

The doctor spoke smoothly and plausibly, and it was hard for Ben to
tell whether he was really in earnest or not. He regarded M. Bourdon
intently, and thought he detected a slight mocking smile, which
excited his doubt and distrust anew. To appeal to such a man seemed
well-nigh hopeless, but there was nothing else to do.

"Are you the doctor?" he asked.

"Yes; I am Dr. Bourdon," was the reply.

"And you are at the head of this establishment?" continued Ben.

"I have that honor, my young friend," answered Bourdon.

"Then I wish to tell you that Major Grafton has deceived you. He
has an object to serve in having me locked up here."

"Doubtless," answered the doctor, with an amused smile, taking a
pinch of snuff.

"He is afraid I would reveal a secret which would strip him of his
income," continued Ben.

"And that secret is----?" said the doctor, not without curiosity.

Ben answered this question as briefly and clearly as he could.

The doctor listened with real interest, and it might have been
satisfactory to Ben had he known that his story was believed. M.
Bourdon was a shrewd man of the world, and it struck him that this
knowledge might enable him to demand more extortionate terms of
Major Grafton.

"Don't you believe me?" asked Ben, watching the face of his listener.

"I hear a great many strange stories," said the doctor. "I have to
be cautious about what I believe."

"But surely you will believe me, knowing that I am perfectly sane?"

"That is the question to be determined," said M. Bourdon, smiling.

"Won't you investigate it?" pleaded Ben. "It is a crime to keep me
here, when I am of sound mind."

"Whenever I am convinced of that I will let you go. Meanwhile you
must be quiet, and submit to the rules of my establishment."

"How long do you expect to keep me here?" asked Ben.

"As long as you require it and your board is paid."

Ben looked despondent, for this assurance held out very little hope
of release. Still he was young, and youth is generally hopeful.
Something might turn up. Ben was determined that something should
turn up. He was not going to remain shut up in a mad-house any
longer than he could help. He remained silent, and M. Bourdon
touched a little bell upon a small table beside the door.

The summons was answered by a stout man with rough, black locks, who
looked like a hotel porter.

"Francois," said the doctor, in the French language, "conduct this
young man to No. 19."

"At once, Monsieur le Docteur," answered the attendant. "Come with
me, young man."

He signed to Ben to follow him, and our hero, realizing the utter
futility of resistance, did so.

"Go ahead, monsieur," said Francois, when they came to a staircase.

Ben understood him very well, though he spoke in French, thanks to
his assiduous study of the last four weeks.

They walked along a narrow corridor, and Francois, taking from his
pocket a bunch of keys, carefully selected one and opened the door.

"Entrez monsieur."

Ben found himself in an apartment about the size of a hall bedroom,
with one window, and a narrow bedstead, covered with an exceedingly
thin mattress. There was no carpet on the floor, and the furniture
