the room in apprehension of her husband's wrath, she was secretly
pleased. A daughter, particularly one that gave no trouble, was
companionable and useful, and she saw no reason why she should be asked
to give her to any man for years to come. Although meagre, she was not
heartless, and was much relieved that Magdaléna appeared indifferent to
the sudden break. She was dimly conscious that she did not understand
her daughter, but she had no desire to plumb the depths; she had a
substantial distaste for the Spanish nature when roused.

Her husband was expected to return in time for dinner. She went to bed
with an attack of neuralgia a little after six.

Magdaléna did not see her father until he entered the dining-room with
her uncle. He inquired immediately for Trennahan, who usually dined with
him when there were no engagements elsewhere.

"He decided suddenly to go to the Sandwich Islands and sailed
yesterday."

"Very sorry he no wait until I come back. I think I gone with him.
Always I want to see the Islands. I work long enough now: go to travel
some and see the world. So queer to think is so much world outside
California. When you go to Europe, I go too. And you, too, Eeram. You no
can go with us, for both cannot leave the bank, but when we coming back
you take the vacation, too."

"I never expect to see the outside of California again," said Mr. Polk,
shortly.

Magdaléna's nerves shook for the first time in seventy-two hours. She
appreciated the ordeal she had to face within the next. The dull ache in
every nerve of her gave place to a certain keenness of apprehension.
What would that terrible little man do? She had absorbed something of
her father's personality as a child. During the last year she had talked
much with him and had discovered the strange weaknesses and fears which
lurked in that manufactured character. She fully realised what a
son-in-law like Trennahan meant to him. He was quite capable of killing
her. And during the last three or four weeks he had flown into more than
one violent passion, prompted by a liver disordered by too much dining
out.

While the two men were drinking their coffee, she left the room and went
to the office. The riding-whip was in its old place; on a shelf in the
cupboard was a brace of pistols. Magdaléna threw the whip into the
cupboard, locked the door, and slipped the key behind a book on the
mantel. Her father came in a moment later. She handed him a cigar and a
match. He drew his heavy brows together and puckered his eyelids.

"What the matter?" he demanded drily. "So white you are, and the hand
tremble."

Magdaléna sat down and took control of herself.

"I am not going to marry Mr. Trennahan," she said.

She held her breath for the expected outburst; but Don Roberto only
stared at her, his eyes slowly expanding. The cigar dropped from his
fingers.

"He no want marry you?" he ejaculated finally.

"I told him that I did not wish to marry him,--I never wish to marry any
man,--and he is too proud to insist upon marrying a woman who does not
want him. We had a long conversation. We quite understand each other. He
will never ask me again."

"Dios!" gasped Don Roberto. "Dios!" But there was no anger in his
voice. His eyes rolled from Magdaléna to the window and back again.
Finally he said,--

"He no come back, then?"

"He is coming back in six weeks."

Don Roberto drew a long breath and seemed to recover himself.

"Then si he no break the engagement, he feel glad si it is make again.
You marry him the day after he come back. I fixit that."

"No power on earth can make me marry him."

Her father searched her countenance. He knew her character. Did it not
have that iron of New England in it for which he would have sold his
birthright? He might turn her into the street, and it would avail him
nothing. Again his features relaxed, this time not with surprise and
consternation, but with abject fear. He shuddered from head to foot;
then his hands shot up to receive his face. He groaned and rocked from
side to side.

Magdaléna was aghast. What feeling was alive in her united in filial
tenderness. She went to him and put her hands uncertainly about his
head, then stroked his hair awkwardly: she was little used to
endearments.

"I never thought--" she stammered. "I never thought--"

"Thirty years I work like the slave, and now all going! Eeram, he have
the death-tick in him: I hear! And now I no go to have the son, and I go
to die in the streets like the others; with no one cents! Ay! yi! ay!
yi!"

Magdaléna was pricked with a new fear: Was her father insane? She had
heard of the "fixed idea." This weevil had been burrowing in his brain
for more than a quarter of a century. She went back to her chair and
said assertively,--

"You are one of the ablest financiers in California: everybody says so.
Nothing can change that, whether uncle dies or not. This is all a fancy
of yours. You don't half appreciate yourself. And you are tired out
to-night, and have not been well lately--"

"All going! All going! Ay de mi! Ay de mi! Why I no dying with the
wife and the little boy? Make myself over, and now the screws go to drop
out my character, and I am like before."

Magdaléna had an inspiration. "Take me into the bank," she said eagerly.
"Teach me everything. I am sure I can learn. Then I will look after
everything when uncle dies. I want to work--"

Don Roberto dropped his hands and gave a low roar. "The women all fools,
and you the more big fool I never see. You throw way the clever man like
he is old hat, and think you can manage the bank! Madre de Dios! Si I
no feel like old clothes, no more, I beating you. To-morrow I do it."
His eyes kindled at the prospect. "To-morrow si you no say you marry
Trennahan, I beating you till you are black like my hat."

What remained of Magdaléna's apathy left her then. She stood up and
faced him, drawing her heavy brows together after his own fashion. "You
will never beat me again," she said. "Let us have an understanding on
that subject before we go to bed to-night. I am your daughter, and I
shall always obey you except where the question of my marrying is
concerned. But if you ill-treat me I shall leave your house and not
return. I am of age, and I have my aunt to go to. Now, unless you
promise me that you will never raise your hand to me again, I will
leave for Santa Barbara to-night."

Again Don Roberto stared at her. But his surprise passed quickly. He was
too shrewd a judge of human nature to doubt her. If she had inherited
the iron of her mother's ancestors, she had also inherited the pride of
the Yorbas: she would not permit her womanhood to be outraged. But he
could have his revenge in other ways; and he would take it. He gave the
promise and ordered her sullenly to send the butler to help him up to
bed.




XVI


During the following week Don Roberto was very ill. The doctor came
three times a day. Mrs. Yorba and Magdaléna sat up on alternate nights.
Mr. Polk was constantly at the bedside. When he retired to snatch an
hour's sleep, Don Roberto's temperature became alarming; of the presence
of his wife and daughter he took no notice whatever.

As the ego must enter into all things, Magdaléna, despite her alarm and
pity, was grateful for the diversion. The interview with her father had
roused her abruptly and finally; and during that night her misery had
raged in every part of her. It is true that in the long watches thought
fairly stamped in her brain, but it was rudely brushed aside every
little while by the imperious wants of the sick man, or the whispered
remarks of the professional nurse. At other times she slept heavily or
received the numerous friends who came to inquire for the eminent
citizen who had dined out too often during the gayest season in many
years.

Don Roberto recovered, and his convalescence was as memorable as his
previous social activity. No nurse would remain more than thirty-six
hours at any price; and even his wife, whose ideas of marital duty were
as rigid as her social code, lost her patience upon one occasion and
rated him soundly. Mr. Polk was the only person he treated with common
decency. As for Magdaléna, he might have been a sultan and she his
meanest slave. But Magdaléna was rather pleased than otherwise. Her
conscience had flagellated her as the immediate cause of his illness,
and she strove by every act of devotion to make amends.

As soon as he was sufficiently recovered, he was taken, in a special
car, to Fair Oaks, to absorb the sun on his spacious verandahs.
Magdaléna had asked the doctor to order Southern California, but the
order had been received with such a roar of fury that the subject was
not resumed. Magdaléna was forced to return to Menlo Park.

She spent the night walking the floor of her room, struggling for
endurance to face the places eloquent of Trennahan. There were so many
of them! Helena simply would not have returned; no power short of
physical force could have compelled her. More than once Magdaléna wished
that she was cast in her friend's anarchic mould. She felt that did her
grip upon herself relax she should scream aloud and grovel on the very
boards that had had their share in her brief love-life. But she was
Magdaléna Yorba, the proudest woman in California; in the very hour of
her discovery, when she had been possessed of a blind terror rather than
grief, she had remembered to be thankful that the world could not pity
her. Even the genuine sympathy of Tiny would have been gall in a raw
wound. She was looking thinner and plainer than ever, but her father's
illness would account for that. She must set her features in steel and
lock them, keep her emotions for the night.

The next day she visited every spot associated with Trennahan,--not
once, but many times. She had made up her mind with the right instinct
that the thing to do was to blunt her sensibilities. By the third day
she had ordered the earlier associations on duty, and managed to confuse
them somewhat with those which had held possession for so brief a time.
She was determined to succeed. She had no right to love the husband of
another woman, and suffering was something so much more terrible than
anything her imagination had ever hinted that she was frantic to get rid
of the load as quickly as possible. By and by she would go back to her
writing; and that, and her duties, should be every bit of her life
henceforth.

At the end of a week she discovered that she was still receptive to the
æsthetic delights. It was early spring. The soft air caressed the
senses, perfumed with violet and lilac, Castilian roses, new clover, and
the breath of mountain forests, brought on the long sighs of the wind.
Never was there such a bouquet since Time began. Over a high bush on
the lawn opposite her window the long "bridal wreaths" tumbled. The
meadows were full of mustard, the bright green leaves hardly visible, so
thick were the yellow blossoms.

Once she rode to the foot-hills, escorted by Dick. They were covered
with yellow and purple lupins, miniature jungles which harboured nothing
more sanguinary than the gopher and the cotton-tail. The tawny poppies
had hills all to themselves, a blaze of colour as fiery as the sun to
which they lifted their curved drowsy lips. The Mariposa lilies grew by
the creeks, in the dark shade of meeting willows. The gold-green moss
was like plush on the trees. From the hills the great valley looked like
a dense forest out of which lifted the tower of an enchanted castle. Not
another signal of man was to be seen, nothing but the excrescence on the
big wedding-cake house of a Bonanza king. Beyond the hills rose the
slopes of the mountains, with their mighty redwoods, their dark
untrodden aisles, their vast primeval silences. Magdaléna was thankful
that Nature had not ceased to be beautiful, and pressed her hands
against her heart to stifle its demand; Nature commands union, and has
no sympathy for aching solitude.

Meanwhile Don Roberto was recovering rapidly. From the hour that he
could walk briskly about the garden his voluble irascibility left him,
and he reverted to something more than his old taciturnity; he rarely
opened his mouth except to put the plainest of food into it, even to
speak to Mr. Polk. His brows were lowered constantly over heavy brooding
eyes; his lips seemed set with a spring. When he finally addressed his
wife, it was to tell her that she must manage with one butler and one
housemaid. Coincidently he dismissed two of the gardeners and commanded
the one retained, and Dick, to plant in a part of the lawns that there
might be less water used. Himself came from town every evening and
worked in the garden for two hours, besides arising at five in the
morning and working until breakfast. He sold his finest carriage horses
to Mr. Geary; and when one of the two remaining was temporarily
disabled, he rode to and from the station in the spring wagon. The
monthly allowance of his wife and daughter was suspended for the summer.

Mrs. Yorba, tall, garbed in black, stalked about the house with the
expression of an outraged empress; Magdaléna, being the cause of the
outrage, was rarely addressed. She ostentatiously made over several of
her old frocks and coldly requested her daughter to make her own bed.
She kept all the windows in the house, with the exception of one in each
room, closed and shuttered, as she was deprived of both service and
water. The house seemed perpetually expectant of funeral guests, its
silence only broken by Mrs. Yorba's heavy sighs.

Magdaléna had certainly succeeded in making three people miserable; she
could only hope that she had been more fortunate with the other two. She
spent most of her time out of doors, riding or walking until her
strength was exhausted. She was profoundly grateful that she was to take
little part in the socialities of the summer. To dance and picnic and
tennis and ride to the hills, exactly as she had done when quite another
person! She infinitely preferred the disapproval of her parents and the
freedom they gave her.




XVII


Trennahan had written to Magdaléna from the Islands, acknowledging the
letter she had written him after her interview with her father, and
accepting his dismissal. He returned to San Francisco the last of May.
Almost immediately she received a letter from Helena announcing her
engagement to him.

Helena, while in Southern California, had written to Magdaléna with her
accustomed regularity. The letters were bitter with self-reproach
alternated with the very joy of being alive in that opulent southern
land. When she wrote of the engagement she assured the dearest friend
she had on earth that if things had turned out differently she should
have gone away and got over it somehow, but as Magdaléna's decision was
irrevocable she intended to be the happiest girl in the world; it
wouldn't do anybody a bit of good if she wasn't. Magdaléna felt no
bitterness toward her. She had lost Trennahan; the woman mattered
nothing. She would rather it were Helena than another; for who else
could make him so happy? But she knew that she should see less of Helena
in the future, and she hardly knew whether she were glad or sorry. She
wished that she had the courage to ask her to keep him away from Menlo
Park this summer.

The other girls moved down, bringing many guests, and she saw them
daily; habit is not broken in a moment. They passed through Fair Oaks as
usual on their afternoon drives, stopping for a chat; in their
char-à-bancs or on the verandah. It was some time before they discovered
the changes in the Yorba household, and when they did they merely
shrugged their shoulders at the old don's eccentricities. The big
parlours were certainly to be regretted; but there were other parlours
that were not half bad, and it was terribly up-hill work entertaining
Don Roberto. They were profoundly sorry for Magdaléna, and were so
insistent in their demands that she should spend much of her time with
them that she found her solitude far less complete than she had hoped.
But Helena and Trennahan were not to come down until the first of July;
they had gone with Colonel Belmont to the Yosemite, Geysers and Big
Trees.




XVIII


Trennahan in that first month thought little of Magdaléna. He hardly
knew whether he were happy or not; he certainly was intoxicated. Helena
was both impassioned and shy, a companion to whom words were hardly a
necessary medium for thought, and magnificently uncertain of mood.
Moreover, whether riding a donkey up the steep dusty grades of the
Yosemite, or half veiled in a mist of steam, reeking of Hell, or
standing with wondering eyes and parted lips among the colossal trees of
Calaveras, she was always beautiful. And Trennahan worshipped her beauty
with the strength of a passion which had sprung from a long and
recuperative sleep. That he was twice her age mattered nothing to him
now. Nothing mattered but that she was to be wholly his.

The morning after his return to Menlo he awoke with a confused sense
that he should be late for his morning ride with Magdaléna. He laughed
as his senses rattled into place, but he sighed just after; and both the
laugh and the sigh were Magdaléna's, grim as the former may have been.
That had been a time of peace and perfect content, and he could never
forget it, not though he lived long years of unimaginable bliss with
Helena--which he probably would not. A part of his life, limited and
stunted a part as it was, belonged irrevocably to Magdaléna. He
concluded, after some hard thinking, that it was his best part. He had
given her something of his soul, and he had no wish to take it back. He
had given her the reviving aspirations of an originally noble nature;
the sun of her had shone upon the barren soil, and the harvest was hers.
He was an unimaginative man, but he was inclined to believe that if
there was a future existence, Magdaléna would belong to him then and for
ever, that something even less definable than the soul of each belonged
to the other. For there was nothing to be ashamed of in his love for
Helena. She appealed as powerfully to his mind and heart as to his
passion. But there was something beyond all, and he had no name for
it,--unless it were that principle of absolute good as distinguished
from its grades and variations; and it belonged to the girl whom he
certainly no longer wanted in this life.

He wished that he had suggested to Helena to spend the summer in San
Rafael or Monterey. Menlo Park belonged to Magdaléna; he found himself
hating the thought of having a series of very perfect memories
disturbed, even by the most passionately loved of women. And so
Magdaléna had her first revenge.

He went reluctantly enough to Fair Oaks in the afternoon. The very
leaves whispered as they drove through the woods. He had protested, but
Helena must see 'Léna at once; she could never be entirely happy until
she had looked into 'Léna's eyes and convinced herself that they were
quite unchanged. And Trennahan must go, too, and have it over.
Trennahan, who only crossed her whims for the pleasure of making up with
her later, admitted that she was right, and went.

Mrs. Yorba was on the verandah receiving Mrs. Geary and Mrs. Brannan.
Magdaléna was upstairs in her room. The monotony of those afternoon
receptions had taken its place among the distasteful things of life, and
she was determined not to go down until she was sent for. Each time she
heard wheels she went to the window and looked out. The third time she
saw Trennahan and Helena. The very bones of her skeleton seemed to fall
upon each other; she sank to the ground with less vigour than a
shattered soldier. But in a moment she gave a hard gasp and pressed her
hands to her face. Then she heard Helena's voice,--that sweet husky
voice which was not the least potent of her charms.

"'Léna! 'Léna! Well, I'll go look for her."

Magdaléna scrambled to her feet and fled down the hall to her mother's
dressing-room. There, in a cupboard, was always a decanter of sherry;
for Mrs. Yorba, after her neuralgic attacks, was often faint. Magdaléna
filled a glass, drank it, and blessed the swift fire which shook her
will free and made a disciplined regiment of her nerves. She was so
delighted at her sudden mastery over herself that she ran out into the
hall, caught Helena in her arms, and kissed her demonstratively. Helena
burst into tears. "You are the best girl on earth," she sobbed. "And I
feel so wicked; but I am so happy."

Magdaléna dried her tears, a part she had filled many times. "You are
the dearest and most honest girl in the world," she said.

"Oh, I try to be honest, but I get so mixed up. I wish I could have a
new set of commandments handed down all for myself, and that I could
have made the rough draft of them. Then I'd be quite happy. But come
down and see Jack,--I couldn't stand John. He's awfully brown and looks
splendid."

Trennahan gave Magdaléna's hand a friendly shake and asked her what the
plans for the summer were.

