
Center Market was the only place of account to household purveyors.
They went thither followed by the slave, meeting other ladies with
an obsequious attendant. Marketing was one of the duties of a good
housewife. Some had come in their carriages. There was an exchange of
friendliness, as is often the case in the infancy of towns, and some
bits of family gossip, some references to the ball at Long's Hotel.

All the others had come in when they returned. Charles had his brain
full of marvels. Varina was tired and cross.

"I shall have to send you back home," declared her father. "Indeed,
perhaps we had all better go to-morrow. We are to take supper to-night
with the Carringtons, over at Georgetown. Jaqueline and Patty, you must
go with us--that was Madam Carrington's orders. She has not seen you in
a long while."

Annis crept around to her mother and took her hand, looking up
wistfully. It seemed as if everyone wanted her mother.

"No, you can't go to-morrow," said Mrs. Jettson. "At least, the girls
cannot. They have a state invitation, and I have been to get a proper
gown for Jaqueline," and she laughed mischievously.

"Jane!" said the squire sharply; "what nonsense! Jaqueline has gowns
and frocks and fal-lals enough. You will make her vainer than a
peacock. What is this invitation, pray?"

"To pay our respects to Mr. and Mrs. Madison. Dear me, Randolph, think
how father would rail at such republican crowds as have haunted the
place to see plain Mr. President! They are to move to the White House
early next week, when Mr. Jefferson goes to Monticello; and then, no
doubt, there will be more state. But the Madisons have always kept such
an open, hospitable house, and welcomed guests so charmingly."

"Jane, you are getting to be an astute politician. No doubt Arthur
has his eye on some street or creek or stream for improvement, and is
engineering a grant through the House. Not but what Washington needs
it badly enough. There's muddy old Tiber, and lanes full of pitfalls,
and last year's weeds like battalions of an army. Well, I must not
grumble, for I have a finger in the pie. Virginia Avenue, for all its
high-sounding name, is a disgrace to the State standing sponsor for it;
and I am quite sure my money is buried in bogs. So you and Arthur try
your best with the new administration. I'm too old a dog to be apt at
new tricks."

"But it isn't Arthur's doings. Lieutenant Ralston is to convoy us
thither," returned Jane.

"Well, go and get ready, girls. We will start soon after dinner
and return early. Lucky the fandango wasn't to-night, or the brave
lieutenant would have to content himself with Jane."

Annis kept close to her mother. After dinner she followed her to her
dressing room.

"I suppose, mamma, I couldn't go with you?" she asked wistfully, as her
mother was making great puffs out of her abundant hair.

"My dear--there will be all grown people, and nothing to interest a
little girl," was the soft reply.

"But I don't mind interest. I could sit very still and watch the rest
of you. I----" The child's voice faltered.

Her mother bent over and kissed her, endangering the structure of hair
she was piling up.

"Oh, my dear, to-morrow perhaps we will go home and you will have me
altogether. It will be only a little while. You see, people do not ask
little girls out to tea."

"But you always took me before. Oh, mamma, I can't like all these
people, there are too many of them! I do not want anyone but you."

The child clung convulsively to her mother. Patricia Mason's heart was
torn between the two loves. For each day she was learning to love her
generous, large-hearted husband with a deeper affection, and taking a
warmer interest in the children. The hurt and jealous feeling of Annis
was very natural; she could hardly blame her little daughter. Indeed,
it would have pained her sorely if the child had been easily won away.
Yet scenes like this smote the very depths of her soul. As Annis grew
older she would understand that nothing could change a mother's love,
though circumstances might appear to divide it.

Patricia kissed her tenderly, unclasped her arms, and went on with her
preparations. The slow tears coursed each other down the soft cheek in
the grave quiet harder to bear than sobs.

"Patty! Patty!" called the good-humored voice up the stairs, "don't
prink all the afternoon, or you will outshine your old husband and put
him out of temper. Girls, come! The horses are tired of waiting."

A quick footfall sounded on the stair, and Jaqueline's voice was heard
laughing gayly. Then Patty the younger, peered into the room.

"Oh, I thought I was the last! Can I do anything for you? Here is your
cloak. We are not in summer yet. It really is warmer at home; but I'm
glad to be here, all the same. Why, madam mother, you look so pretty
and young father will have to introduce us as sisters--the Three
Graces. Here are your gloves. Good-by, little Annis. Charles will look
after you."

Mrs. Mason kissed her little girl. "Will you not come downstairs?" she
whispered.

Annis shook her head.

She heard the merry voices, and presently the sound of the wheels. Then
she leaned her head down on a chair, and felt more solitary than in the
Kentucky forests.




CHAPTER V.

ROGER CARRINGTON.


"Wasn't it queer that Lieutenant Ralston should happen in!" exclaimed
Jaqueline at the breakfast table. "We were just going in to supper, and
Madam Carrington would have him join us. She is a charming old lady,
and Mrs. Carrington, the daughter-in-law, is bright and entertaining.
They're some way back connections of our own mother's, of both
mothers," with a bright blush, nodding over at Patricia. "And there are
two sons, fine young men--one is private secretary to Colonel Monroe.
We shall see him to-night. Only what do you think? He advises us to
wait until Mrs. Madison is in the White House. And Mr. Ralston said,
See her in her own house."

"Jack," said her father, using the detested cognomen, "your tongue is
hung in the middle and swings both ways. Jane, Mrs. Carrington sent her
regards to you, and would like very much to meet you, since both of her
grandsons are acquainted with Arthur. The relationship seems to puzzle
most people, and they take you for my daughter. Do I really look old
enough for a grandfather?"

Mrs. Jettson laughed at that. It was rather confusing at times.

"And they begged us to come over and make a visit. Both ladies are so
fond of girls. Madam Carrington said they tried to keep someone with
them all the time. And, Annis, they were so much interested in hearing
about you, and wished you had been brought along."

Annis raised her eyes to her mother with a soft reproach in them.

"But I am the oldest," said Varina with jealous dignity.

"When next I go out to supper I shall have to take a caravan," declared
Mr. Mason humorously. "Jane, do you think you can manage these girls
for a few days and keep them out of the clutches of the young men? You
will have your hands full. But I am needed at home, and I feel that we
must go. So after breakfast we will gather up the small fry. Charles,
have you seen enough of Washington?"

"Not half enough, but I'll come back some time. And I think I'll be a
senator."

"What--not President!"

"I should have to be Vice President first," he returned gravely, at
which they all laughed.

"I do not see why you should hurry!" exclaimed Jane. "The house is
large enough for you all."

"There's a storm brewing, for one thing, and it's a busy season. Then
we do not desire to drive you into insanity."

"My brains are on a more solid foundation than that would imply,"
retorted Jane.

There was quite a confusion when they rose. The squire was always in a
hurry when any arrangement was settled upon. And since Jane was like an
elder sister to the girls----

"You will have to keep them over to next week," he began. "I shall not
be able to get away before--well, the very last. You might let them
spend a day or two with the Carringtons."

"Oh, we shall get along all right, never fear!"

"They're only children, you know," and the squire knit his brow over
a phase of fatherhood he could not make plain to himself, much less
explain to another. "I had an idea Catharine would sober Jaqueline down
a little, being a clergyman's wife and all that, but she's just as much
of a child as ever."

"Oh, you need not feel worried about Jaqueline. And it will be very
nice for them both to see the President and Mr. Jefferson, who is sure
to be there. Everybody is rushing to do them honor. I wish you could
stay."

"I've seen them both many a time, Jane, and every other President. Your
father is right in one thing, Washington was a grand man. There--do
not let the girls run wild."

Annis scarcely let her mother out of her sight. Mrs. Jettson kissed
her and said she was a nice little thing and must come again. Charles
was enthusiastic over his good time, and had much to talk about on the
homeward journey.

"You have used your eyes to some purpose," said his mother with smiling
commendation.

Mr. Evans thought so, as well. He was very proud of his pupil.

Annis enjoyed the great world out of doors more than she did her
lessons. When they were over she and Charles rambled about the
beautiful country-sides, gathering armfuls of flowers, listening to the
singing birds that filled the woods. The whole plantation was astir
with life. Corn and tobacco, wheat and oats, were the great staples,
but there was much besides in fruit and vegetables, in flocks and
herds. Slaves were busy from morning to night; it seemed as if the
place was dotted with them. Randolph Mason was an easy master. Mrs.
Mason found the care of so large a household no light thing. It was
truly a colony of people depending upon them for advice and training
of all sorts, for comfort in sorrow or death, for a willing ear in all
troubles.

It was a full fortnight before Mr. Mason could find time to go for his
girls. Jaqueline had sipped pleasure continually. The reception had
indeed been a crush and an informal affair, a mere calling upon the
head of the nation in a congratulatory way. Yet there were beautifully
gowned women, and famous men, and Mrs. Madison was cordial and affable.
In the dining room the table was replenished continually, and the
smiling waiters seemed at everyone's elbow.

After that Mr. Jefferson had gone to his beloved Monticello, although
there was no wife to welcome him, and only one daughter now. And the
new President was established at the White House. First there was
a state dinner to the ministers and the official family, and then a
levee.

Jaqueline and Patricia were surprised by a call from Mrs. Carrington,
who had driven over with her son to give her invitation in person and
take them back with her to Georgetown.

A quaint old house full of nooks and corners, and a garden laid out
with curious winding walks, full of old-fashioned flowers and shrubs,
some having been brought from the royal gardens of Paris, and one queer
space with clipped yews and a great tulip bed, so sheltered from the
wind and with such a sunny exposure that it was showing color in the
buds already.

Patricia, with her girlish eagerness, went to the heart of Madam at
once. She was so frank and chatty, and laughed with such an inspiriting
sound, that it gave the quiet house ripples of gayety.

Jaqueline and Mrs. Carrington fraternized in a delightful manner. She
was a rather small, fair woman, whose education abroad and whose family
had been her chief virtues in the eyes of her mother-in-law, who was a
great stickler for birth. She had made a good wife and mother, though
it must be confessed that when Madam Carrington lost her son she took
complete possession of her grandsons. In spite of strong patriotism
Roger had been sent to Oxford for three years, and had taken his degree
at law in Baltimore. Ralph was quite a bookworm, but extremely fond of
agriculture.

The longing of both women had been for a daughter. Though they seldom
compared notes on the subject, Roger's wife was a matter of much
speculation to them. Early marriages were the rule rather than the
exception; and though they were ready to invite relatives and friends
for visits and select admirable girls, Roger was single at twenty-four,
an admirer of the sex and quite fond of pleasure, and ever ready to
make himself agreeable.

Squire Mason had insisted that his girls were but children, but
Jaqueline was assuming the graces of womanhood rapidly. Mrs. Carrington
admired her slim, lithe figure, her pretty face with its fine
complexion and laughing eyes that often twinkled from an overflow
of mirth. There was in the young people of that day a very charming
deference to elders, and with all Jaqueline's wildness and love of fun
there was the innate touch of good breeding, the debt it was considered
one positively owed to society.

Mr. Ralph had gathered quite a menagerie of small pet animals; and, as
no one was allowed to disturb the birds, the garden and strip of woods
still remaining were filled with their melody. There was a summerhouse
that, while it looked light and was overrun with blossoming vines, was
secure from rain and had one furnished room which was a great favorite
with the young man.

The little eminence gave a fine view of Rock Creek and the wilder
country to the northward. When improvements begin, as is often the
case, an estate not large enough for a farm becomes unprofitable. The
town was growing rapidly; indeed, it had been a refuge when the first
Congress met in Washington, as there were so few houses in the Capital.
The patrician resort, where men of note had mingled and discussed the
interests of the country over their choice Madeira and before the
blazing fire of their host, was Suter's tavern, which kept its old
reputation, being one of the historic places while history was yet so
new. And the Convent of the Visitation was still a favorite with those
who did not want to send their daughters away from home, or were of
the same faith. Maryland had been settled largely by Roman Catholics,
and Virginia was the first State to insist on equal rights for all
denominations, while her people were generally stanch Churchmen.

There was a cordial, attractive, and refined element in Georgetown,
and much gayety among the young people. It was quite a common thing for
foreigners to sneer at the lack of courtly usage in the Colonies, and
the want of fine distinctions one found in foreign life, which were the
outgrowth of years of training and experience, and where common people
were held in awe by the "divinity that doth hedge a king." But the men
who had fought side by side, slept on the ground, endured all kinds of
hardships for the sake of a free country, were imbued with that sense
of equality quite different from the mushroom adjustment of the French
Revolution. There was a more generous culture of the soul, and much
more intelligence than the period is credited with. When one looks
back at the long line of statesmen, all more or less identified with
the great struggle and the pioneer mode of life, one finds a galaxy of
noble men that few lands can equal, and who built an enduring name for
themselves in building their country.

Many of the young people had been educated abroad, but Harvard, King's
College, Nassau Hall, and William and Mary were even now taking a high
stand in educational matters. And both Boston and Philadelphia had
some finishing schools, while the Moravian Seminary was already quite
celebrated for the repose and refinement of manner young girls acquired
within its nun-like seclusion. But the ideal training of women had not
gone far beyond what was considered the strictly feminine boundary: to
be graceful and attractive, with a certain freshness of repartee, to
dance well, to entertain, and to order a household. For in the higher
circles one might have to receive a count or a traveling lord or a
French marquis, or be sent abroad as the wife of some minister.

Georgetown had the advantage of more stability than Washington, and had
grown up around home centers. Representatives came and went, often not
considering it worth while to bring their families. Senators were still
largely interested in the welfare of their own States, rather than that
of the distant Capital. Thus it came to pass that Georgetown was really
attractive and rapidly improving. Streets had a more finished look.
Gardens were large and well kept, as there was no need of crowding.

The Carrington young men had seen the progress of advancement and
yielded to it with a sense of foresight. The outlying land had been
cut up into squares--some places sold, some rented. Roger had many
excellent business traits. Enough was left for beauty and a boundary of
fine forest trees on two sides, a third a prettily diversified space
sloping down to the creek, the other commanding a fine view of the
town.

"You ride, of course?" Roger had said the next morning after their
arrival.

"What Virginia girl does not?" Jaqueline returned with a gay smile.

"It bids fair to be a pleasant, sunny day, mother. What is that
despondent song you sing so much?

     "'Many a bright and sunshiny morning
     Turns dismal'--

and he paused----

     "'Turns to be a dark and dismal day.'

"Well, don't sing it to-day, and I will come home early if I can get
away, and take Miss Jaqueline out. Ralph, you might invite Patricia.
We will go up the creek road. The birds are out in force already; the
shore larks and the thrush are making melody that would rejoice the
heart of Robin Hood."

"But--I have no habit," replied Jaqueline, her bright face shadowed
with disappointment.

"Oh, mother can look you up something. We have attire that came over
with my Lord de la Ware's ships. Why shouldn't we be as proud as of
old Mayflower tables and cups and cloaks that the New Englanders dote
on?"

"I can find something, I am sure," was the motherly reply.

"Come out and take a breath of this delicious air."

That was meant for Jaqueline, who followed the young man out on the
porch, down the steps, and then they loitered through the garden walk.
The old white-haired gardener was clearing up the garden beds.

"Mornin', massa and young missy," he said, with a touch of his hand to
his head, that looked like a wig of crinkly wool.

Roger paused and gave some orders. Then he gathered a few wild violets
and gave them to the girl with a graceful gesture.

His mother was watching. "If he only would come to care for someone!"
she mused. He was a general admirer of the sex, as the young men of
that day were wont to be. "And the Masons are a fine family. I would
like nothing better."

How many times she had given anticipatory consent!

Jaqueline sent him off with a pretty smile that he forgot all about
when Ajax whinnied and thrust his nose into his master's hand. He had
been waiting the last fifteen minutes for the well-known voice.

"Fine old fellow!" his master said, with a caressing touch of the hand.
"And now we must be off, or the colonel will be in a fume."

