
"I am the only person who knows the combination of the house safe. The
papers can't get out without me."

So the talk ran on for a good hour, during which time Randy heard many
things which appeared to be of value to Mr. Philip Bartlett. Then the
two men arose and went to the smoking room, and that was the last our
hero saw of them until they left the boat, half an hour later.

The talk he had heard set Randy to thinking. Plainly Amos Bangs and his
companion were a pair of rascals and were trying to defraud Mr.
Bartlett out of some if not all of his belongings.

"I'll have to call on Mr. Bartlett and tell him what I have heard,"
Randy told himself.

"See here!" called out Peter Polk, striding up as Randy was going to
the lower deck. "What are you loafing around here for?"

"I am going below now," answered our hero.

"You can't shirk your work that way, Thompson." The purser came closer.
"Listen," he whispered. "After this you keep your nose out of my
business."

"I didn't know I had my nose in your business, Mr. Polk."

"Oh, you can't fool me, Thompson. I know it was you went to Captain
Hadley with the story of how I was treating my relatives."

"You mean the Clares?"

"Of course I do. After this you keep your mouth shut," pursued the
purser. "If you don't--well, you'll wish you had, that's all." And
Peter Polk went away in extremely bad humor.




CHAPTER XXII

MR. BARTLETT MAKES A MOVE


As soon as the boat had tied up at Albany, and his work was at an end,
Randy attired himself in his best and took a street car for the
residence of the Bartletts. It was a humble place on a side street,
quite in contrast to the fine residence the family had occupied in
Riverport.

"Hullo, Randy!" cried Jack, as he came to the door to answer our hero's
ring. "This is a surprise. Walk right in. Did you send word that you
were coming?"

"I did not, Jack. Is your father home?"

"Yes, he is just finishing his supper."

"I want to see him."

"Had your supper?"

"Yes, I got a bite before I left the boat."

"All right--otherwise I know mother will welcome you at our table."

Jack went off to tell his father, and presently Mr. Bartlett walked in.
He looked rather care-worn and tired. Evidently his new situation was a
hard one to fill and did not agree with him.

"How do you do, Randy?" said Mr. Bartlett. "Glad to see you. Jack says
you want to see me."

"I do, Mr. Bartlett. Can I talk to you in private?"

"Certainly. Come into the parlor."

Mr. Bartlett led the way and closed the door. Then both sat down.

"I want to tell you something about Mr. Bangs and a man named Tuller,"
began Randy. "They were on the boat to-day and I overheard some of
their talk."

"Tuller, eh?" said Mr. Bartlett, and his brow darkened.

As well as he could Randy repeated the talk he had heard. Jack's father
listened with keen interest. He was astonished when Randy mentioned the
papers which had been abstracted from his desk.

"So Bangs has them in his safe at home, eh?" he cried. "Well, I am
going to get them, be the cost what it may. They belong to me, and I am
going to take them no matter where I find them."

He was equally astonished to hear that a certain Mr. Robinson was not
acting with Amos Bangs and certain other men, Tuller included.

"They gave me to understand that Robinson was with them," said Philip
Bartlett. "If Robinson will only act with me, perhaps I can do a great
deal."

"Then why don't you write to Mr. Robinson and find out?"

"I will go and see him."

"Oh, then he lives here."

"No, in Springfield. But our works are going to shut down for a few
days, so I will have ample time. Randy, I am very thankful to you for
bringing me this news."

"I hope it does you some good, Mr. Bartlett."

"I think it will. Perhaps I'll only be able to scare Bangs, but that
may make him careful, so I can get something out of my stock in the
iron works company."

"If you ever want me as a witness I will do what I can for you."

"Thank you, my lad; you are kind and I will remember what you say."

After that Mrs. Bartlett and Jack came in and learned something of what
had brought our hero to the house.

"Good for you, Randy!" cried Jack. "Father, if I were you, I'd break
into old Bangs's safe."

"Pray do nothing rash," pleaded Mrs. Bartlett. "Remember he is rich and
has many friends."

"He is certainly rich," said Randy, "but I doubt if the family have
many friends. All of them are too overbearing."

"Bangs broke into father's private desk and took the papers," went on
Jack. "It would be only tit for tat to break open the safe and get the
papers back."

"I shall see Robinson first and then make up my mind what to do,"
answered his father.

Randy spent a pleasant evening with Jack, and when it came time to go
to the boat Jack walked half the distance with our hero.

"I wish father could get what is due him," said Jack on the way. "He
can't stand the hard work he is now doing."

The next morning Randy sailed down the river on the steamboat.
Twenty-four hours later Mr. Bartlett crossed the Hudson and took a
train for Springfield. He hoped to find Mr. Robinson at one of the
banks and he was not disappointed.

The bank official--for such Mr. Robinson was--listened with interest to
all Philip Bartlett had to tell. He shook his head when Amos Bangs and
Tuller were mentioned.

"I suspected as much," said he. "I was given to understand that Bangs
had bought you out. I couldn't understand it either, for you once told
me that you did not wish to leave the works. I have just gotten back
from a trip to Europe and have a good deal to attend to here, but I
will take this matter up as soon as I possibly can."

"And you will stand in with me?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.

"If you wish it."

"I do."

"Then we must act together."

"And what would be your advice regarding those papers in Bangs's
private safe at his house?"

"Get out a search warrant and take a professional safe man along, to
open the strong box," answered the bank official, promptly. "And do not
delay either. He may take it into his head to burn the papers up."

"I will do as you say," answered Mr. Bartlett with decision.

Some of his old-time will power had come back to him and he lost not a
moment in carrying out his plans. He visited a firm dealing in safes
and from them got the address of a man who claimed to be able to open
any ordinary safe made. Then he called on this individual.

"You open safes?" he asked.

"I do--if I have the proper authority," answered the man.

"Can you open a first-class house safe?"

"Yes."

"How long will it take?"

"From five minutes to three hours."

"What are your charges?"

"Ten to fifty dollars. I'll have to see the safe before I can set a
definite figure."

"Will you be at liberty to-morrow?"

"I'll be at your service if you engage me now."

"Very well, you may consider yourself engaged. I wish you to meet me in
Riverport at about noon."

"Your own safe?"

"No."

"You'll have authority to open it?"

"I think so. I've got to go to court to get it, though."

"Ah! a legal case, eh?"

"Yes. You don't object, do you?"

"Oh, no, I have many legal cases. Had to force a safe for some lawyers
in Bridgeport only last week."

"You will not disappoint me?"

"Not at all, Mr. Bartlett."

With this understanding Philip Bartlett left the safe opener and took a
train back to his home. But, as it happened, a certain man saw him
leaving the safe opener's office. This man was none other than Tuller,
the friend to Amos Bangs.

"Bartlett, eh?" murmured Tuller to himself. "What is he doing in
Springfield?"

He chanced to know the safe opener, whose name was Westinghouse, and
presently dropped into the other's office as if by accident.

"How is business, Westinghouse?" he said, indifferently.

"Fair," was the answer. "Had two jobs last week."

"Good enough."

"How is business with you?"

"Booming. I suppose you get jobs ahead, is that it, or do you go out on
the run, so to speak?"

"Sometimes I get orders ahead, but most of the jobs come in on the
run--safe out of order, or something like that. I've got to go to
Riverport to-morrow."

"Is that so? Bank?"

"No, a private party, I reckon. Going to have a safe opened by an order
from the court, I think."

"Is that so! Well, I wish you luck on the job. Good-day."

"Good-day!" answered the safe opener.

Once on the street Tuller's face changed.

"Bartlett must have given that order, and if so he means to either open
up the safe at the iron works or else the safe at Bangs's house. I must
see Bangs and warn him, so that nothing is found which will do us
harm!"

At first he thought to telegraph, but then came to the conclusion that
it would be too risky. A letter might not be received in time.

"I'll go myself," he said, and an hour later was on his way to
Riverport.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE PAPERS IN THE SAFE


At Riverport the next day Mr. Bartlett called upon a lawyer with whom
he was well acquainted and told to the legal gentleman all that he had
learned and proposed to do.

"I wish your assistance, Mr. Soper," he said.

"You shall have it," was the lawyer's prompt answer.

"Can you get an order from the court to open that safe?"

"I believe I can. Come, we will go and see the judge at once."

Fortunately for Mr. Bartlett the judge was easily found, and when the
matter was explained he issued the necessary papers and placed them in
the hands of one of the constables.

"But how are you going to open the safe if it is locked?" asked the
judge. "Constable Carley is not equal to it."

"I have engaged a professional safe opener," answered Mr. Bartlett. "He
can do the trick for the constable."

"Very well."

Mr. Bartlett, the lawyer, and the constable waited until the stage came
in. The safe opener was one of the passengers and at once joined the
crowd and was introduced.

In the meantime Jasper Tuller had also arrived in Riverport. In the
morning he lost no time in calling at the iron works.

"I want to see Mr. Bangs," he said, to the clerk who came to wait on
him.

"Sorry, sir, but Mr. Bangs went out of town late last night."

"When will he be back?"

"Not until some time this afternoon--possibly not until evening."

"Where did he go? I must communicate with him at once."

"He went to Rochester, but I can't give you the exact address,"
answered the clerk.

Jasper Tuller groaned in spirit. Could he have telegraphed to Amos
Bangs he would have done so, but the telegram would have remained at
the office awaiting a call.

"I must make a move on my own account, if I can," he muttered.

He called a carriage and was driven to the Bangs mansion. A servant
answered his rather impatient ring at the front door.

"Is anybody at home?" he asked, abruptly.

"Mr. Bangs has gone away, sir."

"I know that," he snapped. "Is Mrs. Bangs at home?"

Now it happened Mrs. Bangs had come home the night before, intending to
go away again two days later. But she had given orders that she wished
to see no one.

"I--I don't know," said the servant girl. "I can see. What is the
name?"

"Jasper Tuller. It is highly important that I see somebody of the
family at once," went on the visitor.

Mrs. Bangs was in an upper hallway and overheard the talk. She knew her
husband had had some trouble with a book agent over the payment of a
bill and took Tuller to be that person.

"A gentleman to see you, Mrs. Bangs," said the maid. "He is very
anxious about it."

"I cannot see anybody," returned the fashionable woman, coldly. "Tell
him I am not at home."

The girl went down into the hallway, where she had left Jasper Tuller
standing.

"Mrs. Bangs is not at home, sir. You will have to call some other
time."

"Is Mr. Bangs's son at home?"

"No, sir; he is away for the summer."

"When will Mrs. Bangs be back?"

"I can't say, sir."

"It is too bad. The matter is very important. I came all the way from
Springfield to see Mr. Bangs. They told me at the works he had gone to
Rochester. I wanted to see him or his wife on business. Have you any
idea where I can find Mrs. Bangs?"

The girl hesitated.

"N--no, sir," she faltered.

Mrs. Bangs was listening as before and now realized that something
unusual was in the air. She slipped down a back stairs and out of a
rear door. Then she came around to the front piazza just as the door
opened to let Tuller out.

"Mamie, who is this?" she asked, looking at the servant girl meaningly.

"Are you Mrs. Bangs?" asked Jasper Tuller, quickly, and, as she nodded,
he continued: "I am glad you have come. I am Jasper Tuller, one of the
stockholders in the iron works. Perhaps you have heard your husband
mention my name."

"I have, Mr. Tuller. What can I do for you?"

"I would like to see you in private"--this with a side glance at the
servant girl.
