“What else, in her set, should she do?”

This he was quite unable to say; but he could after a moment’s
exhibition of the extent to which he was out of it put a question
instead. “So you’re not in her set?”

“I’m not in her set.”

“Then decidedly,” he said, “I don’t want to save her. I only want--”

He was going on, but she broke in: “I know what you want!”

He kept his eyes on her till he had made sure--and this deep exchange
between them had a beauty. “So you’re now with me?”

“I’m now with you!”

“Then,” said Hugh, “shake hands on it”

He offered her his hand, she took it, and their grasp became, as you
would have seen in their fine young faces, a pledge in which they stood
a minute locked. Lord Theign came upon them from the saloon in the midst
of the process; on which they separated as with an air of its having
consisted but of Hugh’s leave-taking. With some such form of mere
civility, at any rate, he appeared, by the manner in which he addressed
himself to Hugh, to have supposed them occupied.

“I’m sorry my daughter can’t keep you; but I must at least thank you for
your interesting view of my picture.”

Hugh indulged in a brief and mute, though very grave, acknowledgment of
this expression; presently speaking, however, as on a resolve taken with
a sense of possibly awkward consequences: “May I--before you’re sure of
your indebtedness--put you rather a straight question, Lord Theign?” It
sounded doubtless, and of a sudden, a little portentous--as was in fact
testified to by his lordship’s quick stiff stare, full of wonder at
so free a note. But Hugh had the courage of his undertaking. “If I
contribute in ny modest degree to establishing the true authorship of
the work you speak of, may I have from you an assurance that my success
isn’t to serve as a basis for any peril--or possibility--of its leaving
the country?”

Lord Theign was visibly astonished, but had also, independently of this,
turned a shade pale. “You ask of me an ‘assurance’?”

Hugh had now, with his firmness and his strained smile, quite the look
of having counted the cost of his step. “I’m afraid I must, you see.”

It pressed at once in his host the spring of a very grand manner. “And
pray by what right here do you do anything of the sort?”

“By the right of a person from whom you, on your side, are accepting a
service.”

Hugh had clearly determined in his opponent a rise of what is called
spirit. “A service that you half an hour ago thrust on me, sir--and
with which you may take it from me that I’m already quite prepared to
dispense.”

“I’m sorry to appear indiscreet,” our young man returned; “I’m sorry to
have upset you in any way. But I can’t overcome my anxiety--”

Lord Theign took the words from his lips. “And you therefore invite
me--at the end of half an hour in this house!--to account to you for my
personal intentions and my private affairs and make over my freedom to
your hands?”

Hugh stood there with his eyes on the black and white pavement that
stretched about him--the great loz-enged marble floor that might have
figured that ground of his own vision which he had made up his mind to
“stand.” “I can only see the matter as I see it, and I should be ashamed
not to have seized any chance to appeal to you.” Whatever difficulty he
had had shyly to face didn’t exist for him now. “I entreat you to think
again, to think well, before you deprive us of such a source of just
envy.”

“And you regard your entreaty as helped,” Lord Theign asked, “by the
beautiful threat you are so good as to attach to it?” Then as his
monitor, arrested, exchanged a searching look with Lady Grace, who,
showing in her face all the pain of the business, stood off at the
distance to which a woman instinctively retreats when a scene turns to
violence as precipitately as this one appeared to strike her as having
turned: “I ask you that not less than I should like to know whom you
speak of as ‘deprived’ of property that happens--for reasons that I
don’t suppose you also quarrel with!--to be mine.”

“Well, I know nothing about threats, Lord Theign,” Hugh said, “but I
speak of all of us--of all the people of England; who would deeply
deplore such an act of alienation, and whom, for the interest they bear
you, I beseech you mercifully to consider.”

“The interest they bear me?”--the master of Dedborough fairly bristled
with wonder. “Pray how the devil do they show it?”

“I think they show it in all sorts of ways”--and Hugh’s critical smile,
at almost any moment hovering, played over the question in a manner
seeming to convey that he meant many things.

“Understand then, please,” said Lord Theign with every inch of his
authority, “that they’ll show it best by minding their own business
while I very particularly mind mine.”

“You simply do, in other words,” Hugh explicitly concluded, “what
happens to be convenient to you.”

“In very distinct preference to what happens to be convenient to you!
So that I need no longer detain you,” Lord Theign added with the last
dryness and as if to wind up their brief and thankless connection.

The young man took his dismissal, being able to do no less, while,
unsatisfied and unhappy, he looked about mechanically for the
cycling-cap he had laid down somewhere in the hall on his arrival.
“I apologise, my lord, if I seem to you to have ill repaid your
hospitality. But,” he went on with his uncommended cheer, “my interest
in your picture remains.”

Lady Grace, who had stopped and strayed and stopped again as a mere
watchful witness, drew nearer hereupon, breaking her silence for the
first time. “And please let me say, father, that mine also grows and
grows.”

It was obvious that this parent, surprised and disconcerted by her tone,
judged her contribution superfluous. “I’m happy to hear it, Grace--but
yours is another affair.”

“I think on the contrary that it’s quite the same one,” she
returned--“since it’s on my hint to him that Mr. Crimble has said to
you what he has.” The resolution she had gathered while she awaited her
chance sat in her charming eyes, which met, as she spoke, the straighter
paternal glare. “I let him know that I supposed you to think of
profiting by the importance of Mr. Bender’s visit.”

“Then you might have spared, my dear, your--I suppose and hope
well-meant--interpretation of my mind.” Lord Theign showed himself at
this point master of the beautiful art of righting himself as without
having been in the wrong. “Mr. Bender’s visit will terminate--as soon
as he has released Lord John--without my having profited in the smallest
particular.”

Hugh meanwhile evidently but wanted to speak for his friend. “It was
Lady Grace’s anxious inference, she will doubtless let me say for her,
that my idea about the Moretto would add to your power--well,” he pushed
on not without awkwardness, “of ‘realising’ advantageously on such a
prospective rise.”

Lord Theign glanced at him as for positively the last time, but spoke to
Lady Grace. “Understand then, please, that, as I detach myself from any
association with this gentleman’s ideas--whether about the Moretto or
about anything else--his further application of them ceases from this
moment to concern us.”

The girl’s rejoinder was to address herself directly to Hugh, across
their companion. “Will you make your inquiry for me then?”

The light again kindled in him. “With all the pleasure in life!” He
had found his cap and, taking them together, bowed to the two, for
departure, with high emphasis of form. Then he marched off in the
direction from which he had entered.

Lord Theign scarce waited for his disappearance to turn in wrath to
Lady Grace. “I denounce the indecency, wretched child, of your public
defiance of me!”

They were separated by a wide interval now, and though at her distance
she met his reproof so unshrinkingly as perhaps to justify the terms
into which it had broken, she became aware of a reason for his not
following it up. She pronounced in quick warning “Lord John!”--for
their friend, released from among the pictures, was rejoining them, was
already there.

He spoke straight to his host on coming into sight. “Bender’s at last
off, but”--he indicated the direction of the garden front--“you may
still find him, out yonder, prolonging the agony with Lady Sand-gate.”

Lord Theign remained a moment, and the heat of his resentment remained.
He looked with a divided discretion, the pain of his indecision, from
his daughter’s suitor and his approved candidate to that contumacious
young woman and back again; then choosing his course in silence he had
a gesture of almost desperate indifference and passed quickly out by the
door to the terrace.

It had left Lord John gaping. “What on earth’s the matter with your
father?”

“What on earth indeed?” Lady Grace unaidingly asked. “Is he discussing
with that awful man?”

“Old Bender? Do you think him so awful?” Lord John showed
surprise--which might indeed have passed for harmless amusement; but he
shook everything off in view of a nearer interest. He quite waved old
Bender away. “My dear girl, what do we care--?”

“I care immensely, I assure you,” she interrupted, “and I ask of you,
please, to tell me!”

Her perversity, coming straight and which he had so little expected,
threw him back so that he looked at her with sombre eyes. “Ah, it’s not
for such a matter I’m here, Lady Grace--I’m here with that fond question
of my own.” And then as she turned away, leaving him with a vehement
motion of protest: “I’ve come for your kind answer--the answer your
father instructed me to count on.”

“I’ve no kind answer to give you!”--she raised forbidding hands. “I
entreat you to leave me alone.”

There was so high a spirit and so strong a force in it that he stared as
if stricken by violence. “In God’s name then what has happened--when you
almost gave me your word?”

“What has happened is that I’ve found it impossible to listen to you.”
 And she moved as if fleeing she scarce knew whither before him.

He had already hastened around another way, however, as to meet her in
her quick circuit of the hall. “That’s all you’ve got to say to me after
what has passed between us?”

He had stopped her thus, but she had also stopped him, and her
passionate denial set him a limit. “I’ve got to say--sorry as I am--that
if you must have an answer it’s this: that never, Lord John, never,
can there be anything more between us.” And her gesture cleared her
path, permitting her to achieve her flight. “Never, no, never,” she
repeated as she went--“never, never, never!” She got off by the door at
which she had been aiming to some retreat of her own, while aghast and
defeated, left to make the best of it, he sank after a moment into a
chair and remained quite pitiably staring before him, appealing to the
great blank splendour.




BOOK SECOND




I

LADY SANDGATE, on a morning late in May, entered her drawing-room by
the door that opened at the right of that charming retreat as a person
coming in faced Bruton Street; and she met there at this moment Mr.
Gotch, her butler, who had just appeared in the much wider doorway
forming opposite the Bruton Street windows an apartment not less ample,
lighted from the back of the house and having its independent connection
with the upper floors and the lower. She showed surprise at not
immediately finding the visitor to whom she had been called.

“But Mr. Crimble------?”

“Here he is, my lady.” And he made way for that gentleman, who
emerged from the back room; Gotch observing the propriety of a prompt
withdrawal.

“I went in for a minute, with your servant’s permission,” Hugh
explained, “to see your famous Lawrence--which is splendid; he was so
good as to arrange the light.” The young man’s dress was of a form less
relaxed than on the occasion of his visit to Dedborough; yet the soft
felt hat that he rather restlessly crumpled as he talked marked the
limit of his sacrifice to vain appearances.

Lady Sandgate was at once interested in the punctuality of his reported
act. “Gotch thinks as much of my grandmother as I do--and even seems to
have ended by taking her for his very own.”

“One sees, unmistakably, from her beauty, that you at any rate are of
her line,” Hugh allowed himself, not without confidence, the amusement
of replying; “and I must make sure of another look at her when I’ve a
good deal more time.”

His hostess heard him as with a lapse of hope. “You hadn’t then come
for the poor dear?” And then as he obviously hadn’t, but for something
quite else: “I thought, from so prompt an interest, that she might be
coveted--!” It dropped with a yearning sigh.

“You imagined me sent by some prowling collector?” Hugh asked. “Ah, I
shall never do their work--unless to betray them: that I shouldn’t in
the least mind!--and I’m here, frankly, at this early hour, to ask your
consent to my seeing Lady Grace a moment on a particular business, if
she can kindly give me time.”

“You’ve known then of her being with me?”

“I’ve known of her coming to you straight on leaving Dedborough,”
 he explained; “of her wishing not to go to her sister’s, and of Lord
Theign’s having proceeded, as they say, or being on the point of
proceeding, to some foreign part.”

“And you’ve learnt it from having seen her--these three or four weeks?”

“I’ve met her--but just barely--two or three times: at a ‘private view’
at the opera, in the lobby, and that sort of thing. But she hasn’t told
you?”

Lady Sandgate neither affirmed nor denied; she only turned on him her
thick lustre. “I wanted to see how much you’d tell.” She waited even
as for more, but this not coming she helped herself. “Once again at
dinner?”

“Yes, but alas not near her!”

“Once then at a private view?--when, with the squash they usually are,
you might have been very near her indeed!”

The young man, his hilarity quickened, took but a moment for the truth.
“Yes--it was a squash!”

“And once,” his hostess pursued, “in the lobby of the opera?”

“After ‘Tristan’--yes; but with some awful grand people I didn’t know.”

She recognised; she estimated the grandeur. “Oh, the Pennimans are
nobody! But now,” she asked, “you’ve come, you say, on ‘business’?”

“Very important, please--which accounts for the hour I’ve ventured and
the appearance I present.”

“I don’t ask you too much to ‘account,’” Lady Sandgate kindly said; “but
I can’t not wonder if she hasn’t told you what things have happened.”

He cast about. “She has had no chance to tell me anything--beyond the
fact of her being here.”

“Without the reason?”

“‘The reason’?” he echoed.

She gave it up, going straighter. “She’s with me then as an old firm
friend. Under my care and protection.”

“I see”--he took it, with more penetration than enthusiasm, as a hint in
respect to himself. “She puts you on your guard.”

Lady Sandgate expressed it more graciously. “She puts me on my
honour--or at least her father does.”

“As to her seeing me”

“As to my seeing at least--what may happen to her.”

“Because--you say--things have happened?”

His companion fairly sounded him. “You’ve only talked--when you’ve
met--of ‘art’?”

“Well,” he smiled, “‘art is long’!”

“Then I hope it may see you through! But you should know first that Lord
Theign is presently due--”

“Here, back already from abroad?”--he was all alert.

“He has not yet gone--he comes up this morning to start.”

“And stops here on his way?”

“To take the train de luxe this afternoon to his annual Salsomaggiore.
But with so little time to spare,” she went on reassuringly, “that,
to simplify--as he wired me an hour ago from Dedborough--he has given
rendezvous here to Mr. Bender, who is particularly to wait for him.”

“And who may therefore arrive at any moment?”

She looked at her bracelet watch. “Scarcely before noon. So you’ll just
have your chance--”

“Thank the powers then!”--Hugh grasped at it. “I shall have it best if
you’ll be so good as to tell me first--well,” he faltered, “what it is
that, to my great disquiet, you’ve further alluded to; what it is that
has occurred.”

Lady Sandgate took her time, but her good-nature and other sentiments
pronounced. “Haven’t you at least guessed that she has fallen under her
father’s extreme reprobation?”

“Yes, so much as that--that she must have greatly annoyed him--I have
been supposing. But isn’t it by her having asked me to act for her? I
mean about the Mantovano--which I have done.”

Lady Sandgate wondered. “You’ve ‘acted’?”

“It’s what I’ve come to tell her at last--and I’m all impatience.”

“I see, I see”--she had caught a clue. “He hated that--yes; but you
haven’t really made out,” she put to him, “the other effect of your
hour at Dedborough?” She recognised, however, while she spoke, that
his divination had failed, and she didn’t trouble him to confess it.
“Directly you had gone she ‘turned down’ Lord John. Declined, I mean,
the offer of his hand in marriage.”

Hugh was clearly as much mystified as anything else. “He proposed
there--?”

“He had spoken, that day, before--before your talk with Lord Theign,
who had every confidence in her accepting him. But you came, Mr.
Crimble, you went; and when her suitor reappeared, just after you had
gone, for his answer--”

“She wouldn’t have him?” Hugh asked with a precipitation of interest.

But Lady Sandgate could humour almost any curiosity. “She wouldn’t look
at him.”
