therefore some sense of shame, but not of honour, though with humour he
was supplied. A man with some sense of humour and no sense of honour
may go far. Barouffski intended to. After his volcanic introduction to
Leilah, he beheld in her not the woman but the opportunity which chance
had sent his way. To grasp that he displayed every art of which the
Slav is capable. He did more. He impressed her not with the nobility
of his name but of his nature. He was a good actor and though at first
unsuccessful he was not discouraged. It was an axiom of his that among
the dice of destiny there is always a golden six. It was axiomatic with
him also that it is not tossed at once. To deserve it, one must wait.
Barouffski waited. Presently fate shook the box before him. The golden
six was his.

But not the box.

To Leilah the mere idea of matrimony was abhorrent. Yet she could
not stop indefinitely with the Silverstairs. She had no relatives
with whom she could reside. She felt that it would be awkward and
perhaps equivocal for her to have an establishment of her own. But
these considerations were minor beside another--a sense, haunting and
constant, that the excursion to Nevada had been inadequate, that the
past needed a surer barricade.

It was not a husband that she wanted. Peace and security were the
flesh-pots that she craved. These Barouffski offered or seemed to--and
it was these finally and these only that she agreed to accept.

To the implied stipulation Barouffski consented with an air of high
chivalry but also with an ambiguous smile. Given the golden six of her
income, the box was a detail to him, and it was in these circumstances
that over the perhaps insecurely locked door of her past, this mask
mounted guard.

The news of the engagement, filtering through the press, was cabled to
the States, together with the fact that Leilah was then stopping in
the rue François Premier with Lady Silverstairs, whose portrait, in
addition to bogus presentments of the engaged couple, were printed in
the minor sheets that circulate from New York to San Francisco.

On arriving from Australia at the latter city, Verplank happened on a
belated copy. Since he had gone from Coronado, this, the first news of
his wife, was her engagement to another man.

In his amazement his thoughts stuttered. Into his mind entered
stretches of night. He looked at the sheet without seeing it. But the
paragraph and the purport of it, already photographed on the films of
the brain, were prompting him unconsciously, and it was without really
knowing what he was saying that he exclaimed:

“Leilah! My wife! In Paris! Engaged to another man!”

The names, the words, the meaning of them all, beat on his brain like
blows of a hammer.

“Leilah! My wife! In Paris! Engaged!”

Again he looked at the sheet. “What a damned lie!” he ragingly cried,
and, rumpling the paper, threw it from him.

But now, the names, the words, the meaning of them all, well beaten
into him, readjusted themselves, presenting a picture perfectly defined
and possibly real.

He stooped, gathered the paper, smoothed it, read the account again.

After all, he reflected, it might be that she was in Paris and, if
there, it was natural that she would be with Violet Silverstairs. These
two items were, therefore, not improbably correct. That view reached,
the deduction followed: If they are correct, the other may be. Yet, in
that case, he argued, obviously she must think me dead. On the heels of
this second deduction an impression trod--the ease and dispatch with
which she had become consoled.

Enraged at once, angered already by what he had taken for a lie and
then infuriated by what he took for truth, the anterior incidents that
had this supreme outrage for climax, leaped at him. At the onslaught
the primitive passions flared, and it was with the impulse of the
homicide that he determined to seek and overwhelm this woman who
accepted men and matters with such entire sans-gêne.

On the morrow he left for New York. Before going he sent a cablegram to
the address which the paper had supplied:

    Am just apprised of the studied insult of your engagement to
    some foreign cad. Leaving for Paris at once.

As he signed it, deeply, beneath the breath, he swore. “That will show
her,” he added.

It so happened that it showed her nothing. Leilah was not then in the
rue François Premier, but in the rue de la Pompe, where the message
followed, but only to be received by Barouffski, who read it with a
curious smile.

Already he hated Verplank, who had not yet acquired a hatred for him.
But though that hatred had not been acquired, it developed tumultuously
when, on arriving in New York, he learned that not merely the report of
the engagement was true, but that the engagement had since resulted in
a marriage, which itself had been preceded by a Nevada divorce.

In comparison to all that had occurred, the divorce seemed at the time
almost negligible. It was the crowning infamy of this marriage which,
in renewing the primitive passions, aroused in Verplank a determination
not merely to seek and overwhelm the woman, but to seek and destroy the
man. The marriage, he decided could be but the result of an anterior
affair, there was no other explanation of it. The idea that had come to
him at Coronado, the possibility that she might have left him because
informed of some affair of his own and which since then he had examined
again and again, fell utterly away. It was not because of errors of his
that she had gone, but for turpitudes of her own. Then to his anger at
her was added a hatred of Barouffski, whom he had never seen, and who,
without having seen Verplank, hated him also, hated him retrospectively
and prospectively, hated him because clearly Leilah had been his
and--where women are concerned, all things being possible--might be
again.

But though Barouffski hated Verplank actively, he hated him vaguely,
as one must when one hates the unknown. It was the cablegram which, in
supplying the personal element, made the hate concrete.

“Foreign cad, eh?” he repeated, with a curious smile. “Eh bien, nous
verrons, we shall see.”

Presently the opportunity occurred. For it was in these circumstances,
a fortnight after the receipt of the cablegram, that, directed by the
young Baronne de Fresnoy, he turned and saw Verplank entering the room
where he stood.




IV


With the unerring instinct of the man of the world, Verplank, on
entering the crowded salon, divined immediately, among all the women
present, the hostess whom he had never seen.

As he bent over her hand, the duchess, who had not an idea how he came
there, said in her fluted voice:

“This is really so nice of you. I did not know you were in Paris.”

“Nor did I--until this moment,” answered Verplank, looking as he spoke
into the eyes of his hostess who, after the one imperceptible glance
with which the mondaine judges and classifies, was wondering in what
manner, this man, with his virile face and impeccable presence, had
forced Leilah Barouffska to leave him.

“But,” he added, “Monsieur de Joyeuse whom I saw this afternoon told
me that you would be at home, and assured me that I might venture to
present my homages.”

The duchess displayed her tireless smile. “I am only sorry not to have
had them sooner.” She paused. Between her smile, the edges of her
teeth showed, false but beautiful. “There is Lady Silverstairs trying
to get you to look at her, and very well worth looking at she is.”

Camille de Joyeuse turned for a moment to the reticent young prince who
in his diffident way still lingered at her side.

Beyond, at the farther end of the room, notes rippled. Standing near
a grand piano, the Roumanian with the flowing hair was preluding a
fantasy of his own.

In the hush that succeeded, Verplank moved to where Violet sat.

Smilingly, without speaking, she gave him her hand and indicated a seat
beside her. Then, raising a fan, she whispered:

“Demon! What have you done? Where do you spring from? How long have you
been in Paris?”

Verplank, seating himself, answered:

“I got here this morning. Why am I a demon?”

From behind the fan, Violet asked:

“What did you do to Leilah? Why did she leave you?”

Verplank folded his gloved hands. “That is what I am here to find out.”

“Do you mean to tell me that you don’t know!”

“I have not an idea--unless it was because of this Count Thingumagig.”

Violet Silverstairs furled her fan, looked at him, looked away, looked
about the room. At one end her husband, accompanied by de Joyeuse,
Tempest, de Fresnoy, and the others, had entered. At the further end
the Roumanian dominated. Supported en sourdine by an accompanist, he
massed sounds and dispersed them, concentrating fulgurations of notes
from which echoing showers fell. Presently, resuming an abandoned
measure, he caressed a largo, infinitely sweet, that swooned in the
languors of the finale. At once to a murmur of bravos, the applause of
gloved hands and a cry of “Bis!” raising violin and bow above his head,
he bent double to the duchess, his flowing hair falling like a veil
before him.

“He may play again,” said Violet. “I want to talk to you. Let us go
into the next room.”

As Verplank rose at her bidding, others who had been seated, rose also.
Interrupted conversations were more animatedly resumed. A servant
announced additional names. The first salon now was thronged. The
second was filled. Verplank and Violet passed on.

Beyond was a gallery. At the entrance stood a woman, her face averted,
talking to a man. As the others approached, she turned.

At sight of her and of the man, Violet would have turned also. It was
too late.

“Leilah!” Verplank exclaimed.

For a second, in tragic silence, two beings whom love had joined and
fate had separated, stood, staring into each other’s eyes.

For a second only. At once the man interposed himself between them.

“Monsieur!” he insolently threw out. “My name is Barouffski.”

With superior tact Lady Silverstairs intervened. “Good evening, Count.
It never occurred to us that we were interrupting a tête-à-tête.”

She paused. Hostilely the two men were measuring each other. In
Verplank’s face there was a threat, in Barouffski’s there was a jeer,
in Leilah’s there was an expression of absolute terror. Of the little
group Violet alone appeared at ease.

“Leilah,” she added, “don’t forget that you are to have luncheon with
me to-morrow. Good night, my dear. Silverstairs and I will be going
soon. Good night, Barouffski.”

She smiled, nodded, took Verplank’s arm, took him away. But the arm
beneath her hand was shaking and she realised that it shook with rage.

Sympathetically she looked up at him. “I thought they were in the other
room and it was just to avoid a thing of this sort that I got you out
of it. You won’t do anything, will you?”

Verplank now had got control of himself, his arm no longer shook,
and it was the smile of a man of the world, the smile of one to whom
nothing is important and much absurd, that he answered:

“Why, yes; it was very civil of this chap to introduce himself. I shall
leave a card on him. Hello! Here’s Silverstairs! I wonder if he will
introduce himself, too.”

The young earl was advancing, his hand outstretched. “I say! I saw a
man marching off with the missis, but I had no idea it was you. Where
are you stopping? Will you dine with us Tuesday?”

“Yes, do.” Violet threw in. “Rue François Premier at eight.”

“I shall be very glad to,” Verplank answered. He turned to Silverstairs.
“I am at the Ritz. Stop by there to-morrow noon, won’t you, and let me
take you somewhere for luncheon?”

Lady Silverstairs laughed and employing a darkyism, said: “You don’t
say turkey to me. There!” she exclaimed as Verplank was about to
protest. “I could not anyway.”

From the salon beyond came a woman’s voice, clear and rich, rendering,
in a lascive contralto, a song of love and passion.

The Silverstairs and Verplank approached. Meanwhile, from the diva’s
mouth, notes darted like serpents on fire. In mounting fervour the aria
developed, trailing, as it climbed, words such as amore, speranza,
morir. A breath of brutality passed. The atmosphere became charged
with emanations in which the perfume of women mingled with the desires
of men. Still the aria mounted, it coloured the air, projecting, like a
magic lantern, visions of delight, imperial and archaic, that ascended
in glittering scales.

Verplank, detaching himself from the Silverstairs, felt his dumb rage
renewed. At the moment he conceived an insane idea of going below,
waiting without until Barouffski and Leilah appeared and he saw
himself, confronting the man, tearing the woman from him, carrying her
off and making her his own.

The impulse fell from him. The rage that he felt at the man deflected
into rage at this woman who had made his life a vacant house and for
what, good God! And why?

In a cascade of flowers and flames the song was ending. There was new
applause, the discreet approbation of worldly people, easily pleased,
as easily bored and with but one sure creed: Not too much of anything.

Verplank must also have had enough. When presently the Silverstairs
looked about for him he had gone.

Already Violet had summarised the situation to her lord. Now, perplexed
at Verplank’s abrupt disappearance, she said:

“You don’t suppose that anything will happen, do you?”

Silverstairs, bored by the entertainment, anxious only to get away
where he could have a quiet drink, tugged at his moustache and with
unconscious reminiscence answered:

“I don’t know and I don’t care. I don’t care what happens as long as it
doesn’t happen to me.”




V


“There are too many of us,” Verplank, the day following, found himself
saying to Silverstairs.

The two men were lunching at Voisin’s.

The charming resort which, since the passing of Véry, of Véfour and the
Maison Dorée, has become the ultimate refuge of the high gastronomic
muse of Savarin and of Brisse was, on this forenoon, filled with its
usual clientèle:--old men with pink cheeks, young women with ravishing
hats, cosmopolitan sportsmen, ladies of both worlds, assortments of
what Paris calls High Life and pronounces Hig Leaf.

Without, a fog draped the windows, blurred the movement of the street,
transforming it into a cinematograph of misty silhouettes. But within,
the brilliant damask, the glittering service, the studied excellence of
everything, produced an atmosphere of wealth and ease.

Silverstairs, after swallowing a glass of Chablis, meditatively lit a
cigar. But meditation was not his forte. The twentieth of his name, he
was tall and robust. He had straw-coloured hair, blue eyes, a skin
of brick, and an appearance of simple placidity. At the moment he was
mentally fondling certain reminiscences of the Isis and certain bouts
with bargees there.

“You know,” he said at last, “if I were you I would just march up to
him and knock him down.”

Verplank nodded. “I dare say. But not if he had taken your wife.”

The suggestion, penetrating the earl’s placidity, punctured it. He
threw back his head. “By George! If he had, I’d kill him.”

“There, you see!”

Silverstairs puffed at his cigar. His placidity now was reforming
itself.

“Yes,” he answered. “But then in taking yours, he did it after she was
divorced. You can’t have him out for that.”

“All the same there are one too many of us.”

Silverstairs filled his mouth with smoke. Longly, with an air of
considering the situation he expelled it. Then he said:

“It is what I call damned awkward. But what the deuce can you do?”

“What can I do?” Verplank with an uplift of the chin repeated. “Why, if
only for the manner in which he acted last night--”

“I know,” Silverstairs interrupted. “The missis told me. He behaved
like a fidgety Frenchman. I grant you that. But there were no words,
nothing that you could put a finger on.”

Through an adjacent door a man strolled in. He had his hat on and in
one gloved hand he held a thin umbrella of which the handle was studded
with gold nails. With the other hand he smoothed a black moustache.
Through a monocle he was surveying the room. He looked careless and
cynical.

Deferentially a maître d’hôtel addressed him. Ignoring the man he waved
his umbrella at Silverstairs.

Silverstairs waved his hand. He turned to Verplank. “Here’s de Fresnoy.
He can put us straight. Let’s ask him to join us.”

Rising, he greeted the Parisian, invited him to the table, introduced
Verplank, speaking as he did so in French, with an accent frankly
barbarous which de Fresnoy seemed to enjoy.

The latter raised his hat to Verplank, confided it to the maître
d’hôtel, gave him the umbrella also, while another waiter drew up for
him a chair.

“Thanks,” he said in an interval of these operations. “I see you have
breakfasted. If you don’t mind my eating while you smoke--”

Seating himself he turned to the waiter, a man short and stout,
completely bald, with large dyed whiskers and an air of repressed
satisfaction.

“Listen, Léopold, and note well what I say. To begin with do not
attempt to tell me what you wish me to eat. You have heard? Good!
Listen again. A dozen Ostendes, an omelette, a pear. Nothing else. Not
a crumb. Yes, some Eau de Vals. Allez!”

Léopold bowed. “Perfectly, monsieur le baron. I shall have the honour
of serving monsieur le baron with what he has been good enough to be
willing to desire.”

