to become the repository of other men's pasts.  But he would share his
bread and his rupees, when he had them, with any who asked.  Many tried
to dig into his past, but he was as unresponsive as granite.  It takes
a woman to find out what a man is and has been; and Warrington went
about women in a wide circle.  In a way he was the most baffling kind
of a mystery to those who knew him: he frequented the haunts of men,
took a friendly drink, played cards for small sums, laughed and jested
like any other anchorless man.  In the East men are given curious
names.  They become known by phrases, such as, The Man Who Talks, Mr.
Once Upon a Time, The One-Rupee Man, and the like.  As Warrington never
received any mail, as he never entered a hotel, nor spoke of the past,
he became The Man Who Never Talked of Home.

"I say, James, old sport, no more going up and down this bally old
river.  We'll go on to Rangoon to-night, if we can find a berth."

"Yes, Sahib; this business very piffle," replied the Eurasian without
turning his head.  Two things he dearly loved to acquire: a bit of
American slang and a bit of English silver.  He was invariably changing
his rupees into shillings, and Warrington could not convince him that
he was always losing in the transactions.

They tramped on through the dust.  The sun dropped.  A sudden chill
began to penetrate the haze.  The white man puffed his cheroot, its
wrapper dangling; the servant hummed an Urdu lullaby; the parrot
complained unceasingly.

"How much money have you got, James?"

"Three annas."

Warrington laughed and shook the dust from his beard.  "It's a great
world, James, a great and wonderful world.  I've just two rupees
myself.  In other words, we are busted."

"Two rupees!" James paused and turned.  "Why, Sahib, you have three
hundred thousand rupees in your pocket."

"But not worth an anna until I get to Rangoon.  Didn't those duffers
give you anything for handling their luggage the other day?"

"Not a pice, Sahib."

"Rotters!  It takes an Englishman to turn a small trick like that.
Well, well; there were extenuating circumstances.  They had sore heads.
No man likes to pay three hundred thousand for something he could have
bought for ten thousand.  And I made them come to me, James, to me.  I
made them come to this god-forsaken hole, just because it pleased my
fancy.  When you have the skewer in, always be sure to turn it around.
I believe I'm heaven-born after all.  The Lord hates a quitter, and so
do I.  I nearly quit myself, once; eh, Rajah, old top?  But I made them
come to me.  That's the milk in the cocoanut, the curry on the rice.
They almost had me.  Two rupees!  It truly is a great world."

"Jah, jah, jah!  Jah--jah--jah--ja-a-a-h!" screamed the parrot.
"Chaloo!"

"Go on!  That's the ticket.  If I were a praying man, this would be the
time for it.  Three hundred thousand rupees!"  The man looked at the
far horizon, as if he would force his gaze beyond, into the delectable
land, the Eden out of which he had been driven.  "Caviar and truffles,
and Roman√©e Conti, and Partagas!"

"Chicken and curry and Scotch whisky."

"Bah!  You've the imagination of a he-goat."

"All right, Sahib."

"James, I owe you three hundred rupees, and I am going to add seven
hundred more.  We've been fighting this old top for six years together,
and you've been a good servant and a good friend; and I'll take you
with me as far as this fortune will go, if you say the word."

"Ah, Sahib, I am much sorry.  But Delhi calls, and I go.  A thousand
rupees will make much business for me in the Chandney Chowk."

"Just as you say."

Presently they became purple shades in a brown world.




II

A MAN WITH A PAST

The moonless Oriental night, spangled with large and brilliant stars,
brilliant yet mellow, unlike the crisp scintillating presentment in
northern latitudes, might have served as an illustration of an
air-tight bowl, flung down relentlessly upon this part of the world.
Inside this figurative bowl it was chill, yet the air was stirless.  It
was without refreshment; it became a labor and not an exhilaration to
breath it.  A pall of suffocating dust rolled above and about the
Irrawaddy flotilla boat which, buffeted by the strong irregular
current, strained at its cables, now at the bow, now at the stern, not
dissimilar to the last rocking of a deserted swing.  This sensation was
quite perceptible to the girl who leaned over the bow-rail, her
handkerchief pressed to her nose, and gazed interestedly at the steep
bank, up and down which the sweating coolies swarmed like Gargantuan
rats.  They clawed and scrambled up and slid and shuffled down; and
always the bank threatened to slip and carry them all into the swirling
murk below.  A dozen torches were stuck into the ground above the
crumbling ledge; she saw the flames as one sees a burning match cupped
in a smoker's hands, shedding light upon nothing save that which stands
immediately behind it.

She choked a little.  Her eyes smarted.  Her lips were slightly
cracked, and cold-cream seemed only to provide a surer resting place
for the impalpable dust.  It had penetrated her clothes; it had
percolated through wool and linen and silk, intimately, until three
baths a day had become a welcome routine, providing it was possible to
obtain water.  Water.  Her tongue ran across her lips.  Oh, for a drink
from the old cold pure spring at home!  Tea, coffee, and bottled soda;
nothing that ever touched the thirsty spots in her throat.

She looked up at the stars and they looked down upon her, but what she
asked they could not, would not, answer.  Night after night she had
asked, and night after night they had only twinkled as of old.  She had
traveled now for four months, and still the doubt beset her.  It was to
be a leap in the dark, with no one to tell her what was on the other
side.  But why this insistent doubt?  Why could she not take the leap
gladly, as a woman should who had given the affirmative to a man?  With
him she was certain that she loved him, away from him she did not know
what sentiment really abided in her heart.  She was wise enough to
realize that something was wrong; and there were but three months
between her and the inevitable decision.  Never before had she known
other than momentary indecision; and it irked her to find that her
clarity of vision was fallible and human like the rest of her.  The
truth was, she didn't know her mind.  She shrugged, and the movement
stirred the dust that had gathered upon her shoulders.

What a dust-ridden, poverty-ridden, plague-ridden world she had seen!
Ignorance wedded to superstition, yet waited upon by mystery and
romance and incomparable beauty.  As the Occidental thought rarely
finds analysis in the Oriental mind, so her mind could not gather and
understand this amalgamation of art and ignorance.  She forgot that
another race of men had built those palaces and temples and forts and
tombs, and that they had vanished as the Greeks and Romans have
vanished, leaving only empty spaces behind, which the surviving tribes
neither fill nor comprehend.


"A rare old lot of dust; eh, Miss Chetwood?  I wish we could travel by
night, but you can't trust this blooming old Irrawaddy after sundown.
Charts are so much waste-paper.  You just have to know the old lady.
Bars rise in a night, shift this side and that.  But the days are all
right.  No dust when you get in mid-stream.  What?"

"I never cease wondering how those poor coolies can carry those heavy
rice-bags," she replied to the purser.

"Oh, they are used to it," carelessly.

The great gray stack of paddy-bags seemed, in the eyes of the girl,
fairly to melt away.

"By Jove!" exclaimed the purser.  "There's Parrot & Co.!"  He laughed
and pointed toward one of the torches.

"Parrot & Co.?  I do not understand."

"That big blond chap behind the fourth torch.  Yes, there.  Sometime
I'll tell you about him.  Picturesque duffer."

She could have shrieked aloud, but all she did was to draw in her
breath with a gasp that went so deep it gave her heart a twinge.  Her
fingers tightened upon the teak-rail.  Suddenly she knew, and was
ashamed of her weakness.  It was simply a remarkable likeness, nothing
more than that; it could not possibly be anything more.  Still, a ghost
could not have startled her as this living man had done.

"Who is he?"

"A chap named Warrington.  But over here that signifies nothing; might
just as well be Jones or Smith or Brown.  We call him Parrot & Co., but
the riff-raff have another name for him.  The Man Who Never Talked of
Home.  For two or three seasons he's been going up and down the river.
Ragged at times, prosperous at others.  Lately it's been rags.  He's
always carrying that Rajputana parrot.  You've seen the kind around the
palaces and forts: saber-blade wings, long tail-feathers, green and
blue and scarlet, and the ugliest little rascals going.  This one is
trained to do tricks."

"But the man!" impatiently.

He eyed her, mildly surprised.  "Oh, he puzzles us all a bit, you know.
Well educated; somewhere back a gentleman; from the States.  Of course
I don't know; something shady, probably.  They don't tramp about like
this otherwise.  For all that, he's rather a decent sort; no bounder
like that rotter we left at Mandalay.  He never talks about himself.  I
fancy he's lonesome again."

"Lonesome?"

"It's the way, you know.  These poor beggars drop aboard for the night,
merely to see a white woman again, to hear decent English, to dress and
dine like a human being.  They disappear the next day, and often we
never see them again."

"What do they do?"  The question came to her lips mechanically.

"Paddy-fields.  White men are needed to oversee them.  And then,
there's the railway, and there's the new oil-country north of Prome.
You'll see the wells to-morrow.  Rather fancy this Warrington chap has
been working along the new pipelines.  They're running them down to
Rangoon.  Well, there goes the last bag.  Will you excuse me?  The
lading bills, you know.  If he's with us tomorrow, I'll have him put
the parrot through its turns.  An amusing little beggar."

"Why not introduce him to me?"

"Beg pardon?"

"I'm not afraid," quietly.

"By Jove, no!  But this is rather difficult, you know.  If he shouldn't
turn out right . . ." with commendable hesitance.

"I'll take all the responsibility.  It's a whim."

"Well, you American girls are the eighth wonder of the world."  The
purser was distinctly annoyed.  "And it may be an impertinence on my
part, but I never yet saw an American woman who would accept advice or
act upon it."

"Thanks.  What would you advise?" with dangerous sweetness.

"Not to meet this man.  It's irregular.  I know nothing about him.  If
you had a father or a brother on board. . . ."

"Or even a husband!" laughing.

"There you are!" resignedly.  "You laugh.  You women go everywhere, and
half the time unprotected."

"Never quite unprotected.  We never venture beyond the call of
gentlemen."

"That is true," brightening.  "You insist on meeting this chap?"

"I do not insist; only, I am bored, and he might interest me for an
hour."  She added: "Besides, it may annoy the others."

The purser grinned reluctantly.  "You and the colonel don't get on.
Well, I'll introduce this chap at dinner.  If I don't. . . .

"I am fully capable of speaking to him without any introduction
whatever."  She laughed again.  "It will be very kind of you."

When he had gone she mused over this impulse so alien to her character.
An absolute stranger, a man with a past, perhaps a fugitive from
justice; and because he looked like Arthur Ellison, she was seeking his
acquaintance.  Something, then, could break through her reserve and
aloofness?  She had traveled from San Francisco to Colombo, unattended
save by an elderly maiden who had risen by gradual stages from nurse to
companion, but who could not be made to remember that she was no longer
a nurse.  In all these four months Elsa had not made half a dozen
acquaintances, and of these she had not sought one.  Yet, she was
asking to meet a stranger whose only recommendation was a singular
likeness to another man.  The purser was right.  It was very irregular.

"Parrot & Co.!" she murmured.  She searched among the phantoms moving
to and fro upon the ledge; but the man with the cage was gone.  It was
really uncanny.

She dropped her arms from the rail and went to her stateroom and
dressed for dinner.  She did not give her toilet any particular care.
There was no thought of conquest, no thought of dazzling the man in
khaki.  It was the indolence and carelessness of the East, where
clothes become only necessities and are no longer the essentials of
adornment.

Elsa Chetwood was twenty-five, lithely built, outwardly reposeful, but
dynamic within.  Education, environment and breeding had somewhat
smothered the glowing fires.  She was a type of the ancient repression
of woman, which finds its exceptions in the Aspasias and Helens and
Cleopatras of legend and history.  In features she looked exactly what
she was, well-bred and well-born.  Beauty she also had, but it was the
cold beauty of northern winter nights.  It compelled admiration rather
than invited it.  Spiritually, Elsa was asleep.  The fire was there,
the gift of loving greatly, only it smoldered, without radiating even
the knowledge of its presence.  Men loved her, but in awe, as one loves
the marbles of Phidias.  She knew no restraint, and yet she had passed
through her stirless years restrained.  She was worldly without being
more than normally cynical; she was rich without being either frugal or
extravagant.  Her independence was inherent and not acquired.  She had
laid down certain laws for herself to follow; and that these often
clashed with the laws of convention, which are fetish to those who
divide society into three classes, only mildly amused her.  Right from
wrong she knew, and that sufficed her.

Her immediate relatives were dead; those who were distantly related
remained so, as they had no part in her life nor she in theirs.
Relatives, even the best of them, are practically strangers to us.
They have their own affairs and interests, and if these touch ours it
is generally through the desire to inherit what we have.  So Elsa went
her way alone.  From her father she had inherited a remarkable and
seldom errant judgment.  To her, faces were generally book-covers, they
repelled or attracted; and she found large and undiminishing interest
in the faculty of pressing back the covers and reading the text.  Often
battered covers held treasures, and often the editions de luxe were
swindles.  But in between the battered covers and the exquisite
Florentine hand-tooling there ranged a row of mediocre books; and it
was among these that Elsa found that her instinct was not wholly
infallible, as will be seen.

To-day she was facing the first problem of her young life, epochal.
She was, as it were, to stop and begin life anew.  And she didn't know,
she wasn't sure.

There were few passengers aboard.  There were three fussy old English
maidens under the protection of a still fussier old colonel, who
disagreed with everybody because his liver disagreed with him.  Twenty
years of active service in Upper India had seriously damaged that
physiological function, and "pegs" no longer mellowed him.  The quartet
greatly amused Elsa.  Their nods were abrupt, and they spoke in the
most formal manner.  She was under grave suspicion; in the first place,
she was traveling alone, in the second place, she was an American.  At
table there was generally a desultory conversation, and many a barb of
malice Elsa shot from her bow.  Figuratively, the colonel walked about
like a porcupine, bristling with arrows instead of quills.  Elsa could
have shouted at times, for the old war-dog was perfectly oblivious.
There was, besides, the inevitable German tourist, who shelled with
questions every man who wore brass-buttons, until there was some
serious talk of dropping him astern some day.  He had shelled the
colonel, but that gentleman was snugly encased in the finest and most
impenetrable Bessemer, complacency.

Upon these Irrawaddy boats the purser is usually the master of
ceremonies in the dining-saloon.  The captain and his officers rarely
condescended.  Perhaps it was too much trouble to dress; perhaps
tourists had disgusted them with life; at any rate, they remained in
obscurity.

Elsa usually sat at the purser's right, and to-night she found the
stranger sitting quietly at her side.  The chair had been vacant since
the departure from Mandalay.  Evidently the purser had decided to be
thorough in regard to her wishes.  It would look less conspicuous to
make the introduction in this manner.  And she wanted to meet this man
who had almost made her cry out in astonishment.

"Miss Chetwood, Mr. Warrington."  This was as far as the purser would
unbend.

The colonel's eyes popped; the hands of the three maidens fluttered.
Warrington bowed awkwardly, for he was decidedly confused.

"Ha!" boomed the German.  "Vat do you tink uff . . . ."

And from soup to coffee Warrington eluded, dodged, stepped under and
ran around the fusillade of questions.

Elsa laughed softly.  There were breathing-spells, to be sure.  Under
the cover of this verbal bombardment she found time to inspect the
stranger.  The likeness, so close at hand, started a ringing in her
ears and a flutter in her throat.  It was almost unbelievable.  He was
bigger, broader, his eyes were keener, but there was only one real
difference: this man was rugged, whereas Arthur was elegant.  It was as
if nature had taken two forms from the same mold, and had finished but
one of them.  His voice was not unpleasant, but there were little sharp
points of harshness in it, due quite possibly to the dust.

"I am much interested in that little parrot of yours.  I have heard
about him."

"Oh!  I suppose you've heard what they call us?"  His eyes looked
straight into hers, smilingly.

"Parrot & Co.?  Yes.  Will you show him off to-morrow?"

"I shall be very happy to."

But all the while he was puzzling over the purser's unaccountable
action in deliberately introducing him to this brown-eyed,
golden-skinned young woman.  Never before had such a thing occurred
upon these boats.  True, he had occasionally been spoken to; an idle
question flung at him, like a bare bone to a dog.  If flung by an
Englishman, he answered it courteously, and subsided.  He had been
snubbed too many times not to have learned this lesson.  It never
entered his head that the introduction might have been brought about by
the girl's interest.  He was too mortally shy of women to conceive of
such a possibility.  So his gratitude was extended to the purser, who,
on his side, regretted his good-natured recommendations of the previous
hour.

When Elsa learned that the man at her side was to proceed to Rangoon,
she ceased to ask him any more questions.  She preferred to read her
books slowly.  Once, while he was engaging the purser, her glance ran
over his clothes.  She instantly berated her impulsive criticism as a
bit of downright caddishness.  The lapels of the coat were shiny, the
sleeves were short, there was a pucker across the shoulders; the
winged-collar gave evidence of having gone to the native laundry once
too often; the studs in the shirt-bosom were of the cheapest
mother-of-pearl, and the cuff-buttons, ordinary rupee silver.  The
ensemble suggested that since the purchase of these habiliments of
civilization the man had grown, expanded.

Immediately after dinner she retired to her state-room, conscious that
