came in, and Mr. Royall advanced to the stove, clapping his numb hands
together.

“Well, Mrs. Hobart, you got any breakfast for this young lady? You can
see she’s cold and hungry.”

Mrs. Hobart smiled on Charity and took a tin coffee-pot from the fire.
“My, you do look pretty mean,” she said compassionately.

Charity reddened, and sat down at the table. A feeling of complete
passiveness had once more come over her, and she was conscious only of
the pleasant animal sensations of warmth and rest.

Mrs. Hobart put bread and milk on the table, and then went out of the
house: Charity saw her leading the horse away to the barn across the
yard. She did not come back, and Mr. Royall and Charity sat alone at the
table with the smoking coffee between them. He poured out a cup for her,
and put a piece of bread in the saucer, and she began to eat.

As the warmth of the coffee flowed through her veins her thoughts
cleared and she began to feel like a living being again; but the return
to life was so painful that the food choked in her throat and she sat
staring down at the table in silent anguish.

After a while Mr. Royall pushed back his chair. “Now, then,” he said,
“if you’re a mind to go along----” She did not move, and he continued:
“We can pick up the noon train for Nettleton if you say so.”

The words sent the blood rushing to her face, and she raised her
startled eyes to his. He was standing on the other side of the table
looking at her kindly and gravely; and suddenly she understood what he
was going to say. She continued to sit motionless, a leaden weight upon
her lips.

“You and me have spoke some hard things to each other in our time,
Charity; and there’s no good that I can see in any more talking now. But
I’ll never feel any way but one about you; and if you say so we’ll drive
down in time to catch that train, and go straight to the minister’s
house; and when you come back home you’ll come as Mrs. Royall.”

His voice had the grave persuasive accent that had moved his hearers at
the Home Week festival; she had a sense of depths of mournful tolerance
under that easy tone. Her whole body began to tremble with the dread of
her own weakness.

“Oh, I can’t----” she burst out desperately.

“Can’t what?”

She herself did not know: she was not sure if she was rejecting what he
offered, or already struggling against the temptation of taking what
she no longer had a right to. She stood up, shaking and bewildered, and
began to speak:

“I know I ain’t been fair to you always; but I want to be now.... I want
you to know... I want...” Her voice failed her and she stopped.

Mr. Royall leaned against the wall. He was paler than usual, but his
face was composed and kindly and her agitation did not appear to perturb
him.

“What’s all this about wanting?” he said as she paused. “Do you know
what you really want? I’ll tell you. You want to be took home and took
care of. And I guess that’s all there is to say.”

“No... it’s not all....”

“Ain’t it?” He looked at his watch. “Well, I’ll tell you another thing.
All I want is to know if you’ll marry me. If there was anything else,
I’d tell you so; but there ain’t. Come to my age, a man knows the things
that matter and the things that don’t; that’s about the only good turn
life does us.”

His tone was so strong and resolute that it was like a supporting arm
about her. She felt her resistance melting, her strength slipping away
from her as he spoke.

“Don’t cry, Charity,” he exclaimed in a shaken voice. She looked up,
startled at his emotion, and their eyes met.

“See here,” he said gently, “old Dan’s come a long distance, and we’ve
got to let him take it easy the rest of the way....”

He picked up the cloak that had slipped to her chair and laid it about
her shoulders. She followed him out of the house, and then walked across
the yard to the shed, where the horse was tied. Mr. Royall unblanketed
him and led him out into the road. Charity got into the buggy and he
drew the cover about her and shook out the reins with a cluck. When
they reached the end of the village he turned the horse’s head toward
Creston.




XVIII


They began to jog down the winding road to the valley at old Dan’s
languid pace. Charity felt herself sinking into deeper depths of
weariness, and as they descended through the bare woods there were
moments when she lost the exact sense of things, and seemed to be
sitting beside her lover with the leafy arch of summer bending over
them. But this illusion was faint and transitory. For the most part she
had only a confused sensation of slipping down a smooth irresistible
current; and she abandoned herself to the feeling as a refuge from the
torment of thought.

Mr. Royall seldom spoke, but his silent presence gave her, for the first
time, a sense of peace and security. She knew that where he was there
would be warmth, rest, silence; and for the moment they were all she
wanted. She shut her eyes, and even these things grew dim to her....

In the train, during the short run from Creston to Nettleton, the warmth
aroused her, and the consciousness of being under strange eyes gave her
a momentary energy. She sat upright, facing Mr. Royall, and stared out
of the window at the denuded country. Forty-eight hours earlier, when
she had last traversed it, many of the trees still held their leaves;
but the high wind of the last two nights had stripped them, and the
lines of the landscape’ were as finely pencilled as in December. A
few days of autumn cold had wiped out all trace of the rich fields and
languid groves through which she had passed on the Fourth of July; and
with the fading of the landscape those fervid hours had faded, too. She
could no longer believe that she was the being who had lived them; she
was someone to whom something irreparable and overwhelming had happened,
but the traces of the steps leading up to it had almost vanished.

When the train reached Nettleton and she walked out into the square at
Mr. Royall’s side the sense of unreality grew more overpowering. The
physical strain of the night and day had left no room in her mind for
new sensations and she followed Mr. Royall as passively as a tired
child. As in a confused dream she presently found herself sitting with
him in a pleasant room, at a table with a red and white table-cloth
on which hot food and tea were placed. He filled her cup and plate and
whenever she lifted her eyes from them she found his resting on her with
the same steady tranquil gaze that had reassured and strengthened
her when they had faced each other in old Mrs. Hobart’s kitchen. As
everything else in her consciousness grew more and more confused
and immaterial, became more and more like the universal shimmer that
dissolves the world to failing eyes, Mr. Royall’s presence began to
detach itself with rocky firmness from this elusive background. She had
always thought of him--when she thought of him at all--as of someone
hateful and obstructive, but whom she could outwit and dominate when
she chose to make the effort. Only once, on the day of the Old Home Week
celebration, while the stray fragments of his address drifted across
her troubled mind, had she caught a glimpse of another being, a being so
different from the dull-witted enemy with whom she had supposed herself
to be living that even through the burning mist of her own dreams he
had stood out with startling distinctness. For a moment, then, what he
said--and something in his way of saying it--had made her see why he had
always struck her as such a lonely man. But the mist of her dreams had
hidden him again, and she had forgotten that fugitive impression.

It came back to her now, as they sat at the table, and gave her, through
her own immeasurable desolation, a sudden sense of their nearness to
each other. But all these feelings were only brief streaks of light in
the grey blur of her physical weakness. Through it she was aware that
Mr. Royall presently left her sitting by the table in the warm room, and
came back after an interval with a carriage from the station--a closed
“hack” with sun-burnt blue silk blinds--in which they drove together
to a house covered with creepers and standing next to a church with a
carpet of turf before it. They got out at this house, and the carriage
waited while they walked up the path and entered a wainscoted hall and
then a room full of books. In this room a clergyman whom Charity had
never seen received them pleasantly, and asked them to be seated for a
few minutes while witnesses were being summoned.

Charity sat down obediently, and Mr. Royall, his hands behind his back,
paced slowly up and down the room. As he turned and faced Charity, she
noticed that his lips were twitching a little; but the look in his eyes
was grave and calm. Once he paused before her and said timidly: “Your
hair’s got kinder loose with the wind,” and she lifted her hands and
tried to smooth back the locks that had escaped from her braid. There
was a looking-glass in a carved frame on the wall, but she was ashamed
to look at herself in it, and she sat with her hands folded on her knee
till the clergyman returned. Then they went out again, along a sort of
arcaded passage, and into a low vaulted room with a cross on an altar,
and rows of benches. The clergyman, who had left them at the door,
presently reappeared before the altar in a surplice, and a lady who was
probably his wife, and a man in a blue shirt who had been raking dead
leaves on the lawn, came in and sat on one of the benches.

The clergyman opened a book and signed to Charity and Mr. Royall to
approach. Mr. Royall advanced a few steps, and Charity followed him as
she had followed him to the buggy when they went out of Mrs. Hobart’s
kitchen; she had the feeling that if she ceased to keep close to him,
and do what he told her to do, the world would slip away from beneath
her feet.

The clergyman began to read, and on her dazed mind there rose the memory
of Mr. Miles, standing the night before in the desolate house of the
Mountain, and reading out of the same book words that had the same dread
sound of finality:

“I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day
of judgment when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if
either of you know any impediment whereby ye may not be lawfully joined
together...”

Charity raised her eyes and met Mr. Royall’s. They were still looking
at her kindly and steadily. “I will!” she heard him say a moment later,
after another interval of words that she had failed to catch. She was so
busy trying to understand the gestures that the clergyman was signalling
to her to make that she no longer heard what was being said. After
another interval the lady on the bench stood up, and taking her hand put
it in Mr. Royall’s. It lay enclosed in his strong palm and she felt
a ring that was too big for her being slipped on her thin finger. She
understood then that she was married....

Late that afternoon Charity sat alone in a bedroom of the fashionable
hotel where she and Harney had vainly sought a table on the Fourth of
July. She had never before been in so handsomely furnished a room. The
mirror above the dressing-table reflected the high head-board and fluted
pillow-slips of the double bed, and a bedspread so spotlessly white that
she had hesitated to lay her hat and jacket on it. The humming radiator
diffused an atmosphere of drowsy warmth, and through a half-open door
she saw the glitter of the nickel taps above twin marble basins.

For a while the long turmoil of the night and day had slipped away from
her and she sat with closed eyes, surrendering herself to the spell of
warmth and silence. But presently this merciful apathy was succeeded by
the sudden acuteness of vision with which sick people sometimes wake out
of a heavy sleep. As she opened her eyes they rested on the picture
that hung above the bed. It was a large engraving with a dazzling white
margin enclosed in a wide frame of bird’s-eye maple with an inner scroll
of gold. The engraving represented a young man in a boat on a lake
over-hung with trees. He was leaning over to gather water-lilies for the
girl in a light dress who lay among the cushions in the stern. The scene
was full of a drowsy midsummer radiance, and Charity averted her eyes
from it and, rising from her chair, began to wander restlessly about the
room.

It was on the fifth floor, and its broad window of plate glass looked
over the roofs of the town. Beyond them stretched a wooded landscape in
which the last fires of sunset were picking out a steely gleam. Charity
gazed at the gleam with startled eyes. Even through the gathering
twilight she recognized the contour of the soft hills encircling it, and
the way the meadows sloped to its edge. It was Nettleton Lake that she
was looking at.

She stood a long time in the window staring out at the fading water. The
sight of it had roused her for the first time to a realization of what
she had done. Even the feeling of the ring on her hand had not brought
her this sharp sense of the irretrievable. For an instant the old
impulse of flight swept through her; but it was only the lift of a
broken wing. She heard the door open behind her, and Mr. Royall came in.

He had gone to the barber’s to be shaved, and his shaggy grey hair had
been trimmed and smoothed. He moved strongly and quickly, squaring his
shoulders and carrying his head high, as if he did not want to pass
unnoticed.

“What are you doing in the dark?” he called out in a cheerful voice.
Charity made no answer. He went up to the window to draw the blind, and
putting his finger on the wall flooded the room with a blaze of light
from the central chandelier. In this unfamiliar illumination husband
and wife faced each other awkwardly for a moment; then Mr. Royall said:
“We’ll step down and have some supper, if you say so.”

The thought of food filled her with repugnance; but not daring to
confess it she smoothed her hair and followed him to the lift.

An hour later, coming out of the glare of the dining-room, she waited in
the marble-panelled hall while Mr. Royall, before the brass lattice
of one of the corner counters, selected a cigar and bought an
evening paper. Men were lounging in rocking chairs under the blazing
chandeliers, travellers coming and going, bells ringing, porters
shuffling by with luggage. Over Mr. Royall’s shoulder, as he leaned
against the counter, a girl with her hair puffed high smirked and nodded
at a dapper drummer who was getting his key at the desk across the hall.

Charity stood among these cross-currents of life as motionless and inert
as if she had been one of the tables screwed to the marble floor. All
her soul was gathered up into one sick sense of coming doom, and she
watched Mr. Royall in fascinated terror while he pinched the cigars in
successive boxes and unfolded his evening paper with a steady hand.

Presently he turned and joined her. “You go right along up to bed--I’m
going to sit down here and have my smoke,” he said. He spoke as easily
and naturally as if they had been an old couple, long used to each
other’s ways, and her contracted heart gave a flutter of relief. She
followed him to the lift, and he put her in and enjoined the buttoned
and braided boy to show her to her room.

She groped her way in through the darkness, forgetting where the
electric button was, and not knowing how to manipulate it. But a white
autumn moon had risen, and the illuminated sky put a pale light in the
room. By it she undressed, and after folding up the ruffled pillow-slips
crept timidly under the spotless counterpane. She had never felt such
smooth sheets or such light warm blankets; but the softness of the bed
did not soothe her. She lay there trembling with a fear that ran through
her veins like ice. “What have I done? Oh, what have I done?” she
whispered, shuddering to her pillow; and pressing her face against it
to shut out the pale landscape beyond the window she lay in the darkness
straining her ears, and shaking at every footstep that approached....

Suddenly she sat up and pressed her hands against her frightened heart.
A faint sound had told her that someone was in the room; but she must
have slept in the interval, for she had heard no one enter. The moon was
setting beyond the opposite roofs, and in the darkness outlined
against the grey square of the window, she saw a figure seated in the
rocking-chair. The figure did not move: it was sunk deep in the chair,
with bowed head and folded arms, and she saw that it was Mr. Royall who
sat there. He had not undressed, but had taken the blanket from the
foot of the bed and laid it across his knees. Trembling and holding her
breath she watched him, fearing that he had been roused by her movement;
but he did not stir, and she concluded that he wished her to think he
was asleep.

As she continued to watch him ineffable relief stole slowly over her,
relaxing her strained nerves and exhausted body. He knew, then... he
knew... it was because he knew that he had married her, and that he
sat there in the darkness to show her she was safe with him. A stir
of something deeper than she had ever felt in thinking of him flitted
through her tired brain, and cautiously, noiselessly, she let her head
sink on the pillow....

When she woke the room was full of morning light, and her first glance
showed her that she was alone in it. She got up and dressed, and as
she was fastening her dress the door opened, and Mr. Royall came in. He
looked old and tired in the bright daylight, but his face wore the same
expression of grave friendliness that had reassured her on the Mountain.
It was as if all the dark spirits had gone out of him.

They went downstairs to the dining-room for breakfast, and after
breakfast he told her he had some insurance business to attend to. “I
guess while I’m doing it you’d better step out and buy yourself whatever
you need.” He smiled, and added with an embarrassed laugh: “You know I
always wanted you to beat all the other girls.” He drew something from
his pocket, and pushed it across the table to her; and she saw that he
had given her two twenty-dollar bills. “If it ain’t enough there’s more
where that come from--I want you to beat ‘em all hollow,” he repeated.

She flushed and tried to stammer out her thanks, but he had pushed back
his chair and was leading the way out of the dining-room. In the hall he
paused a minute to say that if it suited her they would take the three
o’clock train back to North Dormer; then he took his hat and coat from
the rack and went out.

A few minutes later Charity went out, too. She had watched to see in
what direction he was going, and she took the opposite way and walked
quickly down the main street to the brick building on the corner of
Lake Avenue. There she paused to look cautiously up and down the
thoroughfare, and then climbed the brass-bound stairs to Dr. Merkle’s
door. The same bushy-headed mulatto girl admitted her, and after the
same interval of waiting in the red plush parlor she was once more
summoned to Dr. Merkle’s office. The doctor received her without
surprise, and led her into the inner plush sanctuary.

“I thought you’d be back, but you’ve come a mite too soon: I told you
to be patient and not fret,” she observed, after a pause of penetrating
scrutiny.

Charity drew the money from her breast. “I’ve come to get my blue
brooch,” she said, flushing.

“Your brooch?” Dr. Merkle appeared not to remember. “My, yes--I get so
many things of that kind. Well, my dear, you’ll have to wait while I get
it out of the safe. I don’t leave valuables like that laying round like
the noospaper.”

She disappeared for a moment, and returned with a bit of twisted-up
tissue paper from which she unwrapped the brooch.

Charity, as she looked at it, felt a stir of warmth at her heart. She
held out an eager hand.

“Have you got the change?” she asked a little breathlessly, laying one
of the twenty-dollar bills on the table.

“Change? What’d I want to have change for? I only see two twenties
there,” Dr. Merkle answered brightly.

Charity paused, disconcerted. “I thought... you said it was five dollars
a visit....”

“For YOU, as a favour--I did. But how about the responsibility and the
insurance? I don’t s’pose you ever thought of that? This pin’s worth a
hundred dollars easy. If it had got lost or stole, where’d I been when
you come to claim it?”

Charity remained silent, puzzled and half-convinced by the argument,
and Dr. Merkle promptly followed up her advantage. “I didn’t ask you for
your brooch, my dear. I’d a good deal ruther folks paid me my regular
charge than have ‘em put me to all this trouble.”

She paused, and Charity, seized with a desperate longing to escape, rose
to her feet and held out one of the bills.

“Will you take that?” she asked.

“No, I won’t take that, my dear; but I’ll take it with its mate, and
hand you over a signed receipt if you don’t trust me.”

“Oh, but I can’t--it’s all I’ve got,” Charity exclaimed.

Dr. Merkle looked up at her pleasantly from the plush sofa. “It seems
you got married yesterday, up to the ‘Piscopal church; I heard all about
the wedding from the minister’s chore-man. It would be a pity, wouldn’t
it, to let Mr. Royall know you had an account running here? I just put
it to you as your own mother might.”
