
"Please step into the drawing room, Mr. Puma, if you have something of
importance to say."

He followed her on tiptoe, flashing his magnificent eyes about the
place, still wearing over his evening dress the seal overcoat with its
gardenia, which was already making him famous on Broadway.

Palla seated herself, wondering a little at the perfumed splendour of
her landlord. He sat on the extreme edge of an arm chair, his glossy
hat on his knee.

"Miss Dumont," he said, laying one white-gloved paw across his
shirt-front, "you shall behold in me a desolate man!"

"I'm sorry." She looked at him in utter perplexity.

"What shall you say to me?" he cried. "What just reproaches shall you
address to me, Miss Dumont!"

"I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Puma," she said, inclined to laugh,
"--until you tell me what is your errand."

"Miss Dumont, I am most unhappy and embarrass. Because you have pay me
in advance for that which I am unable to offer you."

"I don't think I understand."

"Alas! You have pay to me by cheque for six months more rent of my
hall."

"Yes."

"I have given to you a lease for six months more, and with it an
option for a year of renewal."

"Yes."

"Miss Dumont, behold me desolate."

"But why?"

"Because I am force by circumstance over which I have no control to
cancel this lease and option, and ask you most respectfully to be so
kind as to secure other quarters for your club."

"But we can't do that!" exclaimed Palla in dismay.

"I am so very sorry----"

"We can't do it," added Palla with decision. "It's utterly impossible,
Mr. Puma. All our meetings are arranged for months in advance; all the
details are completed. We could not disarrange the programme adopted.
From all over the United States people are invited to come on certain
fixed dates. All arrangements have been made; you have my cheque and I
have your signed lease. No, we are obliged to hold you to your
contract, and I'm very sorry if it inconveniences you."

Puma's brilliant eyes became tenderly apprehensive.

"Miss Dumont," he said in a hushed and confidential voice, "believe me
when I venture to say to you that your club should leave for reasons
most grave, most serious."

"What reasons?"

"The others--the Red Flag Club. Who knows what such crazy people might
do in anger? They are very angry already. They complain that your club
has interfere with them----"

"That is exactly why we're there, Mr. Puma--to interfere with them,
neutralise their propaganda, try to draw the same people who listen to
their violent tirades. That is why we're there, and why we refuse to
leave. Ours is a crusade of education. We chose that hall because we
desired to make the fight in the very camp of the enemy. And I must
tell you plainly that we shall not give up our lease, and that we
shall hold you to it."

The dark blood flooded his heavy features:

"I do not desire to take it to the courts," he said. "I am willing to
offer compensation."

"We couldn't accept. Don't you understand, Mr. Puma? We simply must
have that particular hall for the Combat Club."

Puma remained perfectly silent for a few moments. There was still, on
his thick lips, the suave smile which had been stamped there since his
appearance in her house.

But in this man's mind and heart there was growing a sort of dull and
ferocious fear--fear of elements already gathering and combining to
menace his increasing prosperity.

Sullenly he was aware that this hard-won prosperity was threatened.
Always its conditions had been unstable at best, but now the
atmospheric pressure was slowly growing, and his sky of promise was
not as clear.

Some way, somehow, he must manage to evict these women. Twice Sondheim
had warned him. And that evening Sondheim had sent him an ultimatum by
Kastner.

And Puma was perfectly aware that Karl Kastner knew enough about him
to utterly ruin him in the great Republic which was now giving him a
fortune and which had never discovered that his own treacherous
mission here was the accomplishment of her ruin.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Puma stood up, heavily, cradling his glossy hat. But his urbane smile
became brilliant again and he made Palla an extravagant bow.

"It shall be arrange," he said cheerfully. "I consult my partner--your
friend, Mr. Skidder! Yes! So shall we arrive at entente."

His large womanish eyes swept the room. Suddenly they were arrested by
a photograph of Shotwell Junior--in a silver frame--the only ornament,
as yet, in the little drawing room.

And instantly, within Angelo Puma, the venomous instinct was aroused
to do injury where it might be done safely and without suspicion of
intent.

"Ah," he exclaimed gaily, "my friend, Mr. Shotwell! It is from him,
Miss Dumont, you have purchase this so beautiful residence!"

He bent to salute with a fanciful inclination the photograph of the
man who had spoken so contemptuously of him the evening previous.

"Mr. Shotwell also adores gaiety," he said laughingly. "Last night I
beheld him at the Palace of Mirrors--and with an attractive young lady
of your club, Miss Dumont--the charming young Russian lady with whom
you came once to pay me the rent--" He kissed his hand in an ecstasy
of recollection. "So beautiful a young lady! So gay were they in their
box! Ah, youth! youth! Ah, the happiness and folly when laughter
bubbles in our wine!--the magic wine of youth!"

He took his leave, moving lightly to the door, almost grotesque in his
elaborate evolutions and adieux.

Palla went slowly upstairs.

The evening paper lay on a table in the living room. She unfolded it
mechanically; looked at it but saw no print, merely an unsteady haze
of greyish tint on which she could not seem to concentrate.

Marya and Jim ... together.... That was the night he went away
angry.... The night he told her he had gone directly home.... But it
couldn't have been.... He couldn't have lied....

She strove to recollect as she sat there staring at the newspaper....
What was it that beast had said about it?... Of course--last
night!... Marya and Jim had been together last night.... But where was
Vanya?... Oh, yes.... Last night Vanya was away ... in Baltimore.

The paper dropped to her lap; she sat looking straight ahead of her.

What had so shocked her then about Jim and Marya being together? True,
she had not supposed them to be on such terms--had not even thought
about it....

Yes, she had thought about it, scarcely conscious of her own
indefinable uneasiness--a memory, perhaps, of that evening when the
Russian girl had been at little pains to disguise her interest in this
man. And Palla had noticed it--noticed that Marya was seated too near
him--noticed that, and the subtle attitude of provocation, and the
stealthy evolution of that occult sorcery which one woman instantly
divines in another and finds slightly revolting.

Was it merely that memory which had been evoked when Puma's laughing
revelation so oddly chilled her?--the suspected and discovered
predilection of this Russian girl for Jim? Or was it something else,
something deeper, some sudden and more profound illumination which
revealed to her that, in the depths of her, she was afraid?

Afraid? Afraid of what?

Her charming young head sank; the brown eyes stared at the floor.

She was beginning to understand what had chilled her, what she had
unconsciously been afraid of--her own creed!--when applied to
another woman.

And this was the second time that this creed of hers had risen to
confront her, and the second time she had gazed at it, chilled by
fear: once, when she had waited for Ilse to return; and now once
again.

For now she began to comprehend how ruthless that creed could become
when professed by such a girl as Marya Lanois.

                  *       *       *       *       *

She was still seated there when Marya came in, her tiger-red hair in
fascinating disorder from the wind, her skin fairly breathing the warm
fragrance of exotic youth.

"My Palla! How pale you seem!" she exclaimed, embracing her. "You are
quite well? Really? Then I am reassured!"

She went to the mirror and tucked in a burnished strand or two of
hair.

"These Chicago ladies--they have not arrived, I see. Am I then so
early? For I see that Ilse is not yet here----"

"It is only a quarter to eight," said Palla, smiling; but the brown
eyes were calmly measuring this lithe and warm and lovely thing with
green eyes--measuring it intently--taking its measure--taking, for the
first time in her life, her measure of any woman.

"Was Vanya's concert a great success?" she asked.

"Vanya has not yet returned." She shrugged. "There was nothing in New
York papers."

"I suppose you were very nervous last night," said Palla.

For a moment Marya continued to arrange her hair by the aid of the
mantel mirror, then she turned very lithely and let her green gaze
rest full on Palla's face.

What she might possibly have divined was hidden behind the steady
brown eyes that met hers may have determined her attitude and words;
for she laughed with frank carelessness and plunged into it all:

"Fancy, Palla, my encountering Jim Shotwell in the Biltmore, and
dining with him at that noisy Palace of Mirrors last night! Did he
tell you?"

"I haven't seen him."

"--Over the telephone, perhaps?"

"No, he did not mention it."

"Well, it was most amusing. It is the unpremeditated that is
delightful. And can you see us in that dreadful place, as gay as a
pair of school children? And we must laugh at nothing and find it
enchanting--and we must dance amid the hoi polloi and clap our hands
for the encore too!----"

A light peal of laughter floated from her lips at the recollections
evoked:

"And after! Can you see us, Palla, in Vanya's studio, too wide awake
to go our ways!--and the song I sang at that unearthly hour--the song
I sing always when happily excited----"

The bell rang; the first guest had arrived.




CHAPTER XIX


Vanya's concert had been enough of a success to attract the
attention of genuine music-lovers and an impecunious impresario--an
irresponsible promoter celebrated for rushing headlong into things
and being kicked headlong out of them.

All promising virtuosi had cut their wisdom teeth on him; all had
acquired experience and its accompanying toothache; none had acquired
wealth until free of this ubiquitous impresario.

His name was Wilding: he seized upon Vanya; and that gentle and
disconcerted dreamer offered no resistance.

So Wilding began to haunt Vanya's apartment at all hours of the day,
rushing in with characteristic enthusiasm to discuss the vast campaign
of nation-wide concerts which in his mind's eye were already
materialising.

Marya had no faith in him and was becoming very tired of his noise and
bustle in the stillness and subdued light which meant home to her, and
which this loud, excitable, untidy man was eternally invading.

Always he was shouting at Vanya: "It's a knock-out! It will go big!
big! big! We got 'em started in Baltimore!"--a fact, but none of his
doing! "We'll play Philadelphia next; I'm fixin' it for you. All you
gotta do is go there and the yelling starts. Well, I guess. Some riot,
believe me!"

Wilding had no money in the beginning. After a while, Vanya had none,
or very little; but the impresario wore a new fur coat and spats. And
Broadway winked wearily and said: "He's got another!"--doubtless
deeming specification mere redundancy.

Yet, somehow, Wilding did manage to book Vanya in Philadelphia--at a
somewhat distant date, it is true--but it was something with which to
begin the promised "nation-wide tour" under the auspices of Dawson B.
Wilding.

Marya had money of her own, but trusted none of it in Wilding's
schemes. In fact, she had come to detest him thoroughly, and whenever
he was announced she would rise like some beautiful, disgusted feline,
which something has disturbed in her dim and favourite corner, and
move lithely away to another room. And it almost seemed as though her
little, warm, closely-chiselled ears actually flattened with bored
annoyance as the din of Wilding's vociferous greeting to Vanya arose
behind her.

                  *       *       *       *       *

One day toward Christmas time, she said to Vanya, in her level,
satin-smooth voice:

"You know, mon ami, I am tiring rapidly of this great fool who comes
shouting and tramping into our home. And when I am annoyed beyond my
nerve capacity, I am likely to leave."

Vanya said gently that he was sorry that he had entered into financial
relations with a man who annoyed her, but that it could scarcely be
helped now.

He was seated at his piano, not playing, but scoring. And he resumed
his composition after he had spoken, his grave, delicate head bent
over the ruled sheets, a gold pencil held between his long fingers.

Marya lounged near, watched him. Not for the first time, now, did his
sweet temper and gentleness vaguely irritate her--string her nerves a
little tighter until they began to vibrate with an indefinable longing
to say something to arouse this man--startle him--awaken him to a
physical tensity and strength.... Such as Shotwell's for example....

"Vanya?"

He looked up absently, the beauty of dreams still clouding his eyes.

And suddenly, to her own astonishment, her endurance came to its end.
She had never expected to say what she was now going to say to him.
She had never dreamed of confession--of enlightening him. And now, all
at once, she knew she was going to do it, and that it was a needless
and cruel and insane and useless thing to do, for it led her nowhere,
and it would leave him in helpless pain.

"Vanya," she said, "I am in love with Jim Shotwell."

After a few moments, she turned and slowly crossed the studio. Her hat
and coat lay on a chair. She put them on and walked out.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The following morning, Palla, arriving to consult Marya on a matter of
the Club's business, discovered Vanya alone in the studio.

He was lying on the lounge when she entered, and he looked ill, but he
rose with all his characteristic grace and charm and led her to a
chair, saluting her hand as he seated her.

"Marya has not yet arrived?" she inquired.

His delicate features became very grave and still.

"I thought," added Palla, "that Marya usually breakfasted at
eleven----"

Something in his expression checked her; and she fell silent,
fascinated by the deathly whiteness of his face.

"I am sorry to tell you," he said, in a pleasant and steady voice,
"that Marya has not returned."

"Why--why, I didn't know she was away----"

"Yesterday she decided. Later she was good enough to telephone from
the Hotel Rajah, where, for the present, she expects to remain."

"Oh, Vanya!" Palla's involuntary exclamation brought a trace of colour
into his cheeks.

He said: "It is not her fault. She was loyal and truthful. One may not
control one's heart.... And if she is in love--well, is she not free
to love him?"

"Who--is--it?" asked Palla faintly.

"Mr. Shotwell, it appears."

In the dead silence, Vanya passed his hand slowly across his temples;
let it drop on his knee.

"Freedom above all else," he said, "--freedom to love, freedom to
cease loving, freedom to love anew.... Well ... it is curious--the
scheme of things.... Love must remain inexplicable. For there is no
analysis. I think there never could be any man who cared as I have
cared, as I do care for her...."

He rose, and to Palla he seemed already a trifle stooped;--it may have
been his studio coat, which fitted badly.

"But, Vanya dear--" Palla looked at him miserably, conscious of her
own keen fears as well as of his sorrow. "Don't you think she'll come
back? Do you suppose it is really so serious--what she thinks
about--Mr. Shotwell?"

He shook his head: "I don't know.... If it is so, it is so. Freedom is
of first importance. Our creed is our creed. We must abide by what we
