The thing scrambled between the fingers of the Sorcerer, leaped into the
grass, ran a little way and hid, crouched down, panting, almost hidden
by the long grass. The shocked watchers on the wall could still see the
creature. Tressa felt Cleves' body trembling beside her. She rested a
cool, steady hand on his.

"It is the Tchor-Dagh," she breathed close to his face. "The Mongol
Sorcerer is becoming formidable."

"Oh, God!" murmured Cleves, "that thing he made is alive! I saw it. I
can see it hiding there in the grass. It's frightened--breathing! It's
alive!"

His pistol, clutched in his right hand, quivered. His wife laid her hand
on it and cautiously shook her head.

"No," she said, "that is of no use."

"But what that Yezidee is doing is--is blasphemous----"

"Watch him! His mind is stealthily feeling its way among the laws and
secrets of the Tchor-Dagh. He has found a thread. He is following it
through the maze into hell's own labyrinth! He has created a tiny thing
in the image of the Creator. He will try to create a larger being now.
Watch him with his Ginseng roots!"

Tiyang, looming ape-like on his haunches in the deepening dusk, moulded
and massaged the Ginseng roots, one after another. And one after
another, tiny naked creatures wriggled out of his palms between his
fingers and scuttled away into the herbage.

Already the dim lawn was alive with them, crawling, scurrying through
the grass, creeping in among the flower-beds, little, ghostly-white
things that glimmered from shade into shadow like moonbeams.

Tressa's mouth touched her husband's ear:

"It is for the secret of Destruction that the Yezidee seeks. But first
he must learn the secret of creation. He is learning.... And he must
learn no more than he has already learned."

"That Yezidee is a living man. Shall I fire?"

"No."

"I can kill him with the first shot."

"Hark!" she whispered excitedly, her hand closing convulsively on her
husband's arm.

The whip-crack of a rifle-shot still crackled in their ears.

Tiyang had leaped to his feet in the dusk, a Ginseng root, half-alive,
hanging from one hand and beginning to squirm.

Suddenly the first moonbeam fell across the wall. And in its lustre
Tressa rose to her knees and flung up her right hand.

Then it was as though her palm caught and reflected the moon's ray, and
hurled it in one blinding shaft straight into the dark visage of
Tiyang-Khan.

The Yezidee fell as though he had been pierced by a shaft of steel, and
lay sprawling there on the grass in the ghastly glare.

And where his features had been there gaped only a hole into the head.

Then a dreadful thing occurred; for everywhere the grass swarmed with
the little naked creatures he had made, running, scrambling, scuttling,
darting into the black hole which had been the face of Tiyang-Khan.

They poured into the awful orifice, crowding, jostling one another so
violently that the head jerked from side to side on the grass, a
wabbling, inert, soggy mass in the moonlight.

And presently the body of Tiyang-Khan, Warden of the Rampart of Gog and
Magog, and Lord of the Seventh Tower, began to burn with white fire--a
low, glimmering combustion that seemed to clothe the limbs like an
incandescent mist.

On the wall knelt Tressa, the glare from her lifted hand streaming over
the burning form below.

Cleves stood tall and shadowy beside his wife, the useless pistol
hanging in his grasp.

Then, in the silence of the woods, and very near, they heard Sansa
laughing. And Selden's anxious voice:

"Arrak is dead. The Sou-Sou hangs across a rock, head down, like a shot
squirrel. Is all well with you?"

"Tiyang is on his way to his star," said Tressa calmly. "Somewhere in
the world his body has bid its mind farewell.... And so his body may
live for a little, blind, in mental darkness, fed by others, and locked
in all day, all night, until the end."

Sansa, at the base of the wall, turned to Selden.

"Shall I bring my body with me, one day, my lord?" she asked demurely.

"Oh, Sansa----" he whispered, but she placed a fragrant hand across his
lips and laughed at him in the moonlight.




CHAPTER XV

IN THE FIRELIGHT


In 1920 the whole spiritual world was trembling under the thundering
shock of the Red Surf pounding the frontiers of civilisation from pole
to pole.

Up out of the hell-pit of Asia had boiled the molten flood, submerging
Russia, dashing in giant waves over Germany and Austria, drenching
Italy, France, England with its bloody spindrift.

And now the Red Rain was sprinkling the United States from coast to
coast, and the mindless administration, scared out of its stupidity at
last, began a frantic attempt to drain the country of the filthy flood
and throw up barriers against the threatened deluge.

In every state and city Federal agents made wholesale arrests--too late!

A million minds had already been perverted and dominated by the terrible
Sect of the Assassins. A million more were sickening under the awful
psychic power of the Yezidee.

Thousands of the disciples of the Yezidee devil-worshipers had already
been arrested and held for deportation,--poor, wretched creatures whose
minds were no longer their own, but had been stealthily surprised,
seized and mastered by Mongol adepts and filled with ferocious hatred
against their fellow men.

Yet, of the Eight Yezidee Assassins only two now remained alive in
America,--Togrul, and Sanang, the Slayer of Souls.

Yarghouz was dead; Djamouk the Fox, Kahn of the Fifth Tower was dead;
Yaddin-ed-Din, Arrak the Sou-Sou, Gutchlug, Tiyang Khan, all were dead.
Six Towers had become dark and silent. From them the last evil thought,
the last evil shape had sped; the last wicked prayer had been said to
Erlik, Khagan of all Darkness.

But his emissary on earth, Prince Sanang, still lived. And at Sanang's
heels stole Togrul, Tougtchi to Sanang No√Øane, the Slayer of Souls.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the United States there had been a cessation of the active campaign
of violence toward those in authority. Such unhappy dupes of the
Yezidees as the I. W. W. and other radicals were, for the time,
physically quiescent. Crude terrorism with its more brutal outrages
against life and law ceased. But two million sullen eyes, in which all
independent human thought had been extinguished, watched unblinking the
wholesale arrests by the government--watched panic-stricken officials
rushing hither and thither to execute the mandate of a miserable
administration--watched and waited in dreadful silence.

In that period of ominous quiet which possessed the land, the little
group of Secret Service men that surrounded the young girl who alone
stood between a trembling civilisation and the threat of hell's own
chaos, became convinced that Sanang was preparing a final and terrible
effort to utterly overwhelm the last vestige of civilisation in the
United States.

What shape that plan would develop they could not guess.

John Recklow sent Benton to Chicago to watch that centre of infection
for the appearance there of the Yezidee Togrul.

Selden went to Boston where a half-witted group of parlour-socialists at
Cambridge were talking too loudly and loosely to please even the most
tolerant at Harvard.

But neither Togrul nor Sanang had, so far, materialised in either city;
and John Recklow prowled the purlieus of New York, haunting strange
byways and obscure quarters where the dull embers of revolution always
smouldered, watching for the Yezidee who was the deep-bedded, vital root
of this psychic evil which menaced the minds of all mankind,--Sanang,
the Slayer of Souls.

Recklow's lodgings were tucked away in Westover Court--three bedrooms, a
parlour and a kitchenette. Tressa Cleves occupied one bedroom; her
husband another; Recklow the third.

And in this tiny apartment, hidden away among a group of old buildings,
the very existence of which was unknown to the millions who swarmed the
streets of the greatest city in the world,--here in Westover Court, a
dozen paces from the roar of Broadway, was now living a young girl upon
whose psychic power the only hope of the world now rested.

       *       *       *       *       *

The afternoon had turned grey and bitter; ragged flakes still fell; a
pallid twilight possessed the snowy city, through which lighted trains
and taxis moved in the foggy gloom.

By three o'clock in the afternoon all shops were illuminated; the south
windows of the Hotel Astor across the street spread a sickly light over
the old buildings of Westover Court as John Recklow entered the tiled
hallway, took the stairs to the left, and went directly to his
apartment.

He unlocked the door and let himself in and stood a moment in the entry
shaking the snow from his hat and overcoat.

The sitting-room lamp was unlighted but he could see a fire in the
grate, and Tressa Cleves seated near, her eyes fixed on the glowing
coals.

He bade her good evening in a low voice; she turned her charming head
and nodded, and he drew a chair to the fender and stretched out his wet
shoes to the warmth.

"Is Victor still out?" he inquired.

She said that her husband had not yet returned. Her eyes were on the
fire, Recklow's rested on her shadowy face.

"Benton got his man in Chicago," he said. "It was not Togrul Kahn."

"Who was it?"

"Only a Swami fakir who'd been preaching sedition to a little group of
greasy Bengalese from Seattle.... I've heard from Selden, too."

She nodded listlessly and lifted her eyes.

"Neither Sanang nor Togrul have appeared in Boston," he said. "I think
they're here in New York."

The girl said nothing.

After a silence:

"Are you worried about your husband?" he asked abruptly.

"I am always uneasy when he is absent," she said quietly.

"Of course.... But I don't suppose he knows that."

"I suppose not."

Recklow leaned over, took a coal in the tongs and lighted a cigar.
Leaning back in his armchair, he said in a musing voice:

"No, I suppose your husband does not realise that you are so deeply
concerned over his welfare."

The girl remained silent.

"I suppose," said Recklow softly, "he doesn't dream you are in love with
him."

Tressa Cleves did not stir a muscle. After a long silence she said in
her even voice:

"Do you think I am in love with my husband, Mr. Recklow?"

"I think you fell in love with him the first evening you met him."

"I did."

Neither of them spoke again for some minutes. Recklow's cigar went
wrong; he rose and found another and returned to the fire, but did not
light it.

"It's a rotten day, isn't it?" he said with a shiver, and dumped a
scuttle of coal on the fire.

They watched the blue flames playing over the grate.

Tressa said: "I could no more help falling in love with him than I could
stop my heart beating.... But I did not dream that anybody knew."

"Don't you think he ought to know?"

"Why? He is not in love with me."

"Are you sure, Mrs. Cleves?"

"Yes. He is wonderfully sweet and kind. But he could not fall in love
with a girl who has been what I have been."

Recklow smiled. "What have you been, Tressa Norne?"

"You know."

"A temple-girl at Yian?"

"And at the Lake of the Ghosts," she said in a low voice.

"What of it?"

"I can not tell you, Mr. Recklow.... Only that I lost my soul in the
Yezidee Temple----"

"That is untrue!"

"I wish it were untrue.... My husband tells me that nothing can really
harm the soul. I try to believe him.... But Erlik lives. And when my
soul at last shall escape my body, it shall not escape the Slayer of
Souls."

"That is monstrously untrue----"

"No. I tell you that Prince Sanang slew my soul. And my soul's ghost
belongs to Erlik. How can any man fall in love with such a girl?"

"Why do you say that Sanang slew your soul?" asked Recklow, peering at
her averted face through the reddening firelight.

She lay still in her chair for a moment, then turned suddenly on him:

"He did slay it! He came to the Lake of the Ghosts as my lover; he
meant to have done it there; but I would not have him--would not listen,
nor suffer his touch!--I mocked at him and his passion. I laughed at his
Tchortchas. They were afraid of me!--"

She half rose from her chair, grasped the arms, then seated herself
again, her eyes ablaze with the memory of wrongs.

"How dare I show my dear lord that I am in love with him when Sanang's
soul caught my soul out of my body one day--surprised my soul while my
body lay asleep in the Yezidee Temple!--and bore it in his arms to the
very gates of hell!"

"Good God," whispered Recklow, "what do you mean? Such things can't
happen."

"Why not? They do happen. I was caught unawares.... It was one golden
afternoon, and Yulan and Sansa and I were eating oranges by the fountain
in the inner shrine. And I lay down by the pool and made the
effort--you understand?"

"Yes."

"Very well. My soul left my body asleep and I went out over the tops of
the flowers--idly, without aim or intent--as the winds blow in
summer.... It was in the Wood of the White Moth that I saw Sanang's soul
flash downward like a streak of fire and wrap my soul in flame!... And,
in a flash, we were at the gates of hell before I could free myself from
his embrace.... Then, by the Temple pool, among the oranges, I cried out
asleep; and my terrified body sat up sobbing and trembling in Yulun's
arms. But the Slayer of Souls had slain mine in the Wood of the White
Moth--slain it as he caught me in his flaming arms.... And now you know
why such a woman as I dare not bend to kiss the dust from my dear Lord's
feet--Aie-a! Aie-a! I who have lost my girl's soul to him who slew it in
the Wood of the White Moth!"

She sat rocking in her chair in the red firelight, her hands framing her
lovely face, her eyes staring straight ahead as though they saw opening
before them through the sombre shadows of that room all the dread magic
of the East where the dancing flame of Sanang's blazing soul lighted
their path to hell through the enchanted forest.

Recklow had grown pale, but his voice was steady.

"I see no reason," he said, "why your husband should not love you."

"I tell you my girl's soul belonged to Sanang--was part of his, for an
instant."

"It is burned pure of dross."

"It is burned."

Recklow remained silent. Tressa lay deep in her armchair, twisting her
white fingers.

"What makes him so late?" she said.... "I sent my soul out twice to look
for him, and could not find him."

"Send it again," said Recklow, fearfully.

For ten minutes the girl lay as though asleep, then her eyes unclosed
and she said drowsily: "I can not find him."

"Did--did you learn anything while--while you were--away?" asked Recklow
cautiously.

"Nothing. There is a thick darkness out there--I mean a darkness
gathering over the whole land. It is like a black fog. When the damned
pray to Erlik there is a darkness that gathers like a brown mist----"

Her voice ceased; her hands tightened on the arms of her chair.

"That is what Sanang is doing!" she said in a breathless voice.

"What?" demanded Recklow.

"Praying! That is what he is doing! A million perverted minds which he
has seized and obsessed are being concentrated on blasphemous prayers to
Erlik! Sanang is directing them. Do you understand the terrible power of
a million minds all willing, in unison, the destruction of good and
the triumph of evil? A million human minds! More! For that is what he is
doing. That is the thick darkness that is gathering over the entire
