The basis of this sex equality under primitive communism is easy to
understand. All goods belonged to the tribe, and were shared alike
according to need. Children were the tribe's most precious possession;
therefore the woman suffered little handicap from having a child to bear
and feed. Primitive woman would bear her child by the roadside, and pick
it up in her arms, and continue her journey; and when she needed food,
she did not have to beg for it--if there was food for anyone, there was
food for her and her child. She did her share of the gathering and
preparing of food, because that was the habit and law of her being; she
had energies, and had never heard of the idea of not using them.

This primitive communism generally disappears as the tribe progresses.
We cannot be sure of all the stages of its disappearance, or of the
causes, but in a general way we can say that it gives way before the
spread of slavery. In the beginning primitive man does not have any
slaves, he does not have sufficient foresight or self-restraint for
that. When he kills his enemies in battle, he builds a fire and roasts
their flesh and eats them; and those whom he captures alive, he binds
fast and takes with him, to be sacrificed to his voodoo gods. But as he
comes to more settled ways of living, and as the tribe grows larger, it
occurs to the chiefs in battle that the captives would be glad to give
their labor in return for their lives, and that it would be convenient
to have some people to do the hard and dirty work. So gradually there
comes to be a class at the bottom of society, and another class at the
top. Those who capture the slaves and keep them at work lay claim to the
products of their labor--at first better weapons and personal
adornments, then separate homes for the chiefs and priests, separate
gardens, separate flocks and herds, and--what more natural?--separate
women.

This process becomes complete when the tribe settles down to
agriculture, and the ruling classes take possession of the land. When
once the land is privately owned, classes are fixed, and class
distinctions become the most prominent fact in society. And step by step
as this happens, we see women beaten down, from the position of the
cannibal lady, who could ask for the man she wanted and carry him off by
force if necessary, to the position of the modern woman, who is
physically weak, emotionally unstable, economically dependent, and
socially repressed. You may resent such phrases, but all you have to do
is to read the laws of civilized countries, written into the statute
books by men to define the rights and duties of women; you will see that
everywhere, before the recent feminist revolt, women were classified
under the law with children and imbeciles.

Maternity imposes on woman a heavy burden, and before the discovery of
birth control, a burden that is continuous. For nine months she carries
the child in her body, and then for a year or two she carries it in her
arms, or on her back; and by that time there is another child, and this
continues until she is broken down. Having this burden, she cannot
possibly compete with the unburdened male for the possession of
property. So wherever there is economic competition; wherever certain
individuals or classes in the tribe or group are allowed to seize and
hold the land; wherever the products of labor cease to be the community
property, and become private property, the objects of economic strife;
then inevitably and by natural process, woman comes to be placed among
those who cannot protect themselves--that is, among the children and the
imbeciles and the slaves. Of course, some children are well cared for,
and so are some imbeciles, and some slaves, and some women. But they are
cared for as a matter of favor, not as a matter of their own power. They
proceed no longer as the cannibal lady, but by adopting and cultivating
the slave virtues, by making themselves agreeable to their masters, by
flattering their masters' vanity and sensuality--in other words by
exercising what we are accustomed to call "feminine charm."

From early barbaric society up to the present day, we observe that there
are classes of women, just as there are classes of men. The position of
these classes changes within certain limits, but in broad outline the
conditions are fixed, and may be easily defined. There is, first of all,
the ruling class woman. She must have birth; she may or may not have
wealth, according as to whether the laws of that society or tribe permit
her to have possessions of her own, or to inherit anything from her
parents. If she has no wealth, then she will need beauty. She is the
woman who is selected by the ruling class man to bear his name and his
children, and to have charge of the household where these children are
reared, and trained for the inheriting of their father's wealth and the
carrying on of his position. This confers upon the ruling class woman
great dignity, and makes her a person of responsibility. She rules, not
merely over the slaves of the household, but over men of inferior social
classes, and in a few cases an exceptionally able woman has become a
queen, and ruled over men of her own class. This ruling class woman has
been known through all the ages by a special name, and the ways and
customs regarding her have been studied in an entertaining book, "The
Lady," by Emily James Putnam.

Next in privilege and position to the "lady" is the mistress, the woman
who is selected by the ruling class man, not primarily to bear his
children, but to entertain and divert him. She may, of course, bear
children also. In barbaric societies, and up to quite recent times, the
importance of the ruling class man was indicated by the number of
concubines he had, and the position of these women was hardly inferior
to that of the wife or queen. In the days of the French monarchy, the
king's mistress was frequently more important than the queen; she was a
woman of ability, maintaining her supremacy in the intrigues of the
court. In ancient Greek society, the "hetairae" were a recognized class,
and Aspasia, the mistress of Pericles, was the most brilliant and most
conspicuous woman in Athens. In modern France, the position of the
mistress is recognized by the phrase "demi-monde," or half-world. The
American plutocracy has developed upon a superstructure of Puritanism,
and therefore, in America, hypocrisy is necessary. But in the great
cities of America, the vast majority of the ruling class men keep
mistresses before marriage, and a great many keep them afterwards; and
these mistresses are coming to be more and more openly flaunted, and to
acquire more and more of what is called "social position." It is
possible now in the "smart set" for a lady to accept the status of
mistress, delicately veiled, without losing caste thereby, and actresses
and other free lance women who got their start in life by taking the
position of mistress, are coming more and more to be recognized as
"ladies," and to be received into what are called the "best circles."

There remains to be considered the position of the lower class women. In
barbarous society these women were very little different from slaves.
They had no rights of their own, except such rights as their master man
chose to allow them for his own convenience. They were sold in marriage
by their parents, and they went where they were sold, and obeyed their
new master. They became his household drudges, and reserved their
affections for him; if they failed to do this, he stoned them to death,
or strangled them with a cord and tied them in a sack and threw them
into the river.

And, of course, the rights of the master man yielded to the rights of
men of higher classes. The king or nobleman could take any woman he
wished at any time, and he made laws to this effect and enforced them.
In feudal society the lord of the manor claimed the right of the first
night with the wives of his serfs; this was one of the ruling class
privileges which was abolished in the French revolution. Wherever the
French revolution did not succeed in affecting land tenure, the right of
the land owner to prey upon his tenant girls continues as a custom, even
though it is not written in the law, and would be denied by the
hypocritical. It prevails in Poland, as you may discover by reading
Sienkiewicz's "Whirlpools"; it prevails in England, as you may discover
from Hardy's "Tess of the d'Urbervilles." You will find that it prevails
in every part of the world where women have poverty and men have wealth
and prestige, dress suits and automobiles. You will find it wherever
there are leisure class hotels, or colleges, or other gatherings of
ruling class young males. You will find it in the theatrical and moving
picture worlds. It is well understood in the theatrical world of
Broadway that the woman "star" in the profession gets her start in life
by becoming the mistress of a manager or "angel." In the moving picture
world of Southern California it is a recognized convention, known to
everyone familiar with the business, that a young girl parts with her
virtue in exchange for an important job.




CHAPTER XXX

SEX AND YOUNG AMERICA

     (Discusses present-day sex arrangements, as they affect the future
     generation.)


Our first task is to consider how people actually behave in the matter
of sex--as distinguished from the way they pretend to behave. The first
and most necessary step in the cure of any disease is a correct
diagnosis, and in this case we have not merely to make the diagnosis,
but to prove it; because the most conspicuous fact about our present
sex-arrangements is a mass of organized concealment. Not merely do
teachers and preachers for the most part suppress all mention of these
subjects; but the defenders of our present economic disorder are
accustomed to acclaim the private property r√©gime as the only basis of
family life. So long as people hold such an idea, there is no use trying
to teach them anything on the subject. There is no use talking to them
about monogamous love, because all they understand is hypocrisy. In this
chapter, therefore, we shall proceed to hold up the mirror in front of
capitalist morality.

I pause and consider: Where shall I begin? At the top of society, or at
the bottom? With the city or the country? With the old or the young? I
think you care most of all about your boys and girls, so I am going to
tell you what is happening to the youth of America in these days of
triumphant reaction.

I have a son, about whom naturally I think a great deal; just now he is
a student at one of our state universities, and he wrote me the other
day: "I went to a dance, and believe me, father, if you knew what these
modern dances mean, you would write something about them." I know what
they mean. They have come to us straight from the brothels of the
Argentine, among the vilest haunts of vice in the world. Others have
come from the jungle, where they were natural. The poor creature of the
jungle has his sex-desire and nothing else; he is not troubled with
brains, he does not have a complicated social organism to build up and
protect, consequently he does not need what are called "morals." But we
civilized people need morals, and we are losing them, and our society is
disintegrating, going back to the howling and fighting and cannibalism
of the jungle.

Prof. William James, America's greatest psychologist, tells us that
going through the motions appropriate to an emotion automatically causes
that emotion to be felt. If you watch an actor preparing to rush on the
stage in an emotional scene, you will see him walking about, clenching
his fists, stamping his feet, making ferocious faces, "working himself
up." And now, what do you think is going on in the minds of young men
and women, while with their bodies they are going through procedures
which are nothing and can be nothing but imitations of sexual contact?

The parents, it appears, are ignorant and unsophisticated, and have left
it for the children to find out what these dances mean. In Rhode Island,
one of our oldest states, is Brown College, chosen by New England's
aristocracy for the education of its sons; and these boys go to social
affairs in the best homes in Providence, and they call them
"petting-parties." And here is what they write in their college paper:

"The modern social bud drinks, not too much, often, but enough. She
smokes unguardedly, swears considerably, and tells 'dirty' stories. All
in all, she is a most frivolous, passionate, sensation-seeking little
thing."

This statement, published in a college paper, causes a scandal, and a
newspaper reporter goes to interview the college boy who edits the
paper, and this boy talks. He tells how he met a lovely girl at a dance,
and his heart was thrilled with the rapture of young love. "Frankly,
between you and me, I was pretty smitten with this particular little
lady. Felt about her, don't you know, like a real guy feels about the
girl he could imagine himself married to. Thought she was too nice to
touch, almost; you know the grave sort of love affair a man always has
once in a lifetime. Well, we walked a bit, and I guess I didn't say
much, for a while. I felt plenty--respectfully--just the same. And as we
turned the corner of one of the buildings here, she grasped my hand.
Hers was trembling. 'Love and let love is my motto, dearie,' said this
seraph of my dreams; 'come, we're losing a lot of time getting started.'
That girl thought I was dead slow. She didn't know that just then I
imagined the great love of my life was just entering the door. It was
cruel the way she got down from the pedestal I had built for her."

Suppose I should ask you to name the influence that is having most to do
with shaping the thoughts of young America--what would you answer?
Undoubtedly, the moving pictures. It is from the "movies" that your
children learn what life is; if I can show you that a certain thing is
in the "movies," you can surely not deny that it is passing every day
and night into the hearts and minds of millions of our boys and girls.
Take a vote among the girls, what would they consider the most
delightful destiny in life; surely nine out of ten would answer, to
become a screen star, and pose before a world of admirers, and be paid a
million dollars a year. Make a test and see; and put that fact together
with the one I have already stated, that in order to get an important
job in the "movies," a girl must regularly and as a matter of course
part with her virtue.

You will be told, no doubt, that this is a slanderous statement, so let
me give you a little evidence. I happened within the past year to be in
the private office of a well known moving picture producer, a man who is
married, and takes care to tell you that he loves his wife. He was
producing a play, the heroine of which was supposed to be a daughter of
Puritan New England. To play this part he had engaged a chaste girl, and
as a result was in the midst of a queer trouble, which he poured out to
me. His "leading man" had refused to act with this girl, insisting that
no girl could act a part of love unless she had had passionate
experience; no such thing had ever been heard of in moving pictures
before. Likewise, the director agreed that no girl who is chaste could
act for the screen, and the producer asked my advice about it. Mr.
William Allen White, of Kansas, was present in the office, and
authorizes me to state that he substantiates this anecdote. We both
advised the producer to stand by the girl, and he did so; and the
picture went out, and proved to be what in trade parlance is termed a
"frost"; that is to say, your children didn't care for it, and it cost
the producer something like a hundred thousand dollars to make this
attempt to defy the conventions of the moving picture world.

I will tell you another story. I have a friend, a prominent man in Los
Angeles, who was appealed to by a young lady who wished to act in the
"movies." My friend introduced this young lady to a very prominent
screen actor, who in turn introduced her to one of the biggest producers
in America, one of the men whose "million dollar feature pictures" are
regularly exploited. The producer examined the young lady's figure, and
told her that she would "do"; he added, quite casually, and as a matter
of course, that she would be expected to "pay the price." The young lady
took exception to this proposition, and gave up the chance. She told my
friend about it, and he, being a man of the world, accustomed to dealing
with the foibles of his fellowmen, wrote a note to the actor, explaining
that inasmuch as this young lady had been socially introduced to him,
and by him socially introduced to the manager, she should not have been
expected to "pay the price." To this the actor answered that my friend
was correct, and he would see the manager about it. The manager conceded
the point, and the young lady got her chance in the "movies" and made
good without "paying the price." This story tells you all you need to
know about the difference in sex ethics that society applies to the
"lady" and to the daughter of the common people.

You know, of course, what is the stock theme of all moving pictures--the
virtuous daughter of the people, who resists all temptations, and is
finally rescued from her would-be seducer by the strong and sturdy arm
of a male doll. Could one ask a more perfect illustration of capitalist
hypocrisy than the fact that the girl who plays this role is required to
pay with her virtue for the privilege of playing it! And if you know
anything about young girls, you can watch her playing it on the screen,
and see from her every gesture that what I am telling you is true. My
wife knows young girls, and I took her, the other day, to see a moving
picture. She said: "I have solved a problem. When I come home on the
street-cars, it happens that I ride with a lot of young girls from the
high school. I have been watching them, and I couldn't imagine what was
the matter with them. All simple, girlish straightforwardness is gone
out of them; they are making eyes, in the strangest manner--and at
nobody; just practicing, apparently. They wear yearning facial
expressions; when they start to walk, they do not walk, but writhe and
wiggle. I thought there must be some nervous eye and lip disease got
abroad in the school. But now, when I go to a moving picture, I discover
what it means. They are imitating the 'stars' on the screen!"

In these pictures, you know, there are "ingenues," young girls engaged
in making a happy ending to the story by capturing a rich lover; and
then there are "vamps," engaged in seducing young men, or breaking up
some happy home. In old-style melodrama it was possible to tell the
"ingenue" from the "vamps"; the former would trip lightly, and glance
coyly out of the corners of her eyes, while the "vamp" moved with slow,
languished writhing, blinking heavy-lidded, sinister eyes. But
now-a-days the "vamps" have learned to pose as "ingenues," and the
"ingenues" are as vicious as the "vamps"; they both make the same
glances, and culminate in the same sensual swoon. It is all sex, and
nothing else--except revolvers and fighting, and wild rushing about.

And then, too, there are the musical comedies, made wholly out of sex,
being known as "girl shows," or more frankly still, "leg shows." A row
of half naked women, prancing and gyrating on the stage, and in front of
them rows of bald-headed old men, gazing at them greedily; also college
boys, or boys too imbecile to get through college, sending in their
cards with boxes of costly flowers. You will be shocked as you read my
plain statements of fact, but if you are the average American, you will
take your family to a musical show which has come straight from the
brothels of Paris, every allusion of which is obscene. I remember once
being in a small town in the South, when one of these "road shows"
arrived from New York, and I realized that this institution was simply a
traveling house of ill fame; the whole male portion of the town was
a-quiver with excitement, a mixture of lust and fear.

I live in Southern California, one of many places in America where the
idle rich gather for their diversion. The country is dotted with
palatial hotels, and a golden flood of pleasure-seekers come in every
winter. I have talked with some of the college boys in this part of the
country, and also with teachers who try to save the boys; they report
these "swell" hotels as hot-beds of vice, haunted by married women with
automobiles, and nothing to do, who wish to go into the canyons for
sexual riots. Even elderly women, white-haired women, old enough to be
your grandmother! I have had them pointed out to me in these hotels,
their cheeks and lips covered with rouge, with pink silk tights on their
calves, and nothing else almost up to their knees and nothing at all
half way down their backs. These old women seek to prey on boys, wanting
their youth, and being willing to lavish money upon them. They are
preying on your boys--you prosperous business men, who have preached the
gospel of "each for himself," and are proud of your skill to prey upon
society. You heap up your fortunes, and call it success, and are secure
and happy. You have made your children safe against want, you think; but
how are you going to make them safe against the "vamps" who prey upon
the overwhelming excitements of youth, and betray your sons before your
very eyes--teaching them lust in their youth, so that love may never be
born in their stunted hearts? All the haunts of "gilded vice" are
thriving, and somebody's boy is paying the interest on the capital, to
say nothing of paying the police.

Many years ago I paid a call upon Anthony Comstock, head of the Society
for the Prevention of Vice. Comstock was an old-style Puritan, and many
insist that he was likewise an old-style grafter. However that may be,
he had a collection of the literature of pornography which would cause
any man to hesitate in condemning his activities. There is a vast
traffic in this kind of thing; it is sold by pack-peddlers all over the
country, and it is sold in little shops in the neighborhood of public
schools. You may be sure that in your school there are some boys who
know where to get it, even though they will not tell what they know. I
will describe just one piece that a school boy brought to me, a
catalogue of obscene literature, for sale in Spain, and to be ordered
wholesale. You know how men with wares to sell will expend their
imaginations and exhaust their vocabulary in describing to you the
charms of each particular article for sale. Here was a catalogue of one
or two hundred pages, listing thousands of items, pictures, pamphlets
and books, and various implements of vice, all set forth in that
imitation ecstasy of department stores and seed catalogues: here was
"something neat," here was a "fancy one," this one was "a peach," and
that one was "a winner."

When I was a lad, I was tramping in the Adirondack mountains and was
picked up by an itinerant photographer. We rode all day together, and he
became friendly, and showed me some obscene pictures. Presently he
discovered that he was dealing with a young moralist, and apparently it
was the first time he had ever had that experience; he talked honestly,
and we became friends on a different basis. This man had a wife and
children at home, but he traveled all over the mountains, and was like
the sailor with a girl in every port. Also he was thoroughly familiar
with all forms of unnatural vice, and took this also as a matter of
course, and spread it on his journeys.

The other day I read a statement by a prominent physician in New York;
he had been talking with a police captain, and had asked him to state
what in his opinion was the most significant development in the social
life of New York. The answer was, "The spread of male prostitution."
Here is a subject to which I have to admit my courage is unequal. I
cannot repeat the jokes which I have heard young men tell about these
matters, and about the attitude of the police to them. Suffice it to say
that these hideous forms of vice are now the commonplace of the
under-world of all our great cities. The other day a friend of mine was
talking with a prostitute who had left a high-class resort, where the
price charged was ten dollars, and gone to live in a "fifty-cent house,"
frequented by sailors. She was asked the reason, and her explanation
was, "The sailors are natural." Dr. William J. Robinson has written in
his magazine an account of the haunts in Berlin which are frequented by
the victims of unnatural vice, there allowed to meet openly and to
solicit. Frank Harris, in his "Life of Oscar Wilde," tells how when that
scandal was at its height, and further exposure threatened, swarms of
the most prominent men in England suddenly discovered that it was
advisable for them to travel on the Continent. The great public schools
