library, and is known as the “Eternal Bible.”

So here I was, strolling along quite as a matter of course with my
strange acquaintance. I saw that he was looking about, and I
prepared for questions, and wondered what they would be. I thought
that he must naturally be struck by such wonders as automobiles and
crowded street-cars. I failed to realize that he would be thinking
about the souls of the people.

Said he, at last: “This is a large city?”

“About half a million.”

“And what quarter are we in?”

“The shopping district.”

“Is it a segregated district?”

“Segregated? In what way?”

“Apparently there are only courtesans.”

I could not help laughing. “You are misled by the peculiarities of
our feminine fashions--details with which you are naturally not
familiar--”

“Oh, quite the contrary,” said he, “I am only too familiar with
them. In childhood I learned the words of the prophet: ‘Because the
daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks
and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a
tinkling with their feet; therefore the Lord will smite with a scab
the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will
discover their secret parts. In that day the Lord will take away the
bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their
cauls, and their round tires like the moon, the chains, and the
bracelets, and the mufflers, the bonnets, and the ornaments of the
legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings, and nose
jewels, the changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the
wimples, and the crisping pins, the glasses, and the fine linen, and
the hoods, and the veils. And it shall come to pass that instead of
sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent;
and instead of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a stomacher a
girding of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.’”

From the point of view of literature this might be great stuff; but
on the corner of Broadway and Fifth Street at the crowded hours it
was unusual, to say the least. My companion was entering into the
spirit of it in a most alarming way; he was half chanting, his voice
rising, his face lighting up. “‘Thy men shall fall by the sword, and
thy mighty in the war. And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she
being desolate shall sit upon the ground.’”

“Be careful!” I whispered. “People will hear you!”

“But why should they not?” He turned on me a look of surprise. “The
people hear me gladly.” And he added: “The common people.”

Here was an aspect of my adventure which had not occurred to me
before. “My God!” I thought. “If he takes to preaching on street
corners!” I realized in a flash--it was exactly what he would be up
to! A panic seized me; I couldn’t stand that; I’d have to cut and
run!

I began to speak quickly. “We must get across this street while we
have time; the traffic officer has turned the right way now.” And I
began explaining our remarkable system of traffic handling.

But he stopped me in the middle. “Why do we wish to cross the
street, when we have no place to go?”

“I have a place I wish to take you to,” I said; “a friend I want you
to meet. Let us cross.” And while I was guiding him between the
automobiles, I was desperately trying to think how to back up my
lie. Who was there that would receive this incredible stranger, and
put him up for the night, and get him into proper clothes, and keep
him off the soap-box?

Truly, I was in an extraordinary position! What had I done to get
this stranger wished onto me? And how long was he going to stay with
me? I found myself recalling the plight of Mary who had a little
lamb!

Fate had me in its hands, and did not mean to consult me. We had
gone less than a block further when I heard a voice, “Hello!
Billy!” I turned. Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord! Of all the thankless
encounters--Edgerton Rosythe, moving picture critic of the Western
City “Times.” Precisely the most cynical, the most profane, the most
boisterous person in a cynical and profane and boisterous business!
And he had me here, in full daylight, with a figure just out of a
stained glass window in St. Bartholomew’s Church!



VII


“Hello, Billy! Who’s your good-looking friend?” Rosythe was in full
sail before a breeze of his own making.

How could I answer. “Why--er--”

The stranger spoke. “They call me Carpenter.”

“Ah!” said the critic. “Mr. Carpenter, delighted to meet you.” He
gave the stranger a hearty grip of the hand. “Are you on location?”

“Location?” said the other; and Rosythe shot an arrow of laughter
towards me. Perhaps he knew about the vagaries of my Aunt Caroline;
anyhow, he would have a fantastic tale to tell about me, and was
going to exploit it to the limit!

I made a pitiful attempt to protect my dignity. “Mr. Carpenter has
just arrived,” I began&&

“Just arrived, hey?” said the critic. “Oviparous, viviparous, or
oviviparous?” He raised his hand; actually, in the glory of his wit,
he was going to clap the stranger on the shoulder!

But his hand stayed in the air. Such a look as came on Carpenter’s
face! “Hush!” he commanded. “Be silent!” And then: “Any man will
join in laughter; but who will join in disease?”

“Hey?” said Rosythe; and it was my turn to grin.

“Mr. Carpenter has just done me a great service,” I explained. “I
got badly mauled in the mob--”

“Oh!” cried the other. “At the Excelsior Theatre!” Here was
something to talk about, to cover his bewilderment. “So you were in
it! I was watching them just now.”

“Are they still at it?”

“Sure thing!”

“A fine set of boobs,” I began--

“Boobs, nothing!” broke in the other. “What do you suppose they’re
doing?”

“Saving us from Hun propaganda, so they told me.”

“The hell of a lot they care about Hun propaganda! They are earning
five dollars a head.”

“What?”

“Sure as you’re born!”

“You really know that?”

“Know it? Pete Dailey was at a meeting of the Motion Picture
Directors’ Association last night, and it was arranged to put up the
money and hire them. They’re a lot of studio bums, doing a real mob
scene on a real location!”

“Well, I’ll be damned!” I said. “And what about the police?”

“Police?” laughed the critic. “Would you expect the police to work
free when the soldiers are paid? Why, Jesus Christ----”

“I beg pardon?” said Carpenter.

“Why--er--” said Rosythe; and stopped, completely bluffed.

“You ought not swear,” I remarked, gravely; and then, “I must
explain. I got pounded by that mob; I was knocked quite silly, and
this gentleman found me, and healed me in a wonderful way.”

“Oh!” said the critic, with genuine interest. “Mind cure, hey? What
line?”

I was about to reply, but Carpenter, it appeared, was able to take
care of himself. “The line of love,” he answered, gently.

“See here, Rosythe,” I broke in, “I can’t stand on the street. I’m
beginning to feel seedy again. I think I’ll have a taxi.”

“No,” said the critic. “Come with me. I’m on the way to pick up the
missus. Right around the corner--a fine place to rest.” And without
further ado he took me by the arm and led me along. He was a
good-hearted chap inside; his rowdyisms were just the weapons of his
profession. We went into an office building, and entered an
elevator. I did not know the building, or the offices we came to.
Rosythe pushed open a door, and I saw before me a spacious parlor,
with birds of paradise of the female sex lounging in upholstered
chairs. I was led to a vast plush sofa, and sank into it with a sigh
of relief.

The stranger stood beside me, and put his hand on my head once more.
It was truly a miracle, how the whirling and roaring ceased, and
peace came back to me; it must have shown in my face, for the moving
picture critic of the Western City “Times” stood watching me with a
quizzical smile playing over his face. I could read his thoughts, as
well as if he had uttered them: “Regular Svengali stuff, by God!”



VIII


I was so comfortable there, I did not care what happened. I closed
my eyes for a while; then I opened them and gazed lazily about the
place. I noted that all the birds of paradise were watching
Carpenter. With one accord their heads had turned, and their eyes
were riveted upon him. I found myself thinking. “This man will make
a hit with the ladies!” Like the swamis, with their soft brown
skins, and their large, dark, cow-like eyes!

There had been silence in the place. But suddenly we all heard a
moan; I felt Carpenter start, and his hand left my head. A dozen
doors gave into this big parlor--all of them closed. We perceived
that the sound came through the door nearest to us. “What is it?” I
asked, of Rosythe.

“God knows,” said he; “you never can tell, in this place of
torment.”

I was about to ask, “What sort of place is it?” But the moan came
again, louder, more long drawn out: “O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” It ended
in a sort of explosion, as if the maker of it had burst.

Carpenter turned, and took two steps towards the door; then he
stopped, hesitating. My eyes followed him, and then turned to the
critic, who was watching Carpenter, with a broad grin on his face.
Evidently Rosythe was going to have some fun, and get his revenge!

The sound came again--louder, more harrowing. It came at regular
intervals, and each time with the explosion at the end. I watched
Carpenter, and he was like a high-spirited horse that hears the
cracking of a whip over his head. The creature becomes more
restless, he starts more quickly and jumps farther at each sound.
But he is puzzled; he does not know what these lashes mean, or which
way he ought to run.

Carpenter looked from one to another of us, searching our faces. He
looked at the birds of paradise in the lounging chairs. Not one of
them moved a muscle--save only those muscles which caused their eyes
to follow him. It was no concern of theirs, this agony, whatever it
was. Yet, plainly, it was the sound of a woman in torment:
“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!”

Carpenter wanted to open that door. His hand would start towards it;
then he would turn away. Between the two impulses he was presently
pacing the room; and since there was no one who appeared to have any
interest in what he might say, he began muttering to himself. I
would catch a phrase: “The fate of woman!” And again: “The price of
life!” I would hear the terrible, explosive wail:

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” And it would wring a cry out of the depths of
Carpenter’s soul: “Oh, have mercy!”

In the beginning, the moving picture critic of the Western City
“Times” had made some effort to restrain his amusement. But as this
performance went on, his face became one enormous, wide-spreading
grin; and you can understand, that made him seem quite devilish. I
saw that Carpenter was more and more goaded by it. He would look at
Rosythe, and then he would turn away in aversion. But at last he
made an effort to conquer his feelings, and went up to the critic,
and said, gently: “My friend: for every man who lives on earth, some
woman has paid the price of life.”

“The price of life?” repeated the critic, puzzled.

Carpenter waved his hand towards the door. “We confront this
everlasting mystery, this everlasting terror; and it is not becoming
that you should mock.”

The grin faded from the other’s face. His brows wrinkled, and he
said: “I don’t get you, friend. What can a man do?”

“At least he can bow his heart; he can pay his tribute to
womanhood.”

“You’re too much for me,” responded Rosythe. “The imbeciles choose
to go through with it; it’s their own choice.”

Said Carpenter: “You have never thought of it as the choice of God?”

“Holy smoke!” exclaimed the critic. “I sure never did!”

At that moment one of the doors was opened. Rosythe turned his eyes.
“Ah, Madame Planchet!” he cried. “Come tell us about it!”



IX


A stoutish woman out of a Paris fashion-plate came trotting across
the room, smiling in welcome: “Meester Rosythe!” She had black
earrings flapping from each ear, and her face was white, with a
streak of scarlet for lips. She took the critic by his two hands,
and the critic, laughing, said: “Respondez, Madame! Does God bring
the ladies to this place?”

“Ah, surely, Meester Rosythe! The god of beautee, he breengs them to
us! And the leetle god with the golden arrow, the rosy cheeks and
the leetle dimple--the dimple that we make heem for two hundred
dollars a piece--eh, Meester Rosythe? He breengs the ladies to us!”

The critic turned. “Madame Planchet, permit me to introduce Mr.
Carpenter. He is a man of wonder, he heals pain, and does it by
means of love.”

“Oh, how eenteresting! But what eef love heemself ees pain--who
shall heal that, eh, Meester Carpentair?”

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-h!” came the moan.

Said Rosythe: “Mr. Carpenter thinks you make the ladies suffer too
much. It worries him.”

“Ah, but the ladies do not mind! Pain? What ees eet? The lady who
makes the groans, she cannot move, and so she ees unhappy. Also, she
likes to have her own way, she ees a leetle--what you say?--spoilt.
But her troubles weel pass; she weel be beautiful, and her husband
weel love her more, and she weel be happy.”

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” from the other room; and Madame Planchet
prattled away: “I say to them, Make plenty of noises! Eet helps! No
one weel be afraid, for all here are worshippers of the god of
beautee--all weel bear the pains that he requires. Eh, Meester
Carpentair?”

Carpenter was staring at her. I had not before seen such intensity
of concentration on his face. He was trying to understand this
situation, so beyond all believing.

“I weel tell you something,” said Madame Planchet, lowering her
voice confidentially. “The lady what you hear--that ees Meeses T-S.
You know Meester T-S, the magnate of the peectures?”

Carpenter did not say whether he knew or not.

“They come to me always, the peecture people; to me. The magician,
the deputee of the god of beautee. Polly Pretty, she comes, and
Dolly Dimple, she comes, and Lucy Love, she comes, and Betty Belle
Bird. They come to me for the hair, and for the eyes, and for the
complexion. You are a workair of miracles yourself--but can you do
what I do? Can you make the skeen all new? Can you make the old
young?”

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!”

“Mary Magna, she comes to me, and she breengs me her old
grandmother, and she says, ‘Madame,’ she says, ‘make her new from
the waist up, for you can nevair tell how the fashions weel change,
and what she weel need to show.’ Ha, ha, ha, she ees wittee, ees the
lovely Mary! And I take the old lady, and her wrinkles weel be gone,
and her skeen weel be soft like a leetle baby’s, and in her cheeks
weel be two lovely dimples, and she weel dance with the young boys,
and they weel not know her from her grandchild--ha, ha, ha!--ees eet
not the wondair?”

I knew by now where I was. I had heard many times of Madame
Planchet’s beauty-parlors. I sat, wondering; should I take Carpenter
by the arm, and lead him gently out? Or should I leave him to fight
his own fight with modern civilization?

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!”

Madame turned suddenly upon me. “I know you, Meester Billee,” she
said. “I have seen you with Mees Magna! Ah, naughtee boy! You have
the soft, fine hair--you should let it grow--eight inches we have to
have, and then you can come to me for the permanent wave. So many
young men come to me for the permanent wave! You know eet? Meester
Carpentair, you see, he has let hees hair grow, and he has the
permanent wave--eet could not be bettair eef I had done eet myself.
I say always, ‘My work ees bettair than nature, I tell nature by the
eemperfections.’ Eh, voila?”

I am not sure whether it was for the benefit of me or of Carpenter.
The deputee of the god of beautee was moved to volunteer a great
revelation. “Would you like to see how we make eet--the permanent
wave? I weel show you Messes T-S. But you must not speak--she would
not like eet if I showed her to gentlemen. But her back ees turned
and she cannot move. We do not let them see the apparatus, because
eet ees rather frightful, eet would make them seek. You will be very
steel, eh?”

“Mum’s the word, Madame,” said Rosythe, speaking for the three of
us.

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” moaned the voice.

“First, I weel tell you,” said Madame. “For the complete wave we wind
the hair in tight leetle coils on many rods. Eet ees very delicate
operations--every hair must be just so, not one crooked, not one
must we skeep. Eet takes a long time--two hours for the long hair;
and eet hurts, because we must pull eet so tight. We wrap each coil
een damp cloths, and we put them een the contacts, and we turn on
the eelectreeceetee--and then eet ees many hours that the hair ees
baked, ees cooked een the proper curves, eh? Now, very steel, eef
you please!”

And softly she opened the door.


