sorry if I offended you on Saturday. I am sure I did not mean to do so.
I only sent for my kettle, and would not have done that, had not some
seven or eight jars of preserves been working."

"Oh, it was no offence to send for your kettle," Mrs. Tompkins replied,
smiling. "That was all right and proper. I was only a little vexed at
your Hannah's impudence. But, Aunt Mary, 'let has-beens be has-beens.'
I am sorry that there has occurred the least bit of coolness between
us."

Aunt Mary's heart bounded as lightly as if a hundred-pound weight had
been taken from it; she was made happy on the instant.

"You don't know how glad I am to hear you say so, Mrs. Tompkins," she
said, earnestly. "It has removed a load from my heart. Hereafter, I
hope nothing will occur again to disturb our friendly feelings. You may
have the kettle again, in a day or two, in welcome, and keep it as long
as you please."

The breach was thus easily healed; and had Aunt Mary gone over on
Saturday to see Mrs. Tompkins, she would have saved herself a world of
trouble.

Still, nothing of this was known to the other members of the church,
who were as full of conjecture as ever, touching the singular conduct,
as they called it, of Aunt Mary. The minister said nothing, and Mrs.
Tompkins, of course, said nothing; and no one ventured to question Aunt
Mary.

On the next Sabbath, Aunt Mary came to church as usual, and all eyes
were instantly upon her.

Some thought she still looked troubled, and was paler than before,
while others perceived that she was really more cheerful. In due time,
the minister arose and announced his text:

"Give to him that asketh, and of him that would borrow of thee, turn
thou not away."

"My dear friends," said he, on drawing near to the close of his
subject, "the text teaches us, besides that of simple alms-giving, the
duty of lending; but you will observe, it says not a word about
borrowing. Under the law laid down here, we may lend as much as we
please, but it gives no license to borrow. Now, as far as I have been
able to learn, a number of my congregation have not been very
particular on this point. They seem to think that it is helping their
neighbours to keep this injunction to lend, by compelling an obedience
to the precept, whether they are inclined to obey or not. Now, this is
wrong. We are justified in lending to those who need such kind offices,
but not to put others to the inconvenience of lending when we are fully
able to supply our own wants. This is going beyond the scope of the
Divine injunction, and I hold it to be morally wrong to do so. Some of
you, I am credibly informed," and his voice fell to a low, distinct,
and solemn tone, "are in the habit of regularly borrowing Aunt Mary's
preserving kettle--(here Aunt Mary looked up with a bewildered air,
while her face coloured deeply, and the whole congregation stared in
amazement; but the minister went calmly on)--and this, too, without
regard to her convenience. Nor is this all--the kettle is hardly ever
returned in a good condition. How thoughtless! how wrong! In this, Aunt
Mary alone has been faithful to the precept in my text, while you have
departed widely from its true spirit. Let me hope that you will think
better of this matter, and wisely resolve to let your past
short-comings suffice."

And thus the sermon closed. It may well be supposed that for some days
there was something of a stir in the hive. The ladies of the
congregation who were among the borrowers of the preserving kettle, and
they were not a few, including the minister's wife, were for a time
deeply incensed at Aunt Mary, and not a few at the minister. But this
temporary indignation soon wore off, for Aunt Mary was so kind and good
that no one could feel offended with her for any length of time, more
especially where there was really no cause of offence. One by one, they
called upon her, as they were enabled to see how really they had been
guilty of trespassing upon good nature, and, after apologizing, enjoyed
with her a hearty laugh upon the subject. And, finally, the whole thing
came to be looked upon as quite an amusing as well as an instructive
affair.

After this, Aunt Mary was allowed to possess her beautiful bell-metal
preserving kettle in peace, which was to her a source of no small
satisfaction. And what was more, in the course of the next preserving
season, a stock of twenty or thirty brass, copper, and bell-metal
kettles, that had been lying for years on the shelves of a
hardware-dealer's store in the village, almost uninquired for, were all
sold off, and a new supply obtained from Boston to meet the increased
demand.




HOME AT LAST.


"WE'RE home at last, and I am so glad!" exclaimed a little girl, not
over ten years of age, as she paused at twilight with her mother before
a small and mean-looking house, one evening late in the month of
November.

The mother did not reply, but lifted the latch, when both passed in.
There was no light in the dwelling, and no fire on the hearth. All was
cold, dark, and cheerless in that place which had been called "home" by
the little girl; yet, cold, dark, and cheerless as it was, she still
felt glad to be there once more.

"I will get a light, mother," said she, in a cheerful tone, running
to a closet, and taking thence a candle and a match.

In a moment or two afterwards the candle was burning brightly, and
throwing its light into every corner of that meanly-furnished room,
which contained but few articles, and they the simplest that were
needed. An old pine table, without leaves, three or four old chairs the
paint from which had long since disappeared, a bench and a water
bucket, with a few cooking utensils, made up the furniture of the
apartment.

A small fire was soon kindled on the hearth, over which the mother hung
a tea-kettle. When this had boiled, and she had drawn some tea, she
placed upon the table a few slices of bread and a piece of cheese,
which she took from a basket that she had borne on her arm. Then the
mother and child sat down to partake of their frugal meal, which both
eat with a keen relish.

"I'm so glad to get home again!" the little girl said, glancing up into
her mother's face, with a cheerful smile.

The mother looked upon her child with a tender expression, but did not
reply. She thought how poor and comfortless that home was which seemed
so desirable.

"I don't like to go to Mrs. Walker's," said the child, after the lapse
of a few moments.

"Why not, Jane?"

"Because I can't do any thing right there. Amy scolds me if I touch a
thing, and John won't let me go any place, except into the kitchen. I'm
sure I like home a great deal better, and I wish you would always stay
at home, mother."

"I would never go out, Jane, if I could help it," the mother replied,
in the effort to make her daughter understand, that she might acquiesce
in the necessity. "But you know that we must eat, and have clothes to
wear, and pay for the house we live in. I could not get the money to do
all this, if I did not go out to work in other people's houses, and
then we would be hungry, and cold, and not have any home to come to."

The little girl sighed and remained silent for a few moments. Then she
said, in a more cheerful tone,

"I know it's wrong for me to talk as I do, mother, and I'll try not to
complain any more. It's a great deal harder for you than it is for me
to go into these big people's houses. You have to work so hard, and I
have only to sit still in the kitchen. But won't father come home soon?
He's been away so long! When he was home we had every thing we wanted,
and you didn't have to go out a working."

Tears came into the mother's eyes, and her feelings were so moved, that
she could not venture to reply.

"Won't he be home soon, mother?" pursued the child.

"I'm afraid not," the mother at length said, in as calm a voice as she
could assume.

"Why not, mother? He's been gone a long time."

"I cannot tell you, my child. But I don't expect him home soon."

"Oh, I wish he would come," the child responded, earnestly. "If he was
only home, you would not have to go out to work any more."

The mother thought that she heard the movement of some one near the
door, and leant her head in a listening attitude. But all was silent
without, save the occasional sound of footsteps as some one hurried by.

To give the incidents and characters that we have introduced their true
interest, we must go back some twelve years, and bring the history of
at least one of the individuals down from that time.

A young lady and one of more mature age sat near a window, conversing
earnestly, about the period to which we have reference.

"I would make it an insuperable objection," the elder of the two said,
in a decided tone.

"But surely there can be no harm in his drinking a glass of wine or
brandy now and then. Where is the moral wrong?"

"Do you wish to be a drunkard's wife?"

"No, I would rather be dead."

"Then beware how you become the wife of any man who indulges in even
moderate drinking. No man can do so without being in danger. The vilest
drunkard that goes staggering past your door, will tell you that once
he dreamed not of the danger that lurked in the cup; that, before he
suspected evil, a desire too strong for his weak resistance was formed."

"I don't believe, aunt, that there is the slightest danger in the world
of Edward Lee. He become a drunkard! How can you dream of such a thing,
aunt?"

"I have seen much more of the world than you have, Alice. And I have
seen too many as high-minded and as excellent in character as Edward
Lee, who have fallen. And I have seen the bright promise of too many
girls utterly extinguished, not to tremble for you. I tell you, Alice,
that of all the causes of misery that exist in the married life,
intemperance is the most fruitful. It involves not only external
privations, toil, and disgrace, but that unutterable hopelessness which
we feel when looking upon the moral debasement of one we have
respected, esteemed, and loved."

"I am sure, aunt, that I will not attempt to gainsay all that. If there
is any condition in life that seems to me most deplorable and
heart-breaking, it is the condition of a drunkard's wife. But, so far
as Edward Lee is concerned, I am sure there does not exist the remotest
danger."

"There is always danger where there is indulgence. The man who will
drink one glass a day now, will be very apt to drink two glasses in a
twelvemonth; and so go on increasing, until his power over himself is
gone. Many, very many, do not become drunkards until they are old men;
but, sooner or later, in nine cases out of ten, a man who allows
himself to drink habitually, I care not how moderately at first, will
lose his self-control."

"Still, aunt, I cannot for a moment bring myself to apprehend danger in
the case of Edward."

"So have hundreds said before you. So did I once say, Alice. But years
of heart-aching misery told how sadly I was mistaken!"

The feelings of Alice were touched by this allusion. She had never
before dreamed that her uncle, who died while she was but a little
girl, had been a drunkard. Still, nothing that her aunt said caused her
to entertain even a momentary doubt of Edward Lee. She felt that he had
too much of the power of principle in his character ever to be carried
away by the vice of intemperance.

Edward Lee had offered himself in marriage to Alice Liston, and it was
on the occasion of her mentioning this to her aunt that the
conversation just riven occurred. It had, however, no effect upon the
mind of Alice. She loved Edward Lee tenderly, end, therefore, had every
confidence in him. They were, consequently, married, and commenced life
with prospects bright and flattering. But Edward continued to use
intoxicating drinks in moderate quantities every day. And, while the
taste for it was forming, he was wholly unconscious of danger. He would
as readily have believed himself in danger of murdering his wife, as in
danger of becoming a drunkard. He was a young merchant in a good
business when married, and able to put his young wife in possession of
a beautifully furnished house and all required domestic attendance, so
as to leave her but a very small portion of care.

Like the passage of a delightful dream were the first five years of her
wedded life. No one was ever happier than she in her married lot, or
more unconscious of coming evil. She loved her husband tenderly and
deeply, and he was all to her that she could desire. One sweet child
blessed their union. At the end of the period named, like the sudden
bursting of a fearful tempest from a summer sky, came the illness and
death of her aunt, who had been a mother to her from childhood.

Scarcely had her heart begun to recover from this shock, when it was
startled by another and more terrible affliction. All at once it became
apparent that her husband was losing his self-control. And the
conversation that she had held with her aunt about him, years before,
came up fresh in her memory, like the echo of a warning voice, now
heard, alas! too late. She noticed, with alarm, that he drank largely
of brandy at dinner, and was much stupified when he would rise from the
table--always retiring and sleeping for an hour before going back to
his business. Strange, it seemed to her, that she had never remarked
this before. Now, if she had desired it, she could not close her eyes
to the terrible truth.

For many weeks she bore with the regular daily occurrence of what has
just been alluded to. By that time, her feelings became so excited,
that she could keep silence no longer.

"I wouldn't drink any more brandy, Edward," said she, one day at the
dinner table; "it does you no good."

"How do you know that it does not?" was the prompt reply, made in a
tone that expressed very clearly a rebuke for interfering in a matter
that as he thought, did not concern her.

"I cannot think that it does you any good, and it may do you harm," the
wife said, hesitatingly, while her eyes grew dim with tears.

"Do me harm! What do you mean, Alice?"

"It does harm, sometimes, you know, Edward?"

"That is, it makes drunkards sometimes. And you are afraid that your
husband will become a drunkard! Quite a compliment to him, truly!"

"O, no, no, no, Edward! I am sure you will never be one.
But--but--but--"

"But what?"

"There is always danger, you know, Edward."

"Oh yes, of course! And I am going to be a drunken vagabond, if I keep
on drinking a glass of brandy at dinner time!"

"Don't talk so, Edward!" said Mrs. Lee, giving way to tears. "You never
spoke to me in this way before."

"I know I never did. Nor did my wife ever insinuate before that she
thought me in danger of becoming that debased, despised thing, a
drunkard!"

"Say no more, Edward, in mercy!" Mrs. Lee responded--"I did not mean to
offend you. Pardon me this once, and I will never again allude to the
subject."

A sullen silence followed on the part of Lee, who drank frequently
during the meal, and seemed to do so more with the evil pleasure of
paining his wife than from any other motive. So sadly perverting is the
influence of liquor upon some men, when opposed, changing those who are
kind and affectionate into cruel and malicious beings.

From that hour Mrs. Lee was a changed woman. She felt that the star of
love, which for so many happy years had thrown its rays into the very
midst of their fireside circle, had become hidden amid clouds, from
which she looked at every moment for the bursting of a desolating
storm. And her husband was, likewise, a changed man. His pride and
self-love had been wounded, and he could not forgive her who had thus
wounded him, even though she were his wife. Whenever he was under the
influence of liquor, he would brood over her words, and indulge in
bitter thoughts against her because she had presumed to insinuate that
there was danger of his becoming a drunkard.

At last he was brought home in a state of drunken insensibility. This
humbled him for a time, but did not cause him to abandon the use of
intoxicating drinks. And it was not long before he was again in the
same condition.

But we cannot linger to trace, step by step, his downward course, nor
to describe its effects upon the mind of his wife; but will pass over
five years more, and again introduce them to the reader.

How sadly altered is every thing! The large and comfortable house, in
an eligible position, has been changed for a small, close, ill-arranged
tenement. The elegant furniture has disappeared, and in its place are
but few articles, and those old and common. But the saddest change of
all is apparent in the face, dress, and air of Mrs. Lee. Her pale,
thin, sorrow-stricken countenance--her old and faded garments--her
slow, melancholy movements, contrast sadly with what she was a few
years before.

A lot of incessant toil is now her portion. Lee has, in consequence of
intemperance, causing neglect of business, failed, and had every thing
taken from him to pay his debts. For a while after this event, he
contributed to the support of his wife and child by acting in the
capacity of a clerk. But he soon became so dissipated, that no merchant
would employ him, and the entire support of the family fell upon his
wife. That was, in the very nature of things, an exceedingly meagre
support. Mrs. Lee had never looked forward to such a condition in life,
and therefore was entirely unprepared for it. Ordinary sewing was all
that she could do, and at this she could make but a small pittance. The
little that her husband earned was all expended in the accursed poison
that had already ruined himself and beggared his family.

After having suffered every thing to sink to this condition, Lee found
so little attractive in the appearance of a heart-broken wife and
beggared child, and so much about them to reprove him, that he left
them without a word, and went off to a neighbouring city.

How passing strange is the effect of drunkenness upon the mind and
character of a man! Is it not wonderful how the tender, affectionate,
and provident husband and father can become so changed into a worse
than brutal insensibility to all the sacred duties of life? Is it not
wonderful how the man, who would, to-day, sacrifice even life itself
for the safety of his family--who thinks nothing of toil, early and
late, that he may provide for every want, can in a few years forsake
them, and leave them to struggle, single-handed, with sickness and
poverty? But so it is! Instances of such heartless abandonment are
familiar to every one. "Surely," as it has been said, "strong drink is
a devil!" For he that comes under its influence is transformed into a
worse than brutal nature.

For a time after Lee went away, his wife was enabled, by sewing, to
meet the scanty wants of herself and child. The burden of his support
had been removed, and that was something gained. But a severe illness,
during which both herself and little Jane suffered much for the want of
nourishing food, left her with impaired sight. She could no longer, by
sewing, earn the money required to buy food and pay her rent, and was
compelled to resort to severe bodily toil to accomplish that end.

From several of the old friends of her better days, she had obtained
sewing, and necessity compelled her to resort to them for still humbler
employment.

"Good morning, Mrs. Lee! I have been wondering what in the world had
become of you," said one of those former friends, a Mrs. Walker, as the
poor woman called to see her, after her recovery.

"I have been very sick," replied Mrs. Lee, in a low feeble voice, and
her appearance told too plainly the effects of the sickness upon her.

"I'm sorry to hear it. But I am very glad you are out again, for my
sewing is all behindhand."

"I'm afraid that I shall not be able to do any more sewing for a good
while," said Mrs. Lee, despondingly.

"Indeed! And why not?"

"Because my eyes have become so weak that I can scarcely see."

"Then what do you expect to do? How will you get along, Mrs. Lee?"

"I can hardly tell myself. But I must do something."

"What can you do besides sewing?"

"I don't know of any thing, unless I take in washing."

"Take in washing! You are not fit to stand at the washing tub."

"I know that, ma'am. But when we are driven to it, we can do a great
many things, even though we gradually fail under our task."

A pause of a few moments ensued, which was broken by Mrs. Lee.

"Will you not give me your washing to do, Mrs. Walker?" she asked,
hesitatingly.

"Why, I don't know about that, Mrs. Lee. I never put my washing out of
the house."

"You hire some one in the house, then?"

"Yes, and if you will come for what I pay my present washerwoman, why I
suppose I might as well throw it in your way."

"Oh yes, of course I will. How much do you give?"

"I give half a dollar a day. Can you come for that?"

"If you will let me bring my little girl along. I could not leave her
alone."

"I don't know about that," replied Mrs. Walker, musingly. "I have so
many children of my own about the house."

"She will not be at all troublesome, ma'am," the poor woman urged.

"Will she be willing to stay in the kitchen?"

"Oh yes, I will keep her there."

"Well, Mrs. Lee, I suppose I might as well engage you. But there is one
thing that I wish understood. The person that I hire to help do the
washing must scrub up the kitchen after the clothes are all out. Are
you willing to do that?"

"Oh yes, ma'am. I will do it," said Mrs. Lee, while her heart sank
within her at the idea of performing tasks for which her feeble health
and strength seemed altogether insufficient. But she felt that she must
put her hands to the work, if she died in the effort to perform it.

Three days afterwards, she entered, as was agreed upon, at half a
dollar a day, the kitchen of Mrs. Walker, who had but a few years
before been one of her friends and companions.

It is remarkable, how persons of the most delicate constitutions will
sometimes bear up under the severest toil, and encounter the most
trying privations, and yet not fail, but really appear to gain some
degree of strength under the ordeal that it seemed, to all human
calculation, must destroy them.

So it was with Mrs. Lee. Although she suffered much from debility and
weariness, occasioned by excessive toil for one all unaccustomed to
hard labour, yet she did not, as she feared, sink rapidly under it. By
taking in as much washing and ironing as she could do, and going out
two days in the week regularly, she managed to procure for herself and
child the bare necessaries of life. This she had continued for about
two years at the time when first introduced to the reader's attention,
as returning with her child to her comfortless home.

The slight movement near her door, which Mrs. Lee had thought to be
only an imaginary sound, was a reality. While little Jane spoke of her
father, and wondered at his absence, a man, comfortably clad in coarse
garments, stood near the door in a listening attitude. Once or twice he
laid his hand upon the latch, but each time withdrew it and stood
musing in seeming doubt. "Oh, I wish father would come home!" fell upon
his ear, in clear, distinct, earnest tones.

He did not hear the low reply, though he listened eagerly. Only for a
moment longer did he pause. Then swinging the door open, and stepping
in quickly, he said in an earnest voice, "And I have come home at last,
my child!--at last, my dear Alice! if you will let me speak to you thus
tenderly--never, never again to leave you!"

Poor Mrs. Lee started and turned pale as her husband entered thus
abruptly, and all unexpected. But she saw a change in him that was not
to be mistaken; and all her former love returned with overwhelming
tenderness. Still she restrained herself with a strong effort, and
said--

"Edward, how do you come?"

"As a sober man. As a true husband and father, I trust, to my wife and
child; to banish sorrow from their hearts, and wipe the tears from
their eyes. Will you receive me thus?"

He had but half finished, when Mrs. Lee sprang towards him, and fell
sobbing in his outstretched arms. She saw that he was in earnest, she
felt that he was in earnest, and once more a gleam of sunshine fell
upon her heart.

Years have passed, and no cloud has yet dimmed the light that then
dawned upon the darkness of Mrs. Lee's painful lot. Her husband is fast
rising, by industry and intelligence, towards the condition in life
which he had previously occupied; and she is beginning again to find
herself in congenial associations. May the light of her peaceful home
never again grow dim.




GOING HOME.


"IT'S nearly a year, now, since I was home," said Lucy Gray to her
husband, "and so you must let me go for a few weeks."

They had been married some four or five years, and never had been
separated, during that time, for twenty-four hours at a time.

"I thought you called this your home," remarked Gray, looking up, with
a mock-serious air.

"I mean my old home," replied Lucy, in a half-affected tone of anger.
"Or, to make it plain, I want to go and see father and mother."

"Can't you wait three or four months, until I can go with you?" asked
the young husband.

"I want to go now. You said all along that I should go in May."

"I know I did. But I thought I would be able to go with you."

"Well, why can't you go? I am sure you might, if you would."

"No, Lucy, I cannot possibly leave home now. But if you are very
anxious to see the old folks, I can put you into the stage, and you
will go safe enough. Ellen and I can take care of little Lucy, no
doubt. How long a time do you wish to spend with them?"

"About three weeks, or so."

"Very well, Lucy; if you are not afraid to go alone, I will not say a
word."

"I am not afraid, dear," said the wife, in a voice changed and softened
in its expression. "But are you perfectly willing to let me go, Henry?"

"Oh, certainly," was the reply, although the tone in which the words
were uttered had something of reluctance in it. "It would be selfish in
me to say, no. Your father and mother will be delighted to receive a
visit just now."

"And you think that you and Ellen can get along with little Lucy?"

"Oh yes, very well."

"I should like to go, so much!"

"Go, then, by all means."

"But won't you be very lonesome without me?" suggested Lucy, in whose
own bosom a feeling of loneliness was already beginning to be felt at
the bare idea of a separation from her husband.

"I can stand it as long as you," was Gray's laughing reply to this.
"And then I shall have our dear little girl."

Lucy laughed in return, but did not feel as happy at the idea of "going
home" as she thought she would be, before her husband's consent had
been gained. The desire to go, however, remaining strong, it was
finally settled that the visit should be paid. So all the preparations
were entered upon, and in the course of a week Henry Gray saw his wife
take her seat in the stage, with a feeling of regret at parting, which
required all his efforts to conceal. As for Lucy, when the moment of
separation came, she regretted ever having thought of going without her
husband and child; but she was ashamed to let her real feelings be
known. So she kept up a show of indifference, all the while that her
heart was fluttering. The "good-bye" was finally said, the driver
cracked his whip, and off rolled the stage. Gray turned homewards with
a dull, lonely feeling, and Lucy drew her veil over her face to conceal
the unbidden tears from her fellow-passengers.

That night, poor Mr. Gray slept but little. How could he? His Lucy was
absent, and, for the first time, from his side. On the next morning, as
he could think of nothing but his wife, he sat down and wrote to her,
telling her how lost and lonely he felt, and how much little Lucy
missed her, but still to try and enjoy herself, and by all means to
write him a letter by return mail.
