
Richard thought they would any way, as soon as he could obtain the use
of his arms. He felt so well qualified to take care of himself that he
would have been willing to give his bond not to halloo, or call any one
to his assistance, though he could not help wondering that the
sentinels whose beats were next to his own, did not arrive at the scene
of operations. It was evident to him that they were asleep on their
posts, or that they were accomplices of the conspirators.

"Now, get up," said the speaker, who used the disguised voice.

Richard promptly obeyed this order, and though several of the boys held
on to him as he rose, a terrible struggle ensued, in which the captured
sentinel almost made good his mental boast; but they were too many for
him, and his hands were tied behind him with a knapsack strap, in spite
of his best exertions to shake them off.

"I told you he would be a hard customer," said one, who had not before
spoken.

"Shut up, you ninny! You'll blow the whole of us. No fellow is to speak
but--you know whom," said he with the assumed voice.

Richard tried to obtain, in the thick darkness that shrouded them, some
clew which would enable him to identify the ruffians; but he could not
make out any thing peculiar in their form or motions to guide him, and
he was equally at fault in regard to the voices. He stood quiet when he
found that resistance was useless; but he determined to keep a sharp
lookout for an opportunity to release himself from his mortifying
situation.

"Now, you----"

"My name is Dobbin," added the false voice.

Richard did not remember any such name, though he had heard the roll
called in all the companies, and he concluded that it was a "blind," to
deceive him.

"Now, Dobbin, take him off, and we will settle the case in the woods."

"Lead the way, Kennedy, and we will follow; but be careful and not make
a noise."

"Hush!" said Dobbin; "somebody is coming."

"Grand rounds!" added Kennedy. "Hurry him off as quick as you can.
Stuff a handkerchief in his mouth; choke him if he attempts to cry
out."

"But they will miss him," suggested Dobbin, "and then there will be a
row and a search."

"Off with him! Off with him! We shall all get caught," whispered
Kennedy. "I will take his gun, and keep guard."

Richard was literally dragged from the spot, and the fellow who called
himself Kennedy--though that was not his name--took the musket of the
defeated sentinel, and began to travel his beat as regularly as though
he had been duly detailed.

"Who comes there?" demanded he, as the officer of the day, attended by
a sergeant and two men, approached his beat.

"Grand rounds," replied the sergeant.

"Halt, grand rounds! Advance, sergeant, with the countersign."

The sergeant advanced to give the countersign, without discovering that
he had been challenged by the wrong man.

"Bennington" said the sergeant, giving the word appointed for the
night.

"Advance, rounds!" added Kennedy, as he placed himself in the proper
position.

The officer of the day passed on with his attendants, and as soon as
the ceremony had been repeated with the next sentinel, Kennedy threw
the musket upon the ground, and followed his companions into the
forest. Taking a road which led into the wood, he soon overtook the
rest of the party.

Richard was very curious to find out what his captors intended to do
with him; for he could not even yet believe that any thing more serious
than a practical joke was intended. He was not conscious that he had an
enemy in the battalion, with the exception of Nevers, who, though he
had bestowed a great many sneers and looks of hatred upon him during
the week that had elapsed since the fight, had betrayed no intention to
seek revenge for his defeat in fair fight. He knew that Nevers hated
him, but he could not believe that he would resort to such underhand
measures as the conspirators had adopted.

"What are you going to do?" asked he, after Kennedy had joined them.

"Shut up! You will find out soon enough."

Richard tried to open a conversation with them, but they were too wary
to talk, and no one spoke except Dobbin and Kennedy. They conducted
their prisoner half a mile, as he judged, from the camp, when they
halted, and fastened Richard to a tree, seating themselves upon logs
and stumps. The captive waited impatiently for the proceedings to
commence.




CHAPTER XV.

RICHARD FINDS HIMSELF IN THE HANDS OF THE REGULATORS.


"Come, fellows, we have no time to spare," said Kennedy, when the party
were seated, and Richard fastened to the tree. "We must finish this
business at once."

"We are all ready," replied Dobbin.

"Ready for what?" demanded Richard.

"Ready to settle your case. We are going to give you the biggest
licking you ever had in your life."

The prisoner thought this was rather doubtful; but as they could not be
supposed to have any knowledge of the thrashing inflicted upon him by
"Old Batterbones," he was willing to excuse any exaggerations of which
they might be guilty. When the young ruffian spoke of flogging him,
Richard could not help recalling the incident at the barn of the farmer
on the Hudson. Then he was guilty, now he was innocent; and his
feelings on the present occasion were as different from those of the
former one as light is from darkness.

He had been captured while in the discharge of his duty, and was not
conscious that he had given his assailants any cause of offence. He
could not explain how it happened that he was not angry. He did not
chafe in the bonds that confined him. The consciousness of being
innocent of all offence before his comrades, sustained and supported
him; and he felt a kind of proud superiority over his captors, which
placed him out of the reach of fear, and even out of the reach of
malice and revenge.

Richard was a courageous boy; he had been so in his foolish and vicious
enterprises; but he was doubly so now, when his soul was free from the
stain of transgression. He did not borrow any trouble about what his
persecutors intended to do, though he felt a very natural curiosity to
see the end of the adventure.

"Go on," replied Richard, calmly, as the spokesman of the party
announced their intentions.

"Shall we tell him what for? Shall we try him?" asked Kennedy.

"Yes; let us give him a drum-head court martial. The licking won't do
him any good if he don't know what it is for," replied Dobbin.

"Grant," said Kennedy, with the solemnity of a judge, "you have ruined
the best fellow in Company D."

"He ruined himself," replied Richard.

"No, he didn't. Of what you did in fair fight in the grove, we haven't
a word to say. But you have prejudiced the colonel against him, and
caused him to be deprived of his warrant, which will prevent him from
obtaining his commission at the next election. You set yourself up as a
leader among the fellows before you had been a week in the school. Have
you any thing to say?"

"Nothing, except that all your charges are false," answered Richard;
and if there had been light enough to see it, a smile would have been
discovered upon his countenance.

"In the interview with the principal, you pretended to be a saint, and
to be sorry for what you had done. You did not stand up like a man, and
take the consequences of your acts."

"Go on; I have nothing to say," added Richard, when the speaker paused.

"You are a dangerous fellow in the school. You intend to climb up
yourself by pushing others down. We won't submit to it."

"What are you going to do?" coolly asked the prisoner.

"We are going to thrash you, as you deserve."

"You are brave fellows!" sneered Richard. "What you are afraid to do in
the daylight, with fair play, you do by stealth and trickery in the
night. You are a set of cowards, and if you will untie my hands I will
whip the whole of you."

"That is very fine talk, Grant," said Kennedy, "but it don't amount to
any thing."

"No talk is necessary to prove your cowardly meanness. Go on, and do
your best. I am not afraid of the whole of you, even with my hands tied
behind me. I despise the whole of you."

"We will give you a chance to escape."

"I don't ask any chance to escape."

"Grant, you talk like a fool."

"Better be a fool than a knave and a coward."

"We don't want to hurt you. There are fellows enough in our crowd to
make Tunbrook Institute too hot to hold you. We advise you to write to
your father, advising him to send you to some other school. Will you do
so?"

"I will not," replied Richard, promptly.

"Then you must take the consequences. We are organized, and we are
determined that you shall leave. If you ask your father, and insist
upon it, no doubt he will take you away."

"Very likely he would," added Richard, "but I shall not ask him to do
so."

"You plainly don't understand what is in store for you. Our plans are
well laid, and we have been through the same mill once before. A fellow
about your size, and one who could fight as well as you do, had to
leave about a year ago. He undertook to be a leader before his time
came. We hunted him out, as we shall you."

"When you hunt me out, I will go, but not till then."

"Grant, this is all idle talk on your part. You don't understand your
situation. We can count up fifty fellows belonging to our association.
We can drive out any fellow who makes himself obnoxious. We mean to be
fair, and we are willing that any fellow who works his way up should
have all the honors he wins. But do you suppose we fellows, who have
been here two or three years, and who have worked ourselves up, are
going to step one side for a fellow who has been here only a week or
two?"

"Who asks you to step aside?" demanded Richard, indignantly, for this
show of fair play had touched him in a tender spot, and in spite of
himself he began to be interested in the argument.

"You do; you have licked the best fellow in the school, and then you
begin to play saint, and curry favor with the colonel. You mean to
lead, and not follow."

"I mean to be and do just what circumstances require."

"Grant, there is no such thing as misunderstanding your position. What
your looks indicate is more than all you may say with your mouth, or do
with your hands. You are a dangerous fellow, and you must leave, or
compromise."

"What do you mean by compromise?"

"We'll let you stay if you will keep in your proper position."

"What is my proper position?"

"At the foot of the ladder, of course, till the fellows above you have
got out of the way."

"You mean Nevers?"

"Nevers and others."

"I will agree to no such compromise. All the officers, I am informed,
are chosen by ballot."

"They are."

"Then, of course, the fellows can choose whom they please."

"They can; and since you have whipped Nevers, they will elect you; and
those who have done their duty for two or three years must go into the
shade. If you will agree to step one side, we will promise to let you
alone. Will you do it?"

"I will not."

"Mind what you do, for if the 'Regulators' make war upon you, they will
drive you out."

"The what?"

"The Regulators. They are a secret society for certain purposes. It is
a powerful organization, Grant, I can tell you. If you will do the
right thing, we will take you in."

"No you won't. I'm not to be taken in by any such bait," replied
Richard, who was disposed to laugh at the ridiculous association that
had taken upon itself the duty of regulating the affairs of the
Tunbrook Institute.

"You may sneer as much as you please. Every fellow in the school knows
there is such a society, but no one but members can tell who belong to
it. We mean to have fair play in this institution, and we have never
yet failed in getting it."

"Come, Kennedy, you will talk all night," said Dobbin. "You can't do
any thing with him."

"Well, Grant, you may leave, compromise, or take the consequences.
Which will you do?"

"I will not leave; and I certainly will not compromise on the terms
named. I mean to behave myself like a man, while I am here. If any one
is a better fellow than I am, I will step one side for him, as I must.
If any fellow gets above me in the class, I will not complain, or
attempt to pull him down. If the fellows think I am fit to be a
sergeant, or a captain, or a corporal, I shall abide their decision. I
won't pull any fellow down, or be pulled down myself. I think the
Regulators are a mean, dirty, cowardly set of bullies, who mean to
build themselves up by pulling others down. Let every fellow be judged
by his own merits. That's my opinion. Now you can do what you please."

And they did do what they pleased, though it was evident the Regulators
were not accustomed to deal with so stubborn a subject. At the word
from Kennedy, who seemed to be the chief of the society, the whole band
fell upon Richard with sticks which they had cut in the woods, and gave
him a most unmerciful beating. The prisoner bore it with silent
disdain. He felt that the cause in which he was engaged was a good one,
and he did not flinch from the penalty of fidelity.

At the word from the chief, they suspended the flagellation, and
Kennedy again attempted to bring him to terms by argument, but it was
in vain.

"Very well," said he, evidently disappointed at the ill success of the
reasoning process. "This is only the first installment of what is your
due. When any thing goes wrong with you, when you get into a scrape,
when you find the ushers and the colonel down upon you, just understand
that the Regulators are round. You have fifty enemies now, instead of
one, as you had two hours ago."

"That's all, Kennedy; don't say any more," interposed Dobbin,
impatiently. "Let's take him back now. He will find out the rest of it
fast enough."

If Richard could have heard the conversation among the Regulators
before they waited upon him, he might have been flattered by the
complimentary manner in which his name was handled. His talents and his
muscle, no less than his growing popularity, were appreciated by the
band, and it was more desirable to win him than it was to drive him
out. They knew what a valuable acquisition he would be to their number.
But he must stand one side, and wait for his turn before he aspired to
become a leader.

The Regulators, using the utmost caution, unloosed the prisoner, and
marched him back to the camp. When they reached the line, they threw
him upon the ground. While one of the largest of them, having all the
advantage, held him there, the others disappeared in the darkness. The
fellow that held him then removed the strap from the arms of the
captive, and bounded away as fast as his legs would carry him.

Richard jumped up as quick as he could and gave chase. But the
Regulator had the start of him, and the pursuit was useless. The victim
returned to his beat, felt round upon the ground till he found his gun,
picked it up, and resumed his solitary walk. He was a little confused
by the events which had transpired, and he was forced to acknowledge
that the Regulators had managed their business with consummate address
and skill. He hardly knew what to make of the affair. He knew that he
had been whipped; this fact was still patent to his consciousness in
the tingling sensation that played over his legs.

The whole thing seemed very much like an illusion. It was almost too
strange and ridiculous to be credited, and he could not help
considering whether he had not actually been walking in his sleep this
time. The Regulators appeared, to his sober senses, to be the most
absurd institution ever invented by the mischievous brain of a boy. Yet
he could not disbelieve the evidence of his senses, and especially of
his smarting legs, and he was compelled to admit that the society
actually existed; though there was a remote possibility that the whole
affair was a practical joke, devised by Nevers and his clique.

We have before intimated, in the course of this story, that Richard
Grant was an "old head." He had a very tolerable conception of the
principles of strategy; therefore he did not do as most boys would have
done--make a tremendous row over the occurrences of the night. He
decided that it would be politic for him to keep both eyes and both
ears open, while he kept his mouth closed. By this course he hoped to
obtain a clew to the mystery, and thus eventually to make the daylight
shine in upon the dark proceedings of the Regulators.

"Where have you been this hour?" demanded the sentinel, whose beat was
next to his own, when they met.

"I haven't been far off," replied Richard; "that is, not more than half
a mile off," he added, in a tone so low that his companion could not
hear him.

"I understand. You have been taking a nap."

"'Pon my word, I haven't."

"But you have; I haven't seen you before for an hour."

"I haven't been asleep."

"Honor bright, Grant, haven't you?" asked his companion, good
naturedly.

"No, I haven't."

"Where were you when the grand rounds were made?"

"I was close by."

"Of course you were, or you would have been missed," added his
neighbor, as he turned on his heel and made off.

Richard thought he was very easily satisfied, and he wondered if he
wasn't a member of the secret band of Regulators. Our sentinel marched
to the other end of his beat. His neighbor on this side had missed him,
but he was as easily satisfied as the other had been, and Richard
wondered whether he was not a Regulator.

While he was musing upon the extraordinary events of the night, the
relief came round, and he was marched to the guard tent, where, for
four hours, he had an opportunity to dream of the Regulators, and their
secret management of the affairs of the Tunbrook Institute.




CHAPTER XVI.

RICHARD BECOMES FIRST SERGEANT OF COMPANY D.


The next morning Richard was discharged from guard duty, and returned
to the battalion. From the moment he opened his eyes he carefully
observed the actions of his companions, and even studied the glances
which were bestowed upon him. All his watching seemed to be in vain,
for he could not obtain a particle of information that would aid him in
solving the mystery of the Regulators.

Among the boys there were several with whom he had become quite
intimate, particularly Bailey, who occupied the next bed to his in
Barrack B. So eager was he to fathom the mystery, that he was tempted
to make some inquiries of them; but they might themselves be members of
the Regulators. Even Bailey might belong to the potent organization,
and he did not care to expose himself in the slightest degree to their
jeers or their malice. Though, as he had been informed, there were
fifty boys who had become his enemies, and who were pledged to annoy
him to the utmost of their ability, every one seemed to be his friend.

Hardly had he been discharged from guard duty before his arrest was
ordered, and he found himself accused of sleeping at his post. He was
conducted to the tent of Colonel Brockridge, where the charge was
distinctly recited to him.

"What do you say to this charge, Grant? Are you guilty or not guilty?"
demanded the principal.

"Who are my accusers, sir?" asked Richard, thinking only of the task he
had laid upon himself of discovering the Regulators.

"That does not answer my question, Grant. I asked you whether you were
guilty or not guilty," added the colonel, sternly.

"Not guilty, sir!" replied Richard, promptly and firmly.

"Then you wish to have the charge proved?"

"I do, sir."

"That is rather inconvenient," said the colonel, biting his lip. "If
you are guilty, I should prefer to have you say so."

"I am not guilty, sir."

Colonel Brockridge had had too much experience with boys to neglect the
looks and actions of the accused while he questioned him, for the
expression often reveals more than the words. Richard's communication,
on this occasion, was "yea, yea; nay, nay." He had the look of one who
speaks the truth, and the principal was duly impressed by the
appearance and manner of the prisoner.

"You speak very decidedly," added the colonel. "Were you at your post
at half past nine o'clock?"

"I was not, sir."

"Where were you?"

Richard hesitated; there were several teachers and several company
officers present. He did not like to tell the story before them, and he
did not think it would be prudent to do so. Probably some of the
Regulators were within hearing, and he preferred to unearth them in
some other way.

"Your answer, Grant," said the principal.

"Without intending any disrespect to you, sir, I would rather not
answer," replied Richard, glancing at the officers present.

A slight curl on the lip of a cadet by the name of Redman attracted his
attention. It was a kind of suppressed sneer, which Richard interpreted
that he dared not expose the doings of the secret society. His answer
had been a virtual admission of the charge, and the case seemed to have
gone against him. Richard concluded that the boy who could rejoice at
that moment must be a Regulator.

"The penalty of sleeping at your post and deserting it would be the
same; and as you admit the charge in substance, it will not be
necessary to proceed any further," said Colonel Brockridge.

Richard was tempted to make a full explanation of the events of the
night, but he had some doubts whether he would be believed if he did
so. Besides, he was curious to know what the Regulators would do. The
penalty for the offence with which he was charged could not be very
heavy, and he determined to submit to it, for the purpose of exposing
the Regulators at some future time.

The principal then gave him a lecture on the impropriety of deserting
his post, when placed on guard, explaining the consequences that might
result from such unfaithfulness in time of war. Richard listened
patiently to the reproof, and was sentenced to be confined in the guard
tent for twenty-four hours.

Richard possessed his soul in patience, and slept off a good portion of
his imprisonment. He devoted all his wakeful hours to a consideration
of the doings of the Regulators, and in devising plans for
"ventilating" their secret proceedings.

When he was relieved from arrest, and permitted to join his comrades,
he kept a close watch upon Redman, and also upon the two privates who
had been next to him in the line on guard. They must have been his
accusers, and he was satisfied that they belonged to the obnoxious
association. Nevers, no doubt, was also a member, and he believed him
to be the "Dobbin" of the party that had whipped him. Here were four
whom he suspected, and during the week the battalion remained in camp,
their words and their actions were carefully scanned; but they were too
adroit to expose themselves, though Richard's close scrutiny was not
entirely fruitless.

Our soldier entered heartily into the spirit of the occasion, and
performed his duty with the utmost fidelity. Though he was made the
victim of various petty tricks, such as smearing the stock of his
musket with grease, cutting the straps of his knapsack, and hiding his
blanket, he bore all these things with politic patience, and treated
his comrades with the most scrupulous fairness. He was the champion of
the weak, and, being the conqueror of Nevers, no one ventured to carry
their opposition to his will beyond a few respectful words. He would
not let a small boy be insulted or bullied; and a frown from him was
generally a sufficient protection. He was foremost in all the sports of
the boys, and every day increased his popularity.

If the Regulators said or did any thing to his injury, they did it very
slyly, for Richard could not discover that there was any one who was
not his friend. On the last day of the encampment, the election of
officers was to take place, and during the week, of course there was a
great deal of electioneering done for various candidates.

On the day before the election, a petition was circulated among the
boys, requesting the principal to reinstate Nevers in the office from
which he had been degraded. There were about fifty names on the paper
when Bailey brought it to Richard. It was not very favorably received
by the boys generally. Nobody could tell when or where the fifty names
had been obtained; no one had seen the signers place their autographs
upon the document. Richard heard Bailey and a dozen others refuse to
sign it, and some of them even proposed to get up a remonstrance.

"I am going to sign the petition," said Richard, to the astonishment of
his companions.

"You, Grant?" exclaimed a dozen boys, in the same breath.

"I am; just to show the fellows that I bear him no ill will," replied
Richard. "Nevers was degraded for that affair with me; and, as I licked
him, I think I can afford to do the handsome thing."

"Then he will be elected captain of Company D," said Bailey.

"I don't know about that," added Richard. "I am willing to see him
restored to the place he was in before I came, but I shall not give him
my vote for captain, or any thing else."

The victim of the Regulators took out his pencil and wrote his name
upon the petition. Though he fully believed that Nevers was the
"Dobbin" of the party that had assaulted him, he could not prove it and
he was disposed to give him a fair chance, so that neither he nor his
friends should have any good ground for complaint. His example was
followed by all the boys present, and from that moment the number of
names on the paper increased very rapidly.

At dress parade, Colonel Brockridge, to whom the petition had been
presented early in the afternoon, called Nevers forward, and after a
few remarks, restored him to his former position as first sergeant of
Company D, observing at the same time that the name of Richard Grant on
the paper had had more influence upon his mind than that of all the
others. It was a magnanimous act, which he heartily approved.

"Three cheers for Nevers!" shouted some friend of the first sergeant,
when the company broke ranks.

They were given, but it was only a partial demonstration, evidently
confined to about a dozen of the company.

"Three cheers for Grant!" said Bailey, when those for the first
sergeant had been given.

