Randolph.

"Daisy," Nora whispered, "are you afraid?"

"No."

"Your father says it is rough."

"He knows how to manage the boat," said Daisy.

"It isn't rough, I don't believe," said Ella Stanfield. "It isn't rough
now."

"I wish we were at the other side," said Nora.

"O Nora, I think it is nice," said Daisy. "How bright the moonlight is!
Look--all over the river there is a broad strip. I hope we shall sail
along just in that strip. Isn't it wonderful, Nora?"

"No. What?" said Nora.

"That there should be something like a looking-glass up in the sky to
catch the sunlight and reflect it down to us when we cannot see the sun
itself."

"What looking-glass?"

"Well, the moon catches the sunlight just so, as a looking glass would."

"How do you know, Daisy? I think it shines."

"I know because I have been told. It does not shine, any more than a
looking-glass."

"Who told you?"

"Dr. Sandford," Daisy whispered.

"Did he! Then why don't we have the moon every night?"

"Because the looking-glass, if you can imagine that it is a
looking-glass, does not always hang where it can catch the sun."

"Don't it? I don't like to think it is a looking-glass," said Nora. "I
would a great deal rather think it is the moon."

"Well, so it is," said Daisy. "You can think so."

"Daisy, what should we do if it should be rough in the middle of the
river?"

"I like it," said Ella Stanfield.

"Perhaps it will not be very rough," said Daisy.

"But suppose it should? And where the moon don't shine it is so dark!"

"Nora," said Daisy very low, "don't you love Jesus?"

Nora at that flounced round, and turning her face from Daisy and the
moonlight, began to talk to Ella Stanfield on the other side of her.
Daisy did not understand what it meant.

All this while, and a good while longer, the rest of the people were
waiting with various degrees of patience and impatience for the coming
of Sam and the men. It was pretty there by the shore, if they had not
been impatient. The evening breeze was exceedingly fragrant and fresh;
the light which streamed down from the moon was sparkling on all the
surface of the water, and laid a broad band of illumination like a
causeway across the river. In one or two places the light shewed the
sails of a sloop or schooner on her way up or down; and along the shore
it grew daintily hazy and soft. But impatience was nevertheless the
prominent feeling on board the sail-boat; and it had good time to
display itself before Michael and James could go all the distance back
to the house and bring Sam away from it.

"Here he is!" "There they are at last!"--were the words of hail with
which their appearance was greeted. "Now off"--and with all haste the
three were received on board and the vessel pushed out into the stream.
Immediately her sail caught the breeze which came fair down the river,
and careening a little as she took it, her head began to make good speed
across the causeway of moonlight. But then the ladies began to scream;
for in mid-channel the wind was fresh and the waters had not quite
forgotten yet the tumult of the late storm, which had tossed them well.
The sail-boat danced bravely, up and down, going across the waves. Among
the frightened people was Nora, who grasping Daisy's dress with one
hand and some part of the boat with the other, kept uttering little
cries of "Oh Daisy"--"Oh! Daisy"--with every fresh lurch of the vessel.
Ella Stanfield had thrown herself down in her mother's lap. Daisy was
very much tried.

"Nora," she said, "I wish you would not cry so!"

"But I am afraid!"

"I wish you would be comforted, and not cry out so," sighed Daisy. "Papa
says there is no danger--didn't you hear him?"

"But oh, I am afraid!" re-echoed Nora.

Daisy folded her hands and tried to bide patiently the time of smooth
water. It came, partially at least, as they neared the opposite bank.
The boat went steadily; spirits revived; and soon the passage was
brought to an end and the sail-boat laid alongside the little jetty, on
which the party, men, women and children, stepped out with as sincere a
feeling of pleasure as had moved them all day. Carriages were in
waiting; a few minutes brought the whole company to Melbourne House.

Here they were to stay supper; and the ladies and gentlemen dispersed to
various dressing rooms to prepare for it. Soonest of all ready and in
the drawing room were the three children.

"I am so hungry!" said Nora.

"So am I!" said Ella Stanfield.

"We shall have supper presently," said Daisy.

"O Daisy, weren't you afraid in the boat, when it went up and down so?"

"I do not think I was afraid," said Daisy, "if other people had not been
so disturbed."

"I don't see how they could help being disturbed," said Ella Stanfield.
"Why the boat didn't sail straight at all."

"But that does not do any harm," said Daisy.

"How do you know?" said Nora. "I think it does harm; I do not think it
is safe."

"But you know, Nora, when the disciples were in the boat, and thought it
was not safe--the wind blew so, you know--they ought to have trusted
Jesus and not been afraid."

Nora and Ella both looked at Daisy for a minute after this speech, and
then by some train of association Nora started another subject.

"Daisy, have you got my Egyptian spoon yet?"

Now was Daisy in a great difficulty. She flushed; the little face which
had been pale enough before, became of a delicate pink hue all over. Not
knowing what to say she said nothing.

"Have you got it yet?" repeated Nora curiously.

"No, Nora. I have not."

"You have not? What have you done with it?"

"Nothing."

"My Egyptian spoon! that Marmaduke gave me to give to you! You have not
kept it! What did you do with it, Daisy?"

"I did nothing with it."

"Did you break it?"

"No."

"Did you give it away?"

"O Nora, I loved it very much," said poor Daisy; "but I could not keep
it. I could not!"

"Why couldn't you? I would not have given it to you, Daisy, if I had
thought you would not have kept it."

"I wanted to keep it very much--but I could not," said Daisy with the
tears in her eyes.

"Why 'could not'? why couldn't you? did you give it away, Daisy? that
spoon I gave you?"

"Nora, I could not help it! Somebody else wanted it very much, and I was
obliged to let her have it. I could not help it."

"I shall tell Marmaduke that you did not care for it," said Nora in an
offended tone. "I wish I had kept it myself. It was a beautiful spoon."

Daisy looked very much troubled.

"Who has got it?" Nora went on.

"It is no matter who has got it," said Daisy. "I couldn't keep it."

"She is right, Nora," said Preston, who came up just then, at the same
time with the doctor. "She could not keep it, because it was taken away
from her without any leave asked. I mean she shall have it back, too,
one of these days. Don't you say another word to Daisy!--she has behaved
like a little angel about it."

Preston's manner made an impression, as well as his words. Nora was
checked.

"What is all that, Nora?" the doctor asked.

Now Nora had a great awe of him. She did not dare not answer.

"It is about a spoon I gave Daisy, that she gave away."

"She did not, I tell you!" said Preston.

"A spoon?" said the doctor. "Silver?"

"O no! A beautiful, old, very old, carved, queer old spoon, with a
duck's bill, that came out of an old Egyptian tomb, and was put there
ever so long ago."

"Did your brother give it to you?"

"Yes, to give to Daisy, and she gave it to somebody else."

"Nora, I did not give it as you think I did. I loved it very much. I
would not have let anybody have it if I could have helped it."

"Who has got it, Daisy?" asked the doctor.

Daisy looked at him, looked perplexed, flushed a little, finally said
with demure gentleness, "Dr. Sandford, I think I ought not to tell."

The doctor smiled, took Daisy's hand, and led her off to the supper
room, whither they were now invited. So it happened that her seat at the
table was again by his side. Daisy liked it. Just then she did not care
about being with Nora.

The people gathered, bright and fresh, around the supper table, all
seeming to have forgotten their fatigues and frights; and every face
looked smiling or gracious. The day was over, the river was crossed; the
people were hungry; and the most dainty and perfectly arranged supply of
refreshments stood on the board. Coffee and tea steamed out their
grateful announcements; ice cream stood in red and white pyramids of
firmness; oysters and cold meats and lobster salad offered all that
hungry people could desire; and everybody was in a peculiar state of
gratified content and expectation. Daisy was no exception. She had let
slip her momentary trouble about the Egyptian spoon; and in her quiet
corner, quite unnoticed as she thought, looked at the bright scene and
enjoyed it. She liked being under the doctor's care too, and his care of
her was very thoughtful and kind. He did not forget the little quiet
mouse at his elbow; but after he had properly attended to the other
people whose claims came first, he served her nicely with whatever was
good for her. Was Daisy going to omit her usual giving of thanks? She
thought of her mother's interference with a moment's flash of hesitancy;
but resolved to go on just as usual. She did not think she would be
noticed, everybody was so busy; and at any rate there was a burden of
gladness in her little heart that must speak. While the talking and
laughing and click of knives and forks was thick all around her, Daisy's
little head bent in a moment's oblivion of it all behind her hand.

She had raised her head and just taken her fork in her fingers when she
heard her own name. She looked up.

"Daisy--" said her mother quietly--"come here."

Daisy left her seat and went round to her mother's side.

"You may go up stairs," said Mrs. Randolph.

"Mamma?"--

"Go--and remain till I send for you."

Daisy slipped away quietly, before anybody could notice that she was
gone or going. Then slowly went up the stairs and along the passages to
her own room. It was empty and dark, except for the moonlight without;
June had not expected her to be there, and had not made preparation.
Daisy went and kneeled down in her old place by her window; her eyes
filled as full of tears as they could hold. She bent her little head to
brush them away, but they came again. Daisy was faint and tired; she
wanted her supper very much; and she had enjoyed the supper-table very
much; it was a great mortification to exchange it for the gloom and
silence of her moonlit room. She had not a bit of strength to keep her
spirits up. Daisy felt weak. And what was the matter? Only--that she
had, against her mother's pleasure, repeated her acknowledgment of the
hand that had given her all good things. How many good things that day!
And was she not to make such acknowledgment any more? Ought she to
please her mother in this? Had she really done wrong? Daisy could not
tell; she thought not; she could not wish she had not done what she did;
but at the same time it was very miserable to have Mrs. Randolph at odds
with her on such a point as this.

Daisy shed some tears about it; yet not a great many, and without the
least bitterness in them. But she felt faint and tired and disappointed.
Here, however, at her own room window, and alone, there was no bar to
thanksgivings; and Daisy had them in her heart, as well as prayers for
the people who had them not. She was too tired to pray at last; she only
knelt at the window with her arms on the sill, (Daisy was raised up on
an ottoman) and looked out at the moonlight, feeling as if she was going
into a dream.

"Miss Daisy!"--said the smothered voice of June behind her--"are you
there, Miss Daisy?"

June's accent was doubtful and startled. Daisy turned round.

"Miss Daisy!--I thought you was in the supper-room."

"No, June--I'm here."

"Will you go to bed, Miss Daisy?"

"I wish, June, you would get me something to eat, first," said Daisy
languidly.

"Didn't you get your supper, Miss Daisy?"

"No, and I'm hungry. I haven't had anything since the dinner at the
lake. I wish you'd make haste, June."

June knew from Daisy's way of speaking, as well as from the facts of the
case, that there was some trouble on foot. She went off to get supper,
and as she went along the passages the mulatto woman's hand was clenched
upon itself, though her face shewed only its usual wrinkles.

Small delay was there before she was back again, and with her June had
brought a supply of very nearly everything there had been on the
supper-table. She set down her tray, prepared a table for Daisy, and
placed a chair. The room was light now with two wax candles. Daisy sat
down and took a review.

"What will you have now, Miss Daisy? here's some hot oysters--nice and
hot. I'll get you some ice cream when you're ready to eat it--Hiram's
got it in the freezer for you. Make haste, Miss Daisy--these oysters is
good."

But Daisy did not make haste. She looked at the supper tray
thoughtfully.

"June," she said with a very gentle pure glance of her eyes up at the
mulatto woman's face--"I am very much obliged to you--but I don't think
mamma means me to eat these things to-night--Will you just get me some
milk and some bread? I'll take some bread and milk!"

"Miss Daisy, these oysters is good for you," said June.

"I'll take some bread and milk to-night--if you will please make haste.
Thank you, June."

"Miss Daisy--then maybe take a sandwich."

"No--I will have nothing but bread and milk. Only quick, June."

June went off for the bread and milk, and then very unwillingly carried
her supper-tray down stairs again. Going through one of the passages she
was met by her master.

"Where is that coming from, June?" he asked her in surprise.

"From Miss Daisy's room, sir."

"Has she been taking supper up there?"

"No, sir--Miss Daisy wouldn't touch nothing."

"Is she unwell?" Mr. Randolph asked in a startled tone.

"No, sir." June's tone was dry. Mr. Randolph marched at once to the room
in question, where Daisy was eating her bread and milk.

"What are you doing, Daisy?"

"Papa!"--said the child with a start; and then quietly--"I am taking my
supper."

"Were you not at the table down stairs?"

"Yes, papa."

"How came you not to have your supper there?"

"I had to come away, papa."

"Are you not well, Daisy?" said Mr. Randolph tenderly, bending down over
her chair.

"Yes, papa--quite well."

"Then why did you come away?"

Daisy's spoon lay still in her fingers and her eyes reddened.

"Mamma sent me."

If the child was to have any supper at all, Mr. Randolph saw, he must
forbear his questioning. He rose up from leaning over her chair.

"Go on, Daisy--" he said; and he left her, but did not leave the room.
He walked up and down the floor at a little distance, while Daisy
finished her bread and milk She was too much in want of it not to do
that. When it was done she got out of her chair and stood on the floor
looking at her father, as gentle as a young sparrow. He came and wheeled
her chair round and sat down upon it.

"What is the matter, Daisy?"

"Mamma was displeased with me." The child dropped her eyes.

"What about?"

"Papa"--said Daisy slowly, trying for words and perhaps also for
self-command--"mamma was displeased with me because--I--"

"What?"

"Papa--because I did what she did not like at dinner."

"At dinner? what was that?"

The child lifted her eyes now to her father's face, a little wistfully.

"Papa--don't you know?--I was only praying a minute."

Mr. Randolph stretched out his arm, drew Daisy up to him, placed her on
his knee, and looked down into her face.

"Did you have no supper down stairs?"

"No, sir."

"Do you like bread and milk better than other things?"

"No, papa."

"I met June with a great tray of supper things, and she said you would
not eat them. Why was that?"

"Papa," said Daisy, "I thought mamma did not mean me to have those
things to-night."

"She did not forbid you?"

"No, papa."

Mr. Randolph's arm was round Daisy; now he wrapped both arms about her,
bringing her up close to his breast, and putting down his lips to her
face, he kissed her over and over, with a great tenderness.

"Have you had a pleasant day?"

"Papa, I have had a great many pleasant things," said Daisy eagerly. Her
voice had changed and a glad tone had come into it.

"Dr. Sandford took proper care of you?"

"Papa, he is very good!" said Daisy strongly.

"I rather think he thinks you are."

"He is nice, papa."

"Nice--" said Mr. Randolph. "He is pretty well. But now, Daisy, what do
you think of going to bed and to sleep?"

"Yes, papa."

"And to-morrow, if you have got into any difficulty, you may come to me
and talk about it."

Daisy returned a very earnest caress to her father's good night kiss,
and afterwards had no difficulty in doing as he had said. And so ended
the day on Silver Lake.




CHAPTER VII.


Daisy reflected the next morning as to what was her right course with
respect to the action that had troubled her mother so much. Ought she to
do it? In the abstract it was right to do it; but ought she in these
circumstances? And how much of a Christian's ordinary duty might she be
required to forego? and where must the stand be made? Daisy did not
know; she had rather the mind of a soldier, and was much inclined to
obey her orders, as such, come what might. That is, it seemed to her
that so she would be in the sure and safe way; but Daisy had no appetite
at all for the fighting that this course would ensure. One thing she
knew by experience; that if she drew upon herself a direct command to do
such a thing no more, the order would stand; there would be no dealing
with it afterwards except in the way of submission. That command she had
not in this case yet received, and she judged it prudent not to risk
receiving it. She went down to breakfast as usual, but she did not bow
her little head to give any thanks or make any prayers. She hoped the
breakfast would pass off quietly. So it did as to that matter. But
another subject came up.

"What became of you last night at supper, Daisy?" her aunt asked. "Dr.
Sandford was enquiring for you. I think you received quite your share of
attention, for so young a lady, for my part."

"Daisy had more than anybody else, yesterday," remarked Eloïse.

"A sprained or a broken ankle is a very good thing occasionally," said
Mr. Randolph.

"Yes," said Mrs. Gary--"I think Daisy had quite the best time of anybody
yesterday. A palanquin with gentlemen for her porters, and friendly arms
to go to sleep in--most devoted care!"

"Yes, I was one of her porters," said Ransom. "I think Dr. Sandford
takes rather too much on himself."

"Did he take you?" said Mr. Randolph.

"Yes, sir,--when there was no occasion."

"Why Ransom," said Daisy, "there was no one else to carry my chair but
Preston and you."

"Did Preston feel aggrieved?" asked his uncle.

"Certainly not, sir," replied the boy. "It was a pleasure."

"It was not Ransom's business," said Mrs. Randolph.

"I suppose it was not the doctor's business either," said Mr.
Randolph--"though he made it so afterwards."

"O, I dare say it was a pleasure to him, too," said Mrs. Gary. "Really,
the doctor did not take care of anybody yesterday, that I saw, except
Daisy. I thought he admired Frederica Fish--I had heard so--but there
was nothing of it. Daisy was quite queen of the day."

Mr. Randolph smiled. Ransom seemed to consider himself insulted. "I
suppose that was the reason," he said, "that she called me worse than a
dog, because I took a meringue from the dinner-spread."

"Did you do that, Daisy?" asked her mother.

"No, mamma," said Daisy low. Her nice had flushed with astonishment and
sorrow.

"You did," said Ransom. "You said just that."

"O no, Ransom you forget."

"What did you say, Daisy?" asked her mother.

"Mamma, I did not say that. I said something--I did not mean it for
anything like that."

"Tell me exactly what you did say--and no more delay."

"Wait till after breakfast," said Mr. Randolph. "I wish to be present at
the investigation of this subject, Felicia--but I would rather take it
by itself than with my coffee."

So there was a lull in the storm which seemed to be gathering. It gave
Daisy time to think. She was in a great puzzle. How she could get
through the matter without exposing all Ransom's behaviour, all at least
which went before the blow given to herself, Daisy did not see; she was
afraid that truth would force her to bring it all out. And she was very
unwilling to do that, because in the first place she had established a
full amnesty in her own heart for all that Ransom had done, and wished
rather for an opportunity to please than to criminate him; and in the
second place, in her inward consciousness she knew that Mrs. Randolph
was likely to be displeased with her, in any event. She would certainly,
if Daisy were an occasion of bringing Ransom into disgrace; though the
child doubted privately whether her word would have weight enough with
her mother for that. Ransom also had time to think, and his brow grew
gloomy. An investigation is never what a guilty party desires; and
judging her by himself, Ransom had reason to dread the chance of
retaliation which such a proceeding would give his little sister. So
Daisy and Ransom wore thoughtful faces during the rest of
breakfast-time; and the result of Ransom's reflections was that the
investigation would go on most pleasantly without him. He made up his
mind to slip away, if he had a chance, and be missing. He had the
chance; for Mr. and Mrs. Randolph were engaged with a call of some
neighbours immediately after breakfast; all thought of the children's
affairs seemed to be departed. Ransom waited a safe time, and then
departed too, with Preston, on an expedition which would last all the
morning. Daisy alone bided the hour, a good deal disturbed in the view
of what it might bring.

She was summoned at last to the library. Her father and mother were
there alone; but just after Daisy came in she was followed by Dr.
Sandford. The doctor came with a message. Mrs. Sandford, his sister, he
said, sent by him to beg that Daisy might come to spend the day with
Nora Dinwiddie, who much desired her presence. In the event of a
favourable answer, the doctor said he would himself drive Daisy over,
and would call for that purpose in another hour or two. He delivered his
message, and Mrs. Randolph replied at once that Daisy could not go; she
could not permit it.

Mr. Randolph saw the flush of hope and disappointment on Daisy's face
and the witness of another kind in her eyes; though with her
characteristic steady self-control she neither moved nor spoke, and
suffered the tears to come no farther. Dr. Sandford saw it too, but he
said nothing. Mr. Randolph spoke.

"Is that decision on account of Daisy's supposed delinquency in that
matter?"

"Of course--" Mrs. Randolph answered drily.

"Can you explain it, Daisy?" her father asked, gravely and kindly
drawing her up to his side. Daisy struggled with some thought.

"Papa," she said softly, "will mamma be satisfied to punish me and let
