friend of mine--Choate is; and I am going to see to it that Choate
don't stand in a false position before the country in this great case."

"You silly fellow! What are you going to do now?" demanded Mrs.
Wittleworth.

"I'm going to see Choate," replied Fitz, putting on his cap.

His mother protested against any and all steps which her son might
take; but Fitz left the house. He had a supreme contempt for the
every-day practical wisdom of his father and mother, and believed that
failure could result only from their neglect to hear and heed his sage
counsels. He actually went to the office of the distinguished gentleman
who stood at the head of the legal profession, and who had been a
member of the United States Senate. Mr. Choate was a very gentlemanly
man, affable and kind to all, to whatever sphere in life they belonged.
He spoke with gentleness and consideration to the boy as well as to the
man.



Fitz had been the errand boy in the office of the eminent lawyer, and,
of course, had practically experienced the kindness of his nature and
the gentleness of his manner. Fitz "felt big," and put on airs, even
when he was a smaller boy than now. Mr. Choate appreciated genuine
humor, and it is more than probable that he enjoyed the "big talk" of
the office boy. Perhaps he was more familiar with him on this account
than he otherwise would have been.

Fitz did not find the distinguished gentleman in his office the first
time he went there; but he repeated the call till he did find him. The
eloquent advocate received him very graciously, as he did everybody who
had any claim upon his attention. Fitz stated his business as briefly
as he could.

"I cannot attend to the case," said the great lawyer, very kindly, but
very decidedly.

"Excuse me, Mr. Choate; but this is a case of no little importance.
Ever since I was in your office, I have had the highest opinion of you,
both as a man and a lawyer."

"I thank you for your favorable consideration," replied the eminent
orator, soberly.

"If there is any man on the earth whom I respect and esteem above all
others, that man is Mr. Choate."

"I hope always to prove worthy of your regard."

"I come to you now, sir, as a friend--for I am proud and happy to
consider you as such. You were always very kind to me."

"I trust I have always recognized your great merit."

"You have, sir; and the boast of my life will be, that I have been
associated with you in your office."

"You do me honor; and I shall always hold in grateful remembrance the
distinguished service you rendered us here."

"It is glorious to be appreciated, Mr. Choate. You are appreciated, Mr.
Choate. Folks know you, and look up to you. They believe you are
some."

"I am grateful for their and your appreciation. But, really, Mr.
Wittleworth, I must beg you to excuse me, for I have important business
before me," added the lawyer, nervously turning over a bundle of
papers, covered with strange characters, which no mortal man could
read; for they were more inexplicable than Chinese and Syriac to a
Yankee farmer.

"Pardon me for detaining you yet a moment longer," pleaded Fitz,
placing himself in the centre of the room, with his hat under his arm.
"This is a case of wrong and injustice, of oppression and usurpation.
My mother is the rightful heir to a block of stores in this city, which
the greed of avarice withholds from her. Me and father have taken up
the matter. We have been foully wronged;" and Mr. Wittleworth threshed
his arm, and waxed eloquent. "The heel of injustice has been placed
upon our necks. Mr. Choate, you are the people's advocate. Rising
superior to all hopes of fee or reward, you raise your eloquent voice
in behalf of the widow and the orphan. You plead at the bar of justice
for the rights of the down-trodden. Your voice is like a trumpet,
and--"

"So is yours; I beg you will not speak so loud. What do you wish me to
do?" interposed Mr. Choate.

Fitz explained what he wished the great orator to do--to raise his
voice in behalf of the oppressed, meaning his mother and himself; and
he soon became quite stormy again. His single auditor, evidently amused
by this display of rhetoric, permitted him to go on.

"Who has the block of stores now?" asked Mr. Choate, when Fitz began to
be out of breath.

"Mr. Checkynshaw, the banker."

"Ah, indeed! I am very sorry, but I am already retained on the other
side."

"On the other side!" gasped Fitz.

"I am; and really, Mr. Wittleworth, you must excuse me now.

"On the other side!" repeated Fitz. "Can it be that the mighty name of
Choate is to be linked with injustice and oppression? I will not
believe it! I counted something upon your friendship for me, Mr.
Choate."

The great orator was evidently trying to read some of the strange
characters in the manuscript before him, and, regardless of what Fitz
was saying, had relapsed into a fit of abstraction, which effectually
placed him out of the reach of Mr. Wittleworth's reproaches. The sheets
looked as though a fish-worm had come out of the inkstand, and crawled
over the virgin page. It was doubtful whether he was able to read
anything he had written, and possibly he was trying to remember what he
had intended to commit to the paper.

Fitz, finding that the distinguished gentleman took no further notice
of him, put on his hat, and marched in stately grandeur out of the
office. The great man had sunk considerably in his estimation, though,
as a matter of history, he was never pained by having the fact brought
to his knowledge.

Mr. Wittleworth had a great deal of confidence in abstract right and
justice. If Mr. Choate pleaded the cause of Mr. Checkynshaw, he would
in this instance be beaten. It would be a good lesson to the great
lawyer, and Mr. Wittleworth magnanimously hoped that he would profit by
it. He was to lose all the glory, honor, and immortality to be gained
by being on the right side in the great case of Wittleworth vs.
Checkynshaw; but it was not Mr. Wittleworth's fault. He had given him
an opportunity to enlist under the banner of truth and justice, and he
had refused to do so. It was his own choice, and he must abide the
consequences. Mr. Wittleworth rather pitied him, for he always had a
very tender regard for the reputation of his friends.

Mr. Wittleworth was compelled to rely upon the skill and knowledge of
the legal gentleman whom his father had employed to conduct the suit;
but he had faith that justice was on his side, and must prevail in the
end. He waited--he could not do anything but wait--until the day
assigned for the hearing of the case arrived. Mr. Wittleworth took a
seat with his father and mother within the bar, on this, as it seemed
to him, most momentous occasion the world had ever seen.

Mr. Checkynshaw appeared by counsel, and asked for a continuation of
the case for a reasonable time to enable him to bring his daughter from
France. The banker's business lawyer said a few words in making the
request, and then Mr. Choate, who had been employed by the banker, as
well as retained, added the weight of his personal influence to the
application. To the intense disgust of Mr. Wittleworth, it was granted
so promptly that he hardly knew what had happened. Another case was
called, and the Wittleworths went home.

Though Mr. Checkynshaw had threatened to sue them for the money he had
paid, nothing more was said or heard from the action. Fitz assured his
father and mother that the banker could not produce his daughter, and
that the case would not come to trial. If they were only firm and
decided with him, Mr. Checkynshaw would give up the block of stores,
and pay over the back rents. He must do so, or his reputation would be
blasted forever. He must stand before the world as a knave and a
swindler, unless he did full and ample justice to the widow (who had a
husband), and the orphan (who had a father and mother); for Mr.
Wittleworth, when he waxed eloquent, had a habit of confounding terms.

About a week after the hearing which had been cut short so suddenly,
Fitz, deeming it his duty to look after the witnesses in the great case
of Wittleworth vs. Checkynshaw, thought it advisable to call one
evening at No. 3 Phillimore Court. The door was locked, and the house
was dark. He repeated the call every evening for a week, but with no
better result. Then he went in the daytime. No one answered his knock,
and the door was as unyielding as a rock of granite.

Mr. Wittleworth was bewildered. Mr. Checkynshaw had done this! He had
spirited away the chief witness. Fitz went to the barber's shop, and
inquired for Andr√©. He had left his place ten days before. Fitz met Leo
on the street one day, a month later.

"Where do you live now?" he asked.

"I am boarding in Gridley Street."

"Where are Maggie and your father?"

"Gone to France with Mr. Checkynshaw after his daughter," replied Leo,
hurrying on his way; for, make or break, he intended to be at school in
season.

Mr. Wittleworth scratched his head and looked foolish. Mr. Checkynshaw
appeared to be flanking him.




CHAPTER XXV.

THE ELEGANT YOUNG LADY.


Leo still slept at the house in Phillimore Court, though he took his
meals in Gridley Street. It was necessary for him to go two or three
times a day to his shop to look after his stock of mice, rabbits,
pigeons, and guinea pigs, in which he still carried on a tolerably
lucrative commerce in supplying his old friends and customers. Every
moment of his time was occupied from six o'clock in the morning until
ten o'clock at night. He did everything "upon honor," and he carried
this rule into his lessons as well as his mercantile speculations. What
he learned he really learned, and never left the subject till he had
fully mastered it.

Though he had been absent from school over two months, he stood so well
in his class, that, with the severe exertion he made, he was able to
regain the position he lost. As soon as his father began to improve in
health, and there was a prospect that Leo might again take his place in
school, he devoted himself to his studies, and followed up his
geography, history, and arithmetic with a zeal which promised the best
results. He called upon the master, and received directions for the
conduct of his course. There are always plenty of good people to help
those who are willing to help themselves, and Leo had all the friends
he needed.

Everything was going on well with Leo, even after the sudden
disappearance of Andr√© and Maggie, whom, no doubt, he greatly missed in
their absence. If he knew anything about the reason for their abrupt
departure, he kept his own counsel, especially in the presence of Fitz
Wittleworth, who, since he had discovered that "his witness" had been
tampered with, had become the tormentor of the young mechanic. Fitz
placed himself at the corner of Gridley Street almost every day, intent
upon worming something out of Leo. The latter was too busy to waste any
time on such a fellow as Mr. Wittleworth, and used to avoid him, as far
as he could, by taking a round-about way to his boarding-house. But
sometimes Fitz blundered upon his victim.

"I want to see you, Leo," said he one day, when he had by a happy
scheme outflanked him.

"I'm in a hurry, Fitz; I can't stop now. My mice haven't had their
dinner yet," replied Leo, uneasily.

"They won't starve just yet. Hold on! I've got something for you,"
persisted Fitz, when the victim began to move on.

"I don't want anything."

"Did you know your father had got himself into a scrape?"

"No, I didn't," answered Leo, who was interested in this intelligence.

"He has; and he'll have to answer to the court for clearing out. I
suppose you never read law, and don't know anything about the
subordination of witnesses. I'll tell you."

"I can't stay to hear it now," replied Leo, laughing, for he knew the
difference between "subordination" and "subornation."

"I want to talk with you about half an hour some time."

"What about?"

"About your father. Checkynshaw has bought him up."

"What do you mean by 'bought him up'?" demanded Leo, indignantly.

"I mean that Checkynshaw has paid him to keep out of the way in our
great case of Wittleworth versus Checkynshaw," added Fitz.

"I say he hasn't."

"Hasn't he cleared out?"

"What if he has? He's coming back again."

"Don't tell me! I know something about law."

"I won't tell you, and you needn't tell me. If you'll keep your side of
the street, I'll keep mine. If you mean to tell me that Andr√© Maggimore
has done anything wrong, or means to do anything wrong, you don't know
the man."

"I say he has. He was summoned as a witness for our side, and he has
sold out to the enemy."

"He hasn't done anything of the sort."

"What has he gone to France for, then?"

"That's his business, not yours."

"Yes, it is my business; I manage our suit, and you had better tell me
all you know about it."

"I guess not! In the first place, I don't know much about it; and in
the second, if I did, I wouldn't tell you."

"If Andr√© Maggimore commits perjury--"

"That will do, Fitz Wittleworth. I don't want to quarrel with you, and
I don't mean to do so; but you can't talk like that to me without
getting a broken head. So you can't talk to me at all. If you speak to
me again, I won't answer you."

Leo turned abruptly from Fitz, bolted into a run, and did not slacken
his pace till he reached the house. He was tempted to pitch into Fitz;
his fists had involuntarily closed; and he felt that if he listened any
longer, he should not be able to control his wrath. Leo stuck to his
text, and when Fitz attempted to speak to him, he dodged him as though
he had been an unclean beast. Of course Leo knew why his father and his
sister had gone away; but he did not intend to give the Wittleworths
the benefit of his knowledge. He had an occasional letter from Maggie,
and about a week before the exhibition, he received one informing him
that she and her father would sail for home in the next steamer, and
expected to be present at the exhibition.

The great day of the school year arrived. The examination for medals
had taken place, and Leo confidently expected this crowning distinction
of his school life, though no one could know who were to be the happy
recipients of the medals until their names were called on the great
day. There was only one damper upon his enthusiasm as the eventful
occasion dawned upon him. The steamer bearing Andr√© and Maggie had been
expected the day before, but she had not arrived; and Leo felt that
half his pleasure would be lost because they were not present to
witness his triumph.

The exercises of the exhibition proceeded, and Leo spoke his piece, and
carried through his part in the original dialogue to the entire
satisfaction of all interested. The silver pitcher had been presented
to the "beloved teacher," and the chairman of the district committee
had risen to deliver the medal speech, when the crowd at the doors was
opened by the gentlemanly policeman in attendance to allow the passage
of some favored guests. Leo was in a flutter of excitement; for,
shortly after the exercises began, the school-house being located near
the bay, he had heard the two guns which announced the arrival of an
English steamer, in those blissful days when Boston was favored by the
Cunard line.

Through the crowd came Mr. Checkynshaw, followed by a young lady of
remarkable beauty, who was most elegantly dressed; and behind her came
Andr√© Maggimore. They were provided with seats, and the exercises
proceeded. Everybody seemed to pay more attention to the beautiful
young lady than to the excellent chairman, whose forte certainly was
not speech-making. The fashion of her dress was a season ahead of the
ideas of other ladies present, and was of the most costly material.

Some of the people thought they had seen her before, but they were not
quite sure. Leo was certain that he had seen her before, and he found
it hard work to keep his seat during the solemn and impressive remarks
of the worthy chairman of the district committee; and it was only when
he began to call the names of the successful candidates for the medal
that the whole attention of the aspirant was given to him.

"Leopold Maggimore," called the chairman for the sixth name, which
would have been the first if Leo had not been absent so long.

There was some applause bestowed upon each of the recipients; but that
which greeted Leo's name was warm and enthusiastic. Andr√© smiled, and
the beautiful young lady in the elegant dress smiled; and even Mr.
Checkynshaw was so far in sympathy with the occasion that he smiled
too, when the blue ribbon was put upon the neck of Leo. After that, the
time hung heavy upon all our characters who were present, especially as
the distinguished gentlemen who had been invited to make a "few remarks"
were unusually long-winded and prosy.

The exhibition was finished at last, and the elegant young lady flew to
the seat of Leo, the silk fluttering like a summer tempest, grasped
both his hands, and actually kissed him before the assembled multitude.
There were several scores of nice young men present, who envied Leo now
more than when the blue ribbon was placed on his neck; and it ought to
be added that Leo bore his martyrdom with remarkable fortitude. Andr√©
then grasped his hand, and the tears stole down his pale face. Even Mr.
Checkynshaw condescended to take the hand of the young man, and
congratulate him upon the distinction he had won.

The party left the school-house. There was a carriage waiting at the
door for the banker, which bore them to Pemberton Square. It is not of
much consequence what happened there, and we need only say that the
elegant young lady was rather sad, and seemed to cling more to Andr√©
and Leo than to the lofty man who entertained them, or to his family.

The great case of Wittleworth vs. Checkynshaw had been twice
postponed during the absence of the defendant, and it was called for
the fourth time only a few days after his return. All the parties were
present this time. Mr. Fitz Wittleworth did not seem quite as confident
as before. There were indications of a "gigantic conspiracy," as he
expressed it, against the majesty of justice as represented by the
Wittleworths. It was alleged that the defendant had his daughter in
court--and a beautiful young lady she was; but Mr. Wittleworth insisted
that this person--elegant and richly dressed as she appeared--was an
impostor, employed to personate the deceased child of his powerful
rival, and thus enable him to retain the block of stores and the back
rents.

Mrs. Checkynshaw and Elinora were in court; so were Andr√© and Leo. Mr.
Choate was there, and Mr. Wittleworth cast a reproachful glance at him;
but it was fortunate for the distinguished orator that he did not know
how much he had fallen in the estimation of one "who had formerly been
in the office with him."

Certain dry formalities were solemnly passed through; the counsel for
the plaintiff made a statement, during which he read extracts from the
will of Mr. Osborne. It was plain enough to everybody that the block of
stores belonged to Mrs. Wittleworth, unless the trustee and defendant
could produce his daughter. She was produced; but Fitz was still
hopeful. The elegant young lady was no other than Miss Maggie
Maggimore. It was evident enough to him that she had been engaged to
play the part in the farce. Mrs. Checkynshaw was the first witness
called. She told the whole story about the cholera in Paris; that
Marguerite, her husband's daughter, had the disease first, and was
reported to have died with it; that she was taken with the terrible
malady shortly afterwards; and that the child wore, at the time she was
taken to the hospital, a gold locket, which contained portraits of her
father and mother, and a lock of the hair of each. This locket was
handed to her, and she identified it.

Fitz began to be alarmed.

Andr√© was called next. He had been employed as an interpreter in the
hospital in the Rue Lac√©p√®de. He had frequently seen the child whose
name was entered on the books of the establishment as Marguerite
Poulebah. He was informed that her parents had died, and that she had
no friends to whom she could be sent. He became very much interested in
her, and when something was said about taking her to an orphan asylum,
he had invited her to go home with him. He kept her there a few days,
and became so much attached to her that he was not willing to give her
up. His landlady took care of her till he embarked for America, where
he soon found employment as a barber and had ever since retained her.
He identified the locket as the one worn by the child when he took her
from the hospital. He confessed that he had done wrong in not using
greater efforts to find the friends of the child; but they were so much
attached to each other that a separation would have been insupportable
to either.

Andr√© finished his direct statement, and the counsel for the plaintiff
immediately opened upon him so fiercely that Fitz began to feel that
the day was not wholly lost.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE RICH MAN'S DAUGHTER.


"Where were you born, Mr. Maggimore?" asked the Wittleworth lawyer.

"In London," replied Andr√©.

"Are you a Frenchman?"

"My father was Italian, my mother French."

"Did you ever learn the barber's trade, or did you pick it up
yourself?"

"I was apprenticed to a barber in London, and served seven years."

"Have you always worked at the business?"

"No, sir. I used to shave an English gentleman who had a stiff arm, and
I finally went into his service as his valet. I remained with him till
he died of cholera in Paris. I lived with him fourteen years," answered
Andre, meekly.

"Have you ever told any person that Marguerite Checkynshaw died at the
hospital?" demanded the attorney, sharply.

"I have, sir."

"Was it true?"

"No, sir."

"Why did you say so, then?"

"Because I thought it was true."

"What made you think so?"

"The last name of the Marguerite that died was so like Checkynshaw."

"What was the name of the other Marguerite?"

"Poulebah."

"Did you make any effort to find the parents of the child you adopted?"

"I did; I found the lodgings they had occupied, and the concierge
identified some clothing and the locket which I carried to him. He told
me that the parents of the child were both dead. He only knew that they
were English. I have no doubt now that he was a bad man, and that he
told me what he knew was not true in regard to the child."

"Why so?"

"I think it is probable the Chuckinghams left some property in their
rooms which he desired to keep, and because I have learned from Mr.
Checkynshaw that the house I visited was not the one occupied by him.
The concierge told me two falsehoods--that the clothing and locket
belonged to the child of his lodger, and that she spoke French."

The lawyer twisted the matter about in various ways; but Andr√© was as
clear as light itself, and he did not materially contradict himself.
Mrs. Checkynshaw was called for the defence; but, to the astonishment
and disgust of the legal gentleman and his employers, she testified, in
the most positive manner, that the elegant young lady in court was
Marguerite Checkynshaw. She had taken care of her as a child, and she
could not be mistaken. Mrs. Wittleworth was put upon the stand, with
the letter announcing the death of Marguerite in her hand; but, poor
woman, all her evidence was against herself. She identified the locket,
and was in the end very sure that the beautiful young lady was her
niece.

Mr. Fitzherbert Wittleworth was utterly disgusted, though he could not
help believing that the young lady was his cousin. Not a doubt was left
in the mind of any person, and of course Mr. Checkynshaw won his case;
but the great man was very far from satisfied with himself, or with the
position in which the trial left him. It was apparent to all the world
that he had attempted to defraud Mrs. Wittleworth out of the block of
stores, and ten years' income upon it; but the banker was not a man to
bend before the storm of popular opinion. He took the trouble to define
his position, and to explain away what was dark and unsatisfactory. He
did not believe his child was dead. He was satisfied that Marguerite
Poulebah was Marguerite Checkynshaw, though he could not find her. The
director of the hospital said the Sisters had taken her, and he was
sure she was living.

Besides, it would have been wicked to hand the property over to Mrs.
Wittleworth for her drunken husband to squander away, and make her a
beggar a second time. He intended, in due time, if his daughter did not
appear, to pass the property to the rightful heir when it could be
safely done. The integrity of his intentions could not be doubted, for
had he not given Mrs. Wittleworth ten thousand dollars? The quitclaim
deed, he declared, was only to save himself from being annoyed by Fitz
and his father. Of course he intended to make it all right in the end.

Mr. Checkynshaw did not forgive the Wittleworths for the mischief they
had attempted to do. He hinted at steps for compelling them to restore
the ten thousand dollars; but Maggie protested, in her way, against
such a course, and nothing was ever done.

Marguerite Checkynshaw went to live in Pemberton Square; but she was
not happy there, and every day she visited the house at No. 3
Phillimore Court. Poor Andr√© was actually miserable. He had lost his
darling child, and it was little comfort to know that she dwelt in the
midst of luxury and splendor. Though he saw her every day, he was sad,
and almost disconsolate.

Maggie tried to be happy in her new home, but her heart was not there.
Mrs. Checkynshaw was cold and distant to her, and Elinora was a little,
petulant, disagreeable tyrant, who lived for herself alone. She tried
to love her, but she tried in vain. Her father was kind and indulgent
to her; yet she saw but little of him. Maggie went to school for two
years, and was busy with her studies and her music lessons; but not an
evening passed without her going to see her foster-father, after he
left the shop. About nine o'clock Leo walked home with her; but he
seldom entered her father's house.

In the choice of a pursuit for life, Leo won the day, and went to learn
the machinist's trade. He did not give up the "mouse business"
entirely, but found time to make new houses; and there were customers
to purchase them, adding quite a sum to the income of his
foster-father. A housekeeper was employed to take Maggie's place; but
home was never the place it had been after Maggie went away.

John Wittleworth kept his solemn promise, and continued to be a steady
man. He obtained employment in a wholesale grocery, and served so
faithfully that he won the esteem and regard of the firm. His former
ambition returned to him, and when he spoke of going into business on
his own account, with a portion of his wife's money as his capital, he
was admitted as a partner in the firm that employed him. He was a man
of excellent abilities, and in time he acquired a handsome property.

Fitz never amounted to much. His ideas were too big for his station. He
obtained several situations; but, as he aspired to manage his
employers' business without their aid, he was often out of a place.
When his father went into business, he was taken as an entry-clerk; but
he was such a trial that even parental solicitude could not tolerate
him, and he was sent away. He was not a bad boy; but self-conceit was
the rock on which he wrecked himself. He found another situation, and
another, and another; but his stay in each was short. And so he went
from one place to another, achieving nothing, until he was twenty-five
years old, when he married a lady ten years his senior, whom even the
twenty thousand dollars she possessed did not tempt any one else to
make a wife. Fitz is a gentleman now; and though his lot at home is
trying, he still maintains his dignity, and lives on his wife's
property. He is not dissipated, and has no bad habits; but he does not
amount to anything. People laugh at him, and speak contemptuously of
him behind his back; and he is, and will continue to be, nothing but a
cipher in the community.

In the little smoking-room in the house in Pemberton Square, three
years after Maggie went to live there, on the very sofa where Andr√©
Maggimore had lain, was stretched the inanimate form of another person,
stricken down by the same malady. It was Mr. Checkynshaw. The two
gentlemen with whom he had been conversing when attacked by the fit had
placed him there, and Dr. Fisher had been sent for. From that sofa he
was conveyed to his bed, still insensible. His eyes were open, but he
knew none of those who stood by his couch.

The doctor came; but the banker was out of the reach of human aid,
