half a mile or more?" I asked, filled with astonishment.

"I didn't know anything at all about it," protested Sim, vigorously.

"I'm sure I did not know that she had moved an inch," added Flora.

"That's strange," I continued, laughing. "When I came out of the swamp,
I couldn't find the raft, and I was afraid you would get to New Orleans
before I could catch you. Then I feared Sim had fallen overboard; and I
suffered a great deal in a very short time."

"I heven't been out of the house since you went away, and I heven't the
leastest idee that we were goin' on," said Sim. "I'll stay outside next
time."

"You must, Sim; for we shall never know where we are if you don't keep
your eyes wide open."

"What was it about the money, Buckland? Sim said you had forgotten your
money; but he did not know what you meant by it," asked Flora.

I explained what I meant, and that I had concealed my money in the swamp
to prevent the constable or the captain from finding it upon me.

"I am so sorry I called Sim!" pleaded poor Flora.

"It's no matter now. Perhaps it will be a good lesson for him and me to
learn at the start. Now we will push off and try again. It is lucky I
thought of the money when I did, for we could do nothing without that.
Come, Sim, bear a hand!"

"Buckland, can't I step out and see the raft go?" asked Flora. "I don't
like to stay in here."

"I'm afraid you will catch cold."

"No; I will wrap myself up in a blanket. I want to see how you manage
the raft."

I could not refuse her; and, wrapping her up in a blanket, I carried her
chair out to the side of the raised platform, and seated her in it. Sim
and I took the boards from the small raft, which had been so useful to
us in the swamp, and let the logs go adrift.

"Now take your pole, Sim, and push her off."

"She won't come off," replied the deck hand, after he had used all his
power in the attempt to shove her off.

I went forward, and found the end of the raft had run upon the root of a
tree, which held it fast. I was very grateful for the service this root
had rendered me, for the raft might have gone down to Riverport before
Sim discovered that anything was the matter. Fixing the poles
underneath, we pried the raft off, and the current started it on its
course again. I mounted the steering platform, and grasped the long oar.
The voyage had actually commenced.

My position was a novel one, for I had yet to learn even the art of
managing a raft. I found she had the same tendency to whirl around in
the current which had characterized her smaller counterpart; but the oar
was long enough to give the steersman a tremendous purchase, and the
erratic disposition of the craft could be overcome when taken in
season. I had to profit by experience, for before we reached the creek
she had whirled round three times, in spite of all my efforts to prevent
it. Before the raft was half way to Riverport, I had acquired the needed
skill, and she indulged in no more gyrations while I had the helm.

As we approached the steeples of Riverport, I heard the clock strike
one. Flora still sat in her chair by the platform, wondering how I could
see to steer the raft, and asked me a thousand questions. I tried to
have her go to bed, but she was not willing to do so till we had reached
the Wisconsin River, which she desired to see.

We were all excited, and did not feel sleepy. Sim took a luncheon, and
declared he never felt better in his life. It was the best fun he had
ever known, and he enjoyed every moment of it. Flora said she liked it
very much, but thought it would be pleasanter in the daytime, when the
ever-changing scene could be viewed in the sunshine.

"I'm sure I shall be happy on the raft for a month," she added. "There
will be something new to be seen every day."

"And we shall pass ever so many towns and cities, and the river will be
full of steamers and flat-boats," I continued, as the raft glided round
the bend into the great river. "Now we are in the Wisconsin, Flora; and
this is Riverport on the right of us."

"We can't see much of it."

"No; but you will find enough in the daytime to amuse you. I hope you
will sleep all night after this."

"I will go to bed now, Buckland," said she. "Good night."

"Good night, Flora."

She went into the house, and I heard nothing more from her till morning.
I know that she prayed for me that night, as she always did; and I
looked up to the shining stars, and commended her to the good Father.
More than ever before did I love her then, when her life and happiness
were more directly the care and study of my existence.

We were now on the broad river--broad compared with the creek, but small
in contrast with the mighty Mississippi, which we were yet to see. Sim
was forward, watching the dark outlines of the shores. Everything was
quiet without, though my bosom still bounded with excitement. I could
not forget that I was navigating the clumsy craft in which I had
embarked my fortunes, and which held the being most dear to me on earth.
I felt that a heavy responsibility rested upon me. Not a sound was to be
heard except the gentle ripple of the waters against the sides of the
raft; and the season was favorable to reflection.

But if the season was, Sim was not. He began to be weary of the solemn
silence and the deep gloom of the hour, and came aft to talk with me. I
saw that it would be necessary to keep him busy, in order to save him
from his own reflections, and the dulness which was sure to follow.
There was work enough on the raft to keep us both employed, and he was
in no danger of dying from inaction.

"Are you going to keep her a-going all night, Buck?" asked he, in a tone
so loud that it seemed to reverberate over the broad prairies which
bounded the river.

"Hush, Sim! Don't talk so loud," I replied, in a whisper. "You will keep
Flora awake if you do."

"Hookie! I didn't think of her," said he, slapping his great fist over
his mouth, in token of his intention to do better.

"We shall keep moving, night and day, Sim."

"Are you always going to set up all night?" he whispered.

"No; you must do it half the time. You must learn to steer, and you may
as well begin now."

"But I don't know how."

"You must learn."

"I don't think I can. I ain't much at anything except hard work."

"Take the oar, Sim, and try your hand at it. I had to learn, and you
must do the same."

He took hold of the oar with me, while I, in a low tone, explained to
him how to manage it. I then left it to his care. As I expected, he
permitted the raft to whirl around.

"I told you I couldn't do it," said he, in disgust.

"Keep trying. When you see her head going one way, put the oar in the
same direction. Don't wait till she is half round, but take her when she
first begins to wabble," I added, assisting him to get the raft into
position again.

But Sim did better than I had anticipated, and in half an hour he
declared that he had "got the knack of the thing." I watched him for a
while, until I had entire confidence in his ability. He was not so wide
awake as he had been earlier in the night, and some fearful gapes
suggested what he needed most. I had fixed up a bed for him on the floor
of the house, and I found that he was quite willing to turn in when I
gave him permission to do so. His excitement had died out suddenly; but
I had no doubt of his zeal when the time for the hard work should come.

I was not sleepy, or even tired, myself; and hour after hour, till the
daylight came, I stood at my post, solitary and alone, busy with
thoughts of the present and the future. The steering of the raft was
merely mechanical, after I became accustomed to it. I was glad to see
the morning light, and to hear the song of the spring birds. The sun
rose bright and beautiful, but my fellow-voyagers still slept. I enjoyed
the scene, and I permitted them to slumber as long as they would.




CHAPTER XVIII.

AT THE MOUTH OF THE OHIO.


It must have been eight o'clock when Flora opened the window of her
room. She told me she had slept soundly, and felt as well as ever she
did in her life. I think Sim would have snored till noon if I had not
called him; but he had slept at least six hours, and I concluded that he
could stand it till night. I gave him the steering oar, and Flora and I
got breakfast. Our first meal on board was not entirely satisfactory,
for we had no table, and only one chair.

I took the helm again while Sim ate his breakfast, and then went to bed
myself; for I found, after my night of watching and excitement, I was in
no condition to work. My companions were as considerate of me as I had
been of them, and permitted me to sleep till the middle of the
afternoon. I was "as good as new" then; and, after we had dined, I put
up a table, and made a couple of stools.

During the day, we met two steamboats, and passed a huge flat-boat
loaded with grain; but no one on board of them seemed to take any
particular notice of us. Every kind of a craft is seen on the great
western rivers, and none is so strange as to excite a sensation in the
mind of the beholder. At six o'clock we had been afloat about twenty
hours; and, according to my estimate, it was nearly time for us to see
the Mississippi. The Wisconsin had widened as we advanced, and I was
sure that we should be in the great river before midnight.

After supper, I discussed with Sim the subject of keeping watch during
the night, and we decided that four hours were enough for each of us to
steer at one time. But we had no means of measuring time in the night,
and we could only guess at the length of the watch. I was to serve from
eight till twelve, and Sim from twelve till four, when I was to take my
place again.

Flora retired early on the second night, and I sent Sim to bed as soon
as it was fairly dark. I was alone again, in the solitude of that waste
of waters. The novelty of the scene had in some measure worn off. I had
nothing but my own thoughts to amuse me. The river appeared still to be
widening, and, as I had anticipated, before my watch had ended, the raft
entered the Mississippi. The river was high, the current much stronger
than it had been in the Wisconsin, and the progress of the raft was
correspondingly increased. I met a steamboat struggling against the
stream, and passed quite near to her. The swell that she left behind her
caused the raft to roll heavily for a moment; but it did not disturb the
sleepers in the house.

I called Sim at twelve o'clock, as nearly as I could judge, and he
faithfully promised me that he would keep awake till daylight. I left
him alone on the platform, and turned in, though not without some doubts
in regard to his ability to be true to his promise. I went to sleep very
promptly, and I must do Sim the justice to say that I found the raft all
right when he called me at sunrise, an hour later than the time agreed
upon. He told me that nothing had happened during the night, except
that a steamboat had nearly upset the raft.

I do not intend to make a daily record of our voyage down the river. One
day was very much like the next day, and all days were alike. On the
afternoon of the first day on the Mississippi, we approached a village,
where there was a steamboat landing. We were in want of supplies for our
table, and I decided to stop for an hour or two. But I found that it was
an easier matter to go ahead than it was to stop, for the raft had got
into the habit of doing so. The water was too deep to permit the use of
poles, and we were helplessly carried past the village.

I was vexed at this mishap, for I did not like to drink my coffee
without milk. However, we came to another and a larger village about
sundown, and, making my calculations in good season, I succeeded in
driving the raft into the shallow water where we could use the poles. We
struck the shore some distance above the place; but a walk of half a
mile was not objectionable, after our long confinement on the raft.

At this town I purchased a cheap clock, and an old, patched sail, which
had been used on a wood-boat, as well as some provisions and groceries.
Sim and I lugged these articles to the raft, and immediately cast off
again. I put the clock up in the house, where it could be seen through
the door without leaving the platform. The lantern hung over it, so that
we could tell the time by night.

I had great hopes of the sail, and the next day I rigged it upon two
poles, serving as yards. On one corner of the sail I found a block,
which had been used for the sheet. I fastened it at the masthead, so
that we could hoist and lower the sail at pleasure. I was no navigator,
and no sailor; and I had to experiment with the sail and rigging for a
long while before I could make them work to my satisfaction.

My inventive powers did not fail me, and by attaching a rope to each end
of the two yards, I obtained the control of the canvas. When I had
completed the work, and hoisted the sail, I was delighted with its
operation. The wind came pretty fresh from the north-west, and I think
the raft made five, if not six miles an hour with its help. With the
sail drawing well, the labor of steering was reduced more than half. The
raft had no tendency to whirl round, and it was really a pleasure to
steer her. We were not obliged to follow the current in its broad sweeps
around the bends of the river, and we saved many miles by taking "short
cuts." I found, too, that the raft was under better control, and,
instead of being at the mercy of the current, we could go where we
pleased. When there was any wind, and it came from the right direction,
I could make a landing where and when I wished with very little
difficulty.

Day after day we continued on our voyage, Sim and I dividing equally
between us the labor at the steering oar. We could not use the sail all
the time, but it was a vast help to us when the wind was favorable. As
time permitted, I made improvements on the house, which added to our
comfort. I put up two berths, which we filled with hay obtained from the
prairies. I made a closet for the dishes, and a well in the body of the
raft, where the kettle of milk could be kept cool in the water.

We made a landing almost every day at some town, and on Sunday we hauled
up and went to church, whenever we were in a place where we could do so.
On our sixth day it rained in torrents, and I hauled up at the bank of a
river, and made fast to a tree. It was not comfortable to stand on the
platform, wet to the skin, and steer. Sim and I slept nearly the whole
day, while Flora read the books and newspapers which I had bought at the
towns. I had done all the work I could find to do on the raft, and had
fitted up the house to my mind. I had an easy time of it.

At one of the large towns I found what was called "A Panorama of the
Mississippi River," which I bought and put up in the house. After this
we knew just where we were, for the Panorama was a kind of chart, with
all the towns on the river, the streams which flowed into it, and the
distances from place to place, indicated upon it. With a good breeze we
made about a hundred miles in twenty-four hours, and when we could not
use the sail, the current carried us sixty miles.

When we reached the mouth of the Missouri, the prospect seemed to me,
who had never seen a considerable body of water, to be like a great
inland sea. Flora was appalled at our distance from the land, and Sim
shouted, "Hookie!" Our raft, which had seemed so large on the stream
where it had been built, now loomed puny and insignificant. Great
steamboats, three times as large as any I had ever seen, and looming up
far above the water, dashed by us. Huge flat-boats floated lazily down
the river, and the scene became more lively and exciting as we advanced.
A new world had opened to us.

From the broad river we saw the great city of St. Louis, and we gazed
with wonder and astonishment at its dense mass of houses, its busy
levee, and the crowds of steamboats which thronged it. We had never seen
the great world before, and we were overwhelmed with surprise. Flora was
silent, and Sim cried "Hookie" a hundred times within an hour.

The swift current and the steady breeze carried us away from this stormy
scene into the quiet of nature; for the great river has its solitudes,
though many times in the day we saw steamboats going up and down, or
encountered other craft voyaging towards the Gulf.

On the tenth day we approached the mouth of the Ohio. Again the expanse
of waters increased, till it seemed to my narrow vision to be almost an
ocean. It was nearly dark, and the weather was as pleasant as a maiden's
dream. We had advanced about seven degrees of latitude towards the
south, and Nature was clothed in her brightest green. We had stepped
from the cold spring of Wisconsin to the mild summer of the South. Ten
days before we had been among leafless trees; now we were in the midst
of luxuriant foliage. Flora sat in her arm-chair, near the platform,
enjoying the scene with me.

"If you are tired of the raft, Flora, we will go the rest of the way in
a steamboat," I said, after we had spoken of the changing seasons we had
experienced.

"I am not tired of it--far from it," she replied.

"We have over a thousand miles farther to go."

"I think I shall only regret the river was not longer when we get to New
Orleans."

"I wonder what Captain Fishley thinks has become of us," I added,
chuckling, as I thought of the family we had left.

"He and his wife must be puzzled; but I suppose they won't find out
where we are till we write to them."

"They will not know at present then. We have got rid of our tyrants now,
and I am in no hurry to see them again."

"Twig the steamers!" shouted Sim, from the roof of the house, where he
had perched himself to observe the prospect. "They are having a race."

I had seen them before, and I wished they had been farther off, for one
of them seemed to be determined to run over the raft, in her efforts to
cut off her rival. Our craft was in the middle of the channel, and one
of the steamers passed on each side of us, and so close that we were
nearly swamped in the surges produced by their wheels. I breathed easier
when the boats had passed, for I knew how reckless they were under the
excitement of a race. I could hear them creak and groan under the
pressure, as they went by.

We watched them as they rushed forward on their course. They were just
rounding into the Ohio, on their mad career, when we saw one of them
suddenly fly in pieces, torn, rent, shivered, the atmosphere filled with
fragments. Then came a terrific explosion, like the din of an
earthquake, shaking the raft with its violence. The boiler of the
steamer had exploded.




CHAPTER XIX.

AFTER THE EXPLOSION.


When the explosion occurred, the wind was nearly dead ahead, and we were
floating with the current, which was the particular reason why we had
come so near being run down by the contestants.

"What's the matter?" asked Flora, alarmed by the noise, but unable to
explain the cause of it.

"One of those steamers has burst her boiler. Didn't you see the pieces
fly?" I replied.

"But where are the people we saw laughing and talking as she went by?"
continued she, with a shudder.

"A good many of them will never laugh and talk any more."

"Hookie!" shouted Sim, as soon as he comprehended the nature of the
disaster. "That's wus'n fallin' in the river."

"Get out the sail, Sim!" I added, sharply.

"What you want the sail for?" inquired he. "The wind ain't right for
it."

"Up with it, and we will talk about that afterwards."

Letting go the steering oar, I hastened to Sim's assistance, while the
raft whirled in the current as she went down the mighty river. We
hoisted the sail, hauled in the braces, and I took my place on the
platform again. After no little labor at the steering oar, I succeeded
in putting the raft before the wind, thus heading her up the river.

"What are you going to do, Buckland?" asked Flora, who was watching the
scene of the accident with the most painful interest.

"Hundreds of those poor people have already perished, and more will be
drowned, unless they have some help," I replied, much excited. "I am
going to try and get up there, so as to be of some service."

"O, I hope you will! But there are boats out picking them up already,"
added she, wringing her hands, as she realized more vividly the nature
of the terrible catastrophe.

"I'm going to do all I can," I replied, thrilled by the exciting scene,
which, though a mile distant, we could understand and realize.

I expected the hull of the steamer would float down the river with the
swift current, bringing with it all its fearful surroundings; but in her
haste to outstrip her competitor, she had run into the shallow water,
and when riven by the explosion, had sunk. The awful scene, therefore,
did not come down the stream, as I anticipated. In a few moments, three
steamboats, besides the one which had been engaged in the race, were
hovering about the wreck, and at least a dozen boats were busy in
picking up the sufferers.

I found that it was utterly impossible to make any progress against the
current with the raft. Though the wind was tolerably fresh from the
southward, and the sail drew well, it barely held its own. The wreck and
the raft remained about the same distance apart as at the moment of the
explosion. But it was a consolation to know that our services were not
absolutely needed, so abundant was the assistance afforded from the
shore, and from the passing steamers.

In a short time parts of the wreck began to come down the river. We
picked up a broken door, and other pieces of the wood-work, but nothing
of any great value. We kept a sharp lookout for any survivors who might
have been overlooked by the boats about us; but as yet we saw none, or
even any who had been killed. Finding we could be of no service, I was
about to turn the raft, and resume our voyage, when Flora called my
attention to an object floating at some distance from us.

"It's a woman, Buckland!" exclaimed she, clasping my arm with convulsive
energy.

"So it is," I replied, with my heart almost in my throat.

We were all too young and inexperienced to behold a human being
apparently at the gates of death without a tremendous sensation of
horror.

"Hookie!" gasped Sim, after he had gazed an instant at the object, his
breath collapsing as he uttered the favorite expression.

"Can't you save her?" cried Flora, in trembling tones.

"I will if I can."

"O, do save her. It's terrible."

"She is clinging to a piece of wood, and has her head quite out of
water," I added, as I turned the raft.

The unfortunate person was still some distance farther up the stream
than the raft. I told Sim to trim the sail, and I hoped to get my clumsy
craft in such a position that the current would bring the woman towards
it, so that we could intercept her.

"Help! Help!" called the sufferer, in faint and fearful tones, as we
came nearer to her.

"Hold on a few moments longer," I replied.

"I can't!" she answered, evidently chilled by the cold, and exhausted by
her fruitless struggles.

"Only a moment," I added.

That moment was a fearfully long one, and at the end of it came failure.
The raft disappointed me. The current was bearing the helpless female by
it, but not more than fifty feet distant. It might as well have been a
mile, so far as our capacity to overcome the space between us was
concerned.

"Down with the sail, Sim!" I shouted, sharply.

"Hookie!" gasped Sim, still standing with his mouth wide open, gazing at
the poor woman.

"Down with it!" I repeated, giving him a kick to sharpen his wits.

He stumbled to the sail; but his fingers were all thumbs, and he could
not untie the halyard. I was obliged to do it myself, for the sail had
filled aback, and it was retarding the progress of the raft.

"Help! Save me!" cried the unhappy person again, but fainter than
before, as hope appeared to desert her.

"Hold on a moment more!" I shouted to her.

I grasped the steering oar, and vainly struggled to turn the raft, so as
to bring it near enough to the sufferer to enable me to haul her on
board; but the only effect was to cause it to whirl in the current. Both
the woman and our craft were carried along by the stream, fifty feet
apart; but neither had the power to approach any nearer to the other.

"I'm sinking!" called the woman, throwing one of her hands up into the
air.

"No! Hold on for your life!" I shouted, as loud as I could scream.

My voice had some effect upon her, for she grasped the stick to which
she was clinging.

"O, Buckland!" cried Flora, wringing her hands and sobbing hysterically.
"Can't you do something?"

"I can, and will!" I replied, with some of the earnestness that thrilled
my soul; and I felt that I ought to die myself rather than permit the
poor sufferer to perish before my eyes.

"Do!" gasped my poor sister; and I knew she would have sacrificed her
precious life to save that of the stranger.

"Come here, Sim!" I called.

My blundering deck hand came promptly at my call, and I gave him the
steering oar, bidding him keep the raft steady before the current. I
took the long lines, which I used as mooring ropes, and tied them
together, making a cord at least a hundred feet in length. I took off
all my clothes but my pants and shirt, and secured the cord around my
body, making fast the other end to the raft.

"Sim!" said I, startling him with the sharpness of my tones.

"Yes; I'm here, Buck! Hookie!" stammered he.

"Mind what you're about!"

"O, yes! I will!"

"When I tell you, let go the oar, and pull in on this rope."

"I'll help him," said Flora.

"Don't you touch the rope, Flora. You may get dragged overboard."

"What shall I do?"

"You may make a fire in the stove, if you can," I answered, wishing to
get her out of the reach of danger if I could.

"I will, Buckland;" and she went into the house.

I was a powerful swimmer, and nerved by the peril of the stranger in the
water, I felt able to do anything. I let myself down into the river, and
struck out with all my strength towards the sufferer. The current of the
Mississippi is swift and treacherous. It was the hardest swimming I had
ever known; and, dragging the rope after me, I had a fierce struggle to
make any progress. In going those fifty feet, it seemed to me that I
worked hard enough to accomplish a mile.

I reached the sufferer, and grasped the stick to which she clung. I was
nearly exhausted myself by the violence of my efforts. I waited a moment
to regain my breath, before I attempted to deal with the difficulties of
the situation. I glanced at the person for whom I was to struggle. She
was not a woman, but a girl of fourteen. She was in a sinking condition,
apparently more from the effects of fear than actual suffering, for the
stick to which she clung afforded her ample support.

Afraid that the act of hauling us in would detach her from the stick, I
grasped it firmly with one hand, and clasped her around the waist with
the other. Her frame quivered with the cold and the terror of her
situation. As all persons in peril of drowning are apt to do, she was
disposed to cling to me.

"Don't be afraid," said I to her. "You are safe now."

"Save me!" gasped she, hardly loud enough to be heard.

"Haul in!" I shouted to Sim.

I felt the rope cutting my waist as Sim jerked and tugged at it with
all his strength. There was no lack of zeal on his part, but if anything
had depended upon coolness and skill, we might both have been drowned. I
kept a firm hold upon my helpless charge, and managed to keep her head
above the water, though my own was dragged under several times by the
clumsiness of my willing friend.

Sim pulled and hauled with energy, if not with skill. When he abandoned
the steering oar, the raft began to whirl, and thus to complicate his
