
It was a great temptation to Roswell. The more he thought of it, the
more he thought he should like to say that he was a member of the
Madison Club. He had a weak love of gentility, and he was persuaded
that it would improve his social standing. But he did not wish to adopt
the course recommended by Ralph if there was any other way of getting
the money. He determined, therefore, first to make the effort to obtain
the money from his mother on some pretext or other. By the time he
reached home, which was at an earlier hour than usual, he had arranged
his pretext.

"I am glad you are home early," said Mrs. Crawford.

"Yes, I thought I'd come home early to-night. Mother, I wish you'd let
me have four dollars."

"What for, Roswell?"

"I want to buy a new hat. This one is getting shabby."

Roswell's plan was, if he could obtain the four dollars from his
mother, to make up the extra dollar out of sales unaccounted for. As to
the failure to buy the hat, he could tell his mother that he had lost
the money, or make some other excuse. That thought did not trouble him
much. But he was not destined to succeed.

"I am sorry you are dissatisfied with your hat, Roswell," said Mrs.
Crawford, "for I cannot possibly spare you the money now."

"So you always say," grumbled Roswell.

"But it's true," said his mother. "I'm very short just now. The rent
comes due in a few days, and I am trying hard to get together money
enough to pay it."

"I thought you had money coming in from your lodgers."

"There's Mr. Bancroft hasn't paid me for six weeks, and I'm afraid I am
going to lose his room-rent. It's hard work for a woman to get along.
Everybody takes advantage of her," said Mrs. Crawford, sighing.

"Can't you possibly let me have the money by Saturday, mother?"

"No, Roswell. Perhaps in a few weeks I can. But I don't think your hat
looks bad. You can go and get it pressed if you wish."

But Roswell declared that wouldn't do, and left the room in an
ill-humor. Instead of feeling for his mother, and wishing to help her,
he was intent only upon his own selfish gratifications.

So much, then, was plain,--in his efforts to raise the money for the
initiation fee at the club, he could not expect any help from his
mother. He must rely upon other means.

Gradually Roswell came to the determination to follow the dangerous
advice which had been proffered him by Ralph Graham. He could not bear
to give up the project of belonging to the club, and was willing to
commit a dishonest act rather than forego the opportunity.

He began to think now of the manner in which he could accomplish what
he had in view. The next day when noon came he went round to the locked
drawer, and, lighting a piece of sealing-wax which he had taken from
one of the cases, he obtained a clear impression of the lock.

"I think that will do," thought Roswell.

At that moment a customer entered the store, and he hurried the stick
of sealing-wax into his pocket.

When the store closed, Roswell went round to a locksmith, whose sign he
remembered to have seen in Third Avenue.

He entered the shop with a guilty feeling at his heart, though he had a
plausible story arranged for the occasion.

"I want a key made," he said, in a business-like manner; "one that will
fit this lock."

Here he displayed the wax impression.

"What sort of a lock is it?" asked the locksmith, looking at it.

"It is a bureau drawer," said Roswell. "We have lost the key, and can't
open it. So I took the impression in wax. How soon can you let me have
it?"

"Are you in a hurry for it?"

"Yes; didn't I tell you we couldn't open the drawer?"

"Well, I'll try to let you have it by to-morrow night."

"That will do," said Roswell.

He left the locksmith's shop with mixed feelings of satisfaction and
shame at the thought of the use to which he was intending to put the
key. It was a great price he had determined to pay for the honor of
belonging to the Madison Club.




CHAPTER XXI.

ROSWELL JOINS THE MADISON CLUB.


It was not until Saturday night that Roswell obtained the key. The
locksmith, like tradesmen and mechanics in general, kept putting him
off, to Roswell's great annoyance.

As he did not get the key till Saturday night, of course there would
be no opportunity of using it till Monday. The only time then was the
hour in which Mr. Baker and Mr. Jones were absent, and Roswell was left
alone. But to his great vexation, an old gentleman came in directly
after Mr. Baker went out, and inquired for him.

"He's gone to dinner," said Roswell.

"I think I'll wait till he returns," said the visitor, coolly sitting
down in Mr. Baker's arm-chair.

Roswell was in dismay, for this would of course prevent his using the
key which he had taken so much trouble to obtain.

"Mr. Baker is always out a good while," said Roswell.

"Never mind, I can wait for him. I came in from the country this
morning, and shall not need to start back till four."

"Perhaps," suggested Roswell, "you could go out and do the rest of your
errands, and come back at two o'clock. Mr. Baker will be sure to be
back then."

"Who told you I had any more errands to do?" asked the old gentleman,
sharply.

"I thought you might have," said Roswell, somewhat confused.

"You are very considerate; but, as my business is over for the day, I
will ask your permission to remain till my nephew returns."

So this was Mr. Baker's uncle, a shrewd old gentlemen, if he did live
in the country.

"Certainly," said Roswell, but not with a very good grace, adding to
himself; "there'll be no chance for me to get the money to-day. I hope
the old fellow won't come round again to-morrow."

The next day was Tuesday. In the evening the club was to meet, so there
was no time to lose.

Fortunately, as Roswell thought, the coast was clear.

"Suppose the key won't fit?" he thought with uneasiness.

It would have been lucky for Roswell if the key had not fitted. But it
proved to fit exactly. Turning it in the lock, the drawer opened, and
before him lay a pile of bills.

How much or how little there might be Roswell did not stop to examine.
He knew that a customer might come in at any time, and he must do
at once what he meant to do. At the top of the pile there was a
five-dollar bill. He took it, slipped it hastily into his vest-pocket,
relocked the drawer, and, walking away from it, began to dust the books
upon the counter.

He felt that he had taken the decisive step. He was supplied with the
necessary money to pay the initiation fee. The question was, would Mr.
Baker find it out?

Suppose he should, how would it be possible to evade suspicion, or to
throw it upon some one else?

"If I could make him think it was the match boy," thought Roswell,
"I should be killing two birds with one stone. I must see what can be
done."

When Mr. Baker returned, Roswell feared he would go to the drawer, but
he did not seem inclined to do this.

He just entered the store, and said, "Mr. Jones, I am obliged to go
over to Brooklyn on a little business, and I may not be back this
afternoon."

"Very well, sir," said Mr. Jones.

Roswell breathed freer after he had left the shop. It had occurred to
him as possible that if the money were missed, he might be searched,
in which case the key and the bill in his pocket would be enough to
convict him. Now he should not see Mr. Baker again till the next day
probably, when the money would be disposed of.

Mr. Baker, as he anticipated, did not return from Brooklyn before
Roswell left the store.

Roswell snatched a hasty supper, and went over to his friend, Ralph
Graham's room, immediately afterwards.

"Glad to see you, Roswell," said Ralph; "are you coming to the club
with me to-night?"

"Yes," said Roswell.

"Have you got the five dollars?"

"Yes."

"How did you manage it?"

"Oh, I contrived to get it," said Roswell, who did not like to confess
in what way he had secured possession of the money.

"Well, it's all right, as long as you've got it. I was afraid you
wouldn't succeed."

"So was I," said Roswell. "I had hard work of it. What time do the club
meetings begin?" he asked.

"At eight o'clock, but I generally go round about half an hour before.
Generally, some of the fellows are there, and we can have a social
chat. I guess we'll go round at half-past seven, and that will give me
a chance to introduce you to some of the members before the meeting
begins."

"I should like that," said Roswell.

In a short time the boys set out. They paused before a small house on
Fourth Avenue, and rang the bell. The summons was answered by a colored
man.

"Any members of the club upstairs?" inquired Ralph.

"Yes, sir," said the attendant. "There's Mr. Tracy, Mr. Wilmot, and Mr.
Burgess."

"Very well, I'll go up."

"Jackson," said Ralph, "this gentleman is Mr. Crawford, a new member."

"Glad to make your acquaintance, sir," said Jackson.

"Thank you," said Roswell.

"Jackson takes care of the club-room," explained Ralph, "and is in
attendance to admit the members on club nights. Now let us go upstairs."

They went up one flight of stairs, and opened the door of a back room.

It was not a very imposing-looking apartment, being only about twenty
feet square, the floor covered with a faded carpet, while the furniture
was not particularly sumptuous. At one end of the room was a table,
behind which were two arm-chairs.

"That is where the president and secretary sit," said Ralph.

There were already three or four youths in the room. One of them came
forward and offered his hand to Ralph.

"How are you, Graham?" he said.

"How are you, Tracy?" returned Ralph. "This is Mr. Crawford, who was
elected a member at our last meeting. Roswell, this is Mr. Tracy, our
secretary."

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Crawford," said Tracy. "I hope you received
the notification of your election which I sent you."

"Yes," said Roswell. "I am much obliged to you."

"I hope you intend to accept."

"It will give me great pleasure," said Roswell. "You must have very
pleasant meetings."

"I hope you will find them pleasant. By the way, here is our president,
Mr. Brandon. Brandon, let me introduce you to a new member of our
society, Mr. Crawford."

The president, who was a tall young man of eighteen, bowed graciously
to Roswell.

"Mr. Crawford," said he, "allow me, in the name of the society, to bid
you welcome to our gay and festive meetings. We are a band of good
fellows, who like to meet together and have a social time. We are proud
to receive you into our ranks."

"And I am very glad to belong," said Roswell, who felt highly pleased
at the cordial manner in which he was received.

"You'd better go to the secretary, and enter your name in the books of
the club," suggested Ralph. "You can pay him the five dollars at the
same time. Here, Tracy, Mr. Crawford wants to enroll his name."

"All right," said Tracy; "walk this way if you please, Mr. Crawford."

Roswell wrote down his name, residence, and the store where he was
employed.

"I see, Mr. Crawford, you are engaged in literary pursuits," said the
secretary.

"Yes, for the present," said Roswell. "I don't think I shall remain
long, as the book business doesn't give me scope enough; but I shall
not leave at present, as it might inconvenience Mr. Baker. What is your
initiation fee?"

"Five dollars."

"I happen to have the money with me, I believe," said Roswell. "Here it
is."

"Thank you; that is right. I will enter you as paid. The monthly
assessments are one dollar, as perhaps Graham told you."

"Yes, I think he mentioned it. It is quite reasonable, I think," said
Roswell, in a tone which seemed to indicate that he was never at a loss
for money.

"Yes, I think so, considering our expenses. You see we have to pay for
the room; then we pay Jackson's wages, and there are cigars, etc., for
the use of the members. Have you ever before belonged to a club?"

"No," said Roswell. "I have always declined hitherto (he had never
before received an invitation) but I was so much pleased with what I
heard of the Madison Club from my friend Graham, that I determined to
join. I am glad that you are particular whom you admit as members of
the club."

"Oh, yes, we are very exclusive," said Tracy. "We are not willing to
admit anybody and everybody."

Meanwhile there had been numerous arrivals, until probably nearly all
the members of the club were present.

"Order, gentlemen!" said the president, assuming the chair, and
striking the table at the same time. "The club will please come to
order."

There was a momentary confusion, but at length the members settled into
their seats, and silence prevailed. Roswell Crawford took a seat beside
Ralph Graham.




CHAPTER XXII.

A CLUB NIGHT.


"The secretary will read the journal of the last meeting," said
President Brandon.

Tracy rose, and read a brief report, which was accepted, according to
form.

"Is there any business to come before the club?" inquired the president.

"I would like to nominate a friend of mine as a member of the club,"
said Burgess.

"What's his name?" inquired a member.

"Henry Drayton."

"Will Mr. Burgess give some account of his friend, so that the members
can vote intelligently on his election?" requested Brandon.

"He's a jolly sort of fellow, and a good singer," said Burgess. "He'll
help make our meetings lively. He's about my age--"

"In his second childhood," suggested Wilmot.

This produced a laugh at the expense of Burgess, who took it
good-naturedly.

"Has he got five dollars?" inquired another member.

"His father is a rich man," said Burgess. "There will be no fear about
his not paying his assessments."

"That's the principal thing," said Wilmot. "I second the nomination."

A vote was taken which was unanimously affirmative.

"Mr. Drayton is unanimously elected a member of the Madison Club,"
announced the president. "Notification will be duly sent him by the
secretary. Is there any other business to come before the club?"

As there appeared to be none, Brandon added, "Then we will proceed to
the more agreeable duties which have brought us hither."

He rang a small bell.

Jackson answered the summons.

"Jackson, is the punch ready?" inquired the president.

"Yes, sir," said Jackson.

"Then bring it in. I appoint Wilmot and Burgess to lend you the
necessary aid."

A large flagon of hot whiskey punch was brought in and placed on a
table. Glasses were produced from a closet in the corner of the room,
and it was served out to the members.

"How do you like it, Roswell?" inquired Ralph Graham.

"It's--rather strong," said Roswell, coughing.

"Oh, you'll soon be used to it. The fellows will begin to be jolly
after they've drunk a glass or two."

"Do they ever get tight?" whispered Roswell.

"A little lively,--that's all."

The effect predicted soon followed.

"Wilmot, give us a song," said Burgess.

"What will you have?" said Wilmot, whose flushed face showed that the
punch had begun to affect him.

"Oh, you can give us an air from one of the operas."

"Villikens and his Dinah?" suggested Tracy.

"Very good," said Wilmot.

Wilmot was one of those, who, with no voice or musical ear, are under
the delusion that they are admirable singers. He executed the song
in his usual style, and was rewarded with vociferous applause, which
appeared to gratify him.

"Gentleman," he said, laying his hand upon his heart, "I am deeply
grateful for your kind appreciation of my--"

"Admirable singing," suggested Dunbar.

"Of my admirable singing," repeated Wilmot, gravely.

This speech was naturally followed by an outburst of laughter. Wilmot
looked around him in grave surprise.

"I don't see what you fellows are laughing at," he said, "unless you're
all drunk."

He sat down amid a round of applause, evidently puzzled to understand
the effect of his words.

After this, David Green arose, and rehearsed amid great applause a
stump speech which he had heard at some minstrel entertainment which he
had attended.

"How do you like it, Roswell?" again inquired Ralph Graham.

"It's splendid," said Roswell, enthusiastically.

"Are you glad you joined?"

"Yes; I wouldn't have missed it for a good deal."

"I knew you'd say so. Have your glass filled. Here Jackson, fill this
gentleman's glass."

Roswell was beginning to feel a little light-headed; but the punch had
excited him, and he had become in a degree reckless of consequences. So
he made no opposition to the proposal, but held out his glass, which
was soon returned to him filled to the brim.

"Speech from the new member!" called Dunbar, after a while.

"Yes, speech, speech!"

All eyes were turned towards Roswell.

"You'd better say something," said Ralph.

Roswell rose to his feet, but found it necessary to hold on to his
chair for support.

"Mr. President," commenced Roswell, gazing about him in a vacant way,
"this is a great occasion."

"Of course it is," said Burgess.

"We are assembled to-night--"

"So we are. Bright boy!" said David Green.

"I am a gentleman's son," continued Roswell.

"What's the gentleman's name?" interrupted Wilmot.

"And I think it's a shame that I should only be paid six dollars a week
for my services."

"Bring your employer here, and we'll lynch him," said Tracy. "Such mean
treatment of a member of the Madison Club should meet with the severest
punishment. Go ahead."

"I don't think I've got anything more to say," said Roswell. "As my
head doesn't feel just right, I'll sit down."

There was a round of applause, and Wilmot arose.

"Mr. President," he said, gravely, "I have been very much impressed
with the remarks of the gentleman who has just sat down. They do equal
credit to his head and his heart. His reference to his salary was most
touching. If you will allow me, I will pause a moment and wipe away
an unbidden tear." (Here amid laughter and applause, Wilmot made an
imposing demonstration with a large handkerchief. He then proceeded.)
"Excuse my emotion, gentlemen. I merely arose to make the motion that
the gentleman should furnish us a copy of his remarks, that they may
be engrossed on parchment, and a copy sent to the principal libraries
in Europe and America."

Roswell was hardly in a condition to understand that fun was being made
of him, but listened soberly, sipping from time to time from his glass.

"The motion is not in order," said Brandon. "The hour for business has
gone by."

The punch was now removed, and cards were produced. The remainder of
the evening was spent in playing euchre and other games. Roswell took
a hand, but found he was too dizzy to play correctly, and for the
remainder of the evening contented himself with looking on. Small sums
were staked among some of the players, and thus a taste for gambling
was fostered which might hereafter lead to moral shipwreck and ruin.

This was the way in which the members of the Madison Club spent
their evenings,--a very poor way, as my young readers will readily
acknowledge. I heartily approve of societies organized by young people
for debate and mutual improvement. They are oftentimes productive of
great good. Some of our distinguished men date their first impulse to
improve and advance themselves to their connection with such a society.
But the Madison Club had no salutary object in view. It was adapted to
inspire a taste for gambling and drinking, and the money spent by the
members to sustain it was worse than wasted.

Roswell, however, who would have found nothing to interest or attract
him in a Debating Society, was very favorably impressed by what he
had seen of the Madison Club. He got an erroneous impression that it
was likely to introduce him into the society of gentlemen, and his
aristocratic predilections were, as we know, one of Roswell's hobbies.

It was about eleven when the club broke up its meeting. Previous to
this there was a personal difficulty between Wilmot and Tracy, which
resulted in a rough-and-tumble fight, in which Wilmot got the worst of
it. How the quarrel arose no one could remember,--the principals least
of all. At last they were reconciled, and were persuaded to shake hands.

They issued into the street, a noisy throng. Roswell's head ached, the
punch, to which he was not accustomed, having affected him in this way.
Besides this he felt a little dizzy.

"I wish you'd come home with me, Ralph," he said to his friend. "I
don't feel quite right."

"Oh, you'll feel all right to-morrow. Your head will become as strong
as mine after a while. I'm as cool as a cucumber."

"It's rather late, isn't it?" asked Roswell.

"Hark, there's the clock striking. I'll count the strokes. Eleven
o'clock!" he said, after counting. "That isn't very late."

Ralph accompanied Roswell to the door of his mother's house in Clinton
Place.

"Good-night, old fellow!" he said. "You'll be all right in the morning."

"Good-night," said Roswell.

He crept up to bed, but his brain was excited by the punch he had
drank, and it was only after tossing about for two hours that he at
length sank into a troubled sleep.




CHAPTER XXIII.

WHO WAS THE THIEF?


When Roswell rose the next morning he felt cross and out of sorts. His
head still ached a little, and he wished he were not obliged to go to
the store. But it was out of the question to remain at home, so he
started about half an hour after the usual time, and of course arrived
late.

"You are late this morning," said Mr. Baker. "You must be more
particular about being here in good season."

Roswell muttered something about not feeling quite well.

