                              CHAPTER IX.
                              MRS. MERTON.

“We’ll go across Broadway, and take the Sixth Avenue cars, Tom,” said
the captain.

“Are we goin’ to ride?” asked Tom, surprised.

“Yes, you don’t catch me lugging this heavy carpet-bag up to Sixteenth
Street.”

Tom was rather surprised at this. She did not understand why her
services were required to carry the bundle if they were going to ride.
However, she very sensibly remained silent, not feeling called upon to
comment on her employer’s arrangements.

At this time in the day there was no difficulty in obtaining a seat in
the cars. Tom, however, was not disposed to sit down quietly:—

“I’ll stand outside,” she said.

“Very well,” said Captain Barnes, and he drew out a copy of a morning
paper which he had purchased on leaving the hotel.

Tom took her position beside the driver. She rather enjoyed the ride,
for, though she had lived in the city for years, she had seldom been on
the car as a passenger, though she had frequently stolen a ride on the
steps of a Broadway omnibus.

“Well, Johnny, are you going up town to look after your family?” asked
the driver, good-naturedly.

“I’d have to look a long time before I found ’em,” said Tom.

“Haven’t you got any relations, then?”

“There’s an old woman that calls herself my granny.”

“Does she live up on Fifth Avenue?”

“Yes,” said Tom; “next door to you.”

“You’ve got me there,” said the driver, laughing. “Give my respects to
your granny, and tell her she’s got a smart grand-daughter.”

“I will, when I see her.”

“Don’t you live with her?”

“Not now. She aint my style.”

Here the conductor tapped Tom on the shoulder.

“He pays for me,” said Tom, pointing back at Captain Barnes.

“I suppose he’s your grandfather,” said the driver, jocosely.

“I wish he was. He’s a trump. He gave me a stunnin’ breakfast.”

“So you like him better than your granny?”

“You can bet on that.”

Captain Barnes, sitting near the door, heard a part of this
conversation, and it amused him.

“I wonder,” he thought, “whether my sister will be willing to assume
charge of this wild little girl? There’s enough in her to make a very
smart woman, if she is placed under the right influences and properly
trained. But I suspect that will require not a little patience and tact.
Well, we shall see.”

After a while the car reached Sixteenth Street, and the captain left it,
with Tom following him. They turned down Sixteenth Street from the
avenue, and finally stopped before a fair-looking brick house. Captain
Barnes went up the steps, and rang the bell.

“Is Mrs. Merton at home?” he asked.

“Yes,” said the servant, looking hard at Tom.

“Then I’ll come in. Tell her her brother wishes to see her. Come in,
Tom.”

Tom followed the captain, the servant continuing to eye her
suspiciously. They entered the parlor, where Captain Barnes took a seat
on the sofa, motioning Tom to sit beside him. Tom obeyed, surveying the
sofa with some curiosity. The families in the tenement house with whom
she had been on visiting terms did not in general possess sofas. She had
sometimes seen them in furniture stores, but this was the first time she
had sat upon one.

“What are you thinking of, Tom?” asked the captain, desiring to draw her
out.

“Does your sister live here?”

“Yes.”

“She’s rich, isn’t she?”

“No, she makes a living by keeping boarders. Perhaps you’d like to board
with her.”

Tom laughed.

“She don’t take the likes of me,” she said.

“Suppose you were rich enough, wouldn’t you like to board here?”

“I don’t know,” said Tom, looking round. “It’s dark.”

“All the rooms are not dark. Besides, you’d get three square meals every
day.”

“I’d like that,” said Tom, seriously.

Their further conversation was interrupted by the entrance of the
captain’s sister, Mrs. Merton. She was rather a stout woman, but there
was an expression of care on her face, which was not surprising, for it
is no light thing to keep a New York boarding-house.

“When did you arrive in the city, Albert?” she asked, giving him her
hand cordially.

“Only just arrived, Martha. How does the world use you?”

“I can’t complain, though it’s a wearing thing looking after a household
like this. Have you had any breakfast?”

“I took some down town.”

Just then Mrs. Merton’s eye fell for the first time upon Tom. She
started in surprise, and looked doubtfully at her brother.

“Who is this?” she asked. “Did she come with you?”

“It’s a young friend of mine. She met me at the wharf, and wanted to
carry my carpet-bag.”

“You didn’t let her do it?”

“Bless you, no. It’s big enough to pack her away in. But I employed her
to carry a bundle. Didn’t I, Tom?”

“What did you call her?” asked his sister.

“Tom. That’s her name, so she says.”

“What made you bring her here?” asked Mrs. Merton, who evidently
regarded her brother’s conduct as very queer.

“I’ll tell you, but not before her. Tom, you can go out into the entry,
and shut the door behind you. I’ll call you in a few minutes.”

Tom went out, and Captain Barnes returned to the subject.

“She’s got no relations except an intemperate old grandmother,” he said.
“I’ve taken a fancy to her, and want to help her along. Can’t you find a
place for her in your kitchen?”

“I take a girl from the street!” ejaculated Mrs. Merton. “Albert, you
must be crazy.”

“Not at all. I am sure you can find something for her to do,—cleaning
knives, running of errands, going to market, or something of that kind.”

“This is a very strange proposal.”

“Why is it? At present she lives in the street, being driven from the
only home she had, by the ill-treatment of a vicious grandmother. You
can see what chance she has of growing up respectably.”

“But there are plenty such. I don’t see that it’s our business to look
after them.”

“I don’t know why it is, but I’ve taken a fancy to this little girl.”

“She looks perfectly wild.”

“I won’t deny that she is rather uncivilized, but there’s a good deal in
her. She’s as smart as a steel trap.”

“Smart enough to steal, probably.”

“Perhaps so, under temptation. I want to remove the temptation.”

“This is a very strange freak on your part, Albert.”

“I don’t know about that. You know I have no child of my own, and am
well off, so far as this world’s goods are concerned. I have long
thought I should like to train up a child in whom I could take an
interest, and who would be a comfort to me when I am older.”

“You can find plenty of attractive children without going into the
street for them.”

“I don’t want a tame child. She wouldn’t interest me. This girl has
spirit. I’ll tell you what I want you to do, Martha. I’m going off on a
year’s voyage. Take her into your house, make her as useful as you can,
civilize her, and I will allow you a fair price for her board.”

“Do you want her to go to school?”

“After a while. At present she needs to be civilized. She is a young
street Arab with very elementary ideas as to the way in which people
live. She needs an apprenticeship in some house like this. My little
niece must be about her age.”

“Mary? How can I trust her to the companionship of such a girl?”

“Tom isn’t bad. She is only untrained. She will learn more than she will
teach at first. Afterwards Mary may learn something of her.”

“I am sure I don’t know what to say,” said Mrs. Merton, irresolutely.

Here the captain named the terms he was willing to pay for Tom’s board.
This was a consideration to Mrs. Merton, who found that she had to
calculate pretty closely to make keeping boarders pay.

“I’ll try her,” she said.

“Thank you, Martha. You can let her go into the kitchen at first, till
she is fit to be promoted.”

“She must have some clothes. She had on a boy’s jacket.”

“Yes, and cap. In fact she is more of a boy than a girl at present.”

“I am not sure but some of Mary’s old dresses may fit her. Mary must be
a little larger than she is.”

“That reminds me I brought a doll for Fanny. She has not grown too large
for dolls yet.”

“No, she is just the age to enjoy them. She will be delighted.”

“I think we may call in Tom now, and inform her of our intention.”

“She must have another name. It won’t do to call a girl Tom.”

“She said her name used to be Jenny, but she has been nicknamed Tom.”

The door was opened, and Captain Barnes called in Tom.

“Come in, Tom,” he said.

“All right!” said Tom. “I’m on hand!”

“We’ve been talking about you, Tom,” pursued the captain.

“What have you been sayin’?” asked Tom, suspiciously.

“I’ve been telling my sister that you had no home, and were obliged to
earn your own living in the streets.”

“I don’t care much,” said Tom. “I’d rather do that than live with
granny, and get licked.”

“But wouldn’t you like better to have a nice home, where you would have
plenty to eat, and a good bed to sleep in?”

“Maybe I would.”

“I’ve been asking my sister to let you stay here with her. Would you
like that?”

Tom regarded Mrs. Merton attentively. The face was careworn, but very
different from granny’s. On the whole, it inspired her with some degree
of confidence.

“If she wouldn’t lick me very often,” she said.

“How about that, Martha?” he asked.

“I think I can promise that,” said Mrs. Merton, amused in spite of
herself.

“Of course you will have to work. My sister will find something for you
to do.”

“I aint afraid of work,” said Tom, “if I only get enough to eat, and
aint licked.”

“You see, Tom, I feel an interest in you.”

“You’re a brick!” said Tom, gratefully.

“Little girl,” said Mrs. Merton, shocked, “you mustn’t use such language
in addressing my brother.”

“Never mind, Martha; she means it as a compliment.”

“A compliment to call you a brick!”

“Certainly. But now about clothes. Can’t you rig her out with something
that will make her presentable?”

“She needs a good washing first,” said Mrs. Merton, surveying Tom’s
dirty face and hands with disfavor.

“A very good suggestion. You won’t mind being washed, I suppose, Tom?”

“I’d just as lives,” said Tom.

In fact she was quite indifferent on the subject. She was used to being
dirty, but if she could oblige her new protector by washing, she was
quite willing.

“I’ve got to go out for an hour or two,” said Captain Barnes, “but I
will leave my carpet-bag here, and come back to lunch.”

“Of course, Albert. When do you sail?”

“In three days at farthest.”

“Of course you will remain here up to the day of sailing.”

“Yes, if you can find a spare corner to stow me in.”

“It would be odd if I couldn’t find room for my only brother.”

“So be it, then. You may expect me.”

He rose and taking his hat left the house. Tom and Mrs. Merton were now
alone.




                               CHAPTER X.
                         TOM DROPS HER TATTERS.


“Now, what is your name, little girl?” asked Mrs. Merton, surveying Tom
doubtfully, half sorry that she had undertaken the care of her.

“Tom.”

“That’s a boy’s name.”

“Everybody calls me Tom,—sometimes Tattered Tom.”

“There’s some reason about the first name,” thought Mrs. Merton, as her
glance rested on the ragged skirt and well-ventilated jacket of her
brother’s protegée.

“As you are a girl, it is not proper that you should have a boy’s name.
What is your real name?”

“I think it’s Jenny. Granny used to call me so long ago, but I like Tom
best.”

“Then I shall call you Jenny. Now, Jenny, the first thing to do, is to
wash yourself clean. Follow me.”

Mrs. Merton went up the front stairs, and Tom followed, using her eyes
to good advantage as she advanced.

The landlady led the way into a bath-room. She set the water to running,
and bade Tom undress.

“Am I to get into the tub?” asked Tom.

“Yes, certainly. While you are undressing, I will try and find some
clothes that will fit you.”

Though she did not at first fancy the idea of bathing, Tom grew to like
it, and submitted with a good grace. Mrs. Merton took care that it
should be thorough. After it, she dressed Tom in some clothes, still
very good, which had been laid aside by her daughter Mary. Then she
combed Tom’s tangled locks, and was astonished by the improvement it
made in the appearance of the little waif.

I have already said that Tom had elements of beauty, but it took sharp
eyes to detect them under the rags and dirt which had so effectually
disguised her. She had very brilliant dark eyes, and a clear olive
complexion, with cheeks that had a tinge of red instead of the pallor
usually to be found in those children who have the misfortune to be
reared in a tenement house. In her new clothes she looked positively
handsome, as Mrs. Merton thought, though she did not see fit to say so
to Tom herself.

When her toilet was concluded she turned Tom to the glass, and said,
“There, Jenny, do you know who that is?”

Tom stared in open-eyed wonder at the image which she saw. She could
hardly believe the testimony of her eyes.

“Is that me?” she asked.

“I believe so,” said Mrs. Merton, smiling.

“It don’t look like me a bit,” continued Tom.

“It doesn’t look like ‘Tattered Tom,’ certainly. Don’t you like it
better?”

“I dunno,” said Tom, doubtfully. “It looks too much like a girl.”

“But you are a girl, you know.”

“I wish I wasn’t.”

“Why?”

“Boys have more fun; besides, they are stronger, and can fight better.”

“But you don’t want to fight?” said Mrs. Merton, scandalized.

“I licked a boy yesterday,” said Tom, proudly.

“Why did you do that?”

“He sassed me, and I licked him. He was bigger’n I was, too!”

“I can’t allow you to fight in future, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton. “It
isn’t at all proper for girls, or indeed for boys, to fight; but it is
worse for girls.”

“Why is it?” asked Tom.

“Because girls should be gentle and lady-like.”

“If you was a girl, and a boy should slap you in the face, what would
you do?” asked Tom, fixing her bright eyes upon her mentor.

“I should forgive him, and hope he would become a better boy.”

“I wouldn’t,” said Tom. “I’d give him Hail Columby.”

“You’ve got some very wrong ideas, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton. “I fear
that your grandmother has not brought you up properly.”

“She did not bring me up at all. I brought myself up. As for granny, she
didn’t care as long as I brought her money to buy whiskey.”

Mrs. Merton shook her head. It was very evident to her that Tom had been
under very bad influences.

“I hope you will see the error of your ways after a while, Jenny. My
brother takes an interest in you, and for his sake I hope you will try
to improve.”

“If he wants me to, I will,” said Tom, decidedly.

Arab as she was, she had been impressed by the kindness of Captain
Barnes, and felt that she should like to please him. Still, there was a
fascination in the wild independence of her street life which was likely
for some time to interfere with her enjoyment of the usages of a more
civilized state. There was little prospect of her taming down into an
average girl all at once. The change must come slowly.

“My brother will be very much pleased if he finds that you have improved
when he returns from his voyage.”

“When is he goin’ to sea?”

“In two or three days.”

“I asked him to take me with him,” said Tom; “but he wouldn’t.”

“You would only be in the way on a ship, Jenny.”

“No, I shouldn’t. I could be a cabin-boy.”

“But you are not a boy.”

“I could climb the masts as well as a boy. If there was only a pole
here, I’d show you.”

“What a child you are!”

“Did you ever read about the female pirate captain?” asked Tom.

“No.”

“Jim Morgan told me all about it. He’d read it in some book. It was a
bully story.”

“Such stories are not fit to read.”

“I’d like to be a pirate captain,” said Tom, thoughtfully.

“You mustn’t talk so, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton, shocked.

“But I would, though, and carry two pistols and a dagger in my belt, and
then if anybody sassed me I’d give ’em all they wanted.”

“My brother wouldn’t like to hear you talk so, Jenny. I’m sure I don’t
know what has got into you to say such dreadful things.”

“Then I won’t,” said Tom. “I wonder what granny would say if she saw me
in these fixin’s. She wouldn’t know me.”

“When my brother comes, you shall go down and open the door for him, and
see if he knows you.”

“That will be bully.”

“Now I must be thinking what I can find for you to do. You will be
willing to help me?”

“Yes,” said Tom, promptly.

“Do you know how to make beds?”

“I can learn,” said Tom.

“Didn’t your grandmother ever teach you?” asked Mrs. Merton, who, though
for a long time a resident of New York, had a very imperfect knowledge
of how the poorest classes lived.

“Granny never made her bed,” said Tom. “She just gave it a shake, and
tumbled into it.”

“Bless me, how shiftless she must be!” ejaculated Mrs. Merton, in
surprise.

“Oh, granny don’t mind!” said Tom, carelessly.

“Did you ever sweep?”

“Lots of times. That’s the way I got money to carry to granny.”

“Were you paid for sweeping, then?” asked Mrs. Merton.

“Yes, people that came along would give me money. If they wouldn’t I’d
muddy their boots.”

“What do you mean, child? Where did you sweep?”

“Corner of Broadway and Chambers’ Streets.”

“Oh, you swept the crossing, then.”

“In course I did. If you’ll give me a broom, I’ll go out and sweep front
of your house; but I guess there aint so many people come along here as
in Broadway.”

“I don’t want you to do that,” said Mrs. Merton, hastily. “I want you to
sweep the rooms in the house. Sarah, the chambermaid, will show you how,
and also teach you to make beds.”

“All right,” said Tom. “Bring her on, and I’ll help her.”

“We will defer that till to-morrow. Now you may come down to the kitchen
with me, and I’ll see if I can find anything for you to do there.”

Tom felt ready for any enterprise, and started to follow Mrs. Merton
downstairs, but rather startled the good lady by making a rapid descent
astride the banisters.

“Don’t you do that again, Jenny,” she said reprovingly.

“Why not?” asked Tom. “It’s jolly fun.”




                               CHAPTER XI
                       THE MISTAKES OF A MORNING.


On the way to the kitchen they met Sarah, the chambermaid, going
upstairs to make the beds.

“Sarah,” said Mrs. Merton, “here is a little girl who is going to stay
with me, and help about the house. You may take her upstairs, and show
her how to help you make the beds.”

If Tom had been in her street costume, Sarah would have preferred to
dispense with her assistance, but she looked quite civilized and
respectable now, and she accepted the offer. Tom accompanied her
upstairs to the second floor. The first chamber was that of Mr.
Craven,—a gentleman in business down town. It was of course vacant,
therefore.

Tom looked about her curiously.

“Now,” said Sarah, “do you know anything about making beds?”

“No,” said Tom.

“Then stand on one side, and I will tell you what to do.”

Tom followed directions pretty well, but, as the task was about
finished, an impish freak seized her, and she caught the pillow and
threw it at Sarah’s head, disarranging that young lady’s hair, and
knocking out a comb.

“What’s that for?” demanded Sarah, angrily.

Tom sat down and laughed boisterously.

“It’s bully fun!” she said. “Throw it at me.”

“I’ll give you a shaking, you young imp,” said Sarah. “You’ve broke my
comb.”

