of winning lovers are represented by its authors as constituting the
main staple of woman’s existence. France, unfortunately, is becoming
the great society-teacher of the world. What with French theatres,
French operas, French novels, and the universal rush of American women
for travel, France is becoming so powerful on American fashionable
society, that the things said of the Parisian woman begin in some cases
to apply to some women in America.

Lillie was as precisely the woman here described as if she had been
born and bred in Paris. She had all the thirty-seven thousand ways
of saying “No,” and the incommensurable variations in saying “Yes,”
as completely as the best French teaching could have given it. She
possessed, and had used, all that graceful facility, in the story of
herself that she had told John in the days of courtship. Her power over
him was based on a dangerous foundation of unreality. Hence, during the
first few weeks of her wedded life, came a critical scene, in which she
was brought in collision with one of those “pitiless questions” our
author speaks of.

Her wedding-presents, manifold and brilliant, had remained at home, in
the charge of her mother, during the wedding-journey. One bright day,
a few weeks after her arrival in Springdale, the boxes containing the
treasures were landed there; and John, with all enthusiasm, busied
himself with the work of unpacking these boxes, and drawing forth the
treasures.

Now, it so happened that Lillie’s maternal grandfather, a nice, pious
old gentleman, had taken the occasion to make her the edifying and
suggestive present of a large, elegantly bound family Bible.

The binding was unexceptionable; and Lillie assigned it a proper place
of honor among her wedding-gear. Alas! she had not looked into it, nor
seen what dangers to her power were lodged between its leaves.



But John, who was curious in the matter of books, sat quietly down in
a corner to examine it; and on the middle page, under the head “Family
Record,” he found, in a large, bold hand, the date of the birth of
“Lillie Ellis” in figures of the most uncompromising plainness; and
thence, with one flash of his well-trained arithmetical sense, came the
perception that, instead of being twenty years old, she was in fact
twenty-seven,—and that of course she had lied to him.

It was a horrid and a hard word for an American young man to have
suggested in relation to his wife. If we may believe the French
romancer, a Frenchman would simply have smiled in amusement on
detecting this petty feminine ruse of his beloved. But American men
are in the habit of expecting the truth from respectable women as a
matter of course; and the want of it in the smallest degree strikes
them as shocking. Only an Englishman or an American can understand the
dreadful pain of that discovery to John.

The Anglo-Saxon race have, so to speak, a worship of truth; and they
hate and abhor lying with an energy which leaves no power of tolerance.

The Celtic races have a certain sympathy with deception. They have a
certain appreciation of the value of lying as a fine art, which has
never been more skilfully shown than in the passage from De Balzac we
have quoted. The woman who is described by him as lying so sweetly and
skilfully is represented as one of those women “qui ont je ne sais quoi
de saint et de sacré, qui inspirent tant de respect que l’amour,”—“a
woman who has an indescribable something of holiness and purity which
inspires respect as well as love.” It was no detraction from the
character of Jesus, according to the estimate of Renan, to represent
him as consenting to a benevolent fraud, and seeming to work miracles
when he did not work them, by way of increasing his good influence over
the multitude.

But John was the offspring of a generation of men for hundreds of
years, who would any of them have gone to the stake rather than have
told the smallest untruth; and for him who had been watched and guarded
and catechised against this sin from his cradle, till he was as true
and pure as a crystal rock, to have his faith shattered in the woman
he loved, was a terrible thing.

As he read the fatal figures, a mist swam before his eyes,—a sort of
faintness came over him. It seemed for a moment as if his very life was
sinking down through his boots into the carpet. He threw down the book
hastily, and, turning, stepped through an open window into the garden,
and walked quickly off.

“Where in the world is John going?” said Lillie, running to the door,
and calling after him in imperative tones.

“John, John, come back. I haven’t done with you yet;” but John never
turned his head.

“How very odd! what in the world is the matter with him?” she said to
herself.

John was gone all the afternoon. He took a long, long walk, all by
himself, and thought the matter over. He remembered that fresh,
childlike, almost infantine face, that looked up into his with such a
bewitching air of frankness and candor, as she professed to be telling
all about herself and her history; and now which or what of it was
true? It seemed as if he loathed her; and yet he couldn’t help loving
her, while he despised himself for doing it.

When he came home to supper, he was silent and morose. Lillie came
running to meet him; but he threw her off, saying he was tired. She was
frightened; she had never seen him look like that.

“John, what is the matter with you?” said Grace at the tea-table. “You
are upsetting every thing, and don’t drink your tea.”

“Nothing—only—I have some troublesome business to settle,” he said,
getting up to go out again. “You needn’t wait for me; I shall be out
late.”

“What can be the matter?”

Lillie, indeed, had not the remotest idea. Yet she remembered his
jumping up suddenly, and throwing down the Bible; and mechanically she
went to it, and opened it. She turned it over; and the record met her
eye.

“Provoking!” she said. “Stupid old creature! must needs go and put that
out in full.” Lillie took a paper-folder, and cut the leaf out quite
neatly; then folded and burned it.

She knew now what was the matter. John was angry at her; but she
couldn’t help wondering that he should be so angry. If he had laughed
at her, teased her, taxed her with the trick, she would have understood
what to do. But this terrible gloom, this awful commotion of the
elements, frightened her.

She went to her room, saying that she had a headache, and would go
to bed. But she did not. She took her French novel, and read till
she heard him coming; and then she threw down her book, and began to
cry. He came into the room, and saw her leaning like a little white
snow-wreath over the table, sobbing as if her heart would break. To
do her justice, Lillie’s sobs were not affected. She was lonesome and
thoroughly frightened; and, when she heard him coming, her nerves gave
out. John’s heart yearned towards her. His short-lived anger had burned
out; and he was perfectly longing for a reconciliation. He felt as if
he must have her to love, no matter what she was. He came up to her,
and stroked her hair. “O Lillie!” he said, “why couldn’t you have told
me the truth? What made you deceive me?”

“I was afraid you wouldn’t like me if I did,” said Lillie, in her sobs.

“O Lillie! I should have liked you, no matter how old you were,—only
you should have told me the truth.”

“I know it—I know it—oh, it was wrong of me!” and Lillie sobbed, and
seemed in danger of falling into convulsions; and John’s heart gave
out. He gathered her in his arms. “I can’t help loving you; and I can’t
live without you,” he said, “be you what you may!”

Lillie’s little heart beat with triumph under all her sobs: she had got
him, and should hold him yet.

“There can be no confidence between husband and wife, Lillie,” said
John, gravely, “unless we are perfectly true with each other. Promise
me, dear, that you will never deceive me again.”

Lillie promised with ready fervor. “O John!” she said, “I never should
have done so wrong if I had only come under your influence earlier. The
fact is, I have been under the worst influences all my life. I never
had anybody like you to guide me.”

John may of course be excused for feeling that his flattering little
penitent was more to him than ever; and as to Lillie, she gave a sigh
of relief. That was over, “anyway;” and she had him not only safe,
but more completely hers than before.

A generous man is entirely unnerved by a frank confession. If Lillie
had said one word in defence, if she had raised the slightest shadow
of an argument, John would have roused up all his moral principle to
oppose her; but this poor little white water-sprite, dissolving in a
rain of penitent tears, quite washed away all his anger and all his
heroism.

The next morning, Lillie, all fresh in a ravishing toilet, with
field-daisies in her hair, was in a condition to laugh gently at John
for his emotion of yesterday. She triumphed softly, not too obviously,
in her power. He couldn’t do without her,—do what she might,—that was
plain.

“Now, John,” she said, “don’t you think we poor women are judged
rather hardly? Men, you know, tell all sorts of lies to carry on their
great politics and their ambition, and nobody thinks it so dreadful of
them.”

“I do—I should,” interposed John.

“Oh, well! you—you are an exception. It is not one man in a hundred
that is so good as you are. Now, we women have only one poor little
ambition,—to be pretty, to please you men; and, as soon as you know
we are getting old, you don’t like us. And can you think it’s so very
shocking if we don’t come square up to the dreadful truth about our
age? Youth and beauty is all there is to us, you know.”

“O Lillie! don’t say so,” said John, who felt the necessity of being
instructive, and of improving the occasion to elevate the moral tone of
his little elf. “Goodness lasts, my dear, when beauty fades.”

“Oh, nonsense! Now, John, don’t talk humbug. I’d like to see you
following goodness when beauty is gone. I’ve known lots of plain old
maids that were perfect saints and angels; and yet men crowded and
jostled by them to get the pretty sinners. I dare say now,” she added,
with a bewitching look over her shoulder at him, “you’d rather have me
than Miss Almira Carraway,—hadn’t you, now?”

And Lillie put her white arm round his neck, and her downy cheek to
his, and said archly, “Come, now, confess.”

Then John told her that she was a bad, naughty girl; and she laughed;
and, on the whole, the pair were more hilarious and loving than usual.

But yet, when John was away at his office, he thought of it again, and
found there was still a sore spot in his heart.

She had cheated him once; would she cheat him again? And she could
cheat so prettily, so serenely, and with such a candid face, it was a
dangerous talent.

No: she wasn’t like his mother, he thought with a sigh. The “je ne sais
quoi de saint et de sacré,” which had so captivated his imagination,
did not cover the saintly and sacred nature; it was a mere outward
purity of complexion and outline. And then Grace,—she must not be
left to find out what he knew about Lillie. He had told Grace that
she was only twenty,—told it on her authority; and now must he become
an accomplice? If called on to speak of his wife’s age, must he
accommodate the truth to her story, or must he palter and evade? Here
was another brick laid on the wall of separation between his sister
and himself. It was rising daily. Here was another subject on which he
could never speak frankly with Grace; for he must defend Lillie,—every
impulse of his heart rushed to protect her.

But it is a terrible truth, and one that it will not hurt any of us to
bear in mind, that our judgments of our friends are involuntary.

We may long with all our hearts to confide; we may be fascinated,
entangled, and wish to be blinded; but blind we cannot be. The friend
that has lied to us once, we may long to believe; but we cannot. Nay,
more; it is the worse for us, if, in our desire to hold the dear
deceiver in our hearts, we begin to chip and hammer on the great
foundations of right and honor, and to say within ourselves, “After
all, why be so particular?” Then, when we have searched about for
all the reasons and apologies and extenuations for wrong-doing, are
we sure that in our human weakness we shall not be pulling down the
moral barriers in ourselves? The habit of excusing evil, and finding
apologies, and wishing to stand with one who stands on a lower moral
plane, is not a wholesome one for the soul.

As fate would have it, the very next day after this little scene,
who should walk into the parlor where Lillie, John, and Grace were
sitting, but that terror of American democracy, the census-taker. Armed
with the whole power of the republic, this official steps with elegant
ease into the most sacred privacies of the family. Flutterings and
denials are in vain. Bridget and Katy and Anne, no less than Seraphina
and Isabella, must give up the critical secrets of their lives.

John took the paper into the kitchen. Honest old Bridget gave in her
age with effrontery as “twinty-five.” Anne giggled and flounced, and
declared on her word she didn’t know,—they could put it down as they
liked. “But, Anne, you must tell, or you may be sent to jail, you
know.”

Anne giggled still harder, and tossed her head: “Then it’s to jail I’ll
have to go; for I don’t know.”

“Dear me,” said Lillie, with an air of edifying candor, “what a fuss
they make! Set down my age ‘twenty-seven,’ John,” she added.

Grace started, and looked at John; he met her eye, and blushed to the
roots of his hair.

“Why, what’s the matter?” said Lillie, “are you embarrassed at telling
your age?”

“Oh, nothing!” said John, writing down the numbers hastily; and then,
finding a sudden occasion to give directions in the garden, he darted
out. “It’s so silly to be ashamed of our age!” said Lillie, as the
census-taker withdrew.

“Of course,” said Grace; and she had the humanity never to allude to
the subject with her brother.




CHAPTER X.

CHANGES.

SCENE.—A chamber at the Seymour House. Lillie discovered weeping. John
rushing in with empressement.


“LILLIE, you shall tell me what ails you.”

“Nothing ails me, John.”

“Yes, there does; you were crying when I came in.”

“Oh, well, that’s nothing!”

“Oh, but it is a great deal! What is the matter? I can see that you
are not happy.”

“Oh, pshaw, John! I am as happy as I ought to be, I dare say; there
isn’t much the matter with me, only a little blue, and I don’t feel
quite strong.”

“You don’t feel strong! I’ve noticed it, Lillie.”

“Well, you see, John, the fact is, that I never have got through this
month without going to the sea-side. Mamma always took me. The doctors
told her that my constitution was such that I couldn’t get along
without it; but I dare say I shall do well enough in time, you know.”

“But, Lillie,” said John, “if you do need sea-air, you must go. I can’t
leave my business; that’s the trouble.”

“Oh, no, John! don’t think of it. I ought to make an effort to get
along. You see, it’s very foolish in me, but places affect my spirits
so. It’s perfectly absurd how I am affected.”

“Well, Lillie, I hope this place doesn’t affect you unpleasantly,” said
John.

“It’s a nice, darling place, John, and it’s very silly in me; but it is
a fact that this house somehow has a depressing effect on my spirits.
You know it’s not like the houses I’ve been used to. It has a sort of
old look; and I can’t help feeling that it puts me in mind of those who
are dead and gone; and then I think I shall be dead and gone too, some
day, and it makes me cry so. Isn’t it silly of me, John?”

“Poor little pussy!” said John.

“You see, John, our rooms are lovely; but they aren’t modern and
cheerful, like those I’ve been accustomed to. They make me feel pensive
and sad all the time; but I’m trying to get over it.”

“Why, Lillie!” said John, “would you like the rooms refurnished? It can
easily be done if you wish it.”

“Oh, no, no, dear! You are too good; and I’m sure the rooms are lovely,
and it would hurt Gracie’s feelings to change them. No: I must try and
get over it. I know just how silly it is, and I shall try to overcome
it. If I had only more strength, I believe I could.”

“Well, darling, you must go to the sea-side. I shall have you sent
right off to Newport. Gracie can go with you.”

“Oh, no, John! not for the world. Gracie must stay, and keep house for
you. She’s such a help to you, that it would be a shame to take her
away. But I think mamma would go with me,—if you could take me there,
and engage my rooms and all that, why, mamma could stay with me, you
know. To be sure, it would be a trial not to have you there; but then
if I could get up my strength, you know,”—

“Exactly, certainly; and, Lillie, how would you like the parlors
arranged if you had your own way?”

“Oh, John! don’t think of it.”

“But I just want to know for curiosity. Now, how would you have them if
you could?”

“Well, then, John, don’t you think it would be lovely to have them
frescoed? Did you ever see the Folingsbees’ rooms in New York? They
were so lovely!—one was all in blue, and the other in crimson, opening
into each other; with carved furniture, and those marquetrie tables,
and all sorts of little French things. They had such a gay and cheerful
look.”

“Now, Lillie, if you want our rooms like that, you shall have them.”

“O John, you are too good! I couldn’t ask such a sacrifice.”

“Oh, pshaw! it isn’t a sacrifice. I don’t doubt I shall like them
better myself. Your taste is perfect, Lillie; and, now I think of it,
I wonder that I thought of bringing you here without consulting you
in every particular. A woman ought to be queen in her own house, I am
sure.”

“But, Gracie! Now, John, I know she has associations with all the
things in this house, and it would be cruel to her,” said Lillie, with
a sigh.

“Pshaw! Gracie is a good, sensible girl, and ready to make any rational
change. I suppose we have been living rather behind the times, and are
somewhat rusty, that’s a fact; but Gracie will enjoy new things as much
as anybody, I dare say.”

“Well, John, since you are set on it, there’s Charlie Ferrola, one of
my particular friends; he’s an architect, and does all about arranging
rooms and houses and furniture. He did the Folingsbees’, and the
Hortons’, and the Jeromes’, and no end of real nobby people’s houses;
and made them perfectly lovely. People say that one wouldn’t know that
they weren’t in Paris, in houses that he does.”

Now, our John was by nature a good solid chip of the old Anglo-Saxon
block; and, if there was any thing that he had no special affinity
for, it was for French things. He had small opinion of French morals,
and French ways in general; but then at this moment he saw his Lillie,
whom, but half an hour before, he found all pale and tear-drenched,
now radiant and joyous, sleek as a humming-bird, with the light in her
eyes, and the rattle on the tip of her tongue; and he felt so delighted
to see her bright and gay and joyous, that he would have turned his
house into the Jardin Mabille, if that were possible.

Lillie had the prettiest little caressing tricks and graces imaginable;
and she perched herself on his knee, and laughed and chatted so gayly,
and pulled his whiskers so saucily, and then, springing up, began
arraying herself in such an astonishing daintiness of device, and
fluttering before him with such a variety of well-assorted plumage,
that John was quite taken off his feet. He did not care so much whether
what she willed to do were, “Wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best,”
as feel that what she wished to do must be done at any rate.



“Why, darling!” he said in his rapture; “why didn’t you tell me all
this before? Here you have been growing sad and blue, and losing your
vivacity and spirits, and never told me why!”

“I thought it was my duty, John, to try to bear it,” said Lillie, with
the sweet look of a virgin saint. “I thought perhaps I should get used
to things in time; and I think it is a wife’s duty to accommodate
herself to her husband’s circumstances.”

“No, it’s a husband’s duty to accommodate himself to his wife’s
wishes,” said John. “What’s that fellow’s address? I’ll write to him
about doing our house, forthwith.”

“But, John, do pray tell Gracie that it’s your wish. I don’t want her
to think that it’s I that am doing this. Now, pray do think whether you
really want it yourself. You see it must be so natural for you to like
the old things! They must have associations, and I wouldn’t for the
world, now, be the one to change them; and, after all, how silly it was
of me to feel blue!”

“Don’t say any more, Lillie. Let me see,—next week,” he said, taking
out his pocket-book, and looking over his memoranda,—“next week I’ll
take you down to Newport; and you write to-day to your mother to meet
you there, and be your guest. I’ll write and engage the rooms at once.”

“I don’t know what I shall do without you, John.”

“Oh, well, I couldn’t stay possibly! But I may run down now and then,
for a night, you know.”

“Well, we must make that do,” said Lillie, with a pensive sigh.

Thus two very important moves on Miss Lillie’s checker-board of life
were skilfully made. The house was to be refitted, and the Newport
precedent established.

Now, dear friends, don’t think Lillie a pirate, or a conspirator, or a
wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing, or any thing else but what she was,—a pretty
little, selfish woman; undeveloped in her conscience and affections,
and strong in her instincts and perceptions; in a blind way using what
means were most in her line to carry her purposes. Lillie had always
found her prettiness, her littleness, her helplessness, and her tears
so very useful in carrying her points in life that she resorted to them
as her lawful stock in trade. Neither were her blues entirely shamming.
There comes a time after marriage, when a husband, if he be any thing
of a man, has something else to do than make direct love to his wife.
He cannot be on duty at all hours to fan her, and shawl her, and admire
her. His love must express itself through other channels. He must be a
full man for her sake; and, as a man, must go forth to a whole world of
interests that takes him from her. Now what in this case shall a woman
do, whose only life lies in petting and adoration and display?

Springdale had no beau monde, no fashionable circle, no Bois de
Boulogne, and no beaux, to make amends for a husband’s engrossments.
Grace was sisterly and kind; but what on earth had they in common
to talk about? Lillie’s wardrobe was in all the freshness of bridal
exuberance, and there was nothing more to be got, and so, for the
moment, no stimulus in this line. But then where to wear all these fine
French dresses? Lillie had been called on, and invited once to little
social evening parties, through the whole round of old, respectable
families that lived under the elm-arches of Springdale; and she had
found it rather stupid. There was not a man to make an admirer of,
except the young minister, who, after the first afternoon of seeing
her, returned to his devotion to Rose Ferguson.

You know, ladies, Æsop has a pretty little fable as follows: A young
man fell desperately in love with a cat, and prayed to Jupiter to
change her to a woman for his sake. Jupiter was so obliging as to grant
his prayer; and, behold, a soft, satin-skinned, purring, graceful woman
was given into his arms.

But the legend goes on to say that, while he was delighting in her
charms, she heard the sound of mice behind the wainscot, and left him
forthwith to rush after her congenial prey.

Lillie had heard afar the sound of mice at Newport, and she longed
to be after them once more. Had she not a prestige now as a rich young
married lady? Had she not jewels and gems to show? Had she not any
number of mouse-traps, in the way of ravishing toilets? She thought it
all over, till she was sick with longing, and was sure that nothing
but the sea-air could do her any good; and so she fell to crying, and
kissing her faithful John, till she gained her end, like a veritable
little cat as she was.




CHAPTER XI.

NEWPORT; OR, THE PARADISE OF NOTHING TO DO.


BEHOLD, now, our Lillie at the height of her heart’s desire, installed
in fashionable apartments at Newport, under the placid chaperonship
of dear mamma, who never saw the least harm in any earthly thing her
Lillie chose to do.

All the dash and flash and furbelow of upper-tendom were there; and
Lillie now felt the full power and glory of being a rich, pretty, young
married woman, with oceans of money to spend, and nothing on earth to
do but follow the fancies of the passing hour.

This was Lillie’s highest ideal of happiness; and didn’t she enjoy it?

Wasn’t it something to flame forth in wondrous toilets in the eyes of
Belle Trevors and Margy Silloway and Lottie Cavers, who were not
married; and before the Simpkinses and the Tomkinses and the Jenkinses,
who, last year, had said hateful things about her, and intimated that
she had gone off in her looks, and was on the way to be an old maid?

And wasn’t it a triumph when all her old beaux came flocking round her,
and her parlors became a daily resort and lounging-place for all the
idle swains, both of her former acquaintance and of the newcomers, who
drifted with the tide of fashion? Never had she been so much the rage;
never had she been declared so “stunning.” The effect of all this good
fortune on her health was immediate. We all know how the spirits affect
the bodily welfare; and hence, my dear gentlemen, we desire it to be
solemnly impressed on you, that there is nothing so good for a woman’s
health as to give her her own way.

Lillie now, from this simple cause, received enormous accessions of
vigor. While at home with plain, sober John, trying to walk in the
quiet paths of domesticity, how did her spirits droop! If you only
could have had a vision of her brain and spinal system, you would have
seen how there was no nervous fluid there, and how all the fine little
cords and fibres that string the muscles were wilting like flowers out
of water; but now she could bathe the longest and the strongest of
any one, could ride on the beach half the day, and dance the German
into the small hours of the night, with a degree of vigor which showed
conclusively what a fine thing for her the Newport air was. Her
dancing-list was always over-crowded with applicants; bouquets were
showered on her; and the most superb “turn-outs,” with their masters
for charioteers, were at her daily disposal.

All this made talk. The world doesn’t forgive success; and the ancients
informed us that even the gods were envious of happy people. It is
astonishing to see the quantity of very proper and rational moral
reflection that is excited in the breast of society, by any sort of
success in life. How it shows them the vanity of earthly enjoyments,
the impropriety of setting one’s heart on it! How does a successful
married flirt impress all her friends with the gross impropriety of
having one’s head set on gentlemen’s attentions!

“I must say,” said Belle Trevors, “that dear Lillie does astonish me.
Now, I shouldn’t want to have that dissipated Danforth lounging in
my rooms every day, as he does in Lillie’s: and then taking her out
driving day after day; for my part, I don’t think it’s respectable.”

“Why don’t you speak to her?” said Lottie Cavers.

“Oh, my dear! she wouldn’t mind me. Lillie always was the most
imprudent creature; and, if she goes on so, she’ll certainly get
awfully talked about. That Danforth is a horrid creature; I know all
about him.”

As Miss Belle had herself been driving with the “horrid creature”
only the week before Lillie came, it must be confessed that her
opportunities for observation were of an authentic kind.

Lillie, as queen in her own parlor, was all grace and indulgence.
Hers was now to be the sisterly rôle, or, as she laughingly styled
it, the maternal. With a ravishing morning-dress, and with a killing
little cap of about three inches in extent on her head, she enacted the
young matron, and gave full permission to Tom, Dick, and Harry to make
themselves at home in her room, and smoke their cigars there in peace.
She “adored the smell;” in fact, she accepted the present of a fancy
box of cigarettes from Danforth with graciousness, and would sometimes
smoke one purely for good company. She also encouraged her followers
to unveil the tender secrets of their souls confidentially to her, and
offered gracious mediations on their behalf with any of the flitting
Newport fair ones. When they, as in duty bound, said that they saw
nobody whom they cared about now she was married, that she was the only
woman on earth for them,—she rapped their knuckles briskly with her
fan, and bid them mind their manners. All this mode of proceeding gave
her an immense success.

[Illustration: “And would sometimes smoke one purely for good
company.”]

But, as we said before, all this was talked about; and ladies in their
letters, chronicling the events of the passing hour, sent the tidings
up and down the country; and so Miss Letitia Ferguson got a letter from
Mrs. Wilcox with full pictures and comments; and she brought the same
