wanted to sleep on board in order to get a better breakfast than he
would have at home.

They parted at the cottage, and Bobtail went in to see his mother and
take his supper with her. For some reason which the son could not
understand, Mrs. Taylor was unusually sad and moody. Ezekiel was sober,
for a wonder, and did not appear to be so cross and ugly as he generally
was when recovering from his debauches. Neither of them said much, and
Bobtail wondered what had happened. After supper he went out and split
up the wood for the fire, and did other chores.

"What can be done about it?" he heard Ezekiel say, as he paused at the
door, after he had done his work.

"I don't know's anything can be done," replied Mrs. Taylor, gloomily.

Then there was a silence, and Bobtail went in.

"What's the matter, mother?" asked he, now satisfied that some calamity
impended.

"I'm afraid we shall lose the house, Robert," replied Mrs. Taylor.

"Lose the house? How can you lose it?"

"You know there's a mortgage upon it for five hundred dollars. Squire
Gilfilian wants the money, and says he must sell the place if it isn't
paid. He has been threatening to do it for a good while, and to-day he
has foreclosed the mortgage."

"I've been all over town to get somebody else to take the mortgage,"
added Ezekiel, "but I can't find nobody. The place is wuth a thousand
dollars of any man's money; but business is dull, and money's hard, and
I don't believe 'twill bring more'n the mortgage under the hammer. I
don't know what I'm goin' to do about it. I don't see's I can help
myself."

Probably just then Ezekiel Taylor reproached himself for his idle and
dissolute life, and realized that, if he had been industrious, and had
saved his money, he might have owned the place with no encumbrance at
the present time. It was about sunset, and Mrs. Taylor and her son
seated themselves on the front doorstep to talk over the impending
calamity.

"What vessel is that?" asked Mrs. Taylor, as a cloud of white canvas
emerged from behind Negro Island.

"It's a yacht!" exclaimed Bobtail. "There's a P in her burgee. It's
the Penobscot, of Belfast. She belongs to Colonel Montague. I saw her go
down the other day. She's the finest yacht in these waters. I must go
and see her."

Little Bobtail suddenly forgot all about the mortgage and the
prospective loss of the cottage as he gazed upon the white sails and the
beautiful hull of the Penobscot. She was a magnificent yacht, of about a
hundred tons. She had created a decided sensation in the bay, and our
young skipper had heard glowing accounts of her, which made him anxious
to see her with his own eyes. Her crew were hauling down her
gaff-topsails and her jib-topsail, and it was evident that she intended
to anchor in the harbor. Her foresail was lowered, and then her jib. As
she lost her headway, the anchor went overboard near where the Skylark
lay. Bobtail began to move off.

"I should like to see her, too, Robert. Can't you take me out to her?"
said Mrs. Taylor.

"Certainly, mother; come along," replied Little Bobtail; "but perhaps
they won't let us go on board of her, for I see some ladies on her
deck."

At the landing-steps they took a boat, and Bobtail pulled off to the
yacht.




CHAPTER IX.

THE PENOBSCOT.


Little Bobtail could not help looking behind him occasionally, as he
pulled the boat, to observe the beautiful proportions, and the comely,
tapering spars of the yacht. Beside the Penobscot, even the Skylark was
nowhere.

"Well that's the finest yacht I ever saw!" said he, lying upon his oars,
when he was near enough to take in the whole idea of the vessel. "She's
big enough to go around the world in, too."

"She's as nice as anything need be," replied Mrs. Taylor, with an
indifference which was very provoking to the young skipper.

She was looking at the people on the quarter-deck of the Penobscot,
rather than at the symmetrical hull and the graceful spars. There were
two ladies and two gentlemen. The old gentleman, seated near the wheel,
with long silver locks, and of grave and dignified mien, was the Hon.
Mr. Montague. His son, Colonel Montague, who had commanded a Maine
regiment during a portion of the war of the rebellion, was planking the
deck, dressed in the uniform of the New York Yacht Club. He was quite as
dignified as his father, though he was not forty yet. His wife was the
elegant lady who sat on a camp-stool gazing at the outline of the ragged
mountain which rises near the village. The young lady of twelve or
thirteen was Miss Grace Montague, the daughter of the colonel. She was
quite tall for her age, and looked very much like her mother. Mrs.
Taylor was gazing earnestly at these people.

Little Bobtail swung his boat about, and backed her up to the
accommodation-steps. The sailing-master, who also wore the Yacht Club
uniform, walked quietly to the ladder, shaking his head to intimate that
no visitors would be allowed on board. As Bobtail, who was not good at
taking a hint, especially when it did not agree with his inclination,
did not suspend his movements, the sailing-master walked down the steps
to the little platform.

"We don't allow any one to come on board to-night," said he, shoving off
the boat with his foot.

"Is this Colonel Montague's yacht?" asked Mrs. Taylor.

"It is."

"Well, I want to see him."

"O, if you wish to see the owner, you can come on board."

Just at that moment a steward in a white jacket called the party on deck
to supper. The old gentleman, Mrs. Montague, and her daughter descended
the companion-way first. As the colonel was about to follow them, the
sailing-master told him that the woman in the boat wished to see him. He
stepped over to the rail as Bobtail helped his mother upon the platform.

"Do you wish to see me, madam?" demanded the colonel, rather haughtily.

"My son wants to see this yacht very much. He's very fond of boats; and
I thought I'd make bold to ask you if he might," replied Mrs. Taylor;
and Bobtail thought then that his mother had more "cheek" than he had.

"You may come on board," replied the colonel, very much to the
astonishment of the young skipper, and apparently to the equal
astonishment of the sailing-master.

Bobtail went forward on the instant the permission was granted, leaving
his mother to follow at her leisure; but she stood for a moment talking
with the colonel. The young boatman examined the Penobscot in every part
except the cabin, which he was not permitted to enter while the family
were at supper. It would take all the exclamation marks in a fount of
type adequately to express his views of the Penobscot and her
appurtenances. The sailing-master followed him in his perambulations
above and below, and when the family had finished their meal, he
conducted him to the cabin, and permitted him to look into the
state-rooms. Bobtail had never seen anything half so magnificent, and he
expressed his delight and astonishment in the strongest language his
vocabulary afforded.

"Well, Robert, have you seen enough?" said his mother, when he returned
to the deck.

"I believe I've seen her through. I thought the Skylark was a big thing
before, but she's nothing but skim-milk compared with this yacht,"
replied he. "If I had such a yacht as this, I wouldn't go ashore at
all."

"Our people don't go on shore much," said the sailing-master, pleased
with the enthusiasm of the boy.

"I suppose she'll sail some--won't she?" added Bobtail.

"She has logged fifteen knots in a fresh breeze."

"How far have you been in her?"

"We have been down to Eastport and Mount Desert. We left Bar Harbor this
morning, and shall run up to Belfast to-morrow evening. Next week we go
to Newport, and up Long Island Sound."

"That's the life that suits me!" exclaimed Bobtail, with enthusiasm, as
he walked aft to the accommodation-steps.

Colonel Montague was smoking his cigar, and Little Bobtail thought he
was gazing very earnestly at him; but when he returned the gaze, the
dignified gentleman was looking some other way. He helped his mother
into the boat, and pulled her to the landing-steps.

"Do you know Colonel Montague, mother?" asked Bobtail.

"I used to work for him before you was born," replied Mrs. Taylor,
looking over the water at the Penobscot.

"He didn't seem to know you," added Bobtail.

"I haven't seen him before for years."

"I didn't think he'd let us go on board."

"I knew he would, if he recognized me."

"If he did recognize you, he was awful stiff about it. He hardly spoke
to you, if you did work for him before I was born."

"That's his way, Robert. He is a great man now, and I s'pose he don't
make much of folks beneath him. But he's a fine man, and I always liked
him."

"He may be a fine man, but he has a very awkward way of showing it. Why
didn't he shake hands with you, and look as though he had seen you
before?"

"That isn't his way, Robert; and he is rich enough to do just as he
pleases."

"I don't believe he is rich enough to be hoggish," added Bobtail, whose
impressions of Colonel Montague were not altogether favorable.

"But he is a good man, and has a very kind heart. He will do almost
anything for poor people."

"I should like to sail in that yacht first rate; but I would rather go
with somebody that isn't so stiff as Colonel Montague. That
sailing-master seems to be afraid of him, and daresn't say his soul's
his own."

"Did you expect Colonel Montague to take off his hat to you, and treat
you like a nabob?" asked Mrs. Taylor, indignantly.

"I didn't expect him to say anything to me; but if you used to work for
him, I should think he would have spoken a civil word or two to you."

"And so he did. He spoke to me when you were looking at the vessel; and
he spoke very kindly to me, too."

"He went below in two minutes after you reached the deck."

"Well, his supper was waiting for him. I was only his servant, and I
don't expect great folks to take much notice of me; and you won't after
you have lived to be half as old as I am."

Mrs. Taylor seemed to be entirely satisfied with Colonel Montague, and
she walked home, while her son, who was not so well satisfied with the
owner of the Penobscot, went off to the Skylark, where he was soon
joined by the Darwinian. At an early hour the captain and the crew
retired, and doubtless slept very well, for they were up at sunrise in
the morning. Monkey gorged himself with bacon at their early breakfast;
and long before the hour appointed for the party to come on board, the
Skylark was ready for their reception, with mainsail set, flags flying,
and the anchor hove up to a short stay.

Monkey had a great deal to say about the Penobscot, and Bobtail
described her cabin, state-rooms, kitchen, and forecastle while they
were waiting. She lay only a cable's length from the Skylark, and they
could see all that was going on upon her deck.

"That's Colonel Montague getting into that boat," said Bobtail, as the
owner of the Penobscot stepped into his barge.

The boat was manned by two sailors, each of whom pulled two oars. The
colonel seated himself in the stern-sheets, which were cushioned with
crimson velvet, and took the tiller-lines in his hand.

"She's coming this way," added Monkey, as the barge moved towards the
Skylark.

In a moment she was alongside, and Colonel Montague, to the surprise of
the skipper, stepped on board. He wondered greatly what had procured him
the honor of a visit from such a distinguished man.

"Good morning, my lad," said the colonel, with a pleasant smile, which
seemed to belie his conduct the evening before.

"Good morning, sir," replied Bobtail.

"Good morning, sir," added Monkey, exhibiting all the teeth in his head.

Colonel Montague glanced at the Darwinian, and possibly debated in his
own mind whether the crew of the Skylark was man or monkey.

"You have a fine little boat here," added the visitor.

"She's a first-rate boat; but she ain't much side of yours," replied
Bobtail, whose impressions in regard to the owner of the Penobscot were
undergoing a rapid change. "She'll sail some, and she's good when it
blows."

"And you take parties out in her?" added the visitor.

"Yes, sir; I have one to-day."

"I'm afraid not, Captain Bobtail," said the colonel, with a smile.

"I'm engaged, at any rate," added Bobtail, who, if the colonel had not
smiled, would have thought he was impudent to doubt his word.

"You must thank me for taking your party away from you. I found that
some friends of mine at the Bay View House were to go in your boat
to-day; but I invited them to go with me."

"Well, sir, I don't thank you for it," said Bobtail, rather pertly.

"Wait a minute, my lad. They told me they had engaged your boat; and I
promised to make it all right with you. They were to pay you seven
dollars for the day. Here is seven dollars;" and the colonel handed him
this sum. "I suppose that will make it all right."

"Yes, sir; that's handsome, and I'm very much obliged to you," answered
Bobtail, warmly; and by this time he thought that the owner of the
Penobscot was a prince.

"Now, Captain Bobtail, if you would like to take a sail in the
Penobscot, you may go with us, as you have lost your job for the day,"
added Colonel Montague.

"Thank you, sir; I should like to go first rate!" exclaimed Bobtail,
delighted with the idea.

"You may go on board with me," continued the colonel.

"I will, sir.--Monkey, you will lower the sail, and take care of the
Skylark. Don't let any one have her; and I will pay you just the same as
yesterday."

The Darwinian was very well satisfied with this arrangement, and
immediately began to consider what he should have for dinner, since the
choice was left with him. The barge returned to the Penobscot, and
Bobtail followed her owner on deck. Though the young skipper of the
Skylark was very democratic in his ideas, he did not presume to take a
place upon the quarter-deck with the family, but went forward and
fraternized with the sailors, all of whom, except the mates, were young
men. Presently the order was given to set the mainsail, and Bobtail took
hold of the peak-halyard to lend a hand. He worked well, and by his
activity won the favor of his new companions. He did his full share of
all the work, because he was not fond of idleness. The party came on
board, and the order was given to get under way.

"Clear away the jib and flying-jib," said the sailing-master.

Bobtail ran out on the bowsprit, and, dropping down upon the foot-rope,
was at the outer end of the flying-jib boom in an instant, clearing away
the sail.

"How smart you are!" said Miss Grace Montague, who was standing with
another young lady of the party near the foremast, when he returned to
the deck.

Little Bobtail blushed like a girl, for he was not accustomed to talking
with such nice young ladies.

"Thank you, miss; but it don't take more than half a day to loose a
flying-jib," he replied.

"But aren't you afraid of falling into the water?" she asked.

"O, no. I'm used to vessels. I sail the Skylark, which you see there,"
replied Bobtail, pointing to the little yacht.

"That's the boat we were going in," added the other young lady. "Then
you are Captain Bobtail?"

"Folks call me Little Bobtail; but I'm not captain," answered the young
skipper, blushing again.

"Run up the jib!" shouted the sailing-master.

Bobtail sprang to the halyard, ungallantly turning his back to the young
ladies. They looked at the short skirts of his coat, and he heard a
silvery laugh, as he took in the slack of the rope. Miss Montague and
Miss Walker were very much amused when they discovered the origin of his
name.

The wind was fresh; the Penobscot went off like "a thing of life," and
Bobtail enjoyed the sail exceedingly. She ran down as far as Owl's Head,
and then stood over towards the eastern shore of the bay. At one of the
best places she lay to, and the party caught cod and haddock till they
were tired of the sport, and then the yacht anchored under the lee of an
island. The day was fine, and the excursionists desired to visit some of
the islands in the vicinity. Both boats were manned, and went off in
different directions, according to the fancy of those on board of them.
Bobtail was permitted to occupy the fore-sheets of the one which carried
Mrs. Montague and the two young ladies, for somehow he took great
pleasure in looking at the latter, and wished they would be a little
more sociable. This boat went to Blank Island, which has a high bluff
on the east side of it, and all the party landed. The ladies and
gentlemen ascended the steep side of the island, and reached the cliff
which overhangs the sea.

Bobtail followed them at a respectful distance, while the sailors
remained near the boat. From the bluff he looked down into the little
bay, where he had anchored the Skylark the night he picked her up. The
cliff was about thirty feet high, and rose abruptly from the water,
which was very deep at the foot of it, so that a large ship might have
floated alongside the rocks. The party seated themselves near the cliff,
and were observing the rolling sea beneath them, for a south-easterly
wind was driving the huge waves into the little bay. It was a grand
sight, and the two young ladies sat on the very edge of the precipice,
watching the surges which beat and broke against the wall of rocks.

"Don't go too near, Grace," said Mrs. Montague.

"I'm not afraid, mother," replied the young lady.

"These rocks crumble off sometimes, Miss Montague," added Bobtail,
timidly approaching the spot.

"There isn't any danger," answered the wilful miss.

"Do you know what they call this place?" asked Bobtail.

"I'm sure I don't."

"Lover's Leap," laughed the young skipper. "The story is, that an Indian
girl came to this island, and jumped off this cliff, because her father
wouldn't let her marry the man she wanted."

"Where did she come from?" asked Miss Walker.

"I'm sure I don't know."

"Pooh! I don't believe any Indian girl leaped off these rocks. It
wouldn't hurt her any if she did," sneered Miss Montague.

"But she would drown in the water," suggested Bobtail.

"Well, I don't believe the story, because I think there are a thousand
just such cliffs, and some Indian girl leaped off every one of them,"
persisted Grace Montague. "I have seen ever so many 'Lover's Leaps'
myself, and the stories about them are nothing but stories."

"Perhaps this story is true," said Miss Walker, who was perchance more
sentimental than her companion.

"I don't believe a word of it. If the Indian girl wanted to drown
herself, why should she come way out here, when she could find deep
water enough near the shore?"

"Perhaps it was to get away from her friends," suggested Miss Walker.

"Perhaps it was, but I don't believe it. If I wanted to drown myself, I
could find a better place than this," said Grace, rising, and standing
on a loose stone close to the edge of the precipice. "If it were not for
getting wet, I should just as lief jump off here as not;" and she swung
her arms just as though she intended to take the leap.

"Grace! Grace!" shrieked her mother, in frantic tones, as she saw her
daughter demonstrating in this dangerous manner.

The young lady was evidently startled by the shrill tones of her mother.
She swung her arms back, as if she had lost her balance, and then went
head first over the cliff. The loose stone on which she stood rolled
back, and it was plain now that her foothold had been very insecure.

"O, mercy, mercy!" screamed Mrs. Montague, as Grace disappeared over the
precipice.



The poor mother rushed towards the cliff, and in her agony would have
thrown herself off, if the ladies with her had not held her. Little
Bobtail was appalled as he saw Grace go over; but he believed in action
rather than words. Kicking off his shoes, and divesting himself of his
bobtail coat, he made a graceful and scientific dive into the depths
below. He was celebrated as a diver and swimmer, and really felt almost
as much at home in the water as on the land. And this was not the first
time he had dived over this very cliff. He had done so several times
before for sport and bravado, and therefore we are not disposed to
magnify his conduct on the present occasion.

Miss Grace Montague had not added to her other accomplishments that of
swimming, which would have been a very useful attainment to one of such
strong aquatic tastes and tendencies. She could not swim, and she did
not attempt to do so. She only floundered and flounced about in the
water, struggling madly and purposelessly in the waves. Our hero went
deep down into the depths of the little bay, and when he rose he saw
Miss Grace borne by the waves towards the wall of rocks. If she was not
drowned, she would be mangled to death against the rocks. He struck out
for her, and in a moment she was in his arms, or, rather, in one of his
arms, for he threw only his left around her, in such a manner as to
confine her hands in his grasp. With his head above the water, he swam
towards the open bay, fearing the rocks more than the waves.

With his heavy burden he found it impossible to make any headway against
the waves, which drove him fiercely towards the rocks. Grace struggled
violently, and this added to the difficulty of saving her. He buffeted
the waves till his strength seemed to be all gone, and he feared that he
should be obliged to abandon the poor girl to her fate. But the screams
of Mrs. Montague on the rock above induced him to renew the struggle
with new vigor; but his feet touched the wall of rocks behind him. He
rose and fell with the waves, but still he held his charge firmly under
his arm.




CHAPTER X.

GRACE MONTAGUE.


Little Bobtail was not making any headway with his burden. The waves
threw him back until his feet touched the wall of rocks. He had
struggled and labored, and Miss Grace had struggled and labored, as if
intent upon defeating his beneficent efforts, until his strength was
nearly exhausted. But he treated himself as he did a boat in heavy
weather; he kept his head to the sea, well knowing that if he got into
the trough, the waves would roll him over, and render him helpless. When
his feet touched the rock, he "shoved off" vigorously. Fortunately for
him, the young lady in his grasp was even more exhausted than he was,
and by this time she was content to keep reasonably quiet. Bobtail only
endeavored to keep her head out of the water, which he was not always
able to do when the great waves surged in upon him. He no longer
attempted to make any headway, but by occasionally pushing his feet
against the rocks he saved himself from being disabled against them.

One of the gentlemen on the island had shouted to the boatmen to pull
around to the little bay. The sailors, thrilled by the screams of Mrs.
Montague, were straining every muscle, and their oars bent like reeds
before their vigorous strokes. The other boat, with Colonel Montague in
the stern-sheets, was also hastening to the spot, the half frantic
father urging the men forward with wild gestures. On the rock above, the
party watched the struggling swimmer as he bravely supported his
helpless burden.

Two of the ladies held the agonized mother, to prevent her from leaping
over the cliff. The gentlemen were shouting to the men in the boat to
hasten their speed, for there was nothing else they could do. Bobtail
saw the boat, and heard the rapid thumps of the oars in the rowlocks.
The sight and the sound inspired him with new courage. He had ceased to
struggle any more than was necessary to keep his distance from the rock.

"Hold on a few seconds more," shouted one of the gentlemen on the rock
above.



Bobtail tried to speak, but he could not, though he felt that for a
short time longer he was master of the situation.

"Way enough!" said one of the men in the boat. "Toss him an oar, Bill."

The stroke oarsman threw one of his oars to Bobtail, who grasped it, and
supported himself with it.

"Back her," said the man in the bow, as he reached forward, and seized
one of Miss Grace's arms, while the other man kept the boat in position
with his oars.

The stout sailor lifted the young lady into the boat, and Bobtail laid
hold of the bow with his released hand. A shout of joy rose from the
rock when Grace was safely drawn into the boat.

"Back her!" gasped Little Bobtail, still clinging to the bow with one
hand, while he held the oar with the other.

Grace was exhausted and panting violently, but she was not insensible.
She was even able to sit up; and when the boat had backed clear of the
rocks, she was placed on the velvet cushions at the stern. In another
moment the second boat dashed alongside, and Colonel Montague leaped
into the stern-sheets, and folded his daughter in his arms. He wiped
the salt water from her face, and did all he could to improve her
situation.

"Pull for the yacht!" said he, nervously.

All this time Bobtail had been clinging to the bow of the barge,
recovering his breath. The sailor assisted him into the boat, and he
dropped down into the fore-sheets, breathing heavily from exhaustion.
The stroke-oarsman picked up his oar, and the two men pulled with all
their might for the yacht, while the other boat went around to the
landing-place on Blank Island to bring off the party there.

"How do you feel, Grace?" asked Colonel Montague, as he laid his
daughter's head upon his breast.

"Better, father," she replied, faintly. "I'm cold."

"Give way, lively, my lads," added the colonel, to whom minutes seemed
like hours.

When the barge came alongside the accommodation-steps, Colonel Montague
bore Grace in his arms to the deck of the Penobscot.

"Let me sit down here in the sun, father," said she.

"But you must remove your wet clothes."

"Not yet. Let me rest a few moments. I shall be all well in a little
while."

"What's the matter, Edward?" asked the Hon. Mr. Montague, who had
remained on board of the Penobscot, being too old to scramble about the
rocks.

"I have been overboard, grandfather," replied Grace, with a faint smile;
and it was evident that her condition was rapidly improving.

"Overboard, child!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "How did it happen?"

"I don't know. I was not with her," replied the colonel. "But where is
that boy?"

"That boy" has just come on deck, and had seated himself in the waist.
He had recovered his wind, and was now nearly as good as new. He felt
