Frank answered.

"I know," said Victor; "it's a fat lady living on the avenue. I have
seen her out often with little pug. How do you feel, Fido?" and Victor
began to pull the hair of the lady's favorite.

"Don't do that, Victor," remonstrated Frank.

"Why not?"

"Mrs. Leroy wouldn't like it."

"Mrs. Leroy isn't here."

"I am," said Frank, emphatically, "and that is the same thing."

Victor, by way of reply, pinched Fido's ear, and the little animal
squeaked his disapproval.

"Look here, Victor," said Frank, decidedly, "you must stop that."

"Must I?" sneered Victor, contemptuously. "'Suppose I don't?"

"Then I shall punch you," said Frank, quietly.

"You are impertinent," said Victor, haughtily. "You needn't put on such
airs because you are nurse to a puppy."

"That is better than being a puppy myself," retorted Frank.

"Do you mean to insult me?" demanded Victor, quickly.

"No, unless you choose to think the remark fits you."

"I have a great mind to give you a thrashing," said Victor, furiously.

"Of course I should sit still and let you do it," said Frank, calmly.
"Fido is under my care, and I can't have him teased. That is right,
isn't it?"

"I did wrong to notice you," said Victor. "You are only a dog's nurse."

Frank laughed.

"You are right," he said. "It is new business for me, and though it is
easy enough I can't say I like it. However, I am in the service of the
Telegraph Company, and must do whatever is required."

Victor walked away, rather annoyed because he could not tease Frank.

"The boy has no pride," he said to himself, "or he wouldn't live out to
take care of dogs. But, then, it is suitable enough for him."

"Is that dawg yours?" asked a rough-looking man, taking his seat on the
bench near Frank.

"No, sir."

"How old is it?"

"I don't know."

"Looks like a dawg I used to own. Let me take him."

"I would rather not," said Frank, coldly. "It belongs to a lady who is
very particular."

"Oh, you won't, won't you?" said the man, roughly. "Danged if I don't
think it is my dawg, after all;" and the man seized Fido, and was about
to carry him away.

But Frank seized him by the arm, and called for help.

"What's the matter?" asked a park policeman who, unobserved by either,
had come up behind.

"This man is trying to steal my dog," said Frank.

"The dog is mine," said the thief, boldly.

"Drop him!" said the officer, authoritatively. "I have seen that dog
before. He belongs to neither of you."

"That is true," said Frank. "It belongs to Mrs. Leroy, of Madison
avenue, and I am employed to take it out for an airing."

"It's a lie!" said the man, sullenly.

"If you are seen again in this neighborhood," said the policeman, "I
shall arrest you. Now clear out!"

The would-be thief slunk away, and Frank thanked the officer.

"That man is a dog-stealer," said the policeman. "His business is to
steal dogs, and wait till a reward is offered. Look out for him!"




CHAPTER XII.

A WAYWARD SON.


When Frank carried Fido back to his mistress, he thought it his duty to
tell Mrs. Leroy of the attempt to abduct the favorite.

Mrs. Leroy turned pale.

"Did the man actually take my little pet?" she asked.

"Yes, ma'am. He said it was his dog."

"The horrid brute! How could I have lived without my darling?" and the
lady caressed her favorite tenderly. "How did you prevent him?"

"I seized him by the arm, and held him till a policeman came up."

"You are a brave boy," said Mrs. Leroy, admiringly. "But for you, Fido
would have been stolen."

"The policeman said the man was a professional dog-stealer. He steals
dogs for the reward which is offered."

"I was sure I could trust you with my pet," said Mrs. Leroy. "You
deserve a reward yourself."

"I was only doing my duty, ma'am," said Frank, modestly.

"It isn't everybody that does that."

Mrs. Leroy rose, and, going to her bureau, drew an ivory portemonnaie
from a small upper drawer; from this she extracted a two-dollar bill,
and gave it to Frank.

"This is too much," said Frank, surprised at the size of the gift.

"Too much for rescuing my little pet? No, no, I am the best judge of
that. I wouldn't have lost him for fifty times two dollars."

"You are very liberal, and I am very much obliged to you," said Frank.

"If I send again for a boy to take out Fido, I want you to come."

"I will if I can, ma'am."

For several days, though Frank was employed on errands daily, there was
nothing of an unusual character. About eleven o'clock one evening (for
Frank had to take his turn at night work) he was sent to a house on
West Thirty-eighth street. On arriving, he was ushered into the presence
of a lady of middle age, whose anxious face betrayed the anxiety that
she felt.

"I have a son rather larger and older than you," she said, "who, to my
great sorrow, has been led away by evil companions, who have induced him
to drink and play cards for money. I will not admit them into my house,
but I cannot keep him from seeking them out. He is no doubt with them
to-night."

Frank listened with respectful sympathy, and waited to hear what he was
desired to do in the matter.

"The boy's father is dead," continued Mrs. Vivian, with emotion, "and I
cannot fill his place. Fred is unwilling to obey his mother. His
companions have persuaded him that it is unmanly."

"I would gladly obey my mother if I could have her back," said Frank.

"Is your mother dead, then?" inquired Mrs. Vivian, with quick sympathy.

"I have neither father nor mother," Frank answered gravely.

"Poor boy! And yet you do not fall into temptation."

"I have no time for that, ma'am; I have to earn my living."

"If I could get Fred to take a position it might be a benefit to him,"
said Mrs. Vivian, thoughtfully. "But the question now is, how I may be
able to find him."

"When did you see him last?" asked Frank.

"About three o'clock this afternoon I gave him seventy-five dollars, and
sent him to pay a bill. I was perhaps imprudent to trust him with such a
sum of money; but for a few days past he has been more steady than
usual, and I thought it would show my confidence in him if I employed
him in such a matter."

"I should think it would, ma'am."

"But I am afraid Fred fell in with some of his evil companions, and let
them know that he was well provided with money. That would be enough to
excite their cupidity."

"Who are the companions you speak of?" asked Frank.

"Boys, or rather young men, for they are all older than Fred, of lower
social rank than himself. I don't attach any special importance to that,
nor do I object to them on that ground; but they are, I have reason to
think, ill-bred and disreputable. They know Fred to be richer than
themselves, and induce him to drink and play, in the hope of getting
some of his money. I have sent for you to go in search of my son. If you
find him you must do your best to bring him home."

"I will," said Frank. "Can you give me any idea where he may be found?"

Mrs. Vivian wrote on a card two places,--one a billiard saloon, which
she had reason to suspect that her son frequented.

"Now," said Frank, "will you be kind enough to describe your son to me,
so that I may know him when I see him?"

"I will show you his photograph," said Mrs. Vivian.

She opened an album, and showed the picture of a boy of seventeen, with
a pleasant face, fair complexion, and hair somewhat curly. His forehead
was high, and he looked gentlemanly and refined.

"Is he not good-looking?" said the mother.

"He looks like a gentleman," said Frank.

"He would be one if he could throw off his evil associates. Do you think
you will know him from the picture?"

"Yes, I think so. Is he tall?"

"Two or three inches taller than you are. You had better take the
picture with you. I have an extra one, which you can put in your pocket
to help you identify him. By the way, it will be as well that you should
be supplied with money in case it is necessary to bring him home in a
cab."

Frank understood what the mother found it difficult to explain. She
feared that her boy might be the worse for drink.

She handed our hero a five-dollar bill.

"I will use it prudently, madam," said he, "and account to you for all I
do not use."

"I trust you wholly," said the lady. "Now go as quickly as possible."

Frank looked at the two addresses he had on the card. The
billiard-saloon was on the east side of the city, in an unfashionable
locality.

"I'll go there first," he decided.

Crossing to Third avenue he hailed a car, and rode down-town. His
knowledge of the city, gained from the walks he took when a newsboy,
made it easy for him to find the place of which he was in search. Though
it was nearly midnight, the saloon was lighted up, and two tables were
in use. On the left-hand side, as he entered, was a bar, behind which
stood a man in his shirt-sleeves, who answered the frequent calls for
drinks. He looked rather suspiciously at Frank's uniform when he
entered.

"What do you want?" he asked. "Have you any message for me?"

"No," said Frank, carelessly. "Let me have a glass of lemonade."

The bar-keeper's face cleared instantly, and he set about preparing the
beverage required.

"Won't you have something in it?" he asked.

"No, sir," said Frank.

"You boys are kept out pretty late," said the bar-keeper, socially.

"Not every night," said Frank. "We take turns."

Frank paid ten cents for his lemonade, and, passing into the
billiard-saloon, sat down and watched a game. He looked around him, but
could not see anything of Fred. In fact, all the players were men.

Sitting next to him was a young fellow, who was watching the game.

"Suppose we try a game," he said to Frank.

"Not to-night. I came in here to look for a friend, but I guess he isn't
here."

"I've been here two hours. What does your friend look like?"

"That's his picture," said Frank, displaying the photograph.

"Oh, yes," said his new acquaintance, "he is here now. His name is Fred,
isn't it?"

"Yes," answered Frank, eagerly; "I don't see him. Where is he?"

"He's playing cards upstairs, but I don't believe he can tell one card
from the other."

"Been drinking, I suppose," said Frank, betraying no surprise.

"I should say so. Do you know the fellows he's with?"

"I am not sure about that. How long has Fred been upstairs?"

"About an hour. He was playing billiards till he couldn't stand
straight, and then they went upstairs."

"Would you mind telling him that there is a friend downstairs who wishes
to see him, that is, if you know the way?"

"Oh, yes, I live here. Won't you come up with me?"

"Perhaps I had better," said Frank, and followed his companion through a
door in the rear, and up a dark and narrow staircase to the street
floor.

"It'll be a hard job to get him away," thought Frank; "but, for his
mother's sake, I will do my best."




CHAPTER XIII.

A TIMELY RESCUE.


As Frank entered the room he hastily took in the scene before him. Round
a table sat three young men, of not far from twenty, the fourth side
being occupied by Fred Vivian. They were playing cards, and sipping
drinks as they played. Fred Vivian's handsome face was flushed, and he
was nervously excited. His hands trembled as he lifted the glass, and
his wandering, uncertain glances showed that he was not himself.

"It's your play, Fred," said his partner.

Fred picked up a card without looking at it, and threw it down on the
table.

"That settles it," said another. "Fred, old boy, you've lost the game.
You're another five dollars out."

Fred fumbled in his pocket for a bill, and it was quickly taken from his
hand before he could well see of what value it was. Frank, however,
quickly as it was put away, saw that it was a ten. It was clear that
Fred was being cheated in the most barefaced manner.

Frank's entrance was evidently unwelcome to most of the company.

"What are you bringing in that boy for, John?" demanded a low-browed
fellow, with a face like a bull-dog.

"He is a friend of Fred," answered John.

"He's a telegraph boy. He comes here a spy. Fred don't know him. Clear
out, boy!"

Frank took no notice of this hostile remark, but walked up to Fred
Vivian.

"Fred," said he, thinking it best to speak as if he knew him, "it is
getting late, and your mother is anxious about you. Won't you come home
with me?"

"Who are you?" asked Fred, with drunken gravity. "You aint my mother."

"I come from your mother. Don't you know me? I am Frank Kavanagh."

"How do, Frank? Glad to see you, ol' feller. Take a drink. Here, you
boy, bring a drink for my frien', Frank Kavanagh."

The three others looked on disconcerted. They were not ready to part
with Fred yet, having secured only a part of his money.

"You don't know him, Fred," said the one who had appropriated the
ten-dollar bill. "He's only a telegraph boy."

"I tell you he's my frien', Frank Kav'nagh," persisted Fred, with an
obstinacy not unusual in one in his condition.

"Well, if he is, let him sit down, and have a glass of something hot."

"No, I thank you," said Frank, coldly. "Fred and I are going home."

"No, you're not," exclaimed the other, bringing his fist heavily down
upon the table. "We won't allow our friend Fred to be kidnapped by a boy
of your size,--not much we won't, will we, boys?"

"No! no!" chimed in the other two.

Fred Vivian looked at them undecided.

"I guess I'd better go," he stammered "There's something the matter with
my head."

"You need another drink to brace you up. Here, John, bring up another
punch for Fred."

Frank saw that unless he got Fred away before drinking any more, he
would not be in a condition to go at all. It was a critical position,
but he saw that he must be bold and resolute.

"You needn't bring Fred anything more," he said. "He has had enough
already."

"I have had enough already," muttered Fred, mechanically.

"Boys, are we going to stand this?" said the low-browed young man. "Are
we going to let this telegraph boy interfere with a social party of
young gentlemen? I move that we throw him downstairs."

He half rose as he spoke, but Frank stood his ground.

"You'd better not try it," he said quietly, "unless you want to pass the
night in the station-house."

"What do you mean, you young jackanapes?" said the other angrily. "What
charge can you trump up against us?"

"You have been cheating Fred out of his money," said Frank, firmly.

"It's a lie! We've been having a friendly game, and he lost. If we'd
lost, we would have paid."

"How much did he lose?"

"Five dollars."

"And you took ten from him."

"It's a lie!" repeated the other; but he looked disconcerted.

"It is true, for I noticed the bill as you took it from him. But it's
not much worse than playing for money with him when he is in no
condition to understand the game. You'd better give him back that
ten-dollar bill."

"I've a great mind to fling you downstairs, you young scamp!"

"You are strong enough to do it," said Frank, exhibiting no trace of
fear, "but I think you would be sorry for it afterwards. Come, Fred."

Though Frank was so much younger and smaller, there was something in his
calm, self-possessed manner that gave him an ascendency over the weak,
vacillating Fred. The latter rose, and, taking our hero's arm, turned to
leave the room.

"Let him go," said the leader, who had been made uneasy by Frank's
threat, and saw that it was politic to postpone his further designs upon
his intended victim. "If he chooses to obey a small telegraph boy, he
can."

"Don't mind him, Fred," said Frank. "You know I'm your friend."

"My friend, Frank Kavanagh!" repeated Fred, drowsily. "I'm awful sleepy,
Frank. I want to go to bed."

"You shall go to bed as soon as you get home, Fred."

"I say, boy," said the leader, uneasily, "that was all a lie about the
ten-dollar bill. You didn't see straight. Did he, Bates?"

"Of course he didn't."

"One lies and the other swears to it," thought Frank.

"Nothing will be done about it," he said, "if you will let Fred alone
hereafter. The money you have won from him belongs to his mother, and,
unless you keep away from him, she will order your arrest."

"You're altogether too smart for a boy of your size," sneered the other.
"Take your friend away. We don't care to associate with a milksop, who
allows himself to be ordered around by women and children."

Fortunately Fred was too drowsy to pay heed to what was being said; in
fact he was very sleepy, and was anxious to go to bed. Frank got him
into a cab, and in twenty minutes they safely reached his mother's house
in Thirty-eighth street.

Mrs. Vivian was anxiously awaiting the return of the prodigal.

"O Fred," she said, "how could you stay away so, when you know how
worried I get? You have been drinking, too."

"This is my friend, Frank Kavanagh," hiccoughed Fred.

"Shall I go up and help put him to bed?" asked Frank.

"Does he require help?" asked Mrs. Vivian, sorrowfully.

"He has been drinking a good deal."

"Yes, you may go up. I will lead the way to his chamber. Afterwards I
want to speak to you."

"All right."

"Where did you find him?" asked Mrs. Vivian, when Frank with some
difficulty had prepared his charge for bed.

"In the billiard-saloon to which you directed me. He was upstairs
playing cards for money. They were cheating him in the most outrageous
manner."

"I suppose they got all his money."

"Not all; but they would soon have done so. Here is his pocket-book,
which I just took from his pocket."

"There are twenty dollars left," said 'Mrs. Vivian, after an
examination. "They must have secured the rest. O my poor boy! Would that
I could shield you from these dangerous companions!"

"I don't think they will trouble him again, Mrs. Vivian."

"Why not? You do not know them."

"I told them that, if they came near him, hereafter, you would have them
arrested for swindling your son out of money belonging to you."

"Will that have any effect upon them?"

"Yes, because they know that I am ready to appear as a witness against
them."

"Did Fred show any unwillingness to come with you?"

"No; I made him think I was an old acquaintance of his. Besides, he was
feeling sleepy."

"You have acted with great judgment for so young a lad," said Mrs.
Vivian. "I wish Fred had a companion like you to influence him for good.
Where do you live?"

"At the Newsboys Lodging-House. I cannot afford to hire a room."

Mrs. Vivian looked thoughtful.

"Give me your name and address," she said.

These she noted down.

"I won't keep you any longer to-night," she said, "for you must be
tired. You will hear from me again."

"Oh," said Frank, "I nearly forgot. Here is the balance of the money you
handed me for expenses."

"Keep it for yourself," said Mrs. Vivian, "and accept my thanks
besides."

Though Frank had paid for the cab, there was a balance of nearly two
dollars in his hands which he was very glad to keep.




CHAPTER XIV.

FRANK MAKES AN EVENING CALL.


The next day Frank chanced to meet Mrs. Vivian in the street. She
recognized him at once.

"I see you are kept busy," she said, pleasantly.

"Yes," answered Frank. "Our business is pretty good just now. How is
your son?"

"He slept well, and woke much refreshed this morning. He is a good boy
naturally, but unable to withstand temptation. I have decided to send
him to the country for a few weeks, to visit a cousin of about his own
age. There he will be secure from temptation, and will have a chance to
ride. I would have sent him away before, but that it would leave me
alone in the house. You told me last evening that you had no
boarding-place."

"My only home is at the lodging-house," said Frank.

"How would you like to occupy a room at my house while my son is away?"

"Very much," said Frank, promptly.

"I shall find it convenient to have you in the house, and shall feel
safer."

"I am afraid I shouldn't be a match for an able-bodied burglar," said
Frank, smiling.

"Perhaps not; but you could summon a policeman. When can you come and
see me about this arrangement?"

"I am off duty to-night."

"Very well; I will expect you. Fred will not go away till to-morrow, and
you will have a chance to see him under more favorable circumstances
than last evening."

"Thank you very much for your kind invitation," said Frank, politely.

Mrs. Vivian bade him good-morning, very favorably impressed with his
