
“Go away till I’m done. You will have to see the outside, but you can’t
know the inside till the answer comes;” and propping herself up, Jill
wrote the following note, with some hesitation at the beginning and end,
for she did not know the gentleman she was addressing, except by sight,
and it was rather awkward:--

“Robert Walker.

“Dear Sir, I want to ask if Jack Minot came to see you last Friday
afternoon. He got into trouble being seen with Jerry Shannon. He paid
him some money. Jack won’t tell, and Mr. Acton talked to him about it
before all the school. We feel bad, because we think Jack did not do
wrong. I don’t know as you have anything to do with it, but I thought
I’d ask. Please answer quick. Respectfully yours,

“Jane Pecq”

To make sure that her despatch was not tampered with, Jill put a great
splash of red sealing-wax on it, which gave it a very official look, and
much impressed Bob when he received it.

“There! Go and post it, and don’t let any one see or know about it,” she
said, handing it over to Frank, who left his work with unusual alacrity
to do her errand. When his eye fell on the address, he laughed, and said
in a teasing way,--

“Are you and Bob such good friends that you correspond? What will Jack
say?”

“Don’t know, and don’t care! Be good, now, and let’s have a little
secret as well as other folks. I’ll tell you all about it when he
answers,” said Jill in her most coaxing tone.

“Suppose he doesn’t?”

“Then I shall send you up to see him. I must know something, and I
want to do it myself, if I can.”

“Look here; what are you after? I do believe you think----” Frank got
no farther, for Jill gave a little scream, and stopped him by crying
eagerly, “Don’t say it out loud! I really do believe it may be, and I’m
going to find out.”

“What made you think of him?” and Frank looked thoughtfully at the
letter, as if turning carefully over in his mind the idea that Jill’s
quick wits had jumped at.

“Come here and I’ll tell you.”

Holding him by one button, she whispered something in his ear that made
him exclaim, with a look at the rug,--

“No! did he? I declare I shouldn’t wonder! It would be just like the
dear old blunder-head.”

“I never thought of it till you told me where Bob was, and then it all
sort of burst upon me in one minute!” cried Jill, waving her arms about
to express the intellectual explosion which had thrown light upon the
mystery, like sky-rockets in a dark night.

“You are as bright as a button. No time to lose; I’m off;” and off he
was, splashing through the mud to post the letter, on the back of which
he added, to make the thing sure, “Hurry up. F.M.”

Both felt rather guilty next day, but enjoyed themselves very much
nevertheless, and kept chuckling over the mine they were making under
Jack’s unconscious feet. They hardly expected an answer at noon, as the
Hill people were not very eager for their mail, but at night Jill was
sure of a letter, and to her great delight it came. Jack brought it
himself, which added to the fun, and while she eagerly read it he sat
calmly poring over the latest number of his own private and particular
“Youth’s Companion.”

Bob was not a “complete letter-writer” by any means, and with great
labor and much ink had produced the following brief but highly
satisfactory epistle. Not knowing how to address his fair correspondent
he let it alone, and went at once to the point in the frankest possible
way:--

“Jack did come up Friday. Sorry he got into a mess. It was real kind of
him, and I shall pay him back soon. Jack paid Jerry for me and I made
him promise not to tell. Jerry said he’d come here and make a row if I
didn’t cash up. I was afraid I’d lose the place if he did, for the Capt.
is awful strict. If Jack don’t tell now, I will. I ain’t mean. Glad you
wrote.

“R.O.W.”

“Hurrah!” cried Jill, waving the letter over her head in great triumph.
“Call everybody and read it out,” she added, as Frank snatched it, and
ran for his mother, seeing at a glance that the news was good. Jill
was so afraid she should tell before the others came that she burst out
singing “Pretty Bobby Shafto” at the top of her voice, to Jack’s great
disgust, for he considered the song very personal, as he was rather
fond of “combing down his yellow hair,” and Jill often plagued him by
singing it when he came in with the golden quirls very smooth and nice
to hide the scar on his forehead.

In about five minutes the door flew open and in came Mamma, making
straight for bewildered Jack, who thought the family had gone crazy when
his parent caught him in her arms, saying tenderly,--

“My good, generous boy! I knew he was right all the time!” while Frank
worked his hand up and down like a pump-handle, exclaiming heartily,--

“You’re a trump, sir, and I’m proud of you!” Jill meantime calling out,
in wild delight,--

“I told you so! I told you so! I did find out; ha, ha, I did!”

“Come, I say! What’s the matter? I’m all right. Don’t squeeze the breath
out of me, please,” expostulated Jack, looking so startled and innocent,
as he struggled feebly, that they all laughed, and this plaintive
protest caused him to be released. But the next proceeding did not
enlighten him much, for Frank kept waving a very inky paper before him
and ordering him to read it, while Mamma made a charge at Jill, as if it
was absolutely necessary to hug somebody.

“Hullo!” said Jack, when he got the letter into his own hand and
read it. “Now who put Bob up to this? Nobody had any business to
interfere--but it’s mighty good of him, anyway,” he added, as the
anxious lines in his round face smoothed themselves away, while a smile
of relief told how hard it had been for him to keep his word.

“I did!” cried Jill, clapping her hands, and looking so happy that he
could not have scolded her if he had wanted to.

“Who told you he was in the scrape?” demanded Jack, in a hurry to know
all about it now the seal was taken off his own lips.

“You did;” and Jill’s face twinkled with naughty satisfaction, for this
was the best fun of all.

“I didn’t! When? Where? It’s a joke!”

“You did,” cried Jill, pointing to the rug. “You went to sleep there
after the long walk, and talked in your sleep about ‘Bob’ and ‘All
right, old boy,’ and ever so much gibberish. I didn’t think about it
then, but when I heard that Bob was up there I thought may be he knew
something about it, and last night I wrote and asked him, and that’s the
answer, and now it is all right, and you are the best boy that ever
was, and I’m so glad!”

Here Jill paused, all out of breath, and Frank said, with an approving
pat on the head,--

“It won’t do to have such a sharp young person round if we are going to
have secrets. You’d make a good detective, miss.”

“Catch me taking naps before people again;” and Jack looked rather
crestfallen that his own words had set “Fine Ear” on the track. “Never
mind, I didn’t mean to tell, though I just ached to do it all the
time, so I haven’t broken my word. I’m glad you all know, but you
needn’t let it get out, for Bob is a good fellow, and it might make
trouble for him,” added Jack, anxious lest his gain should be the
other’s loss.

“I shall tell Mr. Acton myself, and the Captain, also, for I’m not going
to have my son suspected of wrong-doing when he has only tried to help a
friend, and borne enough for his sake,” said Mamma, much excited by this
discovery of generous fidelity in her boy; though when one came to look
at it calmly, one saw that it might have been done in a wiser way.

“Now, please, don’t make a fuss about it; that would be most as bad as
having every one down on me. I can stand your praising me, but I won’t
be patted on the head by anybody else;” and Jack assumed a manly air,
though his face was full of genuine boyish pleasure at being set right
in the eyes of those he loved.

“I’ll be discreet, dear, but you owe it to yourself, as well as Bob, to
have the truth known. Both have behaved well, and no harm will come to
him, I am sure. I’ll see to that myself,” said Mrs. Minot, in a tone
that set Jack’s mind at rest on that point.

“Now do tell all about it,” cried Jill, who was pining to know the whole
story, and felt as if she had earned the right to hear it.

“Oh, it wasn’t much. We promised Ed to stand by Bob, so I did as well
as I knew how;” and Jack seemed to think that was about all there was to
say.

“I never saw such a fellow for keeping a promise! You stick to it
through thick and thin, no matter how silly or hard it is. You remember,
mother, last summer, how you told him not to go in a boat and he
promised, the day we went on the picnic. We rode up, but the horse ran
off home, so we had to come back by way of the river, all but Jack, and
he walked every step of five miles because he wouldn’t go near a boat,
though Mr. Burton was there to take care of him. I call that rather
overdoing the matter;” and Frank looked as if he thought moderation even
in virtue a good thing.

“And I call it a fine sample of entire obedience. He obeyed orders, and
that is what we all must do, without always seeing why, or daring to
use our own judgment. It is a great safeguard to Jack, and a very great
comfort to me; for I know that if he promises he will keep his word,
no matter what it costs him,” said Mamma warmly, as she tumbled up
the quirls with an irrepressible caress, remembering how the boy came
wearily in after all the others, without seeming for a moment to think
that he could have done anything else.

“Like Casabianca!” cried Jill, much impressed, for obedience was her
hardest trial.

“I think he was a fool to burn up,” said Frank, bound not to give in.

“I don’t. It’s a splendid piece, and every one likes to speak it, and
it was true, and it wouldn’t be in all the books if he was a fool. Grown
people know what is good,” declared Jill, who liked heroic actions, and
was always hoping for a chance to distinguish herself in that way.

“You admire ‘The Charge of the Light Brigade,’ and glow all over as
you thunder it out. Yet they went gallantly to their death rather than
disobey orders. A mistake, perhaps, but it makes us thrill to hear of
it; and the same spirit keeps my Jack true as steel when once his word
is passed, or he thinks it is his duty. Don’t be laughed out of it, my
son, for faithfulness in little things fits one for heroism when the
great trials come. One’s conscience can hardly be too tender when honor
and honesty are concerned.”

“You are right, mother, and I am wrong. I beg your pardon, Jack, and you
sha’n’t get ahead of me next time.”

Frank made his mother a little bow, gave his brother a shake of the
hand, and nodded to Jill, as if anxious to show that he was not too
proud to own up when he made a mistake.

“Please tell on, Jack. This is very nice, but I do want to know all
about the other,” said Jill, after a short pause.

“Let me see. Oh, I saw Bob at church, and he looked rather blue; so,
after Sunday School, I asked what the matter was. He said Jerry bothered
him for some money he lent him at different times when they were loafing
round together, before we took him up. He wouldn’t get any wages for
some time. The Captain keeps him short on purpose, I guess, and won’t
let him come down town except on Sundays. He didn’t want any one to know
about it, for fear he’d lose his place. So I promised I wouldn’t tell.
Then I was afraid Jerry would go and make a fuss, and Bob would run off,
or do something desperate, being worried, and I said I’d pay it for him,
if I could. So he went home pretty jolly, and I scratched ‘round for the
money. Got it, too, and wasn’t I glad?”

Jack paused to rub his hands, and Frank said, with more than usual
respect,

“Couldn’t you get hold of Jerry in any other place, and out of school
time? That did the mischief, thanks to Joe. I thrashed him, Jill--did I
mention it?”

“I couldn’t get all my money till Friday morning, and I knew Jerry was
off at night. I looked for him before school, and at noon, but couldn’t
find him, so afternoon recess was my last chance. I was bound to do it
and I didn’t mean to break the rule, but Jerry was just going into the
shop, so I pelted after him, and as it was private business we went to
the billiard-room. I declare I never was so relieved as when I handed
over that money, and made him say it was all right, and he wouldn’t go
near Bob. He’s off, so my mind is easy, and Bob will be so grateful I
can keep him steady, perhaps. That will be worth two seventy-five, I
think,” said Jack heartily.

“You should have come to me,” began Frank.

“And got laughed at--no, thank you,” interrupted Jack, recollecting
several philanthropic little enterprises which were nipped in the bud
for want of co-operation.

“To me, then,” said his mother. “It would have saved so much trouble.”

“I thought of it, but Bob didn’t want the big fellows to know for fear
they’d be down on him, so I thought he might not like me to tell grown
people. I don’t mind the fuss now, and Bob is as kind as he can be.
Wanted to give me his big knife, but I wouldn’t take it. I’d rather have
this,” and Jack put the letter in his pocket with a slap outside, as if
it warmed the cockles of his heart to have it there.

“Well, it seems rather like a tempest in a teapot, now it is all over,
but I do admire your pluck, little boy, in holding out so well when
every one was scolding at you, and you in the right all the time,” said
Frank, glad to praise, now that he honestly could, after his wholesale
condemnation.

“That is what pulled me through, I suppose. I used to think if I had
done anything wrong, that I couldn’t stand the snubbing a day. I should
have told right off, and had it over. Now, I guess I’ll have a good
report if you do tell Mr. Acton,” said Jack, looking at his mother so
wistfully, that she resolved to slip away that very evening, and make
sure that the thing was done.

“That will make you happier than anything else, won’t it?” asked Jill,
eager to have him rewarded after his trials.

“There’s one thing I like better, though I’d be very sorry to lose my
report. It’s the fun of telling Ed I tried to do as he wanted us to, and
seeing how pleased he’ll be,” added Jack, rather bashfully, for the boys
laughed at him sometimes for his love of this friend.

“I know he won’t be any happier about it than someone else, who stood
by you all through, and set her bright wits to work till the trouble was
all cleared away,” said Mrs. Minot, looking at Jill’s contented face, as
she lay smiling on them all.

Jack understood, and, hopping across the room, gave both the thin hands
a hearty shake; then, not finding any words quite cordial enough in
which to thank this faithful little sister, he stooped down and kissed
her gratefully.




Chapter XV. Saint Lucy


Saturday was a busy and a happy time to Jack, for in the morning Mr.
Acton came to see him, having heard the story overnight, and promised
to keep Bob’s secret while giving Jack an acquittal as public as the
reprimand had been. Then he asked for the report which Jack had bravely
received the day before and put away without showing to anybody.

“There is one mistake here which we must rectify,” said Mr. Acton, as
he crossed out the low figures under the word “Behavior,” and put the
much-desired 100 there.

“But I did break the rule, sir,” said Jack, though his face glowed with
pleasure, for Mamma was looking on.

“I overlook that as I should your breaking into my house if you saw it
was on fire. You ran to save a friend, and I wish I could tell those
fellows why you were there. It would do them good. I am not going to
praise you, John, but I did believe you in spite of appearances, and
I am glad to have for a pupil a boy who loves his neighbor better than
himself.”

Then, having shaken hands heartily, Mr. Acton went away, and Jack
flew off to have rejoicings with Jill, who sat up on her sofa, without
knowing it, so eager was she to hear all about the call.

In the afternoon Jack drove his mother to the Captain’s, confiding to
her on the way what a hard time he had when he went before, and how
nothing but the thought of cheering Bob kept him up when he slipped and
hurt his knee, and his boot sprung a leak, and the wind came up very
cold, and the hill seemed an endless mountain of mud and snow.

Mrs. Minot had such a gentle way of putting things that she would have
won over a much harder man than the strict old Captain, who heard the
story with interest, and was much pleased with the boys’ efforts to keep
Bob straight. That young person dodged away into the barn with Jack, and
only appeared at the last minute to shove a bag of chestnuts into the
chaise. But he got a few kind words that did him good, from Mrs. Minot
and the Captain, and from that day felt himself under bonds to behave
well if he would keep their confidence.

“I shall give Jill the nuts; and I wish I had something she wanted very,
very much, for I do think she ought to be rewarded for getting me out of
the mess,” said Jack, as they drove happily home again.

“I hope to have something in a day or two that will delight her very
much. I will say no more now, but keep my little secret and let it be a
surprise to all by and by,” answered his mother, looking as if she had
not much doubt about the matter.

“That will be jolly. You are welcome to your secret, Mamma. I’ve had
enough of them for one while;” and Jack shrugged his broad shoulders as
if a burden had been taken off.

In the evening Ed came, and Jack was quite satisfied when he saw how
pleased his friend was at what he had done.

“I never meant you should take so much trouble, only be kind to Bob,”
 said Ed, who did not know how strong his influence was, nor what a sweet
example of quiet well-doing his own life was to all his mates.

“I wished to be really useful; not just to talk about it and do nothing.
That isn’t your way, and I want to be like you,” answered Jack, with
such affectionate sincerity that Ed could not help believing him, though
he modestly declined the compliment by saying, as he began to play
softly, “Better than I am, I hope. I don’t amount to much.”

“Yes, you do! and if any one says you don’t I’ll shake him. I can’t tell
what it is, only you always look so happy and contented--sort of sweet
and shiny,” said Jack, as he stroked the smooth brown head, rather at a
loss to describe the unusually fresh and sunny expression of Ed’s face,
which was always cheerful, yet had a certain thoughtfulness that made it
very attractive to both young and old.

“Soap makes him shiny; I never saw such a fellow to wash and brush,” put
in Frank, as he came up with one of the pieces of music he and Ed were
fond of practising together.

“I don’t mean that!” said Jack indignantly. “I wash and brush till you
call me a dandy, but I don’t have the same look--it seems to come from
the inside, somehow, as if he was always jolly and clean and good in his
mind, you know.”

“Born so,” said Frank, rumbling away in the bass with a pair of hands
that would have been the better for some of the above-mentioned soap,
for he did not love to do much in the washing and brushing line.

“I suppose that’s it. Well, I like it, and I shall keep on trying, for
being loved by every one is about the nicest thing in the world. Isn’t
it, Ed?” asked Jack, with a gentle tweak of the ear as he put a question
which he knew would get no answer, for Ed was so modest he could not see
wherein he differed from other boys, nor believe that the sunshine he
saw in other faces was only the reflection from his own.

Sunday evening Mrs. Minot sat by the fire, planning how she should tell
some good news she had been saving up all day. Mrs. Pecq knew it, and
seemed so delighted that she went about smiling as if she did not know
what trouble meant, and could not do enough for the family. She was
downstairs now, seeing that the clothes were properly prepared for the
wash, so there was no one in the Bird Room but Mamma and the children.
Frank was reading up all he could find about some Biblical hero
mentioned in the day’s sermon; Jill lay where she had lain for nearly
four long months, and though her face was pale and thin with the
confinement, there was an expression on it now sweeter even than health.
Jack sat on the rug beside her, looking at a white carnation through the
magnifying glass, while she was enjoying the perfume of a red one as she
talked to him.

“If you look at the white petals you’ll see that they sparkle like
marble, and go winding a long way down to the middle of the flower
where it grows sort of rosy; and in among the small, curly leaves, like
fringed curtains, you can see the little green fairy sitting all alone.
Your mother showed me that, and I think it is very pretty. I call it a
‘fairy,’ but it is really where the seeds are hidden and the sweet smell
comes from.”

Jill spoke softly lest she should disturb the others, and, as she turned
to push up her pillow, she saw Mrs. Minot looking at her with a smile
she did not understand.

“Did you speak, ‘m?” she asked, smiling back again, without in the least
knowing why.

“No, dear. I was listening and thinking what a pretty little story one
could make out of your fairy living alone down there, and only known by
her perfume.”

“Tell it, Mamma. It is time for our story, and that would be a nice one,
I guess,” said Jack, who was as fond of stories as when he sat in his
mother’s lap and chuckled over the hero of the beanstalk.

“We don’t have fairy tales on Sunday, you know,” began Jill regretfully.

“Call it a parable, and have a moral to it, then it will be all right,”
 put in Frank, as he shut his big book, having found what he wanted.

“I like stories about saints, and the good and wonderful things they
did,” said Jill, who enjoyed the wise and interesting bits Mrs. Minot
often found for her in grown-up books, for Jill had thoughtful times,
and asked questions which showed that she was growing fast in mind if
not in body.

“This is a true story; but I will disguise it a little, and call it ‘The
Miracle of Saint Lucy,’” began Mrs. Minot, seeing a way to tell her good
news and amuse the children likewise.

Frank retired to the easy-chair, that he might sleep if the tale should
prove too childish for him. Jill settled herself among her cushions, and
Jack lay flat upon the rug, with his feet up, so that he could admire
his red slippers and rest his knee, which ached.

“Once upon a time there was a queen who had two princes.”

“Wasn’t there a princess?” asked Jack, interested at once.

“No; and it was a great sorrow to the queen that she had no little
daughter, for the sons were growing up, and she was often very lonely.

“Like Snowdrop’s mother,” whispered Jill.

“Now, don’t keep interrupting, children, or we never shall get on,” said
Frank, more anxious to hear about the boys that were than the girl that
was not.

“One day, when the princes were out--ahem! we’ll say hunting--they found
a little damsel lying on the snow, half dead with cold, they thought.
She was the child of a poor woman who lived in the forest--a wild little
thing, always dancing and singing about; as hard to catch as a squirrel,
and so fearless she would climb the highest trees, leap broad brooks, or
jump off the steep rocks to show her courage. The boys carried her home
to the palace, and the queen was glad to have her. She had fallen and
hurt herself, so she lay in bed week after week, with her mother to take
care of her--”

“That’s you,” whispered Jack, throwing the white carnation at Jill, and
she threw back the red one, with her finger on her lips, for the tale
was very interesting now.

“She did not suffer much after a time, but she scolded and cried, and
could not be resigned, because she was a prisoner. The queen tried to
help her, but she could not do much; the princes were kind, but they had
their books and plays, and were away a good deal. Some friends she had
came often to see her, but still she beat her wings against the bars,
like a wild bird in a cage, and soon her spirits were all gone, and it
was sad to see her.”

“Where was your Saint Lucy? I thought it was about her,” asked Jack,
who did not like to have Jill’s past troubles dwelt upon, since his were
not.

“She is coming. Saints are not born--they are made after many trials and
tribulations,” answered his mother, looking at the fire as if it
helped her to spin her little story. “Well, the poor child used to sing
sometimes to while away the long hours--sad songs mostly, and one among
them which the queen taught her was ‘Sweet Patience, Come.’

“This she used to sing a great deal after a while, never dreaming that
Patience was an angel who could hear and obey. But it was so; and one
night, when the girl had lulled herself to sleep with that song, the
angel came. Nobody saw the lovely spirit with tender eyes, and a voice
that was like balm. No one heard the rustle of wings as she hovered over
the little bed and touched the lips, the eyes, the hands of the sleeper,
and then flew away, leaving three gifts behind. The girl did not know
why, but after that night the songs grew gayer, there seemed to be more
sunshine everywhere her eyes looked, and her hands were never tired of
helping others in various pretty, useful, or pleasant ways. Slowly the
wild bird ceased to beat against the bars, but sat in its cage and made
music for all in the palace, till the queen could not do without it,
the poor mother cheered up, and the princes called the girl their
nightingale.”

“Was that the miracle?” asked Jack, forgetting all about his slippers,
as he watched Jill’s eyes brighten and the color come up in her white
cheeks.

“That was the miracle, and Patience can work far greater ones if you
will let her.”

“And the girl’s name was Lucy?”

“Yes; they did not call her a saint then, but she was trying to be as
cheerful as a certain good woman she had heard of, and so the queen had
that name for her, though she did not let her know it for a long time.”

“That’s not bad for a Sunday story, but there might have been more
about the princes, seems to me,” was Frank’s criticism, as Jill lay
very still, trying to hide her face behind the carnation, for she had
no words to tell how touched and pleased she was to find that her little
efforts to be good had been seen, remembered, and now rewarded in this
way.

“There is more.”

“Then the story isn’t done?” cried Jack.

“Oh dear, no; the most interesting things are to come, if you can wait
for them.”

“Yes, I see, this is the moral part. Now keep still, and let us have
the rest,” commanded Frank, while the others composed themselves for the
sequel, suspecting that it was rather nice, because Mamma’s sober face
changed, and her eyes laughed as they looked at the fire.

“The elder prince was very fond of driving dragons, for the people of
that country used these fiery monsters as horses.”

“And got run away with, didn’t he?” laughed Jack, adding, with great
interest, “What did the other fellow do?”

“He went about fighting other people’s battles, helping the poor, and
trying to do good. But he lacked judgment, so he often got into trouble,
and was in such a hurry that he did not always stop to find out the
wisest way. As when he gave away his best coat to a beggar boy, instead
of the old one which he intended to give.”

“I say, that isn’t fair, mother! Neither of them was new, and the boy
needed the best more than I did, and I wore the old one all winter,
didn’t I?” asked Jack, who had rather exulted over Frank, and was now
taken down himself.

“Yes, you did, my dear; and it was not an easy thing for my dandiprat to
do. Now listen, and I’ll tell you how they both learned to be wiser. The
elder prince soon found that the big dragons were too much for him, and
set about training his own little one, who now and then ran away with
him. Its name was Will, a good servant, but a bad master; so he learned
to control it, and in time this gave him great power over himself, and
fitted him to be a king over others.”

“Thank you, mother; I’ll remember my part of the moral. Now give Jack
his,” said Frank, who liked the dragon episode, as he had been wrestling
with his own of late, and found it hard to manage.

“He had a fine example before him in a friend, and he followed it more
reasonably till he grew able to use wisely one of the best and noblest
gifts of God--benevolence.”

“Now tell about the girl. Was there more to that part of the story?”
 asked Jack, well pleased with his moral, as it took Ed in likewise.

“That is the best of all, but it seems as if I never should get to it.
After Patience made Lucy sweet and cheerful, she began to have a curious
power over those about her, and to work little miracles herself, though
she did not know it. The queen learned to love her so dearly she could
not let her go; she cheered up all her friends when they came with their
small troubles; the princes found bright eyes, willing hands, and a kind
heart always at their service, and felt, without quite knowing why, that
it was good for them to have a gentle little creature to care for; so
they softened their rough manners, loud voices, and careless ways, for
her sake, and when it was proposed to take her away to her own home they
could not give her up, but said she must stay longer, didn’t they?”
