     the anguish of the lover--there the picture remained a blank.

     "After a time the throng again poured forth and dispersed various
     ways, to enjoy the light of the sun and mingle with the stirring
     scenes of life; but the victim, with her bridal chaplet, was no
     longer there. The door of the convent closed that severed her from
     the world forever. I saw the father and the lover issue forth; they
     were in earnest conversation. The latter was vehement in his
     gesticulations; I expected some violent termination to my drama;
     but an angle of a building interfered and closed the scene. My eye
     afterwards was frequently turned to that convent with painful
     interest. I remarked late at night a solitary light twinkling from
     a remote lattice of one of its towers. 'There,' said I, 'the
     unhappy nun sits weeping in her cell, while perhaps her lover paces
     the street below in unavailing anguish.'

     "--The officious Mateo interrupted my meditations and destroyed in
     an instant the cobweb tissue of my fancy. With his usual zeal he
     had gathered facts concerning the scene, which put my fictions all
     to flight. The heroine of my romance was neither young nor
     handsome; she had no lover; she had entered the convent of her own
     free will, as a respectable asylum, and was one of the most
     cheerful residents within its walls.

     "It was some little while before I could forgive the wrong done me
     by the nun in being thus happy in her cell, in contradiction to all
     the rules of romance; I diverted my spleen, however, by watching,
     for a day or two, the pretty coquetries of a dark-eyed brunette,
     who, from the covert of a balcony shrouded with flowering shrubs
     and a silken awning, was carrying on a mysterious correspondence
     with a handsome, dark, well-whiskered cavalier, who lurked
     frequently in the street beneath her window. Sometimes I saw him at
     an early hour, stealing forth wrapped to the eyes in a mantle.
     Sometimes he loitered at a corner, in various disguises, apparently
     waiting for a private signal to slip into the house. Then there was
     the tinkling of a guitar at night, and a lantern shifted from place
     to place in the balcony. I imagined another intrigue like that of
     Almaviva, but was again disconcerted in all my suppositions. The
     supposed lover turned out to be the husband of the lady, and a
     noted contrabandista; and all his mysterious signs and movements
     had doubtless some smuggling scheme in view.

     "--I occasionally amused myself with noting from this balcony the
     gradual changes of the scenes below, according to the different
     stages of the day.

     "Scarce has the gray dawn streaked the sky, and the earliest cock
     crowed from the cottages of the hill-side, when the suburbs give
     sign of reviving animation; for the fresh hours of dawning are
     precious in the summer season in a sultry climate. All are anxious
     to get the start of the sun, in the business of the day. The
     muleteer drives forth his loaded train for the journey; the
     traveler slings his carbine behind his saddle, and mounts his steed
     at the gate of the hostel; the brown peasant from the country urges
     forward his loitering beasts, laden with panniers of sunny fruit
     and fresh dewy vegetables, for already the thrifty housewives are
     hastening to the market.

     "The sun is up and sparkles along the valley, tipping the
     transparent foliage of the groves. The matin bells resound
     melodiously through the pure bright air, announcing the hour of
     devotion. The muleteer halts his burdened animals before the
     chapel, thrusts his staff through his belt behind, and enters with
     hat in hand, smoothing his coal-black hair, to hear a mass, and to
     put up a prayer for a prosperous wayfaring across the sierra. And
     now steals forth on fairy foot the gentle Señora, in trim basquiña,
     with restless fan in hand, and dark eye flashing from beneath the
     gracefully folded mantilla; she seeks some well-frequented church
     to offer up her morning orisons; but the nicely adjusted dress, the
     dainty shoe and cobweb stocking, the raven tresses exquisitely
     braided, the fresh-plucked rose, gleaming among them like a gem,
     show that earth divides with Heaven the empire of her thoughts.
     Keep an eye upon her, careful mother, or virgin aunt, or vigilant
     duenna, whichever you may be, that walk behind!

     "As the morning advances, the din of labor augments on every side;
     the streets are thronged with man, and steed, and beast of burden,
     and there is a hum and murmur, like the surges of the ocean. As the
     sun ascends to his meridian, the hum and bustle gradually decline;
     at the height of noon there is a pause. The panting city sinks into
     lassitude, and for several hours there is a general repose. The
     windows are closed, the curtains drawn, the inhabitants retired
     into the coolest recesses of their mansions; the full-fed monk
     snores in his dormitory; the brawny porter lies stretched on the
     pavement beside his burden; the peasant and the laborer sleep
     beneath the trees of the Alameda, lulled by the sultry chirping of
     the locust. The streets are deserted, except by the water-carrier,
     who refreshes the ear by proclaiming the merits of his sparkling
     beverage, 'colder than the mountain snow (mas fria que la
     nieve).'

     "As the sun declines, there is again a gradual reviving, and when
     the vesper bell rings out his sinking knell, all nature seems to
     rejoice that the tyrant of the day has fallen. Now begins the
     bustle of enjoyment, when the citizens pour forth to breathe the
     evening air, and revel away the brief twilight in the walks and
     gardens of the Darro and Xenil.

     "As night closes, the capricious scene assumes new features. Light
     after light gradually twinkles forth; here a taper from a balconied
     window; there a votive lamp before the image of a saint. Thus, by
     degrees, the city emerges from the pervading gloom, and sparkles
     with scattered lights, like the starry firmament. Now break forth
     from court and garden, and street and lane, the tinkling of
     innumerable guitars, and the clicking of castanets; blending, at
     this lofty height, in a faint but general concert. 'Enjoy the
     moment' is the creed of the gay and amorous Andalusian, and at no
     time does he practice it more zealously than on the balmy nights of
     summer, wooing his mistress with the dance, the love-ditty, and
     the passionate serenade."

How perfectly is the illusion of departed splendor maintained in the
opening of the chapter on "The Court of Lions."

     "The peculiar charm of this old dreamy palace is its power of
     calling up vague reveries and picturings of the past, and thus
     clothing naked realities with the illusions of the memory and the
     imagination. As I delight to walk in these 'vain shadows,' I am
     prone to seek those parts of the Alhambra which are most favorable
     to this phantasmagoria of the mind; and none are more so than the
     Court of Lions, and its surrounding halls. Here the hand of time
     has fallen the lightest, and the traces of Moorish elegance and
     splendor exist in almost their original brilliancy. Earthquakes
     have shaken the foundations of this pile, and rent its rudest
     towers; yet see! not one of those slender columns has been
     displaced, not an arch of that light and fragile colonnade given
     way, and all the fairy fretwork of these domes, apparently as
     unsubstantial as the crystal fabrics of a morning's frost, exist
     after the lapse of centuries, almost as fresh as if from the hand
     of the Moslem artist. I write in the midst of these mementos of the
     past, in the fresh hour of early morning, in the fated Hall of the
     Abencerrages. The blood-stained fountain, the legendary monument of
     their massacre, is before me; the lofty jet almost casts its dew
     upon my paper. How difficult to reconcile the ancient tale of
     violence and blood with the gentle and peaceful scene around!
     Everything here appears calculated to inspire kind and happy
     feelings, for everything is delicate and beautiful. The very light
     falls tenderly from above, through the lantern of a dome tinted and
     wrought as if by fairy hands. Through the ample and fretted arch of
     the portal I behold the Court of Lions, with brilliant sunshine
     gleaming along its colonnades and sparkling in its fountains. The
     lively swallow dives into the court, and, rising with a surge,
     darts away twittering over the roofs; the busy bee toils humming
     among the flower-beds; and painted butterflies hover from plant to
     plant, and flutter up and sport with each other in the sunny air.
     It needs but a slight exertion of the fancy to picture some pensive
     beauty of the harem loitering in these secluded haunts of Oriental
     luxury.

     "He, however, who would behold this scene under an aspect more in
     unison with its fortunes, let him come when the shadows of evening
     temper the brightness of the court, and throw a gloom into the
     surrounding halls. Then nothing can be more serenely melancholy, or
     more in harmony with the tale of departed grandeur.

     "At such times I am apt to seek the Hall of Justice, whose deep
     shadowy arcades extend across the upper end of the court. Here was
     performed, in presence of Ferdinand and Isabella and their
     triumphant court, the pompous ceremonial of high mass, on taking
     possession of the Alhambra. The very cross is still to be seen upon
     the wall, where the altar was erected, and where officiated the
     Grand Cardinal of Spain, and others of the highest religious
     dignitaries of the land. I picture to myself the scene when this
     place was filled with the conquering host, that mixture of mitred
     prelate and shaven monk, and steel-clad knight and silken courtier;
     when crosses and crosiers and religious standards were mingled with
     proud armorial ensigns and the banners of the haughty chiefs of
     Spain, and flaunted in triumph through these Moslem halls. I
     picture to myself Columbus, the future discoverer of a world,
     taking his modest stand in a remote corner, the humble and
     neglected spectator of the pageant. I see in imagination the
     Catholic sovereigns prostrating themselves before the altar, and
     pouring forth thanks for their victory; while the vaults resound
     with sacred minstrelsy and the deep-toned Te Deum.

     "The transient illusion is over,--the pageant melts from the
     fancy,--monarch, priest, and warrior return into oblivion with the
     poor Moslems over whom they exulted. The hall of their triumph is
     waste and desolate. The bat flits about its twilight vault, and the
     owl hoots from the neighboring tower of Comares."

It is a Moslem tradition that the court and army of Boabdil, the
Unfortunate, the last Moorish King of Granada, are shut up in the
mountain by a powerful enchantment, and that it is written in the book
of fate that when the enchantment is broken, Boabdil will descend from
the mountain at the head of his army, resume his throne in the Alhambra,
and gathering together the enchanted warriors from all parts of Spain,
reconquer the Peninsula. Nothing in this volume is more amusing and at
the same time more poetic and romantic than the story of "Governor Manco
and the Soldier," in which this legend is used to cover the exploit of a
dare-devil contrabandista. But it is too long to quote. I take,
therefore, another story, which has something of the same elements, that
of a merry, mendicant student of Salamanca, Don Vicente by name, who
wandered from village to village, and picked up a living by playing the
guitar for the peasants, among whom, he was sure of a hearty welcome.
In the course of his wandering he had found a seal-ring, having for its
device the cabalistic sign, invented by King Solomon the Wise, and of
mighty power in all cases of enchantment.

     "At length he arrived at the great object of his musical
     vagabondizing, the far-famed city of Granada, and hailed with
     wonder and delight its Moorish towers, its lovely vega, and its
     snowy mountains glistening through a summer atmosphere. It is
     needless to say with what eager curiosity he entered its gates and
     wandered through its streets, and gazed upon its Oriental
     monuments. Every female face peering through a window or beaming
     from a balcony was to him a Zorayda or a Zelinda, nor could he meet
     a stately dame on the Alameda but he was ready to fancy her a
     Moorish princess, and to spread his student's robe beneath her
     feet.

     "His musical talent, his happy humor, his youth and his good looks,
     won him a universal welcome in spite of his ragged robes, and for
     several days he led a gay life in the old Moorish capital and its
     environs. One of his occasional haunts was the fountain of
     Avellanos, in the valley of Darro. It is one of the popular resorts
     of Granada, and has been so since the days of the Moors; and here
     the student had an opportunity of pursuing his studies of female
     beauty; a branch of study to which he was a little prone.

     "Here he would take his seat with his guitar, improvise
     love-ditties to admiring groups of majos and majas, or prompt with
     his music the ever-ready dance. He was thus engaged one evening
     when he beheld a padre of the church advancing, at whose approach
     every one touched the hat. He was evidently a man of consequence;
     he certainly was a mirror of good if not of holy living; robust and
     rosy-faced, and breathing at every pore with the warmth of the
     weather and the exercise of the walk. As he passed along he would
     every now and then draw a maravedi out of his pocket and bestow it
     on a beggar, with an air of signal beneficence. 'Ah, the blessed
     father!' would be the cry; 'long life to him, and may he soon be a
     bishop!'

     "To aid his steps in ascending the hill he leaned gently now and
     then on the arm of a handmaid, evidently the pet-lamb of this
     kindest of pastors. Ah, such a damsel! Andalus from head to foot;
     from the rose in her hair, to the fairy shoe and lacework stocking;
     Andalus in every movement; in every undulation of the body:--ripe,
     melting Andalus! But then so modest!--so shy!--ever, with downcast
     eyes, listening to the words of the padre; or, if by chance she let
     flash a side glance, it was suddenly checked and her eyes once more
     cast to the ground.

     "The good padre looked benignantly on the company about the
     fountain, and took his seat with some emphasis on a stone bench,
     while the handmaid hastened to bring him a glass of sparkling
     water. He sipped it deliberately and with a relish, tempering it
     with one of those spongy pieces of frosted eggs and sugar so dear
     to Spanish epicures, and on returning the glass to the hand of the
     damsel pinched her cheek with infinite loving-kindness.

     "'Ah, the good pastor!' whispered the student to himself; 'what a
     happiness would it be to be gathered into his fold with such a
     pet-lamb for a companion!'

     "But no such good fare was likely to befall him. In vain he essayed
     those powers of pleasing which he had found so irresistible with
     country curates and country lasses. Never had he touched his guitar
     with such skill; never had he poured forth more soul-moving
     ditties, but he had no longer a country curate or country lass to
     deal with. The worthy priest evidently did not relish music, and
     the modest damsel never raised her eyes from the ground. They
     remained but a short time at the fountain; the good padre hastened
     their return to Granada. The damsel gave the student one shy glance
     in retiring; but it plucked the heart out of his bosom!

     "He inquired about them after they had gone. Padre Tomás was one
     of the saints of Granada, a model of regularity; punctual in his
     hour of rising; his hour of taking a paseo for an appetite; his
     hours of eating; his hour of taking his siesta; his hour of playing
     his game of tresillo, of an evening, with some of the dames of the
     cathedral circle; his hour of supping, and his hour of retiring to
     rest, to gather fresh strength for another day's round of similar
     duties. He had an easy sleek mule for his riding; a matronly
     housekeeper skilled in preparing tidbits for his table; and the
     pet-lamb, to smooth his pillow at night and bring him his chocolate
     in the morning.

     "Adieu now to the gay, thoughtless life of the student; the
     side-glance of a bright eye had been the undoing of him. Day and
     night he could not get the image of this most modest damsel out of
     his mind. He sought the mansion of the padre. Alas! it was above
     the class of houses accessible to a strolling student like himself.
     The worthy padre had no sympathy with him; he had never been
     Estudiante sopista, obliged to sing for his supper. He blockaded
     the house by day, catching a glance of the damsel now and then as
     she appeared at a casement; but these glances only fed his flame
     without encouraging his hope. He serenaded her balcony at night,
     and at one time was flattered by the appearance of something white
     at a window. Alas, it was only the night-cap of the padre.

     "Never was lover more devoted; never damsel more shy: the poor
     student was reduced to despair. At length arrived the eve of St.
     John, when the lower classes of Granada swarm into the country,
     dance away the afternoon, and pass midsummer's night on the banks
     of the Darro and the Xenil. Happy are they who on this eventful
     night can wash their faces in those waters just as the cathedral
     bell tells midnight; for at that precise moment they have a
     beautifying power. The student, having nothing to do, suffered
     himself to be carried away by the holiday-seeking throng until he
     found himself in the narrow valley of the Darro, below the lofty
     hill and ruddy towers of the Alhambra. The dry bed of the river;
     the rocks which border it; the terraced gardens which overhang it,
     were alive with variegated groups, dancing under the vines and
     fig-trees to the sound of the guitar and castanets.

     "The student remained for some time in doleful dumps, leaning
     against one of the huge misshapen stone pomegranates which adorn
     the ends of the little bridge over the Darro. He cast a wistful
     glance upon the merry scene, where every cavalier had his dame; or,
     to speak more appropriately, every Jack his Jill; sighed at his
     own solitary state, a victim to the black eye of the most
     unapproachable of damsels, and repined at his ragged garb, which
     seemed to shut the gate of hope against him.

     "By degrees his attention was attracted to a neighbor equally
     solitary with himself. This was a tall soldier, of a stern aspect
     and grizzled beard, who seemed posted as a sentry at the opposite
     pomegranate. His face was bronzed by time; he was arrayed in
     ancient Spanish armor, with buckler and lance, and stood immovable
     as a statue. What surprised the student was, that though thus
     strangely equipped, he was totally unnoticed by the passing throng,
     albeit that many almost brushed against him.

     "'This is a city of old time peculiarities,' thought the student,
     'and doubtless this is one of them with which the inhabitants are
     too familiar to be surprised.' His own curiosity, however, was
     awakened, and being of a social disposition, he accosted the
     soldier.

     "'A rare old suit of armor that which you wear, comrade. May I ask
     what corps you belong to?'

     "The soldier gasped out a reply from a pair of jaws which seemed to
     have rusted on their hinges.

     "'The royal guard of Ferdinand and Isabella.'

     "'Santa Maria! Why, it is three centuries since that corps was in
     service.'

     "'And for three centuries have I been mounting guard. Now I trust
     my tour of duty draws to a close. Dost thou desire fortune?'

     "The student held up his tattered cloak in reply.

     "'I understand thee. If thou hast faith and courage, follow me, and
     thy fortune is made.'

     "'Softly, comrade, to follow thee would require small courage in
     one who has nothing to lose but life and an old guitar, neither of
     much value; but my faith is of a different matter, and not to be
     put in temptation. If it be any criminal act by which I am to mend
     my fortune, think not my ragged cloak will make me undertake it.'

     "The soldier turned on him a look of high displeasure. 'My sword,'
     said he, 'has never been drawn but in the cause of the faith and
     the throne. I am a Cristiano viejo; trust in me and fear no
     evil.'

     "The student followed him wondering. He observed that no one heeded
     their conversation, and that the soldier made his way through the
     various groups of idlers unnoticed, as if invisible.

     "Crossing the bridge, the soldier led the way by a narrow and steep
     path past a Moorish mill and aqueduct, and up the ravine which
     separates the domains of the Generalife from those of the Alhambra.
     The last ray of the sun shone upon the red battlements of the
     latter, which beetled far above; and the convent-bells were
     proclaiming the festival of the ensuing day. The ravine was
     overshadowed by fig-trees, vines, and myrtles, and the outer towers
     and walls of the fortress. It was dark and lonely, and the
     twilight-loving bats began to flit about. At length the soldier
     halted at a remote and ruined tower apparently intended to guard a
     Moorish aqueduct. He struck the foundation with the butt-end of his
     spear. A rumbling sound was heard, and the solid stones yawned
     apart, leaving an opening as wide as a door.

     "'Enter in the name of the Holy Trinity', said the soldier, 'and
     fear nothing.' The student's heart quaked, but he made the sign of
     the cross, muttered his Ave Maria, and followed his mysterious
     guide into a deep vault cut out of the solid rock under the tower,
     and covered with Arabic inscriptions. The soldier pointed to a
     stone seat hewn along one side of the vault. 'Behold,' said he, 'my
     couch for three hundred years.' The bewildered student tried to
     force a joke. 'By the blessed St. Anthony,' said he, 'but you must
     have slept soundly, considering the hardness of your couch.'

     "'On the contrary, sleep has been a stranger to these eyes;
     incessant watchfulness has been my doom. Listen to my lot. I was
     one of the royal guards of Ferdinand and Isabella; but was taken
     prisoner by the Moors in one of their sorties, and confined a
     captive in this tower. When preparations were made to surrender the
     fortress to the Christian sovereigns, I was prevailed upon by an
     alfaqui, a Moorish priest, to aid him in secreting some of the
     treasures of Boabdil in this vault. I was justly punished for my
     fault. The alfaqui was an African necromancer, and by his infernal
     arts cast a spell upon me--to guard his treasures. Something must
     have happened to him, for he never returned, and here have I
     remained ever since, buried alive. Years and years have rolled
     away; earthquakes have shaken this hill; I have heard stone by
     stone of the tower above tumbling to the ground, in the natural
     operation of time; but the spell-bound walls of this vault set both
     time and earthquakes at defiance.

     "'Once every hundred years, on the festival of St. John, the
     enchantment ceases to have thorough sway; I am permitted to go
     forth and post myself upon the bridge of the Darro, where you met
     me, waiting until some one shall arrive who may have power to break
     this magic spell. I have hitherto mounted guard there in vain. I
     walk as in a cloud, concealed from mortal sight. You are the first
     to accost me for now three hundred years. I behold the reason. I
     see on your finger the seal-ring of Solomon the Wise, which is
     proof against all enchantment. With you it remains to deliver me
     from this awful dungeon, or to leave me to keep guard here for
     another hundred years.'

     "The student listened to this tale in mute wonderment. He had heard
     many tales of treasures shut up under strong enchantment in the
     vaults of the Alhambra, but had treated them as fables. He now felt
     the value of the seal-ring, which had, in a manner, been given to
     him by St. Cyprian. Still, though armed by so potent a talisman, it
     was an awful thing to find himself tête-à-tête in such a place
     with an enchanted soldier, who, according to the laws of nature,
     ought to have been quietly in his grave for nearly three centuries.

     "A personage of this kind, however, was quite out of the ordinary
     run, and not to be trifled with, and he assured him he might rely
     upon his friendship and good will to do everything in his power for
     his deliverance.

     "'I trust to a motive more powerful than friendship,' said the
     soldier.

     "He pointed to a ponderous iron coffer, secured by locks inscribed
     with Arabic characters. 'That coffer,' said he, 'contains countless
     treasure in gold and jewels and precious stones. Break the magic
     spell by which I am enthralled, and one half of this treasure shall
     be thine.'

     "'But how am I to do it?'

     "'The aid of a Christian priest and a Christian maid is necessary.
     The priest to exorcise the powers of darkness; the damsel to touch
     this chest with the seal of Solomon. This must be done at night.
     But have a care. This is solemn work, and not to be effected by the
     carnal-minded. The priest must be a Cristiano viejo, a model of
     sanctity; and must mortify the flesh before he comes here, by a
     rigorous fast of four-and-twenty hours: and as to the maiden, she
     must be above reproach, and proof against temptation. Linger not in
     finding such aid. In three days my furlough is at an end; if not
     delivered before midnight of the third, I shall have to mount guard
     for another century.'

     "'Fear not,' said the student, 'I have in my eye the very priest
     and damsel you describe; but how am I to regain admission to this
     tower?'

     "'The seal of Solomon will open the way for thee.'

     "The student issued forth from the tower much more gayly than he
     had entered. The wall closed behind him, and remained solid as
     before.

     "The next morning he repaired boldly to the mansion of the priest,
     no longer a poor strolling student, thrumming his way with a
     guitar; but an ambassador from the shadowy world, with enchanted
     treasures to bestow. No particulars are told of his negotiation,
     excepting that the zeal of the worthy priest was easily kindled at
     the idea of rescuing an old soldier of the faith and a strong box
     of King Chico from the very clutches of Satan; and then what alms
     might be dispensed, what churches built, and how many poor
     relatives enriched with the Moorish treasure!

     "As to the immaculate handmaid, she was ready to lend her hand,
     which was all that was required, to the pious work; and if a shy
     glance now and then might be believed, the ambassador began to find
     favor in her modest eyes.

     "The greatest difficulty, however, was the fast to which the good
     padre had to subject himself. Twice he attempted it, and twice the
     flesh was too strong for the spirit. It was only on the third day
     that he was enabled to withstand the temptations of the cupboard;
     but it was still a question whether he would hold out until the
     spell was broken.

     "At a late hour of the night the party groped their way up the
     ravine by the light of a lantern, and bearing a basket with
     provisions for exorcising the demon of hunger so soon as the other
     demons should be laid in the Red Sea.

     "The seal of Solomon opened their way into the tower. They found
     the soldier seated on the enchanted strong-box, awaiting their
     arrival. The exorcism was performed in due style. The damsel
     advanced and touched the locks of the coffer with the seal of
     Solomon. The lid flew open; and such treasures of gold and jewels
     and precious stones as flashed upon the eye!

     "'Here's cut and come again!' cried the student, exultingly, as he
     proceeded to cram his pockets.

     "'Fairly and softly,' exclaimed the soldier. 'Let us get the coffer
     out entire, and then divide.'

     "They accordingly went to work with might and main; but it was a
     difficult task; the chest was enormously heavy, and had been
     imbedded there for centuries. While they were thus employed the
     good dominie drew on one side and made a vigorous onslaught on the
     basket, by way of exorcising the demon of hunger which was raging
     in his entrails. In a little while a fat capon was devoured, and
     washed down by a deep potation of Val de peñas; and, by way of
     grace after meat, he gave a kind-hearted kiss to the pet-lamb who
     waited on him. It was quietly done in a corner, but the tell-tale
     walls babbled it forth as if in triumph. Never was chaste salute
     more awful in its effects. At the sound the soldier gave a great
     cry of despair; the coffer, which was half raised, fell back in its
     place and was locked once more. Priest, student, and damsel found
     themselves outside of the tower, the wall of which closed with a
     thundering jar. Alas! the good padre had broken his fast too soon!

     "When recovered from his surprise, the student would have reëntered
     the tower, but learnt to his dismay that the damsel, in her fright,
     had let fall the seal of Solomon; it remained within the vault.

     "In a word, the cathedral bell tolled midnight; the spell was
     renewed; the soldier was doomed to mount guard for another hundred
     years, and there he and the treasure remain to this day--and all
     because the kind-hearted padre kissed his handmaid. 'Ah, father!
     father!' said the student, shaking his head ruefully, as they
     returned down the ravine, 'I fear there was less of the saint than
     the sinner in that kiss!'

                    *       *       *       *       *

     "Thus ends the legend as far as it has been authenticated. There is
     a tradition, however, that the student had brought off treasure
     enough in his pocket to set him up in the world; that he prospered
     in his affairs, that the worthy padre gave him the pet-lamb in
     marriage, by way of amends for the blunder in the vault; that the
     immaculate damsel proved a pattern for wives as she had been for
     handmaids, and bore her husband a numerous progeny; that the first
     was a wonder; it was born seven months after her marriage, and
     though a seven-months' boy, was the sturdiest of the flock. The
     rest were all born in the ordinary course of time.

     "The story of the enchanted soldier remains one of the popular
     traditions of Granada, though told in a variety of ways; the common
     people affirm that he still mounts guard on mid-summer eve, beside
     the gigantic stone pomegranate on the bridge of the Darro; but
     remains invisible excepting to such lucky mortal as may possess the
     seal of Solomon."

These passages from the most characteristic of Irving's books, do not by
any means exhaust his variety, but they afford a fair measure of his
purely literary skill, upon which his reputation must rest. To my
apprehension this "charm" in literature is as necessary to the
amelioration and enjoyment of human life as the more solid achievements
of scholarship. That Irving should find it in the prosaic and
materialistic conditions of the New World as well as in the
tradition-laden atmosphere of the Old, is evidence that he possessed
genius of a refined and subtle quality if not of the most robust order.




                              CHAPTER X.

              LAST YEARS: THE CHARACTER OF HIS LITERATURE.


The last years of Irving's life, although full of activity and
enjoyment,--abated only by the malady which had so long tormented
him,--offer little new in the development of his character, and need not
much longer detain us. The calls of friendship and of honor were many,
his correspondence was large, he made many excursions to scenes that
were filled with pleasant memories, going even as far south as Virginia,
and he labored assiduously at the "Life of Washington,"--attracted
however now and then by some other tempting theme. But his delight was
in the domestic circle at Sunnyside. It was not possible that his
occasional melancholy vein should not be deepened by change and death
and the lengthening shade of old age. Yet I do not know the closing days
of any other author of note that were more cheerful serene, and happy
than his. Of our author, in these latter days, Mr. George William Curtis
put recently into his "Easy Chair" papers an artistically-touched little
portrait: "Irving was as quaint a figure," he says, "as the Diedrich
Knickerbocker in the preliminary advertisement of the 'History of New
York.' Thirty years ago he might have been seen on an autumnal afternoon
tripping with an elastic step along Broadway, with 'low-quartered' shoes
neatly tied, and a Talma cloak--a short garment that hung from the
shoulders like the cape of a coat. There was a chirping, cheery,
old-school air in his appearance which was undeniably Dutch, and most
harmonious with the associations of his writing. He seemed, indeed, to
have stepped out of his own books; and the cordial grace and humor of
his address, if he stopped for a passing chat, were delightfully
characteristic. He was then our most famous man of letters, but he was
simply free from all self-consciousness and assumption and dogmatism."
Congenial occupation was one secret of Irving's cheerfulness and
contentment, no doubt. And he was called away as soon as his task was
done, very soon after the last volume of the "Washington" issued from
the press. Yet he lived long enough to receive the hearty approval of it
