filled with accounts of hospital work, for Donelson had been followed by
the great blood-shedding of Shiloh, and the West was dotted with
battle-fields.

She had allowed herself no newspapers, lest she should come upon his
name. But now she ordered one, and read it daily. What was it to her
even if she should come upon his name? She must learn to bear it, so
long as they trod the same earth. And one day she did come upon it; but
it was merely the two-line announcement that he had returned to the
front.

The great city had grown used to the war. There were few signs in its
busy streets that a pall hung over the borders of the South. The music
teacher on her rounds saw nothing save now and then the ranks of a
regiment passing through on its way to a train. Traffic went on
unchanged; pleasure was rampant as ever. The shrill voice of the newsboy
calling the details of the last battle was often the only reminder of
the dread reality. May moved onward. The Scheffels began to make those
little excursions into the country so dear to the German heart; but they
could not persuade the honored Fräulein to accompany them. For it was
not the real country to which they went, but only that suburban
imitation of it which thrives in the neighborhood of New York, and
Anne's heart was back on her island in the cool blue Northern straits.
Miss Lois was now at home again, and her letters were like a breath of
life to the homesick girl. Little André was better, and Père Michaux
came often to the church-house, and seemed glad to be with them again.
With them again! If she could but be with them too!--stand on the
heights among the beckoning larches, walk through the spicy aisles of
the arbor vitæ, sit under the gray old pines, listening to the wash of
the cool blue water below, at rest, afar, afar from all this weariness
and sadness and pain!

During these days Stonewall Jackson was making one of his brilliant
campaigns in the Valley, the Valley of Virginia, the beautiful valley of
the Shenandoah. On the last morning in May, while reading the war news,
Anne found in one corner a little list of dead. And there, in small
letters, which grew to great size, and inscribed themselves on the walls
of the room, one succeeding the other like a horrible dream, was the
name, Ward Heathcote. "Captain Ward Heathcote,---- New York Volunteers."
She turned the sheet; it was repeated in the latest news column, and
again in a notice on the local page. "Captain Ward Heathcote,---- New
York Volunteers, is reported among the slain," followed by those brief
items of birth, age, and general history which appall our eyes when we
first behold them on the printed page, and realize that they are now
public property, since they belong only to the dead.

It was early. She was at home in the half-house. She rose, put on her
bonnet and gloves, walked to the station, took the first train to the
city, and went to Helen.

She reached the house, and was denied entrance. Mrs. Heathcote could see
no one.

Was any one with her? Miss Teller?

Miss Teller, the man answered, was absent from the city; but a
telegraphic dispatch had been sent, and she was on her way home. There
was no relative at present with Mrs. Heathcote; friends she was not able
to see. And he looked with some curiosity at this plainly dressed young
person, who stood there quite unconscious, apparently, of the atmosphere
of his manner. And yet Mr. Simpson had a very well regulated manner,
founded upon the best models--a manner which had never heretofore failed
in its effect. With a preliminary cough, he began to close the door.

"Wait," said this young person, almost as though she had some authority.
She drew forth a little note-book, tore out a leaf, wrote a line upon
it, and handed him the improvised card. "Please take this to Mrs.
Heathcote," she said. "I think she will see me."

See her--see her--when already members of the highest circles of the
city had been refused! With a slight smile of superior scorn, Simpson
took the little slip, and leaving the stranger on the steps, went
within, partially closing the door behind him. But in a few minutes he
hastily returned, and with him was a sedate middle-aged woman, whom he
called Mrs. Bagshot, and who, although quiet in manner, seemed decidedly
to outrank him.

"Will you come with me, if you please?" she said deferentially,
addressing Anne. "Mrs. Heathcote would like to see you without delay."
She led the way with a quiet unhurrying step up a broad stairway, and
opened a door. In the darkened room, on a couch, a white form was
lying. Bagshot withdrew, and Anne, crossing the floor, sank down on her
knees beside the couch.

"Helen!" she said, in a broken voice; "oh, Helen! Helen!"

The white figure did not stir, save slowly to disengage one hand and
hold it out. But Anne, leaning forward, tenderly lifted the slight form
in her arms, and held it close to her breast.

"I could not help coming," she said. "Poor Helen! poor, poor Helen!"

She smoothed the fair hair away from the small face that lay still and
white upon her shoulder, and at that moment she pitied the stricken wife
so intensely that she forgot the rival, or rather made herself one with
her; for in death there is no rivalry, only a common grief. Helen did
not speak, but she moved closer to Anne, and Anne, holding her in her
arms, bent over her, soothing her with loving words, as though she had
been a little child.

The stranger remained with Mrs. Heathcote nearly two hours. Then she
went away, and Simpson, opening the door for her, noticed that her veil
was closely drawn, so that her face was concealed. She went up the
street to the end of the block, turned the corner, and disappeared. He
was still standing on the steps, taking a breath of fresh air, his
portly person and solemn face expressing, according to his idea, a
dignified grief appropriate to the occasion and the distinction of the
family he served--a family whose bereavements even were above the level
of ordinary sorrows, when his attention was attracted by the appearance
of a boy in uniform, bearing in his hand an orange-brown envelope. In
the possibilities of that well-known hue of hope and dread he forgot for
the moment even his occupation of arranging in his own mind elegant
formulas with which to answer the inquiries constantly made at the door
of the bereaved mansion. The boy ascended the steps; Bagshot, up stairs,
with her hand on the knob of Mrs. Heathcote's door, saw him, and came
down. The dispatch was for her mistress; she carried it to her. The next
instant a cry rang through the house. Captain Heathcote was safe.

The message was as follows:

     

"To Mrs. Ward Heathcote:

"My name given in list a mistake. Am here, wounded, but not dangerously.
Will write.

W. H."

     

It was sent from Harper's Ferry. And two hours later, Mrs. Heathcote,
accompanied by Bagshot, was on her way to Harper's Ferry.

It was a wild journey. If any man had possessed authority over Helen,
she would never have been allowed to make it; but no man did possess
authority. Mrs. Heathcote, having money, courage, and a will of steel,
asked advice from no one, did not even wait for Miss Teller, but
departed according to a swift purpose of her own, accompanied only by
Bagshot, who was, however, an efficient person, self-possessed, calm,
and accustomed to travelling. It was uncertain whether they would be
able to reach Harper's Ferry, but this uncertainty did not deter Helen:
she would go as far as she could. In her heart she was not without hope
that Mrs. Heathcote could relax the rules and military lines of even the
strictest general in the service. As to personal fear, she had none.

At Baltimore she was obliged to wait for an answer to the dispatch she
had sent on starting, and the answer was long in coming. To pass away
the time, she ordered a carriage and drove about the city; many persons
noticed her, and remembered her fair, delicate, and impatient face,
framed in its pale hair. At last the answer came. Captain Heathcote was
no longer at Harper's Ferry; he had been sent a short distance northward
to a town where there was a better hospital, and Mrs. Heathcote was
advised to go round by the way of Harrisburg, a route easier and safer,
if not in the end more direct as well.

She followed this advice, although against her will. She travelled
northward to Harrisburg, and then made a broad curve, and came southward
again, within sight of the green hills later to be brought into
unexpected and long-enduring fame--the hills around Gettysburg. But now
the whole region was fair with summer, smiling and peaceful; the farmers
were at work, and the grain was growing. After some delays she reached
the little town, with its barrack-like, white-washed hospital, where her
husband was installed under treatment for a wound in his right arm,
which, at first appearing serious, had now begun to improve so rapidly
that the surgeon in charge decided that he could soon travel northward,
and receive what further care he needed among the comforts of his own
home.

At the end of five days, therefore, they started, attended only by
Bagshot, that useful woman possessing, in addition to her other
qualifications, both skill and experience as a nurse.

They started; but the journey was soon ended. On the 11th of June the
world of New York was startled, its upper circles hotly excited, and one
obscure young teacher in a little suburban home paralyzed, by the great
headings in the morning newspapers. Mrs. Heathcote, wife of Captain Ward
Heathcote,---- New York Volunteers, while on her way homeward with her
husband, who was wounded in the Shenandoah Valley, had been found
murdered in her room in the country inn at Timloesville, where they were
passing the night. And the evidence pointed so strongly toward Captain
Heathcote that he had been arrested upon suspicion.

The city journals appended to this brief dispatch whatever details they
knew regarding the personal history of the suspected man and his victim.
Helen's beauty, the high position of both in society, and their large
circle of friends were spoken of; and in one account the wife's wealth,
left by will unconditionally to her husband, was significantly
mentioned. One of the larger journals, with the terrible and pitiless
impartiality of the great city dailies, added that if there had been a
plan, some part of it had signally failed. "A man of the ability of
Captain Heathcote would never have been caught otherwise in a web of
circumstantial evidence so close that it convinced even the pastoral
minds of the Timloesville officials. We do not wish, of course, to
prejudge this case; but from the half-accounts which have reached us, it
looks as though this blunder, whatever it may have been, was but another
proof of the eternal verity of the old saying, Murder will out."

It was the journal containing this sentence which Anne read. She had
heard the news of Heathcote's safety a few hours after her visit to
Helen. Only a few days had passed, and now her eyes were staring at the
horrible words that Helen was dead, and that her murderer was her own
husband.




CHAPTER XXXI.

        "All her bright hair streaming down,
    And all the coverlid was cloth of gold
    Drawn to her waist, and she herself in white
    All but her face, and that clear-featured face
    Was lovely, for she did not seem as dead,
    But fast asleep, and lay as though she smiled."

    --TENNYSON.


EXTRACT FROM THE NEW YORK "MARS."

"The following details in relation to the terrible crime with whose main
facts our readers are familiar will be of interest at the moment. They
were collected by our special reporter, sent in person to the scene of
the tragedy, for the purpose of gathering reliable information
concerning this case, which promises to be one of the causes célèbres
of the country, not only on account of the high position and wealth of
the parties concerned, but also on account of the close net of purely
circumstantial evidence which surrounds the accused man.


"TIMLOESVILLE

is a small village on the border-line between Pennsylvania and Maryland.
Legally in Pennsylvania, it possesses personally the characteristics of
a Maryland village, some of its outlying fields being fairly over the
border. It is credited with about two thousand inhabitants; but the
present observer did not see, during his stay, more than about one
thousand, including women and children. Timloesville is on a branch
railway, which connects with the main line at a junction about thirty
miles distant. It possesses two churches and a saw-mill, and was named
from a highly esteemed early settler (who may perhaps have marched with
our great Washington), Judge Jeremiah Timloe. The agricultural products
of the surrounding country are principally hay and maize--wrongly called
corn. The intelligence and morality of the community are generally
understood to be of a high order. A low fever prevails here in the
spring.


"TIMLOE HOTEL.

"At the southern edge of the town, on the line of the railway, stands
the Timloe Hotel, presenting an imposing façade to the passengers on the
trains as they roll by. It is presided over in a highly liberal and
gentlemanly manner by Mr. Casper Graub; it is, in fact, to the genial
courtesy of 'mine host' that much of this information is due, and we
take this occasion also to state that during all the confusion and
excitement necessarily accruing to his house during the present week,
the high standard of Mr. Graub's table has never once been relaxed.


"MR. GRAUB'S STORY.

"An army officer, with his right arm in a sling, arrived at the Timloe
Hotel, accompanied by his wife, and a maid or nurse named Bagshot, on
the evening of June 10, at six o'clock precisely. The officer registered
the names as follows: 'Ward Heathcote, Mrs. Heathcote and maid, New
York.' He wrote the names with his left hand. A room was assigned to
them in the front part of the house, but upon the lady's objecting to
the proximity of the trains (generally considered, however, by the
majority of Mr. Graub's guests, an enjoyable variety), another apartment
in a wing was given to them, with windows opening upon the garden. The
wing is shaped like an L. The maid, Bagshot, had a room in the bend of
the L, she too having objected, although later, to the room first
assigned to her. At half past six o'clock they had supper; the lady
then retired to her room, but the husband went out, as he said, to
stroll about the town. At half past eight he returned. At nine, Bagshot,
having been dismissed for the night, went to her own room; when she
left, Captain Heathcote was reading a newspaper, and his wife was
writing. It has since been ascertained that this newspaper was the
Baltimore Chronos of the 9th inst. At ten o'clock exactly Captain
Heathcote came down stairs a second time, passed through the office, and
stopped to light a cigar. Mr. Graub noticed that he was able to use his
left hand quite cleverly, and asked him whether he was naturally
left-handed; Captain Heathcote answered that he was not, but had learned
the use only since his right arm had been disabled. Mr. Graub, seeing
him go toward the door, thought that it was somewhat singular that he
should wish to take a second walk, and casually remarked upon the warmth
of the evening. Captain Heathcote replied that it was for that very
reason he was going out; he could not breathe in the house; and he added
something not very complimentary to the air (generally considered
unusually salubrious) of Timloesville. Mr. Graub noticed that he walked
up and down on the piazza once or twice, as if he wished to show
himself plainly to the persons who were sitting there. He then strolled
away, going toward the main street.


"THE OUTSIDE STAIRWAY.

"As before mentioned, the second room given to Mrs. Heathcote was in a
wing. This wing is not much used; in fact, at the time, save this party
of three, it had no occupants. It is in the old part of the house. A
piazza or gallery runs across a portion of the second story, to which
access is had from the garden by a flight of wooden steps, or rather an
outside stairway. This stairway is old and sagged; in places the railing
is gone. It is probable that Mrs. Heathcote did not even see it. But
Captain Heathcote might have noticed it, and probably did notice it,
from the next street, through which he passed when he took his first
walk before dark.


"MRS. BAGSHOT'S TESTIMONY.

"As we have seen, Captain Heathcote left the hotel ostentatiously by the
front entrance at ten o'clock. At eleven, Mrs. Bagshot, who happened to
be looking from her window in the bend of the L, distinctly saw him (her
candle being out) stealing up by the outside stairway in the only
minute of moonlight there was during the entire evening, the clouds
having suddenly and strangely parted, as if for that very purpose. She
saw him enter his wife's room through one of the long windows which
opened to the floor. In about a quarter of an hour she saw him come
forth again, close the blind behind him, and begin to descend the
stairway. As there was no longer any moonlight, she could only
distinguish him by the light that shone from the room; but in that short
space of time, while he was closing the blind, she recognized him
beyond the possibility of a doubt.


"THE NIGHT PORTER'S TALE.

"A little before midnight, all the hotel entrances being closed save the
main door, Captain Heathcote returned. As he passed through the office,
the night porter noticed that he looked pale, and that his clothes were
disordered; his shirt cuffs especially were wet and creased, as though
they had been dipped in water. He went up stairs to his room, but soon
came down again. He had knocked, but could not awaken his wife. Would
the porter be able to open the door by turning back the key? His wife
was an invalid; he feared she had fainted.


"THE TRAGEDY.

"The night porter--a most respectable person of Irish extraction, named
Dennis Haggerty--came up and opened the door. The lamp was burning
within; the blinds of the window were closed. On the bed, stabbed to the
heart, apparently while she lay asleep, was the body of the wife.


"DUMB WITNESSES.

"Red marks were found on the shutter, which are pronounced by experts to
be the partial print of a left hand. On the white cloth which covered
the bureau is a slight impression of finger-tips, also belonging to a
left hand. These marks are too imperfect to be relied upon in
themselves, save that they establish the fact that the hand which
touched the cloth and closed the shutter was a left hand.


"AN IMPROBABLE STORY.

"Captain Heathcote asserts that he left the hotel at ten, as testified,
to smoke a cigar and get a breath of fresh air. That he returned through
the garden at eleven, and seeing by the bright light that his wife was
still awake, he went up by the outside stairway, which he had previously
noted, entered the room through the long window to tell her that he was
going to take a bath in the river, and to get towels. He remained a few
minutes, put two towels in his pocket, and came out, going down the same
stairway, across the garden, and along the main road to the river. (A
track, however, has been found to the river through the large meadow
behind the house.) At the bend where road and river meet, he undressed
himself and took a bath. The disorder in his clothing and his wet cuffs
came from his own awkwardness, as he has but partial use of his right
arm. He then returned by the road as he had come, but he forgot the
towels. Probably they would be found on the bank where he left them.


"THE TOWEL.

"No towels were found at the point named. But at the end of the track
through the grass meadow, among the reeds on the shore, a towel was
found, and identified as one belonging to the hotel. This towel is
stained with blood.


"THE THEORY.

"The theory at Timloesville is that Heathcote had no idea that he would
be seen when he stole up that outside stairway. He knew that the entire
wing was unoccupied: a servant has testified that she told him it was;
and he thought, too, that the maid Bagshot had a room in front, not
commanding the garden. Bagshot says that the room was changed without
his knowledge, while he was absent on his first walk. He supposed, then,
that he would not be seen. He evidently took Mrs. Heathcote's diamond
rings, purse, and watch (they are all missing) in order to turn public
opinion toward the idea that the murder was for the sake of robbery. He
says that a man passed him while he was bathing, and spoke to him;
proof of this would establish something toward the truth of his story.
But, strangely enough, this man can not be found. Yet Timloesville and
its neighborhood are by no means so crowded with inhabitants that the
search should be a difficult one.

"It may be regarded as a direct misfortune in the cause of justice that
the accused heard any of Bagshot's testimony against him before he was
called upon to give his own account of the events of the evening. And
yet his confused, contradictory story is another proof of the incapacity
which the most cunning murderers often display when overtaken by
suspicion; they seem to lose all power to protect themselves. If Captain
Heathcote had denied Bagshot's testimony in toto, had denied having
ascended the outside stairway at all, his chances would have been much
brighter, for people might have believed that the maid was mistaken. But
he acknowledges the stairway, and then denies the rest.


"HIS MOTIVE.

"But how can poor finite man detect so obscure a thing as motive? He
must hide his face and acknowledge his feebleness when he stands before
this inscrutable, heavy-browed, silent Fate. In this case, two solutions
are offered. One, that the wife's large fortune was left by will
unconditionally to her husband; the other, that Mrs. Bagshot will
testify that there was jealousy and ill feeling between these two,
linked together by God's holy ordinance, and that this ill feeling was
connected with a third person, and that person--a woman."


EXTRACT FROM THE NEW YORK "ZEUS."

"Mrs. Heathcote was apparently murdered while asleep. When found, her
face wore a natural and sweet expression, as though she had passed from
slumber into death without even a sigh. The maid testifies that her
mistress always removed her rings at night; it is probable, therefore,
that they, together with her purse and watch, were on the bureau where
the marks of the finger-tips were found.

"We refrain at present from comment upon the close circumstantial
evidence which surrounds this case; the strong hand of the law will take
hold of it at the proper time, and sift it thoroughly. Meanwhile the
attitude of all right-minded persons should be calm and impartial, and
the accused man should be held innocent until he is proven guilty. Trial
by newspaper is one of the notable evils of our modern American system,
and should be systematically discountenanced and discouraged; when a
human life is trembling in the balance, the sensation-monger should be
silenced, and his evil wares sternly rejected."

     

This negative impartiality was the nearest approach to friendliness
which the accused man received from the combined newspaper columns of
New York, Baltimore, and Washington.

The body of poor Helen was brought home, and Miss Teller herself arrayed
her darling for her long repose. Friends thronged to see her as she lay
in her luxurious drawing-room; flowers were placed everywhere as though
for a bridal--the bridal of death. Her figure was visible from head to
foot; she seemed asleep. Her still face wore a gentle expression of rest
and peace; her small hands were crossed upon her breast; her unbound
hair fell in waves behind her shoulders, a few strands lying on the
white skirt far below the slender waist, almost to the feet. The long
lashes lay upon the oval cheek; no one would ever see those bright brown
eyes again, and find fault with them because they were too narrow. The
lithe form was motionless; no one would ever again watch it move onward
with its peculiar swaying grace, and find fault with it because it was
too slender. Those who had not been willing to grant her beauty in life,
gazed at her now with tear-dimmed eyes, and willingly gave all the meed
of praise they had withheld before. Those who had not loved her while
she lived, forgot all, and burst into tears when they saw her now, the
delicately featured face once so proud and imperious, quiet forever,
grown strangely youthful too, like the face of a young girl.

Miss Teller sat beside her darling; to all she made the same set speech:
"Dear Ward, her husband, the one who loved her best, can not be here. I
am staying with her, therefore, until she is taken from us; then I shall
go to him, as she would have wished." For Miss Teller believed no word
of the stories with which the newspapers teemed. Indignation and strong
affection supplied the place of whatever strength had been lacking in
her character, and never before in her life had she appeared as resolute
and clear-minded as now.

During the funeral services, Isabel Varce sat beside Miss Teller,
sobbing as if her heart would break. Rachel Bannert was next to Isabel.
She had looked once at Helen, only once, and her dark face had quivered
spasmodically; then she also took her seat beside the fair, still form,
and bowed her head. All Helen's companions were clad in mourning garb;
the tragedy of this death had invested it with a deeper sadness than
belonged to the passing away in the ordinary course of nature of even
closer friends. The old-fashioned mansion was full to overflowing; in
the halls and doorway, on the front steps, and even on the pavement
outside, men were standing, bare-headed and silent, many distinguished
faces being among them; society men also, who in general avoided
funerals as unpleasant and grewsome ceremonials. These had been Helen's
companions and friends; they had all liked and admired her, and as she
was borne past them, covered with heliotrope, there was not one whose
eyes did not grow stern in thinking of the dastard hand that did the
cruel deed.

That night, when darkness fell, many hearts remembered her, lying alone
in the far-off cemetery, the cemetery we call Greenwood, although no
wood made by Nature's hand alone bears the cold white marble flowers
which are found on those fair slopes. And when the next morning dawned,
with dull gray clouds and rain, there were many who could not help
thinking of the beautiful form which had fared softly and delicately all
its life, which had felt only the touch of finest linen and softest
silk, which had never suffered from the cold or the storm, now lying
there alone in the dark soaked earth, with the rain falling upon its
defenseless head, and no one near to replace the wet lilies which the
wind had blown from the mound.

But those who were thinking thus were mistaken: some one was near. A
girl clad in black and closely veiled stood beside the new-made grave,
with tears dropping on her cheeks, and her hand pressed over her heart.
There were many mourners yesterday; there was but one to-day. There were
many flowers then; now there was only the bunch of violets which this
girl had brought. She had knelt beside the mound, her head undefended
from the rain, and had prayed silently. Then she had risen, but still
she could not go. She paced slowly up and down beside the grave, like a
sentinel keeping watch; only when she perceived that one of the men
employed in the cemetery was watching her curiously, no doubt wondering
why she remained there in the storm, did she turn away at last, and go
homeward again by the long route she had traversed in coming.

For Anne had not dared to go to the funeral; had not dared to go to Miss
Teller. The hideous sentence in the newspaper had filled her with doubt
and vague alarm. It was not possible that she, Anne, was meant; and yet
Bagshot, from whom this as yet unrevealed testimony was to come, saw her
on the day she visited Helen, after the tidings of her husband's death.
Surely this was too slight a foundation upon which to found her vague
alarm. She repeated to herself that her dread was unreasonable, yet it
would not down. If the danger had been open, she could have faced and
defied it; but this mute, unknown something, which was only to be
revealed by the power and in the presence of the law, held her back,
bound hand and foot, afraid almost to breathe. For her presence or words
might, in some way she could not foresee or even comprehend, bring
increased danger upon the head of the accused man, already weighted down
with a crushing load of suspicion, which grew heavier every hour.

Suspense supplies a calmness of its own. Anne went into the city as
usual, gave her lessons, and went through all the forms of her
accustomed living, both at home and abroad. Yet all the time she was
accompanied by a muffled shape, its ghostly eyes fixed upon her through
its dark veil, menacing but silent. It was dread.

When the hour came, and she knew that the old words were being spoken
over Helen: "In the midst of life we are in death: of whom may we seek
for succor but of Thee?" "Before the mountains were brought forth, or
ever the earth and the world were made, Thou art God from everlasting."
"A thousand years in Thy sight are but as yesterday, seeing that is past
as a watch in the night." "And now, Lord, what is my hope? Truly my hope
is even in Thee"--she bowed her head and joined in the sentences mutely,
present at least in spirit. The next day, while the rain fell sombrely,
she went to the distant cemetery: no one would be there in the storm,
and she wished to stand once more by Helen's side--poor Helen, beautiful
Helen, taken from this life's errors forever, perhaps already, in
another world, understanding all, repentant for all, forgiving all.

There was no one to whom Anne could speak upon the subject which was
burning like a constant fire within her heart. And when, a few days
later, a letter came from Gregory Dexter, she opened it eagerly: there
would be, there must be, comfort here. She read the pages quickly, and
her heart stood still. "If I thought that there was the least danger
that the secret of this cowardly, cruel deed would not be found out,"
wrote Dexter, "I should at once leave all this labor in which I am
engaged, important as it is, and devote myself to the search for proofs
to convict the murderer. Never in my life has my desire for swift,
sharp justice been so deeply stirred."

Anne laid down the letter with a trembling hand. If he "thought that
there was the least danger"; then he thought there was none. But so far
no one had been apprehended, or even suspected, save Ward Heathcote
alone. Did he think, then, that Heathcote was guilty? Could he think
this, knowing him as he did, having been in a certain sense his
companion and friend?

Dexter had not liked Heathcote personally, but he was capable of just
judgment above his personal likings and dislikings, and Anne knew it.
She knew that he had examined the testimony impartially. It must be,
then, it must be, that there were grounds for his belief. She took her
pen and wrote a burning letter--a letter of entreaty and passionate
remonstrance. And then, the next morning, she burned it: she must not
write or speak on the subject at all, not even to him.

The slow days moved onward like the processions of a dream. But no one
noticed any change in the young teacher, who journeyed wearily through
the long hours. Old Nora saw the piles of newspapers in her mistress's
room, but as she could not read, they betrayed nothing. She would not,
besides, have recognized Helen under the name of Heathcote; the
beautiful lady who had visited the half-house in the days of
Jeanne-Armande was named Lorrington. The slow days moved on, but not
without events. In this case the law had moved speedily. An indictment
had been found, and the trial was to take place without delay in the
county town of the district to which Timloesville belonged.

Miss Teller had gone to this town; the newspapers said that she had
taken a house, and would remain during the trial, or as long as Captain
Heathcote was confined there. Anne, reading these items, reading the
many descriptions of Heathcote, the suggestions regarding the murder,
the theories concerning the blunder (for it was conceded that there had
been a blunder), asked herself wonderingly if he had no friends left--no
friends on earth, save herself and Miss Teller? The whole world seemed
to be against him. But she judged only from the newspapers. There was
another side. This was a small, local, but in one way powerful,
