plain puddings we have selected from the vast variety of sweet things
known to our housewives, are adapted to the powers of novices in
cookery, and not unworthy the attention of adepts.


Boiled Custard.

This is the base of so many nice “fancy dishes,” and is itself so
excellent and popular that we may properly lay the knowledge how to
prepare it properly as the foundation-stone of dessert making.

    One quart of fresh, sweet milk.

    Five eggs.

    One cup of sugar.

    One quarter teaspoonful of salt.

    One teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, lemon or bitter
      almond.

Heat the milk to a boil in a farina kettle, or in a tin pail set in a
pot of boiling water.

In warm weather put a bit of soda no larger than a pea in the milk.
While it is heating beat the eggs in a bowl. When the milk is scalding,
add the salt and sugar, and pour the hot liquid upon the eggs, stirring
all the while. Beat up well and return to the inner vessel, keeping the
water in the outer at a hard boil. Stir two or three times in the first
five minutes; afterward, almost constantly.

In a quarter of an hour it ought to be done, but of this you can only
judge by close observation and practice.

The color changes from deep to creamy yellow; the consistency to a soft
richness that makes it drop slowly and heavily from the spoon, and the
mixture tastes like a custard instead of uncooked eggs, sugar and
milk.

When you have done it right once, you recognize these signs ever
afterward.

If underdone, the custard will be crude and watery; if overdone, it
will clot or break.

Take it when quite right—just at the turn—directly from the fire, and
pour into a bowl to cool, before flavoring with the essence.

With a good boiled custard as the beginning we can make scores of
delightful desserts. First among these we may place


Cup Custard.

    Fill small glasses nearly to the top with cold custard.

    Whip the whites of three eggs stiff.

    Beat in three teaspoonfuls of bright-colored
      jelly-currant, if you have it.

    Heap a tablespoon of this méringue on the surface of
      each glassful.

    Set in a cold place until it goes to table.


Floating Island.

Fill a glass bowl almost to the top with cold boiled custard and cover
with a méringue made as in last receipt. Do not whip in the jelly so
thoroughly as to color the frothed whites.

It is a prettier dish when the bright red specks just dot the snowy
mass.


Frosted Custard.

Make a nice custard; let it get perfectly cold, and pile on it, instead
of the whipped egg, a large cupful of grated cocoanut, sprinkling it on
carefully, not to disturb the custard.

Eat with sponge cake.


Blanc-mange.

Like custard, this is the base—the central idea, or fact—of numberless
elegant compounds, and is delightful in its simplest form.

    One package of Cooper’s gelatine.

    Three pints of fresh, sweet milk.

    One even cupful of white sugar.

    One half teaspoonful of salt.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla or other essence.

    Soda as large as a pea, put into the milk.

Soak the gelatine three hours in a cupful of cold water. Then heat the
milk (salted) in a farina kettle.

When it is scalding, stir in without taking the vessel from the fire,
the sugar and soaked gelatine. Stir three minutes after it is boiling
hot, and strain through a coarse cloth into a bowl. Let it get almost
cold before adding the flavoring. Wet a clean mould with cold water;
pour in the blanc-mange and set on ice, or in a cold place until firm.

Dip a cloth in hot water, wring until it will not drip, wrap about the
mould, turn bottom upward on a flat dish, and shake gently to dislodge
the contents.

Eat with powdered sugar and cream.


Chocolate Custard.

Five minutes before taking the custard from the fire, add to it three
heaping tablespoonful of grated Baker’s chocolate rubbed to a paste
with a little cold milk. Stir until the mixture is of a rich coffee
color.

Turn out, and when cold, flavor with vanilla and put into glasses.

Whip the whites of three eggs to a smooth méringue, beat in three
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and heap upon the brown mixture.


Chocolate Blanc-mange.

(Our French scholars will say that this should be termed
“Brun-mange.”)

Mix with the soaked gelatine four heaping tablespoonfuls of Baker’s
chocolate, grated, and stir into the scalding milk, and treat as
above directed. In straining, squeeze the bag hard to extract all the
coloring matter. Flavor with vanilla.


Coffee Blanc-mange.

Soak the gelatine in a cupful of strong, clear black coffee, instead of
the cold water, and proceed as with plain blanc-mange, using no other
flavoring than the coffee.


Tea Blanc-mange

Is made in the same way by substituting for the water very strong,
mixed tea. Eat with powdered sugar and cream.


Pineapple Trifle.

    One package of gelatine.

    Two cups of white sugar.

    One small pineapple, peeled and cut into bits.

    One-half teaspoonful of nutmeg.

    Juice and grated peel of a lemon.

    Three cups of boiling water.

    Whites of four eggs.

    Soak the gelatine four hours in a cup of cold water.

    Put into a bowl with the sugar, nutmeg, lemon-juice,
      and rind and minced pineapple.

Rub the fruit hard into the mixture with a wooden spoon, and let all
stand together, covered, two hours.

Then pour upon it the boiling water and stir until the gelatine is
dissolved.

Line a colander with a double thickness of clean flannel, and strain
the mixture through it, squeezing and wringing the cloth hard, to get
the full flavor of the fruit. Set on ice until cold, but not until it
is hard.

It should be just “jellied” around the edges, when you begin to whip
the whites of the eggs in a bowl set in ice water. When they are quite
stiff, beat in a spoonful at a time the gelatine. Whip a minute after
adding each supply to mix it in perfectly.

Half an hour’s work with the “Dover” will give you a white spongy mass,
pleasing alike to eye and taste.

Wet a mould with cold water, put in the sponge and set on ice until you
are ready to turn it out.

This is a delicious dessert. For pineapple substitute strawberries,
raspberries, or peaches.


A Simple Susan.

    Two cups of fine, dry bread crumbs.

    Three cups of chopped apple.

    One cup of sugar.

    One teaspoonful of mace, and half as much allspice.

    Two teaspoonfuls of butter.

    One tablespoonful of salt.

Butter a pudding-dish and cover the bottom with crumbs. Lay on
these a thick layer of minced apple, sprinkled lightly with salt and
spices—more heavily with sugar. Stick bits of butter over all. Then
more crumbs, going on in this order until all the ingredients are used
up. The top layer should be crumbs. Cover closely, and bake half an
hour. Remove the cover and set on the upper grating of the oven until
nicely browned. Send to table in the dish in which it was baked.


Sauce for the Above.

    Two cupfuls of powdered sugar.

    Two tablespoonfuls of butter.

    Half teaspoonful of mace or nutmeg.

    Juice (strained) of a lemon.

    Two tablespoonfuls of boiling water.

Melt the butter with the hot water and beat in, with egg whisk or
“Dover,” the sugar, a little at a time, until the sauce is like a
cream. Add lemon juice and nutmeg, mould into a mound on a glass dish,
or a deep plate, and set in a cold place until it is firm. This is a
good “hard sauce” for any hot pudding.


Cottage Pudding.

    Two eggs.

    One cup of milk.

    One cup of sugar.

    One tablespoonful of butter.

    Three cups of prepared flour.

    If you have not the prepared, use family flour with two
      tablespoonfuls of baking powder, sifted twice with
      it.

    One tablespoonful of salt.

Put the sugar in a bowl, warm the butter slightly, but do not melt it,
and rub it with a wooden spoon into the sugar until they are thoroughly
mixed together. Beat the eggs light in another bowl, stir in the sugar
and butter, then the milk, the salt, and lastly the flour.

Butter a tin cake mould well, pour in the batter and bake about forty
minutes in a steady oven.

Should it rise very fast, cover the top with white paper as soon as a
crust is formed, to prevent scorching.

When you think it is done stick a clean, dry straw into the thickest
part. If it comes up smooth and not sticky the loaf is ready to be
taken up.

Loosen the edges from the mould with a knife, turn out on a plate, and
send hot to table. Cut with a keen blade into slices, and eat with
pudding sauce.

An easy receipt and one that seldom fails to give general satisfaction.




13

CAKE-MAKING.


NEVER undertake cake unless you are willing to give to the business the
amount of time and labor needed to make it well. Materials tossed
together “anyhow” may, once in a great while, come out right, but the
manufacturer has no right to expect this, or to be mortified when the
product is a failure.

Before breaking an egg, or putting butter and sugar together, collect
all your ingredients. Sift the flour and arrange close to your hand,
the bowls, egg-beater, cake-moulds, ready buttered, etc.

Begin by putting the measured sugar into a bowl, and working the
butter into it with a wooden spoon. Warm the butter slightly in cold
weather. Rub and stir until the mixture is as smooth and light, as
cream. Indeed, this process is called “creaming.”

Now, beat the yolks of your eggs light and thick in another bowl; wash
the egg-beater well, wipe dry and let it get cold before whipping the
whites to a standing heap in a third vessel. Keep the eggs cool before
and while you beat them. Add the yolks to the creamed butter and sugar,
beating hard one minute; put in the milk when milk is used, the spices
and flavoring; whip in the whites, and lastly, the sifted and prepared
flour.

Beat from the bottom of the mixing-bowl with a wooden spoon, bringing
it up full and high with each stroke, and as soon as the ingredients
are fairly and smoothly mixed, stop beating, or your cake will be tough.

Let your first attempt be with cup-cake baked in small tins. Learn to
manage your oven well before risking pound or fruit-cake.

Should the dough or batter rise very fast lay white paper over the top,
that this may not harden into a crust before the middle is done. To
ascertain whether the cake is ready to leave the oven, thrust a clean
straw into the thickest part. If it comes out clean, take out the tins
and set them gently on a table or shelf to cool before turning them
upside down on a clean, dry cloth or dish.


A Good Cup-cake.

    One cup of butter.

    Two cups of sugar—powdered.

    Four eggs.

    One cup of sweet milk.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

    One half-teaspoonful of mace.

    Three cups of prepared flour, or the same quantity of
      family-flour with one even teaspoonful of soda and
      two of cream-tartar, sifted twice with it.

Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder will serve the same end. Mix as
directed in “Practical Preliminaries,” and bake in small tins.


Jelly-cake

Is made by mixing the above cup-cake, leaving out the flavoring, and
baking it in “jelly-cake tins,” turning these out when almost cold by
running a knife around the edges, and spreading all but that intended
for the top with a thick coating of fruit-jelly. Sift white sugar over
the upper one or frost it.


Cream-cake.

Mix a cup-cake without spice or other flavoring, bake in jelly-cake
tins, and when cold spread between the layers this filling:

    One egg.

    One cup of milk.

    One half cup of sugar.

    Two rounded teaspoonfuls of corn-starch.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla or other essence.

Scald the milk in a farina-kettle; wet the cornstarch with a little
cold milk and stir into that over the fire until it thickens. Have
the egg ready whipped light into a bowl; beat it in the sugar; pour
the thick hot milk upon this, gradually, stirring fast, return to the
kettle and boil (still stirring,) to a thick custard. Let it cool
before seasoning.

Frost the top-cake, or sift powdered sugar over it.


Cocoanut-cake.

Mix and bake as for jelly-cake, flavoring with rose-water.

Whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth.

Add one cup of powdered sugar, and two thirds of a grated cocoanut.

When the cakes are cold, spread between the layers.

To the remaining third of the cocoanut add four tablespoonfuls of
powdered sugar, and cover the top of the cake with it.


Apple-cake.

Mix and bake as for jelly-cake, flavoring the dough with essence of
bitter almond.

Beat one egg light in a bowl, and into it a cup of sugar. Add to this
the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon.

Peel and grate three fine pippins or other ripe, tart apples directly
into this mixture, stirring each well in before adding another. When
all are in, put into a farina-kettle and stir over the fire until the
apple-custard is boiling hot and quite thick. Cool and spread between
the cakes. A nice and simple cake. Eat the day it is baked.


Chocolate-cake.

Mix and bake as for jelly-cake, flavoring with vanilla. For filling,
whip the whites of three eggs stiff; stir in one cup and a half of
sugar and four tablespoonfuls of Baker’s Vanilla Chocolate, grated.
Beat hard for two minutes and spread between the layers and on the top
of the cake.


White Cup-cake.

    One cup of butter.

    Two cups of powdered sugar.

    Three cups of prepared flour.

    One cup of sweet milk.

    Whites of five eggs.

    One teaspoonful of essence of bitter almond.

Cream butter and sugar; add milk and beat hard before putting in the
whites of the eggs. Stir in flavoring and, lightly and quickly, the
prepared flour. Bake in small tins.


Frosting for Cake.

    Whites of three eggs.

    Three cups of powdered sugar.

    Strained juice of a lemon.

Put the whites into a cold bowl and add the sugar at once, stirring
it in thoroughly. Then whip with your egg-beater until the mixture is
stiff and white, adding lemon-juice as you go on. Spread thickly over
the cake, and set in the sun, or in a warm room to dry.


White Lemon Cake.

Make “white cup-cake,” bake in jelly cake-tins and let it get cold.
Prepare a frosting as above directed, but use the juice of two lemons
and the grated peel of one. Spread this mixture between the cakes and
on the top.


Sponge Cake.

Do not attempt this until you have had some practice in the management
of ovens, and let your first trial be with what are sometimes termed
“snow-balls,”—that is, small sponge cakes, frosted. Put six eggs into
a scale and ascertain their weight exactly. Allow for the sponge
cake the weight of the eggs in sugar, and half their weight in flour.
Grate the yellow peel from a lemon and squeeze the juice upon it. Let
it stand ten minutes, and strain through coarse muslin, pressing out
every drop.

Beat the yolks of the eggs very light and then the sugar into them; the
lemon-juice; the whites, which should have been whipped to a standing
froth;—finally, stir in the sifted flour swiftly and lightly. Bake in
a steady oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, glancing at them now
and then, to make sure they are not scorching, and covering with white
paper as they harden on top.

This is an easy, and if implicitly obeyed, a sure receipt.


Nice Gingerbread.

    Three eggs.

    One cup of sugar.

    One cup each of molasses, “loppered” or buttermilk, and
      of butter.

    One tablespoonful of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of
      cinnamon, and half as much allspice.

    Four and a half full cups of sifted flour.

    One teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of
      boiling water.

Put butter, molasses, sugar and spice in a bowl, set in a pan of hot
water and stir with a wooden spoon until they are like brown cream.
Take from the water and add the milk. Beat yolks and whites together
until light in another bowl, and turn the brown mixture gradually in
upon them, keeping the egg-beater going briskly.

When well-mixed, add the soda, at last, the flour. Beat hard three
minutes, and bake in well-buttered pans.


Sugar Cookies.

    Two cups of sugar.

    One cup of butter.

    Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten together.

    About three cups of flour sifted with one teaspoonful
      of baking powder.

    One teaspoonful of nutmeg, and half this quantity of
      cloves.

Cream butter and sugar, beat in the whipped eggs and spice; add a
handful at a time the flour, working it in until the dough is stiff
enough to roll out. Flour your hands well and sprinkle flour over a
pastry-board. Make a ball of the dough, and lay it on the board. Rub
your rolling-pin also with flour and roll out the dough into a sheet
about a quarter of an inch thick.

Cut into round cakes; sift granulated sugar over each and bake quickly.


Ginger Snaps.

    Two cups of molasses.

    One cup of sugar.

    One cup of butter.

    Five cups of flour.

    One heaping teaspoonful of ground ginger, and the same
      quantity of allspice.

Stir molasses, sugar and butter together in a bowl set in hot water,
until very light. Mix in spices and flour, and roll out as directed
in last receipt, but in a thinner sheet. Cut into small cakes and bake
quickly.

All cakes in the composition of which molasses is used, are more apt to
burn than others. Watch your ginger snaps well, but opening the oven as
little as may be.

These spicy and toothsome cakes are better the second day than the
first, and keep well for a week or more.




14

JELLIES, CREAMS AND OTHER FANCY DISHES FOR TEA AND LUNCHEON OR
SUPPER-PARTIES.


THE pleasing custom in many families is to make the daughters
responsible for “fancy cookery.” Mamma turns naturally, when company
is expected, to her young allies for the manufacture of cake, jellies,
blanc-mange, etc., and for the arrangement of fruit and flowers, and
seldom cavils at the manner in which they do the work.

The difference in the appointment of feasts in houses where there are
girls growing up and grown, and in those where there are none, is so
marked that I need not call attention to it.


Lemon or Orange Jelly.

    One package of gelatine soaked in two cups of cold
      water.

    Two and a half cups of sugar.

    Juice of four lemons and grated peel of two (same of
      oranges).

    Three cups of boiling water.

    A quarter-teaspoonful powdered cinnamon.

Soak the gelatine two hours; add lemon juice, grated peel, sugar and
spice, and leave for one hour. Pour on the boiling water, stir until
dissolved, and strain through double flannel. Do not shake or squeeze,
