known it."

"Yes, you might have known it."

It seemed a very hard and cruel thing to say, and Mary Goddard was very
far from being a cruel woman by nature; but she was stunned by fear and
disgust and horrified by the possibilities of harm suddenly brought
before her.

Goddard pushed his plate away and leaned his elbows upon the table
supporting his chin in his hands. He scowled at her defiantly.

"You have given me a warm reception, after nearly three years
of--separation." There was a bitter sneer in the word.

"I am horrified to see you here," she said simply. "You know very well
that I cannot conceal you--"

"Oh, I don't expect miracles," said Goddard contemptuously. "I don't know
that, when I came here, I expected to cause you any particularly
agreeable sensation. I confess, when a woman has not seen her beloved
husband for three years, one might expect her to show a little feeling--"

"I will do what I can for you, Walter," said his wife, whose unnatural
calm was fast yielding to an overpowering agitation.

"Then give me fifty pounds and tell me the nearest way east," answered
the convict savagely.

"I have not got fifty pounds in the house," protested Mary Goddard, in
some alarm. "I never keep much money--I can get it for you--"

"I have a great mind to look," returned her husband suspiciously. "How
soon can you get it?"

"To-morrow night--the time to get a cheque cashed--"

"So you keep a banker's account?"

"Of course. But a cheque would be of no use to you--I wish it were!"

"Naturally you do. You would get rid of me at once." Suddenly his voice
changed. "Oh, Mary--you used to love me!" cried the wretched man, burying
his face in his hands.

"I was very wrong," answered his wife, looking away from him. "You did
not deserve it--you never did."

"Because I was unfortunate!"

"Unfortunate!" repeated Mary Goddard with rising scorn.
"Unfortunate--when you were deceiving me every day of your life. I could
have forgiven a great deal--Walter--but not that, not that!"

"What? About the money?" he asked with sudden fierceness.

"The money--no. Even though you were disgraced and convicted, Walter, I
would have forgiven that, I would have tried to see you, to comfort you.
I should have been sorry for you; I would have done what I could to help
you. But I could not forgive you the rest; I never can."

"Bah! I never cared for her," said the convict. But under his livid skin
there rose a faint blush of shame.

"You never cared for me--that is the reason I--am not glad to see you--"

"I did, Mary. Upon my soul I did. I love you still!" He rose and came
near to his wife, and again he would have put his arm around her. But she
sprang to her feet with an angry light in her eyes.

"If you dare to touch me, I will give you up!" she cried. Goddard shrank
back to his chair, very pale and trembling violently.

"You would not do that, Mary," he almost whined. But she remained
standing, looking at him very menacingly.

"Indeed I would--you don't know me," she said, between her teeth.

"You are as hard as a stone," he answered, sullenly, and for some minutes
there was silence between them.

"I suppose you are going to turn me out into the rain again?" asked the
convict.

"You cannot stay here--you are not safe for a minute. You will have to
go. You must come back to-morrow and I will give you the money. You had
better go now--"

"Oh, Mary, I would not have thought it of you," moaned Goddard.

"Why--what else can I do? I cannot let you sleep in the house--I have no
barn. If any one saw you here it would be all over. People know about
it--"

"What people?"

"The vicar and his wife and Mr. Juxon at the Hall."

"Mr. Juxon? What is he like? Would he give me up if he knew?"

"I think he would," said Mary Goddard, thoughtfully. "I am almost sure he
would. He is the justice of the peace here--he would be bound to."

"Do you know him?" Goddard thought he detected a slight nervousness in
his wife's manner.

"Very well. This house belongs to him."

"Oh!" ejaculated the convict. "I begin to see."

"Yes--you see you had better go," said his wife innocently. "How can you
manage to come here tomorrow? You cannot go on without the money--"

"No--and I don't mean to," he answered roughly. Money was indeed an
absolute necessity to him. "Give me what you have got in the house,
anyhow. You may think better of it to-morrow. I don't trust people of
your stamp."

Mary Goddard rose without a word and left the room. When she was gone the
convict set himself to finish the jug of ale she had brought, and looked
about him. He saw objects that reminded him of his former home. He
examined the fork with which he had eaten and remembered the pattern and
the engraved initials as he turned it over in his hand. The very table
itself had belonged to his house--the carpet beneath his feet, the chair
upon which he sat. It all seemed too unnatural to be true. That very
night, that very hour, he must go forth again into the wild February
weather and hide himself, leaving all these things behind him; leaving
behind too his wife, the woman he had so bitterly injured, but who was
still his wife. It seemed impossible. Surely he might stay if he pleased;
it was not true that detectives were on his track--it was all a dream,
since that dreadful day when he had written that name, which was not his,
upon a piece of paper. He had waked up and was again at home. But he
started as he heard a footstep in the passage, being now accustomed to
start at sounds which suggested pursuit; he started and he felt the wet
smock-frock, which was his disguise, clinging to him as he moved, and the
reality of the present returned to him with awful force. His wife again
entered the room.

"There are over nine pounds," she said. "It is all I have." She laid the
money upon the table before him and remained standing. "You shall have
the rest to-morrow," she added.

"Can't I see Nellie?" he asked suddenly. It was the first time he had
spoken of his child. Mrs. Goddard hesitated.

"No," she said at last. "You cannot see her now. She must not be told;
she thinks you are dead. You may catch a glimpse of her to-morrow--"

"Well--it is better she should not know, I suppose. You could not
explain."

"No, Walter, I could not--explain. Come later to-morrow night--to the
same window. I will undo the shutters and give you the money." Mary
Goddard was almost overcome with exhaustion. It was a terrible struggle
to maintain her composure under such circumstances; but necessity does
wonders. "Where will you sleep to-night?" she asked presently. She pitied
the wretch from her heart, though she longed to see him leave her house.

"I will get into the stables of some public-house. I pass for a tramp."
There was a terrible earnestness in the simple statement, which did more
to make Mary Goddard realise her husband's position than anything else
could have done. To people who live in the country the word "tramp" means
so much.

"Poor Walter!" said Mrs. Goddard softly, and for the first time since she
had seen him the tears stood in her eyes.

"Don't waste your pity on me," he answered. "Let me be off."

There was half a loaf and some cheese left upon the table. Mrs. Goddard
put them together and offered them to him.

"You had better take it," she said. He took the food readily enough and
hid it under his frock. He knew the value of it. Then he got upon his
feet. He moved painfully, for the cold and the wet had stiffened his
limbs already weakened with hunger and exhaustion.

"Let me be off," he said again, and moved towards the door. His wife
followed him in silence. In the passage he paused again.

"Well, Mary," he said, "I suppose I ought to be grateful to you for not
giving me up to the police."

"You know very well," answered Mrs. Goddard, "that what I can do to save
you, I will do. You know that."

"Then do it, and don't forget the money. It's hanging this time if I'm
caught."

Mrs. Goddard uttered a low cry and leaned against the wall.

"What?" she faltered. "You have not--"

"I believe I killed somebody in getting away," answered the felon with a
grim laugh. Then, without her assistance, he opened the door and went out
into the pouring rain. The door shut behind him and Mary Goddard heard
his retreating footsteps on the path outside. When he was fairly gone she
suddenly broke down, and falling upon her knees in the passage beat her
forehead against the wall in an agony of despair.

Murderer--thief, forger and murderer, too! It was more than she could
bear. Even now he was within a stone's throw of her house; a moment ago
he had been here, beside her--there beyond, too, in the dining-room,
sitting opposite to her at her own table as he had sat in his days of
innocence and honour for many a long year before his crime. In the sudden
necessity of acting, in the unutterable surprise of finding herself again
face to face with him, she had been calm; now that he was gone she felt
as though she must go mad. She asked herself if this filthy tramp, this
branded villain, was the husband she had loved and cherished for years,
whose beauty she had admired, whose hand she had held so often, whose
lips she had kissed--if this was the father of her lovely child. It was
all over now. There was blood upon his hands as well as other guilt. If
he were caught he must die, or at the very least be imprisoned for life.
He could never again be free to come forth after the expiation of his
crimes and to claim her and his child. If he escaped now, it must be to
live in a distant country under a perpetual disguise. If he were caught,
the news of his capture would be in all the papers, the news of his trial
for murder, the very details of his execution. The Ambroses would know
and the squire, even the country folk, would perhaps at last know the
truth about her. Life even in the quiet spot she had chosen would become
intolerable, and she would be obliged to go forth again into a more
distant exile. She bitterly repented having written to her husband in his
prison to tell him where she was settled. It would have been sufficient
to acquaint the governor with the fact, so that Goddard might know where
she was when his term expired. She had never written but once, and he had
perhaps not been allowed to answer the letter. His appearance at her door
proved that he had received it. Would to God he had not, she thought.

There were other things besides his crime of forgery which had acted far
more powerfully upon Mary Goddard's mind, and which had broken for ever
all ties of affection; circumstances which had appeared during his trial
and which had shown that he had not only been unfaithful to those who
trusted him, but had been unfaithful to the wife who loved him. That was
what she could not forgive; it was the memory of that which rose like an
impassable wall between her and him, worse than his frauds, his forgery,
worse almost than his murder. He had done that which even a loving woman
could not pardon, that which was past all forgiveness. That was why his
sudden appearance roused no tender memories, elicited seemingly so little
sympathy from her. She was too good a woman to say it, but she knew in
her heart that she wished him dead, the very possibility of ever seeing
him again gone from her life for ever, no matter how.

But she must see him again, nevertheless, and to-morrow. To-morrow, too,
she would have to meet the squire, and appear to act and talk as though
nothing had happened in this terrible night. That would be the hardest of
all, perhaps; even harder than meeting her husband for a brief moment in
order to give him the means of escape. She felt that in helping him she
was participating in his crimes, and yet, she asked herself, what woman
would have acted differently? What woman, even though she might hate her
husband with her whole soul, and justly, would yet be so hard-hearted as
to refuse him assistance when he was flying for his life? It would be
impossible. She must help him at any cost; but it was hard to feel that
she must see the squire and behave with indifference, while her husband
was lurking in the neighbourhood, when a detective might at any moment
come to the door, and demand to search the house.

These thoughts passed very quickly through her overwrought brain, as she
knelt in the passage; kneeling because she felt she could no longer
stand, the passionate tears streaming down her face, her small hands
pressing her temples. Then she struggled to her feet and dried her eyes,
steadying herself against the wall for a moment. She had almost forgotten
little Nellie whom she had left in the drawing-room. She had told the
child, when she went back to her, leaving Goddard alone in the dark, that
the man was a poor starving tramp, but that she did not want Nellie to
see him, because he looked so miserable. She would give him something to
eat and send him away, she said, and meanwhile Nellie should sit by the
drawing-room fire and wait for her. The child trusted her mother
implicitly and was completely reassured. Mrs. Goddard dried her eyes,
and re-entered the room. Nellie was curled up in a big chair with a book;
she looked up quickly.

"Why, mamma," she said, "you have been crying!"

"Have I, darling? I daresay it was the sight of that poor man. He was
very wretched."

"Is he gone?" asked the child.

It was unusually late and Nellie was beginning to be sleepy, so that she
was more easily quieted than she could have been in ordinary
circumstances. It might have struck her as strange that a wandering tramp
should know her mother's Christian name, as still more inexplicable that
her mother should have been willing to admit such a man at so late an
hour. She had been badly frightened, but trusting her mother as she did,
her terror had quickly disappeared and had been quickly followed by
sleepiness.

But Mrs. Goddard. did not sleep that night. She felt as though she could
never sleep again, and for many hours she lay thinking of the new element
of fear which had so suddenly come into her life at the very time when
she believed herself to be safe for many years to come. She longed to
know where her wretched husband was; whether he had found shelter for the
night, whether he was still free or whether he had even then fallen into
the hands of his pursuers. She knew that she could not have concealed him
in the house and that she had done all that lay in her power for him. But
she started at every sound, as the rain rattled against the shutters and
the wind howled down the chimney.

Walter Goddard, however, was safe for the present and was even
luxuriously lodged, considering his circumstances, for he was comfortably
installed amongst the hay in the barn of the "Feathers" inn. He had been
in Billingsfield since early in the afternoon and had considered
carefully the question of his quarters for the night. He had observed
from a distance the landlord of the said inn, and had boldly offered to
do a "day's work for a night's lodging." He said he was "tramping" his
way back from London to his home in Yorkshire; he knew enough of the
sound of the rough Yorkshire dialect to pass for a native of that county
amongst ignorant labourers who had never heard the real tongue. The
landlord of the Feathers consented to the bargain and Goddard was told
that he might sleep in the barn if he liked, and should take a turn at
cutting chaff the next day to pay for the convenience. The convict slept
soundly; he was past lying awake in useless fits of remorse, and he was
exhausted with his day's journey. Moreover he had now the immediate
prospect of obtaining sufficient money to carry him safely out of the
country, and once abroad he felt sure of baffling pursuit. He was an
accomplished man and spoke French with a fluency unusual in Englishmen;
he determined to get across the channel in some fishing craft; he would
then make his way to Paris and enlist in the Foreign Legion. It would be
safer than trying to go to America, where people were invariably caught
as they landed. It was a race for life and death, and he knew it. Had he
been able to obtain clothes, money and a disguise in London he would have
travelled by rail. But that had been impossible and it now seemed a wiser
plan to "tramp" it. His beard was growing rapidly and would soon make a
complete disguise. Village constables are generally simple people, easily
imposed upon, very different from London detectives; and hitherto he felt
sure that he had baffled pursuit by the mere simplicity of his
proceedings. The intelligent officials of Scotland Yard were used to
forgers and swindlers who travelled by express trains and crossed to
America by fashionable steamers. It did not strike them as very likely
that a man of Walter Goddard's previous tastes and habits could get
through the country in the guise of a tramp. If he had been possessed at
the time of his escape of the money he so much desired he would probably
have been caught; as it was, he got away without difficulty, and at the
very time when every railway station and every port in the kingdom were
being watched for him, he was lurking in the purlieus of Whitechapel, and
then tramping his way east in comparative safety, half starved, it is
true, but unmolested.

That he was disappointed at the reception his wife had given him did not
prevent him from sleeping peacefully that night. One thing alone
disturbed him, and that was her mention of Mr. Juxon, in whose house, as
she had told him, she lived. It seems incredible that a man in Walter
Goddard's position, lost to every sense of honour, a criminal of the
worst type, who had deceived his wife before he was indicted for forgery,
who had certainly cared very little for her at any time, should now, in a
moment of supreme danger, feel a pang of jealousy on hearing that his
wife lived in the vicinity of the squire and occupied a house belonging
to him. But he was too bad himself not to suspect others, especially
those whom he had wronged, and the feeling was mingled with a strong
curiosity to know whether this woman, who now treated him so haughtily
and drew back from him as from some monstrous horror, was as good as she
pretended to be. He said to himself that on the next day at dawn he would
slip out of the barn and try whether he could not find some hiding-place
within easy reach of the cottage, so as to be able to watch her dwelling
at his ease throughout the day. The plan seemed a good one. Since he was
obliged to wait twenty-four hours in order to get the money he wanted, he
might as well employ the time profitably in observing his wife's habits.
It would be long, he said to himself with a bitter sneer, before he
troubled her again--he would just like to see.

Having come to this decision he drew some of the hay over his body and in
spite of cold and wet was soon peacefully asleep. But at early dawn he
awoke with the alacrity of a man who constantly expects pursuit, and
slipped down from the hayloft into the barn. There was no one stirring
and he got over the fence at the back of the yard and skirted the fields
in the direction of the church, finally climbing another stile and
entering what he supposed to be the park. On this side the back of the
church ran out into a broad meadow, where the larger portion of the
ancient abbey had once stood. Goddard walked along close by the church
walls. He knew from his observation on the previous afternoon that he
could thus come out into the road in the vicinity of the cottage, unless
his way through the park were interrupted by impassable wire fences. The
ground was very heavy and he was sure not to meet anybody in the meadows
in such weather.

Suddenly he stopped and looked at a buttress that jutted out from the
church and for the existence of which there seemed to be no ostensible
reason. He examined it and found that it was not a buttress but
apparently a half ruined chamber, which at some former period had been
built upon the side of the abbey. Low down by the ground there was a
hole, where a few stones seemed to have been removed and not replaced.
Goddard knelt down in the long wet grass and put in his head; then he
crept in on his hands and knees and presently disappeared.

He found himself in a room about ten feet square, dimly lighted by a
small window at the top, and surrounded by long horizontal niches. The
floor, which was badly broken in some places, was of stone. Goddard
examined the place carefully. It was evidently an old vault of the kind
formerly built above ground for the lords of the manor; but the coffins,
if there had ever been any, had been removed elsewhere. Goddard laughed
to himself.

"I might stay here for a year, if I could get anything to eat," he said
to himself.




CHAPTER XIV.


The squire had grown used to the position in which he found himself after
Mary Goddard had told him her story. He continued his visits as formerly,
and it could hardly be said that there was any change in his manner
towards her; there was no need of any change, for even at the time when
he contemplated making her his wife there had been nothing lover-like
in his behaviour. He had been a friend and had treated her with all the
respect due to a lonely lady who was his tenant, and even with a certain
formality which had sometimes seemed unnecessary. But though there was no
apparent alteration in his mode of talking, in his habit of bringing her
flowers and books and of looking after the condition of the cottage, both
she and he were perfectly conscious of the fact that they understood each
other much better than before. They were united by the common bond of a
common secret which very closely concerned one of them. Things were not
as they had formerly been. Mrs. Goddard no longer felt that she had
anything to hide; the squire knew that he no longer had anything to hope.
If he had been a selfish man, if she had been a less sensible woman,
their friendship might have ended then and there. But Mr. Juxon was not
selfish, and Mary Goddard did not lack good sense. Having ascertained
that in the ordinary course of events there was no possibility of ever
marrying her, the squire did not at once give her over and go elsewhere;
on the contrary he showed himself more desirous than ever of assisting
her and amusing her. He was a patient man; his day might come yet, if
Goddard died. It did not follow that if he could not marry Mrs. Goddard
he must needs marry some one else; for it was not a wife that he sought,
but the companionship of this particular woman as his wife. If he could
not marry he could still enjoy at least a portion of that companionship,
by visiting her daily and talking with her, and making himself a part of
her life. He judged things very coldly and lost himself in no lofty
flights of imagination. It was better that he should enjoy what fell in
his way in at least seeing Mrs. Goddard and possessing her friendship,
than that he should go out of his course in order to marry merely for the
sake of marrying. He had seen so much of the active side of life that he
was well prepared to revel in the peace which had fallen to his lot. He
cared little whether he left an heir to the park; there were others of
the name, and since the park had furnished matter for litigation during
forty years before he came into possession of it, it might supply the
lawyers with fees for forty years more after his death, for all he cared.
It would have been very desirable to marry Mrs. Goddard if it had been
possible, but since the thing could not be done at present it was best to
submit with a good grace. Since the day when his suit had suddenly come
to grief in the discovery of her real position, Mr. Juxon had
philosophically said to himself that he had perhaps been premature in
making his proposal, and that it was as well that it could not have been
accepted; perhaps she would not have made him a good wife; perhaps he had
deceived himself in thinking that because he liked her and desired her
friendship he really wished to marry her; perhaps all was for the best in
the best of all possible worlds, after all and in spite of all.

But these reflections, which tended to soothe the squire's annoyance at
the failure of a scheme which he had contemplated with so much delight,
did not prevent him from feeling the most sincere sympathy for Mrs.
Goddard, nor from constantly wishing that he could devise some plan for
helping her. She seemed never to have thought of divorcing herself from
her husband. The squire was not sure whether such a thing were possible;
he doubted it, and promised himself that he would get a lawyer's opinion
upon the matter. He believed that English law did not grant divorces on
account of the husband's being sentenced to any limited period of penal
servitude. But in any case it would be a very delicate subject to
approach, and Mr. Juxon amused himself by constructing conversations in
his mind which should lead up to this point without wounding poor Mrs.
Goddard's sensibilities. He was the kindest of men; he would not for
worlds have said a word which should recall to her that memorable day
when she had told him her story. And yet it would be quite impossible to
broach such a scheme without going at once into all the details of the
chief cause of her sorrows. The consequence was that in the windings of
his imagination the squire found himself perpetually turning in a vicious
circle; but since the exercise concerned Mrs. Goddard and her welfare it
was not uncongenial. He founded all his vague hopes upon one expression
she had used. When in making his proposal he had spoken of her as being a
widow, she had said, "Would to God that I were!" She had said it with
such vehemence that he had felt sure that if she had indeed been a widow
her answer to himself would have been favourable. Men easily retain such
impressions received in moments of great excitement, and found hopes upon
them.

So the days had gone by and the squire had thought much but had come to
no conclusion. On the morning when Walter Goddard crept into the disused
vault at the back of the church, the squire awoke from his sleep at his
usual early hour. He was not in a very good humour, if so equable a man
could be said to be subject to such weaknesses as humours. The weather
was very depressing--day after day brought only more rain, more wind,
more mud, more of everything disagreeable. The previous evening had been
unusually dull. He was never weary of being with Mary Goddard, but
occasionally, when the Ambroses were present, the conversation became
oppressive. Mr. Juxon almost wished that John Short would come back and
cause a diversion. His views concerning John had undergone some change
since he had discovered that nobody could marry Mrs. Goddard because she
was married already. He believed he could watch John's efforts to attract
her attention with indifference now, or if without indifference with a
charitable forbearance. John at least would help to make conversation,
and the conversation on the previous evening had been intolerably
wearisome. Almost unconsciously, since the chief interest and hope of his
daily life had been removed the squire began to long for a change; he
had been a wanderer by profession during thirty years of his life and he
was perhaps not yet old enough to settle into that absolute indifference
to novelty which seems to characterise retired sailors.

But as he brushed his smooth hair and combed his beard that morning,
neither change nor excitement were very far from him. He looked over his
dressing-glass at the leafless oaks of the park, at the grey sky and the
driving rain and he wished something would happen. He wished somebody
might die and leave a great library to be sold, that he might indulge
his favourite passion; he wished he had somebody stopping in the Hall--he
almost decided to send and ask the vicar to come to lunch and have a day
among the books. As he entered the breakfast-room at precisely half-past
eight o'clock, according to his wont, the butler informed him that Mr.
Gall, the village constable, was below and wanted to see him after
breakfast. He received the news in silence and sat down to eat his
breakfast and read the morning paper. Gall had probably come about some
petty summons, or to ask what he should do about the small boys who threw
stones at the rooks and broke the church windows. After finishing his
meal and his paper in the leisurely manner peculiar to country gentlemen
who have nothing to do, the squire rang the bell, sent for the policeman
and went into his study, a small room adjoining the library.

Thomas Gall, constable, was a tall fair man with a mild eye and a
cheerful face. Goodwill towards men and plentiful good living had done
their work in eradicating from the good man all that stern element which
might have been most useful to him in his career, not to say useful to
the State. Each rolling year was pricked in his leathern belt with a new
hole as his heart grew more peaceful and his body throve. He had a goodly
girth and weighed full fifteen stone in his uniform; his mild blue eye
had inspired confidence in a maiden of Billingsfield parish and Mrs. Gall
was now rearing a numerous family of little Galls, all perhaps destined
to become mild-eyed and portly village constables in their turn.

The squire, who was not destitute of a sense of humour, never thought of
Mr. Gall without a smile, so much out of keeping did the man's occupation
seem with his jovial humour. Mr. Gall, he said, was the kind of policeman
who would bribe a refractory tramp to move on by the present of a pint of
beer. But Gall had a good point. He was very proud of his profession, and
in the exercise of it he showed a discretion which, if it was the better
part of his valour, argued unlimited natural courage. It was a secret
profession, he was wont to say, and a man who could not keep a secret
would never do for a constable. He shrouded his ways in an amiable
mystery and walked a solitary beat on fine nights; when the nights were
not fine there was nobody to see whether he walked his beat or not.
Probably, he faithfully fulfilled his obligations; but his constitution
seemed to bear exposure to the weather wonderfully well. Whether he ever
saw anything worth mentioning upon those lonely walks of his, is
uncertain; at all events he never mentioned anything he saw, unless it
was in the secrecy of the reports he was supposed to transmit from time
to time to his superiors.

On the present occasion as he entered the study, the squire observed with
surprise that he looked grave. He had never witnessed such a phenomenon
before and argued that it was just possible that something of real
importance might have occurred.

"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Gall, approaching the squire respectfully,
after carefully closing the door behind him.

"Good morning, Gall. Nothing wrong, I hope?"

"Not yet, sir. I hope not, sir. Only a little matter of business, Mr.
Juxon. In point of fact, sir, I wished to consult you."

"Yes," said the squire who was used to the constable's method of
circumlocution. "Yes--what is it?"

"Well, sir--it's this," said the policeman, running his thumb round the
inside of his belt as though to test the pressure, and clearing his
throat. "There has been a general order sent down to be on the lookout,
sir. So I thought it would be best to take your opinion."

"My opinion," said the squire with great gravity, "is that if you are
directed to be on the look-out, you should be on the look-out; by all
means. What are you to be on the look-out for?"

"In point of fact, sir," said the constable, lowering his voice, "we are
informed that a criminal has escaped from Portland. I never heard of a
convict getting out of that strong'old o' the law, sir, and I would like
to have your opinion upon it."

"But if you are informed that some one has escaped," remarked the squire,
"you had better take it for granted that it is true."

"Juss so, sir. But the circumstances wasn't communicated to us, sir; so
we don't know."

Mr. Gall paused, and the squire smoothed his hair a little.

"Well, Gall," said Mr. Juxon, "have you any reason for believing that
this escaped convict is likely to come this way?"

"Well sir, there is some evidence," answered the policeman, mysteriously.
"Leastways what seems like evidence to me, sir."

"Of what kind?" the squire fixed his quiet eyes on Mr. Gall's face.

"His name, sir. The name of the convict. There is a party of that name
residin' here."

The squire suddenly guessed what was coming, or at least a possibility of
it crossed his mind. If Mr. Gall had been a more observant man he would
have seen that Mr. Juxon grew a shade paler and changed one leg over the
other as he sat. But in that moment he had time to nerve himself for the
worst.

