“No--you mustn’t hope anything,” answered Katharine, determined not to
allow him the shadow of any consolation. “It wouldn’t be just to me. It
would be like thinking that I were capricious. I’m not going to talk to
you about friendship, and all that, as people do in books. I want you to
try and forget me altogether--for I believe you--you really care for me.
So there’s no other way--when one really cares. Don’t come here any more
for the present--don’t try to meet me at parties--don’t ask me to dance
with you. The world’s very big, and you needn’t see me unless you wish
to. By and by it will be different. Perhaps you could go abroad for a
little while again. I don’t know what your plans are, but it would be
better if you could. The season will be over--it’s almost over now, and
then you’ll go one way and I shall go another, and there’s no reason why
we should meet. We mustn’t. It wouldn’t be fair to me, and it wouldn’t
be fair to you, either. You see--it’s not as though you were
disagreeable. If we meet at all, I couldn’t help being very much the
same as ever, and you know what I’ve made you think of that. You’ll
promise, won’t you?”

“Not to try and see you sometimes? No, I won’t promise that. I shall
always hope--”

“But there is no hope. There’s not the slightest possibility of any
hope. If you knew about me, you’d understand it.”

“Miss Lauderdale--will you think it very rude if I ask one question?
I’ve--I’ve put my whole life into this--and you’re sending me away
without a word. So perhaps--I think you might--”

“What is it?” asked Katharine, kindly.

“Are you engaged to Jack Ralston? I’ve heard people say that you were,
so often. Would you tell me?”

Katharine was silent for a moment. She did not know exactly how far it
would be true to say that she was engaged to John, seeing that she was
married to him. Her marriage, she thought, might be looked upon as a
formal betrothal, and there would have been little harm in taking that
view of it, under such circumstances. But she had inherited from her
father something of his formal respect for the mere letter of truth, and
she did not like to say anything which did not conform to it.

“We’re not exactly engaged,” she answered, after a short pause. “But we
care for each other very much.”

Wingfield’s brow cleared a little. He had one of those dispositions
which hope in spite of apparent certainty against them.

“Then I’ll go away for awhile,” he said, with sudden resolution and
considerable generosity, from his point of view. “If you don’t marry
him, I’ll come back, that’s all. I’m glad you told me. Thank you.”

It requires considerable self-control to act as Archibald Wingfield did
on that occasion. His voice did not tremble, and he did not turn pale,
because it was not in his nature to experience that sort of physical
weakness when he was making an effort. But what he did was not easy.
Even Katharine could see that. He sat still a few moments after he had
spoken, glanced at her once, as though to make sure that there was to be
no appeal, and then rose suddenly from his seat, and stood towering
above her.

“Good-bye,” he said, holding out his hand, and stooping to bring it
within her reach. Now that the effort had been made, his voice trembled
a little.

“Good-bye,” answered Katharine, taking his hand, and lifting her head
almost without raising her eyes.

There was something almost like timidity in her tone. She felt how he
had been wronged by her father and mother, and in her trouble she was
willing to believe that she was really a little to blame herself. She
realized, too, that he was acting very bravely and honestly, and that he
was really suffering. It was not a grand, dramatic agony, and eloquence
was the least of his gifts, but he was strong, young, and in earnest,
and had been made to undergo pain for her sake. She was ashamed of
having been the cause of it.

No other words suggested themselves to her, but he waited one moment, as
though expecting that she would speak again. Then he silently dropped
her hand, and bowing his head a little, went quietly to the door without
looking back. She did not follow him with her eyes, but she listened for
the sound of the latch, and it did not come quite so soon as she
expected. He had turned to look at her once more, his hand on the door.

“God bless you--Katharine,” he said, in a low voice.

She looked round at him quickly, and the faint, sorrowful smile came
back to her face. Her lips moved, but no words came. He gazed at her one
moment, and then took his young grief out into the spring air and the
evening sunshine.

When Katharine was alone, she sighed and gazed at the hearth-rug,
bending forward in a thoughtful attitude, her chin supported in her
hand.

“How hard it is!” she exclaimed to herself.

It seemed to her that the difficulties of her life grew with every
passing day. She had, indeed, cut the knot of one of them within the
last half hour, and so far as Archibald Wingfield was concerned, the
hard thing had been done, and he knew the worst. But she, on her part,
had much to bear yet. She had seen to-day, for the first time, how her
father and mother longed to have her married. Even now, she found it
difficult to suspect either of them of intentional cruelty, or of
attempting to use anything more than persuasion in pushing her into the
match. With her faculty for seeing both sides of a question at once, she
was just. It was natural, perhaps, that they should wish her to marry
such a man. She had never seen any one like him--such a magnificent
specimen of youthful manhood. Even her father could not compare with
him. And he had much besides his looks to recommend him, much besides
his fortune and his position and his popularity. He was brave and
honest, and able to love truly, as it seemed.

He would recover, of course, she said to herself. He was sought after,
flattered, and pursued for many reasons. He could find plenty of young
girls only too delighted to marry him, and he would certainly marry one
of them before long. His life was not blighted, and she had not broken
his heart, if hearts ever break at all. She remembered what she had once
borne, in the belief that John Ralston was disgraced for life on that
memorable occasion when all New York had learned that he had been
brought home, apparently drunk, after a midnight encounter with a
pugilist, who had found occasion to quarrel with him in a horse-car. The
belief had lasted a whole night and a whole day, and she did not think
that young Wingfield could be suffering anything like that. Moreover,
her love for Ralston made her ruthless and almost hard about every
other man. Nevertheless, she was sincerely sorry for the man who had
just left her--the more so, perhaps, because she had little or nothing
with which to reproach herself.

Katharine was not left to her own reflections very long. By a process
akin to telepathy, Mrs. Lauderdale was soon aware that Archibald
Wingfield had left the house. In the half hour during which his visit
had lasted, she had not touched her miniature, though she had looked at
it, and turned it to and from the light many times. She was very
nervous, and she wished that when he went away he might forthwith take
himself off to China, at the very least. She did not wish to meet him
that evening, nor the next, to be called to account by him for having
exceeded her powers in the impression she had conveyed of Katharine’s
readiness to marry him. Yet she remembered that she had acted very much
in the same way when Charlotte had married Benjamin Slayback. It was
true that Slayback was a much older man, and well able to take care of
himself, and that Charlotte had not at the time been showing any
especial preference for any of her adorers. She had, in fact, just then
dismissed one for the grievous offence of having turned out an
unutterable bore after three weeks of almost unbroken conversation,
during which she had exhausted his not fertile intellect, as furnace
heat dries a sponge. Charlotte’s heart had been comparatively free,
therefore, and she had been indulging in dreams of power and personal
influence. But Mrs. Lauderdale and her husband had on that occasion used
to Mr. Slayback almost the identical words which she had lately repeated
to Wingfield; Slayback had come, had proposed,--in what manner Charlotte
had never revealed,--and had been immediately accepted. Surely, there
was nothing wrong in assuming that Katharine might possibly behave in
the same way, seeing how very much more desirable a suitor Wingfield was
than Slayback. Thus argued Mrs. Lauderdale, as she tried to trip up her
conscience and step over it. But she was too good by nature to be
successful in such a fraud upon goodness, and in the midst of her
involuntary self-reproaches, her heart was beating with anxiety to know
the result of the interview.

It meant a great deal to her, for she was sure that if Katharine could
be removed from the household, peace must descend upon her own soul once
more, and she longed for peace. Somehow, she felt that if she could only
enjoy that supremacy of her wonderful beauty for one month more--for one
last month, before she grew old--she could meet Katharine again, and
forgive her all her youth and freshness, and forgive herself for having
envied them. As her life was now, she could not, try how she would. The
pain was upon her hourly, and she could not but resent it, and almost
hate the cause of it.

Though she constantly looked at her miniature, and moved the brushes and
little saucers on the table, her hearing was preternaturally sharpened,
as it was in reality the barely audible sound of the distant front door
which told her that Wingfield was gone. Instinctively she looked towards
the door of her own room, hesitated, then rose suddenly, and went out
with a quick, nervous step, and a determined look in her face. Without
stopping to consider what she should say, she descended to the library.

Katharine looked up with an expression of annoyance as her mother
entered.

“He’s gone, then?” said Mrs. Lauderdale, interrogatively.

“Yes. He’s just gone,” answered Katharine, in a voice that did not
promise confidence.

“What did you tell him, dear?”

Mrs. Lauderdale sat down beside her daughter. The smile she put on was
as unnatural as the endearing tone, and Katharine observed it. She
suffered in the artificiality which had developed in her mother of late,
so unlike the dignified personality which she had been used to love.

“Really, mother, I can’t repeat the conversation. I couldn’t if I wished
to. What difference does it make what I said, since he’s gone? I told
you what I should say. Well--I’ve said it.”

“You’ve sent him away for good--just like that?”

“I’ve told him the plain truth, and he’s gone. He won’t come
back--unless he wants to see you,” she added, rather bitterly. “I don’t
think he will, though. You’ve not exactly helped him to be happy.”

“Katharine!” There was an injured protest in the tone.

“I don’t see why you should be surprised,” answered the young girl. “Of
course he might take it into his head to be angry with you for what
you’ve done. It wasn’t very nice. I’m not sure that, in his place, I
should ever wish to see you again.”

“My child, what an exaggeration! You talk as though I had deliberately
sought him out and asked him to the house--almost asked him to marry
you.”

“It comes to that,” observed Katharine, coldly.

“Really, Katharine, you’re--beyond words!” Mrs. Lauderdale drew back a
little, in displeasure, and looked at her severely.

“I could forgive you,” continued the young girl, “if you hadn’t known
that I love Jack and never shall marry any one else. You know it and
you’ve always known it. That makes it much worse. You’ve made that poor
man suffer without the slightest reason. You could just as well have
told him that you knew I cared for some one else, and you could have
been as nice to him as you pleased. You’ve hurt him, and you’ve driven
me to hurt him, by no fault of mine, just to undo the mischief you’ve
done. Of course, it’s papa who’s really done it all, but you needn’t
have let him twist you round his little finger like a wisp of straw.”

“Oh, Katharine! Anything more unjust!”

“I’m not unjust, mother. But I’m too old to think everything you do is
perfect, merely because it’s you. When I see a man like Archie Wingfield
sitting there and straining his hands to keep himself quiet, and choking
with the sound of his own words, I know he’s suffering--and when I know
that he’s suffering uselessly, and that it’s all your fault and papa’s,
I judge you--that’s all. I’m a grown woman. I have a right to judge.”

The door opened and Alexander Junior appeared upon the threshold, just
returned from his office.

“I heard your voice, so I came in,” he said, with an electric smile
which was meant to be conciliatory. “Oh!” he exclaimed, in altered
tones, as he saw the faces of the two women, “has anything happened?”

For a moment there was silence. Mrs. Lauderdale looked at the empty
fireplace, avoiding the eyes of both her husband and her daughter. But
Katharine leaned back in her seat and faced her father. Her voice was
almost as cold and steely as his could be when she answered him at last.

“Mr. Wingfield has just asked me to marry him,” she said. “And I have
refused him--unconditionally.”

“You’ve done an exceedingly foolish thing, then,” answered Alexander
Junior. “And you’ll be very sorry for it before long.”

He came nearer and stood by the fireplace, laying one authoritative hand
upon the mantelpiece, and shaking the forefinger of the other in a
warning manner.

“I’m the best judge of that,” answered Katharine, undaunted and
unimpressed by his parental tone.

“You’re not,” answered Mr. Lauderdale. “You’ve acquired a habit of
contradicting me lately. It seems to be a part of your plan for being as
utterly undutiful and disobedient as you can. I warn you that I won’t
submit to it any longer.”

“It’s of no use to threaten me, papa,” answered Katharine, controlling
herself as well as she could. “And it doesn’t do any good to call me
undutiful and disobedient so often. It doesn’t make it true.”

“Katharine!” cried her mother, in a tone of distress which was not
artificial.

“I know what I’m saying, mother--”

“Then you should be sincerely ashamed of yourself, Katharine,” said
Alexander Junior. “As sincerely as I’m ashamed that a daughter of mine
should use such language.”

Katharine rose slowly from her chair and stood up before him, while her
mother remained seated.

“Neither of you have any right to say that you’re ashamed of anything
I’ve done,” she said. “As for my language, it’s mild enough--for what
you’ve done. I’ve been ashamed of you both to-day--here, in this room,
half an hour ago. You’ve told an honest man who’s foolishly in love with
me that I cared for him, and would have him if he would ask me, when you
know that I will never marry any one but Jack Ralston. It seems to me
that I’ve had good reason to be ashamed of you. It was hard to look him
in the face, and tell him that my father and mother had misled and
deceived him--to make him own that he had it all from you, and that I’d
not given him the shadow of a reason for thinking that I cared for
him--that he had it all from you. Oh, it was so plain! Not that you can
deny it--and you tell me that you’re ashamed of me! If I didn’t love
Jack, do you know what I’d have done? I’d have married Archie Wingfield
to save you your respect for yourself, and a little of his for you!”

“I refuse to listen any longer to such insane nonsense,” said Alexander
Junior, whose slow wrath was rising by degrees.

“You shall listen to me,” answered Katharine. “I’m fighting with you for
my life and happiness, and you’ve got to face me like an honest
man--though you are my father!”




CHAPTER VIII.


“Katharine! This is too much!” cried Alexander Junior, his anger rising
in his eyes.

The man’s heavy hand fell emphatically upon the mantelpiece, making the
old-fashioned gilt clock and the Chinese vases tremble and rattle. Mrs.
Lauderdale was not a nervous woman, but she rose from her seat and stood
beside her husband, not exactly as though she meant to take his side,
and yet not exactly as a peace-maker. She felt herself accused as much
as he did by the pale, strong girl who stood before them, one hand
hanging by her side, the other pulling nervously at the little silver
pin at her collar as though she felt that it was choking her. Of the
three, at that moment, Mrs. Lauderdale was by far the most
self-possessed.

“It’s true,” answered Katharine. “Every word of it’s true!”

As she spoke she caught her breath, and was obliged to stop, white with
anger.

“Katharine--my child! Don’t!” cried Mrs. Lauderdale, fearing she was
going to faint.

“I think you’d better go, my dear,” said Alexander to his wife. “She’s
beside herself. I’ll bring her to her senses.”

The passionate blood rose in the girl’s face and the words came again.

“No, mother--stay here!” she said. “You have no right to go away. Yes--I
say that for months you’ve been doing your best, both of you, to destroy
my happiness--and you’ll destroy my life with it, if I stay with you
longer. You’ve tried to separate me from the man I love, and you’ve been
trying every day and every hour to make me marry another man--pushing
him on, encouraging him, telling him that I would accept him--for all I
know, telling him that I loved him. I’ve not forgotten the things you’ve
done--I’ve not forgotten the day when you, mother, you who had stood by
us so long, suddenly turned without reason and told Jack to go away.
Here, in this very room, last winter--and you, papa--I’ve only to make
you remember how you took that letter when it was brought, and kept it
all day, and repeated all the lies that people told about Jack--and
mother read me the things in the papers--and you made me believe that he
had written to me when he was drunk. It was all a lie, a miserable,
infamous lie! And you liked it, and repeated it, and turned it over and
embroidered it and beautified it--to make it hurt me more. It did hurt
me--it almost killed me--but for Jack’s sake, I wish to God it had!”

“Katharine, this is blasphemy!” exclaimed her father, his cold eyes
glittering with rage--but he was not fluent, he could find no words to
dam the stream of hers.

“Blasphemy!” she cried, indignantly. “Is it blasphemy to pray--unless
your God is my Devil?”

Beside himself with passion, her father made a step forward, and with a
quick movement covered her mouth with one hand and grasped her arm with
the other. But he miscalculated her quickness as against his strength.
With a turn of the hand and wrist she was free and sprang backwards a
step.

“It’s like you to lay your hands on a woman, after trying to sell her!”
she cried, her lips turning a dull grey, her eyes colder and brighter
than his own.

Being roused, they were terribly well matched. Mrs. Lauderdale threw
herself between them. To do her justice, she faced her husband, with one
hand stretched out to warn him back.

“No, no, mother! don’t come between us. I’m not afraid--I only got my
mouth free to tell him that he’s a coward to lay his hands on me. But
that was his only answer, because the things I say are true--every one
of them, and more, too. That’s your one idea--both of you--to marry me
off and get me out of the house, because you can’t look me in the face
after the things you’ve done--after coming between me and Jack, as
you’ve tried to do, and would have done, if we’d loved each other
less--after trying to force me upon the first man who took a fancy to my
face--after tormenting me to betray uncle Robert’s confidence--and it’s
all been for money, and for nothing else. Money, money, money!”

“My child, you’re mad!” cried Mrs. Lauderdale. “What has money to do
with it? What are you talking about? Do you know that you’re making the
most insane accusations?”

“Let her talk,” said Alexander, in a low, sullen voice. “She doesn’t
know what she’s saying.”

Ashamed of his outbreak, perhaps, or in sheer helplessness against
Katharine’s desperate speech, he had fallen back again and stood leaning
against the mantelpiece, his arms folded over his broad chest, his hands
twitching at his sleeve, his pale mouth set like a steel trap, a dull,
dangerous light in his eyes.

“You’re mistaken,” continued Katharine. “It’s all for money. Money’s at
the root of every action of your life. You didn’t want me to marry Jack
because he’s poor, and because uncle Robert might not leave him
anything. Money! You thought at first you could make me take Hamilton
Bright, because he’s cared for me so long--and because he’s beginning to
be rich and is a partner in Bemans’--money, again! Archie
Wingfield--how many millions will he have? Money--of course. Uncle
Robert’s will--what shall you get by it? Money--and you’d tear the
figures out of my head with red hot pincers if you could--just to know
how much you’ll have when the poor man’s dead. Ever since we were
children, Charlotte and I, you’ve preached economy and saving and
poverty--you’ve let my mother--your wife--and you’re the nephew of the
great Robert Lauderdale--you’ve let her work her hands and her eyes till
they ached to make a little money herself--not for herself only, but for
us. No--don’t smile contemptuously like that. She’s done it all my life,
and she’s doing it still. Your children could scarcely have been
decently dressed, if she hadn’t earned a few hundred dollars for them.
There’s hardly a thing I have on that she’s not paid for out of her
earnings. We couldn’t have gone to our first ball, Charlotte or I, but
for her. And still, day after day, you say you’re poor. Do you think I
don’t see all the little meannesses? Do you think I can’t smell the vile
cigars you make grandpapa smoke, to save those few cents? Is there a
house among all our friends, poor as some of them are, where there isn’t
a fire in the library, at least in the evening, even when there’s nobody
asked to dinner? Economy, saving, meanness of all sorts--even the poor
housemaid who broke her arm on the kitchen stairs! You sent to the
hospital the day before she was to leave, half-cured and helpless, and
made her sign the declaration that she made no further claim upon you.
She came here when you were down town. Mother gave her five dollars--out
of her earnings--but I heard her story. Oh, they’re endless, your ways
of saving that filthy, miserable money of yours!”

“Are you really mad, Katharine?” asked her father, in a dull, monotonous
voice.

“Child! You know we’re comparatively poor,” said Mrs. Lauderdale.
“Come--dear child--”

She laid her hand on the girl’s arm as though she would lead her away
and end the violent scene, but Katharine stood firm.

“Poor!” she cried, indignantly. “Comparatively poor! Yes--compared with
uncle Robert or Mr. Beman, perhaps. But papa is not poor, though he has
told you so for years, though he lets you work for money--you! Though he
borrows five dollars of you--I’ve seen it again and again--and never
returns it--borrows the poor little sums you earn by hard work! Oh, it’s
not to be believed! Borrows without ever meaning to give it back--like
an honest man--oh, he wouldn’t dare to do that with his dearest friend.
But you! You can’t help yourself--”

“My dear, he keeps an account--”

“I know, I know! He pretends that he keeps the money for you and allows
you interest! I’ve heard him say so. Interest on five dollars. And have
you ever had it? Sordid--mean--there’s no word! And he keeps telling you
that he’s poor, and that we must pinch and scrape or we shall go beyond
our income--when he has over a million of dollars put away--”

“Be silent!” cried Alexander Junior, with sudden vehemence, his cheeks
as grey as ashes.

“I won’t be silent! I’ll say every word I have to say. Look me in the
face. Deny, if you dare, before God, that what I say is true--that you
have that money put away somewhere. Is it true, or not, as you hope to
be saved?”

Mrs. Lauderdale came between them again, laying her hands on Katharine’s
arm and trying to make her leave the room.

“Take care, take care!” she cried, anxiously, and hardly knowing what
she said. “Alexander--Katharine! Don’t--oh, please don’t quarrel like
this--my child, my child! You’re beside yourself!”

“I’m not--it’s true as life and death!” answered the girl, resisting the
pressure. “Ask him if it’s not! Make him swear that it’s not true--make
him say, before heaven, that he has less than a million, while he’s
selling his daughters and forcing his wife to work. Wait--don’t
speak--listen to what he says! If he can’t say it, his whole life has
been a lie, and he knows it--wait--hush!”

Katharine held her mother fast by the hands, and seemed to hold her own
breath, her angry eyes fixed on her father’s face. Mrs. Lauderdale
turned her head instinctively, and looked at him. He met their glances
for a few seconds, and his dry, pale lips parted as though he were about
to speak, but no sound came. In the waning light his eyes had a glassy
look. It only lasted a moment, and then his mouth was twisted with an
expression meant for a smile.

“Take her away--she’s mad,” he said, and his voice seemed to be suddenly
weak.

Katharine laughed aloud, bitterly and cruelly, in her triumph.

“If I were mad, as you say I am,” she said, a moment later, “that would
not make it impossible for you to tell the truth. Yes, mother--I’m going
now. I’ve said it all--and you know it’s true.”

She dropped her mother’s hands, turned contemptuously away, and left the
room. Neither her father nor her mother moved as she went, though they
followed her with their eyes until the door closed behind her with a
soft click.

Alexander Lauderdale was torn by the strongest emotions of which he was
capable--anger and avarice. But avarice was the stronger. So long as
Katharine had accused him of unkindness, of dishonesty in his treatment
of Wingfield, of meanness in his household, his wrath, though powerless,
had kept the upper hand. But at the sudden and unexpected accusation of
possessing a fortune in secret, he had been cowed. It was characteristic
of him that even in that moment he would not swear falsely, and he saw
the folly of denying the statement if he could not support his denial
with something like an oath. When passions have reached such a crisis,
they are not satisfied with less than they demand. On the whole, it had
been wiser to say nothing. He could admit afterwards that he had saved
something--he would assure his wife that Katharine’s statement had been
exaggerated--little by little, calm would be restored. And there would
not necessarily be any increase of expenditure. At that crucial moment
two thoughts had been uppermost in his mind. The miser’s dismay at the
discovery of his wealth, and the miser’s visions of ruinous expense in
the immediate future. In a flash, he had seen himself forced to spend
fifty or sixty thousand a year, instead of ten or twelve, and all
possible forms of reckless extravagance had appeared to him in a horror
of kaleidoscopic confusion. It was torture to think of it--to realize
that his secret was out.

The strong man stood, half-stunned, leaning against the mantelpiece,
pulling nervously at the bit of embroidered velvet which covered it,
his face drawn in an expression of suffering and fear. He dreaded the
question which he knew that his wife would ask him, but he had not even
the power to speak at that moment, in order to ward it off.

Mrs. Lauderdale hesitated a moment, wondering whether it might not be
better to follow Katharine to her room and try to calm her and make her
more reasonable. Never, in all the girl’s life, had her mother seen her
so passionately angry nor heard her use the tone of defying strength
which had rung in her voice as she accused her father. Mrs. Lauderdale
herself was frightened, and almost feared for Katharine’s reason. But
there had, nevertheless, been so much assurance of truth in what she had
said, that her mother was half convinced. Before she left the room to
follow her daughter, she turned to her husband, and the inevitable
question came. It could not be otherwise. The girl’s accusation had
vividly brought before Mrs. Lauderdale the labour she had expended in
all the past years, and of which the result had been to give her
children what it was their father’s duty to give them if he had anything
to give. Many a time, too, she herself had chafed under the necessity of
lending him small sums for an emergency, accepting a promise of payment
which was never fulfilled, and forced to be satisfied with the assurance
that he kept an account of what he owed her. He seemed never to have
money about him. He always said that he was afraid of losing it--he, the
most careful of men! The cumulative force of those many small meannesses
extending over a quarter of a century of married life was tremendous
when they were brought up in a body and made to face the positive
statement that he was in reality a rich man. A good wife she had been to
Alexander Junior in every sense of the word, but of that early trusting
love which hides more sins than the multitude of them which charity can
cover, there was not left even the warmth where the spark had glowed.
There was no ‘a priori’ judgment of one heart against all possible
offence and sordid meanness in the other. Katharine’s blow had been
heavy and direct, and had gone straight to its mark. Her mother loved
her--in spite of her terrible envy of her. It would need the man’s
solemn oath to outweigh the girl’s plain statement. The inevitable
question came, as Alexander knew that it must. He moved nervously as she
began to speak.

“Alexander, dear,” she said, speaking gently from force of habit, “it
would be very easy for you to deny this.”

He had thought of what he should say.

“My dear, I think that after spending half a lifetime together, during
which you’ve had occasion to find out that I’m truthful, it’s scarcely
necessary to pay any attention to an angry child’s ravings.”

But Mrs. Lauderdale was not satisfied with this poor excuse. Katharine
had roused her own resentment, and she remembered many things now, which
Katharine herself did not know--little things--the dry sticks that will
make a smouldering fire blaze.

“It’s precisely because you’re so truthful that it seems strange when
you refuse to answer a simple question, Alexander,” observed Mrs.
Lauderdale, quietly enough.

She did not wish to take up Katharine’s quarrel, nor to give the present
conversation the air of an argument. She therefore did not stay beside
him, as though they were discussing any point, but moved about the room,
pretending to arrange small objects and books and generally to set the
room in order, which was a work of supererogation, to keep herself in
countenance while she renewed the attack.

“You admit that I’m truthful,” said Alexander, coldly. “I’m glad you do.
That settles the question at once. If I’ve been a rich man all these
years, then I’ve not been telling the truth, nor acting it, either. It’s
all too absurd for discussion. I confess that at first I was angry. The
girl spoke to me in the most outrageous manner. I don’t remember that
any one has ever said anything of the kind to me in my life. It’s
wrong to be angry, and I repent of it, but I think I may be
pardoned--considering what she said. It’s been a disgraceful scene. I’m
sincerely thankful that none of the servants were present.”

“Oh--it was natural that you should lose your temper, of course!”
