lane, and stopped. (It may be mentioned that they did not reach the
tower; no one--that is, no stranger--has ever reached it. Italians are
indifferent to its mystery.) "This is the place," he said. "The house is
a quarter of a mile from here, and I could have taken you nearer by
keeping to the main road; but in that case they might have heard the
sound of our wheels. I haven't let any one know we were coming, so that
you can have a glimpse of the scene as it really is, and not tamed by
the presence of strangers." He tied the horses to the hedge, and,
climbing over a stone wall, led the way across a broad field, freshly
ploughed. On the other side of this field the ground ascended, and the
slope was covered by an olive-grove. The sparse gray foliage of the
pruned trees cast hardly more than a lace-work of shade upon the moonlit
ground, and the two men made their way upward easily; in ten minutes
they had reached the top. Here, on a broad plateau, stood the farm-house
with its out-buildings. Beyond the plateau the ground ascended again,
decked by another grove. The door and windows of the house were open,
and sounds of laughter came forth. The two Americans drew near
cautiously, walking as quietly as they could in the shadow of the trees.
But their care was unnecessary; all were assembled within, and no one
was looking either from the door or the windows; the noise, too, was so
great that no sound outside could have been heard even by a listening
ear. Dennison, making a d√©tour, led the way round to one of the back
casements. This window, a small one, was breast-high; its little
lattices of lead-bordered panes had been thrown back; they opened into
the room, as the exterior of the window was guarded by iron rods set
close together. The two spectators outside, by looking between these
rods, obtained a view of the scene within. The room was large, low, and
smoke-browned; it was lighted by all the lamps the house could
muster--lamps of the old Tuscan pattern for olive-oil; there were also
earthen-ware saucers filled with the same oil, and carrying a floating
wick. Two candles illumined a supper-table which was placed across one
end of the apartment. This table bore upon its white linen cloth the
dishes of the feast--dishes and little else, as everything had been
eaten save bread, of which there was still a supply (in case any one
should feel a return of hunger). There were also fresh flasks of wine
for future thirst, and over a handful of coals on the hearth there was a
long-handled coffee-pot. A game was now going on, or, rather, a
pantomime; two men in masks were jumping about like harlequins, and
every now and then they seized a person from the ranks of spectators,
and whirled him or her round and round dizzily; there was guessing
connected with it in some way, as everybody called out names loudly; the
uproar was incessant, with occasional applause and a great deal of
laughter. The feet of the harlequins had raised much dust, and at last
the room became dim. "More light, more light, Filippo. We can't see,"
called several voices.

Filippo, a sinewy little man who had been acting as harlequin himself
(for the men took turns), consulted with his wife. They had no more
candles, and no more saucers and wicks; but they could make a blaze of
brushwood on the hearth, if the company would not mind the additional
heat? The wife, a laughing ample matron who still showed a handsome face
above her rotund person, opened a door into an out-building, and, after
some rummaging, produced three fagots of small, dry twigs; one of these
she placed over the coals, and in a minute or two a blaze leaped up the
wide chimney, lighting the room brilliantly. The game now went on with
redoubled vigor and glee, and the gazers without could see all the faces
of the circle distinctly.

"There is Modesta by the table," whispered Gray. "How she does laugh! It
doesn't seem natural."

"Oh yes, it is. That is the way they laugh sometimes; they can go on for
hours like children."

"Isn't that the Swedish girl with one of the harlequins? How
light-colored she looks in that tanned, black-haired crowd! She is
rather pretty; instead of letting her go back to Stockholm, one of these
Italian youths had better marry her."

"She probably holds herself above them," answered Dennison, in the same
low tone. "But, in any case, Tuscan peasants are extremely slow to marry
a person who is not a Tuscan. They call even Romans foreigners;
generally, too, they call them brutes! Well, we've been here twenty
minutes: had enough?"

They turned, and, making a second circuit of the house, they crossed the
plateau noiselessly, and re-entered the grove. They had gone but a few
paces down the slope when the distant voices and laughter suddenly grew
louder; looking back, they saw that the whole company had come outside,
following the harlequins, each one of whom held a girl by the elbows,
and was whirling her over the grass in the brilliant moonlight.
Presently four more couples began to whirl in the same manner, and all
the others, inspired by the sight, joined hands, and made a long chain
which moved to and fro with rhythmical steps, forming now a star, now a
square, now a figure 8. The game was at an end; everybody was dancing.
One of the harlequins changed his partner every few minutes, but the
other did not loosen his grasp of the girl whom he had brought with him
from the house. After a while this second harlequin moved away from the
other dancers, and came waltzing across the plateau towards the grove
where Dennison and Gray were standing, each hidden in the shadow of a
tree trunk; at the top of the slope the man did not stop, but began to
descend, still dancing, or pretending to dance, and pulling his
unwilling partner with him.

At this instant a woman detached herself from the distant groups of
revellers and rushed towards the grove. And as she came on her figure
was such a vision of swiftness of motion and of intensity of purpose
that Gray unconsciously held his breath as he watched her. The plateau
was broad; she was a full minute in crossing it. As she drew near the
grove she lifted her head a little, and the moonlight, which had been
behind her, fell across her forehead; then he saw that it was Modesta.

The harlequin also had recognized her, for, suddenly ceasing his
gyrations, he released his companion, and ran off in the opposite
direction, bounding as he went, in accordance with his assumed
character, and joining the chain of dancers near the house with a high
leap which gained for him their loud applause. Meanwhile his partner,
freed at last, stood still for an instant with her eyes closed, dizzy
from the whirling.

It was during this instant that Modesta reached her; coming down the
slope with all the gathered impetus of her tremendous speed, she swooped
upon the girl, bore her to the ground, struck her across the cheek, and
then, holding her down with one hand, she fumbled in her own pocket with
the other.

Dennison meanwhile, as soon as he had recognized his waitress at the top
of the descent (he had not distinguished who it was before, his eyesight
not being so keen as Gray's), had left his tree, and, darting across the
intervening space, he now caught her arm tightly at the elbow, while her
hand was still in her pocket. Gray hurried to his aid, and seized her
other wrist, dragging her fingers away from the girl on the ground; thus
holding her between them, they pulled her to her feet. As they did so
her right hand came out of her pocket. It held a murderous-looking
knife.

"You devil," said Dennison, in Italian, "drop that knife!"

They held her so closely that she could not move, but her face glared at
them in the moonlight. It was like nothing human; her head was thrust
out, the eyes were narrowed and glittering, the nostrils flattened, and
the lips drawn up and back from the set, fierce teeth. Their four
figures--three standing, one on the ground--were below the slope, and no
one saw them. There had been no sound from the prostrate girl, who had
lost consciousness from fright, paralyzed by the terrible countenance of
the woman who had attacked her; and the waitress herself had made no
sound as she came. She made no sound now, save that she panted as she
breathed; she was like a wild beast who had made one spring and is about
to make another.

"Drop the knife, or you shall go to prison," said Dennison, sternly, his
hands on her shoulder like a vise.

Her fingers did not move.

"Listen. If you don't drop it, I swear to you I'll send Goro to America
by the next Leghorn steamer, with five hundred lire in his pocket."

The knife dropped.

"Pick it up," said Dennison to Gray, in English. "Now see if you can
lift that girl and carry her down the hill. Get her across the field
somehow to that stone wall where we climbed over; wait there for
me--unless she should come to on the way, in which case perhaps she will
be able to climb over the wall herself. If she does, wait there with her
by the phaeton. I sha'n't be long. But I must take this she-wolf back to
the house first."

Gray had bent down; he lifted the inert body at their feet, raising it a
little, and as he did so the head fell back, and the moonlight, shining
on the hair and temples, showed that it was the Swede. Modesta, as she
too saw the face, made a spring at it. But Dennison jerked her back.
Then, with a snarling sound in her throat, she twisted her head round,
and bit savagely at his hand where it held her shoulder.

"Do hurry. She is perfectly insane," he said to Gray.

Gray, having got the Swede off the ground, put his left arm under her
back at the shoulders, and his right under her knees, and, lifting her
in this position, he carried her down the hill with as much speed as was
possible. This was not great, because the ground was uneven, and as he
could not see where to place his steps, he was obliged to feel his way
with his feet as he advanced--to shuffle along cautiously. In time,
however, he reached the bottom of the hill. Then slowly he began to
cross the field. This, too, was difficult, owing to the soft, crumbling
earth of the freshly ploughed furrows. But here at last the girl opened
her eyes.

"Can you stand?" asked Gray, breathlessly. Then he thought, with
irritation, "None of them can speak anything!"

But the Swede now made of her own accord the motion of trying to get to
her feet, and gladly enough he let her slip down and stand on the
ground, as his arms were aching. He still supported her, however, lest
she should fall.

But the girl seemed to be more terrified than weak; the instant her feet
touched the earth she began to run towards the stone boundary wall,
looking back every half-minute to see that no one was following. He went
with her, trying to help her over the furrows; and as they hurried
onward side by side, her face was such a picture of deathly fear that
the feeling took possession of him also; he found himself regretting
that their figures were so plainly visible on the moonlit expanse, and
he too looked nervously over his shoulder, as though he expected to see
the Italian woman coming after them madly, with her glittering eyes and
the shining knife.

They reached the wall, and climbed over into the road outside, the Swede
needing no help, but quicker in her movements than he was. In the road
he tried to stop her, but she pulled herself from him. Still holding
her, he showed her the horses tied in the shadow of the hedge. This she
comprehended. She waited, therefore; but she kept herself several yards
away from him, so that he should not stop her in case she should again
wish to flee. She was a slender young creature, and she stood there much
as a bird poises itself on a twig; not resting, not bearing its full
weight, but perched provisionally, as it were--ready to fly away again
in an instant.

Gray, who had now recovered his composure, tried to soothe her. With his
most encouraging inflections he repeated: "All safe now. All-ll safe!
Stay right here with me."

She paid not the least attention to him. Her eyes continued their
strained watch of the lower trees of the grove. At length a man's figure
emerged from these trees, and the girl gave a muffled scream. But Gray
had caught hold of her arm; pointing to the horses and then to Dennison,
he said, gesticulating energetically: "Horses are his. Dennison's.
My friend. Your friend. (Oh, what is 'friend?') Amicus! Don't you
see he's alone? Nobody with him? Solo? Sola?"

And the girl could indeed see for herself that the person approaching
was alone. She had understood the fact that the horses belonged to this
person, and her hope was in the horses; they could take her away--away
from here!

As soon as Dennison was near enough he began speaking in Italian, and he
continued to talk to her as he climbed over the wall, calming her,
explaining and arranging. Then he turned the phaeton, and they all took
their places within, the Swede sitting between the two men on the broad
seat. Dennison drove down the lane, still talking encouragingly. When
they reached the main road he took a direction which led them away from
Casa Colombina and Tre Ponti. "We're in for it!" he said in English to
Gray. "I shall take her to the nearest railway station--not the one you
know, but another--and pack her off to Florence; there her consul can
see to her. I have explained it to her clearly. She is glad enough to
go."

"What was it all about, anyhow?"

"Didn't you comprehend? That harlequin (I'll mention no names, and then
she won't be startled) was no less a person than the lover of your
Madonna beauty--the youth she expects to marry. During the game he was
flirting, or trying to flirt after his fashion, with our present
companion. This was too much for the older woman. Hence the knife."

"Which I have in my pocket, by-the-bye."

"Don't take it out now; you can throw it away after we have disposed of
our Scandinavian. I suppose she has never before seen such a thing as a
brandished weapon of that sort. It's a knife used by the peasants about
here to cut hides with; your Madonna probably took it from among
Filippo's tools somehow while the festivities were going on. She must
have been jealous even then."

"I told you that her laugh wasn't natural. 'Twas an awful sight, though!
She would certainly have murdered the girl if we hadn't happened to be
standing just where we were."

"Very likely," answered Dennison. "Tchk, tchk," he added to the horses.

"I hope she is safely locked up by this time."

"Locked up! She is probably dancing with her harlequin."

"You don't mean to say that you let her go?"

"Quite so. She is all right now; she has come back to her senses. I had
six words with the youth, however; he'll treat her better--for the
present, at least; I have frightened him."

"What did you mean when you said you'd send him away?"

"That was what brought her round. He has had a hankering for a long time
to emigrate to--to the land of the free; he would go in a minute if his
passage were paid and he had a hundred dollars in his pocket--go and
never think of her again; she knows this. But the land of the free
doesn't want him--he is incorrigibly lazy; and his departure would end
her as far as I am concerned--make her perfectly useless."

"Good heavens! you're not going to take that murderess back?"

"I can't take her back without sending her away first. And that I
haven't done," answered Dennison.

"But won't she be arrested, in any case? Every one will know that she
attacked this girl, and that the girl has fled."

"No one knows that she attacked her. And even if it is guessed, Tuscan
peasants are not so easily alarmed as you suppose; they understand each
other. As to the disappearance of this one, I shall explain it by saying
that I decided to advance the money to send her as far as Florence,
instead of making her wait for the remittance which is expected from
the consul; it is known that she was to go before long, in any case. It
will cost me something, but I like peace and quietness. The other woman
is perfect as a servant, and the cause of her jealousy removed she will
continue perfect."

"Brrrr!" said Gray, uttering the sound that accompanies a shudder.

The Swede recognized the meaning of this; she looked at him quickly with
parted lips and her hand extended. She was ready to spring from the
phaeton.

"Do be quiet!" said Dennison. Then he spoke to the girl in Italian,
quieting her dread.

They reached the station in safety, and soon after sunrise the
Northerner, her breath still hurried, her hands cold, was placed in the
care of the official who had charge of the Florence train. Dennison gave
her his white silk handkerchief to tie over her uncovered head. The
daylight had revealed the discolored lines of the bruise on her cheek
produced by Modesta's blow. "Poor thing!" said Gray, as the train
started on its way, and they had a last glimpse of her frightened eyes
at the window.

"Yes. But she will get over it in time--she is strong and healthy. I
have telegraphed to the consul at Florence to meet her, and take every
care of her; he is to give her money from me, and then he is to send her
to Stockholm, comfortably, in the charge of a suitable person. When she
arrives there she will find a tidy little sum to her credit at a
banker's."

"You're paying well for her scare."

"I'm paying well for my comfort."

They took fresh horses and returned to Casa Colombina.

As the Tower of the Dove came into sight on its hill, Gray said: "She
won't be there, will she--I mean at the house?"

"Oh yes."

"What will she do when she sees us?"

"She will bring in the breakfast just as she brings it every morning,
and Hannibal and the cats will follow behind. Perhaps she will talk
rather more than usual; if she does, it will be on the most agreeable
topics, and her smile (which you admire so much) will be sweeter than
ever; her hair will be braided to perfection, and, what is more
important, her work will be done to perfection. We shall pretend, both
of us, she and I, that we don't see the mark of the bite on my hand.
Shall I go on? In a week or two, probably, she will marry her Goro, and
then he will be so constantly under my feet that I shall end by
installing him as my gardener for life. He will do no work of
importance; but, owing to his presence, I shall continue to enjoy the
services of a waitress whom you yourself have described as a regular
marvel."

It may be added that this prophecy has been exactly fulfilled.




AT THE CH√ÇTEAU OF CORINNE


On the shores of Lake Leman there are many villas. For several centuries
the vine-clad banks have been a favorite resting-place for visitors from
many nations. English, French, Germans, Austrians, Poles, and Russians
are found in the circle of strangers whose gardens fringe the lake
northward from Geneva, eastward from Lausanne, and southward from Vevey,
Clarens, and Montreux. Not long ago an American joined this circle. The
American was a lady named Winthrop.

Mrs. Winthrop's villa was not one of the larger residences. It was an
old-fashioned square mansion, half Swiss, half French, ending in a
high-peaked roof, which came slanting sharply down over several narrowed
half-stories, indicated by little windows like dove-perches--four in the
broadest part, two above, then one winking all alone under the peak. On
the left side a round tower, inappropriate but picturesque, joined
itself to the square outline of the main building; the round tower had
also a peaked roof, which was surmounted by a contorted ornament of iron
somewhat resembling a letter S. Altogether the villa was the sort of a
house which Americans are accustomed to call "quaint." Its name was
quaint also--Miolans la Tour, or, more briefly, Miolans. Cousin Walpole
pronounced this "Miawlins."

Mrs. Winthrop had taken possession of the villa in May, and it was now
late in August; Lake Leman therefore had enjoyed her society for three
long months. Through all this time, in the old lake's estimation, and
notwithstanding the English, French, Germans, Austrians, Poles, and
Russians, many of them titled, who were also upon its banks, the
American lady remained an interesting presence. And not in the opinion
of the old lake only, but in that also of other observers, less fluid
and impersonal. Mrs. Winthrop was much admired. Miolans had entertained
numerous guests during the summer; to-day, however, it held only the
bona fide members of the family--namely, Mrs. Winthrop, her cousin
Sylvia, and Mr. H. Walpole, Miss Sylvia's cousin. Mr. H. Walpole was
always called "Cousin Walpole" by Sylvia, who took comfort in the name,
her own (a grief to her) being neither more nor less than Pitcher.
"Sylvia Pitcher" was not impressive, but "H. Walpole" could shine for
two. If people supposed that H. stood for Horace, why, that was their
own affair.

Mrs. Winthrop, followed by her great white dog, had strolled down
towards the lake. After a while she came within sight of the gate; some
one was entering. The porter's lodge was unoccupied save by two old
busts that looked out from niches above the windows, much surprised that
no one knew them. The new-comer surveyed the lodge and the busts; then
opened the gate and came in. He was a stranger; a gentleman; an
American. These three items Mrs. Winthrop's eyes told her, one by one,
as she drew nearer. He now caught sight of her--a lady coming down the
water-path, followed by a shaggy dog. He went forward to meet her,
raising his hat. "I think this is Mrs. Winthrop. May I introduce
myself? I am John Ford."

"Sylvia will be delighted," said Mrs. Winthrop, giving her hand in
courteous welcome. "We have been hoping that we should see you, Mr.
Ford, before the summer was over."

They stood a few moments, and then went up the plane-tree avenue towards
the house. Mrs. Winthrop spoke the usual phrases of the opening of an
acquaintance with grace and ease; her companion made the usual replies.
He was quite as much at his ease as she was, but he did not especially
cultivate grace. Sylvia, enjoying her conversation with Cousin Walpole,
sat just within the hall door; she was taken quite by surprise. "Oh,
John, how you startled me! I thought you were in Norway. But how very
glad I am to see you, my dear, dear boy!" She stood on tiptoe to kiss
him, with a moisture in her soft, faded, but still pretty eyes.

Mrs. Winthrop remained outside; there were garden chairs in the small
porch, and she seated herself in one of them. She smiled a little when
she heard Sylvia greet this mature specimen of manhood as a "dear, dear
boy."

Cousin Walpole now came forward. "You are welcome, sir," he said, in his
slender little voice. Then bethinking him of his French, he added, with
dignity, "Welcome to Miaw-lins--Miaw-lins-lay-Tower."

Ford took a seat in the hall beside his aunt. She talked volubly: the
surprise had excited her. But every now and then she looked at him with
a far-off remembrance in her eyes: she was thinking of his mother, her
sister, long dead. "How much you look like her!" she said at last. "The
same profile--exact. And how beautiful Mary's profile was! Every one
admired it."

Ford, who had been gazing at the rug, looked up; he caught Mrs.
Winthrop's glance, and the gleam of merriment in it. "Yes, my profile is
like my mother's, and therefore good," he answered, gravely. "It is a
pity that my full face contradicts it. However, I live in profile as
much as possible; I present myself edgewise."

"What do you mean, dear?" said Sylvia.

"I am like the new moon," he answered; "I show but a rim. All the rest I
keep dark."

Mrs. Winthrop laughed; and again Ford caught her glance. What he had
said of himself was true. He had a regular, clearly cut, delicately
finished profile, but his full face contradicted it somewhat, showing
more strength than beauty. His eyes were gray, without much expression,
unless calmness can be called an expression; his hair and beard, both
closely cut, were dark brown. As to his height, no one would have called
him tall, yet neither would any one have described him as short. And the
same phrasing might have been applied to his general appearance: no one
would have called him handsome, yet neither would any one have classed
him as ordinary. As to what is more important than looks, namely,
manner, although his was quiet, and quite without pretension, a close
observer could have discovered in it, and without much effort, that the
opinions of John Ford (although never obtruded upon others) were in
general sufficiently satisfactory to John Ford; and, furthermore, that
the opinions of other people, whether accordant or discordant with his
own, troubled him little.

After a while all went down to the outlook to see the after-glow on Mont
Blanc. Mrs. Winthrop led the way with Cousin Walpole, whose high,
bell-crowned straw hat had a dignity which no modern head-covering could
hope to rival.

Sylvia followed, with her nephew. "You must come and stay with us,
John," she said. "Katharine has so much company that you will find it
entertaining, and even at times instructive. I am sure I have found it
so; and I am, you know, your senior. We are alone to-day; but it is for
the first time. Generally the house is full."

"But I do not like a full house," said Ford, smiling down upon the
upturned face of the little "senior" by his side.

"You will like this one. It is not a commonplace society--by no means
commonplace. The hours, too, are easy; breakfast, for instance, from
nine to eleven--as you please. As to the quality of the--of the bodily
support, it is sufficient to say that Marches is house-keeper. You
remember Marches?"

"Perfectly. Her tarts no one could forget."

"Katharine is indebted to me for Marches," continued Sylvia. "I
relinquished her to Katharine upon the occasion of her marriage, ten
years ago; for she was totally inexperienced, you know--only seventeen."

"Then she is now twenty-seven."

"I should not have mentioned that," said Miss Pitcher, instinctively.
"It was an inadvertence. Could you oblige me by forgetting it?"

"With the greatest ease. She is, then, sensitive about her age?"

"Not in the least. Why should she be? Certainly no one would ever dream
of calling twenty-seven old!" (Miss Pitcher paused with dignity.) "You
think her beautiful, of course?" she added.

"She is a fine-looking woman."

"Oh, John, that is what they always say of women who weigh two hundred!
And Katharine is very slender."

Ford laughed. "I supposed the fact that Mrs. Winthrop was handsome went
without the saying."

"It goes," said Sylvia, impressively, "but not without the saying; I
assure you, by no means without the saying. It has been said this summer
many times."

"And she does not find it fatiguing?"

The little aunt looked at her nephew. "You do not like her," she said,
with a fine air of penetration, touching his coat-sleeve lightly with
one finger. "I see that you do not like her."

"My dear aunt! I do not know her in the least."

"Well, how does she impress you, then, not knowing her?" said Miss
Pitcher, folding her arms under her little pink shawl with an impartial
air.

He glanced at the figure in front. "How she impresses me?" he said. "She
impresses me as a very attractive, but very complete, woman of the
world."

A flood of remonstrance rose to Sylvia's lips; but she was obliged to
repress it, because Mrs. Winthrop had paused, and was waiting for them.

"Here is one of our fairest little vistas, Mr. Ford," she said as they
came up, showing him an oval opening in the shrubbery, through which a
gleam of blue lake, a village on the opposite shore, and the arrowy,
snow-clad Silver Needle, rising behind high in the upper blue, were
visible, like a picture in a leaf frame. The opening was so narrow that
only two persons could look through it. Sylvia and Cousin Walpole walked
on.

"But you have seen it all before," said Mrs. Winthrop. "To you it is not
something from fairy-land, hardly to be believed, as it is to me. Do you
know, sometimes, when waking in the early dawn, before the prosaic
little details of the day have risen in my mind, I ask myself, with a
sort of doubt in the reality of it all, if this is Katharine Winthrop
living on the shores of Lake Leman--herself really, and not her
imagination only, her longing dream." It is very well uttered, with a
touch of enthusiasm which carried it along, and which was in itself a
confidence.

"Yes--ah--quite so. Yet you hardly look like a person who would think
that sort of thing under those circumstances," said Ford, watching a
bark, with the picturesque lateen-sails of Lake Leman, cross his
green-framed picture from east to west.

Mrs. Winthrop let the hand with which she had made her little gesture
drop. She stood looking at him. But he did not add anything to his
remark, or turn his glance from the lateen-sails.

"What sort of a person, then, do I look like?" she said.

He turned. She was smiling; he smiled also. "I was alluding merely to
the time you named. As it happened, my aunt had mentioned to me by
chance your breakfast hours."

"That was not all, I think."

"You are very good to be interested."

"I am not good; only curious. Pray tell me."

"I have so little imagination, Mrs. Winthrop, that I cannot invent the
proper charming interpretation as I ought. As to bald truth, of course
you cannot expect me to present you with that during a first visit of
ceremony."

"The first visit will, I hope, be a long one; you must come and stay
with us. As to ceremony, if this is your idea of it--"

"--What must I be when unceremonious! I suppose you are thinking," said
Ford, laughing. "On the whole, I had better make no attempts. The owl,
in his own character, is esteemed an honest bird; but let him not try to
be a nightingale."

"Come as owl, nightingale, or what you please, so long as you come. When
you do, I shall ask you again what you meant."

"If you are going to hold it over me, perhaps I had better tell you
now."

"Much better."

"I only meant, then, that Mrs. Winthrop did not strike me as at all the
sort of person who would allow anything prosaic to interfere with her
poetical, heartfelt enthusiasms."

She laughed gayly. "You are delightful. You have such a heavy apparatus
for fibbing that it becomes fairly stately. You do not believe I have
any enthusiasms at all," she added. Her eyes were dark blue, with long
