have some experience in shooting tigers, leopards, deer, pythons,
crocodiles, and other game, though not enough to wholly satisfy their
natural enterprise.

The tour of the party is made by railroad in India, from Bombay, taking in
Lahore, Delhi, Agra, Cawnpoor, Lucknow, Benares, Calcutta, and by the
Guardian-Mother to Madras and Ceylon. On the way and in the cities the
titled conductors continue their "talks" and lectures about the places
visited, with as much of history as time would permit, including an epitome
of those great events in India, the Mutiny of the Sepoys, the "Black Hole,"
and other events of the past. The speakers were assisted by elaborate maps,
which the reader can find in his atlas. Statistics are given to some extent
for purposes of comparison. Brief notices of the lives of such men as
Bishop Heber, Sir Colin Campbell, Henry Havelock, and others are
introduced.

The party did not claim to have seen all there was of India; simply to have
obtained "specimen bricks" of the principal cities, with a fair idea of the
manners and customs of the people.

   

"Well, Captain Scott, what is the run to-day?" asked Louis Belgrave, the
owner of the steam-yacht Guardian-Mother, which had at this date made her
way by a somewhat devious course half way round the world, and was in the
act of making the other half.

The young magnate was eighteen years old, and was walking on the promenade
deck of the steamer with a beautiful young lady of sixteen when he asked
for information in regard to the run, or the distance made by the ship
during the last sea-day.

"Before I answer your question, my dear Louis, I must protest against being
any longer addressed as captain, for I am not now entitled to that
honorable appellation," replied the young man addressed by the owner.

"Once a captain always a captain," replied Louis. "One who has been
a member of Congress is still an 'Honorable,' though his term of
office expired twenty or forty years ago. The worthy commander of the
Guardian-Mother was always called Captain Ringgold in Von Blonk Park and
New York, though he had not been in command of a ship for ten years,"
argued Louis.

"That's right; but the circumstances are a little different in my case. In
the first place, I am only eighteen years old, and my brief command was a
very small one, as the world goes. It hardly entitles me to be called
captain after I have ceased to be in command. In charge of the little Maud
I was the happiest young fellow on the Eastern Continent; but I am just as
happy now, for this morning I was formally appointed third officer of the
Guardian-Mother, at the wages paid to Captain Sharp when he had the same
position."

"I congratulate you, Mr. Scott," said Louis, grasping the hand of the new
officer, though he had been duly consulted in regard to the appointment the
day before.

"Permit me to congratulate you also, Mr. Scott," added Miss Blanche, as she
extended to him her delicate little hand.

"Thank you, Miss Woolridge," replied the new third officer, raising the
uniform cap he had already donned, and bowing as gracefully as a
dancing-master. "Thank you with all my heart, Louis. I won't deny that I
was considerably broken up when the Maud was sold; but now I am glad of it,
for it has given me a position that I like better."

"Now, Mr. Scott, what is the run for to-day?" asked Louis, renewing his
first question.

"I don't know," replied the third officer with a mischievous smile.

"You don't know!" exclaimed Louis.

"I do not, Louis."

"I thought all the officers, including the commander, took the observation,
and worked up the reckoning for the longitude. We got eight bells nearly an
hour ago, and the bulletin must have been posted by this time."

"It was posted some time ago. All the officers work up the reckoning; and I
did so with the others. The commander and I agreed to a second."

"What do you mean by saying you do not know the run?" demanded Louis.

"I do know the run; but that was not what you asked me," answered Scott
with the same mischievous smile.

"What did I ask you?"

"The first time you asked me all right, and I should have answered you if I
had not felt obliged to switch off and inform you and Miss Woolridge of my
new appointment. The second time you put it you changed the question."

"I changed it?" queried Louis.

"You remember that when Mrs. Blossom asked Flix where under the sun he had
been, he replied that he had not been anywhere, as it happened to be in the
evening, when the sun was not overhead."

"A quibble!" exclaimed Louis, laughing.

"Granted; but one which was intended to test your information in regard to
a nautical problem. You asked me the second time for the run of to-day for
the last twenty-four hours."

"And that was what I asked you the first time," answered Louis.

"I beg your pardon, but you asked me simply for the run to-day."

"Isn't that the same thing?"

"Will you please to tell me how many hours there are in a sea-day?" asked
Scott, becoming more serious.

"That depends," answered Louis, laughing. "You have me on the run."

"You will find that the bulletin signed by the first officer gives the run
as 330 miles; but the answer to your second question is 337 miles, about,"
added the third officer. "Just here the day is only twenty-three hours and
forty minutes long as we are running; and the faster we go the shorter the
day," continued the speaker, who was ciphering all the time on a card.

"I don't see how that can be," interposed Miss Blanche, with one of her
prettiest smiles.

"There is the lunch-bell; but I shall be very happy to explain the matter
more fully later in the day, Miss Woolridge, unless you prefer that Louis
should do it," suggested Scott.

"I doubt if I could do it, and I should be glad to listen to the
explanation," replied Louis, as they descended to the main cabin; for the
new third officer was permitted to retain his place at the table as well as
his state-room.

The commander had suggested that there was likely to be some change of
cabin arrangements; for it was not in accordance with his ideas of right
that the third officer should be admitted to the table, while the first and
second were excluded; and Louis was very desirous that his friend Scott
should remain in the cabin. The repasts on board the steamer were social
occasions, and the party often sat quite an hour at the table, as at the
present luncheon. But as soon as the company left their places, Louis and
Miss Blanche followed the third officer to the promenade deck, to hear the
desired explanation of sea-time.

"Of course you know how the longitude of the ship is obtained, Miss
Woolridge?" the young officer began.

"Papa explained it to me once, but I could not understand it," replied the
fair maiden.

"Then we will explain that first. One of the great circles extending
through the poles is called the prime meridian; and any one may be
selected, though that of Greenwich has been almost universally adopted.
This place is near London. From this prime meridian longitude is
calculated, which means that any given locality is so many degrees east
or west of it. Sandy Hook is in longitude 74째, or it is that number of
degrees west of Greenwich. Aden is in 45째 east longitude."

"Then you find how many miles it is by multiplying the number of degrees
by 69," suggested Miss Blanche.

"You have forgotten about knots, or sea-miles," said Louis.

"So I have! I should have said multiply by 60," added the young lady.

"That would not do it any better," replied Scott.

"Degrees of latitude are always the same for all practical purposes; but
degrees of longitude are as--

    'Variable as the shade
  By the light quivering aspen made,'"

continued the third officer, who was about to say "as a woman's mind;"
but he concluded that it was not quite respectful to the lovely being
before him.

"What a poetical sea-monster you are, Mr. Scott!" exclaimed Miss Blanche
with a silvery laugh.

"I won't do so any more," Scott protested, and then continued his
explanation. "Degrees of longitude vary from nothing at the poles, up to
69.07 statute, or 60 geographical or sea-miles, at the equator. We are
now in about 15째 north latitude; and a degree of longitude is 66.65
statute miles, or 57.9855 sea-miles, near enough to call it 58. By the
way, Louis, multiply the number of statute miles by .87, and it gives
you the sea-miles. Divide the knots by the same decimal, and it gives
the statute miles."

"I will try to remember that decimal as you have done," replied Louis.
"Now, Mr. Scott, don't open Bowditch's Navigator to us, or talk about
projection,' 'logarithms,' 'Gunter,' and 'inspection;' for I am not capable
of understanding them, for my trigonometry has gone to the weeping
willows."

"Talk to us in English, Mr. Scott," laughed Miss Blanche.

"Let us go up to Conference Hall, where there is a table," said the third
officer, as he produced a book he had brought up from his state-room. He
led the way to the promenade, where he spread out a chart in the "Orient
Guide," which had twenty-six diagrams of a clock, one at the foot of every
fifteen degrees of longitude. At this point the commander came upon the
promenade.

"Formerly the figures on a timepiece in Italy, and perhaps elsewhere, went
up to twenty-four, instead of repeating the numbers up to twelve; and these
diagrams are constructed on that plan," continued Scott.

"An attempt has been made to re-establish this method in our own country. I
learned once from a folder that a certain steamer would leave Detroit at
half-past twenty-two; meaning half-past ten. But the plan was soon
abandoned," interposed the captain.

"Aden, from which we sailed the other day, is in longitude 45째 east. Every
degree by meridians is equal to four minutes of clock-time. Multiply the
longitude by four, and the result in minutes is the difference of time
between Greenwich and Aden, 180 minutes, or three hours. When it is noon at
Greenwich, it is three o'clock at Aden, as you see in the diagram before
you."

"Three o'clock in the morning, Mr. Scott?" queried the commander.

"In the afternoon, I should have added. Going east the time is faster, and
vice versa," continued the young officer. "At our present speed our
clocks must be put about twenty minutes ahead, for a third of an hour has
gone to Davy Jones's locker."

"I understand all that perfectly," said Miss Blanche with an air of
triumph.

"You will be a sea-monster before you get home. The sirens were beautiful,
and sang very sweetly," added Scott jocosely.

"They were wicked, and I don't want to be one. But I do not quite
understand how you found out what time it was at noon to-day," added the
young lady.

"For every degree of longitude sailed there is four minutes' difference of
clock-time," Scott proceeded. "You know that a chronometer is a timepiece
so nicely constructed and cared for, that it practically keeps perfect
time. Meridians are imaginary great circles, and we are always on one of
them. With our sextants we find when the centre of the sun is on the
celestial meridian corresponding to the terrestrial one; and at that
instant it is noon where we are. Then we know what time it is. We compare
the time thus obtained with that indicated by the chronometer, and find a
difference of four hours."

"I see it all!" exclaimed the fair maiden, as triumphantly as though she
had herself reasoned out the problem. "Four hours make 240 minutes, and
four minutes to a degree gives 60째 as the longitude.

"Quite correct, Miss Woolridge," added Scott approvingly.

"If I could only take the sun, I could work up the longitude myself," the
little beauty declared.

"You have already taken the son," replied Scott; but he meant the son of
Mrs. Belgrave, and he checked himself before he had "put his foot in it;"
for Louis would have resented such a remark.

"I have seen them do it, but I never took the sun myself," protested the
maiden.

The sea had suddenly begun to make itself felt a few hours before, and a
flood of spray was cast over the promenade, which caused the party to
evacuate it, and move farther aft. It was the time of year for the
north-east monsoons to prevail, and the commander had declared that the
voyage would probably be smooth and pleasant all the way to Bombay. It did
not look much like it when the ship began to roll quite violently.




                                 CHAPTER II

                       THE WRECK IN THE ARABIAN SEA


It was a sharp squall that suddenly struck the Guardian-Mother, heeling her
over so that everything movable on her decks or below went over to the lee
side, and sending no small quantity of salt water over her pilot-house. It
had begun to be what the ladies called rough some hours before; and with
them Captain Ringgold's reputation as a prophet was in peril, for he had
predicted a smooth sea all the way to Bombay.

The Blanche, the steam-yacht of General Noury, which was only a trifle
larger than the Guardian-Mother, rolled even more. She was following the
latter, and seemed to be of about equal speed, though no trial had been
made between them. Miss Blanche and Louis had retreated to a dryer place
than the promenade when the shower of spray broke over the pilot-house upon
them, leaving the commander and Mr. Scott there.

Captain Ringgold frowned as he looked out on the uneasy waves, for the
squall appeared to be a surprise to him; but it proved to be more than a
white squall, which may come out of a clear sky, while with a black one the
sky is wholly or partly covered with dark clouds. It continued to blow very
fresh, and the commotion in the elements amounted to nothing less than a
smart gale.

"This is uncommon in the region of the north-east monsoons," said the
commander, who was planking the promenade deck with Scott. "During January
and February the wind is set down as moderate in these waters. I have made
two runs from Cape of Good Hope to Bombay, and we had quiet seas from the
latitude of Cape Comorin to our destination both times; and I expected the
same thing at this season of the year on this voyage."

The captain was evidently vexed and annoyed at the failure of his
prediction, though squalls were liable to occur in any locality; but the
present rough weather had begun to look like a gale which might continue
for several days. The north-east monsoons were what he had a right to
expect; but the gale came up from the south south-west. The commander
appeared to be so much disturbed, that the young officer did not venture to
say anything for the next half-hour, though he continued to walk at his
side.

At the end of this time the commander descended to his cabin, inviting
Scott to go with him. On the great table was spread out the large chart of
the Indian Ocean. From Aden to Bombay he had drawn a red line, indicating
the course, east by north a quarter north, which was the course on which
the steamer was sailing.

"Have you the blue book that comes with this chart, Captain Ringgold?"
asked Scott, rather timidly, as though he had something on his mind which
he did not care to present too abruptly; for the commander was about the
biggest man on earth to him.

"This chart is an old one, as you may see by the looks of it and the
courses marked on it from the Cape of Good Hope," replied the captain,
looking at the young officer, to fathom his meaning. "I put all my charts
on board of the Guardian-Mother when we sailed for Bermuda the first time.
If I ever had the blue book of which you speak, I haven't it now; and I
forget all about it."

"I bought that chart at Aden the first day we were there, when I expected
to navigate the Maud to Bombay; and with it came the blue book, which
treats mainly of winds, weather, and currents," added Scott. "I studied it
with reference to this voyage, and I found a paragraph which interested me.
I will go to my state-room for the book, if you will permit me to read
about ten lines from it to you."

The captain did not object, and Scott soon returned to the commander's
cabin with the book. The autocrat of the ship was plainly dissatisfied with
himself at the failure of his prediction for fine weather, and perhaps he
feared that the ambitious young officer intended to instruct him in regard
to the situation, though Scott had conducted himself in the most modest and
inoffensive manner.

"I don't wish to be intrusive, Captain Ringgold, but I thought it was
possible that you had forgotten this paragraph," said the young officer,
with abundant deference in his tone and manner.

"Probably I never saw it; but read it, Mr. Scott," replied the commander.

"The weather is generally fine, and the sky clear, with neither squall nor
rain, except between Ras Seger and the island of Masira,'" Scott began to
read, when the commander interrupted him, and fixed his gaze on the chart,
to find the localities mentioned.

"Ras Sajer," said the captain, placing the point of his pencil on the cape
whose name he read. "That must be the one you mention."

"No doubt of it, sir; and I have noticed that the spelling on the chart and
in the books doesn't agree at all. The island is Massera on my chart."

"They mean the same locality. Go on, Mr. Scott," added the captain.

"'And the vicinity of the bay of Kuriyan Muriyan, where the winds and
weather are more boisterous and variable than on any other part of the
coast,'" continued Scott.

"Where is that bay?" asked the commander.

"It is between the two points mentioned before; but it is Kuria Muria on
the chart;" and the captain had the point of his pencil on it by this time.

"We are within three hours' sail of the longitude of that bay, but a
hundred and fifty miles south of it," said the commander. "The information
in the book is quite correct. Is there anything more about it?"

"Yes, sir; a few lines more, and I will read them: 'Respecting Kuriyan
Muriyan Bay, Captain S.B. Haines, I.N., remarks that the sudden change of
winds, termed by the Arabs Belat, and which blow with great violence
for several days, are much dreaded; but what surprised me more than these
land winds were the frequent and heavy gales from the S.S.W. during
February and March, blowing for six days together.'"

"This gale, for such it appears to be, instead of a mere squall, as I
supposed it was at first, has come before it was due by a few days; but it
proves that what you have read is entirely correct," said the commander.
"My two voyages in the Arabian Sea took me twenty degrees east of this
point, and therefore I had nothing but quiet water. But, Mr. Scott, you
have put an old navigator into the shade, and I commend you for the care
and skill with which you had prepared yourself for the voyage of the Maud
to Bengal."

"I protest that it was only an accident that I happened on that paragraph!"
exclaimed Scott, blushing under his browned face.

"You found what you were looking for, and that was no accident. I feel that
I have added an excellent young officer to the number of my officers,"
added Captain Ringgold.

"I thank you, sir, with all my heart; but may I ask one favor of you?"
inquired the third officer.

"Name it, and I will grant it if possible."

"I earnestly request that you do not mention this little matter to any
person on board of the ship."

The commander of the Guardian-Mother was an honest and just man, and he was
disposed to give credit to any one who deserved it, even at his own
expense, and he looked at the young officer in silence for some moments.
Then they argued the question for a time; but the captain finally granted
the new officer's request, praising him for his modesty, which was rather a
newly developed virtue in his character.

The steamer continued to roll violently when Louis assisted Miss Blanche
down the stairs to the main cabin. The dozen passengers who had not
gone on deck after luncheon were in excellent humor, for all of them
were experienced sailors by this time, and beyond the discomforts of
seasickness. All of them held the commander in such high respect and
regard, that not one of them mentioned the failure of his prediction of
fine weather for the next five or six days. Perhaps all of them wondered,
for the captain's predictions before had been almost invariably verified;
but not one of them spoke of his missing it in this instance.

The gale continued the rest of the day and during the night. When the
morning watch came on duty at four o'clock, Captain Ringgold was pacing the
promenade deck, peering through the darkness, and observing the huge waves
that occasionally washed the upper deck. He had not slept a wink during the
night, though he had reclined an hour on the divan in the pilot-house. He
was not alarmed for the safety of his ship, but he looked out for her very
carefully in heavy weather.

He was particularly interested in the conduct of the Blanche. She had taken
a position to windward of the Guardian-Mother, and appeared to be doing
quite as well in the heavy sea as her consort. She had been built with all
the strength and solidity that money could buy; and she was as handsome a
craft as ever floated, not even excepting her present companion on the
stormy sea, and she was proving herself to be an able sea-boat.

"Good-morning, Mr. Scott," said the commander, as the young officer touched
his cap to him.

Scott had been temporarily placed in the watch with the first officer, and
his post of duty was at the after part of the ship.

"Good-morning, Captain Ringgold," replied Scott, as he halted to ascertain
if the commander had any orders for him. "The gale does not appear to have
moderated since I turned in, sir."

"On the contrary, it blows fresher than ever. I did not expect such a nasty
time as we are having of it," added the commander.

"According to Captain Haines of the Indian navy, we may expect it to last
five days longer, for we have had nearly one day of it."

"Not quite so bad as that, Mr. Scott. If we had stayed in the vicinity of
Kuria Muria Bay, we might have got five days more of it; but this is a
local storm, and we shall doubtless run out of it in a day or two at most,
and come again into the region of the north-east monsoon."

"I hope so for the sake of those in the cabin; and I did not think of the
local feature you mention."

"The deck is well officered now," added the captain with a gape, "and I
will take a nap in my cabin for an hour or two. Mr. Boulong will have me
called if the storm gets any worse."

The commander went to his cabin, and Scott walked aft to the compass abaft
the mainmast. The binnacle was lighted, and he looked into it. The course
was all right, though the ship yawed a good deal in the trough of the sea,
the gale pelting her squarely on the beam. Though it was not an easy thing
even for a thorough seaman to preserve his centre of gravity, the young
officer made his way fore and aft with the aid of the life-lines which had
been extended the evening before. He watched the motions of the Blanche,
for there was nothing else to be seen but the waste of angry waters.

Far ahead the light of the breaking day began to penetrate the gloomy black
clouds. It was a pleasure to come out of the deep darkness, and he observed
with interest the increase of the light. While he was watching the east,
the lookout man in the foretop hailed the deck. He listened and moved
forward to the foremast to hear what passed between him and the first
officer.

"Steamer on the port bow, sir!" reported the man aloft.

Scott saw the vessel, but she was too far off to be made out. She passed
and disappeared; but about the moment he lost sight of her, he thought he
heard the report of a musket, or some other firearm, to the northward of
the ship. He listened with all his ears, and then distinguished very
faintly shouts from human voices. He waited only long enough to satisfy
himself that he had not mistaken the roar of the sea for calls for help,
and then went forward to the pilot-house, where he announced that he had
heard the shots and the cries.

"Are you sure of it, Mr. Scott?" asked the first officer.

"Very sure, sir."

"We have heard nothing, and the lookouts have not reported anything," added
Mr. Boulong.

"On deck, sir! Wreck on the port beam!" yelled the lookout aloft.

"Call the captain, Mr. Scott," said the first officer, as he went out on
deck.

He made out the ominous sounds, and judged that they came from a point not
more than a mile distant. The commander and Scott appeared immediately; and
with the increased daylight they discovered several men clinging to what
appeared to be a wreck.




                                 CHAPTER III

                    A REVIEW OF THE PAST FOURTEEN MONTHS


The Guardian-Mother had sailed from New York about fourteen months before
she appeared in the waters of the Arabian Sea. She was a steam-yacht of 624
tons burden, owned by Louis Belgrave, a young man who had just entered his
eighteenth year. His native place was Von Blonk Park, in New Jersey, most
of whose territory had been the farm of the young gentleman's grandfather,
who had become a millionaire by the sale of his land.

The terrors of the War of the Rebellion had driven the old man to convert
his property into gold, which he had concealed so effectually that no one
could find it. His only son, more patriotic than his father, had enlisted
in the loyal army, and had been severely wounded in the brave and faithful
discharge of his duty, and returned to the home of his childhood a wreck of
his former self.

His father died during his absence, and Paul Belgrave, the soldier, was his
sole heir. His physical condition improved considerably, though he never
ceased to suffer from the effects of his wound. The homestead of his
father, which had not been sold with the rest of his land, afforded the
invalid a sufficient support; and he married Maud Nashwood, the only
daughter of one of the small magnates of Von Blonk Park, which had now
become a thriving town, occupied mainly by business men of New York.

Paul Belgrave was a millionaire without any millions; for he was never able
to find the large property of his deceased parent. For ten years he dug
over the cellar bottom of the old house, and the ground in the vicinity;
but the missing million entirely eluded his search, and he died as soon as
he gave up all hope of finding the treasure.

Mrs. Belgrave was left with their son, then eight years old; but the estate
of her husband, with the property of her father, supported her comfortably.
The widow had been married at sixteen; and she had the reputation of being
the prettiest woman in the Park after her husband died. She had many
suitors, but she finally married a handsome English horse-trainer, who
called himself Wade Farrongate, though that was not his real name.

For some reason not then apparent, this man at once became the enemy of
Louis Belgrave; and the war between them raged for several years, though
the young man did all he could to conciliate his stepfather. The man was a
rascal, a villain to the very core of his being, though he had attained a
position of considerable influence among the sporting gentry of New York
and New Jersey, mainly for his skill as a jockey, and in the management of
the great races.

Louis discovered a plan on the part of Farrongate to appropriate the stakes
and other money dependent upon the great race of the season, and escape to
England with his wife and stepson. In this scheme Louis, after he had
obtained the evidence of the jockey's villany, went on board of the steamer
which was to convey them all over the ocean, and succeeded, with no little
difficulty, in convincing his mother of the unworthiness of her husband;
and she returned with her son to Von Blonk Park. The young man went back to
the steamer, and by skilful management obtained all the plunder of the
villain, who sailed for England without his treasure.

Farrongate, or rather John Scoble, which was his real name, was a deserter
from the British army. He was arrested on his return, and compelled to
serve out the remainder of his term of service. The death of an uncle in
India recruited his finances, and he returned to New York. It afterwards
appeared that he had some clew to Peter Belgrave's missing million, and he
was therefore anxious to recover the possession of the wife who had
repudiated him.

A successful conspiracy enabled him to convey her to Bermuda. At this stage
of the drama, Captain Royal Ringgold, an early admirer of the pretty widow,
became an active participant in the proceedings, and from that time he had
been the director of all the steps taken to recover Louis's mother.

In the interim of Scoble's absence, Louis, assisted by his schoolfellow and
devoted friend, Felix McGavonty, had accomplished what his father had
failed to achieve in ten years of incessant search: he had found the
missing million of his grandfather, and had become a millionaire at
sixteen. The young man fancied that yachting would suit him; and he
proposed to Squire Moses Scarburn, the trustee of all his property, to
purchase a cheap vessel for his use.

The spiriting away of his mother gave a new importance to the nautical
fancy of the young man. Captain Ringgold condemned the plan to buy a cheap
vessel. He had made a part of his ample fortune as a shipmaster, and had
been an officer in the navy during the last half of the War of the
Rebellion. He advised the young man's mother, who was also his guardian,
