never occurred to her to ask whether her strength might not be folly,
for it lay in one of those convictions by which unusual characters are
generally moved, and conviction never questions itself.

It was not that in order to be divorced she must almost necessarily
bring up in public and prove by evidence a certain number of her many
wrongs.  The publicity would be horrible.  Every newspaper in the
country would print the details, with hideous head-lines.  Even her
son’s deficiency would be dragged into the light.  She should have to
explain how she had come by the scar on her forehead, and much more that
would be harder to tell, if she could bring her lips to speak the words.

Nevertheless, she could do that, and bear everything, for a good cause.
If, for instance, Archie’s future depended upon it, or even if it could
do him some good, she could do all that for his sake.  But even for his
sake, she would not be divorced, not even if Harmon were let out of the
asylum and came back to her.

Some people, perhaps many, could not understand such a prejudice, or
conviction, now that all convictions are commonly spoken of as relative.
But will those who do not understand Helen Harmon consider how the world
looked upon divorce as recently as five and twenty years ago?  Nothing
can give a clearer idea of the direction taken by social morality than
the way in which half the world has become accustomed to regard marriage
as a contract, and not as a bond, during the lifetime of people now
barely in middle age.

Twenty-five or thirty years ago divorces were so rare as to be regarded
in the light of very, uncommon exceptions to the general rule.  The
divorce law itself is not yet forty years old in England, nor twenty
years old in France.  In Italy there is no civil divorce whatever at the
present day, and the Catholic Church only grants what are not properly
divorces, but annullations of marriage, in very rare cases, and with the
greatest reluctance.

Even in America, every one can remember how divorce was spoken of and
thought of until very recently.  Within a few years it was deemed to be
something very like a disgrace, and certainly a profoundly cynical and
immoral proceeding.  To-day we can most of us count in our own
acquaintance half a dozen persons who have been divorced and have
married again. Whatever we may think of it in our hearts, or whatever
our religious convictions may be on the subject, it has become so common
that when we hear of a flagrant case of cruelty or unfaithfulness, by
which a man or woman suffers, the question at once rises to our lips,
’Why does he not divorce his wife?’ or ’Why does she not divorce her
husband?’  We have grown used to the idea, and, if it does not please
us, it certainly does not shock us.  It shocked our fathers, but we are
perfectly indifferent.

Of course there are many, perhaps a majority, who, though not Roman
Catholics, would in their own lives put up with almost anything rather
than go to the divorce court for peace.  Some actually suffer much and
ask for no redress. But there are very many who have not suffered
anything at all, excepting the favourite ’incompatibility of temper,’
and who have taken advantage of the loose laws in certain states to try
a second matrimonial experiment.  In what calls itself society, there
seems still to be a prejudice against a third marriage for divorced
persons, but at the present rate of so-called progress this cannot last
long, and the old significance of the word marriage will be quite lost
before our great grandchildren are dead; in other words, by the end of
the next century, at the furthest.

There are various forms of honourable political dreaming and of
dishonourable political mischief-making nowadays, which we are
accustomed to call collectively ’socialism.’  Most of these rely for
their hope of popular success upon their avowed intention of dividing
property and preventing its subsequent accumulation.  Marriage is an
incentive of such accumulation, because it perpetuates families and
therefore keeps property together by inheritance.  Therefore most forms
of socialism are at present in favour of divorce, as a means of
ultimately destroying marriage altogether.  A proverb says that
whosoever desires the end, desires also the means.  There is more truth
in the saying than morality in the point of view it expresses.  But
there are those who desire neither the means nor the end to which they
lead, and a struggle is coming, the like of which has not been seen
since the beginning of the world, and of which we who are now alive
shall not see the termination.

The Civil War in the United States turned upon slavery incidentally, not
vitally.  The cause of that great fight lay much deeper.  In the same
way the Social War, which is coming, will turn incidentally upon
religion, and be perhaps called a religious war hereafter, but it will
not be declared for the sake of faith against unbelief, nor be fought at
first by any church, or alliance of churches, against atheism.  It will
simply turn out that the men who fight on the one side will have either
the convictions or the prejudices of Christianity, or both, and that
their adversaries will have neither.  But the struggle will be at its
height when the original steady current of facts which led to inevitable
strife has sunk into apparent insignificance under the raging storm of
conflicting belief and unbelief.  The disadvantage of the unbelievers
will lie in the fact that belief is positive and assertive, whereas
unbelief is negative and argumentative.  It is indeed easier to deny
than to prove almost anything.  But that is not the question.  In life
and war it is generally easier to keep than to take, and besides, those
who believe ’care,’ as we say, whereas those who deny generally ’care’
very little.  It is probable, to say the least of it, that so long as
the socialists of the near future believe assertively that they have
discovered the means of saving humanity from misery and poverty, and
fight for a pure conviction, they will have the better of it, but that
when they find themselves in the position of attacking half of mankind’s
religious faith, having no idea, but only a proposition, to offer in its
place, they will be beaten.

That seems far from the question of divorce, but it is not.  Before the
battle, the opposing forces are encamped and intrenched at a little
distance from each other, and each tries to undermine the other’s
outworks.  Socialism, collectively, has dug a mine under Social Order’s
strongest tower, which is called marriage, and the edifice is beginning
to shake from its foundations, even before the slow-match is lighted.

To one who has known the world well for a quarter of a century, it seems
as though the would-be destroyers of the existing order had forgotten,
among several other things, the existence of woman, remembering only
that of the female.  They practically propose to take away woman’s
privileges in exchange for certain more or less imaginary ’rights.’
There is an apparent justice in the ’conversion,’ as it would be called
in business.  If woman is to have all the rights of man, which, indeed,
seem reducible to a political vote now and then, why should she keep all
the privileges which man is not allowed?  But tell her that when she is
allowed to vote for the president of the United States once in four
years, no man shall be expected to stand up in a public conveyance to
give her a seat, nor to fetch and carry for her, nor to support her
instead of being supported by her, nor to keep her for his wife any
longer than he chooses, and the ’conversion’ looks less attractive.

The reason why woman has privileges instead of rights is that all men
tacitly acknowledge the future of humanity to be dependent on her from
generation to generation.  Man works or fights, and takes his rights in
payment therefor, as well as for a means of working and fighting to
greater advantage.  And while he is fighting or working, his wife takes
care of his children almost entirely.  There is not one household in a
hundred thousand, rich or poor, where there is really any question about
that.  It sounds insignificant, perhaps, and it looks as though anybody
could take care of two or three small children.  Those who have tried it
know better, and they are women.  Now and then rich mothers are too lazy
to look after their children themselves.  To do them such justice as one
may, they are willing to spend any amount of money in order to get it
well done for them, but the result is not encouraging to those who would
have all children brought up ’by the state.’  Even if it were so, who
would bring them up? Women, of course.  Then why not their own mothers?
Because mothers sometimes--or often, for the sake of argument--do not
exactly know how.  Then educate the mothers, give them chances of
knowing how, let them learn, if you know any better than they, which is
doubtful, to say the least of it.

Moreover, does any man in his senses really believe that mothers, as a
whole, would submit and let their children be taken from them to a state
rearing-house, to be brought up under a number on a ticket by
professional baby-farmers, in exchange for the ’right’ to vote at a
presidential election, and the ’right’ to put away their husbands and
take others as often as they please, and the ’right’ to run for
Congress?  Yet the plan has been proposed gravely.

There seems to be a good deal to be said in favour of the existing state
of things, after all, and particularly in favour of marriage, and
therefore against divorce; and it is not surprising that woman, whose
life is in reality far more deeply affected by both questions than man’s
life is, should have also the more profound convictions about them.

Woman brings us into the world, woman is our first teacher, woman makes
the world what it is, from century to century.  We can no more escape
from woman, and yet continue to live our lives as they should be lived,
than we can hide ourselves from nature.  We are in her care or in her
power during more than half our years, and often during all, from first
to last.  We are born of her, we grow of her, as truly as trees and
flowers come of the mother earth and draw their life from the soil in
which they are planted. The man who denies his mother is a bad man, and
the man who has not loved woman is a man in darkness.

Man is not really unjust to woman in his thoughts of her either, unless
he be a lost soul, but he has not much reason in respect of her nor any
justice in his exactions.  Because within himself he knows that she is
everything and all things for the life and joy of men, therefore he
would seem perfect in her eyes; and he rails against whatsoever in her
does not please him, as a blot upon the lustre of his ideal, which
indeed he would make a glorified reflexion of his own faults.  When he
is most imperfect, he most exacts her praise; when he is weakest, she
must think him most strong; when he fails, she must call failure
victory, or at the least she must name it honourable defeat; she must
not see his meanness, but she must magnify the smallest of his
generosities to the great measure of his immeasurable vanity therein;
she must see faith in his unfaithfulness, honour in his disgrace,
heroism in his cowardice, for his sake; she must forgive freely and
forgettingly such injury as he would not pardon any man; in one word,
she must love him, that in her love he may think and boast himself a
god.

It is much to ask.  And yet many a woman who loves a man with all her
heart has done and daily does every one of those things, and more; and
the man knows it, and will not think of it lest he should die of shame.
And, moreover, a woman has borne him, a woman has nursed him, a woman
taught him first; a woman gives him her soul and her body when he is a
man; and when he is dead, if tears are shed for him, they are a woman’s.

If we men are honest, we shall say that we do not give her much for all
that, not much honour, not much faith.  We think we do enough if we give
her life’s necessities and luxuries in fair share to the limit of our
poverty or wealth; that we give much, if we love her; too much, if we
trust her altogether.

It is a wonder that women should love, seeing what some men are and what
most men may be when the devil is in them.  It is a wonder that women
should not rise up in a body and demand laws to free them from marriage,
for one-half the cause that so many of them have.

But they do not.  Even in this old age of history they still believe in
marriage, and cling to it, and in vast majority cry out against its
dissolution.  No man ever believes in anything as a woman who loves him
believes in him. Men have stronger arms, and heads for harder work, but
they have no such hearts as women. And the world has been led by the
heart in all ages.

Even when the great mistake is made, many a woman clings to the faith
that made it, for the sake of what might have been, in a self-respect of
which men do not dream.  Even when she has married with little love, and
taken a man who has turned upon her like a brute beast, her marriage is
still a bond which she will not break, and the vow made is not void
because the promise taken has been a vain lie. Its damnation is upon him
who spoke it, but she still keeps faith.

So, when her fair years of youth lay scattered and withered as blown
leaves along the desert of her past, Helen Harmon, wisely or unwisely,
but faithfully and with a whole heart, meant to keep that plighted word
which is not to be broken by wedded man and woman ’until death shall
them part.’




                               CHAPTER V


Miss Wimpole was walking up and down the little sitting-room in
considerable perplexity. When she was greatly in doubt as to her future
conduct, she puckered her elderly lips, frowned severely, and talked to
herself with an occasional energetic shaking of the head.  She always
did up her hair very securely and neatly, so that this was quite safe.
Women who are not sure of their hairpins carry their heads as carefully
as a basket of eggs and do not bend them if they have to stoop for
anything.

Talking to oneself is a bad habit, especially when the door is open,
whether one be swearing at something or examining one’s own conscience.
But Miss Wimpole could not help it, and the question of returning the
price of the hat to Archie Harmon’s mother was such a very difficult
one, that she had forgotten to shut the door.

"Most impossible situation!" she repeated aloud.  "Most terrible
situation!  Poor boy! Half idiotic--father mad.  Most distressing
situation!  If I tell his mother, I shall hurt her feelings dreadfully.
If I tell Richard, I shall hurt his feelings dreadfully.  If I tell
nobody, I shall break my promise to Sylvia, besides putting her in the
position of accepting a hat from a young man.  Ridiculous present, a
hat! If it had only been a parasol!  Parasols are not so ridiculous as
hats.  I wonder why! Perfectly impossible to keep the money, of course.
Even Judas Iscariot--dear me!  Where are my thoughts running to?
Shocking!  But a terrible situation.  It was dear, too--eighty francs!
We must get it into Mrs. Harmon’s hands somehow--"

"Why must you get eighty francs into Mrs. Harmon’s hands?" enquired the
colonel, laying his hat upon a chair.

The door had been open, and he had heard her talking while he was in the
corridor.  She uttered an exclamation as she turned and saw him.

"Oh--well--I suppose you heard me.  I must really cure myself of talking
when I am alone!  But I was not saying anything in particular."

"You were saying that you must manage to pay Mrs. Harmon eighty francs.
It is very easy, for she happens to be here and I have just seen her."

"Oh, I know she is here!" cried Miss Wimpole.  "I know it to my cost!
She and that--and her son, you know."

"Yes, I knew.  But what is the matter? What is the trouble?"

"Oh, Richard!  You are so sensitive about anything that has to do with
Mrs. Harmon!"

"I?"  The colonel looked at her quietly.

"Yes.  Of course you are, and it is quite natural and I quite
understand, and I do not blame you in the least.  But such a dreadful
thing has happened.  I hardly know how I can tell you about it.  It is
really too dreadful for words."

Wimpole sat down and fanned himself slowly with the Paris Herald.  He
was still rather pale, for his nerves had been shaken.

"Rachel, my dear," he said mildly, "don’t be silly.  Tell me what is the
matter."

Miss Wimpole walked slowly once round the room, stopped at the window
and looked through the blinds, and at last turned and faced her brother
with all the energy of her seasoned character.

"Richard," she began, "don’t call me silly till you hear.  It’s awful.
That boy suddenly appeared in a shop where Sylvia was buying a hat, and
paid for it and vanished."

"Eh?  What’s that?" asked Wimpole, opening his eyes wide.  "I don’t
think I quite understood, Rachel.  I must have been thinking of
something else, just then."

"I daresay you were," replied his sister, severely.  "You are growing
dreadfully absent-minded.  You really should correct it.  I say that
when Sylvia was buying a hat, just now, Archie Harmon suddenly appeared
in the shop and spoke to us.  Then he asked Sylvia whether she liked the
hat she was trying on, and she said she did.  Then he went off, and when
we wished to pay we were told that the hat had been paid for by the
young gentleman.  Now--"

The colonel interrupted and startled his sister by laughing aloud at
this point.  He could not help it, though he had not felt in the least
as though he could laugh at anything for a long time, when he had
entered the room.  Miss Wimpole was annoyed.

"Richard," she said solemnly, "you surprise me."

"Does it not strike you as funny?" asked the colonel, recovering.

"No.  It is--it is almost tragic.  But perhaps," she continued, with a
fine point of irony, "since you make so light of the matter, you will be
good enough to return to Mrs. Harmon the price of the hat purchased by
her half-witted boy for your ward."

"Don’t call him half-witted, Rachel," said the colonel.  "It’s not so
bad as that, you know."

"I cannot agree with you," replied his sister. "Only an idiot would
think of rushing into a shop where a lady is buying something, and
suddenly paying for it.  You must admit that, Richard.  Only an idiot
could do such a thing."

"I have done just such a thing myself," observed Wimpole, thoughtfully,
for he remembered the miniature he had bought for Helen that afternoon.
"I suppose I was an idiot, since you say--"

"I said nothing of the kind, my dear!  How can you accuse me of calling
you an idiot? Really, Richard, you behave very strangely to-day!  I
don’t know what can be the matter with you.  First, you manage to make
Sylvia cry her eyes out--Heaven knows what dreadful thing you said to
her!  And now you deliberately accuse me of calling you an idiot.  If
this sort of thing goes on much longer, there will be an end of our
family happiness."

"This is not one of my lucky days," said the colonel, resignedly, and he
laid down the folded newspaper.  "How much did the hat cost? I will
return the money to Mrs. Harmon, and explain."

Miss Wimpole looked at him with gratitude and admiration in her face.

"It was eighty francs," she answered.  "Richard, I did not call you an
idiot.  In the first place, it would have been totally untrue, and in
the second place, it would have been--what shall I say?  It would have
been very vulgar to call you an idiot, Richard.  It is a vulgar
expression."

"It might have been true, my dear, but I certainly never knew you to say
anything vulgar.  On the other hand, I really did not assert that you
applied the epithet to me.  I applied it to myself, rather
experimentally.  And poor Archie Harmon is not so bad as that, either."

"If he is not idiotic--or--or something like it, why do you say ’poor’
Archie?"

"Because I am sorry for him," returned the colonel.  "And so are you,"
he added presently.

Miss Wimpole considered the matter for a few seconds; then she slowly
nodded, and came up to him.

"I am," she said.  "Richard, kiss me."

That was always the proclamation of peace, not after strife, for they
never quarrelled, but at the close of an argument.  It was done in this
way.  The colonel rose, and stood before his sister; then both bent
their heads a little, and as their cool grey cheeks touched, each kissed
the air somewhere in the neighbourhood of the other’s ear.  They had
been little children together, and their mother had taught them to ’kiss
and make friends,’ as good children should, whenever there had been any
difference; and now they were growing old together, but they had never
forgotten, in nearly fifty years, to ’kiss and make friends’ when they
had disagreed.  What is childlike is not always childish.

The colonel resumed his seat, and there was silence for a few minutes.
The folded newspaper lay on the table unread, and he looked at it,
scarcely aware that he saw it.

"I think Archie Harmon must have fallen in love with Sylvia," he said at
last.  "That is the only possible explanation.  She has grown up since
he saw her last, and so has he, though his mind has not developed much,
I suppose."

"Not at all, I should say," answered Miss Wimpole.  "But I wish you
would not suggest such things.  The mere idea makes me uncomfortable."

"Yes," assented the colonel, thoughtfully. "We will not talk about it."

Suddenly he knew what he was looking at, and he read the first
head-lines on the paper, just visible above the folded edge.  The words
were ’Harmon Sane,’ printed in large capitals. In a moment he had spread
out the sheet.

The big letters only referred to a short telegram, lower down.  "It is
reported on good authority that Henry Harmon, who has been an inmate of
the Bloomingdale Insane Asylum for some years, is recovering rapidly,
and will shortly be able to return to his numerous friends in perfect
mental health."

That was all.  The colonel searched the paper from beginning to end, in
the vain hope of finding something more, and read the little paragraph
over and over again.  There was no possibility of a mistake.  There had
never been but one Henry Harmon, and there could certainly be but one in
the Bloomingdale asylum. The news was so sudden that Wimpole felt his
heart stand still when he first read it, and as he thought of it he grew
cold, and shivered as though he had an ague.

It had been easier to think of Harmon’s possible recovery before he had
seen that scar on Helen’s forehead.  For many years he had borne the
thought that the woman he had silently loved so long was bound to a man
little better than a beast; but it had never occurred to him that she
might have had much to bear of which he had known nothing, even to
violence and physical danger.  The knowledge had changed him within the
last hour, and the news about Harmon now hardened him all at once in his
anger, as hot steel is chilled when it has just reached the cutting
temper, and does not change after that.

The colonel was as honourable a man as ever shielded a woman’s good
name, or rode to meet an enemy in fair fight.  He was chivalrous with
all the world, and quixotic with himself.  He had charity for the ways
of other men, for he had seen enough to know that many things were done
by men whom no one would dare to call dishonourable, which he would not
have done to save his own life.  He understood that such a lasting love
as his was stronger than himself, yet he himself had been so strong that
he had never yielded even to its thoughts, nor ever allowed the longing
for a final union with Helen at all costs to steal upon his unguarded
imagination.

He was not tempted beyond his strength, indeed, and in his apparent
perfection, that must be remembered.  In all those years of his devoted
friendship Helen had never let him guess that she could have loved him
once, much less that she loved him now, as he did her, with the same
resolution to hide from her inward eyes what she could not tear from her
inmost heart.  But it is never fair to say that if a man had been placed
in a certain imaginary position, he might have been weak.  So long as he
has not broken down under the trials and burdens of real life, he has a
right to be called strong.

The colonel set no barrier, however, against the devotion to Helen’s
welfare which he might honourably feel and show.  In day-dreams over old
books he had envied those clean knights of a younger time, who fought
for wives not theirs so openly and bravely, and so honestly that the
spotless women for whom they faced death took lustre of more honour from
such unselfish love. And for Helen’s sake he had longed for some true
circumstance of mortal danger in which to prove once more how well and
silently an honest man can die to save an innocent woman.

But those were dreams.  In acts he had done much, though never half of
what he had always wished to do.  The trouble had all come little by
little in Helen’s existence, and there had not been one great deciding
moment in which his hand or head could have saved her happiness.

Now it seemed as though the time were full, and as if he might at last,
by one deed, cast the balance by the scale of happiness.  He did not
know how to do it, nor whither to turn, but he felt, as he sat by the
table with the little newspaper in his hand, that unless he could
prevent Harmon from coming back to his wife, his own existence was to
turn out a miserable failure, his love a lie, and his long devotion but
a worthless word.

His first impulse was to leave Lucerne that night and reach home in the
shortest possible time.  He would see Harmon and tell him what he
thought, and force from him a promise to leave Helen in peace, some
unbreakable promise which the man should not be able to deny, some sort
of bond that should have weight in law.

The colonel’s nostrils quivered, and his steady grey eyes fixed
themselves and turned very light as he thought of the interview and of
the quiet, hard words he would select.  Each one of them should be a
retribution in itself.  He was the gentlest of men, but under great
provocation he could be relentless.

What would Harmon answer?  The colonel grew thoughtful again.  Harmon
would ask him, with an intonation that would be an insult to Helen, what
right Wimpole had acquired to take Helen’s part against him, her lawful
husband.  It would be hard to answer that, having no right of his own to
fight her battles, least of all against the man she had married.

He might answer by reminding Harmon of old times.  He might say that he
at least resigned the hope of that right, when Harmon had been his
friend, because he had believed that it was for Helen’s happiness.

That would be but a miserably unsatisfactory answer, though it would be
the truth.  The colonel did not remember that he had ever wished to
strike a man with a whip until the present moment.  But the sight of the
cut on Helen’s forehead had changed him very quickly. He was not sure
that he could keep his hands from Harmon if he should see him.  And
slowly a sort of cold and wrathful glow rose in his face, and he felt as
though his long, thin fingers were turning into steel springs.

Miss Wimpole had taken up a book and was reading.  She heard him move in
his chair, and looked up and saw his expression.

"What is the matter with you, Richard?" she enquired, in surprise.

"Why?" He started nervously.

"You look like the destroying angel," she observed calmly.  "I suppose
you are gradually beginning to be angry about Sylvia’s hat, as I was.  I
don’t wonder."

"Oh yes--Sylvia’s hat; yes, yes, I remember."  The colonel passed his
hand over his eyes.  "I mean, it is perhaps the heat.  It’s a warm day.
I’ll go to my room for a while."

"Yes, do, my dear.  You behave so strangely to-day--as if you were going
to be ill."

But the colonel was already gone, and was stalking down the corridor
with his head high, his eyes as hard as polished grey stones, and his
nervous hands clenched as they swung a little with his gait.

His sister shook her head energetically, then slowly and sadly, as she
watched him in the distance.

"How much more gracefully we grow old than men!" she said aloud, and
took up her book again.




                               CHAPTER VI


Helen had not seen the paragraph about Harmon.  She rarely read
newspapers, and generally trusted to other people to learn what they
contained.  The majority read papers for amusement, or for the sort of
excitement produced on nervous minds by short, strong shocks often
repeated.  There are persons who ponder the paper daily for half an hour
in absorbed silence, and then lift up their voices and cackle out all
they have read, as a hen runs about and cackles when she has laid an
egg.  They fly at every one they see, an unnatural excitement in every
tone and gesture, and ask in turn whether each friend has heard that
this one is engaged to be married, and that another is dead and has left
all his money to a hospital.  When they have asked all the questions
they can think of, without waiting for an answer, they relapse into
their normal condition, and become again as other men and women are.
Very few really read the papers in order to follow the course of events
for the mere sake of information. Mrs. Harmon was more or less
indifferent to things that neither directly concerned her nor appealed
to her tastes and sympathies.

Her letters were brought to her before she had left the sitting-room
after the colonel had gone away, and she looked at the addresses on them
carelessly, passing them from one hand to the other as one passes cards.
One arrested her attention, among the half-dozen or so which she had
received.  It was the regular report from the asylum, posted on the
first of the month. But it was thicker than usual; and when she tore
open the envelope, rather nervously and with a sudden anticipation of
trouble, a second sealed letter dropped from the single folded sheet
contained in the first.  But even that one sheet was full, instead of
bearing only the few lines she always received to tell her that there
was no change in her husband’s condition.

There had been a change, and a great one. Since last writing, said the
doctor, Harmon had suddenly begun to improve.  At first he had merely
seemed more quiet and patient than formerly; then, in the course of a
few days, he had begun to ask intelligent questions, and had clearly
understood that he had been insane for some time and was still in an
asylum.  He had rapidly learned the names of the people about him, and
had not afterwards confused them, but remembered them with remarkable
accuracy.  Day by day he had improved, and was still improving.  He had
enquired about the state of his affairs, and had wished to see one or
two of his old friends.  More than once he had asked after his wife, and
had evidently been glad to hear that she was well.  Then he had written
a letter to her, which the doctor immediately forwarded.  So far as it
was possible to form a judgment in the case, the improvement seemed to
promise permanent recovery; though no one could tell, of course, whether
a return to the world might not mean also a return to the unfortunate
habit which had originally unbalanced Harmon’s mind, but from which he
was safe as long as he remained where he was.

It was not easy for Helen to read to the end of such a letter: it shook
in her hands as she went on from one sentence to the next, and the
sealed envelope slipped from her knees to the floor while she was
reading.  When she had got to the end, she stared a moment at the
signature, and then folded the sheet, almost unconsciously, and drew her
nail sharply along the folds, as though she would make the paper feel
what she felt, and suffer as she suffered, in every nerve of her body,
and in every secret fibre of her soul.

She had not believed a recovery possible.  Now that it was a fact, she
knew how utterly beyond probability she had thought it; and immediately
the great problem rose before her, confusing, vast, terrifying.  But
before she faced it she must read Harmon’s letter.

It had fallen to the floor, and she had to look for it and find it and
pick it up.  The handwriting was large, somewhat ornamental, yet heavy
in parts and not always regular.  As she glanced at the address, she
