"That's like you! Always thinking of other people, and never of
yourself!" he said admiringly.

She thought a great deal of me for the rest of my visit, ordering
Malviny to cut out and make a doll's pelisse for me of a lovely piece of
red silk, saying that she would have done it herself if sewing did not
make her so nervous.

"I haven't darned a sock or hemmed a pocket-handkerchief for Cap'n Gates
in ten years. If he were not the best man on earth, he would have sent
me packing long ago."

She despatched another servant to the garret for some toys her sister's
children had left with her last year, and gave me permission to pull all
the flowers I wanted in the garden. I carried three maimed dolls, a
headless horse, a three-legged cat, and a Britannia tea-set to a
summer-house at the end of a long walk, and made believe that I was
Titania, the Queen of the Fairies, of whom I had read in a tattered copy
of Shakespeare I found in a lumber closet. By and by, Malviny brought
out to me a pretty china plate with four sugar cakes, shaped like ivy
leaves, and a glass of very sweet lemonade. Awhile later, Dovey, a
half-grown girl, appeared with a large saucer of peaches and cream,
plentifully sugared.

"Mistis says you must eat 'em all, for she knows you mus' be mighty
thirsty, and peaches is coolin' for little ladies whar's been sick."

There were still some cake crumbs and a spoonful of peaches left when I
saw Cousin Nancy herself come sailing down the walk.

[Illustration]




Chapter XV

Side-Blades & Water-Melons


My far-away cousin could never have been pretty except to a fond
husband's eyes. I should have liked to think her tolerably good-looking
now, since he loved her so dearly and praised her so enthusiastically,
and she was so much more than good to me. I could not help using and
believing the eyes that showed me a tall, lean woman whose skin, once
fair, was now nearly as yellow as the freckles spattered all over her
forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin. Nose and chin were long, her
cheek-bones were high, her eyes were pale, the lashes so light and thin
as to be scarcely visible at all, and her scanty flaxen hair was
dragged tightly away from a high bony forehead. Her gown to-day was
white cambric, as clean, as glossy, and as opaque as cream-laid
letter-paper. Her head was bare, and she carried over it a green parasol
which made her complexion livid. Her voice was soft and sweet, and her
manners were liked by everybody. I was glad to think of these things,
and to feel the charm of tone and manner, as she asked if I "would not
like to pay a visit to the peaches and watermelons."

I should have preferred to stay where I was, having got very well
acquainted with my attendant fairies, and eaten enough sweets to take
the edge from my appetite, even for ripe, fresh fruit. Still, I got up
with a tolerable show of cordiality, comprehending that she meant to
please me, took the hand she offered, and was soon out of the cool shade
in the open field separating garden from orchard. Captain Gates was
really as proud of his reputation as the most successful fruit-grower
in the county as his wife was, although he affected to ridicule her
weakness in the same direction. There were two acres of peach trees,
most of them laden with fruit. When pressed to "eat all I could
swallow," I managed to do away with three immense globes of
crimson-and-gold, and then gave out, shamefacedly:--

"You see I am so little, and the peaches are so big!" I urged. "I hold
just so many and no more."

"Of course, you comical little thing!" interrupted Cousin Nancy, highly
amused. "By and by, on our way back from the watermelon patch, maybe
there will be more room. I shan't ask you to pick the melons from the
vines and eat them by the dozen. Come along!"

She did not seem to mind the heat that struck upon my face and head like
the breath of an oven, as we crossed another open field, to that in
which Captain Gates's famous melons lay by the hundred, growing larger
and more luscious in the August sunlight that warmed them through and
through. Some were dark green, some light green, some were streaked and
mottled with white-and-green.

"Oh, Cousin Nancy!" I cried, "I did not know there were so many in the
world! What will you do with them all?"

She led the way farther into the network of vines, the rank leaves and
starry blossoms bobbing about her feet. The fruit and flowers of Cold
Comfort did something toward filling the place left void in her heart by
the lack of the children that had never come. She stood still and looked
over the wide patch as if she had made every melon there, and meant to
have the full credit for her work.

"Do with them, monkey! Why they are as good as a silver mine--the
beauties! Every full-grown one stands for a quarter of a dollar. We send
six wagon-loads to Richmond every week, and people come for them from
every direction--as far as across the river in Goochland; and we give
dozens away to our neighbors, and the negroes come at night to steal
them--Oh! oh!! OH!!!"

She gathered her skirts tightly and high above her ankles with both
hands, letting the green parasol tumble, head foremost, to the ground,
and screeched as if she had trod upon a yellow-jacket's nest. She was
going to have Nerves again, with no hartshorn, or burnt feathers, or
turkey-tail fan, or Cousin 'Ratio near. I started to run to the house
for help, but she grabbed my frock frantically.

"If you budge one inch you are a dead child!" she wheezed, her pale eyes
bulging from the sockets. "Cap'n Gates and the overseer came out here
last night and just sowed all this patch with side-blades!"
(Scythe-blades.) "Edges up! Sharp as razors and thick as thieves!
Hundreds of them! To keep the negroes from stealing any more of them! I
heard Cap'n Gates tell them he was going to do it, and the overseer told
them this morning that they had done it. And I haven't an atom of an
idea where a solitary one of the murderous things is! We are as good as
dead if we try to get out. We might tread upon one, at the first step!
How could I forget it? Oh, how could I?"

I felt the blood drain away from my face, and I trembled as violently as
she. Then a thought came to me, and I got it out between chattering
teeth.

"We didn't tread on any of them coming into the patch."

"That was sheer providence, honey. We might have been cut in two
before we had gone ten yards."

"But, Cousin Nancy!" catching at her hands as she began to wring them
again, and to sob and squeal as she had done in the morning. "Listen! I
am sure I could go out by the very same path! Let's try! We can't stay
here always."

"Path! There isn't a sign of a path! Look!"

She pointed a bony finger in the direction we had come. The leaves and
blossoms disturbed by our feet and skirts were as still as the hundreds
and thousands of other leaves on all sides of us. We had not bruised a
vine, or left a footprint, that we could see. The sun poured down upon
us like fire from heaven; we were in the middle of the patch that
seemed, to my horrified eyes, miles and miles in extent, and not another
creature was in sight.

"Our only hope is to scream as loud as ever we can," said Cousin Nancy.
"Nobody knows where we are; the hands are all in the tobacco, a mile on
the other side of the house, and Cap'n Gates and Mr. Owen may be even
farther off, for all I know. If we can't make anybody hear us, the Lord
have mercy upon our souls! We shall have sunstroke inside of an hour."

I picked up the green parasol, and with clumsy, shaking fingers opened
it, and stood on tiptoe to hold it over her head, crying, meantime, as
piteously as she, such was the contagion of hysterical terror. Then,
with one accord, we lifted up our voices, weak with weeping, in a thin
screech. I said "Help! help! help!" she cried, "Murder! murder!" and
"Cap'n Ga-a-tes!" We made enough noise to startle the dogs in the
house-yard and at the stables, and brought from the nearer "quarters"
and corn-field a gang of negroes, of all sizes and ages, all running at
the top of their speed, and the faster as they descried us. It would
have been excruciatingly funny at any other time, and to one that was
not an actor in the drama, to observe that not one man, woman, or
pickaninny of the excited crowd offered to pass the confines of the
melon patch. Each one was mindful of the hundreds of buried side-blades
with their edges uppermost, and almost all were bare-footed.

"Run! some of you-all, for Marster an' Mr. Owen!" shrieked Malviny,
getting her wits together before the others could rally theirs. The
shrill order arose above the chorus of groans and cries and pitying
exclamations, and Cousin Nancy, on hearing it, gave one wild cry, and
dropped where she stood, a heap of white cambric, head, arms, and green
parasol, crushing the vines, and her head just grazing a mammoth melon.

I had never been so frightened in all my life as when I got hold of her
head, and tried to lift it. It was as heavy as lead. Too much terrified
and too foolish to bethink myself that a cut would bleed, I concluded
that she had struck one of the murderous blades, and it had killed her.
Her eyes were closed; her jaw had fallen; her cheek lay close against
that of the big melon, and the vines met over her nose. It was a ghastly
and a grotesque spectacle, and I behaved as any other nine-year-old
would--jumped up and down and screamed, beating my palms together, and
calling alternately for "Father!" and "Cousin 'Ratio!"

Since that horrible moment I have believed stories read and heard of
people being scared to death, or into insanity. In the great, round
world, there was nothing present to me but a cruel expanse of green
below, a white-hot sky above, and at my feet a dead woman, killed by
the razor-like blades thick-set under every leaf, and guarding every
melon. Then all this was swept out of sight by a black wave that took me
off my feet.

I awoke in the shade of the peach orchard. Mr. Owen, the overseer, had
laid me down on the grass, and I heard him say, "She's all right now." I
sat up and stared around me. Cousin Nancy, still in a dead faint, was
stretched upon the ground a little way off, a fluttering swarm of women
about her, with water, brandy, hartshorn, cologne, fans, and burning
feathers, and Cousin 'Ratio, kneeling over her, was calling in her ear,
the tears running down his bristly cheeks.

"Miss Nancy! honey! sugar-lump! wake up! it's me, dearie! The danger is
all over. What a doggoned fool I was to put the side-blades there!"

When she at last revived, she was taken to the house and put to bed. She
was not yet able to sit up when my father and mother drove over for me
in the cool of the afternoon.

"My tomfoolery came near to being the end of the poor dear," said Cousin
'Ratio, walking with us to the carriage, when we had taken leave of his
wife. "I feel mighty bad about it, too, as you may suppose, for it was
my fault in not reminding her of those cussed side-blades. Between
ourselves, Burwell,"--coming nearer to my father and glancing over his
shoulder to be sure none of the servants were within hearing,--"Owen and
I put just exactly two in the whole patch, and they were near the
fence. Miss Nancy never went within a Sabbath day's journey of them. We
made a mighty parade of toting twenty of them past the quarters, taking
two of the hands along to help. They laid them down by the fence, and we
came down after dark and carried all but two off to the old tobacco
barn, and hid them there. I wasn't likely to rust my best side-blades by
burying them in the dirt. But I'd rather have ruined them all and lost
every blessèd melon on the place, than have given Miss Nancy's Nerves
such a shock."

[Illustration]




Chapter XVI

Old Madam Leigh


Nobody seemed to know how everybody got into the way of calling her "Old
Madam Leigh." It was not a Virginia custom, and there was not another
old lady in the neighborhood to whom the title of "Madam" was ever
given. After she had lived to be the oldest woman in the county, the
"Old" was prefixed, naturally enough.

I got to know her through Cousin Molly Belle.

"I declare, Frank, Molly has never seen Queen Mab and her hummers!" she
said at dinner one day. "I'm ashamed of myself for not having taken her
there. It's just the sort of thing she would enjoy."

When Mrs. Frank Morton was ashamed of having done anything, or having
left anything undone, the next, and a quick step with her, was to mend
the fault without further waste of words. We went over to Old Madam
Leigh's that same afternoon,--she, Cousin Frank, and I,--on horseback,
"the road to Queen Mab's palace being the vilest in the State," as my
hostess averred.

I thought it a delightful road. It left the main highway a mile beyond
Cousin Frank's plantation gate, and lost its way in oak and hickory
woods, where the trees touched over our heads. I said they were "trying
to shake hands with one another."

"They will be hugging one another before we go much farther," said
Cousin Frank.

As they did when we began to climb a long hill, washed into crooked
gullies by the water that tore down to the creek at the bottom whenever
it rained hard. After this was a short and steeper hill, and then
another long one, and we were on the edge of a clearing, very bright and
sunny after the green glooms of the forest.

"Does Queen Mab drive this way, often, in her chariot-and-four?" I
inquired, as we struck into a gentle gallop along a grassy lane.

"Queen Mab's chariot has not been out of the carriage-house in
twenty-five years," answered Cousin Molly Belle. "There is another road
from her house to where everyday people live, but it would take us a
long way around. Mother can recollect when this was a good road, and
much travelled."

"Doesn't she make any visits?"

"Never to human beings."

"Doesn't she go to church?"

"Not that I have ever heard of."

"Cousin Molly Belle!" in an awed tone. "Is she a heathen?"

"She is very old, Namesake. Nearly ninety."

She said it gravely and gently, and Cousin Frank repeated a verse of
poetry I did not know then:--

   "He prayeth best who loveth best
   All things both great and small;
   For the dear God who loveth us,
   He made and loveth all."

It was so nice that I turned it over in my mind several times before I
asked another question. My mother sometimes called me "an animated
interrogation-point."

"Is Old Madam Leigh married?"

"She has been married. She would not be 'Madam' if she had not been. She
has been a widow for a long, long time. She had two children--twins--a
boy and a girl. They lived to be twenty years old, and then died."

"Not both at the same time, Cousin Molly Belle?" for her tone suggested
something very sorrowful.

"Yes, Molly dear. The sister fell into the river and the brother, in
swimming out to save her, was seized with the cramp and sank before he
could reach her. The mother has lived alone ever since, except for her
servants. They are very good and faithful. Then, she has her hummers and
her pygmies, who are a great deal of company to her."

"Pigs!" in intense disgust. "She can't be a very neat person."

A peal of laughter from my companions broke off the speech.

"You'll change your mind shortly," said Cousin Frank, cantering ahead to
open a gate in the rail fence.

We saw the house from the gate,--a wee bit of a gray cottage, one story
high, literally covered with honeysuckles of every kind I had ever heard
of, and now in fullest bloom. An enormous catalpa tree, also in flower,
stood in front of the cottage, shading all but one gable, and that
looked as if it were made of glass. Between this gable and the garden
were two spreading acacia trees, tufted with the tassel-like blossoms.
The deep front porch was curtained with white jessamine, and as we
walked up the gravelled path leading to it, Madam Leigh stood in the
doorway.

She was a tiny old lady, no taller than I was, and wore a white dress,
fine and sheer. Cousin Molly Belle told me afterward that it was India
muslin, and that she wore white, winter and summer. The waist of the
gown was very short, the skirt was straight, and fell to the in-step of
a foot no bigger than a baby's. Her cap was also old-fashioned, made of
lace, with a full crimped border under which her hair, silvery-white,
was dressed in short, round curls on each side of her forehead. Her skin
reminded me of a bit of rice-paper I had picked up from the floor one
day. It had dropped out of the back of my father's watch, and Bud had
found it and played with it until it was creased and cracked all over
like "crazed" china, yet not torn. Old Madam Leigh's face could not be
said to be wrinkled, for the lines were shallow. They were as fine as if
made with an inkless crow quill, and so close together you would have
thought there was not room for another. Her eyes were dark and bright
She had French blood in her veins, and showed it in her quick glance and
lively motions.

She took us directly into "the chamber" on the left side of the hall
that cut the house in two. Everything there was white, too,--bed and
curtains and chair-covers being of white dimity, trimmed with lace. The
walls were almost covered with portraits. Some were very old. Two of the
brightest hung opposite the bed where Madam Leigh must see them as soon
as she opened her eyes in the morning. One was of a pretty girl in a
white frock, low-necked and short-sleeved, with a red rose in the
bodice, making the fair skin it rested against all the fairer. Her eyes
were dark and sweet; short brown curls, like Madam Leigh's white ones,
clustered about her temples. The other picture was that of a handsome
boy of twenty, or thereabouts, and strikingly like his sister. A dog,
with silky ears, leaned his head against his young master's arm.

I tried hard not to stare at these portraits,--to me the most
interesting things in the room,--for I knew they must be the
twin-children who had died together, ever and ever so many years ago.
The instinct of kindly breeding told me that it would not be polite to
remind the mother of her loss by looking inquisitively at them. But I
could not help stealing a glance at one and the other when the grown
people were intent in talk. Looking led to dreaming, as I was left to
myself and the thoughts suggested by the portraits. I arranged it in my
mind that brother and sister were very fond of each other; that the
sister had fallen into the river where the current was strong, from some
such place as Maiden's Adventure, on Mr. Pemberton's plantation, where
the water was deep above a roaring fall. I thought how she called to her
brother, and how he answered, and I wondered--a chill running down my
spine and catching at my heart--who carried the awful news to the
mother. How could she bear it? how live in this lonely place with
nobody to keep her from thinking of, and missing, her husband and her
children, nobody to care whether she were glad or sorry, sick or well,
alive or dead?

I did not know that my mouth was drawn down at the corners, that my eyes
were mournful, and my whole aspect that of a sadly bored little girl,
who felt herself to be left entirely out of the thoughts of her friends
and the hostess--until Madam Leigh's voice made me start, as if I had
been asleep.

"I am afraid this little lady finds all this mighty stupid."

I think the old-time practice of calling girl-children "little ladies,"
kept them in wholesome remembrance of the necessity of behaving as such.
At any rate, I was instantly aware that I ought to be sitting up
straight upon my cricket, and seeming to be interested in what was going
on. Had not my mother reproved me, times without number, for dreaming in
company and for absent-minded ways that made me heedless of others'
comfort? "It is selfish and rude not to pay attention to what people are
saying when you are with them"--was a nursery rule I ought to have had
well by heart.

It was natural, then, that I should turn as red as a cardinal flower,
and fidget uneasily, and stutter when I tried to set myself right with
my venerable hostess:--

"Oh, no, ma'am. I'm not a bit tired. I'm sorry--if--"

"There's nothing to be sorry for, my dear. If anybody has been rude it
is I who ought to have provided some other entertainment for you than
sitting still, and trying with all your might to understand big folks'
talk."

Her voice was clearer than one would have expected in such an old lady,
and she did not mumble as if she were chewing her words, as a great many
old people do. She spoke very distinctly, pronouncing every syllable in
each word. She told me, when we were better acquainted, that she read
aloud for an hour every day, for fear she might fall into careless ways
of speaking, seeing, as she did, so few educated white people, and,
sometimes, talking with nobody but her colored servants for a week at a
time. She held herself very straight when seated, and in walking, and
stepped as lightly as a young person, as she got up and took me by the
hand, smiling at me in the friendliest way imaginable, and, saying "I
must introduce you to my family," led me across the hall, and opened a
door on the other side.

As soon as we were inside of the door, she shut it quickly behind us,
and I stood stock-still with amazement at what I saw and heard.

It was a large room, with two windows at the front and two at the back,
while the gable we had seen from the lane was almost filled with sashes,
as in a greenhouse. Close against these sashes, now so bright with the
Southern sun that I was half-blinded for an instant, were rows of
shelves, crowded with cut flowers in vases, and growing flowers in pots.
Most of the sashes were open, and the space thus left was screened by
twine netting, something like fine fish seines. Old Madam Leigh had
netted each of these squares herself, as I learned afterward. The same
protected back and front windows. About the open windows, and around the
flowers, flew and floated what I thought, at first, were at least one
hundred humming-birds. Madam Leigh said there were but twenty-five, all
told. The whir of their rapid wings filled the air, the gleam of their
brilliant breasts and backs was like living jewels.

"Oh-h-h-h!!" was all I could utter, as I clasped my hands in admiring
wonder at the beauty and the strangeness of it all, and a queer lump
came into my throat, as if I were frightened or sorry, and I knew I was
only delighted past speaking. Madam let me alone for a minute, before
she laid her small, wrinkled hands upon my shoulders and turned me about
to see something I had not observed in my raptures over the marvellous
birds.

Against the wall beyond the door was a long, broad table, or rather
counter, and upon it was a village of small houses, rows upon rows of
them. Outside of the village and the streets were other and larger
houses, in groups of two and three, with dooryards and gardens, and then
came half a dozen farm-houses surrounded by fields and gardens. In the
village there were stores and a Court House, and a Clerk's Office and a
Jail, surrounded by a Public Square, exactly like that at Powhatan Court
House, and two taverns with signs hanging outside of them. Trees lined
the streets, and vines were running over the houses. Then, there were
wells, and wood-piles with men chopping wood at them, and cow-pens with
cows and calves, and pig-pens filled with pigs. Men were driving wagons
along the roads, and a fine carriage with four horses harnessed to it
and a coachman on the box stood before the larger of the two taverns.
The footman, hat in hand, was helping two elegantly dressed ladies out
of the carriage, and the landlady, with two colored maids behind her,
was upon the portico waiting to receive them. Men were digging in the
corn and tobacco fields; there were turkeys, chickens, ducks, and geese,
and boys riding horses to water and driving the cows home to be milked.

Was ever such another Wonderland revealed to a child who had never been
in a toy-shop and never owned a doll that was not home-made?

I screamed and capered with joy, like the crazy thing I was, for a whole
minute after my eyes fell upon the mimic settlement. Then I fell to
examining the "entertainment" more closely, and discovered that
everything, except the mosses that imitated the trees, vines, and other
growing things, was made of corn-stalks and corn-husks--"shucks" as
Virginians call them. The human creatures and the dumb animals were
carved out of the firm, dried pith of the stalks, and afterward painted
with water colors. The clothes of men and women were made of the soft
inner shucks, dried carefully to the pliability of silk. Log and frame
houses were built of the canes themselves; the smallest were used whole,
the larger were split. Peeping into the open doors and windows I saw
that each house was furnished with beds, tables, and chairs, also made
of corn-stalks, pith, and shucks.

At the far end of the counter were six bird-cages, constructed of thin
strips of corn-canes, each supplied with perches and water vessels.

"Those are my reform prisons," Madam Leigh said to my cousins, who had
followed and begged to be let in. "You see,"--to me,--"when one of my
hummers becomes cross or quarrelsome, I separate him from the rest and
shut him up in one of these cages until he is in a better humor. I am
sorry to say that they have pretty peppery tempers, and hardly a day
passes in which I do not have to interfere to stop their fighting."

I had no reason to feel myself slighted now. She went all round the room
with me, showing her pets and telling me interesting stories of their
habits and dispositions. Each had a name, and some answered to their
names when she called them. At least, she thought that they did, and I
did not doubt it when I saw them swoop down to dip their bills in the
flowers she held up, as she called "Sprite" and "Bright," and "Sweet"
and "Swift," and the like crisp, short names in a voice that was like
the tinkle of a little bell. It was a pretty sight,--the tiny woman, all
white from cap to toe, standing in the full tide of sunbeams, bunches of
honeysuckle and catalpa flowers, half as big as herself, in her arms,
the elf-like face smiling out of them at the eagerness of her feathered
darlings, darting and glancing and gleaming and humming about her, as if
she had been a larger edition of themselves, and not of a different
genus. She made me stand by her while this was going on, saying that the
hummers were "too well-bred to be afraid of her friends, and were
especially fond of little people."

"The honeysuckles first made me think of collecting them," went on the
pleasant tinkle. "When they are in full bloom the frisky little
creatures swarm in them all day long. They like white and yellow
jessamine, too, and catalpa flowers and lilies and acacia blossoms. Ten
years ago I found one of their nests upon a low limb of a tulip-poplar
tree. Here it is! It looks like a knob of mossy bark, you see. There
were two eggs in it. I cut off the limb carefully, and set it in a pot
of water in this room. It was full of blossoms, and the water kept these
alive. The window was left open and nobody--not even myself--came in
here for a week. As I had hoped, the mother and father bird found the
nest, and went on sitting on the eggs as if it had not been moved. One
night, after the baby birds were hatched, I went softly to the outside
of the window and let down the sash. That was the beginning of my
aviary. That's a hard word for you--isn't it, Molly? It means a family
of birds, such as I have here."

"I don't believe there is another like it in the world," said Cousin
Molly Belle. "I've always declared that you are a fairy, and charm your
hummers. I described it and them once to a famous ornithologist. That's
a real jaw-breaker, Namesake, and means one who knows everything about
all sorts of birds--or thinks he does. I met this or-nith-ol-o-gist in
New York last May. He said it was impossible to tame and raise families
of wild birds, especially humming-birds. And when I said I had seen it
with my own eyes, times without number, he looked polite--and
unbelieving."

Madam Leigh was so much amused that the flowers shook in her shrivelled
mites of hands.

"Many learnèd strangers have been to see the 'impossibility,'" she said,
her voice shaken by laughter.

(Cousin Molly Belle had the knack of saying just the thing that would
please everybody, and saying it in the right way and at the right
time.)

"Of course I have not raised them all from the eggs," continued Madam.
"We catch new birds every year, and some are never quite tame. So your
or-nith-ol-o-gist"--pronouncing it in the same comical way that Cousin
Molly Belle had done--"was not altogether in the wrong. But they get
used to their new life much sooner because there are so many of their
own kind about them. When I find that a couple are thinking of going to
house-keeping, I root a branch of poplar, or hickory, or maple, in a tub
of moist earth, and curtain off a corner where they will not be
disturbed in the nesting-time."

"That was the very thing the celebrated or-nith-ol-o-gist said was
absolutely impossible," cried Cousin Molly Belle. "Even though I told
him that, if he would pay us a visit, I would show him the cosey corner,
and the pretty bride and gallant bridegroom building their nest."

"A great many things happen to each of us that others would not believe,
no matter how solemnly we might declare them to be true," said Madam
Leigh, very seriously.

I had a notion that she was thinking of other things in her strangely
desolated life besides the aviary and the learnèd man who knew all about
birds.

"To me, the most singular part of my management of my hummers is that I
succeed in making them comfortable and contented in the winter," she
said. "For their forefathers and foremothers have been going South at
the first sign of frost for six thousand years or so. I have a stove put
up in here, covered with wire netting to hinder the little dears from
flying against it; then I keep an even temperature and fill the room
with flowers. It has, as you see, a southern exposure. I live here with
them all day long. When it begins to grow dark, I say, 'Good night' and
go across to my chamber. At bedtime I look in to make sure the fire will
keep in until morning, and that my darlings are all right. While
daylight lasts we are very happy together. I am busy with my pygmies
and my flowers. I feed the hummers with sugar-and-water in winter, with
a taste of honey on Sundays"--laughing cheerily. "To make them glad that
Sunday has come, you know. I've an idea that they need stronger food in
cold weather than in summer. It helps tame them to make them eat from
the tip of my finger. I take a great deal of pains to keep a succession
of plants in flower, for, after all, hive-honey isn't quite as pure and
delicate after it has gone through the bee's body as when the hummer
sips it fresh from the flower-cup. You must come over next winter, Molly
Belle, and bring the little lady to see my nasturtiums, and hyacinths,
and morning-glories. Roses and cape-jessamines, and the like are of no
use to us. Our flowers must be shaped like wine-glasses, with a drop of
honey-dew in the bottom, to please us perfectly. The hummers and I
understand that. You wouldn't believe how much company we are for one
another, or how much I learn from them. Even my silly mannikins give
work to my fingers and keep my thoughts steady."

Cousin Molly Belle put her arms around the wee old lady and hugged her
hard--the honeysuckles and catalpas falling to the floor.

"All this is the loveliest thing I ever heard!" laughing to keep from
crying. "I hope you will live to be a hundred years old, and give the
lie to or-nith-ol-o-gists every day you live. And Molly and I will come
