preliminaries. One of the things he conceivably should gain on Thursday
at Lancaster Gate would be a further view of that propriety.


II

It was extraordinary enough that he should actually be finding himself,
when Thursday arrived, none so wide of the mark. Kate hadn't come all
the way to this for him, but she had come to a good deal by the end of
a quarter of an hour. What she had begun with was her surprise at her
appearing to have left him on Tuesday anything more to understand. The
parts, as he now saw, under her hand, did fall more or less together,
and it wasn't even as if she had spent the interval in twisting and
fitting them. She was bright and handsome, not fagged and worn, with
the general clearness; for it certainly stuck out enough that if the
American ladies themselves weren't to be squared, which was absurd,
they fairly imposed the necessity of trying Aunt Maud again. One
couldn't say to them, kind as she had been to them: "We'll meet,
please, whenever you'll let us, at your house; but we count on you to
help us to keep it secret." They must in other terms inevitably speak
to Aunt Maud--it would be of the last awkwardness to ask them not to:
Kate had embraced all this in her choice of speaking first. What Kate
embraced altogether was indeed wonderful to-day for Densher, though he
perhaps struck himself rather as getting it out of her piece by piece
than as receiving it in a steady light. He had always felt, however,
that the more he asked of her the more he found her prepared, as he
imaged it, to hand out. He had said to her more than once even before
his absence: "You keep the key of the cupboard, and I foresee that when
we're married you'll dole me out my sugar by lumps." She had replied
that she rejoiced in his assumption that sugar would be his diet, and
the domestic arrangement so prefigured might have seemed already to
prevail. The supply from the cupboard at this hour was doubtless, of a
truth, not altogether cloyingly sweet; but it met in a manner his
immediate requirements. If her explanations at any rate prompted
questions the questions no more exhausted them than they exhausted her
patience. And they were naturally, of the series, the simpler; as for
instance in his taking it from her that Miss Theale then could do
nothing for them. He frankly brought out what he had ventured to think
possible. "If we can't meet here and we've really exhausted the charms
of the open air and the crowd, some such little raft in the wreck, some
occasional opportunity like that of Tuesday, has been present to me
these two days as better than nothing. But if our friends are so
accountable to this house of course there's no more to be said. And
it's one more nail, thank God, in the coffin of our odious delay." He
was but too glad without more ado to point the moral. "Now I hope you
see we can't work it anyhow."

If she laughed for this--and her spirits seemed really high--it was
because of the opportunity that, at the hotel, he had most shown
himself as enjoying. "Your idea's beautiful when one remembers that you
hadn't a word except for Milly." But she was as beautifully
good-humoured. "You might of course get used to her--you will. You're
quite right--so long as they're with us or near us." And she put it,
lucidly, that the dear things couldn't help, simply as charming
friends, giving them a lift. "They'll speak to Aunt Maud, but they
won't shut their doors to us: that would be another matter. A friend
always helps--and she's a friend." She had left Mrs. Stringham by this
time out of the question; she had reduced it to Milly. "Besides, she
particularly likes us. She particularly likes you. I say, old boy,
make something of that." He felt her dodging the ultimatum he had just
made sharp, his definite reminder of how little, at the best, they
could work it; but there were certain of his remarks--those mostly of
the sharper penetration--that it had been quite her practice from the
first not formally, not reverently to notice. She showed the effect of
them in ways less trite. This was what happened now: he didn't think in
truth that she wasn't really minding. She took him up, none the less,
on a minor question. "You say we can't meet here, but you see it's just
what we do. What could be more lovely than this?"

It wasn't to torment him--that again he didn't believe; but he had to
come to the house in some discomfort, so that he frowned a little at
her calling it thus a luxury. Wasn't there an element in it of coming
back into bondage? The bondage might be veiled and varnished, but he
knew in his bones how little the very highest privileges of Lancaster
Gate could ever be a sign of their freedom. They were upstairs, in one
of the smaller apartments of state, a room arranged as a boudoir, but
visibly unused--it defied familiarity--and furnished in the ugliest of
blues. He had immediately looked with interest at the closed doors, and
Kate had met his interest with the assurance that it was all right,
that Aunt Maud did them justice--so far, that was, as this particular
time was concerned; that they should be alone and have nothing to fear.
But the fresh allusion to this that he had drawn from her acted on him
now more directly, brought him closer still to the question. They
were alone--it was all right: he took in anew the shut doors and
the permitted privacy, the solid stillness of the great house. They
connected themselves on the spot with something made doubly vivid in
him by the whole present play of her charming strong will. What it
amounted to was that he couldn't have her--hanged if he
could!--evasive. He couldn't and he wouldn't--wouldn't have her
inconvenient and elusive. He didn't want her deeper than himself, fine
as it might be as wit or as character; he wanted to keep her where
their communications would be straight and easy and their intercourse
independent. The effect of this was to make him say in a moment: "Will
you take me just as I am?"

She turned a little pale for the tone of truth in it--which qualified
to his sense delightfully the strength of her will; and the pleasure he
found in this was not the less for her breaking out after an instant
into a strain that stirred him more than any she had ever used with
him. "Ah do let me try myself! I assure you I see my way--so don't
spoil it: wait for me and give me time. Dear man," Kate said, "only
believe in me, and it will be beautiful."

He hadn't come back to hear her talk of his believing in her as if he
didn't; but he had come back--and it all was upon him now--to seize her
with a sudden intensity that her manner of pleading with him had made,
as happily appeared, irresistible. He laid strong hands upon her to
say, almost in anger, "Do you love me, love me, love me?" and she
closed her eyes as with the sense that he might strike her but that she
could gratefully take it. Her surrender was her response, her response
her surrender; and, though scarce hearing what she said, he so profited
by these things that it could for the time be ever so intimately
appreciable to him that he was keeping her. The long embrace in which
they held each other was the rout of evasion, and he took from it the
certitude that what she had from him was real to her. It was stronger
than an uttered vow, and the name he was to give it in afterthought was
that she had been sublimely sincere. That was all he asked--sincerity
making a basis that would bear almost anything. This settled so much,
and settled it so thoroughly, that there was nothing left to ask her to
swear to. Oaths and vows apart, now they could talk. It seemed in fact
only now that their questions were put on the table. He had taken up
more expressly at the end of five minutes her plea for her own plan,
and it was marked that the difference made by the passage just enacted
was a difference in favour of her choice of means. Means had somehow
suddenly become a detail--her province and her care; it had grown more
consistently vivid that her intelligence was one with her passion. "I
certainly don't want," he said--and he could say it with a smile of
indulgence--"to be all the while bringing it up that I don't trust you."

"I should hope not! What do you think I want to do?"

He had really at this to make out a little what he thought, and the
first thing that put itself in evidence was of course the oddity, after
all, of their game, to which he could but frankly allude. "We're doing,
at the best, in trying to temporise in so special a way, a thing most
people would call us fools for." But his visit passed, all the same,
without his again attempting to make "just as he was" serve. He had no
more money just as he was than he had had just as he had been, or than
he should have, probably, when it came to that, just as he always would
be; whereas she, on her side, in comparison with her state of some
months before, had measureably more to relinquish. He easily saw how
their meeting at Lancaster Gate gave more of an accent to that quantity
than their meeting at stations or in parks; and yet on the other hand
he couldn't urge this against it. If Mrs. Lowder was indifferent her
indifference added in a manner to what Kate's taking him as he was
would call on her to sacrifice. Such in fine was her art with him that
she seemed to put the question of their still waiting into quite other
terms than the terms of ugly blue, of florid SÃ¨vres, of complicated
brass, in which their boudoir expressed it. She said almost all in fact
by saying, on this article of Aunt Maud, after he had once more pressed
her, that when he should see her, as must inevitably soon happen, he
would understand. "Do you mean," he asked at this, "that there's any
definite sign of her coming round? I'm not talking," he explained,
"of mere hypocrisies in her, or mere brave duplicities. Remember, after
all, that supremely clever as we are, and as strong a team, I admit, as
there is going--remember that she can play with us quite as much as we
play with her."

"She doesn't want to play with me, my dear," Kate lucidly replied;
"she doesn't want to make me suffer a bit more than she need. She cares
for me too much, and everything she does or doesn't do has a value.
This has a value--her being as she has been about us to-day. I
believe she's in her room, where she's keeping strictly to herself
while you're here with me. But that isn't 'playing'--not a bit."

"What is it then," the young man returned--"from the moment it isn't
her blessing and a cheque?"

Kate was complete. "It's simply her absence of smallness. There is
something in her above trifles. She generally trusts us; she doesn't
propose to hunt us into corners; and if we frankly ask for a
thing--why," said Kate, "she shrugs, but she lets it go. She has really
but one fault--she's indifferent, on such ground as she has taken about
us, to details. However," the girl cheerfully went on, "it isn't in
detail we fight her."

"It seems to me," Densher brought out after a moment's thought of this,
"that it's in detail we deceive her"--a speech that, as soon as he had
uttered it, applied itself for him, as also visibly for his companion,
to the afterglow of their recent embrace.

Any confusion attaching to this adventure, however, dropped from Kate,
whom, as he could see with sacred joy, it must take more than that to
make compunctious. "I don't say we can do it again. I mean," she
explained, "meet here."

Densher indeed had been wondering where they could do it again. If
Lancaster Gate was so limited that issue reappeared. "I mayn't come
back at all?"

"Certainly--to see her. It's she, really," his companion smiled, "who's
in love with you."

But it made him--a trifle more grave--look at her a moment. "Don't make
out, you know, that every one's in love with me."

She hesitated. "I don't say every one."

"You said just now Miss Theale."

"I said she liked you--yes."

"Well, it comes to the same thing." With which, however, he pursued:
"Of course I ought to thank Mrs. Lowder in person. I mean for
this--as from myself."

"Ah but, you know, not too much!" She had an ironic gaiety for the
implications of his "this," besides wishing to insist on a general
prudence. "She'll wonder what you're thanking her for!"

Densher did justice to both considerations. "Yes, I can't very well
tell her all."

It was perhaps because he said it so gravely that Kate was again in a
manner amused. Yet she gave out light. "You can't very well 'tell' her
anything, and that doesn't matter. Only be nice to her. Please her;
make her see how clever you are--only without letting her see that
you're trying. If you're charming to her you've nothing else to do."

But she oversimplified too. "I can be 'charming' to her, so far as I
see, only by letting her suppose I give you up--which I'll be hanged if
I do! It is," he said with feeling, "a game."

"Of course it's a game. But she'll never suppose you give me up--or I
give you--if you keep reminding her how you enjoy our interviews."

"Then if she has to see us as obstinate and constant," Densher asked,
"what good does it do?"

Kate was for a moment checked. "What good does what--?"

"Does my pleasing her--does anything. I can't," he impatiently
declared, "please her."

Kate looked at him hard again, disappointed at his want of consistency;
but it appeared to determine in her something better than a mere
complaint. "Then I can! Leave it to me." With which she came to him
under the compulsion, again, that had united them shortly before, and
took hold of him in her urgency to the same tender purpose. It was her
form of entreaty renewed and repeated, which made after all, as he met
it, their great fact clear. And it somehow clarified all things so to
possess each other. The effect of it was that, once more, on these
terms, he could only be generous. He had so on the spot then left
everything to her that she reverted in the course of a few moments to
one of her previous--and as positively seemed--her most precious ideas.
"You accused me just now of saying that Milly's in love with you. Well,
if you come to that, I do say it. So there you are. That's the good
she'll do us. It makes a basis for her seeing you--so that she'll help
us to go on."

Densher stared--she was wondrous all round. "And what sort of a basis
does it make for my seeing her?"

"Oh I don't mind!" Kate smiled.

"Don't mind my leading her on?"

She put it differently. "Don't mind her leading you."

"Well, she won't--so it's nothing not to mind. But how can that
'help,'" he pursued, "with what she knows?"

"What she knows? That needn't prevent."

He wondered. "Prevent her loving us?"

"Prevent her helping you. She's like that," Kate Croy explained.

It took indeed some understanding. "Making nothing of the fact that I
love another?"

"Making everything," said Kate. "To console you."

"But for what?"

"For not getting your other."

He continued to stare. "But how does she know--?"

"That you won't get her? She doesn't; but on the other hand she
doesn't know you will. Meanwhile she sees you baffled, for she knows of
Aunt Maud's stand. That"--Kate was lucid--"gives her the chance to be
nice to you."

"And what does it give me," the young man none the less rationally
asked, "the chance to be? A brute of a humbug to her?"

Kate so possessed her facts, as it were, that she smiled at his
violence. "You'll extraordinarily like her. She's exquisite. And there
are reasons. I mean others."

"What others?"

"Well, I'll tell you another time. Those I give you," the girl added,
"are enough to go on with."

"To go on to what?"

"Why, to seeing her again--say as soon as you can: which, moreover, on
all grounds, is no more than decent of you."

He of course took in her reference, and he had fully in mind what had
passed between them in New York. It had been no great quantity, but it
had made distinctly at the time for his pleasure; so that anything in
the nature of an appeal in the name of it could have a slight kindling
consequence. "Oh I shall naturally call again without delay. Yes," said
Densher, "her being in love with me is nonsense; but I must, quite
independently of that, make every acknowledgement of favours received."

It appeared practically all Kate asked. "Then you see. I shall meet you
there."

"I don't quite see," he presently returned, "why she should wish to
receive you for it."

"She receives me for myself--that is for her self. She thinks no end
of me. That I should have to drum it into you!"

Yet still he didn't take it. "Then I confess she's beyond me."

Well, Kate could but leave it as she saw it. "She regards me as
already--in these few weeks--her dearest friend. It's quite separate.
We're in, she and I, ever so deep." And it was to confirm this that, as
if it had flashed upon her that he was somewhere at sea, she threw out
at last her own real light. "She doesn't of course know I care for
you. She thinks I care so little that it's not worth speaking of."
That he had been somewhere at sea these remarks made quickly clear, and
Kate hailed the effect with surprise. "Have you been supposing that she
does know--?"

"About our situation? Certainly, if you're such friends as you show
me--and if you haven't otherwise represented it to her." She uttered at
this such a sound of impatience that he stood artlessly vague. "You
have denied it to her?"

She threw up her arms at his being so backward. "'Denied it'? My dear
man, we've never spoken of you."

"Never, never?"

"Strange as it may appear to your glory--never."

He couldn't piece it together. "But won't Mrs. Lowder have spoken?"

"Very probably. But of you. Not of me."

This struck him as obscure. "How does she know me but as part and
parcel of you?"

"How?" Kate triumphantly asked. "Why exactly to make nothing of it, to
have nothing to do with it, to stick consistently to her line about it.
Aunt Maud's line is to keep all reality out of our relation--that is
out of my being in danger from you--by not having so much as suspected
or heard of it. She'll get rid of it, as she believes, by ignoring it
and sinking it--if she only does so hard enough. Therefore she, in
her manner, 'denies' it if you will. That's how she knows you otherwise
than as part and parcel of me. She won't for a moment have allowed
either to Mrs. Stringham or to Milly that I've in any way, as they say,
distinguished you."

"And you don't suppose," said Densher, "that they must have made it out
for themselves?"

"No, my dear, I don't; not even," Kate declared, "after Milly's so
funnily bumping against us on Tuesday."

"She doesn't see from that--?"

"That you're, so to speak, mad about me. Yes, she sees, no doubt, that
you regard me with a complacent eye--for you show it, I think, always
too much and too crudely. But nothing beyond that. I don't show it too
much; I don't perhaps--to please you completely where others are
concerned--show it enough."

"Can you show it or not as you like?" Densher demanded.

It pulled her up a little, but she came out resplendent. "Not where
you are concerned. Beyond seeing that you're rather gone," she went
on, "Milly only sees that I'm decently good to you."

"Very good indeed she must think it!"

"Very good indeed then. She easily sees me," Kate smiled, "as very good
indeed."

The young man brooded. "But in a sense to take some explaining."

"Then I explain." She was really fine; it came back to her essential
plea for her freedom of action and his beauty of trust. "I mean," she
added, "I will explain."

"And what will I do?"

"Recognise the difference it must make if she thinks." But here in
truth Kate faltered. It was his silence alone that, for the moment,
took up her apparent meaning; and before he again spoke she had
returned to remembrance and prudence. They were now not to forget that,
Aunt Maud's liberality having put them on their honour, they mustn't
spoil their case by abusing it. He must leave her in time; they should
probably find it would help them. But she came back to Milly too. "Mind
you go to see her."

Densher still, however, took up nothing of this. "Then I may come
again?"

"For Aunt Maud--as much as you like. But we can't again," said Kate,
"play her this trick. I can't see you here alone."

"Then where?"

"Go to see Milly," she for all satisfaction repeated.

"And what good will that do me?"

"Try it and you'll see."

"You mean you'll manage to be there?" Densher asked. "Say you are, how
will that give us privacy?"

"Try it--you'll see," the girl once more returned. "We must manage as
we can."

"That's precisely what I feel. It strikes me we might manage better."
His idea of this was a thing that made him an instant hesitate; yet he
brought it out with conviction. "Why won't you come to me?"

It was a question her troubled eyes seemed to tell him he was scarce
generous in expecting her definitely to answer, and by looking to him
to wait at least she appealed to something that she presently made him
feel as his pity. It was on that special shade of tenderness that he
thus found himself thrown back; and while he asked of his spirit and of
his flesh just what concession they could arrange she pressed him yet
again on the subject of her singular remedy for their embarrassment. It
might have been irritating had she ever struck him as having in her
mind a stupid corner. "You'll see," she said, "the difference it will
make."

Well, since she wasn't stupid she was intelligent; it was he who was
stupid--the proof of which was that he would do what she liked. But he
made a last effort to understand, her allusion to the "difference"
bringing him round to it. He indeed caught at something subtle but
strong even as he spoke. "Is what you meant a moment ago that the
difference will be in her being made to believe you hate me?"

Kate, however, had simply, for this gross way of putting it, one of her
more marked shows of impatience; with which in fact she sharply closed
their discussion. He opened the door on a sign from her, and she
accompanied him to the top of the stairs with an air of having so put
their possibilities before him that questions were idle and doubts
perverse. "I verily believe I shall hate you if you spoil for me the
beauty of what I see!"


III

He was really, notwithstanding, to hear more from her of what she saw;
and the very next occasion had for him still other surprises than that.
He received from Mrs. Lowder on the morning after his visit to Kate the
telegraphic expression of a hope that he might be free to dine with
them that evening; and his freedom affected him as fortunate even
though in some degree qualified by her missive. "Expecting American
friends whom I'm so glad to find you know!" His knowledge of American
friends was clearly an accident of which he was to taste the fruit to
the last bitterness. This apprehension, however, we hasten to add,
enjoyed for him, in the immediate event, a certain merciful shrinkage;
the immediate event being that, at Lancaster Gate, five minutes after
his due arrival, prescribed him for eight-thirty, Mrs. Stringham came
in alone. The long daylight, the postponed lamps, the habit of the
hour, made dinners late and guests still later; so that, punctual as he
was, he had found Mrs. Lowder alone, with Kate herself not yet in the
field. He had thus had with her several bewildering
moments--bewildering by reason, fairly, of their tacit invitation to
him to be supernaturally simple. This was exactly, goodness knew, what
he wanted to be; but he had never had it so largely and freely--so
supernaturally simply, for that matter--imputed to him as of easy
achievement. It was a particular in which Aunt Maud appeared to offer
herself as an example, appeared to say quite agreeably: "What I want of
you, don't you see? is to be just exactly as I am." The quantity of
the article required was what might especially have caused him to
stagger--he liked so, in general, the quantities in which Mrs. Lowder
dealt. He would have liked as well to ask her how feasible she supposed
it for a poor young man to resemble her at any point; but he had after
all soon enough perceived that he was doing as she wished by letting
his wonder show just a little as silly. He was conscious moreover of a
small strange dread of the results of discussion with her--strange,
truly, because it was her good nature, not her asperity, that he
feared. Asperity might have made him angry--in which there was always a
comfort; good nature, in his conditions, had a tendency to make him
ashamed--which Aunt Maud indeed, wonderfully, liking him for himself,
quite struck him as having guessed. To spare him therefore she also
avoided discussion; she kept him down by refusing to quarrel with him.
This was what she now proposed to him to enjoy, and his secret
discomfort was his sense that on the whole it was what would best suit
him. Being kept down was a bore, but his great dread, verily, was of
being ashamed, which was a thing distinct; and it mattered but little
that he was ashamed of that too. It was of the essence of his position
that in such a house as this the tables could always be turned on him.
"What do you offer, what do you offer?"--the place, however muffled in
convenience and decorum, constantly hummed for him with that thick
irony. The irony was a renewed reference to obvious bribes, and he had
already seen how little aid came to him from denouncing the bribes as
ugly in form. That was what the precious metals--they alone--could
afford to be; it was vain enough for him accordingly to try to impart a
gloss to his own comparative brummagem. The humiliation of this
impotence was precisely what Aunt Maud sought to mitigate for him by
keeping him down; and as her effort to that end had doubtless never yet
been so visible he had probably never felt so definitely placed in the
world as while he waited with her for her half-dozen other guests. She
welcomed him genially back from the States, as to his view of which her
few questions, though not coherent, were comprehensive, and he had the
amusement of seeing in her, as through a clear glass, the outbreak of a
plan and the sudden consciousness of a curiosity. She became aware of
America, under his eyes, as a possible scene for social operations; the
idea of a visit to the wonderful country had clearly but just occurred
to her, yet she was talking of it, at the end of a minute, as her
favourite dream. He didn't believe in it, but he pretended to; this
helped her as well as anything else to treat him as harmless and
blameless. She was so engaged, with the further aid of a complete
absence of allusions, when the highest effect was given her method by
the beautiful entrance of Kate. The method therefore received support
all round, for no young man could have been less formidable than the
person to the relief of whose shyness her niece ostensibly came. The
ostensible, in Kate, struck him altogether, on this occasion, as
prodigious; while scarcely less prodigious, for that matter, was his
own reading, on the spot, of the relation between his companions--a
relation lighted for him by the straight look, not exactly loving nor
lingering, yet searching and soft, that, on the part of their hostess,
the girl had to reckon with as she advanced. It took her in from head
to foot, and in doing so it told a story that made poor Densher again
the least bit sick: it marked so something with which Kate habitually
and consummately reckoned.

That was the story--that she was always, for her beneficent dragon,
under arms; living up, every hour, but especially at festal hours, to
the "value" Mrs. Lowder had attached to her. High and fixed, this
estimate ruled on each occasion at Lancaster Gate the social scene; so
that he now recognised in it something like the artistic idea, the
plastic substance, imposed by tradition, by genius, by criticism, in
respect to a given character, on a distinguished actress. As such a
person was to dress the part, to walk, to look, to speak, in every way
to express, the part, so all this was what Kate was to do for the
character she had undertaken, under her aunt's roof, to represent. It
was made up, the character, of definite elements and touches--things
all perfectly ponderable to criticism; and the way for her to meet
criticism was evidently at the start to be sure her make-up had had the
last touch and that she looked at least no worse than usual. Aunt
Maud's appreciation of that to-night was indeed managerial, and the
performer's own contribution fairly that of the faultless soldier on
parade. Densher saw himself for the moment as in his purchased stall at
the play; the watchful manager was in the depths of a box and the poor
actress in the glare of the footlights. But she passed, the poor
performer--he could see how she always passed; her wig, her paint, her
jewels, every mark of her expression impeccable, and her entrance
accordingly greeted with the proper round of applause. Such impressions
as we thus note for Densher come and go, it must be granted, in very
much less time than notation demands; but we may none the less make the
point that there was, still further, time among them for him to feel
almost too scared to take part in the ovation. He struck himself as
having lost, for the minute, his presence of mind--so that in any case
he only stared in silence at the older woman's technical challenge and
at the younger one's disciplined face. It was as if the drama--it thus
came to him, for the fact of a drama there was no blinking--was between
them, them quite preponderantly; with Merton Densher relegated to
mere spectatorship, a paying place in front, and one of the most
expensive. This was why his appreciation had turned for the instant to
fear--had just turned, as we have said, to sickness; and in spite of
the fact that the disciplined face did offer him over the footlights,
as he believed, the small gleam, fine faint but exquisite, of a special
intelligence. So might a practised performer, even when raked by
double-barrelled glasses, seem to be all in her part and yet convey a
sign to the person in the house she loved best.

The drama, at all events, as Densher saw it, meanwhile went
on--amplified soon enough by the advent of two other guests, stray
gentlemen both, stragglers in the rout of the season, who visibly
presented themselves to Kate during the next moments as subjects for a
like impersonal treatment and sharers in a like usual mercy. At
opposite ends of the social course, they displayed, in respect to the
"figure" that each, in his way, made, one the expansive, the other the
contractile effect of the perfect white waistcoat. A scratch company of
two innocuous youths and a pacified veteran was therefore what now
offered itself to Mrs. Stringham, who rustled in a little breathless
and full of the compunction of having had to come alone. Her companion,
at the last moment, had been indisposed--positively not well enough,
and so had packed her off, insistently, with excuses, with wild
regrets. This circumstance of their charming friend's illness was the
first thing Kate took up with Densher on their being able after dinner,
without bravado, to have ten minutes "naturally," as she called
it--which wasn't what he did--together; but it was already as if the
young man had, by an odd impression, throughout the meal, not been
wholly deprived of Miss Theale's participation. Mrs. Lowder had made
dear Milly the topic, and it proved, on the spot, a topic as familiar
to the enthusiastic younger as to the sagacious older man. Any
knowledge they might lack Mrs. Lowder's niece was moreover alert to
supply, while Densher himself was freely appealed to as the most
privileged, after all, of the group. Wasn't it he who had in a manner
invented the wonderful creature--through having seen her first, caught
her in her native jungle? Hadn't he more or less paved the way for her
by his prompt recognition of her rarity, by preceding her, in a
friendly spirit--as he had the "ear" of society--with a sharp
