muttering, stopping every now and then in the narrow cliff-path to
strike flint to tinder or to refill the tiny bowl of his pipe, which a
dozen puffs always exhausted.

"Oh, they all abuse us," said the child, serenely. "You see, you are
a stranger and don't understand; but you will if you live here."

"Why is everybody unkind to you?" I asked, after a moment.

"Why? Oh, because I am what I am and my father is the Lizard."

"A poacher?"

"Ah," she said, looking up at me with delicious malice, "what is a
poacher, monsieur?"

"Sometimes he's a fine fellow gone wrong," I said, laughing. "So I
don't believe any ill of your father, or of you, either. Will you drum
for me, Jacqueline?"

"For you, monsieur? Why, yes. What am I to read for you?"

I gave her a hand-bill; at the first glance her eyes sparkled, the
color deepened under her coat of amber tan; she caught her breath and
read rapidly to the end.

"Oh, how beautiful," she said, softly. "Am I to read this in the
square?"

"I will give you a franc to read it, Jacqueline."

"No, no--only--oh, do let me come in and see the heavenly wonders!
Would you, monsieur? I--I cannot pay--but would--could you let me
come in? I will read your notice, anyway," she added, with a quaver in
her voice.

The flushed face, the eager, upturned eyes, deep blue as the sea, the
little hands clutching the show-bill, which fairly quivered between
the tanned fingers--all these touched and amused me. The child was mad
with excitement.

What she anticipated, Heaven only knows. Shabby and tarnished as we
were, the language of our hand-bills made up in gaudiness for the
dingy reality.

"Come whenever you like, Jacqueline," I said. "Ask for me at the
gate."

"And who are you, monsieur?"

"My name is Scarlett."

"Scarlett," she whispered, as though naming a sacred thing.

The mayor, who had toddled some distance ahead of us, now halted in
the square, looking back at us through the red evening light.

"Jacqueline, the drum is in my house. I'll lend you a pair of sabots,
too. Come, hasten little idler!"

We entered the mayor's garden, where the flowers were glowing in the
lustre of the setting sun. I sat down in a chair; Jacqueline waited,
hands resting on her hips, small, shapely toes restlessly brushing the
grass.

"Truly this coming wonder-show will be a peep into paradise," she
murmured. "Can all be true--really true as it is printed here in this
bill--I wonder--"

Before she had time to speculate further, the mayor reappeared with
drum and drum-sticks in one hand and a pair of sabots in the other. He
flung the sabots on the grass, and Jacqueline, quite docile now,
slipped both bare feet into them.

"You may keep them," said the mayor, puffing out his mottled cheeks
benevolently; "decency must be maintained in Paradise, even if it
beggars me."

"Thank you," said Jacqueline, sweetly, slinging the drum across her
hip and tightening the cords. She clicked the ebony sticks, touched
the tightly drawn parchment, sounding it with delicate fingers, then
looked up at the mayor for further orders.

"Go, my child," said the mayor, amiably, and Jacqueline marched
through the garden out into the square by the fountain, drum-sticks
clutched in one tanned fist, the scrolls of paper in the other.

In the centre of the square she stood a moment, looking around, then
raised the drum-sticks; there came a click, a flash of metal, and the
quiet square echoed with the startling outcrash. Back from roof and
wall bounded the echoes; the stony pavement rang with the racket.
Already a knot of people had gathered around her; others came swiftly
to windows and doorsteps; the loungers left their stone benches by the
river, the maids of Paradise flocked from the bridge. Even Robert the
Lizard drew in his dripping line to listen. The drum-roll ceased.

"Attention! Men of Finistère! By order of the governor of Lorient,
all men between the ages of twenty and forty, otherwise not exempt,
are ordered to report at the navy-yard barracks, war-port of Lorient,
on the 5th of November of the present year, to join the army of the
Loire.

"Whosoever is absent at roll-call will be liable to the punishment
provided for such delinquents under the laws governing the state of
siege now declared in Morbihan and Finistère. Citizens, to arms!

"The enemy is on the march! Though Metz has fallen through treachery,
Paris holds firm! Let the provinces rise and hurl the invader from the
soil of the mother-land!

"Bretons! France calls! Answer with your ancient battle-cry,
'Sainte-Anne! Sainte-Anne!' The eyes of the world are on Armorica! To
arms!"

The girl's voice ceased; a dead silence reigned in the square. The men
looked at one another stupidly; a woman began to whimper.

"The curse is on Paradise!" cried a hoarse voice.

The drummer was already drawing another paper from her ragged pocket,
and again in the same clear, emotionless voice, but slightly drawling
her words, she read:

"To the good people of Paradise! The manager of the famous American
travelling circus, lately returned from a tour of the northern
provinces, with camels, elephants, lions, and a magnificent company of
artists, announces a stupendous exhibition to be held in Lorient at
greatly reduced prices, thus enabling the intelligent and appreciative
people of Paradise to honor the Republican Circus, recently known as
the Imperial Circus, with their benevolent and discerning patronage!
Long live France! Long live the Republic! Long live the Circus!"

A resounding roll of the drum ended the announcements; the girl slung
the drum over her shoulder, turned to the right, and passed over the
stone bridge, sabots clicking. Presently from the hamlet of Alincourt
over the stream came the dull roll of the drum again and the faint,
clear voice:

"Attention! Men of Finistère! By order of the governor of Lorient,
all men--" The wind changed and her voice died away among the trees.

The maids of Paradise were weeping now by the fountain; the men
gathered near, and their slow, hushed voices scarcely rose above the
ripple of the stream where Robert the Lizard fished in silence.

It was after sunset before Jacqueline finished her rounds. She had
read her proclamation in Alincourt hamlet, she had read it in
Sainte-Ysole, her drum had aroused the inert loungers on the
breakwater at Trinité-on-Sea. Now, with her drum on her shoulder and
her sabots swinging in her left hand, she came down the cliffs beside
the Chapel of Our Lady of Paradise, excited and expectant.

Of the first proclamation which she had read she apparently understood
little. When she announced the great disaster at Metz in the north,
and when her passionless young voice proclaimed the levée en
masse--the call to arms for the men of the coast from Sainte-Ysole to
Trinité Beacon--she scarcely seemed to realize what it meant, although
all around her women turned away sobbing, or clung, deathly white, to
sons and husbands.

But there was certainly something in the other proclamation which
thrilled her and set her heart galloping as she loitered on the
cliff.

I walked across to the Quimperlé road and met her, dancing along with
her drum; and she promptly confided her longings and desires to me as
we stood together for an instant on the high-road. The circus! Once,
it appeared, she had seen--very far off--a glittering creature turning
on a trapeze. It was at the fair near Bannalec, and it was so long ago
that she scarcely remembered anything except that somebody had pulled
her away while she stood enchanted, and the flashing light of
fairyland had been forever shut from her eyes.

At times, when the maids of Paradise were sociable at the well in the
square, she had listened to stories of the splendid circus which came
once to Lorient. And now it was coming again!

We stood in the middle of the high-road looking through the dust haze,
she doubtless dreaming of the splendors to come, I very, very tired.
The curtain of golden dust reddened in the west; the afterglow lit up
the sky once more with brilliant little clouds suspended from
mid-zenith. The moorland wind rose and tossed her elf-locks in her
eyes and whipped her skirt till the rags fluttered above her smooth,
bare knees.

Suddenly, straight out of the flaming gates of the sunset, the miracle
was wrought. Celestial shapes in gold and purple rose up in the gilded
dust, chariots of silver, milk-white horses plumed with fire.

Breathless, she shrank back among the weeds, one hand pressed to her
throbbing throat. But the vision grew as she stared; there was
heavenly music, too, and the clank of metal chains, and the smothered
pounding of hoofs. Then she caught sight of something through the dust
that filled her with a delicious terror, and she cried out. For there,
uptowering in the haze, came trudging a great, gray creature, a
fearsome, swaying thing in crimson trappings, flapping huge ears. It
shuffled past, swinging a dusty trunk; the sparkling horsemen cantered
by, tin armor blazing in the fading glory; the chariots dragged after,
and the closed dens of beasts rolled behind in single file, followed
by the band-wagon, where Heaven-inspired musicians played frantically
and a white-faced clown balanced his hat on a stick and shrieked.

So the circus passed into Paradise; and I turned and followed in the
wake of dust, stale odors, and clamorous discord, sick at heart of
wandering over a world I had not found too kind.

And at my heels stole Jacqueline.




XI

IN CAMP


We went into camp under the landward glacis of the cliffs, in a field
of clover which was to be ploughed under in a few days. We all were
there except Kelly Eyre, who had gone to telegraph the governor of
Lorient for permission to enter the port with the circus. Another
messenger also left camp on private business for me.

It was part of my duty to ration the hay for the elephant and the
thrice-accursed camel. The latter had just bitten Mr. Grigg, our
clown--not severely--and Speed and Horan the "Strong Man" were
hobbling the brute as I finished feeding my lions and came up to
assist the others.

"Watch that darn elephant, too, Mr. Grigg," said Byram, looking up
from a plate of fried ham that Miss Crystal, our "Trapeze Lady," had
just cooked for him over our gypsy fires of driftwood.

"Look at that elephant! Look at him!" continued Byram, with a trace
of animation lighting up his careworn face--"look at him now chuckin'
hay over his back. Scrape it up, Mr. Scarlett; hay's thirty a ton in
this war-starved country."

As I started to clean up the precious hay, the elephant gave a curious
grunt and swung his trunk toward me.

"There's somethin' paltry about that elephant," said Byram, in a
complaining voice, rising, with plate of ham in one hand, fork in the
other. "He's gittin' as mean as that crafty camuel. Make him move,
Mr. Speed, or he'll put his foot on the trombone."

"Hô Djebe! Mâil!" said Speed, sharply.

The elephant obediently shuffled forward; Byram sat down again, and
wearily cut himself a bit of fried ham; and presently we were all
sitting around the long camp-table in the glare of two smoky petroleum
torches, eating our bread and ham and potatoes and drinking Breton
cider, a jug of which Mr. Horan had purchased for a few coppers.

Some among us were too tired to eat, many too tired for conversation,
yet, from habit we fell into small talk concerning the circus, the
animals, the prospects of better days.

The ladies of the company, whatever quarrels they indulged in among
themselves, stood loyally by Byram in his anxiety and need. Miss
Crystal and Miss Delany displayed edifying optimism; Mrs. Horan
refrained from nagging; Mrs. Grigg, a pretty little creature, who was
one of the best equestriennes I ever saw, declared that we were living
too well and that a little dieting wouldn't hurt anybody.

McCadger, our band-master, came over from the other fire to say that
the men had finished grooming the horses, and would I inspect the
picket-line, as Kelly Eyre was still absent.

When I returned, the ladies had retired to their blankets under their
shelter-tent; poor little Grigg lay asleep at the table, his tired,
ugly head resting among the unwashed tin plates; Speed sprawled in his
chair, smoking a short pipe; Byram sat all hunched up, his head sunk,
eyes vacantly following the movements of two men who were washing
dishes in the flickering torch-light.

He looked up at me, saying: "I guess Mr. Speed is right. Them lions
o' yourn is fed too much horse-meat. Overeatin' is overheatin'; we've
got to give 'em beef or they'll be clawin' you. Yes, sir, they're all
het up. Hear 'em growl!"

"That's a fable, governor," I said, smiling and dropping into a
chair. "I've heard that theory before, but it isn't true."

"The trouble with your lions is that you play with them too much and
they're losing respect for you," said Speed, drowsily.

"The trouble with my lions," said I, "is that they were born in
captivity. Give me a wild lion, caught on his native heath, and I'll
know what to expect from him when I tame him. But no man on earth can
tell what a lion born in captivity will do."

The hard cider had cheered Byram a little; he drew a cherished cigar
from his vest-pocket, offered it to me, and when I considerately
refused, he carefully set it alight with a splinter from the fire. Its
odor was indescribable.

"Luck's a curious phenomena, ain't it, Mr. Scarlett?" he said.

I agreed with him.

"Luck," continued Byram, waving his cigar toward the four quarters of
the globe, "is the rich man's slave an' the poor man's tyrant. It's
also a see-saw. When the devil plays in luck the cherubim git
spanked--or words to that effec'--not meanin' no profanity."

"It's about like that, governor," admitted Speed, lazily.

Byram leaned back and sucked meditatively at his cigar. The new moon
was just rising over the elephant's hindquarters, and the poetry of
the incident appeared to move the manager profoundly. He turned and
surveyed the dim bivouac, the two silent tents, the monstrous,
shadowy bulk of the elephant, rocking monotonously against the sky.
"Kind of Silurian an' solemn, ain't it," he murmured, "the moon
shinin' onto the rump of that primeval pachyderm. It's like the dark
ages of the behemoth an' the cony. I tell you, gentlemen, when them
fearsome an' gigantic mamuels was aboundin' in the dawn of creation,
the public missed the greatest show on earth--by a few million
years!"

We nodded sleepily but gravely.

Byram appeared to have recovered something of his buoyancy and native
optimism.

"Gentlemen," he said, "let's kinder saunter over to the inn and have
a night-cap with Kelly Eyre."

This unusual and expensive suggestion startled us wide awake, but we
were only too glad to acquiesce in anything which tended to raise his
spirits or ours. Dog tired but smiling we rose; Byram, in his
shirt-sleeves and suspenders, wearing his silk hat on the back of his
head, led the way, fanning his perspiring face with a red-and-yellow
bandanna.

"Luck," said Byram, waving his cigar toward the new moon, "is bound
to turn one way or t'other--like my camuel. Sometimes, resemblin' the
camuel, luck will turn on you. Look out it don't bite you. I once made
up a piece about luck:

                        "'Don't buck
                        Bad luck
                        Or you'll get stuck--'

I disremember the rest, but it went on to say a few other words to
that effec'."

The lighted door of the inn hung ajar as we crossed the star-lit
square; Byram entered and stood a moment in the doorway, stroking his
chin. "Bong joor the company!" he said, lifting his battered hat.

The few Bretons in the wine-room returned his civility; he glanced
about and his eye fell on Kelly Eyre, Speed's assistant balloonist,
seated by the window with Horan.

"Well, gents," said Byram, hopefully, "an' what aire the prospects
of smilin' fortune when rosy-fingered dawn has came again to kiss us
back to life?"

"Rotten," said Eyre, pushing a telegram across the oak table.

Byram's face fell; he picked up the telegram and fumbled in his coat
for his spectacles with unsteady hand.

"Let me read it, governor," said Speed, and took the blue paper from
Byram's unresisting, stubby fingers.

"O-ho!" he muttered, scanning the message; "well--well, it's not so
bad as all that--" He turned abruptly on Kelly Eyre--"What the devil
are you scaring the governor for?"

"Well, he's got to be told--I didn't mean to worry him," said Eyre,
stammering, ashamed of his thoughtlessness.

"Now see here, governor," said Speed, "let's all have a drink first.
Hé ma belle!"--to the big Breton girl knitting in the corner--"four
little swallows of eau-de-vie, if you please! Ah, thank you, I knew
you were from Bannalec, where all the girls are as clever as they are
pretty! Come, governor, touch glasses! There is no circus but the
circus, and Byram is it's prophet! Drink, gentlemen!"

But his forced gayety was ominous; we scarcely tasted the liqueur.
Byram wiped his brow and squared his bent shoulders. Speed, elbows on
the table, sat musing and twirling his half-empty glass.

"Well, sir?" said Byram, in a low voice.

"Well, governor? Oh--er--the telegram?" asked Speed, like a man
fighting for time.

"Yes, the telegram," said Byram, patiently.

"Well, you see they have just heard of the terrible smash-up in the
north, governor. Metz has surrendered with Bazaine's entire army. And
they're naturally frightened at Lorient.... And I rather fear that the
Germans are on their way toward the coast.... And ... well ... they
won't let us pass the Lorient fortifications."

"Won't let us in?" cried Byram, hoarsely.

"I'm afraid not, governor."

Byram stared at us. We had counted on Lorient to pull us through as
far as the frontier.

"Now don't take it so hard, governor," said Kelly Eyre; "I was
frightened myself, at first, but I'm ashamed of it now. We'll pull
through, anyhow."

"Certainly," said Speed, cheerily, "we'll just lay up here for a few
days and economize. Why can't we try one performance here, Scarlett?"

"We can," said I. "We'll drum up the whole district from Pontivy to
Auray and from Penmarch Point to Plouharnel! Why should the Breton
peasantry not come? Don't they walk miles to the Pardons?"

A gray pallor settled on Byram's sunken face; with it came a certain
dignity which sorrow sometimes brings even to men like him.

"Young gentlemen," he said, "I'm obliged to you. These here reverses
come to everybody, I guess. The Lord knows best; but if He'll just
lemme run my show a leetle longer, I'll pay my debts an' say, 'Thy
will be done, amen!'"

"We all must learn to say that, anyway," said Speed.

"Mebbe," muttered Byram, "but I must pay my debts."

After a painful silence he rose, steadying himself with his hand on
Eyre's broad shoulder, and shambled out across the square, muttering
something about his elephant and his camuel.

Speed paid the insignificant bill, emptied his glass, and nodded at
me.

"It's all up," he said, soberly.

"Let's come back to camp and talk it over," I said.

Together we traversed the square under the stars, and entered the
field of clover. In the dim, smoky camp all lights were out except one
oil-drenched torch stuck in the ground between the two tents. Byram
had gone to rest, so had Kelly Eyre. But my lions were awake, moving
noiselessly to and fro, eyes shining in the dusk; and the elephant, a
shapeless pile of shadow against the sky, stood watching us with
little, evil eyes.

Speed had some cigarettes, and he laid the pink package on the table.
I lighted one when he did.

"Do you really think there's a chance?" he asked, presently.

"I don't know," I said.

"Well, we can try."

"Oh yes."

Speed dropped his elbows on the table. "Poor old governor," he said.

Then he began to talk of our own prospects, which were certainly
obscure if not alarming; but he soon gave up speculation as futile,
and grew reminiscent, recalling our first acquaintance as discharged
soldiers from the African battalions, our hand-to-mouth existence as
gentlemen farmers in Algiers, our bankruptcy and desperate struggle in
Marseilles, first as dock-workmen, then as government horse-buyers for
the cavalry, then as employés of the Hippodrome in Paris, where I
finally settled down as bareback rider, lion-tamer, and instructor in
the haute-école; and he accepted a salary as aid to Monsieur Gaston
Tissandier, the scientist, who was experimenting with balloons at
Saint-Cloud.

He spoke, too, of our enlistment in the Imperial Police, and the hopes
we had of advancement, which not only brought no response from me, but
left us both brooding sullenly on our wrongs, crouched there over the
rough camp-table under the stars.

"Oh, hell!" muttered Speed, "I'm going to bed."

But he did not move. Presently he said, "How did you ever come to
handle wild animals?"

"I've always been fond of animals; I broke colts at home; I had bear
cubs and other things. Then, in Algiers, the regiment caught a couple
of lions and kept them in a cage, and--well, I found I could do what I
liked with them."

"They're afraid of your eyes, aren't they?"

"I don't know--perhaps it's that; I can't explain it--or, rather, I
could partly explain it by saying that I am not afraid of them. But I
never trust them."

"You drag them all around the cage! You shove them about like sacks
of meal!"

"Yes,... but I don't trust them."

"It seems to me," said Speed, "that your lions are getting rather
impudent these days. They're not very much afraid of you now."

"Nor I of them," I said, wearily; "I'm much more anxious about you
when you go sailing about in that patched balloon of yours. Are you
never nervous?"

"Nervous? When?"

"When you're up there?"

"Rubbish."

"Suppose the patches give way?"

"I never think of that," he said, leaning on the table with a yawn.
"Oh, Lord, how tired I am!... but I shall not be able to sleep. I'm
actually too tired to sleep. Have you got a pack of cards, Scarlett?
or a decent cigar, or a glass of anything, or anything to show me
more amusing than that nightmare of an elephant? Oh, I'm sick of the
whole business--sick! sick! The stench of the tan-bark never leaves my
nostrils except when the odor of fried ham or of that devilish camel
replaces it.

"I'm too old to enjoy a gypsy drama when it's acted by myself; I'm
tired of trudging through the world with my entire estate in my
pocket. I want a home, Scarlett. Lord, how I envy people with homes!"

He had been indulging in this outburst with his back partly turned
toward me. I did not say anything, and, after a moment, he looked at
me over his shoulder to see how I took it.

"I'd like to have a home, too," I said.

"I suppose homes are not meant for men like you and me," he said.
"Lord, how I would appreciate one, though--anything with a bit of
grass in the yard and a shovelful of dirt--enough to grow some damn
flower, you know.... Did you smell the posies in the square
to-night?... Something of that kind,... anything, Scarlett--anything
that can be called a home!... But you can't understand."

"Oh yes, I can," I said.

He went on muttering, half to himself: "We're of the same
breed--pariahs; fortunately, pariahs don't last long,... like the wild
creatures who never die natural deaths,... old age is one of the
curses they can safely discount,... and so can we, Scarlett, so can
we.... For you'll be mauled by a lion or kicked into glory by a horse
or an ox or an ass,... and I'll fall off a balloon,... or the camel
will give me tetanus, or the elephant will get me in one way or
another,... or something...."

Again he twisted around to look at me. "Funny, isn't it?"

"Rather funny," I said, listlessly.

He leaned over, pulled another cigarette from the pink packet, broke a
match from the card, and lighted it.

"I feel better," he observed.

I expressed sleepy gratification.

"Oh yes, I'm much better. This isn't a bad life, is it?"

"Oh no!" I said, sarcastically.

"No, it's all right, and we've got to pull the poor old governor
through and give a jolly good show here and start the whole country
toward the tent door! Eh?"

"Certainly. Don't let me detain you."

"I'll tell you what," he said, "if we only had that poor little
girl, Miss Claridge, we'd catch these Bretons. That's what took the
coast-folk all over Europe, so Grigg says."

Miss Claridge had performed in a large glass tank as the "Leaping
Mermaid." It took like wildfire according to our fellow-performers. We
had never seen her; she was killed by diving into her tank when the
circus was at Antwerp in April.

"Can't we get up something like that?" I suggested, hopelessly.

"Who would do it? Miss Claridge's fish-tights are in the prop-box;
who's to wear them?"

He began to say something else, but stopped suddenly, eyes fixed. We
were seated nearly opposite each other, and I turned around, following
the direction of his eyes.

Jacqueline stood behind me in the smoky light of the torch--Jacqueline,
bare of arm and knee, with her sea-blue eyes very wide and the witch-locks
clustering around the dim oval of her face. After a moment's absolute
silence she said: "I came from Paradise. Don't you remember?"

"From Paradise?" said Speed, smiling; "I thought it might be from
elf-land."

And I said: "Of course I remember you, Jacqueline. And I have an idea
you ought to be in bed."

There was another silence.
