

Silence Enjoined. Misteaching. Departure from Tenets. Violation of
Christian Fellowship. Moral Offences. Illegal Adoption. Broken By-laws.
Violation of By-laws. (What is the difference?) Formulas Forbidden.
Official Advice. (Forbids Tom, Dick, and Harry’s clack.) Unworthy of
Membership. Final Excommunication. Organizing Churches.

This looks as if Mrs. Eddy had devoted a large share of her time and
talent to inventing ways to get rid of her Church members. Yet in
another place she seems to invite membership. Not in any urgent way,
it is true, still she throws out a bait to such as like notice and
distinction (in other words, the Human Race). Page 82:

“It is important that these seemingly strict conditions be complied
with, as the names of the Members of the Mother-Church will be recorded
in the history of the Church and become a part thereof.”

We all want to be historical.




MORE SELF-PROTECTIONS

The Hymnal. There is a Christian Science Hymnal. Entrance to it was
closed in 1898. Christian Science students who make hymns nowadays may
possibly get them sung in the Mother-Church, “but not unless approved by
the Pastor Emeritus.” Art. XXVII, Sec. 2.

Solo Singers. Mrs. Eddy has contributed the words of three of the hymns
in the Hymnal. Two of them appear in it six times altogether, each of
them being set to three original forms of musical anguish. Mrs. Eddy,
always thoughtful, has promulgated a By-law requiring the singing of one
of her three hymns in the Mother Church “as often as once each month.”
 It is a good idea. A congregation could get tired of even Mrs. Eddy’s
muse in the course of time, without the cordializing incentive of
compulsion. We all know how wearisome the sweetest and touchingest
things can become, through rep-rep-repetition, and still
rep-rep-repetition, and more rep-rep-repetition-like “the sweet
by-and-by, in the sweet by-and-by,” for instance, and “Tah-rah-rah
boom-de-aye”; and surely it is not likely that Mrs. Eddy’s machine has
turned out goods that could outwear those great heart-stirrers, without
the assistance of the lash. “O’er Waiting Harpstrings of the Mind” is
pretty good, quite fair to middling--the whole seven of the stanzas--but
repetition would be certain to take the excitement out of it in the
course of time, even if there were fourteen, and then it would sound
like the multiplication table, and would cease to save. The congregation
would be perfectly sure to get tired; in fact, did get tired--hence the
compulsory By-law. It is a measure born of experience, not foresight.

The By-laws say that “if a solo singer shall neglect or refuse to sing
alone” one of those three hymns as often as once a month, and oftener if
so directed by the Board of Directors--which is Mrs. Eddy--the singer’s
salary shall be stopped. It is circumstantial evidence that some
soloists neglected this sacrament and others refused it. At least that
is the charitable view to take of it. There is only one other view to
take: that Mrs. Eddy did really foresee that there would be singers
who would some day get tired of doing her hymns and proclaiming the
authorship, unless persuaded by a Bylaw, with a penalty attached. The
idea could of course occur to her wise head, for she would know that a
seven-stanza break might well be a calamitous strain upon a soloist, and
that he might therefore avoid it if unwatched. He could not curtail it,
for the whole of anything that Mrs. Eddy does is sacred, and cannot be
cut.




BOARD OF EDUCATION

It consists of four members, one of whom is President of it. Its members
are elected annually. Subject to Mrs. Eddy’s approval. Art. XXX., Sec.
2.

She owns the Board--is the Board.

Mrs. Eddy is President of the Metaphysical College. If at any time she
shall vacate that office, the Directors of the College (that is to say,
Mrs. Eddy) “shall” elect to the vacancy the President of the Board of
Education (which is merely re-electing herself).

It is another case of “Pastor Emeritus.” She gives up the shadow of
authority, but keeps a good firm hold on the substance.




PUBLIC TEACHERS

Applicants for admission to this industry must pass a thorough three
days’ examination before the Board of Education “in Science and Health,
chapter on ‘Recapitulation’; the Platform of Christian Science; page 403
of Christian Science Practice, from line second to the second paragraph
of page 405; and page 488, second and third paragraphs.”




BOARD OF LECTURESHIP

The lecturers are exceedingly important servants of Mrs. Eddy, and she
chooses them with great care. Each of them has an appointed territory
in which to perform his duties--in the North, the South, the East, the
West, in Canada, in Great Britain, and so on--and each must stick to
his own territory and not forage beyond its boundaries. I think it goes
without saying--from what we have seen of Mrs. Eddy--that no lecture is
delivered until she has examined and approved it, and that the lecturer
is not allowed to change it afterwards.

The members of the Board of Lectureship are elected annually--

“Subject to the approval of Rev. Mary Baker G. Eddy.”




MISSIONARIES

There are but four. They are elected--like the rest of the
domestics--annually. So far as I can discover, not a single servant of
the Sacred Household has a steady job except Mrs. Eddy. It is plain that
she trusts no human being but herself.




THE BY-LAWS

The branch Churches are strictly forbidden to use them.

So far as I can see, they could not do it if they wanted to. The By-laws
are merely the voice of the master issuing commands to the servants.
There is nothing and nobody for the servants to re-utter them to.

That useless edict is repeated in the little book, a few pages farther
on. There are several other repetitions of prohibitions in the book that
could be spared-they only take up room for nothing.




THE CREED It is copyrighted. I do not know why, but I suppose it is to
keep adventurers from some day claiming that they invented it, and
not Mrs. Eddy and that “strange Providence” that has suggested so many
clever things to her.

No Change. It is forbidden to change the Creed. That is important, at
any rate.



COPYRIGHT

I can understand why Mrs. Eddy copyrighted the early editions
and revisions of Science and Health, and why she had a mania for
copyrighting every scrap of every sort that came from her pen in those
jejune days when to be in print probably seemed a wonderful distinction
to her in her provincial obscurity, but why she should continue this
delirium in these days of her godship and her far-spread fame, I cannot
explain to myself. And particularly as regards Science and Health. She
knows, now, that that Annex is going to live for many centuries; and so,
what good is a fleeting forty-two-year copyright going to do it?

Now a perpetual copyright would be quite another matter. I would like to
give her a hint. Let her strike for a perpetual copyright on that book.
There is precedent for it. There is one book in the world which bears
the charmed life of perpetual copyright (a fact not known to twenty
people in the world). By a hardy perversion of privilege on the part of
the lawmaking power the Bible has perpetual copyright in Great Britain.
There is no justification for it in fairness, and no explanation of it
except that the Church is strong enough there to have its way, right
or wrong. The recent Revised Version enjoys perpetual copyright, too--a
stronger precedent, even, than the other one.

Now, then, what is the Annex but a Revised Version itself? Which of
course it is--Lord’s Prayer and all. With that pair of formidable
British precedents to proceed upon, what Congress of ours--

But how short-sighted I am. Mrs. Eddy has thought of it long ago. She
thinks of everything. She knows she has only to keep her copyright of
1902 alive through its first stage of twenty-eight years, and perpetuity
is assured. A Christian Science Congress will reign in the Capitol then.
She probably attaches small value to the first edition (1875). Although
it was a Revelation from on high, it was slim, lank, incomplete, padded
with bales of refuse rags, and puffs from lassoed celebrities to fill
it out, an uncreditable book, a book easily sparable, a book not to
be mentioned in the same year with the sleek, fat, concise, compact,
compressed, and competent Annex of to-day, in its dainty flexible
covers, gilt--edges, rounded corners, twin screw, spiral twist,
compensation balance, Testament-counterfeit, and all that; a book just
born to curl up on the hymn-book-shelf in church and look just too sweet
and holy for anything. Yes, I see now what she was copyrighting that
child for.




CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION

It is true in matters of business Mrs. Eddy thinks of everything. She
thought of an organ, to disseminate the Truth as it was in Mrs. Eddy.
Straightway she started one--the Christian Science Journal.

It is true--in matters of business Mrs. Eddy thinks of everything. As
soon as she had got the Christian Science Journal sufficiently in debt
to make its presence on the premises disagreeable to her, it occurred
to her to make somebody a present of it. Which she did, along with
its debts. It was in the summer of 1889. The victim selected was
her Church--called, in those days, The National Christian Scientist
Association.

She delivered this sorrow to those lambs as a “gift” in consideration of
their “loyalty to our great cause.”

Also--still thinking of everything--she told them to retain Mr. Bailey
in the editorship and make Mr. Nixon publisher. We do not know what it
was she had against those men; neither do we know whether she scored on
Bailey or not, we only know that God protected Nixon, and for that I am
sincerely glad, although I do not know Nixon and have never even seen
him.

Nixon took the Journal and the rest of the Publishing Society’s
liabilities, and demonstrated over them during three years, then brought
in his report:

“On assuming my duties as publisher, there was not a dollar in the
treasury; but on the contrary the Society owed unpaid printing and
paper bills to the amount of several hundred dollars, not to mention
a contingent liability of many more hundreds”--represented by
advance--subscriptions paid for the Journal and the “Series,” the which
goods Mrs. Eddy had not delivered. And couldn’t, very well, perhaps, on
a Metaphysical College income of but a few thousand dollars a day, or a
week, or whatever it was in those magnificently flourishing times. The
struggling Journal had swallowed up those advance-payments, but its
“claim” was a severe one and they had failed to cure it. But Nixon cured
it in his diligent three years, and joyously reported the news that he
had cleared off all the debts and now had a fat six thousand dollars in
the bank.

It made Mrs. Eddy’s mouth water.

At the time that Mrs. Eddy had unloaded that dismal gift on to her
National Association, she had followed her inveterate custom: she had
tied a string to its hind leg, and kept one end of it hitched to her
belt. We have seen her do that in the case of the Boston Mosque. When
she deeds property, she puts in that string-clause. It provides that
under certain conditions she can pull the string and land the property
in the cherished home of its happy youth. In the present case she
believed that she had made provision that if at any time the National
Christian Science Association should dissolve itself by a formal vote,
she could pull.

A year after Nixon’s handsome report, she writes the Association that
she has a “unique request to lay before it.” It has dissolved, and she
is not quite sure that the Christian Science Journal has “already fallen
into her hands” by that act, though it “seems” to her to have met with
that accident; so she would like to have the matter decided by a formal
vote. But whether there is a doubt or not, “I see the wisdom,” she says,
“of again owning this Christian Science waif.”

I think that that is unassailable evidence that the waif was making
money, hands down.

She pulled her gift in. A few years later she donated the Publishing
Society, along with its real estate, its buildings, its plant, its
publications, and its money--the whole worth twenty--two thousand
dollars, and free of debt--to--Well, to the Mother-Church!

That is to say, to herself. There is an account of it in the Christian
Science Journal, and of how she had already made some other handsome
gifts--to her Church--and others to--to her Cause besides “an almost
countless number of private charities” of cloudy amount and otherwise
indefinite. This landslide of generosities overwhelmed one of her
literary domestics. While he was in that condition he tried to express
what he felt:

“Let us endeavor to lift up our hearts in thankfulness to... our Mother
in Israel for these evidences of generosity and self-sacrifice that
appeal to our deepest sense of gratitude, even while surpassing our
comprehension.”

A year or two later, Mrs. Eddy promulgated some By-laws of a
self-sacrificing sort which assuaged him, perhaps, and perhaps enabled
his surpassed comprehension to make a sprint and catch up. These are to
be found in Art. XII., entitled.




THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING SOCIETY

This Article puts the whole publishing business into the hands of a
publishing Board--special. Mrs. Eddy appoints to its vacancies.

The profits go semi-annually to the Treasurer of the Mother-Church. Mrs.
Eddy owns the Treasurer.

Editors and publishers of the Christian Science Journal cannot be
elected or removed without Mrs. Eddy’s knowledge and consent.

Every candidate for employment in a high capacity or a low one, on the
other periodicals or in the publishing house, must first be “accepted
by Mrs. Eddy as suitable.” And “by the Board of Directors”--which is
surplusage, since Mrs. Eddy owns the Board.

If at any time a weekly shall be started, “it shall be owned by The
First Church of Christ, Scientist”--which is Mrs. Eddy.




CHAPTER VIII

I think that any one who will carefully examine the By-laws (I have
placed all of the important ones before the reader), will arrive at the
conclusion that of late years the master-passion in Mrs. Eddy’s heart is
a hunger for power and glory; and that while her hunger for money still
remains, she wants it now for the expansion and extension it can furnish
to that power and glory, rather than what it can do for her towards
satisfying minor and meaner ambitions.

I wish to enlarge a little upon this matter. I think it is quite clear
that the reason why Mrs. Eddy has concentrated in herself all powers,
all distinctions, all revenues that are within the command of the
Christian Science Church Universal is that she desires and intends
to devote them to the purpose just suggested--the upbuilding of her
personal glory--hers, and no one else’s; that, and the continuing of her
name’s glory after she shall have passed away. If she has overlooked a
single power, howsoever minute, I cannot discover it. If she has found
one, large or small, which she has not seized and made her own, there is
no record of it, no trace of it. In her foragings and depredations she
usually puts forward the Mother-Church--a lay figure--and hides behind
it. Whereas, she is in manifest reality the Mother-Church herself. It
has an impressive array of officials, and committees, and Boards of
Direction, of Education, of Lectureship, and so on--geldings, every one,
shadows, spectres, apparitions, wax-figures: she is supreme over them
all, she can abolish them when she will; blow them out as she would a
candle. She is herself the Mother-Church. Now there is one By-law which
says that the Mother-Church:

“shall be officially controlled by no other church.”

That does not surprise us--we know by the rest of the By-laws that that
is a quite irrelevant remark. Yet we do vaguely and hazily wonder why
she takes the trouble to say it; why she wastes the words; what her
object can be--seeing that that emergency has been in so many, many
ways, and so effectively and drastically barred off and made impossible.
Then presently the object begins to dawn upon us. That is, it does after
we have read the rest of the By-law three or four times, wondering
and admiring to see Mrs. Eddy--Mrs. Eddy--Mrs. Eddy, of all
persons--throwing away power!--making a fair exchange--doing a fair
thing for once more, an almost generous thing! Then we look it through
yet once more unsatisfied, a little suspicious--and find that it is
nothing but a sly, thin make-believe, and that even the very title of it
is a sarcasm and embodies a falsehood--“self” government:

“Local Self-Government. The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in
Boston, Massachusetts, shall assume no official control of other
churches of this denomination. It shall be officially controlled by no
other church.”

It has a most pious and deceptive give-and-take air of perfect fairness,
unselfishness, magnanimity--almost godliness, indeed. But it is all art.


In the By-laws, Mrs. Eddy, speaking by the mouth of her other self, the
Mother-Church, proclaims that she will assume no official control of
other churches-branch churches. We examine the other By-laws, and they
answer some important questions for us:

1. What is a branch Church? It is a body of Christian Scientists,
organized in the one and only permissible way--by a member, in good
standing, of the Mother-Church, and who is also a pupil of one of Mrs.
Eddy’s accredited students. That is to say, one of her properties. No
other can do it. There are other indispensable requisites; what are
they?

2. The new Church cannot enter upon its functions until its members have
individually signed, and pledged allegiance to, a Creed furnished by
Mrs. Eddy.

3. They are obliged to study her books, and order their lives by them.
And they must read no outside religious works.

4. They must sing the hymns and pray the prayers provided by her, and
use no others in the services, except by her permission.

5. They cannot have preachers and pastors. Her law.

6. In their Church they must have two Readers--a man and a woman.

7. They must read the services framed and appointed by her.

8. She--not the branch Church--appoints those Readers.

9. She--not the branch Church--dismisses them and fills the vacancies.

10. She can do this without consulting the branch Church, and without
explaining.

11. The branch Church can have a religious lecture from time to time. By
applying to Mrs. Eddy. There is no other way.

12. But the branch Church cannot select the lecturer. Mrs. Eddy does it.

13. The branch Church pays his fee.

14. The harnessing of all Christian Science wedding-teams, members
of the branch Church, must be done by duly authorized and consecrated
Christian Science functionaries. Her factory is the only one that makes
and licenses them.

[15. Nothing is said about christenings. It is inferable from this that
a Christian Science child is born a Christian Scientist and requires no
tinkering.]

[16. Nothing is said about funerals. It is inferable, then, that a
branch Church is privileged to do in that matter as it may choose.]

To sum up. Are any important Church-functions absent from the list? I
cannot call any to mind. Are there any lacking ones whose exercise
could make the branch in any noticeable way independent of the Mother.
Church?--even in any trifling degree? I think of none. If the named
functions were abolished would there still be a Church left? Would there
be even a shadow of a Church left? Would there be anything at all left?
even the bare name?

Manifestly not. There isn’t a single vital and essential Church-function
of any kind, that is not named in the list. And over every one of them
the Mother-Church has permanent and unchallengeable control, upon
every one of them Mrs. Eddy has set her irremovable grip. She holds,
in perpetuity, autocratic and indisputable sovereignty and control over
every branch Church in the earth; and yet says, in that sugary, naive,
angel-beguiling way of hers, that the Mother-Church:

“shall assume no official control of other churches of this
denomination.”

Whereas in truth the unmeddled-with liberties of a branch Christian
Science Church are but very, very few in number, and are these:

1. It can appoint its own furnace-stoker, winters. 2. It can appoint
its own fan-distributors, summers. 3. It can, in accordance with its own
choice in the matter, burn, bury, or preserve members who are pretending
to be dead--whereas there is no such thing as death. 4. It can take up a
collection.

The branch Churches have no important liberties, none that give them an
important voice in their own affairs. Those are all locked up, and Mrs.
Eddy has the key. “Local Self-Government” is a large name and sounds
well; but the branch Churches have no more of it than have the privates
in the King of Dahomey’s army.




“MOTHER-CHURCH UNIQUE”

Mrs. Eddy, with an envious and admiring eye upon the solitary and
rivalless and world-shadowing majesty of St. Peter’s, reveals in her
By-laws her purpose to set the Mother-Church apart by itself in a
stately seclusion and make it duplicate that lone sublimity under the
Western sky. The By-law headed “Mother-Church Unique” says--

“In its relation to other Christian Science churches, the Mother-Church
stands alone.

“It occupies a position that no other Church can fill.

“Then for a branch Church to assume such position would be disastrous to
Christian Science,

“Therefore--”

Therefore no branch Church is allowed to have branches. There shall
be no Christian Science St. Peter’s in the earth but just one--the
Mother-Church in Boston.




“NO FIRST MEMBERS”

But for the thoughtful By-law thus entitled, every Science branch in the
earth would imitate the Mother-Church and set up an aristocracy. Every
little group of ground-floor Smiths and Furgusons and Shadwells and
Simpsons that organized a branch would assume that great title, of
“First Members,” along with its vast privileges of “discussing” the
weather and casting blank ballots, and soon there would be such a
locust-plague of them burdening the globe that the title would lose its
value and have to be abolished.

But where business and glory are concerned, Mrs. Eddy thinks of
everything, and so she did not fail to take care of her Aborigines,
her stately and exclusive One Hundred, her college of functionless
cardinals, her Sanhedrin of Privileged Talkers (Limited). After taking
away all the liberties of the branch Churches, and in the same breath
disclaiming all official control over their affairs, she smites them on
the mouth with this--the very mouth that was watering for those nobby
ground-floor honors--

“No First Members. Branch Churches shall not organize with First
Members, that special method of organization being adapted to the
Mother-Church alone.”

And so, first members being prohibited, we pierce through the cloud
of Mrs. Eddy’s English and perceive that they must then necessarily
organize with Subsequent Members. There is no other way. It will occur
to them by-and-by to found an aristocracy of Early Subsequent Members.
There is no By-law against it.




“THE”

I uncover to that imperial word. And to the mind, too, that conceived
the idea of seizing and monopolizing it as a title. I believe it is Mrs.
Eddy’s dazzlingest invention. For show, and style, and grandeur, and
thunder and lightning and fireworks it outclasses all the previous
inventions of man, and raises the limit on the Pope. He can never put
his avid hand on that word of words--it is pre-empted. And copyrighted,
of course. It lifts the Mother-Church away up in the sky, and
fellowships it with the rare and select and exclusive little company of
the THE’s of deathless glory--persons and things whereof history and
the ages could furnish only single examples, not two: the Saviour, the
Virgin, the Milky Way, the Bible, the Earth, the Equator, the Devil,
the Missing Link--and now The First Church, Scientist. And by clamor of
edict and By-law Mrs. Eddy gives personal notice to all branch Scientist
Churches on this planet to leave that THE alone.

She has demonstrated over it and made it sacred to the Mother-Church:

“The article ‘The’ must not be used before the titles of branch
Churches--

“Nor written on applications for membership in naming such churches.”

Those are the terms. There can and will be a million First Churches
of Christ, Scientist, scattered over the world, in a million towns and
villages and hamlets and cities, and each may call itself (suppressing
the article), “First Church of Christ. Scientist”--it is permissible,
and no harm; but there is only one The Church of Christ, Scientist, and
there will never be another. And whether that great word fall in the
middle of a sentence or at the beginning of it, it must always have its
capital T.

I do not suppose that a juvenile passion for fussy little worldly shows
and vanities can furnish a match to this, anywhere in the history of
the nursery. Mrs. Eddy does seem to be a shade fonder of little special
distinctions and pomps than is usual with human beings.

She instituted that immodest “The” with her own hand; she did not wait
for somebody else to think of it.




A LIFE-TERM MONOPOLY

There is but one human Pastor in the whole Christian Science world; she
reserves that exalted place to herself.




A PERPETUAL ONE

There is but one other object in the whole Christian Science world
honored with that title and holding that office: it is her book, the
Annex--permanent Pastor of The First Church, and of all branch Churches.

With her own hand she draughted the By-laws which make her the only
really absolute sovereign that lives to-day in Christendom.

She does not allow any objectionable pictures to be exhibited in the
room where her book is sold, nor any indulgence in idle gossip there;
and from the general look of that By-law I judge that a lightsome and
improper person can be as uncomfortable in that place as he could be in
heaven.




THE SANCTUM SANCTORUM AND SACRED CHAIR

In a room in The First Church of Christ, Scientist, there is a museum
of objects which have attained to holiness through contact with Mrs.
Eddy--among them an electrically lighted oil-picture of a chair which
she used to sit in--and disciples from all about the world go softly
in there, in restricted groups, under proper guard, and reverently gaze
upon those relics. It is worship. Mrs. Eddy could stop it if she was not
fond of it, for her sovereignty over that temple is supreme.

The fitting-up of that place as a shrine is not an accident, nor a
casual, unweighed idea; it is imitated from age--old religious custom.
In Treves the pilgrim reverently gazes upon the Seamless Robe, and
humbly worships; and does the same in that other continental church
where they keep a duplicate; and does likewise in the Church of the
