
"Is the Cascade Development and Securities Co. one of them?"

"Yes, it is."

Duane's lips were dry with fear; he swallowed, controlled the rising
anger that began to twitch at his throat, and went on in a low, quiet
voice:

"Is this man--Moebus--connected with any of these transactions in which
you and--and my father are interested?"

"Yes."

"Is Klawber?"

"Max Moebus, Emanuel Klawber, James Skelton, and Amos Flack are
interested. Is that what you want to know?"

Duane looked at him, stunned. Dysart stepped nearer, speaking almost in
a whisper:

"Well, what about it? Once I warned you to keep your damned nose out of
my personal affairs----"

"I make some of them mine!" said Duane sharply; "when crooks get hold of
an honest man, every citizen is a policeman!"

Dysart, face convulsed with fury, seized his arm in a vicelike grip:

"Will you keep your cursed mouth shut!" he breathed. "My father is in
the next room. Do you want to kill him?"

At the same moment there came a stir from the room beyond, the tap-tap
of a cane and shuffling steps across the polished parquet. Dysart's grip
relaxed, his hand fell away, and he made a ghastly grimace as a little
old gentleman came half-trotting, half-shambling to the doorway. He was
small and dapper and pink-skinned under his wig; the pink was paint; his
lips and eyes peered and simpered; from one bird-claw hand dangled a
monocle.

Jack Dysart made a ghastly and supreme effort:

"I was just saying to Duane, father, that all this financial agitation
is bound to blow over by December--Duane Mallett, father!"--as the old
man raised his eye-glass and peeped up at the young fellow--"you know
his father, Colonel Mallett."

"Yes, to be sure, yes, to be sure!" piped the old beau. "How-de-do!
How-de-do-o-o! My son Jack and I motor every morning at this hour. It is
becoming a custom--he! he!--every day from ten to eleven--then a biscuit
and a glass of sherry--then a nap--te-he! Oh, yes, every day, Mr. Mallett,
rain or fair--then luncheon at one, and the cigarette--te-he!--and a
little sleep--and the drive at five! Yes, Mr. Mallett, it is the routine
of a very old man who knew your grandfather--and all his set--when the
town was gay below Bleecker Street! Yes, yes--te-he-he!"

Nervous spasms which passed as smiles distorted the younger Dysart's
visage; the aged beau offered his hand to Duane, who took it in silence,
his eyes fixed on the shrivelled, painted face:

"Your grandfather was a very fine man," he piped; "very fine! ve-ery
fine! And so I perceive is his grandson--te-he!--and I flatter myself
that my boy Jack is not unadmired--te-he-he!--no, no--not precisely
unnoticed in New York--the town whose history is the history of his own
race, Mr. Mallett--he is a good son to me--yes, yes, a good son. It is
gratifying to me to know that you are his friend. He is a good friend to
have, Mr. Mallett, a good friend and a good son."

Duane bent gently over the shrivelled hand.

"I won't detain you from your drive, Mr. Dysart. I hope you will have a
pleasant one. It is a pleasure to know my grandfather's old friends.
Good-bye."

And, erect, he hesitated a moment, then, for an old man's sake he held
out his hand to Jack Dysart, bidding him good-bye in a pleasant voice
pitched clear and decided, so that deaf ears might corroborate what
half-blind and peering eyes so dimly beheld.

Dysart walked to the door with him, waved the servant aside, and, laying
a shaking hand on the bronze knob, opened the door for his unbidden
guest.

As Duane passed him he said:

"Thank you, Mallett," in a voice so low that Duane was half-way to his
cab before he understood.

       *       *       *       *       *

That day, and the next, and all that week he worked in his pitlike
studio. Through the high sky-window a cloudless zenith brooded; the heat
became terrific; except for the inevitable crush of the morning and
evening migration south and north, the streets were almost empty under a
blazing sun.

His father seemed to be physically better. Although he offered no
confidences, it appeared to the son that there was something a little
more cheerful in his voice and manner. It may have been only the
anticipation of departure; for he was going West in a day or two, and it
came out that Wilton was going with him.

The day he left, Duane drove him to the station. There was a private
car, the "Cyane," attached to the long train. Wilton met them, spoke
pleasantly to Duane; but Colonel Mallett did not invite his son to enter
the car, and adieux were said where they stood.

As the young fellow turned and passed beneath the car-windows, he caught
a glimpse above him of a heavy-jowled, red face into which a cigar was
stuck--a perfectly enormous expanse of face with two little piglike eyes
almost buried in the mottled fat.

"That's Max Moebus," observed a train hand respectfully, as Duane
passed close to him; "I guess there's more billions into that there
private car than old Pip's crowd can dig out of their pants pockets on
pay day."

A little, dry-faced, chin-whiskered man with a loose pot-belly and thin
legs came waddling along, followed by two red-capped negroes with his
luggage. He climbed up the steps of the "Cyane"; the train man winked at
Duane, who had turned to watch him.

"Amos Flack," he said. "He's their 'lobbygow.'" With which contemptuous
information he spat upon the air-brakes and, shoving both hands into his
pockets, meditatively jingled a bunch of keys.

       *       *       *       *       *

The club was absolutely deserted that night; Duane dined there alone,
then wandered into the great empty room facing Fifth Avenue, his steps
echoing sharply across the carpetless floor. The big windows were open;
there was thunder in the air--the sonorous stillness in which voices and
footsteps in the street ring out ominously.

He smoked and watched the dim forms of those whom the heat drove forth
into the night, men with coats over their arms and straw hats in their
hands, young girls thinly clad in white, bare-headed, moving two and two
with dragging steps and scarcely spirit left even for common coquetry or
any response to the jesting oafs who passed.

Here and there a cruising street-dryad threaded the by-paths of the
metropolitan jungle; here and there a policeman, gray helmet in hand,
stood mopping his face, night-club tucked up snugly under one arm. Few
cabs were moving; at intervals a creaking, groaning omnibus rolled
past, its hurricane deck white with the fluttering gowns of women and
young girls.

Somebody came into the room behind him; Duane turned, but could not
distinguish who it was in the dusk. A little while later the man came
over to where he sat, and he looked up; and it was Dysart.

There was silence for a full minute; Dysart stood by the window looking
out; Duane paid him no further attention until he wheeled slowly and
said:

"Do you mind if I have a word with you, Mallett?"

"Not if it is necessary."

"I don't know whether it is necessary."

"Don't bother about it if you are in the slightest doubt."

Dysart waited a moment, perhaps for some unpleasant emotion to subside;
then:

"I'll sit down a moment, if you permit."

He dropped into one of the big, deep, leather chairs and touched the
bell. A servant came; he looked across at Duane, hesitated to speak:

"Thank you," said Duane curtly. "I've cut it out."

"Scotch. Bring the decanter," murmured Dysart to the servant.

When it was served he drained the glass, refilled it, and turned in the
rest of the mineral water. Before he spoke he emptied the glass again
and rang for more mineral water. Then he looked at Duane and said in a
low voice:

"I thought you were worried the other day when I saw you at my house."

"What is that to you?"

Dysart said: "You were very kind--under provocation."

"I was not kind on your account."

"I understand. But I don't forget such things."

Duane glanced at him in profound contempt. Here was the stereotyped
scoundrel with the classical saving trait--the one conventionally
inevitable impulse for good shining like a diamond on a muck-heap--his
apparently disinterested affection for his father.

"You were very decent to me that day," Dysart said. "You had something
to say to me--but were good enough not to. I came over to-night to give
you a chance to curse me out. It's the square thing to do."

"What do you know about square dealing?"

"Go on."

"I have nothing to add."

"Then I have if you'll let me." He paused; the other remained silent.
"I've this to say: you are worried sick; I saw that. What worries you
concerns your father. You were merciful to mine. I'll do what I can for
you."

He swallowed half of what remained in his iced glass, set it back on the
table with fastidious precision:

"The worst that can happen to your father is to lose control of the Yo
Espero property. I think he is going to lose it. They've crowded me out.
If I could have endured the strain I'd have stood by your father--for
what you did for mine.... But I couldn't, Mallett."

He moistened his lips again; leaned forward:

"I think I know one thing about you, anyway; and I'm not afraid you'd
ever use any words of mine against me----"

"Don't say them!" retorted Duane sharply.

But Dysart went on:

"You have no respect for me. You found out one thing about me that
settled me in your opinion. Outside of that, however, you never liked
me."

"That is perfectly true."

"I know it. And I want to say now that it was smouldering irritation
from that source--wounded vanity, perhaps--coupled with worry and
increasing cares, that led to that outburst of mine. I never really
believed that my wife needed any protection from the sort of man you
are. You are not that kind."

"That also is true."

"And I know it. And now I've cleared up these matters; and there's
another." He bit his lip, thought a moment, then with a deep, long
breath:

"When you struck me that night I--deserved it. I was half crazy, I
think--with what I had done--with a more material but quite as ruinous
situation developing here in town--with domestic complications--never
mind where all the fault lay--it was demoralising me. Do you think that
I am not perfectly aware that I stand very much alone among men? Do you
suppose that I am not aware of my personal unpopularity as far as men
are concerned? I have never had an intimate friend--except Delancy
Grandcourt. And I've treated him like a beast. There's something wrong
about me; there always has been."

He slaked his thirst again; his hand shook so that he nearly dropped the
glass:

"Which is preliminary," he went on, "to saying to you that no matter
what I said in access of rage, I never doubted that your encounter
with--Miss Quest--was an accident. I never doubted that your motive in
coming to me was generous. God knows why I said what I did say. You
struck me; and you were justified.... And that clears up that!"

"Dysart," said the other, "you don't have to tell me these things."

"Would you rather not have heard them?"

Duane thought a moment.

"I would rather have heard them, I believe."

"Then may I go on?"

"Is there anything more to explain between us?"

"No.... But I would like to say something--in my own behalf. Not that it
matters to you--or to any man, perhaps, except my father. I would like
to say it, Mallett."

"Very well."

"Then; I prefer that you should believe I am not a crook. Not that it
matters to you; but I prefer that you do not believe it.... You have
read enough in the papers to know what I mean. I'm telling you now what
I have never uttered to any man; and I haven't the slightest fear you
will repeat it or use it in any manner to my undoing. It is this:

"The men with whom I was unwise enough to become partially identified
are marked for destruction by the Clearing House Committee and by the
Federal Government. I know it; others know it. Which means the ruthless
elimination of anything doubtful which in future might possibly
compromise the financial stability of this city.

"It is a brutal programme; the policy they are pursuing is bitterly
unjust. Innocent and guilty alike are going to suffer; I never in all my
life consciously did a crooked thing in business; and yet I say to you
now that these people are bent on my destruction; that they mean to
force us to close the doors of the Algonquin; that they are planning the
ruin of every corporation, every company, every bank, every enterprise
with which I am connected, merely because they have decreed the
financial death of Moebus and Klawber!"

He made a trembling gesture with clenched hand, and leaned farther
forward:

"Mallett! There is not one man to-day in Wall Street who has not done,
and who is not doing daily, the very things for which the government
officials and the Clearing House authorities are attempting to get rid
of me. Their attacks on my securities will ultimately ruin me; but such
attacks would ruin any financier, any bank in the United States, if
continued long enough.

"Doesn't anybody know that when the government conspires with the
Clearing House officials any security can be kicked out of the market?
Don't they know that when bank examiners class any securities as
undesirable, and bank officials throw them out from the loans of such
institutions, that they're not worth the match struck to burn them into
nothing?

"If they mean to close my companies and bring charges against me, I'll
tell you now, Mallett, any official of any bank which to-day is in
operation, can be indicted!"

He sat breathing fast, hands clasped nervously between his knees. Duane,
painfully impressed, waited. And after a moment Dysart spoke again:

"They mean my ruin. There is a bank examiner at work--this very moment
while we're sitting here--on the Collect Pond Bank--which is mine. The
Federal inquisitors went through it once; now a new one is back again.
They found nothing with which to file an adverse report the first time.
Why did they come back?

"And I'll tell you another thing, Mallett, which may seem a slight
reason for my sullenness and quick temper; they've had secret-service
men following me ever since I returned from Roya-Neh. They are into
everything that I've ever been connected with; there is no institution,
no security in which I am interested, that they have not investigated.

"And I tell you also, incredible as it may sound, that there is no
security in which I am interested which is not now being attacked by
government officials, and which, as a result of such attacks, is not
depreciating daily. I tell you they've even approached the United States
Court for its consent to a ruinous disposal of certain corporation notes
in which I am interested! Will you tell me what you think of that,
Mallett?"

Duane said: "I don't know, Dysart. I know almost nothing about such
matters. And--I am sorry that you are in trouble."

The silence remained unbroken for some time; then Dysart stood up:

"I don't offer you my hand. You took it once for my father's sake.
That was manly of you, Mallett.... I thought perhaps I might lighten
your anxiety about your father. I hope I have.... And I must ask
your pardon for pressing my private affairs upon you"--he laughed
mirthlessly--"merely because I'd rather you didn't think me a crook--for
my father's sake.... Good-night."

"Dysart," he said, "why in God's name have you behaved as you have
to--that girl?"

Dysart stood perfectly motionless, then in a voice under fair control:

"I understand you. You don't intend that as impertinence; you're a
square man, Mallett--a man who suffers under the evil in others. And
your question to me meant that you thought me not entirely hopeless;
that there was enough of decency in me to arouse your interest. Isn't
that what you meant?"

"Yes, I think so."

"Well, then, I'll answer you. There isn't much left of me; there'll be
less left of my fortune before long. I've made a failure of everything,
fortune, friendship, position, happiness. My wife and I are separated;
it is club gossip, I believe. She will probably sue for divorce and get
it. And I ask you, because I don't know, can any amends be made to--the
person you mentioned--by my offering her the sort and condition of man I
now am?"

"You've got to, haven't you?" asked Duane.

"Oh! Is that it? A sort of moral formality?"

"It's conventional; yes. It's expected."

"By whom?"

"All the mess that goes to make up this compost heap we call society....
I think she also would expect it."

Dysart nodded.

"If you could make her happy it would square a great many things,
Dysart."

The other looked up: "You?"

"I--don't know. Yes, in many ways; in that way at all events--if you
made her happy."

Dysart stepped forward: "Would you be nice to her if I did? No other
soul in the world knows except you. Other people would be nice to her.
Would you? And would you have the woman you marry receive her?"

"Yes."

"That is square of you, Mallett.... I meant to do it, anyway.... Thank
you.... Good-night."

"Good-night," said Duane in a low voice.

He returned to the house late that night, and found a letter from
Geraldine awaiting him; the first in three days. Seated at the library
table he opened the letter and saw at once that the red-pencilled cross
at the top was missing.

Minutes passed; the first line blurred under his vacant gaze, for his
eyes travelled no farther. Then the letter fell to the table; he dropped
his head in his arms.

It was a curiously calm letter when he found courage to read it:

    "I've lost a battle after many victories. It went against me after a
    hard fight here alone at Roya-Neh. I think you had better come up.
    The fight was on again the next night--that is, night before last,
    but I've held fast so far and expect to. Only I wish you'd come.

    "It is no reproach to you if I say that, had you been here, I might
    have made a better fight. You couldn't be here; the shame of defeat
    is all my own.

    "Duane, it was not a disastrous defeat in one way. I held out for
    four days, and thought I had won out. I was stupefied by loss of
    sleep, I think; this is not in excuse, only the facts which I lay
    bare for your consideration.

    "The defeat was in a way a concession--a half-dazed
    compromise--merely a parody on a real victory for the enemy; because
    it roused in me a horror that left the enemy almost no consolation,
    no comfort, even no physical relief. The enemy is I myself, you
    understand--that other self we know about.

    "She was perfectly furious, Duane; she wrestled with me, fought to
    make me yield more than I had--which was almost nothing--begged me,
    brutalised me, pleaded, tormented, cajoled. I was nearly dead when
    the sun rose; but I had gone through it.

    "I wish you could come. She is still watching me. It's an armed
    truce, but I know she'll break it if the chance comes. There is no
    honour in her, Duane, no faith, no reason, no mercy. I know her.

    "Can you not come? I won't ask it if your father needs you. Only if
    he does not, I think you had better come very soon.

    "When may I restore the red cross to the top of my letters to you? I
    suppose I had better place it on the next letter, because if I do
    not you might think that another battle had gone against me.

    "Don't reproach me. I couldn't stand it just now. Because I am a
    very tired girl, Duane, and what has happened is heavy in my
    heart--heavy on my head and shoulders like that monster Sindbad
    bore.

    "Can you come and free me? One word--your arms around me--and I am
    safe.

                                                              "G.S."

As he finished, a maid came bearing a telegram on a salver.

"Tell him to wait," said Duane, tearing open the white night-message:

    "Your father is ill at San Antonio and wishes you to come at once.
    Notify your mother but do not alarm her. Your father's condition is
    favorable, but the outcome is uncertain.

                                                "WELLS, Secretary."

Duane took three telegram blanks from the note-paper rack and wrote:

    "My father is ill at San Antonio. They have just wired me, and I
    shall take the first train. Stand by me now. Win out for my sake. I
    put you on your honour until I can reach you."

And to his father:

    "I leave on first train for San Antonio. It's going to be all right,
    father."

And to his mother:

    "Am leaving for San Antonio because I don't think father is well
    enough to I'll write you and wire you. Love to you and Naïda."

He gave the maid the money, turned, and unhooking the receiver of the
telephone, called up the Grand Central Station.




CHAPTER XVI

THROUGH THE WOODS


The autumn quiet at Roya-Neh was intensely agreeable to Scott Seagrave.
No social demands interfered with a calm and dignified contemplation of
the Rose-beetle, Melolontha subspinosa, and his scandalous "Life
History"; there was no chatter of girls from hall and stairway to
distract the loftier inspirations that possessed him, no intermittent
soprano noises emitted by fluttering feminine fashion, no calflike
barytones from masculine adolescence to drive him to the woods, where it
was always rather difficult for him to focus his attention on printed
pages. The balm of heavenly silence pervaded the house, and in its
beneficent atmosphere he worked in his undershirt, inhaling inspiration
and the aroma of whale-oil, soap, and carbolic solutions.

Neither Kathleen nor his sister being present to limit his operations,
the entire house was becoming a vast mess. Living-rooms, library, halls,
billiard-room, were obstructed with "scientific" paraphernalia; hundreds
of glass fruit jars, filled with earth containing the whitish, globular
eggs of the Rose-beetle, encumbered mantel and furniture; glass
aquariums half full of earth, sod, and youthful larvæ of the same sinful
beetle lent pleasing variety to the monotony of Scott's interior
decorative effects. Microscopes, phials, shallow trays bristling with
sprouting seeds, watering-cans, note-books, buckets of tepid water, jars
brimming with chemical solutions, blockaded the legitimate and natural
runways of chamber-maid, parlour-maid, and housekeeper; a loud scream
now and then punctured the scientific silence, recording the Hibernian
discovery of some large, green caterpillar travelling casually somewhere
in the house.

"Mr. Seagrave, sir," stammered Lang, the second man, perspiring horror,
"your bedroom is full of humming birds and bats, sir, and I can't stand
it no more!"

But it was only a wholesale hatching of huge hawk-moths that came
whizzing around Lang when he turned on the electric lights; and which,
escaping, swarmed throughout the house, filling it with their loud,
feathery humming, and the shrieks of Milesian domestics.

And it was into these lively household conditions that Kathleen and
Geraldine unexpectedly arrived from the Berkshires, worn out with their
round of fashionable visits, anxious for the quiet and comfort that is
supposed to be found only under one's own roof-tree. This is what they
found:

In Geraldine's bath-tub a colony of water-lilies were attempting to take
root for the benefit of several species of water-beetles. The formidable
larvæ of dragon-flies occupied Kathleen's bath; turtles peered at them
from vantage points under the modern plumbing; an enormous frog regarded
Kathleen solemnly from the wet, tiled floor. "Oh, dear," she said as
Scott greeted her rapturously, "have I got to move all these horrid
creatures?"

"For Heaven's sake don't touch a thing," protested Scott, welcoming his
sister with a perfunctory kiss; "I'll find places for them in a minute."

"How could you, Scott!" exclaimed Geraldine, backing hastily away
from a branch of green leaves on which several gigantic horned
caterpillars were feeding. "I don't feel like ever sleeping in this room
again," she added, exasperated.

"Why, Sis," he explained mildly, "those are the caterpillars of the
magnificent Regal moth! They're perfectly harmless, and it's jolly to
watch them tuck away walnut leaves. You'll like to have them here in
your room when you understand how to weigh them on these bully little
scales I've just had sent up from Tiffany's."

But his sister was too annoyed and too tired to speak. She stood limply
leaning against Kathleen while her brother disposed of his uncanny
menagerie, talking away very cheerfully all the while absorbed in his
grewsome pets.

But it was not to his sister, it was to Kathleen that his pride in his
achievements was naïvely displayed; his running accompaniment of chatter
was for Kathleen's benefit, his appeals were to her sympathy and
understanding, not to his sister's.

Geraldine watched him in silence. Tired, not physically very well, this
home-coming meant something to her. She had looked forward to it, and to
her brother, unconsciously wistful for the protection of home and kin.
For the day had been a hard one; she was able to affix the red-cross
mark to her letter to Duane that morning, but it had been a bad day for
her, very bad.

And now as she stood there, white, nerveless, fatigued, an ache grew in
her breast, a dull desire for somebody of her own kin to lean on; and,
following it, a slow realisation of how far apart from her brother she
had drifted since the old days of cordial understanding in the
schoolroom--the days of loyal sympathy through calm and stress, in
predatory alliance or in the frank conflicts of the squared circle.

Suddenly her whole heart filled with a blind need of her brother's
sympathy--a desire to return to the old intimacy as though in it there
lay comfort, protection, sanctuary for herself from all that threatened
her--herself!

