a case.  Cleverest ever.  Some drug, atomized through a keyhole, which
puts y' t' by-by."

"A drug?  Why, say, two of my neighbors have been robbed within the
past three days, and they all complained of violent headaches."

"Well, what y' know about that!  Say, Mr. Killigrew, any place where I
could hang out down there for a couple o' days?"

"Come as my guest, Haggerty.  I can tell the folks that you're from the
office."

"Fumes!  I'll bet a hat it's my maharajah's man.  When do you go back?"

"About half-past two, on my yacht.  You'll find it at the New York
Yacht Club pier.  Some old friends of yours will be on board.
Crawford, his wife, and Forbes, the artist."

"Fine an' dandy!  Forbes is clever at guessing, an' we'll work
t'gether.  All right I'll hike up t' Bronx an' get some duds.  Tell th'
chef that corn-beef an' cabbage is my speed-limit," jested the
detective as he reached the door.

"By the way, what's the name of that steward who took my daughter's
sapphires?"

"His monacker is Webb," said Haggerty; "Thomas Webb, Esquire; an'
believe me, he's some smooth guy.  Thomas Webb."




CHAPTER XXII

For a moment Killigrew sat stiffly upright in his chair; then gradually
his body grew limp, his chin sank, his shoulders drooped.  "Webb?" he
said dully.  "Are you sure, Haggerty?"

"No question about it.  Y' see, this Jameson chap writes me a sassy
letter from Liverpool.  Spite.  Thomas Webb was th' name.  What's th'
matter?"

"Haggerty, the very devil is the matter.  Thomas Webb, recently a
steward on the Celtic, has been my wife's private secretary for
nearly two months."

"Say that again!" gasped Haggerty, bracing himself against the jamb of
the door.

"But I'll wager my right hand that there's some mistake."

"Of all th' gall I ever heard of!  Private secretary, an' Miss
Killigrew's sapphires stowed away in his trunk, if he ain't sold 'em
outside th' pawnshops!  Will y' gimme a free hand, Mr. Killigrew?"

"I suppose I'll have to."

"All right.  On board you draw me a map o' th' rooms an' where Thomas
Webb holds out.  I shan't come t' th' house an' meet anybody.  While
you folks 'r at supper I'll sneak up t' his room an' see what's in his
trunk.  If I don't find 'em, why, I'll come back t' town an' start a
news stand, Forty-second an' Broadway.  I'll be on th' yacht at
half-past two.  I'm on m' way."

The door behind him closed with a bang.  It startled every clerk on the
huge floor.  The door to the boss' office did not bang more than once a
year, and that was immediately after the annual meeting of the
directors of the Combined Brazilian Coffees.  Who was this potentate
who dared desecrate the honored quiet of this loft?

Haggerty's news hit Killigrew hard.  Thomas.  There must be a mistake.
He had not studied men all these years without learning to read young
and old with creditable accuracy.  Thomas was as easy to read as an
amateur's scorecard; runs were runs, hits were hits, outs were outs.
Why, Thomas wouldn't have stolen an apple from a farmer's
orchard--without permission.  What, enter a carriage in a fog, steal a
necklace, and carry it around with him for months?  Never in this
world.  And private secretary to the very person he had robbed?  Of all
the fool situations, this was the cap!  Imbecility was written all over
the face of it.  It was simply a coincidence in the matter of names.
Yet, steward on the Celtic; there was no getting away from that.
There could not have been two Thomas Webbs on board.  I'm afraid
Killigrew swore; distant thunder, off behind the hills there.  He
struck the desk with his balled fist.  He knew it; it was that infernal
opal of Kitty's getting in its deadly work.  And what would Kitty say?
What would she do?

He stood up and pulled down the roller-top violently.  The crash of it
sent every clerk, bookkeeper and stenographer huddling over his or her
work.  Two bangs all in one morning?  What had happened to the coffee
market?  As a matter of fact, coffee fell off a quarter point between
then and closing; which goes to prove that the stock-market depends
upon its business less in the matter of supply and demand than in
"signs."

On board the yacht Killigrew laid the affair before Crawford.

"What do you believe?"

"I've reached the point," said Crawford, "where I believe in nothing
except this young lady," and he laid his hand over his wife's.  "For
ten years I had a valet named Mason.  I would have staked my life on
his integrity, his honesty.  He turned out to be an accomplished rogue.
Went with me into the wilds of Africa and Persia, through deserts,
swamps, over mountains; tireless, resourceful, dependable; and saved my
life twice.  Its knocked a hole in my faith in mankind."

"Listen here," said Haggerty.  "Without your knowing it, he always
carried a bunch o' first-class skeleton keys.  I'm dead sure he was
working his game all th' time.  He came back for them keys, but he
didn't get 'em.  He's in New York somewheres.  D' y' think y' could
recognize him if y' saw him?"

"Instantly."

"A man can change his looks in two years," said Forbes.  "Remember File
Number 113?"

"This is real life, Mort; not a detective story."

"How would you recognise him?"

"That I'm unable to explain.  It's what Haggerty here calls a hunch."

Haggerty nodded.  "An' if y' depend on 'em y' generally land.  I've
made some mistakes in my time, not believing in my hunches.  This Webb
business goes t' show.  I had a hunch that something was wrong, but
your Webb had such a kid face, th' hunch pulled for him.  Well, if y'
ever see Mason again, what'll y' do?"

"I don't know.  It's a tough proposition.  Somehow or other, I want to
be quits with Mason.  I want to wipe out those obligations.  If I could
do that, the next time I saw him I'd hand him over."

"You're a sentimental duffer, Crawffy," said the artist, smiling.

"And I shouldn't love him at all if he wasn't," the wife defended.

"But this Webb affair doesn't add up right," said Killigrew morosely.

"There's th' hull game," declared Haggerty.  "It's nothing but adding
an' subtracting, this gum-shoe work.  Y've got t' keep at it till it
adds right.  Y' don't realize, Mr. Crawford, how many times I almost
put my hand on your shoulder; but y' didn't add up right.  I shan't go
at Webb like a load o' bricks.  I'll nose around first.  Take a peek
int' his belongings while you folks keep him busy downstairs.  No
sapphires, no Thomas; I'll let it go at that.  But how was this man
Jameson t' know anything about sapphires if they wasn't any?"

"I've known Kitty Killigrew ever since she was born," said Killigrew
dryly.  "I've yet to see her make a mistake in sizing up a man.  She
picks 'em out the way I do, right off the bat.  The minute you dodder
about a man or a woman, there's sure to be something' to dodder about.
Good lord! you don't suppose he had a hand in these other burglaries?"

"Can't say 's I do," answered Haggerty, reaching for his lemonade.
"You wait.  I'll have it all cleared up by midnight, 'r they'll be a
shake-up at Central t'-morrow.  Something's going t' happen; feel it
like a sailor feels a storm when they ain't a cloud anywheres.  Now,
let's see what y' know about auction pinochle, Mr. Killigrew.  No use
moping."

The yacht dropped anchor off shore at five.  The beach was deserted.
Doubtless the guests were catnapping or reading.  At the Killigrew
villa one did as one pleased.  Mr. and Mrs. Crawford were shown to
their rooms at once, and Haggerty prowled about the stables and garage.
Kitty knocked at Mrs. Crawford's door half an hour later.

Introductions were made at dinner.  The Crawfords knew most of Kitty's
guests and so did Forbes, who was very much interested in Lord
Monckton.  Here was a romance, if there was any truth at all in the
newspapers.  What adventures here and there across the world before the
title fell to him!  He looked like one of R. Caton Woodville's drawings
of Indian mutiny officers, with that flowing black beard; very
conspicuous among all these smooth chins.  Forbes determined to sketch
him.

He was rather sorry not to see Thomas at the table.  Was Haggerty after
him with the third degree?  Poor devil!  It did not seem possible; yet
all the evidence pointed to Thomas.  Why should Jameson say that he had
seen sapphires if he had not?  Still, the thing that did not add up was
the position with which Thomas had allied himself to the Killigrews.
Hang it, there was a figure missing.  Haggerty was right.  A man with
any sympathy had no business man-hunting.

After dinner Crawford sought Forbes.  "Have you any fire-arms with you,
Mort?" he whispered.

"A pair of automatics.  Why . . ."

"Sh!  Please hustle and get them and ask no questions.  Hurry!"




CHAPTER XXIII

"Mr. Killigrew," whispered Haggerty, "will you get Miss Kitty an'
Thomas int' th' study-end o' th' library?"

"Found anything?"

"Th' sapphires were in his trunk, all right.  Tucked away in th' toes
of a pair o' shoes.  Webb is in th' library now.  Jus' get Miss Kitty."

"Very well," replied Killigrew, leaden-hearted.

Thomas had been busy all day.  He was growing very tired, and often now
the point of his pen sputtered.  The second man had brought in his
dinner and set it on a small stand which stood at the right of the
desk.  It was growing cold on the tray.  A sound.  He glanced up
wearily.  He saw Kitty and Killigrew, and behind them the sardonic
visage of Haggerty.  Thomas got up slowly.

"Take it easy, Mr. Webb," warned Haggerty.  "Go on, Miss Killigrew, an'
we'll see first if you've hit it."

Thomas stared, wide-eyed, from face to face.  What in heaven's name had
happened?  What was this blighter of a detective doing at the villa?
And why was Kitty so white?

"Mr. Webb," began Kitty, striving hard to maintain even tones, "on the
night of May 13, you and Lord Henry Monckton stood on the curb outside
my carriage, near the Garden, where I was blockaded in the fog.  I
heard your voices.  There was talk about a wager.  The time imposed
upon the fulfilment of this wager was six months.  Shortly after, Lord
Monckton entered my carriage under the pretense of getting into his own
and took my necklace of sapphires.  He did it very cleverly.  Then they
were turned over to you.  You were to carry them for six months, find
out to whom they belonged, and return them."

"Thousands of miles away," said Haggerty confidently.  "Nothing ever
happened like that."

"Is it not true?" asked Kitty, ignoring Haggerty's interpolation.

"Miss Killigrew, either I'm dreaming or you are.  I haven't the
slightest idea what you are talking about."  Thomas was now whiter than
Kitty.  "The talk about a wager is true; but I never knew you had lost
any sapphires."

"How about this little chamois-bag which I found in your trunk, Mr.
Webb?" asked Haggerty ironically.  He tossed the bag on the desk.

The bag hypnotized Thomas.  Suddenly he came to life.  He snatched up
the bag and thrust it into his pocket.

"Those are mine," he said quite calmly.  "Mine, by every legal and
moral right in the world.  Mine!"

Kitty breathed hard and closed her eyes.

"Some brass!" jeered Haggerty, stepping forward.

"Can you prove it, Thomas?" asked Killigrew, hoping against hope.

"Yes, Mr. Killigrew, to your satisfaction, to Miss Killigrew's, and
even to Mr. Haggerty's."

Tableau.

Broken by the entrance of Crawford and Forbes, who were also pale and
disturbed.  Crawford flung a packet of papers on the desk.

"Webb, I fancy that these papers are yours," said Crawford, smiling.

One glance was enough for Thomas.

"Tell them the truth," went on Crawford; "tell them who you are."

"I have wagered . . ."

"Never mind about the wager," put in Forbes.  "Crawford and I have just
canceled it."

"What has happened?" asked Thomas.  The whole world seemed tumbling
about his unhappy head.

"Tell Mr. Killigrew here how you have imposed on him and his family,"
urged Crawford, serious now.  "Tell them your name, your full name."

Thomas hesitated a moment.  "My name is Henry Thomas Webb-Monckton."

"Ninth Baron of Dimbledon," added Forbes, "and as crazy as a loon!"




CHAPTER XXIV

Meanwhile the whirligig had gone about violently after this fashion.

Forbes, wondering mightily, procured his automatics and gave one to his
impatient friend.

"What's the row, Crawffy?"

"Be as silent as you can," said Crawford.  "Follow me.  We may be too
late."

"Anywhere you say."

"The door will be locked.  We'll creep around the upper veranda and
enter by opposite windows.  You keep your eye on the valet.  Don't be
afraid to shoot if it's necessary."

"What the deuce . . . !"

"Come!"

"But where?"

"Lord Monckton's room."

Blindly and confidently Forbes went out the rear window of the
corridor, while Crawford made for the front.  They crept soundlessly
forward.  Lord Monckton?  What was up?  Shoot the valet if necessary!
All right; Crawford knew what he was doing.  He generally did.  Through
his window Forbes saw two men packing suit-cases furiously.  The moment
Crawford entered the room, Forbes did likewise, without the least idea
what it was all about.

"Put up your hands!" said Crawford quietly.

Master and man came about face.

"H'm!  The dyed beard and stained skin might fool any one but me,
Mason."

Mason!  Forbes' hand shook violently.

"I have seen you with a beard before, in the days when we hadn't time
for razors.  I knew you the instant I laid eyes on you.  Now, then, a
few words.  I do not care to stand in your debt.  Haggerty is
down-stairs.  Upon two occasions you saved my life . . .  Keep your eye
on your man, Forbes! . . .  Twice you saved my life.  I'm going to give
you a chance in return.  An hour's start, perhaps.  Forbes, come over
to me.  That's it.  Give me the automatic.  There.  Now, go through
their pockets carefully, and put everything in your own.  Leave the
money.  Mason, a boat leaves to-morrow noon for Liverpool.  I'll ship
your trunks and grips to the American Express Company there.  Do you
understand?  If I ever see you again, I shan't lift a finger to save
you."

The late Lord Henry Monckton shrugged.  He had not lived intimately
with this quiet-voiced man for ten years without having acquired the
knowledge that he never wasted words.

"You're a dangerously clever man, Mason.  I noted at dinner that in
some manner you had destroyed Haggerty's photograph of your
finger-tips.  But I recognize you, and know you--your gestures, the
turn of your head, every little mannerism.  And if you do not do as I
bid, I'll take my oath in court as to your identity.  Besides,"--with a
nod toward the suitcases--"if you're not the man, why this hurry?  An
hour.  I see, fortunately, you have already changed your clothes.  Be
off!"

"All right.  I'm Mason.  I knew the game was up the moment I saw you.
Any one but you, Mr. Crawford, would pay for this interruption, pistol
or no pistol.  An hour.  So be it.  You might tell that fool
down-stairs and give him the papers you find in my grip.  Miss
Killigrew's sapphires, I regret to say, are no more.  The mistake I
made in London was in returning the Nana Sahib's ruby."

"There is always one mistake," replied Crawford sternly.  He felt sad,
too.

"Off with you, Tibbets!  We can make the train for New York if we
hustle."

The man-servant's brilliant eyes flashed evilly.

"Will you make it an hour and a half, sir?" asked Mason, as his valet
slid over the window-sill.

It sounded strange to Forbes.  Mason had unconsciously fallen into the
old tone and mode of address, and he himself recognized him now.

"Till nine-thirty, then.  At that time I shall notify Haggerty."

"The boat?"

"Oh, no.  I'm giving you that chance without conditions.  It's up to
Haggerty to find you.  There's one question I should like to ask you.
Were you in this sort of business while you were serving me?"

Mason laughed.  The real man shone in his eyes and smile.  "I was.  It
was very exciting.  It was very amusing, too.  I valeted you during the
day-time and went about my own peculiar business at night.  I entered
your service to rob you and remained to serve you; ten years.  I want
you always to remember this: to you I was loyal, that I stood between
you and death because you were the only being I was fond of.  You are
the one bit of sentiment that ever entered my life.  Well, I must be
off.  But I've had a jolly time of it, masquerading as a titled
gentleman.  What a comedy!  How the fools kotowed and simpered while I
looked over their jewels and speculated upon how much I could get for
them!  But I had my code.  I never pilfered in the houses of my hosts.
I set a fine trap for that simple young man down-stairs, and he fell
into it, head-first.  Trust an Englishman of his sort to see nothing
beyond his nose.  I'm off.  Good-by, Mr. Crawford.  I'm grateful."  The
man stepped out of the window and vanished into the night.

Crawford glanced at his watch; it was eight-ten.

"Do you hope he'll get away?" asked Forbes breathlessly.

"I don't know what I hope, Mort.  I'm rather dazed with the
unexpectedness of all this.  Let's see what you took from their
pockets."

A large diamond brooch, a string of fine pearls, and a bag of wonderful
polished emeralds.

"Mort, the man couldn't help it.  Why, here's a fortune for a prince;
and yet he remained here for more.  Well, he's gone; poor beggar."

They burrowed into the suit-cases and trunks.  A dark green bottle came
to light, Forbes took out the cork and carelessly sniffed.  A great
black wave of dizziness swept over him, and he would have fallen but
for Crawford.  The bottle fell.  Crawford put Forbes out into the hall
and ran back for the bottle, sensing a slight dizziness himself.  He
recognized the odor.  It was Persian.  He and Mason had run across it
unpleasantly, once upon a time, in Teheran.  He was not familiar with
the chemistry of the concoction.  He corked the bottle tightly.  Forbes
came in groggily.

"Well!  Did you ever see such an ass, Crawford?  To open a strange
bottle like that and sniff at it!"

"Here's an atomizer.  They must have used that.  Never touched their
victims."

"It evaporates quickly, though.  But the effect on a sleeping person
would be long.  Now, who the deuce is this chap Webb?  A confederate?"

"Still dizzy, eh?  No; Thomas is a dupe.  Don't you get it?  He's Lord
Monckton.  Come on; we'll go down and straighten out the kinks."

So they went down-stairs.  And Forbes tells me that when Thomas
acknowledged his identity, Kitty did not fall on his neck.  Instead,
she walked up to him, burning with fury: so pretty that Forbes almost
fell in love with her, then and there.

"So!  You pretended to be poor, and entered my home to make play behind
our backs!  Despicable!  We took you in without question, generously,
kindly, and treated you as one of us; and all the while you were
laughing in your sleeve!"

"Kitty!" remonstrated Killigrew, who felt twenty years gone from his
shoulders.

"Let me be!  I wish him to know exactly what I think of his conduct."
She whirled upon the luckless erstwhile haberdasher's clerk; but he
held out his hand for silence.  He was angry, too.

"Miss Killigrew, I entered your employ honestly.  I was poor.  I am
poor.  I have had to work for my bread every day of my life.  For seven
years I was a clerk in a haberdasher's shop in London.  And one day the
solicitors came and notified me that I had fallen into the title, two
hundred and twenty pounds, and those sapphires.  The estate was so
small and so heavily mortgaged that I knew I could not live on it.  The
rents merely paid the interest.  I was no better off than before.  The
cash was all that was saved out of an annuity."  From his inner
waistcoat pocket he produced a document and dropped it on the desk.
"There is the solicitor's statement, relative to the whole transaction.
And now I'll tell you the rest of it.  I've been a fool.  I was always
more or less alone.  I met this man Cavenaugh, or whatever he calls
himself, in a concert-hall about a year ago.  We became friendly.  He
came to me and bought his collars and ties and suspenders."

Kitty found herself retreating from a fury which far outmatched her
own; and as he gained in force, hers dwindled correspondingly.

Thomas continued.  "He was well-read, traveled; he interested me.  When
the title came, he was first to congratulate me.  Gave me my first real
dinner.  Naturally I was grateful for this attention.  Well, the upshot
of it was, we gambled; and I lost.  There was wine.  I suggested in the
spirit of madness that I play the use of my title for six months
against the money I had lost.  He agreed.  And here I am."

His fury evaporated.  He sank back into his chair and rested his head
in his hands.

"I ain't a detective," murmured Haggerty, breaking in on the silence
which ensued.  "I'm only fit t' chase dagos selling bananas without
licenses.  But I'm aching t' see this other chap.  I kinda see through
his game.  He's going t' interest me a hull lot."

Crawford consulted his watch again.  Nine.  "Haggerty, suppose you and
I knock the billiard balls around for half an hour?"

"Huh?"

"Half an hour."

"I got t' see that chap, Mr. Crawford."

"It's a matter of four or five thousand.  Do you want to risk it?"

"Come on, Haggerty!" cried Forbes, with good understanding.  He caught
the detective by the arm and pulled him toward the door.  But Haggerty
hung back sturdily.

"Is this straight, Mr. Crawford?"

"Half an hour; otherwise not a penny."

"All well an' good; but I'll hold you responsible if anything goes
wrong.  I'm not seeing things clear."

"You will presently."

"Four thousand for half an hour?"

"To a penny."

"You're on!"

The three of them marched off to the billiard-room.  Killigrew touched
Kitty's arm and motioned her to follow.  She was rather glad to go.
She was on the verge of most undignified tears.  When she had gone in
search of Mrs. Crawford, Killigrew walked over to Thomas and laid a
hand on the young man's shoulder.

"Thomas, will you go to Brazil the first week in September?"

"God knows, I'll be glad to," said Thomas, lifting his head.  His young
face was colorless and haggard.  "But you are putting your trust in a
double-dyed ass."

"I'll take a chance at that.  Now, Thomas, as no doubt you're aware, we
are all Irish in this family.  Hot-tempered, quick to take affront, but
also quick to forgive or admit a wrong.  You leave Kitty alone till
to-morrow."

"I believe it best for me to leave to-night, sir."

"Nothing of the sort.  Come out into the cooler, and we'll have a peg.
It won't hurt either of us, after all this racket."

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Half after nine.  Crawford laid down his cue.  From his pocket he took
a bottle and gravely handed it to Haggerty.

"Smell of the cork, carefully," Crawford advised.

Haggerty did so.  "Th' stuff they put th' maharajah t' sleep with!"

Then Forbes emptied his pockets.

"Th' emeralds!" shouted Haggerty.

Suddenly he stiffened.  "I'm wise.  I know.  It's your man Mason, an'
you've bunked me int' letting him have all this time for his get-away!"




CHAPTER XXV

"That is true, Haggerty.  I had a debt to pay."  Crawford spun a
billiard ball down the table.

"Mr. Crawford, I'm going t' show you that I'm a good sport.  You've
challenged me.  All right.  I want that man, an' by th' Lord Harry, I'm
going t' get him.  I'm going t' put my hand on his shoulder an' say
'Come along!'  Cash ain't everything, even in my business.  I want t'
show it's th' game, too.  I don't want money in my pockets for winking
my eye."

"You'll have hard work."

"How?"

"He has burned the pads of his fingers and thumbs," blurted out Forbes.

Crawford made an angry gesture.

A Homeric laugh from Haggerty.  "I don't want his fingers now; this
bottle an' these emeralds are enough for me."  He stuffed the jewels
away.  "Where's th' phone?"

"In the hall, under the stairs."

"Good night."

The nights of Poe and the grim realities of Balzac would not serve to
describe that chase.  The magnificent vitality of that man Haggerty yet
fills me with wonder.  He borrowed a roadster from Killigrew's garage,
and hummed away toward New York.  On the way he laid his plans of
battle, winnowed the chaff from the grain.  He understood the necessity
of thinking and acting quickly.  A sporting proposition, that was it.
He wanted just then not so much the criminal as the joy of finding him
against odds and laying his hand on his shoulder: just to show them all
that he wasn't a has-been.

His telephone message had thrown a cordon of argus-eyed men around New
York.  Now, then, what would he, Haggerty, do if he were in Mason's
shoes?  Make for railroads or boats; for Mason did not belong to New
