But first she sent for Weedon Moore. The interview had but just been
published, and Weedon, coming at dusk, was admitted by Sophy to the
dining-room, where Madame Beattie seldom went. Esther received him with
a cool dignity. She was pale. Grandmother would no doubt have said she
made herself pale in the interest of pathos; but Esther was truly
suffering. Moore, fussy, flattered, ill at ease, stood before her,
holding his hat. She did not ask him to sit down. There was an unspoken
tradition in Addington, observed by everybody but Miss Amabel, that
Moore was not, save in cases of unavoidable delay, to be asked to sit.
He passed his life, socially, in an upright posture. But Esther began at
once, fixing her mournful eyes on his.

"Mr. Moore, I am distressed about the interview in your paper."

Moore, standing, could not squeeze inspiration out of his knees, and
missed it sorely.

"Mrs. Blake," said he, "I wouldn't have distressed you for the world."

"I can't speak to my aunt about it," said Esther. "I can't trust myself.
I mustn't wound her as I should be forced to do. So I have sent for you.
Mr. Moore, has she given you other material?"

"Not a word," said Weedon earnestly. "If you could prevail upon her--"
There he stopped, remembering Esther was on the other side.

"I shall have to be very frank with you," said Esther. "But you will
remember, won't you, that it is in confidence?"

"Yes, ma'am," said Moore. He had never fully risen above former
conditions of servitude when he ran errands and shovelled paths for
Addington gentry. "You can rely on me."

"My aunt," said Esther delicately, with an air of regret and several
other picturesque emotions mingled carefully, "my aunt has one delusion.
It is connected with this necklace, which she certainly did possess at
one time. She imagines things about it, queer things, where it went and
where it is now. But you mustn't let her tell you about it, and if she
insists you mustn't allow it to get into print. It would be taking
advantage, Mr. Moore. Truly it would." And as a magnificent concession
she drew forward a chair, and Weedon, without waiting to see her placed,
sank into it and put his hands on his knees. "You must promise me,"
Esther half implored, half insisted. "It isn't I alone. It's everybody
that knows her. We can't, in justice to her, let such a thing get into
print."

Weedon was much impressed, by her beauty, her accessibility and his own
incredible position of having something to accord. But he had a system
of mental bookkeeping. There were persons who asked favours of him, whom
he put down as debtors. "Make 'em pay," was his mentally jotted note. If
he did them an obliging turn, he kept his memory alert to require the
equivalent at some other time. But he did not see how to make Esther
pay. So he could only temporise.

"I'd give anything to oblige you, Mrs. Blake," he said, "anything, I
assure you. But I have to consider the paper. I'm not alone there, you
know. It's a question of other people."

Esther was familiar with that form of withdrawal. She herself was always
escaping by it.

"But you own the paper," she combated him. "Everybody says so."

"I have met with a great deal of misrepresentation," he replied
solemnly. "Justice is no more alive to-day than liberty." Then he
remembered this was a sentence he intended to use in his speech to-night
on the old circus-ground, and added, as more apposite, "I'd give
anything to serve you, Mrs. Blake, I assure you I would. But I owe a
certain allegiance--a certain allegiance--I do, really."

With that he made his exit, backing out and bowing ridiculously over his
hat. And Esther had hardly time to weigh her defeat, for callers came.
They began early and continued through the afternoon, and they all
asked for Madame Beattie. It was a hot day and Madame Beattie, without
her toupée and with iced eau sucrée beside her, was absorbedly
reading. She looked up briefly, when Sophy conveyed to her the summons
to meet lingering ladies below, and only bade her: "Excuse me to them.
Say I'm very much engaged."

Then she went on reading. Esther, when the message was suavely but
rather maliciously delivered by Sophy, who had a proper animosity for
her social betters, hardly knew whether it was easier to meet the
invaders alone or run the risk of further disclosure if Madame Beattie
appeared. For though no word was spoken of diamonds or interviews or
newspapers, she could follow, with a hot sensitiveness, the curiosity
flaring all over the room, like a sky licked by harmless lightnings.
When a lady equipped in all the panoply of feminine convention asked for
grandmother's health, she knew the thought underneath, decently
suppressed, was an interest, no less eager for being unspoken, in
grandmother's attitude toward the interview. Sometimes she wanted to
answer the silent question with a brutal candour, to say: "No,
grandmother doesn't care. She was perfectly horrible about it. She only
laughed." And when the stream of callers had slackened somewhat she
telephoned Alston Choate, and asked if he would come to see her that
evening at nine. She couldn't appoint an earlier hour because she wasn't
free. And immediately after that, Reardon telephoned her and asked if he
might come, rather late, he hesitated, to be sure of finding her alone.
And when she had to put him off to the next night, he spoke of the
interview as "unpardonable ". He was coming, no doubt, to bring his
condolence.




XX


Jeffrey himself had not seen the interview. He had only a mild interest
in Addington newspapers, and Anne had carefully secreted the family copy
lest the colonel should come on it. But on the afternoon when Esther was
receiving subtly sympathetic townswomen, Jeffrey, between the rows of
springing corn, heard steps and looked up from his hoeing. It was Lydia,
the Argosy in hand. She was flushed not only with triumph because
something had begun at last, but before this difficulty of entering on
the tale with Jeff. Pretty child! his heart quickened at sight of her in
her blue dress, sweet arms and neck bare because Lydia so loved freedom.
But, in that his heart did respond to her, he spoke the more brusquely,
showing he had no right to find her fair.

"What is it?"

Lydia, in a hurry, the only way she knew of doing it, extended the
paper, previously folded to expose the headline of Madame Beattie's
name. Jeff, his hoe at rest in one hand, took the paper and looked at it
frowningly, incredulously. Then he read. A word or two escaped him near
the end. Lydia did not quite hear what the word was, but she thought he
was appropriately swearing. Her eyes glistened. She had begun to
agitate. Jeff had finished and crushed the paper violently together,
with no regard to folds.

"Oh, don't," said Lydia. "You can't get any more. They couldn't print
them fast enough."

Jeff passed it to her with a curt gesture of relinquishing any last
interest in it.

"That's Moore," he said. "It's like him."

Lydia was at once relieved. She had been afraid he wasn't going to
discuss it at all.

"You don't blame her, do you?" she prompted.

"Madame Beattie?" He was thinking hard and scowling. "No."

"Anne blames her. She says no lady would have done it."

"Oh, you can't call names. That's Madame Beattie," said Jeff absently.
"She's neither principles nor morals nor the kind of shame other women
feel. You can't judge Madame Beattie."

"So I say," returned Lydia, inwardly delighted and resolving to lose no
time in telling Anne. "I like her. She's nice. She's clever. She knows
how to manage people. O Jeff, I wish you'd talk with her."

"About this?" He was still speaking absently. "It wouldn't do any good.
If it amuses her or satisfies her devilish feeling toward Esther to go
on talking and that slob will get it into print--and he will--you can't
stop her."

"What do you mean by her feeling toward Esther?" Lydia's heart beat so
that she drew a long breath to get it into swing again.

"We can't go into that," said Jeff. "It runs back a long way. Only
everything she can do to worry Esther or frighten her--why, she'd do it,
that's all. That's Madame Beattie."

Lydia knew this was the path that led to the necklace. Why couldn't she
tell him she knew the story and enlist him on Madame Beattie's side and
hers, the side that was fighting for him and nothing else? But she did
not dare. All she could do was to say, her hands cold against each other
and her voice choked:

"O Jeff, I wish you'd give this up."

"What?"

He was recalled now from memories the printed paper had wakened in him,
and looking at her kindly. At least Lydia was sure he was, because his
voice sounded so dear. She could not know his eyes were full of an
adoring gentleness over her who seemed to him half child, half maiden,
and tumultuously compassionate. She made a little timid gesture of the
hand over the small area about them.

"This," she said. "You mustn't stay here and hoe corn. You must get into
business and show people--"

Her voice choked. It refused absurdly to go on.

"Why, Lydia," said he, "I thought you knew. This is the only way for a
man to keep alive. When I've got a hoe in my hand--" He could not quite
explain it. He had always had a flow of words on paper, but since he had
believed his life was finished his tongue had been more and more
lethargic. It would not obey his brain because, after all, what could
the brain report of his distrustful heart? Lydia had a moment of bitter
mortification because she had not seemed to understand. Anne understood,
she knew, and had tried, with infinite patience, to help on this queer
experiment, both for Jeff's sake and Farvie's. Tears rushed to her eyes.

"I can't help it," she said. "I want you to be doing something real."

"Lydia!" said Jeff. His kind, persuasive voice was recalling her to some
ground of conviction where she could share his certainty that things
were going as well as they could. "This is almost the only real thing in
the world--the ground. About everything else is a game. This isn't a
game. It's making something grow that won't hurt anybody when it's
grown. I can't harm anybody by planting corn. And I can sell the corn,"
said Jeff, with a lighter shade of voice. Lydia knew he was smiling to
please her. "Denny's going to peddle it out for me at backdoors. I'd do
it myself, only I'm afraid they'd buy to help on 'poor Jeffrey Blake'."

When he spoke of the ground Lydia gave the loose dirt a little scornful
kick and got the powdered dust into her neat stockings. She, too, loved
the ground and all the sweet usages of homely life; but not if they kept
him from a spectacular triumph. She was desperate enough to venture her
one big plea.

"Jeff, you know you've got a lot of money to earn--to pay back--"

And there she stopped. He was regarding her gravely, but the moment he
spoke she knew it was not in any offence.

"Lydia, I give you my word I couldn't do the kind of thing you want me
to. I've found that out at last. You'd like me to cut into the market
and make a lot of money and throw it back at the people I owe. I
couldn't do it. My brain wouldn't let me. It's stopped--stopped short. A
man knows when he's done for. I'm absolutely and entirely done. All I
hope for is to keep father from finding it out. He seems to be getting
his nerve back, and if he really does that I may be able to go away and
do something besides dig. But it won't be anything spectacular, Lydia.
It isn't in me."

Lydia turned away from him, and he could fancy the bright tears dropping
as she walked. "Oh, dear!" he heard her say. "Oh, dear!"

"Lydia!" he called, in an impatience of tenderness and misery. "Come
back here. Don't you know I'd do anything on earth I could for you? But
there's nothing I can do. You wouldn't ask a lame man to dance. There!
that shows you. When it comes to dancing you can understand. I'm a
cripple, Lydia. Don't you see?"

She had turned obediently, and now she smeared the tears away with one
small hand.

"You don't understand," she said. "You don't understand a thing. We've
thought of it all this time, Anne and I, how you'd come out and be
proved not guilty--"

"But, Lydia," he said gravely, "I was guilty. And besides being guilty
of things the courts condemned me for, I was guilty of things I had to
condemn myself for afterward. I wasn't a criminal merely. I was a waster
and a fool."

"Yes," said Lydia, looking at him boldly, "and if you were guilty who
made you so? Who pushed you on?"

She had never entirely abandoned her theory of Reardon. He and Esther,
in her suspicion, stood side by side. Looking at him, she rejoiced in
what she thought his confirmation. The red had run into his face and he
looked at her with brightened eyes.

"You don't know anything about it," he said harshly. "I did what I did.
And I got my medicine. And if there's a decent impulse left in me
to-day, it was because I got it."

Lydia walked away through the soft dirt and felt as if she were dancing.
He had looked guilty when she had asked him who pushed him on. He and
she both knew it was Esther, and a little more likelihood of Madame
Beattie's blackguarding Esther in print must rouse him to command the
situation.

Jeffrey finished his row, and then hurried into the house. It was the
late afternoon, and he went to his room and dressed, in time for supper.
Lydia, glancing at him as he left the table, thought exultantly: "I've
stirred him up, at least. Now what is he going to do?"

Jeffrey went strolling down the drive, and quickened his steps when the
shrubbery had him well hidden from the windows. Something assured him it
was likely Weedon Moore lived still in the little sharp-gabled house on
a side street where he had years ago. His mother had been with him then,
and Jeff remembered Miss Amabel had scrupulously asked for her when
Moore came to call. The little house was unchanged, brightly painted,
gay in diamond trellis-work and picked out with scarlet tubs of
hydrangea in the yard. A car stood at the gate, and Weedon, buttoning
his coat, was stepping in. The car ran past, and Jeff saw that the man
beside Moore was the interpreter of that night at the old circus-ground.

"So," he thought, "more ginger for the labouring man."

He turned about and walking thoughtfully, balked of his design,
reflected with distaste that grew into indignation on Moore's incredible
leadership. It seemed monstrous. Here was ignorance fallen into the
hands of the demagogue. It was an outrage on the decencies. And then
Madame Beattie waved to him from Denny's hack, and he stepped into the
road to speak to her.

"I was going to see you," she said. "Get in here."

Jeff got in and disposed his length as best he might in the cramped
interior, redolent now of varied scents, all delicate but mingled to a
suffocating potency.

"Tell him to drive along outside the town," she bade. "Were you going to
see me?"

"No," said Jeffrey, after executing her order. "I've told you I can't go
to see you."

"Because Esther made that row? absurd! It's Susan's house."

"I'm not likely to go into it," said Jeff drily, "unless I am
summoned."

"She's a fool."

"But I don't mind telling you where I was going," said Jeff. "I was
going to lick Weedon Moore--or the equivalent."

"Not on account of my interview?" said Madame Beattie, laughing very far
down in her anatomy. Her deep laugh, Jeff always felt, could only have
been attained by adequate support in the diaphragm. "Bless you, dear
boy, you needn't blame him. I went to him. Went to his office. Blame
me."

"Oh, I blame you all right," said Jeff, "but you're not a responsible
person. A chap that owns a paper is."

"I wish you'd met him," she said, in great enjoyment. "Where'd he go,
Jeffrey? Can't we find him now?"

"I suspect he went to the old circus-ground. I caught him there talking
to Poles and Finns and Italians and Greeks, telling them the country was
no good and they owned it."

"Why, the fellow can't speak to them." Madame Beattie, being a fluent
linguist, had natural scorn of a tubby little New Englander who said
"ma'am ".

"Oh, he had an interpreter."

"We'll drive along there," said Madame Beattie. "You tell Denny. I
should dearly like to see them. Poles, do you say? I didn't know there
were such people in town."

Jeffrey, rather curious himself, told Denny, and they bowled cumbrously
along. He felt in a way obliged to proffer a word or two about the
interview.

"What the devil made you do it anyway?" he asked her; but Madame Beattie
chuckled and would not answer.




XXI


All the way along, in the warm twilight, Madame Beattie was gay over the
prospect of being fought for. With the utmost precision and unflagging
spirit she arranged a plausible cause for combat, and Jeffrey, not in
the least intending to play his allotted part, yet enjoyed the moment
fully.

"You shall do it," Madame Beattie assured him, as if she permitted him
to enter upon a task for which there was wide competition. "You shall
thrash him, and he will put it in his paper, and the European papers
will copy."

"I haven't much idea the Argosy is read in foreign capitals," Jeff
felt bound to assure her.

"Oh, but we can cable it. The French journals--they used to be very good
to me."

With that her face darkened, not in a softening melancholy, but old
bitterness and defeat. She was not always able to ignore the contrast
between the spring of youth and this meagre eld. Jeffrey saw the
tremendous recognition she assuredly had had, grown through the illusive
fructifying of memory into something overwhelming, and he was glad
starved vanity might once more be fed. She seemed to him a most piteous
spectacle, youth and power in ruins, and age too poor to nourish even a
vine to drape the crumbling walls.

"Patricia Beattie," she continued, "again a casus belli. Combat
between two men--" "There won't be any combat," Jeff reminded her. "If I
kick Weedie, he'll take it lying down. That's Weedie."

"I shall stand by," said Madame Beattie. "If you go too far I shall
interfere. So you can go as far as you like."

"I do rather want to know what Weedie's at," said Jeff. "But I sha'n't
kick him. He doesn't deserve it at one time any more than another,
though he has different degrees of making himself offensive."

She was ingenuously disappointed. She even reproached him:

"You said you were going to do it."

"That was in my haste," said Jeffrey. "I can't lick him with a woman
standing by. I should feel like a fool."

Denny was drawing up at the circus-ground.

"Well," said Madame Beattie, "you've disappointed me tremendously.
That's all I can say."

It was dark now, and though the season was more advanced, Jeffrey could
imagine that this was the moment of his arrival that other night, save
that he was not now footsore or dull in the mind. But the same dusk of
crowding forms lay thickly on the field, and there, he knew, was the
stationary car; there were the two figures standing in it, Moore and his
interpreter. He could fill out the picture with a perfect accuracy,
Moore gesticulating and throwing frenzy into his high-pitched voice,
which now came stridently. Madame Beattie breathed out excitement.
Nothing so spiced had ever befallen her in Addington.

"Is he actually speaking?" she asked, in a hoarse whisper. "They say
insects make noises with their hind legs. It's more like that than a
voice. Take me round there, Jeffrey."

He was quite willing. With a good old pal like this to egg you on, he
thought, there actually was some fun left. So he handed her out, and
told Denny to wait for them, and they skirted the high board fence to
the gap in the back. Madame Beattie, holding up her long dress in one
hand and tripping quite nimbly, was clinging to his arm. By the gap they
halted for her to recover breath; she drew her hand from Jeff's arm,
opened her little bag, took out a bit of powder paper and mechanically
rubbed her face. Jeff looked on indulgently. He knew she did not expect
to need an enhanced complexion in this obscurity. The act refreshed her,
that was all.

Weedon, it was easy to note, was battering down tradition.

"They talk about their laws," he shrilled. "I am a lawyer, and I tell
you it breaks my heart every time I go back to worm-eaten precedent. But
I have to do it, because, if I didn't talk that language the judges
wouldn't understand me. Do you know what precedent is? It is the opinion
of some man a hundred years ago on a case tried a hundred years ago. Do
we want that kind of an opinion? No. We want our own opinions on cases
that are tried to-day."

The warm rapid voice of the interpreter came in here, and Madame
Beattie, who was standing apart from Jeffrey, touched his arm. He bent
to listen.

"The man's a fool," said she.

"No," said Jeffrey, "he's not a fool. He knows mighty well what he's
saying and how it'll take."

"If I had all the lawbooks in the world," said Weedon, "I'd pile them up
here on this ground we've made free ground because we have free speech
on it, and I'd touch a match to them, and by the light they made we'd
sit down here and frame our own laws. And they would be laws for the
rich as well as the poor. Columbus did one good thing for us. He
discovered a new world. The capitalists have done their best to spoil
it, and turn it into a world as rotten as the old ones. But Columbus
showed us you can find a new world if you try. And we're going to have a
new world out of this one yet. New laws, new laws, I tell you, new
laws!"

He screamed it at the end, this passion for new laws, and the
interpreter, though he had too just an instinct to take so high a key,
followed him with an able crescendo. Weedie thought he had his audience
in hand, though it was the interpreter who really had it, and he
ventured another stroke:

"I don't want them to tell me what some man taught in Bible days. I want
to know what a man thinks right here in Addington. I don't want them to
tell me what they thought in Greece and Rome. Greece and Rome are dead.
The only part of them that's alive is the Greece and Rome of to-day."

When the interpreter passed this on, he stopped at a dissentient murmur.
There were those who knew the bright history of their natal country and
adored it.

"Oh, the man's a fool," said Madame Beattie again. "I'm going in there."

She took up the tail of her gown, put her feather-crowned head through
the gap in the fence and drew her august person after, and Jeffrey
followed her. He had a gay sense of irresponsibility, of seeking the
event. He was grateful to Madame Beattie. They went on, and as it was
that other night, some withdrew to leave a pathway and others stared,
but, finding no specific reason, did not hinder them. Madame Beattie
spoke once or twice, a brief mandate in a foreign tongue, and that, Jeff
noted, was effective. She stepped up on the running-board of the car and
laid her hand on the interpreter's arm.

"You may go, my friend," said she, quite affectionately. "I do not need
you." Then she said something, possibly the same thing, Jeff thought,
in another language, and the man laughed. Madame Beattie, without
showing sign of recognising Moore, who was at her elbow, bent forward
into the darkness and gave a shrill call. The crowd gathered nearer. Its
breath was but one breath. The blackness of the assemblage was as if you
poured ink into water and made it dense. Jeffrey felt at once how
sympathetic they were with her. What was the cry she gave? Was it some
international password or a gipsy note of universal import? Had she
called them friend in a tongue they knew? Now she began speaking,
huskily at first, with tumultuous syllables and wide open vowels, and at
the first pause they cheered. The inky multitude that had kept silence,
by preconcerted plan, while Weedon Moore talked to them, lost control of
itself and yelled. She went on speaking and they crashed in on her
pauses with more plaudits, and presently she laid her hand on Jeffrey's
shoulder and said to him:

"Come up here beside me."

He shook his head. He was highly entertained, but the mysterious game
was hers and Weedie's. She gave an order, it seemed, in a foreign
tongue, and the thing was managed. The interpreter had stepped from the
car, and now gentle yet forcible hands lifted down Weedon Moore, and set
him beside it and other hands as gently set up Jeffrey in his place.
There he stood with her in a dramatic isolation, but so great was the
carrying power of her mystery that he did not feel himself a fool. It
was quite natural to be there for some unknown purpose, at one with her
and that warmly breathing mass: for no purpose, perhaps, save that they
were all human and meant the same thing, a general good-will. She went
on speaking, and Jeffrey knew there was fire in her words. He bent to
the interpreter beside the car and asked, at the man's ear:

"What is she saying?"

The interpreter turned and looked him in the face. They were not more
than three inches apart, and Jeffrey, gazing into the passionate black
eyes, tasting, as it were, the odour of the handsome creature and
feeling his breath, was not repelled, but had a sudden shyness before
him, as if the man's opinion of him were an attack on his inmost self,
an attack of adoring admiration.

"What is she saying?" he repeated, and for answer the interpreter
snatched one of Jeff's hands and seemed about to kiss it.

"For God's sake, don't do that," Jeff heard himself saying, and withdrew
his hand and straightened at a safe distance from the adoring face, and
he heard Madame Beattie going on in her fiery periods. Whatever she was
saying, they loved it, loved it to the point of madness. They cheered
her, and the interpreter did not check them, but cheered too. To Jeffrey
it was all a medley of strange thoughts. Here he was, in the crowd and
not of it, greatly moved and yet not as the others were, because he did
not understand. And though the voice and the answering enthusiasm went
on for a long time, and still he did not understand, he was not tired
but exhilarated only. The moon, the drifting clouds, the dramatic voice
playing upon the hearts of the multitude, their hot responses, all this
gave him a sense of augmented life and the feel of his own past youth.
Suddenly he fancied Madame Beattie's voice failed a little; something
ebbed in it, not so much force as quality.

"That's all," she said, in a quick aside to him. "Let's go." She gave an
order, in English now, and a figure started out of the crowd and cranked
the car.

"We can't go in this," Jeffrey said to her. "This is Moore's car."

But Madame Beattie had seated herself majestically. Her feathers even
were portentous in the moonlight, like the plumage of some gigantic
bird. She gave another order, whereupon the man who had cranked the
machine took his place in it, and the crowd parted for them to pass.
Jeffrey was amused and dashed. He couldn't leave her, nor could they
sail away in Weedon's car. He put a hand on her arm.

"See here, Madame Beattie," said he, "we can't do this. We must get out
at the gate, at least."

But Madame Beattie was bowing graciously to right and left. Once she
rose for an instant and addressed a curt sentence to the crowd, and in
answer they cheered, a full-mouthed chorus of one word in different
tongues.

"What are they yelling?" Jeffrey asked.

"It's for you," Madame Beattie said composedly. "They're cheering you."

"Me? How do you know? That's not my name."

"No. It's The Prisoner. They're calling you The Prisoner."

They were at the gate now, and turned into the road and, with a free
course before him, the man put on speed and they were away. Jeffrey bent
forward to him, but Madame Beattie pulled him back.

"What are you doing?" she inquired. "We're going home."

"This is Moore's car," Jeffrey reminded her.

"No, it isn't. It's the proletariat's car." She rolled the r
surprisingly. "Do you suppose he comes out here to corrupt those poor
devils without making them pay for being corrupted? Jeffrey, take off
your coat."

"What for?" He had resigned himself to his position. It was a fit part
of the whole eccentric pastime, and after all it was only Weedie's car.

"I shall take cold. I got very warm speaking. My voice--"

To neither of them now was it absurd. Though it was years since she had
had a voice the habit of a passionate care was still alive in her.
Jeffrey had come on another rug, and wrapped it round her. He went back
to his first wonder.

"But what is there in being a prisoner to start up such a row?"
