
With the movement of the head that a bull has when he is going for you,
Lennox bent his own. The movement, which was involuntary, was momentary.
The shade had lifted. He saw Margaret, but behind her he saw others
holding her back, telling her he was not fit to be spoken to. He was
going for them. Meanwhile he had forgotten Cassy. He looked up, saw her,
remembered the part attributed to her in the story and struck the table.

"It is damnable that such a thing should be said of you."

"Oh," Cassy put in. "It was not at all on my account that I told you.
I----" She stopped short. The promised horsewhipping occurred to her.

Lennox took up the knife, gave it a turn, shoved it away. It was very
much as though he had twisted it in somebody's gizzards. The idea had
come to him that Paliser had concocted the admission. But, as he was
unable to conceive what his object could be, he dismissed it. None the
less, for what the man had said, he deserved to be booted down the club
steps.

Cassy had stopped short. The story behind the story did not concern
Lennox, yet as he might wonder how Paliser had ventured with her on such
a subject, she began at it again.

"We were married recently, or anyway I thought so. To-day I discovered
that the ceremony was bogus. Then I told him a thing or two and he told
me that."

Lennox stared. Angry already, angry ever since the rupture, angry with
that intensity of anger which only those who love--or who think they
do--and who are thwarted in it ever know, and all the angrier because he
had no one and could have no one to vent it on, until he got to the
front and got at the Huns, at that last fillip from Cassy he saw some
one on whom he could vent it, and yet to whom none the less he felt
strangely grateful. For, whatever Paliser had done or omitted, at any
rate, he had completely clarified the situation.

"I must run," said Cassy. "But you can tell Miss Austen, can't you?"

Lennox, controlling himself, motioned. "Would you mind repeating this to
Jones?"

Cassy's eyebrows arched themselves. "It was hard enough to tell you.
Were it not for your engagement, I wouldn't have said anything. When
dreadful things happen to a girl, people always think that she must be
dreadful herself. Isn't that nice of them? I----"

"See here," Lennox interrupted, "you can't leave it like this. Something
has got to be done. I can give Paliser a hiding and I will. But that
isn't enough. I don't know whether a criminal action will lie, but I do
know that you can get damages and heavy ones."

Cassy's lovely eyes searched the room. "Who was that speaking? It wasn't
you, was it?"

Lennox, recognising the rebuke, acknowledged it. "Forgive me. I forgot
whom I was addressing. Jones will be less stupid. Let us have him in."

But when Jones, immediately requisitioned, appeared, Cassy again putting
down her bundle, protested. "Mr. Lennox regards me as an Ariadne and
expects me to act like a young lady in a department-store. Either r√¥le
is too up-stage."

Jones, taken with her mobile mouth, her lovely eyes, the oval of her
handsome face, said lightly: "It seems to me that you might assume any
part."

Lennox struck out. "Paliser hocuspocused her with a fake marriage.
He----"

"Oh," Cassy gently put in, "I have no one to blame but myself. I ought
to have known better."

Jones nodded. "Probably you did know. The misadventure is rare of which
we are not warned in advance. We cannot see the future but the future
sees us. It sends us messages which we call premonitions."

Instantly Cassy was back in the Tamburini's room, where she had seen
both beauty and horror. She had not reached the latter yet and the
sudden vision Lennox dissipated.

"Stuff and nonsense! Haven't you anything else to say?"

Amiably Jones turned to him. "I can say that no one is wise on an empty
stomach." He turned to Cassy. "The Splendor is not far. Will you dine
with us, Mrs. Paliser?"

Violently Lennox repeated it; "Mrs. Paliser! Miss Cara is no more Mrs.
Paliser than you are."

"To err is highly literary," Jones with great meekness replied. "I hear
that it is even human."

Cassy reached again for the bundle. "It is only natural. If I had been
told in advance, I could not have believed it. I could not have believed
that mock marriages occur anywhere except in cheap fiction. But we live
and unlearn. Now I must run."

Lennox took her hand. "I owe you a debt. Count on me."

He spoke gravely and the gravity of it, the force that he exhaled,
comforted Cassy's bruised little heart and the comfort, the first that
she had had, made her lip twitch. None of that, though! Reacting she
rallied and smiled.

"Good-bye--and good luck!"

Jones saw her to the door, followed her out, followed her down to the
street, where for a moment he detained her.

"Just a word, if you don't mind. You have been abominably treated and
you seek no revenge. That is very fine. You have been abominably treated
and you bear no malice. That is superior. You have been abominably
treated and you accept it with a smile. That is alchemy. It is only a
noble nature that can extract the beautiful from the base. Where do you
live?"

At the change of key Cassy laughed but she told him. "Good-bye," she
added. "My love to your cat."

She passed on into the sunset. The bundle seemed heavy now, but her
heart was lighter. She had got it off, Lennox knew, presently a young
woman would be informed and though she could not be expected to dance at
the wedding, yet, after all----

The Park took her.




XXVI


When Cassy had gone, Jones went back to his rooms. He went absently, his
mind not on her story, which was old as the Palisades, but on a
situation, entirely new, which it had suggested.

"Nice girl," he remarked as he re-entered the workshop. "Suppose we go
and have dinner."

Sombrely Lennox looked up. At the table where he sat, he had been
fingering some papers. He threw them down.

"I am going to have a word with Paliser."

Jones cocked an eye at him. "See here, you are not a knight-errant. The
age of chivalry is over." The novelist paused and exclaimed: "What am I
saying! The age of chivalry is not over. It can't be. Last night,
Verelst dined with a monster!"

Lennox pushed at the papers. "If I were alone concerned, I would thank
Paliser. He has done me a good turn. He has set me straight."

Then, to the listening novelist, who later found the story very useful,
Lennox repeated Cassy's version of the rhyme and reason of the broken
engagement.

The tale of it concluded, Lennox flicked at a speck. "I am grateful to
Paliser for that, but for the manner in which he treated her, I shall
have a word with him. Just one."

Jones sat down. "A word, eh? Well, why not? Flipping a man in the face
with a glove was fashionable in the days of Charles II. Tweaking the
nose was Georgian. The horsewhip went out with Victoria. Posting your
man was always rather coffee-house and a rough-and-tumble very hooligan.
If I were you, which I am not, but if I were, I would adopt
contemporaneous methods. To-day we just sit about and backbite. That is
progress. Let me commend it to you."

With a wide movement, Lennox swept the papers, shoved them into a pocket
and stood up.

Jones also stood up. "Got an appetite? Well, dining has the great
disadvantage of taking it away. Come along."

Lennox put on his hat. "I am going first to Park Avenue."

No you're not, thought Jones, who, with an agility which for him was
phenomenal, hurried to the door and backed against it.

Lennox motioned him aside.

Jones, without budging, lied. "They're out of town." It was very
imbecile. He knew it was, knew, too, that Lennox knew it, and, for the
imbecile lie, he substituted another. "I mean they are dining out."

"What the devil are you driving at?" Lennox asked, and not very civilly
either.

"A windmill, I suppose. You look like one. I----"

Jones broke off. The expression on Lennox' face arrested him. The
attempt at interference, the stupid evasions, the conviction which these
things produced, that there was something behind them, something
secreted, something about Margaret that Jones knew and which he was
concealing, made him livid.

"Out with it."

Jones looked at him, looked away, adjusted his neckcloth, vacated the
door, crossed the room and sat down. He did not know to what saint to
vow himself. But realising that it was all very useless, that everything
is, except such solicitude as one pilgrim may show to another, and that,
anyway, Lennox would soon hear it, he gave it to him.

"She is engaged to Paliser."

Lennox, who was approaching, stopped short. "Miss Austen is?"

Jones nodded.

"To Paliser?"

But it seemed too rough and, to take the edge off, Jones added. "It may
not be true."

"How did you hear?"

"Verelst told me. He dined there last night."

Lennox turned on his heel. Futilely in that hell to which one may look
back and see that it was not hell but purgatory prior to paradise,
futilely there he had sought the reason of his damnation. A few minutes
before he had thought that Cassy's story revealed it. In the light of it
he had seen himself condemned, as many another has been, for crimes
which he had not committed. But he had seen, too, the order of release.
He had only a word to say. He was going to Park Avenue to say it.

When Jones was below with Cassy so he had thought and not without
gratitude to Paliser either. If the cad had held his tongue,
enlightenment might have been withheld until to his spirit, freed
perhaps in Flanders, had come the revelation. Personally he was
therefore grateful to Paliser. But vicariously he was bitter. For his
treatment of that girl, punishment should follow.

That girl! Obscurely, in the laboratory of the senses where, without our
knowledge, often against our will, our impulses are dictated, a process,
intricate and interesting, which Stendhal called crystallisation, was at
work.

Unaware of that, conscious only of the moment, to his face had come the
look and menace of the wolf.

Now----!

"There is a book over there," Jones, who was watching him, cut in. "It
is Seneca's 'De anim√¶ tranquilitate.' Take a peek at it. It will tell
you, what it has told me, that whatever happens, happens because it had
to happen and because it could not happen otherwise. There is no sounder
lesson in mental tranquillity."

But for all Lennox heard of that he might then have been dead. Without
knowing what he was doing, he sat down. Paliser, Margaret! Margaret,
Paliser! Before him, on encephalic films, their forms and faces moved as
clearly as though both were in the room. He saw them approaching, saw
them embrace. The obsession of jealousy that creates the image,
projected it. He closed his eyes, covered his face with his hands. The
image got behind them. It persisted but less insistently. The figures
were still there. It was their consistence that seemed to fade. Where
they had been were shadows--evil, shallow, malign, perverse, lurid as
torches and yet but shades. For the jealousy that inflames love can also
consume it and, when it does, it leaves ashes that are either sterile
with indifference or potent with hate. At the shadows that were torches
Lennox looked with closed eyes. Obscurely, without his knowledge, in the
laboratory of his senses, crystallisation was at work.

Jones, leaning forward, touched him. "I say, old chap!"

Lennox had been far away, on a journey from which some men return, but
never as they went. At Jones' touch he dropped his hands. The innate
sentiment of form repossessed him. He straightened, looked about and,
after the manner of the deeply preoccupied, who answer a question ten
minutes after it is put, said evenly:

"Suppose we do."

Do what? But Jones, getting it at once, stood up. "Come along, then."

On the way to the neighbourly Athen√¶um, the novelist talked endlessly
about the disadvantages of not being born, which is a very safe subject.
Talking still, he piloted Lennox to the dining-room where, the
advantages of sedatives occurring to him, he ordered a bottle of
Pommard, which is mother's milk.

But when it was brought Lennox would not touch it. He wanted brandy and
soda and told Johnson, a captain, to see to it.

In the great high-ceiled room, other members were dining. From one of
the tables Ogston sauntered over and, noting that Jones and Lennox had
not dressed, which he had, and very beautifully, remarked brilliantly:
"You fellers aren't going to the opera, are you? It's the last night."

It was another safe subject and Jones smiled falsely at him. "But you
are, eh? Sit down."

Ogston put a hand on the novelist's chair. "No. I'm off to a
theatre-party. But I have a ticket for the Metropolitan. You don't
either of you want it, do you?"

"Let me see, what is it, to-night?" Jones, with that same false smile,
enquired. "And where is the seat?"

"In Paliser's box. He's to be alone and left it here with a note asking
me to join him."

Deeply, beneath his breath, Jones swore, but with the same smile, he
tried to shift the subject. "You're quite a belle, aren't you?"

"See here, Ogston," Lennox put in, "let me have it."

Ogston, fumbling in his white waistcoat, extracted the ticket and handed
it over.

"By the way, Lennox, do you mind my doing a little touting for
Cantillon? He's with Dunwoodie. Give him your law business--some of it,
anyhow."

"I'll give him some, when I have it," answered Lennox, who was to have
some, and sooner and far more monumentally, than either he, or even
Jones, suspected.

"Good for you, Lennox. Good-night, Jones." The brilliant and beautifully
dressed young man nodded and passed on.

But now the captain was bearing down on them.

Jones looked at Lennox. "You will have to come back to my shop after
dinner. There is a phrase in your will that I omitted. I forgot the
'seized and possessed.'"

Lennox drank before he spoke. Then he said: "After dinner, I shall do
for Paliser."

Jones, waiting until the captain had gone, looked at Lennox again. "The
greatest revenge is the disdain of any."

Lennox made no reply. A waiter put a plate before him and another before
Jones. Members passed, going to their tables or leaving them.
Occasionally one of them stopped, exchanged the time of day and then
passed on. In each exchange Jones collaborated. Lennox said nothing. The
food before him he tormented, poking at it with a fork, but not eating
it.

Presently he asked for coffee, drank a cup and got up.

Jones, too, got up and, to stay him, put out a hand.

Lennox, treating it, and him, like a cobweb, went on.

Afterward, Jones thought of the Wild Women of whom √Üschylus tells, the
terrible Daughters of Hazard that lurk in the shadows of coming events
which, it may be, they have marshalled.

Afterward he thought of them. But at the moment, believing that Lennox
would do nothing and realising that, in any case, nothing can be more
futile than an attempt to avert the inevitable, he was about to resume
his seat, when something on the floor attracted him. He bent over, took
it, looked at it and tucked it in a pocket.

Then, sitting down again, mentally he followed Lennox, whom later he was
to follow farther, whom he was to follow deep in the depths where the
Wild Women, lurking in wait, had thrown him.




XXVII


The Park that had taken Cassy and from which, at that hour, children and
nursemaids had gone, was green, fragrant, quiet. Its odorous peace
enveloped the girl who had wanted to cry. In hurrying on she had choked
it back. But you cannot always have your way with yourself. The tears
would come and she sat down on a bench, from behind which a squirrel
darted.

Before her the grass departed, the trees disappeared, the path wound
into nothingness. In their place was the empty vastness that sorrow is.
The masquerade that had affected her physically, had affected her
psychically and in each instance profoundly. It had first sickened and
then stabbed. There had been no place for sorrow in the double assault.
There had been no time for it either. Occupied as she had almost at once
become with the misadventures of another, she had no opportunity to
consider her own. Yet now the aspect that sorrow took was not that of
disaster. What it showed was the loneliness of the soul, solitary as it
ever is in that desert which, sooner or later, we all must cross. Vast,
arid, empty, before her it stretched.

Nearby, on the bench, crouching there, eager, anxious, wary, a squirrel,
its fluffy tail and tiny nostrils aquiver, watched her with eyes of
bead. From the desert she turned and seeing the little gracious thing,
stretched her hand. She would have liked to take it and pet it. It would
have made her solitude less acute. At the movement, a ball of misty fur
bounded. Where it had been, there was air.

The abrupt evaporation distracted her. Before her the desert lay, but in
it now was her father. She had been going to him. Previously, she had
thought that, when she did go, her hands would be filled with gifts.
Instead they were bruised, bare to the bone. They would madden him and
she wondered whether she could endure it. The long, green afternoon,
that had been so brief, had been so torturesome that she doubted her
ability. But he would have to be told. She could not lie to him and
humanly she wished that it were to-morrow, the day after, the day after
that, when it would be over and done for, put away, covered by woes of
his own, though inevitably to be dragged out again and shown her, and
shown her, too, with the unconscious cruelty that those who love you
display.

It would be crucifying, but there was no help for it. Reaching for the
bundle, she stood up and went her way, across the Park, to the subway,
from which she got out in Harlem.

The loveliness of that land of love seemed to have changed, though the
change, she then recognised, was in herself. But at least the walk-up
was unaltered. In the grimy entrance was Mrs. Yallum, a fat Finn, who
looked like a dirty horse, and who yapped at her volubly,
incomprehensibly, but with such affection that Cassy, yapping back, felt
less lonely as she ascended the stair.

The comfort was mediocre. In the afternoon she had gone from a ruin. Now
she had the sensation of entering another, one from which she had also
gone, but to which she was returning and with a spirit so dulled in the
journey! Had she, she wondered, any spirit left at all? At least enough
remained to prevent any wish for the reconstruction of the ruin behind
her. About the fallen walls were forms of filth; in the crevices there
were vermin, and though, before her, the desert stretched, it was clean.
However arid, it was wholesome.

But now she was at the door. She let herself in, hurried to the
living-room, where, with the feigned cheerfulness of the unselfish, she
beamed at her father and bent over him.

"Here I am to look after you again! How well you look. I am so glad and
oh! where is your sling?"

In speaking she stroked him. His skin was clearer, she thought, and the
abandoned sling was a relief.

He looked up at her. "You got married without me. I ought to have been
there. Why didn't you tell me? It was for me to give you away. Who did?"

"Who did what?"

"Who gave you in marriage?"

With the mimic of gaiety, Cassy laughed. "Why, you old dear, all that
has gone out. Hereabouts, nowadays, a father never goes to a
wedding--only to funerals."

She paused and, with the idea of breaking it to him in bits, resumed:
"Besides, it was all done in a hurry, in too much of a hurry."

He took it in, but at the wrong end. "Sick of him already, eh? Well, it
isn't because I did not warn you. Where is he?"

Cassy moved back. Should she give it to him then or later? But the
question, repeating itself, followed her.

"Where is your husband?"

Now for it, she thought. But at once he switched. "There was nothing in
the papers. Why is that? What is that package?"

Cassy looked at the bundle which she still held. It gave her courage.

"I am not married."

For a second he stared. It was obvious that he had not got it. "Where
have you been, then?"

Cassy fingered the bundle. Always she had hated to explain and of all
possible explanations what could be more hateful than this? If only he
would guess it, flare up, stamp about, get it over, let it go. But the
cup was there and she drank it.

"I thought I was married. I am a fool."

For the awaited curse, she braced herself. The explosion did not come,
but his eyes had widened. They covered her. Then, with an intake of the
breath and of understanding, he lowered them. Apparently he was weighing
it and Cassy thought he was trying to restrain himself, and she blessed
him for it. It was less terrible than she had feared. But immediately it
occurred to her that instead of trying to restrain himself, he was
seeking the strength wherewith to rend her. And I am so innocent, she
despairfully thought.

Her eyes were upon him and he looked up into hers.

"Why did you think you were married?"

"I told you, because I am a fool. There was a clergyman and a ceremony.
Afterwards I found that the clergyman was not a clergyman and that the
ceremony was a sham."

"When was that?"

"This afternoon."

"What did you do?"

"What was there for me to do? I left him."

"Where is he now?"

Cassy put down the bundle. She had no idea. But she said: "This evening
we were to go to the opera. I hardly fancy he will miss it on my
account." She paused and with a little catch in her voice continued: "I
know it is all my fault, I ought to have known better and I shall be so
unhappy if you mind. Won't you try not to?"

As she spoke, he stood up and she thought that the delayed volcano of
his wrath was about to burst. To smother it, she touched him. "Of course
you will mind. But I would not have been such a fool if I had not
believed that everything would be so much nicer for you. Can't you see
that and, if you do, can't you forgive me?"

He had moved from her to the piano; there he turned and looked. "There
is nothing to forgive, Cassy. You have been a good girl always. I am
sorry, of course I am sorry, but you are not to blame."

Understanding instead of maledictions! Sympathy in lieu of abuse! Such
things are affecting. The tears swam to her eyes and wretchedly and yet
thankfully she wept.

He did not seem to notice. In the narrow space he was moving about,
shifting things on the piano, displacing and replacing a score, which,
finally, he let fall. He stooped for it. As he raised it, Cassy saw
through her tears that his hand was shaking. He, too, may have seen it.
He left the room and she heard him pottering in the kitchen.

She wiped her eyes. Across the court was another kitchen in which were a
woman and a child. Often she had seen them there, but if she had seen
them elsewhere she would not have recognised them. They were but forms,
the perceptions of a perceiver, and though Cassy had never read Fichte
and was unacquainted with Berkeley, the idea visited her that they had
no real existence, that, it might be, she had none either, that all she
had endured was a dream drifting by, with nothing past which to drift.

It was her father's attitude that had induced these metaphysical
hysterics. She had expected that some demon within him would spring out
and gibber. Instead of which he had told her, and so gently, that she
was not to blame. It is words like these that bring tears swiftest. The
tears had come, but the words had also sufficed to reduce the people
across the way into baseless appearances, in which, for the moment, she
included herself.

But now at least her father was actual. He was coming in with glasses
and a bottle which he put on the table.

"You are tired," he said. "Have a little."

Seating himself, he drank and Cassy feared that if the liquor exerted
the authority that liquor has, he might go back into it and exact from
her details which it would revolt her to supply. In helping himself, he
had poured a glass for her. She did not want it. What she wanted was bed
and the blanket of long, dreamless sleep. It could not be too long. She
was tired, as he had said, but more so than he knew, tired with the
immense fatigue that emotions and their crises create.

She moved over to where he sat. Several minutes had gone since he spoke
yet it seemed to her but the moment before.

"Yes, I am tired, but you're a good daddy and I love you."

She bent over him, went to the kitchen, got a glass of milk and a
biscuit, which she carried to her room, where she opened the window and
closed the door.

Long later, when she awoke, it was with the consciousness of something
there, something waiting, something evil, something that had jeered and
pummelled her in her sleep. But what? Then, instantly, she knew. A
palace of falsehoods had tumbled about her and the lies had laughed and
bruised her as they fell. They had been laughing and falling the whole
night through.

The light distracted her. In the morning, because of the building
opposite, her room was dark. Now it was bright. The sun had scaled the
roof. A gleam looked in and told her it was noon.

How could I have slept so long? she wondered. She put some things on and
opening the door smelled coffee. The poor dear! she thought, he had to
make it himself.

She went on into the living-room. There her father sat. On the table
before him was a paper.

Without speaking he pointed at a headline. The letters squirmed. They
leaped and sprang at her. From before them she backed. But what
nonsense! It was impossible. She could not believe it. Yet there it was!
Abruptly there also was something else. An electric chair, the man of
all men in it!

From before the horror of that she reeled, steadied herself, looked at
her father, looked without seeing him.

"God of gods! And I did it!"




