"You won't kill him?"

"I swear by God----"

"Wait! Isn't it better to shoot him after he squeals? Here's a lovely
sink-hole handy."

"Right-o! We'll make him talk first and then shove him in. Are you with
us?"

"If you turn your head I'll blow the face off you, Harry," said Smith,
cautioning Clinch to silence with a gesture.

"All right. Only you better make up your mind. That cove is likely to
wake up now at any time," grumbled Beck.

Clinch looked at Smith. The latter smiled, leaned over, and whispered:

"Can you walk all right?"

Clinch nodded.

"Well, we'd better beat it. Quintana's whole gang is in these woods,
somewhere, hunting for you, and they might stumble on us here, at any
moment." And, to the two men in front: "Lie down flat on your faces.
Don't stir; don't speak; or it's you for the sink-hole.... Lie down, I
tell you! That's it. Don't move till I tell you to."

Clinch got up from where he was sitting, cast one murderous glance at
the prostrate forms, then followed Smith, noiselessly, over the stretch
of sphagnum moss.

       

When they reached the house they saw Eve standing on the steps in her
night-dress and bare feet, holding a lantern.

"Daddy," she whimpered, "I was frightened. I didn't know where you had
gone----"

Clinch put his arm around her, turned his bloody face and looked at
Smith.

"It's this," he said, "that I ain't forgetting, young fella. What you
done for me you done for her.

"I gotta live to make a lady of her. That's why," he added thickly, "I'm
much obliged to you, Hal Smith.... Go to bed, girlie----"

"You're bleeding, dad?"

"Aw, a twig scratched me. I been in the woods with Hal. G'wan to bed."

He went to the sink and washed his face, dried it, kissed the girl, and
gave her a gentle shove toward the stairs.

"Hal and I is sittin' up talkin' business," he remarked, bolting the
door and all the shutters.

       

When the girl had gone, Clinch went to a closet and brought back two
Winchester rifles, two shot guns, and a box of ammunition.

"Goin' to see it out with me, Hal?"

"Sure," smiled Smith.

"Aw' right. Have a drink?"

"No."

"Aw' right. Where'll you set?"

"Anywhere."

"Aw' right. Set over there. They may try the back porch. I'll jest set
here a spell, n'then I'll kind er mosey 'round.... Plug the first fella
that tries a shutter, Hal."

"You bet."

Clinch came over and held out his hand.

"You said a face-full that time when you says to me, 'Clinch,' you says,
'Eve is a lady.' ... I gotta fix her up. I gotta be alive to do it....
That's why I'm greatly obliged to yeh, Hal."

He took his rifle and walked slowly toward the pantry.

"You bet," he muttered, "she is a lady, so help me God."




EPISODE THREE

ON STAR PEAK


I

Mike Clinch regarded the jewels taken from José Quintana as legitimate
loot acquired in war.

He was prepared to kill anybody who attempted to take the gems from him.

At the very possibility his ruling passion blazed--his mania to make of
Eve Strayer a grand lady.

But now, what he had feared for years had happened. Quintana had found
him,--Quintana, after all these years, had discovered the identity and
dwelling place of the obscure American soldier who had robbed him in the
wash-room of a Paris café. And Quintana was now in America, here in this
very wilderness, tracking the man who had despoiled him.

       

Clinch, in his shirt-sleeves, carrying a rifle, came out on the log
veranda and sat down to think it over.

He began to realise that he was likely to have trouble with a man as
cold-blooded and as dogged as himself.

Nor did he doubt that those with Quintana were desperate men.

On whom could he count? On nobody unless he paid their hire. None among
the lawless men who haunted his backwoods "hotel" at Star Pond would
lift a finger to help him. Almost any among them would have robbed
him,--murdered him, probably,--if it were known that jewels were hidden
in the house.

He could not trust Jake Kloon; Leverett was as treacherous as only a
born coward can be; Sid Hone, Harvey Chase, Blommers, Byron
Hastings,--he knew them all too well to trust them,--a sullen,
unscrupulous pack, partly cowardly, always fierce,--as are any creatures
that live furtively, feed only by their wits, and slink through life
just outside the frontiers of law.

And yet, one of this gang had stood by him--Hal Smith--the man he
himself had been about to slay.

Clinch got up from the bench where he had been sitting and walked down
to the pond where Hal Smith sat cleaning trout.

"Hal," he said, "I been figuring some. Quintana don't dare call in the
constables. I can't afford to. Quintana and I've got to settle this on
our own."

Smith slit open a ten-inch trout, stripped it, flung the entrails out
into the pond, soused the fish in water, and threw it into a milk pan.

"Whose jewels were they in the beginning?" he enquired carelessly.

"How do I know?"

"If you ever found out----"

"I don't want to. I got them in the war, anyway. And it don't make no
difference how I got 'em; Eve's going to be a lady if I go to the chair
for it. So that's that."

Smith slit another trout, gutted it, flung away the viscera but laid
back the roe.

"Shame to take them in October," he remarked, "but people must eat."

"Same's me," nodded Clinch; "I don't want to kill no one, but Eve she's
gotta be a lady and ride in her own automobile with the proudest."

"Does Eve know about the jewels?"

Clinch's pale eyes, which had been roving over the wooded shores of Star
Pond, reverted to Smith.

"I'd cut my throat before I'd tell her," he said softly.

"She wouldn't stand for it?"

"Hal, when you said to me, 'Eve's a lady, by God!' you swallered the
hull pie. That's the answer. A lady don't stand for what you and I don't
bother about."

"Suppose she learns that you robbed the man who robbed somebody else of
these jewels."

Clinch's pale eyes were fixed on him: "Only you and me know," he said in
his pleasant voice.

"Quintana knows. His gang knows."

Clinch's smile was terrifying. "I guess she ain't never likely to know
nothing, Hal."

"What do you purpose to do, Mike?"

"Still hunt."

"For Quintana?"

"I might mistake him for a deer. Them accidents is likely, too."

"If Quintana catches you it will go hard with you, Mike."

"Sure. I know."

"He'll torture you to make you talk."

"You think I'd talk, Hal?"

Smith looked up into the light-coloured eyes. The pupils were pin
points. Then he went on cleaning fish.

"Hal?"

"What?"

"If they get me,--but no matter; they ain't a-going to get me."

"Were you going to tell me where those jewels are hidden, Mike?"
enquired the young man, still busy with his fish. He did not look around
when he spoke. Clinch's murderous gaze was fastened on the back of his
head.

"Don't go to gettin' too damn nosey, Hal," he said in his always
agreeable voice.

Smith soused all the fish in water again: "You'd better tell somebody if
you go gunning for Quintana."

"Did I ask your advice?"

"You did not," said the young man, smiling.

"All right. Mind your business."

Smith got up from the water's edge with his pan of trout:

"That's what I shall do, Mike," he said, laughing. "So go on with your
private war; it's no button off my pants if Quintana gets you."

He went away toward the ice-house with the trout. Eve Strayer, doing
chamber work, watched the young man from an upper room.

The girl's instinct was to like Smith,--but that very instinct aroused
her distrust. What was a man of his breeding and education doing at
Clinch's dump? Why was he content to hang around and do chores? A man of
his type who has gone crooked enough to stick up a tourist in an
automobile nourishes higher--though probably perverted--ambitions than a
dollar a day and board.

She heard Clinch's light step on the uncarpeted stair; went on making
up Smith's bed; and smiled as her step-father came into the room, still
carrying his rifle.

He had something else in his hand, too,--a flat, thin packet wrapped in
heavy paper and sealed all over with black wax.

"Girlie," he said, "I want you should do a little errand for me this
morning. If you're spry it won't take long--time to go there and get
back to help with noon dinner."

"Very well, dad."

"Go git your pants on, girlie."

"You want me to go into the woods?"

"I want you to go to the hole in the rocks under Star Peak and lay this
packet in the hootch cache."

She nodded, tucked in the sheets, smoothed blanket and pillow with deft
hands, went out to her own room. Clinch seated himself and turned a
blank face to the window.

It was a sudden decision. He realised now that he couldn't keep the
jewels in his house. War was on with Quintana. The "hotel" would be the
goal for Quintana and his gang. And for Smith, too, if ever temptation
overpowered him. The house was liable to an attempt at robbery any
night, now;--any day, perhaps. It was no place for the packet he had
taken from José Quintana.

Eve came in wearing grey shirt, breeches, and puttees. Clinch gave her
the packet.

"What's in it, dad?" she asked smilingly.

"Don't you get nosey, girlie. Come here."

She went to him. He put his left arm around her.

"You like me some, don't you, girlie?"

"You know it, dad."

"All right. You're all that matters to me ... since your mother went
and died ... after a year.... That was crool, girlie. Only a year.
Well, I ain't cared none for nobody since--only you, girlie."

He touched the packet with his forefinger:

"If I step out, that's yours. But I ain't a-going to step out. Put it
with the hootch. You know how to move that keystone?"

"Yes, dad."

"And watch out that no game protector and none of that damn
millionaire's wardens see you in the woods. No, nor none o' these here
fancy State Troopers. You gotta watch out this time, Eve. It means
everything to us--to you, girlie--and to me. Go tip-toe. Lay low, coming
and going. Take a rifle."

Eve ran to her bed-room and returned with her Winchester and belt.

"You shoot to kill," said Clinch grimly, "if anyone wants to stop you.
But lay low and you won't need to shoot nobody, girlie. G'wan out the
back way; Hal's in the ice house."


II

Slim and straight as a young boy in her grey shirt and breeches, Eve
continued on lightly through the woods, her rifle over her shoulder, her
eyes of gentian-blue always alert.

The morning turned warm; she pulled off her soft felt hat, shook out her
clipped curls, stripped open the shirt at her snowy throat where sweat
glimmered like melted frost.

The forest was lovely in the morning sunlight--lovely and still--save
for the blue-jays--for the summer birds had gone and only birds
destined to a long Northern winter remained.

Now and then, ahead of her, she saw a ruffed grouse wandering in the
trail. These, and a single tiny grey bird with a dreary note
interminably repeated, were the only living things she saw except here
and there a summer-battered butterfly of the Vanessa tribe flitting in
some stray sunbeam.

The haunting odour of late autumn was in the air--delicately acrid--the
scent of frost-killed brake and ripening wild grasses, of brilliant dead
leaves and black forest loam pungent with mast from beech and oak.

Eve's tread was light on the moist trail; her quick eyes missed
nothing--not the dainty imprint of deer, fresh made, nor the sprawling
insignia of rambling raccoons--nor the big barred owl huddled on a pine
limb overhead, nor, where the swift gravelly reaches of the brook caught
sunlight, did she miss the swirl and furrowing and milling of painted
trout on the spawning beds.

Once she took cover, hearing something stirring; but it was only a
yearling buck that came out of the witch-hazel to stare, stamp, then
wheel and trot away, displaying the danger signal.

In her cartridge-pouch she carried the flat, sealed packet which Clinch
had trusted to her. The sack swayed gently as she strode on, slapping
her left hip at every step; and always her subconscious mind remained on
guard and aware of it; and now and then she dropped her hand to feel of
the pouch and strap.

The character of the forest was now changing as she advanced. The first
tamaracks appeared, slim, silvery trunks, crowned with the gold of
autumn foliage, outer sentinels of that vast maze of swamp and stream
called Owl Marsh, the stronghold and refuge of forest wild
things--sometimes the sanctuary of hunted men.

From Star Peak's left flank an icy stream clatters down to the level
floor of the woods, here; and it was here that Eve had meant to quench
her thirst with a mouthful of sweet water.

But as she approached the tiny ford, warily, she saw a saddled horse
tied to a sapling and a man seated on a mossy log.

The trappings of horse, the grey-green uniform of the man, left no room
for speculation; a trooper of the State Constabulary was seated there.

His cap was off; his head rested on his palm. Elbow on knee, he sat
there gazing at the water--watching the slim fish, perhaps, darting up
stream toward their bridal-beds hidden far away at the headwaters.

A detour was imperative. The girl, from the shelter of a pine, looked
out cautiously at the trooper. The sudden sight of him had merely
checked her; now the recognition of his uniform startled her heart out
of its tranquil rhythm and set the blood burning in her cheeks.

There was a memory of such a man seared into the girl's very soul;--a
man whose head and shoulders resembled this man's,--who had the same
bright hair, the same slim and powerful body,--and who moved, too, as
this young man moved.

The trooper stirred, lifted his head to relight his pipe.

The girl knew him. Her heart stood still; then heart and blood ran riot
and she felt her knees tremble,--felt weak as she rested against the
pine's huge trunk and covered her face with unsteady fingers.

Until the moment, Eve had never dreamed what the memory of this man
really meant to her,--never dreamed that she had capacity for emotion so
utterly overwhelming.

Even now confusion, shame, fear were paramount. All she wanted was to
get away,--get away and still her heart's wild beating,--control the
strange tremor that possessed her, recover mind and sense and breath.

She drew her hand from her eyes and looked upon the man she had
attempted to kill,--upon the young man who had wrestled her off her feet
and handcuffed her,--and who had bathed her bleeding mouth with
sphagnum,--and who had kissed her hands----

She was trembling so that she became frightened. The racket of the brook
in his ears safeguarded her in a measure. She bent over nearly double,
her rifle at a trail, and cautiously began the detour.

       

When at length the wide circle through the woods had been safely
accomplished and Eve was moving out through the thickening ranks of
tamarack, her heart, which seemed to suffocate her, quieted; and she
leaned against a shoulder of rock, strangely tired.

After a while she drew from her pocket his handkerchief, and looked at
it. The square of cambric bore his initials, J. S. Blood from her lip
remained on it. She had not washed out the spots.

She put it to her lips again, mechanically. A faint odour of tobacco
still clung to it.

By every law of loyalty, pride, self-respect, she should have held this
man her enemy. Instead, she held his handkerchief against her
lips,--crushed it there suddenly, closing her eyes while the colour
surged and surged through her skin from throat to hair.

Then, wearily, she lifted her head and looked out into the grey and
empty vista of her life, where the dreary years seemed to stretch like
milestones away, away into an endless waste.

She put the handkerchief into her pocket, shouldered her rifle, moved on
without looking about her,--a mistake which only the emotion of the
moment could account for in a girl so habituated to caution,--for she
had gone only a few rods before a man's strident voice halted her:

"Halte là! Crosse en air!"

"Drop that rifle!" came another voice from behind her. "You're covered!
Throw your gun on the ground!"

She stood as though paralysed. To the right and left she heard people
trampling through the thicket toward her.

"Down with that gun, damn you!" repeated the voice, breathless from
running. All around her men came floundering and crashing toward her
through the undergrowth. She could see some of them.

As she stooped to place her rifle on the dead leaves, she drew the flat
packet from her cartridge sack at the same time and slid it deftly under
a rotting log. Then, calm but very pale, she stood upright to face
events.

The first man wore a red and yellow bandanna handkerchief over the lower
half of his face, pulled tightly across a bony nose. He held a long
pistol nearly parallel to his own body; and when he came up to where she
was standing he poked the muzzle into her stomach.

She did not flinch; he said nothing; she looked intently into the two
ratty eyes fastened on her over the edge of his bandanna.

Five other men were surrounding her, but they all wore white masks of
vizard shape, revealing chin and mouth.

They were different otherwise, also, wearing various sorts and patterns
of sport clothes, brand new, and giving them an odd, foreign appearance.

What troubled her most was the silence they maintained. The man wearing
the bandanna was the only one who seemed at all a familiar
figure,--merely, perhaps, because he was American in build, clothing,
and movement.

He took her by the shoulder, turned her around and gave her a shove
forward. She staggered a step or two; he gave her another shove and she
comprehended that she was to keep on going.

Presently she found herself in a steep, wet deer-trail rising upward
through a gully. She knew that runway. It led up Star Peak.

Behind her as she climbed she heard the slopping, panting tread of men;
her wind was better than theirs; she climbed lithely upward, setting a
pace which finally resulted in a violent jerk backward,--a savage,
wordless admonition to go more slowly.

As she climbed she wondered whether she should have fired an alarm shot
on the chance of the State Trooper, Stormont, hearing it.

But she had thought only of the packet at the moment of surprise. And
now she wondered whether, when freed, she could ever again find that
rotting log.

Up, up, always up along the wet gully, deep with silt and
frost-splintered rock, she toiled, the heavy gasping of men behind her.
Twice she was jerked to a halt while her escort rested.

Once, without turning, she said unsteadily: "Who are you? What have I
done to you?"

There was no reply.

"What are you going to do to me----" she began again, and was shaken by
the shoulder until silent.

At last the vast arch of the eastern sky sprang out ahead, where stunted
spruces stood out against the sunshine and the intense heat of midday
fell upon a bare table-land of rock and moss and fern.

As she came out upon the level, the man behind her took both her arms
and pulled them back and somebody bandaged her eyes. Then a hand closed
on her left arm and, so guided, she stumbled and crept forward across
the rocks for a few moments until her guide halted her and forced her
into a sitting position on a smooth, flat boulder.

She heard the crunching of heavy feet all around her, whispering made
hoarse by breath exhausted, movement across rock and scrub, retreating
steps.

For an interminable time she sat there alone in the hot sun, drenched to
the skin in sweat, listening, thinking, striving to find a reason for
this lawless outrage.

After a long while she heard somebody coming across the rocks, stiffened
as she listened with some vague presentiment of evil.

Somebody had halted beside her. After a pause she was aware of nimble
fingers busy with the bandage over her eyes.

At first, when freed, the light blinded her. By degrees she was able to
distinguish the rocky crest of Star Peak, with the tops of tall trees
appearing level with the rocks from depths below.

Then she turned, slowly, and looked at the man who had seated himself
beside her.

He wore a white mask over a delicate, smoothly shaven face.

His soft hat and sporting clothes were dark grey, evidently new. And she
noticed his hands--long, elegantly made, smooth, restless, playing with
a pencil and some sheets of paper on his knees.

As she met his brilliant eyes behind the mask, his delicate, thin lips
grew tense in what seemed to be a smile--or a soundless sort of laugh.

"Veree happee," he said, "to make the acquaintance. Pardon my
unceremony, miss, but onlee necissitee compels. Are you, perhaps, a
little rested?"

"Yes."

"Ah! Then, if you permit, we proceed with affairs of moment. You will be
sufficiently kind to write down what I say. Yes?"

He placed paper and pencil in Eve's hand. Without demurring or
hesitation she made ready to write, her mind groping wildly for the
reason of it all.

"Write," he said, with his silent laugh which was more like the
soundless snarl of a lynx unafraid:

"To Mike Clinch, my fathaire, from his child, Eve.... I am hostage,
held by José Quintana. Pay what you owe him and I go free.

"For each day delay he sends to you one finger which will be severed
from my right hand----"

Eve's slender fingers trembled; she looked up at the masked man, stared
steadily into his brilliant eyes.

"Proceed miss, if you are so amiable," he said softly.

She wrote on: "--One finger for every day's delay. The whole hand at the
week's end. The other hand then, finger by finger. Then, alas! the right
foot----"

Eve trembled.

"Proceed," he said softly.

She wrote: "If you agree you shall pay what you owe to José Quintana in
this manner: you shall place a stick at the edge of the Star Pond where
the Star rivulet flows out. Upon this stick you shall tie a white rag.
At the foot of the stick you shall lay the parcel which contains your
indebt to José Quintana.

"Failing this, by to-night one finger at sunset."

The man paused: Eve waited, dumb under the surging confusion in her
brain. A sort of incredulous horror benumbed her, through which she
still heard and perceived.

"Be kind enough to sign it with your name," said the man pleasantly.

Eve signed.

Then the masked man took the letter, got up, removed his hat.
