and family, to hope that the current of her love would run smooth. This
proved to be no idle fear. When Henry Denton ventured to approach Mr.
Tomlinson on the subject of his love for Edith, the old gentleman
received him with great discourtesy.

"Who are you, sir?" he asked, drawing himself proudly up.

"I hardly think you need ask that question," the young man replied. "I
am not an entire stranger to you, nor unknown in your neighbourhood."

"But who are you, sir? That is what I ask to know. Who is your father?"

"An honest man, sir." The young man spoke with firmness and dignity.

"Humph! there are plenty of them about. I could marry my daughter to an
honest man any day I liked. Old Cato, my coachman, is an honest man;
but that is no reason why I should let his son Sam marry Edith. No, my
young friend, you cannot connect yourself with my family; be content
with the daughter of some honest man like your father."

But the lover was not to be driven off by even such a rude repulse. He
tried to argue his case, but Mr. Tomlinson cut the matter short by
starting from his seat in great discomposure of mind, and pointing with
a trembling hand to a grim picture on the wall, while he thus addressed
the young man:--

"That, sir, is the portrait of Sir Edgar Tomlinson, who, by interposing
his body between the spear of a Roundhead and his royal master, saved
his life at the imminent risk of his own, for which gallant deed he was
knighted, and afterwards presented, by royal hands, with a noble bride.
When you have done as great a deed, young man, you will be worthy to
claim the hand of my daughter--not before!"

Saying this, the excited father turned away and strode from the room,
leaving Denton in dismay at the quick and hopeless termination of his
conference.

On the next day, the young attorney, who was known to possess fine
talents, acuteness, and extensive legal knowledge, was waited upon by
Mr. Allison.

"I wish your services, Mr. Denton," said he, "in a suit of great
importance that I am about commencing. Here is your retaining
fee,"--and he laid upon the table of the lawyer a check for two hundred
dollars. "If you gain me my cause, your entire fee will be five
thousand dollars."

Allison then went on to state, that Mr. Tomlinson's claim to the five
hundred acres next adjoining his (Allison's) plantation, and upon which
his mansion stood, was a very doubtful one. That it, in fact, belonged
to the Allison estate, and he was going to have the question of
rightful ownership fully tested. He furnished the young attorney with
documents, data, and every thing required for commencing the suit.
Denton asked a week for an examination of the whole matter. At the end
of this time, Allison again waited on him.

"Well, sir, what do you think of my case?" he said.

"I think it a doubtful one," was replied. "Still, it is possible you
might gain it, as there are one or two strong points in your favour."

"I have not the least doubt of it. At any rate, I am going to give the
matter a fair trial. Five hundred acres of such land are worth an
effort to gain."

"But you must not forget that, as you will open the question of
ownership on the whole tract of one thousand acres, you run the risk of
losing the half of which you are now in possession."

"I'm willing to run the risk of losing five hundred acres of
uncultivated land in the effort to acquire possession of as large a
quantity in a high state of improvement," returned the uncompromising
gentleman 'born and bred.' "So you will forthwith make a beginning in
the matter."

The young attorney was grave and silent for some time. Then opening a
drawer, he took out the check which had been given to him as a
retaining fee, and handing it to Allison, said--"I believe, sir, I must
decline this case."

"Why so?" quickly asked the young man, a deep flush passing over his
brow.

"I do it from principle," was replied. "I find, on examining the whole
matter, that your grandfather and the father of Mr. Tomlinson, while in
possession of their respective estates, in view of the difficulty there
was in settling the precise title of the tract of land, agreed to an
equal division of it, which was done in honour and good faith, and I do
not think their heirs, on either side, have any right to disturb the
arrangement then made."

"I did not ask you to judge the case, but to present it for judgment,"
said Allison, greatly offended. "You may, perhaps, be sorry for this."

Another member of the bar, less scrupulous about the principles
involved in a case, readily undertook the matter; and as the fee, if he
proved successful, was to be a large one, opened it immediately.

When Mr. Tomlinson received notice of the fact that this long-settled
dispute was again to be revived, he was thrown into a fever of alarm
