the shadow of double-dealing makes no doubtful discoveries of
itself. Mrs. Plumfield read it, and gave it her very thorough
respect.

"Mr. Carleton  pardon me, Sir  I do not doubt you  but I
remember hearing long ago that you were rich and great in the
world  it is dangerous for a Christian to be so  can she
keep in your grandeur the simplicity of heart and life she has
had at Queechy?"

"May I remind you of your own words, my dear madam? By the
blessing of God all things are possible. These things you
speak of are not in themselves evil; if the mind be set on
somewhat else, they are little beside a larger storehouse of
material to work with  an increased stewardship to account
for."

"She has been taking care of others all her life," said aunt
Miriam, tenderly; "it is time she was taken care of: and these
feet are very unfit for rough paths; but I would rather she
should go on struggling, as she has done, with difficulties,
and live and die in poverty, than that the lustre of her
heavenly inheritance should be tarnished even a little. I
would, my darling."

"But the alternative is not so," said Mr. Carleton, with
gentle grace, touching Fleda's hand, who he saw was a good
deal disturbed. "Do not make her afraid of me, Mrs.
Plumfield."

"I do not believe I need," said aunt Miriam, "and I am sure I
could not  but, Sir, you will forgive me?"

"No, Madam  that is not possible."

"One cannot stand where I do," said the old lady, "without
learning a little the comparative value of things; and I seek
my child's good  that is my excuse. I could not be satisfied
to take her testimony."

"Take mine, Madam," said Mr. Carleton. "I have learned the
comparative value of things too; and I will guard her highest
interests as carefully as I will every other  as earnestly as
you can desire."

"I thank you, Sir," said the old lady, gratefully. "I am sure
of it. I shall leave her in good hands. I wanted this
assurance. And if ever there was a tender plant that was not
fitted to grow on the rough side of the world  I think this
is one," said she, kissing earnestly the face that yet Fleda
did not dare to lift up.

Mr. Carleton did not say what he thought. He presently took
kind leave of the old lady, and went into the next room, where
Fleda soon rejoined him, and they set off homewards.

Fleda was quietly crying all the way down the hill. At the
foot of the hill, Mr. Carleton resolutely slackened his pace.

"I have one consolation," he said, "my dear Elfie  you will
have the less to leave for me."

She put her hand with a quick motion upon his, and roused
herself.

"She is a beautiful rebuke to unbelief. But she is hardly to
be mourned for, Elfie."

"Oh, I was not crying for aunt Miriam," said Fleda.

"For what then?" he said, gently.

"Myself."

"That needs explanation," he said, in the same tone. "Let me
have it, Elfie."

"Oh  I was thinking of several things," said Fleda, not
exactly wishing to give the explanation.

"Too vague," said Mr. Carleton, smiling. "Trust me with a
little more of your mind, Elfie."

Fleda glanced up at him, half smiling, and yet with filling
eyes, and then, as usual, yielded to the winning power of the
look that met her.

"I was thinking," she said, keeping her head carefully down,
"of some of the things you and aunt Miriam were saying just
now  and  how good for nothing I am."

"In what respect?" said Mr. Carleton, with praiseworthy
gravity.

Fleda hesitated, and he pressed the matter no further; but,
more unwilling to displease him than herself, she presently
went on, with some difficulty; wording what she had to say
with as much care as she could.

"I was thinking, how gratitude  or not gratitude alone  but
