charitable society that ever was made or imagined; had a hand in
building all the churches within a hundred miles; occasionally gave four
or five thousand dollars to a college; offered to be one of six to raise
ten thousand dollars for some benevolent purpose, and when four of the
six backed out, quietly paid the balance himself, and said no more about
it. Another of his innocent fancies was to keep always about him any
quantity of tracts and good books, little and big, for children and
grown-up people, which he generally diffused in a kind of gentle shower
about him wherever he moved.

So great was his monomania for benevolence that it could not at all
confine itself to the streets of Boston, the circle of his relatives, or
even the United States of America. Mr. H. was fully posted up in the
affairs of India, Burmah, China, and all those odd, out-of-the-way
places, which no sensible man ever thinks of with any interest, unless
he can make some money there; and money, it is to be confessed, Mr. H.
didn't make there, though he spent an abundance. For getting up printing
presses in Ceylon for Chinese type, for boxes of clothing and what not
to be sent to the Sandwich Islands, for school books for the Greeks, and
all other nonsense of that sort, Mr. H. was without a parallel. No
wonder his rich brother merchants sometimes thought him something of a
bore, since, his heart being full of all these matters, he was rather
apt to talk about them, and sometimes to endeavor to draw them into
fellowship, to an extent that was not to be thought of.

So it came to pass often, that though Mr. H. was a thriving business
man, with some ten thousand a year, he often wore a pretty threadbare
coat, the seams whereof would be trimmed with lines of white; and he
would sometimes need several pretty plain hints on the subject of a new
hat before he would think he could afford one. Now, it is to be
confessed the world is not always grateful to those who thus devote
themselves to its interests; and Mr. H. had as much occasion to know
this as any other man. People got so used to his giving, that his bounty
became as common and as necessary as that of a higher Benefactor, "who
maketh his sun to rise upon the evil and the good, and sendeth rain upon
the just and the unjust;" and so it came to pass that people took them,
as they do the sunshine and the rain, quite as matters of course, not
thinking much about them when they came, but particularly apt to scold
when they did not come.

But Mr. H. never cared for that. He did not give for gratitude; he did
not give for thanks, nor to have his name published in the papers as one
of six who had given fifty thousand to do so and so; but he gave because
it was in him to give, and we all know that it is an old rule in
medicine, as well as morals, that what is in a man must be brought
out. Then, again, he had heard it reported that there had been One of
distinguished authority who had expressed the opinion that it was "more
blessed to give than to receive," and he very much believed
it--believed it because the One who said it must have known, since for
man's sake he once gave away ALL.

And so, when some thriftless, distant relation, whose debts he had paid
a dozen times over, gave him an overhauling on the subject of
liberality, and seemed inclined to take him by the throat for further
charity, he calmed himself down by a chapter or two from the New
Testament and half a dozen hymns, and then sent him a good, brotherly
letter of admonition and counsel, with a bank note to enforce it; and
when some querulous old woman, who had had a tenement of him rent free
for three or four years, sent him word that if he didn't send and mend
the water pipes she would move right out, he sent and mended them.
People said that he was foolish, and that it didn't do any good to do
for ungrateful people; but Mr. H. knew that it did him good. He loved
to do it, and he thought also on some words that ran to this effect: "Do
good and lend, hoping for nothing again." He literally hoped for
nothing again in the way of reward, either in this world or in heaven,
beyond the present pleasure of the deed; for he had abundant occasion to
see how favors are forgotten in this world; and as for another, he had
in his own soul a standard of benevolence so high, so pure, so ethereal,
that but One of mortal birth ever reached it. He felt that, do what he
might, he fell ever so far below the life of that spotless One--that
his crown in heaven must come to him at last, not as a reward, but as a
free, eternal gift.

But all this while our friend and his little companion have been
pattering along the wet streets, in the rain and sleet of a bitter cold
evening, till they stopped before a grocery. Here a large cross-handled
basket was first bought, and then filled with sundry packages of tea,
sugar, candles, soap, starch, and various other matters; a barrel of
flour was ordered to be sent after him on a dray. Mr. H. next stopped at
a dry goods store and bought a pair of blankets, with which he loaded
down the boy, who was happy enough to be so loaded; and then, turning
gradually from the more frequented streets, the two were soon lost to
view in one of the dimmest alleys of the city.

The cheerful fire was blazing in his parlor, as, returned from his long,
wet walk, he was sitting by it with his feet comfortably incased in
slippers. The astral was burning brightly on the centre table, and a
group of children were around it, studying their lessons.

"Papa," said a little boy, "what does this verse mean? It's in my Sunday
school lesson. 'Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of
unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into
everlasting habitations.'"

"You ought to have asked your teacher, my son."

"But he said he didn't know exactly what it meant. He wanted me to look
this week and see if I could find out."

Mr. H.'s standing resource in all exegetical difficulties was Dr.
