
"A good many fine fellows." replied Hapgood, shaking his head, sadly.

"Poor Ben dropped early in the day."

"Yes, I was afraid he'd got most to the end of his chapter afore we went
in. Poor fellow! I'm sorry for him, and sorry for his folks."

"Fred Pemberton said he should be killed, and Ben said he should not, you
remember."

"Yes, and that shows how little we know about these things."

"Bob Dornton was killed, too."

"No, he's badly hurt, but the surgeon thinks he will git over it. The
cap'n was slightly wounded." And Hapgood mentioned the names of those in
the company who had been killed or wounded, or were missing.

"It was an awful day," sighed Tom, when the old man had finished the list.
"There will be sad hearts in Pinchbrook when the news gets there."

"So there will, Tom; but we gained the day. We did something handsome for
'Old Glory,' and I s'pose it's all right."

"I would rather have been killed than lost the battle."

"So would I; and betwixt you and me, Tom, you didn't come very fur from
losing your number in the mess," added the veteran, as he thrust his
little fingers into a bullet hole in the breast of Tom's coat. "That was
rather a close shave."

"I felt that one, but I hadn't time to think about it then, for it was
just as we were repelling that flank movement," replied Tom, as he
unbuttoned his coat, and thrust his hand into his breast pocket. "Do you
suppose she will give me another?" he added, as he drew forth the envelope
which contained the letter and the photograph of the author of his socks.

A minie ball had found its way through the envelope, grinding a furrow
through the picture, transversely, carrying away the chin and throat of
the young lady. The letter was mangled and minced up beyond restoration.
Tom had discovered the catastrophe when he waked up in the hospital, for
his last thought at night, and his first in the morning, had been the
beautiful Lilian Ashford. He was sad when he first beheld the wreck; but
when he thought what a glorious assurance this would be of his conduct on
the field, he was pleased with the idea; and while in his heart he thanked
the rebel marksman for not putting the bullet any nearer to the vital
organ beneath the envelope, he was not ungrateful for the splendid
testimonial he had given him of his position during the battle.

"Of course she'll give you another. Won't she be proud of that picture
when she gets it back?"

"If I had been a coward, I couldn't have run away with those socks on my
feet."

Tom remained with the regiment several hours, and then, in obedience to
the surgeon's orders, returned to the hospital, where he wrote a letter to
his father, containing a short account of the battle, and another to
Lilian Ashford, setting forth the accident which had happened to the
picture, and begging her to send him another.

I am afraid in this last letter Tom indulged in some moonshiny nonsense;
but we are willing to excuse him for saying that the thought of the
beautiful original of the photograph and the beautiful author of his socks
had inspired him with courage on the battle field, and enabled him
faithfully to perform his duty, to the honor and glory of the flag beneath
whose starry folds he had fought, bled, and conquered, and so forth. It
would not be unnatural in a young man of eighteen to express as much as
this, and, we are not sure that he said any more.

The next day Tom was down with a slow fever, induced by fatigue and
over-exertion. He lay upon his cot for a fortnight, before he was able to
go out again; but he was frequently visited by Hapgood and other friends
in the regiment. About the middle of the month, the brigade moved on, and
Tom was sad at the thought of lying idle, while the glorious work of the
army was waiting for true and tried men.

Tom received "honorable mention" in the report of the colonel, and his
recommendation, supported by that of the general of the division, brought
to the hospital his commission as second lieutenant.

"Here's medicine for you," said the chaplain, as he handed the patient a
ponderous envelope.

"What is it, sir?"

"I don't know, but it has an official look."

The sergeant opened it, and read the commission, duly signed by the
governor of Massachusetts, and countersigned and sealed in proper form.
Tom was astounded at the purport of the document. He could hardly believe
his senses; but it read all right, and dated from the day of the battle in
which he had distinguished himself. This was glory enough, and it took Tom
forty-eight hours thoroughly to digest the contents of the envelope.

Lieutenant Somers! The words had a queer sound, and he could not realize
that he was a commissioned officer. But he came to a better understanding
of the subject the next day, when a letter from Lilian Ashford was placed
in his hands. It was actually addressed to "Lieutenant Thomas Somers." She
