The first cutter was at least half a mile in advance of the second, and
both, of them lying near the track of the blockade-runner. It was
useless to pull towards the expected prize; on the contrary, it was
better policy to keep still, so as not to attract the attention of her
people.

The Ben Nevis, when she changed her course, might have been about five
miles distant from the Chatauqua, and the longer the meeting between the
steamer and the boats was deferred, the more would the darkness favor
the latter. It was thought that the blockade-runner would approach at
half speed, so as not to encounter the fleet off the river at too early
an hour; but her commander did not appear to regard this delay as
necessary, and came down at full speed. It was not dark, therefore, when
the first cutter was within hail of her.

As soon as the Ben Nevis discovered the nearest boat, she sheered off,
though, as the first cutter had no howitzer, she could have everything
her own way. Somers kept the second cutter just out of hail of the other
boat; and carefully watched the operations of the second lieutenant.

The steamer sheered off just enough to avoid the boat; but presently she
resumed her course, as if, making twelve knots, she had nothing to fear
from an enemy with oars only to urge her forward. It would be impossible
for the first cutter to board her at full speed, and she seemed disposed
to run the risk of a shot or two rather than expose herself to falling
into any other trap which the man-of-war might have set for her.

The Ben Nevis dashed on, therefore, in a direction which placed the
first cutter on her starboard bow, when Mr. Pillgrim hailed her, and
ordered her to heave to, accompanying the command with a peculiar wave
of his cap in the air, which was thrice repeated, very much to the
astonishment, no doubt, of the loyal blue-jackets in the boat with him.

"Topple my timber-heads! What does all that mean?" exclaimed Boatswain
Longstone, who, by the especial request of the fourth lieutenant, had a
place in the stern-sheets of the second cutter.

"Wait, and you will see," replied Mr. Somers.

The Ben Nevis at once stopped her wheels, and the first cutter pulled
towards her.

"That beats me!" ejaculated the boatswain. "What did she stop for?"

"Probably her captain thinks that is his best course," replied Somers,
who knew very well why she had stopped.

The commander of the blockade-runner evidently recognized the voice and
the signal of Pillgrim, and, like an obedient servant, was willing to
shift the responsibility of the occasion on his owner and employer.
Honest Tom Longstone was sorely perplexed by the movement of the steamer
and the conduct of the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua, for a
suspicion of foul play on the part of one of his officers could not have
entered his loyal heart.

The first cutter touched the side of the Ben Nevis, and Mr. Pillgrim
went up the accommodation ladder.

"Clear away the howitzer!" said Somers.

The boatswain looked at him as though he had been mad.

"Man the howitzer!"

The gun was loaded with a solid shot, and made ready for instant use.

"Now give way, boatswain," continued Somers; and the second cutter
dashed swiftly over the long billows towards the Ben Nevis.

"Are you going to use that gun?" asked Tom Longstone, in a low tone.

"If necessary."

"But Mr. Pillgrim has the steamer. He has boarded her."

"We will wait and see," answered Somers, evasively; for it was expected
and intended that the second lieutenant should "hang himself," on this
interesting occasion.

Before the second cutter could reach the steamer, Mr. Pillgrim had
completed his examination on board of her, and descended to his boat. As
he gave the order for the cutter to shove off, Somers's boat shot in
alongside of her.

"She is all right, Mr. Somers," said the second lieutenant.

"All right?" exclaimed Somers; and, in spite of himself, he actually
trembled with emotion, being conscious that a very trying scene was
before him--one which would require all his skill and all his energy.

"I say she is all right, Mr. Somers," repeated Pillgrim, sharply, for he
did not appear to like the tone and manner of the fourth lieutenant.

"What is she?"

"She is an American steamer from Baltimore, bound to Havana."

"What is she doing in here, then?" demanded Somers.

"That's her affair. Don't you see the American flag at her peak?"
