such a vagabond life. Dick, who was always ready for an emergency,
suggested borrowing a white wig, and passing himself off for
Fosdick's father or grandfather. But Henry thought this might be
rather a difficult character for our hero to sustain. After fifty
applications and as many failures, Fosdick began to get discouraged.
There seemed to be no way out of his present business, for which he
felt unfitted.

"I don't know but I shall have to black boots all my life," he said,
one day, despondently, to Dick.

"Keep a stiff upper lip," said Dick. "By the time you get to be a
gray-headed veteran, you may get a chance to run errands for some
big firm on the Bowery, which is a very cheerin' reflection."

So Dick by his drollery and perpetual good spirits kept up
Fosdick's courage.

"As for me," said Dick, "I expect by that time to lay up a colossal
fortun' out of shines, and live in princely style on the Avenoo."

But one morning, Fosdick, straying into French's Hotel, discovered
the following advertisement in the columns of "The Herald,"--

"WANTED--A smart, capable boy to run errands, and make himself
generally useful in a hat and cap store. Salary three dollars a
week at first. Inquire at No. -- Broadway, after ten o'clock, A.M."

He determined to make application, and, as the City Hall clock just
then struck the hour indicated, lost no time in proceeding to the
store, which was only a few blocks distant from the Astor House.
It was easy to find the store, as from a dozen to twenty boys were
already assembled in front of it. They surveyed each other askance,
feeling that they were rivals, and mentally calculating each other's
chances.

"There isn't much chance for me," said Fosdick to Dick, who had
accompanied him. "Look at all these boys. Most of them have good
homes, I suppose, and good recommendations, while I have nobody to
refer to."

"Go ahead," said Dick. "Your chance is as good as anybody's."

While this was passing between Dick and his companion, one of the
boys, a rather supercilious-looking young gentleman, genteelly
dressed, and evidently having a very high opinion of his dress and
himself turned suddenly to Dick, and remarked,--

"I've seen you before."

"Oh, have you?" said Dick, whirling round; "then p'r'aps you'd like
to see me behind."

At this unexpected answer all the boys burst into a laugh with the
exception of the questioner, who, evidently, considered that Dick
had been disrespectful.

"I've seen you somewhere," he said, in a surly tone, correcting
himself.

"Most likely you have," said Dick. "That's where I generally keep
myself."

There was another laugh at the expense of Roswell Crawford, for that
was the name of the young aristocrat. But he had his revenge ready.
No boy relishes being an object of ridicule, and it was with a
feeling of satisfaction that he retorted,--

"I know you for all your impudence. You're nothing but a
boot-black."

This information took the boys who were standing around by surprise,
for Dick was well-dressed, and had none of the implements of his
profession with him.

"S'pose I be," said Dick. "Have you got any objection?"

"Not at all," said Roswell, curling his lip; "only you'd better
stick to blacking boots, and not try to get into a store."

"Thank you for your kind advice," said Dick. "Is it gratooitous, or
do you expect to be paid for it?"

"You're an impudent fellow."

"That's a very cheerin' reflection," said Dick, good-naturedly.

"Do you expect to get this place when there's gentlemen's sons
applying for it? A boot-black in a store! That would be a good
joke."

Boys as well as men are selfish, and, looking upon Dick as a
possible rival, the boys who listened seemed disposed to take the
same view of the situation.

"That's what I say," said one of them, taking sides with Roswell.

"Don't trouble yourselves," said Dick. "I aint agoin' to cut you
out. I can't afford to give up a independent and loocrative
purfession for a salary of three dollars a week."
