people with devout and religious joy.

"Sing aloud unto God, our strength; make a joyful noise unto the God of
Jacob.

"Take a Psalm and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with
psaltery.

"Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our
solemn feast day.

"For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.
Psalms 81, v. 1 to 4.

"O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be
heard:

"Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be
moved.

"For thou, O God, hath proved us; thou hast tried us, as silver is
tried. Psalms 66, v. 8 and 9.

"Let us rejoice in God and be thankful for the fulness with which he
has blessed us in our basket and in our store, giving large rewards to
the toil of the husbandman, so that 'our paths drop fatness.'

"For the many and gentle alleviations of the hardships which in the
present time of public disorder have afflicted the various pursuits of
industry.

"For the early evidence of the reviving energies of the business of the
people:

"For the measure of success which has attended the enterprise of those
who go down to the sea in ships, of those who search the depths of the
ocean to add to the food of man, and of those whose busy skill and
handicraft combine to prepare for various use the crops of the earth
and sea:

"For the advantages of sound learning, placed within the reach of all
children of the people, and the freedom and alacrity with which these
advantages are embraced and improved:

"For the opportunities of religious instruction and worship,
universally enjoyed by consciences untrammelled by any human authority:

"For the redemption of the world by Jesus Christ, for the means of
grace and the hope of glory:

"And with one accord let us bless and praise God for the oneness of
heart, mind and purpose in which he has united the people of this
ancient Commonwealth for the defence of the rights, liberties, and
honor, of our beloved country.

"May we stand forever in the same mind, remembering the devoted lives
of our fathers, the precious inheritance of freedom received at their
hands, the weight of glory which awaits the faithful, and the infinity
of blessing which it is our privilege, if we will, to transmit to the
countless generations of the future.

"And while our tears flow, in a stream of cordial sympathy, with the
daughters of our people, just now bereft, by the violence of the wicked
and rebellious, of the fathers and husbands and brothers and sons,
whose heroic blood has made verily sacred the soil of Virginia, and
mingling with the waters of the Potomac, has made the river now and
forever ours; let our souls arise to God on the wings of Praise, in
thanksgiving that He has again granted to us the privilege of living
unselfishly, and of dying nobly, in a grand and righteous cause:

"For the precious and rare possession of so much devoted valor and
heroism:

"For the sentiment of pious duty which distinguished our fathers in the
camp and in the field:

"And for the sweet and blessed consolations which accompany the
memories of these dear sons of Massachusetts on to immortality:

"And in our praise let us also be penitent. Let us 'seek the truth and
ensue it,' and prepare our minds for whatever duty shall be manifested
hereafter.

"May the controversy in which we stand be found worthy in its
consummation of the heroic sacrifices of the people and the precious
blood of their sons, of the doctrine and faith of the fathers, and
consistent with the honor of God and with justice to all men.

"And,

"'Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered; let them also that hate
him, flee before him.'

"'As smoke is driven away, so drive those away.' Psalms, 68, v. 1 and 2.

"'Scatter them by thy power, and bring them down, O Lord, our shield.'
Psalms, 59, v. 11.

Given at the Council Chamber, this thirty-first day of October, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, and the
