"Delightful!" said Mrs. Clifton. "Why can't we go too, Mr. Clifton?"

"Why, to tell the plain truth," said her husband, "I haven't got money
enough with me. If you'll pay for the carriage, I'm willing to go."

Mrs. Clifton hesitated. She had money enough with her, but was not
inclined to spend it. Still the prospect of making a joint excursion
with Richard Hunter and Fosdick was attractive, and she inquired:--

"How much will it cost?"

"About five dollars probably."

"Then I think we'll go," she said, "that is, if our company would not
be disagreeable to Mr. Hunter."

"On the contrary," said Dick. "We will get separate carriages, but I
will invite you both to dine with us after visiting the fort."

Mr. Clifton brightened up at this, and straightway became more social
and cheerful.

"Mrs. Clifton," said Richard Hunter, "I believe I haven't yet
introduced you to my ward."

"Is that your ward?" inquired the lady, looking towards Mark. "What is
his name?"

"Mark Manton."

"How do you like your guardian?" inquired Mrs. Clifton.

"Very much," said Mark, smiling.

"Then I won't expose him," said Mrs. Clifton. "We used to be great
friends before I married."

"Since that sad event I have never recovered my spirits," said Dick.
"Mark will tell you what a poor appetite I have."

"Is that true, Mark?" asked the lady.

"I don't think it's very poor," said Mark, with a smile.

Probably my readers will not consider this conversation very brilliant;
but Mrs. Clifton was a silly woman, who was fond of attention, and was
incapable of talking sensibly. Richard would have preferred not to have
her husband or herself in the company, but, finding it inevitable,
submitted to it with as good a grace as possible.

Carriage were secured at a neighboring stable, and the two parties
started. The drive was found to be very pleasant, particularly
the latter portion, when a fresh breeze from the sea made the air
delightfully cool. As they drove up beside the fort, they heard the
band within, playing a march, and, giving their horses in charge, they
were soon exploring the interior. The view from the ramparts proved to
be fine, commanding a good view of the harbor and the city of New York,
nearly eight miles distant to the north.

"It is a charming view," said Mrs. Clifton, with girlish enthusiasm.

"I know what will be more charming," said her husband.

"What is it?"

"A prospect of the dinner-table. I feel awfully hungry."

"Mr. Clifton never thinks of anything but eating," said his wife.

"By Jove! you can do your share at that," retorted her husband not very
gallantly. "You'd ought to see her eat, Hunter."

"I don't eat more than a little bird," said Mrs. Clifton, affectedly.
"I appeal to Mr. Hunter."

"If any little bird ate as much as you, he'd be sure to die of
dyspepsy," said her husband. If the word in italics is incorrectly
spelled, I am not responsible, as that is the way Mr. Clifton
pronounced it.

"I confess the ride has given me an appetite also," said Dick. "Suppose
we go round to the hotel, and order dinner."

They were soon seated round a bountifully spread dinner-table, to which
the whole party, not excepting Mrs. Clifton, did excellent justice. It
will not be necessary or profitable to repeat the conversation which
seasoned the repast, as, out of deference to Mrs. Clifton's taste, none
of the party ventured upon any sensible remarks.

After dinner they extended their drive, and then parted, as Mr. and
Mrs. Clifton decided to make a call upon some friends living in the
neighborhood.

About four o'clock Richard Hunter and his friends started on their
return home. They had about reached the Brooklyn city line, when
Fosdick suddenly exclaimed:--

"Dick, there's a carriage overturned a little ways ahead of us. Do you
see it?"

