There is no half-way house of meditation between the brain and it.
We are ruined! you and I especially, Nettie, and Sue is almost as
badly off. Jessie will tell Mr. Wyllys, and he will report us all to
his cousin, and won't there be a row?"

"Why should you care?" said Hester, sharply. "If the man is away off
in Germany, he can't quarrel with you."

"But he is coming back next Fall! I should sink into the earth if he
were to ask me any questions about what I have said. He has always
been so gentle and pleasant with me! I felt quite proud of his good
opinion."

"You had very little to be proud of, I should say!" retorted Miss
Sanford, losing command of her tongue and temper entirely, as the
discussion proceeded. "Thank Heaven! I am not dependent upon such
contemptible trifles for my peace of mind! I wouldn't recognize Roy
Fordham on the street, or anywhere else; would cut him dead were he
to enter this room at this very minute. As for Miss Kirke, I care
less than nothing for her, or her opinion. If she chooses to play
the spy upon a confidential conversation between ladies, and carry
tales to gentlemen, she may, and welcome. I never could abide her
from the first instant I ever saw her. I do hate tattlers and
backbiters! But let her do her worst! I flatter myself that I, at
least, am above her reach!"

"I should be very uneasy and unhappy, if I believed that the
substance of our conversation would ever reach Mr. Fordham's ears,"
rejoined Fanny, very gravely. "But Mr. Wyllys is no mischief-maker.
Nor, for that matter, is Jessie Kirke. My principal regret is that
we have wounded her; for I do not think a reputation so nobly earned
as Mr. Fordham's has been, will suffer from our idle chatter. It is
founded upon a rock. As to Jessie's playing the spy, Hester, she had
no reason to believe the communication you made was confidential."

"She never opened her lips while I was talking! just stood off
there, pretending to be busy with the billiard balls, and
listened," said Hester, hotly, "If that wasn't mean and
dishonorable, I don't know what is!"

"I am inclined to think it would have been well had the rest of us
done likewise!" smiled Fanny, willing to give a jocose turn to the
circumstance. "Since we cannot help our blunder, we will try to
forget it."

But Hester had a troublesome bee in her bonnet. She looked more and
more discomposed.

"What makes you all think that this Kirke girl will blab to Mr.
Wyllys? What has she to do with him, more than any of you here?"

"What's he to Hecuba, or Hecuba to him!" quoted Fanny, theatrically,
bent upon covering her cousin's coarseness of speech and manner.
"They are old friends, and he is intimate at Dr. Baxter's, where she
is staying. As I said, however, the least of my apprehensions is
that she will stir up strife between us and Mr. Fordham."

She chalked her cue carefully, as if it were her chief concern at
present.

"Is he addressing her?" demanded Hester, with increasing interest.

"I don't know. Selina! will you play on my side?"

"In a minute!" The volatile Bradley was off at a tangent. "I don't
begin to believe that he means to offer himself to her, whatever
wiseacres may say. It is well known that he is not a marrying man.
He brings out girls that have the making of belles in them. It is a
sort of hobby with him--a mission he has. This done, he stands back
serenely, and lets other men marry them. He is a universal lover of
the sex, and upon occasions like those I have named--a benefactor.
Some of our most elegant matrons and handsomest young ladies were
his protégées. His sanction of their charms made them the fashion.
It is odd, but true."

Hester smiled, laid her head on her left shoulder, and peeped at an
opposite mirror.

"It would be a sin were you Hamilton girls to let him marry this
girl. You don't half appreciate him. I have met so many
distinguished and gallant men, that I call myself a tolerable judge
of true breeding and polished manners. And I can inform you that in
a large, gay city such as that I live in, he would be a star!
might have almost any girl he wanted. The idea of his throwing
himself away upon a poor minister's daughter is just perfectly
nonsensical. I have too good an opinion of his common-sense and his
taste, to believe it for a second. He can't but know that he could
look ever so much higher. What there is about this Miss Kirke that
you all admire, I can't see, for the life of me. She couldn't carry
it, in our place, with such a bold hand, as she does here. She would
be put down at once and forever!"

"Jessie Kirke is my friend, Hester, and was but just now my guest,"
said Fanny, firmly. "Excuse me for saying that I cannot hear her
spoken of unkindly in this house. She is a lady--born and bred. Papa
says her family were people of rank in this country, before ours was
ever heard of. I am not an aristocrat, but if I were I should rather
belong to what Dr. Holmes calls the 'Brahmin caste', in America,
than to any other. Jessie Kirke comes of an educated race, and the
refinement of educated generations shows itself in every motion and
