if she'd only set it outside in the entry, then if the burglars came
they could just go off with it, without stopping to murder us; but if
it was in our room, why, of course, they would. The fact is, I have
got so nervous about burglars that I am up and down two or three times
a night."

"But you have Jack to take care of you."

"Jack is a good watch dog--he's very alert; but the trouble is, he
barks just as loud when there isn't anything going on as when there
is. Night after night, that dog has started us both up with such
a report, and I'd go all over the house and find nothing there.
Sometimes I think he hears people trying the doors or windows.
Altogether, I think Jack frightens me more than he helps, though I
know he does it all for the best, and I tell Dorcas so when he wakes
her up. You know experienced people always do say that a small dog
is the very safest thing you can have; but when Mr. Fellows comes I
shall really sleep peaceably. And now, Mrs. Henderson, you don't think
that light mauve silk of mine will be too young-looking for me?"

"No, indeed," said Eva. "Why shouldn't we all look as young as we can?"

"I haven't worn it for more than thirty years; but the silk is good as
ever, and your little dress-maker has made it over with an over-skirt,
and Dinah is delighted with it, and says it makes me look ten years
younger!"

"Oh! well I must come over and see it on you."

"Would you care?" said Mrs. Betsey, delighted. "How good you are; and
then I'll show you the toilette cushions I've been making for the
dear young ladies; and Dorcas is going to give each of them a pair of
real old India vases that have been in the family ever since we can
remember."

"Why, you'll be robbing yourselves."

"No, indeed; it would be robbing ourselves not to give something,
after all the kindness you've shown us."

And Eva went over to the neighboring house with Mrs. Betsey; and
entered into all the nice little toilette details with her; and
delighted Dinah with an invitation in person; and took a sympathizing
view of Dinah's new bonnet and shawl, which she pronounced entirely
adequate to the occasion; and thus went along, sewing little seeds of
pleasure to make her neighbors happier--seeds which were to come up in
kind thoughts and actions on their part by and by.




CHAPTER LIII.

WEDDING PRESENTS.


St. John and Angie were together, one evening, in the room that had
been devoted to the reception of the wedding presents. This room had
been Aunt Maria's pride and joy, and already it had assumed quite the
appearance of a bazar, for the family connections of the Van Arsdels
was large, and numbered many among the richer classes. Arthur's uncle,
Dr. Gracey, and the family connections through him were also people in
prosperous worldly circumstances, and remarkably well pleased with the
marriage; and so there had been a great abundance of valuable gifts.
The door-bell for the last week or two had been ringing incessantly,
and Aunt Maria had eagerly seized the parcels from the servant and
borne them to the depository, and fixed their stations with the cards
of the givers conspicuously displayed.

Of course the reader knows that there were the usual amount of
berry-spoons, and pie-knives, and crumb-scrapers; of tea-spoons and
coffee-spoons; of silver tea-services; of bracelets and chains and
studs and brooches and shawl-pins and cashmere shawls and laces.
Nobody could deny that everything was arranged so as to make the very
most of it.

Angie was showing the things to St. John, in one of those interminable
interviews in which engaged people find so much to tell each other.

"Really, Arthur," she said, "it is almost too much. Everybody is
giving to me, just at a time when I am so happy that I need it less
than ever I did in my life. I can't help feeling as if it was more
than my share."

Of course Arthur didn't think so; he was in that mood that he couldn't
think anything on land or sea was too much to be given to Angie.

"And look here," she said, pointing him to a stand which displayed a
show of needle-books and pincushions, and small matters of that kind,
"just look here--even the little girls of my sewing-class must give me
something. That needle-book, little Lottie Price made. Where she got
the silk I don't know, but it's quite touching. See how nicely she's
done it! It makes me almost cry to have poor people want to make me
presents."

"Why should we deny them that pleasure--the greatest and purest
in the world?" said St. John. "It is more blessed to give than to
receive."

"Well, then, Arthur, I'll tell you what I was thinking of. I wouldn't
