
Miss Morgan was soon ready, and the three started. The place was only a
few squares away, in a block of buildings where the stores on the lower
floor stood empty; indeed, some of them had never been rented. Up-stairs
there was one large room with three front windows, and a smaller room at
the back with a fireplace, sink and water, and a large closet.

"I have had the offer of this place rent free until spring," began the
doctor. "I have also collected fifty dollars in money and
provisions,--imprimis, one barrel of flour, one box of miscellaneous
packages, rice, barley, corn-starch, &c.,--and a second-hand range that
will be put up as soon as you decide. In return for my arduous exertion
and great benevolence, I shall call upon you now and then for meals or
delicacies for my sick and famishing."

"You are just magnificent!" declared Sylvie, in breathless pleasure.

"I am desirous of getting this experiment started; and, since we shall
have to help the poor and needy this winter, I shall put my gifts into
this. Now you must consider what you want for furnishing. Biddy McKim is
to work out a doctor's bill cleaning the place; Ward Collins will let
you have ten dollars' worth of house-furnishing goods on another bill. I
am going to look up all my bad debts to start you two women in
business!" and he laughed gayly.

"Very good," said Miss Morgan, while Sylvie's face was still blending
pleasure and astonishment.

"We are going to reform Yerbury, you see. The parsons tried their hands
last winter; and, though there was need enough of spiritual food,
there's something else required as well, while we are here in the body.
You think the rooms will do? I want you to put a large table in that
one,"--indicating the larger with his head,--"and we'll get two or
three long benches, and have a tea-party now and then. Well, Miss
Morgan, now you may take the floor. I see a crowd of ideas in your
face."

"I am going to propose that when the place is cleaned, both floors shall
be painted to begin with. Then a simple mopping up will keep them bright
and fresh. Some idle half-grown boys can do it, I am sure; or I can do
it myself--it would not be the first time."

"I'll look over my accounts, and levy on some delinquent," said the
doctor. "I like that idea."

"Can we make out a list now?"

"Why, of course. Put down about all the things you will be likely to
need, and I will have them sent if they do over run the account. Biddy
will come to-morrow, and clean. Now, you can hardly have the school open
every day unless you get more assistance, so I think I should take it at
first two days in the week."

"A very good suggestion," replied Miss Morgan.

"It might not be sufficiently attended to warrant more than that. My
experience has been that nearly every housekeeper considers herself a
finished cook."

Maverick laughed.

They discussed necessary articles of kitchen paraphernalia, and finally
walked down to Collins's store, and made their selection. Early the next
morning Bridget McKim was on the spot: the place was cleaned, the stove
put in place, the floor given one good coat of paint. Two days after,
the second one was added. Sylvie drew up a code of regulations. The
school would be open Tuesday and Friday, all day. The dinner would be
cooked and eaten; the baking, and whatever was left over, divided among
the scholars to take home. Miss Morgan was elected president, Miss Barry
vice-president, a secretary, a treasurer, and two in an advisory board.
At each session two ladies were to be present, and give instruction.

Invitations were sent to all likely to be interested. Dr. Maverick used
his strong influence wisely. The idea amused some, others wondered how
ladies like Miss Barry knew about cooking and economy.

"Let her undertake to live on the money we common folk have, and she'll
see!" exclaimed Mrs. Stixon. "Our kind don't want to learn fussin' and
fixin' of puddens and pies and such like! Good for us if we can get a
mess of biled potatoes and bacon. My gals'll get along athout any such
larnin'."

They opened one Friday morning with seven pupils; a discouraging number,
Sylvie thought, when she saw the spacious room and the nice
preparations. The bashful girls sat in a little huddle, looking very
much as if they were afraid of being laughed at.

Miss Morgan was equal to the occasion. She made a short, sensible
address, and hoped the girls who were present would interest not only
their companions, but their mothers and friends. Then she questioned
them a little. Had they ever boiled potatoes?

At this they all laughed a little foolishly, and looked as if the art of
boiling potatoes was held in rather low esteem.

"The dinner for the day," announced Miss Morgan, "will be boiled
potatoes, broiled steak, and corn-muffins. Which of you girls would like
to try the muffins?"

"I never heerd of such a thing," said one girl timidly.
