
I was appalled at the terrible sight. It was an open country, and there
were few trees to be seen, except around the houses at the plantations.
It looked like an inland sea. I saw the two men struggling in the water
at some distance from the levee. They were evidently trying to touch
bottom with their feet, but the water was over their heads.

"How deep is the water on that flat, Mr. Pilot?" I asked, not a little
excited at the idea of witnessing such a loss of life as he had
predicted.

"I should say it was from eight to ten feet deep all the way to those
plantations," he replied.

"Why don't one of the steamers waiting here go over to the assistance
of those poor people?" I inquired.

"They can't get through, and they would be swamped if they should try
it. The breach is not more than thirty feet wide, and these boats would
stick till they were torn to pieces. They are so low in the water that
it would put their fires out when they went through and fill their
holds."

I looked about the decks of both our steamers, and found that all the
passengers were on board of the Islander. I told Ben Bowman, who was on
duty in the engine-room, to put on all the steam she could safely
carry. He assured me he had enough for anything.

"Look out, Captain Blastblow, if you please, for I am going to cast
off," I called to the Islander. "Keep the ladies in a safe place. All
the Sylvanias on board!"

I went into the pilot-house, and rang to back the steamer. I kept her
moving until we were in the middle of the river. I had carefully
examined the crevasse, and I judged that the water was not more than
two feet lower on the flat than it was in the river.

"How deep is the water in the cut, Mr. Pilot?" I asked.

"Not less than eight feet; and it may be ten. You can't tell."

I stopped the Sylvania, and then rang to go ahead at full speed.

"Are you going through the crevasse?" demanded the pilot.

"I see no difficulty in doing so. Mr. Washburn, see that every opening
in the deck and deck-house is closed and securely fastened."

"It will be a ticklish business to go through that breach," said the
pilot, shaking his head.

"Would you let a hundred people drown without doing any thing to save
them?" I asked.

"Not if I could help it. I am willing to do all I can; but I shouldn't
wonder if your boat made a dive into the mud on the other side of the
levee, and stuck there."

"If she does we have two life-boats at the davits," I replied.

The Sylvania soon got up her best speed, and the pilot steered the
steamer for a point just above the crevasse. I closed the windows of
the pilot-house, and directed all hands to go on the hurricane-deck,
except the engineers and firemen.

"I think you ought to stop the engine, for she will go through quick
enough without any help," suggested the pilot.

"We must have steerage-way, or we can do nothing," I replied with quick
tones, for we were within a few fathoms of the whirl of waters that
were dashing through the crevasse. I felt the speed of the steamer
increasing, and I firmly grasped the wheel with the pilot.

"You know this boat better than I do, and this business is a little out
of my line; but I will help you all I can," said the pilot, who seemed
to be fully self-possessed, though he was not used to handling a vessel
like the Sylvania.

Washburn came into the pilot-house, after seeing that all the openings
were closed, and the ship's company disposed in safe places.

"I don't think you will have any trouble going through there, Alick,"
said the mate.

"I don't know as you will, but I wouldn't take a river-boat through
such a place unless she was insured for her full value," added the
pilot.

"No more talking, if you please," I added.

We had entered the rapid current that swept into the crevasse. It was a
thrilling moment, for the next minute would determine whether the
Sylvania was to be swamped or not. But I had a reasonable degree of
confidence in the vessel. She had always done all I expected of her,
and I could hardly conceive of her disappointing me in this instance.

The people assembled on the levee uttered a long and deep shout of
warning to us, but we had gone too far to recede even if we had been
disposed to do so. I saw the two men who had been swamped in the small
boat, still buoying themselves up with the oars; and beyond them the
