
There are doubtless people in the world who take a morbid and
unwholesome delight in the contemplation of sorrow. They can amuse
themselves for many hours in studying the effect of grief upon their
friends,--and they can even find a curious diversion in their own
troubles, so long as they can keep them far enough away to secure their
bodily comfort. They have neither the strength to sin, the honesty to be
good, nor the common sense to be happy. And so they feebly paddle in
their shallow puddles of woe, neither dry nor wet, and very muddy, when
they might just as well sit on the clean, hard ground and enjoy the
cleanliness and solidity of it, if they can enjoy nothing else. But they
will not. They will lie in the mud, and kick and scream and swear that
they are shipwrecked, when they are a hundred miles from the sea, and
would take to their heels on the first sight of it.

One of the favourite hobbies of these individuals is a mysterious thing
they call a "sweet sadness." Their ideas about sorrow are not even
artistic. They might at least understand that even the intensest grief,
apart from its causes, has no grandeur. The contemplation of sorrow is
not elevating unless it breeds a strong desire to alleviate it; nor is
the study of vice and crime in the least edifying unless it exhibits the
nobility and power of purity in a highly practical light. No vicious
criminal was ever reformed by realistic pictures of wickedness, any more
than he can be improved by daily association with other vicious
criminals. And a very little realism will throw a great ideal into the
shade, as far as most people are concerned.

Marcantonio may therefore be allowed to go to Rome without being watched
on the journey. His bitter suffering had settled about him and taken a
shape and a complexion of its own, thinking its own thoughts and acting
its own acts, without reference to the real Marcantonio, the easy,
cheerful, happy man of a few short weeks ago. It was no change of
character now, but rather the entire disappearance of the character
beneath the flood of strong passions that had come from without,
sweeping away the landmarks and beacons of all moral responsibility. One
idea had taken possession of him, and destroyed his consciousness of
good and evil, and his comprehension of the common things of life; his
body and intelligence had become the mere tools of this idea, and would
strain their strength to carry it out until one or the other gave way.
Man is said to be a free agent, and so long as he remembers the fact, he
is; but when he forgets it, the freedom is gone.

That morning, when the blow first struck him, he had still some vague
thought that there was a course to follow which should be right as well
as brave and honourable; it was the fast vanishing outline of his former
self, used always to the ways of honour; it was vague and uncertain, and
he had no time nor inclination to think about it, but it was present.
The day wore on, bringing a fuller realisation of his desperate case,
and the possibility of good in so much evil disappeared. When he was at
last in the express train on his way to Rome he was only conscious of
one thing--the determination to find Julius Batiscombe, and to kill him
ruthlessly, be the consequences what they might.

Rome looked much as usual when he at last came out of the great ugly
station upon the Piazza dei Termini. It was morning, and not yet eight
o'clock, but the pitiless August sun drove its fire through
everything--through flesh and bone and marrow of living things, through
the glaring stones and dusty trees, and even the great jet of water
looked like bright melting metal that would burn if it touched one.

But Marcantonio Carantoni was past feeling heat or cold or bodily hurt.
He did not even remember that he had a servant with him, and he
mechanically hailed a cab and was driven to his own house. They put a
telegram into his hand; it was from Diana, in answer to his of the day
before. It was briefer than his and breathed authority.

"Have left Pegli. Wait for me in Rome."

That was all. He read it stupidly over two or three times. He would not
have telegraphed to her if he had waited till to-day. Some instinct told
him that she would prevent and hinder his vengeance. Yesterday he wanted
help; to-day he wanted nothing but freedom from restraint and an
opportunity of meeting Julius Batiscombe. She would not aid him in that,
he was sure.

But she could not arrive to-day,--it was a long journey from Pegli to
Rome; he did not know exactly how long it took,--his memory would not
serve him with any details. He should have time in Rome to do the things
he meant to do, and he would go to Turin that very night and watch that
box of Batiscombe's. He would send for it, of course, wherever he was,
and the box would betray him at last, if all other means failed. But
meanwhile there were the police--there were detectives to be had, and
plenty of them; money could do much, and his high position could do
more. He would set a whole pack of sharp-scented human hounds at
Batiscombe's heels--they should find him, and bring word, never fear. He
laughed at the idea of employing the law to hunt his prey, in order that
he might bid the law defiance and destroy his man alone.

He threw down the telegram and went to his room, followed closely by his
servant, who had arrived in mad haste in a second cab, believing that
his master was going to be insane, unless he had a stroke of apoplexy,
which seemed not unlikely. The man was a skilled valet, and Marcantonio
suffered himself to be dressed and combed and smoothed, in perfect
silence; and when it was over he ate something that they brought him,
without the slightest idea of what he was doing. He knew it was yet
early, and that his business could not be done until the officials he
needed were in their offices.

No sooner had the clock struck ten, however, than he took his hat and
left the house. He found a cab, and had himself driven from one office
