was clear that the Countess and Claudius would not be brought together
until the evening. Margaret was glad of this for various reasons, some
definable and others vague. She felt that she must have misjudged
Claudius a little, and she was glad to see that her exhibition of
displeasure on the previous night had been sufficient to keep him away.
Had he been as tactless as she had at first thought, he would surely
have sought an early opportunity of speaking to her alone, and the rest
of the party were so much used to seeing them spend their mornings
together that such an opportunity would not have been lacking, had he
wished it. And if he had misunderstood her words and manner--well, if
he had not thought they were meant as a decisive check, he would have
followed her there and then, last night, when she left him. She felt a
little nervous about his future conduct, but for the present she was
satisfied, and prepared herself for the inevitable meeting at dinner
with a certain feeling of assurance. "For," said she, "I do not love him
in the least, and why should I be embarrassed?"

Not so poor Claudius, who felt the blood leave his face and rush wildly
to his heart, as he entered the saloon where the party were sitting down
to dinner. The vessel was rolling heavily, for the sea was running high
under the north-easter, and dinner would be no easy matter. He knew he
must sit next to her and help her under all the difficulties that arise
under the circumstances. It would have been easy, too, for them both to
see that the eyes of the other four were upon them, had either of them
suspected it. Claudius held himself up to the full of his great height
and steadied every nerve of his body for the meeting. Margaret belonged
to the people who do not change colour easily, and when she spoke, even
the alert ear of Mr. Barker opposite could hardly detect the faintest
change of tone. And yet she bore the burden of it, for she spoke first.

"How do you do, Dr. Claudius?"

"Thank you, well. I was sorry to hear you had a headache to-day. I hope
you are better."

"Thanks, yes; much better." They all sat down, and it was over.

The conversation was at first very disjointed, and was inclined to turn
on small jokes about the difficulty of dining at an angle of forty-five
degrees. The weather was certainly much heavier than it had been in the
morning, and the Duke feared they would have a longer passage than they
had expected, but added that they would be better able to judge
to-morrow at twelve. Claudius and Margaret exchanged a few sentences,
with tolerable tact and indifference; but, for some occult reason, Mr.
Barker undertook to be especially lively and amusing, and after the
dinner was somewhat advanced he launched out into a series of stories
and anecdotes which served very well to pass the time and to attract
notice to himself. As Mr. Barker was generally not very talkative at
table, though frequently epigrammatic, his sudden eloquence was
calculated to engage the attention of the party. Claudius and Margaret
were glad of the rattling talk that delivered them from the burden of
saying anything especial, and they both laughed quite naturally at
Barker's odd wit. They were grateful to him for what he did, and
Claudius entertained some faint hope that he might go on in the same
strain for the rest of the voyage. But Margaret pondered these things.
She saw quickly that Barker had perceived that some embarrassment
existed, and was spending his best strength in trying to make the meal a
particularly gay one. But she could not understand how Barker could have
found out that there was any difficulty. Had Claudius been making
confidences? It would have been very foolish for him to do so, and
besides, Claudius was not the man to make confidences. He was reticent
and cold as a rule, and Barker had more than once confessed to the
Countess that he knew very little of Claudius's previous history,
because the latter "never talked," and would not always answer
questions. So she came to the conclusion that Barker only suspected
something, because the Doctor had not been with her during the day. And
so she laughed, and Claudius laughed, and they were well satisfied to
pay their social obolus in a little well-bred and well-assumed hilarity.

So the dinner progressed, in spite of the rolling and pitching; for
there was a good deal of both, as the sea ran diagonally to the course,
breaking on the starboard quarter. They had reached the dessert, and two
at least of the party were congratulating themselves on the happy
termination of the meal, when, just as the Duke was speaking, there was
a heavy lurch, and a tremendous sea broke over their heads. Then came a
fearful whirring sound that shook through every plate and timber and
bulkhead, like the sudden running down of mammoth clock-work, lasting
some twenty seconds; then everything was quiet again save the sea, and
the yacht rolled heavily to and fro.

Every one knew that there had been a serious accident, but no one moved
from the table. The Duke sat like a rock in his place and finished what
he was saying, though no one noticed it. Miss Skeat clutched her silver
fruit-knife till her knuckles shone again, and she set her teeth. Mr.
Barker, who had a glass of wine in the "fiddle" before him, took it out
when the sea struck and held it up steadily to save it from being
spilled; and Lady Victoria, who was not the least ashamed of being
startled, cried out--

"Goodness gracious!" and then sat holding to the table and looking at
her brother.

Margaret and Claudius were sitting next each other on one side of the
table. By one of those strange, sympathetic instincts, that only
manifest themselves in moments of great danger, they did the same thing
at the same moment. Claudius put out his left hand and Margaret her
right, and those two hands met just below the table and clasped each
other, and in that instant each turned round to the other and looked the
other in the face. What that look told man knoweth not, but for one
instant there was nothing in the world for Margaret but Claudius. As for
