state.

Yet such is the hunger, the longing, the wild craving of the human soul
for the region of future immortality, its home-sickness for its future
home, its perishing anguish of desire for the beloved ones who have
been torn away from it, and to whom in every nerve it still throbs and
bleeds, that professed words and messages from that state, however
unworthy, are met with a trembling agony of eagerness, a willingness to
be deceived, most sorrowful to witness.

But any one who judges of the force of this temptation merely by what is
published in the Banner of Light, and other papers of that class, has
little estimate of what there is to be considered in the way of existing
phenomena under this head.

The cold scientists who, without pity and without sympathy, have
supposed that they have had under their dissecting knives the very
phenomena which have deluded their fellows, mistake. They have not seen
them, and in the cold, unsympathizing mood of science, they never can
see them. The experiences that have most weight with multitudes who
believe more than they dare to utter, are secrets deep as the grave,
sacred as the innermost fibers of their souls--they can not bring their
voices to utter them except in some hour of uttermost confidence and to
some friend of tried sympathy. They know what they have seen and what
they have heard. They know the examinations they have made they know the
inexplicable results, and, like Mary of old, they keep all these sayings
and ponder them in their hearts. They have no sympathy with the vulgar,
noisy, outward phenomena of tippings and rappings and signs and
wonders. They have no sympathy with the vulgar and profane attacks on
the Bible, which form part of the utterances of modern seers; but they
can not forget, and they can not explain things which in sacred solitude
or under circumstances of careful observation have come under their
own notice. They have no wish to make converts--they shrink from
conversation, they wait for light; but when they hear all these things
scoffed at, they think within themselves--Who knows?

We have said that the strong, unregulated, and often false
spiritualistic current of to-day is a result of the gradual departure
of Christendom from the true supernaturalism of primitive ages. We have
shown how Christ and his Apostles always regarded the invisible actors
on the stage of human existence as more powerful than the visible ones;
that they referred to their influence over the human spirit and over the
forces of nature, things which modern rationalism refers only to natural
laws. We can not illustrate the departure of modern society from
primitive faith better than in a single instance--a striking one.

The Apostles' Creed is the best formula of Christian faith--it is common
to the Greek, the Roman, the Reformed Churches, and published by our
Pilgrim Fathers in the New England Primer in connection with the
Assembly's Catechism. It contains the following profession:

  "I believe in the Holy Ghost; the Holy Catholic Church; the
  Communion of Saints; the Forgiveness of Sins," etc.

In this sentence, according to Bishop Pearson on the Creed, are
announced four important doctrines: 1. The Holy Ghost; 2. The Holy
Catholic Church; 3. The Communion of Saints; 4. The Forgiveness of Sins.

To each one of these the good Bishop devotes some twenty or thirty pages
of explanation.

But it is customary with many clergymen in reading to slur the second
and third articles together, thus: "I believe in the Holy Catholic
Church, the communion of saints"--that is to say, I believe in the Holy
Catholic Church, which is the communion of saints.

Now, in the standard edition of the English Prayer Book, and in all the
editions published from it, the separate articles of faith are divided
by semicolons--thus: "The Holy Ghost; The Holy Catholic Church; The
Communion of Saints." But in our American editions the punctuation is
altered to suit a modern rationalistic idea--thus: "The Holy Catholic
Church, the Communion of Saints."

The doctrine of the Communion of Saints, as held by primitive
Christians, and held still by the Roman and Greek Churches, is thus
dropped out of view in the modern Protestant Episcopal reading.

But what is this doctrine? Bishop Pearson devotes a long essay to it,
ending thus:

  Every one may learn by this what he is to understand by this part of
  the article in which he professeth to believe in the Communion of
  Saints.

Thereby he is conceived to express thus much:

  "I am fully persuaded of this, as a necessary and infallible truth,
  that such persons as are truly sanctified in the Church of Christ,
  while they live in the crooked generations of men and struggle with
  all the miseries of this world, have fellowship with God the Father,
  God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost ... that they partake of the
  kindness and care of the blessed angels who take delight in
  ministrations for their benefit, that ... they have an intimate
  union and conjunction with all the saints on earth as being members
  of Christ; NOR IS THIS UNION SEPARATED BY THE DEATH OF ANY, but they
  have communion with all the saints who, from the death of Abel, have
  departed this life in the fear of God, and now enjoy the presence of
  the Father, and follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.

  "And thus I believe in the Communion of Saints."
