soberly setting the dinner-table, and Miss Henny in the parlor
breathing hard behind a newspaper. Miss Penny and Cicely were
spending the day out, so the roses had to wait; but the basket was
most graciously received, also the carefully delivered message, and
the child’s heart was rejoiced by free permission to go and see “our
kind neighbor now and then, if Sister does not object.”

Rosy was in great spirits, and prattled away as they sat at dinner,
emboldened by the lady’s unusual amiability to ask all sorts of
questions, some of which proved rather embarrassing to Miss Henny,
and very amusing to Roxy, listening in the china-closet.

“I wish I had ‘spepsia,” was the abrupt remark of the small person
as her plate of drum-sticks was removed and the pudding appeared,
accompanied by the cherries.

“Why, dear?” asked Miss Henny, busily arranging the small dish of
delicate tidbits, which left little but the skeleton of the roast
fowl for the kitchen.

“Then I could have the nicest bits of chicken, and heaps of sauce on
my pudding, and the butteryest slices of toast, and ALL the cream
for my tea, as you do. It isn’t a VERY bad pain, is it?” asked Rosy,
in such perfect good faith that Miss Henny’s sudden flush and Roxy’s
hasty dive into the closet never suggested to her that this innocent
speech was bringing the old lady’s besetting sin to light in the
most open manner.

“Yes, child, it is VERY bad, and you may thank your stars that I try
to keep you from it by feeding you on plain food. At my age, and
suffering as I do, the best of everything is needed to keep up my
strength,” said Miss Henny, tartly. But the largest plate of
pudding, with “heaps of sauce,” went to the child this day, and when
the fruit was served, an unusually small portion was put away for
the invalid, who was obliged to sustain nature with frequent lunches
through the day and evening.

“I’m s’prised that you suffer much, Cousin Henny. How brave you must
be, not to cry about it, and go round in horrid pain, as you do, and
dress so nicely, and see people, and work ‘broidering, and make
calls! I hope I shall be brave if I ever DO have ‘spepsia; but I
guess I shan’t, you take such care to give me small pieces every
time.”

With which cheerful remark Rosy closed that part of the conversation
and returned to the delights of her new friend’s garden. But from
that day, among other changes which began about this time, the
child’s cup and plate were well filled, and the dread of adding to
her own sufferings seemed to curb the dyspeptic’s voracious
appetite. “A cheild was amang them takin’ notes,” and every one
involuntarily dreaded those clear eyes and that frank tongue, so
innocently observing and criticising all that went on. Cicely had
already been reminded of a neglected duty by Rosy’s reading to Miss
Penny, and tried to be more faithful in that, as in other services
which she owed the old lady. So the little missionary was evidently
getting on, though quite unconscious of her work at home, so
absorbed was she in her foreign mission; for, like many another
missionary, the savage over the way was more interesting than the
selfish, slothful, or neglected souls at home.

Miss Penny was charmed with her flowers and the friendly message
sent her, and to Rosy’s great delight went next day, in best bonnet
and gown, to make a call upon the old lady “who was poorly,” for
that appeal could not be resisted. Rosy also, in honor of the great
occasion, wore HER best hat, and a white frock so stiff that she
looked like a little opera dancer as the long black legs skipped
along the street; for it was far too grand a visit to be paid
through a hole in the wall.

In the basket were certain delicacies for the old lady, and a card
had been prepared, with the names of Miss Carey and Miss Rosamond
Carey beautifully written on it by Cis, who was dying to go, but
dared not after Rosy had told her Mr. Dover’s remark about young
ladies.

As the procession of two paused at the door, both the young and the
old heart fluttered a little, for this was the first decided step
toward reconciliation, and any check might spoil it all. The maid
stared, but civilly led these unexpected guests in and departed with
the card. Miss Penny settled herself in a large chair and looked
about with pensive interest at the familiar room. But Rosy made a
bee-line for the great tiger-skin, and regardless of her clean
frock lay down on it to examine the head, which glared at her with
yellow eyes, showing all its sharp teeth in the most delightfully
natural manner.

Mr. Dover came in with a formal bow, but Miss Penny put out both
hands, and said in her sweet old voice,--

“Let us be friends again for the sake of your mother.”

That settled the matter at once, and Mr. Thomas was so eager to do
his part that he not only shook the hands heartily, but kept them in
his as he said like an honest man,--

“My dear neighbor, I beg your pardon! I was wrong, but I’m not too
proud to own it and say I’m glad to let by-gones be by-gones for the
sake of all. Now come and see my mother; she is longing for you.”

What went on in the next room Rosy never knew or cared, for Mr.
