park, set out in the direction of the river. As he reached Second
Avenue, a train of the elevated railway flamed about an adjacent corner,
and swept like a dragon in mid-air, on, beyond, and out of sight. To the
right was a great factory, and as Tristrem continued his way through the
unfamiliar street he wondered what the people in the train, what the
factory-hands, and the dwellers in the neighborhood would say if they
could surmise his errand. The river was yet some distance away. It was
such a pity, he told himself, such a pity, that he had not accepted the
invitation of the sea. That would have been so much better, so much
surer, and so much more discreet. And then he fell to wondering about
his grandfather, and his heart was filled with anguish. He would have
done anything to save that old man from pain. But it was too late now. A
gas-jet that lighted a wide and open door attracted his attention; he
looked in, the building seemed empty as a lecture-hall. After all, he
decided, perhaps that would be best.

Half an hour later, Tristrem Varick was the occupant of a room that was
not as large as one of the closets in his grandfather's house. The
furniture consisted of a wooden bench. The sole fixture was an apparatus
for drawing water. The floor was tiled and the upper part of the walls
was white; the lower, red. The room itself was very clean. There was no
window, and the door, which was of grated iron, had been locked from
without. From an adjoining cell, a drunken harlot rent the night with
the strain of a maudlin ditty.




XVII.


It was some little time before the powers that are could be convinced
that Tristrem Varick was guilty of the self-accused murder. It was not
that murders are rare, but a murder such as that was tolerably uncommon.
The sergeant who presided over the police-station in which Tristrem had
delivered himself up was a mild-mannered man, gentle of voice, and
sceptical as a rag-picker. He received Tristrem's statement without
turning a hair.

"What did you do it for?" he asked, and when Tristrem declined to enter
into any explanation, he smiled with affable incredulity. "I can, if you
insist," he said, "accommodate you with a night's lodging." And he was
as good as his word; but the cell which Tristrem subsequently occupied
was not opened for him until the sergeant was convinced that death had
really visited the precinct.

Concerning the form in which that death had come, there was at first no
doubt. Weldon had been found stretched lifeless on a sofa. The physician
who was then summoned made a cursory examination, and declared that
death was due to disease of the heart. Had Tristrem held his tongue,
that verdict, in all probability, would never have been questioned;
indeed, it was not until the minuter autopsy which Tristrem's statement
instigated that the real cause was discovered.

It was then that it began to be admitted that violence had been used,
but as to whether that violence was accidental or intentional, and if
intentional, whether or not it was premeditated, was a matter which,
according to our archaic law, twelve men in a pen could alone decide.
The case was further complicated by a question of sanity. Granting that
some form of manslaughter had been committed, was it the act of one in
full possession of his faculties, or was it the act of one bereft of his
senses?

Generally speaking, public opinion inclined to the latter solution.
Indeed, there seemed to be but one other in any way tenable, and that
was, that the blow was self-inflicted. This theory had many partisans.
The records, if not choked, are well filled with the trials of
individuals who have confessed to crimes of which they were utterly
guiltless. It was discovered that a recent slump in Wall Street had
seriously affected Weldon's credit. It was known that his manner of
living had compelled his wife to return to her father's house, and it
was shown that she had begun an action for divorce. It seemed,
therefore, possible that he had taken his own life in Tristrem's
presence, and that Tristrem, in the horror of the spectacle, had become
mentally unhinged.

In addition to this, there was against Tristrem--aside, of course, from
the confession--barely a scintilla of evidence. The very instrument
which was found on his person, and with which he declared the murder had
been committed, was said not to belong to him. A servant of Weldon's
thought she had once seen it in the possession of her late master. And
it was argued that Tristrem had caught it up when it fell from the hand
of the dead, and, in the consternation of the moment, had thrust it in
his own pocket. Moreover, as suicides go, there was in Weldon's case a
tangible excuse. He was on the edge of bankruptcy, and his matrimonial
venture was evidently infelicitous. His life was an apparent failure.
Many other men have taken their own lives for causes much minor.

The theory of suicide was therefore not untenable, and those who
preferred to believe that a murder had been really committed were at a
loss for a motive. Tristrem and Weldon were known to have been on terms
of intimacy. Tristrem had been absent from the country a number of
months, while Weldon had steadfastly remained in New York. During the
intervening period it was impossible to conjecture the slightest cause
of disagreement. And yet, no sooner did the two men have the opportunity
of meeting, than one fell dead, and the other gave himself up as his
murderer. And if that murder had been really committed, then what was
the motive?

This was the point that particularly perplexed the District Attorney. It
