with his ship in a storm after rescuing all his crew, even to the
cabin-boy.  I’m proud of Bob, and keep those two great pearly shells in
memory of him, for he brought them to me after his first voyage."

Aunt Pen’s eyes lit up, and her voice rose as she spoke with real pride
and affection of honest Captain Brown, who to her was always little Bob.

"I like that, it was so brave and good; but I do wish he had been saved,
for then I could have seen him.  And maybe he would have brought me a
big green parrot that could say funny things.  What became of Gus?"
asked Alice, after a moment spent in the delightful thought of owning a
green parrot with a red tail.

"Ah, my dear, I wish I knew!" exclaimed Aunt Pen, so earnestly that
Alice dropped her work, astonished at the change in that usually quiet
face.

"Don’t tell any more if you ’d rather not," said the little girl,
feeling instinctively that she had touched some tender string.

But Aunt Pen only stroked her curly head and went on in a softer tone,
with her eyes fixed upon a faded picture that had hung over her
work-table ever since Alice could remember.

"I like to tell you, dear, because I want you to love the memory of this
old friend of mine. Gus went to sea also, much against his mother’s
will, for the years spent in the little house near the wharf had given
the boy a taste for salt water, and he could not overcome it, though he
tried.

"He sailed with Captain Bob all round the world, and would have been
with him on that last voyage if a sudden whim had not kept him ashore.
More than this we don’t know; and for seven years have had no tidings of
him. The others give him up, feeling sure that he was lost in the wild
hill-country of India, whither he went in search of adventures.  I
suppose they are right; but I cannot make it true, and still hope to
see the dear boy back, or at least to hear some news of him."

"Would n’t he be rather an old boy now, Aunt Pen?" asked Alice, softly;
for she wanted to chase away the load of pain with a smile if she could.

"Bless my heart, so he would!  Forty, at least.  Well, well, he never
will seem old to me, though his hair should be gray when he comes home."
And Aunt Pen did smile as her eyes went back to the faded picture with a
tender look that made Alice say timidly, while she laid her blooming
cheek against her aunt’s hand,--

"Would you mind if I asked if it was Gus who gave you this pretty ring,
and was your sweetheart once?  Mamma told me you had one, and he was
dead; so I must never ask why you did n’t marry as she did."

"Yes, he gave me this, and was to come back in a year or two; but I have
never seen him since, and never shall, I fear, till we all meet over the
great sea at last."

There Aunt Pen broke down, and spreading her hands before her face, sat
so still that Alice feared to stir.

Even her careless child’s heart was full of pity now; and two great
tears rolled down upon the little blanket, to lie sparkling like drops
of dew in the heart of the very remarkable red rose she was working in
the middle.

Then it was that Ariadne distinguished herself, and proved beyond a
doubt that her blue china eyes were worth something.  A large, brown,
breezy-looking man had been peeping in from the door for several
moments, and listening in the most improper manner.  No one saw him but
Ariadne, and how could she warn the others, poor thing, when she had n’t
a tongue in her head?  Don’t tell me that dolls have n’t hearts
somewhere in their sawdust bosoms!  I know better; and I am firmly
convinced that Ariadne’s was full of sympathy for Aunt Pen; else why
should she, a well-bred doll, suddenly and without the least apparent
cause, slip out of her chair and fall upon her china nose with a loud
whack?

Alice jumped up to catch her darling, and Aunt Pen lifted her head to
see what was the matter, and the big brown man, giving his hat a toss,
came into the room like a whirlwind!

Alice, Ariadne, bedstead, and blanket, were suddenly swept into a corner
by some mysterious means, and lay there in a heap, while the two grown
people fell into each other’s arms, exclaiming,--

"Pen!"

"Gus!"

I don’t know which stared the hardest at this dreadful proceeding, Alice
or Ariadne, but I do know that every one was very happy afterward, and
that the precious little bedstead was not smashed, for I have seen it
with my own eyes.









