
"I do not think of you as I did," he said. "That is the greatest change
of all."

Laura did not answer. She leaned back in her seat, and looked across the
room.

"I never thought it would come," he said. "For years I honourably
believed I could be your friend. I know, now, that I cannot. I love you
far too deeply--with far too little right."

Still Laura did not speak. But she turned her face from him, laying her
cheek against the silken cushion behind her.

"Perhaps I am doing very wrong in telling you this," said Ghisleri,
trying to steady his voice. "But I made up my mind that it was better,
and more honest. I do not believe that you love me, that you ever can
love me in the most distant future of our lives. I am prepared for that.
I will not trouble you with my love. I will never speak of it again--for
I can never hope to win you. But at least you know the truth."

Slowly Laura turned her face again and her eyes met his. There was a
deep, warm light in them. She seemed to hesitate. Then the words came
sharply, in a loud, clear voice, unlike her own, as though the great
secret had burst every barrier and had broken out against her will by
its own strength, sudden, startling, new to herself and to the man who
heard it.

"I love you now!"

Ghisleri turned as deadly pale as when Gianforte's bullet had so nearly
gone through his heart. The words rang out in the quiet room with an
intensity and distinctness of tone not to be described. He had not even
guessed that she might love him. For one moment they looked at one
another, both white with passion, both trembling a little, the black
eyes and the blue both gleaming darkly. Then Ghisleri took the two hands
that were stretched out to meet his own, and each felt that the other's
were very cold. As though by a common instinct they both rose, and stood
a moment face to face. Then his arms went round her. He did not know
until long afterwards that when he kissed her he lifted her from the
ground.

It had all been sudden, strange, and unlike anything in his whole life,
unexpected beyond anything that had ever happened to him. Perhaps it was
so with her, too. They remembered little of what they said in those
first moments, but by and by, as they sat side by side on the sofa,
words came again.

"I knew it when you went away last summer," said Ghisleri. "And then I
thought I should never tell you."

"And I found it out when I left you," answered Laura. "I found that I
could not live without you and be happy. Did you guess nothing when I
made you come to me yesterday? Yesterday--only yesterday! It seems like
last year. Did you think it was mere friendship?"

"Yes, I thought it was that and nothing more--but such friendship as I
had never dreamed of."

"Nor any one else, perhaps," said Laura, with a happy smile. "For I
would have come, you know, in spite of every one. What would you have
done then, I wonder?"

"Then? Do not speak of yesterday. What could I have done? Could I have
told you that I loved you with such an accusation hanging over me? No,
you know that. It was only yesterday that I asked you to let me leave
you rather suddenly--did you not guess the reason?"

"I thought you were ill--no--well, it crossed my mind that you might be
a little, just a little, in love with me." She laughed.

"I felt ill afterwards. I was horrified when I thought how nearly I had
spoken."

"And why should you not have spoken, if it was in your heart?" asked
Laura, taking his hand again. "Why should you have thought, even for a
moment, that I could care what people said. You are you, and I am I,
whether the world is with us or against us. And I think, dear, that we
shall need the world very little now. Perhaps it will change its mind
and pretend it needs us."

"There is no doubt of that. It always happens so. Why should we care?"
He paused a moment, then, as his eyes met hers, the great dominating
passion broke out again: "Ah--darling--heart's heart--beloved! There are
not words to tell you how I love you and bless you, and worship you with
all my soul. What can I say, what can I do, to make you understand?"

"Love me, dear," she said, "and be faithful, as I will be." And their
lips met again.

They loved well and truly. Strange, some may say, that a love of that
good kind should have begun in friendship on the one side, and
indifference if not dislike on the other. But neither had understood
the other at all in the beginning. The world-tired and world-weary man
had not guessed at the real woman who lived so humanly, and could love
so passionately, and whom nature had clothed with such saint-like, holy
beauty as to make her seem a creature above all earthly feeling and all
mortal weakness. Her eyes had seemed fixed on far-distant, heavenly
sights, gazing upon the world only to wonder at its vanity and to loathe
its uncleanness. Her best and her greatest thoughts had been, he
