
“Never mind your little clock. I must be going down town at once, and I
wish to speak to you. I can’t wait three quarters of an hour.”

“No--of course not.”

“Well--can’t I come in? Aren’t you visible?”

“No. Certainly not. You can’t come in. I’m brushing--my hair. I always
brush it--ten minutes.”

“Katharine--this is absurd!” cried Alexander, becoming exasperated. “Put
on something and open the door.”

“No. I can’t just--now.” Her phrases were interrupted by the process of
vigorous brushing. “Besides--you can talk through the door. I can
hear--every word--you say. Can’t you hear me?”

“Yes, I can hear you. But I don’t wish to say what I have to say in the
hearing of the whole house.”

“Oh!” The soft sound of the brushing ceased. “In that case I’d rather
not hear it at all.”

“Katharine!” Alexander felt all his anger of the previous day rising
again.

“Yes--what is it?” She seemed to have come nearer to the door.

“I told you. I wish to speak to you.”

“Yes--I know. But you can’t unless you’ll say it through the door.”

“Katharine! Don’t exasperate me!”

“I’m not trying to. I understood that you didn’t wish to see me for some
days. If you’d sent me word, I should have been ready to receive you. As
it is, I can’t.”

“You know perfectly well that you can, in ten minutes, if you please. I
shall send your mother to you.”

“Oh--very well. I’ve not seen her this morning. But you’d better not
wait till I’m dressed. It will take a long time.”

“Very well,” answered Alexander Junior, who had completely lost his
temper by this time.

A moment later Katharine heard the sharp click of the lock, and the
rattle as the key was withdrawn. She never used it, having a bolt on the
inside.

“You are at liberty to take all day if you please,” said her father. “I
have the key in my pocket. Good morning.”

Katharine’s lips parted in astonishment, as she turned her eyes towards
the door, and she stood staring at it for a moment in speechless
indignation, realizing that she was locked in for the day. Then,
suddenly, her expression changed, and she laughed aloud. Alexander was
already far down the stairs.

But presently she realized that the situation was serious, or, at all
events, something more than annoying. She was to be shut up at least
until after five o’clock in the afternoon, all alone, without food or
drink, without the books she wanted, and without any one with whom to
exchange a few words. Her face became grave as she finished dressing.
She knew also that her father had lost his temper again, and she did not
care to have all the servants know it.

She rang the bell, and waited by the door till she heard the maid’s
footsteps outside.

“Ask my mother to come here a moment, Jane,” she said. “Say that it’s
important.”

A few moments later Mrs. Lauderdale turned the handle of the lock.

“Is that you, mother?” asked Katharine.

“Yes. The door’s locked. I can’t open it.”

“This is serious,” said Katharine, speaking in a low voice, close to the
panel. “Papa’s locked it and taken the key down town with him. Didn’t he
tell you?”

“No--it’s impossible, child! You must have slipped the bolt inside.”

“But, mother, he said he meant to, and I heard him do it. He got angry
because I wouldn’t let him in. I couldn’t then, for I wasn’t dressed,
and Jane’s putting a new ribbon on my dressing-gown, so I haven’t even
got that. But I didn’t want to. Never mind that--I’ll tell you by and
by. The question is how I’m to get out! Unless he didn’t quite mean it,
and has left the key on the table in the entry, with the latch-key. You
might look.”

Mrs. Lauderdale went downstairs and searched for the key, but in vain.
Katharine was locked in.



