“We’ll talk it over while we are going to heaven,” he said with grave
sweetness, glancing at his watch and amazed at the lateness. “I will
bring you Christiana, and when you have read that I can explain many
things to you. I shall have to go now. Tell me how to find Barker’s
Court when I come back.”

“You won’t like it,” Dil exclaimed sharply. “It’s dirty an’ horrid, full
of women washing clo’es, an’ drunken people, an’ swearin’. Oh, let me
bring Bess over here. And the picture—”

“You shall have that. But I can’t tell just when I shall be able to
come. Never fear but I’ll find you. Here is something because you and
Bess posed.”

It was a five-dollar note. Dil drew back in dismay.

“O mister, I couldn’t take it. I’m afeard some one’d think I stole it—so
much money!”

He changed the bill into smaller ones. Then he slipped it into the bag
of fruit.

“This is Bess’s bank,” he said, with a friendly, trusty smile. “When she
wants any delicacies, you must spend the money for them. It is Bess’s
secret, and you must not tell any one.”

He thrust the bag at the foot of the shabby carriage, and then pressed
both hands.

“You’re so lovely, so splendid,” sighed Bess.

He picked up three withered buds—had some hands very dear to him held
them?

“Good-by. I shall find Barker’s Court and you, never fear.” Then he
plunged into the crowd, not daring to look back. What a week it had
been, beginning with sorrow and loss, and—had he found the Master? Had
these strange, brave little heathens, who knew not God, opened his eyes
and his heart to that better way?




IV—THE DELIGHTS OF WEALTH


The children sat there in a maze of bewilderment. They knew nothing of
fairy godmothers, or Santa Claus, or the dainty myths of childhood. Four
years Bess had been in prison, twice four years Dilsey Quinn had been a
bound slave. Not that Mrs. Quinn had been hard above all mothers. In the
next house there were two little girls who sat and sewed from daylight
to dark, and had no Saturday even, the age of Owen and Bess. Barker’s
Court was an industrious place for children, at least. If they could
have played when the men were sleeping off orgies, or the women
gossiping, they would have had many a respite from toil.

This wonderful thing that had befallen Bess and Dil was so beyond any
event that had ever happened before, and their imaginations were so
limited, they could never have dreamed such a romance. John Travis had
disappeared in the throng. But there was the bag of fruit, and the sweet
knowledge that nothing could take away.

The roar of vehicles had grown less. Pedestrians were thinning out, for
supper-time was drawing nigh. The shadows were lengthening; the wind had
a certain grateful coolness. Still they sat as in a trance. The “cop”
had received a “tip” to keep a kindly watch over them, but he would have
done it without any reward.

“Dil!” The soft voice broke the hush, for it was as if they two were
alone in the crowd.

The little fingers closed over the firm brown ones. They looked at each
other for some moments with grave, wondering eyes. Then Dil rose
soberly, settled Bess anew, and pushed the wagon along. The paper bag
lay in plain sight, but no one molested it.

Dil began to come back to her narrow, practical world. Heaven, as John
Travis had put it, was something for Bess rather than herself. It was
too great a feast to sit down to all at once. And Dil was not much used
to feasting, even playing at it with bits of broken crockery and
make-believes, as so many children do. They left the enchanted country
behind them, and returned to more familiar sights and sounds. Still, the
delicious fragrance of the pears, the flavor of the peaches, the
sweetness of the candy, was so much beyond the treats over on the East
Side.

“Bess,” she said, stopping at a show window on the avenue, “jes’ look at
the caps an’ things. Do you s’pose it’s real money in the bag? For it’s
yours, an’ you do need a new cap. That old one’ll hardly hold together.
If some one doesn’t give mammy a pile of things pritty soon, you’ll have
to go naked.”

They both laughed. “O Dil! wasn’t it splendid?” and Bess turned her head
around, as if she might still see their beneficent friend.

“Let me feel in my bank,” she said.

Dil handed her the bag, full of fruity fragrance. She drew out a bill
with a fearful little gesture.

