
"Will Tony come, do you think?" asked the latter.

"I told him this morning to be sure and come. I hope he will."

"Do you think your father will let him continue to belong to the club?"
asked Charles.

"Certainly he will! Why not?"

"Only think of it--taken up for stealing!"

"Do you believe he is guilty?"

"They wouldn't put him in jail if he wasn't, it isn't likely."

"But he hasn't been tried yet."

"No; but then to think that the wallet was found in his pocket."

"I don't believe he is guilty any more than I believe I am," replied
Frank warmly.

"Nor I; but----"

"But what, Charley?"

"Things look so against him."

"I am afraid Tim Bunker knows more about it than he chooses to tell."

"Don't you remember Tony didn't want us to meddle with it, and said we
had better tell Farmer Whipple it was there rather than touch it
ourselves?" added Charles, looking earnestly into the face of his
companion.

"I know Tony wouldn't steal it."

"He might."

"I am surprised to hear you say so, Charley," said Frank, hurt by the
doubts of his friend.

"He might have thought that Farmer Whipple would never find him out."

"That wouldn't have made any difference with Tony."

"He might have thought, too, how much good the money would do his
mother."

"Tony never could have thought that stolen money would do his mother
any good."

"Perhaps he did not think anything about the wickedness of the act."

"Is it possible, Charley, that you have so poor an opinion of Tony as
that? I shouldn't think you would wish to associate with him now."

"I don't know," said Charles, apparently absorbed by his own thoughts.
"Do you think we ought to have him in the club till after this thing is
settled?"

"Why, Charley! You can't think how it hurts my feelings to hear you
talk so."

"What do you suppose your father will say about it?"

"I know what he will say; he believes Tony is entirely innocent."

"Oh, if he does, we ought not to say a word," replied Charles
promptly. "Only, you know, he said so much about the club being a means
of improvement as well as amusement."

Frank could not understand the thoughts of his friend; but his father,
who had been instructing the workmen in regard to the boat-house,
joined them soon after, and the question was referred to him, with a
statement of Charles's views.

Captain Sedley looked into Charles's eye searchingly.

"You think Tony ought to be excluded from the club, do you?" asked he.

"No, sir; I don't think so; but I didn't know but you might think
so," replied Charles, confused by the earnestness of Captain Sedley's
glance.

"Charles, I am afraid you have not made your mind up in regard to the
question. You are willing to believe anything that will please those
whom you wish to conciliate."

"I want to believe the truth."

"You are not so particular about the truth as you are about suiting
your friends."

Captain Sedley had had a great deal of experience in reading the
characters of men; and he readily perceived that Charles desired to be
foremost in condemning evil, for the purpose of getting the good will
of others. It was a dangerous state of mind, for with the Bunkers he
would probably have been just as forward in a bad cause. His motive was
