
'Why did you not tell me, father?' asked the girl.

'It might have given you pain, my child. And then, one does not say
everything one knows. One forgets many things. He slept at the house of
Don Taddeo, the grocer.'

'Where is he now? Is he still here?'

'Who shall say where he is? Heaven knows where he is. I cannot know
everything.'

He answered with a little irritation, for he understood that Concetta
wished to see her dead lover's brother, and he could not understand how
any good could come of the meeting.

Concetta rose slowly to her feet and came out from behind the counter.
She had grown very thin, but she was not less beautiful. She drew her
black shawl together under her chin, and it fell over her forehead to
her eyes. There was no disguise in it, for everyone knew her, but she
felt that it gave her some privacy in her grief, even in broad day and
in the street.

'I go to breathe the air,' she said quietly, moving towards the door.

'Go, my daughter, you need it,' answered the apothecary.

He watched her sadly, and as she went out he moved to the entrance of
the shop and looked after her. Tall, sad, and black, and graceful, she
walked smoothly along the shady side of the street, which was deserted
in the blazing noon. Don Atanasio did not go in again till she had
turned the corner and was out of sight.

She found the grocer's brother, the fat and cross-eyed sacristan, eating
dark brown beans out of an earthen bowl with an iron fork, in the open
shop. No one else was there. It was a cool, vaulted place, with a floor
of beaten cement and volcanic ashes, and a number of big presses in a
row behind a long walnut counter, black and polished with age. Hams and
sides of bacon hung from the ceiling, and the air smelt of salt pork,
cereals, and candles. The fat man sat on a bench, in his shirt sleeves,
eating his beans with a sort of slow voracity. He looked up as
Concetta's shadow darkened the door.

'Will you accept?' he asked, lifting his earthen bowl a little as he
spoke.

'Thank you, and good appetite,' answered the girl. 'How are you?'

'Always to serve you, most gentle Concetta,' said the man. 'What do you
need?'

'Eat,' replied Concetta, sitting down upon a rush-bottom chair. 'I do
not come to disturb you. Are you all alone?' She peered into the shadows
at the back of the shop.

'Eh, you know how it is? Taddeo eats and then goes to sleep, and while
he sleeps I keep the shop. In truth, it needs no great merchant to do
that, for no one comes at this hour.'

'And you and your brother do not eat together?'

'Generally we do, but to-day, who knows how it was? He ate first and
went to sleep. Then I brought my beans here for company. This is our
conversation. I open my mouth, and before I can speak the beans answer
me. This I call, indeed, conversation.'

'And Francesco Pagliuca, with whom does he converse upstairs?' asked
Concetta, lowering her voice.

The man looked up quickly, with his mouth full, as though to see whether
she were in earnest and knew the truth. A glance convinced him that she
did.

'He went to Randazzo at dawn,' he said, almost in a whisper. 'He makes
love with the notary's daughter there.'

Concetta did not believe that this could be the only reason for
Francesco's return.

'Why does he not stay at Randazzo, then?' she enquired. 'Why should he
come here at all? It is a long way.'

'Perhaps he is afraid of Basili's friends,' suggested the fat man. 'Or
he prefers to sleep here because the air is better. He will certainly
not tell us why he comes.'

'Is he coming back this evening?'

'I think so, for he has a box here with his clothes, and other things.
But for charity's sake, tell no one.'

'I?' Concetta laughed in a cold way, without a smile. 'I wish to warn
him that the soldiers know he was in Randazzo yesterday, and are looking
out for him.'

She told the man of the lieutenant's visit to her father's shop, and he
listened attentively.

'I could wait for him in the road,' he said. 'He thought that the
soldiers would not know him here, because they are all new men. But they
