
The villages increased in number and in size as the ship approached the
city; though they were about the same thing, except that in the larger
ones the temple was a handsomer structure.

"How far is it from the sea to Saigon?" asked Bangs, speaking to the
pilot for the first time; but the Frenchman could not understand him,
and the quartermaster called Louis in, who repeated the question in
French.

"Sixty miles if you go one way; thirty-five by another," Louis
translated the reply.

"That may account for the difference in the distance given in the
books," said the captain, who was in the pilot-house. "But the
information we obtain from what are considered the authorities is so
various on the same subject that I don't know where the fault is."

"This is the largest village we have seen," said Louis to the pilot in
French.

"Yes, sir; and the next place is Saigon," replied the Frenchman; but he
was so much occupied with his duty that he would not talk much, even in
his own language.

The city was soon in sight, and the pilot began to feel about for the
bell-pull. He spoke to Louis, and the quartermaster was told to ring the
speed-bell. A little later, off the town, the gong sounded for the screw
to stop. The anchor was all ready, was let go, and the steamer swung
round to her cable. The Blanche had not so readily obtained a pilot as
her consort, and she was an hour behind her in arriving.

The Guardian-Mother was surrounded by boats as soon as she was at rest,
but the boatmen kept their distance till the port physician and the
custom-house officials came on board. Both ships passed the ordeal of
the examination, and the boats closed up. They were manned by all sorts
of people, and they were in all sorts of craft. The captain said that
most of them were Chinese sampans, and the boatmen were of the same
nation.

"There comes the Blanchita!" exclaimed Felix, who was walking about the
deck with his spy-glass under his arm.

"They got her overboard in a very short time," said the captain, who had
joined the company on the promenade. "I am glad she is coming, for I
desire to see the general."

The gangway had already been rigged out; and the launch came alongside
the platform, containing General Noury, his wife, the rajah, Captain and
Mrs. Sharp, Dr. Henderson, the surgeon of the Blanche, and the French
maid of the princess. They were warmly greeted on the platform by the
commander and Louis, and the ladies were assisted from the boat. They
mounted to the deck; and the usual hugging, kissing, and handshaking
followed in the boudoir.

"I am glad you have come, General Noury," said Captain Ringgold, after
he had shaken hands with everybody. "We have been shut up on shipboard
for some time now; and as we have come to a French city, I propose to
take my party to a hotel for a day or two. Of course you can do as you
please, General."

"I like the idea, Captain, if there is a decent hotel here," replied the
pacha. "What do you think, Zuleima?" he asked, turning to his wife.

"I like it very much; and the hotel cannot be any worse than some we
have lived in on our yacht voyages," replied the princess.

"Here is the medical officer, and he can tell us something about the
hotels," suggested the commander.

The doctor was consulted by the general in French, and he said the HÃ´tel
de l'Europe was very good. The entire party of both ships were invited
to go on shore, and remain at the hotel. All of them accepted, including
Captain Sharp and his wife. Those on board the Guardian-Mother went
below to prepare for the shore, and the Blanchita returned to the
Blanche for the same purpose. The gentlemen were on deck again in a few
minutes.

"A visitor to see you, Mr. Scott," said a seaman, approaching the third
officer as he came from the cabin.

"Captain Rayburn!" exclaimed Scott as soon as he caught sight of the
visitor. "I am very glad to see you, Captain;" and the young officer
grasped his hand.

"I am quite as pleased to see you, Captain Scott, though I hardly knew
you," replied the English captain.

"I am no longer captain, though I am the third officer of this ship; and
I did not wear my uniform when I met you at Kuching."

"How are the rest of your party?" inquired the captain of the Delhi.

"Very well, and here they are."

"I am delighted to see you on board of your own ship, Mr. Belgrave,"
said Captain Rayburn, rushing to the young millionaire as he came on
deck with his bag in his hand.

Felix and Morris soon appeared, and gave the captain a hearty greeting.
