critically.

"The ribbons stick up too much, don’t they?" she asked, speaking to Miss
Wimpole, and quite forgetting Archie Harmon’s presence.  "Yes, of course
they do!  The ribbons stick up too much," she repeated to the milliner
in French.

A brilliant idea had struck Archie Harmon. He was already at the desk,
where a young woman in black received the payments of passing customers
with a grieved manner.

"She says the ribbons stick up too much," he said to the person at the
desk.  "You get them to stick up just right, will you?  The way she
wants them.  How much did you say the hat was?  Eighty francs?  There it
is.  Just say that it’s paid for, when she asks for the bill."

The young woman in black raked in the note and the bits of gold he gave
her, catching them under her hard, thin thumb on the edge of the desk,
and counting them as she slipped them into her little drawer.  She
looked rather curiously at Archie, and there was still some surprise in
her sour face when he was already on the pavement outside.  He stopped
under the awning again, and peered through the window for a last look at
the grey figure before the mirror, but he fled precipitately when Sylvia
turned as though she were going to look at him.  He was thoroughly
delighted with himself.  It was just what Colonel Wimpole had done about
the miniature, he thought; and then, a hat was so much more useful than
a piece of painted ivory.

In a quarter of an hour he was in his own room again, sitting quite
quietly on a chair by the window, and thinking how happy he was, and how
pleased Sylvia must be by that time.

But Sylvia’s behaviour when she found out what he had done would have
damped his innocent joy, if he had been looking through the windows of
the shop, instead of sitting in his own room.  Her father, the admiral,
had a hot temper, and she had inherited some of it.

"Impertinent young idiot!" she exclaimed, when she realized that he had
actually paid for the hat, and the angry blood rushed to her face. "What
in the world--"  She could not find words.

"He is half-witted, poor boy," interrupted Miss Wimpole.  "Take the hat,
and I will manage to give his mother the money."

"Betty Foy and her idiot boy over again!" said Sylvia, with all the
brutal cruelty of extreme youth.  "’That all who view the idiot in his
glory’--"  As the rest of the quotation was not applicable, she stopped
and stamped her little foot in speechless indignation.

"The young gentleman doubtless thought to give Mademoiselle pleasure,"
suggested the milliner, suavely.  "He is doubtless a relation--"

"He is not a relation at all!" exclaimed Sylvia in English, to Miss
Wimpole.  "My relations are not idiots, thank Heaven!  And it’s the only
one of all those hats that I could wear!  Oh, Aunt Rachel, what shall I
do?  I can’t possibly take the thing, you know!  And I must have a hat.
I’ve come all the way from Japan with this old one, and it isn’t fit to
be seen."

"There is no reason why you should not take this one," said Miss
Wimpole, philosophically. "I promise you that Mrs. Harmon shall have the
money by to-night, since she is here.  Your Uncle Richard will go and
see her at once, of course, and he can manage it.  They are on terms of
intimacy," she added rather primly, for Helen Harmon was the only person
in the world of whom she had ever been jealous.

"You always use such dreadfully correct language, Aunt Rachel," answered
the young girl. "Why don’t you say that they are old friends? ’Terms of
intimacy’ sounds so severe, somehow."

"You seem impatient, my dear," observed Miss Wimpole, as though stating
a fact about nature.

"I am," answered Sylvia.  "I know I am. You would be impatient if an
escaped lunatic rushed into a shop and paid for your gloves, or your
shoes, or your hat, and then rushed off again, goodness knows where.
Wouldn’t you? Don’t you think I am right?"

"You had better tell them to send the hat to the hotel," suggested Aunt
Rachel, not paying the least attention to Sylvia’s appeal for
justification.

"If I must take it, I may as well wear it at once, and look like a human
being," said Sylvia. "That is, if you will really promise to send Mrs.
Harmon the eighty francs at once."

"I promise," answered Miss Wimpole, solemnly, and as she had never
broken her word in her life, Sylvia felt that the difficulty was at an
end.

The milliner smiled sweetly, and bowed them out.

"All the same," said Sylvia, as she walked up the street with the pretty
hat on her head, "it is an outrageous piece of impertinence. Idiots
ought not to be allowed to go about alone."

"I should think you would pity the poor fellow," said Miss Wimpole, with
a sort of severe kindliness, that was genuine but irritating.

"Oh yes!  I will pity him by and by, when I’m not angry," answered the
