“Perhaps I shall dream of something,” I said more lightly than I felt.
“How would it do for you to have a little talk with her—a little motherly
talk—and hint round, and warn her not to let her feelings run away with
her in Kendricks’s direction?”  Mrs. March faced her book down in her
lap, and listened as if there might be some reason in the nonsense I was
talking.  “You might say that he was a society man, and was in great
request, and then intimate that there was a prior attachment, or that he
was the kind of man who would never marry, but was really cold-hearted
with all his sweetness, and merely had a passion for studying character.”

“Do you think that would do, Basil?” she asked.

“Well, I thought perhaps you might think so.”

“I’m afraid it wouldn’t,” she sighed.

“All that we can do now is to watch them, and act promptly, if we see
that they are really in love, either of them.”

“I don’t believe,” I said, “that I should know that they were in love
even if I saw it.  I have forgotten the outward signs, if I ever knew
them.  Should he give her flowers?  He’s done it from the start; he’s
brought her boxes of Huyler candy, and lent her books; but I dare say
he’s been merely complying with our wishes in doing it.  I doubt if
lovers sigh nowadays.  I didn’t sigh myself, even in my time; and I don’t
believe any passion could make Kendricks neglect his dress.  He keeps his
eyes on her all the time, but that may be merely an effort to divine her
character.  I don’t believe I should know, indeed I don’t.”

“I shall,” said Mrs. March.




XIV


WE were to go the next day to the races, and I woke with more anxiety
about the weather than about the lovers, or potential lovers.  But after
realising that the day was beautiful, on that large scale of loveliness
which seems characteristic of the summer days at Saratoga, where they
have them almost the size of the summer days I knew when I was a boy, I
was sensible of a secondary worry in my mind, which presently related
itself to Kendricks and Miss Gage.  It was a haze of trouble merely,
however, such as burns off, like a morning fog, when the sun gets higher,
and it was chiefly on my wife’s account.

I suppose that the great difference between her conscience and one
originating outside of New England (if any conscience can originate
outside of New England) is that it cannot leave the moral government of
the universe in the hands of divine Providence.  I was willing to leave
so many things which I could not control to the Deity, who probably could
that she accused me of fatalism, and I was held to be little better than
one of the wicked because I would not forecast the effects of what I did
in the lives of others.  I insisted that others were also probably in the
hands of the somma sapienza e il primo amore, and that I was so little
aware of the influence of other lives upon my own, even where there had
been a direct and strenuous effort to affect me, that I could not readily
believe others had swerved from the line of their destiny because of me.
Especially I protested that I could not hold myself guilty of misfortunes
I had not intended, even though my faulty conduct had caused them.  As to
this business of Kendricks and Miss Gage, I denied in the dispute I now
began tacitly to hold with Mrs. March’s conscience that my conduct had
been faulty.  I said that there was no earthly harm in my having been
interested by the girl’s forlornness when I first saw her; that I did not
do wrong to interest Mrs. March in her; that she did not sin in going
shopping with Miss Gage and Mrs. Deering; that we had not sinned, either
of us, in rejoicing that Kendricks had come to Saratoga, or in letting
Mrs. Deering go home to her sick husband and leave Miss Gage on our
hands; that we were not wicked in permitting the young fellow to help us
make her have a good time.  In this colloquy I did all the reasoning, and
Mrs. March’s conscience was completely silenced; but it rose triumphant
in my miserable soul when I met Miss Gage at breakfast, looking radiantly
happy, and disposed to fellowship me in an unusual confidence because, as
I clearly perceived, of our last night’s adventure.  I said to myself
bitterly that happiness did not become her style, and I hoped that she
would get away with her confounded rapture before Mrs. March came down.
I resolved not to tell Mrs. March if it fell out so, but at the same
time, as a sort of atonement, I decided to begin keeping the sharpest
kind of watch upon Miss Gage for the outward signs and tokens of love.

She said, “When you began to talk that way last night, Mr. March, it
almost took my breath, and if you hadn’t gone so far, and mentioned about
the sunset through the sleety trees, I never should have suspected you.”

“Ah, that’s the trouble with men, Miss Gage.”  And when I said “men” I
fancied she flushed a little.  “We never know when to stop; we always
overdo it; if it were not for that we should be as perfect as women.
Perhaps you’ll give me another chance, though.”

“No; we shall be on our guard after this.”  She corrected herself and
said, “I shall always be looking out for you now,” and she certainly
showed herself conscious in the bridling glance that met my keen gaze.

“Good heavens!” I thought.  “Has it really gone so far?” and more than
ever I resolved not to tell Mrs. March.

I went out to engage a carriage to take us to the races, and to agree
with the driver that he should wait for us at a certain corner some
blocks distant from our hotel, where we were to walk and find him.  We
