
“Number 91?” returned Barclay, briskly. “I think I can remember that.
I’m much obliged to you, my good lady.”

“Shure, and you’re a very polite gintleman,” said Mrs. O’Connor, who
was flattered at being called a lady.

“Why shouldn’t I be polite to a lady like you?” said Barclay. “Perhaps
you can give me a little more information.”

“Shure, and I will if I can, sir.”

“At what office can I find this Paul--Number 91, as you call him? I
should like to speak to him about my aged relative.”

“I can’t just recollect the number, sir, but the office where Paul goes
is on Broadway, same side as the St. Nicholas Hotel, and not far away
from it.”

“Thank you very much. You are really the most obliging lady I have met
for a long time.”

“Shure, sir, you flatter me. You must have kissed the blarney stone,
I’m a thinkin’!”

“No, ma’am, I haven’t; but I hope I know enough to be polite to a lady.
You don’t seem like a stranger to me, for you are the image of a lady I
used to know on the other side of the water, the Countess of Galway.”

Mrs. O’Connor smiled and simpered, for she had never before been
compared to a countess.

“And can I do any more for you, sir?” she said.

“No, thank you. You have given me all the information I require. Good
day!”

As Barclay walked away, Mrs. O’Connor followed him with her eyes.

“He isn’t dressed very nice,” she said to herself, “but in his manners
he’s a perfect gintleman. I’d like to see that Countess of Galway, that
I look so much like.”




CHAPTER XV. BARCLAY GETS INTO BUSINESS.


“You’re getting on finely, old fellow,” said James Barclay to himself,
as he left the tenement house, and steered toward Broadway. “I managed
that old woman skillfully, and got all the information I want. I think,
Jerry Barclay, you won’t long elude me. I shall have no trouble now in
finding the telegraph boy, and then I shall soon be face to face with
the old man.”

Arrived at Printing House Square, he struck across the City Hall Park,
the other side of which is skirted by Broadway.

Sitting on one of the benches was a man rather showily dressed, with a
red blotched face, and an indefinable expression that stamped him as
one who lived by his wits, rather than by honest toil. As Barclay’s
glance rested upon him, he uttered an exclamation of surprise.

“Bill Slocum, is that you?” he said.

“Jim Barclay, as I’m a sinner,” said the other, rising and extending
a rough hand, on one of whose fingers sparkled a ring, set with what
might have been a diamond, but was probably paste. “And how is the
world using you, old pal?”

“Rough,” answered Barclay. “The old man’s gone back on me, and my own
wife made a great fuss because I wanted to borrow a dollar. Sometimes I
think I was better off in our old boarding place up the river.”

Bill Slocum was one of his fellow boarders up at Sing Sing.

“The world owes you a living, Barclay,” said his friend.

“So it does, but how’s a chap going to collect his claim? That’s what
I’d like to know.”

“O, well, there’s ways if you only know how,” said Slocum, rather
enigmatically.

“How are you makin’ it yourself?” asked Barclay, curiously.

“I get enough to eat and drink and wear. I ain’t in no anxiety about
livin’.”

“How do you do it?”

“Just look at that!”

Bill Slocum drew from his pocket a roll of bills, and held it up for
his companion to see. It was a thick roll, and amounted to a fair sum,
even if the denominations were small.

“How’d you get all that?” asked Barclay.

