Clarence Clayton left the Somerset Hotel in good spirits. He felt like
an angler who was on the point of landing a fine fish.

"I wonder if old Darke saw me talking with that old Granger," he
soliloquized. "I hope not. Probably he knows me, though thus far I have
escaped having my picture in the Rogues' Gallery. Those old fellows know
everybody. Fortunately there is no regular detective at the Somerset,
and I shall be able to finish my negotiations with my country friend
before he drops in again."

Mr. Clarence Clayton was getting low in funds. Somehow fortune had not
favored him of late, and the sums he had realized out of recent victims
were very small. Yet he felt so confident of success in the present
instance that he sauntered up to the Sinclair House, at the corner of
Broadway and Eighth Street, and going into the restaurant, which has a
high reputation for choice viands, he ordered an appetizing repast at a
cost of a dollar.

He was scarcely half through when a young man, got up in very much the
same style, came in and sat down opposite him.

"Ha, Clayton!" he said, "so you're in luck."

"How do, Mortimer? What makes you think so?"

"Your extravagant spread. It isn't permitted to failures like your
humble servant to dine in such princely style."

"Then why come here at all?"

"I am only going to order fish balls and coffee, but I want those good,
and shall get them good here. Have you made a ten-strike?"

"No; business is dull with me, but I think I'm on the track of a fair
thing."

"What is it, and where?"

"Wouldn't you like to know, Mortimer?" said Clarence, putting one finger
waggishly on one side of his nose. "There isn't enough in it for two."

"Oh, I don't want to interfere with you, of course. I thought I'd like
to know whereabouts you are operating at present."

"What do you say to the Windsor Hotel?"

"Isn't that rash? Don't the detective know you?"

"He can't be everywhere, the worthy man. Your friend Clarence knows what
he is about. You won't interfere with me?"

"Of course not."

In spite of this assurance Mortimer made it in his way to drop into the
Windsor Hotel later in the evening, but of course he did not see
Clarence Clayton, who had put him on the wrong scent.

A good dinner was not the end of Clayton's extravagance. He dropped into
the Star Theatre, and enjoyed an attractive play, though it cost him a
dollar.

"Josiah Onthank will pay for it, I hope," he said, for he had
ascertained from the hotel register the name of his Orange County
friend. "It will cost something," he laughed, "to get his son into my
office in Wall Street. Oh, Clarence, you're a sly one, you are!"

Rupert was free from his duties at seven o'clock, but, remembering the
commission he had received, he sought out the farmer and opened a
conversation with him.

"How do you like New York?" he asked.

"It's a big city," answered the farmer. "I haven't been here before for
twenty years."

"Have you ever traveled on the Elevated cars?"

"No, I'm a little mite afeard to travel so high in the air. Suppose the
train should go through?"

"I don't think there's any danger, sir. The road is strongly built."

"I s'pose I'm timid, but I guess I won't ventur'. My son Ephraim
wouldn't mind. I came to the city mostly on his account. He wanted me to
see if there wasn't an opening here. He's got sick of the farm and wants
to be a city man. Are you at work here?"

"Yes, I'm a bell-boy in this hotel."

"Does it pay you well?"

"Yes, sir. I get five dollars a week and my board."

"That's good for a boy like you. It's more than I pay my hired man, and
he's twenty-eight. Is your work hard?"

"I have to run upstairs and down a good deal. I got pretty tired at
first."

"I met quite a slick young man here this afternoon; he says he's a
