"As far as I can see," I said, "you are acting as attorney for the
defense. That's a fine story to tell a father of two attractive
daughters. You needn't repeat it to them."

"But it happened, old man----"

"Don't call me 'old man,' either. I'll explain to you why." And I did,
peevishly.

After that I saw less of Williams, from choice. He has a literary way
with him in telling a story--and I didn't wish Alida and Dulcima to
sympathize with young Harroll and that little ninny, Catharine Delancy.
So I kept clear of Williams until we arrived in Paris.




[Illustration]

CHAPTER IV

WHEREIN A MODEST MAN IS BULLIED AND A LITERARY MAN PRACTICES STYLE


"What was your first impression of Paris, Mr. Van Twiller?" inquired the
young man from East Boston, as I was lighting my cigar in the corridor
of the HÃ´tel des Michetons after breakfast.

"The first thing I noticed," said I, "was the entire United States
walking down the Boulevard des Italiens."

"And your second impression, sir?" he asked somewhat uncertainly.

"The entire United States walking back again." He lighted a cigarette
and tried to appear cheerful. He knew I possessed two daughters. A man
in possession of such knowledge will endure much.

Presently the stout young man from Chicago came up to request a light
for his cigar. "See Paris and die, eh?" he observed with odious
affability.

"I doubt that the city can be as unhealthy as that," I said coldly.

Defeated, he joined forces with the young man from East Boston, and they
retired to the terrace to sit and hate me.

My daughter Alida, my daughter Dulcima, and I spent our first day in
Paris "ong voitoor" as the denizen of East Boston informed me later.

"What is your first impression, Alida?" I asked, as our taxi rolled
smoothly down the Avenue de l'Opera.

"Paris? An enormous blossom carved out of stone!--a huge architectural
Renaissance rose with white stone petals!"

I looked at my pretty daughter with pride.

"That is what Mr. Van Dieman says," she added conscientiously.

My enthusiasm cooled at once.

"Van Dieman exaggerates," I said. "Dulcima, what do you find to
characterize Paris?"

"The gowns!" she cried. "Oh, papa! did you see that girl driving past
just now?"

I opened my guidebook in silence. I had seen her.

The sunshine flooded everything; the scent of flowers filled the soft
air; the city was a garden, sweet with green leaves, embroidered with
green grass--a garden, too, in architecture, carved out in silvery gray
foliage of stone. The streets are as smooth and clean as a steamer's
deck, with little clear rivulets running in gutters that seem as
inviting as country brooks. It did not resemble Manhattan.

Paris!

Paris is a big city full of red-legged soldiers.

Paris is a forest of pink and white chestnut blossoms under which the
inhabitants sit without their hats.

Paris is a collection of vistas; at the end of every vista is a misty
masterpiece of architecture; on the summit of every monument is a
masterpiece of sculpture.

Paris is a city of several millions of inhabitants, every inhabitant
holding both hands out to you for a tip.

Paris is a park, smothered in foliage, under which asphalted streets
lead to Paradise.

Paris is a sanitarium so skillfully conducted that nobody can tell the
patients from the physicians; and all the inmates are firmly convinced
that the outside world is mad.

I looked back at the gilded mass of the Opera--that great pile of stone
set lightly there as the toe of a ballet-girl's satin slipper----

