
Her eyes closed for a moment and she quivered from head to foot.

"My daughter, gentlemen," said the Weasel, tenderly; bending, he
touched her fingers with his shrivelled lips, smiling to himself.

Her gray eyes never left mine; I stepped forward; she gave a little
gasp as I took her hand.

"Who is this young man?" said the Weasel, mildly. "He is not Captain
Butler, dear--or my memory fails--ay," he babbled on, "it fails me
strangely now, and I had best sit quiet while younger heads think for
me. Yet, this young man is not Captain Butler, dear?"

"No, father."

In the silence I heard my heart beat heavily. A minute passed; the
Weasel peered at me with his dim eyes and clasped his daughter's hand
closely.

"Silver Heels! Silver Heels!" I cried, with a sob.

"Do you want me--now?" she whispered.

I caught her fiercely in my arms; she hung to me with closed eyes and
every limb a-tremble.

And, as I stood there, with my arms around her, and her face against
mine, far away I heard the measured gallop of a horse on the highway,
nearer, nearer, turning now close outside the house, and now
thundering up to the porch.

Instantly Jack Mount glided from the room; Foxcroft, listening,
silently drew his pistol; I reached out for my rifle which leaned
against the chair, and, striking the butt heavily against the floor,
glanced at the pan. The rifle had primed itself.

Then I turned smiling to Silver Heels.

"Do you know who is coming?" I asked.

"Yes."

I stepped to the centre of the room; the door opened gently; a
motionless shape stood there in the moonlight, the shape of my enemy,
Walter Butler.




CHAPTER XXVII


He hesitated, poised on the threshold, his yellow eyes contracting,
dazzled by the candle; then, like lightning, his sword glittered in
his hand, but Mount, behind him, tore the limber blade from his grip
and flung it ringing at my feet. Now, weaponless and alone, Butler
stood confronting us, his blank eyes travelling from one to another,
his thin lips twitching in an ever-deepening sneer. Nor did the sneer
leave his face when Mount slammed and locked the door behind him, and
unsheathed his broad hunting-knife.

"Something is dreadfully wrong, gentlemen," quavered poor Cade Renard;
"this is Captain Butler, my daughter's affianced. I pray you follow no
ancient quarrel under my roof, gentlemen. I cannot suffer this
affront--I cannot permit this difference between gentlemen in my
daughter's presence--"

Mount quietly drew the little man aside to the door and led him out,
saying tenderly: "All is well, old friend; you have forgotten much in
these long days. You will remember soon. Go, dream in the moonlight,
Cade. She was ever a friend to us, the moon."

Suddenly Butler turned on Silver Heels, his darkening face distorted.

"You have played the game well!" he whispered, between his teeth.

"What game?" I asked, with deadly calmness. "Pray say what you have to
say at once, Mr. Butler."

Again his evil gaze shifted from face to face; there was no mercy in
the eyes that met his; his visage grew loose and pallid.

"That she-devil swore to wed me!" he broke out, hoarsely, pointing a
shaking finger full at Silver Heels. "She--swore it!" His voice sank
to a hiss.

"To save my father from a highwayman's death!" said Silver Heels,
deathly white.

She turned to me, quivering. "Michael, I am a thief's daughter. This
is what I am come to!--to buy my father's life with my own body--and
fling my soul at that man's feet! Now will you wed me?"

A cold fury blinded me so I could scarcely see him. I cocked my rifle
and drew my hand across my eyes to clear them.

"This is not your quarrel!" he said, desperately; "this woman is the
daughter of Cade Renard, a notorious highwayman known as the Weasel! I
doubt that Sir Michael Cardigan--for your uncle is dead, whether you
