but he heard a signaling whistle and faced out in order not to see any
one. The person who entered was a boy clad in a blue uniform, an
"orderly," as they are called.

He ran silently and swiftly in and made straight for one tent. When he
got there he hesitated not a moment, but stepped in and crept up to one
of the sleepers.

It was Mark who awoke at his touch, and Mark sat up in alarm and stared
at him.

"Sh!" said the boy. "Sh! Don't wake any one."

"What do you want?" Mark demanded.

"I've a letter, sir, a letter from her again."

Mark stared at the boy and recognized him at once as a messenger who had
given him a note from Mary Adams about a month ago. And he sprang to his
feet in surprise.

"She writing again!" he whispered. "Quick, give it to me."

He broke the seal, stepped to the tent door, where, in the white
moonlight, he could read every letter plainly. And this was what he
saw:

      "DEAR MR. MALLORY: Oh, once more I have to write you
      to call upon you for aid. You cannot imagine the
      terrible distress I am in. And I have no one to call
      upon but you. If you respect me as a woman, come to my
      aid to-night and at once. And come alone, for I could
      not bear to have any one but you know of my terrible
      affliction. Oh, please do not fail me! You may imagine
      my state of mind when I write you like this. And let
      me call myself

      Your friend,

      "MARY ADAMS."

Mark finished the reading of that letter in amazement, even alarm.

"Did she give you this?" he demanded of the boy.

"Yes, sir, she did, not five minutes ago," replied the lad. "And she
told me to run. She seemed scared to death, sir, and I know she'd been
crying."

Mark stared into his earnest face a moment, and then he turned away in
thought.

"You may go," he said to the boy. "I know my way to her house alone."

The lad disappeared; and Mark, without a moment's hesitation, went over
and woke one of the cadets.

"Wake up, Texas," he whispered. "Wake up and read this."

Texas arose from his couch in surprise and sleepy alarm. He read the
letter, gasping; then he stared at Mark.

"Do you think she wrote it?" he inquired.

That problem was puzzling Mark, too. He had received two letters before
from the girl, under exactly similar circumstances. One had been a trick
of the cadets to lure him out. The other had been genuine, and had
resulted in Mark's saving the girl's brother from disgrace and ruin. But
which was this?

Mark made up his mind quickly.

"I think she wrote it, old man," he said. "The drum boy who gave me this
gave me the other she wrote, too, and he swears she wrote this. He said
she was frightened and crying. Texas, she lives way off there with her
old mother, who's blind and helpless. And there's no telling what may
have happened to her. Just see how urgent that note is. I must go, old
man. I'd be a coward if I didn't. She don't know a soul to call on but
me."

And Mark, generous and noble to a fault, had turned and begun to fling
on his clothing. Texas was doing likewise.

"I'm a-goin' too," he vowed.

"She says not," whispered Mark.

"I know," was the answer. "She ain't a-goin' to know it. I'm a-goin' in
case it's them ole yearlin's. Ef I see it's all right, and she wrote it,
I reckon I kin sneak home."

Nothing could deter the faithful and vigilant Texan from his resolution,
and when Mark stole out of his tent his friend was at his heels. They
passed the sentry, Baby Edwards, with the usual signal, Mark fooled for
once, was chuckling at his deception, thinking Baby thought them
yearlings. But Baby knew who it was, and laughed.

The two, once clear of camp, set out on a dead run. They dashed across
the Cavalry Plain and down the road to Highland Falls. It was nearly a
mile to where Mary Adams lived, but Mark never stopped once, not even
