impulses, are completely controlled by her reason. I wish Vicky saw
through her; she has so much influence over Jack, and such deadly
powers of ridicule. But Vicky, like all spoiled women of the world, is
as much the victim of the subtle flatterer as any man, and Julia Kaye
has managed her beautifully. She considered Jack for a bit before she
was sure of Brathland. Vicky's real reason for indorsing Julia
Kaye--between us--is because she believes her to be one of that small
and select band that can hold a man on all his various sides, and she
wants to avoid the probability of an absorbing and possibly tragic
liaison--like Parnell's, for instance--which might interfere with,
perhaps ruin, Jack's career. That is all very well, as far as it goes,
but I believe Julia Kaye to be so entirely selfish that when Jack finds
her out he will sicken of life. I have had the best of opportunities to
study women, and I have brought Jack up--I had the honor to be the
highly idealized heroine of his calf-love, and have been more or less in
his confidence ever since. In certain ways I understand him better than
his mother does, for she has seen too much of the worst side of men, and
is at heart too blasée to have much respect for or knowledge of their
spiritual side; and if I have ever had any maternal spasms in my
virtuous spinsterhood they have been over Jack. Can't you help us out?"
she asked, turning suddenly to the stranger, to whom she was powerfully
attracted. "Are you as indifferent as you look?"

"I have no idea! But although I should not in the least object to be
cast for a part in this domestic drama, I don't care for it at the price
of too much 'Jack.' To attempt to cut out Mrs. Kaye I should need a
little genuine enthusiasm; and frankly, your beloved prodigy does not
inspire it. I like Lord Hexam far better."

"Oh, Jimmy! He's a fine fellow, but only a type."

"He hasn't a rampant ego, if that is what you mean. And for every-day
purposes--" She shrugged her shoulders. "I could endure and even be
deeply interested in Elton Gwynne if he happened to be my brother and I
could hook my finger in his destiny; but in any other capacity--no,
thank you!"

"Are you going to marry Jimmy?"

"I did not even know he was not already married. Do you see nothing in a
man but a husband over here? If I ever do marry it will not be before I
am forty."

"That is rather long--if you see much of the world meanwhile! And Jimmy,
although there is not much money in the family--about twenty thousand a
year--would be a very good match. He will be Earl of Hembolt--a fine old
title."

"You assume that such a plum may be pulled by the first comer."

"Rather not! But you Americans have such a way with you! What is more to
the point, I never saw him so bowled over."

"Well," said Isabel, imperturbably, "I will think of it. This English
country and these wonderful old houses, with their inimitable
atmosphere, appeal to me very strongly. I have more the feeling of being
at home here than I had even in Spain, where I have roots. And socially
and picturesquely, there is nothing to compare with the position of an
English noblewoman."

Flora turned her eyes frankly to the classic profile beside her. Isabel
had removed her hat, and, framed in the heavy coils of her hair, her
features impressed the anxious observer as even more Roman than early
American; although had she but reflected she would have remembered that
the type of the Cæsars had its last stronghold in the United States of
the eighteenth century. Isabel looked like a very young Roman matron,
but her resemblance to the stately effigies in the galleries of Florence
and Rome, strong in virtue or vice, was so striking that once more Flora
longed for her support. A woman with such capabilities would be wasted
in the rôle of a mere countess--but as the wife of an aspiring Liberal
statesman! She devoutly wished that the American had arrived six months
earlier, or that Brathland still lived.

But she was a very tactful person and was about to drop the subject,
when Isabel slowly turned her eyes. They looked so much like steel that
for the moment they seemed to have lost their blue.

"I have made up my mind to do something to prevent this marriage," she
announced. "I do not know what, as yet. I shall be guided by events."

And Flora devoutly kissed her, then gossipped pleasantly about the other
guests and the people in the neighborhood. Isabel was curious to know
something of the duchess she was to meet on the morrow.

"Does she really look like a duchess?" she asked, so innocently that
Flora laughed and forgot the Roman-American profile, and the fateful
eyes that had given her an uncomfortable sensation a moment before.

"Well--yes--she does--rather. It is the fashion in these days not to--to
be smart above all things, excessively democratic, animated, unaffected,
clever. But our duchess here is rather old-fashioned, very lofty of head
and expression. She has a look of floating from peak to peak, and
although passée is still a beauty. To be honest, she is hideously dull,
but as good a creature as ever lived, and all that the ideal duchess
should be--so high-minded that she has never suspected the larkiest of
her friends."

"Well, I am glad she looks the rôle. I have artistic cravings."

They drove for an hour through the beautiful quiet green country, past
