She sat in the bows, one closed hand propping her chin; and sometimes
her clear eyes, harboring lightning, wandered toward him, sometimes
toward the shore.

"Suppose you continue to row," she said at last. "I'm doing you the
honour of thinking about what you've said."

He resumed the oars, still sitting facing her, and pushed the boat
slowly forward; and, as they continued their progress in silence, her
brooding glance wavered, at intervals, between him and the coast.

"Haven't you any normal human curiosity concerning me?" he asked so
boyishly that, for a second, again from her eyes, two gay little demons
seemed to peer out and laugh at him.

But her lips were expressionless, and she only said: "I have no
curiosity. Is that criminally abnormal?"

"Yes; if it is true. Is it?"

"I suppose it is too unflattering a truth for you to believe." She
checked herself, looked up at him, hesitated. "It is not absolutely
true. It was at first. I am normally interested now. If you knew more
about me you would very easily understand my lack of interest in people
I pass; the habit of not permitting myself to be interested--the
necessity of it. The art of indifference is far more easily acquired
than the art of forgetting."

"But surely," he said, "it can cost you no effort to forget me."

"No, of course not." She looked at him, unsmiling: "It was the acquired
habit of indifference in me which you mistook for--I think you mistook
it for stupidity. Many do. Did you?"

But the guilty amusement on his face answered her; she watched him
silently for a while.

"You are quite right in one way," she said; "an unconventional encounter
like this has no significance--not enough to dignify it with any effort
toward indifference. But until I began to reprove man in the abstract, I
really had not very much interest in you as an individual."

And, as he said nothing: "I might better have been in the beginning what
you call 'human'--found the situation mildly amusing--and it
is--though you don't know it! But"--she hesitated--"the acquired
instinct operated automatically. I wish I had been more--human; I can
be." She raised her eyes; and in them glimmered her first smile, faint,
yet so charming a revelation that the surprise of it held him
motionless at his oars.

"Have I paid the tribute you claim?" she asked. "If I have, may I not go
overboard at my convenience?"

He did not answer. She laid both arms along the gunwales once more,
balancing herself to rise.

"We are near enough now," she said, "and the fog is quite gone. May I
thank you and depart without further arousing you to psychological
philosophy?"

"If you must," he said; "but I'd rather row you in."

"If I must? Do you expect to paddle me around Cape Horn?" And she rose
and stepped lightly onto the bow, maintaining her balance without effort
while the boat pitched, fearless, confident, swaying there between sky
and sea.

"Good-bye," she said, gravely nodding at him.

"Good-bye, Calypso!"

She joined her finger tips above her head, preliminary to a plunge. Then
she looked down at him over her shoulder.

"I told you that Calypso was a land nymph."

"I can't help it; fabled Calypso you must remain to me."

"Oh; am I to remain--anything--to you--for the next five minutes?"

"Do you think I could forget you?"

"I don't think so--for five minutes. Your satisfied vanity will retain
me for so long--until it becomes hungry again. And--but read the history
of Ulysses--carefully. However, it was nice of you--not to name
yourself and expect a response from me. I'm afraid--I'm afraid it is
going to take me almost five minutes to forget you--I mean your boat of
course. Good-bye!"

Before he could speak again she went overboard, rose swimming with
effortless grace. After a dozen strokes or so she turned on one side,
glancing back at him. Later, almost among the breakers, she raised one
arm in airy signal, but whether to him or to somebody on the raft he did
not know.

For five minutes--the allotted five--he lay on his oars watching the
sands. At moments he fancied he could still distinguish her, but the
distance was great, and there were many scarlet head-dresses among the
bathers ashore and afloat.

