"Isn't it a little late to ask me that?" she said; and under her mask
the colour stained her skin. "I think what we do now scarcely matters."

She was so confident, so plainly awaiting his caress, that for a moment
he was quite ready to console her. And did not, could not, with the
fragrant and yielding intimacy of Geraldine still warm in his quickened
heart.

She stood quite motionless, her little hands warm in his, her masked
face upturned. And, as he merely stared at her:

"What is the matter, Jack?" she breathed. "Why do you look at me so
steadily?"

He ought to have let her go then; he hesitated, wondering which Jack she
supposed him to be; and before he realised it her arms were on his
shoulders, her mouth nearer to his.

"Jack, you frighten me! What is it?"

"N-nothing," he continued to stammer.

"Yes, there is. Does your--your wife suspect--anything----"

"No, she doesn't," said Duane grimly, trying to free himself without
seeming to. "I've got an appointment----"

But the girl said piteously: "It isn't--Geraldine, is it?"

"What!"

"You--you admitted that she attracted you--for a little while.... Oh, I
did forgive you, Jack; truly I did with all my miserable heart! I was
so fearfully unhappy--I would have done anything." ... Her face flushed
scarlet. "And I--did.... But you do love me, don't you?" And the next
moment her lips were on his with a sob.

Duane reached back and quietly unclasped her fingers. Then very gently
he forced her to a seat on a great fallen log. Still looking up at him,
droopingly pathetic in contrast to her gay début with him, she naïvely
slipped up the mask over her forehead and passed her hand across her
pretty blue eyes. Sylvia Quest!

The sinister significance of her attitude flashed over him, all doubt
vanished, all the comedy of their encounter was gone in an instant. Over
him swept a startled sequence of emotions--bitter contempt for Dysart,
scorn of the wretchedly equivocal situation and of the society that bred
it, a miserable desire to spare her, vexation at himself for what he had
unwittingly stumbled upon. The last thought persisted, dominated;
succeeded by a disgusted determination that she must be spared the shame
and terror of what she had inadvertently revealed; that she must never
know she had not been speaking to Dysart himself.

"If I tell you that all is well--and if I tell you no more than that,"
he whispered, "will you trust me?"

"Have I not done so, Jack?"

The tragedy in her lifted eyes turned him cold with fury.

"Then wait here until I return," he said. "Promise."

"I promise," she sighed, "but I don't understand. I'm a--a little
frightened, dear. But I--believe you."

He swung on his heel and made toward the lights once more, and a moment
later the man he sought passed within a few feet of him, and Duane knew
him by his costume, which was a blue replica of his own gray silks.

"Dysart!" he said sharply.

The masked figure swung gracefully around and stood still, searching the
shadowy woodland inquiringly.

"I want a word with you. Here--not in the light, if you please. You
recognise my voice, don't you?"

"Is that you, Mallett?" asked Dysart coldly, as the former appeared in
the light for an instant and turned back again with a curt gesture.

"Yes. I want you to step over here among the trees, where nobody can
interrupt us."

Dysart followed more slowly; came to a careless halt:

"Well, what the devil do you want?" he demanded insolently.

"I'll tell you. I've had an encounter with a mask who mistook me for
you.... And she has said--several things--under that impression. She
still believes that I am you. I asked her to wait for me over there by
those oaks. Do you see where I mean?" He pointed and Dysart nodded
coolly. "Well, then, I want you to go back there--find her, and act as
though it had been you who heard what she said, not I."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean exactly that. The girl ought never to know that what she said
was heard and--and understood, Dysart, by any man in the world except
the blackguard I'm telling this to. Now, do you understand?"

