"I've seen 'em get well," said the non-committal ward-master.
Then, looking Berkley over: "You're pretty dirty, ain't you?  Are
you--" he raised his eyebrows significantly.

"I'm clean," said Berkley with the indifference habituated to filth.

"All right.  They'll fix you up a cot somewhere.  If Colonel Arran
comes out all right I'll call you.  He's full of opium now."

"Did they get the bullet?"

"Oh, yes.  I ain't a surgeon, my friend, but I hear a lot of
surgeon talk.  It's the shock--in a man of his age.  The wound's
clean, so far--not a thread in it, I hear.  Shock--and
gangrene--that's what we look out for. . . .  What's the news down
by the river?"

"I don't know," said Berkley.

"Don't you know if you got licked?"

"I don't think we did.  You'd hear the firing out here much
plainer."

"You're the 8th Cavalry, ain't you?"

"Yes."

"They say you got cut up."

"Some."

"And how about the Zouaves?"

"Oh, they're there yet," said Berkley listlessly.  Fatigue was
overpowering him; he was aware, presently, that a negro, carrying a
lantern, was guiding his stumbling steps into a small building
where, amid piles of boxes, an army cot stood covered by a blanket.
Berkley gave him a crumpled mess of paper money, and he almost
expired.

Later the same negro rolled a wooden tub into the room, half filled
it with steaming water, and stood in profound admiration of his
work, grinning at Berkley.

"Is you-all gwine bresh up, suh?" he inquired.

Berkley straightened his shoulders with an effort, unbuckled his
belt, and slowly began to take off his wet uniform.

The negro aided him respectfully; that wet wad of dollars had done
its work profoundly.

"Yo' is de adjetant ob dis here Gin'ral ob de Lancers, suh?  De po'
ole Gin'ral!  He done git shot dreffle bad, suh. . . .  Jess you
lay on de flo', suh, t'will I gits yo' boots off'n yo' laigs!  Dar!
Now jess set down in de tub, suh.  I gwine scrub you wif de
saddle-soap--Lor', Gord-a-mighty!  Who done bang you on de haid
dat-a-way?"--scrubbing vigorously with the saddle-soap all the
while.  "Spec' you is lame an' so' all over, is you?  Now I'se
gwine rub you haid, suh; an' now I'se gwine dry you haid."  He
chuckled and rubbed and manipulated, yet became tender as a woman
in drying the clipped hair and the scarred temple.  And, before
Berkley was aware of what he was about, the negro lifted him and
laid him on the cot.

"Now," he chuckled, "I'se gwine shave you."  And he fished out a
razor from the rear pocket of his striped drill overalls, rubbed
the weapon of his race with a proud thumb, spread more soap over
Berkley's upturned face, and fell deftly to work, wiping off the
accumulated lather on the seat of his own trousers.

Berkley remembered seeing him do it twice; then remembered no more.
A blessed sense of rest soothed every bone; in the heavenly
stillness and surcease from noise he drifted gently into slumber,
into a deep dreamless sleep.

The old negro looked at him, aged face wrinkled in compassion.

"Po' li'l sodger boy," he muttered.  "Done gib me fo' dollahs.
Lor' Gor' a'mighty!  Spec' Mars Linkum's men is all richer'n ole
Miss."

He cast another glance at the sleeping man, then picked up the
worn, muddy boots, threw the soiled jacket and breeches over his
arm, and shuffled off, shaking his grizzled head.




CHAPTER XVIII

It was still dark when he awoke with a violent start, dreaming of
loud trumpets, and found himself sitting upright on his cot,
staring into obscurity.

Outside on the veranda a multitude of heavy steps echoed and
re-echoed over the creaking boards; spurs clinked, sabres dragged
and clanked; a man's harsh, nasal voice sounded irritably at
intervals:
