It was his aunt's sudden policy that betrayed him into a premature
move--Mary Ledwith's return, and his aunt's visit. Mary Ledwith was
there to marry him; his aunt to make mischief unless he did what was
expected of him.

Leisurely but thoroughly he cursed them both as he walked back across
his lawn. But he was already thinking of Strelsa again when, as he
entered the wide hall, his aunt waddled across the rugs of the
drawing-room, pronouncing his name with unmistakable decision. And,
before the servants, he swallowed the greeting he had hoped to give her,
and led her into the library.

"Mercy on us, Langly!" she exclaimed, eyeing his reeking boots and
riding-breeches; "do you live like a pig up here?"

"I've been out," he said briefly. "What do you want?"

Her little green eyes lighted up, and her smile, which was fading, she
forced into a kind of fixed grin.

"Your polished and thoughtful inquiry is characteristic of you," she
said. "Mary is here, and I want you to come over to dinner."

"I'm not up to it," he said.

"I want you to come."

"I tell you I'm not up to it," he said bluntly.

"And I tell you that you'd better come."

"Better come?" he repeated.

"Yes, better come. More than that, Langly, you'd better behave
yourself, or I'll make New York too hot to hold you."

His prominent eyes were expressionless.

"Ah?" he remarked.

"Exactly, my friend. Your race is run. You've done one thing too
publicly to squirm out of the consequences. The town has stood for a
good deal from you. When that girl at the Frivolity Theatre shot
herself, leaving a letter directed to you, the limit of public patience
was nearly reached. You had to go abroad, didn't you? Well, you can't go
abroad this time. Neither London nor Paris nor Vienna nor Budapest--no,
nor St. Petersburg nor even Constantinople would stand you! Your course
is finished. If you've an ounce of brains remaining you know that you're
done for this time. So go and dress and come over to dinner.... And
don't worry; I'll keep away from you after you're married."

"You'll keep your distance before that," he said slowly.

"You're mistaken. Many people are afraid of you, but I never was and
never could be. You're no good; you never were. If you didn't lug my
name about with you I'd let you go to hell. You'll go there anyway, but
you'll go married first."

"I expect to."

"Married to Mary Ledwith," she said looking at him.

He picked up a cigar, examined it, yawned, then glanced at her:

"As I had--recently--occasion to tell Chester Ledwith, I'll marry whom I
please. Now suppose you clear out."

"Are you dining with us?"

"No."

"What time may we expect you to-morrow?"

"At no time."

"Do you intend to marry Mary Ledwith?"

"No."

"Is that final?"

"Yes!"

"Do you expect to marry anybody else?"

"Yes!" he shouted, partly rising from his chair, his narrow face
distorted. "Yes, I do! Now you know, don't you! Is the matter settled at
last? Do you understand clearly?--you fat-headed, meddlesome old fool!"

He sprang to his feet in an access of fury and began loping up and down
the room, gesticulating, almost mouthing out his hatred and
abuse--rendered more furious still by the knowledge of his own weakness
and disintegration--his downfall from that silent citadel of
self-control which had served him so many years as a stronghold for
defiance or refuge.

"You impertinent old woman!" he shouted, "if you don't keep your fat
nose out of my affairs I'll set a thousand men tampering with the
foundations of your investments! Keep your distance and mind your
business--I warn you now and for the last time, or else--" He swung
