sight. But dared not.

"That is all," he said heavily. "Perhaps there is a little more to
say--but it will leave you indifferent, very naturally. Yet, may I say
that this--this heart-breaking crisis in her life, and--in
mine--has--brought us together? And--a little more. My wife is to become
a mother. Which is why I venture to hope that you will be merciful to us
both in your thoughts. I do not ask for your pardon, which you could
never give----"

"Mr. Clydesdale!" She had risen, trembling, both little hands flat on
the desk top to steady her, and was looking straight at him.



"I--my thoughts----" she stammered "are not cruel. Say so to your wife.
I--I have never thought mercilessly. Every instinct within me is
otherwise. And I know what suffering is. And I do not wish it for
anybody. Say so to your wife, and that I wish her--happiness--with her
baby."

She was trembling so that he could scarcely control between his two huge
fists the little hand that he saluted in wordless gratitude and grief.

Then, without looking at her again, or speaking, he went his way. And
she dropped back into her chair, the tears of sheer happiness and
excitement flowing unchecked.

But she was permitted no time to collect her thoughts, no solitude for
happy tears, and, at the clerk's sharp knocking, she dried her eyes
hastily and bade him enter.

The card he laid on her desk seemed to amaze her.

"That man!" she said slowly. "Is he here, Mr. Mirk?"

"Yes, madam. He asks for one minute only, saying that it is a matter of
most desperate importance to you----"

"To me?"

"Yes, madam."

Again she looked at Mr. Waudle's card.

"Bring him," she said crisply. And the blue lightning flashed in her
eyes.

When Mr. Waudle came in and the clerk had gone and closed the door,
Jacqueline said quietly:

"I'll give you one minute, Mr. Waudle. Proceed."

"I think," he said, looking at her out of his inflamed eyes, "that
you'll feel inclined to give me more than that when you understand what
I've got in this packet." And he drew from his overcoat pocket a roll of
galley proofs.

"What is it?" she asked, looking calmly into his dangerous red eyes.

"It's a story, set up and in type--as you see. And it's about your
husband and Mrs. Clydesdale--if you want to know."

A shaft of fear struck straight through her. Then, in an instant the
blanched cheeks flushed and the blue eyes cleared and sparkled.

"What is it you wish?" she asked in a curiously still voice.

"I'll tell you; don't worry. I want you to stop this man Clydesdale, and
stop him short. I don't care how you do it; do it, that's all. He's
bought and paid for certain goods delivered to him by me. Now he's
squealing. He wants his money back. And--if he gets it back this story
goes in. Want me to read it to you?"

"No. What is it you wish me to do--deceive Mr. Clydesdale? Make him
believe that the remainder of the jades and rose-quartz carvings are
genuine?"

"It looks good to me," said Mr. Waudle more cheerfully. "It sounds all
right. You threw us down; it's up to you to pick us up."

"I see," she said pleasantly. "And unless I do you are intending to
publish that--story?"

"Sure as hell!" he nodded.

She remained silent and thoughtful so long that he began to hitch about
in his chair and cast furtive, sidelong glances at her and at the
curtained walls around the room. Suddenly his face grew ghastly.

"Look here!" he whispered hoarsely. "Is this a plant?"

"What?"

"Is there anybody else in this room?" He lurched to his feet and waddled
hastily around the four walls, flinging aside the green velvet curtains.
Only the concealed pictures were revealed; and he went back to his
chair, removing the cold sweat from his forehead and face with his
sleeve.

