life of the discussion.

"There was a good deal of agitation, six or eight years ago, about it.
I don't know whether the agitation accomplished anything."

The host believed it had influenced legislation.

"For or against?" the bachelor inquired.

"Oh, against."

"But in other countries it's been coming in more and more. It seems to
be as easy in England now as it used to be in Indiana. In France it's
nothing scandalous, and in Norwegian society you meet so many
disunited couples in a state of quadruplicate reunion that it is very
embarrassing. It doesn't seem to bother the parties to the new
relation themselves."

"It's very common in Germany, too," the husband on the right of the
hostess said.

The husband on her left side said he did not know just how it was in
Italy and Spain, and no one offered to disperse his ignorance.

In the silence which ensued the lady on the left of the host created a
diversion in her favor by saying that she had heard they had a very
good law in Switzerland.

Being asked to tell what it was, she could not remember, but her
husband, on the right of the hostess, saved the credit of his family
by supplying her defect. "Oh, yes. It's very curious. We heard of it
when we were there. When people want to be put asunder, for any reason
or other, they go before a magistrate and declare their wish. Then
they go home, and at the end of a certain time--weeks or months--the
magistrate summons them before him with a view to reconciliation. If
they come, it is a good sign; if they don't come, or come and persist
in their desire, then they are summoned after another interval, and
are either reconciled or put asunder, as the case may be, or as they
choose. It is not expensive, and I believe it isn't scandalous."

"It seems very sensible," the husband on the left of the hostess said,
as if to keep the other husband in countenance. But for an interval no
one else joined him, and the mature girl said to the man next her that
it seemed rather cold-blooded. He was a man who had been entreated to
come in, on the frank confession that he was asked as a stop-gap, the
original guest having fallen by the way. Such men are apt to abuse
their magnanimity, their condescension. They think that being there
out of compassion, and in compliance with a hospitality that had not
at first contemplated their presence, they can say anything; they are
usually asked without but through their wives, who are asked to "lend"
them, and who lend them with a grudge veiled in eager acquiescence;
and the men think it will afterward advantage them with their wives,
when they find they are enjoying themselves, if they will go home and
report that they said something vexing or verging on the offensive to
their hostess. This man now addressed himself to the lady at the head
of the table.

"Why do we all talk as if we thought divorce was an unquestionable
evil?"

The hostess looked with a frightened air to the right and left, and
then down the table to her husband. But no one came to her rescue, and
she asked feebly, as if foreboding trouble (for she knew she had taken
a liberty with this man's wife), "Why, don't we?"

"About one in seven of us doesn't," the stop-gap said.

"Oh!" the girl beside him cried out, in a horror-stricken voice which
seemed not to interpret her emotion truly. "Is it so bad as that?"

"Perhaps not quite, even if it is bad at all," he returned, and the
hostess smiled gratefully at the girl for drawing his fire. But it
appeared she had not, for he directed his further speech at the
hostess again: really the most inoffensive person there, and the least
able to contend with adverse opinions.

"No, I don't believe we do think it an unquestionable evil, unless we
think marriage is so." Everybody sat up, as the stop-gap had intended,
no doubt, and he "held them with his glittering eye," or as many as he
could sweep with his glance. "I suppose that the greatest hypocrite at
this table, where we are all so frankly hypocrites together, will not
deny that marriage is the prime cause of divorce. In fact, divorce
couldn't exist without it."

The women all looked bewilderedly at one another, and then appealingly
at the men. None of these answered directly, but the bachelor softly
intoned out of Gilbert and Sullivan--he was of that date:

          "'A paradox, a paradox;
            A most ingenious paradox!'"

"Yes," the stop-gap defiantly assented. "A paradox; and all aboriginal
verities, all giant truths, are paradoxes."

"Giant truths is good," the bachelor noted, but the stop-gap did not
mind him.

He turned to the host: "I suppose that if divorce is an evil, and we
wish to extirpate it, we must strike at its root, at marriage?"

