"Invisible ink is generally indelible and impervious to the action of
water; at least the kind I use is.  I'd give a thousand for a sight of
that letter."



"And it might be worth a million," Olga suggested.

"Not the least doubt of it in my mind.  Olga, old girl, it does look as
if my star was growing dim.  We'll never get our hands on that million.
I feel it in my bones.  So let's settle down to a campaign of revenge,
without any furbelows.  I want to twist Hargreave's heart before the
game winds up."

"You wish really to injure her?"

"I do not wish to injure her.  Far from it," he replied, smiling evilly.

"You want her ... dead?" whispered Olga, paling.

"Exactly.  I want her dead.  And so if all my efforts here come to
nothing, so shall Hargreave's.  His millions will become waste paper to
him.  That's revenge.  The Persian peach method."

"Poison?  You shall not!  You shall not kill her!" vehemently.

"Tender-hearted?"

"No.  If I must in the end go to prison, so be it; but I refuse to die
in the chair."

"Very well, then.  We shan't kill her, but we'll make her wish she was
dead.  I was only trying to see how far you would go.  The basket of
peaches is in the hallway.  Every peach is poisoned.  No man in the
country knows more about subtle poisons than I do.  Have I not written
books on that subject?" ironically.

"And they will trace it back to you in a straight line," she warned.
"I will not have it!"

"I can go elsewhere," he replied coldly.

"You would leave me?"

"The moment you cross my will," emphatically.

It became her turn to pace.  Torn between her love of the man and the
danger which stared her in the face, she was for the time being
distracted.  All the time he watched her with malevolent curiosity,
knowing that in the end she would concur with his evil plans.

"Very well," she said finally.  "But listen; we shall be found out.
Never doubt that.  Your revenge will cost us both our lives.  I feel
it."

"Bah!  The law will have no hand in my end.  I always carry a pellet;
and that ring of yours would suffice a regiment.  She will not die.
She will merely become a kind of paralytic; the kind that can move a
little but not enough; always wheeled about in a chair.  I'll bring in
the peaches; rosy and downy.  One bite, after a given time, will do the
trick.  If they suspect and throw them out we have lost nothing but the
peaches.  A trusted messenger will carry them to the Hargreave house.
And then we'll sit down and wait."

Meantime, in the library of the Hargreave house, Florence and Jim were
puzzling over the blank sheet of paper.

"I'll wager," said Jim, "the water washed all the writing away.  The
fire does not seem to do any good.  We'll turn it over to Jones.
Jones'll find a way to solve it.  Trust him."

"What are you two chattering about?" asked Susan, who was arranging
some flowers on the table.

"Secrets," said Jim, smiling.

"Humph!"

Susan puttered about for a few minutes longer, then crossed to the
reception room, intending to go up-stairs.  At that moment the maid was
admitting a messenger with a basket of fruit.

"For Miss Hargreave," said he.  He gave the basket to the maid, touched
his cap awkwardly, and swung on his heel, closing the door behind him.
He was in a hurry to deliver another message.

"Oh, what lovely fruit!" cried Susan, pausing.  "I'm going to steal
one," she laughed.  She selected a peach and began eating it on the way
up to her room.

The maid passed on into the library.

"What's this?" inquired Florence, as the maid held out the basket.  She
selected a peach and was about to set her white teeth into it when Jim
interposed.

"Wait a moment, dear."  Florence lowered the peach.  Jim turned to the
maid.  "Who sent it?"

"I don't know, sir.  A messenger brought it, saying it was for Miss
