
"I know! I know! Polly told me--Sam tells her everything. He suspects
you. He knows that Broderick does. But you don't intend to wait for his
denunciation. Mrs. Balfame told that to Polly too. You intend to say you
did it. She said she wouldn't let you--oh, wouldn't she!--but you had
told her that you would make up a plausible story and stick to it. And I
know that you can't prove an alibi. Tell me,"--she came closer and her
voice was almost threatening,--"do you really intend to take that crime
on your shoulders if she is convicted."

"Yes."

"Oh! Oh! Men will be sentimental fools until--well, so long as they are
born of fools and women. We are made all wrong!" She threw her muff on
the ground and beat her hands together. Her eyes were blazing. There was
a curious red glow in their olive depths. "Well, listen to me: You are
not going to do this thing, although I really believe you'd like to do
it as a sort of penance. She could not prevent such a monstrous
sacrifice if she would, but I can. Just bear that in mind. If you come
forward with any such insane proposition, I will make a fool of you
before all the world. If Mrs. Balfame is acquitted, well and good; but
if she is not, then I'll betray a confidence and run the risk of
killing some one myself--but I'll get the truth. Just remember that, and
keep off the witness-stand."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I know where to get the truth."

"You mean that Dr. Anna thinks Mrs. Balfame did it--that Mrs. Balfame
confessed to her and that you can make the poor woman betray her friend
while she is still too weak to resist. Well, you are all wrong. I know
that Mrs. Balfame did not kill Balfame. If you want the reason for my
knowledge,--and I know I can trust you,--Mrs. Balfame was out that
night, and she did take a revolver and fire it. I found it in the house
on the night following her arrest. It was a thirty-eight. There was one
bullet missing. It was found in the tree. Balfame was killed by a
forty-one. She did not go out to shoot Balfame, but because she thought
she saw a burglar in the grove. Her revolver went off accidentally--and
she is the best shot out at the Club. But you will readily understand my
reasons for suppressing these facts."

Alys had turned her profile and was staring at a tree whose limbs
creaked now and again with their weight of snow, sending down a powdery
shower. Her thick short lashes were almost together before a gleaming
line of olive.

"Oh! Who was her confederate?"

"She hasn't the least idea as to the identity of the person beside her.
It was dark, and she was too much excited. Naturally, she would be very
glad to know."

"Well, suppose we dismiss that part of it. We should never get anywhere.
Only--don't take the stand and make a dramatic confession."

"Dramatic?" Once more the red tide rose. His blue eyes snapped.

"Melodramatic would perhaps be the better word. Sarah and I are hot on
the trail of the right word. But tell me honestly--shouldn't you feel
rather a fool? It is such a very theatric--stagey--thing to do."

"Oh!" He wheeled about and kicked a fallen log. "Do you suppose I have
given a thought to that aspect of it?"

"No, more is the pity, but as you have a good sense of humour, I rather
wonder at it. However--these are not the only things I followed you into
the woods to say."

"You had it in your mind, then, to find out if what Mrs. Balfame told
Mrs. Cummack was true--that I purposed to free her one way or another?"

"Yes. I merely waited for the lead. I told you in the beginning that I
did not care what I might confess to, or how angry I made you. What does
it matter?"

"You cannot make me angry, although there are some things I cannot
discuss with you."

"Of course not. Let us ignore Possible Sacrifice Number Two, and assume
that Mrs. Balfame is acquitted,--which no doubt will be the case; few
are worrying; and further assume that you will marry her; that she will
marry you is the way she put it, not being an artist in words. Once more
we will dismiss both subjects. Yes?"

She was stooping to recover her muff, and he noticed that her hands were
shaking and that the dusky pink was in her cheeks for the first time.

"I am only too ready. But--there is little else for us to talk about!"

"Yes, there is! When people are on their deathbeds they can afford to
be truthful, and you have dug your grave and mine."

She was erect once more and she looked at him steadily, although her
breath was short and her cheeks blazing.

"What do you mean by that?" His eyes no longer looked like blue steel.
They were flashing, and a curious wave of mobility passed over his face.

"I mean that you love me now. I think you always loved me--when we spent
