
"Come on, Sophy," said King Constantine, with a covert leer at Thusis’s
ankles.  And they all started upstairs, King Ferdinand shuffling in the
rear with the peculiarly ponderous waddle which characterizes the
progress of an elephant’s hind quarters.

King Constantine halted on the stairs to turn and call back to me in his
noisy, unceremonious, jovial way:

"Wait a bit, O’Ryan!  I forgot to say that we’re expecting some friends
of ours.  So fix ’em up in good shape when they——"

"Go on, Tino!" interrupted the queen impatiently. "Don’t you even know
enough to keep on going when you start?  And God knows," she added in
her disagreeable voice, "it’s hard enough to start you."

"All right, my dear," he exclaimed with his loud forced laugh.  "I only
wanted to rest Buggy’s legs a bit."

And the anointed of the Lord resumed their shuffling progress upward at
the heels of the swift, light feet of Thusis.

As for me I went out to the court where their luggage lay piled.  The
wagon which had brought them was gone, but Raoul stood there, his hat on
one side, hands on hips, chewing a wheat-straw and gazing blandly at the
pile of royal luggage.

"These," said I carelessly, "belong upstairs. Thusis will tell you where
to carry them, Raoul."

"Bien, Monsieur!"

We both looked gravely at the luggage, then my glance rested on his
pleasant, reckless face in which I seemed to notice a gaiety more marked
than usual.

For one moment, as he caught my eye, I thought he was going to wink at
me, but, even as his eyelid quivered, he seemed to recollect himself.
And, with an absolutely indescribable expression, he seized upon the
luggage, and, both arms full, strode toward the back stairs.  And, far
in the passageway, I heard him singing under his breath:

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm,
    You have done a heap of harm——"

until Josephine Vannis came to the pantry door, her superb arms all over
flour, and said in French: "Hush, Raoul, or I slay thee with my
rolling-pin, thou imbecile, curly, hot-head!"

"My Josephine adored," he retorted, "thou slayest me hourly with thy
Olympian beauty——"

"Be silent, addlepate, I implore thee!  Is the very devil in thee,
Raoul, to endanger everything with thy empty-headed audacity?"

"Ruler of hearts," he rejoined, "remain tranquil. Nous les aurons!"

I went upstairs, discovered Smith lying on his bed and reading, and then
and there told him the whole story.  He did not appear to be very much
surprised over the royal identity of my guests.

"That sort of king," he remarked, "is likely to run about under foot.
You’ll find them a nuisance."  And he resumed his novel and his pipe.

I went downstairs again.  Raoul passed with more luggage.

I stood motionless listening to the retreating footsteps of Raoul
through the stone passageway.  And, as I lingered, intensely curious and
beginning to feel uneasy, Clelia came out of the kitchen looking like
some flushed, excited school-girl, her golden hair in two braids, and
her blue eyes very brilliant in the bright sunshine.




                                  *X*

                                *CLELIA*


When Clelia saw me a startled expression came into her face, instantly
controlled and concealed by the lovely smile so characteristic of her
and of Thusis.

"Something," said I, "smells very appetizing in there."

"Tea-cakes," she nodded.  "Shall I bring you one from the oven?"

"Bring one for yourself, too, Clelia."

At that she blushed, then with a pretty, abashed smile, went into the
pantry and immediately reappeared with two delicious tea-cakes.

"We mustn’t be caught here doing this," she whispered, offering me one
of the cakes.

"Who’d object?  Raoul?"

"Pouf!" she laughed.

