"And to-morrow what do you mean to do?"

"Go out to the agencies and ask for work."

"And if there is none?"

"The chorus," she said, indifferently.

"What salary have you been getting?"

She told him.

"Will you take three times that amount and work with me?"




CHAPTER IV

BODY AND SOUL


The girl's direct gaze met his with that merciless searching intentness
he already knew.

"What do you wish me to do?"

"Enter the service of the United States."

"Wh-what?"

"Work for the Government."

She was too taken aback to answer.

"Where were you born?" he demanded abruptly.

"In Albany, New York," she replied in a dazed way.

"You are loyal to your country?"

"Yes--certainly."

"You would not betray her?"

"No."

"I don't mean for money; I mean from fear."

After a moment, and, avoiding his gaze: "I am afraid of death," she said
very simply.

He waited.

"I--I don't know what I might do--being afraid," she added in a troubled
voice. "I desire to--live."

He still waited.

She lifted her eyes: "I'd try not to betray my country," she murmured.

"Try to face death for your country's honour?"

"Yes."

"And for your own?"

"Yes; and for my own."

He leaned nearer: "Yet you're taking a chance on your own honour
to-night."

She blushed brightly: "I didn't think I was taking a very great chance
with you."

He said: "You have found life too hard. And when you faced failure in
New York you began to let go of life--real life, I mean. And you came up
here to-night wondering whether you had courage to let yourself go. When
I spoke to you it scared you. You found you hadn't the courage. But
perhaps to-morrow you might find it--or next week--if sufficiently
scared by hunger--you might venture to take the first step along the
path that you say others usually take sooner or later."

The girl flushed scarlet, sat looking at him out of eyes grown dark with
anger.

He said: "You told me an untruth. You have been tempted to betray your
country. You have resisted. You have been threatened with death. You
have had courage to defy threats and temptations where your country's
honour was concerned!"

"How do you know?" she demanded.

He continued, ignoring the question: "From the time you landed in San
Francisco you have been threatened. You tried to earn a living by your
magician's tricks, but in city after city, as you came East, your
uneasiness grew into fear, and your fear into terror, because every day
more terribly confirmed your belief that people were following you
determined either to use you to their own purposes or to murder you----"

