but let her go.

Any emotion is unbecoming. Pride is merely ridiculous. It resides in the
youthful-minded, however old. In residing in these young people, it
resisted the touch that would have combined them and, through its
opposition, made one of them ill and the other grey. To be proud! How
splendid it seems and how stupid it is. Hell is paved with just such
imbecilities.

It is said of Dante that children peered at him and whispered: "That man
has been in hell."

None of the children that clubmen are, pointed at Lennox, though two of
them whispered. The others did not know, not yet at least. But Verelst
knew and Jones guessed. The guess was due to the romantic profession
that endows a novelist with the wonderful faculty of putting two and two
together.

Hitherto, that is since the engagement was announced and, for that
matter, long previously, Lennox had passed the evening in Park Avenue.
Where else would he have passed it? After the rupture he sat about and
read all the papers. When a man is down and out that is just what he
does do, though not necessarily in the Athen√¶um Club.

Jones, noticing it, rapidly divined the reason which Verelst confirmed.

"Yes, her mother told me."

It was in a club window, of an afternoon. Before them was Fifth Avenue
which, in the Aprils of not so long ago, used to be a horse-show of fair
faces, ravishing hats, discreet liveries, folded arms and yards of
yodeling brass.

Verelst, eyeing the usurping motors, added: "It is because of some girl
I believe, or rather I don't believe it."

Jones sat back. Instantly the motors were replaced by the picture of a
girl whose face was noble and reserved. He had seen the face at the
Bazaar. He had seen Lennox talking to it. Afterward Lennox had told him
that the girl was Portuguese. The picture was attractive but
unconvincing. In agreement with Verelst he was about to say so. But
behind him he heard a voice that he knew and he switched and said:

"What a remarkable country Portugal is! Born dumb, she spoke twice: once
when she gave Asia to Europe, again when she presented the Lusiades to
the world. Her history is resumed in two miracles, a discovery and a
masterpiece. But when the Cape of Good Hope was succeeded by Camoens,
once more she relapsed into a silence that was broken only when she
shouted her defiance at the Huns."

Now though that voice was addressing them. Both turned and Lennox asked:
"What are you talking about--war?"

"Sit down," said Verelst, who gave him a hand.

Jones gave him another. "What else is there to talk about? It will be
talked of forever. So will that scrofulous Kaiser. Unfortunately he
knows it and that pleases him. Last year or the year before he called
for the death and destruction of all who opposed him. With singular
modesty he added: 'God who speaks through my mouth so orders!' Loti
claims that what spoke through him was a hyena. Loti is lacking in
literary sobriety. When a hyena has eaten he is at peace with the world.
But when was bestiality ever filled? It is insatiable and so is this
thug whom God, at most, may have permitted to look in the mirror without
vomiting. Meanwhile we stand by. A generation ago we fought for Cuba.
What is Hecuba to us in comparison to the Anima Mundi?"

Verelst turned on the novelist. "And what is literary sobriety? You are
hurling words in massed formation."

Jones smiled at him. "Where is my harp?"

"You mean your megaphone," Lennox put in. "You are always rehearsing
copy. One of these days I may give you some."

"From the front?" Jones asked.

"Yes, though I don't see how you knew. The President has asked for war.
Why aren't we up and at 'em? If Congress hems and haws over it much
longer, I'll get my gun and join the Foreign Legion."

Jones nodded. He had guessed that also and he said: "Wait and join the
legions here. At present, the country is alarmingly apathetic. The man
in the subway is muddled. The call to arms does not stir him. The
issues, clear enough to us, seem to him mixed as macaroni. He does not
understand a war that is three thousand miles away. But in a year, every
man in the country--a country that has never been beaten!--will be in it
body and soul. Undividedly, shoulder to shoulder, we will be in it as we
have never been in anything before."

The novelist touched a bell. "Lennox, have a Bronx. Verelst, what will
you take? I'll wager a pippin that war is declared to-morrow."

"Done," said Verelst--who lost it.




XIII

