days the other spent in pleasure taking, although their aggregate
loss was no mean item to be taken from a poor man's purse. It was to
be found, mainly, in a disposition to spend, rather than to save; to
pay away for trifles that were not really needed, very small sums,
whose united amounts in a few weeks would rise to dollars. But, when
there was added to this constant check upon his prosperity the
frequent recurrence of a lost day, no wonder that Ellen had less of
good and comfortable clothing than her sister Jane, and that her
house was far less neatly furnished.

All this had been observed, with pain, by William Moreland and his
wife, but, until the conversation recorded in the opening of this
story, no word or remonstrance or warning had been ventured upon by
the former. The spirit in which Moreland's words were received,
encouraged him to hope that he might exercise a salutary control
over Henry, if he persevered, and he resolved that he would extend
thus far towards him the offices of a true friend.

After dinner on the day during which her husband was absent, Ellen
called in to see Jane, and sit the afternoon with her. They were
only sisters, and had always loved each other much. During their
conversation, Jane said, in allusion to the season:

"It begins to feel a little chilly to-day, as if winter were coming.
And, by the way, you are going to get a cloak this fall, Ellen, are
you not?"

"Indeed, I can hardly tell, Jane," Ellen replied, in a serious tone;
"Henry's earnings, somehow or other, don't seem to go far with us;
and yet I try to be as prudent as I can. We have but a few dollars
laid by, and both of us want warm underclothing. Henry must have a
coat and pair of pantaloons to look decent this winter; so I must
try and do without the cloak, I suppose."

"I am sorry for that. But keep a good heart about it, sister. Next
fall, you will surely be able to get a comfortable one; and you
shall have mine as often as you want it, this winter. I can't go out
much, you know; our dear little Ellen, your namesake, is too young
to leave often."

"You are very kind, Jane," said Ellen, and her voice slightly
trembled.

A silence of some moments ensued, and then the subject of
conversation was changed to one more cheerful.

That evening, just about nightfall, Henry Thorne came home, much
fatigued, bringing with him half a dozen squirrels and a single wild
pigeon.

"There, Ellen, is something to make a nice pie for us to-morrow,"
said he, tossing his game bag upon the table.

"You look tired, Henry," said his wife, tenderly; "I wouldn't go out
any more this fall, if I were you."

"I don't intend going out any more, Ellen," was replied, "I'm sick
of it."

"You don't know how glad I am to hear you say so! Somehow, I always
feel troubled and uneasy when you are out gunning or fishing, as if
you were not doing right."

"You shall not feel so any more, Ellen," said Thorne: "I've been
thinking all the afternoon about your cloak. Cold weather is coming,
and we haven't a dollar laid by for anything. How I am to get the
cloak, I do not see, and yet I cannot bear the thought of your going
all this winter again without one."

"O, never mind that, dear," said Ellen, in a cheerful tone, her face
brightening up. "We can't afford it this fall, and so that's
settled. But I can have Jane's whenever I want it, she says; and you
know she is so kind and willing to lend me anything that she has. I
don't like to wear her things; but then I shall not want the cloak
often."

Henry Thorne sighed at the thoughts his wife's words stirred in his
mind.

"I don't know how it is," he at length said, despondingly; "William
can't work any faster than I can, nor earn more a week, and yet he
and Jane have every thing comfortable, and are saving money into the
bargain, while we want many things that they have, and are not a
dollar ahead."

One of the reasons for this, to her husband so unaccountable,
trembled on Ellen's tongue, but she could not make up her mind to
reprove him; and so bore in silence, and with some pain, what she
felt as a reflection upon her want of frugality in managing
household affairs.

Let us advance the characters we have introduced, a year in their
life's pilgrimage, and see if there are any fruits of these good
resolutions.

"Where is Thorne, this morning?" asked the owner of the shop,
speaking to Moreland, one morning, an hour after all the workmen had
come in.

"I do not know, really," replied Moreland. "I saw him yesterday,
when he was well."

"He's off gunning, I suppose, again. If so, it is the tenth day he
has lost in idleness during the last two months. I am afraid I shall
have to get a hand in his place, upon whom I can place more
dependence. I shall be sorry to do this for your sake, and for the
sake of his wife. But I do not like such an example to the workmen
and apprentices; and besides being away from the shop often
disappoints a job."

"I could not blame you, sir," Moreland said; "and yet, I do hope you
will bear with him for the sake of Ellen. I think if you would talk
with him it would do him good."

"But, why don't you talk to him, William?"

"I have talked to him frequently, but he has got so that he won't
bear it any longer from me."

"Nor would he bear it from me, either, I fear, William."
