Methodist hymn.

Being curious to examine more closely this phenomenon, the author said,

“You mean that you dreamed this, Louisa.”

With an air of wounded feeling, and much earnestness, she answered,

“O no, Mrs. Stowe; that never was a dream; you’ll never make me believe
that.”

The thought at once arose in the writer’s mind, If the Lord Jesus is
indeed everywhere present, and if he is as tender-hearted and
compassionate as he was on earth,—and we know he is,—must he not
sometimes long to speak to the poor, desolate slave, when he knows that
no voice but His can carry comfort and healing to his soul?

This instance of Louisa is so exactly parallel to another case, which
the author received from an authentic source, that she is tempted to
place the two side by side.

Among the slaves who were brought into the New England States, at the
time when slavery was prevalent, was one woman, who, immediately on
being told the history of the love of Jesus Christ, exclaimed, “He is
the one; this is what I wanted.”

This language causing surprise, her history was inquired into. It was
briefly this: While living in her simple hut in Africa, the kidnappers
one day rushed upon her family, and carried her husband and children off
to the slave-ship, she escaping into the woods. On returning to her
desolate home, she mourned with the bitterness of “Rachel weeping for
her children.” For many days her heart was oppressed with a heavy weight
of sorrow; and, refusing all sustenance, she wandered up and down the
desolate forest.

At last, she says, a strong impulse came over her to kneel down and pour
out her sorrows into the ear of some unknown Being whom she fancied to
be above her, in the sky.

She did so; and, to her surprise, found an inexpressible sensation of
relief. After this, it was her custom daily to go out to this same spot,
and supplicate this unknown Friend. Subsequently, she was herself taken,
and brought over to America; and, when the story of Jesus and his love
was related to her, she immediately felt in her soul that this Jesus was
the very friend who had spoken comfort to her yearning spirit in the
distant forest of Africa.

Compare now these experiences with the earnest and beautiful language of
Paul: “He hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all
the face of the earth; and hath determined the times before appointed
and the bounds of their habitation, that THEY SHOULD seek the Lord,
if haply they might FEEL AFTER HIM AND FIND HIM, though he be not far
from every one of us.”

Is not this truly “feeling after God and finding Him”? And may we not
hope that the yearning, troubled, helpless heart of man, pressed by the
insufferable anguish of this short life, or wearied by its utter vanity,
never extends its ignorant, pleading hand to God in vain? Is not the
veil which divides us from an almighty and most merciful Father much
thinner than we, in the pride of our philosophy, are apt to imagine? and
is it not the most worthy conception of Him to suppose that the more
utterly helpless and ignorant the human being is that seeks His aid, the
more tender and the more condescending will be His communication with
that soul?

If a mother has among her children one whom sickness has made blind, or
deaf, or dumb, incapable of acquiring knowledge through the usual
channels of communication, does she not seek to reach its darkened mind
by modes of communication tenderer and more intimate than those which
she uses with the stronger and more favored ones? But can the love of
any mother be compared with the infinite love of Jesus? Has He not
described himself as that good Shepherd who leaves the whole flock of
secure and well-instructed ones, to follow over the mountains of sin and
ignorance the one lost sheep; and, when He hath found it, rejoicing more
over that one than over the ninety and nine that went not astray? Has He
not told us that each of these little ones has a guardian angel that
doth always behold the face of his Father which is in heaven? And is it
not comforting to us to think that His love and care will be in
proportion to the ignorance and the wants of His chosen ones?

                  *       *       *       *       *

Since the above was prepared for the press the author has received the
following extract from a letter written by a gentleman in Missouri to
the editor of the Oberlin (Ohio) Evangelist:

  I really thought, while reading “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” that the
  authoress, when describing the character of Tom, had in her mind’s
  eye a slave whose acquaintance I made some years since, in the State
  of Mississippi, called “Uncle Jacob.” I was staying a day or two
  with a planter, and in the evening, when out in the yard, I heard a
  well-known hymn and tune sung in one of the “quarters,” and then the
  voice of prayer; and O, such a prayer! what fervor, what
  unction,—nay, the man “prayed right up;” and when I read of Uncle
  Tom, how “nothing could exceed the touching simplicity, the
  childlike earnestness, of his prayer, enriched with the language of
  Scripture, which seemed so entirely to have wrought itself into his
  being as to have become a part of himself,” the recollections of
  that evening prayer were strangely vivid. On entering the house and
  referring to what I had heard, his master replied, “Ah, sir, if I
  covet anything in this world, it is Uncle Jacob’s religion. If there
  is a good man on earth, he certainly is one.” He said Uncle Jacob
  was a regulator on the plantation; that a word or a look from
  him, addressed to younger slaves, had more efficacy than a blow
  from the overseer.

  The next morning Uncle Jacob informed me he was from Kentucky,
  opposite Cincinnati; that his opportunities for attending religious
  worship had been frequent; that at about the age of forty he was
  sold south, was set to picking cotton; could not, when doing his
  best, pick the task assigned him; was whipped and whipped, he could
  not possibly tell how often; was of the opinion that the overseer
  came to the conclusion that whipping could not bring one more pound
  out of him, for he set him to driving a team. At this and other work
  he could “make a hand;” had changed owners three or four times. He
  expressed himself as well pleased with his present situation as he
  expected to be in the South, but was yearning to return to his
  former associations in Kentucky.


