"It was very unkind!" -- said Rose, her head going down again
in fresh tears.

"It was very unkind and unhandsome. What can I say more, but
that I am sorry? Won't you forget it?"

"Of course," said Rose wiping her eyes, -- "I don't want to
remember it if you want to forget it. I dare say I was foolish
--"

"Then come to supper," said Elizabeth. "Here's the tea -- I'm
very hungry."


CHAPTER XVI.


And Phant'sie, I tell you, has dreams that have wings,
And dreams that have honey, and dreams that have stings,
Dreams of the maker, and dreams of the teller,
Dreams of the kitchen, and dreams of the cellar.
BEN JONSON.


A few days more passed; days of sameness in the house, while
Autumn's beautiful work was going on without, and the woods
were changing from day to day with added glories. It seemed as
if the sun had broken one or two of his beams across the
hills, and left fragments of coloured splendour all over. The
elm trees reared heads of straw-colour among their forest
brethren; the maples shewed yellow and red and flame-colour;
the birches were in bright orange. Sad purple ashes stood the
moderators of the Assembly; and hickories of gold made sunny
slopes down the mountain sides. All softened together in the
distance to a mellow, ruddy, glowing hue over the whole wood
country.

The two cousins sat by the two windows watching the fading
light, in what used once to be the 'keeping-room' -- Mrs.
Haye's now. Elizabeth had been long looking out of the window,
with a fixed, thoughtful, sorrowful, gaze. Rose's look was
never fixed long upon anything and never betrayed her thoughts
to be so. It wavered now uneasily between her cousin and the
broad and bright hills and river -- which probably Mrs. Haye
did not see.

"How long are you going to stay here, Lizzie?"

"I don't know."

"How is that old woman?"

"I don't know. There don't seem to be much difference from one
day to another."

"What ails her?"

"I don't know. I suppose it is as the doctor says, -- that
there is a general breaking up of nature."

"Is she going to live long?"

"I don't know. He said probably not."

"Well, who's going to take care of her?"

"She is taken care of. There is a woman here from Mountain
Spring, to do all that is necessary."

"Why must we stay here, Lizzie? -- it's so dismal."

"We mustn't -- I must."

"Why?"

"I would rather -- and I think it is right."

"To take care of that old woman?"

"No -- I can't do much for her -- but I can see that she is
taken care of."

"But how would she have done if you had never come here?"

"I don't know. I don't know what that has to do with it,
seeing that I am here."

"You wouldn't stay for her now, if she wasn't somebody's old
nurse."

Elizabeth did not answer.

"But how long do you mean to stay here, Lizzie? -- any how?"

"Till I must go -- till it is less pleasant here than somewhere
else."

"And when will you think that?"

"Not for a good while."

"But when, Lizzie?"

"I don't know. I suppose when the cold weather comes in
earnest."

"I'm sure it has come now!" said Rose shrugging her shoulders.
"I'm shivering every morning after the fire goes out. What
sort of cold weather do you mean?"

"I mean snow and ice."

"Snow and ice -- And then you will go -- where will you go?"
said Rose discontentedly.

"I suppose, to Mannahatta."

"Will you go the first snow?"

"I cannot tell yet, Rose."
