“Yes, we passed a few words. How much she has changed!”

“For the worse?”

“Yes. She appears five years older than she did last summer, and has
such a sad, disappointed look, that I could not help pitying her from my
heart.”

“There are few who need your pity more, Constance. I think she must be
wretched almost beyond endurance. So young, and the goblet which held
the shine of her life broken, and all its precious contents spilled in
the thirsty sand at her feet. Every one seems to have receded from her.”

“The common sentiment is against her; and yet, I am of those who never
believed her any thing worse than indiscreet.”

“Her indiscretion was in itself a heinous offence against good morals,”
 said I; “and while she has my compassion, I have no wish to see a
different course of treatment pursued towards her.”

“I haven’t much faith in the soundness of this common sentiment against
her,” replied Constance. “There is in it some self-righteousness, a good
deal of pretended horror at her conduct, but very little real virtuous
indignation. It is my opinion that eight out of ten of her old
fashionable friends would be just as intimate with her as ever, though
they knew all about the affair at Saratoga, if they only were in the
secret. It is in order to stand well with the world that they lift their
hands in pretended holy horror.”

“We cannot expect people to act from any higher principles than they
possess,” said I; “and it is something gained to good morals, when even
those who are corrupt in heart affect to be shocked at departures from
virtue in their friends.”

“Yes, I can see that. Still, when I look beneath the surface, I feel
that, so far as the motives are concerned, a wrong has been done; and
my soul stirs with a feeling of pity towards Mrs. Dewey, and indignation
against her heartless friends. Do you know, dear, that since I met her
this morning, I have had serious thoughts of calling upon her?”

“You!”

Constance gave me one of her placid smiles in answer to my surprised
ejaculation.

“Yes; why not?”

“What will people say?”

“I can tell you what they will not say,” she replied,

“Well?”

“They will not say, as they do of her, that of all men, I care least for
my husband.”

“I am not afraid of their saying that; but--”

I was a little bewildered by this unexpected thought on the part of my
wife, and did not at first see the matter clear.

“She has held herself very high, and quite aloof from many of her old
friends,” Constance resumed. “While this was the case, I have not
cared to intrude upon her; although she has been kind and polite to me
whenever we happened to meet. Now, when the summer friends who courted
her are dropping away like autumn leaves, a true friend may draw near
and help her in the trial through which she is passing.”

“Right, Constance! right!” said I, warmly. “Your clearer eyes have gone
down below, the surface. Oh, yes; call upon her, and be her true friend,
if she will permit you to come near enough. There can be no loss to you;
there may be great gain to her. Was there any thing in her manner that
encouraged you to approach?”

“I think so. It was this, no doubt, that stirred the suggestion in my
mind.”

Constance waited a day or two, pondering the matter, and then made a
call at the Allen House.

“How were you received?” I asked, on meeting her.

“Kindly,” she said.

“But with indifference?”

“No. Mrs. Dewey was surprised, I thought, but evidently pleased.”

“How long did you stay?”

“Only for a short time.”

“What did you talk about?”

“Scarcely any thing beyond the common-place topics that come up on
formal visits. But I penetrated deep enough into her mind to discover
the ‘aching void’ there, which she has been so vainly endeavoring to
fill. I do not think she meant to let me see this abyss of wretchedness;
but her efforts to hide it were in vain. Unhappy one! She has been
seeking to quench an immortal thirst at broken cisterns which can hold
no water.”

“Can you do her any good, Constance?” I asked.

“If we would do good, we must put ourselves in the way,” she replied.
“Nothing is gained by standing afar off.”

“Then you mean to call upon her again?”

“She held my hand at parting, with such an earnest pressure, and looked
at me so kindly when she said, ‘Your visit has been very pleasant,’ that
I saw the way plain before me.”

“You will wait until she returns your call?”

“I cannot say. It will depend upon the way things shape themselves in my
mind. If I can do her good, I shall not stand upon etiquette.”

As I came in sight of my modest little home a few days afterwards, I
saw the stylish carriage of Mrs. Dewey dash away from my door, taking a
