As Walter raised his hand to dash away the drops that rose at the
memory of the boy, his eye fell on the ring he always wore for his
dead mother’s sake. He had hoped to see it one day on Bess’s hand,
but now a generous thought banished all others and with the energy
of an honest purpose be hastened to sell the ring, purchase a little
food and fuel, and borrowing a warm covering of a kindly neighbor,
he went back to dispense these comforts with a satisfaction he had
little thought to feel.

The one lamp burned low; a few dying embers lay upon the earth, and
no sound broke the silence but the steady rustle of Bess’s needle,
and the echo of Jamie’s hollow cough.

“Wrap it around Bess; she has given me her cloak, and needs it more
than I,--these coverings do very well;” and as he spoke, Jamie put
away the blanket Walter offered, and suppressing a shiver, hid his
purple hands beneath the old, thin cloak.

“Here is bread, Jamie; eat for Heaven’s sake, no need to save it
now;” and Walter pressed it on the boy, but he only took a little,
saying he had not much need of food and loved to see them eat far
better.

So in the cheery blaze of the rekindled fire, Bess and Walter broke
their long fast, and never saw how eagerly Jamie gathered up the
scattered crumbs, nor heard him murmur softly, as he watched them
with loving eyes,--

“There will be no cold nor hunger up in heaven, but enough for
all,--enough for all.”

“Walter, you’ll be kind to Bess when I am not here?” he whispered
earnestly, as his friend came to draw his bed within the ruddy
circle of the firelight gleaming on the floor.

“I will, Jamie, kinder than a brother,” was the quick reply. “But
why ask me that with such a wistful face?”

The boy did not answer, but turned on his pillow and kissed his
sister’s shadow as it flitted by.

Gray dawn was in the sky before they spoke again. Bess slept the
deep, dreamless sleep of utter weariness, her head pillowed on her
arms. Walter sat beside the bed, lost in sweet and bitter musings,
silent and motionless, fancying the boy slept. But a low voice broke
the silence, whispering feebly.

“Walter, will you take me in your strong arms and lay me on my
little couch beside the window? I should love to see the cross
again, and it is nearly day.”

So light, so very light, the burden seemed, Walter turned his face
aside lest the boy should see the sorrowful emotion painted there,
and with a close embrace he laid him tenderly down to watch the
first ray climbing up the old gray tower.

“The frost lies so thickly on the window-panes that you cannot see
it, even when the light comes, Jamie,” said his friend, vainly
trying to gratify the boy’s wish.

“The sun will melt it soon, and I can wait,--I can wait, Walter;
it’s but a little while;” and Jamie, with a patient smile, turned
his face to the dim window and lay silent.

Higher and higher crept the sunshine till it shone through the
frostwork on the boy’s bright head; his bird awoke and carolled
blithely, but he never stirred.

“Asleep at last, poor, tired little Jamie; I’ll not wake him till
the day is warmer;” and Walter, folding the coverings closer over
the quiet figure, sat beside it, waiting till it should wake.

“Jamie dear, look up, and see how beautifully your last rose has
blossomed in the night when least we looked for it;” and Bess came
smiling in with the one white rose, so fragrant but so frail.

Jamie did not turn to greet her, for all frost had melted from the
boy’s life now; another flower had blossomed in the early dawn, and
though the patient face upon the pillow was bathed in sunshine,
little Jamie was not there to see it gleaming on the cross. God had
remembered him.

Spring showers had made the small mound green, and scattered flowers
in the churchyard. Sister Bess sat in the silent room alone, working
still, but pausing often to wipe away the tears that fell upon a
letter on her knee.

Steps came springing up the narrow stairs and Walter entered with a
beaming face, to show the first rich earnings of his pen, and ask
her to rest from her long labor in the shelter of his love.

“Dear Bess, what troubles you? Let me share your sorrow and try to
lighten it,” he cried with anxious tenderness, sitting beside her on
the little couch where Jamie fell asleep.

In the frank face smiling on her, the girl’s innocent eyes read
nothing but the friendly interest of a brother, and remembering his
care and kindness, she forgot her womanly timidity in her great
longing for sympathy, and freely told him all.

Told him of the lover she left years ago to cling to Jamie, and how
this lover went across the sea hoping to increase his little fortune
that the helpless brother might be sheltered for love of her. How
misfortune followed him, and when she looked to welcome back a
prosperous man, there came a letter saying that all was lost and he
must begin the world anew and win a home to offer her before he
claimed the heart so faithful to him all these years.

“He writes so tenderly and bears his disappointment bravely for my
sake; but it is very hard to see our happiness deferred again when
such a little sum would give us to each other.”

As she ceased, Bess looked for comfort into the countenance of her
companion, never seeing through her tears how pale it was with
sudden grief, how stern with repressed emotion. She only saw the
friend whom Jamie loved and that tie drew her toward him as to an
elder brother to whom she turned for help, unconscious then how
great his own need was.

“I never knew of this before, Bess; you kept your secret well” he
