
"You must do it."

"And not git me rint?"

"You shall have your money--every cent of it. Put the furniture back,
and you shall have your due just as soon as you have done it," said
Fanny, as haughtily as though she had been a millionaire.

Mr. O'Shane looked at her, and seemed to be petrified with
astonishment. The deed he was doing, harsh and cruel as it was, he
regarded as a work of necessity. Though he owned the house occupied by
Mrs. Kent, and another in which he lived himself with two other
families, both of them were mortgaged for half their value, and he was
obliged to pay interest on the money he owed for them. He certainly
could not afford to lose his rent, to which he was justly entitled. He
had indulged his tenant for a year, and nothing but the apparent
hopelessness of obtaining what was due had tempted him to this cruel
proceeding. Nothing but starvation in his own family could justify a
landlord in turning a mother with a dying child out of the house. He
looked at Fanny with astonishment when she promised to pay him, but he
was sceptical.

"Why don't you put back the furniture?" demanded Fanny, impatiently.

"It's meself that would be glad to do that same," replied he. "Would
you let me see the color of your money, miss?"

"Put the things back, and you shall have your money as soon as you have
done it," added Fanny, moving down the street. "I will be back in a few
moments."

The landlord looked at her, as she walked away. He was in doubt, but
there was something about the girl so different from what he had been
accustomed to see in young ladies of her age, that he was strongly
impressed by her words. Fanny sat down on a rock in the shade of a lone
tree. Mr. O'Shane looked at her for a moment, and then decided to obey
the haughty command he had received. He went to work with more energy
than he had before displayed, and began to move the furniture back into
the house, greatly to the surprise and delight, no doubt, of the
grief-stricken mother.

Fanny counted out a hundred dollars from the stolen bills in her
pocket, and returned to the house. Mr. O'Shane had by this time
completed his work, and was awaiting the result.

"They be all put back, miss," said he, doubtfully.

"There is your money," replied Fanny, proudly.

Mr. O'Shane's eyes opened, and he fixed them with a gloating stare upon
the bills. He counted them; there was a hundred dollars.

"God bless you, miss, for a saint as ye are!" ejaculated he, as he put
the money in his pocket. "Ye saved me from doing the worst thing I ever
did in me life. I'll send the receipt to Mrs. Kent to-day;" and he
walked away towards his own house.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE SICK GIRL.


The last part of the interview between Fanny and Mr. O'Shane had been
witnessed by Mrs. Kent, who came out of the house when she had attended
to the wants of her sick child. The dark cloud which menaced her a few
moments before had rolled away, and, if the sunshine did not beam upon
her, she was comparatively happy in having one trouble less to weigh
her down. She was calm now, but the tears--they were tears of
relief--still rolled down her wan and furrowed cheek.

"I have prayed for help, and help has come," said she to her deliverer,
as the harsh landlord walked away.

Fanny could not make any reply to a statement of this kind. She was a
fugitive and a wanderer; she was a thief, shunning the gaze of men, and
she could not conceive of such a thing as that she had been sent as an
angel of relief to the poor woman in answer to her prayers. As she
thought what she was and what she had been doing, a blush of shame
suffused her cheek. She was silent; there was nothing which she could
say at such a moment.

"Heaven will bless you for your good, kind heart. You are an angel,"
continued Mrs. Kent.

Fanny knew how far she was from being an angel, and she had no heart
for deceiving the poor woman. It might be fun and excitement to deceive
the people at Woodville, but Mrs. Kent seemed to be sanctified by her
sorrows.

"I hope you haven't robbed yourself by your good deed, miss," added the
poor woman, wondering why Fanny did not speak.

"O, no! I have some more money."

Perhaps Mrs. Kent thought it singular that a young girl, like Fanny,
should happen to have so much money about her, but she did not ask any
questions; and perhaps she did not think that one who had been so kind
to her could do anything wrong.

"Now, you will come into the house and see poor Jenny. She will want to
thank you for what you have done," said Mrs. Kent, leading the way to
the door.

Fanny could not refuse this reasonable request, but she felt very
strangely. She found herself commended and reverenced for what she had
done, and she could not help feeling how unworthy she was. Conscious
that she had performed a really good deed, she could not reconcile it
with her past conduct. It was utterly inconsistent with the base act
she had done in the morning; and in the light of one deed the other
seemed so monstrous that she almost loathed herself.

She followed Mrs. Kent into the room where the sick girl was reclining
upon the bed. There was no carpet on the floor, and the apartment was
very meagerly furnished with the rudest and coarsest articles. Jenny
was pale and emaciated; the hand of death seemed to be already upon
her; but in spite of her paleness and her emaciation, there was
