said Captain Walmsley, with a proper exhibition of tragic adjuncts.

"Why don't you do it, then?"

"I am willing to give you one chance to save your lives."

"You are very considerate. Mr. Pillgrim was going to blow her up for my
special benefit."

"If you think I am not in earnest, you are greatly mistaken," continued
the captain, as he stirred up the burning substances in the pan.

"I see you are in earnest, and I am waiting for you to blow her up."

"I will give you ten minutes to save your lives; for I have sworn this
vessel shall never go into port as a prize. You and your people can take
to the boats and save yourselves."

"Will you blow her up when we are gone?"

"I will."

"I have had quite enough of this, Captain Walmsley," said Somers,
advancing to the fire king, revolver in hand. "Now go on deck, or I will
blow your brains out, if you have any."

The captain looked at the revolver, and he might as well have
acknowledged his defeat, for his face proclaimed it.

"If I should drop this into the cargo, it would blow up the ship."

"No, it wouldn't. There are nothing but solid shot and shell under you,"
replied Somers; and perhaps his coolness and self-possession were in a
great measure due to his knowledge of this fact, for he had carefully
inspected the cargo immediately after the capture of the vessel.

Captain Walmsley, with the blazing censer in his hand, made his way over
the boxes, bales, and barrels which lay above the heavy articles, to the
hatchway. The pan and its contents were thrown overboard, and the men
informed that there was no danger. The captain was ordered into the
cabin, where he was put in double irons, as his fellow-conspirator had
been. He protested, at first, against this indignity. Then he begged,
declaring that Mr. Pillgrim was the author of the plot by which it was
intended to recapture the steamer. It was fully believed that Somers and
his crew would abandon the vessel as soon as it was announced that there
was fire in the hold, knowing that her cargo would readily explode.

Captain Walmsley declared that Pillgrim was a fool; if he had kept still
till the fire was discovered, instead of declaiming over it beforehand,
the plan would have succeeded. Somers doubted it; and when the
humiliated captain was ironed, he was sent into his state-room, and a
sentinel placed at his door. This business was hardly completed before
the marine in charge of Pillgrim informed Somers that his prisoner
wished to speak with him. The request was peremptorily refused.

"There, Mr. Hudson, I think we have fixed those fellows so that we shall
know where to find them when we want them," said Somers, when the
conspirators had been disposed of.

"Yes, sir; and if any other man had been in charge of this vessel, he
would have lost her, Captain Somers. I should have voted for abandoning
her as soon as I was satisfied that she was on fire."

"Perhaps I should, if I had not known the powder and shells were in the
fore hold. But I did not believe the villains had pluck enough to blow
themselves up for the sake of blowing me up. If there had been any real
danger, they would have been the first to run away."

"Well, sir, I think you have managed them exceedingly well."

Somers was perfectly willing he should think so, and perhaps he thought
so himself. At any rate, he was heartily rejoiced to get out of the
scrape so easily, and fully resolved that the conspirators should have
no further opportunity to exercise their talents at plotting on board
the Ben Nevis.

There was a mystery still unsolved to the young officer, and with Mr.
Hudson he repaired to the state-room in which Pillgrim had passed the
night,--or ought to have passed it,--and commenced a further
examination. There was nothing supernatural, or even very remarkable, in
the absence of the prisoner, when the carpet was pulled up, and a square
aperture, now closed by a pine board, was discovered in the corner of
the room. In the ceiling there was a similar aperture, which had been
filled up to correspond with the deck above. It was evident that a
ventilator, which had been used to convey fresh air to the after hold,
had been removed at some recent period.

As Captain Walmsley had indicated this state-room for the use of
Pillgrim, it was probable that he had chosen it on account of this means
of egress. Some time in the night he must have visited the prisoner,
entering through this aperture, and conducted him to the hold below.

In the fine weather and smooth sea the Ben Nevis nearly made good the
claim of the conspirators in regard to her speed, for all day she logged
fifteen knots, and at three bells in the first dog watch Cape Henry was
sighted, and at ten o'clock in the evening she anchored off Fortress
Monroe.

By the first conveyance Mr. Hudson was sent to Washington with the
despatches of Captain Cascabel, and one from Somers. On the second day
the messenger returned, with orders from the department. The young
officer took the bundle of documents into the cabin, and proceeded to
examine those directed to himself. He was ordered to hand his prisoners
over to the commandant of the fort, to deliver his vessel into the
keeping of the senior naval officer on the station, and to rejoin his
ship forthwith, taking passage in a supply steamer to sail on the
following day. He was highly commended for the skill and energy with
which he had discharged his duty on board the Ben Nevis, full
particulars of which had been communicated by Mr. Hudson.

Another document contained his commission as master, the next rank above
that of ensign, which had been solicited by Captain Cascabel. This paper
was full of interest to the recipient of it, and he was obliged to open
the long letters he had written to his mother and to Kate Portington, in
order to add, in a postscript, this important intelligence. He was proud
and happy, and more than ever satisfied that republics are not
ungrateful, notwithstanding the tradition to the contrary.

At the proper time he proceeded to execute his orders in regard to the
vessel and the prisoners. Pillgrim and his fellow-conspirator were
