"Good morning," said Gypsy.

"Good morning," said Mrs. Littlejohn, severely.

"I went out to play in the hay with Sarah Rowe, and forgot all about your
supper last night, and I'm just as sorry as I can be," said Gypsy, coming
to the point frankly, and without any attempt to excuse herself.

"Oh, of course!" said Mrs. Littlejohn, in the tone of a martyr. "It's all
I expect. I'm a poor lone widdy with a bone broke, and I'm used to
bein'clock forgot. Little gals that has everything they want, and five
dollars besides, and promises me salmon and such, couldn't be expected to
remember the sufferin'clock and afflicted,--of course not."

It was not an easy nor a pleasant thing to apologize to a person to whom
she had played the charitable lady the day before; and Mrs. Littlejohn's
manner of receiving the explanation certainly made it no easier. But
Gypsy, as the saying goes, "swallowed her pride," and felt that she
deserved it.

"I've brought you some peas," she said, meekly.

"Oh!" said the old woman, relenting a little, "you have, have you? Well,
I'm obleeged to you, and you can set 'em in the cupboard."

Gypsy emptied her peas into a yellow bowl which she found in the cupboard,
and then asked,--

"Can I do anything for you?"

"I'm terrible thirsty!" said Mrs. Littlejohn, with a long groan. "There's
some water in that air pail."

Gypsy went into the corner where the pail stood, and filled the mug with
water; then, not being able to think of anything more to say, she
concluded to go.

"Good mornin'clock," said Mrs. Littlejohn, in a forgiving tone; "I hope
you'll come agin."

Gypsy secretly thought it was doubtful if she ever did. Her charity, like
that of most young people of her age and experience, was not of the sort
calculated to survive under difficulties, or to deal successfully with
shrewish old women.

After inquiring in vain of the group of staring children where Peace
Maythorne's room was, Gypsy resorted to her friend, the red-faced woman,
who directed her to a door upon the second story.

It was closed, and Gypsy knocked.

"Come in," said a quiet voice. Gypsy went in, wondering why Peace
Maythorne did not get up and open the door, and if she did not know it was
more polite. She stopped short, as she entered the room, and wondered no
longer.

It was a plain, bare room, but neat enough, and not unpleasant nor
unhomelike, because of the great flood of morning sunlight that fell in
and touched everything to golden warmth. It touched most brightly, and
lingered longest, on a low bed drawn up between the windows. A girl lay
there, with a pale face turned over on the pillows, and weak, thin hands,
folded on the counterpane. She might, from her size, have been about
sixteen years of age; but her face was like the face of a woman long grown
old. The clothing of the bed partially concealed her shoulders, which were
cruelly rounded and bent.

So Peace Maythorne was a cripple.

Gypsy recovered from her astonishment with a little start, and said,
blushing, for fear she had been rude,--

"Good morning. I'm Gypsy Breynton. Mother sent me down with a magazine."

"I am glad to see you," said Peace Maythorne, smiling. "Won't you sit
down?"

Gypsy took a chair by the bed, thinking how pleasant the old, pale face,
was, after all, and how kindly and happy the smile.

"Your mother is very kind," said Peace; "she is always doing something for
me. She has given me a great deal to read."

"Do you like to read?--I don't," said Gypsy.

"Why, yes!" said Peace, opening her eyes wide; "I thought everybody liked
to read. Besides I can't do anything else, you know."

"Nothing at all?" asked Gypsy.

"Only sometimes, when the pain isn't very bad, I try to help aunt about
her sewing, I can't do much."

"Oh, you live with your aunt?" said Gypsy.

"Yes. She takes in sewing. She's out, just now."

"Does your back pain you a great deal?" asked Gypsy.

"Oh, yes; all the time. But, then, I get used to it, you know," said
Peace.

"All the time!--oh, I am so sorry!" said Gypsy, drawing a long breath.

"Oh, it might be worse," said Peace, smiling.

"I've only lain here three years. Some people can't move for forty. The
doctor says I sha'n't live so long as that."

Gypsy looked at the low bed, the narrow room, the pallid face and shrunken
body cramped there, moveless, on the pillows. Three years! Three years to
lie through summer suns and winter snows, while all the world was out at
play, and happy!

"Well," said Gypsy, as the most appropriate comment suggesting itself;
"you are rather different from Mrs. Littlejohn!"

Peace smiled. There was something rare about Peace Maythorne's smile.

"Poor Mrs. Littlejohn! You see, she isn't used to being sick, and I am;
that makes the difference."
