“What gentleman?”

“The one that took me away from Peg’s. Why, there he is now!”

Mrs. Clifton followed the direction of Ida’s finger, as she pointed to a
gentleman passing.

“Is he the one?”

“Yes, mamma,” said Ida, shyly.

Mrs. Clifton pressed Ida to her breast. It was the first time she had
ever been called mamma. It made her realize, more fully, her present
happiness.

Arrived at the house, Jack’s bashfulness returned. He hung back, and
hesitated about going in.

Mrs. Clifton observed this.

“Jack,” said she, “this house is to be your home while you remain in
Philadelphia. Come in, and Thomas shall go for your baggage.”

“Perhaps I had better go with him,” said Jack. “Uncle Abel will be glad
to know that Ida is found.”

“Very well; only return soon.”

“Well!” thought Jack, as he re-entered the carriage, and gave the
direction to the coachman; “won’t Uncle Abel be a little surprised when
he sees me coming home in such style!”



CHAPTER XXVI. “NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.”



MEANWHILE, Peg was passing her time wearily enough in prison. It was
certainly provoking to be deprived of her freedom just when she was
likely to make it most profitable. After some reflection, she determined
to send for Mrs. Clifton, and reveal to her all she knew, trusting to
her generosity for a recompense.

To one of the officers of the prison she communicated the intelligence
that she had an important revelation to make to Mrs. Clifton, and
absolutely refused to make it unless the lady would visit her in prison.

Scarcely had Mrs. Clifton returned home, after recovering her child,
than the bell rang, and a stranger was introduced.

“Is this Mrs. Clifton?” he inquired.

“It is.”

“Then I have a message for you.”

The lady inclined her head.

“You must know, madam, that I am one of the officers connected with the
City Prison. A woman was placed in confinement this morning, who says
she has a most important communication to make to you, but declines to
make it except to you in person.”

“Can you bring her here, sir?”

“That is impossible. We will give you every facility, however, for
visiting her in prison.”

“It must be Peg,” whispered Ida; “the woman that carried me off.”

Such a request Mrs. Clifton could not refuse. She at once made ready to
accompany the officer. She resolved to carry Ida with her, fearful that,
unless she kept her in her immediate presence, she might disappear again
as before.

As Jack had not yet returned, a hack was summoned, and they proceeded
at once to the prison. Ida shuddered as she passed beneath the gloomy
portal which shut out hope and the world from so many.

“This way, madam!”

They followed the officer through a gloomy corridor, until they came to
the cell in which Peg was confined.

The tenant of the cell looked surprised to find Mrs. Clifton accompanied
by Ida.

“How do you do, Ida?” she said, smiling grimly; “you see I’ve moved.
Just tell your mother she can sit down on the bed. I’m sorry I haven’t
any rocking-chair or sofa to offer you.”

“O Peg,” said Ida, her tender heart melted by the woman’s misfortunes;
“how sorry I am to find you here!”

“Are you sorry?” asked Peg, looking at her in surprise.

“You haven’t much cause to be. I’ve been your worst enemy, or one of the
worst.”

“I can’t help it,” said the child, her face beaming with a divine
compassion; “it must be so sad to be shut up here, and not be able to go
out into the bright sunshine. I do pity you.”

Peg’s heart was not wholly hardened. Few are. But it was long since it
had been touched as it was now by this great pity on the part of one she
had injured.

“You’re a good girl, Ida,” she said; “and I’m sorry I’ve injured you. I
didn’t think I should ever ask forgiveness of anybody; but I do ask your
forgiveness.”

The child rose, and advancing towards Peg, took her large hand in (sic)
her’s and said, “I forgive you, Peg.”

“From your heart?”

“With all my heart.”

“Thank you, child. I feel better now. There have been times when I
