that we are gone, he will not be likely to take it as quietly as he
has all day. Our breaking away has really broken up the Parkville
Liberal Institute, and I shouldn't be surprised if its principal took
some decided steps. I haven't any idea what he will do, but in my
opinion he will do something."

"What can he do?" asked Tom Rush.

"He can do a great many things, and especially a great many foolish
things. I suppose, when we come down to the niceties of the matter, we
hadn't any right to take the boats or the tents. In fact, Mr. Parasyte
stands in loco parentis to us."

"In what?" asked one of the boys who did not study Latin.

"In the place of our parents; and therefore has authority to do
anything which parents might do. I can't help saying that I have no
respect for Mr. Parasyte; that I despise him from the bottom of my
heart. He knows, just as well as we do, that Bill Poodles made the
trouble yesterday, and he persists in punishing Thornton for it. For
such a man I can have no respect."

"So say we all!" shouted the boys.

"There is no safety for any of us, if we permit such injustice. He may
take a miff at any of us any time. I hope that something good will
come out of this scrape; and I think that something will."

I learned then, for the first time, that Vallington had drawn up a
paper, setting forth the grievances of the students, in which several
instances of Mr. Parasyte's injustice and partiality were related, and
concluding with a full history of the affair between Poodles and
myself. This paper had been signed by eighty-one of the students, and
the publisher of the Parkville Standard had engaged to print it on a
letter sheet, to be sent to the parents of the rebel scholars.

"Mr. Hardy has been discharged. He was the best man in the
Institute--just and fair. I don't know anything about it; but I am
satisfied that he was sent away because he condemned Mr. Parasyte's
treatment of Thornton."

"That was the reason," added Bob Hale. "Mr. Hardy saw Ernest last
night, after the row in the office."

"I think we have the right of the case," continued Vallington, "though
I suppose we are wrong in breaking away; but, for one, I won't see a
fellow like Ernest Thornton browbeaten, and flogged, and ground down.
If Mr. Parasyte wants to grind down one, he must grind down the
whole."

"I am very much obliged to you," I interposed; "but I want you to
understand that I don't ask any one to get himself into a scrape for
me."

"When we protect you, Thornton, we protect ourselves. Your cause is
our own. We won't say anything more about that matter. We are here now
in a state of rebellion, and we must make the best of our situation.
When Mr. Parasyte will give us fair play, we will return to the
Institute."

"We will," replied some of the boys; but I am free to say that they
hoped he would not give them fair play until they had spent a week or
more in camp.

"Now, fellows, we will see how we stand, and make arrangements for the
future. We have boats and tents, and these are about all we have. We
have provisions enough for supper and breakfast. We must get a supply
of eatables to-night or in the morning. It will require money, but I
suppose all of you have some; at any rate, I told you to bring your
money with you, if you had any."

Most of the boys had some funds, which had been saved from their
pocket money for a Fourth of July Celebration, planned months before.

"We need some officers, and as I don't believe in one-man power, I
shall ask you to elect them. Please to nominate a treasurer."

"George Weston!" shouted one of the students.

"George Weston is nominated. All in favor of his election will
manifest it by raising the right hand."

It was a unanimous vote, and the nominee was declared elected.

"Now we want to raise the money, we need to buy provisions, fairly. If
any one will make a motion, it will be in order," added the chairman.

The Parkville Debating Society, an association connected with the
Institute, had fully educated the students in parliamentary forms, and
they were entirely "at home" in the business before them.

"I move you, Mr. Chairman, that each fellow be assessed fifty cents
for expenses," said one of the students.

The motion was put and carried; and after Fred Mason had been elected
clerk, the treasurer was instructed to collect the assessments
forthwith. The next business was the selection of a commissary, and
Tom Rush was chosen to this important office.

"Mr. Chairman, I nominate Ernest Thornton for commodore of our
squadron," said Bob Hale; and, though the nomination created some
merriment, on account of the high-sounding title of the officer, the
vote was unanimous.

"I accept, Mr. Chairman; but I should prefer to be called simply the
boatman," I replied.

"That won't do!" exclaimed Bob. "Ernest is to have charge of all the
boats, including the scow, and I am in favor of calling him
commodore."

"We won't dispute about titles," laughed Vallington; "but the boats
are all under Thornton's charge. I advise the commissary to consult
with the commodore, immediately, in regard to procuring a supply of
provisions for the company."

The rest of the business was soon completed. As an indication of the
spirit of the boys, it was voted that the place should be called "Camp
Fair Play." Vallington announced that six boys should be chosen each
day to do the cooking and serve out the provision; that a watch should
