"Why do you ask that, Dr. Sandford?"

"Must you know, before you tell me?"

"No, not at all; I was only curious, because I know you always
have a reason for your questions."

"Most people have, I believe."

"Yes, curiosity; but it is knowledge, not ignorance, that
prompts your inquiries, Dr. Sandford."

He smiled at that; one of the pleasant smiles I used to know
so well. I saw them rarely now. It made me a little sad, for I
knew Dr. Sandford's life had suffered an eclipse, as well as
mine.

"I have not so much knowledge that I do not desire more," he
said.

"Yes, I know. I am very well, thank you."

"You were not very well when I brought you here."

"No. I was well in body."

"You are better?"

"Yes."

"If it were not impertinent, I would like to ask more."

"It is not impertinent. You may ask."

"In pursuit of my old psychological study, you know. What has
happened in this poor little place, by this poor creature's
bedside, to do any good to Daisy Randolph?"

Now it was not according to my nature to like to tell him. But
what had I just been asking, but that I might carry messages?
So I spoke, slowly.

"This poor creature is just going to step out of this poor
place, into glory. The light of that glory is shining around
her now, for she said so. You heard her."

"Yes," said the doctor. "Well?"

"Well, Dr. Sandford, it reminded me how near the glory is, and
how little this world's things are in face of it. I have
remembered that I am a servant of the King of that land, and
an heir of the glory; and that He loves me now, and has given
me work to do for Him, and when the work is done will take me
home. And I am content."

"What 'work' are you going to do?" the doctor asked, rather
growlingly.

"I do not know. What He gives me."

And even as I spoke, there was a rush of tears to my eyes,
with the thought that I must do my work alone; but I was
content, nevertheless. Dr. Sandford was not. His fingers
worked restlessly among the thick locks of his hair; as if he
were busy with a thicket of thoughts as well; but he said
nothing more.

Towards morning Molly passed away from the scene of her very
lonely and loveless life journey. I went to the door again, in
time to see the rays of the morning brightening the blue ridge
which lay clear and cool over against me.

What light for Molly now! And what new light for me.

I drove home through that new light, outward and inward. I
could and did give mamma some pleasure at breakfast; and then
slept a quiet, dreamless sleep, to make up for my loss of the
night before.

I have got through my story now, I think. In Molly's cottage,
life started anew for me, on a new basis. Not my own special
gratification, but my Lord's will. And I seeking that, He
takes care of the other. I find it so. And He has promised
that everybody shall find it so. My only care is to do exactly
the work He means I shall do. It is not so easy always to find
out and make sure of that. I would like, if I followed my
liking, I would like to go South and teach in the Freedmen's
schools somewhere. But that is not my work now, for mamma
claims me here.

We are at Melbourne again. As soon as the last tenant's term
of possession was expired, Dr. Sandford had the house put in
order for us, and mamma and I moved in. There is a sort of
pleasure, in being here, in the old place; but it is a mingled
pleasure. I think all places are pleasant to me now. Mamma
reigns here queen, as of old; - for Ransom will not come
North, and leaves all in her hand. All the enjoyment, that is.
Dr. Sandford manages the business. I do not know how long this
will last; for Ransom may marry, and in that case he may wish
to live in the place himself, and mamma and I would have to
go; but that day is not yet; and the blue mountains across the
river, and the slopes of green turf, and the clumps and groves
of trees which stand about the house and adorn the grounds,
are all in even greater beauty than when I was ten years old;
and I enjoy them even more.

Dr. Sandford takes care of everything that mamma cannot
manage. I know why he does it; and I am sorry. He is like a
good brother to me, and I am very fond of him; he is coming
and going in our house continually; he furthers my plans, and
ministers to all my pleasure, and looks after my well-being,
somewhat as he did when I was ten years old; only with much
more of freedom and acknowledged affection and authority. I
think he fancies that time will befriend him and bring me to
look upon him in a light more kindly for his wishes. He is
mistaken. People may love truly and love again, I suppose; I
have no doubt men may; but I think not women. Not true women,
when they have once thoroughly given their hearts. I do not
think they can take them back to give again. And mine is Mr.
Thorold's.
