as we were passing the shoalest part of the Ford, two men leaped into
the water, and waded out to the boat. Sim and I were resting on our oars
at the time, and so sudden was the movement that I had no time to get
out of the way.

One of these men seized the boat, and the other, in whom I recognized
Stevens, the constable from Torrentville, grasped me by the collar, and
dragged me out of the boat to the shore.

"We have got you at last," said the officer.

"Hookie!" shouted Sim, as he stood up in the boat gazing at me, with his
eyes distended, and his mouth wide open.

My tyrants had me again.




CHAPTER XXV.

TWO HOURS IN JAIL.


The appearance of the constable was a sufficient explanation of the
misfortune which had befallen me. The man with him was a stranger to me.
The mail boy had delivered his message to Captain Fishley, and the
constable had been sent down to Riverport to arrest me; but not finding
me there, and probably learning from the hotel-keeper where I had gone,
he lay in wait for me at the Ford.

The officer and his companion were unnecessarily rough and insulting to
me, I thought; but when I consider the exceedingly bad reputation which
I had made, I am not much surprised. I was dragged out of the boat, my
legs soused into the water, and my elaborate toilet--made in view of the
fact that I was to face Miss Emily Goodridge during the excursion--was
badly deranged.

Of course Emily and Flora screamed when I was pulled out of the boat;
but I could hardly help laughing, in spite of my mishap, when I saw Sim
Gwynn standing on the seat of the boat so as to exhibit his bow legs to
the best advantage, with the stupid stare of wonder and terror on his
face. The boat was floating down the river with the current, bearing my
companions away from me.

"Row back to the hotel, Sim, and tell my brother I have been taken up,"
I shouted.

"Hookie!" responded Sim.

Before I could say any more, my savage captors, with as much parade and
violence as though I had been a grizzly bear, dragged me to the wagon in
the road, in which sat Captain Fishley. I was satisfied that Sim, after
he recovered his senses, would be able to conduct the boat in safety to
the hotel, and I did not worry about my companions.

"Well, Buck Bradford," said my old tyrant, "you are caught at last."

"Yes, I am caught at last," I replied; for I had resolved to put a
cheerful face upon the matter.

"What have you done with the money you stole from the letter?" he
demanded, gruffly.

"I didn't steal any money from the letter. You will have to ask Ham
Fishley what has become of that money."

"He seems to be dressed better than he was. I suppose he laid it out for
fine clothes," added the constable.

"Do you persist in saying that Ham Fishley robbed the mail?" said the
captain, angrily.

"I do; and I think I shall be able to prove it, too."

"You see, the fellow is a black-hearted scoundrel," said the postmaster,
turning to the man who was a stranger to me, and who, I afterwards
learned, was a post-office agent or detective. "This boy has been in my
family for several years, but he tries to screen himself by laying his
crime to my son."

"Have you got any money about you?" asked the constable.

"I have," I replied.

"Search him," added the captain, eagerly.

"You needn't be so savage about it," said I, when the constable came at
me as though I had been a royal Bengal tiger, with dangerous claws and
teeth. "I'll submit without any pounding."

I turned out my pockets. I had bought a new porte-monnaie in New
Orleans, and all my funds were in it. My old one, which contained the
burnt envelope, was in my carpet-bag at the hotel, so that I had no
motive for concealing anything. The officer opened the porte-monnaie,
and counted fifty-one dollars in bills, which he took from it. The trip
down the river had cost me about seventy dollars, but the proceeds of
the raft and its furniture had added twenty-five dollars to my
exchequer. As my brother had paid all my expenses on the journey up the
river, I had only spent a few dollars, mostly for the hotel boat.

"Here is more money than was taken from the letter," said the constable.

"That only proves that he has robbed the mail more than once," replied
Captain Fishley.

The post-office agent opened his eyes, and seemed to me to look
incredulous.

"Has this boy had anything to do with the mail during the last two
months?" asked he.

"Not that I know of," replied the postmaster.

The agent nodded his head, and did not seem to be quite satisfied. I
surmised that Ham had been robbing other letters.

"Where have you been for two months?" asked the agent, turning to me.

"I have been to New Orleans," I answered.
