Oakley you're here."

"That's the first sensible word you've spoken. I'll put my valise here
in the entry."

"Well," thought the servant, "if that's Mrs. Oakley's brother, I don't
think much of her family. I always thought she belonged to a poor set."

She went upstairs to the front chamber, where her mistress liked to
sit, and said:--

"Your brother's downstairs. He says he would like to see you."

"My brother!" repeated her mistress, not looking overpleased.

"Yes, he is down in the parlor."

"Very well, I will go down and see him."

The ill-dressed stranger was stretched out in a rocking-chair, in an
attitude more comfortable than graceful. He was gazing about the room,
and noting with much complacency the evidences of comfort and luxury
which the handsome furniture exhibited. It was thus that Mrs. Oakley
found him.

"How do you do, brother Ephraim?" she said, coldly, advancing, and just
giving him the tips of her fingers.

"I'm pretty well," he answered. "So the old gentleman's dead, hey?"

"If you mean my husband," she answered, still with coldness, "you are
right."

"It's all right about the property, hey? How much is left to you?"

"The whole."

"Whew!" whistled Mr. Ephraim Huxter.--"Well, you have worked your cards
well, that's a fact."

"I'll thank you, Ephraim," said Mrs. Oakley, with dignity, "not to use
such low language, or indulge in such insinuations. I did my duty by my
husband, and he showed his confidence in me by leaving me his property."

"Well, perhaps that's the right way to put it," said Mr. Huxter. "I'm
glad you have feathered your nest so well."

"I must again request you not to indulge in such language," said Mrs.
Oakley, in tones of displeasure.

Mr. Huxter was evidently perplexed.

"Come, Jane," said he, "there's no use in trying to deceive me. You
made a good thing of it in marrying old Oakley, and you needn't pretend
to be broken-hearted because he is dead, and has left you his fortune."

"Hush!" said Mrs. Oakley, closing the door; "what if the servants
should hear you talking in this way?"

"Well, there is something in that. That girl of yours that came to the
door took me for a peddler. She wasn't going to let me in."

Mrs. Oakley glanced at her brother's soiled linen and stained clothes,
and did not express any surprise.

"I brought my valise," said her brother. "I suppose it'll be convenient
for me to stay a few days."

Mrs. Oakley assented rather ungraciously,--in truth she did not care
much to present such a man as her brother. She felt that it would make
it still more difficult to obtain the position which she desired to
maintain in the village.

"I thought maybe I could help you in settling up the estate," said Mr.
Huxter.

"I don't think I shall require any assistance. Mr. Oakley was a good
business man, and the task is an easy one," said his sister, coldly.

"How much does the property amount to?" asked Mr. Huxter,--the property
being in his eyes the main thing to be considered.

"I can't say exactly."

"Well, you can give a guess."

But Mrs. Oakley did not care to have her brother understand her exact
position as regarded money matters. She saw clearly enough that he was
already speculating how to turn her prosperity to his own advantage,
and this she was determined he should not do. She would like to have
kept him at a distance, but she was already feeling one of the
inconveniences of wealth. There are some whose chief enjoyment of
wealth arises from the happiness which it enables them to impart to
others, and some, in Mrs. Oakley's position, would have been glad
to do something for such of their relatives as were in struggling
circumstances; but it was not so with her. She was of a stingy,
penurious disposition, and did not mean that her money should benefit
any one but Benjamin and herself, except the small sum which she felt
obliged to spend on John.

"No, I don't think I could form any estimate," she said. "Mr. Oakley
has recently died, you know."

"Has he left as much as fifty thousand?"

"Fifty thousand!" exclaimed Mrs. Oakley; "what are you thinking of?"

"It isn't much less, I am thinking. At any rate, you're a rich woman."

"I am comfortably provided for."

"I wish I was as comfortably provided for," said Mr. Huxter. "Seems
to me your ideas have risen some, Jane, since you used to live with
me, and bind shoes for a living. You and Ben wouldn't have been very
comfortable, I reckon, if I hadn't helped you once upon a time."

"As to that," said Mrs. Oakley, "I worked for my board. It was no great
favor on your part."

"At any rate, you thought yourself lucky to get a home. Now, things are
