I would do if I found my ideal.

Well, I suppose you see how it's all likely to end. We drift, and drift
and drift, and I shouldn't wonder if I drifted at last into this
marriage. I see it all before me, just what it will be,--a wonderful
wedding, that turns all New York topsy turvy--diamonds, laces,
cashmeres, infinite flowers, and tuberoses of course, till one's head
aches,--clang and ding, and bang and buzz;--triumphal processions to all
the watering-places; tour in Europe, and then society life in New York,
ad infinitum.

Oh, dear, if I only could get up some enthusiasm for him! He likes me,
but he don't like the things that I like, and it is terribly slow work
entertaining him--but when we are married we shan't see so much of each
other, I suppose, and shall get on as other folks do. Papa and mamma
hardly ever see much of each other, but I suppose they are all right.
Aunt Maria says, love or no love at the beginning, it all comes to this
sort of jog-trot at the end. The husband is the man that settles the
bills, and takes care of the family, that's all.

Ida says--but I won't tell you what Ida says--she always makes me feel
blue.

Do write me a good scolding letter; rouse me up; shame me, scold me,
talk hard to me, and see if you can't make something of me. Perhaps it
isn't too late.

    Your affectionate bad girl,      EVA.

       

[Letter from Mrs. Courtney to Eva Van Arsdel.]

My Dear Child:--You place me in an embarrassing position in asking me
to speak on a subject, when your parents have already declared their
wishes.

Nevertheless, my dear, I can but remind you that you are the child of an
higher than any earthly mother, and in an affair of this moment you
should take counsel of our holy Church. Take your prayer-book and read
her solemn service, and see what those marriage vows are that you think
of taking. Are these to be taken lightly and unadvisedly?

I recollect, when I was a young girl, we used to read Sir Charles
Grandison, and one passage in the model Harriet Byron's letters I copied
into my scrap-book. Speaking of one who had proposed to her, she says:

"He seems to want the mind that I would have the man blessed with that I
am to vow to love and honor. I purpose whenever I marry to make a very
good, and even dutiful wife; must I not vow obedience, and shall I break
my marriage vow? I would not, therefore, on any consideration, marry a
man whose want of knowledge might make me stagger in the performance of
my duty to him; who would, perhaps, command from caprice or want of
understanding what I think unreasonable to be complied with."

I quote this because I think it is old fashioned good sense, in a
respectable old English novel, worth a dozen of the modern school. To
me, there is indicated in your description of Mr. Sydney, just that lack
of what you would need in a husband, which would make difficult, perhaps
impossible, the performance of your marriage vows. It is evident that
his mind does not impress yours or control yours, and that there are no
mental sympathies between you.

That a man is a good business man; that he is fitted to secure the rent
or taxes of the house one lives in, and to pay one's bills, is not all.
Think, my child, that this man, for whom you can "get up no enthusiasm,"
whose company wearies you, is the one whom you are proposing to take by
the hand before God's altar, and solemnly promise that forsaking all
others, you will keep only unto him, so long as you both shall live,
to love, to honor, and to obey. Can you do it?

You say you can get up no enthusiasm for this man, yet you have a
conception of a man for whom you could leave all things; whom you
could love unto the death.

It is out of just such marriages, made by girls with just such hearts as
yours, that come all these troubles that are bringing holy marriage
into disrepute in our times. A woman marries, thoughtlessly and
unadvisedly, a man whom she consciously does not love, hoping that she
shall love him, or that she shall do as well as others do; then by
accident or chance she is thrown into the society of the very one whom
she could have loved with enthusiasm, and married, for himself alone.
The modern school of novels are full of these wretched stories, and
people now are clamoring for free divorce, to get out of marriages that
they never ought to have fallen into.

Amid all this confusion the Church stands from age to age and teaches.
She shows you exactly what you are to promise; she warns you against
promising lightly, or unadvisedly, and I can only refer my dear child to
her mother's lessons. Marriage vows, like confirmation vows, are
recorded in Heaven, and must not be broken.

The time for reflection is before they are made. Instead of clamoring
for free divorce, as a purifier of marriage, all Christians should
purify it as the church recommends, by the great care with which they
enter into it. That is my doctrine, my love. I am a good old English
Church-woman, and don't believe in any modern theories. The teachings of
the prayer-book are enough for me. I know that, in spite of them all,
there are thoughtless confirmation vows and marriage vows daily uttered
in our church, but it is not for want of clear and solemn instruction.
But you, my love, with your conscientiousness, and good sense, and
really noble nature, will I am sure act worthily of yourself in this
matter.

Another consideration I suggest to you. This man, whom I suppose to be a
worthy and excellent man, has his rights. He has the right to the whole
heart of the woman he marries--to whom at the altar he gives himself and
all which he possesses. A woman who has what you call an enthusiasm for
a man, can do much with him. She can bear with his faults; she can
inspire and lead him; she can raise him in the scale of being. But
without this enthusiasm, this real love, she can do nothing of the kind;
it is a thing that cannot be dissembled, or affected. And after
marriage, the man who does not find this in his wife, has the best
reason to think himself defrauded.

Now, if for the sake of possessing a man's worldly goods, his advantages
of fortune and station, you take that relation when you really are
unable to give him your heart, you act dishonestly. You take and enjoy
what you cannot pay for. Not only that, but you deprive him through all
his life of the blessing of being really loved, which he might obtain
