
As they entered, Phil espied a fiddle hanging up behind the counter,
and he saw at a glance that it was better than the one he had been
accustomed to play upon. But to his surprise, Paul did not refer to it
at first.

“What will you give me on this coat?” asked Paul, indicating the one he
had on.

He had no intention of selling it, but preferred to come to the fiddle
gradually, that the pawnbroker might not think that was his main object,
and so charge an extra price.

Eliakim scanned the garment critically. It was nearly new and in
excellent condition, and he coveted it.

“I will give you a dollar,” said he, naming a price low enough to
advance upon.

“That is too little,” said Paul, shaking his head.

“I might give you fifty cents more, but I should lose if you didn’t
redeem it.”

“I don’t think you would. I paid ten dollars for it.”

“But it is old.”

“No, it isn’t; I have only had it a few weeks.”

“How much do you want on it?” asked Eliakim, scanning Paul sharply, to
see how much he seemed in want of money.

“I don’t want any to-day. If I should want some next week, I will come
in.”

“It will be older next week,” said Eliakim, not wanting to lose the
bargain, for he hoped it would not be redeemed.

“Never mind; I can get along till then.”

“Can I do no business with you this morning?” asked Eliakim,
disappointed.

“I don’t know,” said Paul, looking carelessly around. “My friend here
would like a fiddle, if he can get one cheap. What do you ask for that
one up there?”

Eliakim took down the fiddle with alacrity. He had had it on hand for
a year without securing a customer. It had originally been pawned by a
poor musician, for a dollar and a quarter, but the unfortunate owner had
never been able to redeem it. Among his customers, the pawnbroker had
not found one sufficiently musical to take it off his hands. Here was a
slight chance, and he determined to effect a sale if he could.

“It is a splendid instrument,” he said, enthusiastically, brushing off
the dust with a dirty cotton handkerchief. “I have had many chances to
sell it.”

“Why didn’t you sell it, then?” demanded Paul, who did not believe a
word of this.

“Because it was only pawned. I kept it for the owner.”

“Oh, well; if you can’t sell it, it doesn’t matter.”

“It is for sale now,” said Eliakim, quickly. “He has not come for
it, and I shall keep it no longer. Just try it. See what a sp-l-endid
instrument it is!” said the pawnbroker, dwelling on the adjective to
give emphasis to it.

Paul tried it, but not knowing how to play, of course created only
discord. He did not offer it to Phil, because the young Italian boy
would have made it sound too well and so enhanced the price.

“It don’t sound very well,” said he, indifferently; “but I suppose it
will do to learn on. What do you want for it?”

“Five dollars,” said Eliakim, studying the face of Paul, to observe the
effect of his announcement.

“Five dollars,” repeated Paul. “Take it back, then, and wait till A. T.
Stewart wants one. I haven’t got five dollars to throw away.”

But the pawnbroker did not expect to get his first price. He named it,
in order to have a chance to fall.

“Stay,” he said, as Paul made a motion to leave; “what will you give me
for it?”

“I’ll give you a dollar and a half,” said Paul, turning back.

“A dollar and a half!” exclaimed Eliakim, holding up both hands in
horror. “Do you want to ruin me?”

“No, I think you want to ruin me. I am willing to pay a fair price.”

“You may have it for three dollars and a half.”

“No doubt you’d be glad to get that. Come, Phil, we’ll go.”

“Stay; you may have it for three dollars, though I shall lose by it.”

“So should I, if I paid you that price. I can wait till some other
time.”

But Eliakim did not intend to let this chance slip. He had found the
fiddle rather unsalable, and feared if he lost his chance of disposing
of it, it might remain on his hands for a year more. He was willing,
therefore, to take less than the profit he usually calculated upon in
the sale of articles which remained unredeemed.

“You may have it for two dollars and a half,” he said.

As far as Paul could judge, though he did not know much about the price
of violins, this was a reasonable price. But he knew that Eliakim must
have got it for considerably less, or he would not so soon have come
down to this sum. He did not hesitate, therefore, to try to get it a
little cheaper.

