state of the country. Nothing could be simpler, however; no passports
were demanded, a very careless search of luggage, and it was all over.
So Matilda threw off her disguise, and ascended the diligence in her
own character, for here, alas! they left the cozy little carriage with
the affable driver and the jingling bells.

Only two places could be found in the crowded diligences, and great was
the fuss till Amanda was invited up aloft by a friendly gentleman who
had a perch behind, large enough for two. There they discussed theology
and politics to their hearts' content, and at parting the worthy man cut
his book in two, and gave Amanda half that she might refresh herself
with a portion of some delightfully dry work on Druidical Remains,
Protoplasm, or the state of the church before the flood.

The force of contrast makes the charm of this entry into Italy; for,
after the grandeur of the Alps and the gloomy wildness of Gondo, the
smiling scene is doubly lovely as one drives down to Domo d'Ossola.
Weariness, hunger, and sleep were quite forgotten; and when our
travellers came to Lago Maggiore, glimmering in the moonlight, they
could only sigh for happiness, and look and look and look.

'Victory has perched upon our banners so far, I am sure, for never was a
trip more delightful. It is not every stranger who is fortunate enough
to see sunrise, noonday, sunset, and moonlight in crossing the Alps,'
said Matilda, as she fell into her bed quite exhausted by the excitement
of the day.

'I feel a richer, better woman for it, and don't believe I shall ever
see anything more satisfactory if I stay in Italy ten years,' responded
Lavinia, wrapping the red army-blanket


     'Like a martial cloak around her.'


'Wait till the spell of Rome is upon you, and then see what you will
feel, my Granny' predicted Amanda, who had felt the spell, and had not
yet escaped from it.

'Don't believe it will suit me half so well,' persisted Livy, who would
prefer nature to art, much to Amanda's disgust.

'We shall see,' observed Amanda, with the exasperating mildness of
superior knowledge.

'We shall!' and Livy tied her cap in a hard knot as if to settle the
matter.




V.

ITALY.


Sleep as deep, dreamless, and refreshing as if the beneficent spirit of
Carlo Borromeo still haunted the enchanted lake, prepared the three for
a day of calm delights. The morning was spent floating over the lake in
a luxuriously cushioned boat with a gay awning and a picturesque rower,
to visit Isola Bella. Everyone knows what a little Paradise has been
made to blossom on that rock; so raptures over the flowers, the marbles,
the panniers of lovely fruit, and the dirty, pretty children who offered
them, are unnecessary.

In the afternoon, having despatched the luggage to Florence, our
travellers sailed away to Luini, catching last glimpses of Monte Rosa,
and enjoying the glories of an Italian sunset on an Italian lake. At
Luini the girls caused much excitement by insisting on sitting up with
the driver instead of sharing the coupé with their decorous duenna.
'We must see the lovely views and the moonlight,' said Amanda, and up
she went.

'To sit aloft with a brigandish driver dressed in a scarlet and black
uniform, with a curly horn slung over his shoulder, and to go tearing up
hill and down with four frisky horses, is irresistible,' and up skipped
Matilda.

'You will both catch your death of cold, if you don't break your necks,
so it will be well to have some one to nurse or bury you,' and Lavinia,
finding commands and entreaties vain, entered the coupé with mournful
dignity.

With a toot of the horn, and cheers from the crowd, which the girls
gracefully acknowledged, away rumbled the diligence, with at least two
very happy occupants. How lovely it was! First, the soft twilight
wrapping everything in mysterious shadow, and then the slow uprising of
a glorious full moon, touching the commonest object with its magical
light. Cries of rapture from the girls atop were answered by
exclamations from Livy, hanging half out of the coupé regardless of
night air, or raps on the head from overhanging boughs, as they went
climbing up woody hills, or dashing down steep roads that wound so
sharply round corners, it was a wonder the airy passengers did not fly
off at every lurch. Rattling into quiet little towns with a grand
'tootle-te-too' of the horn was an especial delight, and to see the
people gather so quickly that they seemed to spring from the ground. A
moment's chatter, a drink for the horses, a soft 'Felice notte,'
another toot, and away thundered the diligence for miles more of
moonlight, summer air, and the ecstasy of rapid motion.

What that dear, brown driver with the red vest, the bobtailed, buttony
coat, and the big yellow tassels dancing from his hat brim, thought of
those two American damsels we shall never know. But it may be imagined
that, after his first bewilderment, he enjoyed himself; for Amanda aired
her Italian and asked many questions. Matilda invited him to perform
national airs on all occasions, and both admired him as openly as if he
had been a pretty child.

Lavinia always cherished a dark suspicion that she narrowly escaped
destruction on that eventful night; for, judging from the frequent
melody, and the speed of the horses, she was sure that either Amanda
tooted and Matilda drove, or that both so bewildered the brigand that
he lost his head. However, it was all so delightful that even Granny
felt the charm, and was sure that if they did upset in some romantic
spot, a Doctor Antonio would spring up as quickly as a mushroom, and
mend their bones, marry one of her giddy charges, and end the affair in
the most appropriate manner.

Nothing happened, fortunately, and by nine o'clock they were safely at
Lugano, and, tearing themselves from the dear brigand, were taken
