
"Not at all--thank you, cousin!"

"I am delighted to hear you say so! You don't think you have
really taken cold, my precious--do you?"

"Oh, no! I never take cold!"

"Mr. Wyllys seemed very anxious lest you had," Mrs. Baxter remarked,
quite too earnestly. "I say, 'seemed,' for these ladies' men are not
models of sincerity, always, however charming they may be as parlor
companions. If I had a daughter, my love--and it is the great sorrow
of my life, as it is of the doctor's, that we never had one--if I
had a daughter, just blooming into womanhood, affectionate,
susceptible, and unsuspecting, I should caution her to be on her
guard against a too-ready credence in the flattering tongues and the
more insidious flattery of demeanor and action of gentlemen who are
honorable in all things else. I respect Mr. Wyllys"--she continued,
the passes faster and more agitated, and the silken fringes
bobbing up and down before Jessie's vision. "I honor his many
estimable--admire his many shining qualities. But I am fearful that
in his otherwise commendable desire to please and make happy, he
may excite hopes--or expectations may be the better term--he never
intended to engender. There is in every community, my darling
Jessie, a class of men--pardon me for saying that it is fortunately
a small class--who do not care or intend to marry except for
convenience, or pecuniary gain--perhaps not even then. Yet they are
generally the pets of their respective circles, especial favorites
with ladies. Why, I cannot say, unless it be that they endeavor
to make themselves agreeable to the entire sex, instead of
concentrating their attentions upon one woman. Mr. Wyllys is a
notable example of this order of carpet knights."

Entirely out of breath by this time, she withdrew her hand from her
guest's head, to press it upon her own palpitating bosom, while her
gulp of emotion was as loud as the cluck of a brooding hen.

Jessie lowered her screen with a gesture of haughty amusement.

"If your object is to warn me against attaching undue importance to
Mr. Wyllys' friendly attentions, Cousin, I can disabuse your mind of
fears for my peace of heart, by assuring you that it is not
threatened from that quarter. I ought to have told you, long ago, of
a circumstance that exculpates Mr. Wyllys from the charge of
trifling, and renders the notice he bestows upon me altogether
harmless and proper. I am engaged to be married to his cousin, Mr.
Fordham, and he knows it. This makes all safe for us both--does it
not? I am sorry I did not apprize you of this state of affairs when
I first came to you. It would have been more honorable and kind to
you--and an act of common justice to Mr. Fordham, if not to Mr.
Wyllys."




CHAPTER XIII.


There was no prettier spot in the Dundee valley than Willow Creek, a
somewhat wide, and in some places deep, stream, just where it was
spanned by a rustic bridge at the bottom of the Parsonage meadows.
The fringe of willows on the thither bank, and the alder and birch
thicket studding that nearest the house, were reflected in the
clear, brown mirror to the tiniest leaf and bud. Beneath and between
these, there were stretches of turf which were evergreen; beds of
wild balsam that flowered all summer; ferns in variety and
profusion, from the tree-ferns upborne by their wiry black stems
to a height of four or five feet, to the delicate maiden-hair,
hiding in the lee of straws and stones; and on the day we are
describing--the fifth of September--these alternated with borders of
hoary mountain sage, blue-eyed asters, tossing plumes of golden-rod,
yet taller purple brush, stiff and gorgeous, and patches of bright
yellow dodder, running riotously into the water, and entangling the
commoner arrow-leaf and sedge in its meshes.

Through the gorge worn by the creek in the mountains, one had a view
of the upper valley, and the chain of hills that grew bluer and
lower as the eye pursued their southerly course. Below the bridge
was the church, benignant warder of the plain fertile as was that of
Sodom, loaded with corn, ripe for cutting, and already stacked for
the garner, and white, here and there, as from untimely snows, with
blossoming buckwheat. The whistle of the quail in the stubble, the
rattling roll of empty farm wagons over the stone bridge below the
mill, on their way to the field; the duller thunder of heavily laden
trains creaking and swaying from side to side behind the straining
oxen, and the drowsy undertone of the mill-wheel, mingled with the
nearer warble of birds in the trees and the gentle wash of the waves
under the willows. It was bright, benignant weather--a day that
reminded one of healthy, active, happy middle-age, for there was a
whisper of Autumn in the air, the mellowness of Autumnal light over
plain and water and hill.

There was nothing in landscape, air, or sunlight that should have
reminded Jessie Kirke of the miserable February afternoon when she
stood on the Hamilton bridge, staring down at the black ice below,
and fought her first battle of life. But that other scene and the
strife of that hour were very present to her, as she halted on the
foot-bridge and leaned over the rail to gaze at the slow, smooth
current of the creek. The narrow crossing had been designed and
partly built by Mr. Kirke himself. The floor was of oak plank; the
railing was composed of cedar branches with the bark left on,
arranged in fantastic figures, and surmounted by a slender pole of
the same wood. Many stopped to examine and admire it in passing
over, and it made a picturesque feature in the view. It was familiar
in every joint to Jessie, having formed a part of her favorite walk
for ten years; but she chose to linger there on this morning, to
hang over the parapet, pick bits of bark from the side and fling
them into the creek, as an idle child might launch and watch a
miniature fleet.

It was a face many removes from childhood's thoughtlessness and
childish glee that looked back at her from the glassy surface. A
face, wild-eyed and haggard, with bent brows betokening suffering
and conflict; a mouth telling, in piteous and patient lines, of
defeat.

She had returned from Hamilton in April, looking jaded and ill, said
the Dundeeians, who shook sagacious heads over her winter's
dissipation. Her father and Eunice attributed her loss of bloom and
liveliness to too close application to her studies, and cited her
