hand upon his arm, and then she began to feel a strange pride in his
being tall and handsome, and hers. But she kept thinking as they walked,
"I hope he'll never he sorry," and she said it again, half in jest. He
pressed her hand against his heart, and met her look with one of protest
and reassurance, that presently melted into something sweeter yet. He
said, "What beautiful eyes you have! I noticed the long lashes when I
saw you on the Saguenay boat, and I couldn't get away from them."

"O please, don't speak of that dreadful time!" cried Kitty.

"No? Why not?"

"O because! I think it was such a bold kind of accident my taking your
arm by mistake; and the whole next day has always been a perfect horror
to me."

He looked at her in questioning amaze.

"I think I was very pert with you all day,--and I don't think I'm pert
naturally,--taking you up about the landscape, and twitting you about
the Saguenay scenery and legends, you know. But I thought you were
trying to put me down,--you are rather down-putting at times,--and I
admired you, and I couldn't bear it."

"Oh!" said Mr. Arbuton. He dimly recollected, as if it had been in some
former state of existence, that there were things he had not approved in
Kitty that day, but now he met her penitence with a smile and another
pressure of the hand. "Well, then," he said, "if you don't like to
recall that time, let's go back of it to the day I met you on Goat
Island Bridge at Niagara."

"O, did you see me there? I thought you didn't; but I saw you. You
had on a blue cravat," she answered; and he returned with as much the
air of coherency as if really continuing the same train of thought, "You
won't think it necessary to visit Boston, now, I suppose," and he smiled
triumphantly upon her. "I fancy that I have now a better right to
introduce you there than your South End friends."

Kitty smiled, too. "I'm willing to wait. But don't you think you ought
to see Eriecreek before you promise too solemnly? I can't allow that
there's anything serious, till you've seen me at home."

They had been going, for no reason that they knew, back to the country
inn near which you purchase admittance to a certain view of the falls,
and now they sat down on the piazza, somewhat apart from other people
who were there, as Mr. Arbuton said, "O, I shall visit Eriecreek soon
enough. But I shall not come to put myself or you to the proof. I don't
ask to see you at home before claiming you forever."

Kitty murmured, "Ah! you are more generous than I was."

"I doubt it."

"O yes, you are. But I wonder if you'll be able to find Eriecreek."

"Is it on the map?"

"It's on the county map; and so is Uncle Jack's lot on it, and a picture
of his house, for that matter. They'll all be standing on the
piazza--something like this one--when you come up. You'll know Uncle
Jack by his big gray beard, and his bushy eyebrows, and his boots, which
he won't have blacked, and his Leghorn hat, which we can't get him to
change. The girls will be there with him,--Virginia all red and heated
with having got supper for you, and Rachel with the family mending in
her hand,--and they'll both come running down the walk to welcome you.
How will you like it?"

Mr. Arbuton suspected the gross caricature of this picture, and smiled
securely at it. "I shall like it well enough," he said, "if you run down
with them. Where shall you be?"

"I forgot. I shall be up stairs in my room, peeping through the
window-blinds, to see how you take it. Then I shall come down, and
receive you with dignity in the parlor, but after supper you'll have to
excuse me while I help with the dishes. Uncle Jack will talk to you.
He'll talk to you about Boston. He's much fonder of Boston than you are,
even." And here Kitty broke off with a laugh, thinking what a very
different Boston her Uncle Jack's was from Mr. Arbuton's, and
maliciously diverted with what she conceived of their mutual
bewilderment in trying to get some common stand-point. He had risen from
his chair, and was now standing a few paces from her, looking toward the
fall, as if by looking he might delay the coming of the colonel and
Fanny.

She checked her merriment a moment to take note of two ladies who were
coming up the path towards the porch where she was sitting. Mr. Arbuton
did not see them. The ladies mounted the steps, and turned slowly and
languidly to survey the company. But at sight of Mr. Arbuton, one of
them advanced directly toward him, with exclamations of surprise and
pleasure, and he with a stupefied face and a mechanical movement turned
to meet her.

She was a lady of more than middle age, dressed with certain personal
audacities of color and shape, rather than overdressed, and she thrust
forward, in expression of her amazement, a very small hand, wonderfully
well gloved; her manner was full of the anxiety of a woman who had
fought hard for a high place in society, and yet suggested a latent
hatred of people who, in yielding to her, had made success bitter and
humiliating.

Her companion was a young and very handsome girl, exquisitely dressed,
and just so far within the fashion as to show her already a mistress of
style. But it was not the vivid New York stylishness. A peculiar
restraint of line, an effect of lady-like concession to the ruling mode,
a temperance of ornament, marked the whole array, and stamped it with
the unmistakable character of Boston. Her clear tints of lip and cheek
and eye were incomparable; her blond hair gave weight to the poise of
her delicate head by its rich and decent masses. She had a look of
independent innocence, an angelic expression of extremely nice young
fellow blending with a subtle maidenly charm. She indicated her surprise
at seeing Mr. Arbuton by pressing the point of her sun-umbrella somewhat
nervously upon the floor, and blushing a very little. Then she gave him
her hand with friendly frankness, and smiled dazzlingly upon him, while
the elder hailed him with effusive assertion of familiar acquaintance,
heaping him with greetings and flatteries and cries of pleasure.

"O dear!" sighed Kitty, "these are old friends of his; and will I have
to know them? Perhaps it's best to begin at once, though," she thought.

But he made no movement toward her where she sat. The ladies began to
