Before one of these (Raphael's Madonna of the Veil) Minnah knelt down in
a kind of ecstatic trance, and thus delivered herself:--

"O good Lord! if there ain't de Good Man when he was a baby! How
harmless he lies there! so innocent! And here we be, we wicked sinners,
turning our backs on him, and going to the Old Boy. O Lord, O Lord! we
ought to be better than we be: we sartin ought."

This invocation came forth with streaming tears in the most natural way
in the world; and Minnah seemed, for the time being, perfectly subdued.
It is only one of many instances we have seen of the overpowering
influence of works of art on the impressible nervous system of the
negro.

But it is one thing to have an amusing and picturesque specimen of a
human being, as Minnah certainly was, and another to make one useful in
the traces of domestic life.

As the first white ladies upon the ground, Mrs. F---- and myself had the
task of organizing this barbaric household, and of bringing it into the
forms of civilized life. We commenced with the washing.

Before the time of our coming, it had been customary for the gentlemen
to give their washing into the hands of Minnah or Judy, to be done at
such times and in such form and manner as best suited them.

The manner which did suit them best was to put all the articles to
soak indefinitely, in soapsuds, till such time as to them seemed good.
On being pressed for some particular article, and roundly scolded by any
of the proprietors, they would get up a shirt, a pair of drawers, a
collar or two, with abundant promises for the rest when they had time.

The helpless male individuals of the establishments had no refuge from
the feminine ruses and expedients, and the fifty incontrovertible
reasons which were always on hand to prove to them that things could be
done no other way than just as they were done; and, in fact, found it
easier to get their washing back again by blandishments than by
bullying.

We ladies announced a regular washing-day, and endeavored to explain it
to our kitchen cabinet; our staff consisting of Minnah and Judy,
detailed for house-service.

Judy was a fat, lazy, crafty, roly-poly negress, the Florida wife of the
foreman Mose, and devoted to his will and pleasure in hopes to supplant
the "Virginny" and "Carliny" wives. Judy said yes to every thing we
proposed; but Minnah was "kinky" and argumentative: but finally, when we
represented to her that the proposed arrangement was customary in good
Northern society, she gave her assent.

We first proceeded to make a barrel of soda washing-soap in a great iron
sugar-kettle, which stood out under the fig-trees, and which had
formerly been used for evaporating sugar.

Minnah took the greatest interest in the operation, and, when the soap
was finished, took the boiling liquid in pailfuls, setting them on the
top of her head, and marching off to the barrel in the house with them,
without ever lifting a finger.

We screamed after her in horror,--

"Minnah, Minnah! If that should fall, it would kill you!"

A laugh of barbaric exultation was the only response, as she actually
persisted in carrying pailful after pailful of scalding soap on her head
till all was disposed of.

The next day the washing was all brought out under the trees and sorted,
Mrs. F---- and myself presiding; and soon Minnah and Judy were briskly
engaged at their respective tubs. For half an hour, "all went merry as a
marriage-bell." Judy was about half through her first tubful, when Mose
came back from his morning turn in the fields, and summoned her to come
home and get his breakfast. With Judy's very leisurely and promiscuous
habits of doing business, this took her away for half the forenoon.
Meanwhile, Minnah murmured excessively at being left alone, and more
especially at the continuous nature of the task.

Such a heap of clothes to be washed all in one day! It was a mountain
of labor in Minnah's imagination; and it took all our eloquence and our
constant presence to keep her in good humor. We kept at Minnah as the
only means of keeping her at her work.

But, after all, it was no bad picnic to spend a day in the open air in
the golden spring-time of Florida. The birds were singing from every
covert; the air was perfectly intoxicating in its dreamy softness; and
so we spread a camp for the baby, who was surrounded by a retinue of
little giggling, adoring negroes, and gave ourselves up to the amusement
of the scene. Our encampment was under the broad leaves of a group of
fig-trees; and we hung our clothes to dry on the sharp thorns of a
gigantic clump of Yucca gloriosa, which made an admirable clothes-frame.

By night, with chuckling admiration, Minnah surveyed a great basketful
of clean clothes,--all done in one day.

The next day came the lesson on ironing; and the only means of securing
Minnah and Judy to constant work at the ironing-table was the exercise
of our own individual powers of entertainment and conversation. We had
our own table, and ironed with them; and all went well till Judy
remembered she had preparations for Mose's dinner, and deserted. Minnah
kept up some time longer; till finally, when we went in the next room on
an errand, she improved the opportunity to desert. On returning, we saw
Minnah's place vacant, a half-finished shirt lying drying on the table.

Searching and calling, we at last discovered her far in the distance,
smoking her pipe, and lolling tranquilly over the fence of a small
enclosure where were sixteen calves shut up together, so that maternal
longings might bring the cow mothers home to them at night.

"Why, Minnah, what are you doing?" we said as we came up breathless.

"Laws, missis, I wanted to feed my calves. I jest happened to think
on't." And forthwith she turned, started to the barn, and came back with
a perfect hay-mow on her head. Then, crossing the fence into the
enclosure, she proceeded to make division of the same among the calves,
who tumultuously surrounded her. She patted one, and cuffed another, and
labored in a most maternal style to make them share their commons
equally; laughing in full content of heart, and appearing to have
forgotten her ironing-table and all about it.

It was in vain to talk. "She was tired ironing. Did anybody ever hear of
