diamonds.

“Uncle’s good opinion,” answered Rose, looking thoughtfully into the
depths of a packing case, where lay the lovely picture that would always
remind her of the little triumph over girlish vanity, which not only
kept but increased “Uncle’s good opinion.”

“Oh, indeed!” said Annabel blankly, and fell to examining Aunt Plenty’s
lace while Rose went on with a happy smile in her eyes as she dived into
another trunk.

“Uncle thinks one has no right to waste money on such things, but he
is very generous and loves to give useful, beautiful, or curious gifts.
See, all these pretty ornaments are for presents, and you shall choose
first whatever you like.”

“He’s a perfect dear!” cried Annabel, reveling in the crystal, filigree,
coral, and mosaic trinkets spread before her while Rose completed her
rapture by adding sundry tasteful trifles fresh from Paris.

“Now tell me, when do you mean to have your coming-out party? I ask
because I’ve nothing ready and want plenty of time, for I suppose it
will be the event of the season,” asked Annabel a few minutes later as
she wavered between a pink coral and a blue lava set.

“I came out when I went to Europe, but I suppose Aunty Plen will want to
have some sort of merry-making to celebrate our return. I shall begin
as I mean to go on, and have a simple, sociable sort of party and invite
everyone whom I like, no matter in what ‘set’ they happen to belong. No
one shall ever say I am aristocratic and exclusive so prepare yourself
to be shocked, for old friends and young, rich and poor, will be asked
to all my parties.”

“Oh, my heart! You are going to be odd, just as Mama predicted!” sighed
Annabel, clasping her hands in despair and studying the effect of three
bracelets on her chubby arm in the midst of her woe.

“In my own house I’m going to do as I think best, and if people call me
odd, I can’t help it. I shall endeavor not to do anything very dreadful,
but I seem to inherit Uncle’s love for experiments and mean to try some.
I daresay they will fail and I shall get laughed at. I intend to do it
nevertheless, so you had better drop me now before I begin,” said Rose
with an air of resolution that was rather alarming.

“What shall you wear at this new sort of party of yours?” asked Annabel,
wisely turning a deaf ear to all delicate or dangerous topics and
keeping to matters she understood.

“That white thing over there. It is fresh and pretty, and Phebe has one
like it. I never want to dress more than she does, and gowns of that
sort are always most becoming and appropriate to girls of our age.”

“Phebe! You don’t mean to say you are going to make a lady of her!”
 gasped Annabel, upsetting her treasures as she fell back with a gesture
that made the little chair creak again, for Miss Bliss was as plump as a
partridge.

“She is one already, and anybody who slights her slights me, for she is
the best girl I know and the dearest,” cried Rose warmly.

“Yes, of course I was only surprised you are quite right, for she may
turn out to be somebody, and then how glad you’ll feel that you were so
good to her!” said Annabel, veering around at once, seeing which way the
wind blew.

Before Rose could speak again, a cheery voice called from the hall,
“Little mistress, where are you?”

“In my room, Phebe, dear,” and up came the girl Rose was going to “make
a lady of,” looking so like one that Annabel opened her china-blue eyes
and smiled involuntarily as Phebe dropped a little curtsey in playful
imitation of her old manner and said quietly: “How do you do, Miss
Bliss?”

“Glad to see you back, Miss Moore,” answered Annabel, shaking hands in a
way that settled the question of Phebe’s place in her mind forever, for
the stout damsel had a kind heart in spite of a weak head and was really
fond of Rose. It was evidently “Love me, love my Phebe,” so she made up
her mind on the spot that Phebe was somebody, and that gave an air of
romance even to the poorhouse.

She could not help staring a little as she watched the two friends work
together and listened to their happy talk over each new treasure as
it came to light, for every look and word plainly showed that years
of close companionship had made them very dear to one another. It was
pretty to see Rose try to do the hardest part of any little job herself
still prettier to see Phebe circumvent her and untie the hard knots,
fold the stiff papers, or lift the heavy trays with her own strong
hands, and prettiest of all to hear her say in a motherly tone, as she
put Rose into an easy chair: “Now, my deary, sit and rest, for you
will have to see company all day, and I can’t let you get tired out so
early.”

“That is no reason why I should let you either. Call Jane to help or
I’ll bob up again directly,” answered Rose, with a very bad assumption
of authority.

“Jane may take my place downstairs, but no one shall wait on you here
except me, as long as I’m with you,” said stately Phebe, stooping to put
a hassock under the feet of her little mistress.

“It is very nice and pretty to see, but I don’t know what people will
say when she goes into society with the rest of us. I do hope Rose won’t
be very odd,” said Annabel to herself as she went away to circulate
the depressing news that there was to be no grand ball and, saddest
disappointment of all, that Rose had not a single Paris costume with
which to refresh the eyes and rouse the envy of her amiable friends.

“Now I’ve seen or heard from all the boys but Charlie, and I suppose he
is too busy. I wonder what he is about,” thought Rose, turning from the
hall door, whither she had courteously accompanied her guest.

The wish was granted a moment after, for, going into the parlor to
decide where some of her pictures should hang, she saw a pair of brown
boots at one end of the sofa, a tawny-brown head at the other, and
discovered that Charlie was busily occupied in doing nothing.

“The voice of the Bliss was heard in the land, so I dodged till she went
upstairs, and then took a brief siesta while waiting to pay my respects
to the distinguished traveler, Lady Hester Stanhope,” he said, leaping
