she would not throw up the white flag of defeat. She would not own to
herself she experienced any alarm or annoyance.

One evening Fred and Sylvie had gone to a neighbor's, and were
momentarily expected. A peculiar temptation entered her soul. If this
man must needs flutter in the flame, why should she be tender and
careful of him? Others had dared her, to the burning of their very
souls: if the experience was worth the pain, he should have it, and
decide.

She sat down at the piano, and shook a shower of melody out of her
slender finger-ends. All the affluent grace of womanhood with the polish
of society spoke in every curve of her pliant figure, in the dainty,
delicate, high-bred gestures. The eyes hung out their false lights of
treacherous intent amid the half-slumberous fire; the very lips seemed
shaped and blossoming with a rare thrill of passion that could turn to a
caress at a look. All along the brow ran fine sinuosities of light that
dazzled like the tracery of pale flame. Had she blossomed into some
royal midsummer flower that is seen but once in an age?

She had motioned him close beside her with an impelling wave of the
hand. He could feel her warmth, her fragrant breath; her soft billowy
dress fell against his foot in a crested wave; her white hand and
slender wrist, just toned, but not hidden, with rare lace like that of
Arachne's spinning, wandered temptingly over toward him. A sudden
delirium took possession of him, an exhilaration that steeped the brain,
that stirred every pulse, that awoke in him an almost maddening desire
to clasp her in his arms, to drain such sweetness from her lips that the
whole world might be beggared ever after, and he not care.

She knew the signs. She had seen more than one man dally on the brink,
and then topple over to the blankness of despair. Even if she had pitied
herself, which she did not, she could have had no mercy on him. Now she
was set to her work, and she meant to do it if she brought into play
every fascination art and nature had furnished her with.

His soul rose and glowed within him. The music, the most ravishing of
its kind, stirred him to that intensity of pain, it seemed as if he must
cry out with torture. No suffering had ever been like this: if the
doctrine of sacrificial fires were true, he might have purchased
paradise.

Did he mean never to stir or speak? Could that hand, lying so passively
on the corner of the piano, remain unmoved, with hers just below it? Its
defiant strength stung her.

"They do not come,"--looking warily around, and passing him with her
veiled eyes, rather than looking at him. "Are you growing weary? Shall I
sing for you?"

The tone had the melody of some lotus-freighted stream. She had thrown
all her sweetness into it.

"If you will."

His was tremulous and husky with repressed passion.

Her voice was not pure: it had the rich depth and pathos of contralto,
and the vibrant clearness of soprano. Now it threaded a tremulous
pathway among the pathetic minor notes, while the fingers seemed to drop
a faint sigh of accompaniment,--

          "Oh! when ye hear me gie a loud, loud cry,--
             The broom blooms bonnie, and says it is fair,--
           Shoot an arrow frae thy bow, and there let me lie,
             And we'll never gang down to the broom ony mair.

          "And when ye see that I'm lying cauld and dead,--
             The broom blooms bonnie, and says it is fair,--
           Then ye'll put me in a grave wi' a turf at my head,
            And we'll never gang down to the broom ony mair."

The last sad note died into summer-night sweetness. A current of bland,
dangerous magnetism passed between them. She turned her splendid,
passion-lighted eyes to him, and the subtle, measuring, conquering
forces in the man and the woman met. With a mighty effort he thrust back
desire, and compressed his lips to a line under the bronzed-gold
moustache, while his eyes, like points of steel, never wavered.

Irene Lawrence turned blindly, and held out her hands as if to grasp
some sure stay. Just as surely as she had not won, she had lost.

"I have tired you," he said,--a murmur just under his breath. "But you
can hardly know the exquisite pleasure you have given me. It is perfect.
We will have no more music to-night;" and he rose, shutting the piano
down.

She went to the open window like one in a trance, so stunned she could
not even feel angry at his defiance of her. A long, long moment of
silence: then they heard Sylvie's bright voice on the porch, and she
came in with a waft of dewy, outdoor fragrance.

Miss Lawrence went to her room presently, to fight out the battle with
herself. She admitted then that she had come to love Jack Darcy; but she
was strong and resolute, and would not be mastered by the passion. What
could she do? for go away she must! Her imperious will and knowledge of
men had availed her little to ward off this one's influence. Every
instinct had been baffled, every movement had been met with a
counterpoise. To stay here, and struggle, would be to yield eventually.

There were dark circles under her eyes the next morning, tokens of her
vigil and strife. She intrenched herself again behind that dumb apathy:
she stood aloof from Sylvie. For days she escaped the watchful sight of
Darcy; but she heard his voice, and every rebellious pulse was
a-tremble. She cast about for some expedients whereby to escape her
prison honorably, and after several fruitless efforts found one.

In their early days there had been a girl-friend between Agatha and
Gertrude, who had always held an attraction for the child Irene.
Wealthy, beautiful, and accomplished, she had married a man who had
already made for himself a name in statesmanship, a cultured and
polished gentleman, and her bridal had been the theme of the day. But
the fiend of intemperance had wrought destruction of her brilliant
prospects, and made her life an open scandal. When it could no longer be
borne, she gathered up the wreck of her fortune and her two little
girls, and opened a boarding-school in a quiet, aristocratic old town.
Irene had met her in New York after her own loss of fortune; and, though
she had disdained sympathy, she was touched by Mrs. Trenholme's
kindliness.

