Stir butter, sugar, molasses, and spice together to a light cream, set
them on the range until slightly warm; beat the eggs light; add the
milk to the warmed mixture, then the eggs, the soda, and lastly the
flour. Beat very hard ten minutes, and bake at once in a loaf, or in
small tins. Half a pound raisins, seeded and cut in half, will improve
this excellent gingerbread. Dredge them well before putting them in.
Add them at the last.


SPONGE GINGERBREAD (eggless.) 

    5 cups flour.
    1 heaping tablespoonful butter.
    1 cup molasses.
    1 cup sugar.
    1 cup milk (sour is best).
    2 teaspoonfuls saleratus, not soda, dissolved in hot water.
    2 teaspoonfuls ginger.
    1 teaspoonful cinnamon.

Mix the molasses, sugar, butter, and spice together; warm them
slightly, and beat until they are lighter in color by many degrees than
when you began. Add the milk, then the saleratus, and having mixed all
well, put in the flour. Beat very hard five minutes, and bake in a
broad, shallow pan, or in pâté-tins. Half a pound of seeded raisins
cut in pieces will be a pleasant addition.

Try this gingerbread warm for tea or luncheon, with a cup of hot
chocolate to accompany it, and you will soon repeat the experiment.


PLAIN GINGERBREAD.

    2 cups molasses.
    ½ cup lard.
    ½ cup butter.
    2 tablespoonfuls soda dissolved in hot water.
    2 tablespoonfuls ginger.
    1 cup sour milk.
    Thicken with flour to a soft dough.

Warm the molasses, lard, butter, and ginger, and beat them ten minutes
before adding the milk, soda, and flour. Roll out, cut into shapes, and
bake in a quick, but not too hot oven. Keep in a tight tin box. Brush
over with white of egg while hot.


GINGERBREAD LOAF (No. 1.)

    1 cup butter.
    1 cup molasses.
    1 cup sugar.
    ½ cup cold water.
    1 tablespoonful ginger.
    1 teaspoonful cinnamon.
    1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water.
    Flour to make stiff batter.

Melt the butter, slightly warm the molasses, spice, and sugar, and beat
together ten minutes. Then put in the water, soda, and flour. Stir very
hard, and bake in three small loaves. Brush them over with syrup while
hot, and eat fresh.


LOAF GINGERBREAD (No. 2.)

    1 cup butter.
    2 cups molasses.
    1 tablespoonful ginger.
    2 eggs, very well beaten.
    1 teaspoonful saleratus.
    1 cup milk, sweet or sour. If sour, heap your spoon with saleratus.
    Flour to the consistency of pound cake.


SPICED GINGERBREAD.

    1 lb. flour.
    1 lb. sugar.
    ⅛ lb. butter.
    5 eggs.
    ½ teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water.
    1 teaspoonful cream-tartar.
    3 tablespoonfuls sweet milk.
    1 large tablespoonful ginger.
    1 teaspoonful cloves.
    1 teaspoonful nutmeg.
    1 teaspoonful cinnamon.

Cream the sugar and butter, stir in the beaten yolks, the milk and
spice, the soda, and when these are well mixed, the flour. Bake in two
square or round loaves.


SUGAR GINGERBREAD.

    1 cup of butter.
    2 cups of sugar.
    1 cup sour cream or milk.
    3 eggs.
    1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water.
    2 teaspoonfuls ginger.
    1 teaspoonful cinnamon.
    5 cups of flour, or enough to roll out soft.

Cut in shapes, brush over with white of egg while hot, and bake.


BREAD CAKE.

On baking-day, take from your dough, after its second rising—2 cups
risen dough. Have ready, also—

    2 cups white sugar.
    1 cup butter, creamed with the sugar.
    3 eggs.
    1 even teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
    2 tablespoonfuls sweet milk—cream is better.
    ½ lb. currants, well washed and dredged.
    1 teaspoonful nutmeg.
