provisions, ice, or coal, who wished to furnish the steamer with his
wares; and I began to lose all interest in the interview. I had a great
many people call upon me who wished to sell something, and I was used
to such calls.

"I am willing to admit that it is my fault, but I do not remember you,
Mr. Cornwood," I replied, rather coldly, for the chief engineer bought
the coal, and the steward the provisions and ice.

"I can well understand why you should not remember me, Captain
Garningham, for you met a great many people about the time I saw you,
and your mind was occupied with some peculiar matters, such as the
sinking of the other steamer."

"Exactly so," I answered, looking out the window, as though I was ready
to terminate the interview.

"As I said, I was about to offer my services to you then; and I shall
take the liberty to do so now," he continued, not at all disturbed by
anything I said or did.

"I don't think we need the services of any gentleman like yourself."

To my astonishment, he broke into a laugh; and it was some time before
he could proceed with his business. I was not aware that I had said
anything that was funny: if I had, I should have been highly
complimented by the manner in which my joke was received.

"This is not the first time I have been taken for a gentleman," said
he, as soon as he was in condition to speak.

"Then you think I made a mistake, do you?" I asked.

"By no means: I have not sunk so low as that yet; and I still believe I
am a gentleman, whatever anybody else may think."

He paused, and I waited for him to proceed with his business, instead
of asking him what he meant, as he evidently expected me to do.

"Yes, captain: I claim to be a gentleman," he continued, when I showed
no inclination to ask any questions. "I belong to the legal profession,
though I don't work at it now."

"I am sure we don't need any law on board of this vessel at the present
time," I added.

"I do not offer my services in that capacity. I am a native Floridian,
a regular corn-cracker," he continued, laughing. "I was born and raised
here in St. Augustine. There is not a river, lake, harbor or inlet in
all Florida, and hardly a square mile of territory, that I have not
explored."

"As a lawyer?" I asked; and his plump statement rather attracted my
attention.

"Certainly not. When I was seventeen I began to study for the bar; but
my health broke down, and for the next ten years I roamed over the
state, now at my own expense, and then as a member of the state
surveying party, or the government coast-survey. I am a pilot for any
waters in Florida."

"Have you a branch or a warrant?"

"Nothing of the sort: I am only an amateur pilot. I am a hunter and a
fisherman, and I know the flora and the fauna of the State. Seven years
ago I resumed my studies, and have been admitted to the bar. But my
health would not allow me to spend my days in an office or a
court-room. Captain Garningham, I offer my services to you as a guide
for Florida."

Mr. Kirby Cornwood folded his arms in his chair, and looked as
complacent as though he had just informed me that he was the governor
of the State. He evidently believed it was no use to say anything more,
and he was silent.

"I am exceedingly obliged to you, Mr. Cornwood, for your offer of
service," I replied. "As you are a guide for Florida, could you inform
me where the custom-house is?"

"Can I inform you where the custom-house is!" exclaimed the guide for
Florida. "How could I have been born and raised in St. Augustine
without knowing where the custom-house is?"

"I don't know."

He looked at me as though he thought I was a young man to be pitied.
Was there anything relating to Florida that he did not know, was the
expression on his face. He could take me to any custom-house in the
State by land or water. He could tell me the depth of any lake, stream,
or puddle from the Atlantic to the Gulf.

"Having accomplished all that I came on board for, permit me to take my
leave, with the hope that you will consider my offer," said Mr.
Cornwood, rising from his chair. "I shall be happy to conduct you to
the custom-house when you go on shore, or to take your party to all the
points of interest in the city."

"Thank you, Mr. Cornwood," I replied.

I had no idea that he intended to leave me, for one does not get rid of
such applicants so easily. He bowed gracefully, and much to my
astonishment, left my room, walked to the gangway, and went down into
his boat. A moment later, I saw the boatman pulling him towards the
landing-place. I could not help thinking of his offer after he had
gone. It would be exceedingly convenient to have a man on board all the
time who could guide us to any object of interest. He was a pilot for
any waters of the State.

But I felt that I could not believe more than one-tenth of what he had
said. I sat down, and thought over the matter. An extra hundred had
just been added to my monthly stipend. I had not thought of having such
a person on board before he suggested the idea. I had expected to
depend on local guides for information and direction.

If only one-half of Mr. Kirby Cornwood's story was true, and he could
perform only one-half of what he promised, he would be a valuable
person to our party. He was airy in his manner; but I could not say
that this was not the worst part of him. If he had spent ten years of
his life with state and national surveys and exploring parties, he
ought to be very familiar with the travelled localities of Florida. I
