The tree was soon stripped, and pop-corns strewed the floor as the
children stood about picking them off the red threads when candy gave
out, with an occasional cranberry by way of relish. Boo insisted on
trying the new sled at once, and enlivened the trip by the squeaking
of the spotted dog, the toot of a tin trumpet, and shouts of joy at the
splendor of the turn-out.

The girls all put on their necklaces, and danced about like fine ladies
at a ball. The boys fell to comparing skates, balls, and cuff-buttons
on the spot, while the little ones devoted all their energies to eating
everything eatable they could lay their hands on.

Games were played till nine o’clock, and then the party broke up, after
they had taken hands round the tree and sung a song written by one whom
you all know,--so faithfully and beautifully does she love and labor for
children the world over.

THE BLESSED DAY

  “What shall little children bring
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day?
  What shall little children bring
    On Christmas Day in the morning?
  This shall little children bring
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day;
  Love and joy to Christ their king,
    On Christmas Day in the morning!

  “What shall little children sing
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day?
  What shall little children sing
    On Christmas Day in the morning?
  The grand old carols shall they sing
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day;
  With all their hearts, their offerings bring
    On Christmas Day in the morning.”

Jack was carried off to bed in such haste that he had only time to call
out, “Good-night!” before he was rolled away, gaping as he went. Jill
soon found herself tucked up in the great white bed she was to share
with her mother, and lay looking about the pleasant chamber, while Mrs.
Pecq ran home for a minute to see that all was safe there for the night.

After the merry din the house seemed very still, with only a light
step now and then, the murmur of voices not far away, or the jingle of
sleigh-bells from without, and the little girl rested easily among the
pillows, thinking over the pleasures of the day, too wide-awake for
sleep. There was no lamp in the chamber, but she could look into the
pretty Bird Room, where the fire-light still shone on flowery walls,
deserted tree, and Christ-child floating above the green. Jill’s eyes
wandered there and lingered till they were full of regretful tears,
because the sight of the little angel recalled the words spoken when it
was hung up, the good resolution she had taken then, and how soon it was
broken.

“I said I couldn’t be bad in that lovely place, and I was a cross,
ungrateful girl after all they’ve done for Mammy and me. Poor Jack was
hurt the worst, and he was brave, though he did scream. I wish I could
go and tell him so, and hear him say, ‘All right.’ Oh, me, I’ve spoiled
the day!”

A great sob choked more words, and Jill was about to have a comfortable
cry, when someone entered the other room, and she saw Frank doing
something with a long cord and a thing that looked like a tiny drum.
Quiet as a bright-eyed mouse, Jill peeped out wondering what it was, and
suspecting mischief, for the boy was laughing to himself as he stretched
the cord, and now and then bent over the little object in his hand,
touching it with great care.

“May be it’s a torpedo to blow up and scare me; Jack likes to play
tricks. Well, I’ll scream loud when it goes off, so he will be satisfied
that I’m dreadfully frightened,” thought Jill, little dreaming what the
last surprise of the day was to be.

Presently a voice whispered,--

“I say! Are you awake?”

“Yes.”

“Any one there but you?”

“No.”

“Catch this, then. Hold it to your ear and see what you’ll get.”

The little drum came flying in, and, catching it, Jill, with some
hesitation, obeyed Frank’s order. Judge of her amazement when she caught
in broken whispers these touching words:--

“Sorry I was cross. Forgive and forget. Start fair to-morrow. All right.
Jack.”

Jill was so delighted with this handsome apology, that she could not
reply for a moment, then steadied her voice, and answered back in her
sweetest tone,--

“I’m sorry, too. Never, never, will again. Feel much better now.
Good-night, you dear old thing.”

Satisfied with the success of his telephone, Frank twitched back the
drum and vanished, leaving Jill to lay her cheek upon the hand that
wore the little ring and fall asleep, saying to herself, with a farewell
glance at the children’s saint, dimly seen in the soft gloom, “I will
not forget. I will be good!”




Chapter VII. Jill’s Mission


The good times began immediately, and very little studying was done that
week in spite of the virtuous resolutions made by certain young persons
on Christmas Day. But, dear me, how was it possible to settle down to
lessons in the delightful Bird Room, with not only its own charms to
distract one, but all the new gifts to enjoy, and a dozen calls a day to
occupy one’s time?

“I guess we’d better wait till the others are at school, and just go in
