schooner had to beat up, and as she was still about two miles off, I
was soon tired of waiting for her. I rang to go ahead again, and headed
the Sylvania in a direction to intercept the schooner. A few minutes
brought us within hail of her.

"Schooner ahoy!" shouted Washburn.



"On board of the steamer!" replied the skipper of the craft.

"Where are you bound?" demanded the mate.

"Into New Smyrna. We have been out fishing."

"When did you leave the town?"

"This morning, at four o'clock. Be you the steamer that tried to get
into the inlet yesterday?" asked the skipper, as we were now within
easy talking distance of him.

"Did a steamer try to get in yesterday?"

"Of course, or I wouldn't say so. But it was not full tide by two
hours, and she stuck in the sand about as soon as she got in between
the shoals."

"What did she do then?"

"She waited till the tide lifted her and then she backed out, and
hooked it to the southward as fast as she could. We were at anchor
inside of the inlet, and saw the whole of it. She looked just like this
craft. Plenty of fresh fish on board?"

At my request Cobbington bought a considerable quantity of sheeps-head
and cavallo. The only fish we had on board was shad, and we had eaten
that so much during the past month that we were tired of it. These
fresh fish were therefore a great treat, as we found next morning.

We started the engine again, satisfied that the Islander had not gone
into Mosquito Inlet. I gave the information to Colonel Shepard.

"Then Mr. Cornwood will not be likely to intercept the Islander at Key
West," said he.

"Not unless she put in at some other port, though I know of none where
she could have made a harbor until after the storm was over. But she
may stop over at Key West a day or two," I replied. "It all depends
upon what Captain Blastblow understands his instructions to be."

"Cornwood took the train at Jacksonville for Cedar Keys this morning,
and will be there this afternoon. He will reach Key West on Sunday
morning," added the colonel.

"We shall be there only a few hours later; and if the weather is
favorable we may get there as soon as the messenger you sent."

"I do not see that we can help the matter. If Cornwood don't get to Key
West in season to intercept the Islander, he will lose his two hundred
dollars, and my runaway craft will continue on her way to New Orleans."

This was all that either of us could make of it, and all we could do
was to wait till we got to Key West for further information. If the
Islander was twenty-four hours ahead of us, it was useless to attempt
to overhaul her. The Sylvania was a great deal more comfortable for the
passengers when she went along at her ordinary rate than when she was
forced up to twelve knots an hour; and I was not disposed to hurry her
on a useless mission. My passengers appeared to be enjoying themselves
all the time. I could not see how they could help being happy.

Some of them were reading books from the library I had started at
Detroit, and replenished in several places on the route to the South.
Others were playing various games. Mr. Tiffany and my father could play
chess all day long, and most of the night. The meals were served as
elaborately as at a first-class hotel, and we had everything from the
market that could be supplied in the summer in the northern states. I
was decidedly of the opinion that our passengers had nothing to worry
about, unless Colonel Shepard could be excused for worrying about his
steamer.

At eight o'clock the first watch went on duty, in charge of Washburn,
who was as competent to handle the vessel as I was. He had the chart,
with the courses and distances marked on it. When I left the
pilot-house, Cape Canaveral, or rather the light on it, was in sight.
At nine o'clock we were just abreast of it, which proved that our dead
reckoning was correct. From this point the course was south by east,
one hundred and five miles.

As soon as the Sylvania was on her new course, I left the pilot-house,
where I had gone at nine, and turned in. I had slept all the night
before, and the laughter of the younger of the passengers on the
hurricane-deck above me did not permit me to sleep. But I heard Colonel
Shepard call his daughter away at ten, and then I went to sleep. I
could not tell how long I had slept when the stopping of the steamer
waked me.

"What schooner is that?" shouted Washburn, from the pilot-house.

I was on deck soon enough to hear the reply.

"The Violet, New Orleans to New York," came from the vessel hailed.

"Did you see a small steamer about the size of this one?" asked
Washburn.

"We passed one about three hours ago. She looked enough like you to be
the same vessel."

"Thanks," shouted Washburn, as he rang the bell to go ahead.

I looked at my watch, and found it wanted but a few minutes of twelve,
and I went into the pilot-house.




CHAPTER XI.

DIFFICULT NAVIGATION.

