And Poppy was good,--oh, dreadfully good! for a week. Quite an angel
was Poppy; so meek and gentle, so generous and obedient, you really
wouldn't have known her. She loved everybody, forgave her playmates all
their sins against her, let Nelly take such of her precious treasures as
she liked, and pensively hoped baby would remember her when she was
gone. She hopped about with a crutch, and felt as if she was an object
of public interest; for all the old ladies sent to know how she was, the
children looked at her with respectful awe as one set apart and doomed
to fits, and Cy continually begged to know if her mouth was stiff.

Poppy didn't die, though she got all ready for it; and felt rather
disappointed when the foot healed, the jaws remained as active as ever,
and the fits didn't come. I think it did her good; for she never forgot
that week, and, though she was near dying several times after, she never
was so fit to go as she was then.

"Burney's making jelly: let's go and get our scrapings," said Poppy to
Nellie once, when mamma was away.

But Burney was busy and cross, and cooks are not as patient as mothers;
so when the children appeared, each armed with a spoon, and demanded
their usual feast, she wouldn't hear of it, and ordered them off.

"But we only want the scrapings of the pan, Burney: mamma always lets us
have them, when we help her make jelly; don't she, Nelly?" said Poppy,
trying to explain the case.

"Yes; and makes us our little potful too," added Nelly, persuasively.

"I don't want your help; so be off. Your ma can fuss with your pot, if
she chooses. I've no time."

"I think Burney's the crossest woman in the world. It's mean to eat
all the scrapings herself; isn't it Nelly?" said Poppy, very loud, as
the cook shut the door in their faces. "Never mind: I know how to pay
her," she added, in a whisper, as they sat on the stairs bewailing their
wrongs. "She'll put her old jelly in the big closet, and lock the door;
but we can climb the plum tree, and get in at the window, when she takes
her nap."

"Should we dare to eat any?" asked Nelly, timid, but longing for the
forbidden fruit.

"I should; just as much as ever I like. It's mamma's jelly, and she
won't mind. I don't care for old cross Burney," said Poppy, sliding down
the banisters by way of soothing her ruffled spirit.

So when Burney went to her room after dinner, the two rogues climbed in
at the window; and, each taking a jar, sat on the shelf, dipping in
their fingers and revelling rapturously. But Burney wasn't asleep, and,
hearing a noise below, crept down to see what mischief was going on.
Pausing in the entry to listen, she heard whispering, clattering of
glasses, and smacking of lips in the big closet; and in a moment knew
that her jelly was lost. She tried the door with her key; but sly Poppy
had bolted it on the inside, and, feeling quite safe, defied Burney from
among the jelly-pots, entirely reckless of consequences. Short-sighted
Poppy! she forgot Cy; but Burney didn't, and sent him to climb in at the
window, and undo the door. Feeling hurt that the young ladies hadn't
asked him to the feast, Cy hardened his heart against them, and
delivered them up to the enemy, regardless of Poppy's threats and
Nelly's prayers.

"Poppy proposed it, she broke the jar, and I didn't eat much. O
Burney! don't hurt her, please, but let me 'splain it to mamma when she
comes," sobbed Nelly, as Burney seized Poppy, and gave her a good
shaking.

"You go wash your face, Miss Nelly, and leave this naughty, naughty
child to me," said Burney; and took Poppy, kicking and screaming, into
the little library, where she--oh, dreadful to relate!--gave her a good
spanking, and locked her up.

Mamma never whipped, and Poppy was in a great rage at such an indignity.
The minute she was left alone, she looked about to see how she could be
revenged. A solar lamp stood on the table; and Poppy coolly tipped it
over, with a fine smash, calling out to Burney that she'd have to pay
for it, that mamma would be very angry, and that she, Poppy, was going
to spoil every thing in the room. But Burney was gone, and no one came
near her. She kicked the paint off the door, rattled the latch, called
Burney a "pig," and Cy "a badder boy than the man who smothered the
little princes in the Tower." Poppy was very fond of that story, and
often played it with Nelly and the dolls. Having relieved her feelings
in this way, Poppy rested, and then set about amusing herself. Observing
that the spilt oil made the table shine, she took her handkerchief and
polished up the furniture, as she had seen the maids do.

"Now, that looks nice; and I know mamma will be pleased 'cause I'm so
tidy," she said, surveying her work with pride, when she had thoroughly
greased every table, chair, picture-frame, book-back, and ornament in
the room. Plenty of oil still remained; and Poppy finished off by
oiling her hair, till it shone finely, and smelt--dear me, how it did
smell! If she had been a young whale, it couldn't have been worse. Poppy
wasn't particular about smells; but she got some in her mouth, and
didn't like the taste. There was no water to wash in; and her hands,
face, and pinafore were in a high state of grease. She was rather lonely
too; for, though mamma had got home, she didn't come to let Poppy out:
so the young rebel thought it was about time to surrender. She could
write pretty well, and was fond of sending penitent notes to mamma,
after being naughty: for mamma always answered them so kindly, and was
so forgiving, that Poppy's naughtiest mood was conquered by them sooner
than by any punishment; and Poppy kept the notes carefully in a little
cover, even after she was grown up. There was pen, ink, and paper in the
room; so, after various trials, Poppy wrote her note:--

    "dear Mamma.

    "i am sorry i Took bernys gelli. i have braked The lamP. The oyl
    maks A bad smel. i tHink i wil Bee sik iF i stay HeRe anny More.
    i LoVe yoU--your Trying To Bee GooD

    popy."

When she had finished, she lowered her note by a string, and bobbed it
up and down before the parlor window till Nelly saw and took it in.
Every one laughed over it; for, besides the bad spelling and the funny
periods, it was covered with oil-spots, blots, and tear marks; for Poppy
got tender-hearted toward the end, and cried a few very repentant tears
when she said, "I love you; your trying-to-be-good Poppy."

Mamma went up at once, and ordered no further punishment, but a thorough
