for her."

"He expected to buy the boat for twenty or twenty-five dollars; and,
when she went above that, he was mad. He did not believe you could pay
for her, and that she would be put up for sale again, and he could get
her at his own price. If you had told me you meant to buy a boat, I
should have tried to dissuade you from it; but you would not tell me.
You said it was your secret."

"I was afraid you might object."

"I should certainly. I should have sent the hundred dollars I gave you
to your mother if I had known you meant to buy the Goldwing. You kept
your secret, and you have kept mine I suppose; for that terrible scene
in the woods appears not to be known to any one but the three who were
present at the time."

"But my uncle and my mother believe there was something wrong about that
money," added Dory. "I think they believe I stole it, or took it for
doing something wrong."

"Is that your uncle on board of the steamer?" asked Mr. Hawlinshed,
indicating the captain, who had seated himself with his sister and niece
on the hurricane deck. "I wish you would introduce me to him, and I will
soon set you right."

Dory conducted him to the presence of the captain and his mother, and
introduced him to both of them. Mr. Hawlinshed told the whole story of
his relations with his unfortunate son, who was now in jail. He related
the particulars of the scene in the woods, and assured them that he had
given Dory one hundred and five dollars for the good service he had
rendered on that occasion.

"I am very glad to have this matter cleared up," said Captain Gildrock.

"I am happy now," added Mrs. Dornwood. "That money had worried me ever
since I heard of it."

"I should not have allowed your nephew to buy that boat if I had known
what he was going to do with the money," added Mr. Hawlinshed. "I think
that boats have been the ruin of my boy; and, when they are used to take
any and every body out for a frolic, they seem to me to be worse than
bar-rooms and other bad places," continued Mr. Hawlinshed.

"My sentiments exactly!" exclaimed Captain Gildrock, looking at Dory.

"Of course I don't think there is any thing bad in the boat itself; but
my son was going to take out parties, and make a business of it. Some
very fair sort of men leave all their good behavior at home when they go
off on these boat-scrapes, and I don't like to have a boy of mine with
them at such times."

Dory felt very uneasy during this conversation. He began to have his
doubts about the business in which he had engaged. There was nothing bad
in the use of boats, but Captain Gildrock contended that a man ought to
be as careful in regard to whom he took into his boat as into his house.
It was not the boat or the boating to which Mr. Hawlinshed and Dory's
uncle objected, but only to the miscellaneous parties he would be
obliged to take out in order to earn his living.

Mr. Hawlinshed did not care to have the story of the scene in the woods
repeated at this time; for it might make it go harder with Pearl on his
trial. But those to whom he had told it were too glad to have Dory's
secret cleared up to care any thing more about the matter, though they
were full of sympathy for the unhappy father.

Mr. Hawlinshed went back to his hotel. The New Yorkers finished their
survey of the Sylph; and she soon left with the Goldwing Club, with the
exception of Dory, on board. Not a word had been said in regard to
Captain Gildrock's plan.

Dory slept on board of the Goldwing that night. The next morning he
started with his passengers. They went over to Mallett's Bay first on a
fishing-excursion. When they got there, the skipper was astonished to
find that the polite young gentlemen from New York were too tipsy to use
the bait and lines he had procured. They drank all they could hold, and
then went to sleep. They had not told Dory where to go next, and he
anchored to wait for further orders.

At noon they both turned out, but it was only to drink till they were
tipsy again. They insisted that the skipper should drink with them; but,
when he asked them who was to take care of the boat if he did as they
did, they gave up the point. They remained in Mallett's Bay all the
first day. The next morning they wanted to go to Missisquoi Bay, and the
skipper sailed the Goldwing to that part of the lake. The second day was
like the first. On the third they had drank so much that they could not
keep up the debauch, and they gambled with props in the cabin.

Dory was disgusted with his passengers; but, when he landed them in
Plattsburgh, they were as sober and polite as though they had been with
their mothers all the time. The skipper received his fifteen dollars,
and that was all the satisfaction he got out of the cruise. He returned
to Burlington the next day, and spent the afternoon in looking for
another party at the hotels.

There was no more business that week. The next week he got only a
half-day job, taking a party of ladies and gentlemen across the lake.
Three dollars was all he made that week; and he was beginning to be
discouraged when he received a postal from the Witherill House. It was
a fishing-party to Mallett's Bay. The young gentlemen from New York were
saints compared with his present passengers. They got crazy drunk; and,
when a shower came up, they threatened to throw the skipper overboard
because he anchored the boat to avoid a squall. Dory was afraid of his
life, and five dollars a day was no compensation for the misery he
endured.

Another week satisfied Dory that the business was a failure, for he did
not obtain a single fare. He went to his mother, and told her he had had
quite enough of it. He was ready to sell the boat, though the Goldwing
Club had fine times in her when she was not engaged; and there were
plenty of fine times for them. He had been offered a place in a
dry-goods store, and he was willing to take it.

"I think you had better see uncle Royal before you take the place," said
his mother. "I have never sailed in the Goldwing, and Marian and I would
like to have you sail us up to Beech Hill."

"What does uncle Royal want me to do, mother?" asked Dory, who suspected
that the captain and his mother had something on their minds.

