life. Cosmopolitans, they do not sink into the ruts of small-town life;
they are never provincial. They take the world easily, having a
pleasant, generous taste for its pleasures, and making light of the
burdens that fall to their share. All little local rules and ways are
nothing to them: neither here nor anywhere are they to remain long. With
this habit and manner they keep up a vast amount of general
cheeriness--vast indeed, when one considers how small the incomes
sometimes are. But if small, they are also sure.

"Rast Pronando is too old for such frolics, I think," said Mrs. Rankin,
the lieutenant's wife, beginning another seam in the new dress for her
baby.

"He goes to college in the spring; that will quiet him," said Mrs.
Bryden.

"What will he do afterward? Is he to live here? At this end of the
world--this jumping-off place?"

"I suppose so; he has always lived here. But he belongs, you know, to
the old Philadelphia family of the same name, the Peter Pronandos."

"Does he? How strange! How did he come here?"

"He was born here: Dr. Gaston told me his history. It seems that the
boy's father was a wild younger son of the second Peter, grandson, of
course, of the original Peter, from whom the family derive all their
greatness--and money. This Peter the third, only his name was not
Peter, but John (the eldest sons were the Peters), wandered away from
home, and came up here, where his father's name was well known among the
directors of the Fur Company. John Pronando, who must have been of very
different fibre from the rest of the family, liked the wild life of the
border, and even went off on one or two long expeditions to the Red
River of the North and the Upper Missouri after furs with the hunters of
the Company. His father then offered him a position here which would
carry with it authority, but he curtly refused, saying that he had no
taste for a desk and pen like Peter. Peter was his brother, who had
begun dutifully at an early age his life-long task of taking care of the
large accumulation of land which makes the family so rich. Peter was the
good boy always. Father Peter was naturally angry with John, and
inclined even then to cross his name off the family list of heirs; this,
however, was not really done until the prodigal crowned his long course
of misdeeds by marrying the pretty daughter of a Scotchman, who held one
of the smaller clerkships in the Company's warehouses here--only a grade
above the hunters themselves. This was the end. Almost anything else
might have been forgiven save a marriage of that kind. If John Pronando
had selected the daughter of a flat-boat man on the Ohio River, or of a
Pennsylvania mountain wagoner, they might have accepted her--at a
distance--and made the best of her. But a person from the rank and file
of their own Fur Company--it was as though a colonel should marry the
daughter of a common soldier in his own regiment: yes, worse, for
nothing can equal the Pronando pride. From that day John Pronando was
simply forgotten--so they said. His mother was dead, so it may have been
true. A small sum was settled upon him, and a will was carefully drawn
up forever excluding him and the heirs he might have from any share in
the estate. John did not appear to mind this, but lived on merrily
enough for some years afterward, until his sweet little wife died; then
he seemed to lose his strength suddenly, and soon followed her, leaving
this one boy, Erastus, named after the maternal grandfather, with his
usual careless disregard of what would be for his advantage. The boy has
been brought up by our good chaplain, although he lives with a family
down in the village; the doctor has husbanded what money there was
carefully, and there is enough to send him through college, and to start
him in life in some way. A good education he considered the best
investment of all."

"In a fresh-water college?" said Mrs. Cromer, raising her eyebrows.

"Why not, for a fresh-water boy? He will always live in the West."

"He is so handsome," said Mrs. Rankin, "that he might go Eastward,
captivate his relatives, and win his way back into the family again."

"He does not know anything about his family," said the colonel's wife.

"Then some one ought to tell him."

"Why? Simply for the money? No: let him lead his own life out here, and
make his own way," said Mrs. Bryden, warmly.

"What a radical you are, Jane!"

"No, not a radical; but I have seen two or three of the younger
Pronandos, of the fourth generation, I mean, and whenever I think of
their dead eyes, and lifeless, weary manner, I feel like doing what I
can to keep Rast away from them."

"But the boy must live his life, Jane. These very Pronandos whom you
describe will probably be sober and staid at fifty: the Pronandos always
are. And Rast, after all, is one of them."

"But not like them. He would go to ruin, he has so much more
imagination than they have."

"And less stability?"

"Well, no; less epicureanism, perhaps. It is the solid good things of
life that bring the Pronandos back, after they have indulged in youthful
wildness: they have no taste for husks."

Then the colonel came in, and, soon after, the sewing circle broke up,
Mrs. Cromer and Mrs. Rankin returning to their quarters in the other
cottages through the walled snow-paths. The little fort was perched on
the brow of the cliff, overlooking the village and harbor; the windows
of the stone cottages which formed the officers' quarters commanded an
uninterrupted view of blue water in summer, and white ice fields in
winter, as far as the eye could reach. It could hardly have withstood a
bombardment; its walls and block-houses, erected as a defense against
the Indians, required constant propping and new foundation-work to keep
them within the requirements of safety, not to speak of military
dignity. But the soldiers had nothing else to do, and, on the whole, the
fort looked well, especially from the water, crowning the green height
with buttressed majesty. During eight months of the year the officers
played chess and checkers, and the men played fox-and-geese. The
remaining four months, which comprised all there was of spring, summer,
and autumn, were filled full of out-door work and enjoyment; summer
visitors came, and the United States uniform took its conquering place,
as usual, among the dancers, at the picnics, and on the fast-sailing
fishing-boats which did duty as yachts, skimming over the clear water in
whose depths fish could be seen swimming forty feet below. These same
