he had married such an angel as Leonora--not he! Besides, Batiscombe--of
all people! If it had been his sister Diana, it would have been
different. Everybody knew that poor Batiscombe had loved her ten years
ago, when he was as poor as Job, and had nothing but a fair position in
society. But Marcantonio had been away then on his travels, being just
nineteen, and having been sent out into the world to learn French and
spend a little money on his own account.

Strange that he should almost have forgotten it! Not that it mattered in
the least. The man had loved his sister to distraction, but had soon
recognised the impossibility of such a match, and had gone away to make
his fortune. He had come to see Madame de Charleroi now and then of
late; Marcantonio knew that, but it was perfectly natural that they
should be the best of friends after so many years. How they had first
met, or what had passed between them, Marcantonio did not know, and
never troubled himself to ask; perhaps he feared lest it should pain his
sister to speak of it. But the whole story invested Batiscombe with a
sort of air of safety as regarded Leonora. He had certainly behaved well
about Diana, and nobody denied it. Nevertheless, it was best that he
should not see Diana too often, especially if he intended to live in
Rome, now that he had made his fortune. But Leonora--he might call if he
pleased, and amuse her in the dull summer days. Carantoni would not
begin life by playing the jealous husband. It was certainly odd, though,
that he should have thought so little about that old story. The fact
was, he had never seen so much of Batiscombe in his life as during the
last week or ten days.

Meanwhile, he rolled along the road to Castellamare, and, after a great
deal of shifting, found himself in the night train from Naples for Rome.
He ate his sandwiches and thought affectionately of his wife as he did
so; and then he lay down and slept the sleep of the just until morning.

When he reached the Palazzo Carantoni, the first piece of news he
received was that Madame de Charleroi was in the house, having arrived
the previous day alone,--that is to say, with her courier and her maid.
The old servant volunteered the information that the vicomtesse was
going to stay a week, or thereabouts, and had sent a note to the house
of his Eminence, Cardinal Carantoni, the night before. Marcantonio gave
instructions that she should be informed of his arrival, and that he
would come and see her later in the morning, and he retired to dress and
refresh himself.

He hated family councils, and he saw himself condemned to one, for there
was no doubt of the cardinal's intention, since Madame de Charleroi had
come, and had communicated with him. The cardinal was old, and felt the
need of settling his affairs and of talking them over with his only near
relations,--his nephew and his niece. For he was rich, and had money to
leave.

Marcantonio and his sister greeted each other affectionately, for they
were always glad to be together, and their meeting seemed to have been
unexpected. His Eminence had sent for each separately, and they had
arrived within twenty-four hours of each other,--Diana from Pegli and
Marcantonio from Sorrento. Of course, they talked of trivial matters,
for now that Diana had accepted the marriage there was nothing more to
be said about it. At twelve o'clock they drove to the cardinal's house,
through the hot, glaring streets of Rome, fringed with the red and white
awnings of the shops. The carriage rolled under the dark porch of the
palace, and the pair mounted the cool stairway and were soon ushered
through a succession of dusky halls and swinging red baize doors to
their uncle's study,--a curious, old-fashioned room in an inner angle of
the building. The blinds were drawn, and the occasional chirp of the
lazy little birds came up from the acacia trees in the courtyard.

The room was carpetless, with bright, smooth, red tiles; in the middle
was a huge writing table, covered with papers and books; on one end of
it stood a large black crucifix with a bronze Christ, and there was an
enormous inkstand of glass and brown wood. Around the walls were
mahogany bookcases, ornamented with light brass-work in the style of the
first empire, and filled with books and pamphlets. The room was cool and
dark and high, and as the brother and sister entered, their steps
clicked sharply on the clean, hard tiles. His Eminence sat in an
arm-chair at the writing table, clad in a loose, purple gown, and
wearing a minute scarlet skull cap.

He looked, indeed, as though his life were nearly spent; for, though his
dark eyes shone bright and penetrating from under the heavy brows, his
cheeks were thin and sunken, of the hue of wax, and his white hands were
transparent and discoloured between the knuckles. Marcantonio and Diana
touched the great sapphire on his finger with their lips, and then the
old man laid his hand on the head of each. They were his brother's
children, and he loved them dearly, after his crabbed old fashion; for
all the Carantoni are people of heart and kindness.

"My dear children," he began, when they were seated by his side on
straight-backed chairs that Marcantonio brought up to the table,--"my
dear children, I am growing very old and infirm, and I wanted to see you
here together before I leave you all."

A kind smile played fitfully over the waxen features, like the memory of
life that haunts a plaster mask. Diana laid her fingers gently on his
arm, and Marcantonio broke out into solicitous protestations. His uncle
was not yet sixty,--he had many years of life,--this was a passing
indisposition, a black humour, a melancholy. One should never expect to
live less than seventy years at the very least, he said, and that would
not be reached for a long time.

"Ah! no, dear uncle," he concluded, "you will surely live to see my sons
growing up to be men, and to marry Diana's little girls!"

The cardinal shook his head. That was not the way of it, he said. He
might die any day now, he said, in his meek voice; and it really sounded
as though he might, so that Donna Diana felt her eyes growing dim and
her heart big. She took one of the old man's thin hands in both of hers,
and he with the other pushed back the rich, heavy hair and smoothed it
tenderly. A marvellous picture in sooth they made,--the dying prelate in
his purple and scarlet, and the great unspeakable freshness and life of
the fair woman. Marcantonio passed his hand over his eyes and sighed as
he sat watching them.

Then his Eminence explained to the two what his chief plan was in
calling them to him now. He had made a deed, he said, which he wished
them both to understand. There were certain estates which he had
inherited from his mother,--their grandmother,--as being the second son.
These he earnestly desired to see incorporated in the property of the
Carantoni family. To that end he had made an act of gift, transferring
the lands to Marcantonio at once, on the condition that the cardinal
should continue to receive a certain income from them during his life.
This he insisted upon doing, as he feared lest after his death the lands
should be sold by the executors in order to divide the proceeds between
