themselves about hither and thither for their own entertainment.

This was the appearance below. But above, there was another story to
tell; for here were interminable flat beds of broad green leaves, spread
out over the outside of the roof of foliage--leaves that belonged to
these same naked coiling growths below; the vines had found themselves
obliged to climb to the very top in order to get a ray of sunshine for
their greenery.

For there was no sky for anybody in the Monnlungs; the deep solid roof
of interlocked branches stretched miles long, miles wide, like a close
tight cover, over the entire place. The general light of day came
filtering through, dyed with much green, quenched into blackness at the
ends of the vistas; but actual sunbeams never came, never gleamed, year
in year out, across the clear darkness of the broad water floor.

The water on this floor was always pellucid; whether it was the deep
current of the main channel, or the shallower tide that stood motionless
over all the rest of the expanse, no where was there the least
appearance of mud; the lake and the streams, red-brown in hue, were as
clear as so much fine wine; the tree trunks rose cleanly from this
transparent tide, their huge roots could be seen coiling on the bottom
much as the great vines coiled in the air above. These gray-white bald
cypresses had a monumental aspect, like the columns of a Gothic
cathedral, as they rose, erect and branchless, disappearing above in the
mist of the moss. The moss presently began to take on an additional
witchery by becoming decked with flowers; up to a certain height these
flowers had their roots in the earth; but above these were other
blossoms--air-plants, some vividly tinted, flaring, and gaping, others
so small and so flat on the moss that they were like the embroidered
flowers on lace, only they were done in colors.

"I detest this moss," said Margaret, as it grew thicker and thicker, so
that there was nothing to be seen but the silver webs; "I feel strangled
in it,--suffocated."

"Oh, but it's beautiful," said Winthrop. "Don't you see the colors it
takes on? Gray, then silver, then almost pink as we pass; then gray and
ghostly again."

For all answer she called her husband's name. She had called it in this
way at intervals ever since they entered the swamp.

"The light we carry penetrates much farther than your voice," Winthrop
remarked.

"I want him to know who it is."

"Oh, he'll know--such a devoted wife! Who else could it be?"

After a while the lane made a bend, and led them away from the moss; the
canoe, turning to the right, left behind it the veiled forest, white and
motionless. Margaret drew a long breath, she shook herself slightly,
like a person who has emerged.

"You have on your jewels again," he said, as the movement caused the
torch-light to draw a gleam from something in her hair.

She put up her hand as if she had forgotten what was there. "Jewels?
Only a gold arrow." She adjusted it mechanically.

"Jewels enough on your hands, then. You didn't honor us with a sight
of them--while you were at East Angels, I mean."

"I don't care for them; I put them on this morning before I started,
because Lanse likes them."

"So do I. Unwillingly, you also please me; of course I never dreamed
that I should have so much time to admire them--parading by torch-light
in this way through a great morass."

She did not answer.

"They bring you out, you know, in spite of yourself--drag you out, if
you like better; they show what you might be, if you would ever--let
yourself go."

"Let myself go? You use strange expressions."

"A man isn't responsible for what he says in here."

"You say that a second time! You know there was no other way; the only
hope of getting Lanse home before the storm was to start at once."

"The storm--to be sure. I don't believe it ever storms in here."

She turned towards him. "You know I had to come."

"I know you thought so; you thought we should find Lanse sitting
encamped on two cypress knees, with the wreck of his canoe for a seat.
We should dawn upon him like comets. And he would say, 'How long you've
been! It's precious damp in here, you know!'"

She turned impatiently towards the channel again.

"Don't demand too much, Margaret," he went on. "Jesting's safe, at any
rate. Sympathy I haven't got--sympathy for this expedition of yours into
this jungle at this time of night."

She had now recovered her composure. "So long as you paddle the boat,
sympathy isn't necessary."

"Oh, I'll paddle! But I shall have to paddle forever, we shall never get
out. We've come to an antediluvian forest--don't you see? a survival.
But we sha'n't survive. They'll write our biographies; I was wondering
the other day if there was any other kind of literature so completely
composed of falsehoods, owing to half being kept back, as biographies; I
decided that there was one other--autobiographies."

On both sides of them now the trees were, in girth, enormous; the red
light, gleaming out fitfully, did not seem to belong to them or to their
torches, but to be an independent glow, coming from no one knew where.

"If we had the grace to have any imagination left in this bicycle
century of ours," remarked Winthrop, "we should certainly be expecting
to see some mammoth water creature, fifty feet long, lifting a flabby
head here. For my own part, I am afraid my imagination, never very
brilliant, is defunct; the most I can do is to think of the thousands of
snakes there must be, squirming about under all this water,--not
prehistoric at all, nor mammoths, but just nice natural every-day little
