The tow-lines had been adjusted, and the steamer was again making her
way up the river when the boat returned. Tom used a great deal of bad
language when he found himself standing on the point with his arms tied
behind him and Oscar wanted to thrash him, as he was confident he could,
but he obeyed his orders to the letter.

The two barges were half a mile from the point. They had come together,
and the crew of the Dasher were baling her out. By keeping the crew well
astern, the ragged holes in the bow were raised above the water line.
The Topovers who had been on board of her were transferred to the Racer.
The Chesterfields were a sorry crowd, and as they had no further use for
their allies, the Racer conveyed them to the point.

Of course Tom's bonds were removed then, and as the Racer started for
the other side of the lake the Topovers took up the line of march for
Genverres. When the Sylph reached the first bend in the river, the
Dasher, pulling only half her oars, had begun her voyage across the
lake. The Racer kept close to her, but she seemed to get along very
well, though very slowly.

"I don't believe those fellows will feel like coming over here again
very soon," said Oscar in the pilot-house.

"I don't know about that," replied Dory Dornwood. "This is the third
time they have got the worst of it; but I have no idea that they will
ever be satisfied until they get even with us."

"That is just what I think," added Captain Glovering, who was seated in
the pilot-house. "But I don't believe they will want to attack us on the
water again."

"If we hadn't had those pike-poles we could not have done a thing, and
it was only an accident that they happened to be on the caisson,"
continued Oscar.

"I don't think so; we should have found some other way to meet them,"
answered Captain Glovering. "When they have had as much experience on
the lake as we have, they may be able to do something."

"But the Topovers are madder than the Chesterfields, and they are our
neighbors," suggested Oscar. "I believe we shall hear from them again
soon. Tom swore he would fix us yet, and if he ever caught me alone he
would pound me till I couldn't see out of my eyes. I only hope he will
meet me alone."

"Let him alone; don't get into any quarrel with him," said Dory, in his
quiet way.

"I shall not seek any quarrel with him, and I will do the best I can to
avoid a fight; but if I get into one in a natural way, I shall try to be
a muscular Christian."

"The Topovers are more likely to steal our boats in the night, to turn
the Goldwing adrift, or something of that sort, than to make an open
attack upon us," argued the captain.

"My uncle would prosecute them if it were not for making their parents
pay their fines," said the first pilot.

When the Sylph reached the creek, the real difficulty of the trip
began. The first officer and his party were still on the caisson; but
the captain put a dozen more of the ship's company on board of it. They
were to use the pikes to crowd the tow away from the shore and the shoal
water when it could not be done by means of the double tow lines.

Oscar, who as second pilot had made a careful study of the depth of
water in the creek as well as the lakes, was sent on board; and the
special charge of the tow-lines was given to him. Slacking one or the
other of these proved to be sufficient until the caisson reached the
V-point. In spite of the tow-lines the tow dragged on the bottom, and a
good deal of vigorous work had to be done with the pike-poles.

The passage through Beech Hill Lake was observed by the instructors, and
all the servants from the house and garden, until the steamer went into
the creek above. Some hard work had to be done with the pike-poles
before the caisson was moored at the stone wharf, but before supper time
the Sylph was at her wharf.

Captain Gildrock had been detained in Burlington by the affairs of the
bank until the last train; but he arrived early in the evening. Captain
Glovering reported to him at once, giving a full account of the
encounter with the Chesterfields and Topovers. The principal was sorry
to hear this story of contention with the students from the other side
and the marauders of his own side. He approved the action of Captain
Glovering, even to the staving of the boat, for it was done in defence
of the property entrusted to his care, as well as in protecting the
persons of the ship's company. If he intended to do anything about it,
he kept his own counsel.

Unlike the commanding officer of the Beech Hillers, Commodore Twinker
did not report his proceedings to the principal of his school. On the
contrary, he tried to conceal them, and the shattered Dasher was rowed
to the boat-builder in Westport for repairs. Her crew kept her under the
high bank of the lake when they passed the institute buildings.

But it so happened that the principal had been over to Burlington on a
steamer, and saw the Dasher when she came into Westport. He inquired
into the matter, and the students told a story to suit themselves; but
the main feature of the narrative was that they had been grossly
insulted by both the principal and the "Tinkers" of the Beech Hill
School. The Chesterfields had been told by Captain Gildrock that they
were not gentlemen, and were not fit to associate with his pupils. The
crew of the Winooski had treated them with contempt, and run into their
boat.

Colonel Buckmill was indignant, and on Monday he went over to Beech
Hill. He stated his business in a gentlemanly manner, dwelling mainly on
the charge of the captain that the Chesterfields were not fit company
for the Beech Hill students. Captain Gildrock admitted that he had said
so, and still held to that opinion. He was as gentlemanly as his
visitor, but his views were very decided. He went over the three
encounters with the Chesterfields and their allies, and sent for Dory
Dornwood to explain the first meeting of the crews of the barges.

Colonel Buckmill "got a flea in his ear," but his own views of "greasy
mechanics" were not very different from those of his pupils. Though he
did not say so in so many words, he thought the students of the
Chesterfield Collegiate Institution were entitled to a good deal of
deference from boys "picked up in the streets." The captain did not see
it in this light, and the two principals did not get ahead any better
