to take him away--but I will protect you--they shall not do it."

Mary Goddard started and her eyes stared wildly at her friend. But
presently the look of resigned sadness returned, and a faint and mournful
smile flickered on her lips.

"I think it is all over," she said. "He is still alive--but he will not
live till they come."

Then she bit her lip tightly, and all the features of her face trembled a
little. The tears would rise spasmodically, though they were only tears
of pity, not of love. Mrs. Ambrose, the severe, the stern, the eternally
vigilant Mrs. Ambrose, sat down by the window; she put her arm about Mary
Goddard's waist and took her upon her knee as though she had been a
little child and laid her head upon her breast, comforting her as best
she could. And their tears flowed down and mingled together, for many
minutes.

But once more the sick man's voice was heard; both women started to their
feet and went to his side.

"Mary Goddard! Mary Goddard! Let me in!" he moaned faintly.

"It is I--here I am, Walter, dear Walter--I am with you," answered Mary,
raising him and putting her arm about his neck, while Mrs. Ambrose
arranged the pillows behind him. He opened his eyes as though with a
great effort.

Some one knocked softly at the door. Mrs. Ambrose left the bedside
quickly and put the key in the lock.

"Who is there?" she asked, before she opened.

"I--John. Please let me in."

Mrs. Ambrose opened and John entered, very pale; she locked the door
again after him. He stood still looking with astonishment at Mrs. Goddard
who still propped the sick man in her arms and hardly noticed him.

"Why--?" he ejaculated and then checked himself, or rather was checked by
Mrs. Ambrose's look. Then he spoke to her in a whisper.

"There is an awful row going on between the doctor and the detective," he
said hurriedly under his breath. "They are coming upstairs and the vicar
and Mr. Juxon are trying to part them--I don't know what they are not
saying to each other--"

"Hush," replied Mrs. Ambrose, "do not disturb him--he was conscious again
just now. This may be the crisis--he may recover. The door is locked--try
and prevent anybody--that is, the detective, from coming in. They will
not dare to break open the door in Mr. Juxon's house."

"But why is Mrs. Goddard here?" asked John unable to control his
curiosity any longer. He did not mean that she should hear, but as she
laid Goddard's head gently upon the pillows, trying to soothe him to rest
again, if rest it were, she looked up and met John's eyes.

"Because he is my husband," said she very quietly.

John laid his hand on Mrs. Ambrose's arm in utmost bewilderment and
looked at her as though to ask if it were true. She nodded gravely.
Before John had time to recover himself from the shock of the news,
footsteps were heard outside, and the loud altercation of angry voices.
John Short leaned his shoulder against the door and put his foot against
it below, expecting an attack.




CHAPTER XXIV.


When Mr. Ambrose undertook to reason with the detective he went directly
towards the study where John said the man was waiting. But Mr. Booley was
beginning to suspect that the doctor was not coming to speak with him as
the squire had promised, and after hesitating for a few moments followed
John into the library, determining to manage matters himself. As he
opened the door he met Mr. Ambrose coming towards him, and at the same
moment Mr. Juxon and Doctor Longstreet entered from the opposite end of
the long room. The cheerful and active physician was talking in a rather
excited tone.

"My dear sir," said he, "I cannot pretend to say that the man will or
will not recover. I must see him again. Things look quite differently by
daylight, and six or seven hours may make all the change in the world. To
say that he can be moved to-day or even to-morrow, is absurd. I will
stake my reputation as a practitioner--Hulloa!"

The exclamation was elicited by Mr. Booley, who had pushed past Mr.
Ambrose and stood confronting the doctor with a look which was intended
to express a combination of sarcasm, superior cunning and authority.

"This is Mr. Booley," explained the squire. "Doctor Longstreet will tell
you what he has been telling me," he added turning to the detective.

"I must see this man instantly," said the latter somewhat roughly. "I
believe I am being trifled with, and I will not submit to it. No, sir, I
will not be trifled with, I assure you! I must see this man at once. It
is absolutely necessary to identify him."

"And I say," said Doctor Longstreet with equal firmness, "that I must see
him first, in order to judge whether you can see him or not--"

"It is for me to judge of that," returned Mr. Booley, with more haste
than logic.

"After you have seen him, you cannot judge whether you ought to see him
or not," retorted Doctor Longstreet growing red in the face. The
detective attempted to push past him. At this moment John Short hastily
left the room and fled upstairs to warn Mrs. Ambrose of what was
happening.

"Really," said Mr. Ambrose, making a vain attempt to stop the course of
events, "this is very unwarrantable."

"Unwarrantable!" cried Mr. Booley. "Unwarrantable, indeed! I have the
warrant in my pocket. Mr. Juxon, sir, I fear I must insist."

"Permit me," said Mr. Juxon, planting his square and sturdy form between
the door and the detective. "You may certainly insist, but you must begin
