tree under which the Beech Hillers were lunching. Paul pointed out the
elegant mansion of Major Billcord, and the students of the institute
marched in that direction.

"While we are waiting for Mr. Bissell, I should like to go up to his
house and get my sister's valise, which she left there," said Paul to
the coxswain of the Marian.

Dick consented, though he would not have permitted any of the crew to
leave without a good reason for it while the Chesterfields were so near.
Paul hastened up to the main street. He saw the institute students halt
in the grounds of Major Billcord's mansion. They broke ranks, and the
magnate was talking to them.

"I will give twenty-five dollars to any student or party of students
that will capture that young scoundrel, Paul Bristol, and hand him over
to me at Sandy Point." This was what the great man said to a group of
half a dozen of the students.

The party in front of him promised to carry out his wishes if he would
not mention the matter to the rest of the students.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE MISSION OF THE SIX RUFFIANS.


Paul Bristol saw the conference between the six Chesterfield students
and Major Billcord; but he could not hear what passed between them, and
had no suspicion that he was the subject of remark. None of them saw
Paul when he entered the gate to Mr. Bissell's premises, though his
curiosity prompted him to stand there a few minutes to observe the
proceedings of the party.

He expected to see nothing more than a sort of reception of the magnate,
who was evidently to be their passenger to Sandy Point, and the students
proposed to take him to the scene of the afternoon's sport in state. But
Major Billcord appeared to have selected the six ruffians best suited to
the undertaking in which they were to engage. He had called them aside,
and made his offer to them.

Those who were near enough to the magnate to see his face could not help
noticing that he had a pair of black eyes. In this respect he was the
counterpart of his hopeful son, though the mourning of the latter was of
a deeper shade than that of his father. The major had remained in his
elegant mansion all the forenoon, for he was more modest in the display
of the weeds under his eyes than he was of his person generally.
Doubtless he had often looked in his lofty mirrors to observe the
condition of his face.

He did not like the looks of himself with the marks Paul had left on his
face, for they certainly added nothing to the dignity of his expression.
He was a pompous, overbearing, and tyrannical man, and every time he saw
his mourning organs they filled him with wrath, and inspired him to seek
a wholesale revenge. He did not give a thought to the insult his son had
offered to Miss Lily. She was of not the slightest consequence, and it
would have been quite proper, in his opinion, for her to submit in
silence to the pleasure of the reckless young man.

On the way home from the scene of his signal defeat at the hands of Paul
Bristol, he had called at the institute, and intimated that he had a
mission for the students, at the point, on the following day. He wished
them to call for him at his house in the afternoon, and he would insure
them an hour or more of the liveliest recreation. He did not say what he
had in view, and he had cautioned Walk not to mention the business in
which the young men were to be engaged.

As Walk went home with his father, he had no opportunity to let the cat
out of the bag, even if he had been so disposed. Father and son had
spent the rest of the day in studying out an adequate punishment for
Paul. If they could have "hung, drawn, and quartered" him, it might have
satisfied them. Walk suggested that he should be prosecuted, and that
the justice would send him to prison for a month or two. But his father
saw that such a course would bring out the whole story of the son's
assault upon Miss Lily, and the judge might not regard the affair in the
same light as the sufferers did.

They could agree upon nothing, but before morning Major Billcord had
devised the scheme he had now taken the first step to carry out. He
thought it wise not to implicate his son in the outrage, for he might be
prosecuted and compelled to pay a fine for himself and those he employed
to do the actual work. The vengeance of the magnate was to be
administered to Paul at Sandy Point. The plant for the black eyes had
been set out near the doomed cottage, and it was proper that the
punishment should be inflicted on the same spot.

Walk Billcord had not been in condition to return to the institute that
day, for he did not care to put his mourning on exhibition, and to
answer all the questions that it would call forth. But he was going to
Sandy Point in the boat to which he belonged, for he was anxious to take
part in the destruction of the cottage. After the students marched up to
the mansion of the magnate, they had informed him of the presence of the
Beech Hillers, and of Paul, in Westport. The story of the Silver Moon's
mishap had been related to them at the wharf when they landed. The
students from the other side had come to the town to convey the ladies
from the disabled boat; and this sufficiently accounted for their
presence.

Nothing was said about Paul, except that he had come in the sloop. Major
Billcord had no doubt that his stalwart foe was still staying at the
point, and he had arranged his plan on the supposition that he would be
found in that vicinity. But when he was informed of his presence in
Westport, he had been obliged to make a slight change in his scheme. He
had not intended to mention it till the students landed at Sandy Point.
He had before selected his ruffians, and he was simply obliged to make
his offer a little sooner than before arranged.

Paul Bristol went into Mr. Bissell's house and obtained his sister's
valise. As he was about to depart, the owner of the Silver Moon came
down stairs in his changed dress, with a letter in his hand.

"Paul, do you know where Captain Bleeker lives?" asked Bissell, as soon
as he saw the boy with the valise in his hand.

"Of course I do," replied Paul. "I used to work for him on his place
when he had anything for me to do."

