could make a great deal out of Paul's courtship. But this is the history
of the extraordinary things which befell Paul Patoff, and for the
present it is sufficient to say that he was in love with Hermione, and
that he had never before cared seriously for any woman. He was cold by
nature, and his wandering life as a diplomatist, together with his fixed
determination to excel in his career, had not been favorable to the
development of love in his heart. The repose of Carvel Place, the
novelty of the life, and the comparative freedom from all
responsibility, had relaxed the hard shell of his sensibilities, and the
beauty and grace of Hermione had easily fascinated him. She, on her
part, had distinguished with a woman's natural instinct the curious
duality of his character. The grave, powerful, dominating man attracted
her very forcibly; the cold, impenetrable, apparently heartless soul, on
the other hand, repelled her, and almost inspired her with horror when
it showed itself.

One afternoon in the end of January, Paul and Hermione were walking in
the park. The weather was raw and gusty, and the ground hard frozen.
They had been merely strolling up and down before the house, as they
often did, but, being in earnest conversation, had forgotten at last to
turn back, and had gone on along the avenue, till they were far from the
old mansion and quite out of sight. They had been talking of Paul's
approaching departure, and they were both in low spirits at the
prospect.

"I am like those patches of snow," said Paul. "The clouds drop me in a
beautiful place, and I feel very comfortable; and then I have to melt
away again, and the clouds pick me up and carry me a thousand miles off,
and drop me somewhere else. I wish they would leave me alone for a
while."

"Yes," said Hermione. "I wish you could stay with us longer."

"It is of no use to wish," answered Paul bitterly. "I am always wishing
for things I cannot possibly have. I would give anything to stay here. I
have grown so fond of you all, and you have all been so kind to me--it
is very hard to go, Hermione!"

He looked almost tenderly at the beautiful girl beside him, as he spoke.
But she looked down, so that he could hardly see her face at all.

"I have never before felt as though I were at home," he continued. "I
never had much of a home, at the best. Latterly I have had none at all.
I had almost forgotten the idea when I came to England. It is hard to
think how soon I must forget it again, and all the dear people I have
known here."

"You must not quite forget us," said Hermione. Her voice trembled a
little.

"I will never forget you--Hermione--for I love you with all my heart."

He took her little gloved hand in his, and held it tightly. They stood
still in the midst of the lonely park. Hermione blushed like an Alp-rose
in the snow, and turned her head away from him. But her lip quivered
slightly, and she left her hand in his.

"I love you, my darling," he repeated, drawing her to him, till her head
rested for a moment on his shoulder. "I cannot live without you,--I
cannot leave you."

What could she do? When he spoke in that tone his voice was so very
gentle; she loved him, and she was under the fascination of his love.
She said nothing, but she looked up into his face, and her blue eyes saw
themselves in his. Then she bent her head and hid her face against his
coat, and her small hand tightened convulsively upon his fingers.

"Do you really love me?" he asked as he bent down and kissed her white
forehead.

"You know I do," she answered in a low voice.

That was all they said, I suppose. But it was quite enough. When a man
and a woman have told each other their love, there is little more to
say. They probably say it again, and repeat it in different keys and
with different modulations. I can imagine that a man in love might find
many pretty expressions, but the gist of the thing is the same. Model
conversation as follows, in fugue form, for two voices:--

He. I love you. Do you love me? (Theme.)

She. Very much. I love you more than you love me. (Answer.)

He. No. I love you most. (Sub-theme.)

She. Not more. That is impossible. (Sub-answer.)

He and She. Then we love each other very much. (A due voci.)

She. Yes. But I am not sure that you can love me as much as I do
you. (Stretto.) Etc., etc., etc.

By using these simple themes you may easily write a series of
conversations in at least twenty-four keys, on the principle of Bach's
Wohltemperirtes Klavier, but your fugues must be composed for two
voices only, unless you are very clever. A third voice increases the
difficulty, a fourth causes a high degree of complication, five voices
are distracting, and six impossible.

It is certain that when Paul and Hermione returned from their walk they
had arranged matters to their own satisfaction, or had at least settled
the preliminaries. I think every one noticed the change in their manner.
Hermione was radiant, and talked better than I had ever heard her talk
before. Paul was quiet, even taciturn, but his silence was evidently not
due to bad temper. His expression was serene and happy, and the cold
look seemed to have left his face forever. His peace of mind, however,
was destined to be short-lived.

Chrysophrasia and Professor Cutter watched the couple with extreme
interest when they appeared at tea, and each arrived at the same
conclusion. They had probably expected for a long time what had now
occurred, and, as they were eagerly looking for some evidence that their
convictions were well founded, they did not overlook the sudden change
of manner which succeeded the walk in the park. They did not communicate
their suspicions to each other, however. Chrysophrasia had protested
again and again to Mary Carvel and to John that things were going too
far. But Paul was a favorite with the Carvels, and they refused to see
anything in his conduct which could be interpreted to mean love for
Hermione. Chrysophrasia resolved at once to throw a bomb into the camp,
and to enjoy the effect of the explosion.
