It was yellow of hue, and, he presently discovered, agreeable to the
mouth. It had the flavor of honey and of meal, but it was slightly acid,
as though the rind of a lemon had been mixed therewith.

"I will give one to Zut, if I may," he said, and thereat he tossed one,
which the dog caught on the fly and swallowed with the discreetest
blink. And then, with the appreciation of a gourmet, Tancred added:

"It is excellent; may I have another?"

The dish again was passed to him. Before he rose from the table the
majority of the sweets had disappeared. It was evident that both master
and dog had a taste for just such comestibles as these. As he devoured
one and then another, he noticed that Liance was watching him.

"The general was in Mexico some years ago," Mrs. Lyeth added,
inconsequently. "I have heard him speak of the beauty of the women. But
in New York they are more beautiful still, are they not?"

"Yes, they are pretty enough," Tancred answered.

"I hear they propose to the men," Liance interjected.

"Ah, that is a libel. In leap-year, perhaps, and in jest, such a thing
may occur, but--"

"They are well behaved, then?"

"Yes, indeed. I remember, though, one girl--her name was--there, I have
forgotten it. However, a young fellow was evidently taken with her, and
she, as evidently, was taken with him. But for some reason or other he
never seemed to get to the point. One afternoon, when he was drinking
tea with her, the heat of the room--our houses, you know, are fearfully
hot--must have affected her. She went off like that! The young fellow
was at his wits' end. It may be that he had never seen anyone faint
before. 'What shall I do? what shall I do?' he exclaimed, and he was
about to scream for assistance, when the girl in her swoon murmured:
'Kiss me.' He did so and she recovered at once. H'm--they were married
last spring."

During the telling of this anecdote Tancred noticed that the girl's eyes
were still on his. But as the ultimate phrase dropped from him she rose
and left the room.

"She is exquisite," Tancred confided in a whisper to Mrs. Lyeth. To this
that lady assented. "But you--" he added, and then stopped short.

"Let us go to the pavilion, it is cooler there." Mrs. Lyeth had risen,
and Tancred, hesitant still, followed as she led the way.

"But you," he added at last, "you are perfect."

She had found a seat and he another. A fan which she held she unfurled
and shut again with a sudden click. For a moment she toyed with a fold
of her frock, but presently her hand fell to her side. He caught it up
and kissed the finger-tips. At once she drew it from him.

"It is the climate that has affected you," she said, "not I."

"It is you," he muttered, "it is you."

"Even so, there let it rest."

"I cannot," he insisted; "I love you." As he spoke he started, startled
at his own temerity. And as her eyelids drooped he tried to catch her
hand again.

"Then, if you love me, say nothing." She had straightened herself and
looked him now in the face. "If the general should even imagine--" A
gesture completed the sentence.

Tancred nodded. He seemed confident and assured. Evidently the general
had aroused no fear in him.

"It was in Mexico," she continued. "Liance was in the cradle. Her
mother"--and Mrs. Lyeth turned her head and looked cautiously
around--"her mother was younger than I am now. She was beautiful, I have
understood; more so even than her daughter. The general suspected that
she was flirting with the Austrian attach√©. He had him out and shot him.
His wife he drove to suicide. It is only recently I learned this. And
yet it is not for that reason that I fear. I have no intention of
flirting with you; you know that. It is because--because--"

"Don't hunt for a reason. I am willing to be shot."

Mrs. Lyeth hastened to laugh, but her laugh was troubled. It sounded
thin, as forced laughter ever does. She unfurled her fan again, and
agitated it with sudden vigor.

"It may not be," she murmured.

Her voice was so low that even the breeze did not catch it. And now, as
she turned to her companion, it seemed to him that her eyes were
compassionate, sympathetic even, awake to possibilities yet careless of
result.

At the moment there came to Tancred that annoyance which visits us in
dream. Before him was a flower more radiant than any parterre had ever
produced. With a reach of the arm it could be his, but his arm had lost
its cunning. Do what he might, it refused to move. And still the flower
glowed, and still the arm hung pendent and quasi-paralyzed at his side.
It may be--such things have happened--it may be that of the inward
effort Mrs. Lyeth marked some sign. She shut her fan again, and made as
though to rise. But this movement of hers, like the clock in the fable,
must have dissolved the spell. Abruptly Tancred was on his feet.

"One instant," he said. "There, you can give me that. Nay, see, if you
wish to--go."

And at this he stood aside, as though to let her pass. The magnetism,
however, which youth possesses, may have coerced her. In any event she
made no further effort to leave; she sat, her eyes a trifle dilated, a
whiteness quivering beneath the lace-work at her neck.

"That is good of you," he added; "I have but a word to say. Listen to
it, will you? I was sure you would. Last night--or was it last
night?--it seems a year ago. H'm, there are people whom we meet--you
must have experienced the same thing--people that disturb us with
suggestions of something that has gone before. When I saw you last
evening--no, not that; but when I heard your voice, there came with it a
