long. And get us some light. It’s growing dark.”

Leek and Ralston installed him in a comfortable chair on the other side
of the tea-table. Mrs. Deems was packing Katharine’s arm in ice. The
young girl’s face twitched nervously at first, but grew calmer as the
cold began to overcome the inflammation.

Old Lauderdale watched the operation with interest and sympathy. No one
but Mrs. Deems knew what Katharine must have suffered before she began
to feel the effects of the ice. Ralston stood by in silence, looking at
Katharine’s face and ready to help if he were needed, which was far from
probable. He was still pale, and the passions so furiously roused were
still at work within him. He could not help dreaming of his next
meeting with Alexander Junior, wondering when it would take place and
what would happen; but he had the deep and incomparable satisfaction of
an angry man who has dealt his enemy one successful blow. There had been
nothing wrong about that blow--it had gone straight from the shoulder,
it had not been parried, and it had crushed the mouth he hated. And even
afterwards, in the struggle that had followed, Alexander had not thrown
him, in spite of size and weight in his favour--these had been matched
by youth and quickness. The moment the two men had seen that Katharine
was hurt, they had loosed their hold on one another and gone to her,
just as the servants had rushed into the room. But John was not
satisfied, as Katharine was. He had tasted blood, and he thirsted for
more--to have his fight out, and win or be beaten without interference.
He meant to win, and he knew he could make even defeat dangerous, for he
was quick of his hands and feet, and tough.

Of the three, old Robert was the first to regain his equanimity. Of all
the Lauderdale tempers, his was the least hard to rouse and the soonest
to expend itself, and therefore the least dangerous. It was commonly
said among them that Katharine Ralston, John’s mother, who had hardly
ever been seen angry, had the most deadly temper in the family, though
it was not easy to tell on what the tradition rested. John and Alexander
had certainly not the best, and it was safe to predict that when they
met again there would be war.

The old gentleman had made very unwonted exertions that afternoon, and
before she had finished doing what she could for Katharine’s arm, Mrs.
Deems became anxious about him. His cheeks grew hollow, and as the blood
sank away from them his face became almost ghastly. Ralston looked at
him attentively and then glanced at the nurse. She nodded, and got a
stimulant and gave it to him, and felt his pulse, and shook her head
almost imperceptibly.

“How long is it since the doctor was sent for?” she asked of Ralston, in
a low voice.

“It must be twenty minutes, I should think.”

“Oh--longer than that, I’m sure!” exclaimed Katharine, whose suffering
lengthened time.

“He’ll be here presently, then,” said Mrs. Deems, somewhat reassured.
“How do you feel, Mr. Lauderdale? A little weak?”

“All right,” growled the broken voice. “Take care of Katharine.”

But he did not open his eyes, and spoke rather as though he were
dreaming, than as if he were awake.

“Provided he’s at home,” said Ralston, half aloud and thinking of the
doctor. “Hadn’t we better send for some one else, too?”

He addressed the question to everybody, in a general way.

“Best wait till the carriage comes back,” suggested Mrs. Deems.

This seemed sensible, and a silence followed which lasted some time.
Ralston stood motionless beside the nurse. Katharine had swallowed some
tea and lay quietly in her chair, while the skilful woman did her best
with the ice and napkins. The old man’s jaw had dropped a little, and he
was breathing heavily, as though asleep. Mrs. Deems did not like the
sound, for she glanced at him more and more uneasily.

“There, Miss Katharine,” she said, at last, “that’s the best we can do
till the doctor comes. I think it’s only the small bone that’s broken,
but I don’t like to handle it. I guess it’s better to leave it so till
he comes. Best not try to move yourself.”

Then she went round the table to old Lauderdale again, listened
attentively to his breathing and felt his pulse.

“Are you asleep, Mr. Lauderdale?” she asked, almost in a whisper.

The jaw moved, and he spoke some unintelligible words.

“I can’t hear what you say,” said Mrs. Deems, bending down anxiously.

He cleared his throat, coughed a little and spoke louder.

“Take care of Katharine,” he said, still without opening his eyes.

“Don’t worry about me, uncle Robert,” said Katharine, looking at him
with anxiety.

Both she and Ralston turned enquiring glances to Mrs. Deems. She merely
shook her head sadly and said nothing. Ralston beckoned to her to come
and speak with him. She poured out another dose of the old man’s
stimulant and set it to his lips. He swallowed it rather eagerly and
without difficulty. Then she glanced at Ralston and left the room. A
moment later he followed her, and found her waiting for him on the other
side of the curtain.

“You’re very anxious, aren’t you, Mrs. Deems?” he enquired, in a
whisper.

“Well,” she answered, “I suppose I am. I guess he’s had a strain with
this trouble. I do wish the doctor’d come, though. It’s a long while
since they went for him.”

“Don’t you think he’s in danger now--that he might go off at any
moment?” asked Ralston.

“Well--they do--with heart failure. That’s the danger. But it’s a strong
family, Mr. Ralston, and he’s been a strong man, old Mr. Lauderdale,
though he’s as weak as a babe now. You just can’t tell, in these cases,
and that’s the fact.”

There was a sound of wheels. A moment later Leek appeared.
