trousers, don't you know, so every day I wear a different pair."

"It must cost a mint of money to buy so many clothes."

"Oh, I have accounts with four or five tailors. They're willing to wait,
don't you know. They appreciate a gentleman's custom."

"How long do they wait?" asked Harry.

"I'm owing some two years. There's lots of fellows make them wait as
long."

"That aint my way," said Obed. "I pay cash. Don't they make a fuss?"

"Oh, they send in their bills, but I don't take any notice of them,"
said Clinton languidly.

"Then, young man," said Obed, "let me advise you to pay your bills, and
get back your self-respect. I'd go six months with only a single pair of
breeches, sooner than cheat a tailor out of a new pair."

"I never wear breeches," drawled Clinton, with a shudder. "I don't know
what they are. Mr. Vane, those trousers you have on are very unbecoming.
Let me introduce you to my tailor. He'll fit you out in fashionable
style."

"Thank you. I believe I do need a new pair."

"Will he fit me, too?" asked Obed.

"He don't make--breeches!" said Clinton disdainfully.

"A good hit, by Jehoshaphat!" exclaimed Obed, slapping Clinton on the
back with such emphasis that he was nearly upset.

"Don't hit quite so hard," said the dude ruefully. "You nearly upset me,
don't you know?"

"I know it now. The fact is, friend Clinton, you ought to be shut up in
a glass case, and put on exhibition in a dime museum."

"How awfully horrid!" protested Clinton.

"You're more fit for ornament than use."

"You're awfully sarcastic, Mr. Stackpole, don't you know?" said Clinton,
edging off cautiously. "I must bid you good-morning, Mr. Vane, as I have
to buy a new neck tie. I will go to the tailor's any day."

"What was such a critter made for, anyway?" queried Obed, when Clinton
was out of hearing. "He looks for all the world like a tailor's dummy."




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE BOYS SECURE POSITIONS.

Before leaving New York, Harry Vane decided to call upon the nephew to
whom Mr. Woolson of Melbourne had given him a letter of introduction.
Upon inquiry, he found that John Woolson & Co. (the style of the firm)
were large importers in the lower part of the city.

Accompanied by Jack, he called one morning. Mr. John Woolson, a
courteous gentleman, about forty years of age, received him with
politeness, which changed to cordiality when he had read his uncle's
letter.

"My uncle writes here that you two young gentlemen recently rendered him
an important service."

"We were fortunate enough to save him from being robbed," said Harry
modestly.

"And maltreated, also, I presume," said the nephew. "When did you arrive
in New York?"

"Last Thursday, sir."

"Did you leave my uncle well?"

"He looked in excellent health."

"How long do you remain in the city? What are your plans?"

"We think of leaving to-morrow. We wish to see friends from whom we have
long been parted."

"My uncle wishes me to offer you a position in my establishment, Mr.
Vane. If that will meet your views, I shall be happy to receive you."

"I should like nothing better, sir," replied Harry, his eyes sparkling.

"Will fifteen dollars a week satisfy you to begin with?"

"But, sir, I can't hope to earn as much as that."

"Well perhaps not, just at first," said the merchant, smiling; "but if
your looks don't belie you, it will not be long before your services
will be worth that sum. At any rate I am ready to pay it."

"Thank you, sir," said Harry gratefully. "When would you wish me to
commence?"

"When you please. You had better take a vacation of a month to visit
your friends. Then come to the city, and enter my employment."

Harry renewed his thanks, and Mr. Woolson turned to Jack.

"Yon have been trained as a sailor, I believe," he said.

"Yes, sir."

"Do you wish to follow the sea?"

"Yes, sir," answered Jack promptly. "I love the sea."

"Then I will find you a good position on one of my ships, commend you
specially to the captain as a young friend of mine, and promote you as
