that. The summer folks that spend four or five months of the year here
don’t seem to do anything from morning till night.”

“Ah, but you must recollect that they are resting! You have no idea how
hard they all work in town during the winter,” Mrs. Makely urged, with an
air of argument.

“Perhaps the tramps are resting, too. At any rate, I don’t think the sight
of idleness in rags, and begging at back doors, is very corrupting to the
country people; I never heard of a single tramp who had started from the
country; they all come from the cities. It’s the other kind of idleness
that tempts our young people. The only tramps that my son says he ever
envies are the well-dressed, strong young fellows from town that go
tramping through the mountains for exercise every summer.”

The ladies both paused. They seemed to have got to the end of their
tether; at least, Mrs. Makely had apparently nothing else to advance, and
I said, lightly: “But that is just the kind of tramps that Mr. Homos would
most disapprove of. He says that in Altruria they would consider exercise
for exercise’ sake a wicked waste of force and little short of lunacy.”

I thought my exaggeration might provoke him to denial, but he seemed not
to have found it unjust. “Why, you know,” he said to Mrs. Camp, “in
Altruria every one works with his hands, so that the hard work shall not
all fall to any one class; and this manual labor of each is sufficient to
keep the body in health, as well as to earn a living. After the three,
hours’ work, which constitutes a day’s work with us, is done, the young
people have all sorts of games and sports, and they carry them as late
into life as the temperament of each demands. But what I was saying to Mr.
Twelvemough--perhaps I did not make myself clear--was that we should
regard the sterile putting forth of strength in exercise, if others were
each day worn out with hard manual labor, as insane or immoral. But I can
account for it differently with you, because I understand that in your
conditions a person of leisure could not do any manual labor without
taking away the work of some one who needed it to live by; and could not
even relieve an overworked laborer, and give him the money for the work,
without teaching him habits of idleness. In Altruria we can all keep
ourselves well by doing each his share of hard work, and we can help those
who are exhausted, when such a thing happens, without injuring them
materially or morally.”

Young Camp entered at this moment, and the Altrurian hesitated. “Oh, do go
on!” Mrs. Makely entreated. She added to Camp: “We’ve got him to talking
about Altruria at last, and we wouldn’t have him stopped for worlds.”

The Altrurian looked around at all our faces, and no doubt read our eager
curiosity in them. He smiled and said: “I shall be very glad, I’m sure.
But I do not think you will find anything so remarkable in our
civilization, if you will conceive of it as the outgrowth of the
neighborly instinct. In fact, neighborliness is the essence of
Altrurianism. If you will imagine having the same feeling toward all,” he
explained to Mrs. Makely, “as you have toward your next-door neighbor--”

“My next-door neighbor!” she cried. “But I don’t know the people next
door! We live in a large apartment house, some forty families, and I
assure you I do not know a soul among them.”

He looked at her with a puzzled air, and she continued: “Sometimes it
does seem rather hard. One day the people on the same landing with us
lost one of their children, and I should never have been a whit the wiser
if my cook hadn’t happened to mention it. The servants all know each
other; they meet in the back elevator, and get acquainted. I don’t
encourage it. You can’t tell what kind of families they belong to.”

“But surely,” the Altrurian persisted, “you have friends in the city whom
you think of as your neighbors?”

“No, I can’t say that I have,” said Mrs. Makely. “I have my visiting-list,
but I shouldn’t think of anybody on that as a neighbor.”

The Altrurian looked so blank and baffled that I could hardly help
laughing. “Then I should not know how to explain Altruria to you, I’m
afraid.”

“Well,” she returned, lightly, “if it’s anything like neighborliness as
I’ve seen it in small places, deliver me from it! I like being
independent. That’s why I like the city. You’re let alone.”

“I was down in New York once, and I went through some of the streets and
houses where the poor people live,” said young Camp, “and they seemed to
know each other and to be quite neighborly.”

“And would you like to be all messed in with one another that way?”
 demanded the lady.

“Well, I thought it was better than living as we do in the country, so far
apart that we never see one another, hardly. And it seems to me better
than not having any neighbors at all.”

“Well, every one to his taste,” said Mrs. Makely. “I wish you would tell
us how people manage with you socially, Mr. Homos.”

“Why, you know,” he began, “we have neither city nor country in your
sense, and so we are neither so isolated nor so crowded together. You feel
that you lose a great deal in not seeing one another oftener?” he asked
Camp.

“Yes. Folks rust out living alone. It’s Human nature to want to get
together.”

“And I understand Mrs. Makely that it is human nature to want to keep
apart?”

“Oh no, but to come together independently,” she answered.

“Well, that is what we have contrived in our life at home. I should have
to say, in the first place, that--”

“Excuse me just one moment, Mr. Homos,” said Mrs. Makely. This perverse
woman was as anxious to hear about Altruria as any of us, but she was a
woman who would rather hear the sound of her own voice than any other,
even if she were dying, as she would call it, to hear the other. The
Altrurian stopped politely, and Mrs. Makely went on: “I have been thinking
of what Mr. Camp was saying about the blacklisted men, and their all
turning into tramps--”

“But I didn’t say that, Mrs. Makely,” the young fellow protested, in
astonishment.

“Well, it stands to reason that if the tramps have all been blacklisted
