"I remember," replied Sir Adam. "I was here thirty years ago. It hasn't
changed much. Are there still those little paper-mills in the valley on
the way to Ravello? They used to be very primitive."

They kept up their forced conversation as they passed Lady Johnstone and
the young people. Then they were silent again, as they went towards the
hotel.

"We'll go through the house," said Mrs. Bowring, speaking low again.
"There's a quiet place on the other side--Clare and your son will have
to stay with your wife."

"Yes, I thought of that, when I told them to take our chairs."

In silence they traversed the long tiled corridor with set faces, like
two people who are going to do something dangerous and disagreeable
together. They came out upon the platform before the deep recess of the
rocks in which stood the black cross. There was nobody there.

"We shall not be disturbed out here," said Mrs. Bowring, quietly. "The
people in the hotel go to their rooms after luncheon. We will sit down
there by the cross, if you don't mind--I'm not so strong as I used to
be, you know."

They ascended the few steps which led up to the bench where Clare had
sat on that evening which she could not forget, and they sat down side
by side, not looking at each other's faces.

A long silence followed. Once or twice Sir Adam shifted his feet
uneasily, and opened his mouth as though he were going to say something,
but suddenly changed his mind. Mrs. Bowring was the first to speak.

"Please understand," she said slowly, glancing at him sideways, "I don't
want you to say anything, and I don't know what you can have to say. As
for my being here, it's very simple. If I had known that Brook Johnstone
was your son before he had made our acquaintance, and that you were
coming here, I should have gone away at once. As soon as I knew him I
suspected who he was. You must know that he is like you as you used to
be--except your eyes. Then I said to myself that he would tell you that
he had met us, and that you would of course think that I had been afraid
to meet you. I'm not. So I stayed. I don't know whether I did right or
wrong. To me it seemed right, and I'm willing to abide the consequences,
if there are to be any."

"What consequences can there be?" asked the grey-bearded man, turning
his eyes slowly to her face.

"That depends upon how you act. It might have been better to behave as
though we had never met, and to let your son introduce you to me as he
introduced you to Clare. We might have started upon a more formal
footing, then. You have chosen to say that we are old friends. It's an
odd expression to use--but let it stand. I won't quarrel with it. It
does well enough. As for the position, it's not pleasant for me, but it
must be worse for you. There's not much to choose. But I don't want you
to think that I expect you to talk about old times unless you like. If
you have anything which you wish to say, I'll hear it all without
interrupting you. But I do wish you to believe that I won't do anything
nor say anything which could touch your wife. She seems to be happy with
you. I hope she always has been and always will be. She knew what she
was doing when she married you. God knows, there was publicity enough.
Was it my fault? I suppose you've always thought so. Very well,
then--say that it was my fault. But don't tell your wife who I am unless
she forces you to it out of curiosity."

"Do you think I should wish to?" asked Sir Adam, bitterly.

"No--of course not. But she may ask you who I was and when we met, and
all about it. Try and keep her off the subject. We don't want to tell
lies, you know."

"I shall say that you were Lucy Waring. That's true enough. You were
christened Lucy Waring. She need never know what your last name was.
That isn't a lie, is it?"

"Not exactly--under the circumstances."

"And your daughter knows nothing, of course? I want to know how we
stand, you see."

"No--only that we have met before. I don't know what she may suspect.
And your son?"

"Oh, I suppose he knows. Somebody must have told him."

"He doesn't know who I am, though," said Mrs. Bowring, with conviction.
"He seems to be more like his mother than like you. He couldn't conceal
anything long."

"I wasn't particularly good at that either, as it turned out," said Sir
Adam, gravely.

"No, thank God!"

"Do you think it's something to be thankful for? I don't. Things might
have gone better afterwards--"

"Afterwards!" The suffering of the woman's life was in the tone and in
her eyes.

"Yes, afterwards. I'm an old man, Lucy, and I've seen a great many
things since you and I parted, and a great many people. I was bad
enough, but I've seen worse men since, who have had another chance and
have turned out well."

"Their wives did not love them. I am almost old, too. I loved you, Adam.
It was a bad hurt you gave me, and the wound never healed. I married--I
had to marry. He was an honest gentleman. Then he was killed. That hurt
too, for I was very fond of him--but it did not hurt as the other did.
Nothing could."

Her voice shook, and she turned away her face. At least, he should not
see that her lip trembled.

"I didn't think you cared," said Sir Adam, and his own voice was not
very steady.

She turned upon him almost fiercely, and there was a blue light in her
faded eyes.

"I! You thought I didn't care? You've no right to say that--it's wicked
