
'Of course it would. I wish you could make our father see that.'

'People of the previous generation never see what happens in ours. They
only infer what ought to happen if all their own prejudices had been
canonical law for fifty years.'

'That is sedition,' laughed Orsino, whose spirits had risen suddenly.

'No, it is criticism, and criticism is only called sedition under
despotic governments. There is no reason why grown men, like you and me,
should not criticise their fathers and mothers up to a certain point,
within limits of respect. We honour them, but they are not gods, that we
should worship them. When we were little boys we supposed that our
father knew everything about everything. We are aware, now, that we
understand many things which have grown up in our day much better than
he does. To go on supposing that he knew everything, in spite of
evidence, would be a gross form of superstition. Superstition, I
suppose, means a survival, to wit, the survival of some obsolete belief.
That is exactly what it would be in us to artificially maintain the
belief of our childhood in our parents' omniscience. Has your love for
Donna Vittoria anything to do with the actual amount of her knowledge at
any moment? No. But love appears to be made up of passion and affection.
Therefore affection is independent of any such knowledge in its object.
Therefore we love our parents quite independently of what they know or
do not know about life, or mathematics, and we may, consequently,
criticise such knowledge in them on its own merits, without in the least
detracting from our affection for themselves.'

'You are a very satisfactory brother,' said Orsino, smiling at his
brother's speech. 'But I am not sure that you are a strictly orthodox
priest on the question of family relations.'

'I give you a theory of such relations,' answered Ippolito. 'In actual
practice I believe that our mother is one of the wisest women living,
without being in the smallest degree intellectual. It is true that my
experience of women is limited, but I hear a great deal of talk about
them. She is fond of Donna Vittoria, I am sure.'

'Yes--very. But she sees fifty reasons why I had better not marry her.'

'So do I,' said Ippolito, calmly.

'You? Why, you have been urging me to marry her in spite of everything!'

'Oh no. I have only proved to you that if you love her enough, you will
marry her in spite of everything. That is a very different thing.'

'Priest!' laughed Orsino. 'Sophist!'

'Anything you like,' answered Ippolito, swinging round on the
piano-stool and striking a chord. 'All the same, I hope you may marry
her, and have no bad consequences to deal with, and I will help you if I
can.'

'Thank you,' said Orsino; but his voice was drowned by a burst of loud
and intricate music, as Ippolito's white fingers flew over the piano
while he stared at the ceiling, his head thrown back, his cigar sticking
up from between his teeth, he himself apparently unaware of what his
hands were doing, and merely listening to the music.

Orsino was momentarily cheered and encouraged by all his brother had
said, but the situation was not materially improved thereby. It was,
indeed, almost as bad as it could be, and an older and wiser man than
Orsino would have expected that something must occur before long, either
to improve it, or to cut it short at once and for ever, for the simple
reason that it could neither last, as it stood, nor be made more
difficult by anything which could happen.




CHAPTER XIX


When Orsino and Ippolito reached Camaldoli everything seemed to be
quiet, and San Giacinto himself was greatly encouraged by the turn
matters had taken. During the first day or two after Orsino's departure
there had still been considerable curiosity among the people of Santa
Vittoria, and more than once San Giacinto had made little speeches, in
his direct manner, to the peasants and villagers who hung about in the
neighbourhood of the big old house. But after that he had not been
disturbed, and everything appeared to be progressing favourably. The
year was one of abundance, the orange crop, which in Sicily is all
gathered before May, had turned out well, the grapes promised an
abundant vintage, and even the olives had blossomed plentifully, though
it was still too early to make accurate predictions about the oil. On
the whole the prospects for the year were unusually satisfactory, and
San Giacinto congratulated himself on having chanced to buy the place in
a good year. In an agricultural country like that part of Sicily, the
temper of the people is profoundly affected by the harvest.

The outlaws had not been heard of in the neighbourhood since Ferdinando
Pagliuca's death. They were said to be in the region about Noto, at some
distance from Camaldoli, towards the south-west. San Giacinto was
surprised at not having even received an anonymous letter from one of
Ferdinando's friends. He did not suppose that the present pacific state
of things could last for ever, but he had been prepared to meet with a
great deal more opposition in what he did.

On the other hand, he was hindered at every step by small difficulties
which always seemed to be perfectly natural. If he wished to build a bit
of wall, he found it impossible to obtain stone or quicklime, though
there were plenty of masons professing themselves ready to work. He
pointed to a quantity of slaked lime drying in a deep tank near the gate
of Santa Vittoria.

'Eh,' said the head mason, shaking his head, 'that belongs to the mayor,
and he will not sell it.'

And, in fact, the mayor flatly refused to part with a single hodful of
the lime, saying that he himself was going to repair his house.

The masons said that by and by it could be got from the lime-burners,
who had sold their last burning to a man in Randazzo. Stone was to be
had for the quarrying, in the black lands above Camaldoli, but there
were no quarrymen in Santa Vittoria, and the gang of them that lived
higher up Etna had taken a large contract.

'Patience,' said the head mason, gravely. 'In time you will have all you
