when they find themselves in the position of attacking half of mankind’s
religious faith, having no idea, but only a proposition, to offer in its
place, they will be beaten.

That seems far from the question of divorce, but it is not.  Before the
battle, the opposing forces are encamped and intrenched at a little
distance from each other, and each tries to undermine the other’s
outworks.  Socialism, collectively, has dug a mine under Social Order’s
strongest tower, which is called marriage, and the edifice is beginning
to shake from its foundations, even before the slow-match is lighted.

To one who has known the world well for a quarter of a century, it seems
as though the would-be destroyers of the existing order had forgotten,
among several other things, the existence of woman, remembering only
that of the female.  They practically propose to take away woman’s
privileges in exchange for certain more or less imaginary ’rights.’
There is an apparent justice in the ’conversion,’ as it would be called
in business.  If woman is to have all the rights of man, which, indeed,
seem reducible to a political vote now and then, why should she keep all
the privileges which man is not allowed?  But tell her that when she is
allowed to vote for the president of the United States once in four
years, no man shall be expected to stand up in a public conveyance to
give her a seat, nor to fetch and carry for her, nor to support her
instead of being supported by her, nor to keep her for his wife any
longer than he chooses, and the ’conversion’ looks less attractive.

The reason why woman has privileges instead of rights is that all men
tacitly acknowledge the future of humanity to be dependent on her from
generation to generation.  Man works or fights, and takes his rights in
payment therefor, as well as for a means of working and fighting to
greater advantage.  And while he is fighting or working, his wife takes
care of his children almost entirely.  There is not one household in a
hundred thousand, rich or poor, where there is really any question about
that.  It sounds insignificant, perhaps, and it looks as though anybody
could take care of two or three small children.  Those who have tried it
know better, and they are women.  Now and then rich mothers are too lazy
to look after their children themselves.  To do them such justice as one
may, they are willing to spend any amount of money in order to get it
well done for them, but the result is not encouraging to those who would
have all children brought up ’by the state.’  Even if it were so, who
would bring them up? Women, of course.  Then why not their own mothers?
Because mothers sometimes--or often, for the sake of argument--do not
exactly know how.  Then educate the mothers, give them chances of
knowing how, let them learn, if you know any better than they, which is
doubtful, to say the least of it.

Moreover, does any man in his senses really believe that mothers, as a
whole, would submit and let their children be taken from them to a state
rearing-house, to be brought up under a number on a ticket by
professional baby-farmers, in exchange for the ’right’ to vote at a
presidential election, and the ’right’ to put away their husbands and
take others as often as they please, and the ’right’ to run for
Congress?  Yet the plan has been proposed gravely.

There seems to be a good deal to be said in favour of the existing state
of things, after all, and particularly in favour of marriage, and
therefore against divorce; and it is not surprising that woman, whose
life is in reality far more deeply affected by both questions than man’s
life is, should have also the more profound convictions about them.

Woman brings us into the world, woman is our first teacher, woman makes
the world what it is, from century to century.  We can no more escape
from woman, and yet continue to live our lives as they should be lived,
than we can hide ourselves from nature.  We are in her care or in her
power during more than half our years, and often during all, from first
to last.  We are born of her, we grow of her, as truly as trees and
flowers come of the mother earth and draw their life from the soil in
which they are planted. The man who denies his mother is a bad man, and
the man who has not loved woman is a man in darkness.

Man is not really unjust to woman in his thoughts of her either, unless
he be a lost soul, but he has not much reason in respect of her nor any
justice in his exactions.  Because within himself he knows that she is
everything and all things for the life and joy of men, therefore he
would seem perfect in her eyes; and he rails against whatsoever in her
does not please him, as a blot upon the lustre of his ideal, which
indeed he would make a glorified reflexion of his own faults.  When he
is most imperfect, he most exacts her praise; when he is weakest, she
must think him most strong; when he fails, she must call failure
victory, or at the least she must name it honourable defeat; she must
not see his meanness, but she must magnify the smallest of his
generosities to the great measure of his immeasurable vanity therein;
she must see faith in his unfaithfulness, honour in his disgrace,
heroism in his cowardice, for his sake; she must forgive freely and
forgettingly such injury as he would not pardon any man; in one word,
she must love him, that in her love he may think and boast himself a
god.

It is much to ask.  And yet many a woman who loves a man with all her
heart has done and daily does every one of those things, and more; and
the man knows it, and will not think of it lest he should die of shame.
And, moreover, a woman has borne him, a woman has nursed him, a woman
taught him first; a woman gives him her soul and her body when he is a
man; and when he is dead, if tears are shed for him, they are a woman’s.

If we men are honest, we shall say that we do not give her much for all
that, not much honour, not much faith.  We think we do enough if we give
her life’s necessities and luxuries in fair share to the limit of our
poverty or wealth; that we give much, if we love her; too much, if we
trust her altogether.

It is a wonder that women should love, seeing what some men are and what
most men may be when the devil is in them.  It is a wonder that women
should not rise up in a body and demand laws to free them from marriage,
for one-half the cause that so many of them have.

But they do not.  Even in this old age of history they still believe in
marriage, and cling to it, and in vast majority cry out against its
dissolution.  No man ever believes in anything as a woman who loves him
believes in him. Men have stronger arms, and heads for harder work, but
they have no such hearts as women. And the world has been led by the
heart in all ages.

Even when the great mistake is made, many a woman clings to the faith
that made it, for the sake of what might have been, in a self-respect of
which men do not dream.  Even when she has married with little love, and
taken a man who has turned upon her like a brute beast, her marriage is
still a bond which she will not break, and the vow made is not void
because the promise taken has been a vain lie. Its damnation is upon him
who spoke it, but she still keeps faith.
