I should like to offer her the best one can, instead of practically
remarking: ‘My dear, this brain racket is worked out for the present.
We’ll return to it later, or not at all.’

“It is often a clever thing for those that love and cannot marry to part
when the shock comes: they coddle the misery and have a glorious time
suffering. But that would not do for us. We live in the thick and rush
of life, and have no time to sit down with memories, hardly time enough
to realise an ache. We must have our day in fact or not at all; and
afterward, thank God, there is again no time for memories. Well, this is
only the eighth of July. By winter that intolerable nuisance may be in
the family vault.”


                                   XV

People remarked that summer that Patience looked unusually well. At
times her eyes had a certain liquid softness, at others they sparkled
wickedly. Her colour was beautiful and her manner and conversation full
of animation.

It was on a hot August afternoon that Patience and Steele, in the green
shades of their wood, suddenly met each other’s eyes and burst out
laughing.

“We are in love,” said Patience.

“Well—yes—I suppose we are.”

“I feel very light-minded over this unexpected dénouement. I had
imagined all sorts of dramatic climaxes; but the unexpected always will
happen in this life—more’s the pity.”

“Did you expect we should not fall in love?”

“I did not think about it at all for a time—just drifted. But as the
situation is so serious it is as well to take it humourously. What are
we going to do about it?”

He had removed his cigar, and was regarding her with his contemplative
stare. “I have thanked your complicated ancestors more than once for
your large variety of moods. I am glad and sorry that you have spoken:
sorry, because this was very pleasant; glad that the discussion of ways
and means should take place here instead of in town. I shall be brutally
frank. How long is your husband likely to live?”

“He may live for twenty years. I heard the doctors—they have a
consultation every once in a while—tell Mrs. Peele so the other day. He
is much better. On the other hand, he might take a turn for the worse
any day.”

“Then you must persuade him to give you a divorce.”

“Oh, dear, I am afraid that is out of the question. I’ve thought of it;
but—you don’t know him.”

“You are a clever woman: now look up your resources. Enlist the family
on your side. Tell them that you are about to leave, never to return,
and that you are on the road to become a famous newspaper woman; that if
they will persuade your husband to give you a divorce you will drop
their name; otherwise that it will be dinned in their ears for the next
twenty years. Tell them that we intend to let you sign hereafter. That
ought to fetch them, as they appear to look upon the newspaper business
with shuddering horror. And persuade them that Beverly needs a good
domestic little wife who would gladden his declining years.”

“I’m sorry I feel in this mood,” said Patience, abruptly. “I should far
rather it had been the other way—the usual way. I suppose I am
possessed with what Poe calls The Imp of the Perverse.”

“My dear girl, I need not remind you that it is just as well and a good
deal better. You need a shaking to wake you up, though. You imagine that
you are awake already, but you are not—not by a long sight. You have
buried your nature five fathoms deep. Well, time is up. I must be off.
Think over what I have said. Good-bye.”


                                  XVI

On the following Thursday morning Patience walked slowly over to where
Beverly sat under a tree on one of the lawns, reading a newspaper. She
had made up her mind to adopt Steele’s advice, but had deferred the evil
moment as long as possible.

“Beverly,” she said abruptly, sitting down in front of him, “I want to
speak to you.”

He laid down the newspaper and regarded her with eager admiration. She
had carefully selected the most unbecoming frock she possessed, a sickly
green, and twisted her hair in a fashion to distort the fine lines of
her head. Nevertheless, she looked as fresh as the morning, and her eyes
sparkled with excitement.

“What is it?” he asked. “Oh, why—why—”

“Never mind! I am going to have a business talk with you, and please
don’t get excited. If you do, you’ll be sure to have a pain, you know.”

“Well, what is it? It doesn’t do a fellow any good to keep him in
suspense.”

“On the first of November I am going away—”

“You are not!”

“And I shall not come back—not in any circumstances. You have proved
that your attacks are more or less under your own control. A sojourn at
some foreign baths will probably cure you. I have given you all of my
life that I intend to give you. I know that self-sacrifice is the ideal
of happiness of some women, but it is not mine. When I leave here on the
first of November it will be forever. There is no inducement, material
nor sentimental, that will bring me back. Do you understand that much
clearly?”

He burst into a volley of oaths, and beat his knees with his fists.
Patience continued as soon as she could be heard:—

“Now, it can do you no possible good to retain a legal hold on me, nor
can you care to hear of your name becoming familiar in Park Row. Give me
my freedom, and I will take my own name—”
