"Perhaps," suggested Rupert, "you will take one of the cash boys'
places."

"You must be crazy. When I go into business it won't be into a retail
store. I will get a place in some wholesale establishment. There's a
better chance to rise there."

"I didn't know but you would go to college."

"I am not very fond of study. Pa would send me to Columbia College or to
Harvard, if I wanted to go, but I prefer a life of business. I want to
become a merchant prince."

"It would certainly be agreeable. I shall be satisfied if I can be
successful enough to support my mother and sister in comfort. That is my
ambition."

"Oh, I dare say. You are a poor boy, you know."

"Look here, Julian, there's one thing I don't understand. Your father
and mine were partners, and I supposed in the same circumstances. Both
failed together. Yet your father now has a large store of his own, and
we are poor. Can you tell me why?"

"I'm not good at conundrums. I'll have to be going. If you want a place
as cash boy I'll ask pa to fit you out. Ta ta!" And Julian dashed off on
his wheel.

"I hope some time to be a successful and honorable man of business,"
thought Rupert, as he followed his former schoolfellow with his glance.
"My ambition would not be satisfied with anything short of this."




CHAPTER IX.

RUPERT BECOMES A BELL-BOY.


Rupert found a pleasant home at the house of Mr. Sylvester, but he was
anxious as soon as possible to secure employment. His friend was active
in his behalf, but the general depression in business was such that
there seemed to be no opening anywhere.

One evening at supper Mr. Sylvester said: "I have been hoping to find
you a place in a wholesale establishment in Pearl Street. I learned that
one of the younger clerks was about to leave, but he has decided to stay
six months longer, and, of course, we can't wait as long as that."

"No, Mr. Sylvester, it would seem like six years to me."

"Even if your wants were all provided for in that time?"

"I feel that I ought to be at work, and not depending on your
generosity. I would rather work for two dollars a week than remain
idle."

"That is the right spirit, Rupert. You will be glad, then, to hear that
I have at last found employment for you."

"But I thought you just said----"

"That I could not get you a place in Pearl Street. True, but this is a
different position--very different. It is that of bell-boy in a hotel."

"What are the duties, Mr. Sylvester?"

"You will be at the command of the clerk, and will have to run up and
downstairs, answering calls from the guests, or carrying messages from
the office. In fact, you will be a general utility clerk, and I have no
doubt will get terribly tired the first few days."

"Never mind. I can stand that. If I make enough to pay my way I shall be
satisfied."

"You will be better paid than if you were in a mercantile house. You
will receive five dollars a week and get your meals at the hotel."

Rupert's face brightened.

"Why, that is excellent," he said. "When I was at Tenney & Rhodes' I
only received five dollars weekly and had to furnish my own meals."

"True, but you were then in the line of promotion. Here you cannot
expect to rise any higher unless you qualify yourself to be a hotel
man."

"At any rate I am willing to try it. Where is the hotel?"

"It is the Somerset House, on lower Broadway. It is not a fashionable
hotel, but comfortable and of good reputation. I am somewhat acquainted
with the office clerk, who was an old schoolmate of mine, and at my
request he has given you this position."

"I hope I shall give satisfaction. I shall be a green hand."

"The duties are easily understood and learned. If you show that you are
desirous of succeeding you will make a good impression, and you will get
on well."

"When am I to commence work?" asked Rupert.

"I will take you down town with me to-morrow morning, and introduce you
to Mr. Malcolm, the clerk. I suppose you will be expected to go to work
directly."

"I should prefer that."

"One thing I must tell you. You will have to secure a room outside, as
the employees are not expected to sleep in the hotel. All the rooms are
reserved for guests."

"What will my hours be?"

"From seven in the morning till seven in the evening. By this
arrangement you will have your evenings to yourself."

Rupert went to bed in good spirits. He was of an active temperament, and
enjoyed occupation. It would be pleasant to him also to feel that he was
