
Mrs. Madison has been handed down by history as the one serene figure
in the turmoil and danger. She moved quietly to and fro, securing
valuables and state papers and sending them away by trusty servants.
The President and several members of the Cabinet had started for the
scene of action.

Mrs. Mason and Marian watched by the bedside with minutest
instructions, while the doctor went out on some pressing business.

"A soger gemmen say he must see Miss Annis," announced the new butler,
who had been but a month in his place. "I jus' done fergit de name.
Dar's flustration in de berry air."

"To see me?" asked the child in surprise.

"He want de doctor awful much. Den he say send Miss Annis."

Annis held out her hand to Marian. "Come with me!" she exclaimed. "We
will not disturb mamma."

They went down together. The man in the hall was covered with dust and
grime, and purple-red with the heat. A soldier, sure enough; but the
first moment Annis drew back.

"Oh, little Annis, don't be afraid!" and she knew the voice.
"Marian----"

And so the two met who had just touched their lips to the cup of joy
in the spring of youth. A grave woman half a dozen years older, a man
whose life might be ended this very day. All these years he had been
bitter and resentful, but if he were dying----

"Can you not fly at once? The battle has been disgraceful, but what
could such an army do against overwhelming odds. The whole thing has
been a piece of shameful imbecility in our rulers. The British are
marching into Washington."

"Then you have not heard----"

Something in Marian's tremulous voice awed him. He wiped the sweat and
grime from his face.

"I have not been in Washington for three months."

"Mrs. Carrington is lying at the point of death."

Annis began to cry, and caught his hand.

"Then Heaven help you! No one can tell what the end will be. Now I must
away to warn all who can fly, and then do the best we can to protect
those who remain. If possible, I will send a guard. Little Annis,
good-by, if I should never see you again."

She threw her arms about his neck with a convulsive sob. He held out
his hand to Marian, but neither spoke. Then he rushed away. There was
not a moment to lose. He strode over to the White House, where all
was still uncertain, and Mrs. Madison had given orders for the dinner.
To procure wagons was a labor of love and infinite persuasion, to say
nothing of money.

Then the messenger came shouting that General Armstrong had ordered a
retreat. Daniel Carroll had sent his carriage, but Mrs. Madison refused
to go until the President arrived.

"It will not do for you to fall into the hands of the British,"
declared an officer. "That would crown the triumph."

Pale and weary from his fruitless journey, the President and his wife
stepped into the carriage to be driven across to Georgetown, where
further difficulties awaited them. The opposition journals made merry
over the undignified flight, yet there is no doubt but that it was the
aim of both the Admiral and General Ross to crown their victory by the
capture of the most conspicuous figures of the Capital.

The British marched steadily on the heels of the flying foe, leaving
their dead and wounded exposed to the pitiless sun, and proceeded
at once to the Capitol, which they ransacked and then set on fire,
striking down anyone who dared to raise a voice in its behalf. Then
they marched along Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, chagrined
to discover only a few servants left, but gratified to find a banquet
awaiting them. There had been covers laid for forty guests. Dishes of
all kinds were ready in the kitchen to be served. Wines were in the
cooler, handsome cut-glass and silver trays of delicious fruit stood on
the sideboard. The hungry officers and men, scorning ceremony, feasted
until the place became the scene of the wildest orgie. The wine cellar
was broken open and its contents passed around, rooms were ransacked
and combustibles piled up; and as they found little worth carrying off,
the match was applied, and the house that had been the scene of so many
joyous occasions was soon in flames.

From thence to the Treasury Department, and then to the office of
the National Intelligencer, whose editor had denounced Cockburn
unsparingly for his acts of vandalism on the coast and among
defenseless towns; and the houses of some of the more noted citizens
were added to the conflagration. Women flying for refuge were insulted,
wagons stopped and despoiled of their goods. The few regiments could
make no stand against the wanton destruction.

Suddenly there came a strange darkness over the city. From the far-off
hills the wind began to roar like another ravening army. There were
sullen mutterings of thunder. The order was given to retreat, and
by the lurid light the ranks re-formed, though many, wearied out,
straggled behind. The red blaze was made visible a moment by the
lightning, when the town seemed in a molten glow, and then dense smoky
blackness.

As if this was not enough, a frightful tornado seemed hurled from the
hills on the doomed City.

The roar of the elements was terrific. Trees were uprooted and houses
blown from their foundations, crashing down in the general ruin.

All day they had watched between hope and fear. Jaqueline's fever had
abated, and she lay half unconscious. After the soldiers marched into
the City, and he had seen Mrs. Madison started on her perilous journey,
Roger felt he could be of no farther service. The enemy would wreak his
vengeance unopposed. He found there was a guard in citizens' clothes
keeping watch over his house in an inconspicuous manner. But when the
flames started at the Capitol his anxiety was harrowing. What if they
