“If you do that will pay me for what he did to me.”

“But perhaps he won’t come back,” said Mr. Snowdon in an apprehensive
tone. “In that case I shall lose the quarterly sum his guardian pays
me.”

“You don’t think he’ll run away?” asked Septimus.

Half an hour later this question was answered. Bernard was seen
approaching the house, his manner cool and composed, while he looked
neither troubled nor flurried.




CHAPTER III.  BROUGHT TO BAY.

|When Bernard saw Septimus Snowdon and his father standing in front of
the house he understood at once, from the expression of their faces,
that trouble was in store for him.

“Well, sir,” said Mr. Snowdon curtly, “so you have come home at last?”

“Yes, sir. There was no letter for you.”

“Ahem! I shall have to write a letter to your guardian.”

Bernard shrugged his shoulders, but did not think it necessary to say
anything, rather to the disappointment of Ezekiel, who wished to draw
him out, “I find,” he said, “that you have made an outrageous assault on
my innocent boy. What have you to say in extenuation of your conduct?”

“Only that your innocent boy was stoning a kitten, and bullying a young
boy.”

“Even if he were, what business was it of yours?”

“It will always be my business to protect children and animals from
being abused,” said Bernard warmly.

“You are a very impudent boy! Are you aware that the boy you assaulted
is my son?”

“I ought to be aware of it. There isn’t another boy in town who would be
guilty of such brutal conduct.”

“Are you goin’ to stand that, pa?” asked Septimus, anxious to
precipitate a conflict between Bernard and his father.

“No, I am not,” said Mr. Snowdon, compressing his lips. “Get me the
horsewhip.”

No command could have been more pleasant to Septimus. He ran into the
house, and soon reappeared with an ordinary horsewhip with which his
father was in the habit of punishing the pupils under his charge.

He handed it to his father with a malicious smile.

“There it is, pa!” he said. “Lay it on heavy.”

Mr. Snowdon did not immediately proceed to make use of the whip.
Considering Bernard to be in his power, he was disposed to play with him
as a cat plays with a mouse of whom it is preparing to make a victim.

“Do you know what I am going to do, Bernard Brooks?” he demanded
sternly.



“Suppose you tell me,” said Bernard quietly.

“I am going to flog you.”

“What for?”

“For assaulting my boy.”

“Why don’t you let him do it?”

“Septimus, do you wish to chastise Bernard with this whip, and so punish
him for his attack upon you?”

There was nothing that Septimus would have liked better, but there was
something in Bernard’s steady look that made him think it would not be
prudent.

“I guess you’d better flog him, pa,” he said, after a pause.

“Very well, my son, I will.”

Whip in hand, Ezekiel Snowdon advanced upon his refractory pupil.
Bernard did not wait meekly to receive the punishment, neither did he
care to get into a fight with the teacher. He turned and ran through the
back yard and down a lane leading to a tract of marsh which belonged to
the Snowdon farm. “He’ll get away, pa!” said Septimus.

“Try to head him off, my son!”

Septimus, who was in the path, tried to do so, but a swinging blow from
Bernard nearly prostrated him, and the fugitive kept on. Mr. Snowdon’s
blood was up. Brandishing the whip in his long and sinewy arms, he kept
his thin legs in motion, and pursued Bernard with as great speed as he
was capable of.

But Bernard had several rods the start, and he was a good runner. He
kept on, occasionally looking back to see what progress his pursuer was
making.

“What does, the boy mean by running to the marsh?” thought Mr. Snowdon.
“He is a fool. I shall catch him there to a certainty.”

Bernard probably had views of his own. Indeed, it is quite certain that
he had a plan by which he hoped to bring discomfiture upon his dignified
preceptor. He made straight for the marsh, till he found his progress
barred by a wide ditch about half full of slimy water.

“Aha! the ditch will stop him,” reflected Mr. Snowdon.

But no! Bernard poised himself for an instant on the brink, and then
lightly leaped over, landing in safety on the opposite side. Close
