
"I am sure of that. Will you explain the matter to your wife? The
agreement will come next week. And at the last I shall take her to New
York to be fitted out with clothes. If there is any point you do not
quite understand I shall be very willing to explain."

He rose in a dazed kind of fashion, and made an awkward bow, then went
round to the kitchen end, where Helen had been sorting over
blackberries.

"Oh, my child," he cried with a new tenderness. "I can't bear to think
of your going away!"

Helen gave a long, sighing breath, then smiled.

"Miss Gage is to be taken to Europe, and her folks are willing," she
subjoined.

"And this place isn't so far away. You can write and come home in
vacation."

Then he would consent. She felt relieved that there was to be no
argument.

"What do you think Aunt Jane will say?" she inquired, clasping his arm.

"Well, she'll be mighty set against it. I'll have a hard row to hoe when
I go home. There'll be weeds of last year and year before," laughing
brusquely. "I wish the old lady had to tackle her."

"But I don't. Aunt Jane says a good many things at first that she
doesn't mean. It's the wrong side of something full of seams and knots,
but when you get it turned out it is ever so much smoother."

"You're right. You're just right. You've quick sight in a good many
things, Helen, and I should hate awfully to have you spoiled, and get so
grand you'd look down on us. Mother aint much for book learnin', and
Jen's as smart as a steel trap, if she is ours. Oh, and there's the
wedding. Why I don't see how we can do without you," and he looked
really alarmed.

"Perhaps I won't have to go so soon." Somehow she was almost afraid she
wouldn't go at all. It was one of the happenings that seemed too good to
be true, too wonderful for her.

"Well, I must get along. Mother'll wonder what kept me."

"And, oh, Uncle Jason, don't ever feel afraid that I shall forget you,
and all your goodness."

Helen flung her arms around his neck and kissed his rough cheek
tenderly.

"No, my girl, no. I should hope not. We'll hear soon, I suppose. And you
will come over."

"Yes." Helen felt a little conscience smitten. She could go over and
spend Sunday, but he did not ask it, and she did not proffer. She could
imagine the time there would be, and oh, she would so much rather be out
of it.

Mrs. Van Dorn said he was much more amenable to reason than she had
feared. She explained about the agreement, and her plans to go the last
of next week. Helen was transfixed with amazement.

Monday afternoon Mr. Warfield made his appearance. Miss Gage had gone
out with Mrs. Van Dorn. Helen was very glad to have Mrs. Dayton explain
the proposal, and point out its advantages.

"I don't like it," he exclaimed brusquely. "And you didn't take the
examination?"

"Oh, yes, I did, and it was splendid! I'll show you the papers. But why
don't you like it?" apprehensively.

"If you are going to teach in a public school, the discipline and
advantages of the public school education are immeasurably the best. I
don't like boarding schools except for the high up people who care most
for accomplishments. And I have been thinking it over, and had a plan to
propose to Mrs. Dayton."

"My schooldays seem a great perplexity all around," said Helen with a
dubious sort of laugh.

"I do suppose Helen could have worked her way through. I had decided to
give her a home, or her other expenses if a pleasant home offered. I
would much rather not have her put on the level of a domestic. We may
have some very fine theories on this subject, but Helen would have many
snubs to endure. And if she resolves to learn what is useful, she will
learn it as well there."

"But the experience will be so different. And two years will fit her
for just nothing at all. Every year more real education is demanded. I
am studying up for a college degree myself."

"Oh, dear!" Helen sighed lugubriously.

"Then, here, I should have had an oversight of your studies, and kept
you up to the mark."

"I am resolved I won't fall below anywhere," she replied resolutely; yet
there were tears in her eyes.

"But you don't know what the standard will be."

"Don't be discouraging, Mr. Warfield. Helen, go and get your papers,"
interposed Mrs. Dayton.

"Is that old body going to have Helen trained for a lady's maid?" Mr.
Warfield asked in an imperious manner; his lips touched with a bit of
scorn.

"You don't do her justice. At the end of two years Helen will be free to
choose her future course. She will be only sixteen then."

"And spoiled utterly. Full of airs and graces. She is too fine a girl to
be made a sort of puppet. There wasn't a girl in my class equal to her,
and some had had much better advantages. I should not want her to go on
living with the Mulfords."

