thudding and bumping up, halting with a dull clash of chains.

Stanley said: "This is one of Baring's pet raids; we've done it dozens
of times. Once our entire division rode around Beauregard; but I didn't
see the old, blue star division flag this time, so I guess we're going
it alone. Hello! There's infantry! We must be close to the extreme
outposts."

In the dusk they were passing a pasture where, guarded by sentinels, lay
piled, in endless, straight rows, knapsacks, blankets, shelter tents,
and long lines of stacked Springfield rifles. Soldiers with the white
strings of canteens crossing their breasts were journeying to and from a
stream that ran, darkling, out of the tangled woodland on their right.

On the opposite side of the road were the lines of the Seventieth
Indiana, their colors, furled in oilcloth, lying horizontally across the
forks of two stacks of rifles. Under them lay the color guard; the
scabbarded swords of the colonel and his staff were stuck upright in
the ground, and the blanket-swathed figures of the officers in poncho
and havelock reposed close by.

The other regiment was the Eleventh Maine. Their colonel, strapped with
his silver eagles, was watching the disposal of the colors by a sergeant
wearing the broad stripe, blue diamond and triple underscoring on each
sleeve. With the sergeant marched eight corporals, long-limbed, rugged
giants of the color company, decorated with the narrow stripe and double
chevron.

A few minutes later the cavalry moved out past the pickets, then swung
due south.

Night had fallen--a clear, starlit, blossom-scented dimness freshening
the air.

The Special Messenger, head bent, was still riding with Captain Stanley,
evidently preferring his company so openly, so persistently, that the
other officers, a little amused, looked sideways at the youngster from
time to time.

After a while Stanley said pleasantly: "We haven't exchanged names yet,
and you haven't told me why a regular is riding with us to-night."

"On special service," she said in a low voice.

"And your name and regiment?"

She did not appear to hear him; he glanced at her askance.

"You seem to be very young," he said.

"The colonel of the Ninetieth Rhode Island fell at twenty-two."

He nodded gravely. "It is a war of young men. I think Baring himself is
only twenty-five. He's breveted brigadier, too."

"And you?" she asked timidly.

He laughed. "Thirty; and a thousand in experience."

"I, too," she said softly.

"You? Thirty?"

"No, only twenty-four; but your peer in experience."

"Your voice sounds Southern," he said in his pleasant voice, inviting
confidence.

"Yes; my home was at Sandy River."

Out of the corners of her eyes she saw him start and look around at
her--felt his stern gaze questioning her; and rode straight on before
her without response or apparent consciousness.

"Sandy River?" he repeated in a strained voice. "Did you say you lived
there?"

"Yes," indifferently.

The captain rode for a while in silence, then, carelessly: "There was, I
believe, a family living there before the war--the Westcotes."

"Yes." She could scarcely utter a word for the suffocating throb of her
heart.

"You knew them?"

"Yes."

"Do--do they still live at Sandy River?"

"The house still stands. Major Westcote is dead."

"Her--I mean their grandfather?"

She nodded, incapable of speech.

"And"--he hesitated--"and the boy? He used to ride a pony--the most
fascinating little fellow----"

"He is at school in the North."

There was a silence, then the captain turned in his saddle and looked
straight at her.

"Does Miss Westcote live there still?"

"Do you mean Celia Westcote?" asked the Messenger calmly.

"Yes--Celia--" His voice fell softly, making of her name a caressing
cadence. The Special Messenger bent her head lower over her bridle.

"Why do you ask? Did you know her?"

"Yes."

"Well?"

The captain lifted his grave eyes, but the Messenger was not looking at
him.
