
"Let me refold the gowns," she pleaded, persuasively. "What does a
clumsy man know about packing such clothing as that? If you don't,
they'll be ruined. It's a shame to drag those boxes about through mud
and water!"

So we made a landing, and lifted out and unlocked the boxes. All I
could see inside were mounds of lace and ribbons, and with a vague
idea that Miss Barrison needed no assistance I returned to the boat
and sat down to smoke until she was ready.

When she summoned me her face was flushed and her eyes bright.

"Those are certainly the most beautiful things!" she said, softly.
"Why, it is like a bride's trousseau--absolutely complete--all except
the bridal gown--"

"Isn't there a dress there?" I exclaimed, in alarm.

"No--not a day-dress."

"Night-dresses!" I shrieked. "He doesn't want women's night-dresses!
He's a bachelor! Good Heavens! I've done it this time!"

"But--but who is to wear them?" she asked.

"How do I know? I don't know anything; I can only presume that he
doesn't intend to open a department store in the Everglades. And if
any lady is to wear garments in his vicinity, I assume that those
garments are to be anything except diaphanous!... Please take your
seat in the boat, Miss Barrison. I want to row and think."

I had had my fill of exercise and thought when, about four o'clock in
the afternoon, Miss Barrison directed my attention to a point of palms
jutting out into the water about a mile to the southward.

"That's Farrago!" I exclaimed, catching sight of a United States flag
floating majestically from a bamboo-pole. "Give me the megaphone, if
you please."

She handed me the instrument; I hailed the shore; and presently a man
appeared under the palms at the water's edge.

"Hello!" I roared, trying to inject cheerfulness into the hollow
bellow. "How are you, professor?"

The answer came distinctly across the water:

"Who is that with you?"

My lips were buried in the megaphone; I strove to speak; I only
produced a ghastly, chuckling sound.

"Of course you expect to tell the truth," observed the pretty
stenographer, quietly.

I removed my lips from the megaphone and looked around at her. She
returned my gaze with a disturbing smile.

"I want to mitigate the blow," I said, hoarsely. "Tell me how."

"I'm sure I don't know," she said, sweetly.

"Well, I do!" I fairly barked, and seizing the megaphone again, I
set it to my lips and roared, "My fianc√©e!"

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Miss Barrison, in consternation, "I thought
you were going to tell the truth!"

"Don't do that or you'll upset us," I snapped--"I'm telling the truth;
I've engaged myself to you; I did it mentally before I bellowed."

"But--"

"You know as well as I do what engagements mean," I said, picking up
the oars and digging them deep in the blue water.

She assented uncertainly.

A few minutes more of vigorous rowing brought us to a muddy landing
under a cluster of tall palmettos, where a gasoline launch lay.
Professor Farrago came down to the shore as I landed, and I walked
ahead to meet him. He was the maddest man I ever saw. But I was his
match, for I was desperate.

"What the devil--" he began, under his breath.

"Nonsense!" I said, deliberately. "An engaged woman is practically
married already, because marriages are made in heaven."

"Good Lord!" he gasped, "are you mad, Gilland? I sent for a
stenographer--"

"Miss Barrison is a stenographer," I said, calmly; and before he could
recover I had presented him, and left them face to face, washing my
hands of the whole affair.

Unloading the boat and carrying the luggage up under the palms, I
heard her saying:

"No, I am not in the least afraid of snakes, and I am quite ready to
begin my duties."

And he: "Mr. Gilland is a young man who--er--lacks practical
experience."

And she: "Mr. Gilland has been most thoughtful for my comfort. The
journey has been perfectly heavenly."

And he, clumsily: "Ahem!--the--er--celestial aspect of your journey
has--er--doubtless been colored by--er--the prospect of
your--er--approaching nuptials--"

She, hastily: "Oh, I do not think so, professor."

"Idiot!" I muttered, dragging the dog to the shore, where his yelps
brought the professor hurrying.

"Is that the dog?" he inquired, adjusting his spectacles.

