
The swindler swung around, stared at Nat, and his face fell.

"This is the time you don't get away so easily," went on Nat. "Officer,
do your duty."

"You'll have to consider yourself under arrest," said the policeman.
"This young man makes a charge against you."

"Why, that young man is a lunatic!" cried Nick Smithers, thinking of
his experience on the train. "They let him out of the asylum only day
before yesterday."

"Don't you believe a word of it," said Nat. "This rascal is one of the
slickest swindlers in the world. Take him to headquarters, and I'll go
along and prove every word I say."

"You'll have to come along," said the officer.

"All right, I'll go," answered Nick Smithers, but an instant later he
started to run away through the crowd. Nat, however, was on guard, and
putting out a foot, he sent the rascal pitching headlong on the depot
platform.

"Hi! what did you do that for?" demanded Nick Smithers, on arising. And
he glared at our hero as if to eat him up.

"You'll come along with me!" came angrily from the policeman, and
without more ceremony he marched the swindler to the police station,
with our hero following.




CHAPTER XXX

NAT COMES INTO HIS OWN


Once at the police station, Nat made a charge against Nick Smithers, and
then the swindler was asked what he had to say for himself.

"This is all a mistake," he said. "I am not the person."

"He is wanted in Chicago as well as in New York City," went on our hero.

In the meantime another officer had been looking up Nick Smithers'
picture in the rogues' gallery.

"I don't think the young man is mistaken," he said. "Wait till I
telephone to New York for more particulars."

This was done, and inside of an hour the rascal's identity was fully
established. Then Nick Smithers broke down.

"It's all up with me, and I may as well confess," he said, scowling at
Nat. "But I must say, I never thought a country boy would run me down."

"Well, you see, I am not quite as green as I used to be," answered Nat,
with a faint smile.

"But you missed it by not coming to me on the quiet," went on Nick
Smithers. "Had you done so, you might have gotten your hundred dollars
back. As it is, you'll not get a cent."

"That remains to be seen," answered our hero.

When Nat could get away from the police station he hurried at once to
the law offices of Messrs. Caswick & Sampson, as directed by Mr.
Garwell.

"So you are the young man John Garwell telegraphed about," said Mr.
Sampson, shaking hands. "I am glad to meet you. The business on hand
concerns you personally as well as it concerns your employer."

"Concerns me?" ejaculated Nat, in wonder. "How is that?"

"I am interested in a piece of property located in New York City, near
Central Park. By some papers which you turned over to Mr. Garwell it
would seem that you are likewise interested in the land."

"Through my grandfather?"

"Yes."

"Then he really owned a share of the land?"

"He did, and so far as Mr. Garwell and I can ascertain he never sold out
his claim."

"What is the claim worth?"

"You will have to ask Mr. Garwell about that. He wanted me to sign
certain documents, and let you take them to New York to-night. Can you
do that?"

"I think I can. But the police may wish to detain me." And then our hero
told of the arrest of Nick Smithers. Mr. Sampson became interested, and
in the end went to the station with Nat. He knew some of the officials,
so our hero had no more trouble.

"We shall send the rascal to New York as soon as the officers down there
want him," said one of the police officials; and, later on, this was
done.

Not to lose time, our hero took the night train for the metropolis. He
had a berth in the sleeper, but it was a long while before he could get
to sleep. There were many things to think about, and the question of
property near Central Park was an absorbing one.

Arriving in New York, he went to his boarding house for breakfast, and
then hurried down to the office. It was not until ten o'clock that John
Garwell appeared.

"Did you get the papers from Mr. Sampson?" was his employer's first
question.

"Yes, sir."

"And fix up those matters at Springfield, too?"
