     The waters are blue as the eyes of the Emperor's daughter,
     In the crystal pools of her eyes there are salt tears.
     The water is both salt and fresh.
     Over the water to my love, this night, over the water--

The voice died away, and Zoë no longer heard the words distinctly;
presently she could not hear the voice at all, yet she strained her
ears for a few seconds longer. The boat must have passed, on its way
down to the Bosphorus.

For a whole month she had sat in the same room at that hour, and many
times already she had heard men singing in their boats, sometimes to
that same ancient Lydian Mode, but never once had they pronounced
those meaning words. Often and often again she had passed within sight
of the Amena tower, but not until to-day had she seen a solitary
fisherman sitting at the pier's edge below it, and he had waved his
rod thrice over the water when she passed by. And now in a flash of
intuition she guessed that the singer was the fisherman and none
other, and that the song was for her, and for no one else; and it was
a signal which she could understand and should answer if she could;
and there was but one way of answering, and that was to show some
light.

'It is hot,' she said, beckoning to Yulia. 'Open the large window wide
for a few minutes and let in the fresh air.'

Yulia obeyed quickly. The night was very dark.

'Besides,' Zoë continued carelessly, as Zeno looked at her, 'that
fellow has a fine voice, and we shall still hear him.'

And indeed, as the window was opened, the song was heard again, at
some distance--

     Over the water to my love, she is awake to-night, I see her eyes
       amongst the stars.
     Love, I am here in the dark, but to-morrow I shall see the day
       in your face,
     I shall see the noon in your eyes, I shall look upon the sun
       in your hair.
     Over the water, the blue water, the water both salt and fresh----

Once more the voice died away and the faint plash of oars told Zoë
that the message was all delivered, and that Gorlias was gone, on his
way downstream.

Zeno, whose maternal tongue was not Greek, could not be supposed to
understand much of the song, for unfamiliar words sung to such ancient
melodies can only be caught by native-born ears, and sharp ones at
that. At a signal from Zoë, the maid shut the window again, and drew
the curtains.

'Could you understand the fellow?' Zeno asked, glad in reality that
the conversation had been interrupted.

'Yes,' Zoë answered lightly, 'as you would understand an Italian
fisherman, I suppose. The man gave you a message, my lord. Shall I
interpret what he said?'

'Can you?' He laughed a little.

'He tells you that if you will not try to force Arethusa to keep away
from the window to-morrow, she will probably do as you wish--probably!'

'Your friend must have good ears!' Zeno smiled. 'But then he only said
"probably." That is not a promise.'

'Why should you trust the promise of a poor slave, sir? You would not
believe a lady of Constantinople in the same case if she took oath on
the four Gospels! Imagine any woman missing a chance of looking at
another about whom she is curious!'

'Who is the other?' asked Zeno, not much pleased.

'She is young, and as fresh as spring. Her hair is like that of all
the Venetian ladies----'

'Since you have seen her, why are you so anxious to see her again?'

'Ah! You see! It is she! I knew it! She is coming to-morrow with her
father.'

'Well? If she is, what of it?' asked Zeno, impatiently.

'Nothing. Since you admit that it is she, I do not care to see her at
all. I will be good and you need not lock me up.'

Thereupon she bent towards the table and began to eat again, daintily,
but as if she were still hungry. Zeno watched her in silence for some
time, conscious that of all women he had ever seen none had so easily
touched him, none had played upon his moods as she did, making him
impatient, uneasy, angry, and forgiving by turns, within a quarter of
an hour. A few minutes ago he had been so exasperated that he had
rudely longed to box her little ears; and now he felt much more
inclined to kiss her, and did not care to think how very easy and
wholly lawful it was for him to do so. That was one of his many
dilemmas; if he spoke to her as his equal she told him she was a
slave, but when he treated her ever so little as if she were one, her
proud little head went up, and she looked like an empress.

She had never been so much like one as to-night, he thought, though
there was nothing very imperial in the action of eating a very sticky
strawberry, drawn up out of thick syrup with a forked silver pin. She
did it with grace, no doubt, twisting the pin dexterously, so that the
big drop of syrup spread all round the berry just at the right moment,
and it never dripped. Zeno had often seen the wife of the Emperor
Charles eating stewed prunes with her fingers, which was not neat or
pleasant to see, though it might be imperial, since she was a genuine
empress. But it was neither Zoë's grace nor her delicate ways that
pleased him and puzzled him most; the mystery lay rather in the
fearless tone of her voice and the proud carriage of her head when she
was offended, in the flashing answer of her brave eyes and the noble
curve of her tender mouth; for these are things given, not learnt, and
if they could be taught at all, thought Zeno, they would not be taught
to a slave.

He let his head rest against the back of his chair and wished many
things, rather incoherently. For once in his life he felt inclined for
anything rather than action or danger, or any sudden change; and in
the detestable natural contradiction of duty and inclination it
