last they caught him at it and sent him to prison."

This opened Randy's eyes to what his fellow-deckhand was driving at.

"Do you imagine Polk is that sort?"

"He is certainly close."

"So you said before. Well, he ought to be watched."

"Oh, it's not my affair," said Jones. "Say, I am going to bed," he
added.

"So am I," said Randy, and retired, thinking of what Jones had said and
also of what the Clares had told him regarding Peter Polk.




CHAPTER XVIII

A MEETING ON THE RIVER


Two weeks passed and Randy felt quite at home on board of the
steamboat. He had learned his duties fully and was giving satisfaction
to Captain Hadley and Pat Malloy.

His only enemy seemed to be Polk the purser, who was as disagreeable as
possible. Our hero did his best to steer clear of the fellow, and in a
measure succeeded.

One evening, while the boat was tied up at the dock in New York Randy
chanced to look ashore when he saw Rose Clare motioning to him. He at
once joined the girl.

"I came down to tell you that Bill Hosker was around yesterday," said
the girl to our hero.

"Is he around now?" questioned Randy, quickly.

"No, he went away yesterday evening. He was only around about two
hours."

"I wish I had seen him."

"I thought you'd like to know about it. I came down last night, but a
man here told me you were at Albany."

"Yes, we come to New York every other night, not counting Sundays."

"I think Bill Hosker will come again soon. I suppose he thinks you have
given up trying to find him."

"Well, I haven't given it up, Rose. How are things going with yourself
and your mother?"

"Not very good."

"Can't she get much sewing to do?"

"She and I made only five dollars and a quarter last week."

"And what rent do you pay?"

"Six dollars a month for just the one room."

"That is certainly hard. I wish I could help you, but I can't--at
least, not now."

"We wouldn't want help, if only we could get more sewing."

"I'll ask Captain Hadley about it. He has a wife and a family of
girls."

Randy was as good as his word. He met the captain the next day, when
the officer appeared to have little to do.

"Captain, may I speak to you a moment?" he asked, respectfully, and at
the same time tipping his cap.

"What is it, Randy?"

"I know a poor lady in New York who does sewing for a living. She is
anxious to get more work and I am anxious to help her, if I possibly
can. Do you know of anybody who would like some sewing done--your wife
or anybody else?"

"Hm! I don't know," answered the steamboat captain. "I'll remember what
you say and see. Is that all?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where does the poor woman live?"

"Not far from our landing place in New York." He gave the street and
number. "It isn't a nice neighborhood, but it is the best the woman can
afford," he added.

"Yes, I know many folks in New York who live in bad neighborhoods
simply because they cannot afford something better. I will speak to my
wife about this."

The captain did as he had promised. Mrs. Hadley was going to New York
the next day and said she would call upon Mrs. Clare. The family lived
in Albany, so that the captain was home every other night.

Mrs. Hadley was as good as her word. She was a Christian woman, a
worker in the church, and she became at once interested in Mrs. Clare
and her daughter Rose.

"This is no place for Rose," said she. "This foul air is bad for her."

"I know it--but I do not see how I can turn myself," said Mrs. Clare,
with a sigh. Poverty had completely broken her spirit.

The captain's wife looked over some of the sewing that Mrs. Clare had
done and soon learned that the woman was a clever seamstress. Then she
made an offer.

