These lovely plans were designed to make the city as classic and
imposing as Nature had dreamed of when she piled up that rugged
amphitheatre out of chaos; and Isabel had long since resolved that, if
she could not be the first to plant a bit of ancient Athens upon a brown
and ragged bluff, the high tide of her fortunes should coincide with the
awakening of the city to the sense of its architectural guilt. She
banished much of the tasteless furniture of the old time, and refitted
with a stately comfort that expressed one side of her nature. She too
clung to traditions--and to the long mirrors in their tarnished gilt
frames, with the little shelf below; the multitude of family portraits
engraved on wood, and surrounded by a wide white margin and tiny gilt
frame. That they might strike no discordant note, she made use of a
lesson learned in London, where she had spent a month with Lady
Victoria, and had the walls and wood of the living-room painted white,
covered the windows and furniture with a plain stuff of a dark but
neutral blue. In the dining-room were a few paintings of her New England
and Spanish ancestors, and she disturbed them only to replace the
wall-paper with leather; at the same time sending the black walnut
furniture to the auction-room.

Being the one practical member of her family, and the product of an
earthquake country, she repaired the uncertain foundations of her house
before removing the walls that had cut up the lower floor into the
conventional number of rooms and hallways. The house, of no great depth,
was so close to the hill-side, still rising above it, that more than one
enterprising cook had made use of the natural ledges before the windows.
Besides the kitchen department and pantries, there were now but three
rooms on the lower floor: the dining-room, a small reception-room in the
tower, and an immense living-room, broken by the white pillars that
supported the storys above.

Mrs. Belmont and Mrs. Otis, in the time-honored American fashion, had
made a day nest of their bedroom, but Isabel was far too modern for that
lingering provincialism, and lived luxuriously in the big room
down-stairs when she was not in the porch. She had reserved her mother's
old alcoved bedroom with its mahogany four-poster for her own use, but
the rest of the second-story rooms she had fitted for her English
cousins, that they too might have headquarters in town.

Neither appeared to be in any haste to visit the city of their
ancestors. Gwynne had left England in October, now nearly a year ago,
but, having discovered from his solicitor that he could apply for
letters of citizenship as late as the end of the third year after
landing, had announced to Isabel his intention to travel slowly about
the country "before settling down in its remotest part, which, from all
accounts, was sufficiently unlike the rest to provincialize his point of
view unless he saw something first of the East, South, and Middle West."
He had written to her several times, but only on business. She had
returned in January, after a round of visits in England, and had put his
house in order at once. The lease had expired, and Mr. Colton had
engaged a temporary superintendent, but Gwynne sent Isabel his power of
attorney and she was temporarily in possession. She wrote to him from
time to time that all was well, or to send him an account of her
expenditures; but felt no promptings towards a friendly correspondence
with one who showed as little disposition to encourage it.

From Victoria she had not heard directly since she bade her good-bye in
Curzon Street, but Flora Thangue had written that her ladyship's superb
health had (to her ill-concealed fury) given way, following an attack of
influenza, and she would not be able to leave her doctor for an
indefinite time. A few months later she wrote that "dear Vicky" was
outwardly herself again, but in reality very nervous, the result, no
doubt, of her illness, and of the prolonged stress of business. However,
she had finally succeeded in letting the Abbey and Capheaton to
advantage, and it was on the cards that she would reach California
before the end of the year. Isabel hoped that, unfed by her son's
exacting presence the maternal fires burned low; she had a clearly
defined intention to be a factor in the new career of Elton Gwynne, and
no desire for the capricious interference of his mother.




II


As Isabel stood in her little porch that brilliant September morning,
she dismissed her occasional regret that she had not remained in England
for a London season. Not only had she put the time to better use on her
ranch, but no doubt her agent would have relet this house, and delayed
the fulfilment of one of those dreams upon which she unconsciously fed
her soul. The shrieking trade-winds and the dense white fogs were
hibernating somewhere out in the Pacific. All the city, in the great
irregular amphitheatre below, was sharply outlined in the yellow light;
Isabel wondered if the sun renewed its stores from the golden veins to
north and south. On the wide broken ledge just beneath her pinnacle was
the concrete evidence of an architectural orgy to be seen nowhere else
on earth: wooden mansions with the pure outlines of the Renaissance; a
Gothic palace with bow-windows, also of wood; a big brown-stone house in
the style of New York; piles of shingles and stones; here and there a
touch of Romanesque, later French, and Italian; the majority of those
plutocratic and perishable masses, of no style in particular, unless it
were that of Mansard combined with the criminalities of him who invented
the bow-window and the irrelevant tower. On the slopes were a few old
houses in gardens, some with cottage roofs, others square, brown, dusty,
melancholy. But the majority were of the "house in a row" type,
radiating in all directions from the "boarding-house blocks" on the
lower slopes. Then, down on the plain, came the big compact masses of
stone and concrete, brick and steel, devoted to business and housing of
the itinerant. The lofty domes of the City Hall and a newspaper
building, a few church spires and the great white-stone hotel on a crest
not far from Isabel's, were the sole pretenders to architectural beauty
within her ken.

Far away she could make out the Mission Church, once called after St.
Francis of Assisi, now named Dolores for the vanished lake. It was the
last reminder of the work of the Spanish fathers, and looked
indescribably ancient in the midst of that busy and densely populated
district. At night Isabel watched the lights of the electric cars
flashing about that old monument of an almost forgotten conquest--like
the angry haunted eyes of the padres that had labored in the wilderness
for naught. But although this old church and the Presidio, which still
retained its quadrangle and a few of the original adobe houses, appealed
deeply to Isabel on account of the romance of Rezánov and Concha
Argüello that distinguished her family, her more personal sympathies
were with the streets just below her hill-top, packed as they were with
memories, tragic, humorous, gay, pathetic, of a people that had made the
city great.

Even the dilapidated houses, with their sixty steps or more toppling
