him--with a little skill he might be made into a personality. His
French was not in training, but he managed to make out that it was M.
Genet's opinion that the husbands of New York would tremble when he
made his appearance among them.

When the tailor had left, Alice came in, with her face shining from a
cold bathing. "Here you are decking yourselves out!" she cried. "And
what about me?"

"Your problem is harder," said Oliver, with a laugh; "but you begin
this afternoon. Reggie Mann is going to take you with him, and get you
some dresses."

"What!" gasped Alice. "Get me some dresses! A man?"

"Of course," said the other. "Reggie Mann advises half the women in New
York about their clothes."

"Who is he? A tailor?" asked the girl.

Oliver was sitting on the edge of the canap√©, swinging one leg over the
other; and he stopped abruptly and stared, and then sank back, laughing
softly to himself. "Oh, dear me!" he said. "Poor Reggie!"

Then, realizing that he would have to begin at the beginning, he
proceeded to explain that Reggie Mann was a cotillion leader, the idol
of the feminine side of society. He was the special pet and protege of
the great Mrs. de Graffenried, of whom they had surely heard--Mrs. de
Graffenried, who was acknowledged to be the mistress of society at
Newport, and was destined some day to be mistress in New York. Reggie
and Oliver were "thick," and he had stayed in town on purpose to attend
to her attiring--having seen her picture, and vowed that he would make
a work of art out of her. And then Mrs. Robbie Walling would give her a
dance; and all the world would come to fall at her feet.

"You and I are going out to 'Black Forest,' the Wallings'
shooting-lodge, to-morrow," Oliver added to his brother. "You'll meet
Mrs. Robbie there. You've heard of the Wallings, I hope."

"Yes," said Montague, "I'm not that ignorant."

"All right," said the other, "we're to motor down. I'm going to take
you in my racing-car, so you'll have an experience. We'll start early."

"I'll be ready," said Montague; and when his brother replied that he
would be at the door at eleven, he made another amused note as to the
habits of New Yorkers.

The price which he paid at the hotel included the services of a valet
or a maid for each of them, and so when their baggage arrived they had
nothing to do. They went to lunch in one of the main dining-rooms of
the hotel, a room with towering columns of dark-green marble and a maze
of palms and flowers. Oliver did the ordering; his brother noticed that
the simple meal cost them about fifteen dollars, and he wondered if
they were to eat at that rate all the time.

Then Montague mentioned the fact that before leaving home he had
received a telegram from General Prentice, asking him to go with him
that evening to the meeting of the Loyal Legion. Montague wondered,
half amused, if his brother would deem his old clothing fit for such a
function. But Oliver replied that it would not matter what he wore
there; he would not meet anyone who counted, except Prentice himself.
The General and his family were prominent in society, it appeared, and
were to be cultivated. But Oliver shrewdly forbore to elaborate upon
this, knowing that his brother would be certain to talk about old
times, which would be the surest possible method of lodging himself in
the good graces of General Prentice.

After luncheon came Reggie Mann, dapper and exquisite, with slender
little figure and mincing gait, and the delicate hands and soft voice
of a woman. He was dressed for the afternoon parade, and wore a
wonderful scarlet orchid in his buttonhole. Montague's hand he shook at
his shoulder's height; but when Alice came in he did not shake hands
with her. Instead, he stood and gazed, and gazed again, and lifting his
hands a little with excess of emotion, exclaimed, "Oh, perfect!
perfect!"

"And Ollie, I told you so!" he added, eagerly. "She it tall enough to
wear satin! She shall have the pale blue Empire gown--she shall have
the pale blue Empire gown if I have to pay for it myself! And oh, what
times we shall have with that hair! And the figure--Reval will simply
go wild!"

So Reggie prattled on, with his airy grace; he took her hand and
studied it, and then turned her about to survey her figure, while Alice
blushed and strove to laugh to hide her embarrassment. "My dear Miss
Montague," he exclaimed, "I bring all Gotham and lay it at your feet!
Ollie, your battle is won! Won without firing a shot! I know the very
man for her--his father is dying, and he will have four millions in
Transcontinental alone. And he is as handsome as Antinous and as
fascinating as Don Juan! Allons! we may as well begin with the
trousseau this afternoon!"




CHAPTER III


Oliver was not rooming with them; he had his own quarters at the club,
which he did not wish to leave. But the next morning, about twenty
minutes after the hour he had named, he was at the door, and Montague
went down.

Oliver's car was an imported French racer. It had only two seats, open
in front, with a rumble behind for the mechanic. It was long and low
and rakish, a most wicked-looking object; whenever it stopped on the
street a crowd gathered to stare at it. Oliver was clad in a black
bearskin coat, covering his feet, and with cap and gloves to match; he
wore goggles, pushed up over his forehead. A similar costume lay ready
in his brother's seat.

The suits of clothing had come, and were borne in his grips by his
valet. "We can't carry them with us," said Oliver. "He'll have to take
them down by train." And while his brother was buttoning up the coat,
he gave the address; then Montague clambered in, and after a quick
glance over his shoulder, Oliver pressed a lever and threw over the
steering-wheel, and they whirled about and sped down the street.

Sometimes, at home in Mississippi, one would meet automobiling parties,
