"I only want to put some mud on that wound, if you'll let me. It's good
for hornet stings----"

She laughed and backed away: "Do you believe there is any virtue in mud,
Delancy?--good, deep mire--when one is bruised and sore and lonely and
desperate? Oh, don't try to understand--what a funny, confused, stupid
way you have of looking at me! I remember you used to look at me that
way sometimes--oh, long ago--before I was married, I think."

The heavy colour which surged so readily to his temples began to amuse
her; she leaned back against the bridge rail and contemplated him with
smiling disdain.

"Do you know," she said, "years ago, I had a slight, healthy suspicion
that you were on the verge of falling in love with me."

He tried to smile, but the colour died out in his face.

"Yes, I was on the verge," he contrived to answer.

"Why didn't you fall over?"

"I suppose it was because you married Jack Dysart," he said simply.

"Was that all?"

"All?" He thought he perceived the jest, and managed to laugh again.

"Really, I am perfectly serious," repeated Rosalie. "Was that all that
prevented you from falling in love with me--because I was married?"

"I think so," he said. "Wasn't it reason enough?"

"I didn't know it was enough for a man. I don't believe I know exactly
how men consider such matters.... You've managed to hook that fly into
my gown again! And now you've torn the skirt hopelessly! What a
devastating sort of creature you are, Delancy! You used to step on my
slippers at dancing school, and, oh, Heaven! how I hated you.... Where
are you going?" for he had begun to walk away, reeling in his wet line
as he moved, his grave, highly coloured face lowered, troubled eyes
intent on what he was doing.

When she spoke, he halted and raised his head, and she saw the muscles
flexed under the bronze skin of the jaw--saw the lines of pain appear
where his mouth tightened. All of the clumsy boy in him had vanished;
she had never troubled herself to look at him very closely, and it
surprised her to see how worn his face really was under the eyes and
cheek-bones--really surprised her that there was much of dignity, even
of a certain nobility, in his quiet gaze.

"I asked you where you are going?" she repeated with a faint smile.

"Nowhere in particular."

"But you are going somewhere, I suppose."

"I suppose so."

"In my direction?"

"I think not."

"That is very rude of you, Delancy--when you don't even know where my
direction lies. Do you think," she demanded, amused, "that it is
particularly civil of a man to terminate an interview with a woman
before she offers him his cong√©?"

He finished reeling in his line, hooked the drop-fly into the
reel-guide, shifted his creel, buttoned on the landing-net, and quietly
turned around and inspected Mrs. Dysart.

"I want to tell you something," he said. "I have never, even as a boy,
had from you a single word which did not in some vague manner convey a
hint of your contempt for me. Do you realise that?"

"W-what!" she faltered, bewildered.

"I don't suppose you do realise it. People generally feel toward me as
you feel; it has always been the fashion to tolerate me. It is a legend
that I am thick-skinned and stupidly slow to take offence. I am not
offended now.... Because I could not be with you.... But I am tired of
it, and I thought it better that you should know it--after all these
years."

Utterly confounded, she leaned back, both hands tightening on the
hand-rail behind her, and as she comprehended the passionless reproof, a
stinging flush deepened over her pretty face.

"Had you anything else to say to me?" he asked, without embarrassment.

"N-no."

"Then may I take my departure?"

She lifted her startled blue eyes and regarded him with a new and
intense curiosity.

"Have I, by my manner or speech, ever really hurt you?" she asked.
"Because I haven't meant to."

He started to reply, hesitated, shook his head, and his pleasant, kindly
smile fascinated her.

"You haven't intended to," he said. "It's all right, Rosalie----"

"But--have I been horrid and disagreeable? Tell me."

In his troubled eyes she could see he was still searching to excuse her;
slowly she began to recognise the sensitive simplicity of the man, the
innate courtesy so out of harmony with her experience among men. What,
after all, was there about him that a woman should treat with scant
consideration, impatience, the toleration of contempt? His clumsy
manner? His awkwardness? His very slowness to exact anything for
himself? Or had it been the half-sneering, half-humourous attitude of
her husband toward him which had insensibly coloured her attitude?

She had known Delancy Grandcourt all her life--that is, she had
neglected to know him, if this brief revelation of himself warranted the
curiosity and interest now stirring her.

