women."

"The woman a man chooses is the best to him always."

She did not torment herself with the thought that he was doing this
for her guardian's sake. She felt that he was not the kind of man to
take the mere crumbs of love while some one else feasted on the heart
of love divine. What troubled her was whether she could love enough.
And she hated to think there had been any previous regard. But did he
not say, too, that he had been fascinated by an unworthy liking?

The summer seemed to check the wave of prosperity and men looked at
each other in half affright. For no one knew just how the tide might
turn. When the Indians made their sortie on Fort Recovery word came
that the garrison had been massacred, but Captain Gibson bravely held
it in spite of an all-day attack, and at night the enemy retreated.
General Wayne was in command of all the forces and the Indians made
various feints, hoping to be joined by the British, who were urging
them on, but there was no big regular battle until that of Fallen
Timbers, where a tornado had swept through the woods some time before.
A few miles below was a British fort, the meeting place of the western
fur traders. It was a hard fought field, but the victory for the
Americans was such a signal one that it ended the terror of a frontier
war that had hung over the border so long.

No town rejoiced more than Pittsburg, which lost some men and was
proud of heroes who had come through the conflict unscathed. Among
these was Lieutenant Langdale, whose bravery and foresight gained him
a captaincy.

"He's a brave fellow!" declared grandad, and Daffodil was glad he had
won some of the fame and glory for which he had longed.

"It's fine to be a soldier when you can fight and have nothing happen
to you," declared Felix. "But I wouldn't want to be among the killed.
There's so many splendid things in life. I hope I will live to be a
hundred."

There were many matters to share Daffodil's attention, though she did
miss the bright society and the knowledge branching out on every side.
Yet these girls who had married half a dozen years ago and had grown
common and careless with their little ones about them seemed very
happy. It certainly was an industrious community, but they played as
they worked. There were games that would have been no discredit to
modern scores, there was dancing and merriment and happiness as well.

Was Daffodil learning her lesson? Aldis Bartram thought very slowly.
But he was a man who prized hard won contests. And if with the
attractive young men about her through the winter she had not been
won, then she was not an easy prize. He smiled at times over her
careful and futile reasoning. At least they would have the winter to
go over the ground. And though he was becoming an ardent lover he was
not an impatient one.

There are some events and decisions in life that are precipitated by a
shock, the film that held one in thrall, veiling the clear sight, is
suddenly disrupted. And this happened to Daffodil Carrick. Her father
put an English paper in her hand one evening as he came up the path
where roses were still blooming. It had been remailed in Philadelphia.

"From Madame Clerval," she said with a smile. "Some gay doings, I
fancy. She has friends in London."

She glanced it over carelessly. The summer struggles had made her more
of a patriot, and brought to her mind vividly the morning she had run
out to know the cause of Kirsty Boyle's call and the ringing of his
bell. A very little girl. She was always glad she had heard it.

She turned the paper to and fro rather impatiently. Oh, what was here
with the black insignia of death: "Died, at Hurst Abbey, of a
malignant fever. Margaretta, wife of Jeffrey, Lord Andsdell, only
remaining son of the Earl of Wrenham."

She was not interested in the beauty of the bride, who had been a
great belle in her day and won no little fame on the stage, nor the
terrible accident that had deprived the Earl of two older sons and
two grandsons, paving the way for the succession of Lord Andsdell. She
shuddered and turned ghostly pale, and was terrified with a strange
presentiment. But she could not talk of it just yet and was glad Norry
and grandad came in to spend the evening with them.

The next morning she gave her father a little note with "important"
written on the corner of the folded paper.

"What now?" enquired her father laughingly, "Did you forget your
postscript?"

She assented with a nod.

Then she went about her daily duties, but a great terror surged at her
heart. She was to remember through everything that she was the only
woman Jeffrey Andsdell loved. Long ago she had cast it out. No doubt
he had been happy in his ancestral home, at least, he had chosen that,
well, wisely, too. But to ask that the woman he wronged should cling
to her burthen!

How slowly the days passed. Aldis Bartram might have been away when
the note came--he had been to Baltimore on some troublesome
business--but waiting seemed very hard. And when it drew near to the
time, she used to take different paths down by the square where the
stage came in, just far enough away to see, but not be seen, and stand
with a blushing face and a strange trembling at her heart. One day
she was rewarded. There was the manly figure, the erect head, the
firm, yet elastic step. A sudden pride leaped up in her heart.

She waylaid him in a bypath.

"Daffodil!" he cried in surprise. "What has happened?

"Nothing, nothing; I wanted to see you," but her voice trembled. "Come
this way."

"How mysterious you are!" If she meant to give him his cong√© she
could have done it better by letter. And the clasp of her hand on his
arm had a clinging force.

"There is something for you to see. Let us turn here."

After a space through intervening trees they came to the open, where
she paused and unfolded a paper she had held in her hand. "Read this,"
