him there was no secret about it.  That bodice and those sleeves of old
Venetian point would have eaten up the gains of any three of his most
prosperous months.

And Breitmann, dropping occasionally the ash of his cigarette on the
tray, he, too, was pondering.  But his German strain did not make it so
easy for him as for Fitzgerald to give concrete form to his thought.
The star, as he saw it, had a nebulous appearance.

M. Ferraud chatted gaily.  Usually a man who holds his audience is of
single purpose.  The little Frenchman had two aims: one, to keep the
conversation on subjects of his own selection, and the other, to study
without being observed.  Among one of his own tales (butterflies) he
told of a chase he once had made in the mountains of the Moors, in
Abyssinia.  To illustrate it he took up one of the nets standing in the
corner.  In his excitable way he was a very good actor.  And when he
swooped down the net to demonstrate the end of the story, it caught on
a button on Breitmann's coat.

"Pardon!" said M. Ferraud, with a blithe laugh.  "The butterfly I was
describing was not so big."

Breitmann freed himself amid general laughter.  And with Laura's rising
the little after-dinner party became disorganized.

It was yet early; but perhaps she had some thought she wished to be
alone with.  This consideration was the veriest bud in growth; still,
it was such that she desired the seclusion of her room.  She swung
across her shoulders the sleepy Angora and wished the men good night.


The wire bell in the hall clock vibrated twice; two o'clock of the
morning.  A streak of moon-shine fell aslant the floor and broke off
abruptly.  Before the safe in the library stood Breitmann, a small tape
in his hand.  For several minutes he contemplated somberly the nickel
combination wheel.  He could open it for he knew the combination.  To
open it would be the work of a moment.  Why, then, did he hesitate?
Why not pluck it forth and disappear on the morrow?  The admiral had
not made a copy, and without the key he might dig up Corsica till the
crack of doom.  The flame on the taper crept down.  The man gave a
quick movement to his shoulders; it was the shrug, not of impatience
but of resignation.  He saw the lock through the haze of a conjured
face.  He shut his eyes, but the vision remained.  Slowly he drew his
fingers over the flame.

Yet, before the flame died wholly it touched two points of light in the
doorway, the round crystals of a pair of spectacles.

"Two souls with but a single thought!" the secret agent murmured.
"Poor devil! why does he hesitate?  Why does he not take it and be
gone?  Is he still honest?  Peste!  I must be growing old.  I shall
not ruin him, I shall save him.  It is not goot politics, but it is
good Christianity.  Schlafen Sie wohl, Hochwohl geboren!"




CHAPTER XIII

THE WOMAN WHO KNEW

"Don't you sometimes grow weary for an abiding place?"  Laura pulled
off her gauntlets and laid her hot hands on the cool lichen-grown
stones of the field-wall.  The bridle-rein hung over her arm.
Fitzgerald had drawn his through a stirrup.  "Think of wandering here
and there, with never a place to come back to."

"I have thought of it often in the few days I have been here.  I have a
home in New York, but I could not possibly afford to live in it; so I
rent it; and when I want to go fishing there's enough under hand to pay
the expenses.  My poor old dad!  He was always indorsing notes for his
friends, or carrying stock for them; and nothing ever came back.  I am
afraid the disillusions broke his heart.  And then, perhaps I was a
bitter disappointment.  I was expelled from college in my junior year.
I had no head for figures other than that kind which inhabit the Louvre
and the Vatican."

Her face became momentarily mirthful.

"So I couldn't take hold of the firm for him," he continued.  "And I
suppose the last straw was when I tried my hand at reporting on one of
the newspapers.  He knew that the gathering of riches, so far as I was
concerned, was a closed door.  But I found my level; the business was
and is the only one that ever interested me or fused my energy with
real work."

"But it is real work.  You are one of those men who have done
something.  Most men these days rest on their fathers' laurels."

"It's the line of the least resistance.  I never knew that the Jersey
coast was so picturesque.  What a sweep!  Do you know, your house on
that pine-grown crest reminds me of the Villa Serbelloni, only yonder
is the sea instead of Como?"

"Como."  Her eyes became dreamily half-shut.  Recollection put on its
seven-league boots and annihilated the space between the wall under her
elbows and the gardens of Serbelloni.  Fitzgerald half understood the
thought.  "Isn't Mr. Breitmann just a bit of a mystery to you?" she
asked.  The seven-league boots had returned at a bound.

"In some ways, yes."  He rather resented the abrupt angle; it was not
in poetic touch with the time being.

"He is inclined to be too much reserved.  But last night Mr. Ferraud
succeeded in tearing down some of it.  If I could put in a book what
all you men have seen and taken part in!  Mr. Breitmann would be almost
handsome but for those scars."

He kicked the turf at the foot of the wall.  "In Germany they are
considered beauty-spots."

"I am not in sympathy with that custom."

"Still, it requires courage of a kind."

"The noblest wounds are those that are carried unseen.  Student scars
are merely patches of vanity."

"He has others besides those.  He was nearly killed in the Soudan."
Fitzgerald was compelled to offer some defense for the absent.  That
