"I don't suppose you meant to be offensive, Sprowl; you simply can't
help it; can you?"

"What?"

"I mean, you can't help being a bounder. It's just in you, isn't it?"

For a moment Sprowl's hatchet face was ghastly; he opened his mouth to
speak, twice, then jerked open his door and disappeared.




CHAPTER X


Quarren had been at Witch-Hollow three days when Dankmere called him on
the long-distance telephone.

"Do you want me to come back?" asked the young fellow. "I don't mind if
you do; I'm quite ready to return----"

"Not at all, my dear chap," said his lordship. "I fancied you might care
to hear how matters are going in the Dankmere Galleries."

"Of course I do, but I rather hoped nothing in particular would happen
for a week or so----"

"Plenty has. You know those experts of yours, Valasco, Drayton-Quinn,
and that Hollander Van Boschoven. Well, they don't get on. Each has come
to me privately, and in turn, and told me that the others were no
good----"

"Your r√¥le is to remain amiable and non-committal," said Quarren. "Let
them talk----"

"Valasco and Drayton-Quinn won't speak, and Van Boschoven has notified
me that he declines to come to the house as long as either of the others
are there."

"Very well; arrange to have them there on different days."

"I don't think Valasco will come back at all."

"Why not?"

"Because--the fact is--I believe I practically--so to speak--hit him."

"What!"

"Fact, old chap."

"Why?"

"Well, he asked me if I knew more about anything than I did about
pictures. I didn't catch his drift for about an hour--but then it came
to me, and I got up out of my chair and walked over and punched his
head. I don't think he'll come back, do you?"

"No, I don't. What else have you been doing?" said Quarren angrily.

"Nothing. One picture--the Raeburn portrait--has a bad hole in it."

"How did it happen?"

"Rather extraordinary thing, that! I was giving a most respectable card
party--some ladies and gentlemen of sorts--from the Winter Garden I
believe--and one of the ladies inadvertently shyed a glass at another
lady----"

"For Heaven's sake, Dankmere----"

"Quite right old chap--my fault entirely--I won't do it again. But, do
you know, the gallery already has become a most popular resort. People
are coming and going all day--a lot of dealers among them I suspect--and
there have been a number of theatrical people who want to hire pictures
for certain productions to be staged next winter----"

"We don't do that sort of thing!"

"That's what I thought; but there was one very fetching girl who opens
in 'Ancestors' next October----"

"No, no, no!"

"Right-o! I'll tell her at luncheon.... I say, Quarren: Karl Westguard
wants the gallery to-night. May I let him have it?"

"Certainly. What for?"

"Oh, some idea of his--I've forgotten what he said."

"I believe I'd better come down," said Quarren bluntly.

"Don't dream of it, old fellow. Everything is doing nicely. My respects
to the fair. By-the-bye--anything in my line up there?"

Quarren laughed:

"I'm afraid not, Dankmere."

"Very well," said the Earl, airily. "I'm not worrying now, you know.
Good-bye, old sport!"

And he rang off.

Quarren meeting Molly in the hall said:

"I think I'd better leave this afternoon. Dankmere is messing matters."

"Are you going to run away?" she said in a low voice, glancing sideways
at Strelsa who had just passed them wearing her riding habit.

"Run away," he repeated, also lowering his voice. "From whom?"

"From Langly Sprowl."

He shrugged and looked out of the window.

"It is running away," insisted his pretty hostess. "You have a chance
