other, this one wore yellow hair. Then, with no logic in the sequence of
her thoughts, suddenly the memory of how she had run away when she was
nine years old set her pulses beating, filling her heart with the
strange, wistful, thrilling, overwhelming longing which she had supposed
would never again assail her, now that she was engaged to be married.
And once more the soft fire burned in her cheeks.

"Stirrups," she said, scarcely knowing what she was saying, "I don't
think I'll marry you after all. It's just occurred to me."

"Oh, I say!" protested Willowmere languidly, never for a moment
mistrusting that the point of her remark was buried in some species of
American humour. He always submitted to American humour. There was
nothing else to do, except to understand it.

"Stirrups, dear?"

"What?"

"You're very pink and healthy, aren't you?"

He shrugged his accustomed shrug of resignation.

"Oh, I say--come, now----" he murmured, lighting a cigarette.

"What a horrid smash there would be if I didn't make good, wouldn't
there, Stirrups?" She mused, her blue eyes resting on him, too coldly.

"Rather," he replied, comfortably settling his arms on the rail.

"It might happen, you know. Suppose I fell overboard?"

"Fish you out, ducky."

"Suppose I--ran away?"

"Ow."

"What would you do, Stirrups? Why, you'd go back to town and try to
pick another winner. Wouldn't you?"

He laughed.

"Naturally that is what you would do, isn't it?" She considered him
curiously for a moment, then smiled. "How funny!" she said, almost
breathlessly.

"Rather," he murmured, and flicked his cigarette overboard.

The Orange Puppy had disappeared beyond the thicket of palmettos
across the point. The air was very warm and still.

Her father waddled forward presently, wearing the impressive summer
regalia of a commodore in the Siwanois Yacht Club. His daughter's blue
eyes rested on the portly waistline of her parent--then on his fluffy
chop-whiskers. A vacant, hunted look came into her eyes.

"Father," she said almost listlessly, "I'm going to run away again."

"When do you start?" inquired that facetious man.

"Now, I think. What is there over there?"--turning her face again toward
the distant lagoon, with its endless forests of water-oak, cedar, and
palmetto.

"Over there," said her father, "reside several species of snakes and
alligators. Also other reptiles, a number of birds, and animals, and
much microbic mud."

She bit her lip. "I see," she said, nodding.

Willowmere said: "We should find some shootin' along the lagoon. Look at
the ducks."

Mr. Cassillis yawned; he had eaten too heavily of duck to be interested.
Very thoughtfully he presented himself with a cigar, turned it over and
over between his soft fingers, and yawned again. Then, nodding solemnly
as though in emphasis of a profound idea of which he had just been
happily delivered, he waddled slowly back along the deck.

His daughter looked after him until he disappeared; gazed around her at
the dawdling assortment of guests aboard, then lifted her quiet eyes to
Willowmere.

"Ducky," she said, "I can't stand it. I'm going to run away."

"Come on, then," he said, linking his arm in hers.

The Victor still exuded the Tango.

She hesitated. Then freeing herself:

"Oh, not with you, Stirrups! I wish to go away somewhere entirely alone.
Could you understand?" she added wistfully.

He stifled a yawn. American humour bored him excessively.

"You'll be back in a day or two?" he inquired. And laughed violently
when the subtlety of his own wit struck him.

"In a day or two or not at all. Good-bye, Stirrups."

"Bye."

The sun blazed on her coppery hair and on the white skin that never
burned, as she walked slowly across the yacht's deck and disappeared
below.

While she was writing in her cabin, the Chihuahua dropped her anchors.
Miss Cassillis listened to the piping, the thud of feet on deck, the
rattle and distant sound of voices. Then she continued her note:

     I merely desire to run away. I don't know why, Mother, dear.
     But the longing to bolt has been incubating for many years. And
     now it's too strong to resist. I don't quite understand how it
     came to a crisis on deck just now, but I looked at Stirrups,
     whose skin is too pink, and at Father, who had lunched too
     sumptuously, and at the people on deck, all digesting in a
     row--and then at the green woods on shore, and the strip of
     white where a fairy surf was piling up foam into magic castles
