"I knew it when I first laid eyes on her, Loskiel."

"By what sign?"

"The moccasins. She lay under a cow-shed asleep in her red cloak, her
head on her arms. Beside her the kerchief tied around her bundle lay
unknotted, revealing the moccasins that lay within. I saw, and knew.
And for that reason have I been her friend."

"You told her this?"

"Why should I tell her?"

There was no answer to this. An Indian is an Indian.

I said after a moment:

"What mark is there on the moccasins that you knew them?"

"The wings, worked in white wampum. A mother makes a pair with wings
each year for her Hidden One, so that they will bring her little child
to her one day, swiftly and surely as the swallow that returns with
spring."

"Has she told you of these moccasins--how every year a pair of them is
left for her, no matter where she may be lodged?"

"She has told me. She has shown me the letter on bark which was found
with her; the relics of her father; this last pair of moccasins, and
the new message written within. And she asked me to guide her to
Catharines-town. And I have refused.

"No, Loskiel, I have never doubted that she was of the Hidden People.
And for that reason have I been patient and kind when she has beset me
with her pleading that I show to her the trail to Catharines-town.

"But I will not. For although in rifle dress she might go with us--nay,
nor do I even doubt that she might endure the war-path as well as any
stripling eager for honour and his first scalp taken--I will not have
her blood upon my hands.

"For if she stir thither--if she venture within the Great Shadow--the
ghouls of Amochol will know it. And they will take her and slay her on
their altar, spite of us all--spite of you and me and your generals and
colonels, and all your troops and riflemen--spite of your whole army
and its mighty armament, I say it--I, a Siwanois Mohican of the
Enchanted Clan. A Sagamore has spoken."

Chill after chill crept over me so that I shook as I lay there in the
darkness "Who is this maiden, Lois?" I asked.

"Do you not guess, Loskiel?"

"Vaguely."

"Then listen, brother. Her grandfather was the great Jean Coeur who
married the white daughter of the Chevalier de Clauzun. Her mother was
Mlle. Jeanne Coeur; her father the young Vicomte de Contrecoeur, of the
Regiment de la Reine--not that stupid Captain Contrecoeur of the
regiment of Languedoc, who, had it depended on him, would never have
ventured to attack Braddock at all.

"This is true, because I knew them both--both of these Contrecoeur
captains. And the picture she showed to me was that of the officer in
the Regiment de la Reine.

"I saw that regiment die almost to a man. I saw Dieskau fall; I saw
that gay young officer, de Contrecoeur, who had nicknamed himself Jean
Coeur, laugh at our Iroquois as he stood almost alone--almost the last
man living, among his fallen white-coats.

"And I saw him dead, Loskiel--the smile still on his dead lips, and his
eyes still open and clear and seeming to laugh up at the white clouds
sailing, which he could not see.

"That was the man she showed me painted on polished bone."

"And--her mother?" I asked.

"I can only guess, Loskiel, for I never saw her. But I believe she must
have been with the army. Somehow, Sir William's Senecas got hold of her
and took her to Catharines-town. And if the little Lois was born there
or at Yndaia, or perhaps among the Lakes before the mother was made
prisoner, I do not know. Only this I gather, that when the Cats of
Amochol heard there was a child, they demanded it for a sacrifice. And
there must have been some Seneca there--doubtless some adopted Seneca
of a birth more civilized--who told the mother, and who was persuaded
by her to make of it a Hidden One.

"How long it lay concealed, and in whose care, how can I know? But it
is certain that Amochol learned that it had been hidden, and sent his
Cat-People out to prowl and watch. Then, doubtless did the mother send
it from her by the faithful one whose bark letter was found by the new
foster-parents when they found the little Lois.

"And this is how it has happened, brother. And that the Cat-People now
know she is alive, and who she is, does not amaze me. For they are
sorcerers, and if one of them did not steal after the messenger when he
left Yndaia with the poor mother's yearly gift of moccasins, then it
was discovered by witchcraft."

"For Amochol never forgets. And whom the Red Priest chooses for his
altar sooner or later will surely die there, unless the Sorcerer dies
first and his Cat-People are slain and skinned, and the vile altar is
destroyed among the ashes of its accursed fire!"

"Then, with the help of an outraged God, these righteous things shall
come to pass!" I said between clenched teeth.

The Sagamore sat with his crested head bowed. And if he were in ghostly
communication with the Mighty Dead I do not know, for I heard him
breathe the name of Tamanund, and then remain silent as though
listening for an answer.

I had been asleep but a few moments, it seemed to me, when the
Grey-Feather awoke me for my turn at guard duty; and the Mohican and I
rose from our blankets, reprimed our rifles, crept out from under the
laurel and across the shadowy rock-strewn knoll to our posts.

The rocky slope below us was almost clear to the river, save for a bush
