over his clothes.  She instantly berated her impulsive criticism as a
bit of downright caddishness.  The lapels of the coat were shiny, the
sleeves were short, there was a pucker across the shoulders; the
winged-collar gave evidence of having gone to the native laundry once
too often; the studs in the shirt-bosom were of the cheapest
mother-of-pearl, and the cuff-buttons, ordinary rupee silver.  The
ensemble suggested that since the purchase of these habiliments of
civilization the man had grown, expanded.

Immediately after dinner she retired to her state-room, conscious that
her balance needed readjusting.  She had heard and read much lore
concerning reincarnation, skeptically; yet here, within call of her
voice, was Arthur, not the shadow of a substance, but Arthur, shorn of
his elegance, his soft lazy voice, his half-dreaming eyes, his charming
indolence.  Why should this man's path cross hers, out of all the
millions that ran parallel?

She opened her window and looked up at the stars again.  She saw one
fall, describe an arc and vanish.  She wondered what this man had done
to put him beyond the pale; for few white men remained in Asia from
choice.  She had her ideas of what a rascal should be; but Warrington
agreed in no essential.  It was not possible that dishonor lurked
behind those frank blue eyes.  She turned from the window, impatiently,
and stared at one of her kit-bags.  Suddenly she knelt down and threw
it open, delved among the soft fabrics and silks and produced a
photograph.  She had not glanced at it during all these weeks.  There
had been a purpose back of this apparent neglect.  The very thing she
dreaded happened.  Her pulse beat on, evenly, unstirred.  She was a
failure.

In the photograph the man's beard was trimmed Valois; the beard of the
man who had sat next to her at dinner had grown freely and naturally,
full.  Such a beard was out of fashion, save among country doctors.  It
signified carelessness, indifference, or a full life wherein the
niceties of the razor had of necessity been ignored.  Keenly she
searched the familiar likeness.  What an amazing freak of nature!  It
was unreal.  She tossed the photograph back into the kit-bag,
bewildered, uneasy.

Meantime Warrington followed the purser into his office.  "I haven't
paid for my stateroom yet," he said.

"I'll make it out at once.  Rangoon, I understand?"

"Yes.  But I'm in a difficulty.  I have nothing in change but two
rupees."

The purser froze visibly.  The tale was trite in his ears.

"But I fancy I've rather good security to offer," went on Warrington
coolly.  He drew from his wallet a folded slip of paper and spread it
out.

The purser stared at it, enchanted.  Warrington stared down at the
purser, equally enchanted.

"By Jove!" the former gasped finally.  "And so you're the chap who's
been holding up the oil syndicate all these months?  And you're the
chap who made them come to this bally landing three days ago?"

"I'm the chap."

It was altogether a new purser who looked up.  "Twenty thousand pounds
about, and only two rupees in your pocket!  Well, well; it takes the
East to bowl a man over like this.  A certified check on the Bank of
Burma needs no further recommendation.  In the words of your
countrymen, go as far as you like.  You can pay me in Rangoon.  Your
boy takes deck-passage?"

"Yes," returning the check to the wallet.

"Smoke?"

"Shouldn't mind.  Thanks."

"Now, sit down and spin the yarn.  It must be jolly interesting."

"I'll admit that it has been a tough struggle; but I knew that I had
the oil.  Been flat broke for months.  Had to borrow my boy's savings
for food and shelter.  Well, this is the way it runs."  Warrington told
it simply, as if it were a great joke.

"Rippin'!  By Jove, you Americans are hard customers to put over.  I
suppose you'll be setting out for the States at once?" with a curious
glance.

"I haven't made any plans yet," eying the cheroot thoughtfully.

"I see."  The purser nodded.  It was not difficult to understand.
"Well, good luck to you wherever you go."

"Much obliged."

Alone in his stateroom Warrington took out Rajah and tossed him on the
counterpane of the bed.

"Now, then, old sport!" tapping the parrot on the back with the perch
which he used as a baton.  Blinking and muttering, the bird performed
his tricks, and was duly rewarded and returned to his home of iron.
"She'll be wanting to take you home with her, but you're not for sale."

He then opened his window and leaned against the sill, looking up at
the stars.  But, unlike the girl, he did not ask any questions.

"Free!" he said softly.




III

THE WEAK LINK

The day began white and chill, for February nights and mornings are not
particularly comfortable on the Irrawaddy.  The boat sped down the
river, smoothly and noiselessly.  For all that the sun shone, the
shore-lines were still black.  The dust had not yet risen.  Elsa passed
through the dining-saloon to the stern-deck and paused at the door.
The scene was always a source of interest to her.  There were a hundred
or more natives squatting in groups on the deck.  They were wrapped in
