"And what are you going to do with me now that you have got me?"

"There will be two courses."  Braine reached into a drawer and drew out
a thick roll of bills.  "There are here something like $5,000."

"Quite a tidy sum; enough for a chap to get married on."

The two eyed each other steadily.  And in his heart Braine sighed.  For
he saw in this young man's eyes incorruptibility.

"It is yours on one condition," said Braine, reaching out his foot
stealthily toward the button which would summon Samson.

"And that is," interpolated Norton, "that I join the Black Hundred."

"Or the great beyond, my lad," took up Braine, his voice crisp and cold.

Norton could not repress a shiver.  Where had he heard this voice
before? ... Braine!  He stiffened.

"Murder in cold blood?" he managed to say.

"Indefinite imprisonment.  Choose."

"I have chosen."

"H'm!"  Braine rose and went over to the sideboard for the brandy.
"I'm going to offer you a drink to show you that personally there are
no hard feelings.  You are in the way.  After you, our friend, Jones.
This brandy is not poisoned, neither are the glasses.  Choose either
and I'll drink first.  We are all desperate men, Norton; and we stop at
nothing.  Your life hangs by a hair.  Do you know where Hargreave is?"

Norton eyed his liquor thoughtfully.

"Do you know where the money is?"

Norton smelt of the brandy.

"I am sorry," said Braine.  "I should have liked to win over a head
like yours."

Norton nonchalantly took out his watch, and that bit of bravado perhaps
saved his life.  In the case of his watch he saw a brutal face behind
him.  Without a tremor, Norton took up his glass.

"I am sorry to disappoint you," he said, "but I shall neither join you
nor go to by-by."

Quick as a bird shadow above grass, he flung his brandy over his
shoulder into the face of the man behind.  Samson yelled with pain.
Almost at the same instant Norton pushed over the table, upsetting
Braine with it.  Next he dashed through the curtains, slammed the door,
and fled to the street, very shaky about the knees, if the truth is to
be told.

General Henderson's views upon the latest Balkan muddle were missing
from the Blade the following morning.  Norton, instead of returning
to the general's and fulfilling his assignment like a dutiful reporter,
hurried out to Riverside to acquaint Jones with what had happened.
Jones was glad to see him safe and sound.

"That new reporter started the game," he said.  "I overheard a word or
two while he was talking in the booth.  All your telephone booths are
ramshackle affairs, you use them so constantly.  I tried to find you,
but you were out of sight.  Now, tell me what happened."

"Sh!" warned Norton as he spied Florence coming down the stairs.

"I thought you couldn't come!" she cried.  "But ten o'clock!"

"I changed my mind," he replied, laughing.

He caught her arm in his and drew her toward the library.  Jones smiled
after them with that enigmatical smile of his, which might have
signified irony or affection.  After half an hour's chat, Florence,
quite unaware that the two men wished to talk, retired.

At the door Norton told Jones what had taken place at 49 Elm Street.

"Ah! we must not forget that number," mused Jones.  "My advice is, keep
an eye on this Gregg chap.  We may get somewhere by watching him."

"Do you know where Hargreave is?"

Jones scratched his chin reflectively.

Norton laughed.  "I can't get anything out of you."

"Much less any one else.  I'm growing fond of you, my boy.  You're a
man."

"Thanks; and good night."

When Olga Perigoff called the next day Jones divested himself of his
livery, donned a plain coat and hat, and left the house stealthily.
To-day he was determined to learn something definite in regard to this
suave, handsome Russian.  When she left the house Jones rose from his
hiding place and proceeded to follow her.  The result of this espionage
on the part of Jones will be seen presently.

Meantime Jim went down to the office and lied cheerfully about his
missing the general.  Whether the city editor believed him or not is of
no matter.  Jim went over to his desk.  From the corner of his eye he
could see Gregg scribbling away.  He never raised his head as Jim sat
down to read his mail.  After a while Gregg rose and left the office;
and, of course, Jim left shortly afterward.  When the newcomer saw that
he was being followed, he smiled and continued on his way.  This Norton
chap was suspicious.  All the better; his suspicions should be made the
hook to land him with.  By and by the man turned into a drug store and
Jim loitered about till he reappeared.  Gregg walked with brisker steps
now.  It was his intention to lead Norton on a wild goose chase for an
hour or so, long enough to give Braine time to arrange a welcome at
another house.

Norton kept perhaps half a block in the rear of his man all the while.
But for this caution he would have witnessed a little pantomime that
would have put him wholly upon his guard.  Turning a corner, Gregg all
but bumped into the countess.  He was quick enough to place a finger on
his lips and motion his head toward a taxicab.  Olga hadn't the least
