"You couldn’t praise her more sincerely if you think that," he said.
"She offers virgin soil for anybody who will take any trouble with her."

"Oh," said Madame de Moidrey, laughing, "I thought I was to engage her
to aid me and amuse me; but it seems that I have been engaged to
educate her in the subtler refinements of civilized existence!"

"Don’t you want to?" asked Warner, bluntly.

"Dear friend of many more years than I choose to own to, have I not
enough to occupy me without adopting a wandering caissière de
cabaret?"

"Is that the way you feel?" he said, reddening.

"Don’t be cross!  No; it isn’t the way I feel.  I do need a companion.
Perhaps your friend Philippa is not exactly the companion I might have
dreamed about or aspired to——"

"If you look at it in that way——"

"Jim!  Don’t be rude, either!  I desire two things; I want a companion
and I wish to oblige you.  You know perfectly well I do....  Besides,
the girl is interesting.  You didn’t expect me to sentimentalize over
her, did you?  You may do that if you like.  As for me, I shall consider
engaging her if she cares to come to me."

"She will be very glad to," he said, coolly.

Madame de Moidrey cast a swift side glance at him, full of curiosity and
repressed amusement.

"Men," she said, "are the real sentimentalists in this matter-of-fact
world, not women.  Merely show a man a pretty specimen of the opposite
sex in the conventional attitude of distress, and it unbalances his
intellect immediately."

"Do you imagine that my youthful friend Philippa has unbalanced my
intellect?" he asked impatiently.

"Not entirely.  Not completely——"

"Nonsense!"

"What a bad-mannered creature you are, Jim!  But fortunately you’re
something else, too.  For example, you have been nice about this very
unusual and somewhat perilously attractive young girl.  Few men would
have been so.  Don’t argue!  I have known a few men in my time.  And I
pay you a compliment."

She stopped and leaned back against a weatherworn vase of stone which
crowned the terrace parapet.

"Listen, Jim; for a woman to take into her house a young girl with this
girl’s unknown antecedents and perfectly well-known past performances
ought not to be a matter of romantic impulse, or of sympathy alone. What
you tell me about her, what I myself have already seen of her, are
sufficient to inspire the interest which all romance arouses, and the
sympathy which all lonely youth inspires.  But these are not enough.

"Choice of companionship is a matter for serious consideration.  You
can’t make a companion of the intellectually inferior, of one who
possesses merely the lesser instincts, of any lesser nature, whether
cultivated to its full extent or otherwise.  You know that. We shun what
is not congenial."

He looked at her very intently, the dull red still flushing his face;
and she surveyed him critically, amiably, amused at his attitude, which
was the epitome of everything masculine.

"What are you going to do about her?" he inquired at last.

"Offer to engage her."

"As what?"

"A companion."

"Oh.  Then you do appreciate her?"

Madame de Moidrey threw back her pretty head and laughed with delicious
abandon.

"Perhaps I don’t appreciate her as deeply as you do, Jim, but I shall
humbly endeavor to do so.  Now, suppose, when you go back to the Golden
Peach, you send Philippa’s effects up here, and in the meanwhile I’ll
begin my duty of finishing Philippa’s education—for which duty, I
understand, I’m engaged by you——"

"Ethra, you are a trump!  And I don’t really mind your guying me——"

"Indeed, I’m not guying you, dear friend!  I’m revealing to you the
actual inwardness of this entire and remarkable performance of yours.
And if you don’t know that you are engaging me to finish this young
girl’s education while you’re making up your mind about your sentiments
concerning her, then it’s time you did."

"That is utterly——"

"Please!  And it’s all the truer because you don’t believe it! ... Jim,
the girl really is a pathetic figure—simple, sweet, intelligent, and
touchingly honest.... And I’ll say another thing....  God knows what
mother bore her, what parents are responsible for this young thing—with
her delicate features and slender body.  But it was not from a pair of
unhappy nobodies she inherited her mind, which seems to seek
instinctively what is fine and right amid the sordid complexities of the
only world she has ever known.

"As for her heart, Jim, it is the heart of a child—with one heavenly and
exaggerated idol completely filling it.  You! ... And I tell you very
plainly that, if I were a man, the knowledge of this would frighten me a
little, and make me rather more serious than many men are inclined to
be."

He bit his lip and looked out across the southern valley, where already
the August haze was growing bluer, blurring the low-hanging sun.

She laid a friendly, intimate, half humorous hand on his arm:

"In all right-thinking men the boy can never die. No experience born of
