with me, and we'll let it go."

She tried again to wrench herself free, but she could not. Lydia,
standing in the shadow, felt a passionate sympathy. He was kind, Lydia
saw, he was compelling, but if he could have told the distracted
creature he had something to offer her beyond the bare protection of an
honourable intent, then she might have seen another gate open besides
the one that led nowhere. Almost, at that moment, Lydia would have had
him sorry enough to put his arms about her and offer the semblance of
love that is divinest sympathy. The train stopped for its appointed
minutes and went on.

"Come," said Jeff, "now we'll go home."

She turned and walked with him to the corner. There she swerved.

"No," said Jeff, "you're coming with me. That's the place for you.
They'll be good to you, all of them. They're awfully decent. I'll be
decent, too. You sha'n't feel you've been jailed. Only you can't walk
off and be a prisoner to--him. Things sha'n't be hard for you. They
shall be easier."

Lydia, behind, could believe he was going on in this broken flow of
words to soothe her, reassure her. "Oh," Lydia wanted to call to him,
"make love to her if you can. I don't care. Anything you want to do I'll
stand by, if it kills me. Haven't I said I'd die for you?"

But at that moment of high excitement Lydia didn't believe anything
would kill her, even seeing Jeff walk away from her with this little
wisp of wrong desires to hold and cherish.

Jeff took Esther up the winding path, opened the door and led her into
the library where his father sat yawning. Lydia slipped round the back
way to the kitchen and took off her hat and coat.

"Cold!" she said to Mary Nellen, to explain her coming, and warmed her
hands a moment before she went into the front hall and put her things
away.

"Father," said Jeff, with a loud cheerfulness that sounded fatuous in
his own ears, "here's Esther. She's come to stay."

The colonel got on his feet and advanced with his genial courtesy and
outstretched hand. But Esther stood like a stone and did not touch the
hand. Anne came in, at that moment, Lydia following. Anne had caught
Jeff's introduction and looked frankly disconcerted. But Lydia marched
straight up to Esther.

"I've always been hateful to you," she said, "whenever I've seen you.
I'm not so hateful now. And Anne's a dear. Farvie's lovely. We'll all do
everything we can to make it nice for you."

Jeff had been fumbling at the back of Esther's veil and Anne now, seeing
some strange significance in the moment, put her quick fingers to work.
The veil came off, and Esther stood there, white, stark, more tragic
than she had ever looked in all the troubles of her life. The colonel
gave a little exclamation of sorrow over her and drew up the best chair
to the fire, and Anne pushed back the lamp on the table so that its
light should not fall directly on her face. Then there were commonplace
questions and answers. Where had Jeff been? How many miles did he think
he had walked? And in the midst of the talk, while Lydia was upstairs
patting pillows and lighting the fire in the spare-chamber, Esther
suddenly began to cry in a low, dispirited way, no passion in it but
only discouragement and physical overthrow. These were real enough tears
and they hurt Jeff to the last point of nervous irritation.

"Don't," he said, and then stopped while Anne knelt beside her and, in a
rhythmic way, began to rub one of her hands, and the colonel stared into
the fire.

"Perhaps if you went upstairs!" Anne said to her gently. "I could really
rub you if you were in bed and Lydia'll bring up something nice and
hot."

"No, no," moaned Esther. "You're keeping me a prisoner. You must let me
go." Then, as Jeff, walking back and forth, came within range of her
glance, she flashed at him, "You've no right to keep me prisoner."

"No," said Jeff miserably, "maybe not. But I've got to make sure you're
safe. Stay to-night, Esther, and to-morrow, when you're rested, we'll
talk it over."

"To-morrow," she muttered, "it will be too late."

"That's it," said Jeff, understanding that it would be too late for her
to meet Reardon. "That's what I mean it shall be."

Anne got on her feet and held out a hand to her.

"Come," she said. "Let's go upstairs."

Esther shrank all over her body and gave a glance at Jeff. It was a
cruel glance, full of a definite repudiation.

"No, no," she said again, in a voice where fear was intentionally
dominant.

It stung him to a miserable sorrow for her and a hurt pride of his own.

"For God's sake, no!" he said. "You're going to be by yourself, poor
child! Run away with Anne."

So Esther rose unwillingly, and Anne took her up to the spacious chamber
where firelight was dancing on the wall and Lydia had completed all
sorts of hospitable offices. Lydia was there still, shrinking shyly into
the background, as having no means of communication with an Esther to
whom she had been hostile. But Esther turned them both out firmly, if
with courtesy.

"Please go," she said to Anne. "Please let me be."

This seemed to Anne quite natural. She knew she herself, if she were
troubled, could get over it best alone.

"Mayn't I come back?" she asked. "When you're in bed?"

"No," Esther said. "I am so tired I shall sleep. You're very kind. Good
night."

She saw them to the door with determination even, and they went
