asking leave scrambled in and pulled his wife after him. They fell like
logs on to the grey blankets, and a livid territorial with a bandaged
arm drenched in blood crawled in after them and sank on the floor. The
rest of the crowd had surged by.

As he was helping the wounded soldier to settle himself in the
ambulance, Troy heard a new sound down the road. It was a deep
continuous rumble, the rhythmic growl of a long train of army-trucks.
The way must have been cleared to let them by, for there was no break or
faltering in the ever-deepening roar of their approach.

A cloud of dust rolled ahead, growing in volume with the growing noise;
now the first trucks were in sight, huge square olive-brown motor-trucks
stacked high with scores and scores of rosy soldiers. Troy jumped to his
feet with a shout. It was an American regiment being rushed to the
front!

The refugees and the worn-out blue soldiers fell back before the
triumphant advance, and a weak shout went up. The rosy soldiers shouted
back, but their faces were grave and set. It was clear that they knew
where they were going, and to what work they had been so hurriedly
summoned.

"It's hell back there!" a wounded territorial called out, pointing
backward over his bandaged shoulder, and another cried: "Vive
l'Am√©rique!"

"Vive la France!" shouted the truckful abreast of Troy, and the same cry
burst from his own lungs. A few miles off the battle of the Marne was
being fought again, and here were his own brothers rushing forward to
help! He felt that his greatest hour had struck.

One of the trucks had halted for a minute just in front of him, marking
time, and the lads leaning over its side had seen him, and were calling
out friendly college calls.

"Come along and help!" cried one, as the truck got under way again.

Troy glanced at his broken-down motor; then his eye lit on a rifle lying
close by in the dust of the roadside. He supposed it belonged to the
wounded territorial who had crawled into the ambulance.

He caught up the rifle, scrambled up over the side with the soldier's
help, and was engulfed among his brothers. Furtively he had pulled the
ambulance badge from his collar ... but a moment later he understood the
uselessness of the precaution. All that mattered to any one just then
was that he was one more rifle for the front.




XI


On the way he tried to call up half-remembered snatches of military
lore.

If only he did not disgrace them by a blunder!

He had talked enough to soldiers, French and American, in the last year:
he recalled odd bits of professional wisdom, but he was too excited to
piece them together. He was not in the least afraid of being afraid, but
his heart sank at the dread of doing something stupid, inopportune,
idiotic. His envy of the youths beside him turned to veneration. They
had all been in the front line, and knew its vocabulary, its dangers and
its dodges.

All he could do was to watch and imitate....

Presently they were all tumbled out of the motors and drawn up by the
roadside. An officer bawled unintelligible orders, and the men executed
mysterious movements in obedience.

Troy crept close to the nearest soldier, and copied his gestures
awkwardly--but no one noticed. Night had fallen, and he was thankful for
the darkness. Perhaps by to-morrow morning he would have picked up a few
of their tricks. Meanwhile, apparently, all he had to do was to march,
march, march, at a sort of break-neck trot that the others took as
lightly as one skims the earth in a dream. If it had not been for his
pumping heart and his aching bursting feet, Troy at moments would have
thought it was a dream....

Rank by rank they pressed forward in the night toward a sky-line torn
with intermittent flame.

"We're going toward a battle," Troy sang to himself, "toward a battle,
toward a battle...." But the words meant no more to him than the
doggerel the soldier was chanting at his elbow.

       

They were in a wood, slipping forward cautiously, beating their way
through the under-growth. The night had grown cloudy, but now and then
the clouds broke, and a knot of stars clung to a branch like swarming
bees.

At length a halt was called in a clearing, and then the group to which
Troy had attached himself was ordered forward. He did not understand the
order, but seeing the men moving he followed, like a mascot dog trotting
after its company, and they began to beat their way onward, still more
cautiously, in little crawling lines of three or four. It reminded Troy
of "playing Indian" in his infancy.

"Careful ... watch out for 'em ..." the soldier next to him whispered,
clutching his arm at a noise in the underbrush; and Troy's heart jerked
back violently, though his legs were still pressing forward.

They were here, then: they might be close by in the blackness, behind
the next tree-hole, in the next clump of bushes--the destroyers of
France, old M. Gantier's murderers, the enemy to whom Paul Gantier had
given his life! These thoughts slipped confusedly through Troy's mind,
scarcely brushing it with a chill wing. His main feeling was one of a
base physical fear, and of a newly-awakened moral energy which had the
fear by the throat and held it down with shaking hands. Which of the two
would conquer, how many yards farther would the resolute Troy drag on
the limp coward through this murderous wood? That was the one thing that
mattered....

At length they dropped down into a kind of rocky hollow overhung with
bushes, and lay there, finger on trigger, hardly breathing. "Sleep a bit
