the north.

For Dulcie, in her neglig√©e and night robe, still sat by the open
window, chin resting on palm, her haunted gaze remotely lost somewhere
beyond the July stars.

And, in his room, Garry had arrived only as far as removing coat and
waistcoat in the process of disrobing for the night. For his mind was
still deeply preoccupied with Dulcie Soane and with the strange
expression of her face at the piano--and with the profoundly altered
visage of Murtagh Skeel.

And he was asking himself what could have happened between those two
in such a few minutes there at the piano in the music-room. For it was
evident to him that Skeel was labouring under poorly controlled
emotion, was dazed by it, and was recovering self-possession only by a
mighty effort.

And when Skeel had finally taken his leave and had gone away with the
Gerhardts, he suddenly stopped on the porch, returned to the
music-room, and, bending down, had kissed Dulcie's hand with a grace
and reverence which made the salute more of a serious ceremony than
the impulsive homage of a romantic poet's whim.

Considered by itself, the abrupt return and quaintly perfect salute
might have been taken as a spontaneous effervescence of that
delightful Celtic gallantry so easily stirred to ebullition by youth
and beauty. And for that it was accepted by the others after Murtagh
Skeel was gone; and everybody ventured to chaff Dulcie a little about
her conquest--merely the gentle humour of gentlefolk--a harmless word
or two, a smile in sympathy.

Garry alone saw in the girl's smile no genuine response to the light
badinage, and he knew that her serenity was troubled, her careless
composure forced.

Later, he contrived to say good-night to her alone, and gave her a
chance to speak; but she only murmured her adieux and went slowly away
up the stairs with Thessalie, not looking back.

       

Now, sitting there in his dressing-gown, briar pipe alight, he frowned
and pondered over the matter in the light of what he already knew of
Dulcie, of the dead mother who bore her, of the grotesquely impossible
Soane, of this man, Murtagh Skeel.

What had he and Dulcie found in common to converse about so earnestly
and so long there in the music-room? What had they talked about to
drive the colour from Dulcie's cheeks and alter Skeel's countenance so
that he had looked more like his own wraith than his living self?

That Dulcie's mother had known this man, had once, evidently, been in
love with him more or less, doubtless was revealed in their
conversation at the piano. Had Skeel enlightened Dulcie any further?
And on what subject? Soane? Her mother? Her origin--in case the child
had admitted ignorance of it? Was Dulcie, now, in possession of new
facts concerning herself? Were they agreeable facts? Were they
depressing? Had she learned anything definite in regard to her birth?
Her parentage? Did she know, now, who was her real father? Was the
obvious absurdity of Soane finally exploded? Had she learned what the
drunken Soane meant by asserting that her name was not Soane but
Fane?

His pipe burned out and he laid it aside, but did not rise to resume
his preparation for bed.

Then, somewhere from the unlighted depths of the house came the sound
of the telephone bell--at that hour of night always a slightly ominous
sound.

He got up and went down stairs, not troubling to switch on any light,
for the lustre of the starry night outside silvered every window and
made it possible for him to see his way.

At the clamouring telephone, finally, he unhooked the receiver:

"Hello?" he said. "Yes! Yes! Oh, is that you, Renoux? Where on earth
are you?... At Northbrook?... Where?... At the Summit House? Well, why
didn't you come here to us?... Oh!... No, it isn't very late. We
retire early at Foreland.... Oh, yes, I'm dressed.... Certainly....
Yes, come over.... Yes!... Yes!... I'll wait for you in the
library.... In an hour?... You bet. No, I'm not sleepy.... Sure
thing!... Come on!"

He hung up the receiver, turned, and made his way through the dusk
toward the library which was opposite the music-room across the big
entrance hall.

Before he turned on any light he paused to look out at the splendour
of the stars. The night had grown warmer; there was no haze, now, only
an argentine clarity in which shadowy trees stood mysterious and
motionless and the dim lawn stretched away to the distant avenue and
wall, lost against their looming border foliage.

Once he thought he heard a slight sound somewhere in the house behind
him, but presently remembered that the family cat held sway among the
mice at such an hour.

A little later he turned from the window to light a lamp, and found
himself facing a slim, white figure in the starry dusk.

"Dulcie!" he exclaimed under his breath.

"I want to talk to you."

"Why on earth are you wandering about at this hour?" he asked. "You
made me jump, I can tell you."

"I was awake--not in bed yet. I heard the telephone. Then I went out
into the west corridor and saw you going down stairs.... Is it all
right for me to sit here in my night dress with you?"

He smiled:

"Well, considering----"

"Of course!" she said hastily, "only I didn't know whether outside
your studio----"

