hang you.”

“And how long do you propose to keep me here?”

“For about four days,” I said; “until the convention disbands. If
you will only give me your word to wait that time, you may have the
freedom of this beautiful place, and when the period is over, I
pledge you every help I can give to make known your message to the
people.”

I waited for an answer, but none came, so I set down the tray and
went out, locking the door again. And downstairs was one of T-S’s
secretaries, with copies of the morning newspapers, and I picked up
a “Times,” and there was a headline, all the way across the page:

KU KLUX KLAN KIDNAPS KARPENTER RANTING RED PROPHET DISAPPEARS IN
TOOTING AUTOS

I understood, of course, that the secret agency which had
engineered the mobbing of the prophet would have had their stories
all ready for our morning newspapers--stories which played up to
the full the finding of an infernal machine, and an unprovoked
attack upon ex-service men by the armed followers of the “Red
Prophet.” But now all this was gone, and instead was a story
glorifying the Klansmen as the saviors of the city’s good name. It
was evident that up to the hour of going to press, neither of the
two newspapers had any idea but that the white robed figures were
genuine followers of the “Grand Imperial Kleagle.” The “Times”
 carried at the top of its editorial page a brief comment in large
type, congratulating the people of Western City upon the promptness
with which they had demonstrated their devotion to the cause of law
and order.

But of course the truth about our made-to-order mob could not be
kept very long. When you have hired a hundred moving-picture actors
to share in the greatest mystery of the age, it will not be many
hours before your secret has got to the newspaper offices. As a
matter of fact, it wasn’t two hours before the “Evening Blare” was
calling the home of the movie magnate to inquire where he had taken
the kidnapped prophet; there was no use trying to deny anything,
said the editor, diplomatically, because too many people had seen
the prophet transferred to Mr. T-S’s automobile. Of course T-S’s
secretary, who answered the phone, lied valiantly; but here again,
we knew the truth would leak. There were servants and chauffeurs and
gardeners, and all of them knew that the white robed mystery was
somewhere on the place. They would be offered endless bribes--and
some of them would accept!

In the course of the next hour or two there were a dozen newspaper
reporters besieging the mansion, and camera men taking pictures of
it, and even spying with opera glasses from a distance. Before my
mind’s eye flashed new headlines:

MOVIE MAGNATE HIDES MOB PROPHET FROM LAW

This was an aspect of the matter which we had at first overlooked.
Carpenter was due at Judge Ponty’s police-court at nine o’clock that
morning. Was he going? demanded the reporters, and if not, why not?
Mary Magna no doubt would be willing to sacrifice the two hundred
dollars bail that she had put up; but the judge had a right to issue
a bench warrant and send a deputy for the prisoner. Would he do it?

Behind the scenes of Western City’s government there began forthwith
a tremendous diplomatic duel. Who it was that wanted Carpenter
dragged out of his hiding-place, we could not be sure, but we knew
who it was that wanted him to stay hidden! I called up my uncle
Timothy, and explained the situation. It wasn’t worth while for him
to waste his breath scolding, I was going to stand by my prophet. If
he wanted to put an end to the scandal, let him do what he could to
see that the prophet was let alone.

“But, Billy, what can I do?” he cried. “It’s a matter of the law.”

I answered: “Fudge! You know perfectly well there’s no magistrate or
judge in this city that won’t do what he’s told, if the right people
tell him. What I want you to do is to get busy with de Wiggs and
Westerly and Carson, and the rest of the big gang, and persuade them
that there’s nothing to be gained by dragging Carpenter out of his
hiding-place.”

What did they want anyway? I argued. They wanted the agitation
stopped. Well, we had stopped it, and without any bloodshed. If they
dragged the prophet out from concealment, and into a police court,
they would only have more excitement, more tumult, ending nobody
could tell how.

I called up several other people who might have influence; and
meanwhile T-S was over at his office in Eternal City, pleading over
the telephone with the editors of afternoon papers. They had got the
Red Prophet out of the way during the convention, and why couldn’t
they let well enough alone? Wasn’t there news enough, with five or
ten thousand war-heroes coming to town, without bothering about one
poor religious freak?

When you shoot a load of shot at a duck, and the bird comes tumbling
down, you do not bother to ask which particular shot it was that hit
the target. And so it was with these frantic efforts of ours. One
shot must have hit, for at eleven o’clock that morning, when the
case of John Doe Carpenter versus the Commonwealth of Western City
was reached in Judge Ponty’s court, and the bailiff called the name
of the defendant and there was no answer, the magistrate in a single
sentence declared the bail forfeited, and passed on to the next case
without a word. And all three of our afternoon newspapers reported
this incident in an obscure corner on an inside page. The Red
Prophet was dead and buried!

IX

I took up Carpenter’s lunch at one o’clock, and discovered, to my
dismay, that he had not tasted his breakfast. I ventured to speak to
him; but he sat on a chair, gazing ahead of him and paying no
attention to me, so I left him alone. At six o’clock in the evening
I took up his dinner, and discovered that he had not touched either
breakfast or lunch; but still he had nothing to say, so I took back
the dinner, and went downstairs, and said to T-S: “We’ve got
ourselves in for a hunger strike!”

Needless to say, under the circumstances we did not very heartily
enjoy our own dinner. And T-S, neglecting his important business,
stayed around; getting up out of one chair and walking nowhere, and
