
"You shall walk behin' me," remarked Quintana carelessly. "If Sanchez
fin' us, it is well; if he shall not, that also is ver' well.... We go,
now."

       

Sanchez made no effort to find them. They had been gone half an hour
before he had finished the business that had turned him back.

After that he wandered about hunting for water--a rivulet, a puddle,
anything. But the wet ground proved wet only on the surface moss.
Sanchez needed more than damp moss for his toilet. Casting about him,
hither and thither, for some depression that might indicate a stream, he
came to a heavily wooded slope, and descended it.

There was a bog at the foot. With his fouled hands he dug out a basin
which filled up full of reddish water, discoloured by alders.

But the water was redder still when his toilet ended.

As he stood there, examining his clothing, and washing what he could of
the ominous stains from sleeve and shoe, very far away to the north he
heard a curious noise--a far, faint sound such as he never before had
heard.

If it were a voice of any sort there was nothing human about it....
Probably some sort of unknown bird.... Perhaps a bird of prey.... That
was natural, considering the attraction that Georgiades would have for
such creatures.... If it were a bird it must be a large one, he
thought.... Because there was a certain volume to the cry.... Perhaps
it was a beast, after all.... Some unknown beast of the forest....

Sanchez was suddenly afraid. Scarcely knowing what he was doing he began
to run along the edge of the bog.

First growth timber skirted it; running was unobstructed by underbrush.

With his startled ears full of the alarming and unknown sound, he ran
through the woods under gigantic pines which spread a soft green
twilight around him.

He was tired, or thought he was, but the alarming sounds were filling
his ears now; the entire forest seemed full of them, echoing in all
directions, coming in upon him from everywhere, so that he knew not in
which direction to run.

But he could not stop. Demoralised, he darted this way and that; terror
winged his feet; the air vibrated above and around him with the
dreadful, unearthly sounds.

The next instant he fell headlong over a ledge, struck water, felt
himself whirled around in the icy, rushing current, rolled over, tumbled
through rapids, blinded, deafened, choked, swept helplessly in a vast
green wall of water toward something that thundered in his brain an
instant, then dashed it into roaring chaos.

       

Half a mile down the turbulent outlet of Star Pond,--where a great sheet
of green water pours thirty feet into the tossing foam below,--and
spinning, dipping, diving, bobbing up like a lost log after the drive,
the body of Señor Sanchez danced all alone in the wilderness, spilling
from soggy pockets diamonds, sapphires, rubies, emeralds, into crystal
caves where only the shadows of slim trout stirred.

       

Very far away to the eastward Quintana stood listening, clutching Sard
by one sleeve to silence him.

Presently he said: "My frien', somebody is hunting with houn's in this
fores'.

"Maybe they are not hunting us.... Maybe.... But, for me, I shall
seek running water. Go you your own way! Houp! Vamose!"

He turned westward; but he had taken scarcely a dozen strides when Sard
came panting after him:

"Don't leave me!" gasped the terrified diamond broker. "I don't know
where to go----"

Quintana faced him abruptly--with a terrifying smile and glimmer of
white teeth--and shoved a pistol into the fold of fat beneath Sard's
double chin.

"You hear those dogs? Yes? Ver' well; I also. Run, now. I say to you run
ver' damn quick. Hé! Houp! Allez vous en! Beat eet!"

He struck Sard a stinging blow on his fleshy ear with the pistol barrel,
and Sard gave a muffled shriek which was more like the squeak of a
frightened animal.

"My God, Quintana----" he sobbed. Then Quintana's eyes blazed murder:
and Sard turned and ran lumbering through the thicket like a stampeded
ox, crashing on amid withered brake, white birch scrub and brier, not
knowing whither he was headed, crazed with terror.

Quintana watched his flight for a moment, then, pistol swinging, he ran
in the opposite direction, eastward, speeding lithely as a cat down a
long, wooded slope which promised running water at the foot.

       

Sard could not run very far. He could scarcely stand when he pulled up
and clung to the trunk of a tree.

More dead than alive he embraced the tree, gulping horribly for air,
every fat-incrusted organ labouring, his senses swimming.

As he sagged there, gripping his support on shaking knees, by degrees
his senses began to return.

He could hear the dogs, now, vaguely as in a nightmare. But after a
little while he began to believe that their hysterical yelping was
really growing more distant.

Then this man whose every breath was an outrage on God, prayed.

