"Borrow a few hundred," he said, "and give your note; you can save
enough, very soon, to make the difference. When you raise every thing
you eat, you know it will make your salary go a wonderful deal further."

"Certainly it will," said I. "And what can be more beautiful than to buy
places by the simple process of giving one's note?--'tis so neat, and
handy, and convenient!"

"Why," pursued my friend, "there is Mr. B., my next door neighbor--'tis
enough to make one sick of life in the city to spend a week out on his
farm. Such princely living as one gets! And he assures me that it costs
him very little--scarce any thing, perceptible, in fact."

"Indeed!" said I; "few people can say that."

"Why," said my friend, "he has a couple of peach trees for every month,
from June till frost, that furnish as many peaches as he, and his wife,
and ten children can dispose of. And then he has grapes, apricots, etc..;
and last year his wife sold fifty dollars' worth from her strawberry
patch, and had an abundance for the table besides. Out of the milk of
only one cow they had butter enough to sell three or four pounds a week,
besides abundance of milk and cream; and madam has the butter for her
pocket money. This is the way country people manage."

"Glorious!" thought I. And my wife and I could scarce sleep, all night,
for the brilliancy of our anticipations!

To be sure our delight was somewhat damped the next day by the coldness
with which my good old uncle, Jeremiah Standfast, who happened along at
precisely this crisis, listened to our visions.

"You'll find it pleasant, children, in the summer time," said the
hard-fisted old man, twirling his blue-checked pocket handkerchief; "but
I'm sorry you've gone in debt for the land."

"O, but we shall soon save that--it's so much cheaper living in the
country!" said both of us together.

"Well, as to that, I don't think it is to city-bred folks."

Here I broke in with a flood of accounts of Mr. B.'s peach trees, and
Mrs. B.'s strawberries, butter, apricots, etc.., etc..; to which the old
gentleman listened with such a long, leathery, unmoved quietude of
visage as quite provoked me, and gave me the worst possible opinion of
his judgment. I was disappointed too; for, as he was reckoned one of the
best practical farmers in the county, I had counted on an enthusiastic
sympathy with all my agricultural designs.

"I tell you what, children," he said, "a body can live in the country,
as you say, amazin' cheap; but then a body must know how"--and my
uncle spread his pocket handkerchief thoughtfully out upon his knees,
and shook his head gravely.

I thought him a terribly slow, stupid old body, and wondered how I had
always entertained so high an opinion of his sense.

"He is evidently getting old," said I to my wife; "his judgment is not
what it used to be."

At all events, our place was bought, and we moved out, well pleased, the
first morning in April, not at all remembering the ill savor of that day
for matters of wisdom. Our place was a pretty cottage, about two miles
from the city, with grounds that had been tastefully laid out. There was
no lack of winding paths, arbors, flower borders, and rosebushes, with
which my wife was especially pleased. There was a little green lot,
strolling off down to a brook, with a thick grove of trees at the end,
where our cow was to be pastured.

The first week or two went on happily enough in getting our little new
pet of a house into trimness and good order; for, as it had been long
for sale, of course there was any amount of little repairs that had been
left to amuse the leisure hours of the purchaser. Here a door step had
given away, and needed replacing; there a shutter hung loose, and wanted
a hinge; abundance of glass needed setting; and as to painting and
papering, there was no end to that. Then my wife wanted a door cut here,
to make our bed room more convenient, and a china closet knocked up
there, where no china closet before had been. We even ventured on
throwing out a bay window from our sitting room, because we had luckily
lighted on a workman who was so cheap that it was an actual saving of
money to employ him. And to be sure our darling little cottage did lift
up its head wonderfully for all this garnishing and furbishing. I got up
early every morning, and nailed up the rosebushes, and my wife got up
and watered geraniums, and both flattered ourselves and each other on
our early hours and thrifty habits. But soon, like Adam and Eve in
Paradise, we found our little domain to ask more hands than ours to get
it into shape. So says I to my wife, "I will bring out a gardener when I
come next time, and he shall lay the garden out, and get it into order;
and after that, I can easily keep it by the work of my leisure hours."

Our gardener was a very sublime sort of man,--an Englishman, and, of
course, used to laying out noblemen's places,--and we became as
grasshoppers in our own eyes when he talked of lord this and that's
estate, and began to question us about our carriage drive and
conservatory; and we could with difficulty bring the gentleman down to
any understanding of the humble limits of our expectations: merely to
dress out the walks, and lay out a kitchen garden, and plant potatoes,
turnips, beets, and carrots, was quite a descent for him. In fact, so
strong were his Ã¦sthetic preferences, that he persuaded my wife to let
him dig all the turf off from a green square opposite the bay window,
and to lay it out into divers little triangles, resembling small pieces
of pie, together with circles, mounds, and various other geometrical
ornaments, the planning and planting of which soon engrossed my wife's
whole soul. The planting of the potatoes, beets, carrots, etc.., was
intrusted to a raw Irishman; for, as to me, to confess the truth, I
began to fear that digging did not agree with me. It is true that I was
exceedingly vigorous at first, and actually planted with my own hands
two or three long rows of potatoes; after which I got a turn of
rheumatism in my shoulder, which lasted me a week. Stooping down to
plant beets and radishes gave me a vertigo, so that I was obliged to
content myself with a general superintendence of the garden; that is to
say, I charged my Englishman to see that my Irishman did his duty
properly, and then got on to my horse and rode to the city. But about
one part of the matter, I must say, I was not remiss; and that is, in
the purchase of seed and garden utensils. Not a day passed that I did
not come home with my pockets stuffed with, choice seeds, roots, etc..;
and the variety of my garden utensils was unequalled. There was not a
pruning hook, of any pattern, not a hoe, rake, or spade, great or small,
that I did not have specimens of; and flower seeds and bulbs were also
forthcoming in liberal proportions. In fact, I had opened an account at
a thriving seed store; for, when a man is driving business on a large
scale, it is not always convenient to hand out the change for every
little matter, and buying things on account is as neat and agreeable a
mode of acquisition as paying bills with one's notes.

"You know we must have a cow," said my wife, the morning of our second
week. Our friend the gardener, who had now worked with us at the rate of
two dollars a day for two weeks, was at hand in a moment in our
emergency. We wanted to buy a cow, and he had one to sell--a wonderful
cow, of a real English breed. He would not sell her for any money,
except to oblige particular friends; but as we had patronized him, we
should have her for forty dollars. How much we were obliged to him! The
forty dollars were speedily forthcoming, and so also was the cow.

"What makes her shake her head in that way?" said my wife,
apprehensively, as she observed the interesting beast making sundry
demonstrations with her horns. "I hope she's gentle."

The gardener fluently demonstrated that the animal was a pattern of all
the softer graces, and that this head-shaking was merely a little
nervous affection consequent on the embarrassment of a new position. We
had faith to believe almost any thing at this time, and therefore came
from the barn yard to the house as much satisfied with our purchase as
Job with his three thousand camels and five hundred yoke of oxen. Her
quondam master milked her for us the first evening, out of a delicate
regard to her feelings as a stranger, and we fancied that we discerned
forty dollars' worth of excellence in the very quality of the milk.

But alas! the next morning our Irish girl came in with a most rueful
face. "And is it milking that baste you'd have me be after?" she said;
"sure, and she won't let me come near her?"

"Nonsense, Biddy!" said I; "you frightened her, perhaps; the cow is
perfectly gentle;" and with the pail on my arm, I sallied forth. The
moment madam saw me entering the cow yard, she greeted me with a very
expressive flourish of her horns.

"This won't do," said I, and I stopped. The lady evidently was serious
in her intentions of resisting any personal approaches. I cut a cudgel,
and putting on a bold face, marched towards her, while Biddy followed
with her milking stool. Apparently, the beast saw the necessity of
temporizing, for she assumed a demure expression, and Biddy sat down to
milk. I stood sentry, and if the lady shook her head, I shook my stick;
and thus the milking operation proceeded with tolerable serenity and
success.

"There!" said I, with dignity, when the frothing pail was full to the
brim. "That will do, Biddy," and I dropped my stick. Dump! came madam's
heel on the side of the pail, and it flew like a rocket into the air,
while the milky flood showered plentifully over me, and a new broadcloth
riding-coat that I had assumed for the first time that morning. "Whew!"
said I, as soon as I could get my breath from this extraordinary shower
bath; "what's all this?" My wife came running towards the cow yard, as I
stood with the milk streaming from my hair, filling my eyes, and
dropping from the tip of my nose; and she and Biddy performed a
recitative lamentation over me in alternate strophes, like the chorus in
a Greek tragedy. Such was our first morning's experience; but as we had
announced our bargain with some considerable flourish of trumpets among
our neighbors and friends, we concluded to hush the matter up as much as
possible.

"These very superior cows are apt to be cross," said I; "we must bear
with it as we do with the eccentricities of genius; besides, when she
gets accustomed to us, it will be better."

Madam was therefore installed into her pretty pasture lot, and my wife
contemplated with pleasure the picturesque effect of her appearance,
reclining on the green slope of the pasture lot, or standing ankle deep
in the gurgling brook, or reclining under the deep shadows of the trees.
She was, in fact, a handsome cow, which may account, in part, for some
of her sins; and this consideration inspired me with some degree of
indulgence towards her foibles.

But when I found that Biddy could never succeed in getting near her in
the pasture, and that any kind of success in the milking operations
required my vigorous personal exertions morning and evening, the matter
wore a more serious aspect, and I began to feel quite pensive and
apprehensive. It is very well to talk of the pleasures of the milkmaid
going out in the balmy freshness of the purple dawn; but imagine a poor
fellow pulled out of bed on a drizzly, rainy morning, and equipping
himself for a scamper through a wet pasture lot, rope in hand, at the
heels of such a termagant as mine! In fact, madam established a regular
series of exercises, which had all to be gone through before she would
suffer herself to be captured; as, first, she would station herself
plump in the middle of a marsh, which lay at the lower part of the lot,
and look very innocent and absent-minded, as if reflecting on some
sentimental subject. "Suke! Suke! Suke!" I ejaculate, cautiously
tottering along the edge of the marsh, and holding out an ear of corn.
The lady looks gracious, and comes forward, almost within reach of my
hand. I make a plunge to throw the rope over her horns, and away she
goes, kicking up mud and water into my face in her flight, while I,
losing my balance, tumble forward into the marsh. I pick myself up, and,
full of wrath, behold her placidly chewing her cud on the other side,
with the meekest air imaginable, as who should say, "I hope you are not
hurt, sir." I dash through swamp and bog furiously, resolving to carry
all by a coup de main. Then follows a miscellaneous season of dodging,
scampering, and bopeeping, among the trees of the grove, interspersed
with sundry occasional races across the bog aforesaid. I always wondered
how I caught her every day; and when I had tied her head to one post and
her heels to another, I wiped the sweat from my brow, and thought I was
paying dear for the eccentricities of genius. A genius she certainly
was, for besides her surprising agility, she had other talents equally
extraordinary. There was no fence that she could not take down; nowhere
that she could not go. She took the pickets off the garden fence at her
pleasure, using her horns as handily as I could use a claw hammer.
Whatever she had a mind to, whether it were a bite in the cabbage
garden, or a run in the corn patch, or a foraging expedition into the
flower borders, she made herself equally welcome and at home. Such a
scampering and driving, such cries of "Suke here" and "Suke there," as
constantly greeted our ears, kept our little establishment in a constant
commotion. At last, when she one morning made a plunge at the skirts of
my new broadcloth frock coat, and carried off one flap on her horns, my
patience gave out, and I determined to sell her.

As, however, I had made a good story of my misfortunes among my friends
and neighbors, and amused them with sundry whimsical accounts of my
various adventures in the cow-catching line, I found, when I came to
speak of selling, that there was a general coolness on the subject, and
nobody seemed disposed to be the recipient of my responsibilities. In
short, I was glad, at last, to get fifteen dollars for her, and
comforted myself with thinking that I had at least gained twenty-five
dollars worth of experience in the transaction, to say nothing of the
fine exercise.

I comforted my soul, however, the day after, by purchasing and bringing
home to my wife a fine swarm of bees.

"Your bee, now," says I, "is a really classical insect, and breathes of
Virgil and the Augustan age--and then she is a domestic, tranquil,
placid creature. How beautiful the murmuring of a hive near our
honeysuckle of a calm, summer evening! Then they are tranquilly and
peacefully amassing for us their stores of sweetness, while they lull us
with their murmurs. What a beautiful image of disinterested
benevolence!"

My wife declared that I was quite a poet, and the beehive was duly
installed near the flower plots, that the delicate creatures might have
the full benefit of the honeysuckle and mignonette. My spirits began to
rise. I bought three different treatises on the rearing of bees, and
also one or two new patterns of hives, and proposed to rear my bees on
the most approved model. I charged all the establishment to let me know
when there was any indication of an emigrating spirit, that I might be
ready to receive the new swarm into my patent mansion.

Accordingly, one afternoon, when I was deep in an article that I was
preparing for the North American Review, intelligence was brought me
that a swarm had risen. I was on the alert at once, and discovered, on
going out, that the provoking creatures had chosen the top of a tree
about thirty feet high to settle on. Now my books had carefully
instructed me just how to approach the swarm and cover them with a new
hive; but I had never contemplated the possibility of the swarm being,
like Haman's gallows, forty cubits high. I looked despairingly upon the
smooth-bark tree, which rose, like a column, full twenty feet, without
branch or twig. "What is to be done?" said I, appealing to two or three
neighbors. At last, at the recommendation of one of them, a ladder was
raised against the tree, and, equipped with a shirt outside of my
clothes, a green veil over my head, and a pair of leather gloves on my
hands, I went up with a saw at my girdle to saw off the branch on which
they had settled, and lower it by a rope to a neighbor, similarly
equipped, who stood below with the hive.

As a result of this manoeuvre the fastidious little insects were at
length fairly installed at housekeeping in my new patent hive, and,
rejoicing in my success, I again sat down to my article.

That evening my wife and I took tea in our honeysuckle arbor, with our
little ones and a friend or two, to whom I showed my treasures, and
expatiated at large on the comforts and conveniences of the new patent
hive.

But alas for the hopes of man! The little ungrateful wretches--what must
they do but take advantage of my over-sleeping myself, the next morning,
to clear out for new quarters without so much as leaving me a P. P. C.!
Such was the fact; at eight o'clock I found the new patent hive as good
as ever; but the bees I have never seen from that day to this!

"The rascally little conservatives!" said I; "I believe they have never
had a new idea from the days of Virgil down, and are entirely unprepared
to appreciate improvements."

Meanwhile the seeds began to germinate in our garden, when we found, to
our chagrin, that, between John Bull and Paddy, there had occurred
sundry confusions in the several departments. Radishes had been planted
broadcast, carrots and beets arranged in hills, and here and there a
whole paper of seed appeared to have been planted bodily. My good old
uncle, who, somewhat to my confusion, made me a call at this time, was
greatly distressed and scandalized by the appearance of our garden. But,
by a deal of fussing, transplanting, and replanting, it was got into
some shape and order. My uncle was rather troublesome, as careful old
people are apt to be--annoying us by perpetual inquiries of what we gave
for this, and that, and running up provoking calculations on the final
cost of matters; and we began to wish that his visits might be as short
as would be convenient.

But when, on taking leave, he promised to send us a fine young cow of
his own raising, our hearts rather smote us for our impatience.

"'Tain't any of your new breeds, nephew," said the old man, "yet I can
say that she's a gentle, likely young crittur, and better worth forty
dollars than many a one that's cried up for Ayrshire or Durham; and you
shall be quite welcome to her."

We thanked him, as in duty bound, and thought that if he was full of
old-fashioned notions, he was no less full of kindness and good will.

And now, with a new cow, with our garden beginning to thrive under the
gentle showers of May, with our flower borders blooming, my wife and I
began to think ourselves in Paradise. But alas! the same sun and rain
that warmed our fruit and flowers brought up from the earth, like sulky
gnomes, a vast array of purple-leaved weeds, that almost in a night
seemed to cover the whole surface of the garden beds. Our gardeners both
being gone, the weeding was expected to be done by me--one of the
anticipated relaxations of my leisure hours.

"Well," said I, in reply to a gentle intimation from my wife, "when my
article is finished, I'll take a day and weed all up clean."

Thus days slipped by, till at length the article was despatched, and I
proceeded to my garden. Amazement! Who could have possibly foreseen that
any thing earthly could grow so fast in a few days! There were no
bounds, no alleys, no beds, no distinction of beet and carrot, nothing
but a flourishing congregation of weeds nodding and bobbing in the
morning breeze, as if to say, "We hope you are well, sir--we've got the
ground, you see!" I began to explore, and to hoe, and to weed. Ah! did
any body ever try to clean a neglected carrot or beet bed, or bend his
back in a hot sun over rows of weedy onions! He is the man to feel for
my despair! How I weeded, and sweat, and sighed! till, when high noon
came on, as the result of all my toils, only three beds were cleaned!
And how disconsolate looked the good seed, thus unexpectedly delivered
from its sheltering tares, and laid open to a broiling July sun! Every
juvenile beet and carrot lay flat down, wilted and drooping, as if, like
me, they had been weeding, instead of being weeded.

"This weeding is quite a serious matter," said I to my wife; "the fact
is, I must have help about it!"

"Just what I was myself thinking," said my wife. "My flower borders are
all in confusion, and my petunia mounds so completely overgrown, that
nobody would dream what they were meant for!"

In short, it was agreed between us that we could not afford the expense
of a full-grown man to keep our place; yet we must reÃ«nforce ourselves
by the addition of a boy, and a brisk youngster from the vicinity was
pitched upon as the happy addition. This youth was a fellow of decidedly
quick parts, and in one forenoon made such a clearing in our garden that
I was delighted. Bed after bed appeared to view, all cleared and dressed
out with such celerity that I was quite ashamed of my own slowness,
until, on examination, I discovered that he had, with great
impartiality, pulled up both weeds and vegetables.

This hopeful beginning was followed up by a succession of proceedings
which should be recorded for the instruction of all who seek for help
from the race of boys. Such a loser of all tools, great and small; such
an invariable leaver-open of all gates, and letter-down of bars; such a
personification of all manner of anarchy and ill luck, had never before
been seen on the estate. His time, while I was gone to the city, was
agreeably diversified with roosting on the fence, swinging on the gates,
making poplar whistles for the children, hunting eggs, and eating
whatever fruit happened to be in season, in which latter accomplishment
he was certainly quite distinguished. After about three weeks of this
kind of joint gardening, we concluded to dismiss Master Tom from the
firm, and employ a man.

"Things must be taken care of," said I, "and I cannot do it. 'Tis out of
the question." And so the man was secured.

But I am making a long story, and may chance to outrun the sympathies of
my readers. Time would fail me to tell of the distresses manifold that
fell upon me--of cows dried up by poor milkers; of hens that wouldn't
set at all, and hens that, despite all law and reason, would set on one
egg; of hens that, having hatched families, straightway led them into
all manner of high grass and weeds, by which means numerous young chicks
caught premature colds and perished; and how, when I, with manifold
toil, had driven one of these inconsiderate gadders into a coop, to
teach her domestic habits, the rats came down upon her and slew every
chick in one night; how my pigs were always practising gymnastic
exercises over the fence of the sty, and marauding in the garden. I
wonder that Fourier never conceived the idea of having his garden land
ploughed by pigs; for certainly they manifest quite a decided elective
attraction for turning up the earth.

When autumn came, I went soberly to market, in the neighboring city, and
bought my potatoes and turnips like any other man; for, between all the
various systems of gardening pursued, I was obliged to confess that my
first horticultural effort was a decided failure. But though all my
rural visions had proved illusive, there were some very substantial
realities. My bill at the seed store, for seeds, roots, and tools, for
example, had run up to an amount that was perfectly unaccountable; then
there were various smaller items, such as horse shoeing, carriage
mending--for he who lives in the country and does business in the city
must keep his vehicle and appurtenances. I had always prided myself on
being an exact man, and settling every account, great and small, with
the going out of the old year; but this season I found myself sorely put
to it. In fact, had not I received a timely lift from my good old uncle,
I should have made a complete break down. The old gentleman's
troublesome habit of ciphering and calculating, it seems, had led him
beforehand to foresee that I was not exactly in the money-making line,
nor likely to possess much surplus revenue to meet the note which I had
given for my place; and, therefore, he quietly paid it himself, as I
discovered, when, after much anxiety and some sleepless nights, I went
to the holder to ask for an extension of credit.

"He was right, after all," said I to my wife; "'to live cheap in the
country, a body must know how.'"




"WOMAN, BEHOLD THY SON!"


The golden rays of a summer afternoon were streaming through the windows
of a quiet apartment, where every thing was the picture of orderly
repose. Gently and noiselessly they glide, gilding the glossy old
chairs, polished by years of care; fluttering with flickering gleam on
the bookcases, by the fire, and the antique China vases on the mantel,
and even coqueting with sparkles of fanciful gayety over the face of the
perpendicular, sombre old clock, which, though at times apparently
coaxed almost to the verge of a smile, still continued its inevitable
tick, as for a century before.

On the hearth rug lay outstretched a great, lazy-looking, Maltese cat,
evidently enjoying the golden beam that fell upon his sober sides, and
sleepily opening and shutting his great green eyes, as if lost in
luxurious contemplation.

But the most characteristic figure in the whole picture was that of an
aged woman, who sat quietly rocking to and fro in a great chair by the
side of a large round table covered with books. There was a quiet beauty
in that placid face--that silvery hair brushed neatly under the snowy
border of the cap. Every line in that furrowed face told some tale of
sorrow long assuaged, and passions hushed to rest, as on the calm ocean
shore the golden-furrowed sand shows traces of storms and fluctuations
long past.

On the round, green-covered table beside her lay the quiet companion of
her age, the large Bible, whose pages, like the gates of the celestial
city, were not shut at all by day, a few old standard books, and the
pleasant, rippling knitting, whose dreamy, irresponsible monotony is the
best music of age.

A fair, girlish form was seated by the table; the dress bonnet had
fallen back on her shoulders, the soft cheeks were suffused and earnest,
the long lashes and the veiled eyes were eloquent of subdued feeling, as
she read aloud from the letter in her hand. It was from "our Harry," a
name to both of them comprising all that was dear and valued on earth,
for he was "the only son of his mother, and she a widow;" yet had he not
been always an only one; flower after flower on the tree of her life had
bloomed and died, and gradually, as waters cut off from many channels,
the streams of love had centred deeper in this last and only one.

And, in truth, Harry Sargeant was all that a mother might desire or be
proud of. Generous, high-minded, witty, and talented, and with a strong
and noble physical development, he seemed born to command the love of
women. The only trouble with him was, in common parlance, that he was
too clever a fellow; he was too social, too impressible, too versatile,
too attractive, and too much in demand for his own good. He always drew
company about him, as honey draws flies, and was indispensable every
where and to every body; and it needs a steady head and firm nerves for
such a one to escape ruin.

Harry's course in college, though brilliant in scholarship, had been
critical and perilous. He was a decided favorite with the faculty and
students; yet it required a great deal of hard winking and adroit
management on the part of his instructors to bring him through without
infringement of college laws and proprieties: not that he ever meant the
least harm in his life, but that some extra generous impulse, some
quixotic generosity, was always tumbling him, neck and heels, into
somebody's scrapes, and making him part and parcel in every piece of
mischief that was going on.

With all this premised, there is no need to say that Harry was a special
favorite with ladies; in truth, it was a confessed fact among his
acquaintances, that, whereas dozens of creditable, respectable,
well-to-do young men might besiege female hearts with every proper
formality, waiting at the gates and watching at the posts of the doors
in vain, yet before him all gates and passages seemed to fly open of
their own accord. Nevertheless, there was in his native village one
quiet maiden who held alone in her hand the key that could unlock his
heart in return, and carried silently in her own the spell that could
fetter that brilliant, restless spirit; and she it was, of the
thoughtful brow and downcast eyes, whom we saw in our picture, bending
over the letter with his mother.

That mother Harry loved to idolatry. She was to his mind an
impersonation of all that was lovely in womanhood, hallowed and sainted
by age, by wisdom, by sorrow; and his love for her was a beautiful union
of protective tenderness, with veneration; and to his Ellen it seemed
the best and most sacred evidence of the nobleness of his nature, and of
the worth of the heart which he had pledged to her.

Nevertheless, there was a danger overhanging the heads of the three--a
little cloud, no bigger than a man's hand, rising in the horizon of
their hopes, yet destined to burst upon them, dark and dreadful, in a
future day.

In those scenes of college hilarity where Harry had been so
indispensable, the bright, poetic wine cup had freely circulated, and
often amid the flush of conversation, and the genial excitement of the
hour, he had drank freer and deeper than was best.

He said, it is true, that he cared nothing for it, that it was nothing
to him, that it never affected him, and all those things that young men
always say when the cup of Circe is beginning its work with them.
Friends were annoyed, became anxious, remonstrated; but he laughed at
their fears, and insisted on knowing himself best. At last, with a
sudden start and shiver of his moral nature, he was awakened to a
dreadful perception of his danger, and resolved on decided and
determinate resistance. During this period he came to Cincinnati to
establish himself in business, and as at this time the temperance
reformation was in full tide of success there, he found every thing to
strengthen his resolution; temperance meetings and speeches were all the
mode; young men of the first standing were its patrons and supporters;
wine was quite in the vocative, and seemed really in danger of being
voted out of society. In such a turn of affairs, to sign a temperance
pledge and keep it became an easy thing; temptation was scarce presented
or felt; he was offered the glass in no social circle, met its
attraction nowhere, and flattered himself that he had escaped so great a
danger easily and completely.

His usual fortune of social popularity followed him, and his visiting
circle became full as large and importunate as a young man with any
thing else to do need desire. He was diligent in his application to
business, began to be mentioned with approbation by the magnates as a
rising young man, and had prospects daily nearing of competence and
home, and all that man desires--visions, alas! never to be realized.

For after a while the tide that had risen so high began imperceptibly to
decline. Men that had made eloquent speeches on temperance had now other
things to look to. Fastidious persons thought that matters had, perhaps,
been carried too far, and ladies declared that it was old and
threadbare, and getting to be cant and stuff; and the ever-ready wine
cup was gliding back into many a circle, as if, on sober second
thoughts, the community was convinced that it was a friend unjustly
belied.

There is no point in the history of reform, either in communities or
individuals, so dangerous as that where danger seems entirely past. As
long as a man thinks his health failing, he watches, he diets, and will
undergo the most heroic self-denial; but let him once set himself down
as cured, and how readily does he fall back to one soft indulgent habit
after another, all tending to ruin every thing that he has before done!

So in communities. Let intemperance rage, and young men go to ruin by
dozens, and the very evil inspires the remedy; but when the trumpet has
been sounded, and the battle set in array, and the victory only said and
sung in speeches, and newspaper paragraphs, and temperance odes, and
processions, then comes the return wave; people cry, Enough; the
community, vastly satisfied, lies down to sleep in its laurels; and then
comes the hour of danger.

But let not the man who has once been swept down the stream of
intemperate excitement, almost to the verge of ruin, dream of any point
of security for him. He is like one who has awakened in the rapids of
Niagara, and with straining oar and wild prayers to Heaven, forced his
boat upward into smoother water, where the draught of the current seems
to cease, and the banks smile, and all looks beautiful, and weary from
rowing, lays by his oar to rest and dream; he knows not that under that
smooth water still glides a current, that while he dreams, is
imperceptibly but surely hurrying him back whence there is no return.

Harry was just in this perilous point; he viewed danger as long past,
his self-confidence was fully restored, and in his security he began to
neglect those lighter outworks of caution which he must still guard who
does not mean, at last, to surrender the citadel.

       

"Now, girls and boys," said Mrs. G. to her sons and daughters, who were
sitting round a centre table covered with notes of invitation, and all
the preliminary et cetera of a party, "what shall we have on Friday
night?--tea, coffee, lemonade, wine? of course not."

"And why not wine, mamma?" said the young ladies; "the people are
beginning to have it; they had wine at Mrs. A.'s and Mrs. B.'s."

"Well, your papa thinks it won't do,--the boys are members of the
temperance society,--and I don't think, girls, it will do myself."

There are many good sort of people, by the by, who always view moral
questions in this style of phraseology--not what is right, but what will
"do."

The girls made an appropriate reply to this view of the subject, by
showing that Mrs. A. and Mrs. B. had done the thing, and nobody seemed
to make any talk.

The boys, who thus far in the conversation had been thoughtfully rapping
their boots with their canes, now interposed, and said that they would
rather not have wine if it wouldn't look shabby.

"But it will look shabby," said Miss Fanny. "Lemons, you know, are
scarce to be got for any price, and as for lemonade made of sirup, it's
positively vulgar and detestable; it tastes just like cream of tartar
and spirits of turpentine."

"For my part," said Emma, "I never did see the harm of wine, even when
people were making the most fuss about it; to be sure rum and brandy and
all that are bad, but wine----"

"And so convenient to get," said Fanny; "and no decent young man ever
gets drunk at parties, so it can't do any harm; besides, one must have
something, and, as I said, it will look shabby not to have it."

Now, there is no imputation that young men are so much afraid of,
especially from the lips of ladies, as that of shabbiness; and as it
happened in this case as most others that the young ladies were the most
efficient talkers, the question was finally carried on their side.

Mrs. G. was a mild and a motherly woman, just the one fitted to inspire
young men with confidence and that home feeling which all men desire
to find somewhere. Her house was a free and easy ground, social for most
of the young people of her acquaintance, and Harry was a favorite and
domesticated visitor.

During the height of the temperance reform, fathers and brothers had
given it their open and decided support, and Mrs. G.--always easily
enlisted for any good movement--sympathized warmly in their endeavors.
The great fault was, that too often incident to the gentleness of
woman--a want of self-reliant principle. Her virtue was too much the
result of mere sympathy, too little of her own conviction. Hence, when
those she loved grew cold towards a good cause, they found no sustaining
power in her, and those who were relying on her judgment and opinions
insensibly controlled them. Notwithstanding, she was a woman that always
acquired a great influence over young men, and Harry had loved and
revered her with something of the same sentiment that he cherished
towards his own mother.

It was the most brilliant party of the season. Every thing was got up in
faultless taste, and Mrs. G. was in the very spirit of it. The girls
were looking beautifully; the rooms were splendid; there was enough and
not too much of light and warmth, and all were doing their best to
please and be cheerful. Harry was more brilliant than usual, and in fact
outdid himself. Wit and mind were the spirit of the hour.

"Just taste this tokay," said one of the sisters to him; "it has just
been sent us from Europe, and is said to be a genuine article."

"You know I'm not in that line," said Harry, laughing and coloring.

"Why not?" said another young lady, taking a glass.

"O, the temperance pledge, you know! I am one of the pillars of the
order, a very apostle; it will never do for me."

"Pshaw! those temperance pledges are like the proverb, 'something
musty,'" said a gay girl.

"Well, but you said you had a headache the beginning of the evening, and
you really look pale; you certainly need it as a medicine," said Fanny.
"I'll leave it to mamma;" and she turned to Mrs. G., who stood gayly
entertaining a group of young people.

"Nothing more likely," replied she, gayly; "I think, Harry, you have
looked pale lately; a glass of wine might do you good."

Had Mrs. G. known all of Harry's past history and temptations, and had
she not been in just the inconsiderate state that very good ladies
sometimes get into at a party, she would sooner have sacrificed her
right hand than to have thrown this observation into the scales; but she
did, and they turned the balance for him.

"You shall be my doctor," he said, as, laughing and coloring, he drank
the glass--and where was the harm? One glass of wine kills nobody; and
yet if a man falls, and knows that in that glass he sacrifices principle
and conscience, every drop may be poison to the soul and body.

Harry felt at that very time that a great internal barrier had given
way; nor was that glass the only one that evening; another, and another,
and another followed; his spirits rose with the wild and feverish gayety
incident to his excitable temperament, and what had been begun in the
society of ladies was completed late at night in the gentlemen's saloon.

Nobody ever knew, or thought, or recognized that that one party had
forever undone this young man; and yet so it was. From that night his
struggle of moral resistance was fatally impaired; not that he yielded
at once and without desperate efforts and struggles, but gradually each
struggle grew weaker, each reform shorter, each resolution more
inefficient; yet at the close of the evening all those friends, mother,
brother, and sister, flattered themselves that every thing had gone on
so well that the next week Mrs. H. thought that it would do to give wine
