child lay, grave and still, watching with intense earnestness the
process that was going on. At the moment when the eyes had opened, she
stretched forth her little arms, and said, eagerly, "Pitty boy,
come,"--and then, as they closed again, she dropped her hands with a
sigh of disappointment. Yet, before night, the little stranger sat up in
bed, and laughed with pleasure at the treasures of shells and pebbles
which the children spread out on the bed before him.

He was a vigorous, well-made, handsome child, with brilliant eyes and
teeth, but the few words that he spoke were in a language unknown to
most present. Captain Kittridge declared it to be Spanish, and that a
call which he most passionately and often repeated was for his mother.
But he was of that happy age when sorrow can be easily effaced, and the
efforts of the children called forth joyous smiles. When his playthings
did not go to his liking, he showed sparkles of a fiery, irascible
spirit.

The little Mara seemed to appropriate him in feminine fashion, as a
chosen idol and graven image. She gave him at once all her slender stock
of infantine treasures, and seemed to watch with an ecstatic devotion
his every movement,--often repeating, as she looked delightedly around,
"Pitty boy, come."

She had no words to explain the strange dream of the morning; it lay in
her, struggling for expression, and giving her an interest in the
new-comer as in something belonging to herself. Whence it came,--whence
come multitudes like it, which spring up as strange, enchanted flowers,
every now and then in the dull, material pathway of life,--who knows? It
may be that our present faculties have among them a rudimentary one,
like the germs of wings in the chrysalis, by which the spiritual world
becomes sometimes an object of perception; there may be natures in which
the walls of the material are so fine and translucent that the spiritual
is seen through them as through a glass darkly. It may be, too, that the
love which is stronger than death has a power sometimes to make itself
heard and felt through the walls of our mortality, when it would plead
for the defenseless ones it has left behind. All these things may
be,--who knows?

       *       *       *       *       *

"There," said Miss Roxy, coming out of the keeping-room at sunset; "I
wouldn't ask to see a better-lookin' corpse. That ar woman was a sight
to behold this morning. I guess I shook a double handful of stones and
them little shells out of her hair,--now she reely looks beautiful.
Captain Kittridge has made a coffin out o' some cedar-boards he happened
to have, and I lined it with bleached cotton, and stuffed the pillow
nice and full, and when we come to get her in, she reely will look
lovely."

"I s'pose, Mis' Kittridge, you'll have the funeral to-morrow,--it's
Sunday."

"Why, yes, Aunt Roxy,--I think everybody must want to improve such a
dispensation. Have you took little Mara in to look at the corpse?"

"Well, no," said Miss Roxy; "Mis' Pennel's gettin' ready to take her
home."

"I think it's an opportunity we ought to improve," said Mrs. Kittridge,
"to learn children what death is. I think we can't begin to solemnize
their minds too young."

At this moment Sally and the little Mara entered the room.

"Come here, children," said Mrs. Kittridge, taking a hand of either one,
and leading them to the closed door of the keeping-room; "I've got
somethin' to show you."

The room looked ghostly and dim,--the rays of light fell through the
closed shutter on an object mysteriously muffled in a white sheet.

Sally's bright face expressed only the vague curiosity of a child to see
something new; but the little Mara resisted and hung back with all her
force, so that Mrs. Kittridge was obliged to take her up and hold her.

She folded back the sheet from the chill and wintry form which lay so
icily, lonely, and cold. Sally walked around it, and gratified her
curiosity by seeing it from every point of view, and laying her warm,
busy hand on the lifeless and cold one; but Mara clung to Mrs.
Kittridge, with eyes that expressed a distressed astonishment. The good
woman stooped over and placed the child's little hand for a moment on
the icy forehead. The little one gave a piercing scream, and struggled
to get away; and as soon as she was put down, she ran and hid her face
in Aunt Roxy's dress, sobbing bitterly.

"That child'll grow up to follow vanity," said Mrs. Kittridge; "her
little head is full of dress now, and she hates anything serious,--it's
easy to see that."

The little Mara had no words to tell what a strange, distressful chill
had passed up her arm and through her brain, as she felt that icy cold
of death,--that cold so different from all others. It was an impression
of fear and pain that lasted weeks and months, so that she would start
out of sleep and cry with a terror which she had not yet a sufficiency
of language to describe.

"You seem to forget, Mis' Kittridge, that this 'ere child ain't rugged
like our Sally," said Aunt Roxy, as she raised the little Mara in her
arms. "She was a seven-months' baby, and hard to raise at all, and a
shivery, scary little creature."

"Well, then, she ought to be hardened," said Dame Kittridge. "But Mary
Pennel never had no sort of idea of bringin' up children; 'twas jist so
with Naomi,--the girl never had no sort o' resolution, and she just died
for want o' resolution,--that's what came of it. I tell ye, children's
got to learn to take the world as it is; and 'tain't no use bringin' on
'em up too tender. Teach 'em to begin as they've got to go out,--that's
my maxim."

"Mis' Kittridge," said Aunt Roxy, "there's reason in all things, and
there's difference in children. 'What's one's meat's another's pison.'
You couldn't fetch up Mis' Pennel's children, and she couldn't fetch up
your'n,--so let's say no more 'bout it."

"I'm always a-tellin' my wife that ar," said Captain Kittridge; "she's
always wantin' to make everybody over after her pattern."

"Cap'n Kittridge, I don't think you need to speak," resumed his wife.
"When such a loud providence is a-knockin' at your door, I think you'd
better be a-searchin' your own heart,--here it is the eleventh hour, and
you hain't come into the Lord's vineyard yet."

"Oh! come, come, Mis' Kittridge, don't twit a feller afore folks," said
the Captain. "I'm goin' over to Harpswell Neck this blessed minute after
the minister to 'tend the funeral,--so we'll let him preach."




CHAPTER VIII

THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN


Life on any shore is a dull affair,--ever degenerating into commonplace;
and this may account for the eagerness with which even a great calamity
is sometimes accepted in a neighborhood, as affording wherewithal to
stir the deeper feelings of our nature. Thus, though Mrs. Kittridge was
by no means a hard-hearted woman, and would not for the world have had a
ship wrecked on her particular account, yet since a ship had been
wrecked and a body floated ashore at her very door, as it were, it
afforded her no inconsiderable satisfaction to dwell on the details and
to arrange for the funeral.

It was something to talk about and to think of, and likely to furnish
subject-matter for talk for years to come when she should go out to tea
with any of her acquaintances who lived at Middle Bay, or Maquoit, or
Harpswell Neck. For although in those days,--the number of light-houses
being much smaller than it is now,--it was no uncommon thing for ships
to be driven on shore in storms, yet this incident had undeniably more
that was stirring and romantic in it than any within the memory of any
tea-table gossip in the vicinity. Mrs. Kittridge, therefore, looked
forward to the funeral services on Sunday afternoon as to a species of
solemn fÃªte, which imparted a sort of consequence to her dwelling and
herself. Notice of it was to be given out in "meeting" after service,
and she might expect both keeping-room and kitchen to be full. Mrs.
Pennel had offered to do her share of Christian and neighborly
kindness, in taking home to her own dwelling the little boy. In fact, it
became necessary to do so in order to appease the feelings of the little
Mara, who clung to the new acquisition with most devoted fondness, and
wept bitterly when he was separated from her even for a few moments.
Therefore, in the afternoon of the day when the body was found, Mrs.
Pennel, who had come down to assist, went back in company with Aunt Ruey
and the two children.

The September evening set in brisk and chill, and the cheerful fire that
snapped and roared up the ample chimney of Captain Kittridge's kitchen
was a pleasing feature. The days of our story were before the advent of
those sullen gnomes, the "air-tights," or even those more sociable and
cheery domestic genii, the cooking-stoves. They were the days of the
genial open kitchen-fire, with the crane, the pot-hooks, and
trammels,--where hissed and boiled the social tea-kettle, where steamed
the huge dinner-pot, in whose ample depths beets, carrots, potatoes, and
turnips boiled in jolly sociability with the pork or corned beef which
they were destined to flank at the coming meal.

On the present evening, Miss Roxy sat bolt upright, as was her wont, in
one corner of the fireplace, with her spectacles on her nose, and an
unwonted show of candles on the little stand beside her, having resumed
the task of the silk dress which had been for a season interrupted. Mrs.
Kittridge, with her spectacles also mounted, was carefully and warily
"running-up breadths," stopping every few minutes to examine her work,
and to inquire submissively of Miss Roxy if "it will do?"

Captain Kittridge sat in the other corner busily whittling on a little
boat which he was shaping to please Sally, who sat on a low stool by his
side with her knitting, evidently more intent on what her father was
producing than on the evening task of "ten bouts," which her mother
exacted before she could freely give her mind to anything on her own
account. As Sally was rigorously sent to bed exactly at eight o'clock,
it became her to be diligent if she wished to do anything for her own
amusement before that hour.

And in the next room, cold and still, was lying that faded image of
youth and beauty which the sea had so strangely given up. Without a
name, without a history, without a single accompaniment from which her
past could even be surmised,--there she lay, sealed in eternal silence.

"It's strange," said Captain Kittridge, as he whittled away,--"it's very
strange we don't find anything more of that ar ship. I've been all up
and down the beach a-lookin'. There was a spar and some broken bits of
boards and timbers come ashore down on the beach, but nothin' to speak
of."

"It won't be known till the sea gives up its dead," said Miss Roxy,
shaking her head solemnly, "and there'll be a great givin' up then, I'm
a-thinkin'."

"Yes, indeed," said Mrs. Kittridge, with an emphatic nod.

"Father," said Sally, "how many, many things there must be at the bottom
of the sea,--so many ships are sunk with all their fine things on board.
Why don't people contrive some way to go down and get them?"

"They do, child," said Captain Kittridge; "they have diving-bells, and
men go down in 'em with caps over their faces, and long tubes to get the
air through, and they walk about on the bottom of the ocean."

"Did you ever go down in one, father?"

"Why, yes, child, to be sure; and strange enough it was, to be sure.
There you could see great big sea critters, with ever so many eyes and
long arms, swimming right up to catch you, and all you could do would be
to muddy the water on the bottom, so they couldn't see you."

"I never heard of that, Cap'n Kittridge," said his wife, drawing herself
up with a reproving coolness.

"Wal', Mis' Kittridge, you hain't heard of everything that ever
happened," said the Captain, imperturbably, "though you do know a
sight."

"And how does the bottom of the ocean look, father?" said Sally.

"Laws, child, why trees and bushes grow there, just as they do on land;
and great plants,--blue and purple and green and yellow, and lots of
great pearls lie round. I've seen 'em big as chippin'-birds' eggs."

"Cap'n Kittridge!" said his wife.

"I have, and big as robins' eggs, too, but them was off the coast of
Ceylon and Malabar, and way round the Equator," said the Captain,
prudently resolved to throw his romance to a sufficient distance.

"It's a pity you didn't get a few of them pearls," said his wife, with
an indignant appearance of scorn.

"I did get lots on 'em, and traded 'em off to the Nabobs in the interior
for Cashmere shawls and India silks and sich," said the Captain,
composedly; "and brought 'em home and sold 'em at a good figure, too."

"Oh, father!" said Sally, earnestly, "I wish you had saved just one or
two for us."

"Laws, child, I wish now I had," said the Captain, good-naturedly. "Why,
when I was in India, I went up to Lucknow, and Benares, and round, and
saw all the Nabobs and Biggums,--why, they don't make no more of gold
and silver and precious stones than we do of the shells we find on the
beach. Why, I've seen one of them fellers with a diamond in his turban
as big as my fist."

"Cap'n Kittridge, what are you telling?" said his wife once more.

"Fact,--as big as my fist," said the Captain, obdurately; "and all the
clothes he wore was jist a stiff crust of pearls and precious stones. I
tell you, he looked like something in the Revelations,--a real New
Jerusalem look he had."

"I call that ar talk wicked, Cap'n Kittridge, usin' Scriptur' that ar
way," said his wife.

"Why, don't it tell about all sorts of gold and precious stones in the
Revelations?" said the Captain; "that's all I meant. Them ar countries
off in Asia ain't like our'n,--stands to reason they shouldn't be;
them's Scripture countries, and everything is different there."

"Father, didn't you ever get any of those splendid things?" said Sally.

"Laws, yes, child. Why, I had a great green ring, an emerald, that one
of the princes giv' me, and ever so many pearls and diamonds. I used to
go with 'em rattlin' loose in my vest pocket. I was young and gay in
them days, and thought of bringin' of 'em home for the gals, but somehow
I always got opportunities for swappin' of 'em off for goods and sich.
That ar shawl your mother keeps in her camfire chist was what I got for
one on 'em."

"Well, well," said Mrs. Kittridge, "there's never any catchin' you,
'cause you've been where we haven't."

"You've caught me once, and that ought'r do," said the Captain, with
unruffled good-nature. "I tell you, Sally, your mother was the
handsomest gal in Harpswell in them days."

"I should think you was too old for such nonsense, Cap'n," said Mrs.
Kittridge, with a toss of her head, and a voice that sounded far less
inexorable than her former admonition. In fact, though the old Captain
was as unmanageable under his wife's fireside rÃ©gime as any brisk old
cricket that skipped and sang around the hearth, and though he hopped
over all moral boundaries with a cheerful alertness of conscience that
was quite discouraging, still there was no resisting the spell of his
inexhaustible good-nature.

By this time he had finished the little boat, and to Sally's great
delight, began sailing it for her in a pail of water.

"I wonder," said Mrs. Kittridge, "what's to be done with that ar child.
I suppose the selectmen will take care on't; it'll be brought up by the
town."

"I shouldn't wonder," said Miss Roxy, "if Cap'n Pennel should adopt it."

"You don't think so," said Mrs. Kittridge. "'Twould be taking a great
care and expense on their hands at their time of life."

"I wouldn't want no better fun than to bring up that little shaver,"
said Captain Kittridge; "he's a bright un, I promise you."

"You, Cap'n Kittridge! I wonder you can talk so," said his wife. "It's
an awful responsibility, and I wonder you don't think whether or no
you're fit for it."

"Why, down here on the shore, I'd as lives undertake a boy as a
Newfoundland pup," said the Captain. "Plenty in the sea to eat, drink,
and wear. That ar young un may be the staff of their old age yet."

"You see," said Miss Roxy, "I think they'll adopt it to be company for
little Mara; they're bound up in her, and the little thing pines bein'
alone."

"Well, they make a real graven image of that ar child," said Mrs.
Kittridge, "and fairly bow down to her and worship her."

"Well, it's natural," said Miss Roxy. "Besides, the little thing is
cunnin'; she's about the cunnin'est little crittur that I ever saw, and
has such enticin' ways."

The fact was, as the reader may perceive, that Miss Roxy had been thawed
into an unusual attachment for the little Mara, and this affection was
beginning to spread a warming element though her whole being. It was as
if a rough granite rock had suddenly awakened to a passionate
consciousness of the beauty of some fluttering white anemone that
nestled in its cleft, and felt warm thrills running through all its
veins at every tender motion and shadow. A word spoken against the
little one seemed to rouse her combativeness. Nor did Dame Kittridge
bear the child the slightest ill-will, but she was one of those
naturally care-taking people whom Providence seems to design to perform
the picket duties for the rest of society, and who, therefore, challenge
everybody and everything to stand and give an account of themselves.
Miss Roxy herself belonged to this class, but sometimes found herself so
stoutly overhauled by the guns of Mrs. Kittridge's battery, that she
could only stand modestly on the defensive.

One of Mrs. Kittridge's favorite hobbies was education, or, as she
phrased it, the "fetchin' up" of children, which she held should be
performed to the letter of the old stiff rule. In this manner she had
already trained up six sons, who were all following their fortunes upon
the seas, and, on this account, she had no small conceit of her
abilities; and when she thought she discerned a lamb being left to frisk
heedlessly out of bounds, her zeal was stirred to bring it under proper
sheepfold regulations.

"Come, Sally, it's eight o'clock," said the good woman.

Sally's dark brows lowered over her large, black eyes, and she gave an
appealing look to her father.

"Law, mother, let the child sit up a quarter of an hour later, jist for
once."

"Cap'n Kittridge, if I was to hear to you, there'd never be no rule in
this house. Sally, you go 'long this minute, and be sure you put your
knittin' away in its place."

The Captain gave a humorous nod of submissive good-nature to his
daughter as she went out. In fact, putting Sally to bed was taking away
his plaything, and leaving him nothing to do but study faces in the
coals, or watch the fleeting sparks which chased each other in flocks
up the sooty back of the chimney.

It was Saturday night, and the morrow was Sunday,--never a very pleasant
prospect to the poor Captain, who, having, unfortunately, no spiritual
tastes, found it very difficult to get through the day in compliance
with his wife's views of propriety, for he, alas! soared no higher in
his aims.

"I b'lieve, on the hull, Polly, I'll go to bed, too," said he, suddenly
starting up.

"Well, father, your clean shirt is in the right-hand corner of the upper
drawer, and your Sunday clothes on the back of the chair by the bed."

The fact was that the Captain promised himself the pleasure of a long
conversation with Sally, who nestled in the trundle-bed under the
paternal couch, to whom he could relate long, many-colored yarns,
without the danger of interruption from her mother's sharp,
truth-seeking voice.

A moralist might, perhaps, be puzzled exactly what account to make of
the Captain's disposition to romancing and embroidery. In all real,
matter-of-fact transactions, as between man and man, his word was as
good as another's, and he was held to be honest and just in his
dealings. It was only when he mounted the stilts of foreign travel that
his paces became so enormous. Perhaps, after all, a rude poetic and
artistic faculty possessed the man. He might have been a humbler phase
of the "mute, inglorious Milton." Perhaps his narrations required the
privileges and allowances due to the inventive arts generally. Certain
it was that, in common with other artists, he required an atmosphere of
sympathy and confidence in which to develop himself fully; and, when
left alone with children, his mind ran such riot, that the bounds
between the real and unreal became foggier than the banks of
Newfoundland.

The two women sat up, and the night wore on apace, while they kept
together that customary vigil which it was thought necessary to hold
over the lifeless casket from which an immortal jewel had recently been
withdrawn.

"I re'lly did hope," said Mrs. Kittridge, mournfully, "that this 'ere
solemn Providence would have been sent home to the Cap'n's mind; but he
seems jist as light and triflin' as ever."

"There don't nobody see these 'ere things unless they's effectually
called," said Miss Roxy, "and the Cap'n's time ain't come."

"It's gettin' to be t'ward the eleventh hour," said Mrs. Kittridge, "as
I was a-tellin' him this afternoon."

"Well," said Miss Roxy, "you know

    "'While the lamp holds out to burn,
    The vilest sinner may return.'"

"Yes, I know that," said Mrs. Kittridge, rising and taking up the
candle. "Don't you think, Aunt Roxy, we may as well give a look in there
at the corpse?"

It was past midnight as they went together into the keeping-room. All
was so still that the clash of the rising tide and the ticking of the
clock assumed that solemn and mournful distinctness which even tones
less impressive take on in the night-watches. Miss Roxy went
mechanically through with certain arrangements of the white drapery
around the cold sleeper, and uncovering the face and bust for a moment,
looked critically at the still, unconscious countenance.

"Not one thing to let us know who or what she is," she said; "that boy,
if he lives, would give a good deal to know, some day."

"What is it one's duty to do about this bracelet?" said Mrs. Kittridge,
taking from a drawer the article in question, which had been found on
the beach in the morning.

"Well, I s'pose it belongs to the child, whatever it's worth," said Miss
Roxy.

"Then if the Pennels conclude to take him, I may as well give it to
them," said Mrs. Kittridge, laying it back in the drawer.

Miss Roxy folded the cloth back over the face, and the two went out into
the kitchen. The fire had sunk low--the crickets were chirruping
gleefully. Mrs. Kittridge added more wood, and put on the tea-kettle
that their watching might be refreshed by the aid of its talkative and
inspiring beverage. The two solemn, hard-visaged women drew up to each
other by the fire, and insensibly their very voices assumed a tone of
drowsy and confidential mystery.

"If this 'ere poor woman was hopefully pious, and could see what was
goin' on here," said Mrs. Kittridge, "it would seem to be a comfort to
her that her child has fallen into such good hands. It seems a'most a
pity she couldn't know it."

"How do you know she don't?" said Miss Roxy, brusquely.

"Why, you know the hymn," said Mrs. Kittridge, quoting those somewhat
saddusaical lines from the popular psalm-book:--

    "'The living know that they must die,
    But all the dead forgotten lie--
    Their memory and their senses gone,
    Alike unknowing and unknown.'"

"Well, I don't know 'bout that," said Miss Roxy, flavoring her cup of
tea; "hymn-book ain't Scriptur', and I'm pretty sure that ar ain't true
always;" and she nodded her head as if she could say more if she chose.

Now Miss Roxy's reputation of vast experience in all the facts relating
to those last fateful hours, which are the only certain event in every
human existence, caused her to be regarded as a sort of Delphic oracle
in such matters, and therefore Mrs. Kittridge, not without a share of
the latent superstition to which each human heart must confess at some
hours, drew confidentially near to Miss Roxy, and asked if she had
anything particular on her mind.

"Well, Mis' Kittridge," said Miss Roxy, "I ain't one of the sort as
likes to make a talk of what I've seen, but mebbe if I was, I've seen
some things as remarkable as anybody. I tell you, Mis' Kittridge,
folks don't tend the sick and dyin' bed year in and out, at all hours,
day and night, and not see some remarkable things; that's my opinion."

"Well, Miss Roxy, did you ever see a sperit?"

"I won't say as I have, and I won't say as I haven't," said Miss Roxy;
"only as I have seen some remarkable things."

There was a pause, in which Mrs. Kittridge stirred her tea, looking
intensely curious, while the old kitchen-clock seemed to tick with one
of those fits of loud insistence which seem to take clocks at times when
all is still, as if they had something that they were getting ready to
say pretty soon, if nobody else spoke.

But Miss Roxy evidently had something to say, and so she began:--

"Mis' Kittridge, this 'ere's a very particular subject to be talkin'
of. I've had opportunities to observe that most haven't, and I don't
care if I jist say to you, that I'm pretty sure spirits that has left
the body do come to their friends sometimes."

The clock ticked with still more empressement, and Mrs. Kittridge
glared through the horn bows of her glasses with eyes of eager
curiosity.

"Now, you remember Cap'n Titcomb's wife, that died fifteen years ago
when her husband had gone to Archangel; and you remember that he took
her son John out with him--and of all her boys, John was the one she
was particular sot on."

"Yes, and John died at Archangel; I remember that."

"Jes' so," said Miss Roxy, laying her hand on Mrs. Kittridge's; "he died
at Archangel the very day his mother died, and jist the hour, for the
Cap'n had it down in his log-book."

"You don't say so!"

"Yes, I do. Well, now," said Miss Roxy, sinking her voice, "this 'ere
was remarkable. Mis' Titcomb was one of the fearful sort, tho' one of
the best women that ever lived. Our minister used to call her 'Mis'
Muchafraid'--you know, in the 'Pilgrim's Progress'--but he was satisfied
with her evidences, and told her so; she used to say she was 'afraid of
the dark valley,' and she told our minister so when he went out, that ar
last day he called; and his last words, as he stood with his hand on the
knob of the door, was 'Mis' Titcomb, the Lord will find ways to bring
you thro' the dark valley.' Well, she sunk away about three o'clock in
the morning. I remember the time, 'cause the Cap'n's chronometer watch
that he left with her lay on the stand for her to take her drops by. I
heard her kind o' restless, and I went up, and I saw she was struck with
death, and she looked sort o' anxious and distressed.

"'Oh, Aunt Roxy,' says she, 'it's so dark, who will go with me?' and in
a minute her whole face brightened up, and says she, 'John is going with
me,' and she jist gave the least little sigh and never breathed no
more--she jist died as easy as a bird. I told our minister of it next
morning, and he asked if I'd made a note of the hour, and I told him I
had, and says he, 'You did right, Aunt Roxy.'"

"What did he seem to think of it?"

"Well, he didn't seem inclined to speak freely. 'Miss Roxy,' says he,
'all natur's in the Lord's hands, and there's no saying why he uses this
or that; them that's strong enough to go by faith, he lets 'em, but
there's no saying what he won't do for the weak ones.'"

"Wa'n't the Cap'n overcome when you told him?" said Mrs. Kittridge.

"Indeed he was; he was jist as white as a sheet."

Miss Roxy now proceeded to pour out another cup of tea, and having mixed
and flavored it, she looked in a weird and sibylline manner across it,
and inquired,--

"Mis' Kittridge, do you remember that ar Mr. Wadkins that come to
Brunswick twenty years ago, in President Averill's days?"

"Yes, I remember the pale, thin, long-nosed gentleman that used to sit
in President Averill's pew at church. Nobody knew who he was, or where
he came from. The college students used to call him Thaddeus of Warsaw.
Nobody knew who he was but the President, 'cause he could speak all the
foreign tongues--one about as well as another; but the President he knew
his story, and said he was a good man, and he used to stay to the
sacrament regular, I remember."

"Yes," said Miss Roxy, "he used to live in a room all alone, and keep
himself. Folks said he was quite a gentleman, too, and fond of reading."

"I heard Cap'n Atkins tell," said Mrs. Kittridge, "how they came to take
him up on the shores of Holland. You see, when he was somewhere in a
port in Denmark, some men come to him and offered him a pretty good sum
of money if he'd be at such a place on the coast of Holland on such a
day, and take whoever should come. So the Cap'n he went, and sure enough
on that day there come a troop of men on horseback down to the beach
with this man, and they all bid him good-by, and seemed to make much of
him, but he never told 'em nothin' on board ship, only he seemed kind o'
sad and pinin'."

"Well," said Miss Roxy; "Ruey and I we took care o' that man in his
last sickness, and we watched with him the night he died, and there was
something quite remarkable."

"Do tell now," said Mrs. Kittridge.

"Well, you see," said Miss Roxy, "he'd been low and poorly all day, kind
o' tossin' and restless, and a little light-headed, and the Doctor said
he thought he wouldn't last till morning, and so Ruey and I we set up
with him, and between twelve and one Ruey said she thought she'd jist
lop down a few minutes on the old sofa at the foot of the bed, and I
made me a cup of tea like as I'm a-doin' now, and set with my back to
him."

"Well?" said Mrs. Kittridge, eagerly.

"Well, you see he kept a-tossin' and throwin' off the clothes, and I
kept a-gettin' up to straighten 'em; and once he threw out his arms, and
something bright fell out on to the pillow, and I went and looked, and
it was a likeness that he wore by a ribbon round his neck. It was a
woman--a real handsome one--and she had on a low-necked black dress, of
the cut they used to call Marie Louise, and she had a string of pearls
round her neck, and her hair curled with pearls in it, and very wide
blue eyes. Well, you see, I didn't look but a minute before he seemed to
wake up, and he caught at it and hid it in his clothes. Well, I went and
sat down, and I grew kind o' sleepy over the fire; but pretty soon I
heard him speak out very clear, and kind o' surprised, in a tongue I
didn't understand, and I looked round."

Miss Roxy here made a pause, and put another lump of sugar into her tea.

"Well?" said Mrs. Kittridge, ready to burst with curiosity.

"Well, now, I don't like to tell about these 'ere things, and you
mustn't never speak about it; but as sure as you live, Polly Kittridge,
I see that ar very woman standin' at the back of the bed, right in the
partin' of the curtains, jist as she looked in the pictur'--blue eyes
and curly hair and pearls on her neck, and black dress."

"What did you do?" said Mrs. Kittridge.

"Do? Why, I jist held my breath and looked, and in a minute it kind o'
faded away, and I got up and went to the bed, but the man was gone. He
lay there with the pleasantest smile on his face that ever you see; and
I woke up Ruey, and told her about it."

Mrs. Kittridge drew a long breath. "What do you think it was?"

"Well," said Miss Roxy, "I know what I think, but I don't think best to
tell. I told Doctor Meritts, and he said there were more things in
heaven and earth than folks knew about--and so I think."

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, on this same evening, the little Mara frisked like a
household fairy round the hearth of Zephaniah Pennel.

The boy was a strong-limbed, merry-hearted little urchin, and did full
justice to the abundant hospitalities of Mrs. Pennel's tea-table; and
after supper little Mara employed herself in bringing apronful after
apronful of her choicest treasures, and laying them down at his feet.
His great black eyes flashed with pleasure, and he gamboled about the
hearth with his new playmate in perfect forgetfulness, apparently, of
all the past night of fear and anguish.

When the great family Bible was brought out for prayers, and little Mara
composed herself on a low stool by her grandmother's side, he, however,
did not conduct himself as a babe of grace. He resisted all Miss Ruey's
efforts to make him sit down beside her, and stood staring with his
great, black, irreverent eyes during the Bible-reading, and laughed out
in the most inappropriate manner when the psalm-singing began, and
seemed disposed to mingle incoherent remarks of his own even in the
prayers.

"This is a pretty self-willed youngster," said Miss Ruey, as they rose
from the exercises, "and I shouldn't think he'd been used to religious
privileges."

"Perhaps not," said Zephaniah Pennel; "but who can say but what this
providence is a message of the Lord to us--such as Pharaoh's daughter
sent about Moses, 'Take this child, and bring him up for me'?"

"I'd like to take him, if I thought I was capable," said Mrs. Pennel,
timidly. "It seems a real providence to give Mara some company; the poor
child pines so for want of it."

"Well, then, Mary, if you say so, we will bring him up with our little
Mara," said Zephaniah, drawing the child toward him. "May the Lord bless
him!" he added, laying his great brown hands on the shining black curls
of the child.




CHAPTER IX

MOSES


Sunday morning rose clear and bright on Harpswell Bay. The whole sea was
a waveless, blue looking-glass, streaked with bands of white, and
flecked with sailing cloud-shadows from the skies above. Orr's Island,
with its blue-black spruces, its silver firs, its golden larches, its
scarlet sumachs, lay on the bosom of the deep like a great many-colored
gem on an enchanted mirror. A vague, dreamlike sense of rest and Sabbath
stillness seemed to brood in the air. The very spruce-trees seemed to
know that it was Sunday, and to point solemnly upward with their dusky
