for he knew that the first requisite of success was confidence.

"I hope so," said Bailey. "I would rather any other fellow in the
school should beat you than Nevers. It will be a feather in his cap."

"Don't croak, Bailey. Just believe that we shall beat, and we shall."

"I hope we shall. Nevers first got ahead of all the fellows in boating.
His success elected him to his first office in the company, and if he
beats you in this race, he will be captain at the next election. The
boys will all stand by the fellow that beats in any thing."

"There, Bailey, if you say another word, I shall wish I had chosen some
other fellow. You will defeat us if you keep on croaking," added the
coxswain, earnestly.

"I'm not croaking. I only want you to understand what you have got to
do; and I will do all I can to help you win the race. What are you
going up here for?" demanded Bailey, as the boat's bow was pointed down
the river, which was the outlet of the lake.

"You ask too many questions, Bailey. If you will leave this thing to
me, I will agree to whip Nevers all to pieces," said Richard, who did
not like the discipline on board the Emma.

"All right, Grant. Let him alone, Bailey," said one of the boys in the
middle of the boat.

"Where's the other boat?" asked Richard. "I see her; she has gone up
the lake. That's just what I wanted her to do. I have a little business
to do here before we go into the race."

He ordered the crew to cease rowing, and, to the surprise of his
companions, ran the boat up to the shore. As he had intimated to them
that questions were not agreeable to him, they asked none, and waited
patiently till his movements should explain themselves.

"Now, Bailey, will you go up to the store-house, and bring down some
black lead, and the brushes they use to clean the stoves. Don't let any
body see you, and don't say a word to any one."

Bailey did not very clearly understand what this request had to do with
winning the race, but he ran off with all haste to execute the mission
intrusted to him. While he was gone, Richard improved the opportunity
to develop his system of rowing to his companions. He had attended a
great many boat races on the Hudson, had belonged to a boat club in
Whitestone, and had clear ideas upon all matters connected with the
business of boating.

On the return of the messenger, the articles he had brought were thrown
into the stern sheets, and the boat shoved off. Again, to the surprise
of the crew, Richard took them down the river, half a mile, till they
came to a sandy shore, where he grounded the Emma.

"Now, tumble out, fellows," said Richard, "and take your oars with
you."

The boys wondered more than before at the singular proceedings of the
coxswain, and Bailey so far overcame his respect for discipline again,
as to suggest that they should have no time to practise with the oars,
if they spent the precious moments in this stupid manner.

"Shut up, Bailey; I have more to lose in this race than you have," said
Richard, rather curtly. "If the fellows don't believe in me for this
business, I am willing to step one side, and let any other one take
hold who thinks he can do it better than I can."

"Go ahead, Grant!" shouted the crew. "We are all satisfied, and so is
Bailey."

"I won't speak another word, Grant," said Bailey. "I only wish I had as
much confidence as you have."

"Bear a hand lively, my lads," added Richard, as he seized the painter
of the boat; "I want to get her out of the water."

The boys took hold with a will, and the Emma was soon placed high and
dry upon the beach. She was then turned over.

"There, fellows," said Richard, as he pointed to the foul bottom of the
boat, "do you expect to win a race with the craft in that condition? In
fifteen minutes we will have her in the water again, as clean as a
lady's parlor."

By direction of the coxswain, the crew fell to scrubbing the bottom of
the boat with an earnestness and zeal which soon removed every trace of
moss and grass. She was then permitted to dry for a short time, and the
bright October sun soon completed their work. The bottom was then
covered over with black lead, and rubbed with the brushes till it shone
like a newly-polished stove. The boys used their muscle upon the
brushes, being relieved every minute by fresh hands.

"Now, my lads, we are in condition to win the race. Shove her off,"
said Richard, whose energy inspired the whole party with resolution and
confidence.

The Emma was afloat again; the boys took their places, though not till
Richard had rearranged them by their weight, so that the boat was in
perfect trim when she started. For an hour and a half Richard trained
them in rowing, till the stroke exactly suited him, and they fully
understood all his signs and signals.

"Now, fellows, mind your eyes, and we are sure to win," said the
wide-awake coxswain, as the gun fired that was to call them to the
stake boat. "I never saw a better set of rowers in my life, and I am as
well satisfied with you as though we had been pulling together for a
year."

"Bully for you, Grant," said one of the boys at the bow.

The Emma pulled leisurely up to the large sail boat, on board of which
were the colonel, the assistant teachers, and as many of the boys as
she would comfortably accommodate.

"Are you all ready?" shouted the colonel, as the Alice and the Emma
took their stations.

"All ready, sir," replied Richard, cheerfully.

"All ready, sir," added Nevers, confidently.

Both parties were impatient for the contest to begin, and both were
almost certain of winning the victory. Even the boats seemed to share
in the spirit of their crews, and anxious to have the fetters removed
that they might bound away upon the errand of conquest. Each had
appropriate flags at the bow and stern, and one with a taste for boats
would have been delighted by the appearance of the trim craft.

"Ready for the signal!" shouted the colonel again.

"Down with that flag in the bow, Carter," said Richard to the bowman,
as he took down the color in the stern.

"What's that for?" asked one of the crew of the Emma.

"They hold the wind, and keep us back a little. We will be on the safe
side. Now, ready, fellows, and mind what I have said to you. Don't look
at the other boat till you can see her over our stern."

Nevers disdained to follow the example of his rival in removing his
flags, saying that he could beat him with his colors flying. Nevers
prided himself upon his skill in handling a boat, and he felt that the
opportunity had come which would enable him to triumph over the hated
usurper, as he considered Richard. He knew how much glory and honor
would be awarded to the conqueror in this race, and that if he could
beat his rival, scores of those fair-weather friends, who always attach
themselves to a rising man, would leave him.

The signal gun was on shore, and at a gesture from the colonel, it was
discharged. The report seemed to unloose the bonds which chained the
boats to their stations, and they bounded away. The crew of the Alice
bent to their oars with the most tremendous energy, while that of the
Emma seemed to be inspired by the cool and steady nerve of her
coxswain. They had been fully and thoroughly instructed in their duty.

The crowd of boys on the shore were silent and breathless with the
interest they felt in the exciting race; and when, before the boats had
gone a quarter of a mile, they discovered the Alice more than half a
length ahead of her companion, the jaws of Richard's friends dropped,
and their faces were as long as though a ten pound weight had been
fastened to the chin of each, while a smile of triumphant satisfaction
lighted up the faces of Nevers's well-wishers.

"Nevers has it!" exclaimed one of his intimates, as, when she rounded
Green Island, the Alice was found to be more than a length ahead of the
Emma.

"Not yet," said one of the other clique. "Let Dick Grant alone. He
knows what he is about. He don't half try yet."

The crew of the Emma could not yet see the Alice over the stern of the
boat, and we doubt not they shared the anxiety and despondency of their
friends on shore. But no sooner had the boats rounded the island, and
commenced on the home stretch, than Richard's vibrating body began
gradually to move more rapidly, and just in proportion as he increased
the movement, the Emma lessened the distance between herself and the
Alice.

"Steady, fellows; don't get excited. Dip a little deeper," said
Richard, in a quiet, cool tone. "We are doing splendidly, and you shall
see the Alice over the stern in about three minutes."

Nevers, as in the fight with his rival, began to be very much excited
when he saw that he was losing ground. He spoke quick and earnest words
to the crew of his boat, who had been doing their utmost from the
beginning, urging them to increase their exertions. Richard had not
permitted his crew to do their best at first, but had kept in their
muscles a reserve of strength for the final emergency. The party in the
Alice had no such reserve power, and their efforts to increase the
speed of the boat were put forth at the expense of a proper attention
to skill and precision.

The boats were now side by side, and they continued in this relative
position until they were within half a mile of the stake boat. The race
had become intensely exciting, and again the two cliques on shore were
breathless and silent with interest. Neither party had any thing to
indicate the success of its favorite.

Even yet Richard had not put his crew to their utmost. But the decisive
moment had arrived, and his body began to sway backward and forward
with increasing rapidity, and a quarter of a mile more gave him half a
boat-length's advantage over his rival.

"Steady, fellows; keep cool," said he, in a loud whisper. "Don't miss a
stroke, and make every one tell all it will. Now you see her over the
stern--but pull steady."

The Emma was a length ahead of the Alice when Richard finished these
remarks. The boats were within an eighth of a mile of the end of the
course, and the murmuring applause of the Grant party on shore began to
reach the ears of the contestants.

"Pull! Pull!" shouted Nevers, filled with rage and vexation. "Pull with
all your might, fellows. We can beat him yet, if you only stick to it."

He increased the rapidity of his motions, but his crew were unable to
keep up with him. Their stroke was unsteady; some of them forgot to
feather their oars, and some scarcely dipped the blades in the water.

"Steady!" said Richard, with more energy. "Mind your stroke. Keep both
eyes on me. Here we are!" shouted he, jumping up from his seat in the
stern, and giving the order to cease rowing.

The Emma flew by the stake boat two and a half lengths ahead of the
Alice, and a stunning roar of cheers from the shore and the sail boat
saluted the victors.

"Grant forever! Three cheers for Grant!" shouted Bailey, as the crew of
the Emma rose and made the welkin ring with their huzzas.




CHAPTER XVIII.

RICHARD WINS ANOTHER RACE, AND TUNBROOK IS MUTINOUS.


It was a proud moment for Richard Grant when he rose from the stern
sheets of the Emma, and found the Alice was two or three lengths
behind, and when he heard the shouts of his friends rend the air. It
was victory--another triumph over the Regulators, who had threatened to
make Tunbrook too hot to hold him. They did not get ahead very fast,
and he felt that his conquest over them was complete.

The hour of prosperity, of triumph, is the most dangerous period in the
experience of a young man. He is on the top of the wave, and he sees
not the dark abyss that yawns on either side of him. Truly we need
adversity to keep us from forgetting God and duty; to keep us from
forgetting that truth and justice are more mighty than mere success.

But when Richard came to Tunbrook, he came with a solemn resolution to
forsake the error of his ways, and find happiness in the path of
rectitude. Whatever success had attended him, he attributed to the
influence of this good resolution. He had manfully resisted temptation;
he had cured himself of several bad habits, and he had made good
progress in the conquest of himself. He had often felt an inclination
to resent with hard words and heavy blows the sneers of the Nevers
faction, but he had controlled himself; and each victory of principle
over inclination had made him stronger in his purpose to do right.

Bertha's answer to his letter, in which he had informed her of his
election to the post of sergeant, cautioned him against being too much
elated by his good fortune. She hoped his promotion would not make him
think too much of himself. When he realized that he had won a new
victory, when he heard the boys shouting his name, the words of his
sister came to his mind, and he determined to bear his honors meekly,
and to feel kindly towards Nevers and his friends.

As they pulled to the stake boat, Richard cautioned his crew not to
"crow" over the fellows in the other boat, for it was a friendly
contest, and he did not wish to see any ill feeling on either side. The
Alice was already alongside the sail boat. Nevers was in no enviable
frame of mind; he looked dark and sour, and Richard only bestowed one
glance upon him, lest his looks should be misconstrued.

"Grant, you have won the race," said Colonel Brockridge, as the Emma
came up. "I had no idea of such a result."

"Three cheers for Grant!" shouted an enthusiastic boy in the sail boat.

"No," added the principal, as he glanced at the crest-fallen coxswain
of the Alice, and saw that he was taking his defeat very hardly. "You
have cheered enough. We don't want any unkind feelings to grow out of
this affair. Nevers, you have been beaten, but----"

"I shouldn't have been, if I had had fair play," growled Nevers, whose
anger was manifest in his tones.

"Has there been any foul play?" demanded the colonel.

"Yes, sir, there has," replied Nevers, sharply.

"What was it?"

"The fellows in the Emma took her out of the water, cleaned her, and
covered her bottom with black lead."

"I don't see any unfair play in that. You had the right to use your
time for preparation as you wished," said the principal.

"He couldn't have beaten if his boat hadn't been in better condition,"
added Nevers.

"It is a good driver that keeps his horse in good condition. I think it
is rulable for each crew to prepare their boat as they think best."

"Well, he beat us by a trick. What did they go down the river for to
haul up their boat?"

"That is their business. I see you are not satisfied, Nevers."

"No, sir, I am not. I like to have fair play in these things."

"So do I," said the colonel, with a quiet smile, "and I think you had
better try this thing over again. Now, suppose you exchange boats, and
pull round once more, that we may see how much good the black lead did.
What do you say, Grant?"

"I am willing, sir," replied Richard.

"We are all fagged out, now, sir," interposed Nevers.

"I proposed this method to remove your objections to the race, Nevers.
You might have cleaned your boat, if you had been so disposed."

"I didn't think of it," snarled Nevers.

"If a general should get beaten because he did not think to bring up
his ammunition, or by neglecting any precaution, his want of
forethought would hardly be deemed a sufficient excuse. I should like
to have you exchange boats for a short pull, if you don't go round the
island."

"We are tired out, sir."

"The other crew have pulled the same distance you have," added the
principal.

"Try it, Nevers, try it," whispered Redman. "We shall be laughed at for
a month, if we don't. We will whip them this time."

"I am willing to try it, sir," said Nevers, though his words belied his
feelings.

Both crews were somewhat rested from the fatigue of the race, and they
exchanged places in the two boats, taking the positions assigned to
them.

"We shall get beat this time, sure," said Bailey.

"No, we won't," replied Richard.

"Well, if you say so, then we shall not. It would be the greatest thing
that ever was, if we should whip them again. It will show that black
lead isn't a great institution, after all."

"No, it won't. Those fellows don't pull worth a cent. If they can't do
better than they did before, we shall whip them all to pieces. Now,
mind what I told you; don't hurry, and keep cool."

The signal was given, and the two boats dashed off. The race was very
nearly a repetition of the first one. Richard kept a sufficient
quantity of muscle in reserve for the last half mile of the race, and
came in about a boat length ahead of the Emma. The one and a half
length's difference in the two races seemed precisely to indicate the
amount of virtue in black lead.



Again the thundering cheers of the Grant party reverberated over the
lake and through the grove. Nevers was astonished, as well as angry,
and his face was darker than ever.

"Are you satisfied now, Nevers?" asked the colonel, when the Alice and
the Emma came alongside the stake boat.

"Yes, sir," replied he, desperately; "but I don't understand it."

"I do," said the principal. "The other crew pull better than yours. I
never saw better pulling in my life than those fellows showed us. I
hope there is no hard feeling between you."

"No, sir," replied Nevers; but his looks and his tones belied his
words.

"He will pull us all down at this rate," muttered Redman, as the Emma
left the stake boat.

"Something must be done," added Nevers. "He has got half the fellows on
his side now."

"What shall we do?" asked Redman, who seemed to regard it as a hopeless
case.

"We'll fix him yet."

Some earnest conversation followed these remarks. It was carried on in
whispers, and entirely suspended when the Alice approached. The boats
were secured, and both crews landed.

"Grant, you have beaten me fairly, and there is my hand," said Nevers,
when the two coxswains met on shore.

Richard was utterly confounded by this show of good will on the part of
his rival. He took the proffered hand, and gave it a hearty pressure.

"Thank you, Nevers; it is very kind of you to treat me in this handsome
manner. I'm sure I don't feel any ill will toward you," replied
Richard.

"We will be friends, Grant, and perhaps you will tell me how this thing
was done?"

"With the greatest pleasure."

"You have some secret in rowing."

"I will tell you all I know about it, any time you please," said
Richard, frankly.

"Thank you; you are the first fellow that ever beat me rowing, and I
honor you for it, but I don't understand it. Shall we be friends now,
Grant?"

"With all my heart."

Richard could not have been more astonished if the sky had fallen, than
he was when his great enemy approached him with words of kindness and
conciliation. He could scarcely believe his senses; but there was
Nevers by his side, as good-natured as though he had won the race; and
more than this, the rival crews were suddenly on the most excellent
terms, and were fraternizing like brothers. Nevers had evidently given
up the point, and intended to withdraw all opposition to the
advancement of Richard.

Nevers and his friends seemed to be sincere, and the hatchet appeared
to have been actually buried. Richard was so well treated by them, that
he came to the conclusion that the Regulators had been dissolved, or at
least that they had turned their attention to some more promising field
of labor.

On the first of November, when the boys assembled for morning prayers,
the principal announced a new regulation, requiring every member of the
Institute to be in-doors during the off time, from seven till nine in
the evening. Before, they had been permitted to go where they pleased
during these hours, as long as they did not leave the estate. But some
of the boys had been seen in the village of Tunbrook after eight in the
evening; and all efforts to discover who they were had been unavailing.
The prohibition had been made to correct this evil.

When the new regulation was announced, there was a general murmur of
disapprobation among the students, for some of their best sport had
been enjoyed out of doors, after dark. No one ventured to remonstrate,
but the order was exceedingly unpopular.

"I won't stand it," said one and another, during the first recreation
hour in the afternoon. "It's too bad; it will spoil all our fun."

"The fellows are all agreed on this point," said Redman.

"I am willing to observe all reasonable regulations, but we might as
well go into a monastery as submit to this thing," added Nevers. "What
do you say, Grant?"

"I don't like it. We intended to have a first-rate game of foot ball
these moonlight evenings."

"There isn't a fellow in the school that likes it," said Redman.

"That's so," replied Bailey. "I don't see the use of the rule either."

"Nor I."

"Some of the fellows have been down to Tunbrook almost every night."

"What's that to us, as long as we didn't go?" said Bailey. "The
innocent ought not to be punished with the guilty."

"The colonel couldn't find out who they were," said Redman, with a kind
of chuckle. "No fellow would 'blow' on the others."

"It is easy enough to talk," said Bailey, "but what are you going to
do?"

"Do? Why, resist it, of course," replied Redman. "I am ready to do so,
for one. Let us all stay out to-night till nine o'clock."

"Agreed," added some of the larger boys.

"We shall get punished if we do," suggested Bailey.

"No matter. They will have to punish the whole crowd. The guard house
won't hold us all," replied Redman.

"Let us have a plan about it. We will get up a regular mutiny," said
Nevers. "If we can get a hundred fellows to go with us, we shall make
the old man cave in."

"Good, Nevers! Let all the fellows that will join meet under the big
oak by the river, at five o'clock, or as soon as we get out of school.
Let each fellow talk it round in a quiet way, but don't let the
teachers hear a word."

"Will you be there, Grant?" asked Nevers.

"I don't know. I will see."

"Don't know?" said Nevers. "Don't you see all the fellows are in for
it?"

"I will think of it," replied Richard, as he walked away.




CHAPTER XIX.

RICHARD IS DETERMINED, AND SOME ALLUSION IS MADE TO "WATERMELONS."


There had been a time when Richard Grant would have desired no better
fun than to engage in such a mutiny as that proposed by Nevers and
Redman; and he was not yet so far removed from his evil propensities as
to be able to decline the proposition. The boys of the Institute
believed they had a real grievance, for it seemed harsh and needless to
deprive them of some of their best hours for amusement. It looked just
as though the principal was angry because he could not ascertain who
had broken the rules of the school, and spitefully intended to punish
the innocent with the guilty.

Probably none of them intended to carry their opposition any farther
than to express their disapprobation of the new regulation. The colonel
was a universal favorite, and they had full confidence in his judgment
and his justice. Perhaps the desire to have a little fun and excitement
was the strongest motive that actuated them.

During the afternoon, the plan to redress their grievance was whispered
among the boys. "All the fellows were going to join the mutiny" was the
strongest inducement that could be used to obtain the consent of the
timid ones; and if "all were going to join," it would require a great
deal of moral courage to stand aloof from the scheme.

Richard was sorely perplexed. With the others, he felt that the new
regulation was arbitrary and unnecessary; and such a scrape as the boys
proposed was exactly in accordance with his antecedents. He wanted to
join for the fun of the thing, and because the rest of the boys were
going to do so. He did not like to be singular. Besides, he might
injure his popularity, and lose some of the influence he possessed, if
he refused to join.

The temptation was so strong that he could not at first resist it; and
though he did not positively promise to meet the others under the big
oak, he gave them some encouragement that he would do so. The little
time he had to think of the matter during the study and recreation
hours did not enable him to arrive at a conclusion; and at five
o'clock, when school was dismissed, he was still halting between two
opinions.

When he left the school room, he fixed his mind upon the question, and
began to discuss it in the most vigorous manner. He knew that any
resistance to the authorities of the school was wrong. Colonel
Brockridge had made the rule, and it was his duty to observe it. What
would Bertha say, after he had given her such a glowing account of his
success in overcoming temptation, when she was informed that he had
joined a mutiny?

"I'll keep my resolution!" said he, stamping his foot upon the ground
to emphasize his determination. "I'll stand out against the whole of
them."

Half past five came, and nearly every boy in the school had gone to the
appointed place. Richard sat on the bench at the foot of the flagstaff
on the parade ground, thinking whether his duty required him to do any
thing more than simply refuse to join the mutiny. Somehow, it entered
into his head that it was his duty to prevent the rebellion if he
could. It even occurred to him that he ought to inform Colonel
Brockridge of the intention of the students, and thus place himself on
the side of law and order; but he rejected this suggestion, it was so
utterly repugnant to his nature. He could not "tell tales out of
school." If any body's life, property, or happiness had been at stake,
he might have felt differently. Richard was a novice in advocating the
claims of law and order, of truth and justice; and he was more easily
satisfied than some would have been in a similar situation.

"While he was debating this matter with himself, Nevers, Bailey, and
Redman approached, and interrupted his meditations. They appeared to be
a committee appointed to wait upon him, and ascertain his views upon
the momentous question.

"You didn't come down," said Nevers.

"No; I have concluded not to join in the scrape," replied Richard,
gravely.

"Why not?"

"Because I don't think it is right; and I think if we speak to the
colonel about the matter, he will make it all right."

"I tell you, Grant, he has no right to make such a regulation," added
Nevers, with energy; "and I, for one, am not going to beg him not to do
that which he has no right to do."

"Come, Grant, you are almost the only fellow in the school who won't
join the mutiny," said Redman.

"The fellows are all in for it, and you had better come," added Bailey.

"No; I won't join," replied Richard, decidedly.

"Come down to the grove, whether you join or not," suggested Nevers.

"I am willing to go down to the grove, but I shall not go in for this
scrape."

"Come along, then."

The boys walked over to the grove, the committee using all their
eloquence and logic to induce Richard to change his mind; but thus far
he remained firm and loyal to his good resolution. His arrival at the
grove created a sensation, for it seemed to be evidence that he was to
form one of the party.

The position of Richard Grant on the present occasion was so novel that
he could hardly believe in his own identity. Like the old woman with
the little pig, it did not seem to be he that was refusing an
invitation to join in a scrape so harmless as the one proposed; and he
almost needed an introduction to himself.

But Richard was himself, truly himself--himself in the highest and
noblest sense. His determination to keep his resolution seemed to
create around him an atmosphere of purity, and the more he breathed it,
the firmer and the stronger he became. The boys exhorted him singly, in
couples, and by squads, to join the foolish enterprise, but without
effect.

"Better come with us, Grant," said Nevers. "We have got a first-rate
plan, and we shall have a tip-top time."

"I have fully made up my mind not to go," replied Richard.

"I shall not go, if Grant doesn't," added Bailey.

"Nor I," said another.

"Back out--will you?" sneered Nevers, his face darkening with an
expression of anger.

"I said I would join if Grant did," replied Bailey, stung by the
reproach.

Most of the boys were silent for a time, for the decided and unexpected
stand taken by Richard, the favorite of the school, altered the
complexion of the whole affair. This silence was succeeded by a more
unequivocal demonstration. One after another followed the example of
Bailey, and deserted the bad cause, till Richard found himself no
longer alone, but supported by at least thirty of the best fellows in
the Institute; and then they began to come over in squads.

"You are the meanest set of cowards I ever saw in my life," exclaimed
Nevers, bitterly, when the enterprise appeared to be fully nipped in
the bud.

"Grant is right," several of the boys replied.

"Grant!" sneered Nevers, angrily. "He wasn't always so nice as he is
now."

"That's so," said Redman, as he placed himself by the side of the
bully. "We know a thing or two about Grant, before he became pious."

"What do you mean by pious?" demanded Richard, stepping up to the
speaker; and as he did so, his fists were involuntarily clinched.

"Watermelons!" replied Redman, vindictively.

"Watermelons!" added Nevers.

"Watermelons!" responded a dozen or more of the large boys, who had
gathered around Redman.

"Do you walk in your sleep any now, Grant?" said Redman, with a mocking
laugh. "You wasn't pious then."

Richard was so mortified and confused by these taunts that he wished
the earth might open and hide him from the exulting gaze of his
assailants. His blood boiled with shame and indignation, and more than
ever before he realized that "the way of the transgressor is hard." His
first impulse was to rush upon his dastardly foes, and crush them
beneath the weight of his strong arm.

Most of the boys looked at each other with astonishment, wondering what
could be meant by "watermelons," and walking in his sleep. It was
evident to Richard that only a few of his companions understood the
reflections cast upon him. There he stood, trembling, as it were, in
the balance, and ready to be carried up or down by this new and most
terrible trial--up into a higher sphere of virtue, or down into a
deeper degradation than any he had yet fathomed.

