I explained to her how this was done. There were two doors opening into
the cuddy, one on each side of the mainmast, with a slide over each.
Outside of these doors were two round holes, which I had sawed in the
bulkhead for ventilation. By reaching the arm through one of these
apertures the slide could be locked. I fastened Kate into the cuddy, and
then gave her the key, with which she opened the door without difficulty
herself.

"I shall keep a good lookout for you," said I, as I pulled my tender
alongside.

"I am not a bit afraid, Ernest Thornton," replied she. "I shall pray for
you, and thank God for giving me such a good friend."

"Good night," I added, speaking through the round hole.

"Good night; and don't worry about me," replied she.

So far as her comfort was concerned, there was not the least need of
worrying about her, for the cabin of the Splash was a miniature parlor.
There were two good hair mattresses in the berths, with plenty of
bed-clothes. The floor was carpeted, and there was every convenience
which so small an apartment could contain. I had slept there for a week
together; and when my uncle had banished me from his house, I had
intended to live on board of her all the time, and earn my living by
carrying out parties. So long as no one disturbed her, I had no fears in
regard to my guest in the boat.

But I was very much troubled about the final disposal of her. It would
not be safe for her to go to New York alone. It might be several days
before she found her uncle, and it was not proper to subject a young
girl like her to the perils of the great city without a protector. I had
no objection to making a trip to New York myself. The spring vacation
would commence on the following Monday, and I could be absent from home
a whole week without being missed, if I kept the Splash out of sight,
for my uncle would suppose I was off on a cruise in her.

This plan pleased me, and I determined to carry it out. School kept but
two days more before the vacation, and if I could only keep Kate out of
sight till Monday, everything would work well. The financial question
was not a difficult one to manage. I calculated that about thirty
dollars would pay the expenses of the trip to the metropolis; and uncle
Amos would give me this sum or more, without asking a single question. I
had about ten dollars on hand, which would be a sufficient margin for
contingencies.

The whole matter was as luminous now as youth and enthusiasm could wish;
and I went to my chamber satisfied that I had solved the problem. It
seemed to me that the only possible obstacle to the complete success of
my scheme would be the interference of Mrs. Loraine and her friends. In
the morning, at farthest, the search for the escaped prisoner would be
commenced. But I could do nothing to provide against emergencies in this
direction. I could only wait till I saw how "the land lay" in the
morning, and then trust to my own skill and dash to overcome the
difficulties as they presented themselves. In my prayers I remembered
poor Kate, and asked the blessing of Heaven upon her. I felt sure that
the Good Father would help me to save her from the cruel persecution to
which she was subjected. Having thus commended myself and Kate to the
care of Him who watches over the innocent, I turned over and went to
sleep.

My slumber was soon disturbed by a violent pounding at the front door of
the cottage, which was just beneath my window. I leaped up in the bed
and listened. They were not doubtful sounds that I heard, and they
appeared to be made by the heel of a heavy boot. The person who demanded
admission to the cottage at that unseemly hour was evidently in earnest,
and the door groaned under the vigorous assaults he made upon it. Of
course I could not be uncertain in regard to the errand of the midnight
visitor--for such the striking of the clock in the hall below now
assured me he was. "The tug of war" was at hand, and I was to be called
upon at once to "face the music."

I decided not to be forward in meeting the messenger from Mrs. Loraine,
whoever he was. It was possible, if not probable, that she had sent the
deputy sheriff after me; and this terrible official might hurry me off
from my bed to a cell in the Cannondale lockup, heedless of the fact
that I was found in another county. If I was arrested, what would become
of poor Kate? The cold sweat stood on my brow as I thought of her. But I
came to the conclusion that I would not be arrested by any deputy
sheriff, or any one else, if I could possibly avoid it; and it was a
satisfaction for me to hear the wind piping merrily at my window, for
that would give heels to the Splash, if a hurried departure became
necessary.




CHAPTER VI.

IN WHICH ERNEST GETS AN IDEA.


THE knocking at the door of the cottage was continued almost without
intermission. The visitor was evidently endowed with only a small
portion of the necessary virtue of patience, for when he ceased pounding
for an instant, it was only to curse and swear at the heaviness of the
sleepers within. I was sure that old Jerry and Betsey, who slept in the
rear of the house, would not hear the summons, even if the imperative
messenger broke the door down; but I was rather surprised that my uncle,
who, I always supposed, slept with one eye open, if he ever slept at
all, did not answer the call more promptly.

I got out of bed, and looked out at the window, hoping to obtain a sight
of the visitor; but the night was too dark for me to distinguish his
form or features. Again he swore, and again he hammered away at the
door. What they do in New Jersey when it rains is to let it rain; and
what I did when he pounded was to let him pound. I was perfectly
willing he should pound; I even hoped that he enjoyed it. In spite of
the anxiety I felt for poor Kate, I could not help laughing at the
ludicrous earnestness with which he swore and pounded. Like most men, my
uncle was cool when he was not excited; and as there had been nothing on
the present occasion to excite him, I suppose he was cool. Doubtless he
stopped to dress himself before he answered the summons. Very likely the
dread necessity of speaking to the visitor appalled him, and he desired
to postpone the trying ordeal as long as possible.

I am obliged to acknowledge my belief that Mrs. Loraine's messenger was
exceedingly unreasonable, for he did not intermit his hammering long
enough to ascertain whether any one was coming to the door or not. What
was not more than five minutes in fact, might have seemed to be half an
hour to him. Within as short a time as could have been properly
expected, I heard the door of my uncle's library open, and uneasily I
listened for the result. The bolt on the front door creaked and grated.
The door opened with difficulty, and while my uncle was tugging at it, I
lifted the sash of my window a couple of inches, that I might hear what
passed.

The door swung back, and I put my head to the window to catch the first
words that were spoken. Of course my uncle was not the first to utter
them; he seldom spoke, and never was surprised into speaking, even on an
emergency.

"Well, governor," said the messenger, crustily, "you sleep like a rock.
Where is that confounded boy of yours?"

"In bed," replied my uncle.

"Rout him out; I want him," continued the visitor, pushing his way into
the house.

This movement prevented me from hearing what followed immediately; but I
hastened to my door, hoping to catch a word which would enable me to
determine who the person was.

"The young villain has run away with Mrs. Loraine's step-daughter," I
heard him say, as I opened the door wide enough to permit me to catch
the sound. "I tell you, governor, you must get rid of the young
vagabond, or he will swamp the whole of us."

"Hush! he will hear you," said uncle Amos.

"No matter. I have pounded away hard enough to wake the dead. If that
didn't rouse him, nothing will," added the messenger, gruffly.

"Silence!"

"I have had about enough of this thing," continued the rough visitor.
"You insist on keeping the whelp here, when you know he is a bombshell
in your path and mine. Why don't you send him to sea, and let him get
drowned?"

"Be still, Thomas," replied my uncle, in a whisper.

"I won't be still, governor. The vagabond has run away with that girl,
and--"

They passed into the dining-room, and I could not hear the rest of the
sentence. The visitor was Tom Thornton, for my uncle called him Thomas.
I was a vagabond, and a bombshell in the path of both of them. Tom
called my uncle "governor," and this indicated that he was his son. I
half suspected this before, but it was news to me to learn that I was
regarded as a dangerous young man. Why was I dangerous? I had not done
anything to imperil the life or the fortunes of either of them.

My uncle would not tell me anything about my father, or my mother, save
that the latter was insane and the inmate of an asylum. Now, Tom
objected because I had not been sent to sea to be drowned! They were
talking about me down stairs, and I slipped on my pants, and crept down
the stairs. I found that they had entered my uncle's library, and the
spring lock on the door had fastened it. I listened, but I could not
distinguish what was said.

I was determined not to be balked in my purpose, for this was an
opportunity which might not occur again for years to obtain some clew to
my own affairs. In fact, I had resolutely resolved to SEEK AND FIND my
mother, who was still living; and I wanted information.

The library of my uncle was contained in an addition to the house which
had been erected after the completion of the original structure. It was
on the end of the house, and could be reached only through his chamber.
The roof was flat, and covered with tin plates. On the side fronting
the lake there was a bay window. The middle sash was generally open at
the top in warm weather, as I had no doubt it was at the present time.

I stole softly up stairs to my chamber, from which one of the windows
opened upon the flat roof over the library. I raised this window, and
crawled like a cat over to the bay window, the top of which was
considerably lower than the roof. Lying down on the projection, I placed
my head near the top of the window. I was rejoiced to find that I could
hear the voices of the occupants of the room below me. More than this, a
lucky thought, as I regarded it, occurred to me as I lay there. The
window was pulled down at the top, and I found that I could get into the
room almost as easily as I could stay out. I deemed this an important
discovery, for I fully intended, at the first convenient opportunity, to
explore the library. Though the thought came to me, I did not follow out
its leading at this time.

"How can I get rid of him?" demanded uncle Amos, as I placed my head
near the open sash; and it was evident that the parties had made some
progress in the discussion while I was securing my position.

"Send him off. I can find a place for him in a store in New Orleans,
where the yellow fever will make an end of him," replied Tom.

"Thomas, I will not harm him. I don't want to kill him," added uncle
Amos.

"Of course you don't want to kill him--let the fever do that. Let him go
away, and lose the run of you. Something must be done at once. He is a
smart boy, they say, and if he should happen to get an idea, he would
blow you and me so high that we never should come down."

That was an idea, and I happened to get it.

"My son, I have stained my soul with crime for your sake," added my
uncle, bitterly. "We have wronged this boy enough. I will not have him
injured."

"I don't wish to injure him, only to get him out of the way, so that he
will lose the run of you," replied Tom, petulantly. "He don't know
anything about me."

"Don't flatter yourself, Tom Thornton," I thought, but did not say.

"I am willing to do anything proper to be done with him. He will
graduate soon at the Institute, and we must find a place for him in some
business," said uncle Amos.

"I will find a situation for him in New Orleans."

"Not to take his life."

"No, no; certainly not. I know of a firm there that wants a young man
from the north, and you must send him off in the course of a week. Now,
what has the villain done with that girl?"

"I don't know; he has not brought her here," answered my uncle.

"What has he done with her? There was a young fellow with him; do you
know who he was?"

"Probably the Hale boy. They run together."

"What could they have done with the girl?"

"I don't know. What motive had they for carrying her off?"

"Out of pity I suppose. Kate is a careless girl, wilful, and
disobedient. She objects to being shut up in her chamber for her
misdemeanors."

Tom Thornton related the incident in which Bob and I had been concerned
on the pier.

"The child must have been badly abused, or she would not have jumped
into the lake," said uncle Amos, when he had heard the story.

"It does not concern you or me whether she has been or not. I fancy the
girl is not of much use to any one."

"Why do you run after her, then?"

"What's the use of arguing the question. Mrs. Loraine wishes me to find
the girl, and return her; and I'm going to do it, if I have to choke
your smart boy to get at it. Where is he?"

"In his chamber; but you must not harm him," replied uncle Amos,
nervously. "He is as high-spirited as his father was."

"What do I care for that? He must tell me where the girl is."

"Perhaps he will not be willing to tell you."

"Then I shall make him do so," added Tom, savagely; and it seemed to me
he was getting up a very pleasant prospect for me.

"You must handle him very carefully," said my uncle, nervously.

"If he tells me where the girl is, that's all I want of him. If he
don't, I shall--I shall crush it out of him. He will find I am not made
of milk and water."

"You will find I am not, either," I said to myself, as, when Tom moved
towards the door, I rose from my recumbent posture, and hastened back to
my chamber.

I slipped off my pants, and got into bed again, that I might not be
suspected of having left it. I had scarcely done so before Tom entered
my room with a lamp in his hand. I opened my eyes, rubbed them, and
stared at him.

"I want to see you, youngster," he began. "I suppose you don't know me.
My name is Jones."

"If your name is Jones, my name is Smith," I replied, with gross
imprudence.

He looked at me, and appeared to be startled by my sharp and reckless
reply. Very likely he thought me as smart as my reputation.

"Your name is Thornton," said he.

"So is yours," I answered; and I couldn't help it.

He stared at me again. Perhaps he concluded that I had obtained my
information of Kate Loraine, and he knew that I had seen him at her
step-mother's house.

"What have you done with that girl?" demanded he.

"Hold on a moment till I dress myself," I replied, as I jumped out of
bed, and began to put on my clothes.




CHAPTER VII.

IN WHICH ERNEST HAS AN INTERVIEW WITH MR. TOM THORNTON.


FROM my perch over the bay window of the library, I had heard Tom
Thornton express his savage determination to crush out of me the
information he wanted. Being forewarned, I was in a measure forearmed,
and I did not intend to be caught in a vulnerable position. I decided to
do a little light skirmishing before the battle opened. What I had seen
and heard of my assailant gave me a wonderful self-possession, for which
I could not account to myself.

I hurried on my clothing, though I dressed myself with the expectation
of taking a cruise on the lake before my head rested on the pillow
again. Though I felt that it was my first duty to protect Kate Loraine,
and send her to a place of safety, I fully realized that I had a battle
of my own to fight. By their own confession, Tom and his father had
wronged me deeply. If my mother was still living, as I believed she was,
they had probably wronged her a hundred fold more than me. With these
thoughts and feelings, an impulse of desperation seemed to inspire me. I
was ready for anything, but I was astonished and amazed at my own
calmness.

"Do you think I'm going to wait all night for an answer?" demanded Tom,
gruffly, before I had half finished dressing myself.

"If I am to give the answer, I expect you will wait till I get ready," I
replied.

"Do you, indeed?" stormed he.

"I do, indeed."

He moved towards me, and I retreated to a corner of the room, where
stood a heavy base-ball bat, which had been presented to me for skilful
playing. That corner was my base of supplies.

"Do you know where that girl is?" said he, pausing and glancing at my
muscular artillery in the corner.

"Hold on a minute, till I am dressed, and I will answer the question."

"Answer it now--this instant."

"Not yet."

"What do you mean, you young villain? Do you intend to insult me?"

"That question is rather refreshing, Mr. Tom Thornton, after coming to
my room in the middle of the night as you did. Do you mean to insult
me?"

"Insult you, you young villain!" sneered he.

"Insult me, you old villain! for I'm sure you have had a deal of
experience in the villain line."

"Will you answer my question, or not? Do you know where that girl is?"
he continued, when he saw it was as easy for me to use harsh epithets as
for him.

"When I have dressed myself I will answer, but not till then," I
replied, adjusting my collar with more than usual care. "Mr. Tom
Thornton, I don't wish to quarrel with you on our first acquaintance.
Besides it don't look well for near relations to quarrel."

"What do you mean by near relations?" he asked, evincing some alarm.

"Your name is Thornton, and so is mine. As you come to the house of my
uncle, I suppose we must be relations. But I assure you I have no
particular desire to claim kindred with you."

"You are an impudent young cub; and if you are any relation to me, you
shall have some of the starch taken out of you before you grow half an
inch taller," replied Tom; and in the war of words I felt that I had the
weather-gage of him, for I knew things of which he supposed I was
entirely ignorant.

"I don't think my impudence exceeds yours, Mr. Tom Thornton. You didn't
come into my room behaving like a gentleman," I answered, as I put on my
sack coat.

"I am not in the habit of having a boy speak to me as you do."

"I am not in the habit of having any one speak to me as you do," I
retorted. "But I don't want to quarrel with you, as I said before."

"Well, Mr. Ernest Thornton, if your high mightiness is ready to
condescend to answer my question, I must beg the favor of a reply,"
sneered he, putting the lamp down upon the table.

"Take a seat, Mr. Thornton. Your speech is improving," I added, throwing
myself into a chair near my base of supplies.

I think my visitor was entirely satisfied by this time that he could
make nothing by bullying me; and it seemed to me that in reaching this
point I had accomplished a great deal. Tom Thornton sat down in a chair,
near the table where he had deposited the lamp.

"Thank you, Mr. Ernest Thornton. I am seated, and await your further
pleasure," he continued, with a curling lip.

"You intimated that you came on business."

"I certainly hinted as much as that."

"And your business relates to Miss Kate Loraine?"

"It does. I took the liberty to inquire if you knew where she was at the
present time. A direct and unequivocal answer to this question would
oblige your humble servant very much," said Tom, nervously; and I saw
that it was with the greatest difficulty he could confine himself to
this satirical style of speech--for he wanted to break out in menace and
violence, to crush me with hard words and savage demonstrations, which
prudent cunning restrained him from using. "Do you know where the girl
is?"

"I do," I replied, promptly. "I trust my reply is sufficiently direct
and unequivocal."

"It is; and you will oblige me by informing me, as directly and
unequivocally, where she is," said he, rising from his chair.

"I am sorry to disoblige you, Mr. Tom Thornton; but I must respectfully
decline to give you any information on that point," I answered, firmly.

"Am I to understand that you refuse to tell me where she is?" demanded
he, turning up the cuff of one of his coat-sleeves.

"That was the idea I intended to convey," I replied, imitating his
example by rolling up one of my coat-sleeves.

"You won't tell me."

"No, sir."

"You know where she is?"

"I do."

"And won't tell?"

"I will not."

He turned up the other coat-sleeve, and I did the same.

"I'll tell you what it is, youngster, we have played this farce long
enough," Tom proceeded, in a rage. "I want you to understand that I am
not to be trifled with. You may make a fool of the old man, but you
can't make a fool of me."

"Perhaps nature has already done that kindly act for you," I put in, as
he paused to take a long breath with which to whet his wrath.

I know, now, that it was wrong for me to make these saucy and irritating
replies; but I could not well help it then. Tom Thornton was a villain,
by his own confession. My uncle had declared that he had stained his
soul with crime for his son's sake. Whichever was the greater villain,
it was clear that the son was the more obdurate, graceless, and
unrepentant of the two. I had no patience with him. I had no respect for
him, and I certainly had no fear of him. Even policy would not permit me
to treat him with a consideration I did not feel.

"For your insults we will settle by and by; at present my business
relates to this girl," said he, smarting under my charge.

"Well, Mr. Tom Thornton, so far as Miss Loraine is concerned, your
business with me is finished," I replied.

"Not yet; before I have done you will be glad to tell me where the girl
is."

"I will tell you nothing in regard to her."

"I command you to tell me where she is."

"You may command, if you choose."

"And I will be obeyed," said he, furiously.

"You will see whether you are or not."

"Who are you, young man, that have the impudence to enter the house of a
lady, and entice away her daughter?" foamed he.

"I am Ernest Thornton. I did not enter the house after you rode off with
the lady; I did not entice the girl away, and she is not the lady's
daughter."

"Silence! Don't you contradict me. You ran away with the girl!"

I whistled a popular air, simply to prove that I was not intimidated,
and that Tom was not getting along very rapidly.

"Once more, and for the last time," roared Tom, foaming with passion,
"will you tell me where the girl is, or will you take the
consequences?"

"If it's all the same to you, I'll take the consequences," I answered.

"Very well; you will take them, or you will tell me the whole truth,"
said he, savagely, as he rushed to the door.

There was a key in the lock, which I seldom or never used. He took it
out, left the room, and locked the door behind him. He was evidently so
much in earnest that he did not intend I should escape the fiery furnace
he was preparing for me. I could not but laugh at his folly in thinking
to confine a live boy of sixteen in the chamber of a cottage. I
concluded that he had gone for a stick, a club, or some other weapon,
with which to reduce me to subjection.

Though I felt able with the base-ball bat to defend myself from the
assaults of Tom, I did not court the conflict. There was room for an
accident which might deprive me of the power to serve Kate in the hour
of her extremity; and I was disposed to keep her on the safe side, if I
did not keep there myself. I heard the heavy footsteps of Tom Thornton,
as he descended the stairs, and walked through the hall. I concluded
that he would see my uncle before he returned. I slipped off my shoes,
and put one in each side pocket of my sack. Fearing that my bat might be
removed during my absence, I thrust it up the chimney, at the fireplace,
resting one end on a jamb, where I could easily reach it.

Carefully opening the window, I stepped down upon the roof of the
library, and thence to the top of the bay window, to the position I had
before occupied. My uncle was in the library, but Tom was not with him,
and I concluded that he had gone out of the cottage for the weapon he
wanted. I felt safe enough, however; for, by lying down on the top of
the bay window, close to the wall of the building, I could not be seen
by any one who did not come close to the place where I was concealed.

I bent over and looked into the library window a second time. By the
side of the grate, at the end of the room, a small iron safe had been
built into the brick-work of the chimney, in which my uncle kept his
papers and other valuables. In the occasional visits I had made to the
library, after I was conscious of the mystery which shrouded my
affairs, I had gazed wistfully at the iron door of this safe, and
longed to possess the secrets which it contained. I believed that there
were papers in that strong box which could tell me where my mother was,
or give me some clew to her place of imprisonment. Perhaps the whole
history of my father's family was contained within its iron sides.
Perhaps the story of my wrongs could be traced from the documents there.
If not, why was I so carefully excluded from the library?

I felt a deep and thrilling interest when I glanced into the room, and
saw uncle Amos seated before the open door of this safe.




CHAPTER VIII.

IN WHICH ERNEST VISITS HIS UNCLE'S LIBRARY.


WHILE Tom Thornton was looking for a battery with which to reduce my
fortress, my uncle appeared to be searching for some paper in his safe.
I concluded that Tom's unexpected arrival had suggested some business to
be done with him. I was in a fever of anxiety to hear what passed
between them.

Uncle Amos handled the papers, folding and unfolding them, giving each a
hasty glance, and then restoring it to the safe. One document in
particular attracted my attention, on which my uncle gazed much longer
than on any other, and then laid it down, apart from the others, on the
bottom of the safe. While I was watching his motions with breathless
interest, I heard the front door slammed violently. My uncle was
startled. He hastily closed the door of the safe, locked it, and put
the key under the cushion of his arm-chair. Taking the lamp in his hand,
he hastened out of the room.

"Thomas!" I heard him call, after he had passed into his chamber.

In a moment he returned to the library, followed by Tom, who had in his
hand a heavy stick taken from the wood-pile.

"What are you going to do?" demanded my uncle, as he glanced at the club
in Tom's hand.

"I am going to make that boy tell me where the girl is," replied Tom.

"With that stick?"

"Yes, with this stick."

"You will never find the girl in that way," said my uncle, shaking his
head. "Throw your stick away."

"But the rascal insulted me with almost every word he spoke," growled
Tom.

"I told you to handle him gently. You can't drive him."

"But he must tell me where the girl is."

"He will not, of course. If he thinks the girl has been abused, he is
just foolish enough to take her part, and would be pounded to a jelly
before he would tell you a word about her. If you are careful you can
find out where the girl is. Probably he carried her off in the boat. You
say it must have been nearly dark when he left Cannondale. He could not
have gone far with her. Either she is at Mr. Hale's in Parkville, or she
is concealed somewhere in this vicinity."

Uncle Amos appeared to gasp with the mighty effort this long speech had
cost him.

"The young rascal shall tell me where she is, or I will break his head.
I will teach him that he can't trifle with me, if he can with you,"
replied Tom, in snappish tones.

"You will defeat your own purposes. Where is Ernest now?"

"In his room; and I locked him in," answered Tom, with a kind of
chuckle, indicating that he thought he had done a big thing.

"Locked him in!" exclaimed my uncle. "How long do you suppose he will
stay there?"

"Till I choose to let him out," said Tom, who still appeared to be very
well satisfied with himself.

"I think not. There are two windows in the room, and when he gets ready
to leave he will do so. You seem to think the boy is a fool. Very likely
he has taken the alarm by this time, and has gone off to look out for
the girl, if he has hidden her in this vicinity."

"Do you suppose he has gone?" asked Tom; and his tones indicated his
perplexity.

"I don't know; but you can't do anything till daylight, and I want to
talk with you about our affairs."

"Confound your affairs!" ejaculated Tom, petulantly. "I can't stop
to-night to talk about them. I came after the girl, and I must have her
too."

"Thomas, I can no longer endure this wasting anxiety," continued my
uncle, solemnly. "This boy haunts me by day and by night. I seldom sleep
an hour at a time. For your sake I am suffering all this; but you are
cold, distant, and harsh to me."

"What do you wish me to do, governor?" demanded the reckless son. "I
send you all the money you want."

"It is not money, but a clear conscience, that I need," groaned the
wretched old man. "I would rather live in abject poverty than purchase
plenty at such a fearful price."

"Don't be foolish, governor."

"I live in constant fear of the boy, especially since he questioned me,
months ago, about his parents and his property."

"Of course you told him he had no property."

"I did."

"Then it's all right. In the course of a week we will send him to New
Orleans. When he has gone you can change your residence, and he will
lose the track of you."

"Perhaps he will not be willing to go to New Orleans; he certainly will
not under such treatment as you bestow upon him. Thomas, my brother's
will--"

My uncle paused and looked at his son, as though in doubt whether to
finish the sentence he had begun.

"Well, what of the will?" demanded Tom, evincing more interest than he
had before exhibited. "Of course you destroyed that years ago?"

"No, Thomas, I dared not do such a thing," replied my uncle, in a hoarse
whisper.

