

CHAPTER XVI

THE FIRST LESSON


Fortunately for Dick, his young tutor was well qualified to instruct
him. Henry Fosdick, though only twelve years old, knew as much as
many boys of fourteen. He had always been studious and ambitious
to excel. His father, being a printer, employed in an office where
books were printed, often brought home new books in sheets, which
Henry was always glad to read. Mr. Fosdick had been, besides, a
subscriber to the Mechanics' Apprentices' Library, which contains
many thousands of well-selected and instructive books. Thus Henry
had acquired an amount of general information, unusual in a boy of
his age. Perhaps he had devoted too much time to study, for he was
not naturally robust. All this, however, fitted him admirably for
the office to which Dick had appointed him,--that of his private
instructor.

The two boys drew up their chairs to the rickety table, and spread
out the paper before them.

"The exercises generally Commence with ringin' the bell," said Dick;
"but as I aint got none, we'll have to do without."

"And the teacher is generally provided with a rod," said Fosdick.
"Isn't there a poker handy, that I can use in case my scholar
doesn't behave well?"

"'Taint lawful to use fire-arms," said Dick.

"Now, Dick," said Fosdick, "before we begin, I must find out how
much you already know. Can you read any?"

"Not enough to hurt me," said Dick. "All I know about readin' you
could put in a nutshell, and there'd be room left for a small
family."

"I suppose you know your letters?"

"Yes," said Dick, "I know 'em all, but not intimately. I guess I can
call 'em all by name."

"Where did you learn them? Did you ever go to school?"

"Yes; I went two days."

"Why did you stop?"

"It didn't agree with my constitution."

"You don't look very delicate," said Fosdick.

"No," said Dick, "I aint troubled much that way; but I found lickins
didn't agree with me."

"Did you get punished?"

"Awful," said Dick.

"What for?"

"For indulgin' in a little harmless amoosement," said Dick. "You see
the boy that was sittin' next to me fell asleep, which I considered
improper in school-time; so I thought I'd help the teacher a little
by wakin' him up. So I took a pin and stuck into him; but I guess it
went a little too far, for he screeched awful. The teacher found out
what it was that made him holler, and whipped me with a ruler till I
was black and blue. I thought 'twas about time to take a vacation;
so that's the last time I went to school."

"You didn't learn to read in that time, of course?"

"No," said Dick; "but I was a newsboy a little while; so I learned a
little, just so's to find out what the news was. Sometimes I didn't
read straight and called the wrong news. One mornin' I asked another
boy what the paper said, and he told me the King of Africa was dead.
I thought it was all right till folks began to laugh."

"Well, Dick, if you'll only study well, you won't be liable to make
such mistakes."

"I hope so," said Dick. "My friend Horace Greeley told me the other
day that he'd get me to take his place now and then when he was off
makin' speeches if my edication hadn't been neglected."

"I must find a good piece for you to begin on," said Fosdick,
looking over the paper.

"Find an easy one," said Dick, "with words of one story."

Fosdick at length found a piece which he thought would answer. He
discovered on trial that Dick had not exaggerated his deficiencies.
Words of two syllables he seldom pronounced right, and was much
surprised when he was told how "through" was sounded.

"Seems to me it's throwin' away letters to use all them," he said.

"How would you spell it?" asked his young teacher.

"T-h-r-u," said Dick.

"Well," said Fosdick, "there's a good many other words that are
spelt with more letters than they need to have. But it's the
fashion, and we must follow it."

But if Dick was ignorant, he was quick, and had an excellent
capacity. Moreover he had perseverance, and was not easily
discouraged. He had made up his mind he must know more, and was
not disposed to complain of the difficulty of his task. Fosdick
had occasion to laugh more than once at his ludicrous mistakes; but
Dick laughed too, and on the whole both were quite interested in
the lesson.

At the end of an hour and a half the boys stopped for the evening.

"You're learning fast, Dick," said Fosdick. "At this rate you will
soon learn to read well."

"Will I?" asked Dick with an expression of satisfaction. "I'm glad
of that. I don't want to be ignorant. I didn't use to care, but I do
now. I want to grow up 'spectable."

"So do I, Dick. We will both help each other, and I am sure we can
accomplish something. But I am beginning to feel sleepy."

"So am I," said Dick. "Them hard words make my head ache. I wonder
who made 'em all?"

"That's more than I can tell. I suppose you've seen a dictionary."

"That's another of 'em. No, I can't say I have, though I may have
seen him in the street without knowin' him."

"A dictionary is a book containing all the words in the language."

"How many are there?"

"I don't rightly know; but I think there are about fifty thousand."

"It's a pretty large family," said Dick. "Have I got to learn 'em
all?"

"That will not be necessary. There are a large number which you
would never find occasion to use."

"I'm glad of that," said Dick; "for I don't expect to live to be
more'n a hundred, and by that time I wouldn't be more'n half
through."

By this time the flickering lamp gave a decided hint to the boys
that unless they made haste they would have to undress in the dark.
They accordingly drew off their clothes, and Dick jumped into bed.
But Fosdick, before doing so, knelt down by the side of the bed, and
said a short prayer.

"What's that for?" asked Dick, curiously.

"I was saying my prayers," said Fosdick, as he rose from his knees.
"Don't you ever do it?"

"No," said Dick. "Nobody ever taught me."

"Then I'll teach you. Shall I?"

"I don't know," said Dick, dubiously. "What's the good?"

Fosdick explained as well as he could, and perhaps his simple
explanation was better adapted to Dick's comprehension than one
from an older person would have been. Dick felt more free to ask
questions, and the example of his new friend, for whom he was
beginning to feel a warm attachment, had considerable effect upon
him. When, therefore, Fosdick asked again if he should teach him a
prayer, Dick consented, and his young bedfellow did so. Dick was not
naturally irreligious. If he had lived without a knowledge of God
and of religious things, it was scarcely to be wondered at in a lad
who, from an early age, had been thrown upon his own exertions for
the means of living, with no one to care for him or give him good
advice. But he was so far good that he could appreciate goodness in
others, and this it was that had drawn him to Frank in the first
place, and now to Henry Fosdick. He did not, therefore, attempt to
ridicule his companion, as some boys better brought up might have
done, but was willing to follow his example in what something told
him was right. Our young hero had taken an important step toward
securing that genuine respectability which he was ambitious to
attain.

Weary with the day's work, and Dick perhaps still more fatigued by
the unusual mental effort he had made, the boys soon sank into a
deep and peaceful slumber, from which they did not awaken till six
o'clock the next morning. Before going out Dick sought Mrs. Mooney,
and spoke to her on the subject of taking Fosdick as a room-mate.
He found that she had no objection, provided he would allow her
twenty-five cents a week extra, in consideration of the extra
trouble which his companion might be expected to make. To this
Dick assented, and the arrangement was definitely concluded.

This over, the two boys went out and took stations near each other.
Dick had more of a business turn than Henry, and less shrinking from
publicity, so that his earnings were greater. But he had undertaken
to pay the entire expenses of the room, and needed to earn more.
Sometimes, when two customers presented themselves at the same time,
he was able to direct one to his friend. So at the end of the week
both boys found themselves with surplus earnings. Dick had the
satisfaction of adding two dollars and a half to his deposits in
the Savings Bank, and Fosdick commenced an account by depositing
seventy-five cents.

On Sunday morning Dick bethought himself of his promise to Mr.
Greyson to come to the church on Fifth Avenue. To tell the truth,
Dick recalled it with some regret. He had never been inside a church
since he could remember, and he was not much attracted by the
invitation he had received. But Henry, finding him wavering, urged
him to go, and offered to go with him. Dick gladly accepted the
offer, feeling that he required someone to lend him countenance
under such unusual circumstances.

Dick dressed himself with scrupulous care, giving his shoes a
"shine" so brilliant that it did him great credit in a professional
point of view, and endeavored to clean his hands thoroughly; but, in
spite of all he could do, they were not so white as if his business
had been of a different character.

Having fully completed his preparations, he descended into the
street, and, with Henry by his side, crossed over to Broadway.

The boys pursued their way up Broadway, which on Sunday presents
a striking contrast in its quietness to the noise and confusion
of ordinary week-days, as far as Union Square, then turned down
Fourteenth Street, which brought them to Fifth Avenue.

"Suppose we dine at Delmonico's," said Fosdick, looking towards that
famous restaurant.

"I'd have to sell some of my Erie shares," said Dick.

A short walk now brought them to the church of which mention has
already been made. They stood outside, a little abashed, watching
the fashionably attired people who were entering, and were feeling
a little undecided as to whether they had better enter also, when
Dick felt a light touch upon his shoulder.

Turning round, he met the smiling glance of Mr. Greyson.

"So, my young friend, you have kept your promise," he said. "And
whom have you brought with you?"

"A friend of mine," said Dick. "His name is Henry Fosdick."

"I am glad you have brought him. Now follow me, and I will give you
seats."



CHAPTER XVII

DICK'S FIRST APPEARANCE IN SOCIETY


It was the hour for morning service. The boys followed Mr. Greyson
into the handsome church, and were assigned seats in his own pew.

There were two persons already seated in it,--a good-looking lady of
middle age, and a pretty little girl of nine. They were Mrs. Greyson
and her only daughter Ida. They looked pleasantly at the boys as
they entered, smiling a welcome to them.

The morning service commenced. It must be acknowledged that Dick
felt rather awkward. It was an unusual place for him, and it need
not be wondered at that he felt like a cat in a strange garret. He
would not have known when to rise if he had not taken notice of what
the rest of the audience did, and followed their example. He was
sitting next to Ida, and as it was the first time he had ever been
near so well-dressed a young lady, he naturally felt bashful. When
the hymns were announced, Ida found the place, and offered a
hymn-book to our hero. Dick took it awkwardly, but his studies had
not yet been pursued far enough for him to read the words readily.
However, he resolved to keep up appearances, and kept his eyes
fixed steadily on the hymn-book.

At length the service was over. The people began to file slowly out
of church, and among them, of course, Mr. Greyson's family and the
two boys. It seemed very strange to Dick to find himself in such
different companionship from what he had been accustomed, and he
could not help thinking, "Wonder what Johnny Nolan 'ould say if he
could see me now!"

But Johnny's business engagements did not often summon him to Fifth
Avenue, and Dick was not likely to be seen by any of his friends in
the lower part of the city.

"We have our Sunday school in the afternoon," said Mr. Greyson. "I
suppose you live at some distance from here?"

"In Mott Street, sir," answered Dick.

"That is too far to go and return. Suppose you and your friend
come and dine with us, and then we can come here together in the
afternoon."

Dick was as much astonished at this invitation as if he had really
been invited by the Mayor to dine with him and the Board of
Aldermen. Mr. Greyson was evidently a rich man, and yet he had
actually invited two boot-blacks to dine with him.

"I guess we'd better go home, sir," said Dick, hesitating.

"I don't think you can have any very pressing engagements to
interfere with your accepting my invitation," said Mr. Greyson,
good-humoredly, for he understood the reason of Dick's hesitation.
"So I take it for granted that you both accept."

Before Dick fairly knew what he intended to do, he was walking down
Fifth Avenue with his new friends.

Now, our young hero was not naturally bashful; but he certainly felt
so now, especially as Miss Ida Greyson chose to walk by his side,
leaving Henry Fosdick to walk with her father and mother.

"What is your name?" asked Ida, pleasantly.

Our hero was about to answer "Ragged Dick," when it occurred to him
that in the present company he had better forget his old nickname.

"Dick Hunter," he answered.

"Dick!" repeated Ida. "That means Richard, doesn't it?"

"Everybody calls me Dick."

"I have a cousin Dick," said the young lady, sociably. "His name is
Dick Wilson. I suppose you don't know him?"

"No," said Dick.

"I like the name of Dick," said the young lady, with charming
frankness.

Without being able to tell why, Dick felt rather glad she did. He
plucked up courage to ask her name.

"My name is Ida," answered the young lady. "Do you like it?"

"Yes," said Dick. "It's a bully name."

Dick turned red as soon as he had said it, for he felt that he had
not used the right expression.

The little girl broke into a silvery laugh.

"What a funny boy you are!" she said.

"I didn't mean it," said Dick, stammering. "I meant it's a tip-top
name."

Here Ida laughed again, and Dick wished himself back in Mott Street.

"How old are you?" inquired Ida, continuing her examination.

"I'm fourteen,--goin' on fifteen," said Dick.

"You're a big boy of your age," said Ida. "My cousin Dick is a year
older than you, but he isn't as large."

Dick looked pleased. Boys generally like to be told that they are
large of their age.

"How old be you?" asked Dick, beginning to feel more at his ease.

"I'm nine years old," said Ida. "I go to Miss Jarvis's school. I've
just begun to learn French. Do you know French?"

"Not enough to hurt me," said Dick.

Ida laughed again, and told him that he was a droll boy.

"Do you like it?" asked Dick.

"I like it pretty well, except the verbs. I can't remember them
well. Do you go to school?"

"I'm studying with a private tutor," said Dick.

"Are you? So is my cousin Dick. He's going to college this year. Are
you going to college?"

"Not this year."

"Because, if you did, you know you'd be in the same class with my
cousin. It would be funny to have two Dicks in one class."

They turned down Twenty-fourth Street, passing the Fifth Avenue
Hotel on the left, and stopped before an elegant house with a brown
stone front. The bell was rung, and the door being opened, the boys,
somewhat abashed, followed Mr. Greyson into a handsome hall. They
were told where to hang their hats, and a moment afterwards were
ushered into a comfortable dining-room, where a table was spread
for dinner.

Dick took his seat on the edge of a sofa, and was tempted to rub his
eyes to make sure that he was really awake. He could hardly believe
that he was a guest in so fine a mansion.

Ida helped to put the boys at their ease.

"Do you like pictures?" she asked.

"Very much," answered Henry.

The little girl brought a book of handsome engravings, and, seating
herself beside Dick, to whom she seemed to have taken a decided
fancy, commenced showing them to him.

"There are the Pyramids of Egypt," she said, pointing to one engraving.

"What are they for?" asked Dick, puzzled. "I don't see any winders."

"No," said Ida, "I don't believe anybody lives there. Do they, papa?"

"No, my dear. They were used for the burial of the dead. The largest
of them is said to be the loftiest building in the world with one
exception. The spire of the Cathedral of Strasburg is twenty-four
feet higher, if I remember rightly."

"Is Egypt near here?" asked Dick.

"Oh, no, it's ever so many miles off; about four or five hundred.
Didn't you know?"

"No," said Dick. "I never heard."

"You don't appear to be very accurate in your information, Ida,"
said her mother. "Four or five thousand miles would be considerably
nearer the truth."

After a little more conversation they sat down to dinner. Dick
seated himself in an embarrassed way. He was very much afraid of
doing or saying something which would be considered an impropriety,
and had the uncomfortable feeling that everybody was looking at him,
and watching his behavior.

"Where do you live, Dick?" asked Ida, familiarly.

"In Mott Street."

"Where is that?"

"More than a mile off."

"Is it a nice street?"

"Not very," said Dick. "Only poor folks live there."

"Are you poor?"

"Little girls should be seen and not heard," said her mother, gently.

"If you are," said Ida, "I'll give you the five-dollar gold-piece
aunt gave me for a birthday present."

"Dick cannot be called poor, my child," said Mrs. Greyson, "since he
earns his living by his own exertions."

"Do you earn your living?" asked Ida, who was a very inquisitive
young lady, and not easily silenced. "What do you do?"

Dick blushed violently. At such a table, and in presence of the
servant who was standing at that moment behind his chair, he did not
like to say that he was a shoe-black, although he well knew that
there was nothing dishonorable in the occupation.

Mr. Greyson perceived his feelings, and to spare them, said, "You
are too inquisitive, Ida. Sometime Dick may tell you, but you know
we don't talk of business on Sundays."

Dick in his embarrassment had swallowed a large spoonful of hot
soup, which made him turn red in the face. For the second time,
in spite of the prospect of the best dinner he had ever eaten, he
wished himself back in Mott Street. Henry Fosdick was more easy
and unembarrassed than Dick, not having led such a vagabond and
neglected life. But it was to Dick that Ida chiefly directed her
conversation, having apparently taken a fancy to his frank and
handsome face. I believe I have already said that Dick was a very
good-looking boy, especially now since he kept his face clean. He
had a frank, honest expression, which generally won its way to the
favor of those with whom he came in contact.

Dick got along pretty well at the table by dint of noticing how the
rest acted, but there was one thing he could not manage, eating with
his fork, which, by the way, he thought a very singular arrangement.

At length they arose from the table, somewhat to Dick's relief.
Again Ida devoted herself to the boys, and exhibited a profusely
illustrated Bible for their entertainment. Dick was interested in
looking at the pictures, though he knew very little of their
subjects. Henry Fosdick was much better informed, as might have
been expected.

When the boys were about to leave the house with Mr. Greyson for the
Sunday school, Ida placed her hand in Dick's, and said persuasively,
"You'll come again, Dick, won't you?"

"Thank you," said Dick, "I'd like to," and he could not help
thinking Ida the nicest girl he had ever seen.

"Yes," said Mrs. Greyson, hospitably, "we shall be glad to see you
both here again."

"Thank you very much," said Henry Fosdick, gratefully. "We shall
like very much to come."

I will not dwell upon the hour spent in Sunday school, nor upon the
remarks of Mr. Greyson to his class. He found Dick's ignorance of
religious subjects so great that he was obliged to begin at the
beginning with him. Dick was interested in hearing the children
sing, and readily promised to come again the next Sunday.

When the service was over Dick and Henry walked homewards. Dick
could not help letting his thoughts rest on the sweet little girl
who had given him so cordial a welcome, and hoping that he might
meet her again.

"Mr. Greyson is a nice man,--isn't he, Dick?" asked Henry, as they
were turning into Mott Street, and were already in sight of their
lodging-house.

"Aint he, though?" said Dick. "He treated us just as if we were
young gentlemen."

"Ida seemed to take a great fancy to you."

"She's a tip-top girl," said Dick, "but she asked so many questions
that I didn't know what to say."

He had scarcely finished speaking, when a stone whizzed by his head,
and, turning quickly, he saw Micky Maguire running round the corner
of the street which they had just passed.



CHAPTER XVIII

MICKY MAGUIRE'S SECOND DEFEAT


Dick was no coward. Nor was he in the habit of submitting passively
to an insult. When, therefore, he recognized Micky as his assailant,
he instantly turned and gave chase. Micky anticipated pursuit, and
ran at his utmost speed. It is doubtful if Dick would have overtaken
him, but Micky had the ill luck to trip just as he had entered a
narrow alley, and, falling with some violence, received a sharp blow
from the hard stones, which made him scream with pain.

"Ow!" he whined. "Don't you hit a feller when he's down."

"What made you fire that stone at me?" demanded our hero, looking
down at the fallen bully.

"Just for fun," said Micky.

"It would have been a very agreeable s'prise if it had hit me," said
Dick. "S'posin' I fire a rock at you jest for fun."

"Don't!" exclaimed Micky, in alarm.

"It seems you don't like agreeable s'prises," said Dick, "any more'n
the man did what got hooked by a cow one mornin', before breakfast.
It didn't improve his appetite much."

"I've most broke my arm," said Micky, ruefully, rubbing the affected
limb.

"If it's broke you can't fire no more stones, which is a very
cheerin' reflection," said Dick. "Ef you haven't money enough to buy
a wooden one I'll lend you a quarter. There's one good thing about
wooden ones, they aint liable to get cold in winter, which is
another cheerin' reflection."

"I don't want none of yer cheerin' reflections," said Micky,
sullenly. "Yer company aint wanted here."

"Thank you for your polite invitation to leave," said Dick, bowing
ceremoniously. "I'm willin' to go, but ef you throw any more stones
at me, Micky Maguire, I'll hurt you worse than the stones did."

The only answer made to this warning was a scowl from his fallen
opponent. It was quite evident that Dick had the best of it, and
he thought it prudent to say nothing.

"As I've got a friend waitin' outside, I shall have to tear myself
away," said Dick. "You'd better not throw any more stones, Micky
Maguire, for it don't seem to agree with your constitution."

Micky muttered something which Dick did not stay to hear. He backed
out of the alley, keeping a watchful eye on his fallen foe, and
rejoined Henry Fosdick, who was awaiting his return.

"Who was it, Dick?" he asked.

"A partic'lar friend of mine, Micky Maguire," said Dick. "He
playfully fired a rock at my head as a mark of his 'fection. He
loves me like a brother, Micky does."

"Rather a dangerous kind of a friend, I should think,"
said Fosdick. "He might have killed you."

"I've warned him not to be so 'fectionate another time," said Dick.

"I know him," said Henry Fosdick. "He's at the head of a gang of
boys living at the Five-Points. He threatened to whip me once
because a gentleman employed me to black his boots instead of him."

"He's been at the Island two or three times for stealing," said
Dick. "I guess he won't touch me again. He'd rather get hold of
small boys. If he ever does anything to you, Fosdick, just let
me know, and I'll give him a thrashing."

Dick was right. Micky Maguire was a bully, and like most bullies did
not fancy tackling boys whose strength was equal or superior to his
own. Although he hated Dick more than ever, because he thought our
hero was putting on airs, he had too lively a remembrance of his
strength and courage to venture upon another open attack. He
contented himself, therefore, whenever he met Dick, with scowling at
him. Dick took this very philosophically, remarking that, "if it was
soothin' to Micky's feelings, he might go ahead, as it didn't hurt
him much."

It will not be necessary to chronicle the events of the next few
weeks. A new life had commenced for Dick. He no longer haunted the
gallery of the Old Bowery; and even Tony Pastor's hospitable doors
had lost their old attractions. He spent two hours every evening in
study. His progress was astonishingly rapid. He was gifted with a
natural quickness; and he was stimulated by the desire to acquire a
fair education as a means of "growin' up 'spectable," as he termed
it. Much was due also to the patience and perseverance of Henry
Fosdick, who made a capital teacher.

"You're improving wonderfully, Dick," said his friend, one evening,
when Dick had read an entire paragraph without a mistake.

"Am I?" said Dick, with satisfaction.

"Yes. If you'll buy a writing-book to-morrow, we can begin writing
to-morrow evening."

"What else do you know, Henry?" asked Dick.

"Arithmetic, and geography, and grammar."

"What a lot you know!" said Dick, admiringly.

"I don't know any of them," said Fosdick. "I've only studied them.
I wish I knew a great deal more."

"I'll be satisfied when I know as much as you," said Dick.

"It seems a great deal to you now, Dick, but in a few months you'll
think differently. The more you know, the more you'll want to know."

"Then there aint any end to learnin'?" said Dick.

"No."

"Well," said Dick, "I guess I'll be as much as sixty before I
know everything."

"Yes; as old as that, probably," said Fosdick, laughing.

"Anyway, you know too much to be blackin' boots. Leave that to
ignorant chaps like me."

"You won't be ignorant long, Dick."

"You'd ought to get into some office or countin'-room."

"I wish I could," said Fosdick, earnestly. "I don't succeed very
well at blacking boots. You make a great deal more than I do."

"That's cause I aint troubled with bashfulness," said Dick.
"Bashfulness aint as natural to me as it is to you. I'm always on
hand, as the cat said to the milk. You'd better give up shines,
Fosdick, and give your 'tention to mercantile pursuits."

"I've thought of trying to get a place," said Fosdick; "but no one
would take me with these clothes;" and he directed his glance to his
well-worn suit, which he kept as neat as he could, but which, in
spite of all his care, began to show decided marks of use. There
was also here and there a stain of blacking upon it, which, though
an advertisement of his profession, scarcely added to its good
appearance.

"I almost wanted to stay at home from Sunday school last Sunday," he
continued, "because I thought everybody would notice how dirty and
worn my clothes had got to be."

"If my clothes wasn't two sizes too big for you," said Dick,
generously, "I'd change. You'd look as if you'd got into your
great-uncle's suit by mistake."
