
"That's rich!" sneered Ham. "If you want any better evidence than that,
you will have to send to Texas after it. His trying to lay it to me is
the best proof I want."

"Ham Fishley, you know that what I have said is true," I continued
indignantly. "You know that you opened that mail-bag after you came home
from Crofton's, put the money in your pocket, and burned the letter."

"Of course that's perfectly ridiculous," said Ham, angrily.

"I'm tired of this jaw," added Captain Fishley, in disgust. "Buck, come
round here."

"I know what you want, and I think I won't do it," I replied, leaving
the store.

"Ham, go over to Stevens's, and tell him I want to see him," said my
tyrant, coming to the door.

Stevens was a constable. I was not anxious to see him. I went to the
barn, and by a roundabout way reached the swamp. I need hardly say that
I was in great excitement and alarm. The constable was to be put upon my
track; but I was not at all afraid that he would find me in the swamp,
which for nearly half a mile had three feet of water on the ground. He
could not reach me at the raft without a boat.

I went to work upon the interior of the house, put up a partition to
divide Flora's room from the rest of the space, and built a bunk in her
apartment. I had already rigged a steering oar, and at one end of the
raft I had set up a mast, on which I intended to spread a square-sail
for use when the wind was favorable. I worked very hard all the
afternoon, and kept Sim as busy as I was myself in sawing boards of the
right length for the work.

The raft was in condition to go down the river, though it was not yet
finished. I was ready to start that very night, if necessary. I was
confident that I was to be persecuted, if not prosecuted, for robbing
the mail. As long as I could not explain where I obtained the money
which Ham had unfortunately seen, I was not able to clear myself of the
suspicion. Before I left the swamp, I concealed all my money, but a few
dollars, in the hollow of a tree.

I was not afraid of the constable. I determined to go back to the house,
and trust to my wits for safety. I went into the kitchen as usual, where
Captain Fishley and his wife were just sitting down to supper.

"Where have you been all the afternoon?" asked he, in a milder tone than
I expected to hear him use.

"Keeping out of the way of the constable," I replied.

"I don't want to call the constable for you, but I shall if you don't
give up the money," added Captain Fishley.

"I haven't got it. What I said about Ham was the truth."

"The wicked wretch!" gasped Mrs. Fishley. "Why don't you send for the
constable?"

Poor Flora had heard the story about me, and she trembled with
apprehension. How I pitied her!

"I will hand him over to Stevens to-morrow, if he don't give up the
money before that time," added the captain.

I was not permitted to go after the mail that night. The postmaster went
himself, and his wife accompanied him to "do some shopping."




CHAPTER XV.

THE DEPARTURE.


I harnessed the horse for Captain Fishley, and put the mail-bag in the
wagon, as I was told to do. I could not help thinking that my tyrants
were playing some deeper game than appeared upon the surface. They were
certainly looking up evidence to enable them to convict me of robbing
the mail. If the captain should happen to blunder into some of the
stores in Riverport where I had made some extensive purchases, as I
regarded them, he might wonder what I had done with a second-hand
cooking-stove, about twenty pounds of nails, and other articles upon
which boys do not usually set a high value; but the amount of money
employed in the transaction would be of greater interest to him.

Captain Fishley drove off, and I went into the store. Ham was alone
there, and the glance which he bestowed upon me was unusually ugly. I
was uneasy and nervous. I knew I should never have any peace till I told
where I had obtained the money in my possession; but Squire Fishley had
specially interdicted my saying anything to his brother. It seemed to me
just as though my chief tyrant had gone down to Riverport on purpose to
find something which would condemn me. I had bought at least ten
dollars' worth of goods at one store, and if he could prove that I had
expended this sum of money, it would be enough to satisfy him that I had
robbed the mail.

I felt that the storm was coming down upon me like a tempest. My tyrants
were anxious to condemn me. Ham, in whom there was no sentiment of
justice or magnanimity, would do his utmost to convict me, in order to
save himself. It was plain enough to me, that without the testimony of
Squire Fishley, I could not hope to escape. Ham was a villain; he knew
that I had not stolen the money. I could not blame Captain Fishley and
his wife for deeming me guilty; but I could not save myself at the
expense of Squire Fishley. I had promised him faithfully, and he had
handsomely rewarded me for my silence.

"You are bound to have a row with me, Buck Bradford," said Ham, as I sat
in the store thinking of the perils of the situation.

"I think the boot's on the other leg," I replied.

"What do you mean by saying I robbed the mail then?"

"Well, what do you mean by saying I did it?" I retorted.

"You can't tell where you got that money I saw you have."

"No matter whether I can or not. You know, if nobody else does, that it
didn't come out of that letter."

"What do you mean by that?"

"What's the use of talking, Ham Fishley?" I replied, impatiently.
"Didn't you hear the dog howling that night when you broke open Miss
Larrabee's letter, and put the money in your pocket? I did, and I went
down stairs in my stocking feet to let him in. When I came to the store
door, I saw what you were doing. I saw you set the letter afire, and
throw it into the stove. Then you put the envelope in after it. But that
didn't burn up, and I saved a piece of it in the morning when I made the
fire."

"That's a pretty story!" exclaimed Ham; but I saw that he was pale, and
that his lips quivered. "Do you expect any one to believe it?"

"I don't expect your father to believe it; but, if you want to fetch the
constable, I think I can make him believe it."

"I went for the constable, but he was not in."

"Lucky for you!"

"You haven't told where you got that money."

"I don't mean to tell; but I think I can fetch some one to explain it,
if the worst comes," I added.

It was useless to talk with him. My secret sealed my lips and tied my
hands. I could do nothing, and it seemed like folly for me to stay and
face my tyrants, who would enjoy my ruin. I could appeal to the senator
to save me; but, if he did so, it would be at the expense of his own
reputation, and he would not thank me for putting him in such an
unpleasant position. If it had not been for Flora, I would have fled
that instant. Though I had prepared the raft for her accommodation, I
hardly expected she would be willing to go with me.

I went from the store into the kitchen, where I found the poor girl at
the stove. She had been crying, and I had never before seen her look so
sad and hopeless.

"What is the matter, dear Flora?" I asked, seating myself at her side.

"Nothing, Buckland."

"You have been crying, Flora."

"I couldn't help it."

"What made you cry?"

"I don't want to make trouble," she replied, the tears coming to her
eyes again; "but I wish it was October, that we might leave this house.
I'm sure Clarence does not know how much we suffer."

"Has Mrs. Fishley been abusing you again?"

She looked at me, and wiped away her tears before she answered.

"I did not mean to tell you of it, Buckland; but she did shake me
again, and she hurt me very much," sobbed she.

"I'll tear her in pieces for it!" I cried, angrily; and my teeth ground
together, and my fists involuntarily clinched.

"No, no, brother! Don't say anything about it," pleaded Flora. "Perhaps
it was my fault; I contradicted her. She said you stole the money from
the letter, and I persisted that you did not. O, Buckland, that was
awful--to say you were a thief! I could not bear it."

"I am not a thief!"

"But have you some money?"

"I have."

"Where did you get it?" she asked, anxiously.

"I cannot tell them where I got it. I will tell you a little; but you
must not breathe a word of it to any one."

"I will not, Buckland."

"I saved the life of a gentleman who had been drinking too much; and he
gave me the money. He made me promise that I would not tell any one
about it."

"Who was he?" asked she, excited by my story.

"I cannot tell even you who he was. He was very penitent, and wished me
to save his character. Flora, it was Ham who robbed the mail. I saw him
do it."

I told her what I had seen in the store the night the senator arrived,
and that Ham accused me of the crime in order to save himself.

"You will be sent to prison, Buckland!" exclaimed she, in terror, as she
threw her arm around my neck. "Ham hates you, and so do his father and
mother."

"Dear Flora, if you will go with me, I will not stay another night with
our tyrants. They abuse us both."

"Where will you go?"

"To New Orleans."

I will not pause to detail the arguments by which I convinced her that
it was best for us to leave Torrentville at once. In the morning the
constable would be sent for; and, while those who were left as my
protectors were really my enemies, I could not hope to escape their
malignity. This was the reasoning of a boy. Doubtless I was influenced
by the fact that the raft was ready for use, and by a desire to embark
upon a period of adventure.

"How can we go?" asked she; for I had said nothing to her about my craft
yet.

"I have built a raft with a house upon it," I replied.

"A raft!"

"Yes; it is big enough to hold twenty men."

"But we can't go to New Orleans on a raft."

"Perhaps not; but when we get tired of it, we can take a steamboat and
go the rest of the way. We shall have no tyrants to vex us," I added,
with enthusiasm. "I have made a nice house for you, dear Flora."

"I will do anything you say, Buckland," said she, clasping her arms
around my neck. "I cannot stay here."

"Then we must go this very night, before Captain Fishley and his wife
return. The raft is in the swamp. Go and dress yourself in your warmest
clothes, and put everything in a bundle which you wish to carry with
you."

"Shall we stay on the raft night and day, Buckland?" she inquired,
curiously; and her face already wore an expression of relief.

"Certainly, Flora. I have made a bunk in your room, and there is a stove
in the house."

"Is the house furnished?"

"Not much," I replied. "We have some things."

"You know all the furniture in my room here belongs to us," she added.

I did know it, but I had not thought of it before. When we went from our
own home to Captain Fishley's, Clarence had brought all the furniture
from Flora's room. I decided to carry off as much as I could of it,
including her bed, and the little rocking-chair in which she always sat.
Flora went to her chamber to prepare for her departure, and I hastened
to make my arrangements.

The die was cast! I was going immediately. Before the morning sun rose,
Flora and I, borne by the swift current of the river, would be far away
from Torrentville. My plans were all formed. Captain Fishley and his
wife would not return before nine o'clock, and I had nearly three hours
to convey Flora and her effects to the raft. There were no windows in
the rear of the store, and I was not in much danger of being seen by
Ham. I went to the barn to procure the wheelbarrow, and a little wagon I
had made for Flora, in which I intended to draw her to the swamp.

"Buck!" shouted Ham, as I was bringing out these vehicles, "I want you."

I deemed it prudent not to have a fuss with him then, and I hastened to
the store. In front of it I found the stable-keeper's best team. My
elegant tyrant was doubtless going to take Miss Elsie Crofton out to
ride, during the absence of his father.

"I want you to stay in the store till it's time to shut up," said Ham.
"I haven't left any money where you can steal it."

"I shall not stay in the store," I replied, indignant at his gratuitous
fling at me.

"Won't you?"

"No, I won't! I'm not going to put myself in position to be accused of
anything else."

"I think you'd better do as I tell you."

"I don't think so. The old man will give you fits for leaving the store;
and you know he wouldn't trust me there."

"The money is safe."

"That's all, Ham Fishley;" and I left the store.

I waited a little while to see what he would do. He locked the store,
and drove off with the fine team. He knew his father would not be back
till after it was time to close the shop. The coast was clear, and I
lost not a moment in carrying out my plans. I took an armful of Flora's
things, and went down to the verge of the swamp with them. I called Sim,
and told him what I intended to do as we walked back to the house. Our
operations were all carried on in the rear of the house, where none of
the neighbors could see us; and I loaded down the wheelbarrow to its
utmost capacity. But even then we could not carry everything, and I left
several bundles behind the barn, where we could readily obtain them for
a second load. I intended to take Bully with me, but I could not find
him. He was in the habit of making journeys about the village, and he
missed his destiny by being absent at this time.

It was after sundown when our little procession started for the swamp. I
felt as though I was taking the great step of my lifetime, and winning
the final triumph over my tyrants.




CHAPTER XVI.

DOWN THE RIVER.


First steps are always full of interest, at least to those who take
them; and, as I look back upon the eventful time when our little
procession left the back of the barn, it looms up as the most exciting
moment of my life, if I except the instant when I was struggling with
Sim Gwynn in the water. I was leaving the only home I had known for
years, and was going on a strange voyage down the river on a raft. I
shall not soon forget the emotions which agitated me.



Sim led the way with the wheelbarrow piled high with Flora's bed,
bundles of clothing, blankets, sheets, and comforters, while I brought
up the rear, dragging Flora's wagon, in which she was seated. My poor
sister was quite cheerful, and did not seem to be disturbed by any
timidity.

"Hurry up, Sim!" I called to my file-leader. "We have no time to lose."

"Won't Captain Fishley come after us?" asked Flora, as Sim quickened his
pace.

"He will if he knows where to come; but the swamp will be the last place
in the world where any one would think of looking for us. Before morning
we shall be miles away. Don't be alarmed, Flora."

"I am not alarmed. I feel ever so much better than I did when I thought
of meeting Mrs. Fishley again. Do you think it is right for us to do
this, Buckland?"

"Right! Of course it is. I don't know of any reason why we should stay
with Captain Fishley and his wife, to be kicked and cuffed by them any
longer."

Flora was thoughtful; but I knew she would not have come with me if she
had believed it was wrong to do so. We were all silent till we reached
the verge of the swamp, where the small raft lay. We unloaded the
wheelbarrow, and Sim went back for the rest of the articles. I placed my
sister's bed on the raft, and taking her in my arms, I laid her upon
it, and covered her with blankets, that the night air might not injure
her. I then pushed the raft over to the branch of the creek.

"Is that the raft?" exclaimed Flora, as I pointed it out to her.

"That's it; and I am sure you will be happier on board of it than at
Fishley's."

"The house looks real nice! There is the stove-pipe. You have one glass
window."

"Yes; that is in your room," I replied, as I ran the tender alongside
the great raft.

I fastened it securely, and helped Flora on board. She was almost as
much delighted with my handiwork as I had been myself. I conveyed her
bed to her apartment, and placed it in the bunk. It was not a bad fit.

"Now, Flora, I must leave you, and go for the rest of the things. You
can lie down in your bed, and I will cover you with blankets."

"I'm not cold. Shall you be gone long?" she asked.

"No."

"This is a very dismal place."

"You shall be on the broad river in the morning."

She lay down, and I left her to meet Sim at the landing-place. He had
arrived before me, and we loaded all the rest of the goods on the raft.

"What shall I do with the wheelbarrow?" asked Sim.

"Take it up into the open field, where they can see it. It might lie in
the swamp for a year before any one found it; and I don't mean to take a
single thing from Fishley. I carried back the saw I borrowed, and bought
a new one. I don't owe him anything now," I replied.

"I reckon he'll wonder where you and Miss Flora are, when he gets back,"
said Sim, with one of his broad grins.

"Let him wonder. I shall not charge him anything for wondering."

"I s'pose not," chuckled Sim, as he went off with the wheelbarrow.

While he was gone, I amused myself in picking up a quantity of dry wood
on the high ground for the stove, which I placed upon the raft. As soon
as Sim returned, we pushed off, and made our last trip through the
swamp. When we arrived at the raft, I found Flora had got up, and was
walking about the platform. She was so nervous she could not lie in bed.
I placed her chair in the large room, closed the shutters, and made a
fire in the stove. In a few minutes I had the pleasure of seeing her
seated before the fire, seemingly comfortable and happy.

Sim and I transferred the articles, including Flora's wagon, from the
small raft to the house on the large one. By this time it was quite
dark, and I lighted my lantern. My first work was in Flora's room, where
I made up the bed, and spread a rug on the floor. I drove nails into the
walls to hang her clothes upon, and arranged her boxes on some shelves I
had put up. The place looked very cosy to me, and Flora declared that it
was ever so much nicer than she had expected. I had taken great pains
with this part of the building, and carefully stopped every crack where
the wind could blow through upon her, and the roof had already been
tested in a heavy shower.

By nine o'clock, as nearly as I could guess the time, I had finished my
sister's room; but, though it was past her bedtime, she was not willing
to retire. I had hoped she would take to her bed at the usual hour, and
relieve me of all anxiety about her, for I was afraid she would catch
cold and be sick. But the excitement would not permit her to do so. The
stove warmed both of the rooms, and we were in more danger from the want
of ventilation than from the night air. She sat in her chair in her
room, with Sim and me before her, talking over the matter.

"Why don't you start, Buckland?" she asked, when I had detailed more
fully than before my plans.

"It is rather too early yet. You know the road to Riverport runs along
the bank of the creek, and I don't wish anybody in these parts to see
us," I replied.

"The sooner we start, the farther we shall get before morning," added
Sim, who was as impatient as Flora.

"We shall be far enough off in the morning. How fast do you suppose the
raft will go, Sim?"

"I dunno."

"It will go about as fast as the current without any help; and that is
three or four miles an hour. We shall be at least twenty miles from here
at five o'clock in the morning."

"But won't they miss us at the house, Buckland?" asked Flora.

"Certainly they will. Very likely they have missed us by this time."

"Suppose they should find us?"

"We should be no worse off than before. But there is not the remotest
chance that they will find us. Do you think they would look in the swamp
for you, Flora?"

She was satisfied, and we continued to discuss the future, until I
judged that it was late enough to commence the voyage. I wished to be
sure that Captain Fishley and his wife had returned from Riverport. The
night was quite dark, and I had no fear that the raft would be seen; but
even if it were, it was not a very uncommon thing for such a craft to go
down the river.

I had made a crooked steering oar, and built a platform to stand upon,
so that the helmsman could see over the house. I mounted this platform,
and took hold of the end of the oar.

"Now cast off the forward fast, Sim!" I called to my deck hand.

"All clear," replied Sim, when he had drawn in the line, which had been
passed round a tree so that it could be hauled in without going on
shore.

"Now let go the other!"

Sim untied one of the ends of the rope, and was pulling it in, when I
felt a consciousness that something was wrong, though I could not tell
what. It flashed across my mind that I was making a blunder.

"Hold on, Sim!" I shouted, jumping down from the platform, and trying to
catch the rope; but the end had gone ashore.

"What's the matter, Buck?" called Sim, apparently alarmed by my sudden
movements.

"I have forgotten my money!" I exclaimed, as I leaped on the small raft
which lay alongside.

I sprang for the tree to which the great raft was fastened, in order to
secure the rope; but it was too late. The current started the raft, and
dragged the rope off before I could catch hold of it. In the darkness
and the night the craft went off without me.

"Don't leave me, Buck!" called Sim.

"Take the steering oar, and run her up to the shore!" I replied.

I had the small raft, and I could follow at pleasure, and join my
companions; but if I pushed off, I could not return, for the branch of
the creek was too deep for me to use the pole. I could not think of
going without my money.

I saw Sim jump upon the platform, and work the steering oar vigorously,
but with more power than skill. He succeeded in running her up to the
bank.

"Now hold on to her!" I shouted. "I shall not be gone long!"

I pushed the raft to the tree where I had concealed the money; and,
though I had some difficulty in finding it, I succeeded; still, three
times as many minutes were wasted in the operation as I supposed would
be necessary. With the roll of bills in my pocket-book, I pushed off
again, and soon reached the stream. Launching out into the current, the
raft was borne with its flow towards the creek.

I could not see the light on the raft where I had left it, only a few
rods below the starting-point. My frail bark was not large enough to
float easily on the rapid stream, and in spite of my best efforts, it
would whirl round, for the pole in my hand had not blade enough to
enable me to steer with it. In a few moments I reached the place where I
had last seen the light through the window of Flora's room; but the raft
was not there. It was not to be seen before me; but the stream made a
bend a short distance below me.

The raft had probably broken loose, and Sim had been unable to stop it;
but it was not like my fellow-voyager to let it go without yelling at
the top of his lungs, and he had more voice than wits. Though all my
hopes were in the ark I had built, and Flora, whom I loved more than
life, was a passenger upon it, I was not alarmed. Sim would be able to
run it up to the shore, and probably had done so beyond the bend.

I always had a habit of looking on the bright side of things, and was
disposed never to despair; at least not till I had seen what was beyond
the next bend in the stream of life. I was quite confident I should find
the ark of my safety in a few moments more, and I did not even attempt
to hurry the crazy float on which I travelled. I reached the bend, and
strained my eyes to peer through the gloom, which hung deep and heavy
over the swamp. The stream was straight for half a mile ahead of me, but
no light gladdened my eyes.

I was startled, and even terrified, by the situation.




CHAPTER XVII.

NIGHT ON THE RIVER.


Sim Gwynn had a voice like a bull, and I wondered that he had not used
it, as he was in the habit of doing in all cases of peril or emergency.
The worst fear I had was, that he had fallen overboard; for it seemed to
me that nothing else could have prevented him from halloing. But I had
strong hopes that the next bend of the stream would remove my anxiety.

With the board I had torn from my raft I paddled with all my might; but
it seemed like an hour to me, in my deep solicitude for the fate of my
companions, before I reached the bend. At this point the stream made a
sharp turn, and I had the intense satisfaction of seeing the light on
the raft, on the right bank of the stream. The current set my craft
directly towards it, and I had only to use my paddle in keeping it from
whirling round.

A heavy load of anxiety was removed from my mind; but, as I approached
the light, I wondered that Sim was not on the lookout for me. I ran
alongside, and leaped upon the platform; but my clumsy assistant did not
present himself to give me a welcome. A cold chill crept through my
veins again, as I thought that he might have tumbled into the water, and
been swept away by the current. The door of the house was closed, as I
had left it, in order to keep the night air from Flora. Dreading lest
some mishap had overtaken her also, I pushed the door open and rushed
in.

My fears had been vain and foolish. Flora sat in her arm-chair at the
stove, just as I had so often seen her in the kitchen of Captain
Fishley, as calm and composed as though she had been on the dry land.
Opposite her Sim Gwynn sat on the floor, fat and happy, and wholly
undisturbed.

"What are you about, Sim?" I demanded, sharply; for I was vexed to see
him taking it so coolly, while I had almost worried the life out of me.

"About nothin'; been waiting for you," replied my deck hand, with his
customary grin.

"What did you let the raft go adrift for?"

"I didn't let it go adrift."

"Why didn't you keep her up to the shore?"

"She kept herself there."

"No, she didn't."

"Well, she's here--isn't she?"

"She is here, just where she ought not to be," I added, puzzled by the
apparent stupidity of Sim. "You ought to stay outside when I leave you
to take care of her."

"Miss Flora called me in to have me tell her what the matter was, and
she kept talking to me ever since," pleaded Sim.

"Don't scold him, Buckland. It was my fault; but I did not know anything
was wrong," interposed Flora.

"I'm not scolding him; but he should look out for the raft when I leave
her in his care."

"Well, I did look out for it. It didn't run away from me, and here it
is."

"If it didn't run away from you, it ran away with you."

"No, it didn't; here it is just as you left it."

"But the raft has come down stream more than half a mile since I left
it."

"Hookie! What's that?" asked Sim, opening his eyes.

"Didn't you know the raft had broken loose, and travelled down stream
half a mile or more?" I asked, filled with astonishment.

"I didn't know anything at all about it," protested Sim, vigorously.

"I'm sure I did not know that she had moved an inch," added Flora.

"That's strange," I continued, laughing. "When I came out of the swamp,
I couldn't find the raft, and I was afraid you would get to New Orleans
before I could catch you. Then I feared Sim had fallen overboard; and I
suffered a great deal in a very short time."

"I heven't been out of the house since you went away, and I heven't the
leastest idee that we were goin' on," said Sim. "I'll stay outside next
time."

"You must, Sim; for we shall never know where we are if you don't keep
your eyes wide open."

"What was it about the money, Buckland? Sim said you had forgotten your
money; but he did not know what you meant by it," asked Flora.

I explained what I meant, and that I had concealed my money in the swamp
to prevent the constable or the captain from finding it upon me.

"I am so sorry I called Sim!" pleaded poor Flora.

"It's no matter now. Perhaps it will be a good lesson for him and me to
learn at the start. Now we will push off and try again. It is lucky I
thought of the money when I did, for we could do nothing without that.
Come, Sim, bear a hand!"

"Buckland, can't I step out and see the raft go?" asked Flora. "I don't
like to stay in here."

"I'm afraid you will catch cold."

"No; I will wrap myself up in a blanket. I want to see how you manage
the raft."

I could not refuse her; and, wrapping her up in a blanket, I carried her
chair out to the side of the raised platform, and seated her in it. Sim
and I took the boards from the small raft, which had been so useful to
us in the swamp, and let the logs go adrift.

"Now take your pole, Sim, and push her off."

"She won't come off," replied the deck hand, after he had used all his
power in the attempt to shove her off.

I went forward, and found the end of the raft had run upon the root of a
