
"A right to do what they liked with themselves, and to earn
money, and to keep their wives?"

"But those rights were lost, you know, Daisy."

"But could they be?" I said. "I mean  Dr. Sandford, for
instance, suppose somebody stole your watch from you; would
you lose the right to it?"

"It seems to me that I should not, Daisy."

"That is what I mean," I said.

"But there is another view of the case, Daisy. Take Margaret,
for instance. From the time she was a child, your father's, or
your mother's, money has gone to support her; her food and
clothing and living have been wholly at their expense. Does
not that give them a right to her services? ought they not to
be repaid?"

I did not want to speak of my father and mother and Margaret.
It was coming too near home. I knew the food and clothing Dr.
Sandford spoke of; I knew a very few months of a northern
servant's wages would have paid for it all; was this girl's
whole life to be taken from her, and by my father and mother,
and for such a cause? The feeling of grief and wrong and shame
got possession of me. I was ready to break my heart in tears;
but I could not show Dr. Sandford what I felt, nor confess to
what I thought of my father's action. I had the greatest
struggle with myself not to give way and cry. I was very weak
bodily, but I know I stood still and did not shed a tear; till
I felt Dr. Sandford's hands take hold of me. They put me
gently back in the chair from which I had risen.

"What is the matter, Daisy?" he said.

I would not speak, and he did not urge it; but I saw that he
watched me, till I gained command of myself again.

"Shall we go home now?" he asked.

"In a minute. Dr. Sandford, I do not think papa knows about
all this  I do not think he knows about it as I do. I am sure
he does not; and when he knows, he will think as I do."

"Or perhaps you will think as he does."

I was silent. I wondered if that could be possible, if I too
could have my eyes blinded as I saw other people's were.

"Little Daisy," said my friend the doctor,  "but you are
getting to be not little Daisy. How old are you?"

"I shall be fourteen in June."

"Fourteen. Well, it is no wonder that my friend whom I left a
philosopher at ten years old, I should find a woman at
fourteen  but, Daisy, you must not take it on your heart that
you have to teach all the ignorant and help all the distressed
that come in your way; because simply you cannot do it."

I looked up at him. I could not tell him what I thought,
because he would not, I feared, understand it. Christ came to
do just such work, and His servants must have it on their
heart to do the same. I cannot tell what was in my look; but I
thought the doctor's face changed.

"One Molly Skelton will do for one four years," he said as he
rose up. "Come, Daisy."

"But, Dr. Sandford," I said, as I followed him, "you will not
do anything about sending Margaret back?"

"Nothing, till you do, Daisy."

Arrived at home, the doctor made me drink a raw egg, and lie
down on Mrs. Sandford's sofa; and he sat down and looked at
me.

"You are the most troublesome patient that ever I had," said
he.

"I am?" I exclaimed.

"Yes. Quite innocently. You cannot help it, Daisy; and you
need not be troubled about it. It is all in the way of my
profession. It is as if a delicate vessel of Egyptian glass
were put to do the work of an iron smelting furnace; and I
have to think of all the possible bands and hardening
appliances that can be brought into use for the occasion."

"I do not understand " I said.

"No. I suppose not. That is the worst of it."

"But why am I all Egyptian glass?" I asked. "I am not very
old."

The doctor gave me one of those quick, bright glances and
smiles, that were very pleasant to get from him and not very
common. There came a sort of glow and sparkle in his blue eye
then, and a wonderful winsome and gracious trick of the lips.

"It is a very doubtful sort of a compliment," said Mrs.
Sandford.

"I did not mean it for a compliment at all," said the doctor.

"I don't believe you did," said his sister; "but what did you
mean? Grant, I should like to hear you pay a compliment for
once."

"You do not know Egyptian glass," said the doctor.

"No. What was it?"

"Very curious."

"Didn't I say that you couldn't pay compliments," said Mrs.
Sandford.

"And unlike any that is made now-a-days. There were curious
patterns wrought in the glass, made, it is supposed, by the
fusing together of rods of glass, extremely minute, of
different colours; so that the pattern once formed was
ineffaceable and indestructible, unless by the destruction of
the vessel which contained it. Sometimes a layer of gold was
introduced between the layers of glass."

"How very curious!" said Mrs. Sandford.

"I think I must take you into consultation, Daisy," the doctor
went on, turning to me. "It is found, that there must be a
little delay before you can go up to take a look at Melbourne.
Mrs. Sandford is obliged to stop in New York with a sick
sister; how long she may be kept there it is impossible to
say. Now you would have a dull time, I am afraid; and I am in
doubt whether it would not be pleasanter for you to enter
school at once. In about three months the school term will end
and the summer vacation begin; by that time Mrs. Sandford will
be at home and the country ready to receive you. But you shall
do whichever you like best."

"Mrs. Sandford will be in New York?" I said.

"Yes."

"And I would see you constantly, dear, and have you with me
all the Saturdays and Sundays and holidays. And if you like it
better, you shall be with me all the time; only I should be
obliged to leave you alone too much."

"How long does the summer vacation last?" I inquired.

"Till some time in September. You can enter school now, or
then, as you choose."

I thought and hesitated, and said I would enter at once. Dr.
Sandford said I was not fit for it, but it was on the whole
the best plan. So it was arranged; that I should just wait a
day or two in New York to get my wardrobe in order and then
begin my school experience.

But my thoughts went back afterwards, more than once, to the
former conversation; and I wondered what it was about me that
made Dr. Sandford liken me to Egyptian glass.

CHAPTER IX.

SHOPPING.


It was settled that I should wait a day or two in New York to
get my wardrobe arranged, and then begin my school experience.
But when we got to New York, we found Mrs. Sandford's sister
so ill as to claim her whole time. There was none to spare for
me and my wardrobe. Mrs. Sandford said I must attend to it
myself as well as I could, and the doctor would go with me. He
was off duty, he reported, and at leisure for ladies' affairs.
Mrs. Sandford told me what I would need. A warm school dress,
she said; for the days would be often cold in this latitude
until May, and even later; and schoolrooms not always warm. A
warm dress for every day was the first thing. A fine merino,
Mrs. Sandford said, would be, she thought, what my mother
would choose. I had silks which might be warm enough for other
occasions. Then I must have a thick coat or cloak. Long coats,
with sleeves, were fashionable then, she told me; the doctor
would take me where I would find plenty to choose from. And I
needed a hat, or a bonnet. Unless, Mrs. Sandford said, I chose
to wear my riding cap with the feather; that was warm, and
very pretty, and would do.

How much would it all cost? I asked. Mrs. Sandford made a
rapid calculation. The merino would be two dollars a yard, she
said; the coat might be got for thirty-five or thereabouts
sufficiently good; the hat was entirely what I chose to make
it. "But you know, my dear," Mrs. Sandford said, "the sort of
quality and style your mother likes, and you will be guided by
that."

Must I be guided by that?  I questioned with myself. Yes, I
knew. I knew very well; but I had other things to think of. I
pondered. While I was pondering, Dr. Sandford was quietly
opening his pocket-book and unfolding a roll of bills. He put
a number of them into my hand.

"That will cover it all, Daisy," he said. "It is money your
father has made over to my keeping, for this and similar
purposes."

"Oh, thank you !" I said, breathless; and then I counted the
bills. "Oh, thank you, Dr. Sandford! but may I spend all
this?"

"Certainly. Mr. Randolph desired it should go, this and more
of it, to your expenses, of whatever kind. This covers my
sister's estimate, and leaves something for your pocket
besides."

"And when shall we go?" I asked.

"To spend it? Now, if you like. Why, Daisy, I did now know "

"What, sir?" I said as he paused.

"Really, nothing," he said, smiling. "Somehow I had not
fancied that you shared the passion of your sex for what they
call shopping. You are all alike, in some things."

"I like it very much to-day," I said.

"It would be safe, for you to keep Daisy's money in your own
pocket, Grant," Mrs. Sandford said. "It will be stolen from
her, certainly."

The doctor smiled and stretched out his hand; I put the bills
into it; and away we went. My head was very busy. I knew, as
Mrs. Sandford said, the sort and style of purchases my mother
would make and approve; but then on the other hand the
remembrance was burnt into me, whence that money came which I
was expected to spend so freely, and what other uses and calls
for it there were, even in the case of those very people whose
hands had earned it for us. Not to go further, Margaret's
wardrobe needed refitting quite as much as mine. She was quite
as unaccustomed as I to the chills and blasts of a cold
climate, and full as a unfurnished to meet them. I had seen
her draw her thin checked shawl around her, when I knew it was
not enough to save her from the weather, and that she had no
more. And her gowns, of thin cotton stuff, such as she wore
about her housework at Magnolia, were a bare provision against
the nipping bite of the air here at the North. Yet nobody
spoke of any addition to her stock of clothes. It was on my
heart alone. But now it was in my hand too, and I felt very
glad; though just how to manage Dr. Sandford I did not know. I
thought a great deal about the whole matter as we went through
the streets; as I had also thought long before; and my mind
was clear, that while so many whom I knew needed the money, or
while any whom I knew needed it, I would spend no useless
dollars upon myself. How should I manage Dr. Sandford? There
he was, my cash-keeper; and I had not the least wish to unfold
my plans to him.

"I suppose the dress is the first thing, Daisy," he said, as
we entered the great establishment where everything was to be
had; and he inquired for the counter where we should find
merinos. I had no objection ready.

"What colour, Daisy?"

"I want something dark "

"Something dark and bright," said the doctor, seating himself.
"And fine quality. Not green, Daisy, if I might advise. It is
too cold."

"Cold!" said I.

"For this season. It is a very nice colour in summer, Daisy,"
he said, smiling.

And he looked on in a kind of amused way, while the clerk of
the merinos and I confronted each other. There was displayed
now before me a piece of claret-coloured stuff; "dark and
bright ;" a beautiful tint, and a very beautiful piece of
goods. I knew enough of the matter to know that. Fine and
thick and lustrous, it just suited my fancy; I knew it was
just what my mother would buy; I saw Dr. Sandford's eye watch
me in its amusement with a glance of expectation. But the
stuff was two dollars and a quarter a yard. Yes, it suited me
exactly; but what was to become of others if I were covered so
luxuriously? And how could I save money if I spent it? It was
hard to speak, too, before that shopman, who held the merino
in his hand expecting me to say I would take it; but I had no
way to escape that trouble. I turned from the rich folds of
claret stuff, to the doctor at my side.

"Dr. Sandford," I said, "I want to get something that will not
cost so much.

"Does it not please you?" he asked.

"Yes; I like it; but I want some stuff that will not cost so
much."

"This is not far above my sister's estimate, Daisy."

"No " I said.

"And the difference is a trifle  if you like the piece."

"I like it," I said; "but it is very much above my estimate."

"You had one of your own!" said the doctor. "Do you like
something else here better?  or what is your estimate,
Daisy?"

"I do not want a poor merino," I said. "I would rather get
some other stuff  if I can. I do not want to give more than a
dollar."

"The young lady may find what will suit her at the plaid
counter," said the shopman, letting fall the rich drapery he
had been holding up.  "Just round that corner, sir, to the
left."

Dr. Sandford led the way, and I followed. There certainly I
found a plenty of warm stuffs, in various patterns and
colours, and with prices as various. But nothing to match the
grave elegance of those claret folds. It was coming down a
step, to leave that counter for this. I knew it perfectly
well; while I sought out the simplest and prettiest dark small
plaid I could find.

"Do you like these things better?" the doctor asked me
privately.

"No, sir," I said.

"Then why come here, Daisy? Pardon me, may I ask?"

"I have other things to get, Dr. Sandford," I said low.

"But, Daisy!" said the doctor, rousing up,  "I have performed
my part ill. You are not restricted  your father has not
restricted you. I am your banker for whatever sums you may
need  for whatever purposes."

"Yes," I said; "I know. Oh no, I know papa has not restricted
you; but I think I ought not to spend any more. It is my own
affair."

"And not mine. Pardon me, Daisy; I submit."

"Dr. Sandford, don't speak so!" I said. "I don't mean that. I
mean, it is my own affair and not papa's."

"Certainly, I have no more to say," said the doctor, smiling.

"I will tell you about it,"  I said; and then I desired the
shopman to cut off the dress I had fixed upon; and we went up
stairs to look for cloaks; I feeling hot and confused and half
perplexed. I had never worn such a dress as this plaid I had
bought, in my life. It was nice and good, and pretty too; but
it did not match the quality or the elegance of the things my
mother always had got for me. She would not have liked it nor
let me wear it; I knew that; but then  whence came the wealth
that flowed over in such exquisite forms upon her and upon me?
were not its original and proper channels bare? And whence
were they to be, even in any measure, refilled, if all the
supply must, as usual, be led off in other directions? I mused
as I went up the stair, feeling perplexed nevertheless at the
strangeness of the work I was doing, and with something in my
heart giving a pull to my judgment towards the side of what
was undoubtedly "pleasant to the eyes." So I followed Dr.
Sandford up the stair and into the wilderness of the cloak
department; where all manner of elegancies, in silk and velvet
and cloth, were displayed in orderly confusion. It was a
wilderness to me, in the mood of my thoughts. Was I going to
repeat here the process just gone through down stairs?

The doctor seated me, asked what I wanted to see, and gave the
order. And forthwith my eyes were regaled with a variety of
temptations. A nice little black silk pelisse was hung on the
stand opposite me; it was nice; a good gloss was upon the
silk, the article was in the neatest style, and trimmed with
great simplicity. I would have been well satisfied to wear
that. By its side was displayed another of velvet; then yet
another of very fine dark cloth; perfect in material and make,
faultless in its elegance of finish. But the silk was forty-
five, and the cloth was forty, and the velvet was sixty
dollars. I sat and looked at them. There is no denying that I
wanted the silk or the cloth. Either of them would do. Either
of them was utterly girl-like and plain, but both of them had
the finish of perfection, in make, style, and material. I
wanted the one or the other. But, if I had it, what would be
left for Margaret?

"Are you tired, Daisy?" said Dr. Sandford, bending down to
look in my face.

"No, sir. At least, that is not what I was thinking of."

"What then?" said he. "Will one of these do?"

"They would do," I said slowly. "But, Dr. Sandford, I should
like to see something else  something that would do for
somebody that was poorer than I."

"Poorer?" said the doctor, looking funny. "What is the matter,
Daisy? Have you suddenly become bankrupt? You need not be
afraid, for the bank is in my pocket; and I know it will stand
all your demands upon it."

"No, but  I would indeed, if you please, Dr. Sandford. These
things cost too much for what I want now."

"Do you like them?"

"I like them very well."

"Then take one, whichever you like best. That is my advice to
you, Daisy. The bank will bear it."

"I think I must not. Please, Dr. Sandford, I should like to
see something that would not cost so much. Do they all cost as
much as these?"

The doctor gave the order, as I desired. The shopman who was
serving us cast another comprehensive glance at me  I had
seen him give one at the beginning  and tossing off the
velvet coat and twisting off the silk one, he walked away.
Presently came back with a brown silk which he hung in the
place of the velvet one, and a blue cloth, which replaced the
black silk. Every whit as costly, and almost as pretty, both
of them.

"No," said the doctor,  "you mistook me. We want to look at
some goods fitted for persons who have not long purses."

"Something inferior to these " said the man. He was not
uncivil; he just stated the fact. In accordance with which he
replaced the last two coats with a little grey dreadnought,
and a black cloth; the first neat and rough, the last not to
be looked at. It was not in good taste, and a sort of thing
that I neither had worn nor could wear. But the grey
dreadnought was simple and warm and neat, and would offend
nobody. I looked from it to the pretty black cloth which still
hung opposed to it, the one of the first two. Certainly, in
style and elegance this looked like my mother's child, and the
other did not. But this was forty dollars. The dreadnought was
exactly half that sum. I had a little debate with myself  I
remember it, for it was my first experience of that kind of
thing  and all my mother's training had refined in me the
sense of what was elegant and fitting, in dress as well as in
other matters. Until now, I had never had my fancy crossed by
anything I ever had to wear. The little grey dreadnought  how
would it go with my silk dresses? It was like what I had seen
other people dressed in; never my mother or me. Yet it was
perfectly fitting a lady's child, if she could not afford
other; and where was Margaret's cloak to come from? And who
had the best right? I pondered and debated, and then I told
Dr. Sandford I would have the grey coat. I believe I half
wished he would make some objection; but he did not; he paid
for the dreadnought and ordered it sent home; and then I began
to congratulate myself that Margaret's comfort was secure.

"Is that all, Daisy?" my friend asked.

"Dr. Sandford," said I, standing up and speaking low, "I want
to find  can I find here, do you think?  a good warm cloak
and dress for Margaret."

"For Margaret!" said the doctor.

"Yes; she is not used to the cold, you know; and she has
nothing to keep her comfortable."

"But, Daisy!" said the doctor,  "Sit down here again; I must
understand this. Was Margaret at the bottom of all these
financial operations?"

"I knew she wanted something, ever since we came from
Washington," I said.

"Daisy, she could have had it."

"Yes, Dr. Sandford;  but "

"But what, if you will be so good?"

"I think it was right for me to get it."

"I am sorry I do not agree with you at all. It was for me to
get it  I am supplied with funds, Daisy  and your father has
entrusted to me the making of all arrangements which are in
any way good for your comfort. I think, with your leave, I
shall reverse these bargains. Have you been all this time
pleasing Margaret and not yourself?"

"No, sir," I said,  "if you please. I cannot explain it, Dr.
Sandford; but I know it is right."

"What is right, Daisy? My faculties are stupid."

"No, sir; but  let it be as it is, please."

"But won't you explain it? I ought to know what I am giving my
consent to, Daisy; for just now I am constituted your
guardian. What has Margaret to do with your cloaks? There is
enough for both."

"But," said I, in a great deal of difficulty,  "there is not
enough for me and everybody."

"Are you going to take care of the wants of everybody?"

"I think  I ought to take care of all that I can," I said.

"But you have not the power."

"I won't do but what I have the power for."

"Daisy, what would your father and mother say to such a course
of action? would they allow it, do you think?"

"But you are my guardian now, Dr. Sandford,"  I said, looking
up at him. He paused a minute doubtfully.

"I am conquered!" he said. "You have absolutely conquered me,
Daisy. I have not a word to say. I wonder if that is the way
you are going through the world in future? What is it now
about Margaret?  for I was bewildered and did not
understand."

"A warm cloak and dress," I said, delighted; "that is what I
want. Can I get them here?"

"Doubtful, I should say," the doctor answered; "but we will
try."

And we did succeed in finding the dress, strong and warm and
suitable; the cloak we had to go to another shop for. On the
way we stopped at the milliner's. My aunt Gary and Mrs.
Sandford employed the same one.

"I put it in your hands, Daisy!" Dr. Sandford said, as we went
in. "Only let me look on."

I kept him waiting a good while, I am afraid; but he was very
patient and seemed amused. I was not. The business was very
troublesome to me. This was not so easy a matter as to choose
between stuffs and have the yards measured off. Bonnets are
bonnets, as my aunt always said; and things good in themselves
may not be in the least good for you. And I found the thing
that suited was even more tempting here than it had been in
the cloak ware-room. There was a little velvet hat which I
fancied mamma would have bought for me; it was so stylish, and
at the same time so simple, and became me so well. But it was
of a price corresponding with its beauty. I turned my back on
it, though I seemed to see it just as well through the back
of my head, and tried to find something else. The milliner
would have it there was nothing beside that fitted me. The hat
must go on.

"She has grown," said the milliner, appealing to Dr. Sandford;
"and you see this is the very thing. This tinge of colour
inside is just enough to relieve the pale cheeks. Do you see,
sir?"

"It is without a fault," said the doctor.

"Take it off, please," I said. "I want to find something that
will not cost so much  something that will not cost near so
much."

"There is that cap that is too large for Miss Van Allen " the
milliner's assistant remarked.

"It would not suit Mrs. Randolph at all," was the answer
aside.

But I begged to see it. Now this was a comfortable, soft
quilted silk cap, with a chinchilla border. Not much style
about it, but also nothing to dislike, except its simplicity.
The price was moderate, and it fitted me.

You are going to be a different Daisy Randolph from what you
have been all your life  something whispered to me. And the
doctor said, "That makes you look about ten years old again,
Daisy." I had a minute of doubt and delay; then I said I would
have the cap; and the great business was ended.

Margaret's purchases were all found, and we went home, with
money still in my bank, Dr. Sandford informed me. I was very
tired; but on the whole I was very satisfied. Till my things
came home, and I saw that Mrs. Sandford did not like them.

"I wish I could have been with you!" she said.

"What is the matter?" said the doctor. It was the evening, and
we were all together for a few minutes, before Mrs. Sandford
went to her sister.

"Did you choose these things, Grant?"

"What is the matter with them?"

"They are hardly suitable."

"For the third time, what is the matter with them?" said the
doctor.

"They are neat, but they are not handsome."

"They will look handsome when they are on," said Dr. Sandford.

"No, they won't; they will look common. I don't mean vulgar 
you could not buy anything in bad taste  but they are just
what anybody's child might wear."

"Then Mrs. Randolph's child might."

Mrs. Sandford gave him a look. "That is just the thing," she
said. "Mrs. Randolph's child might not. I never saw anybody
more elegant or more particular about the choice of her dress
than Mrs. Randolph; it is always perfect; and Daisy's always
was. Mrs. Randolph would not like these."

"Shall we change them, Daisy?" said the doctor.

I said "no ".

"Then I hope they will wear out before Mrs. Randolph comes
home," he said.

All this, somehow, made me uncomfortable. I went off to the
room which had been given to me, where a fire was kept; and I
sat down to think. Certainly, I would have liked the other
coat and hat better, that I had rejected; and the thought of
the rich soft folds of that silky merino were not pleasant to
me. The plaid I had bought did wear a common look in
comparison. I knew it, quite as well as Mrs. Sandford; and
that I had never worn common things; and I knew that in the
merino, properly made; I should have looked my mother's child;
and that in the plaid my mother would not know me. Was I
right? was I wrong? I knelt down before the fire, feeling that
the straight path was not always easy to find. Yet I had
thought I saw it before me. I knelt before the fire, which was
the only light in the room, and opened the page of my dear
little book that had the Bible lessons for every day. This
day's lesson was headed, "That ye adorn the doctrine of God
our Saviour in all things."

The mist began to clear away. Between adorning and being
adorned, the difference was so great, it set my face quite
another way directly. I went on. "Let your conversation be as
it becometh the gospel of Christ."

And how should that be? Certainly the spirit of that gospel
had no regard to self-glorification; and had most tender
regard to the wants of others. I began to feel sure that I was
in the way and not out of it. Then came  "If ye be reproached
for the name of Christ, happy are ye. But let none of you
suffer . . . as a thief, or as an evildoer"  "Let your light
so shine before men"  "Let not mercy and truth forsake thee;
bind them about thy neck;"  "Whatsoever things are true,
whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just . . .
think on these things."

The words came about me, binding up my doubts, making sound my
heart, laying a soft touch upon every rough spot in my
thoughts. True, honest, just, lovely, and of good report 
yes, I would think on these things, and I would not be turned
aside from them. And if I suffered as a Christian, I
determined that I would not be ashamed; I prayed that I might
never; I would take as no dishonour the laughter or the
contempt of those who did not see the two sides of the
question; but as a thief I would not suffer. I earnestly
prayed that I might not. No beauty of dresses or stylishness
of coats or bonnets should adorn me, the price of which God
saw belonged and was due to the suffering of others; more
especially, to the wants of those whose wants made my supply.
That my father and mother, with the usage of old habit, and
the influence of universal custom, should be blind to what I
saw so clearly, made no difference in my duty. I had the light
of the Bible rule, which was not yet, I knew, the lamp to
their feet. I must walk by it, all the same. And my thought
went back now with great tenderness to mammy Theresa's
rheumatism, which wanted flannel; to Maria's hyacinths, which
were her great earthly interest, out of the things of religion;
to Darry's lonely cottage, where he had no lamp to read the
Bible o' nights, and no oil to burn in it. To Pete's solitary
hut, too, where he was struggling to learn to read well, and
where a hymn-book would be the greatest comfort to him. To the
old people, whose one solace of a cup of tea would be gone
unless I gave it them; to the boys who were learning to read,
who wanted testaments; to the bed-ridden and sick who wanted
blankets; to the young and well who wanted gowns (not indeed
for decency, but for the natural pleasure of looking neat and
