
"I'll show you, sir."

Leo swept out the canary seed from the grand parade, so that the little
actors should have nothing to distract their attention. Taking six
little sticks--that looked something like guns--he rapped with his
finger-nail on the floor of the house. The seven mice stood up on their
hind legs, in a straight line, like a file of soldiers. He then gave
each of the first six his musket, and to the seventh a sword.

"Shoulder--arms!" said he, with a movement of his forefinger, which
probably had more effect than the words.

The mice, with becoming gravity, obeyed the order, and successively
went through four movements in the manual of arms. Then one of the
little soldiers was deprived of his gun, and Leo explained that he was
a deserter, and was to be shot for his crime. At a movement of the
boy's forefinger, the culprit took his station at one side of the grand
parade, while his companions formed a line on the other side, with
their muskets pointed at the deserter.

"Fire!" said Leo, at the same time dropping a torpedo on the floor of
the house, which exploded.

The infamous wretch of a white mouse, which had basely deserted his
flag, dropped upon his back, and lay as still as though he had actually
suffered the extreme penalty of martial law. It must be added that the
captain of the firing party was so frightened by the noise of the
torpedo that he scampered away into his nest, much to the mortification
of Leo; but he was recalled, and compelled to face the music at the
head of his squad.

Leo rapped again on the floor, and the defunct mouse was suddenly
resurrected. The tragedy completed, the squad was dismissed, and
immediately became white mice again, snuffing about the parade,
doubtless wondering what had become of the canary seed, which was
choice food, served out only on extra occasions.

"That is really wonderful," said Dr. Fisher. "Did you train them
yourself?"

"Partly; but my father did most of it," replied Leo, who proceeded to
explain the method by which the little creatures had been educated.

"Leo," said the doctor, as he was about to depart, "your sister seems
to be a very sensitive young lady. I wanted to ask her some questions;
but I did not feel quite equal to it. I will ask them of you; but I
wish you to understand that I do so as your friend."

The good physician then inquired into the circumstances of the poor
barber. Leo told him the exact truth, but assured him the family were
in no need of assistance, and did not feel like accepting charity.
Modestly, and with much enthusiasm, he then stated in what manner he
intended to support the family.

"Certainly there are plenty of people who would be glad to have some of
your beautiful little pets, especially in these elegant houses you
make," added the physician. "I would take one myself if I had time to
attend to them." The doctor was a bachelor.

"I have no doubt I can sell them, sir."

"I hope you will not take it amiss if I mention the fact among my
friends and patients that you have them for sale," added Dr. Fisher.

"No, sir; I'm sure I should not! I should be very much obliged to you."

"Then I will recommend your wares to those who are able to buy them;
and I trust you will drive a large trade in the mouse business."

The doctor went away; and Leo, encouraged by the promise of the
powerful influence of his visitor, resumed his work. At twelve o'clock,
when Maggie called him to dinner, he had made considerable progress in
the four houses in process of construction. When he had finished his
noonday meal, he went out and found Tom Casey, an Irish boy whom he had
befriended in various ways. Tom agreed to go with him to State Street;
and the new "HOTEL DES MICE"--as it was labelled in large letters on
the front gable--was loaded upon a little wagon of Leo's build, and
they started for the busy street, attended by a crowd of curious
youngsters, of both sexes and of all conditions.



The mice were astonished at the sudden revolution which was taking
place in their affairs; and Leo was as anxious as though the fate of
the nation depended upon his success.




CHAPTER XIII.

WITTLEWORTH vs. CHECKYNSHAW.


Mr. Checkynshaw did a rushing business on the day his papers were
stolen from the safe; therefore he rushed out of the humble abode of
Mrs. Wittleworth. It is more than probable that he was entirely sincere
when he called Fitz an idiot; but whether he was or not, that young
gentleman's mother was satisfied that truer words had never been
spoken. The banker had actually offered to give him ten dollars a week,
and Fitz had declined to return. It was a degree of lunacy which she
could neither understand nor appreciate. She was both grieved and
angry. She wept, and reproached the reckless youth.

"I must give up in despair, Fitz," said she, bitterly. "If I could
support you, I would."

"I don't want you to support me, mother," replied Fitz, stung by the
reproach. "If you will leave this matter to me, I will manage it
right."

"Leave it to you, Fitz! That would bring starvation to our door."

"No, mother; you look on the dark side. Here's five dollars for my
week's salary," he added, handing her the money. "I give you the whole
of it this week."

"This may keep off the wolf for a week or two," sighed Mrs.
Wittleworth.

"I shall get into another place soon, mother; don't worry about it."

"But why didn't you take the place when he offered it to you at double
wages, Fitz? It seems to me you are crazy."

"No, I am not crazy. I know what I am about, and Checkynshaw knows what
he is about. What do you suppose induced him to double my salary so
readily?"

"Because he saw how poor we were."

"What does he care for that? There is no more soul in him than there is
in a brickbat, mother. It wouldn't trouble him if you starved to
death--though you are his first wife's sister. That wasn't the reason."

"What was the reason, then, Fitz?" asked she, curiously.

"Checkynshaw is afraid of me," replied Fitz, stopping in his walk up
and down the room, and looking into his mother's face to note the
effect of this startling announcement.

"Afraid of you, Fitz! You are losing your senses!" exclaimed she, with
an expression of strong disgust.

"It's just as I say, mother. He's afraid of me."

"Why should he be afraid of you? You are not so very terrible as to
alarm a man in his position."

"Mother, that block of stores ought to be yours. You should have had
the income of it ever since Checkynshaw came from France with his wife.
I tell you that child died of the cholera, when Mrs. Checkynshaw had
it. That is just as plain to me as the nose on a man's face."

"Nonsense, Fitz! Do you suppose Mr. Checkynshaw would keep me out of it
if it belonged to me?"

"I know he would. I know the man. I haven't been in his office two
years for nothing. I keep my eyes open--I do," answered Fitz, holding
up his head till his neck was stretched to its full length.
"Checkynshaw may be an honest man, as things go; but you can't make me
believe he would give up that block of stores while he could hold on to
it by hook or by crook. He wants me under his thumb, where he can know
what I'm about. He has lost his papers, and he feels nervous about
them. In my opinion, there's something or other among those documents
which would let the light in upon that block of stores. That's why he
is so anxious to find out where they are. That's why he don't care for
the money that was stolen. He knows what he is about, and I know what
I'm about."

"What is the use for us to think anything about the block of stores?
You don't know that little Marguerite died," added Mrs. Wittleworth,
interested, in spite of herself, in the extravagant pretensions of her
son.

"I don't know it, I admit; but I think we ought to find out.
Checkynshaw says the child is still living with the Sisters of Charity,
somewhere in France. We have nothing but his word for it."

"That's enough. He says the child is living, and he don't like to have
her ill-treated by her mother-in-law. She is happy at the boarding
school, and when her education is finished, doubtless she will come
home."

"That's all bosh! Did any one ever see a letter from her? Did
Checkynshaw ever write a letter to her? Does he ever send her any
money?"

"But he goes to see her every year or two, when he visits Europe."

"Perhaps he does, and then perhaps he don't. Did any one else ever see
the child? Has any one any knowledge of her existence except through
Checkynshaw? I think not. Don't tell me, mother, that a man would leave
his daughter in a foreign country for ten years, and only go to see her
every year or two. In my opinion,--and I think my opinion is worth
something,--the child died in the hospital. Checkynshaw keeps up this
fiction because it puts five or six thousand dollars a year into his
pocket. No one has ever claimed the block of stores, and of course he
will hold on to it till some one does."

Mrs. Wittleworth could not help thinking, while starvation or the
almshouse stared her full in the face, what a blessing that block of
stores would be to her. If her sister's child was dead, it rightfully
belonged to her. It was certainly proper for Mr. Checkynshaw to prove
that Marguerite was still living, or at least to satisfy her privately
on the point.

"What can we do, Fitz?" she asked.

"What can we do, mother? That's the question. When I was in Summer
Street, this evening, I thought I would call upon my friend Choate.
Choate is a gentleman and a scholar--he is."

"Pshaw, Fitz!" ejaculated the poor woman. "Why will you talk about
your friend Choate? He is not your friend. He would not touch you with
a ten-foot pole. He looks down upon you from an infinite height."

"Not he. Choate always treats everybody like a gentleman. He always
treated me like a gentleman. I believe in Choate--I do."

"It is ridiculous for you to talk about his being your friend."

"He is my friend in very deed. I called upon him at his residence, in
Winthrop Place, this evening. He treated me like a gentleman. He was
glad to see me. He shook hands with me, and welcomed me to his house,
as though I had been the governor of the state. Everett was there, and
Winthrop came in before I left. I heard them speak of Webster, and I
suppose he was expected. I was introduced to Everett and Winthrop."

"You!" exclaimed his mother.

"I, mother!"

"Poor child, they were making fun of you!" sighed Mrs. Wittleworth.

"Not they. Everett bowed to me as gracefully as though I had been the
President. Winthrop was a little stiff; but what did I care for him, as
long as Choate and Everett were on good terms with me?"

"Your head is turned, Fitz."

"No matter if it is, so long as it is turned in the right direction.
Choate told Everett and Winthrop that I had formerly occupied a place
in his office, and that he had a high regard for me. He smiled
pleasantly, and so did Everett. Winthrop didn't take much notice of me.
Choate asked me if I wanted to see him for anything particular. I told
him I did; I wanted a little legal advice in the matter of Wittleworth
vs. Checkynshaw. He smiled very kindly upon me; he smiled as only
Choate can smile."

"What did he say to you?" demanded Mrs. Wittleworth, impatiently.

"He apologized for his inability to attend to the case at that time, as
he was engaged upon a matter of politics with Everett and Winthrop; but
he hoped he should find time to see me in the course of a week. Of
course I didn't care about breaking up his conference with Everett and
Winthrop; so I apologized for the interruption, and promised him I
would call upon him at his office the next day."

"I suppose he was very sorry he could not attend to the case," added
Mrs. Wittleworth.

"He appeared to be. He expressed his regrets; and, as he was attending
to the affairs of the nation, I could not be hard on him, you know."

"Certainly not," said his mother, amused in spite of the weakness of
her son.

"Choate is a good fellow--Choate is," added Fitz, rubbing his chin, and
puffing out his lips. "When he gets hold of this case, he will make
things fly, mother."

"What are you going to do, Fitz?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, seriously.

"I'm not going to mince the matter any longer. I am going to bring a
suit against Checkynshaw for the block of stores, and the income
received from them for the last ten years," replied Fitz,
magnificently.

"You are!"

"I am; that is, when I say I am, of course I am going to do it in your
name, for I am the next heir to you. That will bring things to a head,
and we shall soon find out whether Checkynshaw is ready to stand trial
or not."

"We have no money to go to law with," pleaded the poor woman.

"We don't want any, mother. I have looked into this business, and what
I don't know about it isn't worth knowing. I know something about law,
for I used to keep my eyes and ears open when I was in the law
business."

Mr. Wittleworth had been an errand boy in Mr. Choate's office!

"I don't think you can go to law without money, Fitz. I have always
heard it was very expensive," added Mrs. Wittleworth.

"All we want, mother, is a copy of my grandfather's will. We attach the
block of stores, if necessary. Under the will it belongs to you, unless
Checkynshaw can produce your sister's child."

"Suppose he should produce her?"

"That's the very thing he can't do. If he does, of course our case
falls to the ground; but he can't."

"But if he does produce the child, where is the money to pay the
expenses?"

"The expenses won't be much. I shall say to Choate, 'Choate,' says I,
'here's a piece of property which belongs to my mother. You can go up
to the Registry of Probate, and read the will yourself. Give my mother
legal possession of it, and I will pay you five or ten thousand
dollars'--I haven't just decided exactly what to offer him. He takes
the case, brings the suit, and gets the property for you."

"Suppose he doesn't get it?"

"Then he will get nothing. When I was in the law business, cases were
sometimes taken in this way."

Mrs. Wittleworth was encouraged by this hopeful statement, and disposed
to let Fitz have his own way. Abject poverty was so terrible that she
could not afford to lose such a chance. Mr. Checkynshaw's conduct in
leaving his child in France, among strangers, for ten years, was
singular enough to beget suspicion.

The conversation was continued till the fire went out, and the chill
air of the room drove the intended litigants to their chambers. Fitz
did not come down till breakfast time the next morning. He lay in his
warm bed, building castles in the air, and thinking what a great man he
should be when the block of stores and its revenues were reclaimed from
the grasp of Mr. Checkynshaw. He thought it quite possible that he
could then go into a barber's shop and be shaved without any one having
the impudence to laugh at him.

Mrs. Wittleworth had thought a great deal about the property, but she
could not quite make up her mind to take such decided steps as those
indicated by her son. If the attempt was made, and proved to be a
failure, Mr. Checkynshaw would never forgive her, and might injure her
in revenge. When she came down stairs, she had decided to call upon the
banker, and state the case to him. If he chose to satisfy her that
Marguerite was still living, it would save trouble and future
disappointment.

"You can see him if you like, mother. I have no doubt he will smooth
you over. Checkynshaw is a plausible man--Checkynshaw is. He carries
too many guns for a woman. I would call myself if it were not for
letting myself down to his level," said Mr. Wittleworth, stroking his
chin, when his mother was ready to go.

"Don't be so silly, Fitz!"

"Checkynshaw won't stand trial, in my opinion. He is shrewd--he is."

"I only intend to ask him what he means to do," added Mrs. Wittleworth.

"He means to hold on to the property--that's what he means to do,
mother. He may try to buy you off--don't do it, on any account. Leave
this matter all to me. Me and Choate will fix it right. Now, be careful
what you do."

"I will not do anything," said his mother, as she put on her bonnet.

"I will see Choate to-day. Me and Choate will touch off a volcano under
Checkynshaw's feet in the course of a week or two," he added, as his
mother left the house.




CHAPTER XIV.

MR. CHECKYNSHAW IS LIBERAL.


Mrs. Wittleworth went directly to the door of the private office. She
had her doubts in regard to the interview which was to take place. Mr.
Checkynshaw had never treated her very handsomely. She had called upon
him only once since the downfall of her husband. The banker had
listened very coldly to her story of hardship and suffering. He had
taken Fitz into his employ at that time; but her reception was so cold,
and the great man's manner so forbidding, that she had resolved that
nothing but imminent starvation should induce her to repeat the visit.

Mr. Checkynshaw was a hard, selfish, money-getting man. He was not one
whom a poor relative would willingly approach with a tale of suffering.
Though this was not Mrs. Wittleworth's present errand, she dreaded the
result almost as much as though she had been an applicant for charity.
The banker was overbearing and haughty in his way. He bullied his
social inferiors, and looked upon them from a height which was
appalling to them. She opened the door and entered. The banker was
alone, sitting in the stuffed arm-chair at his desk.

"Ellen?" said he, glancing at her with an inquiring look, probably
satisfied that she had come to plead for the return of her son to the
place from which he had been discharged.

It did not occur to him that human impudence could extend so far as to
permit such people to bring a suit against him for their rights,
however well defined or clearly established. If he owed them anything,
or they had any claims against him, it was their duty to be solemnly
impressed by the loftiness of his social position, and humbly to beg
for what belonged to them.

"I thought I would come up and see you this morning, Mr. Checkynshaw,"
stammered the poor woman; and poverty had so subdued her, and so broken
her spirit, that she hardly knew how to introduce the subject upon her
mind.

"If you come to ask me to take Fitz back, it will do no good. You
permit the puppy to insult me," replied the banker, in the most
forbidding tones.

"I don't permit him to insult you. I did what I could to make him speak
properly to you," replied Mrs. Wittleworth, meekly.

"It's all the same; it was bad bringing up. I can't have him in my
office again," added Mr. Checkynshaw, though at that moment, for some
reason best known to himself, he would have been very glad to forgive
the young man's insolence, and take him back at double salary. "That
boy has outraged my good-nature. When I saw how hard the times were
with you, I was willing to give him double wages; but the ingrate only
insulted me for it."

"He is very wilful; I wish he was not so headstrong."

"I can't take him back now; at least not till he has apologized for his
impudence, and promised better things for the future," continued the
banker, shaking his head, as though his mind was firmly made up for the
issue.

"I did not come to ask you to take him back," added Mrs. Wittleworth.

"O, you didn't!"

"No, sir; he is not yet willing to come."

"What did you come for--to beg?"

"I don't come to you to beg," replied she with a little display of
spirit.

"What do you want, then?"

"You mustn't be angry with me, Mr. Checkynshaw."

"I'm not angry with you. If you have anything to say, say it. I hate
long stories," said the banker, impatiently.

"Fitz has taken it into his head that the block of stores which my
father gave to Mary belongs to us," continued Mrs. Wittleworth, looking
down to the floor, as if fearful that the great man's glance would
blast her if she beheld it.

"Has he, indeed?"

If Mrs. Wittleworth had looked at the banker instead of the floor, she
might have seen that his face flushed slightly; that his lip quivered,
and his chest heaved; but, as she did not look at him, the banker had
time to suppress these tell-tale emotions.

"He thinks so; and he seems to be determined that something shall be
done about it," added the poor woman, still gazing intently at the
floor.

"And you encourage such ridiculous notions--do you, Ellen?" said Mr.
Checkynshaw, severely.

"I don't know that I encourage them. I can't help his thoughts."

"Probably you don't wish to help them. Well, you can do as you please
about it. If you choose to get him and yourself into difficulty, I
suppose nothing I can say will have any influence with you."

"I don't want to get into trouble, or to spend any money in going to
law."

"I should judge, from the appearance of your house, that you hadn't
much to spend in that way," sneered the banker.

"I have not, indeed. I said all I could to dissuade Fitz from doing
anything about the matter; but he is bent upon it. He has been to see
Mr. Choate about it."

"To see Mr. Choate!" exclaimed the banker, springing out of his chair;
and now his face was deadly pale.

But in an instant Mr. Checkynshaw was conscious that he was revealing
the weakness of his position, and he sat down in his chair again, with
a placid smile upon his face.

"Am I to understand that Fitz and you intend to fight me in the law
upon this matter?" demanded he, with a sardonic grin on his face,
indicating both fear and malice.

"Fitz says there will be no fighting about it. We are to bring a suit
to recover the property, according to the terms of my father's will,
with the income for ten years."

"Fitz says so--does he?"

"He thinks Marguerite died when your present wife had the cholera. He
says all you have to do is to produce the child. If you do, that will
be the end of it; if not, the property certainly belongs to us."

"What makes Fitz think that Marguerite is not living?" asked Mr.
Checkynshaw, more mildly than he had yet spoken.

"Well, he has his reasons," replied she, not quite certain that she
might not say something which would compromise her son.

"What are his reasons?"

"I don't know that it is necessary to mention them. I think myself it
is very strange that you haven't brought her home. She must be fifteen
years old by this time."

"That is her age."

"I don't want any trouble about this business, Mr. Checkynshaw; so I
thought I would come up and see you. Perhaps you can show me some
letters from Marguerite, or something else that will convince Fitz that
she is alive."

"I have no letters here."

"Have you any at your house?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth.

"Not that I am aware of. I never preserve any but business letters. If
I understand you, Ellen, Fitz's modest claim is for the block of stores
and the income of them for the last ten years."

"That's what he said."

"Are you aware of the amount of this claim?" asked the banker,
nervously.

"I don't know, exactly."

"I suppose not," said Mr. Checkynshaw, pausing to reflect. "I don't
wish to bring Marguerite home till her education is completed, and this
thing may cause me some annoyance."

"I'm sure I don't want to annoy you," pleaded Mrs. Wittleworth.

"Perhaps you do not; but Fitz does. If you refuse to be a party to this
suit, of course he can do nothing. He has no rights yet in the premises
himself, and he is under age."

"I think myself the matter ought to be settled up somehow or other,"
replied Mrs. Wittleworth, timidly. "I am so poor I can hardly keep soul
and body together, and Fitz has lost his place."

"I will give him his place, at ten dollars a week. I will see that you
have a good house, properly furnished, and a sufficient income to live
on. If I had known that you were so badly off, I should have done
something for you before. Why didn't you come to me?"

"I don't like to ask favors; besides, we have been able to get along
till times came on so hard this winter that I couldn't get any work."

"I don't wish to be bothered with this thing, and be compelled to go to
France in the middle of the winter after Marguerite. Fitz saw that he
could annoy me, and he has taken this means to vent his spite upon me.
But the suit depends upon you. He can do nothing without you. Mr.
Choate will have nothing to do with it. He doesn't take cases of this
kind; but Fitz can find some unprincipled lawyer who will undertake the
case, and compel me to derange my plans."

"Could you show me some letters from Marguerite, or some bill you have
paid for her board or tuition?"

"Perhaps I may be able to find something of the kind at my house. I'll
see. But I think we had better settle up this business between
ourselves, without Fitz."

Mr. Checkynshaw looked troubled, and Mrs. Wittleworth could see it now.

"How can we settle it, if you have nothing to show me to prove that
Marguerite is living?" asked the poor woman.

"Marguerite is living, or was eighteen months ago, when I was in
France."

"Haven't you heard from her for eighteen months?"

"Of course I have; but that is neither here nor there. I don't wish to
be annoyed in this way, or to have your son boasting that he has a
claim on me. I don't choose to submit to that sort of thing any longer.
Neither is it my intention to bring Marguerite home till she is
eighteen years old. She is very much attached to the institution in
which she spent her childhood."

"I should think you would wish to see her oftener than once in two
years," added Mrs. Wittleworth, the remark prompted by her woman's
heart.

"So I would. But you know just how it is. I can't bring her home
without having trouble in my family; and she is perfectly happy where
she is. I ought to have done more for you, Ellen, than I have; but I
didn't know the world went so hard with you. I blame myself for not
thinking more about it; but I am plunged in business, so that I hardly
have time to think of my own family. I don't see how I can do it in any
other way than by settling a fixed sum upon you at once. Then I can do
all that I have to do at one time, and you will not have to depend upon
my bad memory."

"I'm sure I've no claims on you of that kind," replied Mrs.
Wittleworth, amazed at this outburst of generosity.

"I know you have no legal claims upon me; but you are the sister of my
first wife. I have not forgotten her yet, and I never shall," continued
Mr. Checkynshaw, with a gush of sentiment such as the poor woman had
never before seen proceed from him. "Property from your father's estate
came into my family, and it would not be right for me to permit you to
want for the comforts of life, to say nothing of the necessities. I'm
going to do something for you here and now--something so that you shall
not be dependent upon Fitz, whether I forget you for the time or not.
Do you think you could live on the income of ten thousand dollars a
year? That would be six hundred dollars, or about twelve dollars a
week."

"That is more than I have had for years," gasped Mrs. Wittleworth.

"Very well; I will give you a check for that sum; or I will invest it
for you in the best paying stocks I can find."

"You are too good! I did not expect this!" exclaimed the poor woman,
wiping the tears from her eyes.

"I shall do no more than my duty--what I ought to have done before,"
replied the banker, magnanimously. "And, by the way, it would be as
well for you to sign a paper, so as to set this business at rest, and
prevent Fitz from annoying me," said the banker, as he took down his
check-book, and shuffled the papers about the desk with assumed
indifference.

"What paper am I to sign?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, beginning to open
her eyes.

"I mean a quitclaim deed on the block of stores; but of course that has
nothing to do with the ten thousand dollars I am to pay you."

Mrs. Wittleworth knew what a quitclaim deed was. It was a deed by which
she relinquished all her right, title, and interest in the block of
stores.

"I think I will not sign it to-day, Mr. Checkynshaw," said she, rather
fearfully.

The banker urged her in vain. Fitz had warned her against such a step,
and she had more confidence in Fitz's judgment at that moment than ever
before.

"Very well; I will have the deed drawn, and fill out the check ready
for you the next time you call," added the banker, more disappointed
than his manner indicated.

Mrs. Wittleworth went home.




CHAPTER XV.

A SUCCESS IN THE MOUSE BUSINESS.


"Now, Tom, if you will draw the wagon, I will steady the house, and see
that the mice don't get out and run away," said Leo, when he had drawn
the chariot of the beauties a short distance.

"Small loss if they do," replied Tom Casey, who had already made up his
mind that they were going on a fool's errand.

"Not a bit of it, Tom. These mice are worth fifty cents a pair," added
Leo, as he placed himself by the house, and his companion took the pole
of the wagon.

"Fifty cints--is it? Sure who'd give fifty cints for those bits o'
crayturs? I wouldn't give fifty cints for a tousand of 'em, let alone a
pair of 'em."

"When I come back with five or six dollars in my pocket, which I shall
get for this establishment, you will change your tune, Tom."

"Well, the house is foist rate, and you may get five dollars for that.
Sure I think it's worth it; but I wouldn't give two cints for all the
mice that's in it."

"Perhaps you wouldn't, Tom. You haven't any taste for white mice."

"Taste--is it? Sure, would anyone ate 'em?"

Tom Casey was a recent importation from the Green Isle, and the emerald
dust had not been rubbed off him by the civilizing and humanizing
influence of the public schools; but he brought with him from Ireland a
