was in her heart, and speaking with some degree of calmness.

“What then?”

“The police would be down on you in less than an hour.”

“And what then?”

“Your game would be up.”

Pinky laughed derisively:

“The police are down on me now, and have been coming down on me for
nearly a month past. But I’m too much for them. I know how to cover my
tracks.”

“Down on you! For what?”

“They’re after the boy.”

“What do they know about him? Who set them after him?”

“I grabbed him up last Christmas down in Briar street after being on his
track for a week, and them that had him are after him sharp.”

“Who had him?”

“I’m a little puzzled at the rumpus it has kicked up,” said Pinky, in
reply. “It’s stirred things amazingly.”

“How?”

“Oh, as I said, the police are after me sharp. They’ve had me before the
mayor twice, and got two or three to swear they saw me pick up the child
in Briar street and run off with him. But I denied it all.”

“And I can swear that you confessed it all to me,” said Mrs. Bray, with
ill-concealed triumph.

“It won’t do, Fan,” laughed Pinky. “They’ll not be able to find him
any more then than now. But I wish you would. I’d like to know this Mr.
Somebody of whom you spoke. I’ll sell out to him. He’ll bid high, I’m
thinking.”

Baffled by her sharper accomplice, and afraid to trust her with the
secret of the child’s parentage lest she should rob her of the last gain
possible to receive out of this great iniquity, Mrs. Bray became wrought
up to a state of ungovernable passion, and in a blind rage pushed Pinky
from her room. The assault was sudden and unexpected---so sudden that
Pinky, who was the stronger, had no time to recover herself and take
the offensive before she was on the outside and the door shut and locked
against her. A few impotent threats and curses were interchanged between
the two infuriated women, and then Pinky went away.

On the day following, as Mr. Dinneford was preparing to go out, he was
informed that a lady had called and was waiting down stairs to see him.
She did not send her card nor give her name. On going into the room
where the visitor had been shown, he saw a little woman with a dark,
sallow complexion. She arose and came forward a step or two in evident
embarrassment.

“Mr. Dinneford?” she said.

“That is my name, madam,” was replied.

“You do not know me?”

Mr. Dinneford looked at her closely, and then answered,

“I have not that pleasure, madam.”

The woman stood for a moment or two, hesitating.

“Be seated, madam,” said Mr. Dinneford.

She sat down, seeming very ill at ease. He took a chair in front of her.

“You wish to see me?”

“Yes, sir, and on a matter that deeply concerns you. I was your
daughter’s nurse when her baby was born.”

She paused at this. Mr. Dinneford had caught his breath. She saw the
almost wild interest that flushed his face.

After waiting a moment for some response, she added, in a low, steady
voice,

“That baby is still alive, and I am the only person who can clearly
identify him.”

Mr. Dinneford did not reply immediately. He saw by the woman’s face
that she was not to be trusted, and that in coming to him she had only
sinister ends in view. Her story might be true or false. He thought
hurriedly, and tried to regain exterior calmness. As soon as he felt
that he could speak without betraying too much eagerness, he said, with
an appearance of having recognized her,

“You are Mrs.----?”

He paused, but she did not supply the name.

“Mrs.----? Mrs.----? what is it?”

“No matter, Mr. Dinneford,” answered Mrs. Bray, with the coolness and
self-possession she had now regained. “What I have just told you is
true. If you wish to follow up the matter--wish to get possession of
your daughter’s child--you have the opportunity; if not, our interview
ends, of course;” and she made a feint, as if going to rise.

“Is it the child a woman named Pinky Swett stole away from Briar street
on Christmas day?” asked Mr. Dinneford, speaking from a thought that
flashed into his mind, and so without premeditation. He fixed his eyes
intently on Mrs. Bray’s face, and saw by its quick changes and blank
surprise that he had put the right question. Before she could recover
herself and reply, he added,

“And you are, doubtless, this same Pinky Swett.”

The half smile, half sneer, that curved the woman’s lips, told Mr.
Dinneford that he was mistaken.

“No, sir,” was returned, with regained coolness. “I am not ‘this same
Pinky Swett.’ You are out there.”

“But you know her?”

“I don’t know anything just now, sir,” answered the woman, with a chill
in her tones. She closed her lips tightly, and shrunk back in her chair.

“What, then, are your here for?” asked Mr. Dinneford, showing
considerable sternness of manner.

“I thought you understood,” returned the woman. “I was explicit in my
statement.”

“Oh, I begin to see. There is a price on your information,” said Mr.
Dinneford.

“Yes, sir. You might have known that from the first. I will be frank
with you.”

“But why have you kept this secret for three years? Why did you not come
before?” asked Mr. Dinneford.

“Because I was paid to keep the secret. Do you understand?”

Too well did Mr. Dinneford understand, and it was with difficulty he
could suppress a groan as his head drooped forward and his eyes fell to
the floor.

“It does not pay to keep it any longer,” added the woman.

Mr. Dinneford made no response.

“Gain lies on the other side. The secret is yours, if you will have it.”

“At what price?” asked Mr. Dinneford, without lifting his eyes.

“One thousand dollars, cash in hand.”

“On production of the child and proof of its identity?”

Mrs. Bray took time to answer. “I do not mean to have any slip in this
matter,” she said. “It was a bad business at the start, as I told Mrs.
Dinneford, and has given me more trouble than I’ve been paid for, ten
times over. I shall not be sorry to wash my hands clean of it; but
whenever I do so, there must be compensation and security. I haven’t the
child, and you may hunt me to cover with all the police hounds in the
city, and yet not find him.”

“If I agree to pay your demand,” replied Mr. Dinneford, “it can only be
on production and identification of the child.”

“After which your humble servant will be quickly handed over to the
police,” a low, derisive laugh gurgling in the woman’s throat.

“The guilty are ever in dread, and the false always in fear of
betrayal,” said Mr. Dinneford. “I can make no terms with you for any
antecedent reward. The child must be in my possession and his parentage
clearly proved before I give you a dollar. As to what may follow to
yourself, your safety will lie in your own silence. You hold, and will
still hold, a family secret that we shall not care to have betrayed. If
you should ever betray it, or seek, because of its possession, to annoy
or prey upon us, I shall consider all honorable contract we may have at
an end, and act accordingly.”

“Will you put in writing, an obligation to pay me one thousand dollars
in case I bring the child and prove its identity?”

“No; but I will give you my word of honor that this sum shall be placed
in your hands whenever you produce the child.”

Mrs. Bray remained silent for a considerable time, then, as if
satisfied, arose, saying,

“You will hear from me by to-morrow or the day after, at farthest.
Good-morning.”

As she was moving toward the door Mr. Dinneford said,

“Let me have your name and residence, madam.”

The woman quickened her steps, partly turning her head as she did so,
and said, with a sinister curl of the lip,

“No, I thank you, sir.”

In the next moment she was gone.




CHAPTER XXV.



NOTHING of all this was communicated to Edith. After a few weeks
of prostration strength came slowly back to mind and body, and with
returning strength her interest in her old work revived. Her feet went
down again into lowly ways, and her hands took hold of suffering.

Immediately on receipt of Freeling’s letter and affidavit, Mr. Dinneford
had taken steps to procure a pardon for George Granger. It came within
a few days after the application was made, and the young man was taken
from the asylum where he had been for three years.

Mr. Dinneford went to him with Freeling’s affidavit and the pardon, and
placing them in his hands, watched him closely to see the effect they
would produce. He found him greatly changed in appearance, looking older
by many years. His manner was quiet, as that of one who had learned
submission after long suffering. But his eyes were clear and steady, and
without sign of mental aberration. He read Freeling’s affidavit first,
folded it in an absent kind of way, as if he were dreaming, reopened and
read it through again. Then Mr. Dinneford saw a strong shiver pass over
him; he became pale and slightly convulsed. His face sunk in his hands,
and he sat for a while struggling with emotions that he found it almost
impossible to hold back.

When he looked up, the wild struggle was over.

“It is too late,” he said.

“No, George, it is never too late,” replied Mr. Dinneford. “You have
suffered a cruel wrong, but in the future there are for you, I doubt
not, many compensations.”

He shook his head in a dreary way, murmuring,

“I have lost too much.”

“Nothing that may not be restored. And in all you have not lost a good
conscience.”

“No, thank God!” answered the young man, with a sudden flush in his
face. “But for that anchor to my soul, I should have long ago drifted
out to sea a helpless wreck. No thank God! I have not lost a good
conscience.”

“You have not yet read the other paper,” said Mr. Dinneford. “It is your
pardon.”

“Pardon!” An indignant flash came into Granger’s eyes. “Oh, sir, that
hurts too deeply. Pardon! I am not a criminal.”

“Falsely so regarded in the eyes of the law, but now proved to be
innocent, and so expressed by the governor. It is not a pardon in any
sense of remission, but a declaration of innocence and sorrow for the
undeserved wrongs you have suffered.”

“It is well,” he answered, gloomily--“the best that can be done; and I
should be thankful.”

“You cannot be more deeply thankful than I am, George.” Mr. Dinneford
spoke with much feeling. “Let us bury this dreadful past out of our
sight, and trust in God for a better future. You are free again, and
your innocence shall, so far as I have power to do it, be made as clear
as noonday. You are at liberty to depart from here at once. Will you go
with me now?”

Granger lifted a half-surprised look to Mr. Dinneford’s face.

“Thank you,” he replied, after a few moments’ thought. “I shall never
forget your kindness, but I prefer remaining here for a few days, until
I can confer with my friends and make some decision as to the future.”

Granger’s manner grew reserved, almost embarrassed. Mr. Dinneford was
not wrong in his impression of the cause. How could he help thinking of
Edith, who, turning against him with the rest, had accepted the theory
of guilt and pronounced her sentence upon him, hardest of all to bear?
So it appeared to him, for he had nothing but the hard fact before him
that she had applied for and obtained a divorce.

Yes, it was the thought of Edith that drew Granger back and covered him
with reserve. What more could Mr. Dinneford say? He had not considered
all the hearings of this unhappy case; but now that he remembered the
divorce, he began to see, how full of embarrassment it was, and how
delicate the relation he bore to this unhappy victim of his wife’s
dreadful crime.

What could he say for Edith? Nothing! He knew that her heart had never
turned itself away from this man, though she had, under a pressure she
was not strong enough to resist, turned her back upon him and cast aside
his dishonored name, thus testifying to the world that she believed him
base and criminal. If he should speak of her, would not the young man
answer with indignant scorn?

“Give me the address of your friends, and I will call upon them
immediately,” said Mr. Dinneford, replying, after a long silence, to
Granger’s last remark. “I am here to repair, to any extent that in me
lies the frightful wrongs you have suffered. I shall make your cause my
own, and never rest until every false tarnish shall be wiped from your
name. In honor and conscience I am bound to this.”

Looking at the young man intently, he saw a grateful response in the
warmer color that broke into his face and in the moisture that filled
his eyes.

“I would be base if I were not thankful, Mr. Dinneford,” Granger
replied. “But you cannot put yourself in my place, cannot know what I
have suffered, cannot comprehend the sense of wrong and cruel rejection
that has filled my soul with the very gall of bitterness. To be cast out
utterly, suddenly and without warning from heaven into hell, and for no
evil thought or act! Ah, sir! you do not understand.”

“It was a frightful ordeal, George,” answered Mr. Dinneford, laying his
hand on Granger with the tenderness of a father. “But, thank God! it
is over. You have stood the terrible heat, and now, coming out of the
furnace, I shall see to it that not even the smell of fire remain upon
your garments.”

Still the young man could not be moved from his purpose to remain at the
asylum until he had seen and conferred with his friends, in whose hands
Mr. Dinneford placed the governor’s pardon and the affidavit of Lloyd
Freeling setting forth his innocence.

Mrs. Bray did not call on Mr. Dinneford, as she had promised. She had
quarreled with Pinky Swett, as the reader will remember, and in a fit
of blind anger thrust her from the room. But in the next moment she
remembered that she did not know where the girl lived, and if she lost
sight of her now, might not again come across her for weeks or months.
So putting on her hat and cloak hurriedly, she waited until she heard
Pinky going down stairs, and then came out noiselessly, and followed her
into the street. She had to be quick in her movements, for Pinky, hot
with anger, was dashing off at a rapid speed. For three or four blocks
Mrs. Bray kept her in view; but there being only a few persons in the
street, she had to remain at a considerable distance behind, so as not
to attract her attention. Suddenly, she lost sight of Pinky. She had
looked back on hearing a noise in the street; turning again, she could
see nothing of the girl. Hurrying forward to the corner which Pinky had
in all probability turned, Mrs. Bray looked eagerly up and down, but to
her disappointment Pinky was not in sight.

“Somewhere here. I thought it was farther off,” said Mrs. Bray to
herself. “It’s too bad that I should have lost sight of her.”

She stood irresolute for a little while, then walked down one of the
blocks and back on the other side. Halfway down, a small street or alley
divided the block.

“It’s in there, no doubt,” said Mrs. Bray, speaking to herself again.
On the corner was a small shop in which notions and trimmings were sold.
Going into this, she asked for some trifling articles, and while looking
over them drew the woman who kept the shop into conversation.

“What kind of people live in this little street?” she inquired, in a
half-careless tone.

The woman smiled as she answered, with a slight toss of the head,

“Oh, all kinds.”

“Good, bad and indifferent?”

“Yes, white sheep and black.”

“So I thought. The black sheep will get in. You can’t keep ‘em out.”

“No, and ‘tisn’t much use trying,” answered the shop-keeper, with a
levity of manner not unmarked by Mrs. Bray, who said,

“The black sheep have to live as well as the white ones.”

“Just so. You hit the nail there.”

“And I suppose you find their money as good as that of the whitest?”

“Oh yes.”

“And quite as freely spent?”

“As to that,” answered the woman, who was inclined to be talkative and
gossipy, “we make more out of the black sheep than out of the white
ones. They don’t higgle so about prices. Not that we have two prices,
but you see they don’t try to beat us down, and never stop to worry
about the cost of a thing if they happen to fancy it. They look and buy,
and there’s the end of it.”

“I understand,” remarked Mrs. Bray, with a familiar nod. “It may be
wicked to say so; but if I kept a store like this, I’d rather have the
sinners for customers than the saints.”

She had taken a seat at the counter; and now, leaning forward upon her
arms and looking at the shop-woman in a pleasant, half-confidential way,
said,

“You know everybody about here?”

“Pretty much.”

“The black sheep as well as the white?”

“As customers.”

“Of course; that’s all I mean,” was returned. “I’d be sorry if you knew
them in any other way--some of them, at least.” Then, after a pause, “Do
you know a girl they call Pinky?”

“I may know her, but not by that name. What kind of a looking person is
she?”

“A tall, bold-faced, dashing, dare-devil sort of a girl, with a snaky
look in her eyes. She wears a pink hat with a white feather.”

“Yes, I think I have seen some one like that, but she’s not been around
here long.”

“When did you see her last?”

“If it’s the same one you mean, I saw her go by here not ten minutes
ago. She lives somewhere down the alley.”

“Do you know the house?”

“I do not; but it can be found, no doubt. You called her Pinky.”

“Yes. Her name is Pinky Swett.”

“O-h! o-h!” ejaculated the shop-woman, lifting her eyebrows in a
surprised way. “Why, that’s the girl the police were after. They said
she’d run off with somebody’s child.”

“Did they arrest her?” asked Mrs. Bray, repressing, as far as possible,
all excitement.

“They took her off once or twice, I believe, but didn’t make anything
out of her. At any rate, the child was not found. It belonged, they
said, to a rich up-town family that the girl was trying to black-mail.
But I don’t see how that could be.”

“The child isn’t about here?”

“Oh dear, no! If it was, it would have been found long before this, for
the police are hunting around sharp. If it’s all as they say, she’s got
it hid somewhere else.”

While Mrs. Bray talked with the shop-woman, Pinky, who had made a
hurried call at her room, only a hundred yards away, was going as fast
as a street-car could take her to a distant part of the city. On leaving
the car at the corner of a narrow, half-deserted street, in which the
only sign of life was a child or two at play in the snow and a couple
of goats lying on a cellar-door, she walked for half the distance of
a block, and then turned into a court lined on both sides with small,
ill-conditioned houses, not half of them tenanted. Snow and ice blocked
the little road-way, except where a narrow path had been cut along close
to the houses.

Without knocking, Pinky entered one of these poor tenements. As she
pushed open the door, a woman who was crouching down before a small
stove, on which something was cooking, started up with a look of
surprise that changed to one of anxiety and fear the moment she
recognized her visitor.

“Is Andy all right?” cried Pinky, alarm in her face.

The woman tried to stammer out something, but did not make herself
understood. At this, Pinky, into whose eyes flashed a fierce light,
caught her by the wrists in a grip that almost crushed the bones.

“Out with it! where is Andy?”

Still the frightened woman could not speak.

“If that child isn’t here, I’ll murder you!” said Pinky, now white with
anger, tightening her grasp.

At this, with a desperate effort, the woman flung her off, and catching
up a long wooden bench, raised it over her head.

“If there’s to be any murder going on,” she said, recovering her powers
of speech, “I’ll take the first hand! As for the troublesome brat, he’s
gone. Got out of the window and climbed down the spout. Wonder he wasn’t
killed. Did fall--I don’t know how far--and must have hurt himself,
for I heard a noise as if something heavy had dropped in the yard, but
thought it was next door. Half an hour afterward, in going up stairs
and opening the door of the room where I kept him locked in, I found it
empty and the window open. That’s the whole story. I ran out and looked
everywhere, but he was off. And now, if the murder is to come, I’m going
to be in first.”

And she still kept the long wooden bench poised above her head.

Pinky saw a dangerous look in the woman’s eyes.

“Put that thing down,” she cried, “and don’t be a fool. Let me see;”
 and she darted past the woman and ran up stairs. She found the window
of Andy’s prison open and the print of his little fingers on the
snow-covered sill outside, where he had held on before dropping to the
ground, a distance of many feet. There was no doubt now in her mind as
to the truth of the woman’s story. The child had made his escape.

“Have you been into all the neighbors’ houses?” asked Pinky as she came
down hastily.

“Into some, but not all,” she replied.

“How long is it since he got away?”

“More than two hours.”

“And you’ve been sticking down here, instead of ransacking every hole
and corner in the neighborhood. I can hardly keep my hands off of you.”

The woman was on the alert. Pinky saw this, and did not attempt to put
her threat into execution. After pouring out her wrath in a flood
of angry invectives, she went out and began a thorough search of the
neighborhood, going into every house for a distance of three or four
blocks in all directions. But she could neither find the child nor get
the smallest trace of him. He had dropped out of sight, so far as she
was concerned, as completely as if he had fallen into the sea.




CHAPTER XXVI.



DAY after day Mr. Dinneford waited for the woman who was to restore
the child of Edith, but she did not come. Over a week elapsed, but she
neither called nor sent him a sign or a word. He dared not speak
about this to Edith. She was too weak in body and mind for any further
suspense or strain.

Drew Hall had been nearly thrown down again by the events of that
Christmas day. The hand of a little child was holding him fast to a
better life; but when that hand was torn suddenly away from his grasp,
he felt the pull of evil habits, the downward drift of old currents. His
steps grew weak, his knees trembled. But God did not mean that he should
be left alone. He had reached down to him through the hand of a little
child, had lifted him up and led him into a way of safety; and now that
this small hand, the soft, touch of which had gone to his heart and
stirred him with old memories, sad and sweet and holy, had dropped away
from him, and he seemed to be losing his hold of heaven, God sent
him, in Mr. Dinneford, an angel with a stronger hand. There were old
associations that held these men together. They had been early and
attached friends, and this meeting, after many years of separation,
under such strange circumstances, and with a common fear and anxiety
at heart, could not but have the effect of arousing in the mind of Mr.
Dinneford the deepest concern for the unhappy man. He saw the new peril
into which he was thrown by the loss of Andy, and made it his first
business to surround him with all possible good and strengthening
influences. So the old memories awakened by the coming of Andy did not
fade out and lose their power over the man. He had taken hold of the
good past again, and still held to it with the tight grasp of one
conscious of danger.

“We shall find the child--no fear of that,” Mr. Dinneford would say to
him over and over again, trying to comfort his own heart as well, as
the days went by and no little Andy could be found. “The police have the
girl under the sharpest surveillance, and she cannot baffle them much
longer.”

George Granger left the asylum with his friends, and dropped out
of sight. He did not show himself in the old places nor renew old
associations. He was too deeply hurt. The disaster had been too great
for any attempt on his part at repairing the old dwelling-places of his
life. His was not what we call a strong nature, but he was susceptible
of very deep impressions. He was fine and sensitive, rather than strong.
Rejected by his wife and family without a single interview with her or
even an opportunity to assert his innocence, he felt the wrong so deeply
that he could not get over it. His love for his wife had been profound
and tender, and when it became known to him that she had accepted the
appearances of guilt as conclusive, and broken with her own hands the
tie that bound them, it was more than he had strength to bear, and a
long time passed before he rallied from this hardest blow of all.

Edith knew that her father had seen Granger after securing his pardon,
and she had learned from him only, particulars of the interview. Beyond
this nothing came to her. She stilled her heart, aching with the
old love that crowded all its chambers, and tried to be patient and
submissive. It was very hard. But she was helpless. Sometimes, in the
anguish and wild agitation of soul that seized her, she would resolve
to put in a letter all she thought and felt, and have it conveyed to
Granger; but fear and womanly delicacy drove her back from this. What
hope had she that he would not reject her with hatred and scorn? It was
a venture she dared not make, for she felt that such a rejection would
kill her. But for her work among the destitute and the neglected, Edith
would have shut herself up at home. Christian charity drew her forth
daily, and in offices of kindness and mercy she found a peace and rest
to which she would otherwise have been stranger.

She was on her way home one afternoon from a visit to the mission-school
where she had first heard of the poor baby in Grubb’s court. All that
day thoughts of little Andy kept crowding into her mind. She could not
push aside his image as she saw it on Christmas, when he sat among the
children, his large eyes resting in such a wistful look upon her face.
Her eyes often grew dim and her heart full as she looked upon that
tender face, pictured for her as distinctly as if photographed to
natural sight.

“Oh my baby, my baby!” came almost audibly from her lips, in a burst
of irrepressible feeling, for ever since she had seen this child, the
thought of him linked itself with that of her lost baby.

Up to this time her father had carefully concealed his interview
with Mrs. Bray. He was in so much doubt as to the effect that woman’s
communication might produce while yet the child was missing that he
deemed it best to maintain the strictest silence until it could be
found.

Walking along with heart and thought where they dwelt for so large a
part of her time, Edith, in turning a corner, came upon a woman who
stopped at sight of her as if suddenly fastened to the ground--stopped
only for an instant, like one surprised by an unexpected and unwelcome
encounter, and then made a motion to pass on. But Edith, partly from
memory and partly from intuition, recognized her nurse, and catching
fast hold of her, said in a low imperative voice, while a look of wild
excitement spread over her face,

“Where is my baby?”

The woman tried to shake her off, but Edith held her with a grasp that
could not be broken.

“For Heaven’s sake,” exclaimed the woman “let go of me! This is the
public street, and you’ll have a crowd about us in a moment, and the
police with them.”

But Edith kept fast hold of her.

“First tell me where I can find my baby,” she answered.

“Come along,” said the woman, moving as she spoke in the direction Edith
was going when they met. “If you want a row with the police, I don’t.”

Edith was close to her side, with her hand yet upon her and her voice in
her ears.

“My baby! Quick! Say! Where can I find my baby?”

“What do I know of your baby? You are a fool, or mad!” answered the
woman, trying to throw her off. “I don’t know you.”

“But I know you, Mrs. Bray,” said Edith, speaking the name at a venture
as the one she remembered hearing the servant give to her mother.

At this the woman’s whole manner changed, and Edith saw that she was
right--that this was, indeed, the accomplice of her mother.

“And now,” she added, in voice grown calm and resolute, “I do not mean
to let you escape until I get sure knowledge of my child. If you fly
from me, I will follow and call for the police. If you have any of
the instincts of a woman left, you will know that I am desperately
in earnest. What is a street excitement or a temporary arrest by the
police, or even a station-house exposure, to me, in comparison with the
recovery of my child? Where is he?”

“I do not know,” replied Mrs. Bray. “After seeing your father--”

“My father! When did you see him?” exclaimed Edith, betraying in her
surprised voice the fact that Mr. Dinneford had kept so far, even from
her, the secret of that brief interview to which she now referred.

“Oh, he hasn’t told you! But it’s no matter--he will do that in good
time. After seeing your father, I made an effort to get possession of
your child and restore him as I promised to do. But the woman who had
him hidden somewhere managed to keep out of my way until this morning.
And now she says he got off from her, climbed out of a second-story
window and disappeared, no one knows where.”

“This woman’s name is Pinky Swett?” said Edith.

“Yes.”

Mrs. Bray felt the hand that was still upon her arm shake as if from a
violent chill.

“Do you believe what she says?--that the child has really escaped from
her?”

“Yes.”

“Where does she live?”

Mrs. Bray gave the true directions, and without hesitation.

“Is this child the one she stole from the Briar-street mission on
Christmas day?” asked Edith.

