"Hum!" and Charlie's nose was elevated. "As if I'd care!"

"You would if you were out with refined people."

"Oh, my! How aristocrockery you are getting!" and Charlie gave a
prolonged whistle, and stood on one foot.

Flossy sighed a little over the supper-table. How nice it would be to
live at a hotel, and have a servant to wait upon one! But every thing
here was so dreadfully common and poor. And, though Flossy would have
scorned the idea of living out as a servant, she fancied a position of
companion or ladies' maid would be rather agreeable than otherwise.

Hal was very much interested in her day's adventure. He seemed to
understand it better than any of the others, and she could talk to him
without the fear of being laughed at. They still sat in the moonlight,
when suddenly a sharp click was heard, and a report that made them all
scream.

Joe, the good-for-nothing, laughed.

"Wasn't that gay? Hurrah for Fourth of July!"

"Is it you?" asked Granny, who had thrown her apron over her head to
keep her from being shot. "And is it a musket, or a cannon?"

"Why don't you frighten us all to death?" said Florence indignantly.

"Oh, it's a pistol!" exclaimed Hal.

"O Joe! and you'll be shot all to pieces before to-morrow night,"
bewailed Granny. "I'm so afraid of guns and fire-crackers! I once knew
a little boy who had his hand shot off."

"If he could only have had it shot on again. I mean to try that way,
like the man who jumped into the bramble-bush. Or wouldn't it do to
shoot the pistol off instead of my fingers."

"Is it yours for good, Joe?" and Charlie's head was thrust over Hal's
shoulders. "A real pistol! Let me see it."

"Yes, it's mine. I bought it to keep Fourth of July with."

"Why, I forgot all about Fourth of July," said Charlie in an aggrieved
tone. "And I haven't a cent!"

"Bad for you, Charlie."

"Won't you let me fire off the pistol?"

"Oh, don't!" implored Granny.

"Just once more. It was splendid! I was fast asleep on the floor, and
it woke me up."

"Good for the pistol," said Joe. "I'll try it in the morning when you
are asleep."

They all had to handle the pistol, and express their opinions. Joe had
bought it of Johnny Hall, for a dollar, as Johnny, in turn, wanted to
buy a cannon. And the remaining half-dollar of his week's wages had
been invested in fireworks.

Granny sighed. But boys would be boys, and Fourth of July only came
once a year.

"There's to be an oration on the green, and the soldiers will be out,
and it'll be just jolly! Hurray! And a holiday in the middle of the
week! Mr. Terry said I needn't come to the store at all."

"There'll be some music, won't there?" asked Kit.

"A drum and a bass-viol, I guess. But it would be royal to go over to
Salem, and hear the brass band."

"What's a brass band?" was Kit's rather puzzled inquiry.

"What a goose! Why, a brass band is--horns and things."

"What kind of horns?" for Joe's explanation lacked lucidity.

"Oh, bother! Kit, you'll burn up the ocean some day with your
brightness."

"Cornets," said Hal; "and something like a flute, and cymbals, and ever
so many instruments."

"Did you ever see 'em?"

"No, but I've read about them."

Kit chewed his thumb. It was one of his old baby habits.

"Now I am going to load her again," said Joe, in a peculiarly
affectionate tone. "It's as light as day out here."

"But, Joe, if you should shoot some one, or your fingers, or put your
eyes out!"

"Never you mind, Granny. Boys go ahead of cats for lives."

Granny put her apron over her head again, and then ran in to Dot.

"Bang!"

"Nobody wounded," laughed Joe, "and only two or three slightly killed.
The country is safe, Granny, this great and gelorious country, over
which the eagle waves his plumes, and flaps his wings, and would crow
if he could. My soul is filled with enthusiasm,--I feel as if I should
bust, and fly all round! There's that miserable Dot lifting up her
voice."

The racket had broken her slumbers, and then the children were implored
to be quiet. Joe went to bed, in order to be able to get up good and
early. Charlie thought she should sleep with her clothes on, so as
to save the trouble of dressing. Kit sat in the moonlight chewing his
thumb, and wondering if he could manage to get over to Salem to-morrow.
If he could only hear that music!




CHAPTER IX.

  FOURTH OF JULY.


The children were up at the peep of dawn. Granny was awakened by
something that seemed not unlike the shock of an earthquake; but
Flossy, rubbing her eyes, said with a sigh,--

"Oh, dear! Joe has begun with his pistol the first thing! What does
possess boys to be so noisy!"

Charlie, perched astride the gate-post, her clothes considerably
tumbled, and her hair unkempt, thought it splendid. "If Joe would only
let her fire once! Just as soon as she had a dollar she meant to buy
a pistol of her own. It would always be good to keep away robbers!"

Joe laughed uproariously.

"Robbers indeed! There's nothing to steal here, unless it's some of the
youngsters. You'd be sure to go first, Charlie!"

"I shall be thankful when Fourth of July is over," said Granny in a
troubled voice, while Joe was singing,--

    "But children are not pigs, you know,
    And cannot pay the rint;"

but at that remark so derogatory to patriotism, he bridled up at once.

"Fourth of July's as good as Saint Patrick, or any other man. Who
would be so base and ignoble of soul, and stingy of powder, as not to
celebrate his birthday! when the country stretches from the north pole
to the south, and is kept from bursting only by the centrifugal forces
of the equator"--

Hal's rooster finished the speech by his longest and loudest crow.

"Good for you! You've some patriotism, I see. You are not craven of
soul, if powder doesn't come in your way. Granny, when can we have
breakfast? I'm about famished with all my speech-making."

Hal fed his crowd of chickens, and amused Dot, who did not quite enjoy
being deprived of her morning nap. Presently they were summoned to
their meal.

"I'm going over to the store," announced Joe. "I want to see the
Declaration of Independence read by the American eagle, and the salute
fired by the Stars and Stripes, while the militia climb up their
muskets and give three cheers."

"Are they going to do that?" asked Charlie. "Granny, can't I go too?"

"You must put on a clean dress."

"Oh, dear! when I slept in mine too, so as to be ready," Charlie
exclaimed, broken-hearted. "Won't you wait, Joe?"

"I can't bother with girls," returned Joe.

Charlie lamented her hard fate, but emerged from the hands of Florence
quite a respectable looking child. Kit spent some time in adorning
himself, and trying to smooth his refractory scalp-lock. He had been
very quiet all the morning.

"Now that they are off we can have a little peace," said Florence.

Granny sighed. They were a great bother and torment, to be sure; but,
after all, it was good to have the merry, noisy crew, safe and sound,
and she should be glad when they returned.

Hal's tastes inclined neither to fire-crackers nor sky-rockets. So he
went into the garden, and began to look after his rather neglected
vegetables. The chickens made bad work, it must be confessed, though
the attractions of their buckwheat field were pretty strong, and Hal
ingeniously repaired the fence with brush; but now and then there would
be a raid. The Lima beans were doing beautifully, the corn looked
promising; and, altogether, he thought the prospect was fair. Then he
met with a delightful surprise.

"O Granny!" and he rushed into the house. "Just think,--three of my
grape-vines have beautiful long shoots on them. I haven't looked in
ever so long, for I thought they didn't mean to grow. Come and see."

There they were, sure enough. Hal had set out some cuttings from the
neighbors, but he had been almost discouraged with their slow progress.

"That's a Concord, and that's a Hartford Prolific. Don't they look
lovely in their soft, pinkish green! Why, I feel as if I could give
them all a hug. I'll have to put a lattice round, for fear of the
chickens."

So he went to work. Dot wanted to help, and brought him useless sticks,
while she carried off his hammer and lost his nails. But when she
looked up at him with the sweetest little face in the world, and said,
"Ain't Dotty 'mart? Dotty help 'ou," he could not scold her.

The dinner was rather quiet. None of the stray youngsters made their
appearance. Afterward Florence dressed herself, and went to see Netty
Bigelow, her dearest school-friend, and imparted to her that she was
going to Seabury next Monday, to stay a month with a very elegant lady,
and that she would live at a hotel. Then she described her ride to
Salem, and the dinner.

"Oh, how nice it must have been!" said Netty. "You are the luckiest
girl I ever did know, Florence Kenneth."

"I just wish I was as rich as Mrs. Osgood. It seems to me that poor
people cannot be very happy."

"I don't know," Netty returned thoughtfully. "The Graysons do not seem
very happy."

"But I never saw such mean, disagreeable girls; and they are not
dressed a bit pretty. If there's any thing in school they always want
their share, but they never treat."

"And we are poor," continued Netty; "but I'm sure we are happy."

Florence felt that her friend could hardly understand the degree of
happiness that she meant. She was rather out-growing her youthful
companions.

About mid-afternoon Hal took a walk over to the store. The old rusty
cannon of Revolutionary memory had been fired on the green, the
speeches made, and the small crowd dispersed. Nearly everybody had gone
to Salem; but a few old stagers still congregated at the store, it
being general head-quarters.

Hal picked Charlie out of a group of children, in a very dilapidated
condition. Her once clean dress was soiled, torn, and burned; her
hands gave the strongest evidence that dust entered largely into
the composition of small people; and her face was variegated by
perspiration and dabs from these same unlucky hands.

"O Charlie! you look like a little vagabond!" exclaimed Hal in despair.
"I'm ashamed of you!"

"But I've had such fun, and cakes and candies and fire-crackers and
torpedoes! I wish Fourth of July would keep right straight along. I
burned one of my fingers, but I didn't mind," declared the patriotic
girl.

"Where's Kit?"

"I don't know. Joe was round this morning, but I guess he went to
Salem."

"You must come home with me now."

"O Hal! we haven't found all the 'cissers' yet. They're almost as good
as fire-crackers."

Several of the children were burrowing in the grass and sand for
"fusees,"--crackers that had failed to explode to the full extent of
their powder. They broke them in two and relighted them.

Hal was inexorable; so Charlie cried a little, and then bade her dirty
companions a sad farewell.

"Oh!" exclaimed Granny, as they came marching up the path, "what a
sight! And your Sunday best dress, Charlie!"

"Well," sniffed Charlie with a crooked face, though there were no tears
to give it effect, "I'm sure I didn't want to put it on. I hate to be
dressed up! Something always happens to your Sunday clothes. I couldn't
help tearing it, and Jimmy Earl set off a cracker right in my lap"--

"Well, I'm glad it wasn't your eyes," said Granny thankfully. And then
she took the forlorn pyramid of dirt and disorder up stairs, where she
had a good scrubbing, and was re-arrayed in a more decent fashion.
Anybody else would have scolded, but Granny was so glad to have her
back safe and sound.

Her heart was sorely anxious about Kit and Joe. She let the supper
stand on the table, and they all sat on the doorstep in the moonlight;
for Dot had taken a nap in the afternoon, and was bright as a new penny.

And she fancied, as many mothers and grandmothers have before now, that
shocking accidents had happened, and maybe they would be maimed and
crippled for life.

Presently they came straggling along, and Granny uttered a cry of
relief.

"Oh!" she said, "are you all here? Haven't you lost your hands, nor
your fingers, nor"--

"Nor our noses, and not even our tongues," laughed Joe. "Here we are,
pistol and all."

"O Kit! where have you been? I was a most worried to death; and you
look tuckered out."

For Kit was pale to ghostliness as he stood there in the moonlight.

"Where do you think I found him,--the small snipe? Way over to Salem!"

"O Kit! did you see the fireworks and the soldiers?" exclaimed Charlie
breathlessly.

Kit sank down on the doorstep.

"Walked all the way over there, and hadn't a penny!"

"How could you Kit, without saying a word?" exclaimed Granny in a tone
of mild reproach.

"I could have given you a little money," said Hal tenderly.

"And it's a mercy that you didn't get run over, or shot to pieces, or
trampled to death in the crowd"--

"O Granny! don't harrow up our feelings," said Joe.

"I was afraid you wouldn't let me go," began Kit, at the first
available opportunity for slipping in a word. "And I didn't walk quite
all the way there,--a man came along, and gave me a ride. I wanted to
hear the music so much! The soldiers were splendid, Charlie; some of
'em with great white feathers in their hats and swords and beautiful
horses and coats all over gold"--

"Wonderful hats," suggested Joe with a twinkle; for Kit had gone on
with small regard to commas or accent.

"They all know what I mean!" said Kit rather testily.

"Don't plague him," interposed Hal. "About the music, Kit?"

"Oh! I can't half tell you;" and Kit gave a long sigh. "There were
drums and fifes, and those clappers--I don't remember what you called
'em, but I liked it best when the men were horning with their horns"--

Joe gave a loud outburst, and went over on his head.

"Well," said Kit much aggrieved, "what are you laughing about?"

"Horning! That is good! You had better write a new dictionary, Kit.
It is a decided improvement upon 'toot,' and must commend itself to
Flossy's attention for superior elegance. There, my dear, give me a
vote of thanks;" and Joe twitched Flossy's long curls.

"I don't know what you call it, then," said Kit rather sulkily.

"They blew on the horns," Hal rejoined in his soothing tone, that
was always a comfort in times of disturbance; "and the cornets,
wind-instruments, I believe, though I don't know the names of them all.
It must have been delightful."

"Oh, it was! I shut my eyes, and it seemed as if I was floating on a
sea, and there were all the waves beating up and down, and then a long
soft sound like the wind blowing in and shaking it all to echoes. I was
so sorry when they stopped. They all went into the hotel, I guess it
was. By and by I wandered off a little ways, and sat on a stoop; and
some one was playing on a piano. That was beautiful too. I'd like to
crawl inside of something, as the fairies do, and just live there and
listen forever."

"And then I found him, hungry and tired, and bought him some cake,"
interrupted Joe. "We waited to see the fireworks, and rode home in Mr.
Terry's wagon. But for that I guess he'd been sitting on the stoop yet."

"And you haven't tasted a mouthful of supper!" exclaimed Granny; "and I
a listenin' here, and never thinkin' of it."

"I'm not much hungry," said Joe. "I was treated a time or two by the
boys."

But he thought he wouldn't tell that he had taken up his week's wages
in advance, and spent it all. Fourth of July did not come but once a
year, and a body ought to have a good time.

Poor Joe had discovered, much to his chagrin, that a dollar and a half
would not work wonders. It seemed to him at first that he never could
get his suit of clothes paid for; then it was a hat, a pair of shoes,
some cheap summer garments; and he never had a penny for Hal or any one
else. In fact, he began to think that he would make more money working
round for the farmers. But then the store was steady employment.

He gave Charlie a glowing account of the fireworks, while Kit was
eating a bowl of bread and milk; then they were glad to tumble into bed.

"I'm thankful it's all over, and their arms and legs are safe, and
their eyes not blown out," said Granny with fervent gratitude.

Kit was pretty tired the next day, and Joe found it rather hard to
make all things work together for good. Granny shed a few tears over
Charlie's "best dress," and wondered how she could patch it so as to
look decent.

Florence, in the mean while, was much occupied with her own plans. She
could hardly wait for Monday to come, and proposed to do the usual
washing on Saturday, so there wouldn't be any "muss" around when Mrs.
Osgood called.

She was neat as a new pin as she sat awaiting her visitor. Her clothes
had been looked over, and the best selected. There was nothing to
pack them in, however, except a small, moth-eaten hair trunk, or a
dilapidated bandbox; and the latter was Florence's detestation.

"I can do them up in a paper," she said; and Charlie was sent to scour
the neighborhood for the required article.

Mrs. Osgood and Mrs. Duncan came together. The latter lady had laughed
a little at her sister's plan at first; but, when she found it was
really serious, thought it would be as well for her to try it a month.

Mrs. Duncan was rather exclusive, and had a horror of crowds of poor
people's children.

"It would be so much better to take some one who had no relatives," she
said.

"I shall not adopt the whole family, you may be sure," was the response.

Some of Mrs. Duncan's prejudices were surmounted by the general order
and tidiness to which Florence had reduced matters; and she was
wonderfully well-bred, considering her disadvantages.

"I shall keep her for a month, while I remain at Seabury; and, if
I should want her afterward, we can make some new arrangements,"
Mrs. Osgood explained. "I shall see, of course, that she has ample
remuneration."

Florence colored. Living with such a grand lady seemed enough, without
any pay.

"What are you crying for, Granny?" she asked as she followed her into
the kitchen. "How ridiculous! Why, it is just as if I were going away
upon a visit; and you wouldn't be sorry then."

"It isn't because I'm sorry;--but--none of you have ever been away
afore"--

Florence knitted her brows. How foolish to make such a fuss!

"There are so many of us, that we're like bees in a hive. You ought to
be glad to have me go. And I dare say I shall ride over some day"--

"To be sure. But every one is missed."

Florence kissed the children all round, and was much mortified at the
bundle tied up in a newspaper.

"If I get any money, I mean to buy a travelling-bag," she commented
internally.

"Tate me too," exclaimed Dot, clinging to Florence's dress: luckily her
hands were clean.

"Oh! you can't go, Dotty: Charlie will show you the beautiful chickens."

Dot set up a fearful cry, and wriggled herself out of Charlie's arms,
and Granny took her. Florence hurried through her good-bys, and was
glad to leave the confusion behind.

Granny indulged in a little cry afterward, and then went to her
ironing. Of course they must all flit from the old hive some time.
She could hardly persuade herself that Florence was fifteen,--almost a
young lady.

Joe and Hal wanted to hear all the particulars that evening. Charlie
dilated grandly on the magnificence of the ladies.

"It's real odd," said Joe. "Flossy always wanted to be a lady; and
maybe this is a step towards it. I wonder if I shall ever get to sea!"

"Oh, don't!" exclaimed Granny in a pitiful voice.

When Mrs. Green heard the news, she had to come over.

"I don't suppose they'd ever thought on't, if it hadn't been for me,"
she exclaimed. "They stopped to my house while their wagon was bein'
mended, and the sickly lookin' one seemed to be terribly interested in
your folks; so, thinks I, if I can do a good turn for a neighbor it's
all right; and I spoke a word, now and then, for Florence,--though it's
a pity her name hadn't been Mary Jane. I never did approve of such
romantic names for children. And I hope Florence will be a good girl,
and suit; for the Lord knows that you have your hands full!"

Charlie ran wild, as usual, through vacation. In one of her long
rambles in the woods she found a hollow tree with a rock beside it,
and her fertile imagination at once suggested a cave. She worked very
industriously to get it in order; brought a great pile of leaves for
a bed, and armsful of brush to cook with, and then besought Kit to run
away and live in the woods.

Kit tried it for one day. They had some apples and berries, and a
piece of bread taken from the pantry when Granny wasn't around. They
undertook to fish, but could not catch any thing; though Charlie was
quite sure, that, if Joe would lend her his pistol, she could shoot a
bird.

"Anyhow, we'll have a fire, and roast our apples," said Charlie,
undaunted.

"But it's awful lonesome, I think. S'pose we don't stay all night:
Granny'll be worried."

"Pooh!" returned Charlie with supreme disdain.

So she lighted her fire. The twigs crackled and blazed, and the flame
ran along on the ground.

"Isn't it splendid!" she exclaimed, "Why, it's almost like fireworks!
Oh, see, Kit! that dead tree has caught. We'll have a gay old time now."

Alas! Charlie's "gay old time" came to an ignoble end. Some one rushed
through the woods shouting,--

"Hillo! What the mischief are you at? Don't you know any better than to
be setting the woods on fire?"

It was Mr. Trumbull, looking angry enough. He bent the burning tree
over, and stamped out the blaze; then poked the fire apart, and crushed
the burning fragments into the soft ground. A dense smoke filled the
little nook.

"Whose work is this? You youngsters deserve a good thrashing, and I've
half a mind to take your hide off."

With that he caught Kit by the arm.

"He didn't do it," spoke up courageous Charlie. "He never brought a
leaf nor a stick; and you sha'n't thrash him!"

"What's he here for, then?"

"I brought him."

"And did you kindle the fire?"

"Yes," said Charlie, hanging her head a little.

"What for? Didn't you know that you might burn the woods down, in such
a dry time? Why, I could shut you up in jail for it."

That frightened Charlie a good deal.

"I didn't mean to--do any harm: we thought--we'd have a little
fun"--came out Charlie's answer by jerks.

"Fine fun! Why, you're Granny Kenneth's youngsters! I guess I'll have
to march you off to jail."

"Oh, let Kit go home!" cried Charlie with a great lump in her throat.
"It wasn't his fault. He didn't even want to come."

Something in the child's air and frankness touched Mr. Trumbull's
heart, and caused him to smile. He had a houseful of children at home,
every one of whom possessed a wonderful faculty for mischief; but this
little girl's bravery disarmed his anger.

"I want to explain to you that a fire like this might burn down a
handsome piece of woodlands worth thousands of dollars. All these large
trees are sent to the sawmill, and made into boards and shingles and
various things. So it would be a great loss."

"I'm very sorry," returned Charlie. "I didn't know it would do any
harm."

"If I don't take you to jail this time, will you promise never to do it
again?"

Charlie shivered a little at her narrow escape.

"I surely wouldn't," she said very soberly.

By this time Mr. Trumbull had the fire pretty well out.

"Well, don't ever let me catch you at it again, or you will not get off
so easily. Now trot home as fast as you can."

Charlie paused a moment, tugging at the cape of her sun-bonnet.

"I'm glad you told me about burning up the woods," she said. "I didn't
think of that."

Mr. Trumbull laughed pleasantly.

So the two walked homeward, Charlie in a more serious frame of mind
than usual.

"I tell you, Kit," she began at length, "out West is the place to have
a cave, and fires, and all that Hal had a book about it. Sometimes
children are kidnapped by Indians, and live in their tents, and learn
how to make bead-bags and moccasins"--

"I don't want to go;" and Kit gave his slender shoulders a shrug. "They
scalp you too."

"But they wouldn't me. I should marry one of the chiefs." Then, after a
rather reflective pause, "I'm glad we didn't burn down Mr. Trumbull's
woods: only I guess he wasn't in earnest when he said he would put me
in jail."

But for all that she begged Kit not to relate their adventure to
Granny, and perplexed her youthful brain for a more feasible method of
running away.

The house seemed very odd without Florence. The children's small errors
passed unrebuked; and they revelled in dirt to their utmost content.
For what with working out a day now and then, getting meals, patching
old clothes, and sundry odd jobs, Granny had her poor old hands quite
full. But she never complained.




CHAPTER X.

  WHICH SHOULD SHE CHOOSE?


The reality at Seabury far exceeded Florence Kenneth's expectations.
The hotel was really finer than that at Salem. And then, instead
of being maid, she found here a woman who waited upon Mrs. Osgood,
arranged her hair, kept her dresses in order, and did the small
errands. What was she to do, then?

Not very much, it seemed. She read aloud, and Florence was an
undeniably good reader; she embroidered a little, went every day for a
ride, and absolutely sat in the parlor. It was rather embarrassing at
first.

"I have decided," Mrs. Osgood said to her sister, a few days afterward.
"The child has a very sweet temper, and a most affectionate nature;
and then she is so lovely. A perfect blonde beauty! In two years she
will be able to enter society. Mrs. Deering declared yesterday that her
voice was remarkable."

"I hope you will not spoil her completely. She has a good share of
vanity, I perceive."

"It is only proper pride: the child is well-born. I know her mother
must have been a lady, and Kenneth is not a common name."

"I am sure I hope your protégée will prove a comfort."

Then Mrs. Osgood announced her plans to Florence, who was literally
overwhelmed. To be adopted by so rich a lady, to have an elegant home,
and become skilled in all accomplishments--was it not a dream,--her
wild, improbable dream?

To Florence Mrs. Osgood was an angel. True, she had seen her rather
pettish, and sometimes she scolded Martha, and gave way to hysterical
spasms; but these were minor faults. She drew the child to her with the
sweet and not-forgotten arts of her faded girlhood, and was pleased
with the sincere homage that had in it so much of wonder. Florence
would love her like a daughter.

"I cannot promise to leave you a fortune," she said, "but while I live
you shall have every thing. I was treated very unjustly by Mr. Osgood's
will; though I know he was influenced by his relatives, who grudge me
every penny. They would be very glad to have some of their children
live at Roselawn: I christened the place myself on account of the
roses."

"How beautiful it must be!" exclaimed Florence, enchanted.

"It is a handsome place. You would have a governess, and be taught
music and French and drawing, and be introduced everywhere as my
daughter. If I had one, I fancy she would look something like you, for
I was called very pretty in my younger days;" and Mrs. Osgood sighed.

"I can never be grateful enough," said Florence.

"I shall want you to love me a great deal,--just as if I were your own
mother. And when you are grown you must make me your confidant. You
will marry brilliantly, of course; but you must promise that it will
not be without my consent."

"I shall never want to leave you!" declared Florence impulsively,
kissing the thin hands.

"It will be such a luxury to have your affection. My life has always
been so lonely. Very few people can understand my sensitive nature, but
I trust you will be able to."
