And now began the real work. The mills were cleaned of the year's
accumulation of dust and cobwebs and general untidiness. Winston went at
the machinery with hearty good-will, and put it in order. Circulars were
sent out to the old patrons and to new houses, and workmen, workwomen,
and children straggled in to see what was going on. Were Hope Mills to
be really opened? and was Mr. Darcy to be master? True, a good many of
the best men had gone off to try their luck elsewhere, but there were
plenty left for a start. Only, there was a mystery these people could
not understand. Something about wages, and something about money; and
Jack patiently explained the matter, until, as he told Maverick, he felt
like a cheap-John auctioneer, dispensing wares.

"The best thing will be to have a meeting," declared Maverick. "See
here, Darcy: I'll hire Brock's Hall myself; and we will have a lecture,
or a conference-meeting. Subject, 'Work and Wages.' I'll have some
posters out too. Every one will know what we mean, that we are honest
men and true; and you will be spared this everlasting palaver. Then we
will have some rules, or by-laws, or something, for the workmen. Talk to
Mr. Winston about it. He would make a capital speaker, with his glib
tongue."

Darcy thought it an excellent plan, and they set about it immediately.

"But you'll have to post me," confessed Winston. "The only co-operation
I ever was in was a building-association, and our treasurer ran off with
our funds."

Maverick promised to "coach" him. Indeed, it was the doctor who gathered
up statistics, and put them in a compact and telling form.

They had a large audience,--men and women. "Robert Winston, Esq.," was
the orator of the evening. He was a fluent speaker, and had a good deal
of humor. He began about the early Anglo-Saxon guilds, and the banding
together of craftsmen when towns grew large and prosperous, and labor
was performed in the workshops, instead of at home; of the importance of
the woollen-manufacture in the days of Elizabeth, not only in England,
but on the Continent, when kings did not disdain to borrow money of
these corporations; of their final overthrow, and the causes leading to
it; of the growth of trades-unions, and the views of conflicting writers
on the subject. The workman's necessities so often compelled him to
accept what he felt to be inadequate returns, because he could not
wait,--it was work or starvation with him,--so that in dull times he was
not only at the mercy of the employer, but every other starving workman.
On the other hand, so few workmen ever informed themselves concerning
the employer's perplexities and dangers, they had no broad and vital
interest in the business until they all became leagued together, as in
co-operation. Then they shared one another's burdens and prosperity. It
was not the one great fortune, but the many comfortable incomes. It was
the fruit of the noblest thought and the truest philanthropy. As a
producer it had done its best work in France; and he went briefly over
the work of the masons at Paris, and the Association Remquet, which,
after carrying on printing business for ten years, divided among its
members an average of over ten thousand francs; the cloth-factory at
Vienna, with its flour-mill, bakery, grocery, coal-yard, and farm; the
different societies in England, that were promising, to say the least.
All this had been done by the thrift and economy of individual members,
who educated themselves by doing business, and so were enabled to
dispense with the profits of middle-men, and the greedy clutch of
speculators.

After Winston had finished, Dr. Maverick went briefly over their plans
for Hope Mills in a very simple and direct manner.

"Winston was capital!" said Jack afterward. "When we are hard up we can
send him off on a lecturing-tour. But wasn't it rather over the heads of
our people?"

"It was for others beside the workmen. You know, Darcy, some men are so
used to swindling and misrepresentation, that they invariably accuse
every plan of another, of the same motive. You will have a good deal of
this back talk before your five years are ended; and I want Yerbury to
know that this is an old, old scheme. I might have quoted the children
of Israel, as aunt Jean did, and shocked the religious portion of the
community. But, after all, isn't the greatest truth, the Golden Rule,
co-operation in all forms?" and he glanced up triumphantly.

Jack did not gainsay him.

He had hit the truth in regard to Yerbury. Some of those who had managed
to hold on to their money through all the stress of hard times raised
their eyebrows and shook their heads in amused derision. "A fool and his
money," said they, and "Set a beggar on horseback," besides numerous
wise saws people love to fling at their neighbors. A mortifying collapse
was predicted. There wasn't a woollen-mill in the country paying. The
smaller people who had been easily induced to invest their money in
building-lots, under the supposition that in a few years there would
hardly be standing-room in Yerbury, looked askance at this project, so
much more easily does speculation appeal to human nature, than the
slower but more honorable results of industry.




CHAPTER XIV.


IT was easy enough now to get hands who would consent to the
three-quarter wages. With one winter of semi-starvation the poor of
Yerbury were glad to take any thing that promised bread. The masters
were going to share with the men; but they were made distinctly to
understand, that, unless the mills earned something over and above this,
there could be no surplus, no dividends. Another thousand of the capital
had been made up by some of the hands, who thought this promised as well
as railroad-stocks, lots out on country barrens, or even savings banks.

To be sure, some burly fellows, whose wives could hardly keep soul and
body together over their washing-tubs, swore great oaths that Jack Darcy
was a fool to think he could find men to play into his hands that way!
Bob Winston was a blower, and never kept at any one thing; and some of
the rest were old screws, and in six months time everybody would see!

However, Hope Mills rang out its great bell cheerfully on Monday
morning, the middle of September. A small procession wended their way in
at the side gate. The engine, with Robert Winston at its helm, as they
had not suited themselves with an engineer, puffed and groaned; but, if
it was not a merry music, it was good to hear, for all that. The faces
were pinched and thin with a year's care and want and the horrible fear
of the future, but they tried to smile cheerfully. More than one poor
woman had tears in her eyes, and spoke in that hysterical,
half-laughing, half-crying tone, that told how deeply her feelings were
moved.

By night they were quite settled in the old places, or adapted to new
ones. Perhaps the year's experience had done these people some good:
they had learned to manage closer. Cameron and Darcy had discussed
thrifty French ways of management, and now meant to profit by them if
possible. The American spirit of wastefulness should not run riot as it
had in times past. Dyes and oils and chemicals were to be sharply looked
after, and Cameron was the man to do it.

Before the first week was out, an engineer came to hand. There had been
several applications, but some men raised their noses and laughed loudly
at the rate of wages. A young chap just out of his time when the panic
came on, and who had tried every thing, even to rail-roading, took the
place with hearty thanks; a quick, bright fellow too, who had a love for
his business, and said in ten minutes time, "She's a pretty engine, Mr.
Winston!" with the enthusiasm of a true artist.

"That chap'll blow up Hope Mills in less than a month," said Jem Stixon,
who had been refused. "You mark my words! I wouldn't have wife or child
of mine working there."

Darcy watched the temper of the employees, and reported every few days
to Maverick. The little social "we" and "ours" was working wonders, he
thought.

"And we do nothing!" said Sylvie one evening, in a discontented tone, as
she sat crocheting by Mrs. Darcy's pretty round table in the old
library, that had become a kind of general business-room. "I thought you
were going to set us women at work about something. Miss Morgan and I
have been waiting patiently."

"There was the cooking-school"--

"But we have nothing to cook. And how are we to get any thing? unless we
set up as those poor weavers in Toad Lane, on our pocket-money. I
believe I beg from those who have a little, nearly half my time, to give
to those who have nothing. And, would you believe it, some of the women
begin to think they must be provided for. Mrs. Cairns asked me to-day
when the relief-store was going to open. She didn't see why there
shouldn't always be something here like the parish relief in England.
And when Mrs. Ray offered to take Josie this winter, and keep her in
shoes for what she could do, and teach her a little, Mrs. Cairns said,
'if she was worth any thing, she was worth more than that. She might
have her for a dollar a week.'"

"Such people ought to go hungry," declared Jane Morgan sharply.

"I've been thinking," said Jack, who now raised his eyes slowly, "there
is one thing you might help do; and, indirectly, it would be very
serviceable to me. Sylvie, you know Kit Connelly's corner, as they
always call it?"

"Well, so it is: Mrs. Connelly earned the money that bought it, and I am
glad she didn't let Dennis go on in business until he spent every cent
of it. And oh, Jack! all we women of Yerbury ought to be doubly proud
that she wouldn't let Den keep a beer-shop there, nor hire it to any one
else."

"I hope you are. I think Kit was pretty plucky to take the black eyes
and the grumbling. It was a good job for her when Den went over to the
Bowman House for hostler. So, of course, it has been shut up a year and
a half. You know, two blocks down below, Keppler's door stands open for
everybody, and so many of the mill-hands pass that way. It is so easy to
run in and get a glass, and the men who bring their lunches go down for
a mug of ale. It is a terrible temptation, and I wonder if they are not
more easily tempted on an empty stomach? Well, I've been considering for
some days if we could not start a coffee-house there,--set Kit up in
business. I'm not going to fling a temperance-pledge right in every
man's face,--for that makes them spiteful. I do not even want to exhort.
But if we put it there,--right in their way,--and there was a nice fire
in the evening, and maybe a book or two"--

"Splendid, Jack! There's no such thing in Yerbury. Let's get about it
right away!" and Sylvie sprang up, as if she would start at once.

They all laughed.

"There must be a little planning first. Mrs. Connelly is a bright,
good-hearted creature, and can make good coffee; and Rose and Kathleen
would make nice little maids. She stopped me to-night to inquire if
there was any chance of their being taken in the mill. There must be
some diversity of employment, or presently we shall all be doing the one
thing again,"--and Jack smiled humorously. "Dennis gets low wages,
Bernard is in the mill, and there are two younger boys. She takes in
gentlemen's laundering, as you know. She was wishing she could rent out
the store, but no one wants it. Now, if it could be altered into an
attractive coffee-room, kept neat and bright, and--you will laugh at me,
no doubt--but given a kind of style,--the cups clean and shining, the
spoons decent, and some nice bread and butter for noon lunches. All this
at a moderate price. The men pay five cents for their pint of ale, and
it is often shared by two: they must not give more than three cents for
their cup of coffee."

"I suppose you mean that we are to plan it all out for her," said
Sylvie, and she looked across at Miss Morgan.

"It will not do to buy a pound of sugar and a pound of coffee at a
time," said Jane concisely.

"Then I will be the capitalist," promised Sylvie.

"Exactly. Kit had better do this on some money that she must give an
account of, and it will make her more careful. She owns a cow, so there
is the milk. I should like this started quietly, not with a great blare
of opposition to the dram-shops."

"Well, what must we do first?" asked Sylvie.

"I wish you and Jane would go down and call on her, and suggest the
business. See how she takes it, and look around at the capabilities of
the place. I will see to the fitting-up."

They went, as desired. Mrs. Connelly--a round, rosy, buxom Irishwoman,
with a mellow voice, laughing eye, and artist-red hair--was very much
taken with their plan. "To turn an honest penny in these hard times, and
not be wronging any one, would just suit the likes of her. And there was
the store standing empty,--but it might stand till the crack o' doom
afore she'd have a drop of rum sold in it. There never was a better man
than Den when he was sober, and sure she'd had sorrow enough along wid
drinking. And there was Barney growin' up, and the two smaller ones, and
she'd never, never put a bit of temptation in their way."

The store had been used for a meat-shop and green-grocery. Kit had sold
the fixtures when she had been in sore need of money, so now it was a
great bare room, with one large window and two small ones.

"Sure I can scrub an' whitewash it myself, an' put clean curtains to the
windows. And you're very good to think of such a thing, Miss Barry,--may
the saints bless you! An' if Mr. Darcy will see to getting what is
wanted, I'll do my very best to please you all."

Sylvie blushed a little at taking the credit, but it was Jack's wish.
Jack had a small portico built over the door-way, to keep out the cold
in winter, and a neat sign put up, with but two words,--"Coffee-House."
Sylvie and Miss Morgan ordered some cheap, small tables, some plain
wooden chairs, and found two comfortable, old-fashioned, wooden settles.
Then she collected old magazines and illustrated papers, and a rack was
put up at one side for them. All the tables were covered with light
marbled rubber-cloth, so that they would be kept fresh and sweet. The
sugar and coffee were forthcoming. Kit could roast coffee to a turn. One
Thursday evening the place was lighted up, and a few guests asked in;
and the next day the fame of Kit Connelly's coffee-house began. Half the
folks in Yerbury knew her and Dennis.

Rose Connelly, who was just seventeen, a nice fresh-looking girl, was to
keep the books, and take the money as she was quite a scholar. Several
of the mill-hands went over immediately for their lunches. Such splendid
wheat, rye, and Graham bread, spread already, and brought on a clean
plate! A nice bite for three cents, and a solid meal for six. Sylvie was
to go down now and then, of a morning, to keep matters straight.

"There is one entering-wedge in the cause of temperance," she remarked,
in her piquant way. "Only, Jack, it does not seem quite right for us
women to take the credit of it. I confess, among all my plans, there has
been nothing like this."

"I would rather not be openly connected with it," and Jack made a queer
little grimace. "By and by I may have to do some real fighting on my own
account, and I don't want too many vulnerable points. Human nature is
rather queer and cranky, as you have, no doubt, observed by this time."

"But I do not see why any one should want to fight against your good
work, Jack," said Sylvie, with an indignant flush. "I am sure it is no
light undertaking to provide all these people with work; and everybody
ought to strengthen your hands, instead of putting obstacles in the
way."

"I must be prepared for all things."

Maverick was very enthusiastic over the coffee-house. It was a new
institution in Yerbury. There had been in good times several so-called
cheap lunch-rooms, but the fare was invariably poor.

"Keppler will be your first enemy, and your worst one," said the doctor
with a shrewd smile.

"Very well. He must fight Miss Barry and Miss Morgan. I did send a man
to do some work, but Miss Barry paid the bills. I keep my hands out of
it altogether."

"Good for you, Jack. And how does business progress?"

"I am dubious," and Jack shook his head in a mock-serious way. "There is
too much rose-color. Every thing works to a charm. Whether people really
have learned something by the hard times, remains to be seen; but it
looks so now. And we couldn't have a better working firm. Owen Cameron
is the same kind of a man that Miss Morgan is for a woman, not stingy
here and wasteful there, but a thorough-going economist. Every week he
makes a little saving somewhere. It is what we needed to learn, badly
enough. He manages to make the men understand that every penny saved is
for the benefit of all, that a yard of cloth or a pound of wool spoiled
is to the loss of all. And that is the only way to settle this business,
this everlasting wrangle between labor and capital."

Amos Hurd and Peter Yardley used to talk over the other scheme of a
co-operative store. It would not do to have too many irons in the fire
in such times as these, when no one had any great deal of money. But it
did seem as if poor people were paying at the dearest rate for every
thing, partly because they asked for trust, and the only man willing to
trust them to any extent kept a very full line of second or third rate
articles, but the prices did not always correspond.

"Now, there's coal," said Yardley one evening. "At the trade-sale it
went up ten cents a ton on the average. Our dealers here, who had their
yards full, put up their prices from twenty to thirty cents. I know, on
the other hand, if coal takes a sudden tumble, they may lose; but, after
watching this thing for years, I find the prices go up five times with
full yards, where they fall once. Now, I was thinking, when coal was
bought for the mill, some extra car-loads might be ordered for the men."

"Yes," and Hurd opened his eyes widely. "Let us talk to Darcy about it."

Jack listened to their proposal with a sudden interest.

"It will be some trouble to you," he answered. "It is not as thoroughly
screened, and there is the delivering. The men cannot carry it home in
market-baskets."

"I don't know about the screening," said Yardley rather grimly. "When
you clean up your bin, and find several bushels of sand and refuse out
of five or six tons, you think half of it, at least, ought to have been
good burning-coal. And in wholesale buying you get long tons."

"I can do it as well as not," replied Jack. "In fact,"--laughingly,--"it
will rather redound to my credit to order largely, and we have a
somewhat extensive coal-shed. But you must look up one or two men who
will cart it, and a man to screen; and, when you have counted up your
labor, decide upon what price you can offer your coal. Perhaps it would
be as well to canvass, and learn how many tons you can dispose of."

The workmen had their own board of managers, of which Yardley had been
elected president. They generally met every week, and now Yardley laid
this matter before them. There would be an average saving, he thought,
of two dollars on every ton, but the coal must be paid for in thirty
days. If the men chose to leave one or two dollars every Monday night
(for Darcy had wisely made Monday instead of Saturday pay-day) they
might give in an order for one or two or even three tons.

Meanwhile Peter Yardley found some thorns even in his path. A good,
stout Irish lad was willing to do the screening at a dollar per day; but
when he spoke to several carters, who were not busy half the time, to a
man they stuck to their regular price, fifty cents per ton. Not one of
them would work by the day.

"I can fix that just right," declared one of the men. "My wife's brother
has a heavy wagon and two mules. He used to do carting for the
iron-mills, and since then he has had mostly catch-jobs. He owns a
little place over on the creek-road; and I know he will be glad enough
to do it, and maybe take part of his pay in coal."

Seth Williams was hunted up. He would come, and bring his son who would
help about loading, for two dollars and a half a day. There were
seventy-odd tons subscribed for, but they decided to make their order
one hundred tons. Coal was selling at six dollars and a half per ton at
Yerbury. After due calculation, they offered theirs to the men at four.

It came duly to hand. After the first day, Williams hired another team
on his own account, and his son drove one to its destination, making
thereby extra time. Before the seventy tons had been delivered, the
remainder was bespoken. They found when it had all been disposed of, and
their workmen paid, that they had counted very closely, but there was a
small balance on hand. This was deposited in the bank as a nucleus for a
co-operative store as soon as there might be sufficient capital to
warrant it. This, at least, had been a success. So many of the poorer
class of Yerbury were not able to pay for the last ton of coal until
they ordered again, being always that much behind.

Yardley was quite jubilant over his scheme.

"You forget that in this you and Hurd have received nothing for your
trouble," said Darcy. "Then," smilingly, "you have no bad debts to count
out. Still only a philanthropist can do business this way. If you were
the proprietor of a coal-yard, you could not afford it."

"I think I have something for my trouble, Mr. Darcy," the man answered
proudly. "I have saved ten dollars on my four tons of coal, and that
surely pays me."

They were doing moderately well at the mill. Several orders had come in
from old buyers; and now Winston started out on a travelling tour, being
admirably fitted for that part of the business. At the West he managed
to talk two large wool-dealers into a trade; they taking cloth of
various grades in exchange, and disposing of it to the best of their
ability.

"A regular old-fashioned barter," he wrote to Maverick. "It took a good
deal of talking, to be sure, but I'm never the worse for that. They were
pleased to get a fair price for their wool, and I lost nothing on my
cloth. It clears out the stock, and keeps the men busy."

Indeed, Hope Mills was doing a great thing for Yerbury. There was a
brisker air on the streets, a kind of inspiring music in the whir and
clatter, that spoke of food and warmth and raiment. Good feeling and
sympathy had been touched; and though some of the workmen, who were
harassed by back debts, looked rather ruefully at their small weekly
pittance, still it was so much better than no money and no employment.

At the Darcys they held what Sylvie laughingly called "symposiums." The
churches were organizing their winter work, for there would be need
enough. The few who had found employment merely made a ripple on the
surface. Some who had stretched out their scanty means the past year now
found themselves penniless. Others had tramped about the neighboring
towns and cities, getting a few weeks' work here and there, but had no
fancy for facing winter in this precarious manner. The hopeful feeling
animating so many in the early autumn died out again. It was feared
that we had not seen the worst of the panic.

To Sylvie, who the preceding winter had been engrossed in art-studies
and delightful social life, the want and misery were appalling. She and
Miss Morgan did organize a visiting-society according to an idea of Dr.
Maverick's; and though they alleviated many cases of distress, and were
the better able to distinguish who were worthy, still they increased
upon their hands.

"I begin to realize that poor people do not make the best of their
money," she said. "They do not know how to prepare dishes that shall be
cheap and palatable. And, worst of all, many of them cannot cook a
potato so that it shall be fit to eat."

"The weak point of this world, Miss Sylvie," said Dr. Maverick. "When
women learn to make good bread and cook potatoes, there will be a
decrease of one-half in dyspepsia. Now, what is the secret of the
potatoes? Come, air your ideas! Give me a recipe, and I will take it
around among my patients. I advise them pretty generally to bake them,
but I find some soggy and watery even then."

"Overdone," said Miss Morgan briefly.

"Well, state the exact time."

The women looked at each other, and laughed.

"From twenty minutes to half an hour," said Mrs. Darcy. "Some kinds boil
easier than others. For baking, three-quarters to an hour."

"But the infallible test?"

"Watchfulness," said Jane.

"I must admit that you seem to understand it thoroughly, judging from
the specimens I have seen and eaten. But are you not a little chary in
your information?" and he glanced from one to another.

"Miss Morgan shall be first spokeswoman," declared Sylvie gayly.

"If it is a boiled potato," began Jane sententiously, as if she were a
child speaking a piece, "I put mine in the saucepan, and pour hot water
over them, as they come to a boil sooner, taking care that they shall be
as nearly of a size as possible. In about twenty minutes I try an
average potato. If I can stick a fork through it nicely, it is done.
Then I pour off the water, letting it drain until every drop is gone,
when I shake up the lot two or three times rather hard and quick, stand
them on the back of the stove with the cover partly off, so that the
steam may escape; and you have a dry, light, flaky potato, unless it was
irremediably bad to begin with. I have sometimes boiled new and rather
small potatoes in twelve minutes over a good fire. But cooking, like
liberty, has the same high price, eternal vigilance."

Maverick laughed. "I shall remember this," he exclaimed. "You will yet
hear of me teaching some of my poor patients to cook potatoes. Heaven
knows there is enough need of it. Wasn't there some talk of a school for
useful arts?"

"Yes," answered Sylvie, "only there was no money to start with, and we
have all been so busy."

"What would be needed?"

"Imprimis: a room, a cooking-stove, a fire, a cook, and some
materials," replied Sylvie with merry audacity.

How pretty and bright she was! He liked to watch her in these changeful
moods. One great charm of this place was finding her here so frequently.

"And Mr. Darcy has been so much engrossed with weightier matters," she
continued in a half apology.

"I really think I ought to be more interested in this question than Mr.
Darcy. It supplements my work. While cheap living is an imperative
necessity in times of depression and low wages, I cannot see why we do
not make it more of a study. While we are so ready to copy the vices of
our French neighbors, perhaps their virtues would do us no harm. A
doctor often finds himself quite nonplussed by something in the
preparation of the patient's diet. The old doctrine preached years ago,
on St. Paul's text of 'keeping the body under,' has worked as much
damage as the asceticism of the middle ages. A good healthy body is the
first requisite everywhere; and to keep it so, every one's first duty.
When men began to consider the body a poor, vile thing, to be treated
with contumely, and fed with what would just sustain life, they offered
an outrage to the highest work of God. When people think it is no matter
what they eat, and that no pains need be taken in the preparation, they
have made a big lapse toward heathenism. Confusion of the physical
senses leads to confusion of the moral sense; and weak, miserable bodies
with hysterical nerves, though they may dream dreams, and see visions,
cannot do good healthy work in this world. And your poor people need a
good deal of training on this subject. It must be made an honorable, not
a despised, business. If I were to build houses, I should make the
kitchens large, light, and pretty; and, if any room had to be small and
uninviting, it should be that for the storage of the best furniture,"
laughing humorously.

"Yes," responded Jane Morgan, "I like to go into an old-fashioned
country kitchen, with a nice painted floor, and braided rag rugs laid
down here and there: with a grandmother's corner by a sunny window, and
a father's chair by the wide, cheerful chimney-piece, and a place for
the children to play, with plenty of room to get about. Apples and nuts
always taste so good in such a place! Instead, we have a stuffy little
kitchen and a cheerless dining-room, that no one wants to sit in, and
every member of the family goes to his or her room, and sociability is
at an end. Then we must go to theatres, lectures, and concerts, just to
catch a glimpse of the members of our own family."

"There is a good deal of truth in that," and the doctor nodded
sagaciously. "And now I shall take steps for that school. I may count on
you, Miss Morgan, may I not, and Miss Barry?"

They both promised.




CHAPTER XV.


MEANWHILE what had befallen Fred Lawrence?

He had been greatly shocked at his father's death. True, the tender,
intense affection that had so sweetened childhood seemed to have died
out; when they might have attained to an enduring friendship, they had
gone separate ways, missing the exquisite sympathy that should have
existed between them. Whether the distance was any disappointment to his
father, he had never thought. He was the only son of the house, and his
slightest wish had always been gratified. There had been no wretched
vices that sap body and soul, nothing to bring dishonor on the old pure,
family name; and, if David Lawrence missed something that he had hardly
longed for, he still felt proud of his son.

But his son, bending over the coffined face, was stunned, paralyzed. Of
this death he had never thought. Was it not rather a frightful dream?

The sharp reality followed fast enough. He listened, still bewildered by
the horrible visions that crowded upon him. Hope Mills closed, notes
going to protest, workmen clamoring for pay, Mr. Eastman quite out of
reach, indeed, no one knew just where.

Mr. Minor did not spare his father-in-law. How could he trust every
thing to Horace Eastman! How could he allow George to go on unchecked in
such a career of wild speculation! forgetting that he had speculated
quite as wildly. And now all the property was covered with mortgages,
and not a dollar to be squeezed out of any thing. As for the bank
business, that he sneered at. Let them look to the Eastmans. They might
have known that a small manufacturing town like Yerbury could not stand
such galloping progress. In his heart of hearts he thought George and
Horace rather clever fellows to get away before the crash began. And if
David Lawrence had only managed to provide well for his family,--his
manifest duty,--the rest might have gone without a sigh, such trifles as
notes and wages.

Fred Lawrence he looked upon as a baby. Indeed, Fred was of but little
use in settling the business, much more plague than profit, since he
stood up stoutly for his father's honor and integrity. He had that much
of a son's love. And he characterized Horace Eastman's villany as it
deserved: his education had not quite done away with his moral sense in
such matters.

"Here for five years your father has given him a clean sweep with every
thing! If you thrust temptation right in a man's way, what can you
expect?"

"His honesty would not be of a very high order if it could withstand no
temptation," Fred answered rather scornfully. "It was necessary for
father to travel in the interests of the business. He surely could not
stay here to watch him. And you thought well of Eastman."

"No man would play me such rascally tricks! There is no telling what
he has done! Books can be doctored to look very fair."

But they found enough. Pay-rolls for men kept up long after they had
been discharged, and many who had never been at all; systematic
falsifications that could not be brought to light without a rigid
inspection and comparison by an expert. But Hamilton Minor felt, with
the world's wisdom, that bringing the Eastmans back as criminals would
not be likely to lead to any restoration; while it would prove a family
disgrace, and perhaps add Gertrude to the list of dependent ones.

"It makes me heart-sick!" declared Fred. "There is nothing but
selfishness and hollowness and greed. Are truth and honor quite dead?"

"Very fine talk, my young friend," said Minor in a sneering tone; "but
the question that more nearly concerns you is how you are all going to
live, granting even that there may be enough to pay the debts. Of course
this great house cannot be kept afloat. You had better discharge some of
the servants, and retrench while you do remain in it."

Then had followed the talk with Agatha, when matrimony was proposed as a
certain and sure remedy for these present ills: a cure the young man
disdained with anger.

Mrs. Lawrence kept to her room, and was too ill to listen to business
details, even if she could have helped in any way, which she could not.
She fancied now, like many another woman, that her husband had been her
only delight in life, and that there was nothing left. When Agatha
suggested that she had been very short-sighted to consent to mortgaging
Hope Terrace, she cried, and said "she would have given up every thing
for him, and now that he was gone she wanted no fortune,--she should
never leave her room again until she was carried."

If there had been any bright little Sylvie to run in and comfort her!
any strong-hearted, tender woman, to whom he could turn! He seemed now
to realize more keenly what he had lost, than on the night Sylvie
rejected him. And that other strong, manly soul--no, bitterly as he
might regret, he could no more go back to him than to Sylvie.

He roused himself, and began his work, utterly astounded at the
extravagance that met him on every side. No doubt it looked right enough
when there was plenty of money; but it seemed now as if the servants had
been masters and mistresses, that all these luxuries existed for their
sake,--the gardens and graperies, the greenhouses with their wealth of
costly flowers; the horses standing idle in the stable, with only
servants to use them; his father a plain man, his mother confined mostly
to two or three rooms, and occasional visitors; supplies ordered
lavishly, and wasted in a manner that seemed wicked even to him. He
wondered in a vague way if the system was not radically wrong that
brought such waste and carelessness in vogue, when hundreds had not the
necessities of life. He remembered one talk his father had with Horace
Eastman over in the library yonder, with champagne and cigars between
them, in the height of one of the strikes, and how Eastman had figured
to a penny the exact percentage of wages the mill could afford to pay.
What if they had given up a little of their luxury, and he his
ill-gotten gains!

He had the pictures packed under his supervision, and sent to New York.
Not without a pang; for many of them he had selected, and each one had
some pleasant reminder. The choice collection of the greenhouse was
offered for sale, the elegant furniture, and all the most valuable of
the personal property. Times were hard, and sales were slow; but there
would be sufficient realized, it was thought, to pay the floating
indebtedness. Hope Terrace and the mills would probably go for the
mortgages. There was a small life-insurance settled upon Mrs. Lawrence,
and the children would be fortuneless.

By spring the estate was in a fair way of settlement. Fred had vibrated
between the city and Yerbury all winter, but his mother had been taken
to Mrs. Minor's. A gardener and his wife were placed in charge of the
house, while efforts were being made to rent it. A few rooms had not
been disturbed.

And now Frederic De Woolfe Lawrence looked about him to see what could
be done. Up to this time he had never given himself an anxious thought
about money or his future. Now it stared him unpleasantly in the face.
What could he do?

Many things, he said at first, with the buoyant certainty of youth and
inexperience. Here was his education, his talents, his fine mental
training. Surely he had the magical open-sesame of some door.

So he set to work industriously, and wrote several articles on the
history and the philosophy of the pure sciences. Very fine-drawn indeed,
very intellectual and analytical, as he went through the different
schools of thought, being able, it seemed to him, to argue as well for
the one side as for the other. Then he tried Neo-Platonism with its
profoundly mystical aspects and its brilliant array of philosophers, its
fascinating aspects of Pantheism. The new world and to-day had nothing
for him; the dead and gone past, every thing.

Alas! From every side he heard the cry, Literature had been overdone. No
one would buy, no one would read, in this great turmoil. Everybody wrote
now, schoolgirls, college-fledglings: even small farmers and mechanics,
with the training of the present and a smattering of knowledge, set up
for geniuses.

One advised him to try the realistic school: the old-time philosophies
had lost the high place they once held, and to gain the attention of
to-day writers must have snap and vim. Another recommended popular
science made easy and attractive to general readers, something that
caught at the first glance. Life was too short to be devoting years to
any one branch of study. Still another was fain to persuade him to
attack the pernicious systems and monstrous abuses of the present day.
Then he stumbled over Crosby, one of his college-chums and a member of
