but the Islander continued on her course down the river. I knew she had
been ordered to be ready to sail at seven, and I did not suppose
Captain Blastblow would willingly fail to be on time. While I was
watching the movements of our consort, the baggage of our party arrived
at the end of the wharf, and, a few minutes later, a carriage came
bringing our passengers.

I had no more time to study the affairs of the Islander. My father, Mr.
Tiffany and Miss Margie were in the carriage, and I was permitted to
help the young lady out, and escort her to the deck. I was a little
afraid of my father calling me a "spoon," and I was careful not to
overdo myself in politeness.

"How long before you sail, Captain Alick?" asked my fair companion.

"Immediately," I replied. "The Islander has already gone, but I think
she must return."

"May I go into the pilot-house, captain?"

"Certainly; I shall be delighted to have you there."

"How much I shall miss Edith!" exclaimed Miss Margie, as I gave her the
best seat in the pilot-house. "I think it is a great pity that we could
not all go together in the same steamer."

"I should have been very glad to have the Shepards on board," I
replied. "I suppose Colonel Shepard prefers to sail in his own yacht,
as I think I should if I were in his place. But we shall be within hail
of each other most of the time, and you can visit Miss Edith about
every day after we get into the Mississippi River."

"I am told the Mississippi is a very large river," mused Miss Margie.
"Can you see across it, Captain Alick?"

"No doubt of it," I answered, laughing. "It is not more than a mile
wide, as a rule. You must be thinking of the Amazon, which is a hundred
and fifty miles wide near its mouth. Vessels must get out of sight of
land in crossing it, near the ocean."

"We are all on board, Alick, except Owen," said my father, coming into
the pilot-house. "He should not keep us waiting."

"Perhaps he has decided to go in the other steamer," I suggested.

But I had hardly spoken the words before Owen came on board. He did not
seem to be in despair at his separation from his "bright particular
star," and was in excellent humor when he joined us in the pilot-house.

"Where are the rest of your party, Owen?" I asked.

"Merciful hotandsplosh! Haven't you found out yet that they are going
on the Islander?" demanded Owen.

"I haven't seen them go on board of her yet," I added.

"They took a carriage to the wharf near the boat-house, and I took one
to come here," replied Owen. "They must be on board of her by this
time."

"I think not. The Islander has gone down the river," I answered, as I
ordered the fasts to be cast off.

I backed the Sylvania on the stern line to clear her from the wharf,
and then rang to go ahead. Our voyage around Florida had actually
begun, and I was duly exhilarated by the fact. The Islander had gone
around the bend of the river, and I could see only her masts and
rigging. The wind was blowing fresh from the southwest, and I was not a
little astonished to see that her crew were shaking out her
fore-topsail. This did not indicate that her captain intended to return
to the wharf for his passengers.

"Colonel Shepard and his family must have gone on board of her at least
a quarter of an hour before seven, Owen," I said, unable to account for
the movements of the Islander in any other way.

"But they did not leave the colonel's house till five minutes of
seven--at the same time I started to come here," replied Owen. "What
has happened? What is the matter?"

"I don't know that anything is the matter," I replied. "The Islander
got under way about half-past six, and I supposed she was going to take
a turn on the river before she went up to the wharf. Instead of that
she has been moving steadily down the river since she got up her
anchor; and there she is, three or four miles on her way to the ocean."

"Sylvania, ahoy!" shouted some one on the shore.

On the pier, near the club-house, were the Shepard party; and it was
the colonel who had hailed us. They seemed to be quite as much
astonished as we were. I ran the steamer up to the wharf.




CHAPTER VI.

A LIVELY CHASE.


In a few minutes our bow and stern lines were fast to the wharf where
the Shepards were waiting for their steam-yacht. Owen leaped ashore
before the vessel was fairly alongside, though he had not yet come to a
full comprehension of what had happened. He knew something was the
matter, but he could not tell what it was.

As soon as the Sylvania was made fast I went on shore. Colonel Shepard
seemed to be bewildered, for Owen had just told him the Islander had
gone down the river. The rest of the family were quite as much
astonished as the husband and father. Chloe, the colored servant, was
actually wringing her hands, as though she feared another conspiracy
was about to be developed.

"Where is the Islander, Captain Alick?" asked the colonel, as I
presented myself before him.

"She has gone down the river; and the last I saw of her, she was
shaking out her fore-topsail," I replied.

"But what does that mean?" added Colonel Shepard, with a frown.

"I'm sure I don't know, sir. She got under way about half-past six. I
supposed Captain Blastblow was about to take a turn or two in her
before he ran up to the wharf. It is now quarter-past seven, and the
Islander is still making her way down the river. You can see her across
the land, though only her spars are in sight."

I pointed out the tapering masts of our consort--if she was to be our
consort--in the distance. Presently she disappeared behind a forest of
pine.

"I don't understand it at all," said the perplexed owner of the stray
yacht. "What does Captain Blastblow mean by treating me in this manner,
when I ordered him to be at this wharf precisely at seven?"

"I can't explain it, sir," I replied. "There is clearly some
misunderstanding about the matter."

"You saw me write the card at the post-office last night, Captain
Alick: and I sent it off by the young man who was with you."

"Yes, sir; Nick Boomsby took the card; and I have no doubt he delivered
it, for he came on board of the Sylvania towards night.

"I think Captain Blastblow intends to return soon," I added, for I
could not think of any explanation of his singular conduct. I certainly
could not reason out any plausible occasion for such a violation of his
orders as that in which he seemed to be engaged.

"Perhaps he has run off with the yacht, and intends to become a pirate,
or something of that sort," suggested Gus Shepard.

"Nonsense, my son! The Islander is not an armed vessel, and Captain
Blastblow is not a pirate," replied Colonel Shepard. "Do you suppose
anything was out of order on board of the steamer, Captain Alick?"

"It is possible; but if such was the case, the captain would hardly
have gone so far down the river," I replied. "If the Islander had
needed any more repairs, Captain Blastblow would have remained in
Jacksonville and attended to them."

"Perhaps he wishes to become better acquainted with the vessel before
he takes her to sea," added the colonel.

"He might have done that yesterday. He would not have waited until you
were ready to sail, and then gone off on an experimental cruise," I
answered.

"An experimental cruise!" exclaimed Owen. "What a terrible expression.
I hope Captain Blastblow don't use such expressions. If he does, he has
gone out to sea where he can have room enough to unsnarl his tongue."

"Captain Blastblow is an American, and he is used to such little
trials," I replied.

"What shall be done?" asked Colonel Shepard.

"I think you had better go on board of the Sylvania, with your baggage,
and we will stand down the river," I replied, promptly, for I had kept
this idea in my mind for some time. "We can at least follow the
Islander, and when we come up with her you can go on board of her."

"Are you sure you can overtake her, Captain Alick?" asked Colonel
Shepard, with a smile, as though he had some doubts in regard to the
relative speed of the two steam-yachts. "Captain Blastblow is confident
that he can outsail the Sylvania."

"I don't say that he cannot; but if he does, he has learned a new trick
in handling her," I answered, with energy. "I have sailed the Sylvania
against the Islander on the Great Lakes more than once, and have not
found the time when I could not beat her."

"Her new captain claims to be a very skilful man in handling steamers,"
added the colonel.

"If you and your family will come on board, sir, I will do the best I
can to overtake the Islander, and ascertain what the conduct of her
captain means. If we have anything like fair play, we shall overhaul
the Islander sometime to-day," I continued, confidently. "We are both
well down in the water, with our coal-bunkers and water-tanks full. She
is nearly an hour ahead of us now, and her captain was hurrying her all
he could."

Owen was delighted with the decision of Colonel Shepard when he
accepted my invitation. He had regained his divinity, and he conducted
her on board of the Sylvania, while the colonel assisted Mrs. Shepard.
Owen escorted Miss Edith to the pilot-house, and her mother went down
into the cabin, for the morning was rather raw and chilly. Margie took
her dear friend to her heart, and hoped the Sylvania would never
overtake the Islander.

"You must let the other steamer keep ahead, Captain Alick," said
Margie, as I took my place at the wheel, when the baggage had been put
on board.

"That would be treason to the Sylvania and treason to Colonel Shepard,"
I replied, as I rang the bell to start the steamer.

I knew the river well enough to go ahead confidently, and I had given
the chief-engineer a hint as to what I expected of him. In a few
minutes, the little steamer was buzzing along at the rate of eleven
miles an hour. The only thing I feared was fog, and there seemed to be
great banks of it off in the direction of the mouth of the river.

"Mr. Washburn," I called through the windows in front of me.

"On deck, sir," replied the mate.

"Call all hands, and set the fore-topsail."

"Ay, ay, sir," responded Washburn; and I knew there would be no lack of
zeal on his part when we came to an out-and-out race.

All hands usually consisted of the two deck hands; but Ben Bowman, the
second fireman, and the cabin-waiter were available when there was any
extra work to be done. Buck Lingley and Hop Tossford, the deck hands,
were sent aloft by the mate to loose sails, while the others manned the
halyard and the braces. In a very short time the topsail was drawing
full, and the speed of the vessel was sensibly increased.

"Mr. Washburn!" I called again.

"On deck, sir," responded the mate.

"Set the foresail."

The crew made quick work of it.

"Now the mainsail, Mr. Washburn," I continued.

The wind was quite fresh, and the fore and aft sails caused the steamer
to heel over considerably when the puffs came, as they generally do in
a south-westerly breeze.

"You will tip us over, Captain Alick!" cried Miss Margie, who had not
been at sea in the Sylvania.

"I won't do anything of the kind, Miss Tiffany," I replied, with a
laugh. "I shall not drown myself for the sake of drowning you, I am
very sure. Mr. Washburn!"

"On deck, sir."

"Set the fore to'gallant sail."

"Ay, ay, sir," chuckled the mate, who understood that I meant business
by this time.

"Pray, which is the fore top-gallant sail, Captain Alick?" asked Miss
Margie.

"It is the highest sail we set on the foremast, though larger vessels
have a royal above that, then a skysail," I replied. "Mr. Washburn!"

"On deck, sir."

"Now give us the fore squaresail, and run up the jib."

The last order was to set the main gaff-topsail; and then we had all
sail on. We turned the bend of the river just after the last sail had
been set, which gave us the wind over the starboard quarter. I was
confident we were making twelve knots an hour, and the skilful firing
of Philander Perkins soon made her do even better than this. The water
fairly roared at the bow as the vessel cut through it. The young ladies
in the pilot-house ceased to talk, and Miss Margie held on at the wheel
with both hands. It was lively sailing, but there was no danger, and I
told the fair maiden so many times.



We all kept a sharp lookout for the Islander, but as yet we saw nothing
of her. She had, at least, ten miles the start of us, and it was likely
to be a long chase, if she continued on her course. I wanted very much
to get a sight of her when we reached the bar at the mouth of the St.
Johns, so as to determine what course she took.

No progress whatever had been made in solving the problem of the
Islander's sudden departure without her owner and passengers. We could
not imagine any motive on the part of her captain for his singular
conduct. My father and Colonel Shepard talked about the matter all the
time; but in the absence of any data they could not get ahead a
particle.

In an hour and a half by the watch we were in sight of the bar. The
weather looked thick and nasty outside, and there was not the slightest
sign of the Islander. But we were still in the river, and our view to
the north and south was obstructed by the trees and shrubs on the
shores. It was plain enough to me by this time that Captain Blastblow
had no intention of returning to Jacksonville for his passengers.

I kept the Sylvania on her course over the bar, and, as it was full
tide, I had no fear of taking the bottom. We kept on our course till we
had made a good offing. Though the fog had not settled down near the
bar, vast piles of it were floating in the air. The question now was
whether the Islander had gone to the north or the south. I had given
the wheel to Hop Tossford, and I was using the glass very industriously
in all quarters of the horizon.

"Sail, ho!" shouted Buck Lingley, who had taken his station on the cap
of the foremast.

"Where away?" I shouted, sticking my head out the side window of the
pilot-house.

"Right on the starboard beam," replied Buck.

As the fog lifted a minute later I got a glimpse of the sail.

"It is the Islander!" I shouted, not a little excited. "She is going to
the southward."

"I can't understand it," said Colonel Shepard, shaking his head. "Does
Captain Blastblow mean to run away with the vessel?"

No one could tell what he meant.




CHAPTER VII.

A FOG OFF THE FLORIDA COAST.


The Sylvania was close-hauled, and I gave out the course south
south-east. This was the navigation to take the steamer around the
peninsula into the Gulf of Mexico, though we intended to put in at Key
West, in order to see the place. Washburn noted the departure on the
log slate in the pilot-house, and, as it was necessary for us to run by
our dead reckoning, the log was heaved every hour. In a short time we
were buried in the fog, and kept our steam-whistle going at the proper
intervals.

The young ladies soon deserted the pilot-house, for we were obliged to
keep the front windows open, and the air was cold and moist. Owen left
with them, and my father and Colonel Shepard soon took their places.
The owner of the Islander was still too much excited to keep still. He
tried to see through the fog; but he might as well have attempted to
look through a rocky hill.

"How far ahead do you think the Islander is now, Captain Alick?" asked
the Colonel.

"About eight miles, I should judge, unless Captain Blastblow has
succeeded in getting more speed out of the Islander than any one else
ever could," I replied at once, for I had estimated the distance
before.

"Do you really think you are gaining on her?"

"I have no doubt of it," I replied, confidently. "They hurried the
Islander down the river; and when both vessels are doing their best the
Sylvania gains about a knot an hour on the Islander. I have tried this
with her when she had a sailing-master on board who knew all about her,
and had sailed her hundreds of miles. I don't believe Captain Blastblow
can do any better with her than Captain Braceback; and I used to beat
him every time."

"I dare say you are quite right, Captain Alick," added Colonel Shepard.
"It is reasonable to suppose that a man who is used to a vessel can do
better with her than a stranger."

"I got only a glimpse of the Islander when the fog lifted for a moment,
and saw only her spars and sails," I continued. "I have had
considerable experience in judging of distances on the water. I should
like to have you ask the others on board how far off they think the
other steamer was when we saw her."

The colonel liked the suggestion, and he was so much interested in the
question that he wished to have the best information he could obtain. I
called Washburn first. No one but Hop Tossford at the wheel had heard
the conversation, and they could not be influenced by my opinion of the
matter. The mate said seven miles. Buck Lingley made it nine miles, and
then Ben Bowman was summoned.

"Just about eight miles, I should say," replied Ben, when the question
was put to him.

"No two of them agree, though they do not differ widely," said the
Colonel, when all who had seen the Islander had answered.

"Ben Bowman has had more experience than all the rest of us put
together," I added. "But, Colonel, if you will average all the answers,
you will find the result is just eight miles. We may be all wrong.
Captain Blastblow talks louder than the rest of us, but when he beats
the Sylvania in a fair stand-up run, I wish you would let me know it,
if I don't find it out before you do."

I felt almost absolutely certain of the ground I stood on, for I had
tried this same issue when the result was almost a case of life and
death with me. The Sylvania had been built after the Islander, and her
constructor had an opportunity to improve on her model. Our engine was
a little more powerful than that of the other yacht, and a defect in
the lines of the latter had been corrected in building ours. But the
fact of our superior speed had been several times demonstrated by
actual trial, and the improvements in our model and machinery only
explained what had been proved. It was of course possible that Captain
Blastblow had some "knack" of getting more speed out of a steamer than
I had; but I was willing to believe, in this case, only what was fairly
proved.

"We may miss the Islander in this fog," continued Colonel Shepard,
peering anxiously through the fog.

"We may, sir," I replied. "There is nothing to prevent her from coming
about and running back to Jacksonville."

"What if she should do that?" asked the owner of the stray yacht.

"We are in the dark as to the intentions of her captain; and everything
depends upon them," I answered.

"What can his intentions possibly be?" inquired the colonel, knitting
his brow, as he recurred once more to the well-worn topic for at least
the twentieth time.

"It is quite impossible to conjecture his motives. He has either made a
mistake in regard to his instructions, or he means to run away with the
Islander."

"What mistake could he have made in regard to his instructions?"
demanded the colonel, who had not admitted the possibility for an
instant of any mistake. "Last night I wrote his instructions to be
ready to sail at seven, and sent them off to him by the young man who
was with you."

"Did you write seven this morning, sir?" I asked.

"I think I did, though I should not be willing to swear to it," replied
the colonel, looking a little blank at the idea of such a mistake.

"If you simply said seven, he may have taken it to mean seven this
evening," I suggested.

"He could not have thought we intended to go down the river and cross
the bar in the night."

"I should say not; but Captain Blastblow is a very brilliant man, and
has been around Cape Horn and the Cape of Good Hope so many times that
he ought to know what he is about," I replied, letting out a little of
my pique at the commander of the Islander for his implications against
me.

"Allowing that I wrote 'seven P.M.,' or that I did not write either
morning or evening, what is Captain Blastblow doing down here?"
demanded Colonel Shepard, warmly.

"If he understood that you were not to sail till this evening, he may
have brought the Islander out here to try her, and enable him to get
accustomed to her ways before he took on board his passengers. That is
all the explanation I can suggest, but I don't think it will hold
water. He knows very well, for he has been around Cape Horn several
times, that if he comes out here in a fog, he may not be able to get
back to Jacksonville in time to take you on board to-night, or even
to-morrow or next day."

"If Captain Blastblow had any doubt in regard to my orders, he could
have sent one of his men up to my house, and ascertained just what I
intended," said the owner, rather wrathfully.

"That is what I should have done; but Captain Blastblow has had more
experience than I have," I replied, with a smile.

"Did you notice anything unusual about the Islander, or the conduct of
those on board of her, when you saw her this morning, Captain Alick?"
continued the colonel.

"Nothing at all, sir. A boat went off to her a few moments before she
weighed her anchor," I answered. "There were two persons in the boat
when it went alongside the Islander, but only one returned to the shore
in it. I concluded some one of her officers or crew had remained ashore
over night, and came off in a shore boat. I did not think of the boat
till you asked the question."

"I don't see that the boat throws any light on the transaction," mused
the owner. "We don't know who was in the boat, though if we were in
Jacksonville, we could easily ascertain."

"I don't have any idea that we shall know anything about this matter
until we overhaul the Islander," I added. "We can guess for the next
week, but we are as likely to guess wrong as right."

"I can't help being considerably disturbed about this mysterious
conduct of Captain Blastblow; but I do not see that we are likely to be
any wiser in regard to it, as Captain Alick says, till we see the
captain," replied the colonel. "We have got to make the best of it, and
be patient till we learn more. What do you think of it, Major
Garningham?"

"I don't think it is possible to form an intelligent opinion without
further information in regard to the facts," replied my father. "I am
more inclined to believe that Captain Blastblow has made a mistake of
some kind, than that he means anything wrong. It would be worse than
folly for him to attempt to run away with the steam-yacht, for he is
sure to be discovered and punished."

"If it is a mistake or a misunderstanding, it is a very queer one. But
I am not disposed to worry about the matter, and I shall try to
reconcile myself to the situation," replied Colonel Shepard, struggling
to laugh off his anxiety for the safety of his yacht.

I think it was the want of her, more than the value of the craft, that
troubled and vexed him. He was a very wealthy man, and if she was lost
entirely to him, it would hardly impair his fortune.

"We shall do the best we can to solve the problem, and overhaul the
Islander," I continued; "but, after all, we may miss her. If Captain
Blastblow has made a blunder, or there is any misunderstanding, he must
soon discover it. If he has only come out here for a trial trip, and
should happen to pass us in the fog without our seeing him, he knows
the Sylvania will put into Key West. If he gets back to Jacksonville,
and finds that you have left in our steamer, he will return at once,
and find us at our anchorage in port."

"When shall you reach Key West, Captain Alick?" asked the colonel.

"If we have good weather, it is a run of from forty-two to forty-five
hours. If this fog continues, it will take longer than that, for the
navigation is not all plain sailing," I replied.

"And you think you can overtake the Islander in about eight hours?"

"I think so, sir; but I can't say that we shall come near enough to see
or hear her in this fog," I answered. "I think you had better make your
party comfortable on board of the Sylvania, and leave the rest of the
matter to me and my officers."

"I am confident that is the better way for you; and I am sure Alick
will do all he can both to make you and your family comfortable in the
cabin, and to find your runaway vessel," added my father.

Colonel Shepard yielded to this advice, and I went down into the
after-cabin with all the passengers to arrange about the staterooms and
berths. Our involuntary guests declared that they were very sorry to
make so much trouble, and especially to disturb our arrangements on
board. Both my father and I assured them they made no trouble, and that
we were not at all disturbed by their presence, inasmuch as we had
invited them to take the cruise in the Sylvania, and were glad to have
them on board.

I had made a diagram of the cabin, and assigned rooms and berths to all
the passengers, when I supposed they were to sail with us. I proceeded
to arrange our guests in accordance with this plan.

"Let me have a berth in the fore-cabin, Alick," said Owen to me in a
whisper.

"There is no need of that, Owen," I replied. "There is room enough for
all of you in this cabin, and some to spare. Colonel and Mrs. Shepard
will occupy the port stateroom, as before, when they have sailed with
us," I continued, consulting my diagram.

The colonel protested that he would not occupy the best stateroom; but
I insisted, and went on giving out the apartments.

"Miss Edith and Miss Margie will take the starboard stateroom."

Both of them screamed with delight at this disposition of them, and
Margie declared that I was a "dear, good little Captain Alick," though
I was bigger in stature than her father. I had given the two larger
rooms to those who were to double-up in them; and of the two remaining
rooms, I gave one to my father and the other to Mr. Tiffany. Owen and
Gus were assigned to the two berths next to the rooms, which left two
others for Chloe and the steward. The curtains drew out in front of the
berths, so that the spaces within them were almost the same as
staterooms. All were satisfied. I gave orders to Cobbington to provide
tables for all. Leaving the passengers to arrange their baggage in
their new quarters, I returned to the deck.

The fog was as dense as ever, and we could not see more than a ship's
length ahead. Ben Bowman was on the top-gallant forecastle, and Buck
Lingley on the fore-yard, keeping the lookout. We were driving the
steamer in spite of the fog, and I had some hope that we might soon get
a sight of the chase, or at least hear the sound of her whistle.




CHAPTER VIII.

A PORT IN A STORM.


"Washburn, you have a long head; can you make anything of the
situation, for I suppose you know all about it?" I asked, as I joined
the mate on the forecastle.

"I know what I have heard about the pilot-house and on the forecastle,"
replied Washburn.

"I have not been able to make anything out of it, so far," I continued.

"I can't believe that the captain of the Islander means to run away
with her. I don't believe this is a trial trip, as you suggested, for
the captain would not have come out into this fog on such an errand,"
added Washburn. "On the whole, I must believe it is a blunder on the
part of the captain of the consort. But I think we are not likely to
find out anything definite about the case until we overhaul the
Islander. All we have to do is to keep moving to the southward, and
keep a sharp lookout for the chase. It is useless to bother one's
brains over questions that cannot be answered."

"When I saw the Islander, she was well in shore," I added. "If she
takes a notion to come about, and run back to the St. Johns, we may
miss her."

"And she may drop into St. Augustine," said the mate.

"I don't see any reason why she should," I replied. "Captain Blastblow
knows that the party are bound up the Mississippi River. He knows the
Sylvania is, at any rate; and he would not have headed to the southward
if he had not intended to make the same trip, always supposing he has
misunderstood his instructions."

"By six o'clock to-night, if everything holds as it is, we ought to
overhaul the Islander, if we don't miss her in the fog, and Captain
Blastblow don't do any better in her than any one else has ever done,"
continued Washburn. "But the wind is freshening, Captain Alick."

"Yes; and the barometer indicates that we are to have a bad day of it,"
I replied, looking at the white caps that rolled up to windward of the
steamer.

The wind was gusty and savage. The steamer heeled well over to port
under the heavy press of sail we were carrying. But I did not care much
how hard it blew, if it would only carry off the fog, as I believed it
would do soon.

By half-past ten I found it necessary to take in the fore square-sail
and the fore top-gallant sail, for I was afraid the heavy weight of
canvas would strain the foremast. This relieved the steamer for a time;
but the wind had increased to a gale, and had hauled more to the
southward. Half an hour later we took in the fore topsail and the main
gaff-topsail, so that nothing but our fore and aft sails remained. The
log at eleven indicated that we were making twelve knots, and it was
about time for us to be up with St. Augustine light, but we could not
see it in the fog. Suddenly we heard a fog-horn on our starboard bow.

I rushed into the pilot-house and rang the gong. The engineer
immediately stopped the engine, and the roar of escaping steam
followed. I was afraid we might run down some of the small craft that
go in and out of St. Augustine.

"Sail, ho!" shouted Ben Bowman, on the top-gallant forecastle. "I see
her; she is a pilot-boat."

A moment later I saw a sail-boat, in which were three men. There was a
number on her sail, which indicated that she was a pilot-boat. She had
evidently heard our whistle, and had came out in the rough sea to take
us into St. Augustine, if we were bound into that port. I directed the
wheel man to port the helm, so as to throw the Sylvania up into the
wind under the stern of the pilot-boat.

"How came you up there, captain?" demanded one of the men in the boat,
and all of them looked amazed.

"We are bound to the southward, coming down from St. Johns bar," I
replied. "How does St. Augustine bear from here?"

"Due east," answered the spokesman of the trio.

"Look out for your reckoning, Washburn," I added, turning to the mate.

"Twenty minutes of twelve," added Washburn, consulting the chronometer.
"This is exactly where we ought to be at this time," and he made the
entry on the log-slate.

"Haven't you been over this course before to-day?" asked the spokesman
of the pilot.

"Not to-day," I answered, perceiving what it was that bewildered the
pilots. They had evidently seen the Islander, and supposed the
Sylvania was the same steamer.

"We came out here after a steamer we heard whistling in the fog,"
continued the speaker. "We got near enough to hail her; and if this is
not the same steamer, she is as near like the other as one pea is like
another."

"She is the twin sister of this vessel. Did you see who was on board of
