side with their slow, patient steps. The level country around lay
sleepily still under the hot afternoon sun; it was rarely that any
human stir was to be seen, save only the ox driver walking beside the
cart. He walked beside the cart, not the oxen; evidently lending a
curious ear to what was spoken in the company; on which account also
the progress of the vehicle was a little less lively than it might have
been.

"My Cynthy's writ a lot o' hymns," he remarked just here. "I never
heerd no trumpets in 'em, though. I don' know what them other things
is."

"Cymbals?" said Lois. "They are round, thin plates of metal, Mr. Sears,
with handles on one side to hold them by; and the player clashes them
together, at certain parts of the music--as you would slap the palms of
your hands."

"Doos, hey? I want to know! And what doos they sound like?"

"I can't tell," said Lois. "They sound shrill, and sweet, and gay."

"But that's cur'ous sort o' church music!" said the farmer.

"Now, Miss Lothrop,--you must let us hear the figurative cymbals," Mr.
Lenox reminded her.

"Do!" said Mrs. Barclay.

"There cannot be much of it," opined Mrs. Lenox.

"On the contrary," said Lois; "there is so much of it that I am at a
loss where to begin.



   'I love yon pale blue sky; it is the floor
   Of that glad home where I shall shortly be;
   A home from which I shall go out no more,
   From toil and grief and vanity set free.

   'I gaze upon yon everlasting arch,
   Up which the bright stars wander as they shine;
   And, as I mark them in their nightly march,
   I think how soon that journey shall be mine!

   'Yon silver drift of silent cloud, far up
   In the still heaven--through you my pathway lies:
   Yon rugged mountain peak--how soon your top
   Shall I behold beneath me, as I rise!

   'Not many more of life's slow-pacing hours,
   Shaded with sorrow's melancholy hue;
   Oh what a glad ascending shall be ours,
   Oh what a pathway up yon starry blue!

   'A journey like Elijah's, swift and bright,
   Caught gently upward to an early crown,
   In heaven's own chariot of all-blazing light,
   With death untasted and the grave unknown.'"



"That's not like any hymn I ever heard," remarked Mrs. Lenox, after a
pause had followed the last words.

"That is a hymn of Dr. Bonar's," said Lois. "I took it merely because
it came first into my head. Long ago somebody else wrote something very
like it--



   'Ye stars are but the shining dust
   Of my divine abode;
   The pavement of those heavenly courts
   Where I shall see my God.

   'The Father of unnumbered lights
   Shall there his beams display;
   And not one moment's darkness mix
   With that unvaried day.'



Do you hear the cymbals, Mrs. Lenox?"

There came here a long breath, it sounded like a breath of satisfaction
or rest; it was breathed by Mrs. Armadale. In the stillness of their
progress, the slowly revolving wheels making no noise on the smooth
road, and the feet of the oxen falling almost soundlessly, they all
heard it; and they all felt it. It was nothing less than an echo of
what Lois had been repeating; a mute "Even so!"--probably unconscious,
and certainly undesigned. Mrs. Lenox glanced that way. There was a
far-off look on the old worn face, and lines of peace all about the
lips and the brow and the quiet folded hands. Mrs. Lenox did not know
that a sigh came from herself as her eyes turned away.

Her husband eyed the three women curiously. They were a study to him,
albeit he hardly knew the grammar of the language in which so many
things seemed to be written on their faces. Mrs. Armadale's features,
if strong, were of the homeliest kind; work-worn and weather-worn, to
boot; yet the young man was filled with reverence as he looked from the
hands in their cotton gloves, folded on her lap, to the hard features
shaded and framed by the white sun-bonnet. The absolute, profound calm
was imposing to him; the still peace of the spirit was attractive. He
looked at his wife; and the contrast struck even him. Her face was
murky. It was impatience, in part, he guessed, which made it so; but
why was she impatient? It was cloudy with unhappiness; and she ought to
be very happy, Mr. Lenox thought; had she not everything in the world
that she cared about? How could there be a cloud of unrest and
discontent on her brow, and those displeased lines about her lips? His
eye turned to Lois, and lingered as long as it dared. There was peace
too, very sunny, and a look of lofty thought, and a brightness that
seemed to know no shadow; though at the moment she was not smiling.

"Are you not going on, Miss Lothrop?" he said gently; for he felt Mrs.
Barclay's eye upon him. And, besides, he wanted to provoke the girl to
speak more.

"I could go on till I tired you," said Lois.

"I do not think you could," he returned pleasantly. "What can we do
better? We are in a most pastoral frame of mind, with pastoral
surroundings; poetry could not be better accompanied."

"When one gets excited in talking, perhaps one had better stop," Lois
said modestly.

"On the contrary! Then the truth will come out best."

Lois smiled and shook her head. "We shall soon be at the shore.
Look,--this way we turn down to go to it, and leave the high road."

"Then make haste!" said Mr. Lenox. "It will sound nowhere better than
here."

"Yes, go on," said his wife now, raising her heavy eyelids.

"Well," said Lois. "Do you remember Bryant's 'Thanatopsis'?"

"Of course. That is bright enough at any rate," said the lady.

"Do you think so?"

"Yes! What is the matter with it?"

"Dark--and earthly."

"I don't think so at all!" cried Mrs. Lenox, now becoming excited in
her turn. "What would you have? I think it is beautiful! And elevated;
and hopeful."

"Can you repeat the last lines?"

"No; but I dare say you can. You seem to me to have a library of poets
in your head."

"I can," said Mrs. Barclay here, putting in her word at this not very
civil speech. And she went on--



   'The gay will laugh
   When thou art gone, the solemn brood of care
   Plod on, and each one as before will chase
   His favourite phantom; yet all these shall leave
   Their mirth and their employments, and shall come
   And make their bed with thee.'"



"Well, of course," said Mrs. Lenox. "That is true."

"Is it cheerful?" said Mrs. Barclay. "But that is not the last.--



   'So live, that when thy summons comes to join
   The innumerable caravan, which moves
   To that mysterious realm, where each shall take
   His chamber in the silent halls of death,
   Thou go not like the quarry-slave at night,
   Scourged to his dungeon; but, sustained and soothed
   By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
   Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
   About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.'"



"There!" Mrs. Lenox exclaimed. "What would you have, better than that?"

Lois looked at her, and said nothing. The look irritated husband and
wife, in different ways; her to impatience, him to curiosity.

"Have you got anything better, Miss Lothrop?" he asked.

"You can judge. Compare that with a dying Christian's address to his
soul--



   'Deathless principle, arise;
   Soar, thou native of the skies.
   Pearl of price, by Jesus bought,
   To his glorious likeness wrought,
   Go, to shine before the throne;
   Deck the mediatorial crown;
   Go, his triumphs to adorn;
   Made for God, to God return.'



I won't give you the whole of it--



   'Is thy earthly house distressed?
   Willing to retain her guest?
   'Tis not thou, but she, must die;
   Fly, celestial tenant, fly.'
   Burst thy shackles, drop thy clay,
   Sweetly breathe thyself away:
   Singing, to thy crown remove,
   Swift of wing, and fired with love.'

   'Shudder not to pass the stream;
   Venture all thy care on him;
   Him whose dying love and power
   Stilled its tossing, hushed its roar.
   Safe is the expanded wave,
   Gentle as a summer's eve;
   Not one object of his care
   Ever suffered shipwreck there.'"



"That ain't no hymn in the book, is it?" inquired the ox driver.
"Haw!--go 'long. That ain't in the book, is it, Lois?"

"Not in the one we use in church, Mr. Sears."

"I wisht it was!--like it fust-rate. Never heerd it afore in my life."

"There's as good as that in the church book," remarked Mrs. Armadale.

"Yes," said Lois; "I like Wesley's hymn even better--



   'Come, let us join our friends above
   That have obtained the prize;
   And on the eagle wings of love
   To joys celestial rise.

.           .           .           .

   'One army of the living God,
   To his command we bow;
   Part of his host have crossed the flood
   And part are crossing now.

.           .           .           .           .           .

   'His militant embodied host,
   With wishful looks we stand,
   And long to see that happy coast,
   And reach the heavenly land.

   'E'en now, by faith, we join our hands
   With those that went before;
   And greet the blood-besprinkled bands
   On the eternal shore.'"



CHAPTER XXXI.



LONG CLAMS.



There was a soft ring in Lois's voice; it might be an echo of the
trumpets and cymbals of which she had been speaking. Yet not done for
effect; it was unconscious, and delicate as indescribable, for which
reason it had the greater power. The party remained silent for a few
minutes, all of them; during which a killdeer on the fence uttered his
little shout of gratulation; and the wild, salt smell coming from the
Sound and the not distant ocean, joined with the silence and Lois's
hymn, gave a peculiar impression of solitude and desolation to at least
one of the party. The cart entered an enclosure, and halted before a
small building at the edge of the shore, just above high-water mark.
There were several such buildings scattered along the shore at
intervals, some enclosed, some not. The whole breadth of the Sound lay
in view, blinking under the summer sun; yet the air was far fresher
here than it had been in the village. The tide was half out; a wide
stretch of wet sand, with little pools in the hollows, intervened
between the rocks and the water; the rocks being no magnificent
buttresses of the land, but large and small boulders strewn along the
shore edge, hung with seaweed draperies; and where there were not rocks
there was a growth of rushes on a mud bottom. The party were helped out
of the cart one by one, and the strangers surveyed the prospect.

"'Afar in the desert,' this is, I declare," said the gentleman.

"Might as well be," echoed his wife. "Whatever do you come here for?"
she said, turning to Lois; "and what do you do when you are here?"

"Get some clams and have supper."

"Clams!"--with an inimitable accent. "Where do you get clams?"

"Down yonder--at the edge of the rushes."

"Who gets them? and how do you get them?"

"I guess I shall get them to-day. O, we do it with a hoe."

Lois stayed for no more, but ran in. The interior room of the house,
which was very large for a bathing-house, was divided in two by a
partition. In the inner, smaller room, Lois began busily to change her
dress. On the walls hung a number of bathing suits of heavy flannel,
one of which she appropriated. Charity came in after her.

"You ain't a goin' for clams, Lois? Well, I wouldn't, if I was you."

"Why not?"

"I wouldn't make myself such a sight, for folks to see."

"I don't at all do it for folks to see, but that folks may eat. We have
brought 'em here, and now we must give them something for supper."

"Are you goin' with bare feet?"

"Why not?" said Lois, laughing. "Do you think I am going to spoil my
best pair of shoes for vanity's sake?" And she threw off shoes and
stockings as she spoke, and showed a pair of pretty little white feet,
which glanced coquettishly under the blue flannel.

"Lois, what's brought these folks here?"

"I am sure I don't know."

"I wish they'd stayed where they belong. That woman's just turning up
her nose at every blessed thing she sees."

"It won't hurt the Sound!" said Lois, laughing.

"What did they come for?"

"I can't tell; but, Charity, it will never do to let them go away
feeling they got nothing by coming. So you have the kettle boiled, will
you, and the table all ready--and I'll try for the clams."

"They won't like 'em."

"Can't help that."

"And what am I going to do with Mr. Sears?"

"Give him his supper of course."

"Along with all the others?"

"You must. You cannot set two tables."

"There's aunt Anne!" exclaimed Charity; and in the next minute aunt
Anne came round to them by the front steps; for each half of the
bathing-house had its own door of approach, as well as a door of
communication. Mrs. Marx came in, surveyed Lois, and heard Charity's
statement.

"These things will happen in the best regulated families," she
remarked, beginning also to loosen her dress.

"What are you going to do, aunt Anne?"

"Going after clams, with Lois. We shall want a bushel or less; and we
can't wait till the moon rises, to eat 'em."

"And how am I going to set the table with them all there?"

Mrs. Marx laughed. "I expect they're like cats in a strange garret. Set
your table just as usual, Charry; push 'em out o' the way if they get
in it. Now then, Lois!"

And, slipping down the steps and away off to the stretch of mud where
the rushes grew, two extraordinary, flannel-clad, barefooted figures,
topped with sun-bonnets and armed with hoes and baskets, were presently
seen to be very busy there about something. Charity opened the door of
communication between the two parts of the house, and surveyed the
party. Mrs. Barclay sat on the step outside, looking over the plain of
waters, with her head in her hand. Mrs. Armadale was in a
rocking-chair, just within the door, placidly knitting. Mr. and Mrs.
Lenox, somewhat further back, seemed not to know just what to do with
themselves; and Madge, holding a little aloof, met her sister's eye
with an expression of despair and doubt. Outside, at the foot of the
steps, where Mrs. Barclay sat, lounged the ox driver.

"Ben here afore?" he asked confidentially of the lady.

"Yes, once or twice. I never came in an ox cart before."

"I guess you hain't," he replied, chewing a blade of rank grass which
he had pulled for the purpose. "My judgment is we had a fust-rate
entertainment, comin' down."

"I quite agree with you."

"Now in anythin' but an ox cart, you couldn't ha' had it."

"No, not so well, certainly."

"I couldn't ha' had it, anyway, withouten we'd come so softly. I
declare, I believe them critters stepped soft o' purpose. It's better'n
a book, to hear that girl talk, now, ain't it?"

"Much better than many books."

"She's got a lot o' 'em inside her head. That beats me! She allays was
smart, Lois was; but I'd no idee she was so full o' book larnin'. Books
is a great thing!" And he heaved a sigh.

"Do you have time to read much yourself, sir?"

"Depends on the book," he said, with a bit of a laugh. "Accordin' to
that, I get much or little. No; in these here summer days a man can't
do much at books; the evenin's short, you see, and the days is long;
and the days is full o' work. The winter's the time for readin'. I got
hold o' a book last winter that was wuth a great deal o' time, and got
it. I never liked a book better. That was Rollin's 'Ancient History.'"

"Ah!" said Mrs. Barclay. "So you enjoyed that?"

"Ever read it?"

"Yes."

"Didn't you enjoy it?"

"I believe I like Modern history better."

"I've read some o' that too," said he meditatively. "It ain't so
different. 'Seems to me, folks is allays pretty much alike; only we
call things by different names. Alexander the Great, now,--he warn't
much different from Napoleon Buonaparte."

"Wasn't he a better man?" inquired Mr. Lenox, putting his head out at
the door.

"Wall, I don' know; it's difficult, you know, to judge of folk's
insides; but I don't make much count of a man that drinks himself to
death at thirty."

"Haven't you any drinking in Shampuashuh?"

"Wall, there ain't much; and what there is, is done in the dark, like.
You won't find no rum-shops open."

"Indeed! How long has the town been so distinguished?"

"I guess it's five year. I know it is; for it was just afore we put
in our last President. Then we voted liquor shouldn't be president in
Shampuashuh."

"Do you get along any better for it?"

"Wall"--slowly--"I should say we did. There ain't no quarrellin', nor
fightin', nor anybody took up for the jail, nor no one livin' in the
poorhouse--'thout it's some tramp on his way to some place where there
is liquor. An' he don't want to stay."

"What are those two figures yonder among the grass?" Mrs. Lenox now
asked; she also having come out of the house in search of objects of
interest, the interior offering none.

"Them?" said Mr. Sears. "Them's Lois and her aunt. Their baskets is
gettin' heavy, too. I'll make the fire for ye, Miss Charity," he cried,
lifting his voice; and therewith disappeared.

"What are they doing?" Mrs. Lenox asked, in a lower tone.

"Digging clams," Mrs. Barclay informed her.

"Digging clams! How do they dig them?"

"With a hoe, I believe."

"I ought to go and offer my services," said the gentleman, rising.

"Do not think of it," said Mrs. Barclay. "You could not go without
plunging into wet, soft mud; the clams are found only there, I believe."

"How do they go?"

"Barefoot-dressed for it."

"Undressed for it," said Mrs. Lenox. "Barefoot in the mud! Could you
have conceived it!"

"They say the mud is warm," Mrs. Barclay returned, keeping back a smile.

"But how horrid!"

"I am told it is very good sport. The clams are shy, and endeavour to
take flight when they hear the strokes of the hoe; so that it comes to
a trial of speed between the pursuer and the pursued; which is quite
exciting."

"I should think, if I could see a clam, I could pick it up," Mrs. Lenox
said scornfully.

"Yes; you cannot see them."

"Do you mean, they run away under ground?"

"So I am told."

"How can they? they have no feet."

Mrs. Barclay could not help laughing now, and confessed her ignorance
of the natural powers of the clam family.

"Where is that old man gone to make his fire? didn't he say he was
going to make a fire?"

"Yes; in the cooking-house."

"Where is that?" And Mrs. Lenox came down the steps and went to
explore. A few yards from the bathing-house, just within the enclosure
fence, she found a small building, hardly two yards square, but
thoroughly built and possessing a chimney. The door stood open; within
was a cooking-stove, in which fire was roaring; a neat pile of billets
of wood for firing, a tea-kettle, a large iron pot, and several other
kitchen utensils.

"What is this for?" inquired Mrs. Lenox, looking curiously in.

"Wall, I guess we're goin' to hev supper by and by; ef the world don't
come to an end sooner than I expect, we will, sure. I'm a gettin'
ready."

"And is this place built and arranged just for the sake of having
supper, as you call it, down here once in a while?"

"Couldn't be no better arrangement," said Mr. Sears. "This stove draws
first-rate."

"But this is a great deal of trouble. I should think they would take
their clams home and have them there."

"Some folks doos," returned Mr. Sears. "These here folks knows what's
good. Wait till you see. I tell you! long clams, fresh digged, and
b'iled as soon as they're fetched in, is somethin' you never see beat."

"Long clams," repeated the lady. "Are they not the usual sort?"

"Depends on what you're used to. These is usual here, and I'm glad
on't. Round clams ain't nowheres alongside o' 'em."

He went off to fill the kettle, and the lady returned slowly round the
house to the steps and the door, which were on the sea side. Mr. Lenox
had gone in and was talking to Mrs. Armadale; Mrs. Barclay was in her
old position on the steps, looking out to sea. There was a wonderful
light of westering rays on land and water; a rich gleam from brown rock
and green seaweed; a glitter and fresh sparkle on the waves of the
incoming tide; an indescribable freshness and life in the air and in
the light; a delicious invigoration in the salt breath of the ocean.
Mrs. Barclay sat drinking it all in, like one who had been long
athirst. Mrs. Lenox stood looking, half cognizant of what was before
her, more than half impatient and scornful of it; yet even on her the
witchery of the place and the scene was not without its effect.

"Do you come here often?" she asked Mrs. Barclay. .

"Never so often as I would like."

"I should think you would be tired to death!"

Then, as Mrs. Barclay made no answer, she looked at her watch.

"Our train is not till ten o'clock," she remarked.

"Plenty of time," said the other. And then there was silence; and the
sun's light grew more westering, and the sparkle on earth and water
more fresh, and the air only more and more sweet; till two figures were
discerned approaching the bathing-house, carrying hoes slung over their
shoulders, and baskets, evidently filled, in their hands. They went
round the house towards the cook-house; and Mrs. Barclay came down from
her seat and went to meet them there, Mrs. Lenox following.

Two such figures! Sun-bonnets shading merry faces, flushed with
business; blue flannel bathing-suits draping very unpicturesquely the
persons, bare feet stained with mud,--baskets full of the delicate fish
they had been catching.

"What a quantity!" exclaimed Mrs. Barclay.

"Yes, because I had aunt Anne to help. We cannot boil them all at once,
but that is all the better. They will come hot and hot."

"You don't mean that you are going to cook all those?" said Mrs. Lenox
incredulously.

"There will not be one too many," said Lois. "You do not know long
clams yet."

"They are ugly things!" said the other, with a look of great disgust
into the basket. "I don't think I could touch them."

"There's no obligation," responded here Mrs. Marx. She had thrown one
basketful into a huge pan, and was washing them free from the mud and
sand of their original sphere. "It's a free country. But looks don't
prove much--neither at the shore nor anywhere else. An ugly shell often
covers a good fish. So I find it; and t'other way."

"How do you get them?" inquired Mr. Lenox, who also came now to the
door of the cook-house. Lois made her escape. "I see you make use of
hoes."

"Yes," said Mrs. Marx, throwing her clams about in the water with great
energy; "we dig for 'em. See where the clam lives, and then drive at
him, and don't be slow about it; and then when the clam spits at you,
you know you're on his heels--or on his track, I should say; and you
take care of your eyes and go ahead, till you catch up with him; and
then you've got him. And every one you throw into your basket you feel
gladder and gladder; in fact, as the basket grows heavy, your heart
grows light. And that's diggin' for long clams."

"The best part of it is the hunt, isn't it?"

"I'll take your opinion on that after supper."

Mr. Lenox laughed, and he and his wife sauntered round to the front
again. The freshness, the sweetness, the bright rich colouring of sky
and water and land, the stillness, the strangeness, the novelty, all
moved Mr. Lenox to say,

"I would not have missed this for a hundred dollars!"

"Missed what?" asked his wife.

"This whole afternoon."

"It's one way that people live, I suppose."

"Yes, for they really do live; there is no stagnation; that is one
thing that strikes me."

"Don't you want to buy a farm here, and settle down?" asked Mrs. Lenox
scornfully. "Live on hymns and long clams?"

Meanwhile the interior of the bathing-house was changing its aspect.
Part of the partition of boards had been removed and a long table
improvised, running the length of the house, and made of planks laid on
trestles. White cloths hid the rudeness of this board, and dishes and
cups and viands were giving it a most hospitable look. A whiff of
coffee aroma came now and then through the door at the back of the
house, which opened near the place of cookery; piles of white bread and
brown gingerbread, and golden butter and rosy ham and new cheese, made
a most abundant and inviting display; and, after the guests were
seated, Mr. Sears came in bearing a great dish of the clams, smoking
hot.

Well, Mrs. Lenox was hungry, through the combined effects of salt air
and an early dinner; she found bread and butter and coffee and ham most
excellent, but looked askance at the dish of clams; which, however, she
saw emptied with astonishing rapidity. Noticing at last a striking heap
of shells beside her husband's plate, the lady's fastidiousness gave
way to curiosity; and after that,--it was well that another big dishful
was coming, or somebody would have been obliged to go short.

At ten o'clock that evening Mr. and Mrs. Lenox took the night train to
Boston.

"I never passed a pleasanter afternoon in my life," was the gentleman's
comment as the train started.

"Pretty faces go a great way always with you men!" answered his wife.

"There is something more than a pretty face there. And she is
improved--changed, somehow--since a year ago. What do you think now of
your brother's choice, Julia?"

"It would have been his ruin!" said the lady violently.

"I declare I doubt it. I am afraid he'll never find a better. I am
afraid you have done him mistaken service."

"George, this girl is nobody."

"She is a lady. And she is intelligent, and she is cultivated, and she
has excellent manners. I see no fault at all to be found. Tom does not
need money."

"She is nobody, nevertheless, George! It would have been miserable for
Tom to lose all the advantage he is going to have with his wife, and to
marry this girl whom no one knows, and who knows nobody."

