which he was so long known, of “The Little Giant.” He was not at that
time a member of the Legislature, but was a successful candidate for the
position of District Attorney for the district in which he lived. Unlike
Lincoln, he was not a Western man by birth, having been born and
“raised” in Vermont. In fact he had only come West during the previous
year; but he was not a man to hide his light under a bushel, and soon
worked himself into prominence in his new home. Two years later, in
1838, Douglas, as well as Lincoln, was elected to the Legislature, and
they served together. In public life, therefore, Lincoln preceded
Douglas by two years, but the latter advanced much more rapidly and
became a man of national reputation, while Lincoln was still
comparatively obscure.




CHAPTER X.

A CASE IN COURT


We are told by Mr. Lamon, that Mr. Lincoln got his license as an
attorney early in 1837, and commenced practice regularly as a lawyer in
the town of Springfield, in March of that year. It is with this place
that his name was associated for the remainder of his life. Though it
contained at that time less than two thousand inhabitants, it was a town
of considerable importance. The list of the local bar contained the
names of several men of ability and reputation. Stephen A. Douglas,
already referred to, was public prosecutor in 1836. Judge Stephen T.
Logan was on the bench of the Circuit Court. There was John T. Stuart
also, who had recommended young Lincoln to become a lawyer, and was now
his partner.

The law office of Stuart and Lincoln was in the second story above the
court-room, in Hoffman’s Row. It was small and poorly furnished.
Lincoln slept in the office, and boarded with Hon. William Butler, who
appears to have been a politician and wire-puller.

At last, then, after a youth of penury, a long hand-to-hand struggle
with privations in half a dozen different kinds of business, we find our
hero embarked in the profession which, for the remainder of his life, he
owned as mistress. He is twenty-eight years of age, with some
legislative experience, but a mere novice in law. But he was ambitious,
and in spite of his scanty equipment as regards book-knowledge, he made
up his mind to succeed, and he did succeed.

Though I am thereby anticipating matters, I propose to relate an
incident of his law practice which I find quoted in “Raymond’s History”
of Lincoln’s Administrations, from the Cleveland Leader. It
illustrates not merely Mr. Lincoln’s methods and shrewdness as a lawyer,
but also his fidelity to friends.

This is the story:

“Some four years since, the eldest son of Mr. Lincoln’s old friend, the
chief supporter of his widowed mother--the good old man having some
time previously passed from earth--was arrested on a charge of murder. A
young man had been killed during a riotous mélée in the night time at
a camp-meeting, and one of his associates stated that the death-wound
was inflicted by young Armstrong. A preliminary examination was gone
into, at which the accuser testified so positively, that there seemed no
doubt of the guilt of the prisoner, and therefore he was held for trial.

“As is too often the case, the bloody act caused an undue degree of
excitement in the public mind. Every improper incident in the life of
the prisoner--each act which bore the least semblance of rowdyism--each
school-boy quarrel--was suddenly remembered and magnified, until they
pictured him as a fiend of the most horrible hue. As these rumors spread
abroad they were received as gospel truth, and a feverish desire for
vengeance seized upon the infatuated populace, whilst only prison bars
prevented a horrible death at the hands of the populace. The events were
heralded in the county papers, painted in the highest colors,
accompanied by rejoicing over the certainty punishment being meted out
to the guilty party. The prisoner, overwhelmed by the circumstances in
which he found himself placed, fell into a melancholy condition
bordering on despair, and the widowed mother, looking through her tears,
saw no cause for hope from earthly aid.

“At this juncture the widow received a letter from Mr. Lincoln,
volunteering his services in an effort to save the youth from the
impending stroke. Gladly was his aid accepted, although it seemed
impossible for even his sagacity to prevail in such a desperate case;
but the heart of the attorney was in his work, and he set about it with
a will which knew no such word as fail. Feeling that the poisoned
condition of the public mind was such as to preclude the possibility of
impanelling an impartial jury in the court having jurisdiction, he
procured a change of venue and a postponement of the trial. He then went
studiously to work, unravelling the history of the case, and satisfied
himself that his client was the victim of malice, and that the
statements of the accuser were a tissue of falsehoods.

“When the trial was called on, the prisoner, pale and emaciated, with
hopelessness written on every feature, and accompanied by his
half-hoping, half-despairing mother--whose only hope was in a mother’s
belief of her son’s innocence, in the justice of the God she worshipped,
and in the noble counsel, who, without hope of fee or reward upon earth,
had undertaken the cause--took his seat in the prisoners’ box, and, with
a ‘stony firmness,’ listened to the reading of the indictment.

“Lincoln sat quietly by, whilst the large body of auditors looked on him
as though wondering what he could say in defence of one whose guilt they
looked upon as certain. The examination of the witnesses for the State
was begun, and a well-arranged mass of evidence, circumstantial and
positive, was introduced, which seemed to impale the prisoner beyond the
possibility of extrication.

“The counsel for the defense propounded but few questions, and those of
a character which excited no uneasiness on the part of the
prosecutor--merely, in most cases, requiring the main witnesses to be
definite as to time and place. When the evidence of the prosecution was
ended, Lincoln introduced a few witnesses, to remove some erroneous
impressions in regard to the previous character of his client, who,
though somewhat rowdyish, had never been known to commit a vicious act;
and to show that a greater degree of ill-feeling existed between the
accuser and the accused than between the accused and the deceased.

“The prosecutor felt that the case was a clear one, and his opening
speech was brief and formal. Lincoln arose, while a deathly silence
pervaded the vast audience, and, in a clear and moderate tone, began his
argument. Slowly and carefully he reviewed the testimony, pointing out
the hitherto unobserved discrepancies in the statements of the principal
witness. That which had seemed plain and plausible he made to appear
crooked as a serpent’s path. The witness had stated that the affair took
place at a certain hour in the evening, and that, by the brightly
shining moon, he saw the prisoner inflict the death-blow with a
slung-shot. Mr. Lincoln showed that at the hour referred to, the moon
had not yet appeared above the horizon, and, consequently, the whole
tale was a fabrication.

“An almost instantaneous change seemed to have been wrought in the minds
of his auditors, and the verdict of ‘not guilty’ was at the end of every
tongue. But the advocate was not content with this intellectual
achievement. His whole being had for months been bound up in this work
of gratitude and mercy, and as the lava of the overcharged crater bursts
from its imprisonment, so great thoughts and burning words leaped forth
from the soul of the eloquent Lincoln. He drew a picture of the perjurer
so horrid and ghastly, that the accuser could sit under it no longer,
but reeled and staggered from the court-room, whilst the audience
fancied they could see the brand upon his brow. Then in words of
thrilling pathos, Lincoln appealed to the jurors as fathers of some who
might become fatherless, and as husbands of wives who might be widowed,
to yield to no previous impressions, no ill-founded prejudice, but to do
his client justice; and as he alluded to the debt of gratitude which he
owed the boy’s sire, tears were seen to fall from many eyes unused to
weeping.

“It was near night when he concluded by saying that if justice were
done, as he believed it would be,--before the sun should set,--it would
shine upon his client a free man.

“The jury retired, and the court adjourned for the day. Half an hour had
not elapsed, when, as the officers of the court and the volunteer
attorney sat at the tea-table of their hotel, a messenger announced
that the jury had returned to their seats. All repaired immediately to
the court-house, and whilst the prisoner was being brought from the
jail, the court-room was filled to overflowing with citizens from the
town.

“When the prisoner and his mother entered, silence reigned as completely
as though the house were empty. The foreman of the jury, in answer to
the usual inquiry from the court, delivered the verdict of ‘Not Guilty!’
The widow dropped into the arms of her son, who lifted her up, and told
her to look upon him as before, free and innocent. Then with the words,
‘Where is Mr. Lincoln?’ he rushed across the room, and grasped the hand
of his deliverer, whilst his heart was too full for utterance. Lincoln
turned his eyes toward the west, where the sun still lingered in view,
and then, turning to the youth, said: ‘It is not yet sundown, and you
are free.’ I confess that my cheeks were not wholly unwet by tears, and
I turned from the affecting scene. As I cast a glance behind, I saw
Abraham Lincoln obeying the Divine injunction by comforting the widowed
and fatherless.”

When a lawyer can so bravely and affectionately rescue the innocent from
the machinations of the wicked, we feel that he is indeed the exponent
and representative of a noble profession. It is unfortunate that lawyers
so often lend themselves to help iniquity, and oppress the weak. Mr.
Lincoln always did his best when he felt that Right and Justice were on
his side. When he had any doubts on this point, he lost all his
enthusiasm and his courage, and labored mechanically. He believed in
justice, and would not willingly act on the wrong side. On one occasion
he discovered that he had been deceived by his client, and informed his
associate lawyer that he (Lincoln) would not make the plea. His
associate, therefore, did so, and to Lincoln’s surprise gained a
verdict. Convinced, nevertheless, that his client was wrong, he would
not accept any part of the handsome fee of nine hundred dollars, which
he paid. Only an honest and high-minded lawyer would have acted thus.




CHAPTER XI.

MR. LINCOLN FORMS TWO PARTNERSHIPS


Practicing law in those days, and in that region, had some peculiar
features. It was the custom for lawyers to “ride the circuit,” that is,
to accompany the judges from one country-town to another, attending to
such business as might offer, in different sections of the State.
Railroads had not yet found their way out so far West, and the lawyer
was wont to travel on horseback, stopping at cabins on the way to eat
and sleep, and, in brief, to “rough it.” One brought up like Lincoln was
not likely to shrink from any hardships which this might entail. Indeed,
it is likely that, upon the whole, he enjoyed it, and that these
journeys increased his natural shrewdness and knowledge of human nature,
and furnished him with no inconsiderable part of the apposite stories
which he was wont to quote in later years.

Here is an incident which will amuse my readers. It is told by Mr.
Francis E. Willard: “In one of my temperance pilgrimages through
Illinois, I met a gentleman who was the companion in a dreary ride which
Lincoln made in a light wagon, going the rounds of a Circuit Court where
he had clients to look after. The weather was rainy, the road heavy with
mud of the Southern Illinois pottery, never to be imagined as to its
blackness and profundity by him who has not seen it, and assuredly
needing no description to jostle the memory of one who has. Lincoln
enlivened the way with anecdote and recital, for few indeed were the
incidents that relieved the tedium of the trip.

“At last, in wallowing through a ‘slough’ of the most approved Western
manufacture, they came upon a poor shark of a hog, who had succumbed to
gravitation, and was literally fast in the mud. The lawyers commented on
the poor creature’s pitiful condition, and drove on. About half a mile
was laboriously gone over, when Lincoln suddenly exclaimed: ‘I don’t
know how you feel about it, but I’ve got to go back and pull that hog
out of the slough.’

“His comrade laughed, thinking it merely a joke; but what was his
surprise when Lincoln dismounted, left him to his reflections, and,
striding slowly back, like a man on stilts, picking his way as his long
walking implements permitted, he grappled with the drowning hog, dragged
him out of the ditch, left him on its edge to recover his strength,
slowly measured off the distance back to his buggy, and the two men
drove off as if nothing had happened.”

This little incident is given to show that Mr. Lincoln did not confine
his benevolence to his own race, but could put himself to inconvenience
to relieve the sufferings of an inferior animal. In fact, his heart
seemed to be animated by the spirit of kindness, and this is one of the
most important respects in which I am glad to hold him out as an example
to the young. Emulate that tenderness of heart which led him to
sympathize with “the meanest thing that breathes,” and, like him, you
will win the respect and attachment of the best men and women!

The young lawyer, successful as he was in court, did not make money as
fast as some of his professional associates. One reason I have already
given--he would not willingly exert his power on the wrong side.
Moreover, he was modest, and refrained from exorbitant charges, and he
was known at times to remit fees justly due when his client was
unfortunate. One day he met a client who had given him a note, nearly
due, for professional services.

“Mr. Lincoln,” he said, “I have been thinking of that note I owe you. I
don’t see how I am to meet it. I have been disabled by an explosion, and
that has affected my income.”

“I heard of your accident,” said Lincoln, “and I sympathize with you
deeply. As to the note, here it is.”

“But I can not meet it at present.”

“I don’t want you to. Take it, and destroy it. I consider it paid.”

No doubt many lawyers would have done the same, but it so happened that
Lincoln was at that moment greatly in need of money, and was obliged to
defer a journey on that account. It was not out of his abundance, but
out of his poverty, that he gave.

As to his professional methods, they were peculiar. He was always
generous to an opponent. Instead of contesting point by point, he often
yielded more than was claimed, and excited alarm in the breast of his
client. But when this was done, he set to work and stated his own view
of the case so urgently that the strength of his opponent’s position was
undermined, his arguments torn to pieces, and the verdict secured. He
was remarkably fair, and stated his case so clearly that no juror of
fair intelligence could fail to understand him.

It has already been said that Mr. Lincoln had a partner. It is a proof
of his scrupulous honesty that when upon his circuits he tried any cases
that were never entered at the office, he carefully set aside a part of
the remuneration for the absent partner, who otherwise would never have
known of them, and might be supposed hardly entitled to a share of the
fees.

For the following anecdote, in further illustration of Mr. Lincoln’s
conscientiousness in money matters, I am indebted to Mr. Frank B.
Carpenter’s very interesting little volume, entitled “Six Months at the
White House”: “About the time Mr. Lincoln came to be known as a
successful lawyer, he was waited upon by a lady who held a real-estate
claim which she desired to have him prosecute,--putting into his hands,
with the necessary papers, a check for two hundred and fifty dollars as
a retaining fee. Mr. Lincoln said he would look the case over, and asked
her to call again the next day. Upon presenting herself, Mr. Lincoln
told her that he had gone through the papers very carefully, and he must
tell her frankly that there was not a ‘peg’ to hang her claim upon, and
he could not conscientiously advise her to bring an action. The lady was
satisfied, and, thanking him, rose to go. ‘Wait,’ said Mr. Lincoln,
fumbling in his vest pocket; ‘here is the check you left with me.’ ‘But,
Mr. Lincoln,’ returned the lady, ‘I think you have earned that.’ ‘No,
no,’ he responded, handing it back to her, ‘that would not be right. I
can’t take pay for doing my duty.’”

I must find a place here for one of Mr. Lincoln’s own stories, relating
to a professional adventure, which must have amused him. Mr. Carpenter
is my authority here also:

“When I took to the law I was going to court one morning, with some ten
or twelve miles of bad road before me, when ---- overtook me in his
wagon.

“‘Hello, Lincoln!’ said he; ‘going to the court-house? Come get in, and
I will give you a seat.’

“Well, I got in, and ---- went on reading his papers. Presently the wagon
struck a stump on one side of the road; then it hopped off to the other.
I looked out and saw the driver was jerking from side to side in his
seat; so said I, ‘Judge, I think your coachman has been taking a drop
too much this morning.’

“‘Well, I declare, Lincoln,’ said he, ‘I should not much wonder if you
are right, for he has nearly upset me half a dozen times since
starting.’

“So, putting his head out of the window, he shouted: ‘Why, you infernal
scoundrel, you are drunk!’

“Upon which, pulling up his horses, and turning round with great
gravity, the coachman said: ‘Bedad! but that’s the first rightful
decision your Honor has given for the last twelve months.’”

Mr. Lincoln’s law partnership with Mr. Stuart was of brief duration. It
was dissolved in 1840, and in the same year he formed a new partnership
with Judge S. T. Logan, a lawyer of learning and ability.

In 1842 he formed another partnership, of a still more important
character. He married Miss Mary Todd on the 4th of November of that
year. Miss Todd belonged to a family of social prominence, and it is a
matter of interest that, before marrying Mr. Lincoln, she is said to
have had an opportunity of marrying another person, whose name was
mentioned for the Presidency years before Mr. Lincoln’s. I refer to Hon.
Stephen A. Douglas, who is said to have been an unsuccessful suitor for
the hand of Miss Todd.

Six months after marriage, in a private letter written to an intimate
friend, Mr. Lincoln refers thus to his domestic arrangements: “We are
not keeping house,” he writes, “but boarding at the Globe Tavern, which
is very well kept by a widow lady of the name of Beck. Our rooms are the
same Dr. Wallace occupied there, and boarding only costs four dollars a
week.”

Abraham Lincoln had reached the age of thirty-three years before he
ventured to marry. Circumstances had until then proved unfavorable, for
his struggle with poverty had been unusually protracted. Now, however,
he was settled both matrimonially and professionally, and the most
important part of his life, for which he had been so long preparing, may
be said to have fairly begun.




CHAPTER XII.

THE LAWYER IN HIS OFFICE AND AT HOME.


I have already told my readers something of Mr. Lincoln as a lawyer. I
may add that he stood high in the estimation of his professional
brethren. “For my single self,” says one, “I have for a quarter of a
century regarded Mr. Lincoln as one of the finest lawyers I ever knew,
and of a professional bearing so high-toned and honorable as justly, and
without derogating from the claims of others, entitling him to be
presented to the profession as a model well worthy of the closest
imitation.”

Now these are general terms, and do not show us how the young lawyer who
had risen step by step from the hardest physical labor to an honorable
position at the bar, looked and spoke. Fortunately Judge Drummond, of
Chicago, gives us a graphic picture of him,--and I am glad to quote it:

“With a voice by no means pleasant, and, indeed, when excited, in its
shrill tones almost disagreeable; without any of the personal graces of
the orator; without much in the outward man indicating superiority of
intellect; without great quickness of perception--still, his mind was so
vigorous, his comprehension so exact and clear, and his judgment so
sure, that he easily mastered the intricacies of his profession, and
became one of the ablest reasoners and most impressive speakers at our
bar. With a probity of character known of all, with an intuitive insight
into the human heart, with a clearness of statement which was itself an
argument, with uncommon power and felicity of illustration,--often, it
is true, of a plain and homely kind--and with that sincerity and
earnestness of manner which carried conviction, he was, perhaps, one of
the most successful jury lawyers we have ever had in the State. He
always tried a case fairly and honestly. He never intentionally
misrepresented the evidence of a witness or the argument of an opponent.
He met both squarely, and if he could not explain the one or answer the
other, substantially admitted it. He never misstated the law according
to his own intelligent view of it.”

I hope my young readers will not skip this statement, but read it
carefully, because it will show them the secret of the young lawyer’s
success. He inspired confidence! He was not constantly trying to gain
the advantage by fair means if possible, but at any rate to gain it. He
wanted justice to triumph, however it affected his own interests. I wish
there were more such lawyers. The law would then lose much of the odium
which unprincipled practitioners bring upon it.

Let us look in upon Mr. Lincoln as he sits in his plain office, some
morning. He is writing busily, when a timid knock is heard at his door.

“Come in!” he says, his pen still moving rapidly over the paper before
him.

The door opens slowly, and an old woman, bending under the burden of
seventy-five years, enters, and stands irresolutely at the entrance.

“Mr. Lincoln!” she says in a quivering voice.

As these accents reach him, Mr. Lincoln woke up hastily, and seeing the
old lady hastily undoubles himself, and draws forward a chair.

“Sit down, my good lady!” he says. “Do you wish to see me on business?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Tell me what I can do for you?” and he fixes his eyes on the frail old
woman, showing a respect and consideration for her, poor as she
evidently is, which a rich client might not so readily receive.

Encouraged by the kindness of her reception she told her story. She was
entitled to a pension, as it appeared, on account of her husband, who
had fought in the Revolutionary war. This pension she had secured
through the agency of a certain pension agent, but he had charged her
the exorbitant sum of two hundred dollars for collecting her claim. This
was a heavy tax upon the poor old woman with her limited means, and she
was likely to be little better off for her pension if she should be
compelled to pay this money.

“Two hundred dollars! That is shameful!” said the sympathetic lawyer.
“Who is this agent?”

She told him.

“Do you live in Springfield?”

“No sir.”

“Are you in need of money?” he inquired delicately.

“Yes, sir, The agent has kept back what he has collected, and----”

“I see. We will try to bring him to terms.”

“Oh, sir if you can help me----” said the old lady, hopefully.

“I will do my best. Here is some money for your immediate wants. Now I
will ask you a few questions, and we will see what we can do for you.”

Mr. Lincoln immediately commenced suit against the agent to recover a
portion of the money which he had withheld. In his address to the jury
he did not omit to allude to the patriotism of the dead husband, and the
poverty of his widow, and no doubt castigated in fitting terms the
unfeeling rapacity of the claim agent. He gained the suit, and compelled
the fellow to disgorge one hundred dollars, which he had the pleasure of
paying over to his aged client.

Meanwhile he was pleasantly situated. His income would now allow him to
live in comfortable style. He established himself in a pleasant
two-story house, built after a fashion quite common in New England,
with a room on each side of the front door, and an extension in the
rear. It was situated at the corner of two streets, and though neither
costly nor sumptuous, might be considered a palace when contrasted with
the rude cabins in which his earlier years were passed.

Four children were born to him, and their childish ways were a source of
constant enjoyment, when he returned to his home, weary or perplexed.
One of these, Willie, died after his father became President; the
youngest, best known as Tad, who was the pet of the White House, is also
dead, and only the eldest, Robert Todd, now Secretary of War, survives.
It is said that he was a most indulgent father, and governed by Love
alone. His own father had often been stern and rough, but Abraham
Lincoln’s nature was full of a deep tenderness for all things weak,
small, or in distress, and he could not find it in his heart to be harsh
or stern at home.

On pleasant summer mornings the young lawyer, with his tall figure,
might have been seen drawing one of his children to and fro along the
sidewalk in a child’s wagon. “Without hat or coat, and wearing a pair
of rough shoes, his hands behind him holding to the tongue of the wagon,
and his tall form bent forward to accommodate himself to the service, he
paced up and down the walk, forgetful of everything around him, and
intent only on some subject that absorbed his mind.” A young man, who as
a boy used to see him thus occupied, admits that he used to wonder “how
so rough and plain a man could live in so respectable a house.”

I once asked a lady who for a considerable time lived opposite Mr.
Lincoln, at Springfield, whether he was really as plain as his pictures
all represented him.

“I never saw one of his pictures that did not flatter him,” she
answered.

“My oldest son was a companion and playfellow of Mr. Lincoln’s younger
boys,” she continued, “and was in and out of his house a dozen times a
day. He was a very quiet man. He used to stay at home in the evening,
and read or meditate, but Mrs. Lincoln was of a gayer temperament, and
cared more for company.”

Mr. Lincoln was always a thoughtful man, and though amid social
surroundings he could tell a droll story with a humorous twinkle of the
eye, his features in repose were grave and even melancholy. As he walked
along the street, he often seemed abstracted, and would pass his best
friends without recognizing them. Even at the table he was often
self-absorbed, and ate his food mechanically, but there was nothing in
his silence to dull or make uncomfortable those around him. After a time
he would arise from his silence, and make himself companionable as he
was always able to do, and lead conversation into some channel in which
members of his family could take part.




CHAPTER XIII.

THE RAIL-SPLITTER ENTERS CONGRESS.


Abraham Lincoln’s professional success did not fill the measure of his
ambition. It certainly was a great step upward from the raw-boned,
ragged, barefooted lad to the prosperous lawyer, and our hero, if I may
so call him, doubtless felt complacent when he considered the change in
his position and surroundings. I may take occasion to say here that
Abe--to return to the name which he did not wholly lay aside when he
emerged from boyhood and youth--never put on airs because of his
elevation, nor looked down upon the humble relatives whom he had left
behind. Whenever in his journeyings he found himself near the residence
of any of his poorer relations, he took special pains to visit them,
and, if possible, to stay with them. Often he pressed upon them money
when they appeared to need it--not with the air of a liberal patron,
but with straight-forward friendliness and cordiality. Once when he was
urged to remain at the hotel with his professional friends, instead of
making a call upon an aged aunt, he said:

“Why, aunt’s heart would be broken if I should leave town without
calling upon her.”

Let me add that this call required something more than ordinary
good-natured consideration, for the aunt in question lived several miles
away, and her nephew had no horse at his command, but walked all the
way. I am very glad to call the attention of all my young friends to
this admirable trait in the character of President Lincoln. I wish it
were more common. I am sure we all admire the boy or girl who is always
thoughtful of the feelings and happiness of older relatives.

But to return from this digression, let me repeat that Mr. Lincoln had
other aspirations than to succeed as a lawyer. It has been said that
nine out of ten American boys cherish a vague ambition to become
President. This is plainly an exaggeration, but it is certain that a
large number entertain the hope of some day entering public life,
either as legislator or Congressman, or at any rate as a salaried
officer. That is one reason why there is such a horde of office-seekers
swarming to our National or State capitals, ambitious to earn a living
at the expense of the Government. Some throw up good mercantile
positions and spend months in the attempt to secure a position as
department clerk, foreign consul, or poorly-paid postmaster.

Abraham Lincoln’s ambition was of a more elevated character. He had a
pardonable ambition to take part in the government of his country, not
for the sake of the position so much, as because he felt within himself
the capacity to shape legislation to worthy ends. He was not alone in
this idea. His fellow-citizens had gauged him and felt that he was fit
to represent them. I have already spoken of his service in the State
Legislature; but he was only preparing himself there for a wider arena.
In 1846 he received the nomination for Congress from the Sangamon
district. Now it was not the fashion in those days for a candidate to
remain quietly at home pursuing his business as usual while waiting for
the popular verdict. It is perhaps the more dignified course to pursue,
but it would not have elected Mr. Lincoln. He understood at once that he
would have to “stump” the district. I need hardly explain to my young
readers what this means. He must visit the principal towns and villages,
and address public meetings of the people on political subjects of
present interest, explaining clearly how he stood, and how he proposed
to vote if elected.

For this service Lincoln was very well fitted. He had a vigorous Saxon
style, and he knew how to make things clear even to the humblest
intellect. Then, again, he possessed a fund of homely, but pertinent
stories, which often produced more effect than a protracted argument.
However, he was not limited to such means of influencing his audiences.
He had a logical mind and a happy faculty of stating things clearly and
precisely, so as to convince the reason as well as to persuade the
judgment.

There was no lack of topics on which to speak. The country was in an
excited state. Texas had been admitted to the Union, war with Mexico had
succeeded, and opinions were divided as to the wisdom of entering upon
it. The Whig party, of which Mr. Lincoln was a member, considered it
unnecessary and unjustifiable. So also did the Anti-Slavery party, then
coming into existence. Many of my young readers have doubtless read the
“Biglow Papers,” by our eminent poet and diplomatist, James Russell
Lowell, and have enjoyed the quaint and pungent sarcasm with which he
assails those who were instrumental in bringing on this ill-advised war.
I speak of it as ill-advised, for, though some of the results, notably
the acquisition of California, have proved beneficial, the object for
which the war was commenced and waged was far from commendable. The
tariff also had been recently repealed, and the result was a disturbance
of the business interests of the country. Clearly, Congress and the
country had plenty to talk about and plenty to legislate about.

Mr. Lincoln’s speeches in this “stumping” tour have not been preserved,
but we have every reason to believe that he did himself credit, and
maintained the reputation he had already acquired as a strong and
forcible speaker. The best evidence we can adduce is his triumphant
election by much more than the usual party vote. Even Mr. Clay, with
all his popularity as a Presidential candidate in 1844, received a
majority less by about six hundred than were given to Abraham Lincoln in
his contest for a seat in Congress.

So we chronicle one more step in the upward progress of the young
rail-splitter. On the 6th of December, 1847, he took his seat in the
Thirtieth Congress, as a Representative from his adopted State of
Illinois. At the same time his future rival, Stephen A. Douglas, took
his seat in the United States Senate, representing the same State.
Lincoln was the tallest man among the nearly three hundred who sat in
the House. Douglas was the shortest man in the Senate. Both were to
achieve high distinction, and to fill a remarkable place in the history
of their country. To Lincoln distinction came with slower steps, but he
was destined to mount higher and achieve a more enduring fame. Of the
two, Douglas was more of a politician, and he was more ready to
sacrifice principle in the interest of personal ambition. Years later
they were to stump the State as competitors for Senatorial honors in a
memorable canvass, and still later to be rival candidates for the
Presidency. In the first, Douglas secured the election; in the second,
Lincoln. It is to the credit of Douglas that when the last contest was
decided, and his competitor, who had secured the prize for which he had
labored earnestly for years, was about to take his seat, at a time when
the first faint rumblings of the Civil War were being heard, and
well-grounded fears were entertained for the safety of the
President-elect, he laid aside all the bitterness of personal feelings
and disappointed ambition, and rode with his old rival to the capital on
Inauguration Day, content to share any personal risk in which he might
be placed.

The closing period of the life of Douglas does him great credit. It
shows him in the character of patriot, rather than as politician. In
former years he had been willing to make concessions to the slave power,
in order to further his own chances of the Presidential succession. Now,
when civil war was imminent and the integrity of the Government was
menaced, he forgot the politician and stood side by side with Lincoln
for the preservation of the Government which he had so long served. It
was a source of sincere regret to Abraham Lincoln that Douglas should
have been removed by death so early in the Civil War. It removed from
him a staunch friend and supporter, whose influence was all the greater
because he was perhaps the most prominent member of the opposition.

I have a personal remembrance of Mr. Douglas, to whom I was introduced
on the occasion of a visit to Massachusetts. Short as he was, he had a
dignified and impressive presence, and his massive figure well entitled
him to the name by which he was so commonly known, “The Little Giant.”
He was not destined to achieve the object of his ambition, but he will
long be remembered as an influential actor in our political history.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE FIRST SPEECH IN CONGRESS.


The backwoods-boy is now in Congress. He is one of the law-makers of the
nation, and is an equal associate of eminent statesmen gathered from all
parts of the country.

Let us look about us as we enter the old Hall of Representatives, and
see into what company the backwoods-boy has come.

In the Speaker’s chair sits a dignified-looking man, an accomplished
parliamentarian, whom friends and opponents alike concede to be amply
competent to discharge the duties of his high place--this is Robert C.
Winthrop, of Massachusetts, living still in a dignified and honored old
age. Among the notable members of this Congress were John Quincy Adams,
who had already been President, but who was willing notwithstanding to
serve his country in an humble place; George Ashmun, also representing
Massachusetts; Jacob Collamer; Alexander H. Stephens, afterward
Vice-President of the Southern Confederacy; Robert Toombs; Andrew
Johnson, afterward associated with Mr. Lincoln as Vice-President, and
upon whose shoulders fell the mantle of his lamented chief; Marsh,
Truman Smith, Wilmot, Rhett, Giddings, and others, whose names were
already conspicuous. This will give some idea of the personnel of the
House; while in the Senate chamber, at the other end of the Capitol,
Webster, Calhoun, Dix, Dickinson, Hale, Crittenden, and Corwin lent
weight and dignity to that co-ordinate legislative branch of the
Government.

Such were the men with whom the young Western member was to share the
labors of legislation. Time has given to some of them a fame which they
did not then possess. Their successors of our day may, after the lapse
of a generation, bear names as weighty; but I am afraid we shall look in
vain for successors of Webster, Calhoun, John Quincy Adams, A. H.
Stephens, and Crittenden.
