revulsion of feeling.

Alice didn’t say anything; he felt her hand fumbling about his coat
lapel. “Where is your breast pocket?” she asked; and he took hold of her
hand, which left a carte-de-visite-shaped something in his.

“It isn’t very good,” she murmured, as well as she could, with her lips
against his cheek, “but I thought you’d like to show them some proof of
my existence. I shall have none of yours while you’re gone.”

“O Alice! you think of everything!”

His heart was pierced by the soft reproach implied in her words; he had
not thought to ask her for her photograph, but she had thought to give
it; she must have felt it strange that he had not asked for it, and she
had meant to slip it in his pocket and let him find it there. But even
his pang of self-upbraiding was a part of his transport. He seemed to
float down the stairs; his mind was in a delirious whirl. “I shall go
mad,” he said to himself in the excess of his joy--“I shall die!”




XXVIII.

The parting scene with Alice persisted in Mavering’s thought far on the
way to Ponkwasset Falls. He now succeeded in saying everything to her:
how deeply he felt her giving him her photograph to cheer him in
his separation from her; how much he appreciated her forethought in
providing him with some answer when his mother and sisters should ask
him about her looks. He took out the picture, and pretended to the other
passengers to be looking very closely at it, and so managed to kiss it.
He told her that now he understood what love really was; how powerful;
how it did conquer everything; that it had changed him and made him
already a better man. He made her refuse all merit in the work.

When he began to formulate the facts for communication to his family,
love did not seem so potent; he found himself ashamed of his passion,
or at least unwilling to let it be its own excuse even; he had a wish
to give it almost any other appearance. Until he came in sight of the
station and the Works, it had not seemed possible for any one to object
to Alice. He had been going home as a matter of form to receive the
adhesion of his family. But now he was forced to see that she might be
considered critically, even reluctantly. This would only be because
his family did not understand how perfect Alice was; but they might not
understand.

With his father there would be no difficulty. His father had seen Alice
and admired her; he would be all right. Dan found himself hoping this
rather anxiously, as if from the instinctive need of his father’s
support with his mother and sisters. He stopped at the Works when he
left the train, and found his father in his private office beyond the
book-keeper’s picket-fence, which he penetrated, with a nod to the
accountant.

“Hello, Dan!” said his father, looking up; and “Hello, father!” said
Dan. Being alone, the father and son not only shook hands, but kissed
each other, as they used to do in meeting after an absence when Dan was
younger.

He had closed his father’s door with his left hand in giving his right,
and now he said at once, “Father, I’ve come home to tell you that I’m
engaged to be married.”

Dan had prearranged his father’s behaviour at this announcement, but
he now perceived that he would have to modify the scene if it were to
represent the facts. His father did not brighten all over and demand,
“Miss Pasmer, of course?” he contrived to hide whatever start the news
had given him, and was some time in asking, with his soft lisp, “Isn’t
that rather sudden, Dan?”

“Well, not for me,” said Dan, laughing uneasily. “It’s--you know her,
father--Miss Pasmer.”

“Oh yes,” said his father, certainly not with displeasure, and yet not
with enthusiasm.

“I’ve had ever since Class Day to think it over, and it--came to a
climax yesterday.”

“And then you stopped thinking,” said his father--to gain time, it
appeared to Dan.

“Yes, sir,” said Dan. “I haven’t thought since.”

“Well,” said his father, with an amusement which was not unfriendly.
He added, after a moment, “But I thought that had been broken off,” and
Dan’s instinct penetrated to the lurking fact that his father must have
talked the rupture over with his mother, and not wholly regretted it.

“There was a kind of--hitch at one time,” he admitted; “but it’s all
right now.”

“Well, well,” said his father, “this is great news--great news,” and he
seemed to be shaping himself to the new posture of affairs, while giving
it a conditional recognition. “She’s a beautiful creature.”

“Isn’t she?” cried Dan, with a little break in his voice, for he had
found his father’s manner rather trying. “And she’s good too. I assure
you that she is--she is simply perfect every way.”

“Well,” said the elder Mavering, rising and pulling down the rolling top
of his desk, “I’m glad to hear it, for your sake, Dan. Have you been up
at the house yet?”

“No; I’m just off the train.”

“How is her mother--how is Mrs. Pasmer? All well?”

“Yes, sir,” said Dan; “they’re all very well. You don’t know Mr. Pasmer,
I believe, sir, do you?”

“Not since college. What sort of person is he?”

“He’s very refined and quiet. Very handsome. Very courteous. Very nice
indeed.”

“Ah! that’s good,” said Elbridge Mavering, with the effect of not having
been very attentive to his son’s answer.

They walked up the long slope of the hillside on which the house stood,
overlooking the valley where the Works were, and fronting the plateau
across the river where the village of operatives’ houses was scattered.
The paling light of what had been a very red sunset flushed them, and
brought out the picturesqueness which the architect, who designed
them for a particular effect in the view from the owner’s mansion, had
intended.

A good carriage road followed the easiest line of ascent towards this
edifice, and reached a gateway. Within it began to describe a curve
bordered with asphalted footways to the broad verandah of the house, and
then descended again to the gate. The grounds enclosed were planted with
deciduous shrubs, which had now mostly dropped their leaves, and clumps
of firs darkening in the evening light with the gleam of some garden
statues shivering about the lawn next the house. The breeze grew colder
and stiffer as the father and son mounted toward the mansion which Dan
used to believe was like a chateau, with its Mansard-roof and dormer
windows and chimneys. It now blocked its space sharply out of the thin
pink of the western sky, and its lights sparkled with a wintry keenness
which had often thrilled Dan when he climbed the hill from the station
in former homecomings. Their brilliancy gave him a strange sinking
of the heart for no reason. He and his father had kept up a sort of
desultory talk about Alice, and he could not have said that his
father had seemed indifferent; he had touched the affair only too
acquiescently; it was painfully like everything else. When they came in
full sight of the house, Dan left the subject, as he realised presently,
from a reasonless fear of being overheard.

“It seems much later here, sir, than it does in Boston,” he said,
glancing round at the maples, which stood ragged, with half their leaves
blown from them.

“Yes; we’re in the hills, and we’re further north,” answered his father.
“There’s Minnie.”

Dan had seen his sister on the verandah, pausing at sight of him, and
puzzled to make out who was with her father. He had an impulse to hail
her with a shout, but he could not. In his last walk with her he had
told her that he should never marry, and they had planned to live
together. It was a joke; but now he felt as if he had come to rob her of
something, and he walked soberly on with his father.

“Why, Dan, you good-for-nothing fellow!” she called out when he came
near enough to be unmistakable, and ran down the steps to kiss him.
“What in the world are you doing here? When did you come? Why didn’t you
hollo, instead of letting me stand here guessing? You’re not sick, are
you?”

The father got himself indoors unnoticed in the excitement of the
brother’s arrival. This would have been the best moment for Dan to tell
his sister of his engagement; he knew it, but he parried her curiosity
about his coming; and then his sister Eunice came out, and he could not
speak. They all went together into the house flaming with naphtha gas,
and with the steam heat already on, and Dan said he would take his bag
to his room, and then come down again. He knew that he had left them to
think that there was something very mysterious in his coming, and while
he washed away the grime of his journey he was planning how to appear
perfectly natural when he should get back to his sisters. He recollected
that he had not asked either them or his father how his mother was, but
it was certainly not because his mind was not full of her. Alice now
seemed very remote from him, further even than his gun, or his boyish
collection of moths and butterflies, on which his eye fell in roving
about his room. For a bitter instant it seemed to him as if they were
all alike toys, and in a sudden despair he asked himself what had become
of his happiness. It was scarcely half a day since he had parted in
transport from Alice.

He made pretexts to keep from returning at once to his sisters, and it
was nearly half an hour before he went down to them. By that time his
father was with them in the library, and they were waiting tea for him.




XXIX.

A family of rich people in the country, apart from intellectual
interests, is apt to gormandise; and the Maverings always sat down to a
luxurious table, which was most abundant and tempting at the meal they
called tea, when the invention of the Portuguese man-cook was taxed
to supply the demands of appetites at once eager and fastidious. They
prolonged the meal as much as possible in winter, and Dan used to like
to get home just in time for tea when he came up from Harvard; it was
always very jolly, and he brought a boy’s hunger to its abundance. The
dining-room, full of shining light, and treated from the low-down
grate, was a pleasant place. But now his spirits failed to rise with
the physical cheer; he was almost bashfully silent; he sat cowed in the
presence of his sisters, and careworn in the place where he used to be
so gay and bold. They were waiting to have him begin about himself, as
he always did when he had been away, and were ready to sympathise with
his egotism, whatever new turn it took. He mystified them by asking
about them and their affairs, and by dealing in futile generalities,
instead of launching out with any business that he happened at the time
to be full of. But he did not attend to their answers to his questions;
he was absent-minded, and only knew that his face was flushed, and that
he was obviously ill at ease.

His younger sister turned from him impatiently at last. “Father, what is
the matter with Dan?”

Her bold recognition of their common constraint broke it down. Dan
looked at his father with helpless consent, and his father said quietly,
“He tells me he’s engaged.”

“What nonsense!” said his sister Eunice.

“Why, Dan!” cried Minnie; and he felt a reproach in her words which the
words did not express. A silence followed, in which the father along
went on with his supper. The girls sat staring at Dan with incredulous
eyes. He became suddenly angry.

“I don’t know what’s so very extraordinary about it, or why there should
be such a pother,” he began; and he knew that he was insolently ignoring
abundant reasons for pother, if there had been any pother. “Yes, I’m
engaged.”

He expected now that they would believe him, and ask whom he was engaged
to; but apparently they were still unable to realise it. He was obliged
to go on. “I’m engaged to Miss Pasmer.”

“To Miss Pasmer!” repeated Eunice.

“But I thought--” Minnie began, and then stopped.

Dan commanded his temper by a strong effort, and condescended to
explain. “There was a misunderstanding, but it’s all right now; I only
met her yesterday, and--it’s all right.” He had to keep on ignoring what
had passed between him and his sisters during the month he spent at home
after his return from Campobello. He did not wish to do so; he would
have been glad to laugh over that epoch of ill-concealed heart-break
with them; but the way they had taken the fact of his engagement made it
impossible. He was forced to keep them at a distance; they forced him.
“I’m glad,” he added bitterly, “that the news seems to be so agreeable
to my family. Thank you for your cordial congratulations.” He swallowed
a large cup of tea, and kept looking down.

“How silly!” said Eunice, who was much the oldest of the three. “Did
you expect us to fall upon your neck before we could believe it wasn’t a
hoax of father’s?”

“A hoax!” Dan burst out.

“I suppose,” said Minnie, with mock meekness, “that if we’re to be
devoured, it’s no use saying we didn’t roil the brook. I’m sure I
congratulate you, Dan, with all my heart,” she added, with a trembling
voice.

“I congratulate Miss Pasmer,” said Eunice, “on securing such a very
reasonable husband.”

When Eunice first became a young lady she was so much older than Dan
that in his mother’s absence she sometimes authorised herself to box his
ears, till she was finally overthrown in battle by the growing boy. She
still felt herself so much his tutelary genius that she could not let
the idea of his engagement awe her, or keep her from giving him a needed
lesson. Dan jumped to his feet, and passionately threw his napkin on his
chair.

“There, that will do, Eunice!” interposed the father. “Sit down, Dan,
and don’t be an ass, if you are engaged. Do you expect to come up here
with a bombshell in your pocket, and explode it among us without causing
any commotion? We all desire your happiness, and we are glad if you
think you’ve found it, but we want to have time to realise it. We had
only adjusted our minds to the apparent fact that you hadn’t found it
when you were here before.” His father began very severely, but when he
ended with this recognition of what they had all blinked till then, they
laughed together.

“My pillow isn’t dry yet, with the tears I shed for you, Dan,” said
Minnie demurely.

“I shall have to countermand my mourning,” said Eunice, “and wear louder
colours than ever. Unless,” she added, “Miss Pasmer changes her mind
again.”

This divination of the past gave them all a chance for another laugh,
and Dan’s sisters began to reconcile themselves to the fact of
his engagement, if not to Miss Pasmer. In what was abstractly so
disagreeable there was the comfort that they could joke about his
happiness; they had not felt free to make light of his misery when he
was at home before. They began to ask all the questions they could think
of as to how and when, and they assimilated the fact more and more in
acquiring these particulars and making a mock of them and him.

“Of course you haven’t got her photograph,” suggested Eunice. “You know
we’ve never had the pleasure of meeting the young lady yet.”

“Yes,” Dan owned, blushing, “I have. She thought I might like to show it
to mother: But it isn’t--”

“A very good one--they never are,” said Minnie.

“And it was taken several years ago--they always are,” said Eunice.

“And she doesn’t photograph well, anyway.”

“And this one was just after a long fit of sickness.”

Dan drew it out of his pocket, after some fumbling for it, while he
tolerated their gibes.

Eunice put her nose to it. “I hope it’s your cigarettes it smells of,”
 she said.

“Yes; she doesn’t use the weed,” answered Dan.

“Oh, I didn’t mean that, exactly,” returned his sister, holding the
picture off at arm’s length, and viewing it critically with contracted
eyes.

Dan could not help laughing. “I don’t think it’s been near any other
cigar-case,” he answered tranquilly.

Minnie looked at it very near to, covering all but the face with her
hand. “Dan, she’s lovely!” she cried, and Dan’s heart leaped into his
throat As he gratefully met his sister’s eyes.

“You’ll like her, Min.”

Eunice took the photograph from her for a second scrutiny. “She’s
certainly very stylish. Rather a beak of a nose, and a little too
bird--like on the whole. But she isn’t so bad. Is it like her?” she
asked with a glance at her father.

“I might say--after looking,” he replied.

“True! I didn’t know but Dan had shown it to you as soon as you met. He
seemed to be in such a hurry to let us all know.”

The father said, “I don’t think it flatters her,” and he looked at it
more carefully. “Not much of her mother there?” he suggested to Dan.

“No, sir; she’s more like her father.”

“Well, after all this excitement, I believe I’ll have another cup of
tea, and take something to eat, if Miss Pasmer’s photograph doesn’t
object,” said Eunice, and she replenished her cup and plate.

“What coloured hair and eyes has she, Dan?” asked Minnie.

He had to think so as to be exact. “Well, you might say they were black,
her eyebrows are so dark. But I believe they’re a sort of greyish-blue.”

“Not an uncommon colour for eyes,” said Eunice, “but rather peculiar for
hair.”

They got to making fun of the picture, and Dan told them about Alice and
her family; the father left them at the table, and then came back with
word from Dan’s mother that she was ready to see him.




XXX.

By eight o’clock in the evening the pain with which every day began
for Mrs. Mavering was lulled, and her jarred nerves were stayed by the
opiates till she fell asleep about midnight. In this interval the family
gathered into her room, and brought her their news and the cheer of
their health. The girls chattered on one side of her bed, and their
father sat with his newspaper on the other, and read aloud the passages
which he thought would interest her, while she lay propped among her
pillows, brilliantly eager for the world opening this glimpse of itself
to her shining eyes. That was on her good nights, when the drugs did
their work, but there were times when they failed, and the day’s agony
prolonged itself through the evening, and the sleep won at last was a
heavy stupor. Then the sufferer’s temper gave way under the stress; she
became the torment she suffered, and tore the hearts she loved. Most of
all, she afflicted the man who had been so faithful to her misery, and
maddened him to reprisals, of which he afterward abjectly repented. Her
tongue was sharpened by pain, and pitilessly skilled to inculpate and to
punish; it pierced and burned like fire but when a good day came again
she made it up to the victims by the angelic sweetness and sanity
which they felt was her real self; the cruelty was only the mask of her
suffering.

When she was better they brought to her room anybody who was staying
with them, and she liked them to be jolly in the spacious chamber. The
pleasantest things of the house were assembled, and all its comforts
concentrated, in the place which she and they knew she should quit but
once. It was made gay with flowers and pictures; it was the salon for
those fortunate hours when she became the lightest and blithest of
the company in it, and made the youngest guest forget that there was
sickness or pain in the world by the spirit with which she ignored her
own. Her laugh became young again; she joked; she entered into what
they were doing and reading and thinking, and sent them away full of the
sympathy which in this mood of hers she had for every mood in others.
Girls sighed out their wonder and envy to her daughters when they left
her; the young men whom she captivated with her divination of their
passions or ambitions went away celebrating her supernatural knowledge
of human nature. The next evening after some night of rare and happy
excitement, the family saw her nurse carrying the pictures and flowers
and vases out of her room, in sign of her renunciation of them all,
and assembled silently, shrinkingly, in her chamber, to take each their
portion of her anguish, of the blame and the penalty. The household
adjusted itself to her humours, for she was supreme in it.

When Dan used to come home from Harvard she put on a pretty cap for
him, and distinguished him as company by certain laces hiding her wasted
frame, and giving their pathetic coquetry to her transparent wrists. He
was her favourite, and the girls acknowledged him so, and made their
fun of her for spoiling him. He found out as he grew up that her broken
health dated from his birth, and at first this deeply affected him; but
his young life soon lost the keenness of the impression, and he loved
his mother because she loved him, and not because she had been dying for
him so many years.

As he now came into her room, and the waiting-woman went out of it with
her usual, “Well, Mr. Dan!” the tenderness which filled him at sight of
his mother was mixed with that sense of guilt which had tormented him at
times ever since he met his sisters. He was going to take himself from
her; he realised that.

“Well, Dan!” she called, so gaily that he said to himself, “No, father
hasn’t told her anything about it,” and was instantly able to answer her
as cheerfully, “Well, mother!”

He bent over her to kiss her, and the odour of the clean linen mingling
with that of the opium, and the cologne with which she had tried
to banish its scent, opened to him one of those vast reaches of
associations which perfumes can unlock, and he saw her lying there
through those years of pain, as many as half his life, and suddenly the
tears gushed into his eyes, and he fell on his knees, and hid his face
in the bed-clothes and sobbed.

She kept smoothing his head, which shook under her thin hand, and
saying, “Poor Dan! poor Dan!” but did not question him. He knew that
she knew what he had come to tell her, and that his tears, which had not
been meant for that, had made interest with her for him and his cause,
and that she was already on his side.

He tried boyishly to dignify the situation when he lifted his face, and
he said, “I didn’t mean to come boohooing to you in this way, and I’m
ashamed of myself.”

“I know, Dan; but you’ve been wrought up, and I don’t wonder. You
mustn’t mind your father and your sisters. Of course, they’re rather
surprised, and they don’t like your taking yourself from them--we, none
of us do.”

At these honest words Dan tried to become honest too. At least he
dropped his pretence of dignity, and became as a little child in his
simple greed for sympathy. “But it isn’t necessarily that; is it,
mother?”

“Yes, it’s all that, Dan; and it’s all right, because it’s that. We
don’t like it, but our not liking it has nothing to do with its being
right or wrong.”

“I supposed that father would have been pleased, anyway; for he has seen
her, and--and. Of course the girls haven’t, but I think they might have
trusted my judgment a little. I’m not quite a fool.”

His mother smiled. “Oh, it isn’t a question of the wisdom of your
choice; it’s the unexpectedness. We all saw that you were very unhappy
when you were here before, and we supposed it had gone wrong.”

“It had, mother,” said Dan. “She refused me at Campobello. But it was a
misunderstanding, and as soon as we met--”

“I knew you had met again, and what you had come home for, and I told
your father so, when he came to say you were here.”

“Did you, mother?” he asked, charmed at her having guessed that.

“Yes. She must be a good girl to send you straight home to tell us.”

“You knew I wouldn’t have thought of that myself,” said Dan joyously. “I
wanted to write; I thought that would do just as well. I hated to leave
her, but she made me come. She is the best, and the wisest, and the most
unselfish--O mother, I can’t tell you about her! You must see her. You
can’t realise her till you see her, mother. You’ll like each other,
I’m sure of that. You’re just alike.” It seemed to Dan that they were
exactly alike.

“Then perhaps we sha’n’t,” suggested his mother. “Let me see her
picture.”

“How did you know I had it? If it hadn’t been for her, I shouldn’t have
brought any. She put it into my pocket just as I was leaving. She said
you would all want to see what she looked like.”

He had taken it out of his pocket, and he held it, smiling fondly upon
it. Alice seemed to smile back at him. He had lost her in the reluctance
of his father and sisters; and now his mother--it was his mother who had
given her to him again. He thought how tenderly he loved his mother.

When he could yield her the photograph, she looked long and silently at
it. “She has a great deal of character, Dan.”

“There you’ve hit it, mother! I’d rather you would have said that than
anything else. But don’t you think she’s beautiful? She’s the gentlest
creature, when you come to know her! I was awfully afraid of her at
first. I thought she was very haughty. But she isn’t at all. She’s
really very self-depreciatory; she thinks she isn’t good enough for me.
You ought to hear her talk, mother, as I have. She’s full of the noblest
ideals--of being of some use in the world, of being self-devoted,
and--all that kind of thing. And you can see that she’s capable of it.
Her aunt’s in a Protestant sisterhood,” he said, with a solemnity which
did not seem to communicate itself to his mother, for Mrs. Mavering
smiled. Dan smiled too, and said: “But I can’t tell you about Alice,
mother. She’s perfect.” His heart overflowed with proud delight in her,
and he was fool enough to add, “She’s so affectionate!”

His mother kept herself from laughing. “I dare say she is, Dan--with
you.” Then she hid all but her eyes with the photograph, and gave way.

“What a donkey!” said Dan, meaning himself. “If I go on, I shall disgust
you with her. What I mean is that she isn’t at all proud, as I used to
think she was.”

“No girl is, under the circumstances. She has all she can do to be proud
of you.”

“Do you think so, mother?” he said, enraptured with the notion. “I’ve
done my best--or my worst--not to give her any reason to be so.”

“She doesn’t ‘want any--the less the better. You silly boy! Don’t you
suppose she wants to make you out of whole cloth just as you do with
her? She doesn’t want any facts to start with; they’d be in the way.
Well, now, I can make out, with your help, what the young lady is;
but what are the father and mother? They’re rather important in these
cases.”

“Oh, they’re the nicest kind of people,” said Dan, in optimistic
generalisation. “You’d like Mrs. Pasmer. She’s awfully nice.”

“Do you say that because you think I wouldn’t?” asked his mother. “Isn’t
she rather sly and hum-bugging?”

“Well, yes, she is, to a certain extent,” Dan admitted, with a laugh.
“But she doesn’t mean any harm by it. She’s extremely kind-hearted.”

“To you? I dare say. And Mr. Pasmer is rather under her thumb?”

“Well, yes, you might say thumb,” Dan consented, feeling it useless to
defend the Pasmers against this analysis.

“We won’t say heel,” returned his mother; “we’re too polite. And your
father says he had the reputation in college of being one of the most
selfish fellows in the world. He’s never done anything since but lose
most of his money. He’s been absolutely idle and useless all his days.”
 She turned her vivid blue eyes suddenly upon her son’s.

Dan winced. “You know how hard father is upon people who haven’t done
anything. It’s a mania of his. Of course Mr. Pasmer doesn’t show to
advantage where there’s no--no leisure class.”

“Poor man!”

Dan was going to say, “He’s very amiable, though,” but he was afraid
of his mother’s retorting, “To you?” and he held his peace, looking
chapfallen.

Whether his mother took pity on him or not, her next sally was
consoling. “But your Alice may not take after either of them. Her father
is the worst of his breed, it seems; the rest are useful people,
from what your father knows, and there’s a great deal to be hoped for
collaterally. She had an uncle in college at the same time who was
everything that her father was not.”

“One of her aunts is in one of those Protestant religious houses in
England,” repeated Dan.

“Oh!” said his mother shortly, “I don’t know that I like that
particularly. But probably she isn’t useless there. Is Alice very
religious?”

“Well, I suppose,” said Dan, with a smile for the devotions that came
into his thought, “she’s what would be called ‘Piscopal pious.”

Mrs. Mavering referred to the photograph, which she still held in
her hand. “Well, she’s pure and good, at any rate. I suppose you look
forward to a long engagement?”

Dan was somewhat taken aback at a supposition so very contrary to what
was in his mind. “Well, I don’t know. Why?”

“It might be said that you are very young. How old is Agnes--Alice, I
mean?”

“Twenty-one. But now, look here, mother! It’s no use considering such a
thing in the abstract, is it?”

“No,” said his mother, with a smile for what might be coming.

“This is the way I’ve been viewing it; I may say it’s the way Alice has
been viewing it--or Mrs. Pasmer, rather.”

“Decidedly Mrs. Pasmer, rather. Better be honest, Dan.”

“I’ll do my best. I was thinking, hoping, that is, that as I’m going
right into the business--have gone into it already, in fact--and could
begin life at once, that perhaps there wouldn’t be much sense in waiting
a great while.”

“Yes?”

“That’s all. That is, if you and father are agreed.” He reflected upon
this provision, and added, with a laugh of confusion and pleasure: “It
seems to be so very much more of a family affair than I used to think it
was.”

“You thought it concerned just you and her?” said his mother, with arch
sympathy.

“Well, yes.”

“Poor fellow! She knew better than that, you may be sure. At any rate,
her mother did.”

“What Mrs. Pasmer doesn’t know isn’t probably worth knowing,” said Dan,
with an amused sense of her omniscience.

“I thought so,” sighed his mother, smiling too. “And now you begin to
find out that it concerns the families in all their branches on both
sides.”

“Oh, if it stopped at the families and their ramifications! But it seems
to take in society and the general public.”

“So it does--more than you can realise. You can’t get married to
yourself alone, as young people think; and if you don’t marry happily,
you sin against the peace and comfort of the whole community.”

“Yes, that’s what I’m chiefly looking out for now. I don’t want any of
those people in Central Africa to suffer. That’s the reason I want to
marry Alice at the earliest opportunity. But I suppose there’ll have to
be a Mavering embassy to the high contracting powers of the other part
now?”

“Your father and one of the girls had better go down.”

“Yes?”

“And invite Mr. and Mrs. Pasmer and their daughter to come up here.”

“All on probation?”

“Oh no. If you’re pleased, Dan--”

“I am, mother--measurably.” They both laughed at this mild way of
putting it.

“Why, then it’s to be supposed that we’re all pleased. You needn’t bring
the whole Pasmer family home to live with you, if you do marry them
all.”

“No,” said Dan, and suddenly he became very distraught. It flashed
through him that his mother was expecting him to come home with Alice
to live, and that she would not be at all pleased with his scheme of
a European sojourn, which Mrs. Pasmer had so cordially adopted. He
was amazed that he had not thought of that, but he refused to see any
difficulty which his happiness could not cope with.

“No, there’s that view of it,” he said jollily; and he buried his
momentary anxiety out of sight, and, as it were, danced upon its grave.
Nevertheless, he had a desire to get quickly away from the spot. “I hope
the Mavering embassy won’t be a great while getting ready to go,” he
said. “Of course it’s all right; but I shouldn’t want an appearance of
reluctance exactly, you know, mother; and if there should be much of an
interval between my getting back and their coming on, don’t you know,
why, the cat might let herself out of the bag.”

“What cat?” asked his mother demurely.

“Well, you know, you haven’t received my engagement with unmingled
enthusiasm, and--and I suppose they would find it out from me--from my
manner; and--and I wish they’d come along pretty soon, mother.”

“Poor boy! I’m afraid the cat got out of the bag when Mrs. Pasmer came
to the years of discretion. But you sha’n’t be left a prey to her. They
shall go back with you. Ring the bell, and let’s talk it over with them
now.”

Dan joyfully obeyed. He could see that his mother was all on fire with
interest in his affair, and that the idea of somehow circumventing Mrs.
Pasmer by prompt action was fascinating her.

His sisters came up at once, and his father followed a moment later.
