dispassionate voice; "she has hardly closed her eyes since we started."

"I feel perfectly well," Eve answered, the color rushing to her face in
a brilliant flush.

"I don't think we need borrow any trouble about Miss Bruce, she looks
the image of health," observed Paul (but not as though he admired the
image). "I am afraid your bedrooms are not very large," he went on,
again perturbed. "There are two, side by side."

"Cicely shall have one to herself; Jack and I will take the other," said
Eve.

"Where is Jack?" demanded Cicely, suddenly. "What have you done with
him, Eve?"

Paul opened the door. "Polly!" he cried, in a voice that could have been
heard from garret to cellar. Porley, amazed by the sound, came running
in, with Jack in her arms. Paul looked at her dubiously, shook his head,
and went out.

Cicely took her child, and began to play all his games with him
feverishly, one after the other.

Jack was delighted; he played with all his little heart.




XIV.


Four days had passed slowly by. "What do you think, judge, of this
theory about the shooting,--the one they believe at Romney?" said Paul,
on the fifth morning.

"It's probable enough. Niggers are constitutionally timid, and they
always have pistols nowadays; these two boys, it seems, had come over
from the mainland to hide; they had escaped from a lock-up, got a boat
somewhere and crossed; that much is known. Your brother, perhaps, went
wandering about the island; if he came upon them suddenly, with that
knife in his hand, like as not they fired."

"Ferdie was found lying very near the point where your boat was kept."

"And the niggers might have been hidden just there. But I don't think we
can tell exactly where our boat was; Cicely doesn't remember--I have
asked her."

"Miss Bruce may have clearer ideas."

"No; Eve seems to have a greater confusion about it than Cicely even;
she cannot speak of it clearly at all."

"Yes, I have noticed that," said Paul.

"I suppose it is because, at the last, she had it all to do; she is a
brave woman."

Paul was silent.

"Don't you think so?" said the judge.

"I wasn't there. I don't know what she did."

"You're all alike, you young men; she's too much for you," said the
judge, with a chuckle.

"Why too much? She seems to me very glum and shy. When you say that we
are all alike, do you mean that Ferdie didn't admire her, either? Yet
Ferdie is liberal in his tastes," said the elder brother, smiling.

But the judge did not want to talk about Ferdie. "So you find her shy?
She did not strike us so at Romney. Quiet enough--yes. But very
decidedly liking to have her own way."

Paul dismissed the subject. "I suppose those two scamps, who shot him,
got safely away?"

"Yes, they were sure to have run off on the instant; they had the boat
they came over in, and before daylight they were miles to the southward
probably; I dare say they made for one of the swamps. In the old days we
could have tracked them; but it's not so easy now. And even if we got
them we couldn't string them up."

"You wouldn't hang them?"

"By all the gods, I would!" said the planter, bringing his fist down
upon the table with a force that belonged to his youth.

"Ferdie may have attacked them first, you know."

"What difference does that make? Damnation, sir! are they to be allowed
to fire upon their masters?"

"They did not fire very well, these two; according to Dr. Knox, the
wound is not serious; his despatch this morning says that Ferdie is
coming on admirably."

"Yes, I suppose he is," said the old man, relapsing into gloom.

"As soon as he is up and about, I am going down there," Paul went on; "I
must see him and have a serious talk. Some new measures must be taken. I
don't think it will be difficult when I have once made him see his
danger; he is so extraordinarily intelligent."

"I wish he were dull, then,--dull as an owl!" said the judge, with a
long sigh.

"Yes, regarded simply as husbands, I dare say the dull may be safer,"
responded Paul. "But you must excuse me if I cannot look upon Ferdie
merely as the husband of your daughter; I expect great things of him
yet."

"Granddaughter. If her father had lived--my boy Duke--it would have been
another story; Duke wouldn't have been a broken old man like me." And
the judge leaned his head upon his hand.

"I beg your pardon, sir; don't mind my roughness. It's only that I'm
fond of Ferdie, and proud of him; he has but that one fault. But I
appreciate how you feel about Cicely; we must work together for them
both."

Paul had risen, and was standing before him with outstretched hand.
"Thank you; you mean well," said the judge. He had let his hand be
taken, but he did not look up. He felt that he could never really like
this man--never.

"I am to understand, then, that you approve of my plan?" Paul went on,
after a short silence. "Cicely to stay here for the present--the house,
I hope, is fairly comfortable--and then, when Ferdie is better, I to go
down there and see what I can do; I have every hope of doing a great
deal! Oh, yes, there's one more thing; you needn't feel obliged to
stay here any longer than you want to, you know; I can see to Cicely.
Apparently, too, Miss Bruce has no intention of leaving her."

"I shall stay, sir--I shall stay."

"On my own account, I hope you will; I only meant that you needn't feel
that you must; I thought perhaps there was something that called you
home."

"Calls me home? Do you suppose we do anything down there nowadays with
the whole coast ruined? As for the house, Sabrina is there, and women
like illness; they absolutely dote on medicines, and doctors, and
ghastly talking in whispers."

"Very well; I only hope you won't find it dull, that's all. The mine
isn't bad; you might come out there occasionally. And the steamers stop
two or three times a day. There's a good deal going on in the town, too;
building's lively."

"I am much obliged to you."

"But you don't care for liveliness," pursued Paul, with a smile. "I am
afraid there isn't much else. I haven't many books, but Kit Hollis has;
he is the man for you. Queer; never can decide anything; always beating
round the bush; still, in his way, tremendously well read and clever."

"He appears to be a kind of dry-nurse to you," said the judge, rising.

Paul laughed, showing his white teeth. He was very good-natured, his
guest had already discovered that.

The judge was glad that their conversation had come to an end. He could
no longer endure dwelling upon sorrow. Trouble was not over for them by
any means; their road looked long and dark before them. But for the
moment Cicely and her child were safe under this roof; let them enjoy
that and have a respite. As for himself, he could--well, he could enjoy
the view.

The view consisted of the broad lake in front, and the deep forest which
stretched unbroken towards the east and the west. The water of the lake
was fresh, the great forest was primeval; this made the effect very
unlike that of the narrow salt-water sounds, and the chain of islands,
large and small, with their gardens and old fields. The South had
forgotten her beginnings; but here one could see what all the new world
had once been, here one could see traces of the first struggle for human
existence with the inert forces of nature. With other forces, too, for
Indians still lived here. They were few in number, harmless; but they
carried the mind back to the time of sudden alarms and the musket laid
ready to the hand; the days of the block-house and the guarded well, the
high stockade. The old planter as he walked about did not think of these
things. The rough forest was fit only for rough-living pioneers; the
Indians were but another species of nigger; the virgin air was thin and
raw,--he preferred something more thick, more civilized; the great
fresh-water sea was abominably tame, no one could possibly admire it;
Port aux Pins itself was simply hideous; it was a place composed
entirely of beginnings and mud, talk and ambition, the sort of place
which the Yankees produced wherever they went, and which they loved;
that in itself described it; how could a Southern gentleman like what
they loved?

And Port aux Pins was ugly. Its outlying quarters were still in the
freshly plucked state, deplumed, scarred, with roadways half laid out,
with shanties and wandering pigs, discarded tin cans and other refuse,
and everywhere stumps, stumps. Within the town there were one or two
streets where stood smart wooden houses with Mansard-roofs. But these
were elbowed by others much less smart, and they were hustled by the
scaffolding of the new mansions which were rising on all sides, and,
with republican freedom, taking whatever room they found convenient
during the process. Even those abodes which were completed as to their
exteriors had a look of not being fully furnished, a blank, wide-eyed,
unwinking expression across their fa√ßades which told of bare floors and
echoing spaces within. Always they had temporary fences. Often paths of
movable planks led up to the entrance. Day after day a building of some
sort was voyaging through Port aux Pins streets by means of a rope and
windlass, a horse, and men with boards; when it rained, the house
stopped and remained where it was, waiting for the mud to dry; meanwhile
the roadway was blocked. But nobody minded that. All these things, the
all-pervading beginnings, the jokes and slang, the smell of paint, and
always the breathless constant hurry, were hateful to the old Georgian.
It might have been said, perhaps, that between houses and a society
uncomfortable from age, falling to pieces from want of repairs, and
houses and a society uncomfortable from youth, unfurnished, and
encumbered with scaffolding, there was not much to choose. But the judge
did not think so; to his mind there was a great deal to choose.

As the days passed, Christopher Hollis became more and more his
companion; the judge grew into the habit of expecting to see his high
head, topped with a silk hat, put stealthily through the crevice of the
half-open door of Paul's dining-room (Hollis never opened a door widely;
whether coming in or going out, he always squeezed himself through),
with the query, "Hello! What's up?" There was never anything up; but the
judge, sitting there forlornly, with no companion but the local
newspaper (which he loathed), was glad to welcome his queer guest.
Generally they went out together; Port aux Pins people grew accustomed
to seeing them walking down to the end first of one pier, then of the
other, strolling among the stumps in the suburbs, or sitting on the pile
of planks which adorned one corner of the Public Square, the
long-legged, loose-jointed Kit an amusing contrast to the small, precise
figure by his side.

"I say, he's pretty hard up for entertainment, that old gentleman of
yours," announced Hollis one day, peering in through the crevice of the
door of Paul Tennant's office in the town.

"I depended on you to entertain him," answered Paul without lifting his
head, which was bent over a ledger.

"Well, I've taken him all over the place, I've pretty nearly trotted his
legs off," Hollis responded, edging farther in, the door scraping the
buttons of his waistcoat as he did so. "And I've shot off all my Latin
at him too--all I can remember. I read up on purpose."

"Is he such a scholar, then?"

"No, he ain't. But it does him good to hear a little Horace in such an
early-in-the-morning, ten-minutes-ago place as this. See here, Paul; if
you keep him on here long he won't stand it--he'll mizzle out. He'll
simply die of Potterpins."

"I'm not keeping him. He stays of his own accord."

"I don't believe it. But, I say, ain't he a regular old despot though!
You ought to hear him hold forth sometimes."

"I don't want to hear him."

"Well, I guess he don't talk that way to you, on the whole. Not much,"
said Hollis, jocularly.

And Paul Tennant did not look like a man who would be a comfortable
companion for persons of the aggressive temperament. He was tall and
broad-shouldered; not graceful like Ferdie, but powerful. His neck was
rather short; the lower part of his face was strong and firm. His
features were good; his eyes, keen, gray in hue. His hair was yellow and
thick, and he had a moustache and short beard of the same yellow hue. No
one would have called him handsome exactly. There was something of the
Scandinavian in his appearance; nothing of the German. His manner,
compared with Ferdie's quick, light brilliancy, was quiet, his speech
slow.

"Have you been thinking about that proposition--that sale?" Hollis went
on.

"Yes."

"What are you going to do?"

"It's done. I've declined."

"What! not already? That's sudden, ain't it?"

Paul did not answer; he was adding figures.

"Have you been over the reasons?--weighed 'em?"

"Oh, I leave the reasons to you," said Paul, turning a page.

Hollis gave his almost silent laugh. But he gave it uneasily.
"Positively declined? Letter gone?"

"Yes."

"Oh; well!" He waited a moment; then, as Paul did not speak, he opened
the door and edged himself out without a sound.

Ten minutes later his head reappeared with the same stealth. "Oh, I
thought I'd just tell you--perhaps you don't know--the mail doesn't go
out to-day until five o'clock: you can get that letter back if you
like."

"I don't want it back."

"Oh; well." He was gone again.

Outside in the street he saw the judge wandering by, and stopped him.
"That there son-in-law of yours--" he began.

"Son-in-law?" inquired the judge, stiffly.

"Whatever pleases you; step-sister."

"Mr. Tennant is the half-brother of the husband of my granddaughter."

"'T any rate, that man in there, that Paul, he's so tremendously rash
there's no counting on him; if there's anything to do he goes and does
it right spang off without a why or a wherefore. He absolutely seems to
have no reasons!--not a rease!"

"I cannot agree with you. To me Mr. Tennant seems to have a great many."

"But you haven't heard about this. Come along out to the Park for a
walk, and I'll tell you."

He moved on. But the judge did not accompany him. A hurrying mulatto, a
waiter from one of the steamers, had jostled him off the narrow plank
sidewalk; at the same moment a buggy which was passing, driven at a
reckless speed, spattered him with mud from shoulder to shoe.

"Never mind, come on; it'll dry while you're walking," suggested Hollis
from the corner where he was waiting.

The judge stepped back to the planks; he surveyed his befouled person;
then he brought out a resounding expletive--half a dozen of them.

"Do it again--if it'll ease you off," called Kit, grinning. "When you're
blessing Potterpins, I'm with you every time."

The judge rapped the planks with his cane. "Go on, sir! go on!" he said,
violently.

Hollis went loafing on. And presently the judge caught up with him, and
trotted beside him in silence.

"Well, that Paul now, as I was telling you, I don't know what to make of
him," said Hollis, returning to his topic. "I think I know him, and
then, suddenly he stumps me. Once he has made up his mind to
anything--and it does not take long--off he goes and does it, I tell
you! He does it."

"I don't know what he does; his conversation has a good deal of the
sledge-hammer about it," remarked the judge.

"So it has," responded Hollis, delighted with the comparison; he was so
delighted that he stopped and slapped his thigh. "So it has, by
George!--convincing and knock-you-down." The judge walked on. He had
intended no compliment. "To-day, now, that fellow has gone and sent off
a letter that he ought to have taken six months to think over," Hollis
continued. "Told you about his Clay County iron?"

"No."

"Well, he was down there on business--in Clay County. It was several
years ago. He had to go across the country, and the roads were
awful--full of slew-holes. At last, tired of being joggled to pieces, he
got out and walked along the fields, leaving the horse to bring the
buggy through the mud as well as he could. By-and-by he saw a stone that
didn't look quite like the others, and he gave it a kick. Still it
didn't look quite like, so he picked it up. The long and short of it was
that it turned out to be hematite iron, and off he went to the
county-seat and entered as much of the land as he could afford to buy.
He hasn't any capital, so he has never been able to work it himself; all
his savings he has invested in something or other in South America. But
the other day he had a tip-top offer from a company; they wanted to buy
the whole thing in a lump. And that's the chance he has refused this
identical morning!" The judge did not reply. "More iron may be
discovered near by, you know," Hollis went on, warningly, his forefinger
out. His companion still remained silent. "He may never have half so
good an offer in his whole life again!"

They had now reached the Park, a dreary enclosure where small evergreens
had been set out here and there, together with rock-work, and a fountain
which did not play. The magnificent forest trees which had once covered
the spot had all been felled; infant elms, swathed in rags and tied to
whitewashed stakes, were expected to give shade in fifteen or twenty
years. There were no benches; Hollis seated himself on the top of a
rail-fence which bordered the slight descent to the beach of the lake;
the heels of his boots, caught on a rail below, propped him, and sent
his knees forward at an acute angle.

"There were all sorts of side issues and possibilities which that fellow
ought to have considered," he pursued, ruminatively, his mind still on
Paul's refusal. "There were other things that might have come of it. It
was an A number one chance for a fortune." The judge did not answer.
"For a fortune," repeated Hollis, dreamily, gazing down at him from his
perch. No reply. "A for-chun!"

"Da-a-a-m your fortune!" said the judge, at the end of his patience,
bringing out the first word with a long emphasis, like a low growl from
a bull-dog.

Hollis stared. Then he gave his silent laugh, and, stretching down one
long arm, he laid it on the old man's shoulder soothingly. "There, now;
we are awful Yankees up here, all of us, I'm afraid; forever thinking
of bargains. Fact is, we ain't high-minded; you can't be, if you are
forever eating salt pork." The judge had pulled himself from the other's
touch in an instant. But Hollis remained unconscious of any offence.

    "'At the battle of the Nile I was there all the while;
    I was there all the while at the battle of the Nile.'"

he chanted.

    "'At the bat--'

"Hello, isn't that Miss Bruce coming down the beach? Yes, sure-ly; I
know her by the way she carries her head." Detaching his boot-heels from
the rail, he sprang down, touching the ground with his long legs wide
apart; then, giving his waistcoat a pull over the flatness below it, he
looked inquiringly at the judge.

But that gentleman ignored the inquiry. "It is time to return, I
reckon," he remarked, leading the way inflexibly towards the distant
gate and the road.

Hollis followed him with disappointed tread. "She won't think us very
polite, skooting off in this fashion," he hazarded.

The judge vouchsafed him no reply. It was one thing for this
backwoodsman to go about with him; it was another to aspire to an
acquaintance with the ladies of his family. Poor Hollis aspired to
nothing; he was the most modest of men; all the same it would never have
occurred to him that he was not on an equality with everybody. They
returned to Port aux Pins by the road.

The beach was in sight all the way on the left; Eve's figure in
three-quarter length was visible whenever Hollis turned his head in that
direction, which was often. She gained on them. Then she passed them.

"She's a tip-top walker, isn't she? I see her coming in almost every day
from 'way out somewhere--she doesn't mind how far. Our ladies here don't
walk much; they don't seem to find it interesting. But Miss Bruce,
now--she says the woods are beautiful. Can't say I have found 'em so
myself."

"Have you had any new cases lately?" inquired the judge, coldly.

"Did that Paul tell you I was a lawyer? Was once, but have given up
practising. I've got an Auction and Commission store now; never took you
there because business hasn't been flourishing; sometimes for days
together there's been nothing but the skeleton." The judge looked at
him. "I don't mean myself! Say, now, did you really think I meant
myself?" And he laughed without a sound. "No, this is a real one; it was
left with me over a year ago to be sold on commission--medical students,
or a college, you know. Man never came back--perhaps he's a skeleton
himself in the lake somewhere--so there it hangs still; first-class, and
in elegant condition. To-day there are six bonnets to keep it company;
so we're full."

They were now entering the town. Presently, at a corner, they came
suddenly upon Eve; she was waiting for them. "I saw you walking in from
the Park, so I came across to join you," she said.

Hollis showed his satisfaction by a broad smile; he did not raise his
hat, but, extracting one of his hands from the depths of his trousers
pocket, he offered it frankly. "You don't mind a longish walk, do you?
You look splendid."

"We need not take you further, Mr. Hollis," said the judge. "Your time
must be valuable to you."

"Not a bit; there's no demand to-day for the bonnets--unless the
skeleton wants to wear 'em."

"Is it an exhibition?" asked Eve, non-comprehendingly.

"It's my store--Auction and Commission. Not crowded. It's round the next
corner; want to go in?" And he produced a key and dangled it at Eve
invitingly.

"By all means," said Eve.

It was evident that she liked to be with him. The judge had perceived
this before now.

Hollis unlocked a door, or rather two doors, for the place had been
originally a wagon shop. A portion of the space within was floored, and
here, between the two windows, the long white skeleton was suspended,
moving its legs a little in the sudden draught.

"Here are the bonnets," said Hollis. "They may have to go out to the
mines. You see, it's part of a bankrupt stock. Not but what they ain't
first-class;--remarkably so." He went to a table where stood six
bandboxes in a row; opening one of them, he took out a bonnet, and,
freeing it from its wrappings, held it anxiously towards Eve, perched on
one of his fingers.

"Are you trying to make Miss Bruce buy that old rubbish?" said a voice
at the door. It was Paul Tennant's voice.

"Old?" said Hollis, seriously. "Why, Paul, I dare say this here bonnet
was made in Detroit not later than one year ago."

"If I cannot buy it myself," said Eve, "I might take it out to the mines
for you, Mr. Hollis, and sell it to the women there; I might take out
all six." She spoke gayly.

"You'd do it a heap better than I could," Hollis declared, admiringly.

"Let me see, I can try." She opened a bandbox and took out a second
bonnet. This she began to praise in very tropical language; she turned
it round, now rapidly, now slowly; she magnified its ribbons, its
general air. Finally, taking off her round-hat, she perched it on her
own golden braids, and, holding the strings together under her chin, she
said, dramatically: "What an effect!" She did not smile, but her eyes
shone. She looked brilliant.

The judge stared, amazed. Hollis, contorting himself like an angle-worm
in his delight, applauded. Paul looked on tranquilly.

"Whatever the rest of you may do, I must be going," said the judge,
determinedly. He went towards the door, each short step sounding on the
planks.

"So must I," said Eve. "Wait until I put back the bonnets." With deft
hands she returned them to their boxes, Paul and Hollis looking on. Then
they all went out together, Hollis relocking the door.

"I was on my way home," said Paul, "and I suppose you were too? Hollis,
won't you come along?"

He went on in advance with Eve, Hollis following with the unwilling
judge, whose steps were still like little taps with a hammer.

The cottage was on the outskirts of the town. To walk thither took
twenty minutes.




XV.


PAUL had succeeded in keeping Cicely tranquil by a system of telegraphic
despatches and letters, one or the other arriving daily; each morning
Ferdie's wife received a few lines from Romney, written either by Miss
Sabrina or the nurse; after she had read her note, she let herself be
borne along indifferently on the current of another Port aux Pins day.

The Port aux Pins days were, in themselves, harder for the judge than
for Cicely. For Cicely remained passive; but the old judge could not be
passive to things he hated so intensely. At last, by good-fortune,
Hollis found something that placated him a little; this was fishing,
fishing for trout; not the great rich creature of the lakes, which
passes under that name, but that exquisite morsel, the brook-trout. The
judge had gone off contentedly, even happily, in search of this delicate
prey; he and Hollis had explored the trout-streams of the two
neighboring rivers. A third river, at a greater distance, was reported
richer than any other; one morning they reached it, not only the two
fishermen, but Cicely also, and Eve and Paul. They had crossed by
steamer to a village on the north shore, an old fur-trading post; here
they had engaged canoes and two Indians, and had spent a long day afloat
on the clear wild stream. Its shores were rocky, deeply covered to the
water's edge with a dark forest of spruce-trees; the branchlet
trout-brooks, therefore, had been hard to find under the low-sweeping
foliage. But in this search, Hollis was an expert; with his silk hat
tipped more than ever towards the back of his head, he kept watch, and
he and the judge were put ashore several times in the course of the day,
returning smiling and amiable whether they brought trout or not, with
the serene contentment of fishermen. The others remained in the canoes,
those light birch-bark craft of the American red-men, which, for grace
and beauty, have never been surpassed. Two red-men were paddling one of
them at present; they were civilized red-men, they called themselves
Bill and Jim. But, under their straw hats, hung down their long straight
Indian hair, and the eagle profiles seemed out of place above the
ready-made coats and trousers. On their slender feet they wore beaded
moccasins. Paul Tennant and Hollis also wore moccasins, and the judge
had put on his thinnest shoes; for the birch-bark canoe has a delicate
floor.

The boat paddled by the Indians carried Cicely, Porley and Jack, and the
judge; the second held only three persons--Eve, Hollis, and Paul
Tennant. Paul was propelling it alone, his paddle touching the water now
on one side, now on the other, lifted across as occasion required as
lightly as though it had been a feather. Cicely was listless, Paul
good-natured, but indifferent also--so it seemed to Eve; and Eve
herself, though she remained quiet (as the judge had described her), Eve
was at heart excited. These thick dark woods without a path, without a
sound, the wild river, the high Northern air which was like an
intoxicant--all these seemed to her wonderful. She breathed rapidly; she
glanced at the others in astonishment. "Why don't they admire it? Why
doesn't he admire it?" she thought, looking at Paul.

Once the idea came suddenly that Paul was laughing at her, and the blood
sprang to her face; she kept her gaze down until the stuff of her dress
expanded into two large circles in which everything swam, so that she
was obliged to close her eyes dizzily.

And then, when at last she did look up, her anger and her dizziness had
alike been unnecessary, for Paul was gazing at the wooded shore behind
her; it was evident that he had not thought of her, and was not thinking
of her now.

This was late in the day, on their way back. A few minutes afterwards,
as they entered the lake, she saw a distant flash, and asked what it
was.

"Jupiter Light," said Paul. "It's a flash-light, and a good one."

"There's a Jupiter Light on Abercrombie Island, too," Eve remarked.

"It's a common enough name," Paul answered; "the best-known one is off
the coast of Florida."

The Indians passed them, paddling with rushing, rapid strokes.

"They're right; we shall be late for the steamer if we don't look out,"
said Paul. "You can help now if you like, Kit."

He and Hollis took off their coats, and the canoe flew down the lake
under their feathery paddles; the water was as calm as a floor. Eve was
sitting at the bow, facing Paul. No one spoke, though Hollis now and
then crooned, or rather chewed, a fragment of his favorite song:

    "'At the battle of the Nile I was there all the while--'"

The little voyage lasted half an hour.

They reached the village in time for the steamer, and soon afterwards
not only Jack and Porley, but Cicely, the judge, and Hollis, tired after
their long day afloat, had gone to bed. When Cicely sought her berth Eve
also sought hers, the tiny cells being side by side. Since their arrival
at Port aux Pins, Cicely had become more lenient to Eve; she was not so
cold, sometimes she even spoke affectionately. But she was very
changeable.

To-night, after a while, Eve tapped at Cicely's door. "Are you really
going to bed so early?"

"I am in bed already."

"Do you want anything? Isn't there something I can bring you?"

"No."

Eve went slowly back to her own cell. But the dimness, the warm air,
oppressed her; she sat down on a stool behind her closed door, the
excitement of the day still remaining with her. "Is it possible that I
am becoming nervous?--I, who have always despised nervousness?" She kept
saying to herself, "I will go to bed in a few minutes." But the idea of
lying there on that narrow shelf, staring at the light from the grating,
repelled her. "At any rate I will not go on deck."

Ten minutes later she opened her door and went out.

The swinging lamp in the saloon was turned down, the place was empty;
she crossed the short half-circle which led to the stern-deck, and
stepped outside. There was no moon, but a magnificent aurora borealis
was quivering across the sky, now an even band, now sending out long
flakes of light which waved to and fro. Before she looked at the
splendid heavens, however, she had scanned the deck. There was no one
there. She sat down on one of the benches.

Presently she heard a step, some one was approaching. There was a gleam
of a cigar; a man's figure; Paul.

"Is that you? I thought there would be no one here," she said.

"We are the only passengers," Paul answered. "But, as there are six of
us, you cannot quite control us all."

"I control no one." ("Not even myself!" she thought.)

"You will have your wish, though you ought not to; despots shouldn't be
humored. You will have the place to yourself in a few moments, because I
shall turn in soon--the time to finish this cigar--if you don't mind the
smoke?"

"No, I don't mind," she answered, a chill of disappointment creeping
slowly over her.

"Hasn't it been jolly?" Paul said, after a moment: he had seated himself
on a stool near her bench. "I do love to be out like this, away from all
bother."

"Do you? I thought you didn't."

The words were no sooner out than she feared he would say, "Why?" And
then her answer (for of course she must say something; she could not let
him believe that she had had no idea)--her answer would show that she
had been thinking about him.

But apparently Paul was not curious, he did not ask. "It's very good for
Cicely too; I wish I could take her oftener," he went on. "Her promise
to stay on here weighs upon her heavily. I don't know whether she would
have kept her word with me or not; but you know, of course, that Ferdie
himself has written, telling her that she must stay?"

