
The breathing grew more slow, longer, harder, a great breathing of
sighs. Death had life by the throat. In awe, the girl looked into the
ancient face, and the stream of tears trickled and ran dry. Once more
the voice burst out, articulate but rattling.

“Domine--quo--vadis?”

The great head was raised, and the mysterious eyes were wide, gazing at
her, waiting upon the answer, waiting to die. She remembered the answer.

“Tendit ad astra.”

He heard it, and died.

Katharine had never seen death, but she knew him, as we all know him.
Twice, thrice, the broad chest heaved under the soft, feathery woollen,
and the after-breath of the storm quivered in the frost of his beard.
But the girl knew he was dead. Then came her low, trembling cry, the
echo of death’s voice from living heartstrings.

It was not a great sorrow, though Katharine had been very fond of the
old man and was very grateful to him, as well she might be. She was,
perhaps, as closely attached to him as is possible in such a
relationship between the very young and the very old. But although her
tears flowed plentifully, it was not one of those deep-gripped wrenches
that twist the heart and leave it shapeless and bruised for a time--or
forever. Hearts, too, are less often broken by those who go than by
those who stay with us. The young girl’s grief was sincere, and hurt
her, but it was not profound. They led her away, and when the door of
her own room closed behind her, the tears were already drying on her
cheeks.

Death brings confusion and leaves it in his path. Many hours passed
before there was quiet in the great house, but Katharine slept,
exhausted at last by all she had endured that day, beyond the
possibility of being kept awake by mere bodily pain. Late in the morning
her mother came to her bedside. Katharine had been awake a quarter of an
hour, and had been hesitating as to whether she should ring or not. Her
arm hurt her, and the hand that had been so white was purple against the
tight white bandages. She longed to tear them off and have rest, if only
for a moment.

“Poor uncle Robert!” said Mrs. Lauderdale, seating herself, after
kissing the young girl’s forehead.

She was a little pale with natural excitement, and she was certainly not
looking her best in a black frock which was far from new, but which had
to do duty until she could have mourning made. Katharine said nothing in
answer, but nodded her head on the pillow. She wondered whether her
mother knew that she had broken her arm. But in this she did her an
injustice.

“Was your wrist much hurt?” asked Mrs. Lauderdale, almost immediately.

Then she caught sight of the splints and bandages and the purple
fingers, as Katharine lifted the coverlet a little. Instantly her face
changed.

“Heavens, child! What have you done to yourself?” she cried, springing
to her feet and bending over to look.

“Papa broke my arm,” answered Katharine, quietly.

“Your father--broke your arm?” Mrs. Lauderdale spoke with the utmost
astonishment, mingled with unbelief.

“Why, yes. Didn’t you know? It was last night--that--all the confusion
and trouble have killed poor uncle Robert. Didn’t papa tell you
anything?” Katharine stared at her mother.

“He came home and said he had hurt his mouth. I could not get him to say
what had happened to him. To tell the truth, I was rather worried. It’s
so unlike him to hurt himself, or have any accident. He said it was a
ridiculous affair, and that he didn’t choose to be laughed at, and
begged me to say nothing more about it. You know how he is. But he never
mentioned you.”

Katharine said nothing for a few moments. She wondered how wise it might
turn to be to tell her mother all that had happened. But the instinct of
child to mother overcame hesitation. Her mother had begun to take her
part again, and the broken sympathy was being restored by bits and
pieces, as it were.

“There was a terrible scene yesterday afternoon--late,” said Katharine.
“He came here, and Jack was with me in the library.”

“Jack! Oh, Katharine! I wish you wouldn’t see him in this way--”

“It’s no use wishing, mother,” answered the young girl. “I made up my
mind long ago. Well, Jack was with me in the library, when Leek came in
and said that papa was here. I saw him in the drawing-room, so that they
shouldn’t meet. I forget all he said. The usual thing, about being
disobedient and undutiful. He was awfully angry because I got out
yesterday morning. So I just went over one or two of the things he had
done to hurt me. By the bye--I ought to say, that just before he came
Jack had been telling me that some one had been to Mr. Beman, and had
said that Jack drank, and was dissipated, and was altogether rather a
good-for-nothing. And Mr. Beman had seen Jack the next day, doing
nothing, because he had nothing to do just then, and with his head in
his hand. So Mr. Beman took it into his foolish old head that Jack had
been drinking, and told him to go at the end of the month. Now I knew it
must be papa who had spoken, so I accused him of it, and he admitted
that it was true, and began abusing Jack like a pick-pocket, at the top
of his lungs. Jack heard what he said, for the door was open, and I
don’t blame him for coming in. They threatened each other, and got so
angry, and I thought they’d kill each other, so, like a silly idiot as I
was, I threw my arms round Jack’s neck as though I meant to protect him.
Papa’s so much bigger, you know. Well, he--papa, I mean--lost his head
and got me by the arm. He’s horribly strong. He got me by the right arm
a little above the wrist, and threw me half across the room, and when I
tried to help myself up--”

“Do you mean to say that he threw you down?” cried Mrs. Lauderdale,
really horrified.

“Yes--of course! With all his might, half across the room, so that I
rolled on the floor. Well, when I tried to get up, my arm was broken,
and Jack was wrestling with papa. I couldn’t help screaming when I fell,
and that roused the house, first the servants, and then uncle Robert, in
those queer white velvet clothes he wears--don’t you know? Jack told
what had happened, and uncle Robert was furious and ordered papa to
leave the house--he swore awfully--I never saw him so angry. So papa
went. But it was the rage, I suppose, and the exertion--they used up all
the dear old man’s strength--”

She stopped speaking suddenly as her thoughts went back to the dead man,
and her expression changed. Her eyes filled very slowly with tears, that
would not quite brim over, but dimmed her sight. When she turned her
head again, she saw that her mother had hidden her face in her hands
upon the edge of the bed. Katharine did not understand. A convulsive sob
shook the shapely shoulders, and the golden hair trembled.

“Mother dear--don’t cry so!” said Katharine, putting out her left hand
and touching the fair head with a caress. “I know--you were very fond of
him--of course--”

Mrs. Lauderdale looked up suddenly with streaming eyes and a face drawn
in pain. She shook her head slowly.

“It’s not that, child--it’s not that! It’s the other--”

“About me, dearest?” asked Katharine. “Don’t cry about me. I’m all
right. It hurts a little now, but it will soon be over.”

“No--child--you--you don’t understand!” answered Mrs. Lauderdale, with
trembling lips.

A passionate burst of weeping hindered her from saying more. Katharine
tried to soothe her with voice and hand, but it was of no use. Then she
just let her hand rest there, touching her mother’s cheek, and lay quite
still, waiting till the storm should pass. It lasted long, for in the
midst of her sorrow and indignation there was the acute consciousness of
the part she herself had borne in all that had happened.

“It’s my fault, it’s all my fault!” she sobbed, at last.

“No, mother--why? I don’t understand! Try and tell me what you mean.”

Little by little the sobs subsided and Mrs. Lauderdale dried her eyes.
Katharine really did not at all understand what was taking place. She
thought her mother must be hysterical. Dark women rarely understand the
moods of fair ones.

“You don’t know how dreadful it seems to me,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, as
she grew calmer. “It seems--somehow--awful! There’s no other word. Your
father treating you in such a way--and fighting with Jack! But it isn’t
only that--it’s deeper. I’ve done very wrong myself. I’ve been very
bad--much worse than you know--”

“You, bad? Oh, mother! You’re losing your head! Don’t say such absurd
things. You--well, you did go against Jack and me rather suddenly last
winter, and I couldn’t quite forgive you at the time. But it’s going to
be all right now.”

Mrs. Lauderdale’s face grew pale again. For a few moments she said
nothing, and once or twice she bit her lip.

“I’m going to tell you what it was,” she said, with a sudden
impulse--unwise, perhaps, but generous and even noble in its way. “I
envied you, dear. That’s why I behaved as I did.”

“Envied me? Envied--me?” Katharine repeated the words slowly and with a
wondering emphasis. “Why? What for?”

Mrs. Lauderdale stared at her a moment in surprise at not being
understood immediately.

“What for?” she repeated. “For your beauty--because you’re young. Don’t
you know how beautiful you are?”

Katharine stared in her turn, in genuine astonishment. The idea that her
mother could envy her had never crossed her mind.

“Yes--but--” she hesitated, and the rich young blood rose slowly under
her white skin. “I know--at least--” she stammered, “people sometimes
tell me I’m good-looking, of course. But--but the idea--of your
envying--me! Why--it never occurred to me!”

“It’s true,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, looking down and pulling at the lace
on the pillow, with a regretful smile.

“Oh, I don’t believe it!” cried Katharine, suddenly. “It’s
impossible--you may have thought you did, once--”

“No, it’s true,” answered Mrs. Lauderdale, and the smile faded and was
lost in the contrite expression which came into her face.

She had made her confession and wished to go to the end of it. She was
trying to make a reparation, being a good woman, and she found it hard,
especially as her daughter did not half understand what she meant.

“I’m losing my beauty, Katharine,” she said, and every word of the
acknowledgment cut her. “It’s going, day by day, little by little. You
don’t know--it’s as though my life-blood were being drained--it’s
worse--sometimes. I’d rather die than grow old and faded. You see, it’s
all I had. I know now how much I’ve cared for it--now that it’s so
hopeless to try and get it back. And one evening last winter--Crowdie
was there--he kept looking at you while I was talking to him, and then I
caught sight of my face in the little glass that hangs from the
mantel-shelf. I shan’t forget how I looked. I knew then.”

Her face grew suddenly weary and half-desperate now, as she told the
little story of the hardest moment in her life. Katharine listened in
wondering silence, knowing that she was learning one of the secrets of
the human heart. Mrs. Lauderdale paused a moment, and shivered a
little, perhaps with the last after-sob of her convulsive weeping.

“Yes--I knew then,” she continued, in a low voice and still looking
down. “I knew how much it had all meant. And I began to hate you. Don’t
be horrified, child. I loved you just as much, but I hated you, too. How
funny that sounds! But I can’t say it any other way. It wasn’t you I
hated--at least it wasn’t the same you that I loved. It was your face,
and your freshness, and your youth--and that walk of yours. I wanted you
to be all covered up, so that no one could see you--then I should have
loved you just as much and in just the same way as ever. Do you
understand? I want you to understand. You must, or I shall never be a
happy woman again. What I suffered! So I made you suffer, too. Do you
know what I thought? You must know everything now. I thought that if I
could separate you and Jack and make you marry some one else--since you
couldn’t marry him--why, then you’d have been away somewhere else, and I
could feel again that I was quite beautiful. Only for a month--one
month! If I could only have that feeling of being perfectly beautiful
again--just for one month.”

She bowed her head again and hid her face in the pillow, for she was
blushing with shame--the good red shame that honest blood brings from a
sinful heart. The sight of the blush pained Katharine far more than the
thought of what caused it.

“Mother dear--” she stroked the golden hair--“it’s all over now. What
does it matter? You don’t hate me now!”

“Hate you! Ah, Katharine--I never hated you without loving you just as
much. I never said those hateful things but what the loving ones fought
them and came out when I was all alone. The moment you were gone, it was
all different. The moment I didn’t have to look at you--and think of
myself, and the little wrinkles. Oh, the vile, horrid little
wrinkles--what they’ve cost me! And what they’ve made me do! And they’re
growing deeper--to punish me--pity me, dear, if you can’t forgive me--”

“Ah--don’t talk like that! I never guessed it, and now--why, I shall
never think of it again. Unless I have a daughter some day--and then I
daresay I shall feel just as you’ve felt. It seems so natural,
somehow--now that you’ve explained it.”

“Does it? Does it seem natural to you? Are you sure you understand?”
Mrs. Lauderdale looked up anxiously.

“Of course I understand!” answered Katharine, reassuring her. “You’ve
always been the most beautiful woman everywhere, and just for a little
while you thought you weren’t, because you were tired and not looking
well. You remember how tired you used to be last winter, mother, when
you were working so hard and then dancing every night, into the bargain.
It was no wonder! But you are, you know--you’re quite the most beautiful
creature I ever saw, and you always will be.”

Yet Katharine in her heart, though she was comforting her mother and
really helping her with every word she said, was by no means sure that
she quite understood it all. At least, it was very strange to her, being
altogether foreign to her own nature. With all his faults, her father
had scarcely a trace of personal vanity, and she had inherited much of
her character from him. The absence of avarice, as a mainspring which
directed his life, and the presence of a certain delicacy of human
feeling, together with a good share of her mother’s wit, were the chief
causes of the wide difference between her and Alexander. It was hard for
one so very proud and so little vain to understand how, in her mother,
vanity could so easily have driven pride out. Yet she did her best to
imagine herself in a like position, and was quite willing to believe
that she might have acted in the same way.

“Thank you, dear child,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, simply. “I don’t know why
I’ve told you all this just this morning. I’ve been trying to for a
long time. But I hadn’t the courage, I suppose. And now--somehow--we’re
more alone in the world than we were, since the dear old uncle has
gone--and we shall be more to each other. I feel it. I don’t know
whether you do.”

“Yes--I do.” And Katharine’s thoughts again went back to that strange
death-scene in the night, in the white room with the soft, warm light.
“We shall miss him more, by and by. He was a very live man. Do you know
what I mean? Whatever one did, one always felt that he was there. It
wasn’t because he was so rich--though, of course, we all have had the
sensation of a great power behind us--a sort of overwhelming reserve
against fate, don’t you know? But it really wasn’t that. He was such a
man! Do you know? I can’t fancy that uncle Robert ever did a bad thing
in his life. I don’t mean starchy, stodgy goodness. He swore at papa
most tremendously yesterday--only yesterday--just think!” She paused a
moment sadly. “No,” she continued, “I don’t mean that. He always seemed
to go straight when every one else went crooked--straight to the end, as
well as he could. Oh, mother--I saw him die, you know! I didn’t know
death was like that!”

“It must have been dreadful for you, poor child--”

“Dreadful? No--it was strange--a sort of awe. He looked so grand, lying
there amidst the white velvet! I see it now, but I didn’t think of it
then--the picture comes back--”

“Yes--I’ve seen him,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, softly. “His face is
beautiful now.”

“It wasn’t beautiful then--it was something else--I don’t know. I felt
that the greatest thing in the world was happening--the great thing that
happens to us all some day. I didn’t feel that he was dying exactly--nor
that I should never hear him speak again after those last words.”

“What did he say?” asked Mrs. Lauderdale. “No,” she added, contradicting
herself quickly. “If it’s anything like a secret, I don’t want to know.”

“It wasn’t. He looked at me very strangely, and then he said, quite
loud, ‘Domine quo vadis?’&nbsp;”

“Lord, whither goest Thou,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, translating the
familiar words to herself. “Did you say anything?”

“I answered, ‘Tendit ad astra.’ We had both said the same things once
before, some time ago. He heard me, and then he died--that was all.”

At this point some one knocked at the door. Mrs. Lauderdale rose and
went to see who was there. Leek, the butler, clad in deep mourning
already, stood outside. There was a puzzled look in his face.

“If you please, Mrs. Lauderdale, I don’t know what to do, and I’d wish
for your orders--”

“Yes--what is it?”

“There’s Mr. Crowdie downstairs, madam, wanting the picture of Miss
Lauderdale that he brought yesterday for poor Mr. Lauderdale, and
desirin’ to remove it. But the impression downstairs seems to be that
Mr. Crowdie presented it to poor Mr. Lauderdale yesterday, in which case
it appears to me, madam, to be part of poor Mr. Lauderdale’s
belongings.”

“Oh! Well--wait a minute, please. I’ll ask my daughter if she knows
anything about it.”

Mrs. Lauderdale re-entered the room.

“I heard what he was saying,” said Katharine, before her mother could
speak. “He distinctly said he gave the picture to uncle Robert. I was
there when he brought it. Isn’t that just like them--coming to get what
they can when he’s hardly dead!”

“Yes--but what shall we do?”

“I don’t care. He’ll give it to Hester, as he meant to do at first. Let
him take it.”

Mrs. Lauderdale went to the door again.

“Let Mr. Crowdie have his picture, Leek. I’ll be responsible.”

“Very good, madam.”




CHAPTER XV.


The death of Robert Lauderdale was the news of the day, and produced a
profound impression everywhere. Even the city put on, here and there, an
outward token of mourning, for on every building of the many which had
belonged to him, the flag, if it were flying, was half-masted. New York
is a city of many flags, and the eye is accustomed to attach meaning to
their position.

And people spoke with respect of the dead man, which rarely happens when
the very rich are suddenly gone. He had done well with his money, and
every one said so. He had been more charitable than many had guessed
until those who had been helped by him began to bemoan their loss.
Stories went about of his having known, personally and by name, such men
as the conductors on the Elevated Road, and of his having visited them
in their homes--them and many others. His death made no difference to
any one in Wall Street, and every one in Wall Street was therefore
prepared to praise him.

Forthwith began the speculation and gossip in regard to the will. John
Ralston heard much of it, and he observed a curious tendency amongst
the men at the bank to treat him with greater deference than usual.

The Ralstons had been informed of the final catastrophe early in the
morning. John had immediately gone to Robert Lauderdale’s house, rather
to enquire about Katharine’s condition than for any other purpose, and
had thence proceeded down town. There was no reason why he should not go
to the bank as usual, he thought. The dead man had only been his
great-uncle, and he had determined to make Mr. Beman change his mind,
and to counteract the influence of Alexander Junior. The best way to do
this was to go to work as though nothing had happened. Before he had
been half an hour at his desk, his friend Hamilton Bright, the junior
partner in the firm, came up to him.

Hamilton Bright was a sturdy, heavily built man, five and thirty years
of age, with a prosperous air--what bankers call ‘a lucky face.’ He was
fair as a Saxon, pink and white of complexion, with clear, honest eyes,
and quiet, resolute features. In his early youth he had gone to the
West, and driven cattle in the Nacimiento Valley, had made some
fortunate investments with the small fortune he had inherited, had
returned to New York, gone into Beman Brothers’ bank, and in the course
of a few years had been taken into the partnership. He was an extremely
normal man. His only peculiarity was a sort of almost fatherly
attachment to John Ralston, about which he did not reason. The shadow in
his life was his love for Katharine Lauderdale, of which, for John’s
sake, he had never spoken, but which he was quite unable to conceal.

He came to John’s desk and spoke to him in a low voice.

“I say, Jack,” he began, “is it true that cousin Katharine has broken
her arm?”

“Yes,” answered Ralston, bending his black brows. “How did you hear it?”

“It’s got about and into the papers. There’s a paragraph about it. They
say she fell downstairs.”

“Some servant told, I suppose, and got a dollar for the item. It’s the
small bone of her right arm--she was staying with poor uncle Robert, and
she had a fall--somehow,” added Ralston, vaguely. “She must have been
there when he died. It was awfully sudden at the end. I saw him
yesterday afternoon. He seemed pretty strong. I went this morning to
enquire about cousin Katharine--they say he died very peacefully.
Failure of the heart, you know.”

Bright nodded thoughtfully, as he leaned one elbow upon Ralston’s desk.

“What sort of a will is it going to turn out?” he asked, after a
moment’s pause.

“I haven’t the slightest idea,” answered John, with perfect truth.

“It would be a good thing for you if he had died intestate. Your mother
and old Alexander are the next of kin. They’d get something in the
neighbourhood of thirty or forty millions apiece. You’d give up
clerking, Jack.”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. If I were ever to have much money, a year in a
bank wouldn’t do me any harm. But I’m not likely to stay here. Cousin
Alexander’s a good enemy to me. He’s been telling Mr. Beman that I
drink, and that sort of thing, and Mr. Beman has requested me to leave
on the first of the month.”

“You don’t mean that?” Hamilton Bright’s fair Saxon face reddened in
sudden anger for his friend.

“Of course I do.”

Ralston told him exactly what had happened, and by the time he had
finished, Alexander Lauderdale Junior had another enemy, and a dangerous
one. Had Bright known all, and especially that Katharine owed her broken
arm to her father’s violence, something unexpected might have happened.
Bright had for Katharine all the Quixotic devotion which a pure and
totally unrequited love can inspire in a perfectly simple disposition,
which has been brought into rather close contact with the uncompromising
code of such a region as the Nacimiento Valley.

“And you wish to stay in the bank?” asked Bright, quietly, at last.

“Yes. And you know very well, Ham, that I’m not as bad as I used to be.
I’m going to have a talk with Mr. Beman to-day.”

“Don’t you bother,” answered Bright. “I’ll talk to him--now.”

Hamilton Bright’s broad shoulders swung round, and he went straight to
the senior partner’s room. Mr. Beman was in his usual seat at his huge
desk.

“I want to speak to you about Ralston, Mr. Beman,” he said, briefly,
laying one of his broad hands upon the shelf of the desk. “You’ve told
him to go on the first of the month, because Mr. Alexander Lauderdale
informed you that he drank.”

“Yes,” answered Mr. Beman, “I have, though I don’t know how you heard
that it was through Mr. Lauderdale.”

“Well--it’s a fact, or Ralston wouldn’t have said so, in the first
place, and I see you admit it. But there isn’t a word of truth in the
story. Ralston gave up wine altogether last winter.”

“Do you mean to say that Mr. Lauderdale has told me--a deliberate
falsehood, Mr. Bright?” asked the old banker.

“Yes.”

Now Mr. Beman had a very high opinion of Hamilton Bright, but he looked
long and earnestly into the clear blue eyes before he made up his mind
what to say.

“I’d not considered the affair as of any importance,” he said, at last.
“But you’ve made it very serious. Mr. Lauderdale is Ralston’s cousin,
and might be supposed to know what he was talking about.”

“Yes. That doesn’t make it any better for him,” observed Bright. “I know
what I’m talking about, too. Mr. Lauderdale is a sort of cousin of mine,
and I know them all pretty well. I haven’t much opinion of Mr.
Lauderdale, myself.”

Again Mr. Beman stared and met the calm blue eyes. He recalled Alexander
Junior’s steely grey ones, and did not prefer them. But he said nothing.
Bright continued.

“If you can get him to come here, Mr. Beman, I’d like to repeat what
I’ve said in his presence. He’s a liar, he’s a sneak, and I’m inclined
to think he’s a scoundrel, though I wouldn’t say more.”

But in this Bright did Alexander Junior an injustice. Mr. Beman,
however, had not survived fifty years of banking in New York without
knowing that just such men as Alexander are sometimes wrecked, morally
and financially, after having inspired confidence for half a lifetime.

“You use pretty strong language, Mr. Bright. I’ve known Mr. Lauderdale a
long time, but not intimately, though I’ve always considered him a
valuable friend in business relations. I shall certainly not countenance
any such proceedings as calling him to account for what he said. But if
you are sure of Ralston, Mr. Bright, please ask him to step here for a
moment. We’ll keep him. Not that he’s likely to stay long,” added Mr.
Beman, with a smile. “His mother and Mr. Lauderdale’s father are next of
kin to Mr. Robert Lauderdale, who died this morning, I’m told. I should
certainly not wish to do an injustice to any near relation of my old
acquaintance.”

Hamilton Bright, who rarely wasted words, merely nodded and left the
room. He went immediately to Ralston again.

“It’s all right, Jack,” he said. “Mr. Beman wants you to stay, and wants
to tell you so. Go right in.”

“Thank you, Ham,” said Ralston, rising.

A moment later he was standing before Mr. Beman. The old gentleman
looked up over his glasses.

“Mr. Ralston,” he said, “I’ve reason to believe that I was hasty
yesterday. I understand that my friend was mistaken in what he said of
you. I regret what I said myself. I shall be very glad if you’ll stay
with us. I learn from other sources that you’re very attentive to your
work, and I must say--Mr. Ralston--” he smiled pleasantly--“it will be
just as well for you to know something about our business, considering
the position--the enviable position--which you’ll probably some day
occupy.”

John Ralston, the son of one of the next of kin, was not quite the same
person as Jack Ralston, the grand-nephew of a millionaire.

“I don’t know what position I’m to occupy,” he answered. “But I’m very
glad to stay with you, Mr. Beman--and I’m much obliged to you for doing
me this justice.”

“Not at all, not at all. I should be very sorry to do any one an
injustice--especially a near relation of my old and valued acquaintance,
Mr. Robert Lauderdale.”

Thereupon John Ralston withdrew, very well satisfied. He had a sort of
premonition to the effect that things were to go better with him. It was
clear, at least, that Alexander Junior could not prevail against him,
since John had vanquished him twice within twenty-four hours. He
wondered whether Alexander were sitting all alone in his office at the
Trust Company, nervously tapping the table with his long, smooth
fingers, and wondering how soon he was to know the contents of the will.

The morning wore on, and he could almost see in the faces of his
fellow-clerks how the impression was growing that he would turn out to
be one of the heirs. There was an indescribable something in their
glances, a hardly perceptible change in their manner, of which he was
aware in spite of himself. But no news came.

At half past twelve he went out and got his luncheon at Sutherland’s, as
usual. When he came back, he found a note on his desk from his mother.
He opened it in considerable excitement, for he could not deny that he
hoped a very large share of the inheritance might come to Mrs. Ralston,
if not to himself. But the note contained no final news. Mrs. Ralston
said that, considering the enormous value of the estate, the lawyers
desired to make the will public as soon as possible--a common measure in
such cases, as the sudden demise of very rich men has a tendency to
affect public confidence, until it is known who is to have the principal
control of the fortune. Mrs. Ralston said that only she herself and old
Mr. Alexander Lauderdale, as being the two next of kin, had been
requested to hear the will read that afternoon. She advised him to come
home and wait for her, as early as he could conveniently leave the bank.

That was all, and he had to possess his soul in patience during several
hours more. His mother had not yet seen Katharine, and did not mention
her. It was impossible to foresee what she would do, but it was clear
enough that she would not, and could not, return to her father’s house
at once.

Before the afternoon was far advanced, the wisdom of the lawyers’
advice about the reading of the will became apparent. Rumours were
afloat that the whole fortune was to go to old Alexander, and rumour
further stated that he was in his dotage, and would be capable of
selling miles of real estate to found a refuge for escaped lunatics.
Serious persons gave no credit to such talk, of course, but any one
acquainted with New York knows how little, at a given moment, may upset
the market and cause disaster. The reason of this appears to be that
there are more undertakings unfinished yet, or just begun, in America,
than there are elsewhere, which depend for their success altogether upon
a period of comparative calm in financial affairs. To check them, though
they might turn out well, is often to kill them, which means ruin to
those who have backed them at the beginning.

But matters proceeded rapidly. Before Ralston left the bank, the
newsboys were crying the evening papers, containing, as they avowed,
‘the extraordinary will of Robert Lauderdale.’ In five minutes every one
in the bank had read the statement.

There was a paragraph in which, after giving the reasons for making the
will public at once, its principal conditions were named. John, who knew
nothing of what Katharine had heard, was neither surprised nor
disappointed. The paragraph had evidently been written by one of the
lawyers, and sent to all the papers for publication, and there was no
account of any interview with any of the heirs. It was a plain account,
as far as was possible.

Mr. Robert Lauderdale, it said, had never married; but he had numerous
relations, who were all descended from the original Alexander
Lauderdale, the grandfather of the deceased. In order to avoid all
possible litigation after his death, Mr. Lauderdale had left his fortune
as though it had been left by his grandfather, regularly distributed
amongst all the heirs of the primeval Alexander, with no legacies
whatsoever, excepting certain annuities to be bought of an insurance
company before the distribution, for the benefit of the servants in his
employ at the time of his death. The will, said the paragraph, bore a
very recent date, and had been drawn up, strange to say, by a young
lawyer of no particular standing. The names of the witnesses were also
given, and, oddly enough, they were persons quite unknown to any one
concerned. The paragraph went on to say that it was presumed that the
will would not be contested by any one, and would be promptly admitted
to probate. A list of the heirs followed. They were: Alexander
Lauderdale Senior, Alexander Lauderdale Junior, Mrs. Benjamin Slayback,
Robert Lauderdale Slayback, her infant son, Miss Katharine Lauderdale,
Mrs. Admiral Ralston, John Ralston, Mrs. Richard Bright, Hamilton
Bright, Mrs. Walter Crowdie. In all, there were ten living persons. The
property was to be divided precisely as though the primeval Alexander
had left it to his two sons, and as though they, in turn, had divided it
amongst their children, down to the youngest living heir, who was
Benjamin Slayback’s baby boy.

John Ralston pored over the paragraph till he knew it by heart. Then, as
soon as he proceeded to apply the terms to actual circumstances, he saw
that one-half of the whole fortune must go to Hamilton Bright, his
mother, and his sister, Hester Crowdie. Of the remaining half, he and
his mother would have half between them, or a quarter of the whole. The
smallest share would go to those who actually bore the name of
Lauderdale, for only the last quarter would remain to be distributed
between the two Alexanders, Charlotte, Katharine, and Charlotte’s child.
Robert Lauderdale had thus provided a little more liberally for
Katharine and himself than for most of the members of the family, since
they were to have, ultimately, more than a quarter of the whole. And
Alexander Junior would get one of the smallest shares. But it seemed
strange that the Brights should have so much, though it was just
possible that the old gentleman might have thought it wise to place a
large share in the hands of a trained man of business who would keep it
together.

On his side, Hamilton Bright had made the same calculations, and was as
near to losing his head with delight as his calm nature made possible.
He came up to Jack, and proposed that they should walk up town together
and discuss matters.

“I can’t,” answered Ralston. “I’ll go a bit of the way on foot, but my
mother wants to see me as soon as possible.”

They went out, followed by the envious eyes of many who had read the
paragraphs. In a few days they were both to have millions.

“Well,” said Ralston, when they were together on the pavement of Broad
Street, “it’s a queer will, isn’t it? I suppose we ought to congratulate
each other.”

“Wait till it’s all settled,” answered Bright, cautiously. “Not that
there’s going to be any difficulty, as far as I can see,” he added. “It
seems to be all right, and properly witnessed.”

“Oh--it’s all right enough. But if Alexander Junior can fight it, he
will. He’s come out worse than he expected. The only odd thing, to my
mind, is the name of the lawyer. Who is George W. Russell, anyway? Did
you ever hear of him?”

“Oh, yes--I know who he is. He’s a young chap who’s lately set up for
