prisoners or the wounded, and he proposed to convey them to Louisville.

Captain Truman reported the result of his interview; and the major
accepted the compromise, and was better pleased with it than with his
own plan. The prisoners were marched to the railroad in charge of the
guard selected, and at dark the train took them on board. It was not
necessary for the captain to go with them, but the lieutenant was to
return as soon as possible with the soldiers.

Not long after the train started, Major Lyon marched with all his
remaining force to the hill road, to form a junction, if possible, with
the two divisions of his first company.




CHAPTER XXII

A DESPERATE DEED CONTEMPLATED


Deck Lyon was not at all satisfied with his situation in the wagon in
which he had been loaded with the tools and materials of the
bridge-burners; and from the bundles of light wood, cans of powder,
turpentine, and kerosene in the vehicle, this appeared to be the proper
name for the four men. With the men smoking their pipes on the front
seat, it did not appear to him to be a very safe position.

The wagon would have been called a "prairie schooner" farther west; and
was of the kind used in Tennessee and North Carolina, and perhaps
elsewhere in the South. It had a high front and rear, with a sheer
between them like an ancient galley. It was provided with a canvas
cover; and the bows at either end carried it out about three feet beyond
the body, like an awning in front of a window. The driver rode on the
nigh wheel mule, with a long whip in his hand. He was a skilled
teamster, and did not soar to the refinement of reins, but did his
driving by word of mouth, and the application of the whip.

Deck had no idea where he was, or where he was going, for he had not
studied the map of the present locality. He did not know where these men
had come from. Captain Truman was evidently unaware of their existence
in this section, or he would have set a guard over the bridge, after he
had captured it in the early morning. If the son had listened to his
father's conversation with the wounded prisoner, he would have learned
that the bridge-burners had been sent over with the flanking detachment
that had been defeated and driven off by the second company. They had
made their way to the vicinity of the bridge with their wagon, and had
watched for an opportunity to do their work.

They had found the signalman in their way; and, doubtless, it had
required some time to arrange their plan for getting him out of the way.
Deck was alone, and was not a very dangerous opponent in himself; but he
could give an alarm by firing his carbine or otherwise, which would
bring an armed force to his assistance. It was necessary to resort to
strategy; and the proceedings of Brown Kipps to get the troublesome
signalman out of the way have already been detailed. If the young man
had had more experience of the ways of the world in general, and of the
methods of bridge-burners in particular, they would not have succeeded
so well.

The combustible goods and other articles in the wagon seemed to have
been pitched into the vehicle at random; for they were not arranged in
anything like order, and everything was in confusion. It seemed to the
prisoner a piece of remarkably good fortune that he had not had his legs
and arms bound, as when he was first taken. He was only a boy, though a
stout one, and they did not seem to set a high estimate on his prowess
as a fighting character; for they had not seen him in the skirmish on
the east road, when he had given Lieutenant Makepeace the wounds which
had disabled him.

The sabre and carbine which had been taken from him had been carelessly
thrown into the wagon, though they were within reach of the men. Deck
was a young man of too much enterprise to be mentally inactive in the
midst of his present misfortune, and the wagon had hardly started before
he began to consider his chances of escaping from the custody of the
four men. At the first glance he could see that the chances were all
against him. If it came to a fight, there was no chance at all for him;
and his inborn prudence did not permit him to think of such a thing as a
physical contest with a threefold odds against him.

But he was not discouraged at the mountain of difficulty in front of
him, but proceeded to study the situation very carefully. It will be
remembered that his captors had neglected to take from him the revolver
he carried in one of his pockets; for, doubtless, it did not occur to
Kipps that he was supplied with such a weapon. Deck set a very high
value on the pistol in his present emergency. The trousers with which he
had been supplied by the government were not made with hip pockets, a
very serviceable improvement to the garment, not unknown even at the
beginning of the war.

This kind of pocket was very useful to those who were in the habit of
carrying revolvers; but Deck's ingenuity had enabled him to provide for
the deficiency. He had arranged a sort of hook under one of the back
suspender buttons, about where the pocket would have been if the garment
had been supplied with one, so that he could readily produce the weapon
on occasion. He had a box of cartridges in his pocket, and the revolver
was fully loaded for instant service.

His carbine and sabre lay on the merchandise behind the men, all of whom
were seated on a front seat under the projecting cover, and the wagon
was wide enough to provide close quarters for all of them. The canvas
could be drawn down so as to protect the contents of the body from the
weather; but now it was fastened up, so that the vehicle was open in
front.

Deck thought he might work his way forward far enough to enable him to
reach his regular weapons; and at first he thought he would take this
step. If he succeeded in obtaining them, all the advantage he expected
to gain was in preventing his custodians from using them on an
emergency; for the revolver in his pocket was a more effective weapon in
the wagon. He looked over the miscellaneous loading of the vehicle, and
tried to find a place for each of his feet in his advance to the forward
part of the wagon.

His survey of the ground was not at all satisfactory; for there was no
firm foundation for his feet. He must move noiselessly, or the attention
of his captors would be called to him. He could not expect to go three
feet without disturbing some of the articles; and his caution compelled
him to abandon the attempt to recover his arms. They were not essential
to his success in any plan he might adopt; and if Kipps discovered that
he was trying to escape, he would certainly have his arms tied behind
him again; and that might cut off all his chances. He was satisfied that
it was not prudent for him to attempt to reach and obtain his carbine
and sabre.

Then a more desperate scheme occurred to him, and it seemed to be more
feasible than the other. He had his revolver; and, after a great deal of
practice with it, he had become quite skilful in its use. He had seated
himself on a box close to the rear curtains of the wagon when Kipps
committed him to his canvas prison. Though it seemed to him like
"fastening a door with a boiled carrot," he had seen the foreman adjust
and fasten a padlock on the curtains after he had drawn one over the
other.

Doubtless this was done to prevent thieves from stealing any of the
stores in the vehicle in the night; but any enterprising robber, with a
sharp knife in his hand, could speedily make an opening in the canvas.
These men were not soldiers, so far as the prisoner knew; though perhaps
they were more effectively opposing the plans of the government than if
they had been, by destroying its facilities for the transportation of
troops and supplies for the suppression of the rebellion. They were
enemies as much as though they had worn the gray uniform.

Deck sat on the box with his hand on his revolver. He could sit there,
and with the six bullets in his pistol he could shoot every one of his
captors, unless some of them fled before his fire. One of them might
seize and use his carbine; but he would have a barrel in his weapon
ready for him. This seemed to him to be the most promising scheme that
suggested itself, so far as mere success was concerned. It would rid
this vicinity of the State of four men who might do as much mischief to
the loyal cause as a whole company of soldiers, even if they were Texan
cavalry.

Deck took the revolver from the hook inside his trousers, and assured
himself that all the barrels were charged. Then he looked the wagon over
again, and considered what he was about to do. Incidentally he asked
himself what the mechanics intended to do with him. Doubtless they would
hand him over to the military, and he would be sent to the South. It was
not a pleasant prospect, and he prepared to use his weapon.

It was war in which his lot was cast; and the business of war was the
killing of men, and the more the better. He raised the weapon; but, in
spite of his reasoning, his soul revolted at the thought of the act he
had been ready to commit a few moments before. Brown Kipps had used him
as kindly as the circumstances would permit, and had not confined his
arms behind him when in his judgment it did not appear to require it. It
looked like a cold-blooded murder, and a cowardly deed besides, to shoot
these men in the back of the head.

He believed that, if he committed the deed, the remembrance of it would
haunt him as long as he lived; and the Confederate prison was better
than such a black memory. He put the revolver in his pocket; and he felt
more like a Christian when he had decided not to be guilty of the
outrage to which he had been tempted. He wondered what his father, who
was a true Christian, would say when he related this incident to him, if
he ever saw him again.

"Mr. Kipps," said he on an impulse which suddenly seized him.

"Well, my little dandy, what now?" asked the foreman, as he turned his
head as far as his crowded seat would permit.

"Don't you think you have carried me about far enough?" demanded Deck.

"I reckon not jest yet. You are a Yankee soldier, and you may be wuth
sunthin' to us afore we get through with you," answered Kipps very
good-naturedly. "I reckon you uns down below there got some prisoners
out o' we uns."

"No doubt of that," added Deck.

"We know'd there had been a fight down there; but we don't know nothin'
more about it."

Deck told him something more about it, including the fact that
Lieutenant Makepeace was a prisoner in the hospital.

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Kipps, deeply interested in the statement.
"Makepeace brought us over here part of the way; and he's a right down
good feller, and I liked him better'n Dingfield. I'm sorry for him. Is
he in a bad way?"

"I can't say how bad; but he has a bullet in his chest, and a sabre-cut
on the head," replied Deck. "Our surgeon is taking good care of him."

"I'm glad you uns took care on him; and if you get hurt, we uns will do
as much for you," said the foreman.

"But I have already done a great deal more than that for you; and you
may thank me that you four are not dead at this particular moment,"
added the prisoner boldly, as he decided to adopt another method of
proceeding.

"How's that, little sonny? I don't edzactly see it," answered Kipps,
standing up on the platform in front of the wagon, so that the other
three could turn round and see the prisoner.

"Not ten minutes ago I had made up my mind to shoot all four of you, and
make my way back to my company," continued Deck, as he produced his
revolver, and held it up so all four of them could see it.

At this moment the wagon went over some obstacle like a large log; and,
as the hind wheels descended from it with a heavy "jounce," Deck was
thrown forward, and only saved himself from a fall among the assorted
loading by grasping one of the bows.

"We done com'd to de road, Mars'r Kipps!" shouted the driver, as he
stopped his team after a succession of yells at the mules.

"Stay where you are, Jube!" called the foreman. "I want to know how my
life was saved, for one, afore we go any farther. What's the reason we
uns ain't not all dead, little 'possum?"

"Because I didn't shoot you all," replied Deck, as he stood holding to
the bow with one hand, and the revolver with the other.

"Do you expect, little po'k-eater, we uns should 'a' let you do such a
wicked deed as that?"

"But I could have done it without asking your permission," replied Deck.
"I was sitting on that box, and I could have taken you first through the
back of your head; and if one of you had moved to resist, I could have
finished him in the twinkling of an eye. I don't like to boast, Mr.
Brown Kipps, but I am a dead shot with this particular revolver; and it
would have been ready for business again the instant I had disposed of
the second man. It fires six shots, and I had a chance to complete the
job, even if I missed my aim twice. Don't you see it?"

"Where did you get that little shooter, Lyons?"

"My name is Lyon; there is only one of us here. Of course I have had the
revolver about me all the time, and you were so considerate as not to
take it from me, simply because it did not come into your head to look
for it."

"Why didn't you do the shootin' when you had the chance, little coon?"

"Because I concluded that it would be mean and cowardly to shoot four
men in the back of the head, and that it would haunt me as long as I
lived."

Kipps suddenly jumped over the seat, and began to make his way to the
place where the prisoner stood; but Deck pointed the revolver at him,
and commanded him to halt.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE SKIRMISH ON THE HILL ROAD


Brown Kipps leaped over the seat, and acted as though he was in a hurry
to reach Deck Lyon, after he had explained the desperate deed he had
contemplated; and the latter thought the movement indicated violence on
the part of the foreman.

"Halt where you are, Kipps! Don't come any nearer!" exclaimed Deck; and
the revolver in his hand enforced his command.

"Don't shoot, sonny! I only wanted to catch you by the hand, and shake
it with right good will," replied Kipps, as he halted where the carbine
and sabre of the young cavalryman were lying between his two feet. "I
b'lieve what you been tellin' on us; and I reckon it's right lucky some
on us on this front seat ain't all ready to be put in the ground."



"I assure you that I have told you the exact truth," said Deck, as he
dropped his revolver to his side.

The moment he did so Kipps stooped as quick as a flash and picked up the
carbine.

"Don't shoot, little one!" he continued, as the prisoner raised his
weapon again, ready to meet this new combination in front of him.

Deck realized that he must act quick, and he was in the very act of
firing at the foreman when he spoke. He looked his opponent in the eye;
but the bridge-burner did not bring the carbine to his shoulder. He had
grasped it near the muzzle, and he held it with the stock hanging down;
but he proceeded no farther than this, and the revolver pointed at the
head of Kipps, ready to fire if he elevated the piece. He was in doubt.
The words of the foreman did not indicate that he meant violence; he
felt that he had chance enough to save himself by shooting his opponent
before he could bring the carbine to bear upon him. But perhaps this was
the most exciting moment in the lifetime of the young soldier.

"Don't shoot, sonny!" repeated Kipps, still holding the carbine in a
position that rendered it entirely useless; and as he spoke he advanced
towards his prisoner.

"Don't come any nearer, Kipps, or there will be a breathless body in
this wagon!" exclaimed Deck, with vim enough to convince the other that
he was in dead earnest.

"I won't come no nearer, if you say so, Lyons. I was only go'n' to bring
this shootin'-iron and give it back to you, jest to show you that I was
right friendly-like to you; and I wanted to catch you by the hand,
'cause I believe you could 'a' killed some or all on us if you'd had a
mind to. I reckon we won't quarrel after you've held up when you mou't
have stuck some on us."

"Drop that carbine, Kipps, and then I can better understand what you
mean," replied Deck.

"That's what's the matter, is it? I was only go'n' to give it back to
you," protested the foreman, as he let go of the piece; and it dropped
upon the loading of the wagon.

Deck lowered his revolver to his side; and Kipps climbed over the
bundles, boxes, tools, and cans, till he was within reach of his late
prisoner, for he seemed no longer to regard him as such. He extended his
big hand to the cavalryman, whose right still firmly held his weapon,
and he took the hand of the other with his left.

"That's a right-down honest Tennessee fist, Lyons, and the gizzard
always goes with it," said he, as he squeezed the hand of Deck till he
was on the point of crying out with the pain of the cracking bones.
"There's that cheese-knife and shooter of yourn, and you can take 'em as
soon as you get ready. You're a Yankee; but you've sunthin' more'n a
rock for a gizzard."

"There's my hand in yours, Kipps; it's the left, but that is nearest to
the heart," replied Deck, now fully trusting the Tennesseean, as he
thrust the revolver into his pocket, satisfied that he should have no
further use for it at present.

"You've got a rayle Tennessee gizzard in your bowels, Lyons, and I like
you. If anybody wants to do you an ill turn, he's got to fight Brown
Kipps, sure," added the foreman.

"And the rest on us," put in Tom Lobkill.

"That's so," chimed in Lank Rablan. "We ain't none on us gone dead yet;
and if you hadn't got a gizzard tucked away somewhar in your bowels,
some on us mou't 'a' been on t'other side o' Jordan's swellin' flood."

"Here's your tools, Lyons," continued Kipps, as he brought the sabre and
carbine to Deck. "Here's the trimmin's that goes along with 'em, and you
can rig yourself out jest as you was when I fust laid eyes on you."

As he spoke he took from his pockets the belt, sling, and other articles
belonging to his equipment. Deck seated himself on the box again, and,
after he had adjusted them, he put them on. He turned his back to his
companions in the wagon, and restored his revolver to the hook where he
carried it; for he did not care to show them where it had been
concealed.

"I suppose you don't intend to carry me any farther, Kipps," said Deck,
when he had fully accoutred himself for a march; and he hoped to be in
the ranks of his company within a couple of hours.

With his companions, he believed the bridge had been destroyed, and that
his father had failed in the principal object of his mission, though he
had defeated the enemy in every engagement in which he had met them.

"I reckon you can go jest where you like, and kerry that gizzard o'
yourn with you," replied Kipps. "I'm only sorry you're a Yankee, for
you've behaved handsome enough to be a Tennesseean."

"I am equally sorry you are not all four Union soldiers, standing up
like true men for your country and its government," replied Deck.

"I reckon we'd better not talk on that subject, for we can't agree,
nohow," answered the foreman, as he went to the front of the wagon. "Now
you can git out at this end, for t'other's locked."

This was a happy conclusion of the whole matter; and Deck realized that
he had accomplished more by the course he had adopted than if he had
carried out his cold-blooded intention to shoot his custodians. He went
to the front, and Kipps assisted him to alight; for his weapons
interfered with his movements in descent.

"Where are we now, my friends?" asked Deck, as he looked about him.

"I don't know, no more'n a goose in a poke," replied Kipps. "We've come
some miles, more or less, from the railroad; and this is the road we
come down on. Where are we, Jube?" he demanded of the negro driver.

"I reckon we's here, Mars'r Kipps," replied the driver with a grin from
ear to ear.

"I reckon so too; but whar's here, Jupiter?"

"Donno whar you be, Mars'r!" exclaimed the negro, who seemed to think
the foreman was joking with him.

"I don't know whar I am, Jube; do you?" replied Kipps, looking about him
to identify anything in the surroundings.

"I know for sartin; we done come dis way befo', Mars'r. Dis is jest de
place whar we done struck in de field to find de roleraid," replied the
driver confidently. "Dis wot de fo'kes here call de hill road."

"But we didn't come over that log before."

"No, sar; dis nigger runn'd ag'in it, and twis' it round."

"I reckon we'd better camp here for the night, and wait for orders,"
said Kipps, "You can go the way you come, Lyons."

"I don't know that I can find my way," replied Deck. "I have been shut
up in your wagon all the way, so that I could see nothing."

"You can foller the wagon-track, and that will fotch you out all right,"
added Lank.

But Deck was in doubt about returning to the railroad. He knew that
Lieutenant Belthorpe had been sent over to the railroad, and he had seen
the troopers ride up the embankment. He thought it strange that he had
not encountered his force; and he proceeded, Indian fashion, to examine
the road for horse-tracks in the sand. The sod was so tough that it bore
no indentation inside of the log; but in the road he found plenty of
horseshoe marks, and he proceeded to study them.

They all indicated that the riders were headed to the south, or in the
direction of the east road, the latter of which led to the camp and
cross-roads. Was it possible that Belthorpe had returned to the camp?
This was what the marks suggested. Deck then walked by the log, and
found the track extended towards the north. He followed them for about a
quarter of a mile, and then he found where they began on the road.

At this point he found the fence had been thrown down, and there were
plenty of horse-tracks in the cornfield which it surrounded. These led
up from the direction of the railroad. In the soft ground he found, on
the left of the great body of the marks, which indicated that the
detachment had marched by fours, the print of a bar shoe, often called a
round shoe. He was aware that Tom Belthorpe rode a horse shod in this
manner, for the steed had belonged in the stable of the planter of
Riverlawn.

His investigation proved that not only a company of cavalry had come up
from the railroad to the highway, but that it was the force under
command of the first lieutenant of the first company. He returned to the
highway, wondering what had become of this detachment. But Deck did not
know that a portion of the Texan Rangers had come down the hill road, as
reported by the scouts of the squadron. He hastened back to the place
where he had left the wagon. As he approached it he saw two mounted
Rangers talking with the bridge-burners, or rather with the foreman of
them; and the other three were helping the driver to hitch on his mules,
for they had begun their preparations to camp there for the night.

The two scouts turned their horses and rode away in the direction from
which they had come. Deck had halted when he saw them, and put himself
behind a big tree at the side of the road. But as soon as they rode off
at a gallop, as though they were in a hurry, he advanced. The
bridge-burners were all busy in getting the mules ready for a start.

"You better make tracks with all your legs towards the railroad, sonny,"
said Kipps earnestly.

"What has turned up now?" asked Deck with interest.

"Them men was the scouts of our company, and we are ordered to move to
the north with all the speed we can get out of the mules," continued
Kipps. "Our company, or a part on't, will be here soon; and I don't want
'em to ketch you, Lyons, for I can't do nuthin' for you if they get hold
on you."

"All right, Kipps; and I am very much obliged to you for your kind
service. But where are you going?" asked Deck.

"I don't know no more'n the dead. I'm to foller this road, and I hain't
the leastest idee whar it'll fetch out," replied the foreman, as he took
his place on the front seat, and Jube started the unwilling team.

The driver plied his whip with cruel vigor, and the wagon soon
disappeared. Deck was perplexed. Belthorpe had marched up the hill road,
as indicated by the tracks of the horses, and the Rangers were marching
down the same road. How did it happen that they had not met, and a fight
had not ensued? He could not explain it. Just above him was a grove, or
a field covered with sparsely scattered trees.

Deck was very anxious to ascertain the situation of affairs in this
section, and he hoped to be able to give his father some important
information when he met him. He placed himself behind a tree in the
grove. He had hardly secured his position before he heard the clatter of
horses' hoofs and the clangor of sabres in the road above him. In a
minute he obtained a view of them, and they were Rangers. They were
hurrying their horses as though they were engaged in some important
movement.

The troops had not come abreast of the observer before he heard a
furious yell in the grove not far from him. The shout of "Riverlawn!"
was heard, with other yells; and a body of the Union cavalry dashed into
the road, and fired a volley from their carbines.

"Sling carbines! Draw sabres!" shouted an officer; and Deck recognized
the well-known voice of Tom Belthorpe. Then they charged into the enemy
with a fury that promised to annihilate them in a very short time.

Deck belonged in this portion of the first company; but he had no horse,
and he could not join in the charge; but he began to use his carbine.
The Texans fought bravely and desperately, and the two forces seemed to
be about equal. The interested observer saw one of his company topple
over from his horse, and the excited animal dragged him, with one foot,
in the stirrup, off the field. Deck caught the horse, and reduced him to
subjection with a vigorous arm. He released the soldier, who was
insensible, and placed him under a tree. Then he mounted the steed, and
dashed into the fight.

He had hardly struck a blow with his sabre before he heard the clanging
of sabres some distance in the rear. At the head of it was the officer
in command, with one arm in a sling, and his head tied up with bandages.
They were Texan cavalry, without a doubt; and Deck called the attention
of the lieutenant to the fact.




CHAPTER XXIV

CAPTAIN DINGFIELD'S STRATEGY


The officer at the head of the approaching force, wounded in the head
and arm, could be no other than Captain Dingfield; but there was no one
present who knew anything about the brief action in which the commander
of the Texan force had been defeated, and from which he had made a very
hasty retreat. Major Lyon had sent Captain Gordon with half his company
in pursuit of the fleeing enemy; the passage of both the pursuers and
the pursued across the east road had been reported by the scouts at the
cross-roads.

Deck had not been able to force his way into the thickest of the fight;
and, being near the side of the road, he was the first to discover the
approach of the second detachment of the enemy. The action was in
progress in a broad, open space in the road, where the trees had been
cut off from the land; and the ground occupied was partly in this
field. He could readily determine that Belthorpe had chosen this place
for the action because it presented more open space.

Doubtless his scouts had reported to him the approach of the first
section of the enemy, and he had concealed his force in the grove to
which Deck had retreated to observe the movements of both parties in the
conflict. But he thought the lieutenant had made a mistake in delaying
his attack until the detachment of the enemy had advanced too far, and
he had thrown his men upon the rear instead of the flank.

The lieutenant had less than fifty men, and the enemy fought with
desperate courage and determination. But his men were fresh; for they
had been moving leisurely about in quest of the foe, and had been
resting a short time in the grove, while the Rangers had ridden a long
distance. The arrival of the rest of their company would throw all the
advantage, both in position and numbers, over to the side of the enemy;
and Deck saw in an instant that the battle would be lost if it continued
under these unfavorable circumstances.

"Lieutenant!" he shouted, flourishing his sabre to attract attention,
when he had approached as near as he could to the officer.

Tom Belthorpe was using his sabre vigorously, and he had just smote to
the ground a trooper, when he heard the voice of Deck. He had not seen
him before, and was not aware of his presence. He concluded on the
instant that the son of the major was the bearer of an order from his
father; and he knew the young man well enough to understand that he
would not call him at such a time on an unimportant matter, and he rode
towards him.

"What is it, Deck?" he demanded, full of the excitement of the conflict.

"Yon are flanked and outnumbered!" shouted Deck; though in the noise and
fury of the action no one but the lieutenant heard or noticed his call.
"There is another detachment of the Rangers coming up the road. You are
beaten if you don't get out of it!"

"I don't understand you, Deck," replied the officer, glancing at his men
still engaged in the furious strife.

"There is a force of the enemy of at least fifty men coming up the road,
and in three minutes more they will fall upon your rear!" repeated
Deck, speaking as clearly as though he had been reading his piece in
school.

"Where do they come from?" demanded Tom, as he looked back in the
direction indicated by the sabre of his friend, and they were the best
of friends.

"I don't know anything at all about it," answered Deck impatiently.

The fresh troopers of the lieutenant's command were driving the enemy
before them by the vigorous fighting they had put into the attack, and
they were somewhat superior in numbers. By the time Deck had given his
warning the enemy had been forced back to the point where the wagon had
emerged from the fields and woods. The lieutenant was obviously very
unwilling to give an order to retreat when victory was almost within his
grasp. It was the first action in which he had been engaged, and his
pride as a soldier was implicated.

Tom looked again at the approaching re-enforcement of the enemy; and
then very reluctantly he summoned the bugler, and ordered him to sound
the call, "To the rear." It was given in the quickest of time; and the
faces of the troopers indicated their astonishment and chagrin at the
nature of the call, when victory was only a question of minutes.

The men fell back; but the enemy were not disposed to follow them, and
perhaps believed they had gained a victory. They were facing down the
road, and they could not help seeing that a re-enforcement for their
side was approaching. The lieutenant in command reformed his men, but he
did not order them to charge upon their retiring foe.

"I don't understand this business, Deck," said Tom Belthorpe, when he
realized that the officer in command of the enemy did not intend to
pursue him.

"I don't understand anything beyond what I can see with my own eyes,"
replied Deck. "I have just come over this region in a wagon, and I
advise you to retreat towards the railroad, if you will excuse me for
saying so."

The lieutenant gave the order for his men to retire in the direction
indicated, and the officer and Deck followed them.

"We were within two minutes of a victory, Deck," said Lieutenant
Belthorpe, still panting with the exertion he had put forth in the
combat.

"But you would have lost it, and had the tables turned on you two
minutes later," replied Deck.

"What next?" asked the officer, who, in his inability to understand the
situation, was perplexed and baffled. "I don't feel like running away
just as we were whipping those Texans."

"But it is easier to run away before you have been whipped yourself than
it would be afterwards. I should judge that the force approaching is the
other half of the Rangers' company. There they come," added Deck, as the
furious riders seen in the distance halted in the road near where the
bridge-burners had proposed to camp for the night.

Without consulting his friend and companion in regard to the expediency
of doing so, the lieutenant gave the order for his platoon to halt at
the moment when they had encircled one of the knolls so common in that
region. He and Deck were in the rear; and though the men could not see
the road, it was in full view from the position occupied by the officer.

"I am not feeling like doing any more running away just yet," said Tom,
who was quite willing to forget that he was a lieutenant in the presence
of Private Deck Lyon.

"They have halted, and there is no occasion to run away just yet; but it
is best to take the bull by the horns before he gores you," added the
private. "I think we had better rest under that big tree, and keep out
of sight till you get a better idea of this thing, Lieutenant."

The suggestion was adopted, and they rode to a position under the tree
where they could see without being seen.

"They have come together, and they don't seem to know where they are any
better than we do," said the lieutenant. "I should say they had had a
hard ride by the looks of their horses;" and the officer had looked at
the reunited company through a small opera-glass he carried in his
pocket, though the distance was hardly more than five hundred feet.

"Hold on a minute, Tom!" exclaimed Deck, as he slid from his horse, and
fastened him to a branch.

"What are you going to do now, Deck?" demanded the lieutenant.

"I am going up there to find out what is going on," replied the private,
as he detached his sabre, and fastened it to his saddle.

"But you will be picked up," suggested Tom.

"If I am I will let you know; but I am determined to get posted, so that
I can give you reliable information," answered Deck. "But I obey your
orders; and, if you tell me not to go, of course I shall not."

"Do as you think best, Deck," replied the lieutenant, who found it
difficult to realize that he was the military superior of his friend.

Deck waited for nothing more. His carbine was still slung at his back;
but he had provided that the clang of his sabre as he walked should not
betray him. He had looked the ground over before that day, and knew
where he was locally, though he was ignorant of the positions of the
several bodies of troopers other than those before his eyes. He was on
the border of the grove, consisting of large trees, rather far apart. He
got behind the trunk of one of these, and then picked his way from one
