this reason, had practised it the most in their thoughts, and in their
dummy rehearsals, and it was done as well as the others had been, much
to the surprise of Uncle Ben, who had been sure they would fail on this
command. They did not fail, and caught the stroke as well as though
they had been practising for a month. The boat went off at great speed;
and Ben had hardly a word of fault to find with the rowing, though he
corrected some of the individual movements. He permitted the crew to
pull the whole length of the lake; but Frank, prompted by Ben, had
slowed them down to the measured stroke of the cutter of a man-of-war.

"Stand by to lay on your oars!" said the coxswain, when the boat was
approaching the mouth of the river. "Oars!"

The crew instantly levelled their oars, feathering the blades. Not one
of them was permitted to touch the water. This manoeuvre was executed
quite as well as the others had been, and the boys were praised without
stint by the venerable instructor.

"Give way!" said Frank, always prompted by the old sailor at his side
in a low tone, so that most of the oarsmen believed that the coxswain
acted on his own responsibility.

"Stand by to toss!" he continued. "Toss!"

The oars all went up as one, the handles resting on the bottom of the
boat.

"Let fall!" Frank proceeded with the drill, and with only a very short
pause between the two commands; but the oars all dropped into the
water, and were shipped with entire unity. "Give way!" he added; for
the 'together' is used as a rule only when the boat starts from the
shore or another craft.

"Stand by to hold water!" said Frank a little later. "Oars!"

At this command the oarsmen levelled and feathered their oars.

"Hold water!" and the boat began to slow down.

"Right here comes in another command," said Uncle Ben. "You hain't
heard it before; but it is often needed to keep you from runnin' into a
boat, a wharf, a rock, or anything else. The command is, 'Starn all!'
When you get it, you must pull backwards. It comes arter 'Hold water!'
as you are doin' now. All ready! The command, Frank."

"Stern all!" said the coxswain in vigorous tones, for this order is
likely to be given in an emergency.

The boys made rather bad work of rowing backwards at first, and it was
necessary for Uncle Ben to drill them for half an hour before they
could do it as well as their other work. But they were attentive and
patient; and at the end of the lesson they could pick up the stroke as
readily as the forward movement, even when the manoeuvres were
executed in a hurry, for it is generally used when there is need for
haste.

"How many more things are there to learn, Uncle Ben?" asked number
five, who was Charles Hardy.

The old salt removed his tarpaulin, scratched his bald head, and said
only two. The boys lay on their oars, as it is called when they are
levelled.

"Starboard oars--back!" said Frank. "Port oars--ahead! Give way!"

Some began to put the oars as directed in the first command, and Ben
stopped them, telling them to wait for the second; and it was done over
again two or three times. Of course the Zephyr whirled round like a
top, and was left headed down the lake.

"The next new thing is to trail your oars, which is sometimes needed
when the boat has to go through a narrow place. Sometimes trail-lines
are used. They are bits of cord, say two feet long, one end made fast
to the loom of the oar, and the other to the gunwale of the boat. If
you let go the handle of the oar it will be dragged alongside the boat
in the water; but we don't need trail-lines. To trail, the commands
are, 'Stand by to trail!' and 'Trail!' At the second you will throw the
loom of the oar out of the rowlock, and let it drag in the water; but
you mustn't let go, or you will lose it. Now go ahead, Frank, and when
the boat is making five knots give the commands to trail."

"Five knots?" repeated the coxswain.

"A knot is a sea-mile; but I mean when she is going along at fair
speed."

Frank gave the orders to go ahead in proper form, and the Zephyr was
soon making more than six knots an hour.

"Stand by to trail!" said the coxswain. "Trail!"

This was a simple manoeuvre, and the oarsmen did it right the first
time trying; but to make sure of it, the movement was again executed.

"Come about, and go up the lake again," said Uncle Ben.

"Ship your oars! Starboard oars, back! Port oars, ahead!" Frank
commanded; but no one moved an oar. "Give way!" and the boat came
about, the rowers laying on their oars.

"Very well done!" exclaimed Uncle Ben.

The coxswain gave the commands, and the boat went ahead again up the
lake. Near the mouth of the river was a small island, on the north side
of which (the lake extending east and west) was a long, flat rock, like
the one where they had embarked.

"Now, my boys, I have come to my last lesson; and it will be making a
landing on that flat rock. When the coxswain is ready to stop the boat,
the command is 'Way enough!' When you get it, you will cease rowing,
and toss the oars without any command. Here the coxswain comes to the
end of his rope, and the stroke oarsman picks it up. Fred Harper may
say 'Toss!' or wave his right hand, and you will all boat your oars, or
put them in place on the thwarts, in good time with him. Now try it on,
Frank."

The young officer of the boat had headed her to the island as soon as
it was mentioned.

"Way enough!" said he, when he thought the boat was' near enough.

The oars all went up as one, and Fred waved his hand as he deposited
his oar on the thwarts in concert with the other eleven. Ben said it
was well done, but might be better done, and it was repeated.

"If you were going into a boat-house, which you will soon have, or
alongside another vessel, the coxswain should give the command, 'In
bows!' Then the two bowmen will boat their oars, and take the
boat-hook. You may give that command next time, Frank," said Uncle Ben.

The boat backed away a considerable distance from the island, and then
went through the manoeuvre again. The teacher said it was perfect;
and Tony fended off with the boat-hook as the boat came to the rock,
and Fred stood ready to haul in the stern.

"Now, boys, you may land and rest yourselves," said the instructor.

The rowers were not tired they protested, but they went on shore. They
did not stay a quarter of an hour on the island; and as soon as they
had embarked, the old sailor took the American flag from the socket,
and waved it above his head as soon as the boys were seated.

"Now, my lads, three cheers for the American flag. One!"

"Hurrah!"

"Two!"

"Hurrah!"

"Three!"

"Hurrah!"

"And long may it wave!" added Uncle Ben heartily, as he put the flag
back in its place. "Boys, can't you sing?"

"We sing in school," replied several.

"Sing me a song, then, before we get under way."

"What shall we sing?"

"Anything you please."

"'Canadian Boat Song,'" suggested Frank.

"Ay, ay, give us that."

Fred Harper was a good singer, and started the song. The boys all
joined in; and Uncle Ben was so pleased when they had finished it, that
he begged them to sing it again. They cheerfully complied, and the old
man listened to the repetition with the most intense delight.

"Now, boys, I will sing you a sea song."

"Hurrah! do, Uncle Ben," exclaimed Charles.

Uncle Ben's voice was somewhat cracked; but he rendered with tolerable
effect the song,--

    "'Twas in the good ship Rover,
      I sailed the world around;
    For twenty years and over,
      I ne'er touched British ground."

"Bravo, Uncle Ben. Fred Harper, can't you give us Ben Bolt and Sweet
Alice? I am sure Uncle Ben will like it."

"I will try," replied Fred.

"We will join the chorus."

The song was sung, and the old sailor shed a tear over "Sweet Alice, so
young and so fair."

"Here comes father in the sailboat," cried Frank, as he discovered
Captain Sedley approaching in his pleasure yacht.

"Ay, beating up agin the wind."

"Can't we have a race with him?" asked Charles Hardy.

"Sartin, if you like. There is a fresh breeze springing up."

The boys waited patiently until Captain Sedley reached the spot.

"How do you like your craft, boys?" asked he, as he threw his boat up
into the wind, alongside the Zephyr.

"First-rate!" they exclaimed with one voice.

"Three cheers for Captain Sedley," cried Tony Weston, taking off his
cap and swinging it round above his head. "One!"

"Hurrah!"

"Two!"

"Hurrah!"

"Three!"

"Hurrah!" and the boys all clapped their hands for several moments.

Captain Sedley took off his hat, and politely returned his
acknowledgments. When boys get to cheering, they hardly know where to
stop; and when Fred Harper proposed three for Uncle Ben, there was a
prompt and hearty response to the call.

"I'm much obleeged to you, boys, for the compliment," said the veteran,
pulling off his tarpaulin.

"Now for the race," cried Charles.

Uncle Ben explained the wishes of the boys to Captain Sedley; and he
readily agreed to a trial of speed, with the remark that he should
expect to be beaten.

"Let me get my boat under good headway before you start," continued he,
as he hauled aft his jib-sheet, and brought the boat before the wind.

The boat's crew waited till he had got nearly the eighth of a mile from
them, and then, with all the forms, the Zephyr got under way. Uncle Ben
had taught them to keep time in rowing by the swaying back and forth of
the coxswain's body.

"Don't get excited, boys; the wind is freshening," said Uncle Ben.
"Steady, now."

The Zephyr darted like an arrow through the water under the impetus of
the twelve oars. Frank, in his anxiety to win the race, began to sway
to and fro so rapidly that Uncle Ben was obliged to caution him several
times to keep cool.

"We are overhauling him very rapidly," said he; "if you pull regular,
and save your strength, you will pass him before you get half way to
the beach. Steady, Frank; don't hurry them."

The boys pulled steadily; and, as the old sailor had predicted, they
passed Captain Sedley's boat long before they came to the beach. As the
Zephyr shot past him, a long, loud cheer burst from her crew.

"Isn't this fun!" exclaimed Charles Hardy.

"Glorious!" replied Phil Barker, who was at the next oar before him.

"What do you think the Bunkers would say if they should see us about
this time?"

"Wouldn't they stare!"

"Way enough!" said Frank; and the boys ceased rowing, while the boat
continued to shoot through the water with scarcely diminished velocity.

"There are the Bunkers on their raft," said Tony Weston, pointing down
the lake.

All eyes were turned in the direction indicated by the speaker.

"You can pull down by them, if you like," added Uncle Ben.

"Give way!" said Frank.

The Zephyr darted down the lake, and in a few moments was within hail
of the raft.

"Not a word to them," said Uncle Ben.

"Can't we cheer them once?" asked Charles.

"Yes, if you can keep good-natur'd about it."

"We can."

The club boat shot by the raft, on which the wondering Bunkers stood
like so many statues.

"Way enough!" said Frank. "Now for three cheers."

They were given; but the Bunkers were too much bewildered by the
appearance of the gorgeous boat, with its silken flags and bright
colors, its gilded name and its graceful shape, to heed the cheers of
the club.

"Give way!" said Frank; and under the direction of Uncle Ben, he
managed the helm so as to make the Zephyr describe a graceful
semicircle round the raft.

"Five o'clock," said the old sailor; "we must go ashore."

Frank steered for the rock, and they came alongside in due form; Tony
"fended off" with the boat-hook when they reached it, and the club
separated for the night, leaving the boat in charge of Uncle Ben.




CHAPTER IX

THE STOLEN WALLET


At school the next day, the club boat was the principal topic of
conversation among the boys. Those who had been invited to join the
club were regarded as especially fortunate. Frank Sedley was a
distinguished personage, and even Tim Bunker unbent himself in some
measure from his ferocious dignity in his attempts to conciliate him.

"I say, Frank, you will give me a sail in your boat, won't you?" said
Tim.

"I should be very glad to accommodate you, but I don't think my father
will let me take any boys who do not belong to the club."

"Can't I join the club?"

"It is full now."

"You can just make room for one more if you have a mind to."

"There are only twelve oars."

The school-bell rang then, and Frank was glad to escape further
importunity on the subject. Tim Bunker was dissatisfied with himself
and everybody else. He had seen the magnificent boat which Frank owned,
and in which he and his companions had had such a glorious time on the
preceding afternoon. He envied them the possession of the Zephyr, and
he would have given anything to be permitted to join the club. Perhaps
he would even have promised to become a better boy, for he keenly felt
the weight of those moral obliquities which excluded him from the
society of Frank and his friends.

But more especially did he envy Tony Weston his good luck in getting
into the club; for Tony's admission was abundant evidence that the
social standing of the boys had not been taken into consideration.
There was no rich and poor about it; it was good and evil entirely. And
Tim had always cherished a strong feeling of dislike, and even hatred,
towards the poor widow's son, undoubtedly because he was a good boy,
and everybody liked him. He had not forgotten Tony's interference on
the island, when he was about to thrash Frank Sedley; and among the
Bunkers he expressed his intention to be fully revenged.

At recess Frank, Charles, and Tony went up to a neighbor's house close
by to get some water. When they had drunk, and were passing through the
wood-house to return, Charles observed an old wallet lying on a bench.

"Twig!" said he in his peculiar style.

"That must be Farmer Whipple's," replied Tony.

"Probably the farmer laid it down when he was paying somebody some
money," added Frank.

"I will carry it to him," said Charles. "He is out in the garden."

"Don't meddle with it," answered Tony. "We will see him, and tell him
it is here."

"But somebody might steal it in the meantime."

"Nobody will; I wouldn't meddle with it."

The boys walked off towards the schoolhouse, but they did not find the
farmer in the garden.

"He was here when we came up," said Tony. "I will find him;" and he
walked towards the barn, while Charles and Frank continued on their
way.

Tony looked all about the premises, but he did not find the farmer.
Returning to the wood-house, he found that the wallet was gone.

"Hello, Tony," said Tim Bunker, at this moment entering the wood-house,
and going to the well for a drink.

"Have you seen Farmer Whipple, Tim?"

"Yes; he just went into the house," replied the chief of the Bunkers.

"Which way did he go in?"

"Right through this way. He was just ahead of you when you came from
the barn."

"Oh, was he?" said Tony, much relieved.

The farmer had taken his wallet then as he passed through, and he was
satisfied it was all right.

"I say, Tony, what were you doing out to the barn? Hooking eggs, eh?"

"I was not," answered Tony indignantly.

"Honor bright?"

"I am not a thief."

"I'll bet you ain't," drawled Tim, placing his thumb against his nose,
and wagging his four fingers back and forth.

Tony heard the school-bell ring, and waiting for no more, ran off with
all his speed. Tim was so late that Mr. Hyde, the master, gave him a
sharp reproof for loitering by the way.

Tim Bunker's seat was next to Tony's; and though the former persisted
in annoying him, whispering in his ear something about "sucking eggs,"
he tried to be patient and good-natured. But at last, when he could
endure it no more, he informed against him.

"What do you mean by 'sucking eggs,' Tim?" asked Mr. Hyde, after he had
called him on the platform.

"I saw Tony skulking round Farmer Whipple's barn at recess."

"Did you see him have an egg?"

"No, sir; but I thought he had been eating something."

Mr. Hyde investigated the case fully, and Tim got punished for his
conduct in annoying his schoolmate.

School was dismissed as usual, and the boys went home. In the afternoon
Tony had some work to do, and did not come.

A few minutes after two, when the boys were all in, Farmer Whipple
entered the room, apparently in a high state of excitement.

"Where is Tony Weston?" said he.

"He is absent this afternoon," replied Mr. Hyde.

"I lost my pocket-book this morning."

"Indeed!"

"I saw Tony Weston and the Bunker boy in the woodshed a little before."

"It was Tim Bunker, then," added Mr. Hyde in a low tone.

"I think's likely," continued Farmer Whipple; "but Tony was there too."

"I will state the case, and see if the boys know anything about it,"
said the master.

Mr. Hyde called the attention of the boys by ringing a little bell on
his desk, and then mentioned the loss which Farmer Whipple had met
with.

"If any scholar knows anything about it, let him signify it."

Frank and Charles raised their hands.

"Frank?"

"I saw a black wallet lying on the bench when we went up after some
water."

"Who were with you?"

"Tony and Charles."

"Any one else?"

"No, sir."

"Why did you not take charge of it, and give it to Mr. Whipple?"

"Tony thought we had better not touch it, and we decided to tell Mr.
Whipple it was there as we went through the garden."

"But you didn't tell me," said the farmer.

"No, sir; we didn't find you in the garden when we came back, and Tony
went to look for you while we continued on our way."

"Has Tony said anything to you about it since?" asked Mr. Hyde.

"Yes, sir; he told us after school that he didn't find Mr. Whipple, and
when he went back to the wood-house, the wallet was gone. He met Tim
Bunker there, who told him the owner had just gone in that way."

"Now I think on't, I paid a little bill, and I recollect of laying the
wallet down on the wash-bench," said Farmer Whipple.

"And Tim Bunker was there?" asked the master.

"Not while we were," replied Charles.

"Tim?"

"Sir," answered the chief of the Bunkers promptly.

"Do you know anything about this wallet?"

"Don't know nothing about it."

"Were you up there?"

"Yes, sir."

"You saw Tony there?"

"Yes, sir; when I was going up, I saw him come out of the barn and go
into the wood-house."

"Did you see Mr. Whipple?"

"No, sir."

Frank and Charles looked at each other. Tim's story differed from
Tony's.

"You saw Tony in the woodshed?"

"When I went in, he was tucking away something in his pocket."

Tony's friends were utterly confounded by this bold statement.

"You didn't see what it was, did you?" inquired Mr. Hyde, pained by the
turn the affair was taking.

"I didn't. I thought it was an egg at first. He was kind of struck up
when I entered, and asked me if I had seen Farmer Whipple. I told him I
hadn't. The bell rang then, and he cut away to school."

Tim's story seemed plausible, but the master could not harbor a
suspicion that Tony was guilty of theft.

"Which pocket was it, Tim?" asked Farmer Whipple.

"The side pocket of his linen sack."

"Which side?"

"The left-hand side."

"That will do," said Mr. Hyde; and he and Mr. Whipple conferred on the
subject.

Frank was amazed. Tony steal the wallet! Impossible! He never could do
such a thing.

The conference ended, and Farmer Whipple left the schoolroom. Returning
to his house, he harnessed his horse, and drove down to Squire
Murdock's, the magistrate, to procure a warrant for the arrest of Tony.
This he obtained; and after getting a constable to serve it, he drove
to the widow Weston's.

Tony was in the garden picking some currants to sell the following
morning. He was hard at work, and his coat lay upon a bush near him.

Farmer Whipple and the constable jumped over the fence and approached
him.

"How do you do, Mr. Whipple?" said Tony, suspending his occupation.
"How do you do, Mr. Headley?"

"I am sorry to trouble you, Tony; but we've got some suspicions agin
you," began Farmer Whipple.

"Against me!" exclaimed Tony, with a glance at the constable.

"Sorry for it, but it looks bad agin you."

"What have I done?" asked the poor boy, alarmed by the words of the
farmer.

"I lost my wallet this morning, and Tim Bunker says he saw you tucking
something into your pocket," replied Farmer Whipple, proceeding to
detail all the circumstances.

"I am innocent!" pleaded Tony.

"But you were there?"

"I was there;" and Tony told his story just as he had related it to
Frank Sedley.

"All that may be; but you see, Tony, things are against you. Tim's
story is as straight as can be. This is your coat, ain't it?"

"Yes; you can examine that, and search the house if you like."

The constable took the coat. The pockets were filled with various
articles known in the vocabulary of a schoolboy. Mr. Headley thrust his
hand in, and Tony confidently waited the result. Several things were
taken out and returned. It was not in that pocket.

But the first thing the constable drew out of the other pocket was
Farmer Whipple's wallet!

"No use, Tony," said Mr. Headley.

"I did not know it was there; I did not put it there!" protested the
poor boy, whose face was as white as a sheet.



"You must come with me, Tony; I never would have believed it," said the
constable.

The widow Weston was called, and a statement of the case made to her.
Poor, loving, devoted mother! her heart was wrung with agony. But there
was a consolation for her. Tony could not be a thief. He was innocent,
she was sure, however strong appearances might point to his guilt.

The constable took him into the wagon; and Farmer Whipple drove off to
the Rippleton jail, which was located in the village. Tony had never in
his life been so utterly cast down as when he looked into the cell to
which he was conducted. But he realized that he was not guilty, and
this feeling made the prison less terrible to him.




CHAPTER X

TONY'S CASE


No one of all Tony's numerous friends was more surprised at the
accusation made against him than Captain Sedley. Like all who were
familiar with the past life of the brave little fellow, he was
incredulous. The very fact that Tim Bunker was near at the time of the
alleged theft seemed to be sufficient to clear him. The finding of the
wallet in his pocket was the most unaccountable piece of testimony that
had been adduced against him. It did not seem probable that it would
have remained so long in his pocket unknown to him, if any one had been
so wicked as to place it there.

As soon as the wagon which bore Tony a prisoner to the Rippleton jail
had gone, Mrs. Weston put on her bonnet, and hastened over to Captain
Sedley's house. She was sure of finding assistance there. She was so
confident of Tony's innocence, that the thought of proving it for the
satisfaction of the public seemed superfluous.

"I am sure he never could do such a thing in the world, Captain
Sedley," said she, wiping away her tears, and gazing with earnestness
into the face of her benevolent patron.

"Tony always was honest," replied Captain Sedley.

"Honest! He would not steal the value of a pin from anybody."

"I think he would not."

"I know he wouldn't!"

"But it seems very strange that the wallet should have been found in
his pocket."

"Tim Bunker put it there, you may depend upon it."

"Very likely; but, Mrs. Weston, you know that all these things must be
proved. As the affair stands now, I am afraid the testimony against
him, notwithstanding his good character, will be quite sufficient to
convict him."

"O Captain Sedley, I know he is innocent!" exclaimed the poor widow,
her eyes filling with tears again.

"But it must be proved, you see. The finding of the wallet upon him,
and the testimony of Tim Bunker that he saw him putting something in
his pocket, in the very place where the lost property was alleged to
have been left, will leave scarcely a doubt in the minds of judge and
jury."

"Tim Bunker did it, I know!"

Captain Sedley shook his head. Though he had the fullest confidence in
Tony's innocence, he desired to give his mother a perfect understanding
of the difficulties of the case. After all, there was a remote
possibility that poor Tony had been led to take the wallet; and if such
should finally prove to be the fact, it was better for the widow to be
prepared for the worst.

"I do not think Tony is guilty, Mrs. Weston; but you must consider that
appearances are very strong against him," said he.

