forage for themselves.”

“That will do,” answered Gerald. “Mr. Brooke,” he added, “this lady
consents to entertain us.”

“I shall esteem it a favor,” said Noel Brooke, alighting from his horse.

“Did you tell him what I charged?” asked the backwoods landlady.

“We are to pay a dollar each,” explained Gerald, turning to his
companion.

“That is satisfactory,” said the tourist.

“You may give it to me now,” said the new landlady with commendable
caution.

“Just as you please, madam.”

Noel Brooke took out a large wallet that seemed well filled with bills,
and selecting a two-dollar note passed it over.

The landlady extended her hand eagerly, and taking the bill examined
it minutely, and finally, as if satisfied with her scrutiny, thrust it
into a probable pocket in the interior recesses of her dress. She was
evidently fond of money, judging from her manner, and Gerald noticed
that she fixed a covetous look on the large and well-filled wallet from
which Mr. Brooke had selected the bank bill. It gave him a momentary
feeling of uneasiness, but he reflected that there was little danger
from a solitary woman, and did not mention his feeling to the tourist.

“What do you want for supper?” asked the woman in a quick, jerky way.

“Almost anything, provided it is hearty and there is enough of it,
madam.”

“I’ve got some antelope steak and corn cakes, and I’ll boil some
potatoes if you want ’em.”

“That will do admirably. But where did you get antelope meat? You
didn’t shoot the animal yourself?”

“No, my man shot him.”

That settled the question that had arisen in Gerald’s mind. The woman
had a husband.

“I might have known that you didn’t shoot him yourself.”

“And maybe you’d be mistaken. I’ve dropped more’n one fine antelope, if
I am a woman—Bess, bring me my rifle.”

Bess, undoubtedly the woman’s daughter, was quite a contrast to her
thin, bony mother, for, though not over the average height of women,
she would easily have tipped the scales at a hundred and eighty
pounds. She had a round, fat face, rather vacant in expression, but
good-natured, and in that respect much more attractive than her
mother’s. She brought out a large rifle, which her mother took from her
and raised to her shoulder in fine, sportsmanlike fashion.

“Please don’t mistake me for antelope, madam,” said Noel Brooke hastily.

This excited the risibilities of Bess, who broke into a loud and noisy
fit of laughter.

“What yer cacklin’ at, Bess?” demanded her mother.

“No, I won’t shoot yer,” she added, turning to Brooke. “You wouldn’t be
half so good eatin’ as an antelope.”

Here Bess went off into another fit of laughter, in which Gerald and
his companion joined, for the girl’s evident enjoyment was contagious.

“I am glad to hear that, madam.”

“What do you call me madam for?” inquired the woman suspiciously.

“Because I don’t know your name.”

“My name’s Sal Peters.”

“I shall remember, Mrs. Peters.”

“Bess, you can go and tell the man where to tie his hoss.”

The girl led the way to the rear of the building, where about a hundred
feet back was a sapling with a long rope attached to it.

“Hitch your hoss on to that,” said she. “And there’s another for the
young chap.”

Gerald smiled at this designation, and availed himself of the
information.

“You can set down anywhere, and when supper’s ready I’ll shout.”

“Thank you, Miss Peters,” said the tourist with an amused smile.

But Bess seemed still more amused at being called Miss Peters.

“Oh, I shall bust with laughing, I shall!” she giggled. “Miss Peters!
Oh, ain’t you funny, though?”

“Is there any place to wash?” asked Gerald, looking at his dust-soiled
hands.

Bess pointed to a little rill of water that flowed and trickled down
the hillside, and which Gerald had not yet observed.

“Thank you!”

“Towels are apparently unknown in this wilderness,” said Brooke, after
Bess had gone back to the house.

“And soap, too, I expect.”

“A little extra rubbing will make up for the last, and our
handkerchiefs may do as a substitute for the former. This seems a
primitive sort of place.”

Gerald admired the ease with which Mr. Brooke, who had undoubtedly been
brought up in the lap of luxury, adapted himself to the accommodations
of the wilderness. The young man, after refreshing himself with an
ablution, threw himself on the grass, and said contentedly: “It seems
good to rest after our long ride.”

“Yes, Mr. Brooke, that is the way I feel.”

“To tell you the truth, Gerald, I was afraid we might have to camp out
in the woods, and go to bed without our supper.”

“Our hotel isn’t exactly first class.”

“No, but if we get a plain supper and a comfortable night’s rest it
ought to satisfy us. If I cared to stop at first-class hotels I would
have remained in the larger cities. But I like better, for a time
at least, the freedom of the woods, even if it carries with it some
personal sacrifices and privations.”

“I have been thinking, Mr. Brooke, that my duties as private secretary
are not very laborious.”

“True, Gerald,” answered the tourist smiling. “In fact I have no use
for a private secretary as such, but I wanted a companion, and you
are worth more to me in that capacity than a college graduate whose
acquirements would be much greater.”

“But, Mr. Brooke, it doesn’t seem to me that I am earning the very
liberal salary you are paying me.”

“Not perhaps by your labors as secretary, but your company I rate
higher than this.”

“Thank you, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, gratified by this evidence of
appreciation.

“So that you needn’t feel any compunction at accepting your salary.”

“I know you mean what you say, and I shall hereafter feel easy on that
score. I wonder what would have been my future if you had not made your
appearance.”

“You would have got along somehow. You are a clever boy, one of those
that get on. There is one thing I reproach myself for, however.”

“What is that, Mr. Brooke?”

“I have taken you away from the congenial society of Jake Amsden.”

Gerald laughed.

“It is true,” he said, “but I will try to find compensation in yours.”

Noel Brooke rose and made a low bow.

“Really,” he said, “I can’t remember when I received such a compliment
before.”

At this moment Bess came out of the cabin and called out “Supper’s
ready, you fellers!”

“And we ‘fellers’ are ready for it,” said Noel Brooke rising briskly.
“Come along, Gerald, the inner man and the inner boy must be
replenished.”




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE PETERS FAMILY.


“SET right up there!” said Mrs. Peters, pointing to a table which was
backed up against the wall with one leaf extended.

The antelope steak emitted a delicious odor to our hungry travelers,
and they did not mind the absence of a table-cloth and napkins. These
would have seemed out of place in this backwoods hotel.

In addition to the antelope meat there were corn cakes as promised and
cups of coffee which had already been poured out.

“Mrs. Peters,” said Brooke, “you have given us a supper fit for a king.”

“I don’t know about no kings,” said the bony landlady. “I’ve heerd of
’em, but don’t take much stock in ’em. I don’t believe they’re any
better than any other folks.”

“I am not personally acquainted with any, but if I were I am sure they
would relish your cooking.”

“You’re monstrous polite,” said Mrs. Peters, her grim features relaxing
somewhat, “but I reckon I can cook a little.”

“And your daughter, no doubt, understands cooking also.”

“No, she don’t. She don’t seem to have no gift that way.”

“That’s a mistake,” said Brooke gravely. “What will she do when she is
married and has a home of her own?”

“Oh, how you talk!” exclaimed the delighted Bess. “Who’d think of
marrying me?”

“I think, Miss Peters, any one who married you would get his money’s
worth.”

“Are you married?” asked Bess in an insinuating tone.

“I believe I am spoken for,” answered Brooke hastily, for it seemed
clear that he would not have to sue in vain for the hand of the plump
young lady, “but my friend here, Mr. Lane, is single.” Gerald looked
alarmed, but was relieved when Bess said, “He’s only a boy. He ain’t
old enough to be married.”

“Won’t you sit down and have your supper with us, Miss Peters?”

“No, I couldn’t eat a mite if anybody was looking,” answered Bess
bashfully.

“I feel that way myself,” said Brooke. “Please don’t look at me, Miss
Peters. Look at Gerald. It makes no difference to him.”

“What nonsense be you two talkin’?” asked the landlady, as Bess went
off into another fit of laughter. “I never saw Bess so silly before.”

“It ain’t me, mother. The man is so funny he makes me laugh.”

The conversation stopped here, as Bess was sent out on an errand by her
mother. Gerald and the tourist devoted themselves to eating, and did
full justice to the plain but wholesome meal.

“I feel better,” said Noel Brooke, as he rose from the table.

“Folks generally do after eatin’,” observed Mrs. Peters
philosophically. “I reckon if you’re through you’d better go out.
You’re only in the way here.”

“Mrs. Peters is delightfully unconventional,” remarked Mr. Brooke as in
obedience to the plain hint given by their landlady they went out and
resumed their seats under a large branching oak tree in the rear of the
cabin.

“She has given us a good supper. That’ll pay for her unconventional
manners. I wonder what sort of a person her ‘man’ is?”

The question was no sooner suggested than answered. A tall, powerfully
built man, clad in buckskin and carrying a rifle, followed by two young
men, slighter in figure, but quite as tall, strode from the woods, and
halted when they caught sight of Gerald and his companion.

“Who are you, strangers?” asked the old man suspiciously.

“We are travelers,” answered Noel Brooke promptly, “and at present we
are guests of Mrs. Peters. Are you Mr. Peters?”

“I run that cabin, if that is what you mean.”

“So I supposed. Then you are my landlord.”

“I’ve got nothin’ to do with that. Ef you’ve made a bargain with Sal
it’s all right.”

“We have made a bargain with Mrs. Peters, and she has given us a good
supper.”

“I hope there’s something left for us,” growled Peters, “or there’ll be
a row.”

The two sons carried between them an antelope, so it looked as if they
would not lack for supper.

The three men filed into the cabin, and their wants were provided for
without trenching upon the antelope they had brought with them. An
hour later they came out, and settled down near the two guests.

“Where do you come from?” demanded Peters with rude curiosity.

“From England, to start with,” answered Noel.

“So you’re a Britisher?”

“If you choose to call me so. I never heard the word till I came across
the water.”

“I don’t think much of Britishers.”

“I am sorry to hear it,” said Brooke amused. “May I ask why you are
prejudiced against my countrymen?”

“We’ve licked ’em twice, and we can lick ’em again,” answered Peters
forcibly.

“I really hope you will have no occasion. So far as I can judge England
feels very friendly toward the United States. I must contend, however,
that my countrymen know something about fighting.”

“Wal, perhaps they do!” admitted Peters shortly, “but you ain’t no
match for us. Take you, for instance, how old be you?”

“Twenty-eight.”

“My Ben, there, is only twenty, and he could double you up in less’n a
minute.”

Noel Brooke fixed a critical glance on the tall, awkward, but strongly
built youth, indicated as Ben.

“He is certainly taller than I am,” he admitted. There was about six
inches’ difference in their respective heights.

“Yes, and he’s tough and wiry. Do you think you could lay him out, Ben?”

Ben grinned and answered shortly, “I reckon!”

Gerald, who had witnessed his friend’s prowess, didn’t feel quite so
certain of this.

“I thought you’d crawl,” chuckled the old man, using an expression more
common in that locality than further east. “Ben’s a chip of the old
block, he is! He can lay out any tarnal Britisher you can fetch round.”

Noel Brooke felt that it was foolish, but this good-natured
depreciation of his abilities didn’t fail to nettle him. He again
surveyed Ben with a critical eye, and took stock of his points as a
fighting man. He saw that as an antagonist he was not to be despised.
Yet in his own case he possessed a scientific training to which
Ben could lay no claim. Then, again, he was unusually strong and
muscular for a man of his small proportions. He felt sure that even if
conquered, Ben would not gain an easy victory, and—though it was a
risk—he decided to take it.

“I don’t mind having a little contest with your son—friendly of
course,” he said quietly, as he rose in a leisurely, almost languid,
way from his low seat.

“What!” ejaculated Mr. Peters, almost doubting if he heard aright, “you
are willing to tackle Ben?”

“Yes.”

“Ho, ho! this is rich!” said the old man with an irresistible guffaw.
“You; oh jeminy!” and he nearly doubled up in a paroxysm of mirth.

“You seem amused,” said the tourist, rather provoked at the old man’s
estimate of his fighting ability.

“Excuse me, stranger! You’re the pluckiest man I’ve met in many a long
day. It does seem redikilus your standing up against Ben!”

“I won’t hurt him much, dad!” said Ben, opening his mouth in a
good-natured grin.

“Of course it’s all in fun,” rejoined Noel Brooke smiling.

“Sartin! But you’d best consider what you’re a undertakin’ before you
begin.”

“I have done that.”

“It’s like a boy standin’ up against me.”

“So I am a boy, am I?” asked Brooke with a smile at Gerald.

“You ain’t much bigger’n a boy, that’s a fact. My Ben was as big as you
when he was only fifteen years old. Wasn’t you, Ben?”

“I was as big as him when I was fourteen, dad.”

“That’s so. You see, stranger, we’re a big race—we Peterses. Ben takes
after the old man. When I was fifteen year old I could do a man’s work.”

“So could I, dad.”

“So you could, Ben. Do you want to feel Ben’s muscle, stranger?”

“No,” answered Noel Brooke smiling. “I would rather not. It might
frighten me in advance, you know, and I want to start fair.”

“I guess you’re right. Well, boys, you can begin if you’re ready. I
wouldn’t have missed this for ten dollars.”

He sat back and looked on with an air of intense interest, while the
two ill-matched antagonists prepared for the trial.




CHAPTER XIX

SCIENCE VERSUS STRENGTH.


EVEN Gerald felt rather alarmed when he saw the two contestants facing
each other. Ben, who reached a height of six feet one, towered above
his small antagonist as the spire of Trinity Church towers above
surrounding buildings. A difference of six inches makes the difference
between a tall man and a short one. Why is it that a man of six feet
looks double the size of a man of five, though in reality only one
fifth larger? It is an ocular deception which affects every one, but is
not readily explained.

“If you want to back out, you kin do so,” said Ben good-naturedly.

“What, an’ spoil our fun?” demanded the old man. “No, stranger, it
won’t do to back out now.”

“I have no intention of backing out, Mr. Peters,” said Noel Brooke
firmly.

“That’s right! I like your pluck,” said the old man in a tone of
relief, for he feared he would lose a spectacle which he expected to
enjoy. He would have felt as badly disappointed, as the visitors to
Jerome Park if the races should be postponed.

Noel Brooke had taken stock of his long-limbed adversary, and the
result was that he felt encouraged. Ben had long arms, very long
arms, but his figure, though muscular, was loose-jointed, and his
motion indicated that he was slow. Now rapidity of movement is a very
important thing in a contest such as was to take place between these
two.

“Mr. Peters,” said the Englishman, “may I trouble you to give the
signal by saying ‘Ready.’”

“Ready!” shouted the old man eagerly.

Ben began to move his arms in a flail-like way common to those who
are untrained in the art of fighting, and advanced with the utmost
confidence to the fray. If he had hit straight out his blows would have
gone above the head of his antagonist, which was rather a disadvantage,
though not so great perhaps as that under which Noel Brooke labored in
being so short. It seemed to Ben, therefore, that he had better throw
his long arms around his puny opponent, and, fairly lifting him off
the ground, hold him helpless at his mercy.

“I won’t hurt him!” thought Ben magnanimously.

But somehow his plan miscarried. Noel Brooke skilfully evaded the close
embrace which would have settled the fight then and there in favor of
Ben, and skipping, first to one side, then to the other, rained in a
shower of blows upon Ben, one of which took effect in his jaw, and
drove him staggering back discomfited.

It may safely be said that never were three men more amazed than Mr.
Peters and his two sons.

There stood Ben, actually staggering as if on the point of falling,
while the Englishman, calm and unruffled, stood in an easy position
watching for the next move.

Old Mr. Peters rose from the ground in his excitement.

“Pitch into him, Ben!” he shouted. “Ain’t you ashamed of bein’ beaten
back by a little chap like that! Where’s your pluck? Are you goin’ to
let a little undersized Britisher do you up afore your own father and
brother?”

“No, dad, I’ll be eternally walloped if I will. Look out, there! I’m
goin’ to smash yer. Look out I say! Here I come.”

“All right! I’ll look out,” said Noel Brooke calmly.

Ben stood a poorer chance now than before, for his unexpected defeat,
and the raillery of his father, made him angry and reckless of
consequences. He rushed at Brooke in an impetuous pell-mell manner
which was utterly reckless and exposed him to attack, and which would
have given his opponent a great advantage even if he had been less
skilful.

Ben was excited, and Noel Brooke was not. Moreover, the tourist now
thoroughly understood his advantage, and awaited the onslaught in calm
confidence. Again he succeeded in avoiding the close hug by which Ben
intended to paralyze and render him powerless, and took the opportunity
to get in a couple of sledge-hammer blows, one of which took effect on
Ben’s chin.

It was too much for him.

Like a tall poplar he swayed for a moment, and then, falling backward,
measured his length upon the ground.

“Why, Ben!” exclaimed his father in angry amazement, “what’s got into
yer? Hev you been drinkin’? Why, you can’t fight more’n an old cow! To
be floored by a little chap like that!”

Ben rose from the ground slowly, looking dazed and bewildered.

“He knows how to fight, he does!” he said.

“Why, he ain’t half as big as you, Ben! Ain’t you ashamed of yourself?”

“No, I ain’t,” said Ben in a sulky tone. “If you think it’s so easy to
tackle him do it yourself. He’s a reg’lar steam ingine, he is!”

“Will you try it again, Ben?” asked Brooke in a friendly tone.

“No, I won’t. I’ve had enough.”

His father was carried away by his angry excitement.

“I didn’t think one of my boys would disgrace me,” he said bitterly.
“You’ve told me to tackle him myself, and I’ll be whipped if I don’t do
it.”

“You’ll be whipped if you do, dad,” said Ben. “If I can’t lick him you
can’t.”

“We’ll see,” said the old man, gritting his teeth. “Stranger, I’m goin’
for yer!”

“Wait a minute, sir,” said Brooke quietly. “I don’t mean to fight you.”

“You’re afraid, be you?” sneered the old man.

“You may put it that way if you like, but I’m not going to raise my
hand against a man old enough to be my father.”

“I don’t ask no odds on account of my age. You’ll find me young enough
for you.”

“Perhaps you are right, for I couldn’t fight with any spirit against
you.”

“You’ve only licked Ben. Now you want to crawl off.”

“No; if your other son cares to meet me I’ll have a set-to with him.”

“Come, Abe, there’s your chance,” said the old man, addressing his
eldest son. “Just stand up to the Britisher, and let him see that he
can’t lick the whole Peters family.”

“All right, dad!” said Abe, rising and standing up a full inch taller
than his younger brother. “The stranger’s a good fighter, but I reckon
he can’t down me.”

He was tall, muscular, and with no superfluous flesh. It looked to
Gerald as if his friend would find it a hard job to vanquish this
backwoods giant.

“Wal, stranger, how do you feel about it?” asked Abe, as he saw Brooke
apparently taking stock of his thews and sinews.

“I don’t know,” answered the tourist. “I had a hard job with your
brother, but I think I’ll find it harder to tackle you.”

“Ho, ho! I think so too. Wal, dad, give the signal.”

Ben and his father seated themselves as spectators of the coming
encounter. It may seem strange, but Ben’s good wishes were in favor of
the stranger. He had been defeated, and if Abe were victorious he knew
that he would never hear the last of it. But if Abe, too, were worsted
he would have a very good excuse for his own failure. The father,
however, felt eager to have the presumptuous Briton bite the dust under
the triumphant blows of his eldest son.

Abe was not as impetuous or reckless as Ben. Indeed, had he been so
naturally, Ben’s defeat would have made him careful.

He approached cautiously, and at the proper time he tried to overwhelm
Brooke with what he called a “sockdolager.” But Noel Brooke had a quick
eye, and drawing back evaded the onslaught which fell on the empty air.
Before Abe could recover from the recoil the tourist dealt him a heavy
blow beneath his left ear which nearly staggered him.

Ben laughed gleefully, and rubbed his hands.

“Now you see how ’tis yourself, Abe!” he cried.

“Shut up!” growled his father. “Don’t you go to crowin’ over your
brother. He’s all right. Just wait!”

Abe’s rather sluggish temperament was angered by his brother’s
derisive laugh, and he too lost his head. From this time he fought
after Ben’s reckless fashion, of course laying himself open to
attack—an opportunity of which the tourist availed himself.

When five minutes later Abe measured his length on the turf, Ben got up
and bending over his prostrate brother said with a grin: “How did it
happen, Abe? An accident, wasn’t it!”

“No,” answered Abe manfully. “I reckon the stranger’s too much for
either of us.”

“Try it again, Abe!” said the old man in excitement.

“No, I’ve had enough, dad. I shan’t laugh at Ben any more. I can’t best
the Englishman. I might try the boy.”

“No, thank you,” said Gerald laughing. “You could fight me with one
hand.”

This modest confession helped to restore Abe’s good humor, and he shook
hands with his adversary.

“You’re a smart ’un!” he said. “I didn’t think you had it in you, I
didn’t by gum. But there’s one thing I can beat you in—and that’s
shootin’.”




CHAPTER XX.

HITTING THE BULL’S-EYE.


“I HAVE no doubt of it—you can beat me at shooting,” said the
Englishman. “I can aim pretty fairly, but I don’t believe I can equal
you.”

“Let us try!” proposed Ben eagerly.

“Very well,” rejoined Brooke, “if you’ll lend me a rifle. Mine is not a
good one.”

“All right; I’ll lend you mine,” said Ben.

A board was placed in position, and with a piece of chalk a circular
disc was roughly outlined with a bull’s-eye in the center.

“Now,” said Ben, handing his weapon to Noel Brooke, “lemme see what you
can do!”

Brooke fired, striking the disc about two inches from the bull’s-eye.

“That’s good!” cried Ben. “Now I’ll show what I can do.”

He raised the rifle carelessly and struck the disc an inch nearer the
bull’s-eye than the tourist.

“I’ve beat you,” he said gleefully.

“And I’ll beat you, Ben,” added Abe.

He raised the rifle, took careful aim, and struck the bull’s-eye.

“That’s the way Americans shoot,” said he. “We don’t give in to anybody
in shootin’.”

“You’ve both beaten me,” said Brooke good-naturedly, “and I expected
you would.”

“You shoot pretty well for an Englishman,” said Abe magnanimously. “I
reckon you’d be called a crack shot in England?”

“Well, I have a pretty fair reputation there.”

“Don’t you want to shoot, kid?” asked Ben, turning to Gerald.

“I wouldn’t mind,” said Gerald with alacrity.

“Kin he shoot?” asked Abe, turning to the tourist.

“I don’t know. I never saw him try it,” answered Brooke.

Indeed, Noel Brooke awaited the result with considerable curiosity. He
had never heard Gerald speak of his rifle practise, and had no idea
whether he was skilful or not. The fact is, however, that in the three
years Gerald had lived with his father in Colorado he had had large
experience in hunting, for it was upon this that the two depended
largely for their supplies of food. Gerald had a quick eye, and steady
hand, and he had practised a good deal by himself, being ambitious to
gain skill with the rifle. He had succeeded so well that as soon as the
second contest was proposed he was anxious to enter, but felt rather
bashful about suggesting it himself. When, however, Ben mentioned it he
accepted at once.

“You kin use the rifle, kid, can you?” asked Abe a little doubtfully.

“Yes, a little.”

“We can’t expect too much of a boy like you, but you’ll learn after a
while.”

Gerald smiled inwardly, and determined to give the brothers a little
surprise.

He raised the rifle to his shoulder, and when quite ready he let fly.
