both cried belligerently.

"The baby kept me awake," faintly suggested Mrs. Avery.

"It is an excellent explanation,--but you've just thought of it,"
observed Dr. Thorne.  He spoke in a much louder tone than was
necessary; his voice rose with the kind of instinctive, elemental rage
under which he fled to covert with a sympathy that he found
troublesome.  "What I wish to know--what I insist on knowing--is, what
caused this attack?  It is something which happened since breakfast.  I
demand the nature of it--physical? mental? emotional?"

"You may call it electric," answered Jean Avery, with her own lovable
smile--half mischief, half pathos.

"I see.  The telephone."  Dr. Thorne leaned back in his chair and
scrutinized the patient.  Quite incidentally he took her pulse.  It was
sinking again, and the tempo had lapsed into unexpected irregularity.

"Helen shall come to see you," said Dr. Thorne with sudden gentleness.
"I 'll send her this afternoon.  You will keep perfectly still till
then....  Mr. Avery is in town?" carelessly.  "Coming home to lunch?"

"He has gone to court."

"To dinner, then?"

"It depends on the verdict.  If he wins the case"--

"Oh, I see.  And if he loses?"

"He might go gunning, if he lost it," answered the wife, smiling quite
steadily.  "He might go gunning with Mr. Romer.  He is very tired.  He
takes it hard when he does not win things--cases, I mean.  He
might--you see"--  She faltered into a pathetic silence.

"I will send Helen at once," replied the physician.  He felt that he
had offered his subtlest and most artistic prescription.  More than
most wives are valued, Dr. Thorne loved his.

But as he went downstairs a black frown caught him between the brows.

In the course of an hour he managed to dispatch a messenger to the
court-house.  Sixty patients clamored for him, but he wrote the note
twice over, sitting in his buggy, before he sent the third copy:--


DEAR AVERY,--Your wife has suffered one of the attacks whose nature I
explained to you some time ago.  I found her condition serious,
indicating a marked weakness of the heart.  I consider that she had a
narrow escape.  You would not forgive me if I did not tell you, that
you may govern your movements accordingly.

Yours as ever,
  ESMERALD THORNE.


Jean Avery lay with closed eyes, quite still, and smiling tranquilly.
Only the invalid mistress of a home knows how to value the presence of
another lady in a household where children and servants fill the
foreground, and where, as Dr. Thorne once put it, "every care as fast
as it arises is taken to the bedside of the patient."  The ever-womanly
arrived with Mrs. Thorne.  In the repose which came with her coming,
and did not go with her going, the sick woman lay sheltered for the
remainder of the day.  Her face, her voice, her motions, expressed the
touching gratitude of one who has long since learned not to look beyond
the bounty of temporary relief.  Mrs. Thorne noted this; she noticed
everything.

The telephone called towards noon, ringing rapidly and
impatiently--operators, like horses, were always nervous under Marshall
Avery's driving; and when an anxious message from the court-house
reached the wife, she said, "Dear Helen!" as if it had been Helen's
doing.  And when they told her that Mr. Avery asked how she was, and
would get home by mid-afternoon, and at any moment if she needed him,
and would not leave her again that day, and that he sent his love to
her and begged her to be careful for his sake, her breath fell so short
with pleasure that they took fright for her.

"My husband is so kind to me!" she panted.  Then her color came--a
tidal wave, and her pulse, which had been staggering, fell into step
and began to march strongly.

"But this is a miracle!" cried the doctor's wife.

"Love is always a miracle," Jean Avery said.  Then she asked to have
her hair arranged, and wanted an afternoon dress, and lace, and would
have a bracelet that her husband gave her, and the turquoise pin he
liked, and begged to be told that she looked quite well again, for
"Marshall hates to see me ill!"

And the children--see that the children are dressed; and his
slippers--they must be put beside the library table in that place he
likes; not anywhere else, please, but just where he is used to finding
them.  And Kate will have dinner early; and about the soup--and the
salad--and not to overdo the grouse; and to light the library fire--and
were they sure she could n't go down herself to see to things, and get
as far as the library sofa?

"Mr. Avery does n't like me not to meet him....  My husband is so good
to me!" she urged, in the plaintive staccato that her short breath cut,
till Helen's eyes blazed and then brimmed to hear her.  And now Helen
was gone, and the children; and Jean lay quite still and alone, smiling
tranquilly, as we said.

Her thoughts were long-distance wires, as the thoughts of the sick are,
and they covered the spaces of ether and of earth that afternoon--the
unexplored wastes into which the soul invites no fellow-traveler.  Her
heart fled to the rose-red star of their early dream.  They had loved
as the young and the well, the brave and the bright, may love;
passionately, as the brown and the blond do; and reasonably, as the
well-mated and the fortunate can.  They were of the same age, the same
class, the same traditions; they knew the same people, who
congratulated them in the same words; they had inherited the same
ideals of life, and went buoyantly into it.  Not so much as a fad had
inserted itself between their tastes, and in their convictions they
were mercifully not divided.  At first their only hardship had been the
strenuous denial of the professional life; but she never wished him to
make money--she was quite happy to put up muslin curtains at twelve and
a half cents a yard, while her friends hung lace at twenty dollars a
window--and had flung herself into the political economy of their
household with a merry and ingenious enthusiasm, which she wore as
charmingly as she did the blond colors, the blue, the lavender, the
rose, the corn, over which she strained her honest eyes and bent her
straight shoulders to save dressmakers' bills.  Since she had been ill
she had tried--how hard no man could ever understand--not to grow
careless about her dress.  "The daintiest invalid I ever knew," Dr.
Thorne used to say.

Marshall cared a good deal about such matters, was fastidious over a
wrinkle, was sure to observe a spot or a blemish, while the immaculate
might pass unnoticed for weeks; disliked old dresses; when she had a
new one on he admired her as if she were a new wife, for a day or two.
She was full of pretty little womanly theories about retaining her
husband's devotion....  When had it begun to flag?  She had made a
science of wifehood, and applied it with a delicate art....  Why had it
failed? ... No, no, no!  Not that!  Not that word, yet!  Say
rather, why had it faltered?  With a tremulous modesty characteristic
of her sweet nature, she scored herself for the disillusions of her
married life, as if somehow the fault were hers.

How had it all come about?  Was she fretful with the first baby?  It
seemed to have begun (if she thought very hard about it) with the first
baby.  She knew she had faded a little then.  Pink was a crying baby.
"I lost so much sleep!  And it makes one look so, about the eyes.  And
then, as Marshall says, maternity affects the complexion."

Her thoughts came down from the rose-red star like aeronauts on
parachutes, landing in fog and swamp.  Oh, the weariness, the waste of
it!  For the more she thought, the more she felt herself like one
hanging in mid-space--heaven above her, earth below, and no place for
her in either.  She could not fly.  She would not fall.  "And I 'm not
very strong to be clinging and holding on, like this.  One might let go
... and not mean to."

And yet she had held on pretty well, till the second baby came.  She
had never felt this moral dizziness till then, this something which
might be called life-vertigo, that made it seem in mad, black moments
easier to drop than to cling.  For after the boy was born she was not
well.  She had never been strong since.  And Marshall hated sickness.
He was such a big, strong, splendid fellow!  It had been very hard on
Marshall.

He hated it so, that she hated it too.  She had scorned the scouts of
her true condition, and when the trouble at the heart set in, and he
called it "only nervous," she said, "No doubt you are quite right,
dear," and blamed herself for feeling somehow hurt.  She did not speak
of it to any one for a long time, after that.  But when, one easterly
afternoon, the air being as heavy as the clods of the grave, she lay
gasping for life for three hours alone, not able to reach a bell or
call for help, she sent for Dr. Thorne.

And he told her, for she insisted--and he knew his patient; not a woman
to be wheedled by a professional lie--he told her the truth.

"Poor Marshall!" said Jean Avery.  "It will be so hard on my husband!
... Don't tell him, doctor.  I forbid you, doctor.  I think he 'd take
it easier if I told him myself, poor fellow!"

She did not tell him that day, for he did not come home; nor the next,
for he had a headache; nor the third, for he was in excellent spirits,
and she could not bear to.  In fact, she waited a week before she
gathered her courage to speak.  One Saturday evening he did not go to
the club, but was at home, and he had been very kind to her that day,
and loving, and in fact he noticed her appearance, and asked her what
was the matter, and why she breathed so short.

Then she drew his hand over her eyes, so that she might not see how he
would look, and the beautiful curve of her lip broke a little, for she
felt so sorry for her husband; but her firm voice carried itself with
courage (Jean never had the invalid's whine), and she told him what the
doctor said.

Marshall Avery listened in a silence which might have meant the utmost
of distress or the innermost of skepticism.  He walked to the window
and stood for a while looking out into the lighted street.  Perhaps he
had a blundering, masculine notion of doing the best thing for her.
She would be the first to believe that.

"I 'll see Thorne about this," he said presently.  "I can't have him
putting you in a panic.  You 've grown very nervous lately.

"Cheer up, Jean," he added, coming over to her sofa.  "Don't grow
hysteric, whatever happens."

He sat down and put his arm around her.  Five minutes ago she would
have clung to him and poured her soul out on his breast--would have put
up her hand to his cheek and blessed him and worshiped him, as a wife
does--and would have spared him the worst of everything, and given him
the best; refrained from complaint, and lavished hope; made little of
her own suffering, and much of his distress for her sake, as this wife
could....  Now, she lay quite still and irresponsive.  She did not
speak, but tried to smile gently upon him.  Then he saw her color
change, and he flung the window up--for he was startled--and held her
to the air.

"Poor girl!" he said.  "Poor Jean!  My poor Jean!"

"Oh, don't!" cried Jean.  For the tenderness, coming after that
other, well-nigh slew her.  She began to sob,--the cruel sobs that
wreck a weakened heart,--and the man fought for her life for an hour.

When Dr. Thorne came the danger was quite over; as it usually is in
such cases before the physician can arrive; but he said roughly,--

"What have you been doing to her?"

"He has been saving my life," panted Jean.

"Well," replied Esmerald Thorne, "he can."

When the two men went downstairs, the doctor said,--

"Your pardon,--if I wronged you, Avery?" for he was generous in apology
for so imperious a man.

"Why, yes, doctor," returned the husband, with a puzzled face, "I think
you did."


Jean lay quietly on the blue lounge.  Pink and the baby were taken over
to Helen's.  The house was unnaturally still.  Marshall was coming home
in the middle of the afternoon to see her--to see her!  The sick
woman seemed to herself for that span of peace like a bride again,
cherished and happy.  Care and illness had never occurred.  Life had
not dulled the eyes of love.  Use had never threatened joy with
indifference.  This word, that deed, such a scene, all were phantasms
of the fog into which she had fallen.  She must have grown morbid, as
the sick do.  Oh, the rose-red star hung in the heavens yet!

His key clicked in the lock, and he came running up the stairs; dashed
in, and knelt beside the lounge; then put his arm about her quietly,
for he was shocked when he saw how she looked.  His dark, fine face was
broken with his feeling.  Hers quivered as she lifted it to his kiss.

"Did you lose the case, poor dear?" she said.

"Curse the case!" cried Avery.  "What's a case? ... I 'm not going
gunning, Jean.  I 'm going to stay with you."

Color brushed all over her wan cheek, her brow, her lips.

"I was so afraid of guns!" she pleaded.  "I always have been!"

"It is one of your weaknesses," replied the husband, a shade less
tenderly.

"I know, dear.  I have so many!  Guns--and boats--I am ashamed of
myself.  They 're like snakes.  The terror is born in me.  I don't know
how to help it.  You are very patient with me, Marshall.  Perhaps, if I
were stronger--but when one is ill, one can't--always--help things." ...

"Never mind," he said, in a magnanimous tone.  "When you get well, you
will feel differently.  We must get you well, now.  That is all I care
for.  It is all I care for in the world," he added, warmly and
earnestly.

She stirred towards him with an expression that would have moved a far
more unworthy man than he.  It was quite unconscious with her, and as
instinctive as a law of nature.  So a flower pleads for light.  So life
asks for nutrition.

"Could n't you sit up--if I held you?  Try!" he commanded, shaking his
head in a boyish way he had: she could not have told how she loved to
see it.  He took her in his arms, and carried her across the room to
the easy-chair.  There he gathered her like a child, and put his cheek
to hers, murmuring little words and phrases that both loved--language
of their honeymoon, and joyous years.  She drank them down as if they
had been the breath of life.

"Doctors don't know!" he cried.  "I believe you could get well."

"I know I could," said Jean.

"You will!  I say you must.  You shall!" insisted Marshall Avery, in
his passionate, peremptory voice.  Jean did not reply.  But she smiled
divinely into his bending face.  Swiftly she saw the room flooded with
roselight.  A star swam in mid-ether.  Two floated in it, with bridal
eyes.  Earth was far and forgotten.  Heaven was close.

He was quite devoted to her for a week or two after this; came home
early, took her sometimes to drive, made much of little family jokes
and merriment, admired everything she wore, gave her a white silk
Spanish shawl, and brought her the latest novels; sent her flowers like
a lover, and spent his evenings with her.  He talked of another maid to
take care of the children, so that Molly could give her time to the
invalid.  But Mrs. Avery shook her head.  They could not afford that.

"You are so generous to me, Marshall! ... I am sorry it is so expensive
to be sick.  But I 'm getting better, dear--don't you see I am?  I have
n't felt so well for a year," she added.

"Oh, we 'll have you round again pretty soon," he said, with that
hearty optimism which, one could not have told exactly why, seemed just
to miss of the nature of sympathy.  But Jean's drafts on sympathy had
always been scanty.  It was very much as it was about the lace
curtains.  She could get along without what other women demanded.  At
least, she had always thought she could.  It used to be so.  She was
troubled sometimes to find that sickness creates new heavens and a new
earth, and that the very virtues of health may turn again and rend one.
It was as if one had acquired citizenship in a strange planet, where
character and nature change places.

It was with a kind of fear that she received her husband's acceleration
of tenderness.  How was she to forego it, when the time came that it
might--she omitted to acknowledge to herself that it would--overlook
her again?  She tried feverishly to get better in a hurry, as if she
had been in some Southern climate where she was but a transient
tourist.  She tried so hard, in fact, as sometimes to check the real
and remarkable improvement which had now befallen her.

One day Mr. Avery announced that he had the toothache, and if he were
not so driven he would go and see Armstrong; he meant to give Armstrong
all his work after this; Armstrong was a good fellow, and they often
met Saturdays at the club.  But the great Electric case was up just
then, and necessary dentistry was an impossible luxury to the young
lawyer.  Endurance was a novelty, and Avery grew nervous under it.  He
bore pain neither better nor worse than most men; and he was really
suffering.  Any wife but Jean would have called him cross.  Jean called
him her poor boy.  She dragged herself from her lounge--she had been a
little less well the last few days--and lavished herself, as women like
Jean do, pouring out her own tenderness--a rare wine.  After all, there
are not too many tender women; Jean was a genius in sympathy.  She
spent more sweetness and strength on that toothache than the other kind
of woman has to give her husband if he meets a mortal hurt.  Avery
received this calmly.  He was used to it.  To do him justice, he did
not know how cross he was.  He was used to that, too.  And so was she.
The baby was ailing, besides, and things went hard.  The sick woman's
breath began to shorten again; and the coy color which had been so hard
to win to her lips fled from them unobserved.  The doctor was not
called; Helen Thorne was out of town; and so it happened that no one
noticed--for, as we say, Marshall Avery had the toothache.

One night he came home late, and as irritable as better men than he may
be, and be forgiven for it, for the sake of that species of modern
toothache in which your dentist neither extracts nor relieves, but
devotes his highly developed and unhappy ingenuity to the demonic
process which is known as "saving a tooth."

"He calls it killing a nerve," sputtered Avery.  "I should call it
killing a patient.  This performance is the Mauser bullet of up-to-date
dentistry.  It explodes all over you--  Oh, do let me alone, Jean!  You
can't do anything for me.  A man does n't want to be bothered.  Go and
lie down, and look after yourself.  Where is that hot water?  I asked
for alcohol--laudanum--some confounded thing.  Can't anybody in this
house do anything for me?  I don't trouble them very often."

"It's Molly's evening out," said Mrs. Avery patiently.  "I 'll get
everything as fast as I can, dear."  She was up and down stairs a good
deal; she did not notice, herself, how often.  And when she got to bed
at last, she cried--she could not help it.  It was something he had
said.  Oh, no matter what!  But she did not know how to bear it, for
she was so exhausted, and sobs, which were her mortal enemy, overcame
her as soon as she was alone.

He did not hear her, for the door was shut between their rooms, and he
was quite occupied with his Mauser bullet.  He had fallen into the
habit of shutting the door when the second baby was born; he maintained
that the boy was worse than Pink.  Pink cried like a lady, but the boy
bellowed like a megatherium.

A little before half-past ten she heard him get up and dress and stir
about.  He opened the door, and said, without coming in:--

"I 'm going to have this blank thing out.  I 'm going to Armstrong's
house.  I won't stand it another hour.  I 'll be home presently."

She tried to tell him how sorry she was, and to say some one of the
little loving, wifely things with whose warm, sun-penetrated atmosphere
she so enveloped his life that he took them as a matter of course.  It
is doubtful if he heard her altogether, for her voice was fainter than
usual.

"Won't you come in a minute?" she pleaded.  He did hear that.  But he
did not come.

"Oh, I can't stop now," he returned petulantly.  "I 'm in such blank
torment.  I 'll be back; I may go to the club afterwards, and play it
off at something, but I'll be back before midnight."

"Dear?" she called then, in an agitated voice; it was not like hers,
and not like her; if he had perceived this--but he perceived nothing.
"I don't feel quite well"--she tried to say.  But he was halfway
downstairs.  These five words wandered after him like the effort of a
dumb spirit to communicate with deaf life.

He thrust himself savagely into his overcoat, turned up the collar over
his toothache, slammed the front door, and went.


Jean listened to his footfall on the steps, on the sidewalk; the
nervous, irritable, uneven sound softened and ceased.  She was quite
awake, and her mind moved with feverish vitality.  She was usually a
good sleeper for a sick person; but that night she found herself too
ill for any form of rest.  The difficulty that she had in breathing
increased with an insidious slowness which she had learned to fear as
the most obstinate form of her malady.  The room grew empty of air.
The candle burned blue to her eyes.  The shutting of the front door
seemed like the shutting of that to which she would not give a name,
for terror's sake.  As her husband's footsteps passed from the power of
her strained ears to overtake them, she found herself wondering how
they would sound when they passed for the last time from her presence,
she lying under a load of flowers, with the final look of the sky
turned compassionately upon her.  Then she scorned herself--she was the
most healthy-minded invalid who ever surmounted the morbidness of
physical suffering--and thrust out her hands from her face, as if she
were thrusting a camera which was using defective plates away from her
brain.

"If he had only come in a minute!" she said, sobbing a little.  "If he
had only come in and kissed me good-night"--

She did not add: "He would have seen that I was too ill.  He would not
have left me."

The candle burned faintly, and grew more faint.  There seemed to be
smoke in the room.  The baby stirred in his crib, and Pink, from the
nursery, called, "Mummer dee!" in her sleep.  The air grew so dense
that it seemed to Jean to be packed about her like smothering wool.
She rang the electric bell for Molly, or she thought she did.  But
Molly did not answer, and the nursery door was shut.

There was nothing morbid in Jean's thoughts by this time; no more
gruesome vision; no touching situation whatever presented itself; she
did not see herself as a pathetic object; even her husband vanished
from her consciousness.  Kind or harsh--retreating footsteps or
returning arms--light laughter on his lips or true love in his
eyes--she thought of him not at all.  He disappeared from her emergency
like some diminishing figure that had fled from the field of a great
battle.  For the lonely woman knew now, at last, that she was wrestling
with mortal peril.  She had always wondered if she would know it from
its counterfeits when it really came--there were so many counterfeits!
She had asked, as all men ask, what it would be like.  A long
contention?  A short, sharp thrust?  Agony?  Stupor?  Struggle, or
calm?  Now she wondered not at all.  There was nothing dramatic or
exciting, or even solemn, in her condition.  All her being resolved
itself into the simple effort to get her breath.

Suddenly this effort ceased.  She had struggled up against the pillows
to call "Molly!  Molly!" when she found that she could not call Molly.
As if her head had been under water, the function of breathing battled,
and surrendered.  Then there befell her swiftly the most beatific
instant that she had ever known.

"I am tired out," she thought; "and I am going to sleep.  I did not
die, after all."  She was aware of turning her face, as her head
dropped back on her pillows, before she sank into ecstasy.


The night was fair and cool.  There was some wind, and the trees in the
Park winced under a glittering frost.  Avery noticed this as he hurried
to Dr. Armstrong's.  The leaves seemed to curl in a sensitive, womanish
fashion, as if their feelings had been hurt before they received their
death-stroke.

"It is the third of November," he thought.  His feet rang on the
sidewalk sharply, and he ran up the long steps with his gloved hand
held to his cheek.

Physical pain always made him angry.  He was irritable with Armstrong,
who had none too good a temper himself; and the two men sparred a
little before the dentist consented to remove the tooth.

Avery was surprised to find how short and simple an affair this was.

"I believe I 'll run into the Club," he observed as he put on his coat.

"Better go home," replied the dentist.  "No?  Then I 'll go along with
you."

The two men started out in silence.

Avery looked across at the wincing leaves on the trees of the Park.
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints showed black against the
sky.  The club was only around the corner, and he was glad of it, for
the night felt unpleasantly cold to him; he shivered as he entered the
hot, bright, luxurious place; it was heavy with tobacco; the click of
billiard-balls and the clink of a glass sounded to his ear with a
curious distinctness above the laughter and the chat with which the
house seemed to rock and echo.

Romer was there--Tom Romer; and he was uncommonly glad to see Avery.
The two gentlemen, with Armstrong and another man, grouped upon a game
of billiards.  Romer proposed whist, but Armstrong said it was too late
for whist.  Avery did not say anything, and he played stupidly, and
after a while asked to be excused, and got up to go home.

"You 're looking fagged," observed Tom Romer, knocking the ashes from
his cigar artistically.  "You 're overworked.  Most of you professional
chaps are.  Come yachting with me, on the Dream.  We 're going to the
Sound after ducks.  Back in a week.  Start at seven o'clock to-morrow
morning.  Stay and put up here, and get off with me.  Oh!  I forgot.
You 're one of those married men."

"Yes," replied Avery, with a consciousness of superior virtue.  "I
could n't go without saying good-by to my wife.  I wouldn't think of it
for a moment," he added loftily.  "Give me a minute, Romer, to think it
over, will you?"

He strolled to the window, and looked out at the waters of the black
river which rushed whirling past the rear of the clubhouse.  It
occurred to him that Armstrong watched him anxiously.  But Armstrong
did not speak.

"I 'll go--thanks!" said Avery, coming back, with his hands in his
pockets.  "I 'll get word to the office; they can manage without me,
somehow--that is, if you 'll promise to get me back in a week?"

"I 'll set you ashore at the back yard of this club six days from
to-morrow," answered Romer.  "The Dream 's a dandy," added the
yachtsman, swelling a little.  "She can do it."

Avery replied absently, and hurriedly started for home.  In fact, he
ran most of the way (Dr. Armstrong could not keep up with him), for he
was shocked to find that it was now one o'clock.

"Poor Jean!" he thought; "I stayed too long."  Then he remembered for
the first time that he had got to tell Jean that he was going.  It
occurred to him for a moment that he would rather give up going with
Romer than tell Jean.  But it was now too late to do that.

"You see," he said, stopping for Armstrong to overtake him, "I 've
got to go, now."  But Armstrong did not reply; he turned in at his
own house with a manner which his friend felt to be superfluous.  Avery
experienced a certain resentment against the dentist.  He was relieved
to be alone, and walked more slowly.

When he came into his own hall, the house was perfectly still.  He took
off his shoes, and tiptoed upstairs, pausing at the door of his wife's
room.  She was sleeping so soundly that she did not hear him--an
unusual circumstance, for Jean, though a good sleeper, as we said, was
a light one.  The husband was conscious that he had fallen on better
chance than he deserved.  He had expected to find her awake, and more
or less nervous over his belated return.

"What luck!" he thought.  Yes, he was really very glad that Jean was
asleep, poor girl.  She would take it hard--to-morrow.  He moved about
like a cat, packing his valise.  He had several letters to write,
too,--one to his partner, one or two to clients, and one--well, why
not?  Why not write one to his wife?  It would obviate a great deal of
trouble on both sides; in fact, it would save him so much that he
persuaded himself, without undue difficulty, that it would save her
too.  So he wrote the letter.  It was a very affectionate letter.  It
set forth in the tenderest terms his devotion to her, and to her true
interests, which, plainly, would be best served by some attention to
his own health; he was really overworked; the Electric case had got
where it could be left for a few days, and he would distinctly be gone
but a few days; he promised her that--a week at the outside--and she
was always so glad to have him get any sort of a vacation.  He felt
sure that he could count upon her sympathy in going.  He would think of
her constantly, and fly back to her with that constant--etc.--faithful,
true, and tender--etc.--etc.  He had to start so early in the morning
that he would not wake her up.  He would  telegraph  her from the first
port they made.  She must remember that the yacht was as safe as a
Cunarder; they were only going  to the Sound.  He said nothing about
ducks or guns.  He gave her a Cape address to which she could send any
message she chose.  She must not get nervous.  She must take the best
care of herself for his sake.  And he was her devoted husband.

He slipped this letter under her door--slept a few hours--and waked at
five.  At half-past five he crept downstairs, his valise in his hand,
and his heart in his throat.  He heard Pink talking and grinding her
teeth in her sleep; but Jean did not stir, thank Heaven.  He slid out
of the front door like a burglar, and ran.  It was a brisk morning, and
promised to be a fresh southwesterly.  He walked a little way in the
direction of the club.  Abruptly he stopped, turned, and ran back.

"It would n't do," he said; "I must see her; I must if the Dream sails
without me.  Let her sail!" he added.  He pushed open the front door,
and rushed noisily upstairs.

The family was astir; the baby was crying; Pink was trotting about the
upper hall, unnoticed, in her little nightgown and bare feet.  He did
not hear Jean's voice, but Molly's struck upon his ear in an agitated,
incoherent manner.  He went in through his own room; he was relieved to
find that the letter under the door had not been disturbed.  He caught
it up, and slipped it swiftly into his pocket.

"It would not have done at all," he thought.  He felt ashamed of
himself that he had ever supposed for a moment it would have done.  He
really felt very thankful that he had decided to come back and break
the news to her in person.  It occurred to him that it was the least he
could do under the circumstances.  With a certain self-satisfaction on
his face, he pushed his way into his wife's room.

Jean was not on the bed; she was lying on the lounge, across whose blue
pillow he saw that the white silk Spanish shawl he gave her was tossed
in a disorderly way.  The lace frill of her nightdress was torn open at
the throat.  Her abundant yellow hair was loose, and partly concealed
her face.  She was imperfectly covered with a blanket that she had
dragged with her from her bed in some desperate endeavor, whose pitiful
story might never be known, to summon help.

"I did n't hear me bell!" cried Molly.  "An' there she do be lyin' when
I come in."

"Jean!" called Avery loudly; "Jean!"




PART II

At the claim of his voice she responded; smiling, she stirred.  He
could not help remembering how she had once said, "If I were dead, I
should answer you if you called me, Marshall."  And for the moment, she
had looked--but it was not death.

She opened her large eyes and regarded him--strangely, he thought, for
the instant; then with the lambent look which belonged to Jean, and
quite steadily.  He knelt by her, and drew the blanket up, and buttoned
the nightdress at her throat with clumsy fingers.

"I have come back to say"--he began.  But he could not say it.  "Have
you had an ill turn?" he temporized.

"I don't know," said Jean.

"How did you happen to be on the lounge?"

"I don't know," repeated Jean.

"Are you suffering, dear?"

"I fell asleep," said Jean, after some thought.

"Don't you remember when you got out of bed?"

"I have had a wonderful sleep," said Jean.  "I never had anything of
the kind before.  It was like heaven."

"Are you suffering now?"

"No--I think not--no.  I feel pretty weak.  But I am not suffering."

"Shall I call the doctor?"

"I sha'n't need the doctor.  I don't want ... I don't need anybody but
you."

She turned and put her hand to his cheek.  Her long hair fell away from
her face and revealed its expression; he turned his own away at sight
of it.

"How early you are dressed!" she said, in a different tone.

"I was going out," he stammered.  "I was--going away."

"Oh!  Going!  Where are you going?"

"I won't, if you don't want me to."

"You did n't say where you were going."

"Well, you see--Romer asked me to take a little trip with him.  He
thought I looked fagged out.  He starts in--Jove!  He starts in twenty
minutes."

"And you have n't had any breakfast!" said Jean; her divine
self-oblivion pushed to the front,--a trained soldier.  But her chin
trembled in a touching fashion that she had when she was too much
grieved to say so, or too weak to admit that she was grieved.

He had risen from his knees and stood beside her, looking down.  Her
weakness and her loveliness seemed to lift themselves towards him like
pleading things which he thrust off.  He felt uncomfortable and
irresolute.  He was conscious of trying not to look annoyed.

"You are going in a boat?" she asked, very faintly now.

"Well--yes--a sort of boat."  Avery fumbled fatuously.  "It's quite a
safe one," he added.  "And Romer says"--  He began to tell her what
Romer said.

"And guns?" she whispered.  "There will be guns?"

"Oh, I presume Tom has a gun," replied the husband, with what he felt
to be an ingenious veracity.  "You know I 'm no shot.  I don't like
guns much better than you do, dear....  I 'm getting late," he observed
abruptly.  "But I won't go, Jean, if you don't want me to.  I thought
