to me. Yes, I confess it, I wanted him to come and kiss me that once, in
the vision every night. It would not have been wrong if I had not said
that I would marry Guido, but that made the difference. Therefore I gave
it up. I will not do anything wrong with my eyes open. I will not. I
would not, if I did not believe in God, because the thing would be wrong
just the same. Religion makes it more wrong, that is all. If I were not
engaged to Guido, and if I loved the other instead, then I should have a
right to wish and dream that the other kissed me."

She thought some time about this point, and there was something that
disturbed her, in spite of her reasoning.

"It would have been unmaidenly," she decided, at last. "I should be
ashamed to tell my mother that I had done it. But it would not have been
wrong, distinctly not. It would be wrong and abominable to think of two
men in that way.

"That is what is happening now, against my will. I go to sleep saying my
prayers, and yet he comes to me in my dreams, and looks at me, and I
cannot help letting him kiss me, and it is only afterwards that I feel
how revolting it was. And in the daytime I am engaged to Guido, and I
cannot help knowing that when we are married he will want to kiss me
like that. It was different before, since I was able to give up seeing
the marble court and being the Vestal, and did give it up. This is
another thing, and it is bad, but it is not a wrong thing I am doing.
Therefore it is something outside of my soul that is trying to do me
harm, and may succeed in the end. It is a power of evil. How can I fight
against it, since it comes when I am asleep and have no will? What ought
I to do?

"I am afraid to meet Signor Lamberti now, much more afraid than I was a
week ago, before this other trouble began. But when I am dreaming, I am
not afraid of him. I do what he makes me do without any resistance, and
I am glad to do it. I want to be his slave, then. He makes me sit down
and listen to him, and I believe all he says. We always sit on that
bench near the fountain in my villa. He tells me that he loves me much
better than Guido does, and that he is much better able to protect me
than Guido. He says that his heart is breaking because he loves me and
is Guido's friend, and he looks thin and worn, just as he does in real
life. When I dream of him, I do not mind the glittering in his eyes, but
when I meet him it frightens me. Of course, it is quite impossible that
he should know how I dream of him now. Yet, I am sure he knew all about
the other vision. He said very little, but I am sure of it, though I
cannot explain it. This is much worse than the other. But if I go back
to the other, I shall be doing wrong, because I shall be consenting; and
now I am not doing wrong, because it happens against my will, and I go
to sleep praying that it may never happen again, and I am in earnest.
God help me! I know that when I sit beside him on the bench I love him!
And yet he is the only man in all the world whom I wish never to meet
again. God help me!"

Her head sank upon her folded hands at last, and her eyes were closely
shut. She threw her whole soul into the appeal to heaven for help and
strength, till she believed that it must come to her at once in some
real shape, with inspired wisdom and the comfort of the Holy Spirit. She
had never before in her life prayed as she was praying now, with heart
and soul and mind, though not with any form of words.

Then came a moment in which she thought of nothing and waited. She knew
it well, that blank between one state and the other, that total
suspension of all her faculties just before she began to see an unreal
world, that breathless stillness of anticipation before the supreme
moment of change. She was quite powerless now, for her waking will was
already asleep.

The instant was over, and the vision had come, but it was not what she
had always seen before. It was something strangely familiar, yet
beautiful and high and clear. Her consciousness was in the midst of a
world of light, at peace; and then, all round her, a brightness stole
upwards as out of a clear and soft horizon, more radiant than the light
itself that was already in the air. And as when evening creeps up to the
sky the stars begin to shine faintly, more guessed at than really seen,
so she began to see heavenly beings, growing more and more distinct, and
she was lifted up among them, and all her heart cried out in joy and
praise. And suddenly the cross shone out in a rosy radiance brighter
than all, and from head to foot and from arm to arm of it the light
flowed and flashed, and joined and passed and parted, in the holy sign.
From itself came forth a melody, in which she was rapt and swept upwards
as though she were herself a wave of the glorious sound. But of the
words, three only came to her, and they were these: Arise and
conquer![1]

[1: A free translation of some passages in the fourteenth canto
of Dante's Paradiso.]

Then all was still and calm again, and she was kneeling at her chair,
the sight still in her inward eyes, the words still ringing in her
heart, but herself awake again.

She knew the vision now that it was past; for often, reading the
matchless verses of the "Paradise," she had intensely longed to see as
the dead poet must have seen before he could write as he wrote. It did
not seem strange that her hope should have been fulfilled at last in the
church of the Holy Cross. Her lips formed the words, and she spoke them,
consciously in her own voice, sweet and low:

"Arise and conquer!"

It was what she had prayed for--the peace, the strength, the knowledge;
it was all in that little sentence. She rose to her feet, and stood
still a moment, and her face was calm and radiant, like the faces of the
heavenly beings she had looked upon. There was a world before her of
which she had not dreamt before, better than that ancient one that had
vanished and in which she had been a Vestal Virgin, more real than that
mysterious one in which she had floated between two existences, and
whence the miserable longing for an earthly body had brought her back to
be Cecilia Palladio, and to fight again her battle for freedom and
immortality.

It mattered little that her prayer should have been answered by the
imagined sight of something described by another, and long familiar to
her in his lofty verse. The prayer was answered, and she had strength to
go on, and she should find wisdom and light to choose the right path.
Henceforth, when she was weak and weary, and filled with loathing of
what she dreaded most, she could shut her eyes as she had done just now,
and pray, and wait, and the transcendent glory of paradise would rise
within her, and give her strength to live, and drive away that power of
evil that hurt her, and made night frightful, and day but a long waiting
for the night.

She came out into the summer glare with the patient Petersen, and
breathed the summer heat as if she were drawing in new life with every
breath; and they drove home, down the long and lonely road that leads to
the new quarter, between dust-whitened trees, and then down into the
city and through the cooler streets, till at last the cab stopped before
the columns of the Palazzo Massimo.

Celia ran up the stairs, as if her light feet did not need to touch them
to carry her upwards, while Petersen solemnly panted after her, and she
went to her own room.

She had a vague desire to change everything in it, to get rid of all the
objects that reminded her of the miserable nights, and the sad hours of
day, which she had spent there; she wanted to move the bed to the other
end of the room, the writing table to the other window, the long glass
to a different place, to hang the walls with another colour, and to
banish the two tall candlesticks for ever. It would be like beginning
her life over again.




                               CHAPTER XVI


After this Cecilia no longer avoided Lamberti; on the contrary, she
sought opportunities of seeing him and of talking with him, for she was
sure that she had gained some sort of new strength which could protect
her against her imagination, till all her old illusions should vanish in
the clear light of daily familiarity. For some time she did not dream of
Lamberti, she believed that the spell was broken, and her fear of
meeting him diminished quickly.

She made her mother ask him to dinner, but he wrote an excuse and did
not come. Then she complained to Guido, and Guido reproached his friend.

"They really wish to know you better," he said. "If the Contessina ever
felt for you quite the same antipathy which you felt for her, she has
got over it. I think you ought to try to do as much. Will you?"

The invitation was renewed for another day, and Lamberti accepted it. In
the evening, in order to give his friend a chance of talking with
Cecilia, Guido sat down by the Countess, and began to discuss matters
connected with the wedding. It would have been contrary to all
established custom that the marriage should take place without a
contract, and that alone was a subject about which much could be said.
Guido insisted that Cecilia should remain sole mistress of her fortune,
and the Countess would naturally have made no objection, but the
Princess had told her, and had repeated more than once, that she
expected Cecilia to bring her husband a dowry of at least a million of
francs. Baron Goldbirn thought this too much, but the Countess was
willing to consent, because she feared that the Princess would make
trouble at the last minute if she did not. Cecilia had of course never
discussed the matter with the Princess, but she was altogether of the
latter's opinion, and told her mother so. The obstacle lay in Guido's
refusal to accept a penny of his future wife's fortune, and on this
point the whole obstinacy of his father's race was roused. The Countess
could manifestly not threaten to break off the engagement because Guido
would not accept the dowry, but on the other hand she greatly feared
Guido's aunt. So there was ample matter for discussion whenever the
subject was broached.

It was a hot evening, and all the curtains were drawn back before the
open windows, only the blinds being closed. Cecilia and Lamberti
gravitated, as it were, to the farther end of the room. A piano stood
near the window there.

"Do you play?" Lamberti asked, looking at the instrument.

He thought that she did. All young girls are supposed to have talent for
music.

"No," Cecilia answered. "I have no accomplishments. Do you play the
piano?"

"Only by ear. I do not know a note of music."

"Play me something. Will you? But I suppose the piano is out of tune,
for nobody ever uses it since we stopped dancing."

Lamberti touched the keys, standing, and struck a few soft chords.

"No," he said. "It is not badly out of tune. But if I play, it will be
the end of our acquaintance."

"Perhaps it may be the beginning," Cecilia answered, and their eyes met
for a moment.

"If it amuses you, I will try," said Lamberti, looking away, and sitting
down before the keys. "You must be easily pleased if you can listen to
me," he added, laughing, as he struck a few chords again.

Cecilia sat down in a low chair between him and the window, at the left
of the key-board. Her mother glanced at Lamberti with a little surprise,
and then went on talking with Guido.

Lamberti began to play a favourite waltz, not loud, but with a good deal
of spirit and a perfect sense of time. Cecilia had often danced to the
tune in the spring, and liked it. He broke off suddenly, and made slow
chords again.

"Have you forgotten the rest?" Cecilia asked.

"No. I was thinking of something else. Did you ever hear this?"

He played an old Sicilian melody with one hand, and then took it up in a
second part, and then a third, that made strange minor harmonies.

"I never heard that," Cecilia said, as he looked at her. "I like it. It
must be very ancient. Play it again."

By way of answer, he began to sing the old song, accompanying himself
with the same old harmonies. He had no particular voice, and it was more
like humming than singing, so far as the tone was concerned, but he
pronounced every word distinctly, and imitated the peculiar intonation
of the southern people to perfection.

"Do you understand?" he asked, when he came to the end.

"Not a word." Cecilia asked, "Is it Arabic? It sounds like it."

"No. It is our own beloved Italian," laughed Lamberti, "only it is the
Sicilian dialect. If that sort of thing amuses you, I can go on for
hours."

Many Italians have the facility he possessed, and the good memory for
both words and music, and he had unconsciously developed what talent he
had, in places where time was long and there was nothing to do. He
changed the key and hummed a little Arab melody from the desert.

Cecilia sat quite still and watched the outline of his head against the
light. It was an energetic head, but the face was not a cruel one, and
this evening she had not seen what she called the ruthless look in his
eyes. She was not at all afraid of him now, nor would she have been even
if they had been quite alone in the room. She almost wished to tell him
so, and then smiled at the thought.

So this was the reality of the vision that had haunted her dreams and
had caused her such unutterable suffering until she had found strength
to break the habit of her imagination. The reality was not at all
terrible. She could imagine the man roused to action, fighting for his
life, single-handed against many, as she had been told that he had
fought. He looked both brave and strong. But she could not imagine that
she should ever have cause to be afraid of him again. There he sat,
beside her, humming snatches of songs he remembered from his many
voyages, his hands moving not at all gracefully over the keys; he was
evidently a very simple and good-natured man, willing to do anything
that could amuse her, without the slightest affectation. He was just the
kind of friend for Guido, and it was her duty to like Guido's friend. It
would not be hard, now that she had got out of the labyrinth of absurd
illusions that had made it impossible. She resolutely put aside the
recollection of that afternoon at the Villa Madama. It belonged to the
class of things about which she was determined never to think again.
"Arise and conquer!" She had come back to her real self, and had
overcome.

He stopped singing, but his hands still lay on the keys and he struck
occasional chords; and he turned his face half towards her, and spoke in
an undertone.

"I am very sorry if I offended you by not coming more often to your
house," he said. "Guido told me. I thought perhaps you would understand
why I did not come."

Cecilia looked at him and was silent for a moment, but she felt very
strong and sure of herself.

"Signor Lamberti," she said presently, "I want to ask you to do
something--for me."

There was a little emphasis on the last word. He turned quite towards
her now, but he still made chords on the instrument, for he knew that
the Countess had extraordinary ears. His impulse was to tell her that he
would do anything she asked of him, no matter how hard it might be; but
he controlled it.

"Certainly," he answered. "What is it?"

"Forget that we met in the Forum, and forget what we said to each other
at the garden party. Will you? It was all a coincidence, of course, but
I behaved very foolishly, and I do not like to think that you remember
it. Will you try and forget it all?"

"I will try," Lamberti answered, looking down at the keys. "At all
events, I can promise never to remind you of it, as I did just now."

"That is what I meant," Cecilia said. "Let us never remind each other of
it. Of course we cannot really forget, in our own selves, but we can
begin again from the beginning, this evening, as if it had never
happened. We can be real friends, as we ought to be."

"Can we?" Lamberti asked the question in a doubtful tone, and glanced
uneasily at her.

"I can, if you can," she answered courageously, "and I mean to be."

"Then I can, too," Lamberti said, but his lips shut tightly as if he
regretted the words as soon as they were spoken.

"It will be easy, now," Cecilia went on. "It will be much easier
because----" She stopped.

"Why will it be so much easier?" Lamberti asked, looking down again.

"We were not going to speak of those things again," Cecilia said. "We
had better not begin."

"I only ask that one question. Tell me why it will be easier now. It may
help me to forget."

"It will be easier--because I do not dream of you any more--I mean of
the man who is like you." She was blushing faintly, but she knew that he
would not look at her, and she was sitting in the shadow.

"On what day did you stop dreaming?" he asked, between two chords.

"It was last week. Let me see. It was a Wednesday. On Wednesday night I
did not dream." He nodded gravely over the keys, as if he had expected
the answer.

"Did you ever read anything about telepathy?" he asked. "I did not dream
of you on Wednesday night either. It seemed to me that I tried to find
you and could not."

"Were you trying to find me before?" Cecilia asked, as if it were the
most natural question in the world.

"Yes. In my dreams I almost always found you. There was a break--I
forget when. The old dream about the house of the Vestals stopped
suddenly. Then I missed you and tried to find you. You were always
sitting on that bench by the fountain in the villa. Last Wednesday I
dreamt I was there, but you did not come."

Cecilia shuddered, as if the night air from the open window chilled her.

"Are you cold?" he asked. "Shall I shut the window?"

"No, I was frightened," she answered. "We must never talk about all that
again. Do you know, I think it is wrong to talk about them. There is
some power of evil----"

"I do not deny the existence of the devil at all," Lamberti answered,
with a faint smile. "But I think this is only a strange case of
telepathy. I will do as you wish; though my own belief is, after this
evening, that it is better to talk about it all quite fearlessly, and
grow used to it. We shall be much less afraid of it if we look upon it
as something not at all supernatural, which could easily be explained if
we knew enough about those things."

"Perhaps," Cecilia answered doubtfully. "You may be right. I do not
know."

"You are going to marry my most intimate friend," Lamberti continued,
"and I am unfortunately condemned to stay in Rome for some time, for a
year, I fancy, and perhaps even longer."

"Why do you say that you are 'unfortunately condemned' to stay?"

"Because I did my best to get away. You look surprised. I begged the
Minister to shorten my leave and send me to sea at once, with or without
promotion. Instead, I was named a member of a commission which will sit
a long time. Since we are talking frankly, I wanted to get away from
you, and not to see you again for years. But now that I must stay here,
or leave the service, we cannot help meeting; so I think it is more
sensible not to take any solemn oaths never to allude to these strange
coincidences, or whatever they are, but to talk them out of existence;
all the more so, as they seem to have suddenly come to an end. I only
tell you what would be easier for me; but I will do whatever makes it
most easy for you."

"I prayed that they might stop," said Cecilia, in a very low voice. "I
want you to be my friend, and as long as I dreamt of you--in that way--I
felt that it was impossible."

"Of course," Lamberti answered, without hesitation. Then, with an
attempt at a laugh, he corrected himself. "I apologise for all the
things I said to you in my dreams."

"Please do not laugh about it." Her voice was a little unsteady, and she
was looking down, so that he could not see her face.

"It is better not to take it too seriously," he replied gravely. "Could
anything be more absurd than that two people who were mere acquaintances
then should fall in love with each other in their dreams? It is utterly
ridiculous. Any sane person would laugh at the idea."

"Yes; no doubt. But there is more than that. Call it telepathy, or
whatever you please, it cannot be a mere coincidence. Do you know that,
until last Wednesday, I met you in my dream, just where you dreamed of
meeting me, at the bench in the villa?"

He did not seem surprised, but listened attentively while she continued.

"I am sure that we really met," she went on gravely. "It may be in some
natural way or not. It does not matter. We must never meet again like
that--never. Do you understand? We must promise never to try and find
each other in our dreams. Will you promise?"

"Yes; I promise." Lamberti spoke gravely.

"I promise, too," Cecilia said.

Then they were both silent for a time. It was like a real parting, and
they felt it, and for a few moments each was thinking of the bench by
the fountain in the Villa Madama.

"We owe it to Guido," Lamberti said at last, almost unconsciously.

"Yes," the girl answered; "and to ourselves. Thank you."

With an impulse she did not suspect, she held out her hand to him, and
waited for him to take it. Neither her mother nor Guido could see the
gesture, for Lamberti's seated figure screened her from them; but he
could not have taken her hand in his right without changing his
position, since she was seated low on his other side; so he took it
quietly in his left, and the two met and pressed each the other for a
second.

In that touch Cecilia felt that all her fear of him ended for ever, and
that of all men she could trust him the most, and that he would protect
her, if ever he might, even more effectually than Guido. His hand was
cool, and steady, and strong, and enfolding--the hand of a brave man.
But if she had looked she would have seen that his face was paler than
usual, and that his eyes seemed veiled.

She rose, and he followed her as she moved slowly forward.

"What a charming talent you have!" cried the Countess in an encouraging
tone, when Lamberti was near her.

"Have you made acquaintance at last?" Guido was asking of Cecilia, in an
undertone.

"Yes," she answered gravely. "I think we shall be good friends."




                              CHAPTER XVII


People said that Guido had ceased to be interesting since he had been
engaged to be married. Until that time, there had been an element of
romance about him, which many women thought attractive; and most men had
been willing to look upon him as a being slightly superior to
themselves, who cared only for books and engravings, though he never
thrust his tastes upon other people, nor made any show of knowing more
than others, and whose opinion on points of honour was the very best
that could be had. It was so good, indeed, that he was not often asked
to give it.

Now, however, they said that he was changed; that he was complacent and
pleased with himself; that this was no wonder, because he was marrying a
handsome fortune with a pretty and charming wife; that he had done
uncommonly well for himself; and much more to the same purpose. Also,
the mothers of impecunious marriageable sons of noble lineage said in
their maternal hearts that if they had only guessed that Countess
Fortiguerra would give her daughter to the first man who asked for her,
they would not have let Guido be the one.

The judgments of society are rarely quite at fault, but they are almost
always relative and liable to change. They are, indeed, appreciations of
an existing state of things, rather than verdicts from which there is no
appeal. The verdict comes after the state of things has ceased to exist.

Guido was happy, and nothing looks duller than the happiness of quiet
people. Nobody will go far to look at the sea when it is calm, if he is
used to seeing it at all; but those who live near it will walk a mile or
two to watch the breakers in a storm.

In the first place, Guido was in love, and more in love with Cecilia's
face and figure than he guessed. In the early days of their acquaintance
he had enjoyed talking with her about the subjects in which she was
interested. Such conversation generally brought him to that condition of
intellectual suspense which was peculiarly delightful to him, for though
she did not persuade him to accept her own points of view, she made him
feel more doubtful about his own, so far as any of them were fixed, and
doubt meant revery, musing, imaginative argument about questions that
might never be answered. But he and she had now advanced to another
stage. Unconsciously, all that side of his nature had fallen into
abeyance, and he thought only of positive things in the immediate
future. When he was with Cecilia, no matter how the conversation began,
it soon turned upon their plans for their married life; and he found it
so infinitely pleasant to talk of such matters that it did not occur to
him to ask whether she regarded them as equally interesting.

She did not; she saw the change in him, and regretted it. A woman who is
not really in love, generally likes a man less after he has fallen
hopelessly in love with her. It is true that she sometimes likes herself
the better for her new conquest, and there may be some compensation in
that; but there is something tiresome, if not repugnant to her, in the
placid, possessive complacency of a future husband, who seems to forget
that a woman has any intelligence except in matters concerning furniture
and the decoration of a house.

Cecilia was not capricious; she really liked Guido as much as ever, and
she would not even admit that he bored her when he came back again and
again to the same topics. She tried hard to look forward to the time
when all the former charm of their intercourse should return, and when,
besides being the best of friends, he would again be the most agreeable
of companions. It seemed very far off; and yet, in her heart, she hoped
that something might happen to hinder her marriage, or at least to put
it off another year.

Her life seemed very blank after the great struggle was ended, and in
the long summer mornings before Guido came to luncheon, she was
conscious of longing for something that should take the place of the old
dreams, something she could not understand, that awoke under the
listlessness which had come upon her. It was a sort of sadness, like a
regret for a loss that had not really been suffered, and yet was
present; it was a craving for sympathy where she had deserved none, and
it made her inclined to pity herself without reason. She sometimes felt
it after Guido had come, and it stayed with her, a strange yearning
after an unknown happiness that was never to be hers, a half-comforting
and infinitely sad conviction that she was to die young and that people
would mourn for her, but not those, or not that one, who ought to be
most sorry that she was gone. All her books were empty of what she
wanted, and for hours she sat still, doing nothing, or stood leaning on
the window-sill, gazing down through the slats of the blinds at the
glaring street, unconscious of the heat and the strong light, and of the
moving figures that passed.

Occasionally she drove out to the Villa Madama in the afternoon with her
mother, and Guido joined them. Lamberti did not come there, though he
often came to the house in the evening, sometimes with his friend, and
sometimes later. The two always went away together. At the villa,
Cecilia never sat down on the bench by the fountain, but from a distance
she looked at it, and it was like looking at a grave. In dreams she had
sat there too often with another to go there alone now; she had heard
words there that touched her heart too deeply to be so easily forgotten,
and there had been silences too happy to forget. She had buried all that
by the garden seat, but it was better not to go near the place again.
What she had laid out of sight there might not be quite dead yet, and if
she sat in the old place she might hear some piteous cry from beneath
her feet; or its ghost might rise and stare at her, the ghost of a
dream. Then, the yearning and the longing grew stronger and hurt her
sharply, and she turned under the great door, into the hall, and was
very glad when her mother began to chatter about dress and people.

But one day the very thing happened which she had always tried to avert.
Guido insisted on walking up and down the path with her, and they passed
and repassed the bench, till she was sure that he would make her sit
down upon it. She tried to linger at the opposite end, but he was
interested in what he was saying and did not notice her reluctance to
turn back.

Then it came. He stood still by the fountain, and then he sat down quite
naturally, and evidently expecting her readiness to do the same. She
started slightly and looked about, as if to find some means of escape,
but a moment later she had gathered her courage and was sitting beside
him.

The scene came back with excessive vividness. There was the evening
light, the first tinge of violet on the Samnite mountains, the base of
Monte Cavo already purple, the glow on Frascati, and nearer, on Marino;
Rome was at her feet, in a rising mist beyond the flowing river. Guido
talked on, but she did not hear him. She heard another voice and other
words, less gentle and less calm. She felt other eyes upon her, waiting
for hers to answer them, she felt a hand stealing near to hers as her
own lay on the bench at her side.

Still Guido talked, needing no reply, perfectly confident and happy. She
did not hear what he said, but when he paused she mechanically nodded
her head, as if agreeing with him, and instantly lost herself again. She
could not help it. She expected the touch, and the look, and then the
blinding rush that used to come after it, lifting her from her feet and
carrying her whole nature away as the south wind whirls dry leaves up
with it and far away.

That did not come, and presently she was covering her face with both
hands, shaking a little, and Guido was anxiously asking what had
happened.

"Nothing," she answered rather faintly. "It is nothing. It will be over
in a moment."

He thought that she had felt the sudden chill of the evening which is
sometimes dangerous in Rome in midsummer, and he rose at once.

"We had better go in before you catch cold," he said.

"Yes. Let us go in."

For the first time, his words really jarred on her. For the rest of her
life, he would tell her when to go indoors before catching cold. He was
possessive, complacent; he already looked upon her as a person in his
charge, if not as a part of his property. Unreasoningly, she said to
herself it was no concern of his whether she caught cold or not, and
besides, there was no question of such a thing. She had covered her eyes
with her hands for a very different reason, and was ashamed of having
done it, which made matters worse. In anger she told herself boldly that
she wished that he were not himself, only that once, but that he were
Lamberti, who at least took the trouble to amuse her and never put on
paternal airs to enquire about her health.

It was the beginning of revolt. Guido dined with them that evening, and
she was silent and absent-minded. Before the hour at which he usually
went away, she rose and bade him good night, saying that she was a
little tired.

"I am sure you caught cold to-day," he said, with real anxiety.

"We will not go to the villa again," she answered. "Good night."

It was late before she really went to bed, for when she was at last rid
of the conscientious Petersen, she sat long in her chair at the writing
table with a blank sheet of letter paper before her and a pen in her
hand. She dipped it into the ink often, and her fingers moved as if she
were going to write, but the point never touched the paper. At last the
pen lay on the table, and she was resting her chin upon her folded
hands, her eyes half closed, her breath drawn in short sighs that came
and went between her parted lips. Then, though she was all alone, the
blood rose suddenly in her face and she sprang to her feet, angry with
herself and frowning, and ashamed of her thoughts.

She felt hot, and then cold, and then almost sick with disgust. The
vision that had delighted her was far away now; she had forced herself
not to see it, but the man in it had come back to her in dreams; she had
driven him out of them, and for a time she had found peace, but now he
came to her in her waking thoughts and she longed to see his living face
and to hear his real voice. With utter self-contempt and scorn of her
own heart, she guessed that this was love, or love's beginning, and that
nothing could save her now.

Her first impulse was to write to him, to beg him to go away at any
price, never to see her again as long as she lived. As that was out of
the question, she next thought of writing to Guido, to tell him that she
could not marry him, and that she had made up her mind to retire from
the world and spend her life in a convent. But that was impossible, too.

There was no time to be lost. Either she must make one supreme effort to
drive Lamberti from her thoughts and to get back to the state in which
she had felt that she could marry Guido and be a good wife to him, or
else she must tell him frankly that the engagement must end. He would
ask why, and she would refuse to tell him, and after that she did not
dare to think of what would happen. It might ruin his life, for she knew
that he loved her very much. She was honestly and truly much more
concerned for him than for herself. It did not matter what became of
her, if only she could speak the truth to him without bringing harm to
him in the future. The world might say what it pleased.

It was right to break off her engagement, beyond question, and she had
done very wrong in ever agreeing to it; it was the greatest sin she had
ever committed, and with a despairing impulse she sank upon her knees
and poured out her heart in full confession of her fault.

Never in her life had she confessed as she did now, with such a
whole-hearted hatred of her own weakness, such willingness to bear all
blame, such earnest desire for forgiveness, such hope for divine
guidance in making reparation. She would not plead ignorance, nor even
any omission to examine herself, as an excuse for what she had done. It
was all her fault, and her eyes had been open from the first, and she
was about to see the whole life of a good friend ruined through her
miserable weakness.

As she went over it all, burying her face in her hands, the conviction
that she loved Lamberti grew with amazing quickness to the certainty of
a fact long known. This was her crime, that she had been too proud to
own that she had loved him at first sight; her punishment should be
never to see him again. She would abase herself before Guido and confess
everything to him in the very words she was whispering now, and she
would implore his forgiveness. Then, since Lamberti could not leave
Rome, she and her mother would go away on a long journey, to Russia,
perhaps, or to America, or China, and they would never come back. It
must be easy enough to avoid one particular person in the whole world.

This she would do, but she would not deny that she loved him. All her
fault had lain in trying to deny it in spite of what she felt when he
was near her, and it must be still more wrong to force the fact out of
sight now that it had brought her into such great trouble. There was
nothing to be done but to acknowledge it, though it was shame and
humiliation to do so. It stared her in the face, now that she had
courage to own the truth, and a voice called out that she had lied to
herself, to her mother, and to Guido for many weeks, and persistently,
rather than admit that she could fall so low. But even then, in the
midst of her self-abasement, another voice answered that it was no shame
to love a good and true man, and that Lamberto Lamberti was both.



