years between.”

There was almost a merry sound in his voice.

“And now is the unhappiness all gone?” pressing her fondly to his side.

“There is the shame and regret for naughtiness. Have I troubled you a
good deal?” in a repentant tone.

“It would have been worse if you were really ill.”

“I almost made myself so. I did not think that it might cause you
anxiety. You see, I was only considering myself and heaping up sorrow
where there was no real sorrow.”

“But you will not do it any more?”

“No, not any more,” she answered, with exquisite tenderness.

“And now shall we go in? What do you suppose Mère Lunde will say? And
see, it is quite dark. There are two stars.”

All above them was the vault of deepest blue, resting on the tree-tops
or the vague, far distance where all was indistinguishable. The river
lapped along, some night birds gave a shrill cry, and far off a
whippoorwill was repeating his mournful lay.

“Come.” He lifted her up in his strong arms and swung her around. The
door stood wide open, framing in a vivid picture of the hearth fire, the
big empty chair, Mère Lunde bending over some cookery. Every year her
shoulders grew more round and her head was almost hidden between them.

Renée seemed to herself like one in a dream. She would not exult in this
new possessorship. She would keep meek and lowly, remembering her
indulgence in sinful feelings, her doubt and distrust.

“What has kept you so?” cried Mère Lunde. “The fish has dried to a
crisp. And one never knows. It may be Indians or wild animals——”

“Nothing worse than sitting in the arbor, talking.”

“And the child not at all well! When she comes down with a fever—and she
looks like a ghost now.”

That was true enough. The cool air had added to her paleness and her
eyes had a softness in their brown depths, a mysterious expression, as
if she had not shaken off the atmosphere of some far world.

“Go to the fire and warm up, even if it is a summer night. You should
have known better than to keep her sitting in the chill dew,” to M.
Denys.

Then the good mère made her drink a cup of hot broth.

But she had not much appetite. Now and then she stole a shy glance at
Uncle Gaspard, and if she met his eyes a faint color suffused her face.
The happy, childlike trust was coming back. And though they sat together
awhile afterward, the faint glow of the dying fire lighting the room,
neither fell in a humor for talking. She kept half wondering if it was
true that he did not care to marry Barbe, half disbelieving it; and yet
it did not give her the pang she had suffered from the cruel jealousy
that had rent her soul. The tranquillity was very sweet, very
comforting.

She was singing the next morning as she went about her duties a gay
little French chanson André had taught her, and her voice was like a
bird’s.

“You are happy this morning, ma’m’selle,” said Mère Lunde, with fondness
in her old eyes. “Has there been news from the boats?”

“From the boats?” What had that to do with it? Then she colored
scarlet—that meant André.

“No,” she replied gravely. “Uncle Gaspard would have mentioned it if
there was.”

Still the embarrassing tint ran over her face. All this time had one and
another been fancying that she was grieving for André Valbonais? Ah,
they would see! She would be as gay as before. She would go out with the
girls berrying, and gathering strange flowers that queer old Doctor
Montcrevier was glad to press and put in a great book that he had. They
were very little troubled by Indians now, yet they always went in
considerable parties, and Friga was her guard.

Monsieur Denys took quite a party up the river in the boat he had been
building, and they spent the night at St. Charles. Just beyond was
another bend in the river, and the air was so clear they could discern
the windings a long distance up. Everywhere there were still some signs
of the great flood. But it had not been able to destroy the frowning
bluffs, though it had left caves in different places, swept some islands
out of existence or added them to others. The world was a beautiful
place when the elements were at rest, and it was a blessed thing to
live.

Renée was growing a little graver, a little more womanly and thoughtful,
but Denys wondered at the added sweetness. She was quite a devout
churchgoer now, and occasionally went up for a chat with the good
father, that was not confession exactly, but helped her insight in some
of the greater truths, made her more ready to share happiness with
others.

It had been quite a trial at first to go cordially to the Renauds’,
though she did admire Barbe’s little girl. Madame Gardepier was a person
of some note now, and received invitations to the Government House, and
was on delightful terms with Madame Chouteau and several of the more
important residents. Sometimes Uncle Gaspard and Renée walked down of an
evening, and the young girl always trembled a little, Barbe was so very
charming.

Denys understood that he could win her if he cared. Was he really
growing so old that he had not the necessary ardor? Had that one
youthful love and sorrow sufficed him? He was touched by Renée’s sweet
demeanor now, though he could not see the quaking heart behind it.

Monsieur Pierre Chouteau came home to his family late in the fall, and a
new Lieutenant-Governor accompanied him. There was strange and stirring
news from France, from Spain, even from the colonies at the eastward
which, having shaken off their old rulers, were still harrassed by
Indian wars and the unwillingness of England to give up the places
specified in the treaties.

They did not mind these disputes in the old town. Life ran on smoothly.
They were like one big family; had their joys and few sorrows and took
little heed for to-morrow. There was the winter pleasure and new
marriages; there were young men who cast longing eyes at Renée de
Longueville, who would have no real lovers. And now she was seventeen.

They were very happy together, Renée and her uncle.

“She will marry some time,” thought the woman who longed for the place
by his fireside when it should be vacant. Renée’s demeanor puzzled her.
She was no longer a third person. She often left them quite alone, and
when occasion offered invited Barbe and her little girl to tea. Gaspard
Denys was very friendly. He had the gift of being friendly with women.

The boats began to come up. There was some word about André. Pierre
Chouteau came over and told Denys.

“I hope you will not be too much disappointed,” he said, “but there is
some important business on hand and he really cannot be spared. We made
it an object for him to remain. Indeed, we should like him to take one
of the head positions there. He is a fine, trusty fellow. He asked me to
come and explain to you, lest you should think he had grown indifferent
about old friends. But you need not fear that.”

“We had counted on seeing him, but duty is duty, and one ought not to
run away from it for pleasure,” replied Denys, approvingly.

Renée was not going to give any one an opportunity to consider her a
lovelorn maiden this time. She was gay and bright, joining the pleasure
parties and dancing, ready for canoeing or rowing about on the old
mill-pond in the races. She never summoned the young men to her side and
bade them fetch and carry, as she used to André; she sent her admirers
to this girl and that one, but somehow they always found their way back
and gathered as bees about the sweetest flower. They would spend whole
evenings with Denys for the sake of watching her as she sat so demurely
beside the fire, now and then raising her soft brown eyes that the flame
seemed to burnish with gold, or smiling vaguely at some conceit of her
own instead of what the visitor said.

When they were alone on rare occasions she would bring Uncle Gaspard his
flute and often sing dainty little songs in the sweetest voice
imaginable. Then he would listen and dream of her mother, and it seemed
as if she came and sat beside them. He could see her shadowy form, he
believed he could touch her with his hand. There was no sin in loving
her now, since she was free from the Count de Longueville.

Then came winter again. Should they go to the king’s ball?

“I’m too old,” said Uncle Gaspard. “I found a white hair in my beard
this morning.”

“Oh, think of the fathers and grandfathers! And they dance, too. Old,
indeed!”

She shook her slim finger at him.

“I’ve grown lazy. M. Marchand is such an excellent partner that I have
very little to do.”

“Oh, and you were out skating a few days ago and distanced many of the
younger men! I shall not go unless you do,” resolutely.

“And you have never been a queen in your own right,” he remarked with a
gleam of amusement. “You ought to try your luck.”

“Before I get old and have to wear a coif,” shaking her head in mock
despair. “Oh, let us both go!”

She had to coax a good deal and insist stoutly that she would not stir a
step without him. And, of course, he had to yield.

She listened to the songs and the solicitations, and sent Mère Lunde out
with a generous contribution.

This time she did not care so much about her gown. It was pretty enough.
She had a beautiful necklace that Mattawissa had given her, made of blue
and white shells that came from the southerly Atlantic coast and were
held in high esteem among the Indians and considered of great value in
the way of trade, as they were used in wampums. They were ground in a
peculiar fashion, with a small hole drilled in them and strung on a
chain. In dancing, as they touched each other the jingle had a peculiar
musical sound.

Madame Gardepier and one of her nieces cut the cake when the midnight
bell sounded.

“You must have a piece, Renée,” said Madame Elise Borrie, who was
plump and smiling and the mother of three children. “But,” in a
mischievous whisper, “they will fight to be chosen king. We shall learn
who is your favorite.”

“I’ve never had any luck,” returned Renée in a tone of mock
disappointment.

“And I’ve never cut the cake before! Oh, you must take a piece from
me! There will be luck in it.”

Renée took the piece laughingly, spread out her handkerchief, and broke
it in two or three fragments. Out fell the ring.

“Oh! oh! oh!” and there was a crowd about her. She slipped it on her
finger and was handed her nose-gay.

Whom would she choose? There were eager eyes and indrawn breaths, smiles
that asked in wordless language, young men crowding nearer.

She went over to Denys. “You always were my king,” she said in a low,
sweet tone that touched him immeasurably. “I am glad to give you the
royal signet, a rose.”

Gaspard Denys bowed like a young courtier.

“You know I must have done it besides my own desire,” she whispered.
“There would have been quarrels and heart burnings.”

“Yes,” nodding that he understood.

“Ma’m’selle Renée, that is hardly fair,” declared an aggrieved one.
“There are so many young men——”

“And other queens, and a room full of pretty girls. I will give you one
dance.”

His face lighted up with joy.

“It will end by a marriage, mark my words,” said the mother of three
daughters.

“No, it cannot,” returned Madame Gardepier, with secret exultation. “He
was appointed her uncle and guardian by the Church. It would be
unlawful.”

“True enough. But if she would settle upon some one in earnest the rest
would stand a chance. I don’t know what there is about her. And she’s
past eighteen. It won’t do for her to waste many more years.”

Renée and her uncle danced twice. Then she said, with the persuasive
touch in her voice that he never could resist:

“Now you must dance with Madame Gardepier and some of the young girls,
while I comfort the disconsolate. And we will go home early.”

But there was such an outcry she could not get away so easily. They were
all as eager as if there had never been balls before and would never be
one again.

Renée would not attend the next one. Gaspard grumbled at having to go by
himself and meet the storm of reproaches.

“See, I will tie up my head—you can say you left me that way,” and she
passed a folded handkerchief about it, that made her look more
coquettish than ever. “Now—I might rub a bit of garlic over my eyes and
they would look red enough.”

Gaspard laughed in spite of a little ill humor.

Renée settled herself in his big chair and wrapped her feet in the fur
robe. How the wind blew without, though the moonless sky was brilliant
with stars. The trees writhed and groaned, and she fancied she could
hear the lashing of the river. Occasionally a gust blew down the
chimney, driving long tongues of flame out into the room and scattering
ashes about. But the house of split logs, plastered on the outside and
within, was solid enough. She only laughed when the wind banged up
against it and had to depart with sullen grumbling.

She loved to sit this way and live over the past. What had changed her
so? Did wilfulness belong naturally to childhood? Or was it the lessons
she had learned in the little old church from the good father? Life was
finer and broader, and duties, real duties, were oftentimes a
delight—not always, she admitted, with a little twinge of conscience—and
there were sacrifices of inclination to be made.

What a curious, varied life hers had been! And now it flowed on
tranquilly. Would it always be this way? Uncle Gaspard wanted her to
marry, but who was there to suit them both? The pretty mystery, not
quite a smile, but that always made her face enchanting, passed over it
now. This one and that one had been mentioned, and she had scouted them
with a dainty insistence that always amused him, though he would argue
about their best points as if he was in sober earnest.

“Sometimes I think you really want to get rid of me, Uncle Gaspard,” she
would retort, with an air of being provoked. “And what if I should never
like anybody? I wonder if, after all, when I am old, say thirty,
perhaps, I would have to go to Quebec and enter a convent, like Marie
Guion?”

“Thirty! Well, you are a good way from that! And I am a good way past
it, and you won’t hear to my being old.”

Then she would laugh and put loving arms about his neck, and he would
think he did not mind the waiting. If it was God’s will, the thing he
wanted would come about; but if it was not, one could not go against the
great All-Father, whose right it was to give or to deny.

But he remarked that she had grown to like talking over the times when
André Valbonais had come to her rescue and that of Wawataysee.

“And I would get hungry and tired and cold, and feel afraid of wild
animals in the forest. I was so little, you know, and not wise and
patient like Wawataysee. And I used to cry for you. André was very good
not to get cross and scold, now was he not?”

“Oh, my little one, I never forget that I owe him a great deal. And I am
glad he is prospering so well.”

“But suppose he should want to stay in New Orleans? It is so much gayer
and finer than this little St. Louis. Our Place d’Arms is nothing
compared to that handsome plaza, Barbe says. And the women dress so
much, and there is the beautiful church, and the school for girls, and a
theatre, and music everywhere on the balconies. Perhaps he will never
come back.”

Did she sigh a little over her own prediction?

“We can go there some day——”

“If you think I am going to run after him,” with a charming show of
indignation that made her cheeks bloom like the rose, “you are far out
of the way. That would be on every one’s tongue. Renée de Longueville
has gone to New Orleans after M’sieu Valbonais, because she cannot get a
lover here. Why, he might stay there a hundred years before I would go!”

“There seems to be no lack of lovers here. Whether they come for me, or
the good fire, or——”

“They like you, and they like to smoke and ask your advice. And don’t
you notice that sometimes I go to bed, slip away softly, and they never
miss me?”

At that Uncle Gaspard would nod, with an expression of incredulity in
his eyes.

And on nights like these, when she happened to be alone, or in that long
space of winter twilight when she curled herself up in the fur rugs like
a kitten, she used to wander off in reveries about that almost
dream-like episode, with its terrors, that made her shudder even now,
because she realized their dangers so much more keenly. Oh, what if
André had not found them? How could they have taken all that long
journey with no care, no kindly treatment? And that tall, fierce Black
Feather! He might have minded about Wawataysee, who was of some value to
him, but she, a little child! And if André had said, “Oh, we cannot be
bothered with her, we shall have to go so much slower,” and they had
stolen away! Some tears always came in her eyes at this point. And there
was that last night, when he had carried her and she had slept in his
arms. Yes, she ought to be very grateful. And sometimes she had been
wilful and treated him very badly. Of course, he had half-forgotten
about her. Was the girl beautiful that he cared the most for? Did she
dance with the grace of a fairy, and was her voice sweet and seductive,
just as Barbe Gardepier’s was at times, a sound that both fascinated and
vexed her, the liquid tone that made a man bend his head lest he should
lose a note of its sweetness? And her parents would be very gracious to
him; she knew how charming mothers could be.

After they had been married a long, long while she would go with Uncle
Gaspard to visit them. She and Uncle Gaspard would grow old together,
and she would have a stoop in the shoulders like Mère Lunde.




CHAPTER XIX

THIS WAY AND THAT


All the world was abloom and fragrant with later spring. The children
were ranging out on the great mound, learning lessons of the sky, with
all its variations; of the woods, with their many kinds of trees; of the
flowers that were budding and blossoming; of the river winding about,
guessing at other rivers and other countries and great lakes and frozen
regions up at the far north where the white bear lived and the beautiful
white and silver fox, whose fur was rare and held in high esteem. They
peopled it with strange, fierce Indians, and sometimes the boys divided
in two parties and fought. The girls made circles for wigwams, collected
dried grass and sticks and built fires in the centre; and if there were
but few books and no real schools, they were skilful in many things.
They could shoot smaller game, they could manage a canoe, they could
fish, and they acquired much useful knowledge by the time they were men
and women.

Even to-day youth is attracted by the wild, free life, and the spirit of
adventure still runs in the blood.

The line of boats were coming up north again. There had been much
floating ice in the river this spring, which had delayed travelling.
Flags were flying, so all was well. Down on the levee bells were ringing
and horns blew out a welcome. Everything had a natural look again, only
the new places were built higher up, and even some of these had been
damaged by the crushing of ice cakes.

The men collected who had this sort of interest at heart. Many others
and the slaves were out on the King’s Highway and beyond, tilling and
planting fields. Women sauntered down the Rue Royale and chatted. The
old market was full of eagerness and activity, and the air had a
fragrance of cooked viands to tempt the palates of the sailors. Women in
coifs and little shoulder shawls that gave them a picturesque look, men
in close caps or a kerchief tied over their heads, their blue blouses
with red belts and wide collars exposing brawny or sinewy throats,
tanned already by sun and wind.

The leader, the most pretentious boat generally, carried some
passengers; the others had loads of bales and bundles covered with
coarse canvas or deers’ hide. They looked not unlike a funeral
procession, the sails a dull gray, but the shouts and songs dispelled so
sombre a thought. Some of the men remembered when the sad news of Pierre
Laclede had reached them, when all had been silence.

The first boat unloaded the few passengers, valuable papers, and the
slaves began with the cargo. One tall, fine-aspected young fellow sprang
ashore and was warmly welcomed by the Chouteaus and several of the more
prominent men, and then Gaspard Denys seized his hand, but neither of
them spoke except with the eyes.

And now all was a brisk, seeming confusion. Rude barrows and a kind of
hand-carts were loaded and run to the storehouses. Slaves, Indians and
the lower class of French, many of them hunters as well, worked with a
hearty will. Then there were groups of Indian traders who had been
watching for days for the arrival of the boats, and were eager with
their packs for trade. Others had already disposed of their pelts and
taken notes with the signature of the Chouteaus, quite as good as gold
or silver, and making trade easier, giving them more time to devote to
their own selection. Squaws eager for blankets, calicoes, coarse,
crash-like stuffs, beads and gewgaws, chaffering in their guttural
tones, and shrill French voices raised to the point of anger, it would
seem, from the eagerness, but good-humored for all that.

Several men went into the counting house where the old sign still
obtained, “Maxent Laclede & Company,” just as it still remained in New
Orleans. It would look queer enough to-day, the small one-story log
house with its rough inside wall built up to the ceiling with shelves,
its great iron-bound boxes that served for seats as well as receptacles.

Andre Valbonais had a big buckskin bag full of papers and invoices, and
he had much to say to his employers. Pierre Chouteau went in and out; he
could hear the particulars afterward, and he was needed every few
moments to tell where this and that should go.

There was a great commotion, to be sure. Millions of dollars in
transactions could pass now without a tithe of excitement. But, then,
when a town has been shut in all winter it is natural the outburst
should stir like wine in the blood. The shops farther up in the town
were deserted.

As for Renée de Longueville, she kept very tranquil.

“I suppose M’sieu André came up on this voyage?” Mère Lunde said as she
was preparing dinner.

Renée had been working among her flowers; then she had kept in her room,
busying herself with sewing.

“Perhaps so. There will be fleets in all the time now. And Indians and
voyageurs and piles of pelts and evil smells, and such a confusion in
the streets it will hardly be safe to go out unless one is willing to be
jostled and pushed hither and yon.”

“And M’sieu Denys does not come home to dinner. It is all ready.”

“Let us have ours, then,” with cordial assent.

“Perhaps he may bring home M’sieu Valbonais.”

“Well, there may be something left. I am hungry, but I cannot eat all
this bountiful meal,” with a gay laugh.

“It will be spoiled, ma’m’selle,” complainingly.

“The more need that we eat ours while it is just right,” she answered,
with smiling emphasis. “Will it make them any happier to have ours less
inviting?”

So she took her seat at the table with a merry audacity, and praised the
cookery so heartily that Mère Lunde was good humored in a moment or two.
Still there was no step on the path.

“They will not come,” in a tone of disappointment.

“But, you know, there is enough to get at the market in such times as
these,” returned Renée, with a lightsome air. “Trust them for not
starving.”

“Pah! It may do for sailors and voyageurs and Indians, but never for
gentlemen, mademoiselle.”

When Mère Lunde was a little affronted she gave Renée the full length of
the syllables.

Renée went out and looked at the flowers again, and up and down the
street. “If there was any news,” she said to herself, “Uncle Denys would
come and tell me.”

“Mère Lunde, I am going over to Madame Marchand’s with my work,” she
exclaimed. “I do hope they have brought in no end of beads and spangles.
What do you suppose the Indian women did before the French came here?”

That was beyond the simple mère’s comprehension.

M. Marchand was returning from his dinner.

“I just ran down to hear the luck, ma’m’selle; they had a splendid
voyage and no mishap. And André Valbonais—you would not know him!”

She nodded indifferently, but would ask no questions. Wawataysee sat out
under a pretty rose arbor that was heavy with pink buds. There were four
babies now, sturdy Gaspard and Denys tumbling about on the grass, Renée,
with her fair hair and her father’s deep blue eyes, much more French
than Indian, and baby François. Wawataysee was more lovely than ever,
Renée thought, but she did not understand that it was the largeness and
sweetness of life so intimately connected with others.

“Did M’sieu Denys come home?” Wawataysee asked.

“No. I suppose it is all a hurly-burly down there. It is good to have
something to stir up the town now and then,” Renée returned brightly.

“Yes. The trappers were growing very impatient. And I think there will
be a good trade, an excellent thing for you and me,” with a grateful
expression in her beautiful eyes. “Renée, I wonder if M. Denys ever
realizes all that he has done for François, and good Mère Lunde nursed
him through all his long illness. Men’s regard for each other has such a
strong, true quality in it. And, then, M’sieu André—oh, Renée, what
would we have done without him? I hope he came up on this voyage.”

“Yes,” returned Renée. “M. Marchand just told me so.”

“I am all impatience to see him. Almost two years! François declares
sometimes that he is jealous, but that is for amusement. I wonder if he
is much changed? He was very boyish, you know.”

“Was he?” commented Renée absently.

“You would not remark it so much. You were a child yourself. And how you
used to order him about.”

“It was a habit of mine. Uncle Gaspard spoiled me. And now I have only
to raise my finger and he does my bidding; but he knows there is no one
I love so well.”

Would she always love him the best of any one?

“And I suppose we shall be glad to have a new store of beads and those
lovely spangles that make the work glitter so, and the soft silk
threads. Merci! What would we do but for the work?” laughing.

No books or papers to read, no letters to write, no large questions to
discuss, not much of fashion, since garments were handed down through
generations, no journeys about. It was no wonder they were so largely
given to the gayety and pleasures of every-day life. There were loves
and disputes and jealousies, yet they seldom reached the desperate
point, and all, both men and women, looked forward to marriage, which
was made happy by unfailing good humor and a clear sense of duty. It
was, indeed, Arcadian simplicity.

They chatted and worked, then they took the children and went up on the
mound, where they had a view of the busy hive below, and the
conglomerate of nations, it seemed to their limited sense. Renée was in
a most merry mood. She sang snatches of songs, she played with the
children, she told the older ones Indian legends that were like fairy
stories. Wawataysee studied her in a sort of amazement.

Renée had half a mind to go home to supper with her. That would look
inhospitable. Gay as she had been, there was a curious unrest in her
heart, a longing to have the first meeting over. Would André expect her
to be very glad? Well, she would put on her finest dignity. She was
quite grown up now.

The table was set for two.

“M’sieu Denys has sent word—they are to go to the Chouteaus’ for supper.
Oh, I forgot! M. Valbonais has come,” glancing up to see if it pleasured
her young lady.

“Yes, yes!” Renée nodded impatiently, and took her seat. “Of course,
there is business. He is clerk of the great house, you know, and brings
news not only of New Orleans, but France, and perhaps of the new
colonies. I think I have heard there is some trade with them. You see,
Mère Lunde, New Orleans is a wonderful place.”

But after all her exercise and apparent good spirits, she scarcely ate
any supper. There was a hurt feeling lying heavily at her heart that she
could not banish, with all her pride. If he had cared, would he not have
found a few moments to announce his safe return? Perhaps he had left a
wife behind. Then, of course, he had no right to think of any other
woman.

She went out and paced up and down in the garden, trying to think what
she would do to-morrow. She would go down to the mill-pond; there were
always parties out boating. Then Sophie Borrie would be glad to see her.
And the day after, the day after that—how long and lonely the procession
looked!

There was a bright twinkling star emerging from a drift of white into a
patch of almost blue-black sky. The night was serene, balmy, and there
were but few sounds. It was not yet time for insects to begin their
choruses. Steps sounded of people chatting gayly, but they were not the
voices she knew. Something brushed against her forehead—she reached up
and pulled a rose, sweet with the first greeting of its brief life. And
then——

She hurried swiftly to the house. Mère Lunde was scolding Chloe, but
through the rasping sound she heard the steps, the cordial greeting. It
was quite dark within, and she was lighting the pine torch when the two
entered and her uncle said:

“We have reached home at last. What a day! Renée, here is a guest,” and
Uncle Gaspard gave his hearty, cheerful laugh.

“We were in the dark.” She rose in some confusion, the short curls
drooping almost into her eyes, her face quite flushed, and turned,
drawing a long, startled breath.

“The saints only know how glad I am to get home again!” and the strong
voice was full of rapture.

“And you don’t know yourself?” she interrupted quickly.

“Ah, you must not take me up like that!” laughing. “I doubt if even the
saints could understand my delight. No one but myself truly knows. Is
that better?”

The torch began to flame, and its red light threw him out boldly. He
seemed to have grown taller—no, it was not that, for Uncle Gaspard still
towered above him, but he was stouter, and the way he carried himself
had in it a new character and power. And the indescribable something in
his face that no girl could read at a glance, the shaping and tone
experience gives when one has been learning to rule his fellow-men and
to depend upon himself.

She was silent and a warm color played about her face. He took both
hands, drew her nearer to him, and suddenly she was afraid of the
intense personality. Her rosy lips quivered, her eyes drooped, her
breath came rapidly.

“Haven’t you a word of welcome for André?” asked Uncle Gaspard,
surprised.

“I was confused by the light, and—you are quite sure it is Monsieur
Valbonais?” turning to her uncle. “For he seems to have changed
mysteriously.”

“And you have not changed at all. Nothing has changed. M. Denys, light
your pipe and sit in the corner, and I will take this one. Ma’m’selle
Renée, sit here in the middle.” He pushed the chair and placed her
gently in it. “Now we can almost believe that I have not been away at
all, only there is the great gladness of coming back.”

“Has the time passed so quickly, monsieur?”

There was the faintest suggestion of mischief in her tone.

“Mademoiselle, you have not outgrown all your naughtiness, I perceive.
You find a second meaning in my simple words. No, there have been days
that seemed like months—last summer, when I hoped to return, when I was
homesick and heartsick. But what are you to do when the kindest employer
in the world begs you to stay and there is no one to take your place,
unless matters go at a great loss?”

“But New Orleans is gay and bright. And Madame Gardepier says the women
are lovely, and there is music and light-heartedness everywhere.”

“When you are in a close and dark office or out on the muddy, crowded,
vile-smelling levees with men of every nation shouting and hustling and
swearing all about you, and you have almost to fight to get your bidding
done, you have no thought for pretty women. But a man cannot always
choose. And my greatest grief is that I must go back or disappoint my
very good friends.”

“Oh!” with a toss of the head and a curve of the swelling lip that he
longed to kiss.

“Ma’m’selle, let us not talk about that now. There are pleasanter
subjects—all our old friends—for through the day it has been business,
business, until my head seemed in a whirl with it. M. Denys will tell
you. And we had to go to supper to finish, as if there would not be
another day. But it is so lovely here. And the pretty Madame Marchand is
well, and the Renaud girls, and the Aubrys with their husbands, and
Madame Gardepier with her little one! Ah, I shall have a fine time
presently, when I get a little leisure!”
