
Then they walked out on the porch where a bevy of girls had congregated.

"I have been introducing Miss Grant to the house," Miss Aldred said in
her soft, pleasant tone, "and now you girls may tell her what we do and
how we do it, and anything else that will not make her feel homesick."

Helen was sure she should never have one yearning for Hope Center.

"Oh, Miss Aldred, don't you think we might go down town this afternoon
and introduce her to the town where she will have to find her social
nutriment for the next ten months?"

"Social, indeed," laughed Miss Mays.

"Well, what is it? Our intellectual nutriment is here, and though we
sometimes study wood and wilds you cannot exactly describe it as natural
pabulum, and though we do a little shopping you can't designate it as
financial forage. But we will not bother about exact definition until
next week, so that we can go, Miss Aldred?" imploringly.

"I see no objection at present."

The stage had come up with some scholars, and Miss Aldred went to
receive them.

"I am really going to take Miss Grant in charge. First, let us have a
walk about our own domain."

The front and one side were devoted to pleasure and beauty. Some lovely
old trees, a willow touching the ground with its long arms, two splendid
Norway spruces, a great catalpa, maples, and one fine old elm. Two
hammocks were swung in the shade, there were several rustic seats about,
and a table that seemed to invite one to a picnic meal. At the back the
decline was a tangle of wildness until it reached the little stream.
Various wood asters were beginning to bloom, golden-rod, balsams, and
several fine, white blossoms. Yet, it was rather shady and they all had
a delicate appearance.

"And there is a path. You can go down," exclaimed Helen, rather
wistfully.

"And get yourself torn by briers. We won't go down this morning, for
there are pleasanter ways, and you will have enough of it when you go
out botanizing."

"It is so beautiful. And over there is another hill." Her eyes were
alight with enthusiasm.

"And the end of the town lies down in the valley. Now around here is the
useful and a bit of orchard. The old branching apple tree gives us
oceans of bloom in the spring, and we are allowed to despoil it as it
seldom fruits. That's the useful--not exactly the garden of sweet herbs,
but there are some in it. And here is the lovely grape arbor, if you are
not afraid some fierce caterpillar or savage green worm an inch or two
long may swing down upon you."

There was a long bench at one side, and the air was fragrant with
ripening grapes. They seated themselves, and Miss Mays extended a
cordial invitation to the merry group.

"Are we really allowed to?" asked someone, hesitatingly, a stranger to
the privileges.

"In reason, yes. It would be most unkind and ill-bred to strip the vines
and offer them for sale in the public market. I hope none of you have
been seized with that intention. There are some more prisoners of hope,"
as another stage stopped.

"Why prisoners? Do they not come of their own accord," asked Helen.

"Oh, Miss Grant, they generally come of their fathers' and mothers'
accord the first time. Did you really sigh to come?"

"I wanted to, yes;" in an eager tone.

"Depraved taste."

Helen looked surprised. That everyone of any intelligence should not
long for an education amazed her. And these bright, pretty girls who
must have congenial surroundings seemed the very ones to appreciate it.

They were still jesting when the luncheon bell rang. One new table was
filled and some vacant spaces in several others. It was beginning to
look like quite a family. But Helen had the feeling of being a guest at
a hotel, just as she had been all the week. They dispersed to their
rooms, and Helen tried to read a little, but the words were mixed up
with French and music. She would like the music she knew. She listened
to the sound of the piano on the floor below, and her whole soul
responded to the melody. Had anyone ever been so blest before? It was
like a fairy story.

"Well," exclaimed Miss Mays an hour or so later, looking in at the door,
"have you a mind ready for a walk, to see the town. For I doubt if
otherwise you can be introduced to it before next Saturday."

"Oh, yes," springing up with energy. "I begin to think strange places
are--" she cast about for a word--"fascinating."

"How many strange places have you seen?" laughingly.

"Not many. A week in New York and the pretty places and wonders
thereabout."

"New York is a marvel by itself. And I've never been there," sighing. "I
suppose I may be classed as a Westerner. The western part of the State.
I know several of those cities and Niagara Falls and the Canada side; we
were there two months ago. I did manage to squeeze in, but the girls
didn't want me a bit. Papa managed that," exultingly.

Helen had been studying Miss Mays' attire. Her gray frock and coat were
just the thing, and her gray felt hat trimmed with scarlet and a bright
wing. So she put it on and was ready.

"You can learn a good deal by watching other people," Mrs. Van Dorn had
said. "And it is bad taste to make yourself conspicuous."

As they stepped out in the hall several others joined them. Mrs. Aldred
nodded to them as they passed out.

"Did you see those two girls on the veranda? They look like twins and
might almost as well be. They are fifteen, birthdays only a week apart.
Mothers are sisters, and the fathers cousins. Alice and Annie Otis. They
both have light hair, but one has darker eyes than the other. And the
blue-eyed one is a little stouter. They are to room together."

"Roxy Mays, I don't see how you find out so much about everybody," said
one of the group.

"By using my eyes and ears. One of them told part of this to Miss Grace,
and the mother of Annie explained the rest to Mrs. Aldred, but I don't
know which Annie is. I'll guess it is the plump one with a dimple in her
chin. They have never been away at school before. You can tell that by
their half-frightened look."

"Did I look half frightened?" inquired Helen, mirthfully, glancing
around.

"I must say you did not. And we descended upon you so unceremoniously.
It might be admissible to ask what you thought of us."

"That it was very kind of you to call on me. I should have felt much
more strange if I had speculated all the evening and seen you first this
morning."

"Now you see the benefit of rushing in where angels fear to tread. You
were placed in our neighborhood, and we have been neighborly."

"I thank you very much," Helen returned gravely.

Elm Avenue ran straight down in the town, down to the river, indeed. But
the beauty of Westchester was its main street that intersected this and
ran parallel with the river about a quarter of a mile below the school,
and was called Center Street. It had all that was of the most account in
the town, the Court House, a fine building, a public hall with offices
on the lower floor, two very pretty churches with their parsonages,
several stores, post-office, and bank, and at both ends handsome
residences with well-kept grounds. Being the county town, at autumn and
spring it displayed a rather busy aspect; the rest of the time was given
over to very delightful, refined social living. There had been some
doubts at first as to whether a girls' boarding-school would not disturb
the serene aspect, but it was not large enough, and kept very well in
hand.

From Center Street, streets and avenues branched out both ways. These
were substantially built up with large grounds and handsome gardens on
the east side, stretching out finally to farms, and on the west running
down to the river, that being broken by rifts and rather dangerous
places, was hardly navigable for general business, though small sloops
ventured up when the river was not too low. A mile further down was a
bed of clay and a brick-yard, and two or three factories with a sort of
hamlet. Three miles below were large iron-works. The railroad ran along
the river, and left the town to its beauty and comparative quiet.

It was, in its surroundings, much handsomer than North Hope, and the
style of homes betokened both wealth and culture, a town whose ways were
settled, a town of the better class who had not to consider the ordinary
chances of making money. Several of the houses were shut up in the
winter, while their occupants went to the city for the season. Those who
remained at home entertained themselves with various amateur diversions.
There was a fine musical club that gave two or three concerts through
the winter; another that had a course of lectures, and the churches gave
fairs and sociables. The four denominations were represented, but the
Presbyterians were the largest, oldest and most influential.

The small river was spanned by a number of pretty rustic bridges, and
emptied into the greater one that divided it from the neighboring State,
whose wooded heights and rocky bluffs were most picturesque. There were
only occasional houses, though down at the brick-yard a small settlement
was begun. And already the sun was throwing long shadows from the
densest woods, where firs, cedars, and hemlock were almost black against
the beeches and hickories, even now turning yellow at the point of the
long leaves; chestnuts with the brown fringes of bloom that bore no
fruit still hanging to them. Here and there a pile of rocks, gray and
brown and dotted with glistening gems, it would seem, there were points
that sparkled so. There a hollow that might be a dryad's cave, bunches
of sumac in autumnal gorgeousness, tangles of wild growth, blackberry
with its deep red leaves, cat-briar still green and glossy, and the
confusion of wild woodland growth.

"Oh, how beautiful it is!" Helen exclaimed involuntarily.

"Where are you viewing the universe?"

"Over beyond the river. Do you ever go there?"

"Oh, yes, we row across. The school owns a boat. It is supposed to be
good exercise, but it does blister your hands. There is a bridge farther
up there, now you can see it."

The church spire had hidden it from view, but it was just a plain,
partly-covered structure.

"We went over for our picnic. There are swamps of rhododendrons, and
mountain laurel. That is beautiful even in the winter if you are fond of
such things. Never mind them to-day. There will be some rambles over
there presently. Let us look nearer home. What are you, religiously?"

Helen flushed. Was she really religious at all?

"I mean what denomination claims your family? We generally follow in
their footsteps."

"Presbyterian," with a hesitating sound in her voice.

"Then this will be your church. Mrs. Aldred is a member here, and Miss
Grace, but curiously enough Miss Gertrude leans toward Episcopacy, and
she plays some of the old masses in a way that almost sweeps you along
in her current. She is to be an artist. Last winter she was in New York
taking lessons, and she teaches painting, but we haven't a very artistic
lot of girls I think. Mr. Danforth is the clergyman here. You will like
him I guess. My people are Methodists. That is my church 'way down
below, but I often go there."

"Oh, let us get on to the stores," said one of the group. "Let me
see--there are five of us. I'll treat to-day, that will make us five
weeks going round. Only on Saturdays, mind."

They passed the bank, a very modest building with law offices on the
second floor. Then the Court House, which was quite imposing, and a row
of stores, larger and finer than those in Hope. An inviting ice-cream
parlor with a rustic garden at the side, divided into vine-covered
booths, claimed their attention, and they sauntered in, seating
themselves nonchalantly.




CHAPTER XI

SCHOOL IN EARNEST


On Monday the real work of school began. Besides the boarding scholars,
was a day-school of the young ladies and larger girls, who were either
sent away or went to Aldred House. There was an excellent school for the
little ones, and a very good public school, but Westchester did not take
cordially to this except for the boys.

Two of the teachers had arrived on Saturday evening. Madame Meran, the
French teacher, who also gave music lessons to the younger pupils, and
Miss Lane, who taught Latin and German to the few who desired it, and
had dreams of college life. Mrs. Aldred made no specialty of this, but
some of the pupils insisted on remaining until that time. There were two
divisions in the senior class, two in the junior. Helen was glad that
Daisy Bell was in the B. division. She was not as gay as Roxy Mays, but
there was a quality of tenderness in her that was very attractive.

She was not quite sure that she would desire to make a warm friend of
Miss Mays though on Friday evening her whole heart had gone out to her.
She could turn any subject into ridicule so easily, she could seize on
small foibles and distort them with such a winsome grace that they were
amusing at the time, but when one thought them over afterward one saw
the little stings that were left behind.

It was so different from anything Helen had dreamed of. At first she
thought she would have been happier going to the Hope High School and
working her way through. There was a feeling that she did not truly and
honestly belong in this circle of girls, many of whom had rich fathers
and luxurious homes; and she wondered if some day she would come to have
the careworn and unsatisfied look that Miss Lane had. Miss Lane had
taught ten years, beginning when she was nineteen. So she was
twenty-nine.

"And I do not believe she has ever had a lover," said Miss Mays. "She
looks so."

"What kind of a look is that?" questioned someone.

"Why that discontented, hungry expression, that curious alertness, as if
you were looking for something that had never come, and you were afraid
never would. Girls, if I had to live until I was twenty-nine
unmarried----"

"Well, what then?" queried three or four voices.

"I'd find some way of finishing it out at twenty-five."

"Oh, you couldn't," cried Daisy, shocked.

"Well, there are sisterhoods in churches and they are very respectable.
My great-aunt Roxalana has been married twice, both times to rich men.
She's eighty-six now and looks like a fright, though it is said she was
a very pretty young woman. It's safe to say that when your compeers are
all dead. Oh, I do hope I will never outlive my beauty."

They all laughed at that.

Days were divided up like clock-work. You were called at six while the
mornings were light. Breakfast was at seven. At eight there was a study
period. Quarter before nine they assembled in the small seated room
called the chapel, by courtesy, and at nine went into the schoolroom. At
eleven they had ten minutes' recreation, then study until twelve; an
hour for luncheon, and two hours' study and recitation again. Two
afternoons a week music lessons. Dinner from five to six; from seven to
nine study period, unless one could get through sooner.

Helen thought this first day that she had never really studied in her
life. She had a quick memory, at least, so it had always seemed, and an
absolute genius for mathematics. History, as far as she had gone, was a
delight. But the Latin! Was there any sense in it? Did the old Romans
talk in that tongue? And what was the use of it now, when Rome itself
was Italian.

"You will understand the use of it by and by," said Miss Lane. "I am
afraid, so far, what you have acquired has come too easy, but a year
hence you will be laughing over this when you hear some other girls
moan."

If the Latin was a trial, the music was still more so. When slim fingers
glided over the keys with chords of melody it penetrated her very soul,
and she just drew in long breaths of delight. But hers were not slim
fingers and running up and down the scale seemed as much beyond her as
conversing in Latin.

"You are in too great a hurry. You go too hard, with too much force,"
said Madame Meran.

All that she had done thus far in life had been done in a hurry, except
waiting on Mrs. Van Dorn, who took everything leisurely. She tried not
to run upstairs, as she found only new girls did that, and not to walk
heavily on the uncarpeted floor. And she was glad enough of the
experience at Mrs. Dayton's. She was not an awkward girl, and she
watched the others with keen eyes. A fortnight passed before the school
was full. One day Mrs. Aldred summoned her.

"You said the first day you came that you liked people," that lady began
smilingly. "As yours is a double room and the other part needed, I am
going to give you a choice. You can have a small room to yourself or
Miss Daisy Bell will share yours, and the new scholar take hers."

"Oh, I should like that," her eyes shining with pleasure. "But if
she----"

"She is quite willing. This is a first year for both of you, since she
only came last Easter, and you may be able to help each other. She is
already a fair musician and has had a year's tuition in Latin; in
several English branches you are much in advance. Then you have a study
habit, and that she lacks."

"I am glad I have one good quality," and the eager face flushed with
gratification.

"You have more than one," smiling. "You are too impatient about
learning. Everything does not come by nature, and there may be many
years to devote to it."

"I think of only two. I want to crowd in everything I can."

"Do not look so far ahead. It is better to live day by day; better to do
to-day's duty."

"But I am falling behind all the time. I spent Saturday trying to catch
up, instead of having a good time. And I do so want to walk in those
haunts over the river, those woods and wilds, before the frost comes
on."

"You were brave to give it up. They are beautiful even after frost, and
there will be some time to spare. The first week, the first month,
indeed, is generally the hardest. Then I'll send Miss Bell to you? I
think you will make good comrades."

"Oh, I shall be delighted."

She almost ran into Daisy's arms in the hall.

"I was coming to tell you some news," exclaimed the girl eagerly, her
eyes shining with pleasure.

"About----"

"Oh, I know Roxy Mays ferreted that out! I do believe it is as she says,
a bird in the air tells her."

"No. Mrs. Aldred spoke to me."

The sweet face lighted up instantly.

"That is all right then. I like to have the telling of something first,
don't you? I think we shall get along nicely. I should not like every
girl----"

"Oh, thank you;" laughingly.

"That is true of us all, isn't it, or most of us? I would not like to
room with anyone who was not neat, I'd like someone fond of study to
spur me on. I'm dismal at algebra, and I can help you in the Latin. And
then your room isn't crowded up with everything. I think so much makes
you tired. And this is an awful heresy, but I am tired of Gibson girls,
and nearly all having the same pictures and ornaments. It isn't restful.
Think of Claudine Marr's room. I wonder if she ever draws a good,
unimpeded breath? I'm not surprised that she has headaches."

"When I am tired I look out of the window at the most beautiful picture
I have ever seen. And I think how it will change all the autumn."

"And be dreary in the winter."

"I do not believe I feel about leafless trees as most people do. You see
all the fine little twigs and branches, some days in a gray-purple sort
of haze, some days tipped with shimmering gold, then silvered with
moonlight or sparkling with frost, and I am content that the leaves drop
off so that you can see how really wonderful they are. And when the wind
tosses them all about, nature seems rocking them with a lullaby, you
feel as if they were in some degree human."

"Oh, Helen, you ought to be a poet," Daisy exclaimed enthusiastically.

They had walked to Helen's room. Her clothes were all in the closet, her
books lay on the table, only her writing-desk was on the chair. She had
added nothing to the room, but she did want a case of shelves. And oddly
enough she had not encroached on the other side. Daisy wondered rather
at that.

"Then I may move in at once."

"Oh, yes. I shall be delighted."

"Come and help me empty my closet."

Helen did this with pleasure. They had a gay time settling things and
were all in order when Miss Mays came flying along the hall.

"So you have formed a partnership, have you? I had half a mind to
suggest it last night when we heard that Miss Craven was coming. I've
just been introduced to her, and she's a positive fright. Lean, long,
and lanky, beautiful alliteration, is it not? Helen, she would have
given you the nightmare."

"I am satisfied," and Helen nodded with a secret feeling of exultation
as she met Daisy's eyes.

"What conspiracy are you hatching now?" glancing from one to the other.

The sound of the dinner bell was sufficient excuse for not answering.
For once they had the innings.

The new scholar was at the next table to them. She was tall and looked,
as Roxy said afterwards, of a very uncertain age. Her hair was a rather
dull light brown, her eyes a sort of hazel with bluish lights, which
made them dull, and a complexion that would never be fair, with quite a
shadow under the eyes. The features were not bad, but something was
needed to give them life.

After the study period the two girls went upstairs with their arms
around each other.

"Let us run away to-morrow and have a walk and a splendid talk about
trees," said Daisy. "I was thinking all dinner time that I needed to be
introduced to them. I believe I am only acquainted with Mr. Evergreen
and Mr. Horse-chestnut. It bothers me to tell an elm tree from a maple
and a white-skinned beech from a white birch."

"Oh, dear! I've promised to devote the afternoon to scales. I've had a
little Latin hammered into me, but I am almost afraid that,
extravagantly as I love music I shall make small headway in the divine
art. And Madame Meran was good enough to offer me an extra lesson."

"Then we will take it some other Saturday."

"How delightful it is to be together!"

Then they kissed, girl fashion, for the first time, and uttered a tender
good-night.

Two rooms away Miss Craven was crying softly and wishing she had not
come here. It seemed an out of the way place, it was a small school, and
Mrs. Aldred's letter had been encouraging. There was all the fortune for
her alone. If it had come earlier, while some of the others were alive
to share it! She, too, longed for an education so that she might be more
able to enjoy it.

"Have you written to Mrs. Van Dorn?" asked Mrs. Aldred on Saturday
morning.

"I intend to this morning. And to my uncle."

Mrs. Aldred nodded approvingly.

Mrs. Van Dorn had said, "In a fortnight you may write me a letter. Then
once a month."

So it had been a fortnight. She found a good deal to say. She liked the
school very much and described her room-mate, her new studies, the
little she had seen of the town. And there was an enthusiastic gratitude
that satisfied the waiting and doubtful heart.

There was a good deal to say to Uncle Jason, and yet it was rather
difficult not to write too rapturously. When she had finished that she
bethought herself of Mr. Warfield. He had asked her to write.

She found no trouble here. Indeed the luncheon bell rang before she had
quite finished.

"You can go down to the post-office," Daisy exclaimed. "I want some
stamps and some sewing cotton. Roxy borrowed mine."

She hurried her letter in the envelope. Daisy had asked permission. She
sent her letters on their way with a light heart, though as she came
back it was rather heavy. Such a golden day as it was. And several of
the pupils were going out botanizing with Miss Grace. They all liked
Miss Grace very much. A girl less used to giving up would have
considered it very hard. But she enjoyed every moment of this brief walk
and came home with a great bunch of asters.

"If you only were going! I should take twice the pleasure. Helen
Grant, I do believe I have fallen in love with you."

"I am very glad," returned Helen with shining eyes.

To think how she had run around the woods in Hope and never thought of
the wonderful beauty God had scattered so lavishly everywhere. This
delight was knowledge. Jenny never felt it as she walked in and out to
the factory. And Aunt Jane called it nonsense!

Madame Meran had some needlework and sat by her counting time, fingers
and thumbs. Helen was so in earnest she could not help being interested
in her.

"Oh, do you suppose I ever shall learn?" she inquired with a discouraged
sigh. "And I love music so."

"That is my hope about you. I have seen worse beginnings. You will never
make a wonderful pianist, but you have a really fine voice, and it is
nice to be able to play your own accompaniments."

"And someone I care for very much desires me to learn, someone to whom I
owe a debt of gratitude. So I shall do my best."

Then she went on steadily and did master two or three points.

"Now you may go in the study and practice, as I have to take Miss Craven
in hand, and I can trust you."

"Oh, thank you!" cried Helen delightedly. She was just as honest as if
Madame's eyes were on her. She gave the full hour although her wrist
ached, and her thumb seemed to lose its agility. But she had made a
slight advance, she could see that. And there were ten months to be
given to study.

She went out on the back porch presently, and then almost to the edge of
the flat space. One could go down the hill, even that was school
grounds, fenced in at the sides, and up here where there was a gate,
kept locked for the most part. The sun was going down behind the next
hill, and across in the other State, almost as if there were two suns.
What gorgeous coloring, changing, melting into new and indescribable
tints and burnishing here, making scarlet shades there as if the
tree-tops were on fire, and the rocks molten silver. How could it take
on or give out so many colors?

She had an impression someone was near and turned. It was the new
scholar. There was a wistful expression in her eyes that touched Helen.
No one had taken any special notice of her. Helen remembered her own
warm welcome. Of course, now everyone was busy with lessons and had
settled upon her friends and chums.

What could she say? To ask her if she felt at home would be a platitude,
and Helen knew she did not come any nearer, as if she might be
intruding. What a slim figure she had, and her frock was of fine, soft
material that clung like the draperies in some of the "studies." She
wore a very handsome chain and the watch edge just showed above her
belt. Her hands were long and thin and she had a nervous manner of using
them. She wore two beautiful rings.

Helen took a step towards her. "I wonder if you had such a battle with
music as I did," she began, with girlish gayety. "It seemed as if I must
have tried Madame's patience until there was nothing left for you. I am
beginning to wonder how an excellent player who has an ear attuned to
harmony can endure such stupidity."

Miss Craven stared with a sort of uncertainty.

"I should not think you were stupid. You look so bright and vivacious."

"I am afraid I wasn't born with the art of music along with the love for
it."

"I have studied a little, alone mostly, and find I have some bad habits.
And I like it beyond everything."

If she only wouldn't be so stiff and distant!

"I never touched a piano until I came here. And one can't expect to be
an expert in four lessons," Helen said in a half-humorous tone.

Miss Craven flushed and it was not a pretty color.

"You like it here? Were you a new scholar this year? You look very
young."

"I was fourteen in the summer. Yes, I am a new scholar. But I have grown
very much at home."

Then there was a pause. Helen bethought herself of the other question.

"Yes, I like it extremely. It is such a beautiful place. I've been
studying the sunset and wishing I could paint a picture of it. I've come
to wish so many things of late," laughing at herself. "And I like the
teachers. I don't know many of the seniors, and I am in junior B."

"I am taking some private lessons," hesitatingly.

Poor girl! She could not even have passed a junior B examination.

"There's such a pretty girl at your table. Her hair is the color one
sometimes gets in a sunset, a bright gold, and yet it isn't the color so
much as the curious waviness and stir all about it. It seems alive. And
her complexion is beautiful, her eyes fairly laugh."

"That is Miss Mays. She isn't really in our class. She's an 'A' scholar.
Every month someone new is elected for hostess. You are at the head of
the table. You see that everything is served, that no one is--well, not
exactly rude or awkward, but not up to the mark. And you keep a certain
order."

"I spilled my coffee this morning. My spoon was in my cup and I just
touched it with my cuff. I wish I could have gone through the floor or
run away. But one has to learn all these nice things if one means
to--to be anybody."

"I learned some of them in the summer. I was with a friend," and Helen
flushed without quite knowing why. "I was a regular country girl--on a
farm."

"I was too. I begin to think I ought not have come here, but I did not
want to go where there were one or two hundred girls, and I did want to
learn nice ways," hesitatingly.

"Then this is the very place to come."

"Only I did not imagine they were all rich girls; that is, society
people," awkwardly.

"Oh, they are not. Two of the seniors mean to teach next year, so they
cannot be rich. And one girl is going to an art school and means to work
her way through. Of course most of them have fathers to care for them."

"I have never had anyone to care in that way. And it is curious, but on
my father's side I have not a single near relative, perhaps none at all.
And my mother was an only child."

"I have neither father or mother," returned Helen. "But I have some very
kind relatives on my mother's side."

"It is dreadful to be all alone, and to think----"

Miss Craven paused and compressed her lips, looked indeed as if she
would cry, but winked very hard. And then Helen noticed that she had
lovely long lashes, much darker than her hair and that her upper eyelids
were thin, almost transparent. It was queer how she was beginning to see
these little points of comeliness.

"Oh, there are the girls!" she said.

They were winding round into Elm Avenue, with great bunches of wild
flowers and bright leaves, and one girl with an armful of golden-rod.

"I am much obliged for the talk," and with a sudden abruptness Miss
Craven disappeared.

Helen looked after her a moment. She was lonely and unhappy. She would
like very much to know her story. The girls speculated upon her and
decided that she was a nobody come into a fortune. Private lessons, of
necessity, cost more, so she must have money. Then her clothes, though
not showy, were expensive and had a true modiste air. There was
evidently something she did not want the world to know; she had not been
used to society, and she was hopelessly plain. Miss Mays made rhymes
about her on the Lear nonsense pattern. You really couldn't help
laughing at a great deal of bright criticism she indulged in if her
comments were rather sarcastic.

Helen ran down the steps out to the sidewalk, looking happy and merry.

"You poor child, you are not yet resolved into a demi-semi-quaver or any
other shaky thing. But you should have been with us! I was awfully
afraid of snakes, and one had to sit down and help to pick out the
beggar ticks, though I long to give them the old-fashioned, appropriate
country name. Why such things were allowed to grow I can't see. We
discovered a new rivulet meandering down the mountain side, and a royal
bed of ferns, and one of two new specimens of bloom. As for you--I
