Park."

"When do you want me to go home?"

"You can start to-morrow if you wish. There is no rush of business on
just at present. I presume you will be back within four or five days?"

"I'll come back as soon as possible."

"Take your time. A couple of days on the farm will do you good. It will
be like a touch of old times."

"That is true," answered Nat.

The opportunity to go back to the farm pleased him. He packed his
dress-suit case that night, and left on the ten-o'clock train in the
morning. He was dressed in his best and had quite a city air about him.
Certainly he could no longer be called a "greeny."

Nat spent the night at Cleveland, and took the train to Brookville in
the morning. Almost the first person he met in the town was Sam Price.

"Hullo, are you back?" cried the country boy, shaking hands.

"Back for a few days, Sam."

"You look fine, Nat."

"I feel fine. How are you getting along?"

"Pretty good. Life on the farm is rather slow. Somebody told me you were
tired of the city."

"It isn't true, Sam."

"Fred Guff says he wants to go to the city, too, but his mother won't
let him."

"I suppose Fred helps my uncle Abner?"

"Yes, but your uncle don't get along with him very well. Fred's too slow
for him."

Sam had driven to town with his buckboard, and he readily agreed to give
Nat a ride over to Abner Balberry's farm. They were soon on the way, and
less than an hour brought them in sight of the place.

"Some young man is coming, ma!" cried Fred, who was sitting on the
doorstep, munching an apple. "Sam Price is driving him."

"Wonder what he wants here?" said Mrs. Balberry, shading her eyes with
her hands. "Mercy sakes! It's Nat!"

"Nat!" repeated the boy. "Huh! if it's him I guess he's sick of the
city. I thought he wouldn't make a go of it."

"Don't you be too sure of that," said the mother, shortly. "Nat has more
ginger in him than you have."

By this time Nat was at the horseblock. He leaped off the buckboard,
and advanced to greet Mrs. Balberry and her son.

"How do you do?" he cried, cheerily. "Aren't you surprised to see me?"

"I certainly am," answered Mrs. Balberry, as she shook hands.

"Got tired of the city, eh?" came from Fred. "I knew it wouldn't last."

"Do you think you could do anything in the city?" demanded our hero,
sharply.

"Of course I could."

"It's hard work to get along in New York."

"I don't care--I wouldn't make a failure of it if I went. I guess you
wasn't smart enough for them New Yorkers," added Fred, maliciously.

"What makes you think that, Fred?"

"If it wasn't so you wouldn't be back."

"Have you given up your place with Mr. Garwell?" asked Mrs. Balberry.

"No, I'm home on a vacation of a couple of days, that's all."

"Oh, then you are going back?" came from Fred, and his face fell.

"Certainly I am. I have a first-class position, with a promise of
advancement, so it would be sheer foolishness for me to give it up."

"Ma said you were with a real estate man."

"Yes."

"That can't pay much."

"It pays very well."

"How much?"

"Ten dollars a week, at present. But I am to get more soon."

"You don't mean to say they pay you ten dollars a week," cried Fred.

"That is my regular salary."

"Then I'm going to the city to-morrow," said Fred, decidedly.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE PAPERS IN THE TRUNK


Nat now asked for his uncle and was told that his relative was at the
barn. Placing his dress-suit case in the house, he walked down to the
barn. In the meantime Sam Price had driven off.

"Uncle Abner, where are you?"

"Who's thet a-callin' me?" came from the farmer, as he looked forth from
one of the horse stalls.

"I've come to ask you for a job," went on Nat, lightly.

"Nat! How be you?" Abner came and shook hands. "Want a job? Is it all up
in New York?"

"No, uncle, I was only fooling. I came home for a vacation of a couple
of days, that's all."

"Well, you're welcome, Nat. But it must cost money to travel so far for
jest two days' vacation."

"I came for another purpose, too. Do you remember those old papers in
the trunk in the garret?"

"Those thet belonged to your father an' grandfather?"

"Yes. Well, I am going to look them over and see if they are of any
value."

"Ain't nuthin' of any use, Nat. I looked over 'em myself, one rainy day
when I didn't have nuthin' else to do."

"Mr. Garwell thinks some of them might be valuable."

"Does he know about 'em?"

"He only knows what I told him."

"The old debts is all outlawed."

"But there are other papers--something about some land grandfather had
an interest in."

"I don't know nuthin' about that. It's so long ago, I don't believe they
are worth a cent."

"Well, it won't do any harm to look them over, and show them to Mr.
Garwell," returned our hero.

It was approaching the noon hour, and in honor of Nat's arrival, Mrs.
Balberry prepared an extra good dinner, of which the boy partook freely.
It was plainly to be seen that the former widow was the ruler of the
house, and that she compelled Abner Balberry to be far more liberal than
had been his habit in years gone by.

"Have another piece of pie, Nat," said the lady of the house,
graciously.

"Thank you, but I've had enough," answered Nat.

"Better save what's left for to-morrow," suggested Abner Balberry.

"If Nat wants another piece, he shall have it," was the lady's quick
answer.

"Oh, certainly! certainly!"

"Ma, I want another piece," came promptly from Fred.

"You've had two pieces already, Fred."

"I want another."

"Not to-day."

"Just a little piece!"

"Not another mouthful!" And Mrs. Balberry placed the remainder of the
pie in the cupboard.

"I can't never have nothing!" cried Fred, kicking the leg of the table.

"You'll have a box on the ears, Fred Guff, if you don't behave
yourself," answered his mother, and then there was silence.

After dinner, Nat talked with his uncle for a while, and then putting on
an old coat, went up into the dusty garret, and hauled out the old
trunk. It was strapped, but not locked, so he had no trouble in opening
it.

"What are you going to do?" asked Fred, who had followed him.

"Look over some papers," answered our hero, briefly.

"Want me to help you?"

"No."

"What are you going to do with the papers?"

"Take some of them to the city with me."

"Are they yours?"

"Yes."

"Say, don't you think it would be a good plan for me to go to the city
and git a job at ten dollars a week?" went on Fred, sitting down on the
top garret step.

"Yes, if you could get the ten-dollar job."

"Why can't I git it? You got it."

"I was lucky, that's all, Fred. Before I got it I might have starved to
death."

"Huh! Couldn't you git me a job with your boss?"

"I don't think so."

"I'm just as smart as you are, Nat Nason."

To this our hero made no reply. He had brought out some of the papers,
and was looking them over with much interest.

"If you don't want to help me git a job, I'll git one on my own hook,"
continued Fred, who was as dull as he considered himself bright.

"Well, you have a right to do as you please," said Nat. "But please
leave me alone now, Fred; I want to read these very carefully."

"Huh! I'm going to stay in the garret as long as I please."

Nat said no more, and Fred began to kick the step upon which he was
sitting. Then, he began to thump on the rafters of the garret, bringing
down some dirt on Nat's head.

"Stop that, Fred!" cried our hero, sharply. "Stop it, I say!"

"I ain't goin' to stop."

"If you don't stop, I'll put you downstairs, first thing you know."

"You can't do it."

"Yes, I can."

"Do you want to fight?" demanded Fred, rising and squaring off.

"No, but I want you to leave me alone."

"I ain't touched you."

"No, but you were knocking the dirt down on me. Why can't you leave me
alone?"

"I've got as much right in this garret as you have, that's why."

"You are mean."

"Don't you call me mean!" blustered Fred, and coming closer, he hit Nat
on the shoulder. At once our hero hit back, and Fred received a thump
in the mouth that caused him to topple backwards.

"Don't!" he screamed. "Don't--don't hit me again."

"Now, are you going to leave me alone?" demanded Nat.

"I'll tell my ma on you."

"If you do, I shall tell her how you annoyed me," answered Nat.

"Come down in the barnyard and I'll fight with you," said Fred, but, as
he spoke, he retreated down the stairs.

"Don't be a fool, Fred. Behave yourself, and we'll get along all right,"
said Nat, and then Fred passed to the lower floor, banging the stairway
door after him. There was a hook on the door, and this he fastened after
him.

"Now, Nat can stay in the garret till I let him out," he muttered to
himself.

When left to himself, Nat dragged the old trunk to one of the windows of
the garret, and then began a systematic investigation of all the papers
the box contained. He soon learned that the majority of the documents
were of no importance, but there were half a dozen which looked of
possible value, and these he placed in his pocket. Two of the sheets
referred directly to the land in New York City.

"I hope these are what Mr. Garwell is looking for," he said to himself.

Having put the trunk back where it belonged, Nat started to go below,
only to find the door hooked fast from the other side.

"Fred!" he called out loudly. "Fred, open the door!"

"Ha! ha! Nat Nason, how do you like being a prisoner?" came from Fred,
who had been resting on a bed in a nearby room.

"I want you to open the door."

"What will you give me if I do?"

"I'll tell you what I'll give you if you don't!" cried Nat, angrily.

"What?"

"A good thrashing."

"You can't do it."

"Are you going to open the door?"

"No."

Fred had scarcely spoken when Nat pressed on the door, and the hook flew
from its fastening. As the door burst open, Nat leaped from the stairway
and caught the other boy by the collar.

"Now, then, that for locking me in," he cried, and boxed Fred's ears
soundly.

"Stop!" roared Fred. "Stop, Nat Nason."

"Will you behave yourself after this, and leave me alone?"

"Yes! yes!"

"Then, see that you do," went on Nat, and flung the other boy from him.
Fred picked himself up in a hurry, and ran below. He vowed he would get
square, but during Nat's stay at the farm he could not muster up courage
to do so.




CHAPTER XXV

BACK TO THE CITY


On the following day Nat arose at five o'clock, and put on an old suit
of clothes. Slipping downstairs he hurried to the barn, where he fed the
horses and then milked the cows. He was just finishing up when his uncle
appeared.

"Well, I never!" ejaculated Abner Balberry. "Right back into harness
ag'in, eh?"

"Yes, Uncle Abner; I thought I'd like a little taste of old times."

"You've done putty good to get through so quick, Nat. I wish Fred was
such good help."

"Doesn't he help at all?"

"Not unless you drive him all the time. His mother gits after him, an'
so do I, but it don't appear to do no good."

"He wants to go to the city and try his luck."

"Humph! He'd starve to death."

"Perhaps it might teach him a lesson."

"Well, he's got to do somethin' putty soon. I ain't goin' to support him
if he won't work."

For the balance of the day Nat helped his uncle around the farm. It was
rather hard work, but he did not complain, and Abner was greatly
pleased.

"Nat, if you git tired o' the city, you come back here," said his uncle,
on parting. "Remember, I'll make it right with you."

"I'll remember, Uncle Abner," responded Nat.

"Somehow, I guess I didn't use to understand you. You're a putty good
boy after all."

"It's kind to say so."

"An' it wasn't right fer me to say you sot the barn afire," added Abner,
earnestly.

"We'll let bygones be bygones," answered Nat, and then he shook hands
with his uncle.

When Nat started back for New York, his Uncle Abner drove him to the
railroad station at Brookville. Fred wanted to go for the ride, but his
mother told him he must stay at the farm.

"You go and cut the wood," said she, sharply. "If you don't you'll get
no supper to-night."

"I ain't goin' to cut no wood," growled Fred.

"Yes, you are--and do it right now, too."

"Hang the wood," muttered Fred, savagely. "I ain't going to stay on the
farm. I'm going to New York, same as Nat."

At the depot Nat and his uncle parted on the best of terms.

"If you kin git off at Christmas, come an' see us," said Abner Balberry.
"We'll have a good fat turkey for dinner, with all the fixin's."

"Thank you very much," said Nat. "Perhaps I'll come--if I can get away."

The run to Cleveland was quickly made, and here our hero found that he
would have an hour to wait before the arrival of the train for New York.
As his dress-suit case had been checked, he felt at liberty to walk
around, to see the sights.

"How different matters are from when I first struck this city," he
thought, as he walked along one of the streets. "Then I was a real
greeny, but I didn't know it."

Nat was returning to the railroad station when he suddenly heard his
name called, and turning, found himself confronted by Paul Hampton.

"Oh, how do you do, Mr. Hampton?" he cried, and shook hands. "I am real
glad to see you."

"And I am glad to see you," answered the young man. "But how comes it
you are in Cleveland. I thought you were in New York."

"I've been back to the farm for a couple of days--on business and
pleasure combined. Aren't you in Buffalo and Niagara Falls any more?"

"Oh, yes, a law case brought me here. How are you doing?"

"Very well indeed."

"I am glad to hear it."

"You were awfully good to give me that hundred dollars," continued Nat,
earnestly, "I never expected it."

"I hope it did you lots of good, Nat."

"It did and it didn't."

"What do you mean?"

"The money was stolen from me--or rather I was swindled out of it. That
opened my eyes to the fact that I was not as smart as I had imagined
myself to be." And then our hero related the experience he had had with
Nick Smithers, alias Hamilton Dart.

"That was too bad," said Paul Hampton. "I trust you locate this Smithers
some day."

"So do I."

"What are you doing?"

"I am with a real estate broker. I am learning shorthand and
typewriting, and I am to become his private secretary."

"Then you are on the right road, and I congratulate you. The real estate
business is an excellent one, especially in a large city like New York."

Paul Hampton walked to the depot with Nat and saw him on the cars. Soon
our hero was off. The trip back to the metropolis was made without
anything out of the ordinary happening.

"So you are back," said John Garwell, when our hero presented himself at
the office. "I hope you enjoyed the trip."

"I did, very much, Mr. Garwell."

"How did your uncle treat you?"

"Finely, sir."

"Did you find any papers of value?" went on the real estate broker.

"I found half a dozen which I wish you would look over." And Nat brought
forth the documents.

"I am anxious to close that real estate deal," went on John Garwell.
"Others are getting wind of it, including that fellow Shanley from
Brooklyn. He is doing his best to make me lose on the deal."

"Is Rufus Cameron in with him?"

"I believe he is. Both of them are very bitter."

"I suppose they are bitter against me too," observed Nat soberly.

"It is more than likely. But that can't be helped, Nat. In business a
man is bound to make more or less of enemies."

John Garwell was very busy, and said he would look over the documents
the next day. But on the following morning he was called out of town,
so the documents were not examined until some days later.

As soon as he returned to the office, Nat went to work with vigor for
over a week, to make up for the lost time. He had a great deal of
writing on hand, and one evening he remained at the place until after
nine o'clock.

As Nat had been indoors nearly all day, he resolved to walk home, just
for the physical exercise and to get the fresh air. He started up
Broadway, and was soon as far as Tenth Street. Here he attempted to
cross the thoroughfare, but was stopped by a jam of cars and other
vehicles.

"Let me alone!" he heard a boy not far off say. "Let me alone! I won't
give you my money!"

"You've got to pay for the papers, country!" cried another boy. "Come,
fork over the fifteen cents."

"It's all I've got."

"I don't care. Fork over, or I'll--I'll mash you!"

The voice of one of the boys sounded familiar, and stepping to a dark
doorway, from whence the voices proceeded, Nat was amazed to find Fred
Guff, and a New York newsboy who was a stranger.

"Fred!"

"Why, if it ain't Nat!" cried the farm boy. "Where did you spring from?"

"I think I had better ask you that question."

"I want me money!" came from the newsboy.

"Help me, Nat. He wants to get my money from me. It's the last fifteen
cents I've got!" pleaded Fred.

"What do you want of the money?" demanded Nat, of the newsboy.

"Oh, it ain't none o' your business."

"I tried to help him sell papers," said Fred. "But I couldn't sell those
he gave me, and now he wants me to pay for them, anyway."

"Did you agree to pay for them?"

"I said I'd pay for them if I sold them."

"Then you don't get any money," said Nat, sharply, to the newsboy. "Now
let this boy alone, do you hear?"

"Ah! wait till I catch him alone," muttered the newsboy, and ran off
around the corner.




CHAPTER XXVI

FRED GIVES UP CITY LIFE


"Now then, Fred, tell me how it is that you are in New York," said Nat,
when the newsboy had departed.

"I--I ran away from home."

"Did you have the carfare to this city?"

"No, I stole a ride to Cleveland on a freight train, and then I stole
another ride on two trains to New York. I was kicked off of one train."

"And what have you been doing since you landed here?"

"Selling papers, and doing odd jobs. I couldn't get anything steady."

"Did you try to find me?"

"No," and the gawk of a boy hung his head.

"Why not?"

"Because I--I wanted to make my own way, same as you are doing. But, oh,
Nat, it's awfully hard."

"Where have you been staying nights?"

"One night I slept in a doorway, and last night I slept in a park until
a policeman came and chased me away."

Fred looked so forlorn and hungry that Nat could not help but pity him.
Coming to the city to earn his living had evidently hit Fred hard.

"Had any supper?" he asked, kindly.

"I had a--a bun."

"Is that all?"

"Yes."

"How much money have you?"

"Fifteen cents, and I wanted to make that last just as long as I could."

"Come with me, and I'll get you something to eat," said our hero.

Fred was willing enough, and seated at a table in a restaurant he fairly
devoured the beef and beans, bread and coffee set before him.

"Have a piece of lemon pie?" asked Nat.

"Can you afford it, Nat?"

"I guess so," and our hero ordered the pie, and also ate a piece, and
drank a glass of milk, to keep Fred company.

"It costs a terrible pile to live in the city," sighed Fred. "You've got
to pay for everything. When I landed, a man made me pay ten cents for
crossing a torn-up street."

"He swindled you, Fred."

"Maybe he did. I know he ran off as soon as he got the money."

"Where were you going to stop to-night?"

"I--I don't know."

"You had better come with me."

"I--I can't pay for regular lodging," and again the boy from the farm
hung his head.

"Well, I'll do the paying."

"Will you?" Fred's face brightened. "Say, Nat, you're real good! I'm
sorry I treated you so meanly when you paid us a visit."

"We'll let that pass. Now, you are here, the question is, what are you
going to do?"

"Can't I find a job? I'm willing to do anything."

"We'll see about that."

They walked to Mrs. Talcott's place, and here Nat explained the
situation, and Fred was placed in a room that chanced to be vacant. He
was exceedingly tired and dropped to sleep almost instantly.

"I'm going to telegraph to Brookville that you are here and safe," said
Nat, the next morning. "I don't want your mother to worry about you."
And the telegram was sent off before our hero went to the office. Nat
gave Fred a dollar, and told him to try his best that day to find
something to do.

"I'll get something," said Fred, but that night he came back greatly
disheartened.

"I couldn't get a thing," he declared. "I tried about fifty places. In
one place a man kicked me out, and in another place a lot of boys called
me 'Hayseed,' and threw lumps of dirt at me. I--I guess I'll go back to
the farm."

"Don't you want to try it for another day?" asked Nat. "I'll pay your
way." He knew the experience would do Fred good. The boy from the
country consented; but at night he returned more discouraged than ever.

"I was a big fool to leave the farm," he sighed. "The city is no place
for me. The noise makes my head ache, and I get lost every time I turn a
corner. I wish I was back to Brookville."

"Very well, you shall start back to-morrow," answered Nat.

"But I ain't got the carfare, and I hate to try riding on the freight
cars again."

"I'll get you a railroad ticket," answered Nat, and he did so, and also
gave Fred some change for his meals. Fred was more than thankful, and
actually cried on parting.

"You're the best boy in the world, Nat," he sobbed. "The very best! Just
wait till you come back to the farm! I'll show you how I can treat
you!" And then he was off for home, a sadder but a wiser youth.

