conjure up the picture of her fine rage, her threatening hands, her
compressed lips, her tearless, flashing eyes, as she saw her beautiful
new wheel writhe and twist on the blazing fagots.  But what the deuce
was a poor duke to do with a niece like this?

For a time I feared that the United States and the Grand Duchy of
Barscheit would sever diplomatic relations.  The bicycle was,
unfortunately, of American make, and the manufacturers wrote to me
personally that they considered themselves grossly insulted over the
action of the duke.  Diplomatic notes were exchanged, and I finally
prevailed upon the duke to state that he held the wheel harmless and
that his anger had been directed solely against his niece.  This letter
was duly forwarded to the manufacturers, who, after the manner of their
kind, carefully altered the phrasing and used it in their magazine
advertisements.  They were so far appeased that they offered me my
selection from the private stock.  Happily the duke never read anything
but the Fliegende Bl√§tter and Jugend, and thus war was averted.

Later an automobile agent visited the town--at the secret bidding of
her Highness--but he was so unceremoniously hustled over the frontier
that his teeth must have rattled like a dancer's castanets.  It was a
great country for expeditiousness, as you will find, if you do me the
honor to follow me to the end.

So the grand duke swore that his niece should wed Doppelkinn, and the
princess vowed that she would not.  The man who had charge of my horses
said that one of the palace maids had recounted to him a dialogue which
had taken place between the duke and his niece.  As I was anxious to be
off on the road I was compelled to listen to his gossip.

THE GRAND DUKE--In two months' time you shall wed the Prince of
Doppelkinn.

THE PRINCESS--What! that old red-nose?  Never!  I shall marry only
where I love.

THE GRAND DUKE--Only where you love!  (Sneers.)  One would think, to
hear you talk, that you were capable of loving something.

THE PRINCESS--You have yet to learn.  I warn you not to force me.  I
promise to do something scandalous.  I will marry one of the people--a
man.

THE GRAND DUKE--Bah!  (Swears softly on his way down to the stables.)

But the princess had in her mind a plan which, had it gone through
safely, would have added many grey hairs to the duke's scanty
collection.  It was a mighty ingenious plan, too, for a woman to figure
out.

In his attitude toward the girl the duke stood alone.  Behind his back
his ministers wore out their shoes in waiting on the caprices of the
girl, while the grand duchess, half-blind and half-deaf, openly
worshiped her wilful but wholly adorable niece, and abetted her in all
her escapades.  So far as the populace was concerned, she was the
daughter of the favorite son, dead these eighteen years, and that was
enough for them.  Whatever she did was right and proper.  But the
hard-headed duke had the power to say what should be what, and he
willed it that the Princess Hildegarde should marry his old comrade in
arms, the Prince of Doppelkinn.




II

As I have already remarked, I used frequently to take long rides into
the country, and sometimes I did not return till the following day.  My
clerk was always on duty, and the work never appeared to make him
round-shouldered.

I had ridden horses for years, and to throw a leg over a good mount was
to me one of the greatest pleasures in the world.  I delighted in
stopping at the old feudal inns, of studying the stolid German peasant,
of drinking from steins uncracked these hundred years, of inspecting
ancient armor and gathering trifling romances attached thereto.  And
often I have had the courage to stop at some quaint, crumbling
Schloss or castle and ask for a night's lodging for myself and horse.
Seldom, if ever, did I meet with a refusal.

I possessed the whimsical habit of picking out strange roads and riding
on till night swooped down from the snow-capped mountains.  I had a bit
of poetry in my system that had never been completely worked out, and I
was always imagining that at the very next Schloss or inn I was to
hit upon some delectable adventure.  I was only twenty-eight, and
inordinately fond of my Dumas.

I rode in grey whipcord breeches, tan boots, a blue serge coat, white
stock, and never a hat or cap till the snow blew.  I used to laugh when
the peasants asked leave to lend me a cap or to run back and find the
one I had presumably lost.

One night the delectable adventure for which I was always seeking came
my way, and I was wholly unprepared for it.

I had taken the south highway: that which seeks the valley beyond the
lake.  The moon-film lay mistily upon everything: on the far-off lake,
on the great upheavals of stone and glacier above me, on the long white
road that stretched out before me, ribbon-wise.  High up the snow on
the mountains resembled huge opals set in amethyst.  I was easily
twenty-five miles from the city; that is to say, I had been in the
saddle some six hours.  Nobody but a king's messenger will ride a horse
more than five miles an hour.  I cast about for a place to spend the
night.  There was no tavern in sight, and the hovels I had passed
during the last hour offered no shelter for my horse.  Suddenly, around
a bend in the road, I saw the haven I was seeking.  It was a rambling,
tottering old castle, standing in the center of a cluster of firs; and
the tiles of the roofs and the ivy of the towers were shining silver
with the heavy fall of dew.

Lady Chloe sniffed her kind, whinnied, and broke into a trot.  She knew
sooner than I that there was life beyond the turn.  We rode up to the
gate, and I dismounted and stretched myself.  I tried the gate.  The
lock hung loose, like a paralytic hand.  Evidently those inside had
nothing to fear from those outside.  I grasped an iron bar and pushed
in the gate, Chloe following knowingly at my heels.  I could feel the
crumbling rust on my gloves.  Chloe whinnied again, and there came an
answering whinny from somewhere in the rear of the castle.  Somebody
must be inside, I reasoned.

There were lights in the left wing, but this part of the castle was
surrounded by an empty moat, damp and weedy.  This was not to be
entered save by a ladder.  There was a great central door, however,
which had a modern appearance.  The approach was a broad graveled walk.
I tied Lady Chloe to a tree, knotted the bridle-reins above her neck to
prevent her from putting her restless feet into them, and proceeded
toward the door.

Of all the nights this was the one on which my usually lively
imagination reposed.  I was hungry and tired, and I dare say my little
mare was.  I wasn't looking for an adventure; I didn't want any
adventure; I wanted nothing in the world but a meal and a bed.  But for
the chill of the night air--the breath of the mountain is cold at
night--I should have been perfectly willing to sleep in the open.  Down
drawbridge, up portcullis!

I boldly climbed the steps and groped around for the knocker.  It was
broken and useless, like the lock on the gate.  And never a bell could
I find.  I swore softly and became impatient.  People in Barscheit did
not usually live in this slovenly fashion.  What sort of place was this?

Suddenly I grew erect, every fiber in my body tense and expectant.

A voice, lifted in song!  A great penetrating yet silkily mellow voice;
a soprano; heavenly, not to say ghostly, coming as it did from the
heart of this gloomy ruin of stone and iron.  The jewel song from
Faust, too!  How the voice rose, fell, soared again with intoxicating
waves of sound!  What permeating sweetness!  I stood there, a solitary
listener, as far as I knew, bewildered, my heart beating hard and fast.
I forgot my hunger.

Had I stumbled upon one of my dreams at last?  Had Romance suddenly
relented, as a coquette sometimes relents?  For a space I knew not what
to do.  Then, with a shrug--I have never been accused of lacking
courage--I tried once more, by the aid of a match, to locate a bell.
There was absolutely nothing; and the beating of my riding-crop on the
panels of that huge door would have been as noisy as a feather.  I
grasped the knob and turned it impatiently.  Behold! the door opened
without sound, and I stepped into the hallway, which was velvet black.

The wonderful voice went on.  I paused, with hands outstretched.
Supposing I bumped into something!  I took a step forward, another and
another; I swung my crop in a half-circle; all was vacancy, I took
another step, this time in the direction of the voice--and started back
with a smothered curse.  Bang-ang!  I had run into a suit of old armor,
the shield of which had clattered to the stone floor.  As I have
observed, I am not a coward, but I had all I could do to keep my
legs--which were stirrup-weary, anyhow--from knocking under me!

Silence!

The song died.  All over that great rambling structure not even the
reassuring chirp of a cricket!  I stood perfectly still.  What the
deuce should I do?  Turn back?  As I formed this question in my mind a
draft of wind slammed the door shut.  I was in for it, sure enough; I
was positive that I could never find that door again.  There was
nothing to do but wait, and wait with straining ears.  Here were
mysterious inhabitants.--they might be revolutionists, conspirators,
counterfeiters.

Heaven knows how long I waited.

Soon I heard a laugh, light, infectious, fearless!  Then I heard a
voice, soft and pleading.

"Don't go; in mercy's name, don't go, Gretchen!  You may be killed!"

English!  I had actually heard a voice speak my native tongue.

"Nonsense, Betty!  I am not afraid of any ghost that ever walked, rode
or floated."

"Ghost?  It may be a burglar!"

"Or Steinbock!  We shall find nothing."

Indeed!

"Nothing but a rat, bungling about in the armor."  The laughter came
again.  "You are not afraid, Betty?"

"Only cautious.  But how can you laugh?  A rat?" cried a voice rather
anxiously.  "Why, they are as big as dogs!"

"But arrant cowards."

So! one of these voices spoke English as its birthright; the other
spoke with an accent, that is to say, by adoption.  Into what had I
fallen?  Whither had my hunger brought me?  I was soon to learn.

There came a faint thread of light on one side of the hall, such as may
be likened to that which filters under a door-sill.  Presently this was
followed by the sound of jangling brass rings.  A heavy velvet
porti√®re--which I, being in darkness, had not discovered--slipped back.
My glance, rather blinded, was first directed toward the flame of the
candle.  Then I lowered it--and surrendered for ever and for ever!

I beheld two faces in profile, as it were, one side in darkness, the
other tinted and glowing like ancient ivory.  I honestly confess to you
that in all my wanderings--and they have been frequent and many--I
never saw such an enchanting picture or two more exquisite faces.  One
peered forth with hesitant bravery; the other--she who held the
candle--with cold, tranquil inquiry.

All my fears, such as they were, left me instantly.  Besides, I was not
without a certain amount of gallantry and humor.  I stepped squarely
into the light and bowed.

"Ladies, I am indeed not a ghost, but I promise you that I shall be if
I am not offered something to eat at once!"

Tableau!

"What are you doing here?" asked she with the candle, her midnight eyes
drawing down her brows into a frown of displeasure.

I bowed.  "To begin with, I find a gate unlocked, and being curious, I
open it; then I find a door unlatched, and I enter.  Under these
unusual circumstances I am forced to ask the same question of you: what
are you doing here in this ruined castle?  If it isn't ruined, it is
deserted, which amounts to the same thing."  This was impertinent,
especially on the part of a self-invited guest.

"That is my affair, sir.  I have a right here, now and at all times."
Her voice was cold and authoritative.  "There is an inn six miles
farther down the road; this is a private residence.  Certainly you can
not remain here over night."

"Six miles?" I echoed dismally.  "Madam, if I have seemed impertinent,
pardon me.  I have been in the saddle six hours.  I have ridden nearly
thirty miles since noon.  I am dead with fatigue.  At least give me
time to rest a bit before taking up the way again, I admit that the
manner of my entrance was informal; but how was I to know?  There was
not even a knocker on the door by which to make known my presence to
you."  The truth is, I did not want to go at once.  No one likes to
stumble into an adventure--enchanting as this promised to be--and
immediately pop out of it.  An idea came to me, serviceable rather than
brilliant.  "I am an American.  My German is poor.  I speak no French.
I have lost my way, it would seem; I am hungry and tired.  To ride six
miles farther now is a physical impossibility; and I am very fond of my
horse."

"He says he is hungry, Gretchen," said the English girl, dropping
easily into the French language as a vehicle of speech.  (I was a
wretch, I know, but I simply could not help telling that lie; I didn't
want to go; and they might be conspirators.)  "Besides," went on the
girl, "he looks like a gentleman."

"We can not always tell a gentleman in the candle-light," replied
Gretchen, eying me critically and shrewdly and suspiciously.

As for me, I gazed from one to the ether, inquiringly, after the manner
of one who hears a tongue not understandable.

"He's rather nice," was the English girl's comment; "and his eyes
strike me as being too steady to be dishonest."

I had the decency to burn in the ears.  I had taken the step, so now I
could not draw back.  I sincerely hoped that they would not exchange
any embarrassing confidences.  When alone women converse upon many
peculiar topics; and conversing in a tongue which they supposed to be
unknown to me, these two were virtually alone.

"But, my dear child," the other returned argumentatively, "we can not
offer hospitality to a strange man this night of all nights.  Think of
what is to be accomplished."

(So something was to be accomplished?  I was right, then, in deceiving
them.  To accomplish something on a night like this, far from
habitation, had all the air of a conspiracy.)

"Feed him and his horse, and I'll undertake to get rid of him before
that detestable Steinbock comes.  Besides, he might prove a valuable
witness in drawing up the papers."

(Papers?)

"I never thought of that.  It will not do to trust Steinbock wholly."
Gretchen turned her searching eyes once more upon me.  I confess that I
had some difficulty in steadying my own.  There are some persons to
whom one can not lie successfully; one of them stood before me.  But I
rather fancy I passed through the ordeal with at least half a victory.
"Will you go your way after an hour's rest?" she asked, speaking in the
familiar tongue.

"I promise."  It was easy to make this promise.  I wasn't a diplomat
for nothing.  I knew how to hang on, to dodge under, to go about.

"Follow me," Gretchen commanded briefly.

(Who was she?  What was going on?)

We passed through the gloomy salon.  A damp, musty odor struck my sense
of smell.  I was positive that the castle was uninhabited, save for
this night.  Three candles burned on the mantel, giving to the gloom a
mysterious, palpitating effect.  The room beyond was the dining-room,
richly paneled in wine-colored mahogany.  This was better; it was
cheerful.  A log crackled in the fireplace.  There were plenty of
candles.  There was a piano, too.  This belonged to the castle; a heavy
tarpaulin covering lay heaped at one side.  There was a mahogany
sideboard that would have sent a collector of antiques into raptures,
and a table upon which lay the remains of a fine supper.  My mouth
watered.  I counted over the good things: roast pheasant, pink ham, a
sea-food salad, asparagus, white bread and unsalted butter, an
alcohol-burner over which hung a tea-pot, and besides all this there
was a pint of La Rose which was but half-emptied.  Have you ever been
in the saddle half a day?  If you have, you will readily appreciate the
appetite that was warring with my curiosity.

"Eat," bade she who was called Gretchen, shortly.

"And my horse?"

"Where is it?"

"Tied to a tree by the gate."

She struck a Chinese gong.  From the kitchen appeared an elderly
servitor who looked to me more fitted to handle a saber than a
carving-knife; at least, the scar on his cheek impressed me with this
idea.  (I found out later that he was an old soldier, who lived alone
in the castle as caretaker.)

"Take this gentleman's horse to the stables and feed him," said
Gretchen.  "You will find the animal by the gate."

With a questioning glance at me the old fellow bowed and made off.

I sat down, and the two women brought the various plates and placed
them within reach.  Their beautiful hands flashed before my eyes and
now and then a sleeve brushed my shoulder.

"Thank you," I murmured.  "I will eat first, and then make my
apologies."

This remark caught the fancy of Gretchen.  She laughed.  It was the
same laughter I had heard while standing in the great hall.

"Will you drink tea, or would you prefer to finish this Bordeaux?" she
asked pleasantly.

"The wine, if you please; otherwise the effect of the meal and the long
hours in the wind will produce sleepiness.  And it would be frightfully
discourteous on my part to fall asleep in my chair.  I am very hard to
awake."

The English girl poured out the wine and passed the goblet to me.  I
touched my lips to the glass, and bent my head politely.  Then I
resolutely proceeded to attack the pheasant and ham.  I must prove to
these women that at least I was honest in regard to my hunger.  I
succeeded in causing a formidable portion of the food to disappear.

And then I noticed that neither of the young women seated herself while
I ate.  I understood.  There was no hostility in this action; nothing
but formality.  They declined to sit in the presence of an unwelcome
stranger, thus denying his equality from a social point of view.  I
readily accepted this decision on their part.  They didn't know who I
was.  They stood together by the fireplace and carried on a
conversation in low tones.

How shall I describe them?  The elder of the two, the one who seemed to
possess all the authority, could not have been more than twenty.  Her
figure was rather matured, yet it was delicate.  Her hair was tawny,
her skin olive in shade and richly tinted at the cheek-bones.  Her
eyes, half framed by thick, black-arching brows, reminded me of
woodland pools in the dusk of evening,--depths unknown, cool,
refreshing in repose.  The chin was resolute, the mouth was large but
shapely and brilliant, the nose possessed the delicate nostrils
characteristic of all sensitive beings--that is to say, thoroughbreds;
altogether a confusing, bewildering beauty.  At one moment I believed
her to be Latin, at the next I was positive that she was Teutonic.  I
could not discover a single weak point, unless impulsiveness shall be
called weakness; this sign of impulsiveness was visible in the lips.

The other--well, I couldn't help it.  It was Kismet, fate, the turn
in the road, what you will.  I fell heels over head in love with her at
once.  She was charming, exquisite, one of those delicate creatures who
always appear in enchantments; a Bouguereau child grown into womanhood,
made to fit the protecting frame of a man's arms.  Love steals into the
heart when we least expect him; and before we are aware, the sly little
god has unpacked his trunk and taken possession!

Eyes she had as blue as the Aegean Sea on windy days, blue as the
cloud-winnowed sky of a winter's twilight, blue as sapphires--Irish
eyes!  Her hair was as dark and silken as a plume from the wings of
night.  (Did I not say that I had some poetry in my system?)  The shape
of her mouth--Never mind; I can recall only the mad desire to kiss it.
A graceful figure, a proud head, a slender hand, a foot so small that I
wondered if it really poised, balanced or supported her young body.
Tender she must be, and loving, enclitical rather than erect like her
authoritative companion.  She was adorable.

All this inventory of feminine charms was taken by furtive glances,
sometimes caught--or were they taking an inventory of myself?
Presently my appetite became singularly submissive.  Hunger often is
satisfied by the feeding of the eyes.  I dropped my napkin on the table
and pushed back my chair.  My hostesses ceased conversing.

"Ladies," said I courteously, "I offer you my sincere apologies for
this innocent intrusion."  I looked at my watch.  "I believe that you
gave me an hour's respite.  So, then, I have thirty minutes to my
account."

The women gazed at each other.  One laughed, and the other smiled; it
was the English girl who laughed this time.  I liked the sound of it
better than any I had yet heard.

(Pardon another parenthesis.  I hope you haven't begun to think that
I am the hero of this comedy.  Let it be furthest from your thoughts.
I am only a passive bystander.)

"I sincerely trust that your hunger is appeased," said the one who had
smiled.

"It is, thank you."  I absently fumbled in my coat pockets, then
guiltily dropped my hands.  What a terrible thing habit is!

"You may smoke," said the Bouguereau child who was grown into
womanhood.  Wasn't that fine of her?  And wasn't it rather observant,
too?  I learned later that she had a brother who was fond of tobacco.
To her eyes my movement was a familiar one.

"With your kind permission," said I gratefully.  I hadn't had a smoke
in four hours.

I owned a single good cigar, the last of my importation.  I lighted it
and blew forth a snowy billow of heavenly aroma.  I know something
about human nature, even the feminine side of it.  A presentable young
man with a roll of aromatic tobacco seldom falls to win the confidence
of those about him.  With that cloud of smoke the raw edge of formality
smoothed down.

"Had you any particular destination?" asked Gretchen.

"None at all.  The road took my fancy, and I simply followed it."

"Ah! that is one of the pleasures of riding--to go wherever the
inclination bids.  I ride."

We were getting on famously.

"Do you take long journeys?" I inquired.

"Often.  It is the most exhilarating of sports," said the Enchantment.
"The scenery changes; there are so many things that charm and engage
your interest: the mountains, the waterways, the old ruins.  Have you
ever whistled to the horses afield and watched them come galloping down
to the wall?  It is fine.  In England--"  But her mouth closed
suddenly.  She was talking to a stranger.

I love enthusiasm in a woman.  It colors her cheeks and makes her eyes
sparkle, I grew a bit bolder.

"I heard a wonderful voice as I approached the castle," said I.

Gretchen shrugged.

"I haven't heard its equal outside Berlin or Paris," I went on.

"Paris?" said Gretchen, laying a neat little trap for me into which my
conceit was soon to tumble me.  "Paris is a marvelous city."

"There is no city to equal it.  Inasmuch as we three shall never meet
again, will you not do me the honor to repeat that jewel song from
Faust?"  My audacity did not impress her in the least.

"You can scarcely expect me to give a supper to a stranger and then
sing for him, besides," said Gretchen, a chill again stealing into her
tones.  "These Americans!" she observed to her companion in French.

I laid aside my cigar, approached the piano, and sat down.  I struck a
few chords and found the instrument to be in remarkably good order.  I
played a Chopin Polonaise, I tinkled Grieg's Papillon, then I
ceased.

"That is to pay for my supper," I explained.

Next I played Le Courier, and when I had finished that I turned
again, rising.

"That is to pay for my horse's supper," I said.

Gretchen's good humor returned.

"Whoever you are, sir," her tone no longer repellent, "you are amusing.
Pray, tell us whom we have the honor to entertain?"

"I haven't the vaguest idea who my hostess is,"--evasively.

"It is quite out of the question.  You are the intruder."

"Call me Mr. Intruder, then," said I.

It was, you will agree, a novel adventure.  I was beginning to enjoy it
hugely.

"Who do you suppose this fellow is?" Gretchen asked.

"He says he is an American, and I believe he is.  What Americans are in
Barscheit?"

"I know of none at all.  What shall we do to get rid of him?"

All this was carried on with unstudied rudeness.  They were women of
high and noble quality; and as I was an interloper, I could take no
exception to a conversation in a language I had stated I did not
understand.  If they were rude, I had acted in a manner unbecoming a
gentleman.  Still, I was somewhat on the defensive.  I took out my
watch.  My hour was up.

"I regret that I must be off," I said ruefully.  "It is much pleasanter
here than on the road."

"I can not ask you to remain here.  You will find the inn a very
comfortable place for the night," was Gretchen's suggestion.

"Before I go, may I ask in what manner I might serve as a witness?"
Ere the words had fully crossed my lips I recognized that my smartness
had caused me to commit an unpardonable blunder for a man who wished to
show up well in an adventure of this sort.  (But fate had a hand in it,
as presently you shall see.)

Gretchen laughed, but the sound was harsh and metallic.  She turned to
her companion, who was staring at me with startled eyes.

"What did I tell you?  You can not tell a gentleman in the
candle-light."  To me she said:

"I thought as much.  You have heard Faust in Paris, but you know
nothing of the French language.  You claimed to be a gentleman, yet you
have permitted us to converse in French."

"Was it polite of you to use it?" I asked.  "All this," with a wave of
the hand, "appears mysterious.  This is not a residence one would
expect to find inhabited--and by two charming women!"  I bowed.  "Your
presence here is even less satisfactorily explained than mine.  If I
denied the knowledge of French it was because I wasn't sure of my
surroundings.  It was done in self-defense rather than in the desire to
play a trick.  And in this language you speak of witnesses, of papers,
of the coming of a man you do not trust.  It looks very much like a
conspiracy."  I gathered up my gloves and riding-crop.  I believed that
I had extricated myself rather well.

"This is my castle," said Gretchen, gently shaking off the warning hand
of her companion.  "If I desire to occupy it for a night, who shall
gainsay me?  If I leave the latches down, that is due to the fact that
I have no one to fear.  Now, sir, you have eaten the bread of my table,
and I demand to know who you are.  If you do not tell me at once, I
shall be forced to confine you here till I am ready to leave."

"Confine me!"--nonplussed.  This was more than I had reckoned on.

"Yes."  She reached out to strike the gong.  (I can not be blamed for
surrendering so tamely.  I didn't know that the old servitor was the
only man around.)

"I am the American consul at Barscheit."

The two women drew together instinctively, as if one desired to protect
the other from some unknown calamity.  What the deuce was it all about?
All at once Gretchen thrust aside her friend and approached.  The table
was between us, and she rested her hands upon it.  Our glances met and
clashed.

"Did the duke send you here?" she demanded repellently.

"The duke?"  I was getting deeper than ever.  "The duke?"

"Yes.  I am the Princess Hildegarde."




III

The Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit!  My gloves and riding-crop
slipped from my nerveless fingers to the floor.  A numbing, wilting
sensation wrinkled my spine.  The Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit!
She stood opposite me, the woman--ought I not to say girl?--for whom I
had been seeking, after a fashion, all these months!  The beautiful
madcap who took the duchy by the ears, every now and then, and tweaked
them!  The princess herself, here in this lonely old castle into which
I had so carelessly stumbled!  Romance, enchantment!  Oddly enough, the
picture of her riding a bicycle flashed through my brain, and this was
followed by another, equally engaging, of the hussar who rode
cross-country, to the horror of the conservative element at court.

"The Princess Hildegarde!" I murmured stupidly.

"Yes.  I have asked you a question, sir.  Or shall I put the question
in French?"--ironically.  "Was it the duke who sent you here?"

There was a look in her superb eyes which told me that it would have
been to her infinite pleasure to run a sword through my black and
villainous heart.  Presently I recovered.  With forced calm I stooped
and collected my gloves and crop.

"Your Highness, what the deuce has the duke to do with my affairs, or I
with his?  As an American, you would scarcely expect me to meddle with
your private affairs.  You are the last person in the world I thought
to meet this night.  I represent the United States in this country, and
though I am inordinately young, I have acquired the habit of attending
to my own affairs."

From the angry face in front of me I turned to the dismayed face
beyond.  There must have been a question in my glance.  The young woman
drew herself up proudly.

"I am the Honorable Betty Moore."

(The princess' schoolmate in England!)

Her Highness stood biting the knuckle of a forefinger, undecided as to
what path of action to enter, to reach a satisfactory end.  My very
rudeness convinced her more than anything else that I spoke the truth.

"How, then, did you select this particular road?"--still entertaining
some doubt.

"It is a highway, free to all.  But I have already explained that," I
answered quietly.  I moved deliberately toward the door, but with a
cat-like movement she sprang in front of me.  "Well, your Highness?"

"Wait!" she commanded, extending an authoritative arm (lovely too!).
"Since you are here, and since you know who I am, you must remain."

"Must?" I repeated, taken aback.

"Must!  My presence here ought not to be known to any one.  When you
witness that which shall take place here to-night, you will
understand."  Her tone lost its evenness; it trembled and became a bit
wild.

"In what manner may I be of service to your Highness?" I asked
pleasantly, laying aside my gloves and crop again.  "I can easily give
you my word of honor as a gentleman not to report your presence here;
but if I am forced to remain, I certainly demand--"

"Desire," she corrected, the old fire in her eyes.

"Thank you.  I desire, then, to know the full reason; for I can not be
a party to anything which may reflect upon the consulate.  For myself,
I do not care."  What hare-brained escapade was now in the air?

The princess walked over to the mantel and rested her arms upon it,
staring wide-eyed into the fire.  Several minutes passed.  I waited
patiently; but, to tell the truth, I was on fire with curiosity.  At
length my patience was rewarded.

"You have heard that I am to marry the Prince of Doppelkinn?" she began.

I nodded.

"Doubtless you have also heard of my determination not to marry him?"
she went on.

Again I nodded.

"Well, I am not going to marry him."

I was seized with the desire to laugh, but dared not.  What had all
this to do with my detention in the castle?

"Betty," said the princess, turning imploringly to her companion (what
a change!), "you tell him."

"I?"  The Honorable Betty drew back.

(Had they kidnapped old Doppelkinn? I wondered.)

"I can not tell him," cried her Highness miserably, "I simply can not.
You must do it, Betty.  It is now absolutely necessary that he should
know everything; it is absolutely vital that he be present.  Perhaps
Heaven has sent him.  Do you understand?  Now, tell him!"

And, wonders to behold! she who but a few minutes gone had been a
princess in everything, cold, seeing, tranquil, she fled from the room.
(Decidedly this was growing interesting.  What had they done?)  Thus,
the Honorable Betty Moore and his Excellency, the American consul at
Barscheit, were left staring into each other's eyes fully a minute.
