
As Selwyn rose, she nodded, amused.

"I am rather hurt," she said. "I went down to luncheon, but as soon as I
heard where you all were I marched straight up here to demand the reason
of my ostracism."

"We thought you had gone with mother," explained Drina, looking about
for a chair.

Selwyn brought it. "I was commissioned to say that Nina couldn't
wait--dowagers and cakes and all that, you know. Won't you sit down?
It's rather messy and the cat is the guest of honour."

"We have three guests of honour," said Drina; "you, Eileen, and Kit-Ki.
Uncle Philip, mother has forbidden me to speak of it, so I shall tell
her and be punished--but wouldn't it be splendid if Aunt Alixe were
only here with us?"

Selwyn turned sharply, every atom of colour gone; and the child smiled
up at him. "Wouldn't it?" she pleaded.

"Yes," he said, so quietly that something silenced the child. And
Eileen, giving ostentatious and undivided attention to the dogs, was now
enveloped by snooping, eager muzzles and frantically wagging tails.

"My lap is full of paws!" she exclaimed; "take them away, Katie! And
oh!--my gown, my gown!--Billy, stop waving your tumbler around my face!
If you spill that milk on me I shall ask your Uncle Philip to put you in
the guard-house!"

"You're going to bolo us, aren't you, Uncle Philip?" inquired Billy.
"It's my turn to be killed, you remember--"

"I have an idea," said Selwyn, "that Miss Erroll is going to play for
you to sing."

They liked that. The infant Gerards were musically inclined, and nothing
pleased them better than to lift their voices in unison. Besides, it
always distressed Kit-Ki, and they never tired laughing to see the
unhappy cat retreat before the first minor chord struck on the piano.
More than that, the dogs always protested, noses pointed heavenward. It
meant noise, which was always welcome in any form.

"Will you play, Miss Erroll?" inquired Selwyn.

Miss Erroll would play.

"Why do you always call her 'Miss Erroll'?" asked Billy. "Why don't you
say 'Eileen'?"

Selwyn laughed. "I don't know, Billy; ask her; perhaps she knows."

Eileen laughed, too, delicately embarrassed and aware of his teasing
smile. But Drina, always impressed by formality, said: "Uncle Philip
isn't Eileen's uncle. People who are not relations say Miss and Mrs."

"Are faver and muvver relations?" asked Josephine timidly.

"Y-es--no!--I don't know," admitted Drina; "are they, Eileen?"

"Why, yes--that is--that is to say--" And turning to Selwyn: "What
dreadful questions. Are they relations, Captain Selwyn? Of course they
are!"

"They were not before they were married," he said, laughing.

"If you married Eileen," began Billy, "you'd call her Eileen, I
suppose."

"Certainly," said Selwyn.

"Why don't you?"

"That is another thing you must ask her, my son."

"Well, then, Eileen--"

But Miss Erroll was already seated at the nursery piano, and his demands
were drowned in a decisive chord which brought the children clustering
around her, while their nurses ran among them untying bibs and scrubbing
faces and fingers in fresh water.

They sang like seraphs, grouped around the piano, fingers linked behind
their backs. First it was "The Vicar of Bray." Then--and the cat fled at
the first chord--"Lochleven Castle":

     "Put off, put off,
     And row with speed
     For now is the time and the hour of need."

Miss Erroll sang, too; her voice leading--a charmingly trained, but
childlike voice, of no pretensions, as fresh and unspoiled as the girl
herself.

There was an interval after "Castles in the Air"; Eileen sat, with her
marvellously white hands resting on the keys, awaiting further
suggestion.

"Sing that funny song, Uncle Philip!" pleaded Billy; "you know--the one
about:

       "She hit him with a shingle
       Which made his breeches tingle
     Because he pinched his little baby brother;
       And he ran down the lane
       With his pants full of pain.
     Oh, a boy's best friend is his mother!"

"Billy!" gasped Miss Erroll.

Selwyn, mortified, said severely: "That is a very dreadful song,
Billy--"

"But you taught it to me--"

Eileen swung around on the piano stool, but Selwyn had seized Billy and
was promising to bolo him as soon as he wished.

And Eileen, surveying the scene from her perch, thought that Selwyn's
years seemed to depend entirely upon his occupation, for he looked very
boyish down there on his knees among the children; and she had not yet
forgotten the sunken pallor of his features in the Park--no, nor her own
question to him, still unanswered. For she had asked him who that woman
was who had been so direct in her smiling salute. And he had not yet
replied; probably never would; for she did not expect to ask him again.

Meanwhile the bolo-men were rushing the outposts to the outposts'
intense satisfaction.

"Bang-bang!" repeated Winthrop; "I hit you, Uncle Philip. You are dead,
you know!"

"Yes, but here comes another! Fire!" shouted Billy. "Save the flag!
Hurrah! Pound on the piano, Eileen, and pretend it's cannon."

Chord after chord reverberated through the big sunny room, punctuated by
all the cavalry music she had picked up from West Point and her friends
in the squadron.

     "We can't get 'em up!
      We can't get 'em up!
      We can't get 'em up
         In the morning!"

she sang, calmly watching the progress of the battle, until Selwyn
disengaged himself from the mêlée and sank breathlessly into a chair.

"All over," he said, declining further combat. "Play the 'Star-spangled
Banner,' Miss Erroll."

"Boom!" crashed the chord for the sunset gun; then she played the
anthem; Selwyn rose, and the children stood up at salute.

The party was over.

Selwyn and Miss Erroll, strolling together out of the nursery and down
the stairs, fell unconsciously into the amiable exchange of badinage
again; she taunting him with his undignified behaviour, he retorting in
kind.

"Anyway that was a perfectly dreadful verse you taught Billy," she
concluded.

"Not as dreadful as the chorus," he remarked, wincing.

"You're exactly like a bad small boy, Captain Selwyn; you look like one
now--so sheepish! I've seen Gerald attempt to avoid admonition in
exactly that fashion."

"How about a jolly brisk walk?" he inquired blandly; "unless you've
something on. I suppose you have."

"Yes, I have; a tea at the Fanes, a function at the Grays. . . . Do you
know Sudbury Gray? It's his mother."

They had strolled into the living room--a big, square, sunny place, in
golden greens and browns, where a bay-window overlooked the Park.

Kneeling on the cushions of the deep window seat she flattened her
delicate nose against the glass, peering out through the lace hangings.

"Everybody and his family are driving," she said over her shoulder. "The
rich and great are cornering the fresh-air supply. It's interesting,
isn't it, merely to sit here and count coteries! There is Mrs.
Vendenning and Gladys Orchil of the Black Fells set; there is that
pretty Mrs. Delmour-Carnes; Newport! Here come some Cedarhurst
people--the Fleetwoods. It always surprises one to see them out of the
saddle. There is Evelyn Cardwell; she came out when I did; and there
comes Sandon Craig with a very old lady--there, in that old-fashioned
coach--oh, it is Mrs. Jan Van Elten, senior. What a very, very quaint
old lady! I have been presented at court," she added, with a little
laugh, "and now all the law has been fulfilled."

For a while she kneeled there, silently intent on the passing pageant
with all the unconscious curiosity of a child. Presently, without
turning: "They speak of the younger set--but what is its limit? So many,
so many people! The hunting crowd--the silly crowd--the wealthy
sets--the dreadful yellow set--then all those others made out of
metals--copper and coal and iron and--" She shrugged her youthful
shoulders, still intent on the passing show.

"Then there are the intellectuals--the artistic, the illuminated, the
musical sorts. I--I wish I knew more of them. They were my father's
friends--some of them." She looked over her shoulder to see where Selwyn
was, and whether he was listening; smiled at him, and turned, resting
one hand on the window seat. "So many kinds of people," she said, with a
shrug.

"Yes," said Selwyn lazily, "there are all kinds of kinds. You remember
that beautiful nature-poem:

     "'The sea-gull
       And the eagul
     And the dipper-dapper-duck
       And the Jew-fish
       And the blue-fish
     And the turtle in the muck;
       And the squir'l
       And the girl
     And the flippy floppy bat
       Are differ-ent
       As gent from gent.
     So let it go at that!'"

"What hideous nonsense," she laughed, in open encouragement; but he
could recall nothing more--or pretended he couldn't.

"You asked me," he said, "whether I know Sudbury Gray. I do, slightly.
What about him?" And he waited, remembering Nina's suggestion as to that
wealthy young man's eligibility.

"He's one of the nicest men I know," she replied frankly.

"Yes, but you don't know 'Boots' Lansing."

"The gentleman who was bucked out of his footwear? Is he attractive?"

"Rather. Shrieks rent the air when 'Boots' left Manila."

"Feminine shrieks?"

"Exclusively. The men were glad enough. He has three months' leave this
winter, so you'll see him soon."

She thanked him mockingly for the promise, watching him from amused
eyes. After a moment she said:

"I ought to arise and go forth with timbrels and with dances; but, do
you know, I am not inclined to revels? There has been a little--just a
very little bit too much festivity so far. . . . Not that I don't adore
dinners and gossip and dances; not that I do not love to pervade bright
and glittering places. Oh, no. Only--I--"

She looked shyly a moment at Selwyn: "I sometimes feel a curious desire
for other things. I have been feeling it all day."

"What things?"

"I--don't know--exactly; substantial things. I'd like to learn about
things. My father was the head of the American School of Archæology in
Crete. My mother was his intellectual equal, I believe--"

Her voice had fallen as she spoke. "Do you wonder that physical pleasure
palls a little at times? I inherit something besides a capacity for
dancing."

He nodded, watching her with an interest and curiosity totally new.

"When I was ten years old I was taken abroad for the winter. I saw the
excavations in Crete for the buried city which father discovered near
Præsos. We lived for a while with Professor Flanders in the Fayum
district; I saw the ruins of Kahun, built nearly three thousand years
before the coming of Christ; I myself picked up a scarab as old as the
ruins! . . . Captain Selwyn--I was only a child of ten; I could
understand very little of what I saw and heard, but I have never, never
forgotten the happiness of that winter! . . . And that is why, at times,
pleasures tire me a little; and a little discontent creeps in. It is
ungrateful and ungracious of me to say so, but I did wish so much to go
to college--to have something to care for--as mother cared for father's
work. Why, do you know that my mother accidentally discovered the
thirty-seventh sign in the Karian Signary?"

"No," said Selwyn, "I did not know that." He forbore to add that he did
not know what a Signary resembled or where Karia might be.

Miss Erroll's elbow was on her knee, her chin resting within her open
palm.

"Do you know about my parents?" she asked. "They were lost in the
Argolis off Cyprus. You have heard. I think they meant that I should
go to college--as well as Gerald; I don't know. Perhaps after all it is
better for me to do what other young girls do. Besides, I enjoy it; and
my mother did, too, when she was my age, they say. She was very much
gayer than I am; my mother was a beauty and a brilliant woman. . . . But
there were other qualities. I--have her letters to father when Gerald
and I were very little; and her letters to us from London. . . . I have
missed her more, this winter, it seems to me, than even in that dreadful
time--"

She sat silent, chin in hand, delicate fingers restlessly worrying her
red lips; then, in quick impulse:

"You will not mistake me, Captain Selwyn! Nina and Austin have been
perfectly sweet to me and to Gerald."

"I am not mistaking a word you utter," he said.

"No, of course not. . . . Only there are times . . . moments . . ."

Her voice died; her clear eyes looked out into space while the silent
seconds lengthened into minutes. One slender finger had slipped between
her lips and teeth; the burnished strand of hair which Nina dreaded lay
neglected against her cheek.

"I should like to know," she began, as though to herself, "something
about everything. That being out of the question, I should like to know
everything about something. That also being out of the question, for
third choice I should like to know something about something. I am not
too ambitious, am I?"

Selwyn did not offer to answer.

"Am I?" she repeated, looking directly at him.

"I thought you were asking yourself."

"But you need not reply; there is no sense in my question."

She stood up, indifferent, absent-eyed, half turning toward the window;
and, raising her hand, she carelessly brought the rebel strand of hair
under discipline.

"You said you were going to look up Gerald," she observed.

"I am; now. What are you going to do?"

"I? Oh, dress, I suppose. Nina ought to be back now, and she expects me
to go out with her."

She nodded a smiling termination of their duet, and moved toward the
door. Then, on impulse, she turned, a question on her lips--left
unuttered through instinct. It had to do with the identity of the pretty
woman who had so directly saluted him in the Park--a perfectly
friendly, simple, and natural question. Yet it remained unuttered.

She turned again to the doorway; a maid stood there holding a note on a
salver.

"For Captain Selwyn, please," murmured the maid.

Miss Erroll passed out.

Selwyn took the note and broke the seal:

     "MY DEAR SELWYN: I'm in a beastly fix--an I.O.U. due to-night and
     pas de quoi! Obviously I don't want Neergard to know, being
     associated as I am with him in business. As for Austin, he's a
     peppery old boy, bless his heart, and I'm not very secure in his
     good graces at present. Fact is I got into a rather stiff game last
     night--and it's a matter of honour. So can you help me to tide it
     over? I'll square it on the first of the month.

     "Yours sincerely,

     "GERALD ERROLL.

     "P.S.--I've meant to look you up for ever so long, and will the
     first moment I have free."

Below this was pencilled the amount due; and Selwyn's face grew very
serious.

The letter he wrote in return ran:

     "DEAR GERALD: Check enclosed to your order. By the way, can't you
     lunch with me at the Lenox Club some day this week? Write, wire, or
     telephone when.

     "Yours,

     "SELWYN."

When he had sent the note away by the messenger he walked back to the
bay-window, hands in his pockets, a worried expression in his gray
eyes. This sort of thing must not be repeated; the boy must halt in his
tracks and face sharply the other way. Besides, his own income was
limited--much too limited to admit of many more loans of that sort.

He ought to see Gerald at once, but somehow he could not in decency
appear personally on the heels of his loan. A certain interval must
elapse between the loan and the lecture; in fact he didn't see very well
how he could admonish and instruct until the loan had been
cancelled--that is, until the first of the New Year.

Pacing the floor, disturbed, uncertain as to the course he should
pursue, he looked up presently to see Miss Erroll descending the stairs,
fresh and sweet in her radiant plumage. As she caught his eye she waved
a silvery chinchilla muff at him--a marching salute--and passed on,
calling back to him: "Don't forget Gerald!"

"No," he said, "I won't forget Gerald." He stood a moment at the window
watching the brougham below where Nina awaited Miss Erroll. Then,
abruptly, he turned back into the room and picked up the telephone
receiver, muttering: "This is no time to mince matters for the sake of
appearances." And he called up Gerald at the offices of Neergard & Co.

"Is it you, Gerald?" he asked pleasantly. "It's all right about that
matter; I've sent you a note by your messenger. But I want to talk to
you about another matter--something concerning myself--I want to ask
your advice, in a way. Can you be at the Lenox by six? . . . You have an
engagement at eight? Oh, that's all right; I won't keep you. . . . It's
understood, then; the Lenox at six. . . . Good-bye."

There was the usual early evening influx of men at the Lenox who dropped
in for a glance at the ticker, or for a cocktail or a game of billiards
or a bit of gossip before going home to dress.

Selwyn sauntered over to the basket, inspected a yard or two of tape,
then strolled toward the window, nodding to Bradley Harmon and Sandon
Craig.

As he turned his face to the window and his back to the room, Harmon
came up rather effusively, offering an unusually thin flat hand and
further hospitality, pleasantly declined by Selwyn.

"Horrible thing, a cocktail," observed Harmon, after giving his own
order and seating himself opposite Selwyn. "I don't usually do it. Here
comes the man who persuades me!--my own partner--"

Selwyn looked up to see Fane approaching; and instantly a dark flush
overspread his face.

"You know George Fane, don't you?" continued Harmon easily; "well,
that's odd; I thought, of course--Captain Selwyn, Mr. Fane. It's not
usual--but it's done."

They exchanged formalities--dry and brief on Selwyn's part, gracefully
urbane on Fane's.

"I've heard so pleasantly of you from Gerald Erroll," he said, "and of
course our people have always been on cordial terms. Neither Mrs. Fane
nor I was fortunate enough to meet you last Tuesday at the Gerards--such
a crush, you know. Are you not joining us, Captain Selwyn?" as the
servant appeared to take orders.

Selwyn declined again, glancing at Harmon--a large-framed, bony young
man with blond, closely trimmed and pointed beard, and the fair colour
of a Swede. He had the high, flat cheek-bones of one, too; and a
thicket of corn-tinted hair, which was usually damp at the ends, and
curled flat against his forehead. He seemed to be always in a slight
perspiration--he had been, anyway, every time Selwyn met him anywhere.

Sandon Craig and Billy Fleetwood came wandering up and joined them; one
or two other men, drifting by, adhered to the group.

Selwyn, involved in small talk, glanced sideways at the great clock, and
gathered himself together for departure.

Fleetwood was saying to Craig: "Certainly it was a stiff game--Bradley,
myself, Gerald Erroll, Mrs. Delmour-Carnes, and the Ruthvens."

"Were you hit?" asked Craig, interested.

"No; about even. Gerald got it good and plenty, though. The Ruthvens
were ahead as usual--"

Selwyn, apparently hearing nothing, quietly rose and stepped out of the
circle, paused to set fire to a cigarette, and then strolled off toward
the visitors' room, where Gerald was now due.

Fane stretched his neck, looking curiously after him. Then he said to
Fleetwood: "Why begin to talk about Mrs. Ruthven when our friend yonder
is about? Rotten judgment you show, Billy."

"Well, I clean forgot," said Fleetwood; "what did I say, anyway? A man
can't always remember who's divorced from who in this town."

Harmon, whose civility to Selwyn had possibly been based on his desire
for pleasant relations with Austin Gerard and the Arickaree Loan and
Trust Company, looked at Fleetwood thoroughly vexed. But nobody could
have suspected vexation in that high-boned smile which showed such very
red lips through the blond beard.

Fane, too, smiled; his prominent soft brown eyes expressed gentlest
good-humour, and he passed his hand reflectively over his unusually
small and retreating chin. Perhaps he was thinking of the meeting in the
Park that morning. It was amusing; but men do not speak of such things
at their clubs, no matter how amusing. Besides, if the story were aired
and were traced to him, Ruthven might turn ugly. There was no counting
on Ruthven.

Meanwhile Selwyn, perplexed and worried, found young Erroll just
entering the visitors' room, and greeted him with nervous cordiality.

"If you can't stay and dine with me," he said, "I won't put you down.
You know, of course, I can only ask you once in a year, so we'll stay
here and chat a bit."

"Right you are," said young Erroll, flinging off his very new and very
fashionable overcoat--a wonderfully handsome boy, with all the
attraction that a quick, warm, impulsive manner carries. "And I say,
Selwyn, it was awfully decent of you to--"

"Bosh! Friends are for that sort of thing, Gerald. Sit here--" He looked
at the young man hesitatingly; but Gerald calmly took the matter out of
his jurisdiction by nodding his order to the club attendant.

"Lord, but I'm tired," he said, sinking back into a big arm-chair; "I
was up till daylight, and then I had to be in the office by nine, and
to-night Billy Fleetwood is giving--oh, something or other. By the way,
the market isn't doing a thing to the shorts! You're not in, are you,
Selwyn?"

"No, not that way. I hope you are not, either; are you, Gerald?"

"Oh, it's all right," replied the young fellow confidently; and raising
his glass, he nodded at Selwyn with a smile.

"You were mighty nice to me, anyhow," he said, setting his glass aside
and lighting a cigar. "You see, I went to a dance, and after a while
some of us cleared out, and Jack Ruthven offered us trouble; so half a
dozen of us went there. I had the worst cards a man ever drew to a
kicker. That was all about it."

The boy was utterly unconscious that he was treading on delicate ground
as he rattled on in his warmhearted, frank, and generous way. Totally
oblivious that the very name of Ruthven must be unwelcome if not
offensive to his listener, he laughed through a description of the
affair, its thrilling episodes, and Mrs. Jack Ruthven's blind luck in
the draw.

"One moment," interrupted Selwyn, very gently; "do you mind saying
whether you banked my check and drew against it?"

"Why, no; I just endorsed it over."

"To--to whom?--if I may venture--"

"Certainly," he said, with a laugh; "to Mrs. Jack--" Then, in a flash,
for the first time the boy realised what he was saying, and stopped
aghast, scarlet to his hair.

Selwyn's face had little colour remaining in it, but he said very
kindly: "It's all right, Gerald; don't worry--"

"I'm a beast!" broke out the boy; "I beg your pardon a thousand times."

"Granted, old chap. But, Gerald, may I say one thing--or perhaps two?"

"Go ahead! Give it to me good and plenty!"

"It's only this: couldn't you and I see one another a little oftener?
Don't be afraid of me; I'm no wet blanket. I'm not so very aged,
either; I know something of the world--I understand something of men.
I'm pretty good company, Gerald. What do you say?"

"I say, sure!" cried the boy warmly.

"It's a go, then. And one thing more: couldn't you manage to come up to
the house a little oftener? Everybody misses you, of course; I think
your sister is a trifle sensitive--"

"I will!" said Gerald, blushing. "Somehow I've had such a lot on
hand--all day at the office, and something on every evening. I know
perfectly well I've neglected Eily--and everybody. But the first moment
I can find free--"

Selwyn nodded. "And last of all," he said, "there's something about my
own affairs that I thought you might advise me on."

Gerald, proud, enchanted, stood very straight; the older man continued
gravely:

"I've a little capital to invest--not very much. Suppose--and this, I
need not add, is in confidence between us--suppose I suggested to Mr.
Neergard--"

"Oh," cried young Erroll, delighted, "that is fine! Neergard would be
glad enough. Why, we've got that Valleydale tract in shape now, and
there are scores of schemes in the air--scores of them--important moves
which may mean--anything!" he ended, excitedly.

"Then you think it would be all right--in case Neergard likes the idea?"

Gerald was enthusiastic. After a while they shook hands, it being time
to separate. And for a long time Selwyn sat there alone in the visitors'
room, absent-eyed, facing the blazing fire of cannel coal.

How to be friends with this boy without openly playing the mentor; how
to gain his confidence without appearing to seek it; how to influence
him without alarming him! No; there was no great harm in him yet; only
the impulse of inconsiderate youth; only an enthusiastic capacity for
pleasure.

One thing was imperative--the boy must cut out his card-playing for
stakes at once; and there was a way to accomplish that by impressing
Gerald with the idea that to do anything behind Neergard's back which he
would not care to tell him about was a sort of treachery.

Who were these people, anyway, who would permit a boy of that age, and
in a responsible position, to play for such stakes? Who were they to
encourage such--?

Selwyn's tightening grasp on his chair suddenly relaxed; he sank back,
staring at the brilliant coals. He, too, had forgotten.

Now he remembered, in humiliation unspeakable, in bitterness past all
belief.

Time sped, and he sat there, motionless; and gradually the bitterness
became less perceptible as he drifted, intent on drifting, back through
the exotic sorcery of dead years--back into the sun again, where honour
was bright and life was young--where all the world awaited happy
conquest--where there was no curfew in the red evening glow; no end to
day, because the golden light had turned to silver; but where the
earliest hint of dawn was a challenge, and where every yellow star
whispered "Awake!"

And out of the magic she had come into his world again!

Sooner or later he would meet her now. That was sure. When? Where? And
of what significance was it, after all?

Whom did it concern? Him? Her? And what had he to say to her, after all?
Or she to him?

Not one word.

       

About midnight he roused himself and picked up his hat and coat.

"Do you wish a cab, please?" whispered the club servant who held his
coat; "it is snowing very hard, sir."




CHAPTER III

UNDER THE ASHES


He had neither burned nor returned the photograph to Mrs. Ruthven. The
prospect perplexed and depressed Selwyn.

He was sullenly aware that in a town where the divorced must ever be
reckoned with when dance and dinner lists are made out, there is always
some thoughtless hostess--and sometimes a mischievous one; and the
chances were that he and Mrs. Jack Ruthven would collide, either through
the forgetfulness or malice of somebody or, through sheer hazard, at
some large affair where Destiny and Fate work busily together in
criminal copartnership.

And he encountered her first at a masque and revel given by Mrs.
Delmour-Carnes where Fate contrived that he should dance in the same set
with his ci-devant wife before the unmasking, and where, unaware, they
gaily exchanged salute and hand-clasp before the jolly mêlée of
unmasking revealed how close together two people could come after
parting for ever and a night at the uttermost ends of the earth.

When masks at last were off there was neither necessity nor occasion for
the two surprised and rather pallid young people to renew civilities;
but later, Destiny, the saturnine partner in the business, interfered;
and some fool in the smoking room tried to introduce Selwyn to Ruthven.
The slightest mistake on their parts would have rendered the incident
ridiculous; and Ruthven made that mistake.

That was Selwyn's first encounter with the Ruthvens. A short time
afterward at the opera Gerald dragged him into a parterre to say
something amiable to one of the débutante Craig girls--and Selwyn found
himself again facing Alixe.

If there was any awkwardness it was not apparent, although they both
knew that they were in full view of the house.

A cool bow and its cooler acknowledgment, a formal word and more formal
reply; and Selwyn made his way to the corridor, hot with vexation,
unaware of where he was going, and oblivious of the distressed and
apologetic young man, who so contritely kept step with him through the
brilliantly crowded promenade.

That was the second time--not counting distant glimpses in crowded
avenues, in the Park, at Sherry's, or across the hazy glitter of
thronged theatres. But the third encounter was different.

It was all a mistake, born of the haste of a heedless and elderly
matron, celebrated for managing to do the wrong thing, but who had been
excessively nice to him that winter, and whose position in Manhattan was
not to be assailed.

"Dear Captain Selwyn," she wheezed over the telephone, "I'm short one
man; and we dine at eight and it's that now. Could you help me? It's
the rich and yellow, this time, but you won't mind, will you?"

Selwyn, standing at the lower telephone in the hall, asked her to hold
the wire a moment, and glanced up at his sister who was descending the
stairs with Eileen, dinner having at that instant been announced.

