blissful picture where she should realize to the full all the desires
dear to the heart of a girl. It was true that she had created a furore
that night at Arcot, but her triumph had been extinguished by fright and
the tragedies that came in its train. And no triumph abroad ever quite
equals the conquest of your own territory. Isabel concluded that if it
were a matter of a single season, she would rather reign in San
Francisco than in London--but her dreams were cut short by Gwynne's
rapid step on the plank walk, and a moment later he was tapping on her
door.

She looked up at him with undisguised expectancy.

"I am going to enjoy it," she said. "I shall accept it. I don't care!"

"I should hope so, after all the trouble I have had." He sat down in a
low chair beside the dressing-table and facing her. "Hofer had been
turned out of the house and had taken refuge at the Mission. I took an
automobile and rushed out there, only to find that he and his friends
had concluded to come in and dine at one of the restaurants. Definite,
but I know their tastes pretty well, and finally tracked them down. By
that time I was starved, but when the dinner was over Hofer went with me
himself to the jeweller's--"

"What is it?" asked Isabel, impatiently, her eyes on a long box Gwynne
had taken from his pocket.

But Gwynne seldom had an opportunity to tease her. He drew his finger
along the heavy coil of hair that rose from the very nape of her neck
and pushed forward a soft little mass on to the brow. "I have always
wanted to see something here," he said. "I remember once seeing a lovely
print of the Empress Elizabeth of Austria, who wore her hair somewhat as
you do--"

"Not a bit of it. Her hair was generally half-way down her back--"

"Well the effect was the same--and in this print she had a row of
daisies or stars; I never could remember which--"

"You haven't brought me daisies?" said Isabel, in disgust.

Gwynne pressed the little gilt nob, and as the lid flew up Isabel cried
out, with delight.

"You shouldn't! But I don't care! I said I wouldn't. I never expected
anything so gorgeous, though--"

She caught the box from his hand and fastened the diamond stars in the
line he had indicated. There were five, graduated in size, and they gave
her beauty its final touch of poetry and light. Isabel gazed at her
dazzling reflection with parted lips and dancing eyes, then turned
impulsively, flung her arms about Gwynne's neck, and kissed him. He
pushed her away roughly.

"Don't do that again!" he said. "I am not your brother, nor one of your
girl friends. Can I look about? I have always had a curiosity to see
this room. I had an idea that it was different from the one at the
ranch."

"You can look at what you like," said Isabel, indifferently. "I shall
look at my stars. Madre de Dios! as our Spanish ancestors would have
said. Ay yi! Valgame Dios! Dios de mi alma! Dios de mi vida! I never
was so happy in my life."

Gwynne walked about the large old-fashioned room with its bow-window,
and alcove for the bed. He had half expected that the room he had so
often passed with reluctant steps would be furnished in blue or pink,
but it was as red as that of the traditional queen. Isabel had brought
up all the old crimson damask curtains that had been fashionable in her
grandmother's time, and covered the windows and walls of her bedroom,
even the head of the mahogany four-poster in which her mother and
herself had been born. The carpet was new, but a dull crimson, like the
faded hangings, and the dressing-table with its quantity of chased
silver--one of the few inheritances she had managed to retain--was the
only spot of light in the rather sombre room: it was all white muslin
and bright crimson silk. There was an old-fashioned settle against the
wall and three stiff chairs. Gwynne liked the room, and had a vague
feeling that he knew Isabel a little better. Certainly it expressed a
side of her of which he had caught but an occasional glimpse.

He pulled the curtains apart and shading his eyes from the light of the
room looked down towards the city. It had vanished under a sea of white
fog that broke against the ledge of Nob Hill. A cable-car might have
been a comet flashing along the edge of a void.

"I wonder," he said, "I wonder--should San Francisco disappear--be
burned by that fire you are always expecting--or if the bay should
shoal, or the Golden Gate rush together, so that she would have no
reason for existence, and gradually be devoured by time--I suppose the
fog and the winds would still be faithful. I can imagine the fogs
rolling in and embracing her, and the winds raging about every forgotten
corner, centuries after there was anybody left to curse either."

"Was it Mrs. Kaye or Lady Cecilia Spence that said you just missed being
a poet? I hope some slumbering ancestor is not struggling for
resurrection out here. I much prefer that you should be a statesman."

"I intend to be, nor have I any desire to turn poet. I have seen too
many in London. But this city, ugly as it is, appeals in its own way to
the imagination--more, for some unknown reason, than the most poetic I
ever saw in the old worlds. There is something almost uncanny about it.
While it is raw, and crude, and practically in its infancy, it at the
same time suggests an unthinkable antiquity. Perhaps--who knows?--it had
a civilization contemporary with the Montezumas--or with Atlantis; and
it is the ghosts of old unrecorded peoples that linger and give one a
fairly haunted feeling when one climbs these hills alone at night."

"Much better you keep your hand on your pistol and your eye out for
foot-pads--and one dreamer in the family is enough. I hope I have not
infected you."

She forsook her glowing image and looked at him inquisitively. He
wandered about the room again and paused to look at a row of
daguerreotypes on a shelf, dead and forgotten Belmonts.

"You do dream a good deal," he said. "Judging by your varying styles of
beauty as well as other things, you must be possessed by a dozen
different sorts of old Johnnies trying to mutter something up out of the
dark."

"I'm going to be nothing but a dreamer for a whole week."

"If that means that you will forget chickens, and dress yourself
decently, I shall do what I can to heighten the illusion. Should you
like me to make love to you?" he asked, turning to her with a quickening
interest.

"That might wake me up," said Isabel, politely. "This week is crowded
with parties and things. I am to visit Mrs. Hofer and go to all of them.
You won't see much of me until New Year's eve, when I come home and we
dine at a Bohemian restaurant with Lyster and Paula, and watch the
street crowds after. But I do not look so far ahead. If I am a success
to-night I am going to make believe that I am an old-time belle like
Helena Belmont, or my poor little mother, for that matter. And I shall
feel just like her when I start, for Ang√©lique will pin up my skirts
under a long cloak, and pull carriage boots over my slippers so that
nothing will be spoiled going down those steps. I suppose I can't hope
to be quite such a belle as if I had lived in those less-sophisticated
days, but who knows? And I can forget Rosewater--and Bohemia; I sha'n't
even think of the Stones until New Year's eve; I sent them their
Christmas presents this morning, on purpose. I am going to be frivolous,
coquette, and imagine myself a girl of the old Southern Set, when there
were no new people. And I'm going to make them think I am a great
beauty, whether I am or not. I remember mamma used to say to me:
'Cultivate the beauty air. That often is more effective than beauty
itself. Tiny Montgomery was a beauty according to every known standard,
but she had no dash, and was never looked at when Helena Belmont was in
the room.' So to-night, you'll see me sail into that ballroom as if I
already had the town at my feet. By-the-way--the last time I began to
feel like a real girl again was that night at Arcot--and I did feel
eighteen--triumphant--happy--until I got back and saw Lord Zeal in the
library. I have never forgotten his face."

"Nor have I," said Gwynne, dryly; but he turned pale. "I suppose you
haven't had the least suspicion what he came to tell me that night?"

"I thought to say good-bye without letting you know--it isn't possible
that he told you he intended to kill himself?"

"He told me a good deal more. He had shot Brathland. Murdered him, in
plain English. You may fancy the night I had with him."

Isabel stared up at him, the radiance gone from her face.

"And you have been carrying that about in addition to everything else?"

"It was brutal to tell you this to-night! I can't imagine why I did,
particularly as I have never told even my mother--who, like everybody
else not necessarily in the secret, thinks that Zeal killed himself in
despair over his failing health. But--yes, I remember that dress now--I
rarely notice the details of women's clothes--but I remember admiring
those blue lilies on that airy white stuff--I suppose you suddenly
brought the whole thing back as vividly as if we were at Capheaton
instead of out here on the edge of creation. You must forgive me and
forget it."

"Yes I will! I'll forget everything for a week." She wheeled about and
rubbed her cheeks. Gwynne stooped suddenly and kissed the little black
mole on her shoulder.

"This is all I ask in return for the baubles," he murmured; and then as
he met a blazing eye: "Could I do less than restore your lovely color?
But I must fly and get into my togs."




XXXIII


The old-fashioned interior of the Polk House, with, on the lower floor,
its double parlors connected by sliding doors, its narrow central hall,
and its many shapeless rooms of varying size, had been entirely
remodelled by the essentially modern Mrs. Hofer. Her husband had wished
to build an imposing mass of shingles and stones, but Mrs. Hofer was far
too impatient to wait a year--perhaps two, if there were strikes--to
take up her abode on Nob Hill, and the Polk House was in the market.
Perhaps something in the stolid uncompromising exterior of the old
barrack appealed to her irresistibly, mausoleum that it was of an
aristocratic past. But upon the interior she wasted no sentiment, and
some half a million of her husband's dollars. There were now three great
rooms on the lower floor and four small ones, besides a circular hall
with a spiral marble stair. The drawing-room, which ran from east to
west, was one of the most notable rooms in the country, had been the
subject of violent controversy, newspaper and verbal, and was a
perpetual delight to the dramatic soul of its mistress. The most
original artist the State had produced had painted a deep frieze which
was a series of the strange moonlight scenes that had made his fame: the
deep sulphurous blue of the California night sky, the long black
shadows, the wind-driven trees, the low desolate adobe houses abandoned
in the towns settled by Spain. Now and again a cluster of lights
indicated a window-pane and a belated tenant, but the garden walls were
in ruins, the tiled roofs sagging, the ancient whitewash was peeling;
all blended and lifted into a harmony of color and pathos by the genius
of the artist. The expanse of dull green-blue walls of rough plaster
below the frieze was unbroken; on the marble floor there were blue
velvet rugs. The furniture was of ebony and dull-blue brocade. There was
not even a picture on an easel, but there were several Rodins and
Meuniers. At the lower or west end of the room the wall had been removed
and replaced by a single immense pane of plate glass. From this window,
always curtainless, there was a startling view of the steep drop of the
hill, beetling with houses and steeples, Telegraph Hill beyond and a
little to the north; then the bay, and the towns on its opposite rim. At
night the scene, with its blue above and black below, picked out with a
thousand lights--massed into a diadem beyond the bay--looked like a
sublimation of the painter's work. Within, the cunningly arranged lights
saved the room at all times from being too sombre, and were set to
reveal every detail of paintings far too precious to have been
recklessly lavished upon a wooden house in the most recklessly built of
all great cities.

The dining-room--which had the proportions of a banqueting-hall, with an
alcove for family use--was hung with tapestries and furnished with
chairs lifted bodily from a castle in Spain; and it was a room in which
no one would remember to look for ancestors. The library also commanded
a view of the bay and had been decorated by native artists with
imitations of the Giorgione frescoes, charmingly pink and smudgy. The
hangings and furniture were of royal crimson brocade, and the walls were
covered with books. Mr. Toole, who was a scholar of the old-fashioned
sort, of which California still holds so many, had selected the books;
and the contents were as noteworthy as the bindings. In a special alcove
was a large number of priceless Fourteenth and Sixteenth Century
editions. From this sumptuous room curved an iron balcony, where the old
gentleman might be seen sunning himself any fine day, his steel
spectacles half-way down his nose, and a volume propped on the shelf of
an easy-chair furnished with all the modern improvements.

On the white satin panels of the large round hall were a few of the most
valuable old masters as yet brought to the country, but Mrs. Hofer, who
was a patriot or nothing, did not hesitate to mix them with the best
efforts of her fellow-citizens, nor to proclaim her preference for the
native product. It was all very well to have old masters, and modern
Europeans, if it was the thing, but she never felt quite at home with
them, and liked her California inside as well as out.

The four little reception-rooms, or boudoirs, were so many cabinets for
treasures, and on the night of the ball, like the rest of the rooms on
this floor, were entirely without further adornment; only the white
marble of the spiral stair was festooned with crimson roses; and the
narrow hall that led from the rotunda to the new ballroom was dressed in
imitation of a long arbor of grape-vines, and hung with clusters of
hot-house grapes and Chinese lanterns. The ballroom had been built out
from the back of the house upon the steep drop of the hill, and as even
its graduated foundation did not lift it to the level of the first
floor, it was reached by a short flight of steps. For three months Mrs.
Hofer's judicious hints had excited the curiosity of the town, and all
that were not bedridden had presented themselves at as early an hour as
self-respect would permit. Mrs. Hofer, to use her own phrase, had
"turned herself loose," on this room, and even her husband, who had
gasped at the sum total, indulgent as he was, admitted to-night that
"she knew what she was about." The immense room was built to simulate a
patio in Spain. The domed roof, in the blaze of light below, looked to
be the dim blue vault of the night sky. The gallery that encircled the
room was divided into balconies, and from them depended Gobelin
tapestries, Eastern rugs, silken shawls--yellow embroidered with red,
blue embroidered with white--after the manner of Spain on festa days.
The background of the gallery was a mass of tropical plants alternating
with latticed windows and long glass doors. Sitting with an arm or elbow
on the railing, was every California woman of Mrs. Hofer's acquaintance
that had the inherited right to wear a mantilla, a rose over her ear,
and wield a large black fan; that is to say, those that were too old or
too indifferent to dance. How Ada Hofer induced them to form a part of
her decorations nobody ever knew, themselves least of all; but there, to
the amazement and delight of the hundreds below, they were, and it was
many years since the majority of them had looked so handsome. Beneath
the balcony was an arcade where many seats were disposed among palms and
pampas grass. The inevitable fountain was at the end of the room; it was
of white stone, and colored lights played upon its foaming column. The
musicians were in the gallery above it.

When Gwynne and Isabel descended the steps and stood looking down upon
the scene for a moment, the younger people were dancing. Every woman
seemed to have been fired with the ambition to contribute her own part
to the brilliancy of the night. There were tiaras by the score in these
days, and the gowns had journeyed half-way round the world. There had
been imported gowns in the immortal Eighties, when Mrs. Yorba reigned,
but never a tiara; and Isabel for the first time fully realized the
significant changes worked by the vast modern fortunes and their
ambitious owners. Blood might have been enough for their predecessors,
but the outward and visible sign for them.

And all sets were represented to-night. It is doubtful if any woman had
done as much to entice them to a common focus as the surmounting Mrs.
Hofer. She was not the leader of San Francisco society, for that office
was practically an elective one, and meant an infinite amount of trouble
with corresponding perquisites; it must be held by a woman of supreme
tact, experience, executive ability, and practically nothing else to do.
The present incumbent, to the infinite credit of San Francisco, was a
member of one of the oldest and most distinguished families in
California; or in America, for that matter; and although still young,
and with less to spend in a year than the Hofers wasted in a week, she
had been chosen, after the death of the old leader, and some acrimonious
discussion, to rule; and rule she did with a rod of iron. But she took
her good where she found it, and was grateful for what Mrs. Hofer, with
her beautiful house and irresistible energy had already accomplished.
For Mrs. Hofer was by no means too democratic. If she had drawn all
factions to her house she had taken care that only the best of her own
kind came too, and this best was very good indeed; for it was educated
and accomplished, more often than not had mingled in society abroad; an
honor to which many of the ancient aristocracy had never aspired. No one
recognized this fact, and the irresistible law of progress, better than
the Leader, in spite of her Spanish blood; and to-night she sat in the
very centre of the north gallery, her charming dark face draped in a
mantilla some two centuries old. Beside her sat Anne Montgomery who had
not a drop of Spanish in her, but whom Mrs. Hofer had done up with a
brand-new mantilla of white lace and an immense black fan. Miss
Montgomery had a lingering sense of humor, but it suited her to look
young and pretty once more, if only for a night. Mrs. Trennahan, who was
really fond of Mrs. Hofer, particularly as she had been adroitly
persuaded that this party was to be a mere setting for her lovely young
daughter, also decorated the gallery in one of the old Yorba
mantillas--it had belonged to the beautiful aunt for whom this house had
been built by the husband she scorned--and wore it for the first time in
her life. Trennahan had shaken with a fit of inward laughter, but had
compelled his eyes to express only admiration and approval.

Other dowagers sat below, some bediamonded and others not: the "old
Southern Set" lived on diminishing incomes; new industries were
decreasing the values of the old. They had lost none of their pride, but
philosophy had mellowed them, and they were honestly grateful for such
splendid diversion; and Mrs. Hofer's suppers cost a small fortune, even
in San Francisco. Their offspring cared as little for traditions as for
supper, and had married or were marrying into the newer sets, rapidly
obliterating what lines were left. As for the new, they were legion, and
not to be distinguished by the casual eye from those that traced their
descent to the crumbling mansions of South Park and Rincon Hill; and
they had the earnest co-operation of the best of the world's milliners.
The pick of Bohemia was also present, those that were distinguishing
themselves in art and letters, or even on the stage, for Mrs. Hofer had
learned some of her lessons in London. All that were now looked upon as
county families, spending as they did but one or two months of the year
in the city, had come to town for this ball, but the country towns were
represented only by Gwynne and Isabel and the Tom Coltons. The group of
men so desperately interested in the municipal affairs of the city
disliked and distrusted Colton; but Mrs. Leslie had been born on Rincon
Hill, and all doors, old and new, were open to her daughter. Isabel
caught a glimpse of Anabel among the dancers, in a gown of primrose
satin almost the color of her hair, and a little diamond tiara made from
some old stones of her mother's.

"Well!" exclaimed Isabel. "What do you think of us? Is it not a
wonderful scene?"

Gwynne nodded. "All that is wanting is a background of caballeros in the
gallery, silk and ruffles, and hair tied with ribbons. But I suppose the
old gentlemen objected. There must be some limit to Mrs. Hofer's powers
of persuasion. But--yes--it is a wonderful scene, and you are a
wonderful people to take so much trouble."

The waltz finished and Mrs. Hofer bore down upon them. She wore white
brocade, the flowers outlined with jewels, shimmering under a cloud of
tulle, and her neck and her fashionably dressed head were hardly to be
seen for the rubies and diamonds that bound them. She was fairly
palpitating with youth and triumph, and delight in the dance, and
although without beauty or a patrician outline, there was no more
radiant vision in the room. She reproached Isabel for being late,
informed her that she had ordered all the best men to keep dances for
her, summoned several, and then bore off Gwynne to introduce him to the
prettiest of the girls. In a few moments Isabel was engaged for every
dance before supper; she had given the cotillon to Gwynne.

She had realized immediately, that upon such a scene, with such a
background, she could hope to make no such overwhelming impression as
had fallen to the lot of Helena Belmont; surrounded by buff-colored
walls and a small exclusive society--for the most part disdainful of
dress. Nevertheless, she was soon pleasurably aware that she was the
subject of much comment, not only in the gallery, but among the hundreds
of smart young girls and women on the floor, the men that danced, and
those that supported the walls. The old beaux, left over from the days
when Nina Randolph and Guadalupe Hathaway had reigned, who had put the
stamp of an almost incoherent approval upon the dazzling Helena, that
famous night of her d√©but, were dead and dust; but another group,
including the quartet that had as promptly declared themselves the
suitors and slaves of the exacting beauty, were present to-night,
critically regarding the d√©butantes. Their comparisons were less
impassioned than those of their old mentors, for they were tired; they
had disposed of much of their superfluous enthusiasm in the increased
difficulties of making an income, since the brief reign of a heartless
witch, whom they still remembered with an occasional pang of sentiment,
but more gratitude that they had not had her as well as fortune to
subdue. None had prospered exceedingly, but all had done well. They were
still in their forties, but as gray as their fathers had been at sixty;
indeed, looked older than Trennahan, who had disdained to add to his own
and his wife's fortunes, and lived merely to enjoy life; and they would
far rather have been in bed. But three of them were indulgent family
men. Eugene Fort had clung to the single state, but the others were
contributing one or more daughters to the evening's entertainment; and
they had all drifted naturally together to discuss the new beauties
before retreating to the haven at the top of the house where there was a
billiard-table and much good whiskey and tobacco. They were disputing
over the respective claims of Inez Trennahan, who was a replica of the
California Favoritas of a century ago, and Catalina Over with the
Indian blood on her high cheek-bones, and her mouth like an Indian's
bow, when Isabel descended the stairs. They promptly gave her the palm,
although they did not turn pale, nor lose their breath.

"The grand style," said Trennahan. "I wonder will the home-bred youth
appreciate it? In your day she would have had a better chance, but most
of these worthy young men, when they have been to college at all, have
patronized Stanford or Berkeley; in other words, never been out of the
State, and, no doubt, prefer the more vivid, frivolous, and essentially
modern product."

"If it lay with us," said Alan Rush, sadly. "But it is as you say. She
will frighten most of the young fellows. By Jove, she looks as if she
had danced at Washington's first ball. But that's it. Nothing free and
easy, there. It's no longer the fashion to be too aristocratic."

But Isabel, if she did not create a furore among the young men, who
would have thought such a performance beneath their dignity, was, at
least, generally admitted to be "Pretty well as stunning a girl as you
might see in a long day's journey," "a regular ripper," "the handsomest
of the bunch," and as far as "mere looks went" the "pick of the lot."
The girls viewed her with no great favor, but the majority of the women,
especially those in the galleries, sustained the verdict of the men; and
the Leader, in the course of the evening, descended and introduced
herself, claimed relationship, and graciously intimated that if Isabel
cared to join the cotillon clubs and the skating-rink--The
skating-rink--an exclusive yet hospitable wing would be lifted. A
younger brother of Mr. Hofer, who had also multiplied his paternal
million, devoted himself to her seriously, and Gwynne, who soon had
enough of dancing, gracefully renounced his claims to the german. They
had one waltz together and then he did not see her again until the hour
of departure, when he stood in the hall and watched her descend the
winding white stair between the roses. He thought her a charming picture
in her long white coat, with a lace scarf over her head, and her arms
full of costly toys. When she reached his side she ordered him to put
her favors into the pockets of his overcoat, and keep his hand on his
pistol, as she would not risk losing one of them, much less her jewels.
Her eyes were very bright, and her cheeks deeply flushed, but were the
cause a fully satisfied ambition, he could only guess.




XXXIV


The hour was four, and after they had said their last good-night to the
guests whose homes lay between the Hofer mansion and their own, they met
but one foot passenger as belated as themselves. This was a big man that
loomed suddenly out of the fog. Isabel screamed and ran into the middle
of the street, and Gwynne, who had obediently taken out his pistol, half
raised it. But the man laughed.

"I'm on the lookout for thim meself," he said, in a rich brogue. "Good
luck to yees."

As they let themselves into the house, Gwynne threw his hat and coat on
the settle in the vestibule, and then ran his hand through his hair and
rubbed the back of his head, a habit of his when he had a suggestion to
make.

"I remember we were going to sit up the rest of that night--or
morning--after Arcot," he said. "Are you very tired?"

"Tired? I shall not sleep a wink for hours. The fire is sure to be laid
in the tower-room."

They went into the small circular room, furnished in several shades of
green, that Isabel had retained for her own use, and while she shook
down her skirts Gwynne applied a match to the coals. The raw morning air
had penetrated the house, too old-fashioned to have a furnace, but
wooden walls are quickly heated. When Gwynne had removed the blower
several times and satisfied himself that the hard coals would burn, he
resumed the perpendicular.

He looked doubtfully at Isabel, who was still wrapped in her cloak, and
had elevated her feet, covered with the long carriage-boots, to the
fender. "Sha'n't you take off those things?" he asked. "You don't look
as if you meant to stay."

"You can take off the boots, but I'll keep on my coat for a few
moments."

He laughed as he knelt again. "I certainly am getting broken in. I have
known Englishwomen to pull off their husband's hunting-boots after a
hard day's work--"

"The idea!"

"Very good idea. Do you mean that you would not?"

"Well, I might, as a return favor. You need not take all night to pull
off mine."

"You might, at least, let virtue be its own reward. It's not often it
has the chance."

"Well, get up and don't be an idiot. I suppose you have been flirting in
the conservatory all the evening and haven't had time to readjust your
mood."

"Mrs. Hofer has no conservatory. Great oversight. But I did sit out a
dance or two in that room with the immense window--"

"With whom?"

"I have forgotten her name. Will you have a cigarette?"

"No, but you may smoke if you like."

He had settled himself in a deep chair on the opposite side of the
hearth. There was a silence of nearly ten minutes, until Isabel,
suddenly removing her coat, brought Gwynne out of his reverie.

"I cannot say that to-night was in any sense a repetition of my own
experience at Arcot," he said, abruptly. "That night--I have tried to
forget it--I had enough adulation to turn any man's head. I fancy it
was pretty well turned, and that made the wrench during the small
hours the more severe. Still, it has been an interesting evening, and
one or two things happened."

"What?" Isabel was full of her own experiences, but too much of a woman
to betray the fact when a man wanted to talk about himself.

"I danced for a while, but I had had exercise enough during the day, and
didn't care particularly about it. Besides, all the girls I danced with,
and that one I sat up-stairs with for a few minutes, not only talked my
head off, but quizzed me, and I did not understand it. To my amazement,
I learned not long after that they know who I am. Can you imagine how it
got out?"

"They know everything. It is an old saying that the San Francisco girls
scent a stranger the moment he leaves the tram at the Oakland mole, and
know all about him before he has registered. The obscurest knight could
not hide himself in this town. Rosewater alone saved you so long. How
did they quiz you?"

"Each began at once to talk about my 'distinguished relative, Elton
Gwynne.' I may be more dense than most, or perhaps I was merely bored,
but I assumed that they thought I was his brother and knew his
whereabouts. When supper was half over, and I was congratulating myself
that I had got out of the cotillon, even with you, for it meant
dancing with a lot of others, my host took me firmly by the arm and
marched me up-stairs. He informed me that he was 'bored stiff,' could
see that I was, and had 'coralled' a few more choice spirits. We went,
not to the smoking or billiard-room, but to his own bedroom, and here I
found four or five more of your strenuous millionaires, the reform
editor, and the lawyer that looks like a bull-dog waiting for the word
to spring at the throat of the Boss and his whole vile crew.

"Here we sat and smoked until the air inside was as thick as the fog
that blotted out the lights of the city and towns opposite. Of course
the talk was of the rotten state of San Francisco. I never heard the
whole story before, and it made my hair stand on end. I knew that vice
flaunted itself more openly here than elsewhere, but I did not guess
that the thousand and one establishments of every sort, from the lowest
negro dive under the sidewalk, and the snares for the very young of both
sexes, straight up to the most gaudy 'French restaurants,' as well as
Chinatown, Barbary coast, and all the rest, paid tribute to the gang of
political ruffians that have got control of the city. No wonder the last
have developed a preternatural sharpness that makes it next to
impossible to bring the charges home, for they will all be rich enough
in time to move to Europe and buy up such salable scions of
improverished houses as happen to be on the market. The thing is as well
known as I know that you are my third cousin, but, although the
second-rate grafters are brazen enough, it is not worth while to attack
them until the Boss is done for, and so far he has proved much too
clever to be caught. A college man, although of low origin, and an
accomplished lawyer of a sort, he pockets huge sums from these
disreputable establishments, for himself and his minion, the mayor, and
calls them attorney's fees. Naturally the panderers to vice won't admit
they are blackmailed: they are between the devil and the deep sea; if
the fight came on in earnest, and they gave evidence against the Boss,
and the Boss won, he would clean them all out and put others in. The
Reformers, if they won, would clean them out too; so, naturally, they
hold their tongues and hope this reform movement will peter out as so
many others have done. So do the Board of Supervisors whom the Boss also
owns and through whom he blackmails the great corporations. But--and
when they had got to this point in the talk there was an abrupt pause,
and then Hofer turned to me and said: 'Even if you don't come in and
join us, which I always hope you will do, I know a man that can keep his
mouth shut when I see him. So fire away.'

"And then they discussed the fact that one of their number had recently
gone to Washington to ask the President to send out an able man of the
Government Secret Service; they have every reason to believe that this
request will be complied with. With sufficient evidence they would then
make a quiet crusade in the hope of rousing public spirit to the extent
of forcing in a grand jury that could not be bought by the Boss.
Needless to say he has controlled every grand jury that has met during
his reign, and one might as well hope to convict a wind for unroofing a
house, even were he not master of every legal trick himself, and had he
taken less pains to cover up his tracks. In this detective lies their
chief hope at present; but what a slender hope it is, when you consider
the devil-may-care character of these San Franciscans, who would dance
on the edge of hell, with equal nonchalance, if only there were a screen
between. There is not an outstanding excuse for forming a vigilance
committee, as there was during the Dennis Kearney-Anti-Chinese riots of
1879, and there is no such aroused public spirit and indignation as
sustained the Vigilantes of the Fifties. These rascals take good care to
be non-sensational in their methods, and what the San Franciscan doesn't
see doesn't worry him. The city is rich, prosperous, famous, tourists
are pouring in, the best in drama and opera comes yearly--to be
presented in fire-traps whose owners pay toll to the Boss; they already
have the handsomest hotels in the world, the finest cooking, climate;
even earthquakes--severe ones--have moved elsewhere. What can you do
with a people like that? They are fairly insolent in their sense of
security. Let the political gang make their share. There is enough for
all. But don't bother us. Let us be happy. Vive la bagatelle. There
you have the motto of San Francisco.

"By the time they had threshed the subject out, explaining details and
plans to me, as if I were already one of them, I was feeling pretty
uncomfortable. Naturally, I blurted out that I could no longer accept
their hospitality and confidence on false pretences, and told them who I
was. Each got up in turn, solemnly held out his hand, and said, 'Shake.'
Then Hofer informed me that they had all been practically certain for
some time that I was myself; being good enough to add: 'We knew there
couldn't be more than one of you; and we are also able to put two and
two together, occasionally. Before we thought of it, however, you struck
us all as being a man accustomed to homage. Later we discovered that you
were choke full of seven different kinds of ability, and it was then
that the twos began to move towards each other on the board; and we
decided that we must have you here, right here in San Francisco. What
can a man like you find in a God-forsaken place like Rosewater, anyhow?
The Eggopolis! You can't afford to hail from there; it would stick to
you for the rest of your life. And we have just got to have you. We may
have some of the ablest lawyers in the country in San Francisco, and a
few honest ones, but we can accommodate one more; and a man that will
throw over a great title and an already won name for the sake of
standing on his own legs--that's the sort of stuff the old pioneers were
made of. So, here you must come, and stand shoulder to shoulder with
us.'

"I replied that I must finish my law studies with Judge Leslie first,
and have some little practice under his direction; that I intended to go
in for politics, but that for some years all the power over men I could
acquire would be through the law--and I had remarkable chances for
contact in and about Rosewater; where, moreover, if they learned who I
was it would not matter much. It might be quite otherwise in the city.
To this they agreed: that is to say, that I should remain in Rosewater
for six months or a year longer; but they asked me to promise that if
any great emergency arose, in which they believed I could be of use, I
would come at their call. And I promised."

He rose and moved restlessly about the room. "Upon my word!" he
exclaimed; and Isabel, who had not taken her eyes off him, although he
had addressed the greater part of his talk to the fire, noted that he
was paler than usual--and that his eyes were very bright; "upon my word,
I really do feel more elated than on that night at Arcot. That small
devoted band of men!--most of them with millions they might take to the
most civilized capitals of the world and spend in splendid enjoyment--I
never have met such patriotism! It is magnificent! And to find it out
here in this stranded city--that fascinates the very heart out of you,
by-the-way--I don't know that I wonder so much--I believe I shall
succumb myself in time--it is like being on another planet. At any rate
I hated myself to-night for any sickness of spirit I may have permitted
to linger--for a while my very personality seemed to melt into what may
prove an even greater cause than all that appears on the surface. The
present California may be merely the nucleus of a great future Western
civilization, so unlike the Eastern that no doubt it will dissever
itself in time and breed still wider divergences; until the old
generic term American will no longer apply to both. Moreover, it
already feels that it owns the Pacific, and faces the Orient alone.
And to rebuild this city--you have seen the Burnham plans--transform
it into the most beautiful city of the modern world--to give it a
great, instead of a merely brilliant and erratic civilization--a perfect
administration--what dreamers! What imagination! It is an inspiration to
come into contact with an idealism that money, and power, and daily
contact with the mean and base in human nature--"

"I could love you!" cried Isabel. "If you say any more, I believe I
shall kiss you again."

"If you do," said Gwynne, deliberately, "I shall neither pinch you nor
push you away. But you may regret it, nevertheless."

He threw himself once more into his chair and clasped his hands behind
his head. "It is an astonishing fact," he said--"This--I was reading the
history of the Kearney riots, only the other day. The commentator was
very severe on the Irish and German element that imperilled the city for
purely personal reasons; that was responsible for the most remarkable
and reprehensible of all the State Constitutions. That was not quite
thirty years ago. Whether any of these men, who are mainly of Irish or
German descent, are the sons or grandsons of any of those old Sand-lot
agitators I have no means of knowing; probably not, their fortunes were
no doubt already in the making, and the founders had graduated from the
class that went to sand-lot meetings and shouted, 'The Chinese must go.'
But it is certainly one of the oddest evolutions in history that it
