
She was trembling so that he could scarcely get her into the coat.

"Probably," he said, "Portlaw doesn't know what he's talking about....
Shiela, do you want me to go with you--"

"No--no! Oh, hurry--"

She was crying now; he saw that she was breaking down.

"Wait till I find your shoes. You can't go that way. Wait a moment--"

"No--no!"

He followed her to the stairs, but:

"No--no!" she sobbed, pushing him back; "I want him to myself. Can't
they let me have him even when he is dying?"

"You can't go!" he said.

She turned on him quivering, beside herself.

"Not in this condition--for your own sake," he repeated steadily. And
again he said: "For the sake of your name in the years to come, Shiela,
you cannot go to him like this. Control yourself."

She strove to pass him; all her strength was leaving her.

"You coward!" she gasped.

"I thought you would mistake me," he said quietly. "People usually
do.... Sit down."

For a while she lay sobbing in her arm-chair, white hands clinched,
biting at her lips to choke back the terror and grief.



"As soon as your self-command returns my commands are void," he said
coolly. "Nobody here shall see you as you are. If you can't protect
yourself it's my duty to do it for you.... Do you want Portlaw to see
you?--Wayward?--these doctors and nurses and servants? How long would
it take for gossip to reach your family!... And what you've done for
their sakes would be a crime instead of a sacrifice!"

She looked up; he continued his pacing to and fro but said no more.

After a while she rose; an immense lassitude weighted her limbs and
body.

"I think I am fit to go now," she said in a low voice.

"Use a sponge and cold water and fix your hair and put on your shoes,"
he said. "By the time you are ready I'll be back with the truth."

She was blindly involved with her tangled hair when she heard him on the
stairs again--a quick, active step that she mistook for haste; and hair
and arms fell as she turned to confront him.

"It was a sinking crisis; they got him through--both doctors. I tell
you, Shiela, things look better," he said cheerily.




CHAPTER XXII

THE ROLL CALL


As in similar cases of the same disease Hamil's progress toward recovery
was scarcely appreciable for a fortnight or so, then, danger of
reinfection practically over, convalescence began with the new moon of
May.

Other things also began about that time, including a lawsuit against
Portlaw, the lilacs, jonquils, and appleblossoms in Shiela's garden, and
Malcourt's capricious journeys to New York on business concerning which
he offered no explanation to anybody.

The summons bidding William Van Beuren Portlaw of Camp Chickadee, town
of Pride's Fall, Horican County, New York, to defend a suit for damages
arising from trespass, tree-felling, the malicious diversion of the
waters of Painted Creek, the wilful and deliberate killing of game, the
flooding of wild meadow lands in contemptuous disregard of riparian
rights and the drowning of certain sheep thereby, had been impending
since the return from Florida to her pretty residence at Pride's Fall of
Mrs. Alida Ascott.

Trouble had begun the previous autumn with a lively exchange of notes
between them concerning the shooting of woodcock on Mrs. Ascott's side
of the boundary. Then Portlaw stupidly built a dam and diverted the
waters of Painted Creek. Having been planned, designed, and constructed
according to Portlaw's own calculations, the dam presently burst and the
escaping flood drowned some of Mrs. Ascott's sheep. Then somebody cut
some pine timber on her side of the line and Mrs. Ascott's smouldering
indignation flamed.

Personally she and Portlaw had been rather fond of one another; and to
avoid trouble incident on hot temper Alida Ascott decamped, intending to
cool off in the Palm Beach surf and think it over; but she met Portlaw
at Palm Beach that winter, and Portlaw dodged the olive branch and
neglected her so selfishly that she determined then and there upon his
punishment, now long overdue.

"My Lord!" said Portlaw plaintively to Malcourt, "I had no idea she'd do
such a thing to me; had you?"

"Didn't I tell you she would?" said Malcourt. "I know women better than
you do, though you don't believe it."

"But I thought she was rather fond of me!" protested Portlaw
indignantly.

"That may be the reason she's going to chasten you, friend. Don't come
bleating to me; I advised you to be attentive to her at Palm Beach, but
you sulked and stood about like a baby-hippopotamus and pouted and shot
your cuffs. I warned you to be agreeable to her, but you preferred the
Beach Club and pigeon shooting. It's easy enough to amuse yourself and
be decent to a nice woman too. Even I can combine those things."

"Didn't I go to that lawn party?"

"Yes, and scarcely spoke to her. And never went near her afterward. Now
she's mad all through."

"Well, I can get mad, too--"

"No, you're too plump to ever become angry--"

"Do you think I'm going to submit to--"

"You'll submit all right when they've dragged you twenty-eight miles to
the county court house once or twice."

"Louis! Are you against me too?"--in a voice vibrating with reproach and
self-pity.

"Now, look here, William Van Beuren; your guests did shoot woodcock on
Mrs. Ascott's land--"

"They're migratory birds, confound it!"

"--And," continued Malcourt, paying no attention to the interruption,
"you did build that fool dam regardless of my advice; and you first left
her cattle waterless, then drowned her sheep--"

"That was a cloud-burst--an act of God--"

"It was a dam-burst, and the act of an obstinate chump!"

"Louis, I won't let anybody talk to me like that!"

"But you've just done it, William."

Portlaw, in a miniature fury, began to run around in little circles,
puffing threats which, however, he was cautious enough to make obscure;
winding up with:

"And I might as well take this opportunity to ask you what you mean by
calmly going off to town every ten days or so and absenting yourself
without a word of--"

"Oh, bosh," said Malcourt; "if you don't want me here, Billy, say so and
be done with it."

"I didn't say I didn't want you--"

"Well, then, let me alone. I don't neglect your business and I don't
intend to neglect my own. If the time comes when I can't attend to both
I'll let you know soon enough--perhaps sooner than you expect."

"You're perfectly welcome to go to town," insisted Portlaw, alarmed.

"I know it," nodded Malcourt coolly. "Now, if you'll take my advice
you'll behave less like a pig in this Ascott matter."

"I'm going to fight that suit--"

"Certainly fight it. But not the way you're planning."

"Well--how, then?"

"Go and see the little lady."

"See her? She wouldn't receive me."

"Probably not. That's unimportant. For heaven's sake, Portlaw, you're
becoming chuckle-headed with all your feeding and inertia and pampered
self-indulgence. You're the limit!--with your thirty-eight-inch girth
and your twin chins and baby wrists! You know, it's pitiable when I
think what a clean-cut, decent-looking, decently set-up fellow you were
only two years ago!--it's enough to make a cat sick!"

"Can I help what I look like!" bellowed Portlaw wrathfully.

"What an idiot question!" said Malcourt with weary patience. "All you've
got to do is to cuddle yourself less, and go out into the fresh air on
your ridiculous legs--"

"Ridiculous!" gasped the other. "Well, I'm damned if I stand that--!"

"You won't be able to stand at all if you continue eating and sitting in
arm-chairs. You don't like what I say, do you?" with easy impudence.
"Well, I said it to sting you--if there's any sensation left under your
hide. And I'll say something else: if you'd care for somebody beside
yourself for a change and give the overworked Ego a vacation, you'd get
along with your pretty neighbour yonder. Oh, yes, you would; she was
quite inclined to like you before you began to turn, physically, into a
stall-fed prize winner. You're only thirty-seven or eight; you've a
reasonable chance yet to exchange obesity for perspicacity before it
smothers what intellect remains. And if you're anything except what
you're beginning to resemble you'll stop sharp, behave yourself, go to
see your neighbour, and"--with a shrug--"marry her. Marriage--as easy a
way out of trouble as it is in."

He swung carelessly on his heel, supple, erect, graceful as always.

"But," he threw back over his shoulder, "you'd better acquire the
rudiments of a figure before you go a-courting Alida Ascott." And left
Portlaw sitting petrified in his wadded chair.

Malcourt strolled on, a humorously malicious smile hovering near his
eyes, but his face grew serious as he glanced up at Hamil's window. He
had not seen Hamil during his illness or his convalescence--had made no
attempt to, evading lightly the casual suggestions of Portlaw that he
and his young wife pay Hamil a visit; nor did he appear to take anything
more than a politely perfunctory interest in the sick man's progress;
yet Constance Palliser had often seen him pacing the lawn under Hamil's
window long after midnight during those desperate hours when the
life-flame scarcely flickered--those ominous moments when so many souls
go out to meet the impending dawn.

But now, in the later stages of Hamil's rapid convalescence which is
characteristic of a healthy recovery from that unpleasant malady,
Malcourt avoided the cottage, even ceased to inquire; and Hamil had
never asked to see him, although, for appearance' sake, he knew that he
must do so very soon.

Wayward and Constance Palliser were visiting Mrs. Ascott at Pride's
Fall; young Mrs. Malcourt had been there for a few days, but was
returning to prepare for the series of house-parties arranged by Portlaw
who had included Cecile Cardross and Philip Gatewood in the first relay.

As for Malcourt there was no counting on him; he was likely to remain
for several days at any of the five distant gate-keepers' lodges across
the mountains or to be mousing about the woods with wardens and
foresters, camping where convenient; or to start for New York without
explanation. All of which activity annoyed Portlaw, who missed his
manager at table and at cards--missed his nimble humour, his impudence,
his casual malice--missed even the paternal toleration which this
younger man bestowed upon him--a sort of half-tolerant,
half-contemptuous supervision.

And now that Malcourt was so often absent Portlaw was surprised to find
how much he missed the veiled authority exercised--how dependent on it
he had become, how secretly agreeable had been the half-mocking
discipline which relieved him of any responsibility except as over-lord
of the culinary régime.

Like a spoiled school-lad, badly brought up, he sometimes defied
Malcourt's authority--as in the matter of the dam--enjoying his own
perversity. But he always got into hot water and was glad enough to
return to safety.

Even now, though his truancy had landed him in a very lively lawsuit, he
was glad enough to slink back through the stinging comments to the
security of authority; and his bellows of exasperation under reproof
were half pretence. He expected Malcourt to get him out of it if he
could not extract himself; he had no idea of defending the suit. Besides
there was sufficient vanity in him to rely on a personal meeting with
Mrs. Ascott. But he laughed in his sleeve at the idea of the necessity
of making love to her.

And one day when Hamil was out for the third or fourth time, walking
about the drives and lawns in the sunshine, and Malcourt was not in
sight, Portlaw called for his riding-breeches and boots.

He had not been on a horse in years and it seemed as though only faith
and a shoe-horn could get him into his riding-breeches; but with the aid
of Heaven and a powerful valet he stood before his mirror arrayed at
last; and presently went out across the lawn and through the grove to
Malcourt's house.

Young Mrs. Malcourt in pink gingham apron and sun-bonnet was digging
with a trowel in her garden when he appeared upon the landscape.

"I don't want you to tell Louis," he cautioned her with a very knowing
and subtle smile, "but I'm just going to ride over to Pride's this
morning and settle this lawsuit matter, and surprise him."

Shiela had straightened up, trowel in her gloved hand, and now stood
looking at him in amused surprise.

"I didn't know you rode," she said. "I should think it would be very
good for you."

"Well," he admitted, turning red, "I suppose I ought to ride now and
then. Louis has been at me rather viciously. But you won't tell him,
will you?"

"No," said Shiela.

"Because, you see, he doesn't think me capable of settling this thing;
and so I'm just going to gallop over and have a little friendly chat
with Mrs. Ascott--"

"Friendly?" very gravely.

"Yes," he said, alarmed; "why not?"

"Do you think Mrs. Ascott will receive you?"

"Well--now--Louis said something of that sort. And then he added that it
didn't matter--but he didn't explain what I was to do when she refused
to see me.... Ah--could--would you mind telling me what to do in that
case, Mrs. Malcourt?"

"What is there to do, Mr. Portlaw, if a woman refuses to receive you?"

"Why--I don't know," he admitted vacantly. "What would you do?"

Young Mrs. Malcourt, frankly amused, shook her head:

"If Mrs. Ascott won't see you, she won't! You don't intend to carry
Pride's Fall by assault, do you?"

"But Louis said--"

"Mr. Malcourt knows quite well that Mrs. Ascott won't see you."

"W-why?"

"Ask yourself. Besides, her lawyers have forbidden her."

But Portlaw's simple faith in Malcourt never wavered; he stood his
ground and quoted him naïvely, adding: "You see Louis must have meant
something. Couldn't you tell me what he meant? I'll promise to do it."

"I suppose," she answered, laughing, "that he meant me to write a note
to Alida Ascott, making a personal appeal for your reception. He spoke
of it; but, Mr. Portlaw, I am scarcely on such a footing with her."

Portlaw was so innocently delighted with the idea which bore Malcourt's
stamp of authority, that young Mrs. Malcourt found it difficult to
refuse; and a few moments later, armed with a friendly but cautious
note, he climbed laboriously aboard a huge chestnut hack, sat there
doubtfully while a groom made all fast and tight for heavy weather,
then, with a groan, set spurs to his mount, and went pounding away
through the forest, upon diplomacy intent.

Hamil, walking about the lawns in the sunshine, saw him come careering
past, making heavy weather of it, and smiled in salute; Shiela on a
rustic ladder, pruning-knife in hand, gazed over her garden wall until
the woods swallowed rotund rider and steed. As she turned to descend,
her glance fell upon Hamil who was crossing the lawn directly below. For
a moment they looked at each other without sign of recognition; then
scarcely aware of what she did she made him a carelessly gay salute with
her pruning-knife, clinging to the ladder with the other hand in sheer
fear of falling, so suddenly unsteady her limbs and body.

He went directly toward her; and she, her knees scarcely supporting her,
mounted the last rung of the ladder and seated herself sidewise on the
top of the wall, looking down at him, leaning on one arm.

"It is nice to see you out," she said, as he came to the foot of the
sunny wall.... "Do you really feel as thin as you look?... I had a letter
from your aunt to-day asking an outsider's opinion of your condition,
and now I'll be able to give it.... You do look pathetically thin--but I
shan't tell her that.... If you are tired standing up you may come into
my garden where there are some very agreeable benches.... I would like
to have you come if you care to."

She herself scarcely knew what she was saying; smile, voice, animation
were forced; the havoc of his illness stared at her from his sharp
cheek-bones, thin, bloodless hands, eyes still slow in turning, dull,
heavy-lidded.

"I thought perhaps you would come to call," he said listlessly.

She flushed.

"You did come, once?"

"Yes."

"You did not come again while I was conscious, did you?"

"No."

He passed his thin hand across eyes and forehead.

She folded her arms under her breast and hung far over the
shadow-dappled wall half-screened in young vine-leaves. Over her pink
sun-bonnet and shoulders the hot spring sunshine fell; her face was in
shadow; his, under the full glare of the unclouded sky, every ravage
starkly revealed. And she could not turn her fascinated gaze or crush
out the swelling tenderness that closed her throat to speech and set her
eyes glimmering.

The lids closed, slowly; she leaned there without a word, living through
in the space of a dozen pulse-beats, the agony and sweetness of the
past; then laid her flushed cheek on her arms and opened her eyes,
looking at him in silence.

But he dared not sustain her gaze and took refuge from it in a forced
gaiety, comparing his reappearance to the return of Ulysses, where Dame
Art, that respectable old Haus-Frau, awaited him in a rocking-chair,
chastely preoccupied with her tatting, while rival architects squatted
anxiously around her, urging their claims to a dead man's shoes.

She strove to smile at him and to speak coolly: "Will you come in? I
have finished the vines and presently I'm going to dig. Wait a
moment"--looking behind her and searching with one tentative foot for
the ladder--"I will have to let you in--"

A moment later she met him at the grille and flung it wide, holding out
her hand in welcome with a careless frankness not quite natural--nor was
the nervously vigorous handshake, nor the laughter, light as a breeze,
leaving her breathing fast and unevenly with the hue of excitement
deepening on lip and cheek.

So, the handshaking safely over, and chatting together in a tone louder
and more animated than usual, they walked down the moist gravel path
together--the extreme width of the path apart.

"I think," she said, considering the question, with small head tipped
sideways, "that you had better sit on this bench because the paint is
dry and besides I can talk to you here and dig up these seedling
larkspurs at the same time."

"Don't you want me to do some weeding?"

"With pleasure when you are a little stronger--"

"I'm all right now--"

He stood looking seriously at the bare flower-bed along the wall where
amber shoots of peonies were feathering out into palmate grace, and
older larkspurs had pushed up into fringed mounds of green foliage.

She had knelt down on the bed's edge, trowel in hand, pink sun-bonnet
fallen back neglected; and with blade and gloved fingers she began
transferring the irresponsible larkspur seedlings to the confines of
their proper spheres, patting each frail little plant into place
caressingly.

And he was thinking of her as he had last seen her--on her knees at the
edge of another bed, her hair fallen unheeded as her sun-bonnet hung
now, and the small hands clasping, twisting, very busy with their
agony--as busy as her gloved fingers were now, restlessly in motion
among the thickets of living green.

"Tell me," she said, not looking back over her shoulder, "it must be
heavenly to be out of doors again."

"It is rather pleasant," he assented.

"Did you--they said you had dreadful visions. Did you?"

He laughed. "Some of them were absurd, Shiela; the most abominably
grotesque creatures came swarming and crowding around the bed--faces
without bodies--creatures that grew while I looked at them, swelling to
gigantic proportions--Oh, it was a merry carnival--"

Neither spoke. Her back was toward him as she knelt there very much
occupied with her straying seedlings in the cool shade of the wall.

Jonquils in heavy golden patches stretched away into sun-flecked
perspective broken by the cool silver-green of iris thickets and the
white star-clusters of narcissus nodding under sprays of bleeding-heart.

The air was sweet with the scent of late apple-bloom and lilac--and
Hamil, brooding there on his bench in the sun, clasped his thin hands
over his walking-stick and bent his head to the fragrant memories of
Calypso's own perfume--the lilac-odour of China-berry in bloom, under
the Southern stars.

He drew his breath sharply, raising his head--because this sort of thing
would not do to begin life with again.

"How is Louis?" he asked in a pleasantly deliberate voice.

The thing had to be said sooner or later. They both knew that. It was
over now, with no sign of effort, nothing in his voice or manner to
betray him. Fortunately for him her face was turned away--fortunately
for her, too.

There was a few moments' silence; the trowel, driven abruptly into the
earth to the hilt, served as a prop for her clinched hand.

"I think--Louis--is very well," she said.

"He is remaining permanently with Mr. Portlaw?"

"I think so."

"I hope it will be agreeable for you--both."

"It is a very beautiful country." She rose to her slender, graceful
height and surveyed her work: "A pretty country, a pretty house and
garden," she said steadily. "After all, you know, that is the main thing
in this world."

"What?"

"Why, an agreeable environment; isn't it?"

She turned smilingly, walked to the bench and seated herself.

"Your environment promises to be a little lonely at times," he ventured.

"Oh, yes. But I rather like it, when it's not over-populated. There will
be a great deal for me to do in my garden--teaching young plants
self-control."

"Gardens freeze up, Shiela."

"Yes, that is true."

"But you'll have good shooting--"

"I will never again draw trigger on any living thing!"

"What? The girl who--"

"No girl, now--a woman who can never again bring herself to inflict
death."

"Why?"

"I know better now."

"You rather astonish me?" he said, pretending amusement.

She sat very still, thoughtful eyes roaming, then rested her chin on her
hand, dropping one knee over the other to support her elbow. And he saw
the sensitive mouth droop a little, and the white lids drooping too
until the lashes rested on the bloom of the curved cheek. So he had seen
her, often, silent, absent-minded, thoughts astray amid some blessed
day-dream in that golden fable they had lived--and died in.

She said, as though to herself: "How can a woman slay?... I think those
who have ever been victims of pain never desire to inflict it again on
any living thing."

She looked up humbly, searching his face.

"You know it has become such a dreadful thing to me--the responsibility
for pain and death.... It is horrible for humanity to usurp such a
power--to dare interfere with life--to mar it, end it!... Children do
not understand. I was nothing more a few months ago. To my intelligence
the shallow arguments of those takers of life called sportsmen was
sufficient. I supposed that because almost all the little children of
the wild were doomed to die by violence, sooner or later, that the
quicker death I offered was pardonable on the score of mercy." ... She
shook her head. "Why death and pain exist, I do not know; He who deals
them must know why."

He said, surprised at her seriousness: "Right or wrong, a matter of
taste cannot be argued--"

"A matter of taste! Every fibre of me rebels at the thought of death--of
inflicting it on anything. God knows how I could have done it when I had
so much of happiness myself!" She swung around toward him:

"Sooner or later what remains to say between us must be said, Garry. I
think the time is now--here in my garden--in the clear daylight of the
young summer.... You have that last letter of my girlhood?"

"I burned it."

"I have every letter you ever wrote me. They are in my desk upstairs.
The desk is not locked."

"Had you not better destroy them?"

"Why?"

"As you wish," he said, looking at the ground.

"One keeps the letters of the dead," she said; "your youth and
mine"--she made a little gesture downward as though smoothing a
grave--daintily.

They were very unwise, sitting there in the sunshine side by side,
tremendously impressed with the catastrophe of life and with each
other--still young enough to be in earnest, to take life and each other
with that awesome finality which is the dread privilege of youth.

She spoke with conviction of the mockery of life, of wisdom and its
sadness; he looked upon the world in all the serious disillusion of
youth, and saw it strewn with the fragments of their wrecked happiness.

They were very emotional, very unhappy, very, very much in love; but the
truly pathetic part of it all lay in her innocent conviction that a
marriage witnessed by the world was a sanctuary within the circle of
which neither she nor he had any reason to fear each other or
themselves.

The thing was done; hope slain. They, the mourners, might now meet in
safety to talk together over the dead--suffer together among the graves
of common memories, sadly tracing, reverently marking with epitaphs
appropriate the tombs which held the dead days of their youth.

Youth believes; Age is the sceptic. So they did not know that, as nature
abhors a vacuum, youth cannot long tolerate the vacuity of grief. Rose
vines, cut to the roots, climb the higher. No checking ever killed a
passion. Just now her inexperience was driving her into platitudes.

"Dear Garry," she said gently, "it is such happiness to talk to you like
this; to know that you understand."

There is a regulation forbidding prisoners to converse upon the subject
of their misdemeanours, but neither he nor she seemed to be aware of it.

Moreover, she was truly convinced that no nun in cloister was as
hopelessly certain of safety from world and flesh and devil as was her
heart and its meditations, under the aegis of admitted wedlock.

She looked down at the ring she wore, and a faint shiver passed over
her.

"You are going to Mrs. Ascott?"

"Yes, to make her a Trianon and a smirking little park. I can't quarrel
with my bread and butter, but I wish people would let these woods
alone."

She sat very still and thoughtful, hands clasped on her knee.

"So you are going to Mrs. Ascott," she repeated. And, still thoughtful:
"I am so fond of Alida Ascott.... She is very pretty, isn't she?"

"Very," he said absently.

"Don't you think so?"--warmly.

"I never met her but once."

She was considering him, the knuckle of one forefinger resting against
her chin in an almost childish attitude of thoughtful perplexity.

"How long are you to remain there, Garry?"

"Where?"--coming out of abstraction.

"There--at Mrs. Ascott's?"

"Oh, I don't know--a month, I suppose."

"Not longer?"

"I can't tell, Shiela."

Young Mrs. Malcourt fell silent, eyes on the ground, one knee loosely
crossed over the other, and her small foot swinging gently above its
blue shadow on the gravel.

Some details in the eternal scheme of things were troubling her already;
for one, the liberty of this man to come and go at will; and the dawning
perception of her own chaining.

It was curious, too, to be sitting here so idly beside him, and realise
that she had belonged to him so absolutely--remembering the thousand
thrilling intimacies that bound them immortally together--and now to be
actually so isolated, so beyond his reach, so alone, so miserably
certain of her soul's safety!... And now, for the first time, she missed
the pleasures of fear--the exquisite trepidation that lay in
unsafety--the blessed thrill of peril warning her to avoid his eyes, his
touch, his--lips.

She glanced uneasily at him, a slow side gaze; and met his eyes.

Her heart had begun beating faster; a glow grew in her veins; she closed
her eyes, sitting there surprised--not yet frightened.

Time throbbed on; rigid, motionless, she endured the pulsing silence
while the blood quickened till body and limbs seemed burning; and
suddenly, from heart to throat the tension tightened as though a cry,
echoing within her, was being strangled.

"Perhaps you had better--go--" she managed to say.

"Why?"

She looked down at her restless fingers interlacing, too confused to be
actually afraid of herself or him.

What was there to fear? What occult uneasiness was haunting them? Where
might lie any peril, now? How could the battle begin again when all was
quiet along the firing line--quiet with the quiet of death? Do dead
memories surge up into furies? Can dead hopes burn again? Is there any
resurrection for the insurgent passions of the past laid for ever under
the ban of wedlock? The fear within her turned to impatience--to a proud
incredulity.

And now she felt the calm reaction as though, unbidden, an ugly dream,
passing, had shadowed her unawakened senses for a moment, and passed
