without incivility verging upon disrespect to a venerable citizen. The
invocation over, the presiding officer announced that “the Whigs, in
obedience to the spirit of fair play to all, and injustice to none,
that had ever characterized the party, would to-day grant to their
honored opponents, the Democrats, the opportunity of replying publicly
to the arguments advanced in the addresses of those representing
the principles in the interest of which the present assembly had
been convened. The first speaker of the day would be the Hon. Holden
Rhodes, of Richmond. The second would be one almost as well known
to the citizens of county and state—the Hon. John Winston Jones, of
Chesterfield. The Whigs reserved to themselves the last and closing
address of the day by the Hon. Watkins Leigh, of Richmond.”

Nothing could be fairer and more courteous, it seemed to me. In the
hum of approval that rippled through the assembly it was apparent that
others held the like sentiment. Likewise, that the “Honorable Chairman”
had scored another point for the magnanimous Whigs. But then—as I
whispered to my indulgent neighbor on the left—they could afford to
surrender an advantage or two to the party they were going to whip out
of existence.

Holden Rhodes was an eminent lawyer, and his speech was a trifle too
professional in sustained and unoratorical argument for my taste and
mental reach. I recall it chiefly because of a comical interruption
that enlivened the hour-long exposition of party creeds.

I have drawn in my book, Judith, a full-length portrait of one of the
men of marked individuality who made Powhatan celebrated in the history
of a state remarkable in every period for strongly defined public
characters. In Judith I named this man “Captain Macon.” In real life
he was Capt. John Cocke, a scion of a good old family, a planter of
abundant means, and the father of sons who were already beginning to
take the place in the public eye he had held for fifty years. He was
tall and gaunt, his once lofty head slightly bowed by years and—it was
hinted—by high living. He had been handsome, and his glance was still
piercing, his bearing distinguished. I ever cherished, as I might value
a rare antique, the incident of his introduction to that stalwart dame,
my New England grandmother, who had now been a member of our family for
three years.

We were on our way home after service at Fine Creek, and the carriage
had stopped at a wayside spring to water the horses. Captain Cocke
stood by the spring, his bridle rein thrown over his arm while his
horse stooped to the “branch” flowing across the highway. Expecting to
see my mother in the carriage, he took off his hat and approached the
window.

“This is my mother, Captain,” said my father, raising his voice
slightly, as he then named the new-comer to her deaf ears.

The old cavalier bowed low, his hand upon his heart: “Madam, I am the
friend of your son. I can say nothing more to a mother!”

The fine courtesy, the graceful deference to age, the instant
adaptation of manner and words to the circumstances, have set the
episode aside in my heart as a gem of its kind.

He wore on that Sunday, and he wore on every other day the year
around, a scarlet hunting-coat. I wonder if there were more eccentrics
in Virginia in that generation than are to be met with there—or
anywhere else—nowadays? Certain it is that nobody thought of inquiring
why Captain Cocke, whose ancestors had served under Washington and
Lafayette in the war for freedom, chose to sport the British livery.
We had ceased to remark upon it by the time I write of. When strangers
expressed wonderment at the queer garb, we had a resentful impression
of officiousness.

Mr. Rhodes, with the rest of his party, was thoroughly dissatisfied
with the policy (or want of policy) of John Tyler, who had been called
to the presidential chair by the untimely death of Gen. W. H. Harrison.
In the progress of his review of national affairs, he came to this name
when he had spoken half an hour or so.

Whereupon uprose the majestic figure clad in scarlet, from his seat
a few feet away from the platform. The Captain straightened his bent
shoulders and lifted lean arms and quivering fingers toward heaven. The
red tan of his weather-beaten cheeks was a dusky crimson.

“The Lord have mercy upon the nation!” he cried, his voice solemn with
wrath, and sonorous with the potency of the mint-juleps for which “The
Bell” was noted. “Fellow-citizens! I always cry to High Heaven for
mercy upon this country when John Tyler’s name is mentioned! Amen and
amen!”

He had a hearty round of applause mingled with echoes of his “amens”
and much good-humored laughter. They all knew and loved the Captain.
I felt the blood rush to my face, and I saw others glance around
reprovingly when a city girl who sat behind me, and carried on a
whispered flirtation with a fopling at her side during Mr. Rhodes’s
speech, drawled:

“What voice from the tombs is that?”

Mrs. James Saunders, née Mary Cocke, was my mother’s right-hand
neighbor. With perfect temper and an agreeable smile, she looked over
her shoulder into the babyish face of the cockney guest—

“That is my Uncle John,” she uttered, courteously.

Whereat all within hearing smiled, and the young woman had the grace to
blush.

Mr. Rhodes was speaking again, and the audience was respectfully
attentive. The orator made clever use of the Captain’s interruption.
The manner of it offended nobody. John Tyler was, perhaps, the most
unpopular man in the Union at that particular time. The Democrats
had no use for him, and he had disappointed his own party. When the
smoke and dust of political skirmishing cleared away, Virginians did
something like justice to his motives and his talents. Twenty years
thereafter, my early pre-possessions, engendered by the vituperative
eloquence of the Clay campaign, were corrected by a quiet remark made
by my father to a man who spoke slightingly of the ex-President:

“The man who chose the cabinet that served during Tyler’s
administration was neither fool nor traitor.”

John Winston Jones demolished the fair fabric Mr. Rhodes had spent so
much time and labor in constructing that I began to yawn before the
lively Democrat woke me up. I recollect that he was pungent and funny,
and that I was interested, despite his sacrilegious treatment of what I
regarded as sacred themes.

It was a telling point when he drew deliberately a wicked-looking
jack-knife from his breeches pocket, opened it as deliberately, and,
turning toward Mr. Rhodes, who sat at his left, said:

“If I were to plunge this into the bosom of my friend and respected
opponent (and I beg to assure him that I shall not hurt a hair of his
head, now or ever!), would I be regarded as his benefactor? Yet that is
what General Jackson did to the system of bank monopolies,” etc.

I did not follow him further. For a startled second I had really
thought we were to have a “scene.” I had heard that Democrats were
bloodthirsty by nature, and that sanguinary outbreaks attended
political demonstrations and cataracts of bad whiskey.

It goes without saying that the Hon. Watkins Leigh—a distinguished
member of the Richmond bar, famous for legal acumen and forensic
oratory—made quick and thorough work in the destruction of Mr. Jones’s
building, and sent the Whigs home with what I heard my mother describe
as “a good taste in their mouths.”

The orations were interspersed with “patriotic songs.” A quartette of
young men, picked out by the committee of arrangements, for their fine
voices and stanch Whiggery, stood on the platform and sang the body of
the ballads. The choruses were shouted, with more force and good-will
than tunefulness, by masculine voters of all ages and qualities of tone.

Doctor Henning, an able physician, and as eccentric in his way as
Captain Cocke in his, stood near my father, his back against a tree,
his mouth wide, and all the volume of sound he could pump from his
lungs pouring skyward in the refrain of

    “Get out of the way, you’re all unlucky;
     Clear the track for Old Kentucky!”—

when his eye fell upon a young man, who, having no more ear or voice
than the worthy Galen himself, contented himself with listening. As
the quartette began the next verse, the Doctor collared “Abe” Cardozo
(whom, by the way, he had assisted to bring into the world), and
actually shook him in the energy of his patriotism—

“Abraham James! why don’t you sing?”

“Me, Doctor?” stammered the young fellow, who probably had not heard
his middle name in ten years before—“I never sang a note in my life!”

“Then begin now!” commanded the Doctor, setting the example as the
chorus began anew.

How my father laughed! backing out of sight of the pair, and doubling
himself up in the enjoyment of the scene, real bright tears rolling
down his cheeks. I heard him rehearse the incident twenty times
in after-years, and always with keen delight. For the Doctor was a
scholar and a dreamer, as well as a skilful practitioner, renowned for
his horticultural and ornithological successes, and so taciturn and
absent-minded that he seldom took part in general conversation. That he
should have been drawn out of his shell to the extent of roaring out
ungrammatical doggerel in a public assembly of his fellow-citizens,
was a powerful proof of the tremendous force of party enthusiasm. The
incongruity of the whole affair appealed to my father’s ever-active
sense of humor. He would wind up the story by asserting that “it would
have made Jeremiah chuckle if he had known both of the actors in the
by-play.”

One specimen of the ballads that flooded the land in the fateful 1844
will give some idea of the tenor of all:

    Tune: “Ole Dan Tucker”

    “The moon was shining silver bright, the stars with glory
           crowned the night,
     High on a limb that ‘same old Coon’ was singing to himself
           this tune:

    Chorus

    “Get out of the way, you’re all unlucky; clear the track
           for Ole Kentucky!

    “Now in a sad predicament the Lokies are for President;
     They have six horses in the pasture, and don’t know which
           can run the faster.

    “The Wagon-Horse from Pennsylvany, the Dutchmen think he’s
           the best of any;
     But he must drag in heavy stages his Federal notions and
           low wages.

    “They proudly bring upon the course an old and broken-down
           war-horse;
     They shout and sing: ‘Oh! rumpsey dumsey, Colonel Johnson
           killed Tecumsey!’

    “And here is Cass, though not a dunce, will run both sides
           of the track at once;
     To win the race will all things copy, be sometimes pig and
           sometimes puppy.

    “The fiery Southern horse, Calhoun, who hates a Fox and fears
           a Coon,
     To toe the scratch will not be able, for Matty keeps him in
           the stable.

    “And here is Matty, never idle, a tricky horse that slips his
           bridle;
     In forty-four we’ll show him soon the little Fox can’t fool
           the Coon.

    “The balky horse they call John Tyler, we’ll head him soon or
           burst his boiler;
     His cursed ‘grippe’ has seized us all, which Doctor Clay will
           cure next fall.

    “The people’s fav’rite, Henry Clay, is now the ‘fashion’ of the
           day;
     And let the track be dry or mucky, we’ll stake our pile on Ole
           Kentucky.

    “Get out of the way, he’s swift and lucky; clear the track for
           Ole Kentucky!”

(The chorus of each preceding verse is, “Get out of the way, you’re all
unlucky,” etc. The “Fox” is Martin Van Buren, or “Matty.” The “Coon” is
Clay. The “Wagon-Horse from Pennsylvany” is James Buchanan.)

Another ballad, sung that day under the trees at the back of the Court
House, began after this wise:

    “What has caused this great commotion
       Our ranks betray?
     It is the ball a-rolling on
       To clear the way
       For Harry Clay.
     And with him we’ll beat your Polk! Polk! Polk!
     And his motley crew of folk.
     O! with him we’ll beat your Polk.”

To my excited imagination it was simple fact, not a flight of fancy,
that Powhatan should be alluded to that day as “your historic county—a
mere wave in the vast Union—

    “That ever shall be
     Divided as billows, yet one as the sea.”

“A wave, fellow-citizens, that has caught the irresistible impulse of
wind and tide bearing us on to the most glorious victory America has
ever seen.”

Ah’s me! That was how both parties talked and felt with regard to the
Union seventeen years before the very name became odious to those who
had been ready to die in defence of it.

I cannot dismiss the subject of public functions in the “historic
county” without devoting a few pages to the annual Muster Day. It was
preceded by five days of “officers’ training.” The manœuvres of the
latter body were carried on in the public square, and, as one end of
our house overlooked this, no lessons were studied or recited between
the hours of 10 A.M. and 4 P.M. on those days. The sophisticated
twentieth-century youngling will smile contemptuously at hearing that,
up to this time, I had never heard a brass-band. But I knew all about
martial music. Already there was laid away in the fat portfolio nobody
except myself ever opened, a story in ten parts, in which the hero’s
voice was compared to “the thrilling strains of martial music.”

I boiled the tale down four years thereafter, and it was printed. It
had a career. But “that is another story.”

I used to sit with my “white work,” or a bit of knitting, in hand, at
that end window, looking across the side-street down upon the square,
watching the backing and filling, the prancing and the halting of the
eight “officers” drilled in military tactics by Colonel Hopkins, the
strains of the drum and fife in my ears, and dream out war-stories by
the dozen.

The thumping and the squealing of drum and fife set my pulses to
dancing as the finest orchestra has never made them leap since that day
when fancy was more real and earnest than what the bodily senses took
in.

By Saturday the officers had learned their lesson well enough to take
their respective stands before (and aft, as we shall see) the larger
body of free and independent American citizens who were not “muster
free,” hence who must study the noble art of war.

They came from every quarter of the county. The Fine Creek and Genito
neighborhoods gave up their quota, and Deep Creek, Red Lane, and Yellow
Jacket country kept not back. It was a motley and most democratic line
that stretched from the main street to that flanking the public square.
Butternut and broadcloth rubbed elbows; planter and overseer were
shoulder to shoulder. “Free, white, and twenty-one” had the additional
qualification of “under forty-five.” Past that, the citizen of these
free and enlightened United States lays down the burden of peaceable
military muster.

Besides those worn by the officers, there was not a uniform on duty
that Saturday. Here and there one might descry the glitter of a
gun-barrel. Walking-canes and, with the Yellow Jacket contingent,
corn-stalks, simulated muskets in the exercises dictated by Colonel
Hopkins, who was to-day at his best. I employ the word “dictated” with
intention. He had to tell the recruits (surely the rawest ever drawn up
in line) exactly what each order meant. To prevent the swaying array
from leaning back against the fence, three officers were detailed to
skirmish behind the long row and shove delinquents into place. The
Colonel instructed them how to hold their “arms,” patiently; in the
simplest colloquial phrase, informed them what each was to do when
ordered to “shoulder arms,” “right dress,” “mark time,” and the rest of
the technicalities confusing to ears unlearned, and which, heard by the
veteran but once in a twelve-month, could not be familiar even after
ten or fifteen years of “service.”

Both the windows commanding the parade-ground were filled on Muster
Day. My mother and our grown-up cousins enjoyed the humors of the
situation almost as much as we girls, who let nothing escape our eager
eyes. Especially do I recall the shout of laughter we drew away from
our outlook to stifle, when the suave commanding officer, mindful of
the dull comprehension and crass ignorance of a large proportion of
his corps, directed them in a clear voice—whose courteous intonations
never varied under provocations that would have thrown some men into
paroxysms of mirth, and moved many to profanity—to “look straight
forward, hold the chin level, and let the hands hang down, keeping
thumbs upon the seam of the pantaloons.” More technical terms would
have been thrown away. Twenty warriors (prospective) brought both
hands forward and laid their thumbs, side by side, upon the central
seams of their pantaloons! Merriment, that threatened to be like the
“inextinguishable laughter” of Olympian deities, followed the grave
anxieties of the officials in rear and front of the mixed multitude to
hinder those at the extreme ends of the line from bending forward to
watch the manœuvres of comrades who occupied the centre of the field.
In spite of hurryings to and fro and up and down the ranks, it chanced,
half a dozen times an hour, that what should have been a straight line
became a curve. Then the gallant, indomitable Colonel would walk
majestically from end to end, and with the flat of his naked sword
repair the damage done to discipline—

“Just like a boy rattling a stick along the palings!” gasped Cousin
Mary, choking with mirth.

The simile was apt.

Some staid citizens, tenacious of dignity and susceptible to ridicule,
seldom appeared upon the parade-ground, preferring to pay the fine
exacted for the omission. Others—and not a few—contended that some
familiarity with military manœuvres was essential to the mental outfit
of every man who would be willing to serve his country in the field
if necessary. This sentiment moved sundry of the younger men to the
formation, that same year (if I mistake not), of the “Powhatan Troop.”

One incident connected with the birth of an organization that still
exists, in name, fixed it in my mind. Cousin Joe—the hero of my
childish days—was mainly instrumental in getting up the company, and
brought the written form of constitution and by-laws to my father’s
house, where he dined on the Court Day which marked the first parade.
Our kinsman, Moses Drury Hoge, came with him. He prided himself, among
a great many other things, upon being phenomenally far-sighted. To test
this he asked Cousin Joe to hold the paper against the wall on the
opposite side of the room, and read it aloud slowly and correctly from
his seat, twenty feet away.

The scene came back to me as it was photographed on my mind that day,
when I read, ten years ago, in a Richmond paper, of the prospective
celebration of the formation of the “Powhatan Troop.” I was more than
four hundred miles away, and fifty-odd years separated me from the
“historic county” and the Court House where the banquet was to be
given. I let the paper drop and closed my eyes. I was back in the big,
square room on the first floor of the long, low, rambling house on the
village street. My favorite cousin, tall and handsome, held the paper
above his head, smiling in indulgent amusement at the young kinsman
of whom he was ever fond and proud. My father stood in the doorway,
watching the progress of the test. My mother had let her sewing fall
to her lap while she looked on. The scent of roses from the garden
that was the joy of my mother’s heart, stole in through open doors
and windows. The well-modulated tones, that were to ring musically
in church and hall on both sides of the sea, and for more than a
half-century to come, read the formal agreement, of which I recalled,
in part, the preamble:

“We, the undersigned, citizens of the County of Powhatan, in the State
of Virginia.”

While the glamour of that moment of ecstatic reminiscence wrought
within me, I seized my pen and wrote a telegram of congratulation to
the revellers, seated, as I reckoned, at that very hour, about the
banqueting-board. I addressed the despatch to Judge Thomas Miller, the
grandson of the chairman on the day of the Whig rally. By a remarkable
and happy coincidence, for which I had hardly dared to hope, the
telegram, sent from a country station in New Jersey, flew straight
and fast to the obscure hamlet nearly five hundred miles off, and was
handed to Judge Miller at the head of the table while the feast was in
full flow. He read it aloud, and the health of the writer was drunk
amid such applause as my wildest fancy could not have foreseen in the
All-So-Long-Ago when my horizon, all rose-color and gold, was bounded
by the confines of “Our County.”




XIV

RUMORS OF CHANGES—A CORN-SHUCKING—NEGRO TOPICAL SONG


MY mother’s love for Richmond was but second to that she felt for
husband and children. It was evident to us in after-years that her
longing to return to her early home wrought steadily, if silently, upon
my father’s mind and shaped his plans.

These plans were definitively made and announced to us by the early
autumn of 1844. Uncle Carus had removed to the city with his family
late in the summer. My sister and I were to be sent to a new school
just established in Richmond, and recommended to our parents by Moses
Hoge, who was now assistant pastor in the First Presbyterian Church,
and had full charge of a branch of the same, built farther up-town than
the Old First founded by Dr. John H. Rice. We girls were to live with
the Caruses that winter. In the spring the rest of the family would
follow, and, thenceforward, our home would be in Richmond.

A momentous change, and one that was to alter the complexion of all our
lives. Yet it was so gradually and quietly effected that we were not
conscious of so much as a jar in the machinery of our existence.

I heard my mother say, and more than once, in after-years, crowded with
incident and with cares of which we never dreamed in those eventless
months:

“I was never quite contented to live anywhere out of Richmond, yet I
often asked myself during the seven years we spent in Powhatan if they
were not the most care-free I should ever have. I know, now, that they
were.”

My father gave a fervent assent when he heard this. To him the
sojourn was prosperous throughout. Energy, integrity, public spirit,
intelligence, and, under the exterior chance acquaintances thought
stern, the truest heart that ever throbbed with love to God and love
to man, had won for him the esteem and friendship of the best men in
the county. Steadily he mounted, by the force of native worth, to the
magistrate’s bench, and was a recognized factor in local and in state
politics. He had established a flourishing Sunday-school in the “Fine
Creek neighborhood,” where none had ever existed until he made this the
nucleus of a church. He was the confidential adviser of the embarrassed
planter and the struggling mechanic, and lent a helping hand to both.
He was President of a debating society, in which he was, I think, the
only man who was not a college graduate.

His business had succeeded far beyond his expectations. Except that the
increase of means moved him to larger charities, there was no change
in our manner of life. We had always been above the pinch of penury,
living as well as our neighbors, and, so far as the younger members of
the family knew, as well as any reasonable people need desire to live.
We had our carriage and horses, my sister and I a riding-horse apiece,
abundance of delicacies for the table, and new clothes of excellent
quality whenever we wanted them.

The ambitions and glories of the world beyond our limited sphere
came to our ken as matter of entertainment, not as provocatives to
discontent.

Two nights before we left home for our city school, the Harvest
Home—“corn-shucking”—was held. It was always great fun to us younglings
to witness the “show.” With no premonition that I should never assist
at another similar function, I went into the kitchen late in the
afternoon, and, as had been my office ever since I was eight years old,
superintended the setting of the supper-table for our servants and
their expected guests. I was Mammy Ritta’s special pet, and she put in
a petition that I would stand by her now, in terms I could not have
resisted if I had been as averse to the task as I was glad to perform
it:

“Is you goin’ to be sech a town young lady that you won’t jes’ step out
and show us how to set de table, honey?” could have but one answer.

A boiled ham had the place of honor at one end of the board, built
out with loose planks to stretch from the yawning fireplace, bounding
the lower end of the big kitchen, to Mammy’s room at the other. My
mother had lent tablecloth and crockery to meet the demands of the
company. She had, of course, furnished the provisions loading the
planks. A shoulder balanced the ham, and side-dishes of sausage, chine,
spareribs, fried chicken, huge piles of corn and wheat bread, mince and
potato pies, and several varieties of preserves, would fill every spare
foot of cloth when the hot things were in place. Floral decorations
of feasts would not come into vogue for another decade and more, but
I threw the sable corps of workers into ecstasies of delighted wonder
by instructing Spotswood, Gilbert, and a stableman to tack branches of
pine and cedar along the smoke-browned rafters and stack them in the
corners.

“Mos’ as nice as bein’ in de woods!” ejaculated the laundress, with an
audible and long-drawn sniff, parodying, in unconscious anticipation,
Young John Chivery’s—“I feel as if I was in groves!”

It was nine o’clock before the ostensible business of the evening
began. Boards, covered with straw, were the base of the mighty pyramid
of corn in the open space between the kitchen-yard and the stables.
Straw was strewed about the heap to a distance of twenty or thirty
feet, and here the men of the party assembled, sitting flat on the
padded earth. The evening was bland and the moon was at the full. About
the doors of kitchen and laundry fluttered the dusky belles who had
accompanied the shuckers, and who would sit down to supper with them.
Their presence was the inspiration of certain “topical songs,” as we
would name them—sometimes saucy, oftener flattering. As dear Doctor
Primrose hath it, “There was not much wit, but there was a great deal
of laughter, and that did nearly as well.”

This was what Mea and I whispered to each other in our outlook at the
window of our room that gave directly upon the lively scene. We had sat
in the same place for seven successive corn-shuckings, as we reminded
ourselves, sighing reminiscently.

The top of the heap of corn was taken by the biggest man present and
the best singer. From his eminence he tossed down the hooded ears to
the waiting hands that caught them as they hurtled through the air,
and stripped them in a twinkling. As he tossed, he sang, the others
catching up the chorus with a will. Hands and voices kept perfect time.

One famous corn-shuckers’ song was encored vociferously. It ran, in
part, thus:

    “My cow Maria
     She fell in de fire.

    Chorus

    “Go de corn! Go de corn!

    “I tell my man Dick
     To pull ’er out quick.
            (Go de corn!)

    “And Dick he said,
     ‘Dis cow done dade!’
            (Go de corn!)”

(Being of an economic turn of mind, the owner of deceased Maria
proceeded to make disposition of her several members:)

    “I made her hide over
     For a wagon-cover.
            (Go de corn!)

    “I cut her hoof up
     For a drinkin’ cup.
            (Go de corn!)

    “Her tail I strip’
     Fur a wagon-whip.
            (Go de corn!)

    “Her ribs hol’ op
     Dat wagon top.
            (Go de corn!)”

And so on until, as Mea murmured, under cover of the uproarious “Go
de corn!” repeated over and over and over, with growing might of
lung—“Maria was worth twice as much dead as alive.”

We had had our first nap when the chatter of the supper-party, saying
their farewells to hosts and companions, awoke us. We tumbled out of
bed and flew to the window. The moon was as bright as day, the dark
figures bustling between us and the heaps of shucks and the mounds
of corn, gleaming like gold in the moonlight, reminded us of nimble
ants scampering about their hills. The supper had evidently been
eminently satisfactory. We could smell hot coffee and sausage still.
Fine phrases, impossible to any but a negro’s brain and tongue, flew
fast and gayly. The girls giggled and gurgled in palpable imitation of
damsels of fairer skins and higher degree.

Hampton—the spruce carriage-driver (as coachmen were named then) of Mr.
Spencer D., Effie’s father—bowed himself almost double right under our
window in worshipful obeisance to a bright mulatto in a blazing red
frock.

“Is all de ladies ockerpied wid gentlemen?” he called, perfunctorily,
over his shoulder. And, ingratiatingly direct to the coy belle who
pretended not to see his approach, “Miss Archer! is you ockerpied?”

Miss Archer tittered and writhed coquettishly.

“Well, Mr. D.! I can’t jes’ say that I is!”

“Then, jes’ hook on hyar, won’t you?” crooking a persuasive elbow.




XV

THE COUNTRY GIRLS AT A CITY SCHOOL—VELVET HATS AND CLAY’S DEFEAT


OUR father took us to Richmond the first of October. A stage ran
between Cumberland Court House and the city, going down one day and
coming up the next, taking in Powhatan wayside stations and one or more
in Chesterfield.

We rarely used the public conveyance. This important journey was made
in our own carriage. A rack at the back contained two trunks. Other
luggage had gone down by the stage. We had dinner at a half-way house
of entertainment, leaving home at 9 o’clock A.M., and coming in sight
of the town at five in the afternoon.

That night I was lulled to sleep for the first time by what was to
be forevermore associated in my thoughts with the fair City of Seven
Hills—the song of the river-rapids. It is a song—never a moan. Men
have come and men may go; the pleasant places endeared by history,
tradition, and memory may be, and have been, laid waste; the holy and
beautiful houses in which our fathers worshipped have been burned with
fire, the bridges spanning the rolling river have been broken down,
and others have arisen in their place; but one thing has remained
as unchanged as the heavens reflected in the broad breast of the
stream—that is the sweet and solemn anthem, dear to the heart of one
who has lived long within the sound of it, as the song of the surf to
the homesick exile who asked in the Vale of Tempë, “Where is the sea!”

We were duly entered in the school conducted by Mrs. Nottingham and her
four daughters in an irregularly built frame-house—painted “colonial
yellow”—which stood at the corner of Fifth and Franklin Streets. It was
pulled down long ago to make room for a stately brick residence, built
and occupied by my brother Horace.

The school was Presbyterian, through and through. Mr. Hoge had a
Bible-class there every Monday morning; the Nottingham family,
including boarders, attended Sunday and week-day services in the
chapel, a block farther down Fifth Street. The eloquent curate of the
Old First was rising fast into prominence in city and church. His
chapel was crowded to the doors on Sunday afternoons when there was
no service in the mother-church, and filled in the forenoon with the
colony which, it was settled, should form itself into a corporate and
independent body within a few months.

It spoke well for the drill we had had from our late tutor, and said
something for the obedient spirit in which we had followed the line
of study indicated by him, that Mea and I were, after the preliminary
examination, classed with girls older than ourselves, and who had
been regular attendants upon boarding and day schools of note. If we
were surprised at this, having anticipated a different result from
the comparison of a desultory home-education in the country, with the
“finish” of city methods, we were the more amazed at the manners of
our present associates. They were, without exception, the offspring
of refined and well-to-do parents. The daughters of distinguished
clergymen, of eminent jurists, of governors and congressmen, of wealthy
merchants and rich James River planters, were our classmates in school
sessions and our companions when lessons were over. It was our initial
experience in the arrogant democracy of the “Institution.”

Be it day-school, boarding-school, or college, the story of this
experience is the same the world over. The frank brutality of question
and comment; the violent and reasonless partisanships; the irrational
intimacies, and the short lives of these; the combinations against
lawful authority; the deceptions and evasions to screen offenders from
the consequences of indolence or disobedience—were but a few of the
revelations made to the two country girls in the trial-months of that
winter.

I had my first shock in the course of an examination upon ancient
history conducted by the second and gentlest of the Nottingham
sisters—Miss Sarah. I was unaffectedly diffident in the presence of
girls who were so much more fashionably attired than we in our brown
merino frocks made by “Miss Judy,” and trimmed with velvet of a darker
shade, that I felt more ill at ease than my innate pride would let
me show. But I kept my eyes upon the kind face of the catechist, and
answered in my turn distinctly, if low, trying with all my might to
think of nothing but the subject in hand. I observed that Mea did the
same. I was always sure of her scholarship, and I tingled with pride
at her composure and the refined intonations that rendered replies
invariably correct. Honestly, I had thought far more of her than of
myself, when, after a question from Miss Sarah revealed the fact that I
had read Plutarch’s Lives, a tall girl next to me dug her elbow into
my ribs:

“Law, child! you think yourself so smart!”

She was the daughter of one of the eminent professional men I have
alluded to, and three years my senior. I knew her father by reputation,
and had been immensely impressed with a sense of the honor of being
seated beside her in the class.

“Miss Blank!” said Miss Sarah, as stern as she could ever be. “I am
surprised!”

The girl giggled. So did a dozen others. My cheeks flamed hotly, and
