comparatively slim and pretty divorcée; to-day even the embarrassing
opulence and prodigality of her charms had not altered the doll-like
perfection of her features. He knew her instantly, and, in his brain,
chaos menaced him.

"How do you do," he said; "this is most delightful and surprising.
Lilly——"

"Charming," murmured Mrs. Wemyss; and, under her smile, she lowered her
voice: "I’m Lilly Wemyss; I’ve taken my maiden name.  Don’t forget, and
call me Mrs. Atherstane."

He nodded, the fixed smile imprinted on his features; and it remained
there as they stood in conversation until dinner was announced.

He took in Christine.  The girl’s arm rested lightly as a feather on his
sleeve.  During dinner she talked to him pleasantly, but without
animation; and, somehow, all seemed to go wrong with him, for he found
scarcely anything to say to Christine—anything that was not trite and
banal.  And his haunted eyes reverted again and again to Mrs. Wemyss.

"Oh, Lord!" he thought, "what a horrible mess; and is Lilly going to
expect me to—to——"

But his scared wits could speculate no farther, and he sat beside
Christine, worried, unhappy, penitent, too miserable to enjoy the moment
to which he had looked forward so impetuously all day long—a moment
which, two days ago, he dared not believe would ever again come into his
life.




                             *CHAPTER VIII*

                          *MILLE MODI VENERIS*


A number of matters had been slightly disturbing Colonel Curmew’s
intellect and digestion.  One thing, he had lost money at cards—a thing
he hated as heartily as Judge Wicklow hated it.  Another matter—Jack
Rivett had fairly driven him out of Silvette’s vicinity.  True, an
easily transferred devotion to her sister already consoled him; the one
was as ornamental as the other, but he liked young Rivett no better.

He desired to ingratiate himself with Jack because the boy had never
liked him, and he neither understood why nor became reconciled to it;
and he was always making advances and assuming, under the jocular
familiarity of an older man, that there existed between himself and Jack
a delightful and cordial understanding, which Jack coolly ignored; and
the colonel disliked him the more.

Then, there was another matter which occupied him—had occupied him, now,
for several years.  He meant to marry Christine Rivett some day.  For
the present he was satisfied to treat her with the same jovial
familiarity with which he treated her brother; and now it seemed to him
that Christine, whom he feared might become too much interested in
Edgerton, was veering toward this young Inwood fellow who had just
arrived.

Colonel Curmew was not actually alarmed; he was merely bored, and now
and then a trifle uneasy, because he had to take this and other matters
into his calculations in being attentive to Diana Tennant.

No, he was not worried.  He Lad become cheerfully convinced that both
these matters could be properly attended to.  Let Christine have her
fling and grow up.  Her fortune kept pace with her, anyway.

But about Diana Tennant he had not yet entirely made up his mind—and yet
he had made it up, too, after a fashion.

There were, including Diana’s youth and beauty, several things about her
which were likely to attract the attention of such a man as Follis
Curmew.  First of all, she was poor. Also, she was self-supporting and
alone in the world except for a similarly situated sister who didn’t
count, and a very distant relative who didn’t really count, either.

She was beautiful and clever; men appreciate such women.  Such women, he
also believed, deeply appreciated the kind of things they could not
afford....  And, furthermore, he did not hesitate to believe that such
women were perfectly capable of appreciating middle-aged military
gentlemen of discretion, fortune, and liberality in reason.

So he contrived to get as close to Diana as he could on all occasions;
and very often, to her surprise, she found him at her heels or seated
unnaturally near her, pale eyes slightly protruding, his curling
mustache and little side whiskers faintly redolent of brilliantine.

Amused, and not yet uneasy, she mentioned his assiduity to her sister,
and thought nothing further of it; nor did Silvette, preoccupied with an
episode of her own which threatened to become something approaching a
problem.

Instinct told her that Jack Rivett preferred her to anybody at Adriutha;
and she liked him well enough to find his attention agreeable. But
little by little it became more marked—to her, if not to others—and she
experienced a slight uneasiness concerning this very rich and idle only
son, the ambition of whose father had now become plain to her.

So Silvette at first very pleasantly discouraged him, and kept out of
tête-à-têtes as much as possible, in which maneuvers she was not very
successful.  For the girl found in this lazy, witty, good-humored,
self-indulgent young fellow a cool and confident adversary—resistless
because of his charming manner toward her and his unvarying cheerfulness
under rebuffs which were becoming more frequent and more severe—and,
alas, more useless.

About a week after Inwood’s arrival, while writing a letter in the
rose-garden pavilion, a shadow checkered the lattice work and fell
across her note paper; and, glancing up, she beheld Jack Rivett, hands
in his coat pockets, the breeze ruffling his blond hair.



"I’m writing," she said, annoyed.

"I’ll sit down on the sundial," he rejoined with a bow and a smile as
though accepting a delightful invitation.

"But I’ll be writing about two hours," she observed coldly.

"Writing about two hours?" he repeated. "But why write about hours at
all, dear lady. An hour is an arbitrary division of time, interesting
only to the unhappy."

"Very witty," she said.  "Go and scratch it on the sundial."

And she resumed her letter, trying not to be aware of the blond young
man seated just outside the summer house, where the sun gilded his hair
and the wind mussed it into a most becoming mop.

Several times she bit the pearl tip of her penholder, frowning; but he
always seemed to catch her eye at such moments, and her deepening frown
only produced on his face an expression which was so very humble that it
became almost mischievous.

"Jack!"

He hurriedly rose, and looked all around him among the roses as though
eagerly searching for the person who had called him.

"Jack!" she repeated emphatically.

He pretended to discover her for the first time, and hurried joyously to
the lattice door.

"Jack—you perfect idiot!  I want to write, and I simply can’t, with you
sitting around in that martyred manner."

"How far away shall I retire?" he inquired, so sad and crestfallen, that
between amusement and annoyance she did not reply, but merely sat
tapping with her pen and inspecting her letter.

As she did not speak again, very cautiously—and holding up one hand as
an unwelcome dog holds up one beseeching paw to ward off calamity—he
ventured to seat himself on a bench outside the summer house.

She was perfectly aware of the inimitable pantomime, and a violent
desire to laugh seized her, but she only bit her lip and resolutely
dipped her pen into the ink once more.

She wrote obstinately, knowing all the while that she’d have to rewrite
it.  His excessive stillness began to get on her nerves; and, after a
quarter of an hour’s preternatural silence, she could endure it no
longer.

"Jack!"

"Dear lady?" he replied patiently.

"Why don’t you say something?"

"I was forbidden the exquisite consolation of noise."

"It’s horribly hot and still out here.  Why don’t the birds sing?"

"They’re moulting, dear lady.  All their little pin feathers have become
unfastened, and their bills are probably full of pins while they make
themselves tidy again."

"So that is why they don’t sing in July?" she said.

"That is why," he explained seriously.

"Well, then, why don’t you sing?  You are not untidy."

"Nothing could suit my pensive and melancholy mood better," he said
sadly.

A moment later, sitting outside her door, he began with deep emotion to
sing one of Kirk’s melting melodies:

    "With head bowed low a dentist stood
      Before his office chair;
    A handsome lady customer
      Into his eyes did stare.
    He tried to fake a careless smile
      And hide his drooping jaw,
    But all in vain because his guilt
      Was plainly to be saw.
    His voice was choked with shame and fear,
      He said, ’Forgive me, miss!’
    But when he begged her pardon there
      The lady then did hiss:

    Chorus.

    "’Take back them teeth you made me!  I
      Won’t wear them in my face!
    Go hang them in your parlor as
      A badge of your disgrace.
    You swore them crowns was solid gold!
      You’re false—like teeth and men!
    Take back them teeth, you lobster!
      Never speak to me again!
    Take back—take ba-ack—take ba-a-a——’"


"Jack!" she exclaimed, "that is the most—most degraded thing I ever
heard you utter!"

"I’m accustoming you, by degrees, to my repertoire.  With infinite
precautions you will, in time, be able to endure much worse than this,"
he explained kindly.  "Now, what shall we try next, dear lady?  I have a
little song called: ’Only a pint of shoe strings!’"

"Don’t you dare attempt it! ... Jack, please go away.  Won’t you, when
I ask it?"

"She mutters the unthinkable," he said, shaking his head.  "My music has
unseated her reason.  By and by she will begin to moan and revive."

"It’s perfectly outrageous," she said, tearing up what she had written,
and moving aside a little so that sufficient space remained for—her
sister, perhaps.  So he entered the summer house and waited for an
invitation, bland, cheerful, irresistible.

"I had no idea I was so pitiably weak-minded," she said.

He accepted the avowal as his invitation, and seated himself.

"Silvette," he said genially, "what are we going to do to-day?"

"Who?"

"Why, you and I.  Who cares what the others do in this mad world, dear
lady?"

"I don’t know about the world," she said, "but there’s one girl in it
who is mad; and she’s going to her room to write letters."

"When?"

"Now!"

"Don’t."

"Indeed, I shall!"

"Shall, or will?" he inquired, guilelessly, "People mix up those two
auxiliaries so persistently that there’s no telling what anybody really
means in these days."

She considered a moment, then turned and looked at him.

"Jack," she said sweetly, "don’t follow me about?"

"I?  Follow you!  That’s more madness, dear lady.  Who on earth ever
whispered to you that I could ever do such a——"

"Won’t you be serious, please?"

Her pretty, dark eyes were serious enough, even appealing.  He became
solemn at once.

"You have forced me to say this," she ventured.  "I didn’t wish to; I
thought you’d understand, but you don’t seem to.  So I am compelled to
say to you that—it is—better taste for you to—not to——"

She hesitated, glanced up at him, colored brightly.

"You know perfectly well what I mean! And there you sit, letting me try
to tell you as nicely as I can——"

"About what, dear lady?"

"About you and me!" she said, incensed. "You know perfectly well that
I’ve been obliged to avoid being alone with you."

"Why?"

"Because," she said, intensely annoyed, "I am employed by your parents,
and you are an only son of Mr. Jacob Rivett....  Is that unmistakable?"

He said nothing.

She went on: "You know I like you, Jack. You seem to like me.  If you
do, you’ll understand that this—this continually seeking me out,
separating me from the others, isn’t fair to me....  I’m trying not to
talk nonsense about it.  I know you mean nothing but kindness; but it
isn’t wise, and it is not agreeable, either.  So let us enjoy our very
delightful friendship as freely among others as we do when alone
together—"  She stopped abruptly, blushed to her hair, furious at
herself, astonished that her tongue could have blundered so.  The next
instant she understood that he was too decent to notice her blunder.
Indeed, to look at him, she almost persuaded herself that he had not
even heard her speak, so coolly remote were his eyes, so preoccupied his
air as he sat facing the far hills, blue in the July haze.

Presently he looked up at her.

"What was it you were lecturing me about?" he asked cheerfully.

"About our twosing, Jack."

"Did you say you did prefer it, or otherwise?"

"Otherwise—you monkey!" she said, laughing, free of the restraint and of
the bright color that had made even her neck hot.

"Very well," he said briskly; "keep your distance!  Don’t start running
after me the moment I come in sight across the landscape. Will you
promise?"

"I promise," she said solemnly.

"Thank you.  I shall have a little leisure now.  I’ll have so much I
won’t know what to do with it.  Can you advise me?"

"I cannot."

"Then I’ll have to think for myself.... I’ll have to do something, of
course.... Suppose you and I take a canoe——"

"Canoes hold only two, Jack."

"By Jove!  What am I thinking of!  Thank you for saving me from
incredible suffering.... So suppose we don’t take a canoe, you and I,
but we take the red runabout?"

"Jack!"

"What?"

"The red runabout holds two, only."

"I must be demented!" he said with a shudder....  "Silvette, I’ll tell
you what we’ll do—we’ll take a walk, you and I.  There’s room all around
us for millions of other people.  They can come if they like; if they
don’t, why, it’s up to them!"

"No, Jack."

"Won’t it do?"

"No.  Why won’t you be a little bit serious about a matter that, after
all, concerns me very nearly."

"I am serious," he said.  "It concerns me, too."

"No, it doesn’t."

"Indeed, it does.  Two people are not to go twosing any more; I’m one
of those people. Therefore, it concerns me, doesn’t it?"

She looked at him, confused, half smiling, half reluctant.

"Don’t you know," she said, "that your attention to me is worrying your
father and mother?"

He thought a moment, then slowly turned toward her a sober and youthful
face, from which all humor had departed; and she looked back at him out
of grave young eyes that met his very sweetly, but inexorably.

"Do you mean it, Silvette?"

"About your parents?"

"Yes."

"Yes, I do, Jack."

He said, partly to himself: "I had not noticed it."

"I have.  It’s a woman’s business to notice such things.  Otherwise,
she’ll find herself in trouble....  Inclination is a silly guide, Jack."

"For me?"

"For—us both....  I will be frank with you all the way through.  I do
like you.  I enjoy our tête-à-têtes.  They are perfectly honest and
harmless, and without significance—the significance, alas, that others
will surely attach to them....  It isn’t that there’s anything wrong
with you and me, Jack....  It’s the World that is wrong....  But—it’s
the World; and you and I must conform to its prejudices as long as we
inhabit it—at least I must."

"I suppose you must," he said.  Then, leaning a little nearer, he took
her hand, held it lightly across his palm, looked at it a moment, then
at her.

"Will you let me tell father and mother that I am in love with you, and
wish to marry you?" he said.

"Jack!" she exclaimed in consternation.

"Will you let me?"

"No, I won’t! ... Jack!  Don’t be foolish. I had no idea you had arrived
as far as that.  I had no reason to think so—to suppose for one
moment—because it has always been the jolliest and most
unsentimental—and—you never even touched me before."

Her color brightened, and her breath came irregularly.  She tried to
laugh, and failed.

"You know perfectly well that they have other ambitions for you."

"I know....  How is it with you, Silvette?"

"With me?  What do you mean?"

"Could you care for me?"

"I—I haven’t even thought about such a—I haven’t really, Jack.  You know
that, don’t you?  You must try to look back on our very brief
friendship—try to recollect how brief it has been—try to
remember—remember how happy and amusing and confident that friendship
has been—with no suspicion of sentiment to embarrass or vex——"

"I know....  Isn’t there any hope for me?"

"Hope?  No....  Don’t put it that way, Jack....  I don’t love you....
I oughtn’t to, and, thank Heaven, I don’t.  And you don’t really love
me—you dear, sweet fellow!  It’s just part of your niceness—your
generous attitude toward a girl——"

"I’m in love with you....  But that mustn’t worry you.  It had to be.
You need feel no self-reproach.  You didn’t do anything—you were just
yourself—and I"—he laughed a little—"started in to love you as soon as I
saw you....  I’m glad you know it, anyway.  We won’t say anything more
about it——"

"Jack, we will!  Do you understand that you have distressed me
dreadfully?  Do you realize what a girl’s responsibilities are when a
nice man loves her?  Do you think she can merely shrug her shoulders and
go about her daily frivolities without another thought?"

She rose to her feet, looking at him earnestly.

"Oh, Jack!  Jack!" she said, nervously clasping and unclasping her
hands; "why did you do this?  Why did you?"

He forced a laugh.  "I won’t do it again—ever," he said.  "Promise you
never to fall-in-love-again-hope-I-may-die’n-cross m’heart."

But there were no smiles left in her now.

"If you don’t behave," he threatened, "I’ll lock us both inside and sing
songs to you!" ... But the smile died out on his face.  "I was a gink to
tell you.  Don’t feel unhappy about it," again the engaging humor
glimmered in his eyes.  "Cheer up, Silvette; you may fall in love with
me yet!"

She looked up, the smile dawning, distressed, yet sweet.

"Don’t let me, Jack....  Because I’m all right, so far....  And you know
what your father wishes for you.  I want to deal honorably by him."

"All right," he said quietly.

They walked slowly back to the house together, and the girl went
directly to her room, where she found her sister mending stockings.




                              *CHAPTER IX*

                             *NON SEQUITUR*


Silvette dropped into an armchair, crossed her knees, and sat swinging
her foot and gazing through the open window in silence until Diana’s
head, lifted from time to time in smiling interrogation, could be no
longer ignored.

"Jack Rivett has asked me to marry him," she said in an expressionless
voice.

Diana laughed in frank surprise:

"That infant!"

"Yes."

"What an absurdity!"

Her sister said nothing.

"How did it come—out of a clear sky?"

"Yes....  I knew he liked me.  I had no idea he wanted to marry me."

"You’re not going to, are you?"

"No."

"I should think not.  It would be sheer cradle snatching."

"He’s a year older than I am."

"In years, yes; but, intellectually, he ought to be playing marbles.
Moreover, that sort of a boy never grows up."

"I don’t think he will....  God bestows that gift sometimes."

"What gift?"

"The gift of eternal youth....  I haven’t it....  But I believe it can
be shared."  She gazed thoughtfully at the distant hills. "Years and
years slip from me when that boy and I talk nonsense together."

"Better talk sense with him, and wake up, sweetness, or you’ll relapse
into your second childhood."

"I have just been talking sense to him.... I’m awake," she said
dreamily.

"Do you mean to admit that the interview has seriously affected you?"

"Oh, I don’t know yet."

"Better investigate," said Diana.  "You know what his parents expect of
their children. And if we are to remain here, I think, dear, that you
had better see a little less of Jack Rivett than you have been seeing.
Don’t you?"

"I am sure of it."

"Otherwise," continued Diana calmly, "it would be playing the game
fairer for you and me to seek another business engagement. These people
have been very honorable toward us.  We can scarcely permit them to
outdo us."

Silvette looked up calmly, her cheek resting on her hand.

"How dishonorable would it be?" she asked.

"What?"

"To—let him fall in love with me?"

"Ask yourself.  You know their social ambitions."

"I know; but, after all, you and I started out to make of life a
successful business proposition.  I thought a desirable marriage was to
be part of the programme."

"Do you consider Jack Rivett desirable? He could take you nowhere.  With
all his wealth, where could you take him?  And anyway, it’s not playing
the game, Silvie.  It’s kidnaping."  She laughed.  "Take a man of your
size—and of the world, little sister; and if he isn’t of the world, and
is poor, defy him to take you!—give him battle—put up a good fight
with foot, horse, and artillery.  The best one of you will always win,
and the other get what’s coming."

Silvette went to the desk, supplied herself with pen and paper, and
prepared to resume her interrupted correspondence.  Presently she looked
around, pen poised.



"Did the best man win between you and Jim Edgerton?" she asked.

Diana bent lower over her sewing.

"I’m afraid so, Silvie."

"Then you won."

"I think so....  I have fought it over every day since—alone."

"You poor little thing," said Silvette softly.

Diana looked up with a slight smile.  "Perhaps you misunderstood me,
dear.  I told you I was winning....  Which means, I think, that Jim
Edgerton isn’t going to remain very long at Adriutha."

"Where is he going?"

"I don’t know that he is going at all; he doesn’t know it, either....
But, somehow, I dare believe that he is going."

"Where?"

"Into a man’s world to engage in a man’s business."

"It isn’t in him, Diana....  You are taking a great responsibility on
your shoulders. Do you realize that you are?"

"Yes."

"And that a man with no more force of character and real ability than he
has may starve?  That the world will probably break his heart, anyway."

"Let it, then....  Only a real man’s heart breaks.  I’ll know he’s one
if it does; and so will he.  And that’s worth all the rest."

"That’s a stern creed, little sister, considering the pleasure-loving
lips that utter it."

"Out of the mouth of fools, wisdom.  It doesn’t matter what I am.  The
thing that is important is what he shall become."

"If he become what you desire, he may have little further interest in
you."

"He will have none, if he becomes what he could become," said the girl
steadily.  "Did you suppose my—ambition for him was selfish?"

"Little breaker of images, are you going to shatter your own under his
very eyes?"

"He will be the iconoclast some day.... Probably I’ll be married before
that—as soon, anyway, as it’s best for him....  I’ve plenty of time."
... She smiled without a trace of mirth in her eyes.  "Mr. Snaith has
already indicated his noiseless entry into the lists.  He and Colonel
Curmew are at lance points. Materially speaking, a girl ought to
consider both of them."

"But, child, we have many another business engagement before us yet, I
trust.... You wouldn’t think of taking the first—the first——"

"Million offered?" asked Diana, laughing. "No, of course not, silly.
I’m merely observing the manners and customs of the creature man."

Silvette laughed, too.  "How are you getting on with Billy Inwood?" she
asked demurely—"speaking of more agreeable matters."

"Perfectly; after the initial shock at encountering me here, he behaved
most reasonably.  I have an idea that he came here on Christine’s
account, and he seemed to be rather nervous as to his obligations to me,
but I set that right at the first opportunity. I said: ’Billy, if I
don’t tell you, somebody else will, that Silvette and I are here
practicing our profession, which is—to be amiable to the guests and help
entertain them.  So I’m going to be just as amiable to you as I know
how, but it need not frighten you because I have no designs on you.’"

They both laughed.  Diana, mending her stocking, continued:

"I think he was very much relieved, though he pretended not to be.  I
wonder if he did come here to see Christine?  The girl is cool enough
with him, and he is inclined to follow her about in an aimless sort of
way, as though he had something on his mind."

"He seems to be equally attentive to Christine and Mrs. Wemyss,"
observed Silvette. "It appears that he and that ample beauty are old
friends."

"Who is Mrs. Wemyss, anyway?"

Silvette smiled.  "I asked Mrs. Rivett, saying that there was something
familiar about Mrs. Wemyss, and that I had an idea I had seen her
somewhere; but Mrs. Rivett didn’t know who she was.  She had met her
last winter at the Plaza, which is the kind of thing one might have
expected—even of Mrs. Rivett, who is as dear a little woman as ever wore
sapphires at breakfast....  What a horrid, cynical thing I’m turning
into! ... And now I’m going to turn into an imitation of a young girl
dressing for luncheon. Heigho!  I wish other people were what they ought
to be and I were what I’d like to be. The world would wag very well,
then."


Luncheon was the usual animated, gossipy, and amusing function that
Silvette and Diana and Jack Rivett always made it, and at which Colonel
Curmew assiduously assisted according to his notions of jollity.

Edgerton for the last week or so had remained rather silent among the
others, amiable and nice always and perfectly receptive when spoken to,
but not volunteering very much, and not, according to Colonel Curmew’s
idea, earning his salary.  However, as the colonel didn’t like him, that
fact may have colored his judgment when he spoke to Mr. Rivett about it
after luncheon in the privacy of that silent man’s study.

"He’s turned into what I knew he was—a damned snob!" said the colonel,
sitting with widened legs, a rich cigar tucked in under his military
mustache, and furtively loosening the rear buckle of his white
waistcoat.

"He doesn’t pay for his keep," he went on. "What use to you is a man who
sits around looking unapproachable?"

"I have no difficulty in approaching him," observed Mr. Rivett.

"You pay him.  To look at him, one would think he paid you."

"He pays me his services."

"Ah, but he doesn’t!  He’s off with that little Diana girl half the
