a Cremona."

"The poor dear thought so, but a dealer to whom I took it said it was a
Tyrolean copy."

Jones put down his hat. "The brutes always say something of the kind.
What did it look like?"

Cassy glanced at him. "A flute, of course. What else would a violin look
like?"

"You are quite right. I meant the colour."

"Oh, the colour! Madeira with a sheen in it."

"Yes!" Jones exclaimed. "That is the exact and precise description of
the Amati varnish, of which the secret is lost. I hope you did not let
the brute have it."

Cassy did not want to tell him that either. But when you are very
forlorn it is hard to keep everything in.

"I needed a little for the funeral and he gave it to me."

"And it was worth thousands! Have you found an engagement?"

"The season is ending. Then too, either I have lost confidence or I am
not up to it, not yet at least."

"I can understand that."

Cassy gestured. "It is not this empty room, it is the doors that slam.
We know we should hasten to love those whom we do love, lest they leave
us forever before we have loved them enough. But do we? We think we have
time and to spare. I know I thought so. I was careless, forgetful,
selfish. That is one of the doors. I can't close it."

"Time will."

"Perhaps. Meanwhile I am told I should change my name. At first, I felt
very bitterly toward you for what you did here. It seemed inhuman of
you. Since then I have realised that you could not have done otherwise.
It saved Mr. Lennox. I would have done that."

"I am sure of it."

"But I won't change my name. I won't put such an affront on the poor
dear who thought--yet there! I shall never know what he thought, but
who, however wrongly, did it because of me. If only I had not told him!
I ought never to have said a word. Never! That door slams the loudest.
It wakes me. It is slamming all the time."

"That too shall pass."

Cassy doubted it. The door and the noise of it hurt. Her eyes filled.
Yet, too sensitive to weep at anybody, even at an inkbeast, she stood
up, went to the window and, while reabsorbing her tears, looked, or
affected to look, at a lean stripe of blue sky.

Meditatively Jones considered her. "Fine day for a walk."

It was as though he had offered her a handkerchief. Tearful no longer,
but annoyed, she turned and sat down.

"You seem very original."

"It is absentmindedness, I think. I meant to ask, are you ever down near
the Stock Exchange?"

"That is where Mr. Lennox goes, isn't it?"

"There are others that frequent the neighbourhood. Among them is a
deacon named Dunwoodie."

"Isn't he the lawyer who acted for Mr. Lennox?"

"Now you mention it, I believe he is. Anyway, I wonder if you would care
to have him act for you?"

Cassy crossed her hands. "I don't understand you."

"For a moment or two, he didn't either. Then he said he would like to
see you. That was an hour ago. I have just come from his office."

"But what in the world does he want of me? Everything is over now, isn't
it? Or are there more doors? Really, if there are, I don't think I can
stand it. I don't think I can, Mr. Jones."

"Yes, but there are doors that don't slam, doors that are closed and
locked and barred. Sometimes there is romance behind them, sometimes
there are santal-wood boxes crammed with rubies; sometimes there are
secrets, sometimes there are landscapes of beckoning palms. One never
quite knows what there is behind closed doors. He may open one or two
for you. Wouldn't it interest you to let him try?"

Cassy's eyelids had been a trifle tremulous, in her under-lip there had
been also a little uncertainty. But at the vistas which the novelist
dangled at her, she succeeded in looking, as she could look,
immeasurably remote.

"That sort of thing is chorus-girl!"

Blankly Jones stared. "What sort of thing?"

"Why, you want me to bring an action. I will do nothing of the kind.
Even if he were living, I would rather be dead. Besides, it was all my
fault. I ought to have known better."

"Better than what?" enquired the novelist, who now had got his bearings.

"Mr. Jones, I told you all about it."

"Forgive me, if I seem to contradict you. You did not tell all."

Cassy stiffened.

"How could you?" Jones continued. "Details are so tiresome. To-day when
I was talking to Dunwoodie, I advanced a few. Dunwoodie is a very
ordinary person. Details bore you, they bore me. He dotes on them. By
the way, you said something about changing your name. I wish you would.
Couldn't you take mine?"

"You are ridiculous."

"As you like. Any one else would call me mercenary."

He's crazy, Cassy uncomfortably reflected. What shall I do?

Modestly the novelist motioned. "Ten Eyck Jones now! It doesn't rhyme
with Victor Hugo or even with Andrew Carnegie, but it has a lilt. It
might be worse."

"What are you talking about?" Cassy, with increasing discomfort, put in.

"There is a little thing that turns men into flint and women into putty.
That's what I am talking about. I am talking money."

"Thank you. The subject does not interest me."

"Ah, but you are evolved! Would that the butcher were! We all have to
consider his incapacities and money helps us. I have an idea that your
dear departed may have left you a trifle."

"Really, Mr. Jones, you are talking nonsense."

"It is a specialty of mine."

"Besides, it is impossible."

"Impossible is a word that intelligent young women never employ."

"Very good. Admitting the possibility, I won't take it."

"It might be paid into your bank."

"I haven't any bank."

"One could be found for you."

"I would tell them not to accept it."

"The bank that won't accept money does not exist."

Cassy flushed. "I rather liked you. Couldn't you be less hateful?"

"You are trying to pick a quarrel with me."

"Nothing of the kind."

"Then will you let me take you to Dunwoodie?"

"Certainly not."

"Then will you go alone?"

"But why? Why should I? What does this man with an absurd name want of
me?"

Jones pulled at a cuff. "Well, look at it from this angle. Before you
discovered that your marriage was a sham, you were prepared to assume a
few obligations and some of them may still subsist. The man with the
absurd name can tell you what they are. Surely you are not a slacker.
This is war-time."

With that abandonment which is so gracious in a woman, Cassy half raised
a hand. "My front line is wavering."

Jones reached for his hat. "Over the top then!"

Under the table they crawled.




XXXIV


"Your very obedient servant, madam."

With that and a fine bow, Dunwoodie greeted Cassy when Jones had
succeeded in getting her into the inner and airy office. The old ruffian
drew a chair.

"Do me the honour."

Cassy sat down. What a funny old man, she thought.

Jones addressing the door, remarked dreamily: "Pendente lite, I will
renew my acquaintance with Swinburne's 'Espousals.'"

Dunwoodie glared. "You will find it in the library." Then he sat down,
folded his hands on his waistcoat and smiled at Cassy. "Nice day."

"Very."

"Down here often?"

Cassy shook her docked hair. "No, and I don't at all know why I am here
now. I do know though, and I may as well tell you at once, I have no
intention of making a fuss."

Dunwoodie's smile, a smile quasi-ogrish, semi-paternal, expanded. "If
our Potsdam friend only resembled you!"

For a young woman so recently and doubly bereaved, Cassy's blue smock
and yellow skirt seemed to him properly subdued. Moreover, from a word
that Jones had dropped, he realised that wealth had not presided at
their selection.

He twirled his thumbs. "But let me ask, what may your full name be?"

"Bianca Cara."

"Hum! Ha! Most becoming. And how young are you?"

Well, I like that! thought Cassy, who answered: "Twenty-one."

Dunwoodie crossed his legs. "You think me an impertinent old man. I
don't mean to be impertinent. I take a great interest in you."

"Very good of you, I'm sure."

"Not at all. Is your grandmother living?"

"For heaven's sake! You did not know her, did you?"

"No, but I stand ready to take her place."

"You would find it difficult. She is buried in Portugal."

"The place of your grandfather then, the place of any one whom you can
trust."

"But why?"

"Well, let me ask. What are your plans?"

"My plans? Mr. Jones asked me that. I have a sort of a voice and I am
looking for an engagement. But the season is ending. Then too I am told
I ought to change my name. I won't do it."

"Hum! Ha! But it appears that you have."

He's crazy too, thought Cassy, who said: "I don't know what you are
talking about."

Dunwoodie extracted his towel. "Why, my dear young lady, you are Mrs.
Paliser."

Cassy flushed. "I am nothing of the kind. I don't know how you got such
an idea."

Dunwoodie, quite as though he were doing some hard thinking, folded and
refolded that towel which was his handkerchief. "Yet you married Montagu
Paliser, Jr., did you not?"

"Not at all. That is I thought I did, but the man who performed the
ceremony was a gardener."

"Dear me! Is it possible! And where was this?"

What is it to you? thought Cassy. "At Paliser Place, if you must know."

"And when did it occur?"

"Really, Mr. Dunwoodie, I can't see why you are putting me through this
examination, but if it is of any benefit to you, it happened just five
days before he died."

"Anybody about?"

"Oh, yes. There were two other servants who enjoyed it very much. I
heard them laughing and I don't blame them. It was a rare treat. A child
would have laughed at it. All my fault too. I behaved like a ninny. But
my great mistake was in telling my father. I would give the world if I
had not. Won't you please send for Mr. Jones? As I told you, I don't
know why I am here."

Dunwoodie shook out the towel. "You must blame him then. He said you
were Paliser's widow."

"Well, you see I am not."

"Yet you consented to be his wife."

"Whose? Mr. Jones'?"

"Paliser's, my dear young lady. However fictitious the ceremony, you
consented to be Paliser's wife."

"What if I did? It has nothing to do with it now."

"Just a little, perhaps. Did you hear Jones say that he would renew his
acquaintance with Swinburne?"

"From the way he talks, one might think he knew him by heart."

"Yaas, he is very objectionable. But you are referring to the poet. He
was referring to the jurist. The jurist wrote a very fine book. Let me
quote a passage from it. 'It is the present and perfect consent the
which alone maketh matrimony, without either solemnisation or'--here,
Dunwoodie, skipping the frank old English, substituted--'or anything
else, for neither the one nor the other is the essence of matrimony, but
consent only. Consensus non concubitus facit matrimoniam.' Hum! Ha! In
other words, whether marriage is or is not contracted in facie ecclesiæ,
it is consent alone that constitutes its validity. You understand
Latin?"

Cassy laughed. "I dream in it."

Dunwoodie laughed too. "Pleasant dreams to you always. But what I have
quoted was the common law, and so remained until altered by the Revised
Statutes, with which no doubt you are equally familiar."

Cassy smoothed her frock. "I was brought up on them."

"I don't need to tell you then that when adopted here they provided that
marriage should be a civil contract. In so providing, they merely
reaffirmed the existing common law. Subsequently, the law was changed.
The legislature enacted that a marriage must be solemnised by certain
persons--ecclesiastic, judicial or municipal--or else, that it should be
entered into by written contract, which contract was to be filed in the
office of the town clerk. Coincidentally the legislature prohibited any
marriage contracted otherwise than in the manner then prescribed."

That morning Cassy had been to an agent, a saponacious person with a
fabulous nose. At the moment the nose was before her. She was wondering
whether it would scent out for her an engagement.

"However," Dunwoodie, twisting the edge of his towel, continued,
"various amendments were afterward adopted and certain sections
repealed. Among the latter was the one containing the prohibition which
I have cited. In my opinion, it was not the intention of the legislature
to repeal it. Yet, however that may be, repealed it was. Since then, or,
more exactly, a few weeks ago, the enactments regarding the manner in
which marriage must be solemnised were held to be not mandatory but
directory, the result being that the law originally prevailing has now
come again into operation, common-law marriages are as valid as before
and----"

Here Dunwoodie flaunted the towel.

"And you are Mrs. Paliser."

Of the entire exposition, Cassy heard but that. It ousted the agent and
his fabulous nose. She bristled.

"I can't be. I don't want to be. You don't seem to see that the
clergyman was not a clergyman at all. He was one of the help there. I
thought I told you. Why, there was not even a license! That man said he
had one. It was only another of the whimsicalities that took me in."

Dunwoodie repocketing the towel, showed his yellow teeth. "A young
gentlewoman who dreams in Latin, and who was brought up on the Revised
Statutes, must be familiar with Byron. 'Men were deceivers ever.' Not
long ago, a Lovelace whose history is given in the New York Reports
conducted himself in a manner that would be precisely analogous to that
of your late husband, were it not that, instead of dying, he did what
was less judicious, he married again--and was sent up for bigamy. He too
had omitted to secure a license. He also entertained a lady with a
fancy-ball. None the less, the Supreme Court decided that he had legally
tied the matrimonial noose about him and that decision the Court of
Appeals affirmed."

Cassy shook her pretty self. "Well, even so, I don't see what difference
it makes, now at any rate. He is dead and that is the end of it."

"Hum! Not entirely. As widow you are entitled to a share in such
property as your late husband possessed. How much, or how little, he did
possess I cannot say. But I assume that such share of it as may accrue,
will be--ha!--adequate for you."

"But he hadn't anything. He told me so."

"He didn't always tell you the truth though, did he? In any event it is
probable that he left enough to provide for your maintenance."

Cassy threw up her hands. "Never in the world."

Dunwoodie again ran his eyes over the severity of her costume. "You
think it would be inadequate?"

But Cassy was angry. "I don't think anything about it. Whether it would
or would not be adequate, does not make the slightest difference. I
won't take it."

"Ha! And why not?"

Cassy fumed. "Why not? But isn't it evident? That man had no intention
of marrying me, no intention whatever of leaving me a cent."

"As it happens, he did both."

Cassy clenched her small fist. "No matter. He did not intend to and
don't you see if I were to accept a ha'penny of his wretched money, I
would be benefiting by a crime for which may God forgive my poor, dear
father."

There was a point which the legislature had not considered, which not
one of all the New York Reports construed, a point not of law but of
conscience, a point for a tribunal other than that which sits in banco.
It floored Dunwoodie.

Damnation, she's splendid, he decided as, mentally, he picked himself
up. But it would never do to say so and he turned on her his famous
look.

"Madam, once your marriage is established, the money becomes rightfully
and legally yours, unless----"

With that look he was frowning at this handsome girl who took law and
order with such a high hand. But behind the frown was a desire, which he
restrained, to hug her.

Frowning still he looked from Cassy to the door and there at a boy, who
was poking through it a nose on which freckles were strewn thick as
bran.

"Mr. Rymple, sir, says he has an appointment."

The old ruffian, rising, turned to Cassy. "One moment, if you please."

The door, caught in a draught, slammed after him, though less violently
than other doors that were slamming still. Would they never stop? Cassy
wondered. Would they slam forever? Were there no rooms in life where she
might enter and find the silence that is peace? Surely, some time,
somewhere that silence might be hers.

She turned. Jones, looking extremely disagreeable, was walking in.

Cassy, closing her ears to those doors, exclaimed at him. "Here's a
pretty how d'ye do. Mr. Dunwoodie says I am Mrs. Paliser."

"That afternoon, when you sent your love to my cat, I could have told
you that. In fact I did."

From Jones' air and manner you would have said that he was willing and
able to bite a ten-penny nail.

Cassy did not notice. "It appears, too, that I am entitled to some of
his wretched money."

"It is unfortunate I did not know that also."

"I believe you did. But I sha'n't take it."

Jones drew a chair. Hatefully he looked her up and down.

"You are quite right. Sixty years ago there was but one millionaire in
the country. The plutocrat had not appeared in the street, he had not
even appeared in the dictionary. The breed was unknown. To-day there are
herds of such creatures. I was reading the statistics recently and they
depressed me beyond words. It is always depressing to know how much
money other people have. You are quite right not to suffer poor devils
to be depressed by you."

Mrs. Yallum! thought Cassy, who said as much; "I don't know what you are
talking about."

"You are very intelligent. I am talking small change."

Cassy gave a shrug. "Mr. Dunwoodie said I would have enough to live on.
I can do as well as that myself, thank you."

"No doubt," Jones snarled. "I am even sure you could do worse. It is
extraordinary how much one can accomplish in refusing a dollar or two
that might save another man's life. To hell with everybody! That is the
noble attitude. I admire your spirit. A handful of bank-notes are crying
at you: 'I'm yours, take me, give me to the wounded, to the starving!'
Not a bit of it. The Viscountess of Casa-Evora is too proud. That's
superb."

Cassy turned on him. "See here, young man----"

"Don't you young man me," Jones irritably cut in. "In the rotunda out
there, Dunwoodie gave me a foretaste of your swank and I can tell you I
relished it. You won't look at a penny of this money because, if you
did, you would be benefiting by an act committed by your father, who, as
sure as you live, was impelled by the powers invisible to rid the earth
of Paliser and to rid it of him for no other reason than that this money
might serve a world in flames. Refused by you it will only revert to an
old rounder who never did a good deed in his life; whereas, instead, it
could call down blessings on your father's grave. But no, perish the
thought! All that is leather and prunella to a young woman who regards
herself as the arbiter of destiny. By God, you are prodigious!"

"I think you are horrid."

"So are you. You are the heiress to millions and millions. No wonder you
put on airs."

Occasionally, to exceptional beings, a hand issuing from nowhere offers
a cup brimming with madness, filled to the top with follies and dreams.

At that cup Cassy stared. It was unreal. If she tried to touch it, it
would vanish.

"It is impossible!" she cried.

Jones looked about. "Where is my harp?"

Cassy did not know, she could not tell him. She had not even heard. A
crater in the Wall Street sky had opened and from it, in an enchanted
shower, fell sequins, opals, perfumes and stars.

But Jones must have found his harp. To that shower he was strumming an
accompaniment.

"In to-day's paper there is a Red Cross appeal which says that what we
give is gone. It is incredible, but educated people believe it. The
ignorance of educated people is affecting. By reason of their education,
which now and then includes mythology, they believe that happiness is
the greatest of all the gifts that the gods can bestow. Being mortal,
they try to obtain it. Being ignorant, they fail. Ignorance confounds
pleasure with happiness. Pleasure comes from without, happiness from
within. People may be very gay and profoundly miserable, really rich and
terribly poor. In either case their condition is due to the fact that
the happiness which they sought, they sought for themselves. Their error
would be stupid were it not pathetic. In seeking happiness for
themselves they fail to find it, but when they succeed in securing it
for others, they find that on them also it has been bestowed. The money
we give is not gone. It comes back to us. It returns in happiness and
all the happiness that the richest, the poorest, the wisest, the
stupidest can ever possess, is precisely that happiness which they have
given away."

Where now where those doors? Cassy, the cascade of flowers and stars
about her, looked at the harper. In listening to him, the doors had
ceased to slam. About them there was peace. But her eyes had filled.

Jones was still at it.

"The greatest happiness is the cessation of pain. That pagan aphorism
the Red Cross might put on its banners. Spiritually it is defective, but
practically it is sound and some relief the Red Cross supplies. Give to
it. You can put your money to no fairer use. It will hallow the grave
where your father lies."

From beyond, from the adjacent Curb, came the shouts of brokers.

Jones, abandoning his harp, looked over at the girl. "What are you
crying about?"

"I am not crying," spluttered Cassy, who was blubbering like a baby. "I
never cry. It is disgusting of you to say so."

"You are crying."

"I am not crying," Cassy, indignantly sniffing and sobbing, snapped at
him. Fiercely she rubbed her eyes. "It is none of your business,
anyhow." Pausing, she choked, recovered and blearily added: "And,
anyway, if the money is mine, really mine, honestly mine, I will give it
away, all of it, every p--penny."

"No, no, not all of it," Jones hastily threw in, for now the door was
opening and Dunwoodie appeared. "Keep a pear for your thirst, put a
little million aside."

He turned to the lawyer. "Mrs. Paliser accepts her responsibilities."

"Hum! Ha!" The great man sat down and looked at Cassy. He looked many
things but he said very few. "My dear young lady, familiar as you are
with Latin, with law and with literature, who am I to remind you that
chickens should first be hatched? Your rights may be contested. The
Paliser Case, as it will be called, may----"

"The Paliser Case!" interjected Jones, who could see the headline from
where he sat. "Shade of Blackstone! It will be famous! It will be
filmed! The eminent jurist here will be screened and you, too, my lady."

Balefully Dunwoodie shot a glance at the inkbeast and another at Cassy.

"It may last some time. I have no doubt of the result. None whatever.
But in spite of your legal knowledge I suggest that you have associate
counsel. Now, permit me to ask, would you care to retain me or would
you prefer some one else?"

Cassy, who had dried her eyes, looked at him and it was remarkable how
pretty she looked.

"Why, no, Mr. Dunwoodie, I would much rather have you, only----"
Uncertainly she paused.

The eminent jurist took it up. "Only what?"

"Well, all I know about law is that it is very expensive and I have
nothing except my grandfather's portrait."

Dunwoodie touched a button. "Ha! One moment."

A thin young man, with a pasty face and a slight stoop, opened the door.

The old ruffian raised a stubby finger. "Purdy, a cheque for a thousand
dollars, to the order of Bianca Paliser, is to be mailed to this lady
to-night."

"But, Mr. Dunwoodie!" Cassy exclaimed.

"You must allow me to be your banker," he told her, and turned again to
the clerk. "Get Mr. Jeroloman. Say, with my compliments, I shall be
obliged if he will look in here. And, Purdy, see to it that that cheque
is attended to. Mrs. Paliser will give you her address."

"But, Mr. Dunwoodie!" Cassy exclaimed again, as the sallow youth went
out.

To distract her attention, instantly Jones improvised a limerick. "There
was a young man named Purdy, who was not what you'd call very sturdy. To
be more of a sport, he drank gin by the quart, and danced on a
hurdy-gurdy."

"You're insane," announced Cassy, who was a trifle demented herself.

Dunwoodie extracted his towel. "Jeroloman is the attorney for the other
side. He will want to meet Mrs. Paliser, but that honour will not be his
to-day."

Cassy stood up. "I should hope not. He would be the last camel on the
straw--I mean the last straw on the camel."

Dunwoodie, rising also, gave her his fine bow and to Jones a hand.

Then as the two made for the door, from over her shoulder she smiled
back at him.

"My grandmother could not have been nicer."

"What do you mean by that?" Jones absently inquired.

But, in the rotunda now, Mr. Purdy was asking her address. If he had
dared he would have followed her there. Fortune favouring, he would have
followed her to the ends of the earth. It was what one of our allies
calls the thunderbolt. Never before had he beheld such a face. Earnestly
he prayed that he might behold it again. Allah is great. The prayer was
granted.

In the cañon below, Jones, as he piloted her to the subway, pulled at
his gloves.

"If I had the ability, I would write an opera, call it 'Danaë' and
offer you the title-rôle."

Cassy, her thoughts on her grandmother, repeated it. "Danaë?"

"Yes, the lady disconnected by marriage with Jupiter who tubbed her in
gold--gold ink, I suppose. But as I am not a composer I shall put you
between the sheets--of a novel I mean. Fiction has its consolations."

But now, leaving the cañon, they entered a cavern which a tunnel fluted.
There Cassy looked up at the inkbeast. "How is Mr. Lennox? Do you see
him?"

"I find it very difficult not to. Unattached people are sticky as
flies. When Lennox was engaged, he was invisible. Now he is all over the
place."

From the tunnel a train erupted. It came with the belch of a monstrous
beetle, red-eyed and menacing, hastening terribly to some horrible task.

Jones, shoving the girl into its bowels, added: "I was happier when he
was jugged."

A corner beckoned. There, as the beetle resumed its flight, the novelist
spread his wings.

"I would have wagered a red pippin that you couldn't say Jack Robinson
before he and that young woman were convoluting joyously. I even planned
to be best man. Saw my tailor about it. Whether it were on that account
or not the Lords of Karma only know, but he told Miss Austen to go to
hell."

Cassy started. From before her everything was receding.

Jones noting the movement, interpreted it naturally and therefore
stupidly. He apologised.

"Forgive me. I picture you as Our Lady of the Immaculate Conversation.
Forgive me, then. Besides, what Lennox did say, he said with less
elegance. He said: 'I'm through.' Yes and asked me to repeat it to her.
I studiously omitted to, but as Proteus--Mr. Blount in private
