see," he added grimly to the officer in the doorway, who smiled in
return.

There ensued a silence through which, very far away, we heard the music
of another regiment marching into the town, which lay below us under the
calm, high stars.

"That's Livingston, now!" said Colonel Dayton, briskly; and went out in
a hurry, his sword and spurs ringing loudly in the hall. And a moment
later we heard him ride away at a gallop, and the loud clatter of
horsemen at his heels.

I pulled a bit of jerked venison from my sack and bit into it. Nick
Stoner filled his mouth with cold johnnycake.

And so, munching our supper, we left the Hall, headed for the Drowned
Lands to make prisoner an unhappy girl who had gone off in a rage to
Summer House Point.




CHAPTER X

A NIGHT MARCH


The village of Johnstown was more brightly lighted than I had ever
before seen it. Indeed, as we came out of the Hall the glow of it showed
rosy in the sky and the distant bustle in the streets came quite plainly
to our ears.

Near the hedge fence outside the Hall we came upon remnants of our
militia company, which had just been dismissed from further duty, and
the men permitted to go home.

Some already were walking away across the fields toward the Fonda's Bush
road, and these all were farmers; but I saw De Luysnes and Johnny
Silver, the French trappers, talking to old man Stoner and his younger
boy; and Nick and I went over to where they were gathered near a
splinter torch, which burned with a clear, straight flame like a candle.

Joe Scott, too, was there, and I told him about my commission, whereupon
he gave me the officer's salute and we shook hands very gravely.

"There is scarce a handful remaining of our company," said he, "and you
had best choose from us such as may qualify for rangers, and who are
willing to go with you. As for me, I can not go, John, because I have
here a letter but just delivered from Honikol Herkimer, calling me to
the Canajoharie Regiment."

It appeared, also, that old man Stoner had already enlisted with Colonel
Livingston's regiment, and his thirteen-year-old boy, also, had been
taken into the same command as a drummer.

Dries Bowman shook his head when I appealed to him, saying he had a wife
and children to look after, and would not leave them alone in the Bush.

None could find fault with such an answer, though his surly tone
troubled me a little.

However, the two French trappers offered to enlist in my company of
Rangers, and they instantly began to strap up their packs like men
prepared to start on any journey at a moment's notice.

Then Godfrey Shew, of Fish House, said to me very simply that his
conscience and his country weighed more together than did his cabin; and
that he was quite ready to go with me at once.

At that, Joe de Golyer, of Varick's, fetched a laugh and came up in the
torch-light and stood there towering six foot eight in his greasy
buckskins, and showing every hound's tooth in his boyish head.

"Give me my shilling, John," quoth he, "for I, also, am going with you.
I've a grist-mill and a cabin and a glebe fair cleared at Varick's. But
my father was all French; I have seen red for many a day; and if the
King of England wants my mill I shall take my pay for it where I find
it!"

Silver began to grin and strut and comb out his scarlet thrums with
dirty fingers.

"Enfin," said he, with both thumbs in his arm-pits, "we shall be ver'
happee familee in our pretee Bush. No more Toree, no more Iroquois!
Tryon Bush all belong to us."

"All that belongs to us today," remarked Godfrey grimly, "is what we
hold over our proper rifles, Johnny Silver!"

Old man Stoner nodded: "What you look at over your rifle sight is all
that'll ever feed and clothe you now, Silver."

"Oh, sure, by gar!" cried Silver with his lively grin. "Deer in blue
coat, man in red coat, même chose, savvy? All good game to Johnee
Silver. Ver' fine chasse! Ah, sacré garce!" And he strutted about like a
cock-partridge, slapping his hips.

Nick Stoner burst into a loud laugh.

"Ours is like to be a rough companionship, John!" he said. "For the
first shot fired will hum in our ears like new ale; and the first
screech from the Iroquois will turn us into devils!"

"Come," said I with a shiver I could not control.

I shook hands with Joe Scott; Nick took leave of his big, gaunt father.
We both looked at Dries Bowman, but he had turned away in pretense of
firing the torch.

"Good-bye, Brent-Meester!" cried little Johnny Stoner in his childish
treble, as we started down the stony way toward the town below.

       

Johnstown streets were full of people and every dwelling, shop, and
tavern lighted brightly as we came into the village.

Mounted troopers of the Albany Horse guarded every street or clattered
to and fro in search, they told us, of hidden arms and supplies.
Soldiers of the regiments of Colonels Dayton and Livingston, too, were
to be seen everywhere, some guarding the jail, some encamped before the
Court House, others occupying suspected dwellings and taverns notorious
as Tory nests.

Such inhabitants as were known friends to liberty roamed about the
streets or stood in knots under the trees, whispering together and
watching the soldiers. But Tories and their families remained indoors,
peering sullenly from their windows and sometimes scowling upon these
soldiers of a new nation, within the confines of which they already were
discovering that no place remained for any friend to England or her
King.

As my little file of riflemen passed on moccasined feet through the
swarming streets of Johnstown, soldiers and townspeople gazed curiously
after us, surmising immediately what might be our errand. And many
greeted us or called out pleasantries after us, such as, "Hearkaway! The
red fox will fool you yet!" And, "Dig him out, you wolf-hounds! He's
gone to earth at Sacandaga!"

Many soldiers cheered us, swinging their cocked hats; and Nick Stoner
and Johnny Silver swung their coon-tailed caps in return, shouting the
wolf-cry of the Coureur-du-Bois--"Yik-yik-hoo-hoolo--o!"

And now we passed the slow-moving baggage waggons of Colonel
Livingston's regiment, toiling up from Caughnawaga, the sleepy teamsters
nodding, and armed soldiers drowsing behind, who scarce opened one eye
as we trotted by them and out into the darkness of the Mayfield road.

Now, in this dim and starlit land, we moved more slowly, for the road
lay often through woods where all was dark; and among us none had
fetched any lantern.

It was close to midnight, I think, when we were challenged; and I knew
we were near the new Block House, because I heard the creek, very noisy
in the dark, and smelled English grass.

The sentinel held us very firmly and bawled to his fellow, who arrived
presently with a lantern; and we saw the grist-mill close to us, with
its dripping wheel and the high flume belching water.

When they were satisfied, I asked for news and they told us they had
seen none of Sir John's people, but that a carriage carrying two ladies
had nigh driven over them, refusing to halt, and that they had been
ashamed to fire on women.

He informed us, further, that a sergeant and five men of Colonel
Dayton's regiment had arrived at the Block House and would remain the
night.

"Also," said one of the men, "we caught a girl riding a fine horse this
morning, who gave an account that she came from Fonda's Bush and was
servant to Douw Fonda at Caughnawaga."

"Where is the horse?" I asked.

"Safe stabled in the new fort."

"Where is the girl?"

"Well," said he, "she sits yonder eating soupaan in the fort, and all
the Continentals making moon-eyes at her."

"That's my horse," said I shortly. "Take your lantern and show her to
me."

One of the militia men picked up the lantern, which had been burning on
the grass between us, and I followed along the bank of the creek.

Presently I saw the Block House against the stars, but all loops were
shuttered and no light came from them.

There was a ditch, a bridge of three logs, a stockade not finished; and
we passed in between the palings where a gateway was to be made, and
where another militia-man sat guard on a chopping block, cradling his
fire-lock between his knees, fast asleep.

The stable was but a shed. Kaya turned her head as I went to her and
made a soft little noise of welcome, and fell a-lipping me and rubbing
her velvet nose against me.

"The Scotch girl cared for your mare and fed her, paying four pence,"
said the militia-man. "But we were ashamed to take pay."

I examined Kaya. She had been well cared for. Then I lifted her harness
from the wooden peg where it hung and saddled her by the lantern light.

And when all was snug I passed the bridle over my arm and led her to the
door of the Block House.

Before I entered, I could hear from within the strains of a fiddle; and
then opened the door and went in.

The girl, Penelope, sat on a block of wood eating soupaan with a pewter
spoon out of a glazed bowl upon her knees.

Ten soldiers stood in a ring around her, every man jack o' them
a-courting as hard as he could court and ogle--which all was as plain to
me as the nose on your face!--and seemed to me a most silly sight.

For the sergeant, a dapper man smelling rank of pomatum and his queue
smartly floured, was a-wooing her with his fiddle and rolling big eyes
at her to kill at twenty paces; and a tall, thin corporal was tying a
nosegay made of swamp marigolds for her, which, now and again, he
pretended to match against her yellow hair and smirked when she lifted
her eyes to see what he was about.

Every man jack o' them was up to something, one with a jug o' milk to
douse her soupaan withal, another busy with his Barlow carving a basket
out of a walnut to please her;--this fellow making pictures on
birch-bark; that one scraping her name on his powder-horn and pricking a
heart about it.

As for the girl, Penelope, she sat upon her chopping block with downcast
eyes and very leisurely eating of her porridge; but I saw her lips
traced with that faint smile which I remembered.

What with the noise of the fiddle and the chatter all about her, neither
she nor the soldiers heard the door open, nor, indeed, noticed us at all
until my militia-men sings out: "Lieutenant Drogue, boys, on duty from
Johnstown!"

At that the Continentals jumped up very lively, I warrant you, being
troops of some little discipline already; and I spoke civilly to their
sergeant and went over to the girl, Penelope, who had risen, bowl in one
hand, spoon in t'other, and looking upon me very hard out of her brown
eyes.

"Come," said I pleasantly, "you have kept your word to me and I mean to
keep mine to you. My mare is saddled for you."

"You take me to Caughnawaga, sir!" she exclaimed, setting bowl and spoon
aside.

"Tomorrow. Tonight you shall ride with us to the Summer House, where I
promise you a bed."

I held out my hand. She placed hers within it, looked shyly at the
Continentals where they stood, dropped a curtsey to all, and went out
beside me.

"Is there news?" she asked as I lifted her to the saddle.

"Sir John is gone."

"I meant news from Caughnawaga."

"Why, yes. All is safe there. A regiment of Continentals passed through
Caughnawaga today with their waggons. So, for the time at least, all is
quite secure along the Mohawk."

"Thank you," she said in a low voice.

I led the horse back to the road, where my little squad of men was
waiting me, and who fell in behind me, astonished, I think, as I started
east by north once more along the Mayfield road.

Presently Nick stole to my side through the darkness, not a whit
embarrassed by my new military rank.

"Why, John," says he in a guarded voice, "is this not the Scotch girl of
Caughnawaga who rides your mare, Kaya?"

I told him how she had come to the Bowmans the night before, and how,
having stolen my mare, I bargained with her and must send her or guide
her myself on the morrow to Cayadutta.

I was conscious of his stifled mirth but paid no heed, for we were
entering the pineries now, where all was inky dark, and the trail to be
followed only by touch of foot.

"Drop your bridle; Kaya will follow me," I called back softly to the
girl, Penelope. "Hold to the saddle and be not afraid."

"I am not afraid," said she.

We were now moving directly toward Fonda's Bush, and not three miles
from my own house, but presently we crossed the brook, ascended a hill,
and so came out of the pinery and took a wide and starlit waggon-path
which bore to the left, running between fields where great stumps stood.

This was Sir William's carriage road to the Point; and twice we crossed
the Kennyetto by shallow fords.

Close beside this carriage path on the north, and following all the way,
ran the Iroquois war trail, hard and clean as a sheep walk, worn more
than a foot deep by the innumerable moccasined feet that had trodden it
through the ages.

Very soon we passed Nine-Mile Tree, a landmark of Sir William's, which
was a giant pine left by the road to tower in melancholy majesty all
alone.

When I rode the hills as Brent-Meester, this pine was like a guide post
to me, visible for miles.

Now, as I passed, I looked at it in the silvery dusk of the stars and
saw some strange object shining on the bark.

"What is that shining on Nine-Mile Tree?" said I to Nick. He ran across
the road; we marched on, I leading, then the Scotch girl on my mare,
then my handful of men trudging doggedly with pieces a-trail.

A moment later Nick same swiftly to my side and nudged me; and looking
around I saw an Indian hatchet in his hand, the blade freshly
brightened.

"It was sticking in the tree," he breathed. "My God, John, the Iroquois
are out!"

Chill after chill crawled up my back as I began to understand the
significance of that freshly polished little war-axe with its limber
helve of hickory worn slippery by long usage, and its loop of braided
deer-hide blackened by age.

"Was there aught else?" I whispered.

"Nothing except this Mohawk hatchet struck deep into the bark of
Nine-Mile Tree, and sticking there."

"Do you know what it means, Nick?"

"Aye. Also, it is an old war-axe newly polished. And struck deep
into the tallest pine in Tryon. Any fool must know what all this means.
Shall you speak of this to the others, John?"

"Yes," said I, "they must know at once."

I waited for Kaya to come up, laid my hand on the bridle and called back
in a low voice to my men: "Boys, an Indian war-axe was left sticking in
Nine-Mile Tree. Nick drew it out. The hatchet is an old one, but it is
newly polished!"

"Sacré garce!" whispered Silver fiercely. "Now, grâce à dieu, shall I
reckon with those dirtee trap-robbers who take my pelts like the
carcajou! Ha! So is it war? A la bonheur! Let them come for my hair
then! And if they get Johnny Silver's hair they may paint the Little Red
Foot on the hoop, nom de dieu!"

"Get along forward, boys," said I. "Some of you keep an eye on the
mountains lest they begin calling to Sir John with fire----"

"A flame on Maxon!" whispered Nick at my elbow.

I jerked my head around as though I had been shot. There it rose, a thin
red streak above the blunt headland that towered over the Drowned Lands.
Steadily as a candle's flame in a still room, it burned for a few
moments, then was shattered into crimson jets.

Far to the North, on some invisible mountain, a faint crimson flare
replied.

Nobody spoke, but I knew that every eye was fixed on those Indian
signal-fires as we moved rapidly forward into the swale country where
swampy willows spread away on either hand and little pools of water
caught the starlight.

The road, too, had become wet, and water stood in the ruts; and every
few minutes we crossed corduroy.

"Yonder stands the Summer House," whispered Nick.

A ridge of hard land ran out into the reed-set water. A hinged gate
barred the neck. Nick swung it wide; I led my mare and her rider through
it; posted Godfrey and Silver there; posted Luysnes and De Golyer a
hundred paces inland near the apple trees; left Nick by the well, and,
walking beside my mare, continued on to the little green and white
hunting lodge where, through the crescents of closed shutters, rays of
light streamed out into the night.

Here I lifted the Scotch girl from her saddle, walked with her to the
kitchen porch, and knocked softly on the kitchen door.

After a while I could hear a stirring within, voices, steps.

"Nicholas! Pontioch! Flora!" I called in guarded tones.

Presently I heard Flora's voice inquiring timidly who I might be.

"Mr. Drogue is arrived to await her ladyship's commands," said I.

At that the bolts slid and the door creaked open. Black Flora stood
there in her yellow night shift, rolling enormous eyes at me, and behind
her I saw Colas with a lighted dip, gaping to see me enter with a
strange woman.

"Is your mistress here?" I demanded.

"Yassuh," answered Flora, "mah lady done gone to baid, suh."

"Who else is here? Mistress Swift?"

"Yassuh."

"Is there a spare bed?"

Flora rolled suspicious eyes at the Scotch girl, but thought there was a
bed in Sir William's old gun room.

I waited until the black wench had made sure, then bade Colas look to my
mare, said a curt good-night to Penelope Grant, and went out to unroll
my blanket on the front porch.

When I whistled softly Nick came across the garden from the well.

"Lady Johnson is here," said I. "Yonder lies my blanket. I stand first
watch. Go you and sleep now while you can----"

"Sleep first, John. I am not weary----"

"Remember I am your officer, Nick!"

"Oh, hell!" quoth he. "That does not awe me, John. What awes me in you
is your kindness--and to remember that your ancestors wore their gold
rings upon their fingers."

I passed my arm about his shoulders, then released him and went slowly
over to the well. And here I primed my rifle with bright, dry powder,
shouldered it, and began to walk my post at a brisk pace to cheat the
sleep which meddled with my heavy eyes and set me yawning till my young
jaws crackled.




CHAPTER XI

SUMMER HOUSE POINT


The sun in my eyes and the noise of drums awoke me, where, relieved on
post by Nick, I had been sleeping on the veranda.

Beyond the orchard on the Johnstown road, mounted officers in blue and
buff were riding amid undulating ranks of moving muskets; and I knew
that the Continental Line had arrived at Summer House Point, and was
glad of it.

As I shook loose my blanket and stood up, black Flora and Colas came up
from their kitchen below ground, and seemed astonished to see me still
there.

"Is your mistress awake?" I demanded. But they did not know; so I bade
Flora go inside and awaken Lady Johnson. Then I went down to the well in
the orchard, where Nick stood sentry, looking through the blossoming
boughs at what was passing on the mainland road beyond the Point.

It was a soft, sunny morning, and a pleasant scent from the apple bloom,
which I remember was full o' bees.

Through the orchard, on the small peninsula, now came striding toward us
a dozen or more officers of the regiments of Colonels Dayton and
Livingston, all laughing together and seeming very merry; and some, as
they passed under the flowering branches, plucked twigs of white and
pink flowers and made themselves nosegays.

Their major, who seemed to know me as an officer, though I did not know
him, called out in high good humour:

"Well, my lord Northesk, did you and your rangers arrive in time to
close the cage on our pretty bird?"

"Yes, sir," said I, reddening, and not pleased.

"Lady Johnson is here then?"

"Yes, Major."

At that instant the front door opened and Lady Johnson came out quickly
and stood on the veranda, the sun striking across her pallid face, which
paleness was more due to her condition than to any fear of our soldiery.

She was but partly robed, and that hastily; her hair all unpowdered and
undressed, and only a levete of China silk flung about her girlish
figure, and making still more evident her delicate physical condition.

But in her eyes I saw storms a-brewing, and her lips and features went
white as she stood there, clenching and unclenching one hand, and still
a little blinded by the sun in her face.

We all had uncovered before her, bowing very low; and, if she noticed me
at first, I am not certain, but she gave our Major such a deadly stare
that it checked his speech and put him clean out o' countenance, leaving
him a-twiddling his sword-knot and dumb as a fish.

"What does this mean?" said she, her lip trembling with increasing
passion. "Have you come here to arrest me?"

And, as nobody replied, she stamped her bare foot in its silken
chamber-shoe, like any angry child in petty fury when disobliged.

"Is it not enough," she continued, "that you drive my unhappy husband
out of his own house, but you must presently follow me here to mock and
insult me? What has our family done to merit this outrage?"

Our Major, astonished and out o' countenance, attempted a civil word to
calm her, but she swept us all with scornful eyes and stamped her foot
again in such anger that her shoe fell off and landed on the grass.

"Our only crime is loyalty to a merciful and Christian King!" she cried,
paying no heed to the shoe. "Our punishment is that we are like to be
hunted as they hunt wild beasts! By a pack of rebels, too! Shame,
gentlemen! Is this worthy even of embattled shop-keepers?"

"Madame, I beg you----"

But she had no patience to listen.

"You have forced me out of my home in Johnstown," she said bitterly,
"and I thought to find refuge under this poor roof. But now you come
hunting me here! Very well, gentlemen, I leave you in possession and go
to Fish House. And if you hunt me out o' Fish House, I shall go on, God
knows where!--for I do not choose to endure the insult with which your
mere presence here affronts me!"

I had picked up her silk shoe and now went to her with it, where she
stood on the veranda, biting at her lip, and her eyes all a-glitter with
angry tears.

"For God's sake, madam," said I, "do not use us so harshly. We mean no
insult and no harm----"

"John Drogue," she said with a great sob, "I have loved you as a
brother, but I had rather see you dead there on this violated threshold
than know that the Laird of Northesk is become a rebel to his King!"

I knelt down and drew the shoe over her bare foot. Then I stood up and
took her hand, laying it very gently upon my arm. She suffered me to
lead her into the house--to the door of her bedroom, where Claudia,
already dressed, took her from me.

"Oh, John, John," she sobbed, "what is this pack o' riff-raff doing here
with their cobbler majors and carpenter colonels--all these petty
shop-keepers in uniform who come from filthy Boston to ride over us?"

Claudia's eyes were very bright, but without any trace of fear or anger.

"What troops are these, Jack?" she inquired coolly. "And do they really
come here to make prisoners of two poor women?"

I told her that these soldiers formed a mixed battalion from the
commands of Colonels Dayton and Livingston, and that they would encamp
for the present within sight of the Summer House.

"Do you mean that Polly and I are prisoners?" she repeated
incredulously.

"I'm afraid I do mean that, Claudia," said I.

At the word "prisoner" Lady Johnson flamed:

"Are you not ashamed, Jack Drogue, to tell me to my face such barbarous
news!" she cried. "You, a gentleman, to consort with vulgar bandits who
make prisoners of women! What do you think of your Boston friends now?
What do you think of your blacksmith generals and 'pothecary
colonels----"

"Polly! Be silent!" entreated Claudia, shaking her arm. "Is this a
decent manner to conduct when the fortune of war fails to suit your
tastes?"

And to me: "No one is like to harm us, I take it. We are not in personal
danger, are we?"

"Good Lord!" said I, mortified that she should even ask me.

"Well, then!" she said in a lively voice to Lady Johnson, who had turned
her back on me in sullen rage, "it will be but a few days at worst,
Polly. These rebel officers are not ogres. No! So in Heaven's name let
us make the best of this business--until Mr. Washington graciously
permits us to go on to Albany or to New York."

"I shall not go thither!" stormed Lady Johnson, pacing her chamber like
a very child in the tantrums; "I shall not deign to inhabit any city
which is held by dirty rebels----"

"But we shall drive them out first!" insisted Claudia, with an impudent
look at me. "Surely, dear, Albany will soon be a proper city to reside
in; General Howe has said it;--and so we had best address a polite
letter to Mr. Washington, requesting a safe conduct thither and a
flag----"

"I shall not write a syllable to the arch-rebel Washington!" stormed
Lady Johnson. "And I tell you plainly, Jack, I expect to have my throat
cut before this shameful business is ended!"

"You had best conduct sensibly, both of you," said I bluntly; "for I'm
tired of your airs and vapours; and Colonel Dayton will stand no
nonsense from either of you!"

"John!" faltered Lady Johnson, "do--do you, too, mean to use us
brutally?"

"I merely beg you to consider what you say before you say it, Polly
Johnson! You speak to a rebel of 'dirty' rebels and 'arch' rebels; you
conduct as though we, who hold another opinion than that entertained by
you, were the scum and offscouring of the earth."

"I meant it not as far as it concerns you, John Drogue," she said with
another sob.

"Then be pleased to trim your speech to my brother officers," said I,
still hotly vexed by her silly behaviour. "We went to Johnstown to take
your husband because we believe he has communicated with Canada. And it
was proper of us to do so.

"We came here to detain you until some decent arrangement can be made
whereby you shall have every conceivable comfort and every reasonable
liberty, save only to do us a harm by communicating with your friends
who are our enemies.

"Therefore, it would be wise for you to treat us politely and not rail
at us like a spoiled child. Our duty here is not of our own choosing,
nor is it to our taste. No man desires to play jailer to any woman. But
for the present it must be so. Therefore, as I say, it might prove more
agreeable for all if you and Claudia observe toward us the ordinary
decencies of polite usage!"

There was a silence. Lady Johnson's back remained turned toward me; she
was weeping.

Claudia took her hand and turned and looked at me with all the lively
mischief, all the adorable impudence I knew so well:

"La, Mr. Drogue," says she mockingly, "some gentlemen are born so and
others are made when made officers in armies. And captivity is irksome.
So, if your friends desire to pay their respects to us poor captives, I
for one shall not be too greatly displeased----"

"Claudia!" cried Lady Johnson, "do you desire a dish of tea with tinkers
and tin-peddlars?"

"I hear you, Polly," said she, "but prefer to hear you further after
breakfast--which, thank God! I can now smell a-cooking." And, to me:
"Jack, will you breakfast with us----"

She stopped abruptly: the door of Sir William's gun room opened, and the
Scottish girl, Penelope Grant, walked out.

"Lord!" said Claudia, looking at her in astonishment. "And who may you
be, and how have you come here?"

"I am Penelope Grant," she answered, "servant to Douw Fonda of
Caughnawaga; and I came last night with Mr. Drogue."

The perfect candour of her words should have clothed them with
innocence. And, I think, did so. Yet, Claudia shot a wicked look at me,
which did not please me.

But I ignored her and explained the situation briefly to Lady Johnson,
who had turned to stare at Penelope, who stood there quite
self-possessed in her shabby dress of gingham.

There was a silence; then Claudia asked the girl if she would take
service with her; and Penelope shook her head.

"I pay handsomely, and I need a clever wench to care for me," insisted
Claudia; "and by your fine, white hands I see you are well accustomed to
ladies' needs. Are you not, Penelope?"

"I am servant to Douw Fonda," repeated the girl. "It would not be kind
in me to leave him who offers to adopt me. Nor is it decent to abandon
him in times like these."

Lady Johnson came forward slowly, her tear-marred eyes clearing.

"My brother, Stephen, has spoken of you. I understood him to say that
you are the daughter of a Scottish minister. Is this true?"

"Yes, my lady."

"Then you are no servant wench."

"I serve."

"Why?"

"My parents are dead. I must earn my bread."

"Oh. You have no means to maintain you?"

