somethin' o' my gun play. Gee, it's lonesome here!" Dodge mused for a
moment. "Say, what's your old man's idea hog-tyin' you that-a-way?"

"He'll tell you perhaps."

"Uh-huh. Say, what did the Lord make all that stuff for?" with a gesture
toward the brazen sea. "What's it good for, anyhow?"

"But for the sea we wouldn't have any oysters or codfish," said Dennison,
soberly.

Dodge chuckled.

"Oysters and codfish! Say, you're all right! Never knew the old man had a
son until you blew in. Back in New York nobody ever said nothin' about
you. Where you been?"

"Lots of places."

"Any ridin'?"

"Some."

"Can you shoot?"

"A little."

"Kill any o' them Bolsheviks?"

"That would be guesswork. Did you ever kill a man?"

"Nope. Didn't have to. I'm pretty good on the draw, and where I come from
they knew it and didn't bother me."

"I see."

"Shootin' these days is all in the movies. I was ridin' for a film company
when your old man lassoed me for this job. Never know when you're well
off--huh? I thought there wouldn't be nothin' to do but grub pile three
times a day and the old man's cheroots in between. And here I be now,
ridin' along with a bunch of pirates! Whata you know about that? And some
of them nice boys, too. If they were riff-raff, barroom bums, I could get
a line on it. But I'll have to pass the buck."

"You haven't got an extra gun anywhere, have you?"

"We'd be headin' east if I had"--grimly. "I'd have pared down the odds
this mornin'. That hombre with the hop-a-long didn't leave me a quill
toothpick. Was you thinkin' of startin' somethin'?"--hopefully.

"No, but I'd feel more comfortable if Miss Norman could carry a gun."

"Uh-huh. Say, she's all right. No hysterics. Ain't many of 'em that
wouldn't 'a' been snivellin' all day and night in her bunk. Been listenin'
to her readin'. Gee, you'd think we were floatin' round this codfish lake
just for the fun of it! She won't run to cover if a bust-up comes. None
whatever! And I bet she can cook, too. Them kind can always cook."

Conversation lapsed.

Below, Jane was passing through an unusual experience.

Said Cleigh at the start: "I'm going to show you the paintings--there are
fourteen in all. I will tell you the history of each. And above all,
please bear in mind the price of each picture."

"I'll remember."

But she thought the request an odd one, coming from the man as she knew
him.

Most of the treasures were in his own spacious cabin. There was a
Napoleonic corner--a Meissonier on one side and a Detaille on the other.
In a stationary cabinet there were a pair of stirrups, a riding crop, a
book on artillery tactics, a pair of slippers beaded with seed pearls, and
a buckle studded with sapphires.

"What are those?" she asked, attracted.

"They belonged to the Emperor and his first Empress."

"Napoleon?"

"The Corsican. Next to the masters, I've a passion for things genuinely
Napoleonic. The hussar is by Meissonier and the skirmish by Detaille."

"How much is this corner worth?"

"I can't say, except that I would not part with those objects for a
hundred thousand; and there are friends of mine who would pay half that
sum for them--behind my back. This is a Da Vinci."

Half an hour passed. Jane honestly tried to be thrilled by the splendour
of the names she heard, but her eye was always travelling back toward the
slippers and the buckle. The Empress Josephine! Romance and gallantry in
the old, old days!

"The painting in your cabin is by Holbein. It cost me sixteen thousand.
Now let us go out and look at the rug. That is the apple of my eye. It is
the second finest example of the animal rug in the world. A sheet of pure
gold, half an inch thick, covering the rug from end to end, would not
equal its worth."

Jane admired the rug, but she would have preferred the gold. Her sense of
the beautiful was alive, but there was always in her mind the genteel
poverty of the past. She was beginning to understand. To go in quest of
the beautiful required an unlimited purse and an endless leisure; and she
would have never the one nor the other.

"How much gold would that be?" she inquired, na√Øvely.

"Nearly eighty thousand. Have you kept in mind the sums I have given
you?"

"Yes. Let me see--good heavens, a quarter of a million! But why do you
carry them about like this?"

"Because I'm something of a rogue myself. I could not enjoy the rug and
the paintings except on board. The French, the Italian, and the Spanish
governments could confiscate every solitary painting except the Meissonier
and the Detaille, for the simple reason that they were stolen. Oh, I did
not steal them myself; I merely purchased them with one eye shut. If I
hadn't bought them they would have gone to some other collector. Do you
get a glimmer of the truth now?"

"The truth?"--perplexedly.

"Yes--where Cunningham will get his pearls?"--bitterly.

"Oh!"

"And I could not touch him. A quarter of a million! And with his knowledge
of the secret marts he could easily dispose of them. Worth a bold stroke,
eh?"

"But how will he get them off the yacht--transship them?"

Her faith in Cunningham began to waver. A quarter of a million! The
thought was as bells in her ears.

"Of the outside issues I have no inkling. But I have shown you his
pearls."

"But the crew! Certainly they will not return to any port with us. And why
should he lie to me? There is no reason in the world why he shouldn't
have told me, if he had committed piracy to obtain your paintings. And he
was poring over maps."

"Some tramp is probably going to pick him up. He's ordered us away from
the wireless. Cunningham must have his joke, so he is beguiling you with
twaddle about hunting pearls. He is robbing me of my treasures, and I
can't strike back on that count. But I can land him in prison on the count
of piracy; and by the Lord Harry, I'll do it if it takes my last dollar!
He'll rue this adventure, or they call me Tungsten for nothing!"

"I wanted so to believe in him!"

"Not difficult to understand why. He has a silver tongue and a face like
John the Baptist--del Sarto's--and you are romantic. The picture of him
has enlisted your sympathies. You are filled with pity that he should be
so richly endowed, facially and mentally, and to be a cripple such as
children laugh over."

"Have you never considered what mental anguish must be the portion of a
man whose body is twisted as his is? I know. So I pity him profoundly,
even if he is a rogue. That's all I was born for--to pity and to bind up.
And I pity you, Mr. Cleigh, you who have walled your heart in granite."

"You're plain-spoken, young lady."

"Yes, certain sick minds need plain speaking."

"Then my mind is sick?"

"Yes."

"And only a little while gone it was romantic!"

"Two hundred million hands begging for bread, and you crossing the world
for a string of glass beads whose value is only sentimental!"

"I can't let that pass, Miss Norman. I have trusted lieutenants who attend
to my charities. I'm not a miser."

"You are, with the greatest thing in the world--human love."

"Shall a man give it where it is not wanted? But enough of this talk. I
have shown you Cunningham's pearls."

"Perhaps."

                   *       *       *       *       *

Night and wheeling stars. It was stuffy in the crew's quarters. Half
naked, the men lolled about, some in their bunks, some on the floor. The
orders were that none should sleep on deck during the voyage to the
Catwick.

"All because the old man brings a skirt on board, we have to sweat blood
in the forepeak!" growled Flint. "We've got a right to a little sport."

"Sure we have!"

The speaker was sitting on the edge of his bunk. He was a fine specimen
of young manhood, with a pleasant, rollicking Irish countenance. He looked
as if he had been brought up clean and had carried his cleanliness into
the world. The blue anchor and love birds on his formidable forearms
proclaimed him a deep-sea man. It was he who had given Dennison the shirt
and the ducks.

"Sure, we have a right to a little sport! But why call in the undertaker
to help us out? You poor fish, all the way from San Francisco you've been
grousing because shore leaves weren't long enough for you to get prime
soused in. What's two months in our young lives?"

"I've always been free to do as I liked."

"You look it! I'll say so! The chief laid down the rules of this game, and
we all took oath to follow those rules. The trouble with you is, you've
been reading dime novels. Where do you think you are--raiding the Spanish
Main? There's every chance of our coming out top hole, as those
lime-juicers say, with oodles of dough and a whole skin."

"Say, don't I know this Sulu game? I tell you, if he does find his atoll
there won't be any shell. Not a chance in a hundred! Somebody's been
giving him a song and dance. As I get the dope, some pearl-hunting friend
of his croaks and leaves him this chart. Old stuff! I bet a million boobs
have croaked trying to locate the red cross on a chart."

"Why the devil did you sign on, then?"

"I wanted a little fun, and I'm going to have it. There's champagne and
Napoleon brandy in the dry-stores. Wouldn't hurt us to have a little of
it. If we've got to go to jail we might as well go lit up."

"Flint, you talk too much," said a voice from the doorway. It was
Cunningham's. He leaned carelessly against the jamb. The crew fell silent
and motionless. "Boys, you've heard Hennessy. Play it my way and you'll
wear diamonds; mess it up and you'll all wear hemp. The world will forgive
us when it finds out we've only made it laugh." Cunningham strolled over
to Flint, who rose to his feet. "Flint, I want that crimp-house whisky
you've been swigging on the sly. No back talk! Hand it over!"

"And if I don't?" said Flint, his jaw jutting.




CHAPTER XVII


Cunningham did not answer immediately. From Flint his glance went roving
from man to man, as if trying to read what they expected of him.

"Flint, you were recommended to me for your knowledge of the Sulu lingo.
We'll need a crew of divers, and we'll have to pick them up secretly.
That's your job. It's your only job outside doing your watch with the
shovel below. Somehow you've got the wrong idea. You think this is a
junket of the oil-lamp period. All wrong! You don't know me, and that's a
pity; because if you did know something about me you'd walk carefully.
When we're off this yacht, I don't say. If you want what old-timers used
to call their pannikin of rum, you'll be welcome to it. But on board the
Wanderer, nothing doing. Get your duffel out. I'll have a look at it."

"Get it yourself," said Flint.

Cunningham appeared small and boyish beside the ex-beachcomber.

"I'm speaking to you decently, Flint, when I ought to bash in your head."

The tone was gentle and level.

"Why don't you try it?"

The expectant men thereupon witnessed a feat that was not only deadly in
its precision but oddly grotesque. Cunningham's right hand flew out with
the sinister quickness of a cobra's strike, and he had Flint's brawny
wrist in grip. He danced about, twisted and lurched until he came to an
abrupt stop behind Flint's back. Flint's mouth began to bend at the
corners--a grimace.

"You'll break it yourself, Flint, if you move another inch," said
Cunningham, nonchalantly. "This is the gentlest trick I have in the bag.
Cut out the booze until we're off this yacht. Be a good sport and play the
game according to contract. I don't like these side shows. But you wanted
me to show you. Want to call it off?"

Sweat began to bead Flint's forehead. He was straining every muscle in his
body to minimize that inexorable turning of his elbow and shoulder.

"The stuff is in Number Two bunker," he said, with a ghastly grin. "I'll
chuck it over."

"There, now!" Cunningham stepped back. "I might have made it your neck.
But I'm patient, because I want this part of the game to go through
according to schedule. When I turn back this yacht I want nothing missing
but the meals I've had."

Flint rubbed his arm, scowling, and walked over to his bunk.

"Boys," said Cunningham, "so far you've been bricks. Shortly we'll be
heading southeast on our own. Wherever I am known, men will tell you that
I never break my word. I promised you that we'd come through with clean
heels. Something has happened which we could not forestall. There is a
woman on board. It is not necessary to say that she is under my
protection."

He clumped out into the passage.

"Well, say!" burst out the young sailor named Hennessy. "I'm a tough guy,
but I couldn't have turned that trick. Hey, you! If you've got any hooch
in the coal bunkers, heave it over. I'm telling you! These soft-spoken
guys are the kind I lay off, believe you me! I've seen all kinds, and I
know."

"Did they kick you out of the Navy?" snarled Flint.

"Say, are you asking me to do it?" flared the Irishman. "You poor boob,
you'd be in the sick bay if there hadn't been a lady on board."

"A lady?"

"I said a lady! Stand up, you scut!"

But Flint rolled into his bunk and turned his face to the partition.

Cunningham leaned against the port rail. These bursts of fury always left
him depressed. He was not a fighting man at all and fate was always
flinging him into physical contests. He might have killed the fool: he had
been in a killing mood. He was tired. Somehow the punch was gone from the
affair, the thrill. Why should that be?

For years he had been planning something like this, and then to have it
taste like stale wine! Vaguely he knew that he had made a discovery. The
girl! If he were poring over his chart, his glance would drift away; if he
were reading, the printed page had a peculiar way of vanishing. Of course
it was all nonsense. But that night in Shanghai something had drawn him
irresistibly to young Cleigh's table. It might have been the colour of her
hair. At any rate, he hadn't noticed the beads until he had spoken to
young Cleigh.

Glass beads! Queer twist. A little trinket, worthless except for
sentimental reasons, throwing these lives together. Of course an oil would
have lured the elder Cleigh across the Pacific quite as successfully. The
old chap had been particularly keen for a sea voyage after having been
cooped up for four years. But in the event of baiting the trap with a
painting neither the girl nor the son would have been on board. And Flint
could have had his noggin without anybody disturbing him, even if the
contract read otherwise.

Law-abiding pirates! How the world would chuckle if the yarn ever reached
the newspapers! He had Cleigh in the hollow of his hand. In fancy he saw
Cleigh placing his grievance with the British Admiralty. He could imagine
the conversation, too.

"They returned the yacht in perfect condition?"

"Yes."

"Did they steal anything?"

Cunningham could positively see Cleigh's jowls redden as he shook his head
to the query.

"Sorry. You can't expect us to waste coal hunting for a scoundrel who only
borrowed your yacht."

But what was the row between Cleigh and his son? That was a puzzler. Not a
word! They ignored each other absolutely. These dinners were queer games,
to be sure. All three men spoke to the girl, but neither of the Cleighs
spoke to him or to each other. A string of glass beads!

What about himself? What had caused his exuberance to die away, his
enthusiasm to grow dim? Why, a month gone he would burst into such gales
of laughter that his eyes would fill with tears at the thought of this
hour! And the wine tasted flat. The greatest sea joke of the age, and he
couldn't boil up over it any more!

Love? He had burnt himself out long ago. But had it been love? Rather had
it not been a series of false dawns? To a weepy-waily woman he would have
offered the same courtesies, but she would not have drawn his thoughts in
any manner. And this one kept entering his thoughts at all times. That
would be a joke, wouldn't it? At this day to feel the scorch of genuine
passion!

To dig a pit for Cleigh and to stumble into another himself! In setting
this petard he hadn't got out of range quickly enough. His sense of humour
was so keen that he laughed aloud, with a gesture which invited the gods
to join him.

Jane, who had been watching the solitary figure from the corner of the
deck house and wondering who it was, recognized the voice. The cabin had
been stuffy, her own mental confusion had driven sleep away, so she had
stolen on deck for the purpose of viewing the splendours of the Oriental
night. The stars that seemed so near, so soft; the sea that tossed their
reflections hither and yon, or spun a star magically into a silver thread
and immediately rolled it up again; the brilliant electric blue of the
phosphorescence and the flash of flying fish or a porpoise that ought to
have been home and in bed.

She hesitated. She was puzzled. She was not afraid of him--the puzzle lay
somewhere else. She was a little afraid of herself. She was afraid of
anything that could not immediately be translated into ordinary terms of
expression. The man frankly wakened her pity. He seemed as lonely as the
sea itself. Slue-Foot! And somewhere a woman had laughed at him. Perhaps
that had changed everything, made him what he was.

She wondered if she would ever be able to return to the shell out of which
the ironic humour of chance had thrust her. Wondered if she could pick up
again philosophically the threads of dull routine. Jane Norman, gliding
over this mysterious southern sea, a lone woman among strong and reckless
men! Piracy! Pearls! Rugs and paintings worth a quarter of a million!
Romance!

Did she want it to last? Did she want romance all the rest of her days?
What was this thing within her that was striving for expression? For what
was she hunting? What worried her and put fear into her heart was the
knowledge that she did not know what she wanted. From all directions came
questions she could not answer.

Was she in love? If so, where was the fire that should attend? Was it
Denny--or yonder riddle? She felt contented with Denny, but Cunningham's
presence seemed to tear into unexplored corners of her heart and brain.
If she were in love with Denny, why didn't she thrill when he approached?
There was only a sense of security, contentment.

The idea of racing round the world romantically with Denny struck her as
absurd. Equally contrary to reason was the picture of herself and
Cunningham sitting before a wood fire. What was the matter with Jane
Norman?

There was one bar of light piercing the fog. She knew now why she had
permitted Cleigh to abduct her. To bring about a reconciliation between
father and son. And apparently there was as much chance as of east meeting
west. She walked over to the rail and joined Cunningham.

"You?" he said.

"The cabin was stuffy. I couldn't sleep."

"I wonder."

"About what?"

"If there isn't a wild streak in you that corresponds with mine. You fall
into the picture naturally--curious and unafraid."

"Why should I be afraid, and why shouldn't I be curious?"

"The greatest honour a woman ever paid me. I mean that you shouldn't be
afraid of me when everything should warn you to give me plenty of sea
room."

"I know more about men than I do about women."

"And I know too much about both."

"There have been other women--besides the one who laughed?"

"Yes. Perhaps I was cruel enough to make them pay for that.

         "'Funny an' yellow an' faithful--
         Doll in a teacup she were,
         But we lived on the square, like a true-married pair,
         An' I learned about women from 'er!'

"But I wonder what would have happened if it had been a woman like you
instead of the one who laughed."

"I shouldn't have laughed."

"This damned face of mine!"

"You mustn't say that! Why not try to make over your soul to match it?"

"How is that done?"

The irony was so gentle that she fell silent for a space.

"Are you going to take Mr. Cleigh's paintings when you leave us?"

"My dear young lady, all I have left to be proud of is my word. I give it
to you that I am going after pearls. It may sound crazy, but I can't help
that. I am realizing a dream. I'm something of a fatalist--I've had to
be. I've always reasoned that if I could make the dream come true--this
dream of pearls--I'd have a chance to turn over a new leaf. I've had to
commit acts at times that were against my nature, my instincts. I've had
to be cruel and terrible, because men would not believe a pretty man could
be a strong one. Do you understand? I have been forced to cruel deeds
because men would not credit a man's heart behind a woman's face. I
possess tremendous nervous energy. That's the principal curse. I can't sit
still; I can't remain long anywhere; I must go, go, go! Like the Wandering
Jew, Ishmael."

"Do you know what Ishmael means?"

"No. What?"

"'God heareth.' Have you ever asked Him for anything?"

"No. Why should I, since He gave me this withered leg? Please don't preach
to me."

"I won't, then. But I'm terribly sorry."

"Of course you are. But--don't become too sorry. I might want to carry you
off to my atoll."

"If you took me away with you by force, I'd hate you and you'd hate
yourself. But you won't do anything like that."

"What makes you believe so?"

"I don't know why, but I do believe it."

"To be trusted by a woman, a good woman! I'll tell that to the stars. Tell
me about yourself--what you did and how you lived before you came this
side."

It was not a long story, and he nodded from time to time understandingly.
Genteel poverty, a life of scrimp and pare--the cage. Romance--a flash of
it--and she would return to the old life quite satisfied. Peace, a stormy
interlude; then peace again indefinitely. It came to him that he wanted
the respect of this young woman for always. But the malice that was ever
bubbling up to his tongue and finding speech awoke.

"Suppose I find my pearls--and then come back for you? Romance and
adventure! These warm stars always above us at night; the brilliant days;
the voyages from isle to isle; palms and gay parrakeets, cocoanuts and
mangosteens--and let the world go hang!"

She did not reply, but she moved a little away. He waited for a minute,
then laughed softly.

"My dear young lady, this is the interlude you've always been longing for.
Fate has popped you out of the normal for a few days, and presently she'll
pop you back into it. Some day you'll marry and have children; you'll sink
into the rut of monotony again and not be conscious of it. On winter
nights, before the fire, when the children have been put to bed, your man
buried behind his evening paper, you will recall Slue-Foot and the
interlude and be happy over it. You'll hug and cuddle it to your heart
secretly. A poignant craving in your life had been satisfied. Kidnapped by
pirates, under Oriental stars! Fifteen men on a dead man's chest--yo-ho,
and a bottle of rum! A glorious adventure, with three meals the day and
grand opera on the phonograph. Shades of Gilbert and Sullivan! And you
will always be wondering whether the pirate made love to you in jest or in
earnest--and he'll always be wondering, too!"

Cunningham turned away abruptly and clumped toward the bridge ladder,
which he mounted.

For some inexplicable reason her heart became filled with wild resentment
against him. Mocking her, when she had only offered him kindness! She
clung to the idea of mockery because it was the only tangible thing she
could pluck from her confusion. Thus when she began the descent of the
companionway and ran into Dennison coming up her mood was not receptive to
reproaches.

"Where have you been?" he demanded.

"Watching the stars and the phosphorescence. I could not sleep."

"Alone?"

"No. Mr. Cunningham was with me."

"I warned you to keep away from that scoundrel!"

"How dare you use that tone to me? Have you any right to tell me what I
shall and shall not do?" she stormed at him. "I've got to talk to someone.
You go about in one perpetual gloom. I purpose to see and talk to
Cunningham as often as I please. At least he amuses me."

With this she rushed past him and on to her cabin, the door of which she
closed with such emphasis that it was heard all over the yacht--so sharp
was the report that both Cleigh and Dodge awoke and sat up, half convinced
that they had heard a pistol shot!

Jane sat down on her bed, still furious. After a while she was able to
understand something of this fury. The world was upside down, wrong end
to. Dennison, not Cunningham, should have acted the debonair, the
nonchalant. Before this adventure began he had been witty, amusing,
companionable; now he was as interesting as a bump on a log. At table he
was only a poor counterfeit of his father, whose silence was maintained
admirably, at all times impressively dignified. Whereas at each encounter
Dennison played directly into Cunningham's hands, and the latter was too
much the banterer not to make the most of these episodes.

What if he was worried? Hadn't she more cause to worry than any one else?
For all that, she did not purpose to hide behind the barricaded door of
her cabin. If there was a tragedy in the offing it would not fall less
heavily because one approached it with melancholy countenance.

Heaven knew that she was no infant as regarded men! In the six years of
hospital work she had come into contact with all sorts and conditions of
men. Cunningham might be the greatest scoundrel unhung, but so far as she
was concerned she need have no fear. This knowledge was instinctive.

But when her cheek touched the pillow she began to cry softly. She was so
terribly lonely!




CHAPTER XVIII


The space through which Jane had passed held Dennison's gaze for two or
three minutes. Then he sat down on the companionway step, his arms across
his knees and his forehead upon his arms. What to say? What to do? She
expected him to be amusing!--when he knew that the calm on board was of
the same deceptive quality as that of the sea--below, the terror!

It did not matter that the crew was of high average. They would not be
playing such a game unless they were a reckless lot. At any moment they
might take it into their heads to swarm over Cunningham and obliterate
him. Then what? If the episode of the morning had not convinced Jane, what
would? The man Flint had dropped his mask; the others were content to wear
theirs yet awhile. Torture for her sake, the fear of what might actually
be in store for her, and she expected him to talk and act like a chap out
of a novel!

Ordinarily so full of common sense, what had happened to her that her
vision should become so obscured as not to recognize the danger of the
man? Had he been ugly, Jane would probably have ignored him. But that face
of his, as handsome as a Greek god's, and that tongue with its roots in
oil! And there was his deformity--that had drawn her pity. Playing with
her, and she deliberately walked into the trap because he was amusing! Why
shouldn't he be, knowing that he held their lives in the hollow of his
hand? What imp of Satan wouldn't have been amiable?

Because the rogues did not run up the skull and crossbones; because they
did not swagger up and down the deck, knives and pistols in their sashes,
she couldn't be made to believe them criminals!

Amusing! She could not see that if he spoke roughly it was only an
expression of the smothered pain of his mental crucifixion. He could not
tell her he loved her for fear she might misinterpret her own sentiments.
Besides, her present mood was not inductive to any declaration on his
part; a confession might serve only to widen the breach. Who could say
that it wasn't Cunningham's game to take Jane along with him in the end?
There was nothing to prevent that. His father holding aloof, the loyal
members of the crew in a most certain negligible minority, what was there
to prevent Cunningham from carrying off Jane?

Blood surged into Dennison's throat; a murderous fury boiled up in him;
but he remembered in time what these volcanic outbursts had cost him in
the past. So he did not rush to the chart house. Cunningham would lash him
with ridicule or be forced to shoot him. But his rage carried him as far
as the wireless room. He could hear the smack of the spark, but that was
all. He tried the door--locked. He tried the shutters--latched.
Cunningham's man was either calling or answering somebody. Ten minutes
inside that room and there would be another tale to tell.

In the end Dennison spent his fury by travelling round the deck until the
sea and sky became like pearly smoke. Then he dropped into a chair and
fell asleep.

Cunningham had also watched through the night. The silent steersman heard
him frequently rustling papers on the chart table or clumping to the
bridge or lolling on the port sills--a restlessness that had about it
something of the captive tiger.

Retrospection--he could not break the crowding spell of it, twist mentally
as he would; and the counter-thought was dimly suicidal. The sea there; a
few strides would carry him to the end of the bridge, and then--oblivion.
And the girl would not permit him to enact this thought. He laughed. God
had mocked him at his birth, and the devil had played with him ever
since. He had often faced death hotly and hopefully, but to consider
suicide coldly!

A woman who had crossed his path reluctantly, without will of her own; the
sort he had always ignored because they had been born for the peace of
chimney corners! She--the thought of her--could bring the past crowding
upon him and create in his mind a suicidal bent!

Pearls! A great distaste of life fell upon him; the adventure grew flat.
The zest that had been his ten days gone, where was it?

Imagination! He had been cursed with too much of it. In his youth he had
skulked through alleys and back streets--the fear of laughter and ridicule
dogging his mixed heels. Never before to have paused to philosophize over
what had caused his wasted life! Too much imagination! Mental strabismus!
He had let his over-sensitive imagination wreck and ruin him. A woman's
laughter had given him the viewpoint of a careless world; and he had fled,
and he had gone on fleeing all these years from pillar to post. From a
shadow!

He was something of a monster. He saw now where the fault lay. He had
never stayed long enough in any one place for people to get accustomed to
him. His damnable imagination! And there was conceit of a sort. Probably
nobody paid any attention to him after the initial shock and curiosity
had died away. There was Scarron in his wheel chair--merry and cheerful
and brave, jesting with misfortune; and men and women had loved him.

A moral coward, and until this hour he had never sensed the truth! That
was it! He had been a moral coward; he had tried to run away from fate;
and here he was at last, in the blind alley the coward always found at the
end of the run. He had never thought of anything but what he was--never of
what he might have been. For having thrust him unfinished upon a
