
"You are really in earnest?"

"Undoubtedly. Go and select a public square from any of my
unappropriated land on the west side of the city, and I will pass you
the title, as a free gift, to-morrow, and feel pleasure in doing so."

"That is public spirit," said the councilman.

"Call it what you will. I am pleased in making the offer."

Now, let it not be supposed that Mr. Jones was shrewdly calculating the
advantage which would result to him from having a park at the west side
of the city. No such thought had yet entered his mind. He spoke from
the impulse of a generous feeling.

Time passed on, and the session-day of the council came round--a day to
which Smith had looked forward with no ordinary feelings of interest,
that were touched, at times, by the coldness of doubt and the agitation
of uncertainty. Several times he had more than half repented of his
refusal to accept the liberal offer of five thousand dollars, and of
having fixed so positively upon six thousand as the "lowest figure."

The morning of the day passed, and Smith began to grow uneasy. He did
not venture to seek for information as to the doings of the council,
for that would be to expose the anxiety he felt in the result of their
deliberations. Slowly the afternoon wore away, and it so happened that
Smith did not meet any one of the councilmen; nor did he even know
whether the council was still in session or not. As to making allusion
to the subject of his anxious interest to any one, that was carefully
avoided; for he knew that his exorbitant demand was the town talk--and
he wished to affect the most perfect indifference on the subject.

The day closed, and not a whisper about the town-lot had come to the
ears of Mr. Smith. What could it mean? Had his offer to sell at six
thousand been rejected? The very thought caused his heart to grow heavy
in his bosom. Six, seven, eight o'clock came, and still it was all dark
with Mr. Smith. He could bear the suspense no longer, and so determined
to call upon his neighbour Wilson, who was a member of the council, and
learn from him what had been done.

So he called on Mr. Wilson.

"Ah, friend Smith," said the latter, "how are you, this evening?"

"Well, I thank you," returned Smith, feeling a certain oppression of
the chest. "How are you?"

"Oh, very well."

Here, then, was a pause. After which, Smith said--

"About that ground of mine? What did you do?"

"Nothing," replied Wilson, coldly.

"Nothing, did you say?" Smith's voice was a little husky.

"No. You declined our offer;--or, rather, the high price fixed by
yourself upon the land."

"You refused to buy it at five thousand when it was offered," said
Smith.

"I know we did, because your demand was exorbitant."

"Oh, no, not at all," returned Smith, quickly.

"In that we only differ," said Wilson. "However, the council has
decided not to pay you the price you ask."

"Unanimously?"

"There was not a dissenting voice."

Smith began to feel more and more uncomfortable.

"I might take something less," he ventured to say, in a low, hesitating
voice.

"It is too late now," was Mr. Wilson's prompt reply.

"Too late! How so?"

"We have procured a lot."

"Mr. Wilson!" Poor Smith started to his feet in chagrin and
astonishment.

"Yes; we have taken one of Jones's lots, on the west side of the city.
A beautiful ten-acre lot."

"You have!" Smith was actually pale.

"We have; and the title-deeds are now being made out."

It was some time before Smith had sufficiently recovered from the
stunning effect of this unlooked-for intelligence, to make the inquiry--

"And pray how much did Jones ask for his ten-acre lot?"

"He presented it to the city as a gift," replied the councilman.

"A gift! What folly!"

"No, not folly--but true worldly wisdom; though I believe Jones did not
think of advantage to himself when he generously made the offer. He is
worth twenty thousand dollars more to-day than he was yesterday, in the
simple advanced value of his land for building-lots. And I know of no
man in this town whose good fortune affects me with more pleasure."

Smith stole back to his home with a mountain of disappointment on his
heart. In his cupidity, he had entirely overreached himself, and he saw
that the consequences were to react upon all his future prosperity. The
public square at the west end of the town would draw improvements in
that direction all the while increasing the wealth of Mr. Jones, while
lots in the north end would remain at present prices, or, it might be,
take a downward range.

And so it proved. In ten years, Jones was the richest man in the town,
while half of Smith's property had been sold for taxes. The five-acre
lot passed from his hands, under the hammer, in the foreclosure of a
mortgage, for one thousand dollars!

Thus it is that inordinate selfishness and cupidity overreach
themselves; while the liberal man deviseth liberal things, and is
sustained thereby.




HE MUST HAVE MEANT ME.


"HOW do you like our new preacher?" was asked by one member of another,
as they walked home from church.

"Only so so," was replied.

"He cuts close," remarked the first speaker.

"Yes, a little too close."

"I don't know about that. I like to see the truth brought home to the
heart and conscience."

"So do I. But I object to personality."

"Personality!"

"Yes; I object to personality."

So does every one. Was Mr. C-- personal?"

"I think so."

"That's hardly possible. He only arrived last week, and has not yet had
time to become familiar with facts in the life of any one here.
Moreover, a personal allusion in a first sermon, by a stranger, is
something so out of place and indelicate, that I cannot for a moment
believe that your inference is correct."

"While I have the best of reasons for believing that I complain of him
justly. He's been long enough here to visit a certain family, fond of
tittle-tattle, that I could name."

"The Harrisons?"

"Yes."

"I hope you are mistaken."

"No; I am not mistaken. C-- was personal, and distinctly so. And the
Harrisons are at the bottom of the matter. To say the least, he has
acted in very bad taste. Charity should have prompted him to wait until
he could have heard both sides of the story."

"I agree with you, fully, if your allegation be correct. But I must
hope that you are in error."

"No. I have the best of reasons for what I allege."

"To whom did the personality apply?"

"To myself, if the truth must be spoken."

"Is it possible?"

"Yes--to myself."

"That places the matter in rather a serious light, Mr. Grant."

"It does. And I think I have reason to complain."

"You ought to be certain about this matter."

"I'm certain enough. When a man treads on your toe, you are likely to
know it."

"It is barely possible that Mr. C-- did not intend to designate you, or
any one, in what he said."

"He must have meant me," replied Mr. Grant, with emphasis. "He
couldn't have said what he did, unless he had been informed of certain
things that have happened in this town. Had he not visited the
Harrisons, I might have doubted. But that fact places the thing beyond
a question."

"In what did the personality consist?"

"Did you not observe it?"

"No."

"Indeed!"

"I perceived no allusion to any one."

"There are plenty of others, no doubt, who did. I don't care to speak
of it just now. But you'll hear about it. I noticed three or four turn
and look at me while he was speaking. It will be a pleasant piece of
gossip; but if Mr. C-- doesn't take care, I'll make this place too hot
to hold him. I'm not the one to be set up as a target for any
whipper-snapper to fire at."

"Don't get excited, friend Grant. Wait awhile. I still think there is
some mistake."

"I beg your pardon; there is no mistake about it. He meant me. Don't I
know? Can't I tell when a man points his finger at me in a public
assembly?"

In his opinion, Mr. Grant was still further confirmed, ere he reached
his home, by the peculiar way in which sundry members of the
congregation looked at him. Of course, he was considerably disturbed on
the subject; and felt a reasonable share of indignation. In the
evening, he declined attending worship as an indication of his feelings
on the subject; and he doubted not that the new preacher would note his
absence and understand the cause.

About a year prior to this time, Mr. Grant, who was a manufacturing
jeweller, was called upon by a gentleman, who desired him to make a
solid gold wedding-ring. It was to be of the finest quality that could
be worked, and to be unusually heavy. When the price was mentioned, the
gentleman objected to it as high.

"Your neighbour, over the way," said the gentleman, "will make it for a
dollar less than you ask."

"Not of solid gold," replied Mr. Grant.

"Oh, yes. I would have no other."

Mr. Grant knew that the ring could not be made of fine, solid gold, for
the price his neighbour had agreed to take. And he knew, also, that in
manufacturing it, his neighbour, if he took the order, would fill up
the centre of the ring with solder--a common practice. On the spur of
the moment, he determined to do the same thing, and therefore replied--

"Well, I suppose I must work as low as he does."

"The ring must be of solid gold, remember. I will have no other."

"That's understood, of course," replied the jeweller; adding to
himself, "as solid as any one makes them."

The ring was manufactured at a reasonable profit, and the man got the
full worth of his money; but not of solid gold. Silver solder composed
the centre. But as the baser metal could not be detected by simple
inspection or weighing, Mr. Grant felt secure in the cheat he had
practised; and, quieted his conscience by assuming that he had given a
full equivalent for the money received.

"He's just as well off as he would have been if he had gone to my
neighbour over the way, as he called him," said he to himself, in the
effort to quiet certain unpleasant sensations. "To suppose that he was
going to get a solid ring at such a price! Does he think we jewellers
steal our gold? Men will be humbugged, and there is no help for it."

Yet, for all this, Mr. Grant could not cast out the unpleasant feeling.
He had done a thing so clearly wrong, that no attempt at
self-justification gave his mind its former calmness.

"The ring is solid gold?" said the man, when he came for it.

"That was the contract," replied Mr. Grant, with a half-offended air,
at the intimation conveyed in the tone of voice, that all might not be
as agreed upon.

"Excuse me," remarked the man, apologetically; "but I am very
particular about this matter, and would throw the ring into the street
rather than use it, if not of solid gold."

"Gold rings are not given away," muttered Grant to himself, as the man
left the shop.

Some days after this transaction, a man named Harrison, who belonged to
the church of which Grant was a member, met him, when this little
conversation took place.

"I sent you a customer last week," said Mr. Harrison.

"Ah! I'm very much obliged to you."

"A gentleman who wanted a gold ring. He asked me to give him the name
of a jeweller upon whom he could depend. The ring, he said, must be
solid, for a particular reason; and, as he was a stranger, he did not
know who was to be trusted. I told him I would guaranty you for an
honest man. That if you undertook to manufacture any article for him,
he might rely upon its being done according to agreement."

While Harrison was uttering this undeserved compliment, it was with the
utmost difficulty that Mr. Grant could keep the tell-tale blood from
rushing to his face.

"He showed me the ring," continued Mr. Harrison. "It is a very handsome
one."

"Was he satisfied with it?" asked Mr. Grant.

"Not fully."

"Why so?"

"He was afraid it might not be solid. In fact, so anxious was he on
this point, that he took the ring to your neighbour, over the way, to
get his opinion about it."

As Mr. Harrison said this, Grant was conscious that a betrayal of the
truth was on his countenance.

"And, of course, Martin said the ring was not solid."

"No, he did not exactly say that. I went with the gentleman, at his
request. Martin weighed the ring, and, after doing so, simply stated
that gold of the quality of which the ring was made was worth a certain
price per pennyweight. By multiplying the number of pennyweights
contained in the ring with the price mentioned, he showed that you
either lost one dollar on the ring, or filled the centre with some
baser metal."

"Well?" The blood had, by this time, risen to the very brow of the
jeweller.

"'Cut the ring,' said my friend. It was done, and, to my mortification
and astonishment, it proved to be even as he had said. The ring was not
solid!"

For some moments, Mr. Grant hung his head in painful confusion. Then,
looking up, he said--

"It was his own fault."

"How so?" was inquired.

"He would not pay the price for a solid ring, and I could not give him
my work for nothing."

"Did you ask him a fair price?"

"Yes; and he answered, that my neighbour over the way had offered to
make him a solid ring, for just one dollar less. I knew exactly what
kind of a ring Martin could and would furnish for that money, and made
him one just like it. I gave him his money's worth, and a little over.
He was not cheated."

"But he was deceived. How you could have done such a thing, brother
Grant, is more than I can understand."

"I had to do it in self-defence; and this very Martin, who has been so
ready to expose the little deception, made the act necessary."

"I'm sorry you should have done so. It was wrong," said Mr. Harrison.

"I'm ready to acknowledge that. But it's too late, now, to repair the
error. I wish I'd had nothing to do with the matter."

"So do I," remarked Harrison.

This fretted the mind of Grant, and he replied, rather impatiently--

"Hereafter, I hope you'll send all customers of this kind to Martin.
Dear knows, I don't want them!"

"I shall certainly be careful in this matter," coldly replied Harrison,
and bowing formally, as he spoke, turned away, and left Grant in no
very pleasant frame of mind. From that time there was a coldness
between the two church members.

When Grant went to church on the next Sabbath, he noticed, as he
approached the meeting-house door, Harrison standing in close
conversation with one or two prominent members. As he approached, they
looked toward him in a certain way that he did not like, and then,
separating, entered the house before he came up. It was too evident
that Harrison had been communicating the incident of the ring. But
Grant was not surprised; he had expected nothing less. Still, he felt
that his brother member had not done towards him in the matter as he
would have liked himself done by. On entering the church, half a dozen
persons turned and looked at him earnestly; while two or three
whispered together, glancing towards him every now and then, and thus
showing that he was the subject of conversation. As to the theme of
discourse between them, his mind was in no doubt. The gold ring! Yes,
that was it.

But little edified by the sermon was Mr. Grant on that morning; and,
when the services were ended, he went quickly from the church, and took
his way homeward without stopping, as on former occasions, to shake
hands and pass a few words with friends and brethren.

It had been the custom of several leading members of the church to drop
in occasionally, during the week, and chat with Grant for ten minutes
or half an hour. But the time from Sunday to Sunday was passed without
a single call from any one of them. The reason for this was no mystery
to the jeweller's mind.

"I don't see that I've been guilty of such a terrible crime," said he
to himself, feeling a little indignant on the subject. "The man got his
money's worth; and, moreover, was served perfectly right. Did he
suppose that he was going to get fine gold for the price of solder? If
so, he found himself mistaken. As for Harrison, he's made himself
remarkably busy about the matter. I would not trust him in a similar
case. But it is so pleasant to discourse on evil in our neighbour. So
very pleasant! The good he does is left to find its own way to the
light as best it can; but let him commit a mistake or make a single
false step, and it is preached from house-top."

When Grant and Harrison met, there was a mutual reserve and coldness.

"He is conscious, I am aware, of his wrong dealing," said the latter to
himself, "and therefore shuns me."

"He is aware that he has tried to injure me," said the former, "and
cannot, therefore, meet me as of old."

Two or three weeks passed before the friends who used to drop in to see
him almost every day showed themselves in his shop, and then there was
a too evident change of manner. They appeared distant and reserved, and
he met them with a like exterior. His pride was touched.

"Just as they like," he said to himself. "I can get on without them. I
presume, if all our hearts were laid open, mine would be found quite as
good as theirs. As for Perkins and Marvel, they needn't set themselves
up over me. I think I know them. Men who cut as close as they do in
dealing, generally cut a little from the side that doesn't belong to
them."

Perkins and Marvel, here alluded to, had long been on friendly terms
with Mr. Grant--visiting at his shop--for the purpose of a little
friendly chit-chat--every few days. But a coldness now took place, and,
in a few weeks, they ceased their friendly calls.

In various other ways was Mr. Grant conscious of a reaction upon
himself of his improper conduct. Hundreds of times did he mentally
regret the weakness and love of gain which had prompted him to so far
lose sight of what was just and honourable as to deceive a customer. So
painful was his sense of mortification, that, for a time, he omitted to
attend church on Sunday. Not only was he satisfied that every one in
the congregation knew about the ring, but he could clearly perceive a
change in the manner of his most intimate acquaintances who were
members of the church.

Grant was not a man entirely sold to selfishness. He was not a
deliberate wrong-doer, hiding his evil purposes and acts under a
hypocritical exterior. He had conscience, and, at times, its voice was
loud and distinct. He was, therefore, troubled about the ring as a fact
indicating the state of his affections; as well as troubled about the
condemnatory judgment of his brethren. There were fluctuations of
state, of course, as there are with all of us. Sometimes he was in a
state of humiliation on account of the evil he had done, and sometimes
in a state of indignation at Harrison for having, been so eager to
publish his fault from the house-top.

Gradually, however, the ever-recurring new purposes and interests which
come to all in passing through life, threw the past with its influences
into the shade, and the returns of states of mortification on account
of the ring were less and less frequent. Mr. Grant resumed his
attendance at church, and mingled, as of old, with his brethren; though
in a rather more subdued and less confident spirit. That affair of the
ring could not be entirely forgotten.

In due course of time, the minister on the station had to leave, and a
new one was appointed by the conference to take his place. The Rev. Mr.
C-- arrived early in the week, and during the period that elapsed
between that and the Sabbath, visited a good deal among the brethren.
During that time, an evening was spent at Mr. Harrison's, but no one
brought him around to introduce him to Mr. Grant. The jeweller felt
this, and in his mind, in searching about for reasons, rested, very
naturally, upon the affair of the gold ring, and he did not doubt but
the occurrence had been fully related to Mr. C--.

Under this feeling, Mr. Grant went to church. His first sight of the
new preacher was when he arose in the pulpit to give out the hymn. His
countenance did not make a very favourable impression, but his voice,
when he commenced reading the hymn, had a tone and a modulation that
were pleasing. The subject of the discourse which followed was
practical, and had reference to a man's conduct towards his fellow-man
in the common affairs of life. From general propositions, the minister,
after entering upon his sermon, came down to things particular. He
dwelt upon the love of dominion so deeply rooted in the human heart,
and showed, in various ways, how it was exercised by individuals in all
the grades of common society.

"A more deeply-rooted evil than this," he went on to say, "is theft. We
all inherit, in a greater or less degree, the desire to possess our
neighbour's goods; and, with the earliest development of the mind,
comes the activity of that desire. It is seen in the child when he
appropriates the plaything of another child, and in the so-called good
and honest citizen when, in bargaining, he secures an advantage at the
expense of his brother."

Descending, gradually, to the introduction of particular forms of
overreaching as practised in trade, all of which Mr. C-- designated as
instances of theft, he finally brought forward an instance so nearly
resembling the one in which Mr. Grant had been engaged, that the latter
felt himself, as has been seen, particularly pointed out, and left the
church at the close of the service in a state of excitement and
indignation. To have that old matter, about which he had already
suffered enough, "raked over," as he said, "and exposed to light
again," was a little more than he was disposed to submit to with
patience. As has been seen, he did not conceal what was in his mind.

On Monday, a brother-member of the church dropped in to see the
jeweller.

"How did you like Mr. C--?" was the natural inquiry.

"Not at all," replied Mr. Grant, in a positive tone.

"You didn't? Why, I was delighted with him! What is your objection?"

"He was personal in his discourse."

"I perceived nothing personal."

"Though I did, and of the grossest kind."

"How was it possible for a stranger like Mr. C-- to be personal? He
knows nothing of the characters or conduct of individuals here."

"Strangers generally have quick ears, and there are always plenty of
news-venders to fill them. He's been with the Harrisons, and we all
know what they are."

"To whom did he refer?" was asked.

"He referred to me."

"To you?"

"Certainly he did. And I don't like it at all. That's not the way to
preach the gospel. This running off with one side of a story, and,
taking all for granted, holding a man up to public odium, is not, as I
conceive, following in the footsteps of our Great Master."

"I'm sorry you should have taken up such an impression," was replied to
this. "I cannot believe that Mr. C-- really intended to hold you up to
public odium. He couldn't have meant to designate you."

"He must have meant me. Don't I know?"

So another and another objection was made to Mr. C-- on the same
ground; and before the week was out, it was pretty widely known that
the new preacher had indulged in reprehensible personalities. Some said
this was an error in the preacher; others, that he was highly blamable;
while others affirmed that there must be some mistake about the matter.

On the following Sunday, Mr. Grant was absent from his usual place in
the church. It would do him no good to sit under the ministry of Mr.
C--.

During the week that followed, two of the official members called upon
the jeweller to make inquiries about the alleged personalities. Grant
was, by this time, pretty sore on the subject, and when allusion was
made to it, he gave his opinion of the preacher in no very choice
language.

"In what did this personality consist?" asked one of the visitors.

"It's hardly necessary to ask that question," replied Grant.

"It is for me. No one, whom I have yet seen, has been able to give me
any information on the subject."

"If you ask Mr. C--, he will enlighten you."

"I have already done so."

"You have?"

"Yes."

"What was his reply?"

"That he is innocent of the personality laid to his charge."

"Did you mention my name?"

"I did."

"Well?"

"He had not even heard of you as a member of the church here."

"I can hardly credit that, after what he said."

"You will, at least, give him the chance of vindication. He is now at
my house, and has expressed a wish to see you."

"I don't know that any good will grow out of seeing him," said Mr.
Grant, who felt but little inclined to meet the preacher.

"I'm sorry to hear you say that, Mr. Grant. You have made a complaint
against Mr. C--, and when he wishes to confer with you on the subject,
you decline, under the assumption that no good can arise from it. This
is not right; and I hope you will think better of it."

"Perhaps it isn't right; but so it is. At present, I do not wish to see
him. I may feel differently to-morrow."

"Shall we call upon-you in the morning?"

"If you please to do so."

"Very well."

And the two official members departed.

No sooner were they gone, than Mr. Grant put or his hat and left his
shop. He went direct to the store of Mr. Harrison.

"You are just the man I was thinking about," said the latter, as the
jeweller entered. "What is all this trouble about you and Mr. C--? I
hear some rumour of it at every turn."

"That is just what I have come to see you about."

"Very well; what can I do in the matter? Mr. C--, you allege, has held
you up in the congregation to public odium?"

"I do."

"In what way?"

"Strange that you should ask the question."

"Why so? What have I to do with it?"

"A great deal," said Grant, his brows falling as he spoke.

"I must plead innocence until shown my guilt. So far, I have not even
been able to learn in what the allusion to yourself consisted."

"You have not?"

"No."

Grant stood, tightly compressing his lips, for some moments. He then
said:

"You remember that affair of the gold ring?"

"Very well."

"You mentioned this to C--."

"No. Nor to a living soul since the occurrence of the fact."

"What?"

"Nothing on that subject has ever passed my lips. I believed that you
saw and repented of your error, and in honour and in conscience
refrained from even the remotest allusion to the subject."

"How, then, did Mr. C-- become cognisant of the fact?"

"If cognisant all, it was from another source than the one you
supposed."

"I never mentioned it. You were the only one to whom the circumstance
was communicated. How, then, could the matter have gotten abroad?"

"I don't believe a single member of the congregation ever heard of it."

"Oh, yes, they have. These has been a marked change in the manner of
very many towards me. So apparent was this at one time, that I absented
myself from church, rather than encounter it."

"All your imagination, brother Grant, and nothing else. I believe that
I mingle as freely with the congregation as any one, and I know that I
never heard a breath against you. At present, every one is at a loss to
know in what way Mr. C-- pointed you out; he is equally in the dark."

"I was sure he meant me. It was so plain," said Mr. Grant, his
countenance falling, and his manner becoming subdued.

"There was nothing of the kind, you may depend upon it," replied Mr.
Harrison.

"And you never spoke of it?"

"Never!"

"A guilty conscience, it is said, needs no accuser. The likeness to me
was so strong, that I really thought the picture was sketched from
myself as the original. Ah, me!"

"Had you not better call on Mr. C--?" asked Harrison.

"No, no. See him for me, if you please, and tell him that I am
convinced of my error in supposing he pointed me out in the
congregation. As to the particular allusion that I felt to be
offensive, I hope you will still keep your own counsel. I did wrong,
under temptation, and have suffered and repented in consequence. It can
do no good to bring the matter to light now."

"None at all. I will not speak of it."

Nor did he. Many and various were the suggestions and suppositions of
the congregation touching the nature of the preacher's personal
allusion to the jeweller, and some dozen of little gossiping stories
got into circulation; but the truth did not find its way to the light.
And not until the day on which he was leaving the station for a new
field of labour, did the preacher himself understand the matter; and
then he had it from Mr. Grant's own lips.




FOR THE FUN OF IT.


"JUST look at them young lovers," said Harry Mears, glancing from his
companion to a young man and maiden, who, for the moment unconscious
that they were in the midst of a large company, were leaning towards
each other, and looking into each other's faces in rather a remarkable
manner. "Isn't it ridiculous? I thought Fisher had more sense than to
do so. As to Clara Grant, she always was a little weak."

The friend looked at the couple an smiled. "It is ridiculous,
certainly," he remarked. "Why havn't they sense enough to keep these
little love-passages for private occasions?"

"Clara, with all her silliness used to be a right pleasant companion,"
said Mears. "But since this love affair between her and Fisher, she has
become intolerably dull and uninteresting. She doesn't care a fig for
anybody but him, and really appears to think it a task to be even
polite to an old acquaintance. I don't think she has cause to be quite
so elated with her conquest as this comes to; nor to feel that, in
possessing the love of a man like Fisher, she is independent of the
world, and may show off the indifference she feels to every one. Fisher
is clever enough, but he is neither a Socrates nor a saint."

"He will suit her very well, I imagine."

"Yes; they will make a passable Darby and Joan, no doubt. Still, it
always vexes me to see people, who pretend to any sense, acting in this
way."

"I think it is more her fault than his."

"So do I. She has shown a disposition to bill and coo from the first.
At Mangum's party, last week, she made me sick. I tried to get her hand
for a dance, but no. Close to the side of Fisher she adhered, like a
fixture, and could hardly force her lips into a smile for any one else.
The gipsy! I'd punish her for all this, if I could just hit upon a good
plan for doing it."

"Let me see," remarked the friend, dropping his head into a thoughtful
position, "can't we devise a scheme for worrying her a little? She is
certainly a fair subject. It would be fine sport."

"Yes, it would."

"She evidently thinks Fisher perfection."

"Oh, yes! There never was such a man before! She actually said to
Caroline Lee, who was trying to jest with her a little, that Fisher was
one of the most pure-minded, honourable young men living."

"Oh, dear."

"It is a fact."

"Was she serious?"

"Yes, indeed! Serious as the grave. Caroline was laughing to me about
it. Nearly every one notices the silliness of her conduct, and the
weakness she displays in forever talking about and praising him."

"I would like to run him down a little when she could overhear me, just
for the fun of the thing."

"So would I. Capital! That will do, exactly. We must watch an
opportunity, and if we can get within earshot of her, any time that she
is by herself, we must abuse Fisher right and left, without appearing
to notice that she is listening to what we say, or, indeed, anywhere
near us."

"Right! That's the very thing. It will be capital fun."

