
"Then," said Martin, his manner changing, "I am to understand that you
do not wish to join me in this matter?"

"Yes. I would like you to understand that distinctly."

"Very well. I am sorry you refuse so advantageous an investment of
money; for right sure am I that no other investment you can make will
turn out as this would have done. But, as you have declined, I will
not offer a share in my good fortune to any one else; but prosecute
the work to my own advantage."

"I thought you hadn't the capital to do that," said Jasper, speaking
with ill-repressed eagerness.

"Nor have I," coolly answered Martin. "The proposition I was about to
make was this--an advance of twenty thousand dollars capital on your
part, to constitute you an equal partner in the mine. But this you
decline."

"Certainly! certainly! I would not have entertained it for a moment."

"Exactly. So I have already inferred. I will, therefore, as just said,
retain this advantage in my own hands. But, Mr. Jasper, I shall need
some help."

The visitor fixed his eyes keenly on the merchant as he said this.
There was a momentary pause. Then he resumed.

"I shall only want about ten thousand dollars, though; and this you
must obtain for me."

"Martin! Do you think I am made of money?" exclaimed Jasper, starting
to his feet, and facing his companion, in the attitude and with the
expression of a man who, finding himself in the presence of an enemy,
assumes the defensive.

"Oh no," was the quiet answer--"not made of money. But, for a
particular friend, you can no doubt, easily raise such a trifle as ten
thousand dollars?"

"Trifle! You mock me, sir!"

"Don't get excited about this matter, Mr. Jasper," coolly returned
Martin, whose name the reader has probably recognised as that of
an agent employed by the merchant and Grind, the lawyer, some years
before, in making investigations relative to the existence of coal on
certain lands not far from Reading, Pennsylvania. "Don't get excited,"
he repeated. "That will do no good. I have not come to rob you. I
don't ask you to give me ten thousand dollars. All I want is a loan,
for which I will pledge good security."

"What kind of security?" asked Jasper quickly.

"Security on my lead-mine."

"Pooh! I wouldn't give the snap of a finger for such security!"

Jasper, thrown off his guard, spoke more contemptuously than was
prudent.

An instant change was visible in Martin, who, rising, commenced
buttoning up his coat. There was about him every mark of a man deeply
offended.

"Good evening, sir!" said he, with a low, formal bow, yet with his
eyes fixed searchingly in those of the merchant.

"Martin,"--Jasper did not smile, nor was there in his voice the
slightest affectation of good feeling--yet his manner and tone were
both decisive,--"Martin, sit down again. Talk in reason, and I will
hear."

The man resumed his seat, and, with his eyes still in those of Jasper,
said--

"I have talked in reason. You are worth, so report says, not less than
three hundred thousand dollars. How the first hundred thousand came,
is known, certainly, only to one man beside you and me. In procuring
that large sum I was a very prominent agent."

"You have already been paid for your services a dozen times over."

"There may be a difference of opinion about this," replied the man
boldly--"and there is a difference of opinion."

"I have already advanced you over five thousand dollars."

"What of that! Five thousand to three hundred thousand that you have
made by the operation."

"You are in error, Martin," said Jasper, with a blended look
of perplexity and distress. "I am not worth the sum you have
mentioned--nothing like it. My losses during the past six months have
been very heavy."

"It is your interest to say this. I can credit as much of it as I
please."

"You are insulting! You presume on the power a knowledge of my affairs
has given you. I will look for a more honourable agent the next time."

"Honourable! Ha! ha!" The visitor laughed in a low, guttural voice.

"Martin! I will not hear this from any living man."

The face of Jasper was almost purple with suppressed anger.

"Go!" he added. "Leave my house instantly. I defy you!"

Scarcely had these words passed his lips, ere Martin glided from the
drawing-room, and in a few moments the street-door shut with a heavy,
reverberating jar.

The merchant stood, like one bewildered, for a few moments, and then,
as he sank into a chair, uttered a low groan. For a long time he
remained as motionless as if sleeping.




CHAPTER XVI.


On leaving the house of Jasper, Martin--who, instead of having been in
the city only a few hours, arrived two days previously--took his
way to the office of Grind, the lawyer. He had seen this individual
already several times, and now called on him again by appointment. The
two men, on meeting, exchanged looks of intelligence.

"Did you see him?" asked the lawyer, as Martin took a proffered chair.

"I saw him," was replied.

"Can you make any thing out of him?'

"I think so. He fights a little hard; but the odds are against him."

"How much did you ask him to loan you?"

"Ten thousand?"

"Martin! That's cutting a little too sharp."

"Not a hit. He'll never miss such a trifle."

"You can't bleed him that deep," said the lawyer.

"Can't I? You'll see; I could get twenty thousand. But I'm disposed to
be generous. Ten thousand I must and will have."

And the man laughed in a low, self-satisfied, sinister chuckle.

"He's able enough," remarked Grind.

"So you have told me. And if he is able, he must pay. I helped him
to a fortune, and it is but fair that he should help me a little, now
that a fortune is in my grasp. I only want the money as a loan."

"Wouldn't five thousand answer your purpose?" asked the lawyer. "That
is a large sum. It is not a very easy matter for even a rich man, who
is engaged heavily in business, to lay down ten thousand dollars at
call."

"Five thousand will not do, Mr. Grind."

"Jasper has lost, to my certain knowledge, twenty thousand dollars in
three months."

"So much?"

"At least that sum. Money came in so fast, that he grew a little wild
in his speculations, and played his cards with the dashing boldness
of a gambler while in a run of luck. I cautioned him, but to no good
purpose. One of his latest movements had been to put fifty or sixty
thousand dollars in a cotton factory?"

"Poh! What folly."

"A most egregious blunder. But he fancies himself an exceedingly
shrewd man."

"He has been remarkably fortunate in his operations."

"So he has. But he is more indebted, I think, to good luck than to a
sound judgment. He has gone up to dizzy height so rapidly, that his
weak head is already beginning to swim."

"What has become of that pretty little ward of his?" asked Martin,
somewhat abruptly.

"Why didn't you put that question to him?" replied Grind. "You would
have been more likely to get a satisfactory answer."

"I may do so after I have the ten thousand dollars in my pocket. That
was rather a shameful business, though; wasn't it? I never had a very
tender conscience, but I must own to having suffered a few twinges
for my part in the transaction. He received over a hundred thousand
dollars for the land?"

"Yes; and that clear of some heavy fees that you and I claimed for
services rendered."

"Humph! I'm not quite paid yet. But, touching the child, Mr. Grind:
don't you know any thing about her?"

"Nothing, personally."

"What was it Jasper paid for the tract of land?"

"One thousand dollars."

"Paid it into his own hands as the child's guardian."

"Yes; that was the simple transaction."

"Has the public never made a guess at the real truth of this matter?"

"Never, so far as my knowledge goes. There have been some vague
whisperings--but no one has seemed to comprehend the matter."

"The purchase was made in your name, was it not?"

"Yes."

"That is, you bought from Jasper as the child's guardian; and
afterward sold it back to him."

"Yes."

"Why didn't you hold on to it when it was fairly in your hands? I only
wish I had been in your place?"

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders, but did not commit himself by
acknowledging that he had, more than once, regretted his omission
to claim the property while legally in his hands, and defy Jasper to
wrest it from him.

Leaving these two men, whose relation to Jasper is sufficiently
apparent to the reader's mind, we will return to the merchant, whom we
left half-stupefied at the bold demand of an associate in wrong-doing.
A long time passed ere his activity of mind returned. While he sat,
brooding--dreamily--over what had just passed, a little daughter came
into the parlour, and seeing him, came prattling merrily to his
side. But in attempting to clamber upon his knee, she was pushed away
rudely, and with angry words. For a few moments she stood looking at
him, her little breast rising and falling rapidly; then she turned
off, and went slowly, and with a grieving heart, from the room.

Jasper sighed heavily as the child passed out of sight; and rising up,
began moving about with a slow pace, his eyes cast upon the floor.
The more he dwelt upon the visit of Martin--whom, in his heart, he had
wished dead--the more uneasy he felt, and the more he regretted having
let him depart in anger. He would give twice ten thousand dollars
rather than meet the exposure which this man could make.

Riches was the god of Leonard Jasper. Alas! how little power was there
in riches to make his heart happy. Wealth beyond what he had hoped to
obtain in a whole lifetime of devotion to mammon, had flowed in upon
him in two or three short years. But, was he a happier man? Did he
enjoy life with a keener zest? Was his sleep sweeter? Ah, no! In all
that went to make up the true pleasure of life, the humble clerk,
driven to prolonged hours of labour, beyond what his strength could
well bear, through his ill-nature and injustice, was far the richer
man. And his wealth consisted not alone in the possession of a clear
conscience and a sustaining trust in Providence. There was the love of
many hearts to bless him. In real household treasures few were as rich
as he.

But, in home treasures, how poor was Leonard Jasper! Poor to the
extreme of indigence! The love of his children, reaching toward him
spontaneously its tendrils, he rejected in the selfish devotion of
every thought and feeling to business as a means of acquiring wealth.
And as to the true riches, which many around him were laying up where
no moth could corrupt nor thieves break through and steal, he rejected
them as of no account.

With such a man as Leonard Jasper, holding the position of head of a
family, how little of the true home spirit, so full of tenderness and
mutual love, is to be expected! Had Mrs. Jasper been less a woman of
the world; had she been capable of loving any thing out of herself,
and, therefore, of loving her husband and children, with that true
love which seeks their higher good, a different state of things would
have existed in this family, spite of Jasper's unfeeling sordidness.
But, as it was, no fire of love melted the natural perverseness
inherited by the children, and they grew up, cherishing mutual
antagonism, and gradually coming to regard their parents only as
persons with power to thwart their inclinations, or as possessing the
means of gratifying their desires.

With all his wealth, how few were the real sources of happiness
possessed by Jasper! Pressed down with anxiety about the future,
and forced to toil beyond his strength, how many of life's truest
blessings were poured into the lap of Edward Claire!

The sleep of the poor clerk, that night, was sound and refreshing. The
merchant tossed to and fro on his pillow until long after the midnight
watches advanced upon the morning; and then, when wearied nature
claimed her due, he slept only for brief periods, continually startled
by frightful dreams.

At an early hour next day, he called upon Grind, who was still his
legal adviser.

"Have you seen Martin?" he asked the moment he entered the office.

"Martin! Surely he is not in the city!" returned Grind evasively.

"He surely is," said Jasper, fretfully.

"Martin. Where in the world did he come from? I thought him somewhere
in the neighbourhood of the Rocky Mountains. What does he want?

"No good, of course."

"That may be said safely. Have you seen him?"

"Yes."

"When? This morning?"

"No; he called at my house last night."

"Called last night! What did he want?"

"Ten thousand dollars," replied Jasper.

"Ten thousand dollars!!" The lawyer's well-feigned surprise completed
the deception practised upon Jasper. He did not, for an instant,
suspect collusion between him and Martin.

"Yes; he very coolly proposed that I should lend him that sum, enable
him to carry on some lead-mining operations in the west."

"Preposterous!"

"So I told him."

"Well, what did he say?"

"Oh, he blustered, and made covert threats of exposure, of course."

"The scoundrel!" said Grind, fiercely.

"He's a villain double-dyed. I have never ceased to regret that we
brought him into this business. We should have had a man of better
spirit--of a nicer sense of honour."

"Yes, Mr. Jasper, that is true enough," replied Grind; "but the
mischief is, your men of nicer honour are too squeamish for the kind
of work in which we employed him. This is the defect in all such
operations. Men cannot be thoroughly trusted."

The merchant sighed. He felt too deeply the force of Grind's remark.

"You know," said he, "this Martin better than I do. What is his
character? Is he a mere blusterer, whose bark is worse than his bite;
or is he vindictive and unscrupulous?"

"Both vindictive and unscrupulous. I must warn you not to provoke his
ill-will. He would take delight in exposing all he knows about this
business, if he is once fairly turned against you. A fast friend--he
is a bitter enemy."

"But see what a price he demands for his friendship! I have already
given him some five thousand dollars for his services, and now he
demands ten more. In a year he will be back, and coolly seek to levy a
contribution of twenty thousand dollars."

"I understood you to say that he only asked for a loan," remarks the
lawyer.

"A loan! That's mere mockery. If you placed ten thousand dollars in
his hands, would you ever expect to see the first copper of it again?"

Grind shrugged his shoulders.

"Of course you would not. It's a levy, not a loan--and so he, in his
heart, regards it."

"He's a dangerous man," said the lawyer, "and it's to be regretted
that you ever had any thing to do with him. But, now that your hand is
in the lion's mouth, the wisest thing is to get it out with as little
detriment as possible."

"Ten thousand dollars!" ejaculated the merchant. "Why, it's downright
robbery! He might just as well stop me on the highway."

"It's a hard case, I must own, Mr. Jasper. You might resist him, and,
at least not let him obtain what he demands without a struggle; but
the question is, may you not receive a mortal wound in the contest."

"Ah! that is the rub, Grind. Rather than meet the exposure he could
make, I would give twenty thousand dollars; yea, half, if not all I am
worth."

Can wealth, held on such a tenure, and in such a state of mind, be
called riches? Ah, no. How the possession is changed from a blessing
into a curse!

"Then, Mr. Jasper," replied the lawyer, "there is but one course plain
before you. If you make this man your enemy, he will surely pursue you
to the death. There is no pity in him."

Jasper groaned aloud. Ere he could reply, the door of the office
opened, and the individual about whom they were conversing entered.
With the skill of practised actors, each instantly assumed a part, and
hid, under a false exterior, their true states of mind. With something
of cordiality each greeted the other: while side-glances, unobserved
by Jasper, passed rapidly between Martin and the lawyer. A few
commonplace inquiries and remarks followed, when Jasper made a
movement to go, saying, as he did so--

"Mr. Martin, I will be pleased to see you some time to-day."

"Thank you; I will do myself the pleasure to call," was coolly
answered. "At what time will you be most at leisure?"

"During the afternoon. Say at four or five o'clock."

"I will be there at four," returned Martin, in a bland voice, and with
a courteous inclination of the head.

"Very well--you will find me in."

The merchant bowed to the accomplices--they were nothing better--and
retired.

"Humph! I didn't expect to find him here quite so early," said Martin,
with a sinister smile. "I rather guess I frightened him last night."

"I rather guess you did," returned the lawyer, his countenance
reflecting the light that played on the other's face.

"Will the money come?" asked Martin.

"Undoubtedly."

"That's good. Ten thousand?"

"Yes."

"What did he say? He came to consult you, of course?"

"Yes."

"Well, what did he say?"

"More than I need take time to repeat. He is thoroughly frightened.
That is enough for you to know."

"Ten thousand," said Martin musingly, and speaking to himself. "Ten
thousand! That will do pretty well. But, if he will bleed for fifteen
thousand, why may I not set the spring of my lancet a little deeper. I
can make good use of my money."

"No--no," returned the lawyer quickly. "Ten thousand is enough. Don't
play the dog and the shadow. This is over-greediness."

"Well--well. Just as you say. I can make him another friendly call in
a year or so from this time."

The lawyer smiled in a way peculiar to himself, and then said--

"Hadn't you better be content with five thousand now. This goose will,
no doubt, lay golden eggs for some years to come."

"A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush," was the quick answer.
"I have gone in now for the ten thousand; and ten thousand I must
have. I may be content with a smaller sum at my next appearance."

"You are to see him at four o'clock?" said Grind.

"Yes; that was the hour I named. So you must get all the necessary
papers ready for me in time. I don't want to let him get the hitch
on me of seeking to extort money. I only ask a loan, and will give
bona-fide security on my lead-mine." Then, with one of his low
chuckles, he added--"If he can get ten thousand dollars out of it, he
will do more than any one else can. Ha! ha! ha!"

"The evidence of property, which you have," said Grind, "is all as it
shows on the face?"

"It is, upon honour."

"Very well. Then I will draw the necessary papers, so that as little
delay as possible need occur in the transference of security for the
loan."

What further passed between the parties is of no consequence to the
reader.

At four o'clock, precisely, Martin was at the store of Jasper.

"I hope to find you a little more reasonable today," said the
merchant, with a forced smile, as the two men, after retiring to a
remote part of the store, sat down and faced each other.

"I should be sorry to do any thing out of reason," returned Martin.
His manner was more serious than Jasper's.

"I think your present demand out of reason," was answered.

"No good can possibly come, Mr. Jasper," said Martin, with a slight
air of impatience, "out of an argument between you and I, on this
subject. The sum I named to you last night I must have. Nothing less
will meet my present want. But, understand me distinctly, I only ask
it as a loan, and come prepared to give you the fullest security."

As Mr. Martin said this, he drew a package of papers from his pocket.
"Here are the necessary documents," he added.

"Ten thousand dollars! Why, my dear sir, a sum like this is not to be
picked up in the streets."

"I am very well aware of that," was the cool answer. "Had such been
the case, I never would have troubled you with procuring the sum; nor
would I have gone to the expense and fatigue of a long journey."

"You certainly ought to know enough of business, Martin, to be aware
that ten thousand dollars is not always to be commanded, even by the
wealthiest, at a moment's notice."

"I do not ask the whole sum in cash," replied Martin. "Three or four
thousand in ready money will do. Your notes at four and six months
will answer very well for the balance."

But we will not record further what passed between these two men. It
was all in vain that Jasper strove to escape; his adversary was too
powerful. Ere they separated, Martin had in his possession, in cash
and promissory notes, the sum of ten thousand dollars!

Already were the ill-gotten riches of Leonard Jasper taking to
themselves wings. Unhappy man! How wretched was he during that
and many succeeding days! Rolling, so to speak, in wealth, he yet
possessed not life's highest blessing, a truly contented mind, flowing
from conscious rectitude and an abiding trust in Providence. Without
these, how poor is even he who counts his millions! With them, how
rich is the humble toiler, who, receiving day by day his daily bread,
looks up and is thankful!




CHAPTER XVII.


A few weeks subsequent to the occurrences mentioned in the last
chapter, Leonard Jasper received a call from Mr. Melleville, in
whose service Claire still remained. The greeting of the two men was
distant, yet courteous. A few words on current topics passed between
them, after which Mr. Melleville said--

"I have called to ask you a question or two in regard to a child of
the late Mr. Elder, to whom you are guardian."

The blood came instantly to the face of Jasper, who was not prepared
for this; and in spite of his struggle to seem self-possessed, his
eyes sank under those of his visitor. In a few moments, he recovered
himself, and replied--

"The child, you mean, who is boarding with Edward Claire?"

"The same." The eyes of Melleville were fixed on those of Jasper so
steadily, that the latter wavered, and, finally, again dropped to the
floor.

"Well, I am ready to hear any thing that you have to say." Jasper had
thrown off, once more, the vague sense of coming evil that made him
cower under the steady gaze of Melleville.

"I learn," said the latter, "from Mr. Claire, that you refuse to pay
any further sums for her maintenance. Is the property left by her
father, to which common report has affixed considerable value,
exhausted, or"--

"I have refused to pay him any further sums," said Jasper, in a
quick, excited voice, interrupting Mr. Melleville. "Our contract,
regularly entered into, has expired by limitation. He was to have the
care of her only until she reached her twelfth year. Of this fact he
is clearly advised, and I wonder at his pertinacity in endeavouring to
retain the child, when he knows that I, her guardian, wish to have her
in my own possession."

"He has had her ever since she was a little child; and both he and his
wife are now strongly attached to her. In fact, she regards them as
her parents; and their affection for her is not exceeded by
their affection for their own children. To separate them would be
exceedingly painful to all parties. As for the child, it would make
her very unhappy."

"I can't help that, Mr. Melleville." Jasper spoke coldly.

"Under all the circumstances," said Mr. Melleville, after a pause,
speaking slowly, and with considerable emphasis in his words, "it is
my opinion that you had better let the child remain where she is."

"Why do you say so?" Jasper spoke with ill-concealed surprise; and the
uneasy, suspicious manner, at first exhibited, returned.

"Claire regards the child as his own; and must so continue to regard
her, even though taken out of his hands."

"Well, what of that?"

"It is for you, Mr. Jasper," was returned, "to determine for yourself,
whether the surveillance of a man like Claire, who cannot now cease to
feel a parent's interest in your ward, will be altogether agreeable."

"Surveillance! What do you mean? I don't understand this language. It
looks like an effort to force me into measures. Pray, what have I to
fear from Edward Claire?"

"Sometimes," replied Melleville, with a slow, meaning enunciation,
"those we regard as most insignificant are the very ones we should
most fear."

"Fear! Fear, Mr. Melleville! You make use of strange language."

"Perhaps I do," was answered. "And, as it seems unpleasant to you, I
will say no more. I did not mean, when I called, to speak just as I
have done. But, as the words have been uttered, I beg you to weigh
them well, and to believe that they have a meaning. Good morning."

Jasper suppressed the utterance of the word "stay," which arose to his
lips, and returned the bow of Mr. Melleville, who left without further
remark.

"What can this mean?" Thus mused Leonard Jasper, when alone. "Can this
scoundrel, Martin, have dropped a hint of the truth?" A slight shiver
went through his nerves. "Something is wrong. There is suspicion in
the thought of Melleville. I didn't look for trouble in this quarter."

To his own unpleasant reflections we will leave the merchant, and
return to Edward Claire and his true-minded, loving-hearted wife.

For a week or two after the former entered upon his new duties
as assistant clerk in a night-auction, he experienced no serious
inconvenience from his more prolonged labours, although it did not
escape the watchful eyes of his wife that his complexion was losing
its freshness, and that his appetite was far from being so good as
before. After this, he began to suffer oppressive weariness, that
made the evening's toil a daily increasing burden. Then succeeded a
feverish state, accompanied by pains in the head, back, and through
the breast. Edith remonstrated, even with tears; but still Claire went
nightly to his task, though each successive evening found him with
less and less ability for its performance.

At last, he came home from the store of Mr. Melleville, at the usual
tea-time, feeling so unwell that he was forced to lie down. He had no
appetite for supper, and merely sipped part of a cup of tea brought to
him by his wife as he still reclined upon the bed.

"Don't get up," said Edith, seeing her husband, after he had lain for
some time, about to rise.

"I can't lie here any longer; it's nearly seven o'clock now."

"You're not going out to-night!"

"O yes; I must be at the store. There is no one to take my place, and
the sales will begin by the time I can get there."

"But you are too sick to go out, Edward."

"I feel much better than I did, Edith. This little rest has refreshed
me a great deal."

"No--no, Edward! You must not go away," said his wife in a distressed
voice. "You are sick now, and the extra exertion of an evening may
throw you into a serious illness."

"I feel a great deal better, dear," urged Claire. "But, sick or well,
I must be there to-night, for the sale cannot go on without me. If I
do not feel better to-morrow, I will ask Mr. F---- to get some one,
temporarily, in my place."

Still Edith opposed, but in vain.

By the time Claire arrived at the auction store, his head was
throbbing with a pain so intense that he could scarcely see. Still, he
resolutely persevered in his determination to go through, if possible,
with the duties of the evening; and so, taking his place at his desk,
as the auctioneer went upon the stand to cry the goods which had
been advertised for sale, he prepared to keep the usual record of
purchasers and prices. This he was able to do for half an hour, when
overtaxed and exhausted nature could bear up no longer.

"Mr. Claire," said the auctioneer, as he took in hand a new article,
"did you make that last entry?--Mr. Jackson, ten cents a yard."

Claire's head had fallen over on the book in which he had been
writing, and the auctioneer, supposing him only yielding to a
momentary feeling of fatigue, or indolence, thus called his attention
to his duties.

But Claire made no answer.

"Say! young man! Are you asleep!" The auctioneer spoke now with some
sharpness of tone; but, as before, his words were not heeded.

"What's the matter, Mr. Claire? Are you sick?"

Still no response or movement.

"Mr. Claire! Bless me!" The auctioneer was now by his side, with his
hand on him. "Bring some water, quick! He's fainted--or is dead! Here!
some one help me to lay him down."

Two or three men came quickly behind the auctioneer's stand and
assisted to lift the insensible man from the high stool on which he
was seated, and place his body in a reclining position. Then water
was dashed into his face, and various other means of restoration used.
Full ten minutes passed before signs of returning life were exhibited.
His recovery was very slow, and it was nearly an hour before he was
well enough to be removed to his dwelling.

The shock of his appearance, supported from the carriage in which he
had been conveyed home, by two men, was terrible to his wife, whose
anxiety and fear had wrought her feelings already up to a high pitch
of excitement.

"Oh! what is the matter? What has happened?" she cried, wringing her
hands, while her face blanched to a deathly paleness.

"Don't be frightened," returned Claire, smiling feebly. "It was only a
slight fainting fit. I'm over it now."

"That's all, madam," said the men who had brought him home. "He merely
fainted. Don't be alarmed. It's all over."

After receiving the thanks of Claire and his assurances that he needed
nothing further from their kindness, the men retired, and Edward then
made every effort in his power to calm down the feelings of his wife,
who continued weeping. This was no easy task, particularly as he was
unable long to hide the many evidences of serious illness from which
he was suffering. Against his remonstrance, so soon as she saw how
it was with him, Mrs. Claire sent off the domestic for their family
physician; who on learning the causes which led to the condition in
which he found his patient, hesitated not to say that he must, as he
valued his life, give up the night tasks he had imposed upon himself.

"Other men," said Claire, in answer to this, "devote quite as many
hours to business."

"All men are not alike in constitution," returned the physician. "And
even the strongest do not make overdrafts upon the system, without
finding, sooner or later, a deficit in their health-account. As
for you, nature has not given you the physical ability for great
endurance. You cannot overtask yourself without a derangement of
machinery."

How reluctantly, and with what a feeling of weakness, Claire
acquiesced in this decision, the reader may imagine.

The morning found him something better, but not well enough to sit up.
Mrs. Claire had, by this time, recovered in a measure her calmness and
confidence. She had thought much, during the sleepless hours of the
preceding night, and though the future was far from opening clearly
to her straining vision, her mind rested in a well-assured confidence
that all things would work together for their good. She knew in whom
she trusted. On the Rock of Ages she had built the habitation where
dwelt her higher hopes; and the storms of this world had no power to
prevail against it.

How little dreamed gentle Fanny Elder--or Fanny Claire, as she
was called--when she laid her cheek lovingly to that of her sick
"father"--she knew him by no other name--and drew her arms around his
neck, that he was suffering alone on her account. In her unselfish
love, Claire felt a sweet compensation--while all he endured on her
account had the effect to draw her, as it were, into his very heart.

As quickly as it could be done, Mrs. Claire got through with the most
pressing of her morning duties, and then, the older children away to
school, she came and sat down by her husband's bedside, and took his
hand in hers. As he looked into her face, pale from sleeplessness and
anxiety, tears filled his eyes.

"O, Edie!" said he, his voice tremulous with feeling, "isn't this
disheartening? What are we to do?"

"He careth for us," was the low, calmly spoken reply; and, as Edith
lifted a finger upward, a ray of heavenly confidence beamed in her
countenance.

"I know, Edie; I know, but"--

The sick man left his sentence unfinished. A heavy sigh marking his
state of doubt and darkness.

"We must feel as well as know, Edward," said his wife. "God is good.
In looking back through all our past life, does not the retrospection
lead to this undoubting conclusion? I am sure you will say yes. Has
he not, in every case, proved better to us than all our fears?--Why,
then, should we distrust him now? In the beautiful language of Cowper,
let us say in these dark seasons--

  'Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,
    But trust Him for His grace;
  Behind a frowning providence
