everything in it?"

"I will take care, if you will trust me."

"I will trust you," she said with running tears. "But you? --"

"I will take care of it and you too. -- I will try to."

"That was not what I meant --"

"I am safe," he said.

He gently seated her; and then going off to Clam at the other
side of the room he bade her fetch her mistress's bonnet and
shawl. He himself put them on, and taking her arm in his, they
went forth of the house.


CHAPTER IX.


The One remains, the many change and pass;
Heaven's light forever shines, Earth's shadows flee;
Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass
Stains the clear radiance of Eternity,
Until Death shiver it to atoms.
SHELLEY.


The dawn of the summer morning was just flushing up over the
city, when Winthrop and his trembling companion came out of
the house. The flush came up upon a fair blue sky, into which
little curls of smoke were here and there stealing; and a
fresh air in the streets as yet held place of the sun's hot
breath. One person felt the refreshment of it, as he descended
the steps of the house and began a rather swift walk up the
Parade. But those were very trembling feet that he had to
guide during that early walk; though his charge was perfectly
quiet. She did not weep at all; she did not speak, nor
question any of his movements. Neither did he speak. He kept a
steady and swift course till they reached Mr. Inchbald's house
in Little South Street, and then only paused to open the door.
He led Elizabeth up-stairs to his own room, and there and not
before took her hand from his arm and placed her on a chair.
Himself quietly went round the room, opening the windows and
altering the disposition of one or two things. Then he came
back to her where she sat like a statue, and in kind fashion
again took one of her hands.

"I will see that you are waited upon," he said gently; "and I
will send Clam to you by and by for your orders. Will you stay
here for a little while? -- and then I will take care of you."

How she wished his words meant more than she knew they did.
She bowed her head, thinking so.

"Can I give you anything?"

She managed to say a smothered 'no,' and he went; first
pulling out of his pocket his little bible which he laid upon
the table.

Was that by way of answering his own question? It might be, or
he might not have wanted it in his pocket. Whether or no,
Elizabeth seized it and drew it towards her, and as if it had
contained the secret charm and panacea for all her troubles,
she laid her hands and her head upon it, and poured out there
her new and her old sorrows; wishing even then that Winthrop
could have given her the foundation of strength on which his
own strong spirit rested.

After a long while, or what seemed such, she heard the door
softly open and some one come in. The slow careful step was
none that she knew, and Elizabeth did not look up till it had
gone out and the door had closed again. It was Mrs. Nettley,
and Mrs. Nettley had softly left on the table a waiter of
breakfast. Elizabeth looked at it, and laid her head down
again.

The next interruption came an hour later and was a smarter
one. Elizabeth had wearied herself with weeping, and lay
comparatively quiet on the couch.

"Miss 'Lizabeth," said the new-comer, in more gentle wise than
it was her fashion to look or speak, -- "Mr. Winthrop said I
was to come and get your orders about what you wanted."

"I can't give orders -- Do what you like," said Elizabeth
keeping her face hid.

"If I knowed what 'twas," -- said Clam, sending her eye round
the room for information or suggestion. "Mr. Winthrop said I
was to come. -- Why you haven't took no breakfast?"

"I didn't want any."

"You can't go out o' town that way," said Clam. "The Governor
desired you would take some breakfast, and his orders must be
follered. You can't drink cold coffee neither --"

And away went Clam, coffee-pot in hand.

In so short a space of time that it shewed Clam's business
faculties, she was back again with the coffee smoking hot. She
made a cup carefully and brought it to her mistress.

"You can't do nothin' without it," said Clam. "Mr. Winthrop
would say, 'Drink it' if he was here --"

Which Elizabeth knew, and perhaps considered in swallowing the
coffee. Before she had done, Clam stood at her couch again
with a plate of more substantial supports.

"He would say 'Eat,' if he was here --" she remarked.

"Attend a little to what I have to say," said her mistress.

"While you're eatin'," said Clam. "I wasn't to stop to get
breakfast."

A few words of directions were despatched, and Clam was off
again; and Elizabeth lay still and looked at the strange room
and thought over the strange meaning and significance of her
being there. A moment's harbour, with a moment's friend. She
was shiveringly alone in the world; she felt very much at a
loss what to do, or what would become of her, She felt it, but
she could not think about it. Tears came again for a long
uninterrupted time.

The day had reached the afternoon, when Clam returned, and
coming into Mrs. Nettley's kitchen inquired if her mistress
had had any refreshment. Mrs. Nettley declared that she
dursn't take it up and that she had waited for Clam. Upon
which that damsel set about getting ready a cup of tea, with a
sort of impatient promptitude.

"Have you got all through?" Mrs. Nettley asked in the course
of this preparation.

"What?" said Clam.

"Your work."

"No," said Clam. "Never expect to. My work don't get done."

"But has Mr. Landholm got through his work, down at the
house?"

"Don't know," said Clam. "He don't tell me. But if we was to
work on, at the rate we've been a goin' to-day -- we'd do up
all Mannahatta in a week or so."

"What's been so much to do? -- the funeral, I know."

"The funeral," said Clam, "and everything else. That was only
one thing. There was everything to be locked up, and
everything to be put up, and the rest to be packed; and the
silver sent off to the Bank; and everybody to be seen to. I
did all I could, and Mr. Winthrop he did the rest."

"He'll be worn out!" said Mrs. Nettley.

"No he won't," said Clam. "He ain't one o' them that have to
try hard to make things go -- works like oiled 'chinery --
powerful too, I can tell you."

"What's going to be done?" said Mrs. Nettley meditatively.

"Can't say," said Clam. "I wish my wishes was goin' to be done
-- but I s'pose they ain't. People's ain't mostly, in this
world." She went off with her dish of tea and what not, to her
mistress up-stairs. But Elizabeth this time would endure
neither her presence nor her proposal. Clam was obliged to go
down again leaving her mistress as she had found her. Alone
with herself.

Then, when the sun was long past the meridian, Elizabeth heard
upon the stair another step, of the only friend, as it seemed
to her, that she had. She raised her head and listened to it.
The step went past her door, and into the other room, and she
sat waiting. "How little he knows," she thought, "how much of
a friend he is! how little he guesses it. How far he is from
thinking that when he shall have bid me good bye -- somewhere --
he will have taken away all of help and comfort I have. --"

But clear and well defined as this thought was in her mind at
the moment, it did not prevent her meeting her benefactor with
as much outward calmness as if it had not been there. Yet the
quiet meeting of hands had much that was hard to bear.
Elizabeth did not dare let her thoughts take hold of it.

"Have you had what you wanted?" he said, in the way in which
one asks a question of no moment when important ones are
behind.

"I have had all I could have," Elizabeth answered.

There was a pause; and then he asked,

"What are your plans, Miss Elizabeth?"

"I haven't formed any. -- I couldn't not, yet."

"Do you wish to stay in the city, or to go out of it?"

"Oh to go out of it!" said Elizabeth, -- "if I could -- if I
knew where."

"Where is your cousin?"

"She was at Vantassel; but she left it for some friend's house
in the country, I believe. I don't want to be where she is."

Elizabeth's tears came again.

"It seems very strange --" she said presently, trying to put a
stop to them, but her words stopped.

"What?" said Winthrop.

"It seems very strange, -- but I hardly know where to go. I
have no friends near -- no near friends, in any sense; there
are some, hundreds of miles off, in distance, and further than
that in kind regard. I know plenty of people, but I have no
friends. -- I would go up to Wut-a-qut-o, if there was anybody
there," she added after a minute or two.

"Shahweetah has passed into other hands," said Winthrop.

"I know it," said Elizabeth; -- "it passed into mine."

Winthrop started a little, and then after another moment's
pause said quietly,

"Are you serious in wishing to go there now?"

"Very serious!" said Elizabeth, "if I had anybody to take care
of me. I couldn't be there with only Clam and Karen."

"You would find things very rough and uncomfortable."

"What do you suppose I care about how rough?" said Elizabeth.
"I would rather be there than in any other place I can think
of."

"I am afraid you would still be much alone there -- your own
household would be all."

"I must be that anywhere," said Elizabeth bitterly. "I wish I
could be there."

"Then I will see what I can do," said he rising.

"About what?" said Elizabeth.

"I will tell you if I succeed."

Mr. Landholm walked down stairs into Mrs. Nettley's sanctum,
where the good lady was diligently at work in kitchen affairs.

"Mrs. Nettley, will you leave your brother and me to keep
things together here, and go into the country with this
bereaved friend of mine?"

Mrs. Nettley stood still with her hands in the dough of her
bread and looked at the maker of this extraordinary
proposition.

"Into the country, Mr. Landholm! -- When?"

"Perhaps this afternoon -- in two or three hours."

"Dear Mr. Landholm! --"

"Dear Mrs. Nettley."

"But it's impossible."

"Is it?"

"Why -- What does she want me for, Mr. Landholm?"

"She is alone, and without friends at hand. She wishes to
leave the city and take refuge in her own house in the
country, but it is uninhabited except by servants. She does
not know of my application to you, which I make believing it
to be a case of charity."

Mrs. Nettley began to knead her dough with a haste and vigour
which told of other matters on hand.

"Will you go, Mr. Landholm?"

"Certainly -- to see you safe there -- and then I will come back
and take care of Mr. Inchbald."

"How far is it, sir?"

"So far as my old home, which Miss Haye has bought."

"What, Wut -- that place of yours?" said Mrs. Nettley.

"Yes," Winthrop said gravely.

"And how long shall I be wanted, Mr. Landholm?"

"I do not know, Mrs. Nettley."

Mrs. Nettley hastily cut her dough into loaves and threw it
into the pans.

"You are going, Mrs. Nettley?"

"Why sir -- in two hours, you say?"

"Perhaps in so little as that -- I am going to see."

"But Mr. Landholm," said the good lady, facing round upon him
after bestowing her pans in their place, and looking somewhat
concerned, -- "Mr. Landholm, do you think she will like me? --
Miss Haye?"

Winthrop smiled a little.

"I think she will be very thankful to you, Mrs. Nettley -- I
can answer no further."

"I suppose it's right to risk that," Mrs. Nettley concluded.
"I'll do what you say, Mr. Landholm."

Without more words Mr. Landholm went out and left the house.

"Are Miss Haye's things all ready?" asked Mrs. Nettley of
Clam, while she nervously untied her apron.

"All's ready that he has to do with," Clam answered a little
curtly.

"But has he to do with your mistress's things?"

"He has to do with everything, just now," said Clam. "I wish
the now'd last for ever!"

"How can we go to-night? -- the boats and the stages and all
don't set off so late."

"Boats don't stop near Wutsey Qutsey," said Clam.

Mrs. Nettley went off to make her own preparations.

When Mr. Landholm came again, after an interval of some
length, he came with a carriage.

"Are you ready, Mrs. Nettley?" he said looking into that
lady's quarters.

"In a little bit, Mr. Landholm! --"

Whereupon he went up-stairs.

"If you wish to go to Wut-a-qut-o, Miss Elizabeth," he said,
"my friend Mrs. Nettley will go with you and stay with you,
till you have made other arrangements. I can answer for her
kindness of heart, and unobtrusive manners, and good sense.
Would you like her for a companion?"

"I would like anybody -- that you can recommend."

"My friend Cowslip's little sloop sets sail for the
neighbourhood of Wut-a-qut-o this evening."

"Oh thank you! --Will she take us?"

"If you wish it."

"Oh thank you! --"

"Would you not be better to wait till to-morrow? -- I can make
the sloop wait."

"Oh no, let us go," said Elizabeth rising. "But your friend is
very good -- your friend who is going with me, I mean."

"Mrs. Nettley. But you need not move yet -- rest while you
can."

"Rest!" -- said Elizabeth. And tears said what words did not.

"There is only one rest," said Winthrop gravely; "and it is in
Christ's hand. 'Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy
laden, AND I WILL GIVE YOU REST.'" --

Elizabeth's sobs were bitter. Her counsellor added no more
however; he left the room after a little while, and soon
returned to tell her that all was ready. She was ready too by
that time.

"But Mr. Winthrop," she said looking at him earnestly, "is
everything here so that you can leave it?"

She dared not put the whole of her meaning into words. But
Winthrop understood, and answered a quiet "yes;" and Elizabeth
lowered her veil and her head together and let him lead her to
the carriage.

A few minutes brought them to the pier at the end of which the
Julia Ann lay.

"You're sharp upon the time, Mr. Landholm," said her master; --
"we're just goin' to cast off. But we shouldn't have done it,
nother, till you come. All right!"

"Is all right in the cabin?" said Winthrop as they came on
board.

"Well, it's slicked up all it could be on such short notice,"
said the skipper. "I guess you wont have to live in it long;
the wind's coming up pretty smart ahind us. Haul away there! -- "

It was past six o'clock, and the August sun had much lessened
of its heat, when, as once before with Mr. Landholm for a
passenger, the Julia Ann stood out into the middle of the
river with her head set for the North.

Mrs. Nettley and Clam hid themselves straightway in the
precincts of the cabin. Elizabeth stood still where she had
first placed herself on the deck, in a cold abstracted sort of
carelessness, conscious only that her protector was standing
by her side, and that she was not willing to lose sight of
him. The vessel, and her crew, and their work before her very
eyes, she could hardly be said to see. The sloop got clear of
the wharf and edged out into the mid-channel, where she stood
bravely along before the fair wind. Slowly the trees and
houses along shore were dropped behind, and fresher the wind
and fairer the green river-side seemed to become. Elizabeth's
senses hardly knew it, or only in a kind of underhand way; not
recognized.

"Will you go into the cabin? or will you have a seat here?"
she heard Winthrop say.

Mechanically she looked about for one. He brought a chair and
placed her in it, and she sat down; choosing rather the open
air and free sky than any shut-up place, and his neighbourhood
rather than where he was not; but with a dulled and impassive
state of feeling that refused to take up anything, past,
present or future. It was not rest, it was not relief, though
there was a seeming of rest about it. She knew then it would
not last. It was only a little lull between storms; the
enforced quiet of wearied and worn-out powers. She sat mazily
taking in the sunlight, and the view of the sunlighted earth
and water, the breath of the sweeping fresh air, the creaking
of the sloop's cordage, in the one consciousness that Winthrop
kept his place at her side all this time. How she thanked him
for that! though she could not ask him to sit down, nor make
any sort of a speech about it.

Down went the sun, and the shadows and the sunlight were swept
away together; and yet fresher came the sweet wind. It was a
sort of consolation to Elizabeth, that her distress gave
Winthrop a right and a reason to attend upon her; she had had
all along a vague feeling of it, and the feeling was very
present now. It was all of comfort she could lay hold of; and
she clutched at it with even then a foreboding sense of the
desolation there would be when that comfort was gone. She had
it now; she had it, and she held it; and she sat there in her
chair on the deck in a curious half stupor, half quiet, her
mind clinging to that one single point where it could lean.

There came a break-up however. Supper was declared to be
ready; and though nobody but Winthrop attended the skipper's
table, Elizabeth was obliged to take some refreshments of her
own, along with a cup of the sloop's tea, which most certainly
she would have taken from no hand but the one that presented
it to her. And after it, Elizabeth was so strongly advised to
go to the cabin and take some rest, that she could not help
going; resting, she had no thought of. Her companions were of
easier mind; for they soon addressed themselves to such
sleeping conveniencies as the little cabin could boast. Miss
Haye watched them begin and end their preparations and bestow
themselves in resting positions to sleep; and then drawing a
breath of comparative rest herself, she placed herself just
within the cabin threshold, on the floor, where she could look
out and have a good view of the deck through the partly open
door.

It was this night as on the former occasion, a brilliant
moonlight; and the vessel had no lamps up to hinder its power.
The mast and sails and lines stood out in sharp light and
shadow. The man at the helm Elizabeth could not see; the
moonlight poured down upon Winthrop, walking slowly back and
forth on the deck, his face and figure at every turn given
fully and clearly to view. Elizabeth herself was in shadow; he
could not look within the cabin door and see her; she could
look out and see him right well, and she did. He was pacing
slowly up and down, with a thoughtful face, but so calm in its
thoughtfulness that it was a grievous contrast to Elizabeth's
own troubled and tossed nature. It was all the more
fascinating to her gaze; while it was bitter to her
admiration. The firm quiet tread, -- the manly grave repose of
the face, -- spoke of somewhat in the character and life so
unlike what she knew in her own, and so beautiful to her sense
of just and right, that she looked in a maze of admiration and
self-condemning; rating herself lower and lower and Winthrop
higher and higher, at every fair view the moonlight gave, at
every turn that brought him near or took him further from her.
And tears -- curious tears -- that came from some very deep
wells of her nature, blinded her eyes, and rolled hot down her
cheeks, and were wiped away that she might look. "What shall I
do when he gets tired of that walk and goes somewhere else?" --
she thought; and with the thought, as instantly, Elizabeth
gathered herself up from off the floor, wiped her cheeks from
the tears, and stepped out into the moonlight. "I can't say
anything, but I suppose he will," was her meditation. "Nobody
knows when I shall have another chance." --

"They could not make it comfortable for you in there?" said
Winthrop coming up to her.

"I don't know -- yes, -- I have not tried."

"Are you very much fatigued?"

"I suppose so. -- I don't feel it."

"Can I do anything for you?"

The real answer nearly burst Elizabeth's bounds of self-
control, but nevertheless her words were quietly given.

"Yes, -- if you will only let me stay out here a little while."

He put a chair for her instantly, and himself remained
standing near, as he had done before.

"Walk on, if you wish," said Elizabeth. "Don't mind me."

But instead of that he drew up another chair, and sat down.

There was silence then that might be felt. The moonlight
poured down noiselessly on the water, and over the low dusky
distant shore; the ripples murmured under the sloop's prow;
the wind breathed gently through the sails. Now and then the
creak of the rudder sounded, but the very stars were not more
calmly peaceful than everything else.

"There is quiet and soothing in the speech of such a scene as
this," Winthrop said after a time.

"Quiet!" said Elizabeth. Her voice choked, and it was a little
while before she could go on. -- "Nothing is quiet to a mind in
utter confusion."

"Is yours so?"

"Yes."

The sobs were at her very lips, but the word got out first.

"It is no wonder," he observed gently.

"Yes it is wonder," said Elizabeth; -- "or at least it is what
needn't be. Yours wouldn't be so in any circumstances."

"What makes the confusion?" -- he asked, in a gentle
considerate tone that did not press for an answer.

"The want of a single fixed thing that my thoughts can cling
to."

He was silent a good while after that.

"There is nothing fixed in this world," he said at length.

"Yes there is," said Elizabeth bitterly. "There are friends --
and there is a self-reliant spirit -- and there is a settled
mind."

"Settled -- about what?"

"What it will and what it ought to do."

"Is yours not settled on the latter point?" he asked.

"If it were," said Elizabeth with a little hesitation and
struggling, -- "that don't make it settled."

"It shews where the settling point is."

"Which leaves it as far as ever from being settled," said
Elizabeth, almost impatiently.

"A self-reliant spirit, if it be not poised on another
foundation than its own, hath no fixedness that is worth
anything, Miss Elizabeth; -- and friends are not safe things to
trust to."

"Some of them are," said Elizabeth.

"No, for they are not sure. There is but one friend that
cannot be taken away from us."

"But to know that, and to know everything else about him, does
not make him our friend," said Elizabeth in a voice that
trembled.

"To agree to everything about him, does."

"To agree? -- How? -- I do agree to it," said Elizabeth.

"Do you? Are you willing to have him for a King to reign over
you? -- as well as a Saviour to make you and keep you safe?"

She did not answer.

"You do not know everything about him, neither."

"What don't I know?"

"Almost all. You cannot, till you begin to obey him; for till
then he will not shew himself to you. The epitome of all
beauty is in those two words -- Jesus Christ."

She made no answer yet, with her head bowed, and striving to
check the straining sobs with which her breast was heaving.
She had a feeling that he was looking on compassionately; but
it was a good while before she could restrain herself into
calmness; and during that time he added nothing more. When she
could look up, she found he was not looking at her; his eyes
were turned upon the river, where the moon made a broad and
broadening streak of wavy brightness. But Elizabeth looked at
the quiet of his brow, and it smote her; though there was now
somewhat of thoughtful care upon the face. The tears that she
thought she had driven back, rushed fresh to her eyes again.

"Do you believe what I last said, Miss Elizabeth?" he said
turning round to her.

"About the epitome of all beauty?"

"Yes. Do you believe it?"

"You say so -- I don't understand it," she said sadly and
somewhat perplexed.

"I told you so," he answered, looking round to the moonlight
again.

"But Mr. Landholm," said Elizabeth in evident distress, "won't
you tell me something more?"

"I cannot."

"Oh yes you can, -- a great deal more," she said weeping.

"I could," he said gravely, -- "yet I should tell you nothing --
you would not understand me. You must, find it out for
yourself."

"How in the world can I?"

"There is a promise, -- 'If any man will do his will, he shall
know of the doctrine.'"

"I don't know how to begin, nor anything about it," said
Elizabeth, weeping still.

"Begin anywhere."

"How? What do you mean?"

"Open the Bible at the first chapter of Matthew, and read. Ask
honestly, of your own conscience and of God, at each step,
what obligation upon you grows out of what you are reading. If
you follow his leading he will lead you on, -- to himself."

Elizabeth sobbed in silence for some little time; then she
said,

"I will do it, Mr. Landholm."

"If you do," said he, "you will find you can do nothing."

"Nothing!" said Elizabeth.

"You will find you are dependent upon the good pleasure of God
for power to take the smallest step."

"His good pleasure! -- Suppose it should not be given me."

"There is no 'suppose' about that," Winthrop answered, with a
slight smile, which seen as it was through a veil of tears,
Elizabeth never forgot, and to which she often looked back in
after time; -- "'Whosoever will, let him take the water of
life freely.' But he does not always get a draught at the
first asking. The water of life was not bought so cheap as
that. However, 'to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.'"

Elizabeth hearkened to him, with a curious mixture of yielding
and rebellion at once in her mind. She felt them both there.
But the rebellion was against the words; her yielding was for
the voice that brought the words to her ear. She paused
awhile.

"At that rate, people might be discouraged before they got
what they wanted," she observed, when the silence had lasted
some little time.

"They might," said Winthrop quietly.

"I should think many might."

"Many have been," he answered.

"What then?" she asked a little abruptly.

"They did not get what they wanted."

Elizabeth started a little, and shivered, and tears began to
come again.

"What's to hinder their being discouraged, Mr. Landholm?" she
asked in a tone that was a little querulous.

"Believing God's word."

So sweet the words came, her tears ceased at that; the power
of the truth sank for a moment with calming effect upon her
rebellious feeling; but with this came also as truly the
thought, "You have a marvellous beautiful way of saying things
quietly!" -- However for the time her objections were silenced;
and she sat still, looking out upon the water, and thinking
that with the first quiet opportunity she would begin the
first chapter of Matthew.

For a little while they both were motionless and silent; and
then rising, Winthrop began his walk up and down the deck
again. Elizabeth was left to her meditations; which sometimes
roved hither and thither, and sometimes concentred themselves
upon the beat of his feet, which indeed formed a sort of
background of cadence to them all. It was such a soothing
reminder of one strong and sure stay that she might for the
present lean upon; and the knowledge that she might soon lose
it, made the reminder only the more precious. She was weeping
most bitter tears during some of that time; but those
footsteps behind her were like quiet music through all. She
listened to them sometimes, and felt them always, with a
secret gratification of knowing they would not quit the deck
till she did. Then she had some qualms about his getting
tired; and then she said to herself that she could not put a
stop to what was so much to her and which she was not to have
again. So she sat and listened to them, weary and half
bewildered with the changes and pain of the last few days and
hours; hardly recognizing the reality of her own situation, or
that the sloop, Winthrop's walk behind her, the moonlight, her
lonely seat on the deck, and her truly lonely place in the
world, were not all parts of a curious phantasm. Or if
realizing them, with senses so tried and blunted with recent
wear and tear, that they refused to act and left her to
realize it quietly and almost it seemed stupidly. She called
it so to herself, but she could not help it; and she was in a
manner thankful for that. She would wake up again. She would
have liked to sit there all night under that moonlight and
with the regular fall of Winthrop's step to and fro on the
vessel.

"How long can you stand this?" said he, pausing beside her.

"What?" said Elizabeth looking up.

"How long can you do without resting?"

"I am resting. -- I couldn't rest so well anywhere else."

"Couldn't you?"

"No! --" she said earnestly.

He turned away and went on walking. Elizabeth blessed him for
it.

The moon shone, and the wind blew, and steadily the vessel
sailed on; till higher grounds began to rise on either side of
her, and hills stood back of hills, ambitious of each other's
standing, and threw their deep shadows all along the margin of
the river. As the sloop entered between these narrowing and
lifting walls of the river channel, the draught of air became
gentler, often hindered by some outstanding high point she had
left behind; more slowly she made her way past hill and hill-
embayed curves of the river, less stoutly her sails were
filled, more gently her prow rippled over the smoother water.
Sometimes she passed within the shadow of a lofty hill-side;
and then slipped out again into the clear fair sparkling water
where the moon shone.

"Are we near there?" said Elizabeth suddenly, turning her head
to arrest her walking companion. He came to the back of the
chair.

"Near Wut-a-qut-o?"
