pleasures in life are so circumscribed as those of a real
fashionable lady, was severe indeed. She did not sleep more than a
few hours on the night after she received the mortifying
intelligence.

The year before, Mrs. Claudine had led the fashion in some article
of dress, and to see her carry off the palm in bonnets on this
occasion, when she had striven so hard to be in advance, was more
than Mrs. Bellman could endure. The result of a night's thinking on
the subject was a determination to pursue a very extraordinary
course, the nature of which will be seen. By telegraph Mrs. Bellman
communicated with her friend in New York, desiring her to send on by
the evening of the next day, which was Saturday, the bonnet she had
ordered, if four prices had to be paid as an inducement to get the
milliner to use extra exertions in getting it up. In due time,
notice came back that the bonnet would be sent on by express on
Saturday, much to the joy of Mrs. Ballman, who from the interest she
felt in carrying out her intentions, had entirely recovered from the
painful disappointment at first experienced.

Saturday brought the bonnet, and a beautiful one it was. A few
natural sighs were expended over the elegant affair, and then other
feelings came in to chase away regrets at not having been first to
secure the article.

On the day previous, Friday, Mrs. Ballman called upon a fashionable
milliner, and held with her the following conversation.

"You have heard of Mrs. Claudine's new bonnet, I presume?"

"Yes, madam," replied the milliner.

"Do you think it will take?" asked Mrs. Ballman.

"I do."

"You have not the pattern?"

"Oh, yes. I received one a week ago."

"You did!"

"Yes. But some one must introduce it. As Mrs. Claudine is about
doing this there is little doubt of its becoming the fashion, for
the style is striking as well as tasteful."

Mrs. Ballman mused for some moments. There she drew the milliner
aside, and said, in a low confidential tone.

"Do you think you could get up a bonnet a handsome as that, and in
just as good taste?"

"I know I could. In my last received London and Paris fashions are
several bonnets a handsome as the one that is about being adopted in
New York, and here also without doubt."

"I am not so sure of its being adopted here," said the lady.

"If Mrs. Claudine introduces it, as I understand she intends doing
on Sunday, it will certainly be approved and the style followed."

"I very much doubt it. But we will see. Where are the bonnets you
spoke of just now?"

The milliner brought forth a number of pattern cards and plates, and
pointed out two bonnets, either of which, in her judgment, was more
beautiful than the one Mrs. Claudine had received.

"Far handsomer," was the brief remark with which Mrs. Ballman
approved the milliner's judgment. "And now," she added, "can you get
me up one of these by Sunday?"

"I will try."

"Try won't do," said the lady, with some excitement in her manner.
"I must have the bonnet. Can you make it?"

"Yes."

"Very well. Then make it. And let it be done in your very best
manner. Why I wish to have this bonnet I need hardly explain to you.
I believed that I would have received the bonnet, about to be
adopted in New York, first. I had written to a friend to procure it;
but, by some means, Mrs. Claudine has obtained hers in advance of
me. Mine will be here to-morrow, but I don't mean to wear it. I wish
to lead."

"If you were both to appear in this bonnet, the fashion would be
decided," said the milliner.

"I know. But I have no wish to share the honor with Mrs. Claudine.
Make me the bonnet I have selected, and I will see that it puts
hers down."

"You will remember," said the milliner, "that hers has been
already adopted in New York. This will be almost sure to give it the
preference. It would be better that you did not attempt a rivalry,
than that you should be beaten."

"But I don't mean to be beaten," replied the lady. "I have taken
measures to prevent that. After Sunday you will hear no more of the
New York bonnet. Mine will go, and this, I need not tell you, will
be a feather in your cap, and dollars in your pocket; as I will
refer to you as the only one who can get it up. So do your best, and
improve the pattern we have selected, if it will bear improvement."

The milliner promised to do her "prettiest," and Mrs. Ballman
returned home in a state of considerable elation at the prospect of
carrying off the palm, and humiliating her rival at the same time.

Mrs. Claudine, though a little vain, and fond of excelling, was a
woman of kind feelings, and entirely superior to the petty
jealousies that annoyed Mrs. Ballman, and soured her towards all who
succeeded in rivalling her in matters of taste and fashion. Of what
was passing in the mind of the lady who had been so troubled at her
reception of a new style of bonnet from New York, she was entirely
ignorant. She was not even aware that Mrs. Ballman had ordered the
same article, nor that she had suffered a disappointment.

Saturday came. Mrs. Claudine was busy over some little article of
dress that was to add to her appearance on the next day, when an
Irish girl, who had formerly lived with her, entered her room.

"Ah! Kitty!" said the lady pleasantly. "How do you do?"

"I'm right well, mum, thankee," replied Kitty, with a courtesy.

"Where do you live now, Kitty?" inquired Mrs. Claudine.

"I'm living with Mrs. Ballman," said the girl.

"A very good place, I have no doubt."

"Oh, yes, mum. It is a good place. I hain't much to do, barrin'
going out with the children on good days, and seein' after them in
the house; and I get good wages."

"I'm very glad to hear it, Kitty; and hope you will not give up so
good a home."

"No, indeed, mum; and I won't do that. But Mrs. Claudine--"

Kitty's face flushed, and she stammered in her speech.

"What do you wish to say?" inquired the lady, seeing that Kitty
hesitated to speak of what was on her mind.

"Indade, mum," said Kitty, evincing much perplexity, "I hardly know
what I ought to do. But yez were good to me, mum, when I was sick
and didn't send me off to the poor house like some girls are sent;
and I never can forget yez while there's breath in me body. And now
I've come to ask yez, just as a favor to me, not to wear that new
bonnet from New York, to-morrow."

It was some moments before, the surprise occasioned by so novel and
unexpected a request left Mrs. Claudine free to make any reply.

"Why, Kitty!" she at length exclaimed, "what on earth can you mean?"

"Indade, mum, and yez mustn't ask me what I mane, only don't wear
the bonnet to church on the morrow, because--because--och, indade,
mum, dear! I can't say any more. It wouldn't be right."

Mrs. Claudine told Kitty to sit down, an invitation which the girl,
who was much agitated, accepted. The lady then remained silent and
thoughtful for some time.

"Kitty," she remarked, at length, in a serious manner, "what you
have said to me sounds very strangely. How you should know that I
intended appearing in a new bonnet to-morrow, or why you should be
so much interested in the matter is more than I can understand. As
to acting as you desire, I see no reason for that whatever."

This reply only had the effect of causing Kitty to urge her request
more strenuously. But she would give no reason for her singular
conduct. After the girl had gone away, Mrs. Claudine laid aside her
work--for she was not in a state of mind to do any thing but
think---and sat for at least an hour, musing upon the strange
incident which had occurred. All at once, it flashed upon her mind
that there must be some plot in progress to discredit or rival her
new bonnet, which Kitty had learned at Mrs. Ballman's. The more she
thought of this, the more fully did she become satisfied that it
must be so. She was aware that Mrs. Ballman had been chagrined at
her leading off in new fashions once or twice before; and the fact,
evident now, that she knew of her reception of the bonnet, and
Kitty's anxiety that she should not wear it on Sunday, led her to
the conviction that there was some plot against her. At first, she
determined to appear in her new bonnet, disregardful of Kitty's
warning. But subsequent reflection brought her to a different
conclusion.

The moment Mrs. Claudine settled it in her mind that she would not
appear in the new bonnet, she began dressing herself, hurriedly, to
go out. It was as late as five o'clock in the afternoon when she
called at the store of the milliner who had been commissioned by
Mrs. Ballman to get the rival bonnet.

"Have you the last fashions from abroad?" enquired Mrs. Claudine.

"We have," replied the milliner.

"Will you let me see them?"

"Certainly, ma'am."

And the patterns were shown. After examining them carefully, for
some time, Mrs. Claudine selected a style of bonnet that pleased her
fancy, and said--

"You must get me up this bonnet so that I can wear it to-morrow."

"Impossible, madam!" replied the milliner. "This is Saturday
evening."

"I know it is; but for money you can get one of your girls to work
all night. I don't care what you charge; but I must have the
bonnet."

The milliner still hesitated, and seemed to be confused and uneasy.
She asked Mrs. Claudine to sit down and wait for a little while, and
then retired to think upon what she had better do. The fact was,
Mrs. Claudine had pitched upon the very bonnet Mrs. Ballman had
ordered, and her earnestness about having it made in time to wear on
the next day, put it almost beyond her power to say no. If she were
to tell her that Mrs. Ballman had ordered the same bonnet, it would,
she knew, settle the matter. But, it occurred to her, that if both
the ladies were to appear at church in the same style of bonnet, the
fashion would be sure to take, and she, in consequence, get a large
run of business. This thought sent the blood bounding through the
milliner's veins, and decided her to keep her own counsel, and take
Mrs. Claudine's order.

"She's as much right to the bonnet as Mrs. Ballman," settled all
ethical questions that intruded themselves upon the milliner.

"I will have it ready for you," she said, on returning to Mrs.
Claudine.

"Very well. But mind," said the lady, "I wish it got up in the very
best style. The hurry must not take from its beauty. As for the
price, charge what you please."

The milliner promised every thing, and Mrs. Claudine went home to
think about the important events of the approaching Sabbath. On
Sunday morning both bonnets were sent home, and both the ladies
fully approved the style, effect, and all things appertaining to the
elegant affairs.

At ten o'clock, Kitty, who was a broad-faced, coarse-looking Irish
girl, came into the chamber of Mrs. Ballman, dressed up in her best,
which was not saying much for the taste and elegance of her
appearance.

"Are you all ready?" asked her mistress.

"Yes, mum."

"Very well, Kitty, here's the bonnet. Now, remember, you are to go
into the pew just in front of ours. The Armburner's are all out of
town, and there will be no one to occupy it."

Kitty received the elegant bonnet which had come on express from New
York, and placed it upon her head.

"You really look charming," said the lady.

But Kitty was not flattered by her words, and evinced so little
heart in what she was doing that Mrs Ballman said to her, in a half
threatening tone, as she left the room--

"Mind, Kitty, I shall expect to see you at church."

"Oh, yes, mum; I'll be there," replied Kitty, courtesying awkwardly,
and retiring.

Not long after Kitty had retired, Mrs. Ballman, after surveying, for
many minutes, the effect of her new bonnet, becoming more and more
pleased with it every moment, and more and more satisfied that it
would "take," left her room, and was descending the stairs for the
purpose of joining the family, who were awaiting her below. Just at
that unlucky moment, a servant, who was bringing down a vessel of
water, slipped, and a portion of the contents came dashing over the
head and shoulders of the richly attired lady, ruining her elegant
bonnet, and completely destroying the happy frame of mind in which
she was about attending public worship. No wonder that she cried
aloud from the sudden shock and distress so untoward an event
occasioned; nor that she went back weeping to her chamber, and
refused to be comforted.

Mr. Ballman and the children proceeded alone to church on that day.
On their return home they found the lady in a calmer frame of mind.
But Mr. Ballman looked grave and was unusually silent. Kitty came
home and gave up her elegant head-dress; and when her mistress told
her that she might keep it, she thanked her, but declined the
present.

"You went to church, of course," she said.

"Oh, yes, mum," replied Kitty.

"And sat in the Armburner's pew?"

"Yes, mum."

"Alone."

"Yes, mum."

"Was Mrs. Claudine there?"

"Yes, mum."

"Did she wear her new bonnet?"

"Yes, mum."

"It was exactly like this?"

"Oh, no, mum, it was exactly like the new one you had sent home this
morning."

"What!" The face of the lady flushed instantly. "Wasn't it like
this?"

"No, mum."

Mrs. Ballman sunk into a chair.

"You can retire, Kitty," she said, and the girl withdrew, leaving
her to her own feelings and reflections, which were not of the most
pleasing character.

The appearance of Kitty at church, fully explained to Mrs. Claudine
the ungenerous game that had been played against her. Her first
thought was to retaliate. But reflection brought other and better
feelings into play. Instead of exposing what had been done, she
destroyed the bonnet received from New York, and made an effort to
keep what had occurred a secret. But Kitty's appearance at church in
such an elegant affair, naturally created some talk. One surmise
after another was started, and, at last, from hints dropped by the
milliner, and admissions almost extorted from Mrs. Claudine, the
truth came out so fully, that all understood it; nor was Mrs.
Ballman long left in ignorance on this head.

As to the fashion, Mrs. Claudine's bonnet became the rage; though,
as might be supposed, Mrs. Ballman refused to adopt it.

Who will be the successful rival next season, I am unable to
predict. But it is believed that Mrs. Claudine intends giving Mrs.
Ballman an advance of two weeks, and then coming in with a different
style, and beating her in spite of the advantage.




CHAPTER XXVII.

MY WASHERWOMAN.


WE were sitting at tea one evening--Mr. Smith, my sister and her
husband, Mr. John Jones, and myself. In the midst of a pleasant
conversation, Bridget looked into the dining-room.

"What is wanted?" said I.

"Mary Green is down stairs."

"Oh! the washerwoman."

"Yes ma'am."

"Well, what does she want?"

I knew what she wanted well enough. She had come for two dollars
that I owed her. I felt annoyed. "Why?" the reader asks.
"Obligations of this kind should always be met promptly and
cheerfully."

True; and I am of those who never grudge the humble poor the reward
of their labor. But, it so happened that I had received a pretty
liberal supply of money from my husband on this very day, all of
which I had spent in shopping. Some of my purchases could not be
classed exactly under the head, "Articles of Domestic Economy," and
I was, already, in rather a repentant mood--the warmth of admiration
at the sight of sundry ornamental trifles having subsided almost as
soon as I found myself their owner. To my question, Bridget very
promptly answered,

"She's come for her money."

When a woman feels annoyed, she is rarely able to repress its
exhibition. Men are cooler, and have a quicker self control. They
make better hypocrites.

"She's very prompt," I remarked, a little fretfully, as I took out
my porte-monnaie. Now I did not possess twenty cents, and I knew it;
still, I fingered among its compartments as if in search of the
little gold dollars that were not there.

"Hav'nt you the change?" enquired Mr. Smith, at the same time
drawing forth his purse, through the meshes of which the gold and
silver coin glittered in the gas light.

"No dear," I replied, feeling instant relief.

"Help yourself;" said he, as he tossed the purse to my side of the
table. I was not long in accepting the invitation you may be sure.

"Don't think," said I, after Bridget had retired, "that I am one of
those who grudge the toiling poor the meagre wages they earn. I
presume I looked, as I spoke, a little annoyed. The fact is, to tell
the honest truth, I have not a dollar in my porte-monnaie; this with
the not very pleasant consciousness of having spent several dollars
to-day rather foolishly, fretted me when the just demand of the
washerwoman came."

"I will exonerate my wife from any suspicion of grinding the faces
of the poor." Mr. Smith spoke promptly and with some earnestness of
manner. After a slight pause, he continued,

"Some people have a singular reluctance to part with money. If
waited on for a bill, they say, almost involuntarily, 'Call
to-morrow,' even though their pockets are far from being empty.

"I once fell into this bad habit myself; but, a little incident,
which I will relate, cured me. Not many years after I had attained
my majority, a poor widow named Blake did my washing and ironing.
She was the mother of two or three little children, whose sole
dependance for food and raiment was on the labor of her hands.

"Punctually, every Thursday morning, Mrs. Blake appeared with my
clothes, 'white as the driven snow;' but, not always, as punctually,
did I pay the pittance she had earned by hard labor.

"'Mrs. Blake is down stairs,' said a servant tapping at my room
door, one morning, while I was in the act of dressing myself.

"'Oh, very well,' I replied. 'Tell her to leave my clothes. I will
get them when I come down.'

"The thought of paying the seventy-five cents, her due, crossed my
mind. But, I said to myself, 'It's but a small matter, and will do
as well when she comes again.'

"There was in this a certain reluctance to part with money. My funds
were low, and I might need what change I had during the day. And so
it proved! As I went to the office in which I was engaged, some
small article of ornament caught my eye in a shop window.

"'Beautiful!' said I, as I stood looking at it. Admiration quickly
changed into the desire for possession; and so I stepped in to ask
the price. It was just two dollars.

"'Cheap enough,' thought I. And this very cheapness was a further
temptation.

"So I turned out the contents of my pockets, counted them over, and
found the amount to be two dollars and a quarter.

"'I guess I'll take it,' said I, laying the money on the
shopkeeper's counter.

"'Better have paid Mrs. Blake.' This thought crossed my mind, an
hour afterwards, by which time, the little ornament had lost its
power of pleasing. 'So much would at least have been saved.'

"I was leaving the table, after tea, on the evening that followed,
when the waiter said to me--

"'Mrs. Blake is at the door, and wishes to see you.'

"I felt worried at hearing this; for there was no change in my
pockets, and the poor washerwoman, had, of course, come for her
money.

"'She's in a great hurry,' I muttered to myself as I descended to
the door.

"'You'll have to wait until you bring home my clothes next week,
Mrs. Blake.' I havn't any change this evening.'

"The expression of the poor woman's face, as she turned slowly away,
without speaking, rather softened my feelings.

"'I'm sorry,' said I--'but, it can't be helped now. I wish you had
said, this morning, that you wanted money. I could have paid you
then.'

"She paused, and turned partly towards me as I said this. Then she
moved off, with something so sad in her manner, that I was touched,
sensibly.

"'I ought to have paid her this morning when I had the change about
me. And I wish I had done so. Why didn't she ask for her money if
she wanted it so badly.'

"I felt, of coarse, rather ill at ease. A little while afterwards, I
met the lady with whom I was boarding.

"'Do you know anything about this Mrs. Blake, who washes for me?' I
enquired.

"'Not much; except that she is very poor, and has three children to
feed and clothe. And what is worst of all, she is in bad health. I
think she told me this morning, that one of her little ones was very
sick.'

"I was smitten with a feeling of self-condemnation, and soon after
left the room. It was too late to remedy the evil, for I had only a
sixpence in my pocket; and, moreover, I did not know where to find
Mrs. Blake. Having purposed to make a call upon some young ladies
that evening, I now went up into my room to dress. Upon my bed lay
the spotless linen brought home by Mrs. Blake in the morning. The
sight of it rebuked me; and I had to conquer, with some force, an
instinctive reluctance, before I could compel myself to put on a
clean shirt, and snow-white vest, too recently from the hand of my
unpaid washerwoman.

"One of the young ladies upon whom I called was more than a mere
pleasant acquaintance. (And here Mr. Smith glanced, with a tender
smile, towards me.) My heart had, in fact been warming towards her
for some time; and I was particularly anxious to find favor in her
eyes. On this evening she was lovelier and more attractive than
ever.

"Judge then, of the effect produced upon me by the entrance of her
mother--at the very moment when my heart was all a-glow with love,
who said, as she came in--

"'Oh, dear! This is a strange world!'

"'What new feature have you discovered now, mother?' asked one of
her daughters, smiling.

"'No new one, child; but an old one that looks more repulsive than
ever,' was answered. 'Poor Mrs. Blake came to see me just now, in
great trouble.'

"'What about, mother?' All the young ladies at once manifested
unusual interest.

"Tell-tale blushes came instantly to my countenance, upon which the
eyes of the mother turned themselves, as I felt, with a severe
scrutiny.

"'The old story in cases like hers,' was answered. 'Can't get
her money when earned, although, for daily bread, she is dependent
on her daily labor. With no food in the house, or money to buy
medicine for her sick child, she was compelled to seek me to-night,
and to humble her spirit, which is an independent one, so low as to
ask bread for her little ones, and the loan of a pittance with which
to get what the doctor has ordered for her feeble sufferer at home.'

"'Oh, what a shame!' fell from the lips of her in whom my heart felt
more than a passing interest; and she looked at me earnestly as she
spoke.

"'She fully expected,' said the mother, 'to get a trifle that was
due her from a young man who boards with Mrs. Corwin; and she went
to see him this evening. But he put her off with some excuse. How
strange that any one should be so thoughtless as to withhold from
the poor their hard-earned pittance! It is but a small sum, at best,
that the toiling seamstress or washerwoman can gain by her wearying
labor. That, at least, should be promptly paid. To withhold it an
hour is to do, in many cases, a great wrong.'

"For some minutes after this was said, there ensued a dead silence.
I felt that the thoughts of all were turned upon me as the one who
had withheld from poor Mrs. Blake the trifling sum due her for
washing. What my feelings were, it is impossible for me to describe;
and difficult for any one, never himself placed in so unpleasant a
position, to imagine.

"My relief was great when the conversation flowed on again, and in
another channel; for I then perceived that suspicion did not rest
upon me. You may be sure that Mrs. Blake had her money before ten
o'clock on the next day, and that I never again fell into the error
of neglecting, for a single week, my poor washerwoman."

"Such a confession from you, Mr. Smith, of all men," said I, feeling
a little uncomfortable, that he should have told this story of
himself.

"We are none of us perfect," he answered, "He is best, who,
conscious of natural defects and evils, strives against, and
overcomes them."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

MY BORROWING NEIGHBOR.


"I THINK, my dear," said I to my husband one day, "that we shall
have to move from here."

"Why so?" asked Mr. Smith, in surprise. "It is a very comfortable
house. I am certain we will not get another as desirable at the same
rent."

"I don't know that we will. But--"

Just as I said this, my cook opened the door of the room where we
were sitting and said--

"Mrs. Jordon, ma'am, wants to borrow half a pound of butter. She
says, they are entirely out, and their butter-man won't come before
to-morrow."

"Very well, Bridget, let her have it."

The cook retired.

"Why do you wish to move, Jane?" asked my husband, as the girl
closed the door.

"Cook's visit was quite apropos," I replied. "It is on account of
the 'half pound of butter,' 'cup of sugar,' and 'pan of flour'
nuisance."

"I don't exactly comprehend you, Jane," said my husband.

"It is to get rid of a borrowing neighbor. The fact is, Mrs. Jordon
is almost too much for me. I like to be accommodating; it gives me
pleasure to oblige my neighbors; I am ready to give any reasonable
obedience to the Scripture injunction--from him that would borrow
of thee, turn thou not away; but Mrs. Jordon goes beyond all
reason."

"Still, if she is punctual in returning what she gets, I don't know
that you ought to let it annoy you a great deal."

"There lies the gist of the matter, my dear," I replied. "If there
were no 'if,' such as you suggest, in the case, I would not think a
great deal about it. But, the fact is, there is no telling the cups
of sugar, pans of flour, pounds of butter, and little matters of
salt, pepper, vinegar, mustard, ginger, spices, eggs, lard, meal,
and the dear knows what all, that go out monthly, but never come
back again. I verily believe we suffer through Mrs. Jordon's habit
of borrowing not less than fifty or sixty dollars a year. Little
things like these count up."

"So bad as that, is it?" said my husband.

"Indeed it is; and when she returns anything, it is almost always of
an inferior quality, and frequently thrown away on that account."

While we were talking, the tea bell rang, and we retired to the
dining-room.

"What's the matter with this tea?" asked Mr. Smith, pushing the cup
I had handed him aside, after leaving sipped of its contents. "I
never tasted such stuff. It's like herb tea."

"It must be something in the water," replied I. "The tea is the same
we have been using all along."

I poured some into a cup and tasted it.

"Pah!" I said, with disgust, and rang the bell. The cook entered in
a few moments.

"Bridget, what's the matter with your tea? It isn't fit to drink. Is
it the same we have been using?"

"No, ma'am," replied Bridget. "It is some Mrs. Jordon sent home. I
reminded Nancy, when she was here for butter, that they owed us some
tea, borrowed day before yesterday, and she came right back with it,
saying that Mrs. Jordon was sorry it had slipped her mind. I thought
I would draw it by itself, and not mix it with the tea in our
canister."

"You can throw this out and draw fresh tea, Bridget; we can't drink
it," said I, handing her the tea-pot.

"You see how it works," I remarked as Bridget left the room, and my
husband leaned back in his chair to wait for a fresh cup of tea.
"One half of the time, when anything is returned, we can't use it.
The butter Mrs. Jordon got a little while ago, if returned
to-morrow, will not be fit to go on our table. We can only use it
for cooking."

"It isn't right," sententiously remarked my husband. "The fact is,"
he resumed, after a slight pause, "I wouldn't lend such a woman
anything. It is a downright imposition."

"It is a very easy thing to say that, Mr. Smith. But I am not
prepared to do it. I don't believe Mrs. Jordon means to do wrong, or
is really conscious that she is trespassing upon us. Some people
don't reflect. Otherwise she is a pleasant neighbor, and I like her
very much. It is want of proper thought, Mr. Smith, and nothing
else."

"If a man kept treading on my gouty toe for want of thought," said
my husband, "I should certainly tell him of it, whether he got
offended I or not. If his friendship could only be retained on these
terms, I would prefer dispensing with the favor."

"The case isn't exactly parallel, Mr. Smith," was my reply. "The
gouty toe and crushing heel are very palpable and straightforward
matters, and a man would be an egregious blockhead to be offended
when reminded of the pain he was inflicting. But it would be
impossible to make Mrs. Jordon at all conscious of the extent of her
short-comings, very many of which, in fact, are indirect, so far as
she is concerned, and arise from her general sanction of the
borrowing system. I do not suppose, for a moment, that she knows
about everything that is borrowed."

"If she doesn't, pray who does?" inquired my husband.

"Her servants. I have to be as watchful as you can imagine, to see
that Bridget, excellent a girl as she is, doesn't suffer things to
get out, and then, at the last moment, when it is too late to send
to the store, run in to a neighbor's and borrow to hide her neglect.
If I gave her a carte blanche for borrowing, I might be as
annoying to my neighbors as Mrs. Jordon."

"That's a rather serious matter," said my husband. "In fact, there
is no knowing how much people may suffer in their neighbors' good
opinion, through the misconduct of their servants in this very
thing."

"Truly said. And now let me relate a fact about Mrs. Jordon, that
illustrates your remark." (The fresh tea had come in, and we were
going on with our evening meal.) "A few weeks ago we had some
friends here, spending the evening. When about serving refreshments,
I discovered that my two dozen tumblers had been reduced to seven or
eight. On inquiry, I learned that Mrs. Jordon had ten--the rest had
been broken. I sent to her, with my compliments, and asked her to
return them, as I had some company, and wished to use them in
serving refreshments. Bridget was gone some time, and when she
returned, said that Mrs. Jordon at first denied having any of my
tumblers. Her cook was called, who acknowledged to five, and, after
sundry efforts on the part of Bridget to refresh her memory, finally
gave in to the whole ten. Early on the next morning Mrs. Jordon came
in to see me, and seemed a good deal mortified about the tumblers.

"'It was the first I had heard about it,' she said. 'Nancy, it now
appears, borrowed of you to hide her own breakage, and I should have
been none the wiser, if you had not sent in. I have not a single
tumbler left. It is too bad! I don't care so much for the loss of
the tumblers, as I do for the mortifying position it placed me in
toward a neighbor.'"

"Upon my word!" exclaimed my husband. "That is a beautiful
illustration, sure enough, of my remarks about what people may
suffer in the good opinion of others, through the conduct of their
servants in this very thing. No doubt Mrs. Jordon, as you suggest,
is guiltless of a good deal of blame now laid at her door. It was a
fair opportunity for you to give her some hints on the subject. You
might have opened her eyes a little, or at least diminished the
annoyance you had been, and still are enduring."

"Yes, the opportunity was a good one, and I ought to have improved
it. But I did not and the whole system, sanctioned or not sanctioned
by Mrs. Jordon, is in force against me."

"And will continue, unless some means be adopted by which to abate
the nuisance."

"Seriously, Mr. Smith," said I, "I am clear for removing from the
neighborhood."

But Mr. Smith said,

"Nonsense, Jane!" A form of expression he uses, when he wishes to
say that my proposition or suggestion is perfectly ridiculous, and
not to be thought of for a moment.

"What is to be done?" I asked. "Bear the evil?"

"Correct it, if you can."

"And if not, bear it the best I can?"

"Yes, that is my advice."

This was about the extent of aid I ever received from my husband in
any of my domestic difficulties. He is a first-rate abstractionist,
and can see to a hair how others ought to act in every imaginable,
and I was going to say unimaginable case; but is just as backward
about telling people what he thinks of them, and making everybody
with whom he has anything to do toe the mark, as I am.

As the idea of moving to get rid of my borrowing neighbor was
considered perfect nonsense by Mr. Smith, I began to think seriously
how I should check the evil, now grown almost insufferable. On the
next morning the coffee-mill was borrowed to begin with.

"Hasn't Mrs. Jordon got a coffee-mill of her own?" I asked of
Bridget.

"Yes, ma'am," she replied, "but it is such a poor one that Nancy
won't use it. She says it takes her forever and a day to grind
enough coffee for breakfast."

"Does she get ours every morning?"
