to remain a few days longer, they basely withdrew, even while they were on
the very verge of the battlefield. This regiment left, and carried with it
the scorn and contempt of the loyal and true men, who were as ready to
fight the battles of their country on one day as on another.

The men knew they were going to battle now, for the enemy was only a few
miles distant. The soldier boy's heart was full of hope. He knew not what
a battle was; he could form no adequate conception of the terrible scene
which was soon to open upon his view. He prayed and trusted that he might
be able to do his duty with courage and fidelity. To say that he had no
doubts and fears would be to say that he was not human.

As the brigade toiled slowly along, he tried to picture the scene which
was before him, and thus make himself familiar with its terrors before he
was actually called to confront them. He endeavored to imagine the sounds
of screaming shells and whistling bullets, that the reality, when it came,
might not appall him. He thought of his companions dropping dead around
him, of his friends mangled by bayonets and cannon shot; he painted the
most terrible picture of a battle which his imagination could conjure up,
hoping in this manner to be prepared for the worst.

The day was hot, and the sun poured down his scorching rays upon the
devoted soldiers as they pursued their weary march. They were fatigued by
continued exertion, and some of the weary ones, when the sun approached
the meridian, began to hope the great battle would not take place on that
day. Tom Somers, nearly worn out by the tedious march, and half famished
after the scanty breakfast of hard bread he had eaten before daylight,
began to feel that he was in no condition to face the storm of bullets
which he had been imagining.

No orders came to halt at noon, though the crowded roads several times
secured them a welcome rest: but on marched the weary soldiers, till the
roar of cannon broke upon their ears; and as they moved farther on, the
rattling volleys of musketry were heard, denoting that the battle had
already commenced. These notes of strife were full of inspiration to the
loyal and patriotic in the columns. A new life was breathed into them.
They were enthusiastic in the good cause, and their souls immediately
became so big that what had been body before seemed to become spirit now.
They forgot their empty stomachs and their weary limbs. The music of
battle, wild and terrible as it was to these untutored soldiers, charmed
away the weariness of the body, and, to the quickstep of thundering cannon
and crashing musketry, they pressed on with elastic tread to the horrors
before them.

Tom felt that he had suddenly and miraculously been made over anew. He
could not explain the reason, but his legs had ceased to ache, his feet to
be sore, and his musket and his knapsack were deprived of their
superfluous weight.

"God be with me in this battle!" he exclaimed to himself a dozen times.
"God give me strength and courage!"

Animated by his trust in Him who will always sustain those who confide in
him, the soldier boy pressed on, determined not to disgrace the name he
bore. The terrible sounds became more and more distinct as the regiment
advanced, and in about two hours after the battle had opened, the brigade
arrived at the field of operations. One regiment was immediately detached
and sent off in one direction, while the other two were ordered to support
a battery on a hill, from which it was belching forth a furious storm of
shells upon the rebels.

The little colonel's sword gleamed in the air, as he gave the order to
march on the double-quick to the position assigned to him.

"Now, Tom, steady, and think of nothing but God and your country," said
old Hapgood, as the regiment commenced its rapid march. "I know something
about this business, and I can tell you we shall have hot work before we
get through with it."

"Where are the rebels? I don't see any," asked Tom, who found that his
ideas of the manner in which a battle is fought were very much at fault.

"You will see them very soon. They are in their breastworks. There! Look
down there!" exclaimed the veteran as the regiment reached a spot which
commanded a full view of the battle.

Tom looked upon the fearful scene. The roar of the artillery and the crash
of the small arms were absolutely stunning. He saw men fall, and lie
motionless on the ground, where they were trampled upon by the horses, and
crushed beneath the wheels of cannon and caisson. But the cry was, that
the army of the Union had won the field, and it inspired him with new zeal
and new courage.

Scarcely had the remnant of the brigade reached the right of the battery,
before they were ordered to charge down the valley, by Colonel Franklin,
the acting brigadier. They were executing the command with a dash and
vigor that would have been creditable to veterans, when they were ordered
to cross the ravine, and support the Eire Zouaves. The movement was made,
and Tom soon found himself in the thickest of the fight. Shot and shell
were flying in every direction, and the bullets hissed like hailstones
around him.

In spite of all his preparations for this awful scene, his heart rose up
into his throat. His eyes were blinded by the volumes of rolling smoke,
and his mind confused by the rapid succession of incidents that were
transpiring around him. The pictures he had painted were sunlight and
golden compared with the dread reality. Dead and dying men strewed the
ground in every direction. Wounded horses were careering on a mad course
of destruction, trampling the wounded and the dead beneath their feet. The
hoarse shouts of the officers were heard above the roar of battle. The
scene mocked all the attempts which the soldier boy had made to imagine
its horrors.

In front of the regiment were the famous Eire Zouaves, no longer guided
and controlled by the master genius of Ellsworth. They fought like tigers,
furiously, madly; but all discipline had ceased among them, and they
rushed wildly to the right and the left, totally heedless of their
officers. They fought like demons, and as Tom saw them shoot down, hew
down, or bayonet the hapless rebels who came within their reach, it seemed
to him as though they had lost their humanity, and been transformed into
fiends.

As soon as the regiment reached its position, the order was given to fire.
Tom found this a happy relief; and when he had discharged his musket a few
times, all thoughts of the horrors of the scene forsook him. He no longer
saw the dead and the dying; he no longer heard the appalling roar of
battle. He had become a part of the scene, instead of an idle spectator.
He was sending the bolt of death into the midst of the enemies of his
country.

"Bravo! Good boy, Tom," said old Hapgood, who seemed to be as much at ease
as when he had counselled patience and resignation in the quiet of the
tent. "Don't fire too high, Tom."

"I've got the idea," replied the soldier boy. "I begin to feel quite at
home."

"O, you'll do; and I knew you would from the first."

The shouts of victory which had sounded over the field were full of
inspiration to the men; but at the moment when the laurels seemed to be
resting securely upon our banners, the rebel line moved forward with
irresistible fury. Tom, at one instant, as he cast his eye along the line,
found himself flanked on either side by his comrades; at the next there
was a wild, indescribable tramp and roar, and he found himself alone. The
regiment was scattered in every direction, and he did not see a single man
whom he knew. There was a moving mass of Federal soldiers all around him.
The Zouaves had been forced back, and the cry of victory had given place
to the ominous sounds which betokened a defeat, if not a rout.

The rebels had been reÃ«nforced, and had hurled their fresh legions upon
our exhausted troops, who could no longer roll back the masses that
crowded upon them. The day was lost.

Tom, bewildered by this sudden and disastrous result, moved back with the
crowds around him. Men had ceased to be brave and firm; they were fleeing
in mortal terror before the victorious battalions that surged against
them.

"It's all up with us, my lad," said a panting Zouave. "Run for your life.
Come along with me."

Tom followed the Zouave towards the woods, the storm of bullets still
raining destruction around them.




CHAPTER XIV.

AFTER THE BATTLE.


Tom Somers floated with the tide of humanity that was setting away from
the scene of disaster and defeat. The panic that prevailed was even more
fearful than the battle, for wounded and dying men were mercilessly
trodden down by the feet of the horses, and run over by the wheels of the
cannon and the baggage wagons. Though the battle was ended, the rebels
still poured storms of shot and shell into the retreating, panic-stricken
host.

Tom did not know where to go, for there were panic and death on all sides
of him. The soldiers were flying in every direction, some of them into the
very arms of their remorseless enemies. But the woods seemed to promise
the most secure retreat from the fury of the Black Horse Cavalry, which
was now sweeping over the battle-field. The Zouave ran in this direction,
and our soldier boy followed him. Now that the excitement of the conflict
was over, the enthusiasm which had buoyed him up began to subside. The day
was lost; all hopes of glory had fled; and a total defeat and rout were
not calculated to add much strength to his over-tasked limbs.

He was nearly used up, and it was hard work to run--very hard work; and
nothing but the instinct of self-preservation enabled him to keep the tall
and wiry form of the Zouave in sight. They reached the ravine, where the
water was about three feet deep. The shot, and shell, and bullets still
fell in showers around them, and occasionally one of the luckless
fugitives was struck down. They crossed the stream, and continued on their
flight. An officer on horseback dashed by them, and bade them run with all
their might, or they would be taken.

"For Heaven's sake, get me some water!" said a rebel, who was wounded in
the leg, to a Zouave, who passed near him.

"You are a rebel, but I will do that for you," replied the Zouave; and he
gave him a canteen filled with water.

The rebel drank a long, deep draught, and then levelled his musket at the
head of his Samaritan enemy and fired. This transaction had occupied but a
moment, and Tom saw the whole. His blood froze with horror at the
unparalleled atrocity of the act. The Zouave, whom Tom had followed,
uttered a terrible oath, and snatching the musket from the hands of the
soldier boy, he rushed upon the soulless miscreant, and transfixed him
upon the bayonet. Uttering fierce curses all the time, he plunged the
bayonet again and again into the vitals of the rebel, till life was
extinct.

"Boy, I used to be human once," said the Zouave, when he had executed this
summary justice upon the rebel; "but I'm not human now. I'm all devil."

"What a wretch that rebel was!" exclaimed Tom, who seemed to breathe freer
now that retribution had overtaken the viper.

"A wretch! Haven't you got any bigger word than that, boy? He was a fiend!
But we mustn't stop here."

"I thought the rebels were human."

"Human? That isn't the first time to-day I've seen such a thing as that
done. Come along, my boy; come along."

Tom followed the Zouave again; but he was too much exhausted to run any
farther. Even the terrors of the Black Horse Cavalry could not inspire him
with strength and courage to continue his flight at any swifter pace than
a walk.

"I can go no farther," said he, at last.

"Yes, you can; pull up! pull up! You will be taken if you stop here."

"I can't help it. I can go no farther. I am used up."

"Pull up, pull up, my boy!"

"I can't."

"But I don't want to leave you here. They'll murder you--cut your throat,
like a dog."

"I will hide myself in the bushes till I get a little more strength."

"Try it a little longer. You are too good a fellow to be butchered like a
calf," added the generous Zouave.

But it was no use to plead with him, for exhausted nature refused to
support him, and he dropped upon the ground like a log.

"Poor fellow! I would carry you in my arms if I could."

"Save yourself if you can," replied Tom, faintly.

The kind-hearted fireman was sorry to leave him, but he knew that one who
wore his uniform could expect no mercy from the rebels. They had been too
terrible upon the battle-field to receive any consideration from those
whom they had so severely punished. He was, therefore, unwilling to trust
himself to the tender mercies of the cavalry, who were sweeping the fields
to pick up prisoners; and after asking Tom's name and regiment, he
reluctantly left him.

Tom had eaten nothing since daylight in the morning, which, added to the
long march, and the intense excitement of his first battle-field, had
apparently reduced him to the last extremity. Then, for the first time, he
realized what it was to be a soldier. Then he thought of his happy
home--of his devoted mother. What must she not suffer when the telegraph
should flash over the wires the intelligence of the terrible disaster
which had overtaken the Union army! It would be many days, if not weeks or
months, before she could know whether he was dead or alive. What anguish
must she not endure!

He had but a moment for thoughts like these before he heard the sweep of
the rebel cavalry, as they dashed down the road through the woods. He must
not remain where he was, or the record of his earthly career would soon be
closed. On his hands and knees he crawled away from the road, and rolled
himself up behind a rotten log, just in season to escape the observation
of the cavalrymen as they rode by the spot.

Here and there in the woods were the extended forms of Federals and
rebels, who had dragged their wounded bodies away from the scene of mortal
strife to breathe their last in this holy sanctuary of nature, or to
escape from the death-dealing shot, and the mangling wheels that rumbled
over the dead and the dying. Close by the soldier boy's retreat lay one
who was moaning piteously for water. Tom had filled his canteen at a brook
on the way, and he crawled up to the sufferer to lave his dying thirst. On
reaching the wounded man, he found that he was a rebel, and the fate of
the Zouave who had done a similar kindness only a short time before
presented itself to his mind.

"Water! Water! For the love of God, give me a drop of water," moaned the
dying soldier.

Tom thought of the Zouave again, and had almost steeled his heart against
the piteous cry. He turned away.

"Water! Water! If you are a Christian give me some water," groaned the
sufferer.

Our soldier boy could no longer resist the appeal. He felt that he could
not be loved on earth or forgiven in heaven if he denied the petition of
the dying rebel; but before he granted it, he assured himself that the
sufferer had no dangerous weapon in his possession. The man was deadly
pale; one of his arms hung useless by his side; and he was covered with
blood. He was a terrible-looking object, and Tom felt sick and faint as he
gazed upon him.

Placing his canteen at the lips of the poor wretch, he bade him drink. His
frame quivered as he clutched the canteen with his remaining hand. The
death damp was on his forehead; but his eye lighted up with new lustre as
he drank the grateful beverage.

"God bless you! God bless you!" exclaimed he as he removed the canteen
from his lips. "You are a Yankee," he added, as he fixed his glazing eyes
upon Tom's uniform. "Are you wounded?"

"No; I am worn out. I have eaten nothing since daylight, and not much
then. I am used up."

"Put your hand in my haversack. There is something there," gasped the
dying man.

Tom bent over him to comply with the invitation; but, with a thrill of
horror, he started back, as he listened to the death-rattle in the throat
of the rebel, and saw his eyes fixed and lustreless in death. It was an
awful scene to the inexperienced youth. Though he had seen hundreds fall
in the battle of that day, death had not seemed so ghastly and horrible to
him as now, when he stood face to face with the grim monster. For a few
moments he forgot his own toil-worn limbs, his craving hunger, and his
aching head.

He gazed upon the silent form before him, which had ceased to suffer, and
he felt thankful that he had been able to mitigate even a single pang of
the dying rebel. But not long could he gaze, awe-struck, at the ghastly
spectacle before him, for he had a life to save. The words of the
sufferer--his last words--offering him the contents of his haversack
recurred to him; but Tom's sensibilities recoiled at the thought of eating
bread taken from the body of a dead man, and he turned away.

"Why shouldn't I take it?" said he to himself. "It may save my life. With
rest and food, I may escape. Pooh! I'll not be a fool!"

Bending over the dead man, he resolutely cut the haversack from his body,
and then returned to the log whose friendly shelter had screened him from
the eyes of the rebel horsemen. Seating himself upon the ground, he
commenced exploring the haversack. It contained two "ash-cakes," a slice
of bacon, and a small bottle. Tom's eyes glowed with delight as he gazed
upon this rich feast, and, without waiting to say grace or consider the
circumstances under which he obtained the materials for his feast, he
began to eat. Ash-cake was a new institution to him. It was an Indian cake
baked in the ashes, probably at the camp-fires of the rebels at Manassas.
It tasted very much like his mother's johnny-cake, only he missed the
fresh butter with which he had been wont to cover the article at home.

The soldier boy ate the bacon, and ate both of the cakes, though each of
the latter was about the size of a saucer. It was a large meal, even for a
growing boy; but every mouthful seemed to put a new sinew into his frame.
While he was eating, he drew the cork from the bottle. It contained
whiskey. Tom had heard that there was virtue in whiskey; that it was
invigorating to a tired man, and he was tempted, under these extremely
trying circumstances, to experiment upon the beverage. He would certainly
have been excusable if he had done so; but our hero had a kind of horror
of the article, which would not let him even taste it. He was afraid that
he should acquire a habit which would go with him through life, and make
him what Hapgood and others whom he knew were--a torment to themselves,
and a nuisance to their fellow-beings. Putting the cork in the bottle, he
threw it upon the ground.

With his renewed strength came renewed hope; but he did not deem it
prudent to wander about the woods at present: therefore he threw himself
on the ground under the protecting log to obtain the repose he so much
needed.

He thought of home, and wondered whether he should ever see the cottage of
his parents again; and while he was thinking, overcome by the excitement
and fatigue of the day, he dropped asleep. It was strange that he could do
so, consciously environed by so many perils; but he had in a measure
become callous to danger, and he slept long and deep.

When he awoke, it was dark and silent around him. The roar of battle had
ceased, and the calm of death seemed to have settled upon the scene of
strife. Tom's bones still ached; but he was wonderfully refreshed by the
nap he had taken. He had no idea of the time, and could not tell whether
he had slept one hour or six. He was strong enough to walk now, and the
first consideration was to escape from the vicinity of the rebel camps;
but he had no conception of where he was, or what direction would lead him
to the Federal lines.

A kind Providence had watched over him thus far; had spared his life in
the fury of battle; had fed him in the wilderness, like Elijah of old; and
restored his wasted strength. He could only trust to Providence for
guidance, and, using his best judgment in choosing the direction, he
entered upon the difficult task of finding his way out of the woods. He
had walked an hour or more, when, suddenly, three men sprung up in the
path before him.

"Halt! Who comes there?" demanded one of them.

"Friend!" replied Tom; though he had a great many doubts in regard to the
truth of his assertion.

"Advance, friend, and give the countersign!"

But the soldier boy had no countersign to give. He had fallen upon a rebel
picket post, and was made a prisoner.




CHAPTER XV.

TOM A PRISONER.


Tom could not exactly understand how he happened to be made a prisoner. He
had certainly moved with extreme caution, and he wondered that he had not
received some intimation of the presence of the enemy before it was too
late to retreat. But, as we have before hinted, Tom was a philosopher; and
he did not despair even under the present reverse of circumstances, though
he was greatly disconcerted.

"Who are you?" demanded one of the rebel soldiers, when they had duly
possessed his body, which, however, was not a very chivalrous adventure,
for the prisoner was unarmed, his gun having been thrown away by the
friendly Zouave, after he had so terribly avenged his murdered companion.

"I'm a soldier," replied Tom, greatly perplexed by the trials of his
difficult situation.

As yet he did not know whether he had fallen into the hands of friend or
foe, for the night was cloudy and dark, and he could not see what uniform
the pickets wore.

"What do you belong to?" demanded the spokesman of the picket trio.

"I belong to the army," answered Tom, with admirable simplicity.

Our soldier boy, as the reader already knows, had been well "brought up."
He had been taught to tell the truth at all times; and he did so on the
present occasion, very much to the confusion, no doubt, of the rebel
soldiers, who had not been brought up under the droppings of the sanctuary
in a New England village.

"B'long to the army--do you?" repeated Secesh, who must have thought Tom a
very candid person.

"Yes, sir, I belong to the army," added the prisoner.

"I s'pose you won't mind telling us what army you belong to, 'cause it
mought make a difference in our calculations," added the spokesman.

Tom did not know but that it might make some difference in his
calculations, and for this reason he was exceedingly unwilling to commit
himself before he ascertained upon which side his questioners belonged.

"Can you tell me where I am?" asked Tom, resolved to use a little strategy
in obtaining the desired information.

"May be I can," replied the picket.

"Will you do so?"

"Sartin, stranger--you are in the woods," added Secesh; whereat his
companions indulged in a wholesome chuckle, which assured Tom that they
were human, and his hopes rose accordingly.

"Thank you," replied Tom, with infinite good nature.

"You say you belong to the army, and I say you are in the woods," said the
soldier, repeating the double postulate, so that the essence of the joke
should by no possibility fail to penetrate the cerebellum of his auditor.

Tom was perfectly willing to acknowledge that he was in the woods, both
actually and metaphorically, and he was very much disturbed to know how he
should get out of the woods--a problem which has puzzled wiser heads than
his, even in less perplexing emergencies. He was fearful that, if he
declared himself to be a Union soldier, he should share the fate of others
whom he had seen coolly bayoneted on that eventful day.

"Now, stranger, s'pose you tell me what army you b'long to; then I can
tell you where you are," continued the soldier.

"What do you belong to?" asked Tom, though he did not put the question
very confidently.

"I belong to the army;" and the two other pickets honored the reply with
another chuckle. "You can't fool old Alabammy."

There was no further need of fooling "Old Alabammy," for the worthy old
gentleman, symbolically represented by the rebel soldier, had kindly done
it himself; and Tom then realized that he was in the hands of the enemy.
It is true, the balance of the picket trio laughed heartily at the
unfortunate slip of the tongue made by their companion, but Tom was in no
condition to relish the joke, or he might perhaps have insinuated himself
into the good graces of the jolly Secesh by repeating Pat's mysterious
problem--"Tell me how many cheeses there are in the bag, and I'll give ye
the whole five;" for, though this is an old joke in the civilized parts of
the world, it is not at all probable that it had been perpetrated in the
benighted regions of Secessia.

The announcement of the fact that he was in the hands of the foe, as we
have before intimated, left Tom in no condition to give or take a joke.
His heart was suddenly deprived of some portion of its ordinary gravity,
and rose up to the vicinity of his throat. He drew sundry deep and long
breaths, indicative of his alarm; for though Tom was a brave boy,--as
these pages have already demonstrated,--he had a terrible idea of the
tender mercies of the rebels. His first impulse was to break away from his
captors, and run the risk of being overtaken by a trio of musket balls;
for death from the quick action of a bullet seemed preferable to the fate
which his fears conjured up if he should be taken by the bloodthirsty
rebels. But the chances were too decidedly against him, and he reluctantly
brought his mind to the condition of philosophical submission.

"Well, stranger, which army do you b'long to?" said the spokesman of the
picket trio, when he had fully recovered his self-possession.

"I belong to the United States army," replied Tom, desperately.

"That means the Yankee army, I s'pose."

"Yes, sir; you call it by that name."

"Then you are my prisoner."

"I surrender because I can't help myself."

"Hev you nary toothpick or bone-cracker in your pockets?"

"Any what?" replied Tom, whose dictionary seemed to be at fault.

"Nary pistol, knife, or any thing of that sort?"

"Nothing but my jackknife."

"Any plunder?"

"We piled up our knapsacks and haversacks before we went into the fight.
Here is my canteen half full of water; I gave the other half to one of
your soldiers, when he was dying of his wounds."

"Did ye?"

"Now will you be kind enough to tell me where I am?"

"You are inside the lines of our army, about three miles below
Centreville," replied one of the pickets.

"What time is it?"

"Nigh upon nine o'clock, I should say. One of you fellers must take this
prisoner to headquarters," he continued, speaking to his companions.

Tom was very agreeably surprised to find that his captors did not propose
to hang, shoot, or bayonet him; and the Southern Confederacy rose a few
degrees in his estimation. Certainly the men who had taken him were not
fiends, and he began to hope that his situation as a prisoner would not be
so terrible as his fancy had pictured it.

One of the men was deputed to conduct him to the officer of the guard; and
he walked along by the side of the soldier through the woods, in the
direction from which he had just come.

"Can you tell me how the battle went at last?" asked Tom, as they pursued
their way through the forest.

"We whipped you all to pieces. Your army hasn't done running yet. We shall
take Washington to-morrow, and Jeff Davis will be in the White House
before the week is out."

"Have you taken many prisoners?" asked Tom, who could not dispute the
position of the rebel soldier.

"About fifty thousand, I b'lieve," replied Secesh, with refreshing
confidence.

Tom indulged in a low whistle, but his companion could not tell whether it
was an expression of regret or incredulity. If they had stood on an
equality, Tom would probably have suggested that the figures should be
interpreted "over the left"--an idiosyncrasy in language which he had
imported from Pinchbrook, but which may not be wholly unintelligible to
our young readers.

From his conductor he obtained some particulars of the battle and its
result, which were afterwards more fully set forth in General Beauregard's
official report, and which would have read better on the pages of Sinbad
the Sailor than in the folios of a military despatch. But the Secesh
soldier's "facts and figures" were comforting to Tom, who still had a
stronger interest in the condition of the good cause, after the heavy blow
it had received, than he had in his own individual welfare. Like too heavy
a dose of poison, the magnitude of the stories refuted and defeated them.
The soldier boy listened in respectful silence, but he was utterly
incredulous. It was even possible that the Union army had won a victory,
after all, though he was not very sanguine on this point.

He was ultimately conducted to the headquarters of the regiment to which
his captors belonged, and then turned into a lot with about twenty others,
who were strongly guarded. Tom joined his companions in misery, most of
whom, worn out by the fatigues of the day, were sleeping soundly upon the
ground. Only two or three of them were awake; but these were strangers to
him, and he was unable to obtain any information from them concerning any
of his friends in the regiment.

It began to rain shortly after Tom joined his fellow-prisoners; but there
was no shelter for them. They had neither blankets nor great coats, yet
this did not seem to disturb them. Our soldier boy threw himself upon the
ground, but the nap he had taken under the side of the log set his eyes
wide open for a time. He could only think of home, his mother and sisters,
and John, by this time snugly coiled away in the bed where he had been
wont to dream of the glories of war. He had cast his fears to the winds
when he found that his captors did not intend to butcher him, and he could
not help thinking that his situation might have been worse.

Those with whom he had spoken told him they had eaten nothing since
morning; and in this respect he was far better off than his companions
were. The only thing that troubled him was the thought of the anguish
which his mother must suffer, when she heard of the battle. When the
regiment should be gathered together again, he would be reported as
"missing," and this would be a terrible word to her, for it meant killed,
wounded, or a prisoner. If he could only assure her that he still lived
and was uninjured, he would have been happy--happy in spite of the
drenching rain--happy in spite of the prospective dungeon, and the
hardships to which he might be subjected. He felt that he had faithfully
performed his duty. When he began to be drowsy, he settled himself in the
most comfortable place he could find on the ground, and thanked God that
he had been spared his life through the perils of that awful day, and more
fervently that he had been enabled to do his duty like a good soldier; and
then, with the Giver of all Good, the Fountain of all Mercy, in his heart,
he fell asleep.

He slept several hours, and waked up to find himself as thoroughly soaked
as though he had just come out of the river. There was no help for it, and
it was no use to grumble. After walking to and fro for half an hour, he
lay down again, and, between sleeping and waking, finished the night;
uncomfortably, it is true, and yet without any positive suffering. There
were hundreds, if not thousands, who were enduring the agony of fearful
wounds through that long night; who were lying alone and uncared for where
they had fallen in the deadly strife; who were dying every hour, away from
their homes and friends, and with no kind hand to minister to their
necessities, with no sweet voice of a loved one to smooth their passage
down to the dark, cold grave.

Tom thought of these, for he had seen them in his path, and he felt that
he had no cause to complain--that he ought to be cheerful and happy. At
the dawn of the day he and his fellow-prisoners were marched to Sudley
Church, where they were to be confined until they could be sent to
Richmond. Here Tom found a captain belonging to his regiment; but neither
could give any information to the other in regard to their friends.

"I shall not stay here long," said the captain, in a whisper, when they
had become better acquainted. "I intend to leave to-night."

"Can't I go with you?" asked Tom.

"You can go, but we had better not go together."

Tom thought for a while, and determined upon an attempt to escape. During
the day, he carefully examined the premises, and decided upon his mode of
operations.




CHAPTER XVI.

A PERPLEXING QUESTION.


Tom Somers, who had had some experience, in a small way, in the kind of
business now before him, was filled with hope when he had adopted his
plan. He was a resolute and energetic young man, and to resolve upon any
thing was almost equivalent to doing it. There were a great many
difficulties in the way of success, it is true; but, nothing daunted by
these, he determined to persevere. The church in which the prisoners were
confined was carefully guarded on the exterior, and the sentinels carried
loaded muskets in their hands--so that the affair before him was more
hazardous and trying than that of escaping from the attic chamber of
Squire Pemberton's house in Pinchbrook.

If he succeeded in making his way out of the church and eluding the guard
which surrounded it, even then his trials would only have commenced; for
there were many miles of hostile country between him and Washington,
whither he supposed the Federal army had been driven. The captain who
intended to escape at the same time gave him some information which would
be of service to him in finding his way to the Potomac. He charged him
particularly to follow the railroad, which would conduct him to
Alexandria, in the vicinity of which he would probably find the regiment.

At dark the prisoners disposed of themselves as well as they could for the
night. Tom saw the captain go through all the forms of preparing for a
comfortable lodging, and he did the same himself. For hours he lay
ruminating upon his purpose. When it was midnight, he thought it was time
for him to commence the enterprise. He worked himself along on the floor
till he reached the principal entrance. The door was open, as it had been
all day, to enable the guards to obtain an occasional view of the
prisoners.

The sentinels were evidently in no condition to discharge their duties
with fidelity, for they had been marching and fighting for two or three
days, and were nearly exhausted. Leaning against the door, Tom discovered
a musket, which the careless guard had left there. On the floor in the
entry lay two rebel soldiers. They had stretched themselves across the
threshold of the door, so that no one could pass in or out of the church
without stepping over them.

Tom carefully rose from his recumbent posture, and took possession of the
musket. Then, with the utmost prudence, he stepped over the bodies of the
sleeping soldiers; but with all his circumspection, he could not prevent
one of his shoes from squeaking a little, and it required only a particle
of noise to rouse the guard.

"Who goes there?" demanded one of them, springing to his feet.

"Is this the way you do your duty?" replied Tom, as sternly as though he
had been a brigadier general.

"Who are you?" said the soldier, apparently impressed by the words and the
tones of him who reproved his neglect.

"Who am I, you sleepy scum! I'll let you know who I am in about ten
minutes," added Tom, as he passed out at the front door of the church.

"Give me back my gun--won't you?" pleaded the confused sentinel.

"I'll give it back to you at the court-martial which will sit on your case
to-morrow."

"Who goes there?" challenged one of the sentinels on the outside.

"Who goes there!" added Tom, in a sneering tone. "Have you waked up? Where
were you five minutes ago, when I passed this post? There won't be a
prisoner left here by morning. The long roll wouldn't wake up such a
stupid set of fellows."

"Stop, sir!" said the astonished sentinel. "You can't pass this line."

"Can't I, you stupid fool? I have passed it while you were asleep."

"I haven't been asleep."

"Where have you been, then?" demanded Tom with terrible energy.

"Been here, sir."

"I'll court-martial the whole of you!"

"Stop, sir, or I'll fire at you!" added the soldier, as Tom moved on.

"Fire at me! Fire, if you dare, and I'll rid the army of one unfaithful
man on the spot!" said the soldier boy, as he raised the musket to his
shoulder.

"Don't fire, you fool!" interposed one of the men whom Tom had roused from
his slumbers in the entry. "Don't you see he is an officer?"

"I'll teach you how to perform your duty!" added Tom, as he walked away.

The soldier, governed by the advice of his companion, offered no further
objection to the departure of Tom; and he moved off as coolly as though he
had just been regularly relieved from guard duty. He had walked but a
short distance before he discovered the camp of a regiment or brigade,
which, of course, it was necessary for him to avoid. Leaving the road, he
jumped over the fence into a field--his first object being to place a
respectful distance between himself and the enemy.

The scene through which he had just passed, though he had preserved the
appearance of coolness and self-possession, had been exceedingly trying to
his nerves; and when the moment of pressing danger had passed, he found
his heart up in his throat, and his strength almost wasted by the
excitement. He felt as one feels when he has just escaped a peril which
menaced him with instant death. It was singular that the soldier had not
fired, but the fact that he did not convinced Tom that there is an amazing
power in impudence.

For half an hour, he pursued his way with haste and diligence, but without
knowing where he was going--whether he was moving toward Richmond or
Washington. As the musket which he had taken from the church was not only
an encumbrance, but might betray him, he threw it away, though, thinking
some means of defence might be useful, he retained the bayonet, and thrust
it in his belt. Thus relieved of his burden, he walked till he came to a
road. As there was no appearance of an enemy in any direction, he followed
this road for some time, and finally it brought him to the object of his
search--the railroad.

But then came up the most perplexing question he had yet been called upon
to decide. To that railroad, as to all others, there were, unfortunately,
two ends--one of which lay within the Federal lines, and the other within
the rebel lines. If Tom had been an astronomer, which he was not, the
night was too cloudy to enable him to consult the stars; besides, some
railroads are so abominably crooked that the heavenly orbs would hardly
have been safe pilots. He did not know which was north, nor which was
south, and to go the wrong way would be to jump out of the frying pan into
the fire.

Tom sat down by the side of the road, and tried to settle the difficult
question; but the more he thought, the more perplexed he became--which
shows the folly of attempting to reason when there are no premises to
reason from. He was, no doubt, an excellent logician; but bricks cannot be
made without straw.

"Which way shall I go?" said Tom to himself, as he stood up and peered
first one way and then the other through the gloom of the night.

But he could not see Washington in one direction, nor Richmond in the
other, and he had not a single landmark to guide him in coming to a
