Daisy! You are very absurd not to dance; so your mother says;
and I am absurd too, by that reasoning; for I like you better
than if you did. Well, not being a dancing girl, what is your
petition? I reckon it will stand good, even to the half of my
kingdom. Though indeed I do not know how much of a kingdom
will remain to me, by the time matters are composed at home.
There will be no crops grown at the South this year."

"It would not cost more to go to Palestine, would it, papa,
than to live as we are doing now?"

"Palestine!" he exclaimed. "Your mother would never go to
Palestine, Daisy."

"But you and I might, papa, - for a few months. You know mamma
wants to go to Paris, to be there with Aunt Gary, who is
coming."

"She wants you there too, Daisy, I much suspect; not to speak
of me."

"What better time can we ever have, papa?"

"I do not know. I am afraid your mother would say any other
would be better."

"Papa, I cannot tell you how glad I should be to go now."

"Why, Daisy?" said papa, looking at me. "To my certain
knowledge, there are several people who will be desolate if
you quit Florence at this time - several besides your mother."

"Papa, - that is the very reason why I should like to go -
before it becomes serious."

Papa became serious immediately. He lifted my face to look at
it, flushed as I suppose it was; and kissed me, with a smile
which did not in the least belie the seriousness.

"If we go to Paris, Daisy? - we should leave your enemies
behind."

"No papa - two of them are going to Paris when we go."

"That is serious," said my father. "After all, why not,
Daisy?"

"Oh, papa, let us get away while it is time!" I said. "Mamma
was so displeased with me because of Mr. De Saussure and Mr.
Marshall; and she will be again - perhaps."

"Why, Daisy," said papa, lifting my face again for scrutiny, -
"how do you know? Are you cased in proof armour? are you sure?
Do you know what you are talking of, Daisy?"

"Yes, - I know, papa."

"I see you do. Whenever your eyes are deep and calm like that,
you are always in your right mind and know it. That is, you
are thoroughly yourself; and so far as my limited acquaintance
with you goes, there is no other mind that has the power of
turning you. Yes, Daisy; we will go to Palestine, you and I."

I kissed his hand, in the extremity of my joy.

"But this is not a proper season for travelling in Syria, my
pet. I am afraid it is not. The winter rains make the roads
bad."

"Oh, yes, papa. - We will be quiet when it rains, and travel
on the good days. And then we shall be in time to see the
spring flowers."

"How do you know anything about that, Daisy?"

"Papa, I remember when I was a child, at Melbourne, Mr.
Dinwiddie told me some of these things; and I have never
forgotten."

"Have you wanted to go to Palestine ever since you were ten
years old?"

"Oh, no, papa; only of late. When your promise came, then I
thought very soon what I would ask you. And now is such a good
time."

"There will be different opinions about that," said my father.
"However, we will go, Daisy. To the half of my kingdom. Your
mother has the other half. But allow me to ask you just in
passing, what do you think of our young English friend?"

"He has no head, papa."

Papa looked amused.

"Signor Piacevoli - what do you think of him?"

"He is very nice and kind and full of good things; but he has
no principles, papa; no settled principles."

"He has a head," said papa.

"Yes, sir; out of order."

"How do you estimate Mr. Leypoldt, then? - his head is in
order, and a good deal in it."

"Only the truth left out, papa."

"The truth?" said my father. "He is fuller of truth, of all
sorts, than any one else I know, Daisy."

"Truth of all sorts, papa, but not the truth. He understands
the world, and almost everything in it; but not who made it
nor what it was made for; and he knows men; but not their
work, or place, or destiny in the universe. He knows what they
are; he has no idea what they ought to be, or what they may
be."

"He is not a religious man, certainly. Do you carry your
principles so far, Daisy, that you mean you would not let
anybody approach you who is not of your way of thinking?"

A pang shot through my heart, with the instant sense of the
answer I ought to give. I might have evaded the question; but
I would not. Yet I could not immediately speak. I was going to
put a bond upon myself; and the words would not come.

"Do you mean that, Daisy?" papa repeated. "Seriously. Is it
your rule of supposed duty, that a man must be a Christian
after your sort, to obtain your favour?"

"Papa," I said struggling, - "one cannot control one's
liking."

"No," said papa, laughing; "that is very true. Then if you
liked somebody who was not that sort of a Christian, Daisy,
you would not refuse to marry him?"

"Papa," I said with difficulty, - "I think I ought."

The words struck upon my own heart, I cannot tell how heavily.
But they were forced from me. When the question came, it had
to be answered. I suppose the matter had really been in my
mind before, vaguely, and I had refused to look at it, while
yet I could not help seeing its proportions and bearing; so
that when papa asked me I knew what I must say. But the spoken
words stunned me, for all that.

"I suppose," said papa, not lightly, "you will think so till
you are tried; and then you will take a woman's privilege of
changing your mind. But if the trial is to come in that shape,
Daisy, it is very far off. There are no men of your way of
thinking, my pet."

He kissed me as he said it; and I could not for a moment
speak.

"But we will go to Palestine, papa?"

"Yes, we will go to Palestine. That is fixed. You and I will
take a holiday, and for a while give up all thoughts of
marrying and giving in marriage."

CHAPTER XIV.

FLIGHT


I am coming to the holiday of my life; a time that seems, as I
look back to it, like a chequered mosaic of pleasure pieces
laid in bright colours, all in harmony, and making out a
pattern of beauty. It is odd I should speak so; for I have
known other holidays, when fewer clouds were in my sky and
fewer life-shadows stretching along the landscape.
Nevertheless, this is how it looks to me in the retrospect;
and to write of it, is like setting the pins of that mosaic
work over again. Not one of them is lost in my memory.

Truly I have known other holidays; yet never one that took me
out of so much harassment and perplexity. And I could not get
rid of all my burdens, even in Palestine; but somehow I got
rid of all my anxious trouble about them. I had left behind so
much, that I accepted even thankfully all that remained. I was
free from mamma's schemes for me, and cleared from the pursuit
of those who seconded her schemes; they could not follow me in
the Holy Land. No more angry discussions of affairs at home,
and words of enmity and fierce displeasure toward the part of
the nation that held my heart. No more canvassing of war news;
not much hearing of them, even; a clean escape from the
demands of society and leisure for a time to look into my
heart and see what condition it was in. And to my great
astonishment I had found the love of admiration and the
ambition of womanly vanity beginning to stir again; in me, who
knew better things, and who really did not value these; in me,
who had so much to make me sober and keep down thoughts of
folly. I found that I had a certain satisfaction when entering
a room, to know that the sight of me gave pleasure; yes, more;
I liked to feel that the sight of no one else gave so much
pleasure. I could hardly understand, when I came to look at
it, how so small a satisfaction could have taken possession of
my mind; I was very much ashamed; but the fact remained. When
we set sail for Palestine I got clear, at least for the time,
from all this. I hoped for ever. - And it was exceedingly
sweet to find myself alone with papa.

How mamma ever consented to the plan, I do not know. Because
papa had settled it and given his word, perhaps; for in those
cases I know she never interfered; necessity made her yield.
She would not go with us; she went to Paris, where Aunt Gary
was come for the winter. Ransom went home to join the army;
and papa and I took our holiday. I ought not to have been so
happy, with so many causes of anxiety on my mind; Ransom in
the war on one side, and Christian already engaged on the
opposite side; both in danger, not to speak of other friends
whom I knew; and my own and Mr. Thorold's future so very dark
to look forward to. But I was happy. I believe, the very
enormous pressure of things to trouble me, helped me to throw
off the weight. In fact, it was too heavy for me to bear. I
had trusted and given up myself to God; it was not a mock
trust or submission; I laid off my cares, or in the expressive
Bible words, "rolled them" upon him. And then I went light.
Even my self-spoken sentence, the declaration that I ought not
to marry a person who was not a Christian, did not crush me as
I thought it would. Somebody has said very truly, "There is a
healing power in truth." It is correct in more ways than one.
And especially in truth towards God, in whole-hearted devotion
to him, or as the Bible says again, in "wholly following the
Lord," there is strength and healing; "quietness and assurance
for ever." I was no nearer despair now than I had been before.
And I was more ready for my holiday.

My holiday began on board the steamer, among the novel
varieties of character and costume by which I found myself
surrounded. I was certainly getting far away from the American
war, far from Parisian saloons; I could not even regret the
Dome of Florence. And I shall never forget the minute when I
first looked upon the coast of Jaffa. I had been in the cabin
and papa called me; and with the sight, a full, delicious
sensation of pleasure entered my heart, and never left it, I
think, while I stayed in the land. The picture is all before
me. The little white town, shining in the western sun on its
hill, with its foot in the water; the surf breaking on the
rocks; and the long line of high land in the distance, which I
knew was the hill country of Palestine. I was glad, with a
fulness of gladness. Even the terrors of landing through the
surf could not dash my pleasure, though the water was not
quiet enough to make it safe, and I did not see how we were
possibly to get through. I thought we would, and we did; and
then out of the confusion on the quay we found our way to a
nice little hotel. Few things I suppose are nice in Jaffa; but
this really seemed clean, and I am sure it was pleasant. The
Oriental style of the house - the courtyard, and alcove rooms,
stone floors and cushioned divans, - were delightful to me.
And so was our first dinner there; papa and I alone, tired and
hungry, and eating with the Mediterranean full in sight, and
the sun going down "ayont the sea." I established a truce with
sorrowful thoughts that evening, and slept the night through
in peace. The next morning papa found me standing at the
window of one of our rooms that looked inward from the sea.

"Well, Daisy," said he, putting his hands on my shoulders - "I
have got my Daisy of ten years old back again. What is it
now?"

"Oh, papa," I exclaimed, "look at the housetops! I have read
of housetops all my life; and now here they are!"

"They have been here all the time, Daisy."

"But - it is so impossible to realise without seeing it, papa.
It was on such a housetop that Peter was when he had his
vision. You can see, it is the pleasantest part of the house,
papa. I should like to sleep on the housetop, as they do in
summer; with only the stars over me. How nice!"

"What was Peter's vision, besides the stars?"

"Papa! Not the stars; his vision was at noonday. I have just
been reading about it. How delicious the Bible will be here!"

"It is always delicious to you, I think," papa said; I fancied
rather sadly. "It is a taste you were born with. Sit down and
read me about that vision."

But it was papa that sat down, and I stood by the window, and
we read together those chapters of the Acts; and papa grew
very much interested, and we had an excellent talk all
breakfast time. The strange dishes at breakfast helped the
interest too; the boiled rice and meat, and the fish and the
pomegranates. I seemed to have my living in Bible times as
well as places. The Mediterranean lay sparkling before us; as
it was before Peter no doubt when he went up to that housetop
to pray. The house is gone; but it is the same sea yet.

"I shall always look upon Jaffa with respect," said papa, at
last; "since here it was that the gates of religion were
publicly set open for all the world, and the key taken out of
the hands of the Jews. It is a little place too, to have
anything of so much interest belonging to it."

"That is not all, papa," I said. "Solomon had the cedar for
the Temple, and for all his great buildings, floated down
here."

"Solomon!" said papa.

"Don't you remember, sir, his great works, and the timber he
had to get from Lebanon?"

"Did it come this way?"

"The only way it could come, papa; and then it had to go by
land up to Jerusalem - the same way that we are going; thirty-
three miles."

"Where did you learn so much about it?"

"That isn't much, papa; all that is in Murray; but now may I
read you about Solomon's floats of timber, while you are
finishing that pomegranate?"

"Read away," said papa. "Pomegranates are not ripe now, are
they?"

"They keep, papa."

Papa laughed at me, and I read to him as much as I liked; and
he was almost as much engaged as I was.

"We'll go out and look at this famous harbour for lumber," he
said. "It is not good for much else, Daisy; I thought
yesterday we should certainly make shipwreck on that reef. Is
it possible there is no better along the coast."

"It is not what we would call a harbour at all, papa. Nothing
but little boats can get through that narrow opening in the
reef; and I suppose, Solomon's cedar timber got through."

"The ships of old time were not much more than our boats, many
of them," said my father. "How delightfully you realise
everything, Daisy!"

"Well, papa, - don't you?"

"Not the past, child. I realise you by my side."

"Papa, if you think about it a little, you will realise Joppa
too."

"I have not your imagination, Daisy. About Solomon's temple, -
there is nothing of it left now, I suppose?"

"Oh, no, papa!"

"It might, Daisy. Thebes is vastly older."

"But, papa, - don't you remember, there was not one stone of
all those buildings to be left upon another stone. Nothing is
left - only some of the foundation wall that supported the
floor, or the platform, of the Temple."

"Well, we shall see, when we go to Jerusalem," my father said.

In the meantime we went out and took a great walk about the
environs of Joppa. Through the miles of gardens; the grand
orange groves, and pomegranate, lemon, fig, apricot and palm
orchards. The oranges and lemons getting their great harvests
ready; cultivation going on beneath the trees; the water-
wheels working; the curious hedges of prickly pear, four and
six feet high, reminding us all the while, if nothing else
did, that we were in a very strange land. What endless delight
it was! The weather had just cleared the day before; and to-
day, the fifteenth of January, the sun shone still and fair
and warm. I saw that papa was getting good with every step,
and growing interested with every hour. We went down to the
beach, and strolled along as far as the tanneries; every wave
that broke at my side seeming to sing in my ears the reminder
that it broke on the shores of Palestine. Papa wished the
oranges were ripe; I wished for nothing.

Then we entered the city again, and examined the bazars;
lingering first a good while to watch the motley, picturesque,
strange and wild crowd without the city gate. It was my first
taste of Oriental life; papa knew it before, but he relished
it all afresh in my enjoyment of it. Of course we were taken
to see Simon's house and the house where Tabitha died.

"Do you realise anything here, Daisy?" papa asked, as we stood
on the flat roof of the first of these two.

"Yes, papa."

"Pray, what? St. Peter never saw this building, my dear."

"No, papa, I don't think it. But he saw the Mediterranean -
just so, - and he had the same sky over him, and the same
shores before him."

"The same sky, Daisy? What is the sky?"

"Yes papa, I know; but there is a difference. This Syrian sky
is not like the sky over Florence nor like the sky over
Melbourne. And this is what Peter saw."

"You are a delicious travelling companion, Daisy," said papa.
"Your mother is good, but you are better. Well, take me with
you now in your journey into the past."

We sat down there on the roof of the so-called house of Simon,
papa and I; he gave the guide a bonus to keep him contented;
and we read together chapters in the Old Testament and
chapters in the New. It was drinking water from wells of
delight. Bible words never seemed so real, nor so full. And
then when I thought that I was going on to Jerusalem - to
Jericho - to Mount Tabor, and the Sea of Galilee, and Lebanon,
- that Joppa was only the beginning, - I could hardly contain
my joy. I could only give thanks for it all the time. True, I
did remember, as I looked over that bright sea of the Levant,
I did remember that far away there was a region of conflict
where the interests nearest to me were involved; a strife
going on, in which the best blood in the world, the dearest in
my account, might be shed or shedding. I remembered it all.
But the burden of that care was too heavy for me to carry; I
was fain to lay it down where so many a load has been laid
before now; and it was easier for me to do it in Syria than
anywhere else; God's own land, where His people had had so
many tokens to trust Him. Where Peter's doubts of conscience
were resolved by a vision, where the poor worker of kindness
was raised from the sleep of death, it was not there the place
for me to doubt whether the Lord looked upon my trouble, or
whether he cared about it, or whether he could manage it. I
laid care and doubt to sleep; and while I was in the Lord's
land I walked with the Lord's presence always before me. There
is no want to them that fear him.

We were detained at Joppa three days by a most pouring rain,
which kept us fast prisoners in doors. The time was however
not lost. We had despaired of making arrangements at Joppa for
our journey, any further than such as would take us to
Jerusalem. Joppa is no place for such arrangements. But while
we waited there in the rain, a party of English people arrived
who came to take the steamer for home. They had just ended
their travels in the Holy Land; and while waiting for the
steamer, one of them who was an invalid sought the shelter of
our hotel. We came to know each other. And the end was, we
secured their travelling equipment. Tents, servants and all,
were made over to papa, with mutual pleasure at the
arrangement. So when the sun shone out on the fourth day, we
were ready to start in great comfort. I had a dear little
Syrian pony, which carried me nicely through my whole journey;
papa had another that served him well. The tents and tent
fittings were in the English style of perfection; cook and
interpreter and other servants knew their business, and we had
no reason to complain of them from the beginning to the end of
our tour. Moreover, in those days of waiting at Joppa, and
intercourse with the ladies of the party, I got from them some
useful hints and details which were of great service to me
afterwards. I had always wished to go through Palestine living
in our own tents; papa had been a little uncertain how he
would do. Now it was settled. I had my maid, of course; but
she was the greatest trouble I had, all the way.

The morning of our setting out from Joppa is never to be
forgotten. It was clear and balmy. For miles we rode through
the orange gardens, getting ready fast for their superb
harvest, which would be ripe a month later. Then through a
pleasant open country; - cornfields and meadows interspersed
with trees in patches. It was easy riding, and I liked my
pony, and my heart was full of exhilaration.

"Well?" said papa, as my eye met his one time in the course of
its wanderings.

"Papa, it is the plain of Sharon!"

"You speak as if it were a place where you had played, when
you were a child."

"Papa, in some measure it is like that; so often I have read
about the old things that were done here."

Papa smiled at me? and asked what? But I could not tell him
while we were going at a canter.

"It would be pretty in spring," he said. "Where are we to stop
to-night, Daisy? I have left all that to you. I do not know
the country as you do."

"Papa, we set off so late, we shall not be able to get further
than Latron to-night."

"What place is that? is it any place?"

"Supposed to be the Modin of the Maccabees."

"Have you brought any books, Daisy?" was papa's next question.

"No, papa, except 'Murray' and the Bible."

"We ought to have more," he said. "We must see if we cannot
supply that want at Jerusalem."

Papa's interest in the subject was thoroughly waking up. We
lunched at Ramleh. How present it is to me, those hours we
spent there. The olive groves and orchards and cornfields, the
palms and figs, the prickly-pear hedges, the sweet breath of
the air. And after our luncheon we stayed to examine the ruins
and the minaret. Our master of ceremonies, Suleiman, was a
little impatient. But we got off in good time and reached our
camping ground just before sunset. Tiere too, the sunlight
flashing on those rocks of ruin comes back to me, and the wide
plain and sea view which the little hill commands. Papa and I
climbed it to look at the ruins and see the view while dinner
was getting ready.

"What is it, Daisy?" he said. "You must be my gazetteer and
interpreter for the land; Suleiman will do for the people."

"It is an old Crusaders' fortress, papa; built to command the
pass to Jerusalem."

That was enough for papa. He pored over the rough remains and
their associations; while I sat down on a stone and looked
over the Philistine plain; scarce able to convince myself that
I was so happy as to see it in reality. Papa and I had a most
enjoyable dinner afterwards; he enjoyed it, I knew; and our
night's rest was sweet, with a faint echo of the war storms of
the ages breaking upon my ear.

To my great joy, there was no storm of the elements the next
morning, and we were able to take up our march for Jerusalem.
The road soon was among the hills; rough, thickety, wild; from
one glen into another, down and up steep ridge sides, always
mounting of course by degrees. Rough as it all was, there were
olives and vineyards sometimes to be seen; often terraced
hillsides which spoke of what had been. At last we came up out
of a deep glen and saw at a distance the white line of wall
which tells of Jerusalem. I believe it was a dreary piece of
country which lay between, but I could hardly know what it
was. My thoughts were fixed on that white wall. I forgot even
papa.

We had pouring rains again soon after we got to Jerusalem. I
was half glad. So much to see and think of at once, it was
almost a relief to be obliged to take things gradually. I had
been given numerous good bits of counsel by the kind English
ladies we had seen at Jaffa; and according to their advice, I
persuaded papa that we should go down at once to Jericho and
the Dead Sea, without waiting till the weather should grow too
hot for it; then Jerusalem and the Mount of Olives and all the
neighbourhood would be delightful. Now, they were very gray
and forlorn to a stranger's eye. I wanted papa to be pleased.
I could have enjoyed Jerusalem at any time. But I knew that by
and by Jericho would be insupportable.

So papa and Suleiman made their arrangements. All that we
wanted was a guard of Arabs; everything else we had already.
The rain ceased after the third day; and early in the morning
we went out of the eastern gate of the city and moved slowly
down the slope of the Kedron valley and up the side of Mount
Olivet.

It was my first ride in the environs of Jerusalem; and I could
hardly bear the thoughts it brought up. Yet there was scant
time for thoughts; eyes had to be so busy. The valley of the
Kedron! I searched its depths, only to find tombs everywhere,
with olive trees sprinkled about among them. Life and death;
for if anything is an emblem of life in Palestine, I suppose
it is the olive. They looked sad to me at first, the olives;
their blue-gray foliage had so little of the fresh cheer of
our green woods. Afterwards I thought differently. But
certainly the valley of the Kedron was desolate and mournful
in the extreme, as we first saw it. Nor was Olivet less so.
The echo of forfeited promises seemed to fill my ear; the
shades of lost glory seemed to tenant all those ways and
hillsides. I could but think what feet had trod those paths;
what hands of blessing had been held out on these hills;
turned back and rejected, to the utter ruin of those who
rejected them. The places of Solomon's splendour and David's
honour, in the hands of the Moslem; or buried beneath the
ruins of twenty desolations. And in the midst of such thoughts
which possessed me constantly, came thrills of joy that I was
there. So we mounted over the shoulder of the Mount of Olives,
and the day cleared and brightened as we went on. Then came
the ruins of Bethany. I would have liked to linger there; but
this was not the time. I left it for the present.

"We must dismount here, Daisy," said papa the next minute. And
he set me the example. "Our own feet will do this next piece
of road most satisfactorily."

We scrambled down, over the loose stones and rock, the very
steep pitch just below Bethany. I do not know how deep, but
hundreds of feet certainly. Our mules and horses came on as
they could.

"Is this to be taken as a specimen of Palestine roads, Daisy?"

"I believe they are pretty bad, papa."

"How do you like it?"

"Oh, papa," said I, stopping, "I like it. Look - look yonder -
do you see that glimmer? do you know what that is, papa?"

"It is water -"

"It is the Dead Sea."

"Thirty-six hundred feet below. We have a sharp ride before
us, Daisy."

"Not quite so much below us - we have come down some way.
Papa, don't you enjoy it?"

"I enjoy you," he said, smiling. "Yes, child, I enjoy it; only
I don't enjoy such villainous roads."

"But then, papa, you know it is the only possible way the road
can go, and always has been; and so we are sure that Christ
was here many a time. Here, papa, where our feet are
treading."

Papa looked at me and said nothing.

The way was so pleasant, that we walked on ahead of our mules,
till we came to the spring about a mile from Bethany. It was
strange to look at the water pouring out its never failing
stream, and to remember it had been doing just so ever since
nineteen hundred years ago.

"How often travellers have rested here and drunk of the water,
papa; how often Christ was here."

"That arch was not over the spring in those days, though,"
said papa.

But papa stood and looked at the spring and at the ravine, and
I saw that he was catching something of my feeling. We mounted
there, and the rest of the way we had no more talk. I did not
want to talk. There was too much to think about, as we wound
down the rough valleys or watercourses among the desolate
hills; while the air grew constantly warmer as we got lower.
No trees, no life, no vine terraces; and this was the way to
Jericho. At the ruined khan, a good distance from the top, we
dismounted and stopped to rest and take our lunch.

"Well, Daisy," said papa, "are you enjoying yet?"

"Every minute, papa."

"I am very glad. But I am very tired."

"Papa, you must take a good rest here; and here is an orange
for you. I will give you something else directly."

Papa stretched himself out wearily on the stones.

"What is the source of your pleasure just now, Daisy? It is as
barren a landscape as ever I traversed."

"Papa, David went this way when he fled from Absalom."

"Humph!" said papa, as if there were not much pleasure in that
association.

"And Jesus and His apostles came this way, up from Jericho; up
and down, I suppose, many a time; they have rested here,
papa."

"And I see, Daisy, you love the ground where those feet have
trod. I never could understand it before. I fancy, I could
never attain power of realisation to get near enough to the
subject."

"Do you now, papa?"

"Hardly. By sympathy with you, Daisy."

"A little below, papa, we shall come to the Valley of Achor,
where Achan was stoned."

"I don't know that story, Daisy. You may read it to me."

We had a long reading and resting there by the ruined khan.
Papa was ready to listen and talk; and I saw that so long as
we were in Palestine he would read the Bible as much as I
liked. Then we made the rest of our way. I knew he could not
but be interested with that. The scenery became so wild and
grand as to satisfy even him. We got the glorious view of the
plains of Jericho from the top of the steep descent, and stood
still for some time to look. Papa said it was a noble view;
but to me it was so full of the riches of association that I
could hardly feast upon it enough. Down there, Jericho of old
had stood and fallen; when the priests and the people of
Israel compassed it about with trumpets of victory. There, or
over against it, the Jordan had been divided to let the people
pass over. In later days Elijah and Elisha had gone over
single-handed. Down on that plain had stood Herod's Jericho,
which Christ had gone through time and again; where Zaccheus
climbed the tree to see Him, and Bartimeus sitting by the
wayside had cried out for his mercy and got it. What was there
before me in all that scene that did not tell of the power of
faith - of the grace of God - of the safety and strength of
His children - of the powerlessness of their enemies. My heart
sang hymns and chanted psalms of rejoicing, while my little
Syrian pony stood still with me at the top of the pass of
Adummim. I even forgot papa.

At the bottom we found ourselves in a new world. Water and
wood, luxuriant vegetation of many kinds; a stream even to
ford, the brook which comes down from Wady Kelt, now full with
the rains; a warm delicious atmosphere, and the sun shining on
the opposite Moab mountains.

And then came another sight which is very pleasant at the
close of a long day of fatigue and excitement; our tents, up
and ready for us. Our Syrian cook gave us a good dinner; and
papa was satisfied to see me so happy. I thought he was a
little happy himself.

CHAPTER XV.

OLD BATTLEFIELDS


The next day papa was so tired that he would not go anywhere.
So I had to be quiet too. It was no hardship. I was rather
glad, to take in leisurely the good of all I had before and
around me, and have time for it. Our tents were pitched by the
beautiful fountain Aines-Sultân; which the books told me was
Elisha's fountain. I wandered round it, examining the strange
trees and bushes, gathering flowers; I found a great many;
studying the lights and shades on the Moab mountains, and
casting longing looks towards the Dead Sea and the Jordan. I
took my maid with me in my wanderings, and Suleiman also kept
near me like a shadow; but nobody of all our caravan behaved
to me with anything but the most observant politeness. The
Arabs, taught, I suppose, by other travellers whom they had
attended, were very eager to bring me natural curiosities;
birds and animals and shells and plants. I had no lack of
business and pleasure all that day. I wanted only some one to
talk to me who could tell me things I wanted to know.

The day had come to an end, almost; the shadow of Quarantania
had fallen upon us; and I sat on a rock by the spring,
watching the colours of the sunset still bright on the trees
in the plain, on the water of the sea, and on the range of the
Moab hills. From all these my thoughts had at last wandered
away, and were busy at the other end of the world; sad, with a
great sense that Mr. Thorold was away from me; heavy, with a
moment's contrast of pleasures present and pleasures past. My
musings were suddenly broken by seeing that some one was close
by my side, and a single glance said, a stranger. I was
startled and rose up, but the stranger stood still and seemed
to wish to speak to me. Yet he did not speak. I saw the air of
a gentleman, the dress of a European in Syria, the outlines of
a personable man; one glance at his face showed me a bronzed
complexion, warm-coloured auburn hair, and a frank and very
bright eye. I looked away, and then irresistibly was driven to
look back again. He smiled. I was in confusion.

"Don't you know?" he said.

"Not -?"

"Yes!"

"Can it be, - Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"Is it possible it is Daisy?" he said, taking my hand.

"Oh, Mr. Dinwiddie, I am so glad to see you!"

"And I am so glad to see you - here, of all places, at
Elisha's fountain. The first question is, How came we both
here?"

"I persuaded papa to bring me. I wanted to see Palestine."

"And I heard of you in Jerusalem, and felt sure it must be
you, and I could not resist the temptation to take a little
journey after you."

"And you are travelling through Palestine too?"

"In one way. I am living here - and life is a journey, you
know."

"You are living in Palestine?"

"In Jerusalem. I came here as a missionary, five years ago."

"How very nice!" I said. "And you can go with us?"

He shook my hand heartily, which he had not yet let go,
laughing, and asked where we were going?

"I want to see the Dead Sea, very much, Mr. Dinwiddie; and
