"That isn't very likely, considering the present you have brought home.
But open it; I am curious to see what is in it."

The envelope was cut open, and a piece of paper dropped out.

Fosdick picked it up, and to his inexpressible amazement ascertained
that it was a check on the Park Bank for the sum of one thousand dollars
made payable to Richard Hunter, or order.

"A thousand dollars!" repeated Dick, overwhelmed with astonishment;
"you're only foolin' me. P'r'aps it's ten dollars."

"No, it's a thousand dollars. Read it yourself if you don't believe it."

"I wish you'd pinch me, Fosdick," said Dick, seriously.

"Certainly, if you wish it."

"That's enough," said Dick, hastily. "I only wanted to make sure I
wasn't dreamin'. I can't believe I'm worth a thousand dollars."

"You're a lucky fellow, Dick," said Fosdick, "and you deserve your luck.
I'm heartily glad of it."

"About the best luck I ever had was in meeting you," said Dick,
affectionately. "I'm goin' to give you half the money."

"No, you're not, Dick. Thank you all the same," said Fosdick, decidedly.
"It was meant for you, and you must keep it. I'll get along well enough.
If I don't, I know you'll help me."

"But I wish you'd take half the money."

"No, Dick, it wouldn't be right. But your new watch says it's getting
late, and we had better go to bed."

It was some time before Dick fell asleep. His good luck had so excited
him that he found it difficult to calm down sufficiently to sink into a
quiet slumber.




CHAPTER VI.

MR. GILBERT IS ASTONISHED.


When Dick woke up in the morning the first thing he thought of was his
watch, the next the check which he had received from Mr. Rockwell.

"I'll go to the bank this morning, and get my money," said he.

"How are you going to invest it, Dick?" asked Fosdick.

"I don't know," said Dick. "I'll put it in the savings bank till I
decide. That'll make more'n eleven hundred dollars. I didn't use to
think I ever'd be worth that, when I slept in boxes and old wagons."

"Eleven hundred dollars at six per cent. interest will yield you
sixty-six dollars a year."

"So it will," said Dick, "and all without working. I tell you what,
Fosdick, at this rate I'll soon be a man of fortune."

"Yes, if you can make a thousand dollars a day."

"I wonder what old Gilbert'll say when he sees it," said Dick.

"Who's he?"

"He's the book-keeper. He aint very fond of me."

"What has he against you?"

"He thinks I don't treat him with proper respect," said Dick. "Besides
he tried to get his cousin Roswell Crawford in, but he couldn't."

"Then it seems both of us have interfered with Roswell."

"He's got a place now. I guess he's the senior partner by the way he
talks."

The breakfast-bell rang, and the boys went down to breakfast. Clifton
was down already, and was standing in front of stove. Being an observing
young man he at once noticed Dick's watch-chain.

"Halloa, Hunter!" said he; "I didn't know you had a watch."

"I didn't know it myself till last night," said Dick.

"Where did you get it?"

"It came from Ball & Black's," said our hero, willing to mystify him.

"That's a nice chain,--solid gold, eh?"

"Do you think I'd wear anything else?" asked Dick, loftily.

"Will you allow me to look at the watch?"

"Certainly," said Dick, drawing it from his pocket, and submitting it to
Clifton's inspection.

"It's a regular beauty," said the young man, enthusiastically. "Do you
mind telling how much you paid for it?"

"How much do you think?"

"A hundred dollars?"

"It cost all of that," said Dick, confidently. "If you see one for sale
at that price, just let me know, and I'll buy it for a speculation."

"You must be getting a pretty good salary to buy such a watch as that."

"Pretty good," said Dick, carelessly.

Mr. Clifton was rather a shallow young man, who was fond of show, and
had a great respect for those who were able to make it. When Dick first
came to the boarding-house he looked down upon him as a boy; but now
that he proved to be the possessor of an elegant gold watch and chain,
and might, therefore, be regarded as in prosperous circumstances, he
conceived a high respect for him. The truth was that Clifton himself
only got two dollars a week more than Dick, yet he paid eight dollars a
week for board, and spent the rest in dress. His reputation among
tailors was not the best, being always more ready to order new clothes
than to pay for them.

While they were talking the rest of the boarders entered, and breakfast
commenced. Miss Peyton was there, of course.

"How did you find your friends in Madison Avenue last evening, Mr.
Hunter?" she inquired.

"They were all up and dressed," said Dick. "They sent their partic'lar
regards to you."

"Oh, you wicked story-teller!" simpered Miss Peyton; "just as if I'd
believe such nonsense. Have they got a nice house?"

"Beautiful," said Dick. "I haven't seen any like it since I called on
Queen Victoria last year."

"How is the house furnished?"

"Well," said Dick, "as near as I can remember, there's diamonds worked
in the carpet, and all the tables and chairs is of gold. They'd be
rather hard to set on if it twan't for the velvet cushions."

"Aint you afraid to tell such stories, Mr. Hunter? Mr. Fosdick, you will
have to talk to your friend."

"I am afraid it wouldn't do much good, Miss Peyton, if you fail to cure
him."

"Mr. Hunter has just been investing in a handsome watch," remarked
Clifton, passing his cup for a second cup of coffee.

"Oh, do let me look at it! I dote on watches," said Miss Peyton.

"Certainly," said Dick; and he detached the chain from his button-hole,
and passed the watch across the table.

"It's a perfect little love," said Miss Peyton, enthusiastically. "Isn't
it, Mrs. Browning?"

"It is very beautiful, certainly," said the landlady. She could not help
feeling surprised that Dick, who, it will be remembered, had represented
himself at his first visit to be in limited circumstances, and now
occupied one of her cheapest rooms, could afford to purchase an article
which was evidently so costly.

"Where did you buy it, Mr. Hunter?" asked another boarder.

"I did not buy it at all," said Dick, deciding to let it be known how it
came into his possession. "It was given to me."

"Perhaps you'll mention my name to the person that gave it to you," said
Mr. Clifton. "If he's got any more to dispose of in that way, I should
like to come in for one."

"How do you know but it may have come from a lady friend, Mr.
Clifton?" said Miss Peyton, slyly.

"How is that, Hunter?"

"I haven't had any presents from any of my lady friends yet," said Dick.
"Perhaps I may some time."

"You don't mean anybody in particular, of course, Mr. Hunter?" said Miss
Peyton.

"Oh, no, of course not."

This conversation may seem scarcely worth recording, but it will serve
to illustrate the character of Dick's fellow-boarders. Miss Peyton was
rather silly and affected, but she was good-natured, and Dick felt more
at home with her than he would have done had she been a lady like Mrs.
Rockwell, for instance. It got to be the custom with Dick and Fosdick to
remain in the parlor a short time after supper, or rather dinner, for
this was the third meal, and Fosdick joined the young lady in singing.
Dick unfortunately had not been gifted by nature with a voice attuned to
melody, and he participated only as a listener, in which capacity he
enjoyed the entertainment.

After breakfast Dick set out for the store as usual. He felt unusually
happy and independent as he walked along. The check in his pocket made
him feel rich. He wondered how it would be best to invest his money so
as to yield him the largest return. He wisely decided to take Mr.
Murdock, the head clerk, into his confidence, and ask his advice upon
this point.

When Dick arrived at the store neither Mr. Gilbert nor Mr. Murdock had
yet arrived. Half an hour later the latter came, and five minutes after
him the book-keeper.

The latter noticed that the morning paper appeared to have been
disturbed, and, glad of any opportunity to find fault with Dick, said,
angrily, "So you've been reading the paper instead of minding your work,
have you? I'll report you to Mr. Rockwell."

"Thank you," said Dick, "you're very kind. Are you sure I read the
paper? Is there any news missin' out of it?"

"You're an impudent boy," said the book-keeper, provoked. He wanted to
overawe Dick; but somehow Dick wouldn't be overawed. Evidently he did
not entertain as much respect for the book-keeper as that gentleman felt
to be his due. That a mere errand-boy should bandy words with a
gentleman in his position seemed to Mr. Gilbert highly reprehensible.

"You're an impudent boy!" repeated Gilbert, sharply, finding Dick did
not reply to his first charge.

"I heard you make that remark before," said Dick, quietly.

Now there was nothing out of the way in Dick's tone, which was perfectly
respectful, and he only stated a fact; but the book-keeper became still
more angry.

"Who rumpled that paper?" he asked.

"Suppose you ask Mr. Murdock?" said Dick.

"Did he come in here?" asked Gilbert, cooling down, for it was against
Dick that his charge was made, and not against the head clerk. As to the
paper, he really cared nothing.

"Yes," said Dick.

"Then it's all right. I supposed you had been idling your time over the
paper. Go and ask Mr. Murdock what time it is. I left my watch at home."

"It's half past eight," said Dick, drawing out his watch.

Up to this time the book-keeper had not noticed Dick's watch-chain. Now
that his attention was drawn not only to that, but to the beautiful gold
watch which Dick carried, he was not a little surprised.

"Whose watch is that?" he asked, abruptly.

"Mine," said Dick, briefly, rather enjoying the book-keeper's surprise.

"How did you come by it?"

"Honestly," said Dick.

"Is it gold, or only plated?"

"It's gold."

"Humph! Did you buy it, or was it given you?"

"Well," said Dick, "I didn't buy it."

"Did you say it was yours?"

"Yes."

Gilbert looked at Dick in surprise. Our hero was becoming more and more
an enigma to him. That a boy in Dick's position should have a gold watch
given him, especially now that he had learned from his cousin Roswell
the nature of Dick's former employment, seemed indeed wonderful.

"Let me look at your watch a minute," he said.

Dick handed it to him.

"It seems to be a very good one," he said.

"Yes," said Dick; "I aint proud. It's as good as I want to wear."

"It looks entirely out of place on such a boy as you," said the
book-keeper, sharply.

"Perhaps it would look better on you," suggested our hero, innocently.

"Yes, it would be more appropriate for me to wear than you. You're not
old enough to be trusted with a watch; least of all with such a good one
as that."

"Perhaps you'd be kind enough to mention it to the one that gave it to
me."

"Whoever gave it to you didn't show much judgment," said Gilbert, in the
same pleasant way. "Who was it?"

"It was Mrs. Rockwell."

If a bombshell had exploded in the office, it could hardly have taken
Gilbert more by surprise.

"Who did you say?" he repeated, thinking his ears might have deceived
him.

"Mrs. Rockwell," said Dick, once more.

The book-keeper could hardly suppress a low whistle.

"When did she give it to you?"

"Last evening."

"Were you up there?"

"Yes."

"Did Mr. Rockwell invite you?"

"Yes."

Just then Dick was called away by Mr. Murdock, who had some work for him
to do.

"There's something mighty queer in all this," thought the book-keeper.
"What Mr. Rockwell can see in that boy, I don't understand. He's an
impudent young rascal, and I'll get him turned off if it's a possible
thing."




CHAPTER VII.

A FINANCIAL DISCUSSION.


In the course of the morning Dick called at the Park Bank, and presented
the check which was made payable to himself. His employer had
accompanied him to the bank on a previous day, and introduced him to the
cashier as one who was authorized to receive and pay over money for the
firm. Dick therefore found no difficulty in obtaining his money, though
the fact that the check was made payable to him created some surprise.

"Your salary seems to be a large one," said the teller, as he handed our
hero ten bills of a hundred dollars each.

"Yes," said Dick, "my services are very valooable."

On leaving the bank, Dick went to the savings bank, and presented his
book.

"How much do you wish to deposit?"

"A thousand dollars," said Dick, briefly.

The bank officer looked at him in surprise.

"How much did you say?" he repeated.

"A thousand dollars."

"No nonsense, young man! My time is too valuable," said the other,
impatiently.

He was justified in his incredulity, since Dick's deposits hitherto had
been in sums of from one to five dollars.

"If you don't want to take the money, I can go somewhere else," said our
hero, who was now on his dignity. "I have a thousand dollars to deposit.
Here it is."

The bank officer took the money, and counted it over in considerable
surprise.

"Business is improving,--isn't it?" he said.

"Yes," said Dick. "I made all that money in one day."

"If you should want a partner, call round and see me."

"All right. I won't forget."

Dick took the bank-book, and, putting it in his inside coat-pocket,
buttoned up his coat, and hurried back to the store. His reflections
were of a very agreeable nature, as he thought of his large deposit in
the savings bank, and he could not help feeling that he had been born
under a lucky star.

Nothing of consequence transpired in the store that day. Dick was
attentive to his duties. He was determined to learn the business as
rapidly as possible, not only because he felt grateful to Mr. Rockwell
for his kindness, but also because he knew that this was the best thing
for his future prospects. Mr. Murdock, who has already been mentioned,
was of service to him in this respect. He was himself an excellent
business man, and very conscientious in the discharge of his duties. He
required the same fidelity of others. He had observed Dick closely, and
was attracted towards him by his evident desire to give satisfaction, as
well as by his frank, open face. He resolved to help him along, more
especially when he saw the manner in which he was treated by the
book-keeper. To tell the truth, Mr. Gilbert was not a favorite with Mr.
Murdock. He understood his business, to be sure, and, so far as Mr.
Murdock knew, kept the books correctly. But personally he was not
agreeable, and the head salesman doubted whether his integrity was what
it should have been. So, altogether, he made up his mind to help Dick on
as well as he could, and take pains to instruct him in the business.

Dick, on his side, was pleased with Mr. Murdock, and determined to make
him a confidant in the matter of his sudden accession of fortune.

He took an opportunity, therefore, during the day, to say to him, "Mr.
Murdock, I want to ask your advice about something."

"Well, my lad, what is it?" said his friend, kindly. "If it's about
choosing a wife, I don't know whether my advice will be good for much."

"It isn't that," said Dick. "Next year'll be soon enough for that."

"So I should think. Well, if it's nothing of that sort, what is it?"

"It's about investing some money. I thought you might be able to advise
me."

"How much is it?" asked Mr. Murdock, supposing the sum could not be more
than fifty or sixty dollars.

"Eleven hundred dollars," said Dick.

"How much?" demanded the salesman, in surprise.

"Eleven hundred dollars."

"Is it your own?"

"Yes."

"Of course you couldn't have earned so much. Was it left to you?"

"I'll tell you all about it," said Dick. "I wouldn't tell Mr. Gilbert,
and I don't mean he shall know it, but I'd just as lieves tell you. Do
you know why Mr. Rockwell gave me this place?"

"No; I've wondered a little, not at that, but at his giving you so much
higher pay than boys usually receive."

"Then I'll tell you."

Dick proceeded to give an account of the manner in which he had rescued
little Johnny from drowning, as related in the adventures of "Ragged
Dick."

"It was a brave act," said Mr. Murdock.

"It was nothing at all," said Dick, modestly. "I could swim like a duck,
and I didn't mind the wetting."

"But you ran the risk of drowning."

"I didn't think of that."

"If you had been a coward or a selfish boy, it would have been the first
thing you would have thought of. So Mr. Rockwell gave you this place in
acknowledgment of your service. I am glad he did. You deserve it."

"He has done more," said Dick. Then he related the events of the evening
previous, and told Mr. Murdock of the two gifts he had received. "So,
with the money I had before, I have now eleven hundred dollars," Dick
concluded. "Shall I leave it in the savings bank, or can I do better
with it?"

"I'll tell you what I think will be a good investment," said Mr.
Murdock. "I know a party who owns four adjoining lots on Forty-Fifth
Street. He is pressed for money, and wishes to dispose of them. He
offered them to me at twenty-two hundred dollars, half cash. I offered
him a thousand dollars cash for two of them, but he wishes to sell the
whole together. I think it will be an excellent speculation, for the
laying out of Central Park is carrying up the price of lots in the
neighborhood rapidly."

"Why didn't you buy them, then?"

"Because I didn't want to buy anything that I couldn't pay for at once.
I've got a wife and three children to look out for, and so I can save
money but slowly. If I only had myself to take care of, I wouldn't
hesitate."

"Can't we club together, and buy it?" suggested Dick, eagerly.

"That is just what I was going to propose. I think the owner will take
two thousand dollars down for the lots. That will be a thousand dollars
apiece. I've got that money, and so have you. What do you think of it?"

"Tip-top," said Dick, enthusiastically. "It's just what I'd like to do."

"Of course it wouldn't bring us in anything, but would, instead, be an
expense for the present, as we should have to pay taxes on it. On the
other hand, you could invest the money in bank-stock, so as to receive
seventy or eighty dollars annually at interest. You must decide which
investment you prefer. The land we may have to keep on hand four or five
years, paying taxes yearly."

"But the price'll go up."

"There is no doubt of that. The city is extending northwards rapidly. I
shouldn't be surprised if the lots would bring a thousand dollars apiece
in less than five years. This would be equal to a very handsome
interest."

"I'm in for buying 'em," said Dick. "So, if you'll see the owner, I'll
have the money all ready whenever you want it."

"Very well, but perhaps you would like to see them first. We'll manage
to get off an hour earlier than usual this afternoon, and go up and take
a look at them."

"It seems to me Mr. Murdock and that boy are pretty thick together,"
said the book-keeper, glancing through the glass partition. He could see
that they were conversing earnestly, but of course couldn't hear a word
that was said. "What he or Mr. Rockwell can see in the young rascal
passes my comprehension."

He called sharply to Dick, and ordered him to go to the post-office for
letters.

"All right," said Dick.

"And mind you don't loiter by the way," said the book-keeper, sharply.
"You were gone long enough at the bank this morning. Did you come right
back?"

"No," said Dick.

"Why didn't you?"

"There was somewhere else I wanted to go."

"On your own business, or Mr. Rockwell's?"

"On my own business."

"So I thought. I shall report you to Mr. Rockwell," said Gilbert,
triumphantly.

"I wouldn't, if I were you," said Dick, coolly.

"And why not, you young rascal?"

"Because he knows it already."

"Knows it already," repeated the book-keeper, discomfited. "Well, I hope
he gave you a good scolding."

"I am sorry to disappoint you," said Dick; "but he knows it, because he
gave me leave to go."

"I don't believe it," said Gilbert, mortified to find that Dick was in
the right after all.

"Then perhaps you'd better ask Mr. Rockwell."

"I will," said Gilbert, who really had no intention of doing so. "You
must have had some very urgent private business," he added, with a
sneer.

"You're right, there," said Dick.

"Playing marbles with some of your ragamuffin friends, I suppose."

"Playin' marbles is a very refined and intellectual amusement," said
Dick; "but I don't play marbles in business hours."

"Where did you go?" said the book-keeper, impatiently. "I don't want any
of your impertinence."

"I went to the savings bank," said Dick.

"I suppose you have a very large account there," sneered Gilbert.

"Yes," said Dick, quietly; "pretty large."

"It's to be hoped you won't withdraw your patronage, or the bank might
fail."

"Then I won't," said Dick. "Shall I go to the post-office now?"

"Yes, and be quick about it."

The book-keeper had some curiosity as to the amount of Dick's account at
the savings bank, but there was no good chance for him to inquire, and
he accordingly returned to his writing, more prejudiced against Dick
than ever.

On the whole, I have some doubts whether Dick's manner was quite as
respectful as it ought to have been to one who was older and higher in
office than himself. I should not recommend my young readers to imitate
him in this respect. But it is my business to describe Dick just as he
was, and I have already said that he was not a model boy. Still in most
respects he tried to do what was right, and it must be admitted that the
book-keeper's treatment of him was not likely to inspire much attachment
or respect. Dick had no difficulty in perceiving the dislike entertained
by Gilbert for him, and he was beginning to cherish a similar feeling
towards the book-keeper. He determined, however, to give him no cause of
complaint, so far as he was entitled to command his services; but it
must be confessed he found much more satisfaction in obeying Mr.
Rockwell and Mr. Murdock.




CHAPTER VIII.

NEW PLANS.


At the close of the afternoon, as had been proposed, Mr. Murdock,
accompanied by Dick, rode up as far as Forty-Fifth Street, to look at
the lots which he had suggested buying. They were located in a very
eligible situation, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. Some of my young
readers may not be aware that the dimensions of a city lot are
twenty-five feet front by one hundred feet in depth. The four lots
together made a plot of one hundred feet by one hundred, or a little
less than quarter of an acre. In the country the whole would scarcely
have been considered sufficient for a house with a good yard in front;
but if people choose to live in the city they must make up their minds
to be crowded.

"It looks small,--don't it?" said Dick. "I shouldn't think there was
four lots there."

"Yes," said Mr. Murdock, "they are of the regular size. Some lots are
only twenty feet wide. These are twenty-five. They don't look so large
before they are built on."

"Well," said Dick, "I'm in for buying them."

"I think it will be a good investment for both of us," said Mr. Murdock.

"The money shall be ready whenever you want it," said Dick.

"Very well. I will see the owner to-morrow, or rather this evening, as
it is best to be prompt, lest we might lose so favorable a bargain. I
will make the best terms I can with him, and let you know the result
to-morrow."

"All right!" said Dick. "Good-night, Mr. Murdock."

"Good-night. By-the-by, why won't you come round and take supper with
us? My wife and children will be glad to make your acquaintance."

"Thank you," said Dick. "I will come some other evening with pleasure;
but if I stay away without saying anything about it, Fosdick won't know
what's become of me."

Dick got back to Bleecker Street a little late for dinner. When he
entered the dining-room, the remainder of the boarders were seated at
the table.

"Come, Mr. Hunter, you must render an account of yourself," said Miss
Peyton, playfully. "Why are you late this evening?"

"Suppose I don't tell," said Dick.

"Then you must pay a fine,--mustn't he, Mrs. Browning?"

"That depends upon who is to benefit by the fines," said the landlady.
"If they are to be paid to me, I shall be decidedly in favor of it. That
reminds me that you were late to breakfast this morning, Miss Peyton."

"Oh, ladies mustn't be expected to pay fines," said Miss Peyton, shaking
her ringlets. "They never have any money, you know."

"Then I think we must let Mr. Hunter off," said Mrs. Browning.

"If he will tell us what has detained him. You must excuse my curiosity,
Mr. Hunter, but ladies, you know, are privileged to be curious."

"I don't mind telling," said Dick, helping himself to a piece of toast.
"I'm talking of buying some lots up-town, and went up with a friend to
look at them."

Fosdick looked at Dick, inquiringly, not knowing if he were in earnest
or not.

"Indeed!" said Mr. Clifton. "May I inquire where the lots are situated?"

"I'll tell you if I buy them," said Dick; "but I don't want to run the
risk of losing them."

"You needn't be afraid of my cutting you out," said Clifton. "I paid my
washerwoman this morning, and haven't got but a dollar and a half over.
I suppose that won't buy the property."

"I wish it would," said Dick. "In that case I'd buy half a dozen lots."

"I suppose, from your investing in lots, Mr. Hunter, that you are
thinking of getting married, and living in a house of your own," said
Miss Peyton, simpering.

"No," said Dick, "I shan't get married for a year. Nobody ought to be
married before they're seventeen."

"That's just my age," said Miss Peyton.

Mr. Clifton afterwards informed Dick that Miss Peyton was twenty-five,
but did not mention how he had ascertained. He likewise added that when
he first came to the boarding-house, she had tried her fascinations upon
him.

"She'd have married me in a minute," he said complacently; "but I'm too
old a bird to be caught that way. When you see Mrs. Clifton, gentlemen,
you'll see style and beauty, and--money" he added, after a moment's
reflection.

Mr. Clifton had a tolerably good opinion of himself, as may be inferred
from this remark. In fact, he valued himself rather more highly than the
ladies appeared to do; but such cases are not remarkable.

"Mrs. Clifton will be a lucky woman," said Dick, with a sober face.

"You're very kind to say so," said Mr. Clifton, modestly. "I believe I'm
tolerably good-looking, and nobody'll deny that I've got style. But
money,--that's my weak point. You couldn't lend me five dollars, could
you, till next week?"

"I'm afraid not," said Dick. "My up-town lots cost so much, and then
there'll be the taxes afterwards."

"Oh, it's of no consequence. I thought a little of going to the opera
to-night, and I need a new pair of gloves. It costs a sight to keep a
fellow in gloves."

"So it does," said Dick. "I bought a pair for fifty cents six months
ago, and now I've got to buy another pair."

"Ha, ha! good joke! By the way, I wonder you fellows don't take a better
room."

"Why should we? Isn't this good enough?" asked Fosdick.

"Oh, it's comfortable and all that," said Clifton; "but you know what I
mean. You wouldn't want any of your fashionable friends to call upon you
here."

"That's a fact," said Dick. "Suppose," he said, turning to Fosdick, with
a twinkle in his eye, "Johnny Nolan should call upon us here. What would
he think of our living in such a room?"

"He would probably be surprised," said Fosdick, entering into the joke.

"Is he one of your Madison-Avenue friends?" asked Clifton, a little
mystified.

"I don't know where he lives," said Dick, with truth; "but he's a friend
of mine, in business down town."

"Wholesale or retail?"

"Retail I should say,--shouldn't you, Fosdick?"

"Yes," said Fosdick, amused at Clifton's evident mystification.

"Well, good-evening, gents," said Clifton, sauntering out of the room.
"Call and see me when you haven't anything better to do."

"Thank you. Good-night."

"Were you in earnest, Dick, about the up-town lots," asked Fosdick,
after Clifton had left the room.

"Yes," said Dick. "It's an investment that Mr. Murdock advised. I'll
tell you about it, and then you can tell me what you think of it."

Dick thereupon gave an account of the conversation that had taken place
between him and the head clerk, and what they proposed to do. "What do
you think of it?" he concluded.

"I have no doubt it is an excellent plan," said Fosdick; "but of course
my opinion isn't worth much. I don't see but you stand a chance to be a
rich man some time, Dick."

"By the time I get to be a hundred," said Dick.

"A good while before that, I presume. But there's something else we must
not forget."

"What is that?"

"Money is a good thing to have, but a good education is better. I was
thinking to-day that since we have come here we haven't done any
studying to amount to anything."
