
Mabel spoke earnestly, for “Mammy’s house,” a neat frame cottage a
story-and-a-half high, embowered in locust-trees, and with a thrifty,
although aged garden--honeysuckle clambering all over the front, was
to her one of the dearest pictures of her early days. She could see
herself, now--the motherless babe whom Aunt Rachel and Mammy had never
let feel her orphanage--sitting on the door-step, bedecking her doll
with the odorous pink-and-white blossoms in summer time, and in autumn
with the light-red berries.

“Why is that done?” she asked.

“I spiles the prospect, honey!” fiercely--ironical. “Northern folks
has tender eyes, and I hurts ‘em--me and my poor little house what ole
marster built for me when Mars’ Winston was a baby, and your blessed ma
couldn’t be easy ‘thout I was near her--WE spiles the prospect! So, it
must be knocked down and carted away for rubbish to build pig-pens, I
‘spose, and me sent off to live ‘mong low-lived niggers, sech as I’ve
always held myself above. She ain’t never put it into Mars’ Winston’s
head to cut down the trees that shets off the “prospect” of the colored
people’s burying-ground from her winder. There’s some things she’d as
lief not see. I oughtn’t to mind this so much, I know, for I ain’t got
long for to stay here nohow, but I did hope to die in my nest!” sobbing
behind her apron.

“I am very sorry--more grieved than you can think!” repeated Mabel. “If
I could help you in any way, I would. But I cannot!”

“Bless your heart! Don’t I know that, dear! Here, you ain’t got no more
power nor me. But I WAS a-thinkin’ that maybe you wouldn’t think me too
old for a nuss when you come to want one, and could manage to take me
with you when you went home. I’se a heap of wear in me yit, and there
ain’t nothing ‘bout babies I don’t understand.”

Mabel colored painfully.

“If I had my way”--she began--then altered her plan of reply. “I could
not enter into such an arrangement without consulting Mr. Dorrance,
Mammy, and I am afraid he would not think as favorably of it as you and
I do. He has been brought up with different ideas, you see.”

“Um-HUM!”

An interjection capable of as many and as varied meanings in the mouth
of a colored woman of her stamp as was little Jean Baptiste’s “altro!”
 It signified now--“I comprehend a great deal more than you want me to
perceive--you poor, downtrodden angel!”

“Um-HUM. I always did say he was his sister’s own brother--for all they
don’t look a bit alike. What’s born into a man never comes out!”

“Mr. Dorrance is my husband, Mammy! I shall not let you speak
disrespectfully of him. He does what he believes to be right and just,”
 returned Mabel, sternly.

“I ain’t a-goin’ to arger that with you, my sugar-plum! You’re right to
stand up for him. I beg your pardon ef I’ve seemed sassy or hurt your
feelin’s. And I dar’ say, there mayn’t be nothin’ wuss ‘bout him nor his
outside. And that don’t matter so much, ef people’s insides is clean and
straight in the sight of the Lord. But HER outside is all that’s decent
about her, ef you’ll listen to me--”

“You are forgetting yourself again!” said Mabel, unable to suppress a
smile. “Mrs. Aylett is your mistress--”

The woman’s queer behavior arrested the remonstrance. Stepping on tiptoe
to the door she locked it, and approached her young mistress with an
ostentatious attempt at treading lightly, shaking her head and pursing
up her mouth in token of secrecy, while she fumbled in her bosom for
something that seemed hard to get at. Drawing it forth at last she laid
it in Mabel’s lap--a small leather wallet, glossy with use, tattered at
the corners, and tied up with a bit of dirty twine.

“What is this, and what am I to do with it?”

Mabel shrank from touching it, so foul and generally disreputable was
its appearance.

“Keep both your ears open, dearie, and I’ll tell you all I know!”

And with infinite prolixity and numerous digressions she recounted how,
in removing the sodden clothing of the unknown man who had been picked
up on the lawn on that memorable stormy Christmas night, more than a year
before, this had slipped from an inner breast-pocket of the coat, “right
into her hand.” Not caring to disturb the doctor’s examination of his
patient, or to tempt the cupidity of her fellow-servants by starting the
notion that there might be other valuables hidden in the articles they
handled so carelessly, she had pocketed it, unobserved by them, guessing
that it would be of service at the inquest. Her purpose of producing
it then was, according to her showing, reversed by Mrs. Aylett’s stolen
visit to the chamber and minute inspection of garments she would not
have touched unless urged to the disagreeable task by some mighty
consideration of duty, self-interest, or fear.

“‘Then,’ thinks I”--Phillis stated the various steps of her
reasoning--“‘you wouldn’t take the trouble to pull over them nasty,
muddy close, ‘thout you expected to get some good out on ‘em, or was
afeard of somethin’ or ‘nother fallin’ into somebody else’s hands.’
Whichsomever this mought be, ’twasn’t my business to be gittin’ up a
row and a to-do before the crowner and all them gentlemen. ‘Least
said soonest mended,’ says I to myself, and keeps mum about the whole
thing--what I’d got, and what I’d seen. But when I come to think it all
over arterward, I was skeered for true at what I’d done, and for fear
Mars’ Winston wouldn’t like it. What reason could I give him for hidin’
of the pocketbook, ef I give it up to him? Ef I tole all the truth,
SHE’D be mad as a March hare, and like as not face me down that all
I had said was a dream or a lie, or that I was drunk that night and
couldn’t see straight. I’d hearn her tell too many fibs with a smooth
tongue and a sweet smile not to be sure of that! So, all I should git
for my care of the repertation of my fam’ly would be her ill-will, and
to be ‘cused by other people of stealin’, and for the rest of my days
she’d do all she could to spite me. For I’m sure as I stand here, Miss
Mabel, that she knew, or thought she knew, somethin’ ‘bout that poor,
despisable wretch that died up in the garret. What else brought him
a-spyin’ ‘round here, and what was there to make her faint when she
ketched sight of him a-lookin’ in at her through the winder? and what
COULD a sent her upstars when everybody else was asleep, fur to haul his
close about, and poke them fine white fingers of hern into his pockets,
and pull his WHISKERY face over to the light so’s to see it better?
Depend ‘pon it, there’s a bad story at the bottom of this somewhere.
I’ve hearn of many a sich that came of gentlemens’ marrying forringers
what nobody knowed anything about. Anyhow, I want you to take keer of
this ‘ere pocketbook. Ef I was to die all of a suddent, and ‘twas found
‘mong my things, some mischief mought be hatched out on it. It’s safer
in your hands nor it is in mine. Now, I’ll jest light your lamp, and
you can ‘xamine it, and pitch it into the fire, ef you like, when you’re
through.”

In a cooler moment Mabel would have hesitated to obey the advice of an
ignorant, prejudiced person, her inferior in station and intelligence.
But in the whirl of astonishment, incredulity, and speculation created
by the tale she had heard, she untied the string which formed the
primitive fastening of the worn wallet, and unclosed it.

The main compartment contained four tickets, issued by as many different
pawnbrokers, testifying that such and such articles had been deposited
with them for and in consideration of moneys advanced by them to Thomas
Lindsay; a liquor-seller’s score against William Jones--unpaid; and a
tavern bill, in which brandy and water, whiskey and mint-juleps, were
the principal items charged against Edmund Jackson. This last was
the only paper which bore the indorsement “Rec’d payment,” and this
circumstance had, probably, led to its preservation. The adjoining
division of the wallet was sewed up with stout black thread and Mabel
had to resort to her scissors before she could get at its contents.
These were a couple of worn envelopes, crumpled and dog-eared, and
stained with liquor or salt water, but still bearing the address, in a
feminine hand, of “Lieutenant Julius Lennox, U. S. N.” In addition to
this, one was directed to Havana, Cuba; the other to Calcutta, in care,
of a mercantile or banking-house at each place. A third cover bore the
superscription, “CERTIFICATE,” in bold characters.

The negress’ watchful eyes dilated with greedy expectancy at Mrs.
Dorrance’s ghastly face when this last had been examined, but she
was foiled if she hoped for any valuable addition to her store of
information, or anything resembling elucidation of her pet mystery.

“It will take me some time to read all these,” remarked Mabel, still
scanning the half-sheet she held. “You had better not wait, Mammy. They
are safe with me. No one else shall see them, and no harm can come to
you through them.”

She promised mechanically what she supposed would soonest buy for
her privacy and needed quiet, and gave no heed to the manifest
disappointment of her visitor.

When she was at last alone, Mrs. Dorrance relocked the door, and bent
close to the lamp, as if more light upon the surface of the document
would tend to clear up the terrible secret thus strangely committed
to her discretion and mercy. The paper was a certificate, drawn up in
regular form, and signed by a clergyman, whose address was appended
below, in a different hand writing--of a marriage between Julius Lennox
and Clara Louise Dorrance.

“Her very name!” repeated the whitening lips. “I remember asking her
once what the ‘L’ in her signature stood for.”

But while she said it, there was a look in the reader’s eye that bespoke
inability or reluctance to grapple with the revelation threatened by the
discovery.

“The letters may tell me more!” she added, in the same frightened
whisper, refolding the certificate.

They did--for they were in the long, sloping chirography of her
sister-in-law, and signed “Your ever-fond, but lonely wife.” Each
contained, moreover, allusions to “Ellis,” to “Clermont,” to “Julia,”
 and to “Herbert”--all family names in the Dorrance connection; spoke
gratefully of her parents’ kindness to his “poor Louise” in the absence
of “her beloved Julius;” and was liberally spiced with passionate
protestations of her inconsolableness and yearnings for his return. Both
were dated ten years back, and the paper was yellow with time, besides
being creased and thumbed as by many readings.

“What am I to do?” thought Mabel, sinking into her chair, trembling all
over with terror and incertitude.

If there were one sentiment in Winston Aylett’s heart that equalled
his haughtiness, it was love for his wife. But could it be that he had
totally forgotten pride and his habitual caution in the selection of
the woman who was to be the partner of his home, fortune, and
reputation--possibly the mother of children who were to perpetuate
the noble name he bore? By what miracle of unrighteous craft, what
subornation of witnesses, what concealments, what barefaced and
unscrupulous falsehoods had this adventuress been imposed upon him as
unmarried, when the evidence of her former wedlock was held by a low
stroller--a drunken wretch who might betray it in an unguarded or
insane hour, and who, judging from his exterior, would not be averse
to publishing or selling the information if he could make more money
by doing this than by preserving the secret. And how came he by these
papers?

Confused, partly by his numerous aliases, more by incapacity to conceive
of such depth and complication of horror as were revealed by the
idea, the perplexed thinker did not, for a while, admit to herself the
possibility that the nameless vagabond may have been Clara’s living
husband, instead of a mercenary villain who had secured surreptitiously
the proofs of a marriage she wished the world to forget. Having learned
that she had wedded, a second time, in her maiden name, and that
her antecedents were unsuspected in her present home, the thought
of extorting a bribe to continued silence, from the wealthy lady of
Ridgeley, would have occurred to any common rascal with more audacity
than principle. It was but a spark--the merest point of light that
showed her the verge of the precipice toward which one link after
another of the chain of circumstantial evidence was dragging her.

Groping dizzily among her recollections of that Christmas night, there
gleamed luridly upon her the vision of Mrs. Aylett’s strange smile,
as she said, “It may be that his wife, if she were cognizant of his
condition, would not lift a finger or take a step to save his life, or
to prolong it for an hour!”

Then, in response to Mabel’s indignant reply--the momentary passion
darting from her hitherto languorous orbs, and vibrating in her accents,
in adding--“There are women in whose hearts the monument to departed
affection is a hatred that can never die.”

If this man were a stranger, from whom she had nothing to fear, why her
extraordinary agitation at seeing him, even imperfectly, through the
window? She must have known him well to recognize him in the darkness
and at that fleeting glimpse. Perhaps she had believed him dead, until
then! This would account for her clandestine visit to his chamber, to
which Mrs. Sutton and her niece had gone, without effort at concealment;
explain the rigid examination of his clothing ensuing upon her scrutiny
of his features.

“I must be mad!” Mabel said, here, pressing her hand to her head. “There
does not live the woman, however wicked and hypocritical, who could sit
at ease in the midst of ill-gotten luxury, on an inclement night, and
talk smilingly of other things, if she suspected that one she had known,
much less loved, lay dying in wretchedness and solitude so near her.”

The vagrant was some evil-disposed spy, whose person Clara knew, and
whose intentions she had reason to dread were unfriendly. Had she
dared--for she was daring--to attempt this nefarious plot against the
fair fame and happiness of an honorable gentleman, her family would not
have become her accomplices. They could not have blinded themselves to
the perils of the enterprise, the extreme probabilities of detection,
the consequences of Winston’s anger. Herbert, at least, would have
forbidden the unlawful deceit. When his sister was wedded to Winston,
he believed that her first husband was no longer in the land of the
living--as she must also have done.

“For he is a good--an upright man!” thought the wife. “But he was privy
to the fact of her previous marriage! Why have I never heard of it? He
has invariably spoken of Clara as having lived single in her mother’s
house up to the date of her union with my brother.”

She could not but remember, likewise, that there was a certain tone
about the Dorrance connection she had never quite comprehended or
liked--a reticence with respect to details of family history, while
they were voluble upon generalities, over-fond of lauding one another’s
exploits, virtues, and accomplishments; referring in wonderful pride to
“our beloved father,” and extolling “our precious mother,” who, by the
way, was so little in request among the children, that she had, since
Clara’s marriage, occupied apartments in a second-rate boarding-house in
Boston. Mabel, when convinced of the futility of her hope of having
Aunt Rachel with her, had proposed to offer Mrs. Dorrance a house in
the commodious mansion of her youngest son; but Herbert, with no show
of gratification at what he must have known was a sacrifice of her
inclinations, had coolly reasoned down the suggestion. The whole
tribe--if she excepted her husband, and perhaps Clara--had, to her
perception, a tinge of Bohemianism, although all were in comfortable
circumstances, and lived showily. Mabel had often chided herself for
uncharitable judgment and groundless prejudice, in admitting these
impressions of her relatives-in-law; but they returned upon her in this
twilight reverie with the force of convictions she was, each moment,
less able to combat. What darker secret lay back of the concealment
her rectitude of principle and sense of justice declared to be
unjustifiable? and might not this concerted and persistent reserve imply
others yet more culpable?

It showed her correct estimate of her brother’s character, that she
never for a second accused him of connivance in the deceit practised
upon his relations and neighbors. He would not have scrupled to wed
a widow, knowing and acknowledging her to be such. Nothing--not love,
tenfold more ardent and irrational than that he felt for his siren
wife--could have wrought upon him to introduce to the world, as Mrs.
Aylett of Ridgeley, one who had been before married, and was ashamed,
for any cause whatever, to avow this. The blemish left by the acrid
breath of common scandal upon a woman’s fame was to him ineffaceable by
any process yet discovered by pitying man or angels. The maligned one
may not have erred from the straitest road of virtue and discretion, but
she had been “talked about,” and was no consort for him. In his State
and caste, private marriages were things disallowed, and but one shade
more respectable than liasons that did not pretend to the sanctity of
wedlock. What would he say when the contents of this dingy pocket-book
were spread before him? Ought his sister to do this?

COULD she? He had not earned compassionate consideration from her by
any act of gentleness and forbearance. He had handled the lopping-knife
without ruth, and let the gaping wounds bleed as long as the bitter
ichor would ooze from her heart. She had learned hardness and
self-control from the lesson, but not vindictiveness. Now that the power
was hers to visit upon his haughty spirit something of the humiliation
and distress he had not spared her; that it was her turn to
harangue upon mesalliances and love-matches, and want of circumspect
investigation into early records before committing one’s self to
a contract of marriage--she recoiled at the thought; felt, in her
exceeding pity for the trustful husband, a stirring of the love she had
herself once borne him in the days when the changed homestead was her
world, and its master a king among men.

And yet--and yet--was it the truest friendship--the most prudent course
to prolong the ignorance which left him liable at any moment to be
shocked into the perpetration of some desperate deed by the discovery,
through some other channel, of his wife’s perfidy, and the abominable
snare that bad been woven about him!


CHAPTER XIV. -- “BORN DEAD.”


MABEL was still turning the vexed question of right and expediency over
in her fast-heating brain, the next evening, as she sat in the parlor,
and feigned to hearken to the diligent duett-practising going on at the
piano, her husband and Mrs. Aylett being the performers.

Mrs. Sutton had gone home that afternoon, engaging to return for a
longer sojourn in the course of a month. Mr. Aylett read his newspaper
at one side of the centre table, and his sister employed her fingers and
eyes at the other with a trifle of fancy-work---an antimacassar she
was crocheting for her hostess. Her industrious or fidgetty habits were
chronic and inveterate, and people, in remarking upon them, did not
reflect that this species of restlessness is in itself a disease, seldom
analyzed, more seldom cured. There are few students or physicians of
human nature, in this world of superficial observers, who go deep enough
into the springs of man’s action to distinguish the external symptoms
of heart-cancer from ossification, or to learn the difference between
satiety and atrophy. A night of nervous sleeplessness, a day of
irresolution and dread, had aggravated almost beyond her control the
restlessness which in Mabel was the unerring indication of unhealthiness
of mind and body. To sit still was impracticable; to talk connectedly
and easily would soon be as difficult. She was glad to see Aunt Rachel
go--immeasurably relieved when a musical evening was proposed by the
brother and sister, seconding the motion with alacrity that called forth
a pleased smile from the one, and a look of surprised inquisitiveness
from the other.

“You have grown more fond of instrumental music,” said Mrs. Aylett, half
interrogatively. “You used always to prefer vocal.”

“Try me and see what an appreciative listener I am,” rejoined Mabel,
with a sickly smile, and the concert commenced.

Overmuch thought upon the revelation of the preceding day had begotten
in her, fears of the imminence of the dangers to Winston’s peace of
mind--a persuasion that the birds of the air and the restless air itself
might bear to him the news she still withheld. Mammy had averred, upon
her cross-examination, that “not a living soul had ever seen the wallet”
 since it fell from the dying man’s pocket--an affirmation Mabel could
not decide whether to believe or discredit. If she could but be certain
that the secret was all hers!

She trembled guiltily when her brother folded his last paper, and
sauntered around to the back of her chair, leaning upon it, while he
affected to be interested in her work, and the too-ready scarlet blood
pulsed now hotly in her cheeks with each moment of his mute observation.

“I heard a piece of news to-day,” he said, presently, in his most even
tone; but Mabel’s start upon her seat was almost a leap, while her
fingers moved faster and more irregularly.

“I suspect, from your unsettled demeanor this evening, that it reached
you before it did me,” continued he. “I can attribute your badly
suppressed pertubation to no other cause. Mrs. Sutton is such an
indefatigable gossip, that this item could hardly have passed her by.
Has she told you that Rosa Tazewell is shortly to become Mrs. Chilton?”

“She has.”

He thought she was nerving herself to a simulation of hardihood, and the
long-indulged habit of censorship was strong upon him.

“I had trusted, until to-day, Mabel, that you had conquered that
disgraceful weakness,” he resumed, yet more pitilessly.

Domination was one of his besetting sins. He never saw a helpless or
cowering thing without feeling the inclination to set his foot upon it,
and the least show of resistance in such, piqued him into despotism.

“I was aware that it was not dead when you married a man worth a
thousand such scoundrels as that fellow in Philadelphia. I believed that
the sentiment was powerful in impelling you to that marriage, and that
this irrevocable measure would be an antidote to the evil. It was a wise
course, and I commended you for pursuing it. But I am too well read in
your countenance and moods not to see that there is something far amiss
with you. You have been playing a part for twenty-four hours, and you
have played it wretchedly. Your nervous flutters and laugh, your sudden
changes of complexion, and the incoherence of your language, would
betray you to the least penetrating observer. I caution you to be on
your guard lest your husband should take just offence at all this. The
need of dissimulation is the evidence that something is radically wrong
in your moral nature, and is derogatory to your lawful partner. I am
ashamed to remind you of the golden maxim of wedded life--that without
perfect and mutual confidence there can be no substantial happiness.
Does Dorrance know of your escapade at the Springs?”

“If you refer to my engagement to Mr. Chilton, I told him of it before
our marriage.”

“I rejoice to hear it--am pleased at this one proof of good sense and
right feeling,” in lofty patronage. “You owed him no less. You have,
without doubt been informed long since how I obtained the most important
proof against that villain?”

“I have not heard Mr. Chilton’s name in a year until yesterday,” said
Mabel, the scarlet spots ceasing to flicker, and her voice hard as was
his own.

Unable to interpret her sudden steadiness of demeanor and accent,
Winston leaped to the irritating conclusion that she was sullen, and
meditated a defiant retreat from this untimely usurpation of his olden
authority.

“It was injudicious--miserably ill-judged in Dorrance not to acquaint
you with this. I have always feared lest his indulgence might not be the
most salutary method of repressing your self-will and pride of opinion.
You, more than any other woman I know, require the tight rein of
vigilant discipline. I intimated as much to Dorrance when he asked my
consent to your engagement. But this is his lookout, not mine. What I
began to say was that, in MY opinion, he would have acted more sensibly
had he not encouraged your squeamish repugnance to talking of your early
fault and its mortifying consequences.”

“Fortunately for me, my husband is a man of feeling and delicacy!” Mabel
was goaded to boast. “I said to him, the evening of our betrothal, that
the subject you have chosen to revive to-night was painful to me, and he
has respected the reluctance you condemn.”

“He would have overcome it more quickly and thoroughly had he informed
you that he had had the honor of horse-whipping your ci-devant
betrothed!” sneered Winston, with white dinted nostrils. “That he was
the author of the letter, a portion of which I copied for your perusal,
when I announced the dissolution of your provisional engagement--the
main agent, in effect, of the rupture, since but for him I should
have had much difficulty in proving what I had believed from the
beginning--that the rascal ought to be shot for presuming to think of
you in any other light than as the merest acquaintance. And he should
never have been that, had I been with you that unlucky summer.”

“We have been over that ground so often, Winston, that both of us should
be tolerably familiar with it,” rejoined Mabel, decidedly. “I prefer
that, instead of reviewing the circumstances of what you term my ‘early
fault,’ you should show me the evidence of your singular assertion
respecting Mr. Dorrance’s agency in a matter in which he could not at
that time have had the slightest personal interest. Or, shall I ask him?
It is an enigma to me.”

Without other answer than a contemptuous laugh, Winston left the room,
unnoticed by the musicians. But before she could form a conjecture as
to the meaning of his abrupt movement, he was back with a letter in his
hand.

“Documentary testimony!” he said, shortly, passing it to her. “I should
have forwarded it entire, instead of transcribing an extract, but for
Clara’s fear lest you should be led thereby to dislike her brother
before you had ever seen him. I take it there is no danger of
prejudicing you against him now!”

The letter was from Herbert Dorrance, and began thus:

“Mr. Aylett:

“Dear Sir,--Your favor of the 15th, enclosed in one from my sister,
reached me this morning.”

Then followed the expose of Frederic Chilton’s misdeeds, which Winston
had transferred to his own epistle to Mabel, as the leading argument in
his refusal to sanction her engagement.

Mabel read it through without flinching; then turned over to the first
page and put her finger upon a paragraph.

“Who was the lady here mentioned?”

Mr. Aylett shrugged his fine shoulders.

“I have never interested myself to inquire. Beyond the statement of your
friend’s rascality, the story was nothing to me.”

“Herbert!”

The ringing call--sharp and clear--checked the pianists in the middle of
a bar.

“Step here a moment, if you please!”

The novelty of the imperative tone and the glitter of his wife’s eyes
moved Mr. Dorrance to more prompt compliance than he would have adjudged
to be dignified and husbandly in the case of another man.

Mabel held out the letter at his approach, still pointing to the passage
she had asked her brother to explain.

“To whom does this refer? Who was the relative whose husband was a naval
officer?”

Herbert Dorrance’s constitutional phlegm was a valuable ally in the very
contracted quarters into which this question drove him, but his sister
was his deliverer. Affecting forgetfulness of the letter and its
contents, he glanced down one page, Mrs. Aylett leaning upon his arm,
and reading with him.

“I don’t think you need mind telling the name, here and at this late
day, Herbert,” she said, seriously and slowly, “provided Mabel will
never repeat the story when it can do harm. Have you never heard any of
us speak of poor Ellen Lester, my mother’s niece, who died several
years before your marriage?” accosting her sister-in-law, with a face so
devoid of aught resembling cowardly or guilty fears, that Mabel’s brain,
tried and shaken, tottered into disbelief at her own wild surmises.

“Not that I remember!”

“Is that so? Yet it might easily have been. She accompanied her husband
upon his last voyage, and the ship was never heard of again. Her
parents are dead, too, so there are few to cherish her memory. She was a
school-fellow of mine, and Herbert loved her as a sister.”

Mabel was gazing fixedly at her husband’s stolid countenance and averted
eyes, and made no rejoinder until the silent intensity of her regards
compelled him to look up. Reading distrust and alarm in these, he shook
off his sister’s warning hold.

“When you wish to catechise me upon family matters, Mabel, it is my wish
that you should do it in private,” he said, roughly. “Then you shall
learn all that it concerns you to know. There are subjects into which
only prurient curiosity cares to pry.”

“I beg your pardon!” answered Mabel, quietly. “I have but to say, in
self-defence, that I did not ask to see the letter.”

“It is a matter of profound indifference to me whether you did or not,”
 was the reply. “For aught that I know or cared, you may have read it a
year and a half ago. I retract nothing that is set down there. Clara,
shall we go on with our music?”

Glancing around stealthily at the finale of the (sic) he saw that
Mabel’s chair was vacant, and Mr. Aylett was reading composedly beneath
the lamp.

Clara made the same discovery at the same moment, and came forward
laughing to her husband.

“What had you been saying to our dear, excitable Mabel, that challenged
the introduction of that unfortunate document?”

“Told her of Frederic Chilton’s intended marriage!” curtly, and without
laying aside his volume.

“Preposterous!”

“I agree with you--but it is the truth.”

Herbert stood apart glowing at the fire.

“You must have approached the subject unskilfully,” urged the
peacemaker. “These old sores are oest left alone.”

“It is best for married woman to have none,” retorted Winston, doggedly.

“She does not persist in doubting his unworthiness, does she?” queried
the wife, aside, but not so cautiously that her brother did not hear
her.

He wheeled about suddenly.

“She SHALL believe it, or call me a liar to my face!” he uttered,
angrily. “I will put a stop to this sentimental folly!”

“You are late in beginning your reforms,” observed Mr. Aylett, dryly.

“You are a less sensible man than I give you credit for being, if you
ever begin!” interposed his sister.

“Leave Mabel to herself until she recovers from the shock--if it be
one--of this intelligence. The surest means of keeping alive a dying
coal is to stir and blow upon it. And even we”--lifting the heavy locks
of her husband’s hair in playful dalliance--“even we are mortal. We
have had our peccadilloes and our repentances, and have now our little
concealments of affairs that would interest nobody but ourselves. Do
you hear what I am saying, Herbert! Leave off your high tragedy airs and
attend to reason, as expressed in your sister’s advice. While your wife
is my invalid guest, I will not have her subjected to any inquisitorial
process. There is a time for everything under the sun, saith the
preacher. This is the season for tender forbearance, and if need be, of
forgiveness.”

Herbert blessed her humane tolerance in his alarmed heart, when Mabel
awoke from her troubled slumbers at midnight, in extreme pain, that
culminated before dawn, in convulsions.

Two physicians were hastily summoned, and when Mrs. Sutton arrived about
noon, she met Phillis outside the door of the sick-chamber, carrying a
lifeless infant in her arms, and weeping bitterly.

This was the end of the months of hopeful longing and glad anticipation
which were Heaven’s messengers of healing and comfort to the sick and
lonely heart. The cunningly-fashioned robes were never to have a wearer,
the clasping arms to remain still empty. Oh wondrous mystery--past
finding out--of the human soul! Had the lungs once heaved with breath,
the heart given one throb; the eyes caught one beam of Heaven’s light
ere they were sealed fast in eternal darkness, she, who travailed with
the infant through the inexpressible agony of birth, would have been
written a mother among women; have had the right accorded her, without
the cavil of formalist or the disputations of science, to claim the
precious thing as her own still--a living baby-spirit that had fluttered
back to the bosom of the Almighty Father, after alighting, for one
painful moment, upon the confines of the lower world. As it was, custom
ordained that there should be no mourning for what had never really
been. Anguish, hope, and the patient love at which we do not scoff when
the mother-bird broods over the eggs that may never hatch--these were to
be no more named or remembered. In silence and without sympathy she must
endure her disappointment. The tenderest woman about whose knees cluster
living children, and who has sowed in tears the blessed seed, that in
the resurrection-morn shall be gathered in beauteous sheaves of richest
recompense--would smile in pitying contempt over the tiny headstone
which should be lettered--“Born Dead.”

All this and much more Mabel was to learn with the return of health and
reason, but she lay now, like one who had passed for herself the narrow
sea that separates the Now from the Hereafter; her features chiselled
into the unmoving outlines of a waxen image, only a feeble flutter of
breath and pulse telling that this was lethargy, not death. They watched
her all night, Mrs. Sutton on one side and Phillis on the other, the
family physician stealing in with slippered tread from hour to hour, to
note with his sensitive touch if the few poor drops of vital blood yet
trickled from veins to heart, always with the same directions, “Give her
the stimulant while she can swallow it. It is the only hope of saving
her.”

Armed with this, the two devoted women fought the Destroyer, praying
inaudibly, while they wrought, for the life of the child they had reared
to her sorrowful womanhood.

“HE’S asleep, and so is SHE!” whispered Phillis, once, pointing
alternately to the adjoining room where Herbert Dorrance awaited the
issue of this critical stage of his wife’s illness, and to Mrs. Aylett’s
chamber across the hall. “The Lord forgive ‘em both! It won’t be they
two that will shed many tears if so be she doesn’t see the light of
another day--the murdered lamb! They tormented the life out of her. I
passed by her room last night before bed-time, and heard her a-sobbin’
and talkin’ to herself, and walkin’ up and down the floor, and THEY
a-bangin’ away on the pyano down in the parlor!”

The faithful creature’s prejudice wronged one of the hated pair. Mrs.
Aylett’s slumbers upon her downy couch might be none the less serene for
her sister-in-law’s danger, but Herbert’s was the sleep of exhaustion,
not callousness. He had been up all the previous night, and racked by
the wildest anxiety throughout the intervening day, and to compass this
vigil was beyond his physical powers. Mabel would not miss him, and
he could do nothing for her--would only be in the way, being totally
unpractised in the art of nursing, he reasoned; and there was no telling
what new draught upon his strength the morrow might bring. He would just
lie down for an hour; then he would be fresh for whatever service might
be required of him. With this prudent resolve, he threw himself along
the bed in the spare-room, and was oblivious of everything sublunary
until sunrise.

“If there should be any change, call me!” Mrs. Aylett had enjoined,
plaintively. “Winston will not hear of my sitting up, but I shall not
close my eyes all night, so do not hesitate to disturb me, if I can be
of any use whatever.”

Which, it is idle to remark, was the last thing either of the nurses
thought of doing. If their darling were, in truth, dying, they were
the fittest persons to receive her latest sigh; for had they not been
present at her birth, and did not her mother go to glory from their
supporting arms?

There was a change, and not a favorable one, before daybreak. The
patient, from mutterings and restless starts, passed into violent
delirium, laughing, crying, and singing in a style so opposed to the
prescribed diagnosis of her case, as to lash the provincial doctor to
his wits’ end, and extinguish in Aunt Rachel’s sanguine heart the faint
hope to which she had clung until now. Herbert, awakened finally by the
turbulent sounds from the room he had been told must be kept perfectly
quiet, jumped up, and showed himself, with disordered hair and blinking
eyes, in the door of communication, just as Mabel struggled to rise, and
pleaded weepingly with those who held her down that they would restore
her child to her.

“I had her in my arms not a moment ago!” she insisted. “See! the print
of her little head is here on my breast! You have taken her away among
you! I saw it all--those who ordered that it should be done and those
who did it, when I was too weak to hold her, or to keep them back!”

And passing from the height of furious invective to deadly and earnest
calm, she told them off upon her fingers.

“Clara Aylett! Rosa Tazewell! Winston Aylett! (he married Clara Louise
Dorrance, you know!) Herbert Dorrance! JULIUS LENNOX!”

The household was astir by this time, and Mrs. Aylett entered from the
hall as her brother did from his bedroom. There was but one spectator
who was sufficiently composed to note and marvel at the scared look
exchanged by the two at the sound of the last name. This was Mr. Aylett,
who, from his position behind his wife, had an excellent view of all the
actors in the exciting tableau before she fell back, swooning, in his
arms.

He was alone with her in their chamber when she revived, and the
earliest effort of her restored consciousness was to seize both
his hands in hers, and scan his face searchingly--it would seem
agonizingly--until his fond smile dispelled the unspoken dread.

“Ah!” she murmured, hiding her face upon his bosom, “she is still alive,
then! I thought--I thought”--a mighty sob--“Don’t despise your weak,
silly wife, darling! but it was very terrible! I believed it was the
last struggle, and was appalled at the sight. And my poor Herbert! he
was frightfully overcome. Did you notice him? Will you send him to me,
dear? I can soothe him better than any one else--prepare him for what
is, I fear, inevitable. I shall not give way again to my terrors.”

The brother and sister were still together when word was brought, two
hours later that Mabel had fallen into a profound sleep--a good omen,
the doctor said.

“Thank Heaven!” ejaculated Herbert, fervently, his eyes softening until
he turned away to conceal his emotion.

He was haggard with solicitude, while Mrs. Aylett’s healthful bloom
betokened slight interest in the termination of the seizure, a glance
at which had thrown her into a faint. Nor did she echo the thanksgiving.
She waited until the messenger had gone, and continued the conversation
her entrance had interrupted.

“I incline to the belief that she caught the name, in some manner, on
Christmas before last. HE was delirious, too, and although doctor and
nurse reported that he did not speak articulately after he was brought
in, she may have heard more than they. From what has been told me, I
gather that she was in the room with him alone, while Mrs. Sutton was
down-stairs looking for Dr. Ritchie. In a lucid interval he may have
given his name--possibly some particulars of his history. Unless--are
you positive there has been no indiscretion on your part, or that others
may have talked negligently to her, because she was a member of the
family?”

“There are topics of which we--your mother, sister, and brothers--never
speak, even to one another. You may trust us that far,” rejoined
Herbert, emphatically. “Nor do I see what we can do, except wait for
other proof that Mabel really knows anything beyond a name she has
picked up at random and never, to my knowledge, repeated, save in her
ravings. Should she recover, the test can be easily applied, and we can
judge then, how to handle the dilemma.”

“Should she recover!” He said the words reluctantly, as loth to express
the doubt.

His sister’s lips twitched nervously into a sinister smile. It was as if
she would have whispered, had she dared, “Heaven forbid!”

“You have chosen a toilsome and a perilous path, Clara,” he resumed,
by and by. “I do not wonder that you are, with all your courage and
sanguine trust in your own powers, sometimes disquieted, and often
weary.”

“Who says that I am ever weary? And did you ever know me to disquiet
myself in vain?” with the low, musical ripple of laughter that belonged
to her sunniest mood. “Had I been born in the classic age, I should have
been a devout disciple of Epicurus. Don’t imagine that my success has
not, thus far, amply repaid me for my toil and ingenuity. Having lived
upon excitement all my days, I should starve without it. Pleasure, like
safety, is the dearer for being plucked from that evergreen nettle,
Danger!”




CHAPTER XV. -- THE GOOD SAMARITAN.


THE snows of ten winters had powdered the nameless stranger’s grave in
the servant’s burial-ground of the Ridgeley plantation. For nine years
the wallet taken from his person had lain unopened in a hidden drawer of
Mabel Dorrance’s escritoire, and the half-guessed secret been hidden
in her breast. Mammy Phillis had followed her mistress to the tomb,
six months after her removal from her beloved cottage to the despised
“quarters.” She never held up her head from the day of her degradation,
died from a broken heart, murmured those who best knew her--of a “fit
of spleen,” said Mrs. Aylett, in cool reprehension of her unmannerly
