"And it seems that you were mistaken in regard to his accounts."

"I don't think I was," I replied, rather warmly. "I am perplexed and
bothered; but I don't see how I can be mistaken."

"Mr. Whippleton would not be willing to return to Chicago, if he had
been such a villain as you say."

"I don't think he would. That is really all the evidence I have that he
has not been stealing his partner's money. I don't understand it; but
if he will return to Chicago, that is all I desire. I prefer that he
should settle the matter with your father."

"But he knew all about Mr. Waterford's plans," added she, turning away
from me, though the gloom of the evening hid her blushes.

"Yes; he said he did. He told me that, if Mr. Waterford loved you, and
you loved Mr. Waterford, he could see no reason why you should not be
happy together, in spite of the prejudices of your father."

"I never consented to elope with Mr. Waterford. It is true that I
listened to his proposal, several weeks ago; but I did not agree to it.
He did not renew it when I asked for time to think of it. I don't love
him now; I can't say that I ever did, though I was rather pleased with
him. After this, I'm sure I shall always think more of a gentleman's
character than of his looks and manners."

"I think the character is of vastly more importance," I replied,
judging from observation rather than experience.

"Do you think Mr. Whippleton will come back, Philip?"

"Come back? Yes," I replied, rather startled by the question.

"He may take one of those boats, go on shore, and make his way across
the state to the east."

"Then you think it is possible that I was not mistaken in regard to the
accounts of Mr. Whippleton?"

"Of course it is possible. It just occurred to me that he might have
taken this method of getting rid of you."

"You are right, Marian. I ought to have gone with them, for they have
taken both boats, and there isn't a breath of wind."

"I don't mean that it is so, only that it might be."

"Now I think of it, he said in his letter that he had sold the Florina,
and was to deliver her in St. Joseph to-morrow. If he had not intended
to have cleared out, he would not have sold her. I am afraid I have
made another blunder."

I was vexed at my own want of precaution. Mr. Whippleton had taken both
tenders, and it seemed to me now that he had done so in order to
prevent me from following him. He intended to leave his own with his
yacht, and to return in that belonging to the Marian. I do not even now
know that Miss Collingsby had not suggested his real purpose, for while
I was vexing myself about the blunder I had made, the waters were
rippled by a gentle breeze. I sprang forward and hauled up the anchor
with a celerity that was worthy of the occasion. The mainsail was still
up, and taking the helm, I ran the yacht up the lagoon. I could just
see the outline of the Florina in the gloom, and a few puffs of wind
carried us up to her.

There was a light in the cabin of the Florina, and both the tenders
were alongside. Mr. Whippleton had not gone yet, whatever he intended
to do, and I breathed freely again.

"Gorrificious!" shouted Peter from the deck of the Florina. "Where you
goin' now?"

"Stand by to catch a line," I replied.

"All ready; heave the line," added the cook.

In a moment we were fast to the other yacht, and I firmly determined
not to lose sight of Mr. Whippleton again, under any circumstances. We
had hardly made fast before the wind died out again. It was only a puff
which had come to my aid, as it were providentially, and had enabled me
to gain my point. I had noticed, when Mr. Whippleton left the Florina,
that he took with him the leather bag, which contained his money and
valuable papers; but I had thought nothing of the circumstance at the
time, for it seemed to me quite natural that he should be very careful
of an article of so much value. If that providential puff of air had
not enabled me to throw the Marian alongside his yacht, I am satisfied,
in the light of subsequent events, that he would have made an attempt
to elude me. He could have gone on shore in the tender, lived in the
woods, or at the cabin of some settler, for a week or more, until I was
tired of waiting for him, and then taken to his yacht, and escaped by
the way of Canada.

"What are you doing up here, Phil?" shouted the subject of all my
anxious solicitude, as he came out of the cabin of the Florina.

"We had a little breeze, and I came up to save you the trouble of
rowing," I replied.

"You have a talent for making blunders, Phil," growled he, in a tone
which did much to confirm my suspicions.

"Not a bad blunder, since I am safe here," I replied.

"You might have run her aground, and we should have had to leave her
here all summer. Don't you know any better than to run about in the
night where you are not acquainted? Is that the way you use other
people's boats?"

"The Marian is still afloat, and safe. Do you want any help?"

"No; no such help as you can give. You can't do anything without making
a blunder. I should like to knock the conceit out of you."

The more blunders he charged upon me, and the more savage he was, the
better assured I became that I had hit the nail on the head. As we were
playing at cross-purposes, it was evident that all my direct thrusts
would be regarded as blunders by him. What suited him could not
possibly suit me, under the present circumstances. I did not know what
he was doing on board of the Florina, and I did not care, so long as I
knew where he was. He went into the cabin after he had expressed his
mind to me, and I did not see him again for over an hour.

"You must be tired, Marian," I said to my fair companion, as I heard
her gape.

"I am tired, Philip."

"Why not lie down, then? I will watch over you, and see that no harm
comes to you while you sleep."

"Thank you, Philip; you are very kind. I am afraid I could not sleep if
I did lie down."

"You can at least rest yourself. You shall have the cabin all to
yourself. We may not leave this lagoon before morning."

"Where will the rest of you sleep, if I take the cabin all to myself?"

"I shall sleep on deck. These cushions are as good a bed as I want."

"And Mr. Whippleton?"

"If we stay here, he will sleep on board of his own yacht. If not, he
will probably stay at the helm."

"I am very tired, for it seems to me that I never endured so much in
one day in my life before," she replied, rising, and going into the
cabin.

I went with her, and secured the door which led into the cook-room, and
showed her how to fasten the slide at the companion-way. I drew the
blue curtains over the deck lights, and it seemed to me that maiden
never had a more inviting chamber than the little cabin of the Marian.
I bade her good night, and helped her close the door. Resuming my seat
on the cushions of the standing-room, I thanked God that he had
preserved her from the wiles of the villain; and I hoped she did not
herself forget to acknowledge the goodness of Him who always watches
over the innocent.

There was no wind, and no sign of any. The sky was cloudless, and there
was not a ripple on the lagoon, not a rustle in the forest that
bordered it. I had brought up a blanket and an old coat from the cabin
to serve me as bed-clothes; and stretching myself on the cushions, I
soon went to sleep. I did not believe that Mr. Whippleton could leave
in the boat without my knowledge, for at such times I always slept with
one eye open. If a breeze came, it would shake the mainsail and rattle
the sheet-blocks near my head, and wake me. I had been up half of the
preceding night with Mrs. Whippleton, and I was very tired myself. I
could not foresee what would happen within the next few days, and I
deemed it prudent to economize my strength.

So far as the wind was concerned, my calculation was correct. It did
shake the mainsail, and rattle the sheet-blocks, and I was aroused from
my slumbers. I raised myself upon my bed, to assure myself that the
Florina was still near me. That was the very thing, however, of which I
could not assure myself. In fact she was not near me. I sprang to my
feet, and felt that I had made a blunder, but such a one as Mr.
Whippleton would not charge upon me. The Marian was adrift, and the
breeze was carrying her farther up the lagoon, where she might get
aground. My first care was to secure her from any such accident, which
would indeed have been a catastrophe to me. All I had to do was to put
the helm down, and bring the yacht up into the wind, which came only in
light puffs. It was from the westward, and I had just slant enough to
enable me to lay a course towards the lake.

As soon as I got her head to the breeze, I hoisted the jib. Seating
myself at the helm, I studied the course, and kept a sharp lookout
ahead for the Florina. I was satisfied that the first breath of wind
had waked me, and that the other yacht could not be far from me. In a
few moments I was assured of the correctness of my calculation, for I
discovered the Florina behind a point of land. She had come thus far
without hoisting her jib, and had not been able to lay very close to
the wind. Mr. Whippleton knew the navigation of the lagoon, and had run
his yacht where I should not have dared to go. Probably he had not
hoisted his jib before, lest the noise of it should wake me; but I saw
it go up almost as soon as I caught sight of her.

I do not like to accuse other people of making blunders, but I was sure
that Mr. Whippleton had made one in not standing directly out of the
lagoon; but doubtless he expected to have his own time for the
operation. As it was, I had the weather-gage of him. He had run over to
leeward so far, with a projecting point of land between him and the
mouth of the creek, that I should be off the headland before he could
reach it.

I rubbed my hands with delight when I realized the situation, and saw
that I could not help cutting him out. The neglect on his part to hoist
the jib had lost him the battle, while my jib had won it for me. The
slant of the wind would enable me to go clear of the point, off which I
had first anchored the Marian, while Mr. Whippleton would be obliged to
make two tacks in order to weather it. But he had the wind freer than
I, for he had evidently run off to leeward for the sole purpose of
setting his jib without disturbing me.

As I was approaching the point of land, the Florina came within hailing
distance of me.

"Marian, ahoy! Where are you going, Phil?" shouted Mr. Whippleton,
wrathfully.

"After you."

"Another blunder, you blockhead! Come about, and take me on board."

I was willing to comply with this request, for it seemed reasonable to
me. Both boats were heaved to, and Mr. Whippleton put off in one of the
tenders.




CHAPTER XXIV.

IN WHICH PHIL GOES TO SLEEP, AND HIS SEVEREST CATASTROPHE COMES.


"What are you doing here?" demanded Mr. Whippleton, angrily, as he came
alongside of the Marian in the tender.

"I was only looking to see where you were going. I was afraid you might
forget that I was here, and go off without me."

"You are a fool! You make more blunders in the same time than any other
fellow that ever I saw," he added, interlarding his elegant discourse
with coarse and horrid oaths. "Why didn't you stay where you were till
I came back?"

"I was not quite sure that you would come back."

"You were not? Who set you to dog all my movements?"

"I set myself to do it; and I intend to carry out my plan. I thought
you were going to Chicago with me."

"I am, if you don't ground that boat, or wreck her, before I get ready.
You go blundering about a place you know nothing at all about, as
though you considered the safety of that boat of no consequence."

"I consider your safety as of a great deal more consequence," I
answered, with becoming frankness. "If you are going to Chicago with
me, what are you doing in that corner of the lagoon?"

"You are the stupidest blockhead I ever saw, for one who knows how to
keep a set of books. Are you simpleton enough to suppose I would leave
the Florina opposite the mouth of the river, where she would drag her
anchor in the first blow that came?" growled Mr. Whippleton, with
increased vehemence and anger. "I was going to moor her behind this
headland, where she will be safe till I can come after her."

"You were very careful not to wake me, when you got up your anchor."

"What do you suppose I cared whether I waked you or not, you
blunderhead. Now stand by here till we have moored the Florina. Let go
your anchor."

"I can keep her where she is as long as there is a breeze. Moor your
boat, and I am all ready for Chicago."

Mr. Whippleton pulled back to his yacht, and sailed her a short
distance inside of the point, where I heard the splash of the anchor.
His explanation of his movement was reasonable enough, and if I had
been disposed to be satisfied with anything he said or did which
involved his absence in the body from me, I might have been contented
with it. The more determined he was in charging me with blunders, the
better I was satisfied that my course was right; and I preferred to let
the future rather than the present justify my conduct.

"What's the matter, Philip?" asked Marian, opening the slide of the
cabin.

"Nothing; it is all right now."

"But I heard some hard words just now," she persisted.

"Mr. Whippleton thinks I have made another blunder--that's all."

I told her what had occurred, and that, as there was a little breeze,
we should probably start for Chicago in a short time. I advised her to
return to her berth, and not be disturbed by anything she heard. She
acknowledged that she had slept very well till the noise awoke her, and
she was willing to repeat the experiment. She retired, closed and
fastened the slide behind her. In about half an hour Mr. Whippleton and
Peter came on board.

"Gorrificious!" exclaimed the cook. "Are you going to sea without us,
and carry off all the whiskey?"

I thought, from the movements of the negro, he was carrying off
considerable of it; and the fumes of Mr. Whippleton's breath indicated
that he had not entirely neglected the bottle. But it did not have a
happy effect upon him, as it sometimes does, for he was decidedly ugly.
I believe that liquor intensifies whatever emotions may prevail in the
mind of the toper while under its influence. Joy is more joyous, grief
is more grievous, under its sway; and a man who is ugly when sober is
ten times worse when drunk. A man who has an ugly fit is the uglier for
the rum he has drunk.

Mr. Whippleton had an ugly fit upon him when he came on board of the
Marian. He was probably disappointed and vexed at my conduct, and
having drank several glasses of whiskey, he was really so ugly as to
make himself very uncomfortable. He filled away the yacht, and, taking
the helm, began to rate me over again for my blunders. As we were, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, bound to Chicago, I did not care
much what he said, and I was willing he should waste his venom in any
way he pleased.

The breeze was very light and fitful. We ran out of the lagoon into the
open lake, after a while; but there was hardly wind enough there to
fill the sails. It was still dull sailing, and I was very sleepy and
stupid in spite of the abuse with which Mr. Whippleton regaled me. He
had brought his whiskey bottles back with him, and several times he
imbibed from one of them. Peter went forward with his bottle, and
stretched himself on the forecastle.

The helmsman yawned, and I yawned. The Marian, close-hauled, was not
making two knots an hour. We were headed about north-west, which was
not nearly so close to the wind as the boat could lay.

"We shall not get to Chicago in twenty-four hours at this rate," said
Mr. Whippleton, when he had wasted all his vituperative rhetoric upon
me.

"Not in forty-eight, if you don't keep her a little closer to the
wind," I replied.

"Do you sail this boat, or do I?" he demanded.

"Well, sir, you and that whiskey bottle appear to be doing it just now;
and between you both you are not doing it very well."

"None of your impudence! Perhaps you are conceited enough to think you
could do it better."

"I confess that I am."

"You will mind your own business, Phil."

"I haven't any to mind."

"Go to sleep then!"

"What time is it, sir?"

"About half past twelve."

"I will take my turn at the helm, if you like."

"I won't trust you at the helm. You make too many blunders."

"Then I will take a nap myself."

"That will be the only sensible thing you have done to-night."

I thought it would be sensible, at any rate, and as there was not much
comfort in talking to a man as waspish as he was, I concluded to take
his advice. I stretched myself on the cushions, on the lee side, out of
the helmsman's way, covered myself with the blanket, and was soon
asleep. Perhaps I am conceited: I will not say that I am not; but in
the light of subsequent events, I must say it was the only blunder I
made that night--going to sleep.

I was tired enough to sleep soundly, and as the yacht was bound to
Chicago, I had nothing more to worry me; so I did sleep soundly. If
nothing had occurred to disturb me, doubtless I should have made up my
six hours before morning. Unfortunately something did occur to disturb
me--something sudden and violent.

A heavy hand was laid upon me, and I awoke.

I tried to gain my feet, but a desperate clutch was upon my throat. Mr.
Whippleton was bending over me; his right hand was choking me, while
his left grasped a rope. I tried to scream, but the hard hand choked
me. I realized that I was in the power of my enemy, and I made a
desperate struggle to free myself from his grasp. I thought I was
succeeding, when a crushing blow fell upon my head; my brain sparkled
as with a shower of stars. I remember no more of the affray.

The first sensation that I experienced was a deadly sickness and
faintness. My senses slowly came back to me, and I found myself lying
upon the cushions of the standing-room, with Marian Collingsby leaning
over me, bathing my brow. My head seemed to be bursting with pain and
fulness. I tried to raise my hand to ascertain the extent of my
injuries; but I found that my wrists were tied together behind me.



"O, Philip! Philip!" cried Marian, as I opened my eyes and realized my
situation.

I raised my head and looked around me. Peter was at the helm, and the
yacht was bounding along at a lively rate over the waves. On the
cushion opposite me lay Mr. Whippleton, enveloped in blankets, and
apparently asleep.

"How do you feel, Philip?" asked Marian, who was in as much distress as
I was.

"My head aches terribly," I replied, faintly; and a kind of deadly
sickness came over me again.

She bathed my head again with spirits, and the act revived me.

"This is terrible," said she, trembling with emotion.

"Don't be alarmed, Marian; I shall be better soon," I replied, trying
to change my position, for I was lying on one of my arms, and was very
uncomfortable.

"Won't you untie him, Peter?" said my fair attendant, appealing to the
black helmsman.

"Gorrificious! I'd like to do it first rate; but I dassent," he
answered, glancing at the form of Mr. Whippleton, who was snoring
heavily under the influence of the frequent drams he had taken.

"Then I will," she added, resolutely.

"Don't do it, miss. Mr. Whippleton is uncommon ugly."

"I don't care how ugly he is. I am not afraid of him now. Where is your
knife, Philip?"

"In my vest pocket," I replied, encouraged by a hope that the resolute
girl might set me free.

"Mustn't do it, miss. Skipper told me to look out for the young
gentleman. You mustn't do anything to make Mr. Whippleton angry with
you; he'll treat you bad if you do. He was uncommon ugly this mornin',
and kicked me three times in the ribs to wake me, and then cussed me
like I wan't no account."

I suspected that Peter had been sleeping off the fumes of whiskey when
this ungentle treatment was bestowed upon him. Marian put her hand into
my vest pocket and took out my knife. She opened it, and was about to
find the rope that bound me, when the helmsman again interfered.

"Can't let you do it. Very sorry, but I can't. It would cost me all the
rest of the ribs in my body, and three on 'em's broke now."

"Will you let this young man be abused in this manner, you wretch?"
exclaimed Marian, whose gentle nature seemed to have assumed a new
phase.

"I can't help it, miss; 'tain't my fault. Mr. Whippleton's very ugly
this mornin'."

"You are a brute and a coward!" said she, reaching over me to the cords
that bound my wrists.

"Gorrificious!" shouted the negro. "You mustn't do that."

Mr. Whippleton suddenly sprang to his feet, awakened by the cry of
Peter. Rushing forward, he seized the arm of Marian, and dragged her
away from me. As the negro had intimated, he certainly was uncommon
ugly. His eyes were bloodshot, and his expression was savage.

"Let him alone," said he. "Let no one meddle with him."

"Mr. Whippleton, are you going to let him lie there in pain, with his
hands tied behind him?"

"That's just what I am going to do," said he, taking a bottle of
whiskey from under the seat, and pouring a quantity down his throat.

Perhaps he was afraid that his courage would fail him, if he were not
again fortified by the fiend which had doubtless inspired the evil deed
he had done to me.

"I can believe anything of you now, Mr. Whippleton," added Marian,
courageously.

"Believe anything you please, Miss Collingsby. You will have all you
want to do to think of yourself, without troubling your head about
Phil. I have taught him to mind his own business, and I am going to
repeat the lesson upon you. Go into the cabin!"

"Won't you release Philip--at least, untie his wrists?"

"No, I won't. Go into the cabin, and stay there. I don't mean to have
you on deck."

He moved towards her, and she was compelled to retire to the cabin in
order to escape further violence. I felt that I was alone then. My
worst, and it seemed to me then my last, catastrophe had come. I
regretted my blunder in going to sleep, and the future was dark and
uncertain.




CHAPTER XXV.

IN WHICH PHIL SUFFERS MUCH PAIN, AND MARIAN IS VERY RESOLUTE.


After my catastrophe, the course of the yacht had been altered, and I
found that she was now headed to the northward. As I raised my head to
change my painful position, I saw the east coast of the lake, not half
a mile distant. The breeze was very gentle, and it was a beautiful day.
The sun was shining brightly, and the ripple of the clear waters was
musical; but I was not in a condition to enjoy the glories of the
scene.

I was suffering with a severe pain in the head; but the defeat I had
sustained troubled me much more. I wondered, now it was too late, that
I had been so stupid as to go to sleep. I felt that I was as great a
blockhead as my persecutor had accused me of being, and I forgave him
for calling me one. I could not foresee the end of the adventure, or
the disastrous results of my mistake. Mr. Whippleton had doubtless been
fully alarmed by my statements in regard to his arrest. If he had
really sold his yacht, he did not deem it prudent to visit St. Joseph
in order to deliver it to the purchaser. He would not find it safe to
land at any of the towns on the lake, and I was satisfied that he would
make for some obscure port in Canada. He was a shrewd man, and would
not incur any needless risk.

As nearly as I could calculate the distance, he would have to run four
or five hundred miles to reach any point in Canada. The prospect was
not pleasing: I was fond of sailing, but not under the present
circumstances. The distance to be accomplished in such a boat would
require three days with a favorable wind; and it might take ten. I did
not believe Mr. Whippleton would be disposed to run at night, for the
whiskey, which he now used without restraint, could be more safely
enjoyed in port.

I hoped for some favorable circumstance which would turn the tide in my
favor. This was all I could do, for, with my hands securely tied behind
me, I was powerless. The skipper had renewed his devotions to the
bottle as soon as he waked, and it was possible that the liquor might
win the victory for me.

"Go and get us some breakfast, Peter," said Mr. Whippleton, after he
had taken a second dram, as he took the helm from the cook.

"Yes, sir," replied Peter, as he went forward.

"I hope you are satisfied now, Phil," added Mr. Whippleton, turning to
me with something like a chuckle, as though he had done a great thing.

"I am satisfied on one point," I replied.

"What's that?"

"That I was not mistaken in regard to your dealings with the firm."

"We won't discuss that question now," said he, with a sneer. "I have
used you well; I have done everything for you; I have given you all the
salary you asked, and given you a chance to get ahead."

"You have given me a chance to get a broken head," I replied, as he
paused to think what other good thing he had done for me.

"That's your own fault. After all I had done for you, I have my reward
in your ingratitude."

"Did you expect me to help you swindle the firm?" I demanded,
indignantly.

"You are not in condition just now to use hard words, and I advise you
to clap a stopper on that tongue of yours."

"If I say anything, I shall speak my mind. I know you now perfectly.
Last night I thought I might be mistaken about some things. Now I know
that you have swindled your partner, and I am not surprised to find
that you can handle a bludgeon as well as a pen."

"Better be civil, Phil," said he, biting his lip.

"I have nothing more to say. If you murder me, I shall feel that I have
tried to do my duty."

"I don't intend to murder you."

"I have no doubt you will if the occasion seems to require it. I shall
trust in God, and leave the crime with him."

He said no more then. When breakfast was ready, Peter relieved him at
the helm, and he went below. I heard him talking to Marian, and she
answered him with spirit. Though I could not distinguish her words, I
was sure that she was protesting against his cruelty to me. In about
half an hour he returned to the helm again, and my fair cousin followed
him, either with or without his permission.

"How do you feel, Phil?" she asked, taking her place by my side again,
and bathing my head with spirits, as before.

"I think my head feels a little better."

"Do you rest easily now?"

"Not very; I have to lie upon my hands or one of my arms."

"Mr. Whippleton, if you are not a brute, you will untie his hands," she
continued, appealing to the skipper.

"Then I am a brute," he answered, with a coarse grin.

"Why should you compel him to suffer pain?"

"I hope it will make him change his tone. He is as saucy and as
impudent as though he were the victor and I the vanquished."

"He will not be impudent again, if you will unloose him," added Marian,
in a gentle, pleading tone.

"Will he promise it?"

"You will--won't you, Philip?"

"I will promise not to say anything to him," I replied.

"He is willing to promise," continued she.

"Then I won't let him loose. He is an obstinate mule, and ready to kick
the one who does him a favor. Though I have been his best friend in
Chicago, he volunteers to hunt me down like a wild beast. He has his
reward."

"But what are you going to do with him?" inquired Marian.

"I intend to shoot him," replied Mr. Whippleton, as he took a draught
from his bottle, and then produced a revolver, with which he toyed as
though it had been a pet plaything. "I am prepared for the worst, and I
shall never be safe while he is above the sod."

"Would you be a murderer?" asked Marian, with horror.

"Phil says I would, and I may be obliged to verify his words."

"I did not think you were such a monster!" exclaimed my fair companion,
with a shudder.

"I did not think so myself; but Phil keeps goading me on, and I don't
know what I may become. If he had minded his own business, and not
troubled himself about mine, he would have been safe in Chicago
to-day."

"But you don't mean to kill him?"

"That will depend upon himself--and you."

"Upon me?"

"Yes, upon you, in part."

"What shall I do?"

"Sit down, Miss Collingsby, and make yourself comfortable," he
continued, with a smile, as though he were rather pleased with his own
reflections.

"I will say anything I can to my father, and I will induce my mother to
speak for you," said she, seating herself near my head.

"I know your father better than you do, Miss Collingsby. He would be
ashamed of himself to be influenced by you, or by your mother. I won't
trust him till I have a hold upon him. I don't ask for any pleading in
my behalf, because I know it would do no good."

"What do you wish me to do?"

"I had a rather brilliant thought just now," said he, chuckling, and
looking very silly, partly from the effects of the whiskey he had
drank, and partly from the nature of his own thoughts.

He paused, as though he was not quite ready to express the brilliant
thought. He turned over the pistol in his hand, and glanced foolishly
at Miss Collingsby.

"What can I do?" asked Marian, evidently disgusted with his manner.

"I want some security for your father's good behavior," he replied.

"I will plead with him."

"It will do no good."

"What would you have me do?"

"I think I heard you say you would not marry my friend Ben Waterford,
under any circumstances."

"I certainly would not," answered Marian.

"Exactly so; I don't wish to do anything to interfere with Ben's plans,
for he is a good fellow. We started from Chicago with the intention of
having a wedding, and I think we ought to carry out the programme,"
laughed the skipper. "You are a very pretty girl, Miss Collingsby. As
the son-in-law of your father, I think I could make a favorable
settlement with him. I am only twenty-seven."

"You have said enough, sir," replied she, indignantly.

"Don't be hasty, my pretty one. If you will do me the honor to become
Mrs. Whippleton, it will make everything all right; and really I don't
know what else to do with you."

"Don't listen to him, Marian," I interposed, in a low tone. "Go into
the cabin, and keep out of his sight."

"This plan will make everything comfortable, Miss Collingsby. Your
father will see that he is mistaken, and the business of the firm will
go on as usual, with your friend Phil as book-keeper at a thousand
dollars a year. Will you accept?"

"No, sir."

"No?"

"Certainly not."

"Then I suppose I may as well make an end of Phil. He is only a
stumbling-block in my path," added the wretch, cocking his pistol.

"Gorrificious!" exclaimed Peter, appearing at the companion-way at this
moment, so opportunely as to indicate that he had been listening to the
conversation. "What you goin' to do with that rewolver, Mr.
Whippleton?"

"Go into the cook-room, and mind your business there, you scoundrel,"
said the skipper, angrily, as he pointed the pistol at the cook.

"Gorrificious!" muttered the man, as he disappeared.

Marian, indignant at the proposal of Mr. Whippleton, followed the cook,
and I was alone with my persecutor. The skipper laid his revolver upon
the rudder-head, as though the end of the sensation had come for the
present. I was left to my own suffering for the next two hours. Mr.
Whippleton sat at the helm in silence, perhaps brooding upon the plan
his busy brain had devised. Occasionally he raised the whiskey bottle
to his lips, and drank. I was afraid that his frequent drams would
arouse the fiend within him, and induce him to use his revolver upon
me. He was intoxicated, and violently irritated against me. My anxiety
for my fate was so great that I almost forgot my aching head and
painful limbs. I kept very still. No one had thought to give me any
breakfast; but I did not feel the need of it, though a cup of tea would
doubtless have done me good.

I was still in doubt whether the whiskey bottle would ultimately prove
to be my friend or my foe. The skipper maintained his position at the
helm till dinner was ready, and then was able to totter into the cabin,
when Peter had taken his place. He did not come on deck when he had
finished his meal; but Marian soon appeared, and said he had tumbled
into one of the berths. He had taken his revolver with him.

"Can't you turn over, Philip?" said she, standing beside me. "I will
cut your cords."

"No! Don't do that. Gorrificious! Mr. Whippleton will kill us all."

But I turned over, as far as I was able, and the resolute girl cut the
rope that bound my hands together. She had hardly done so before Peter
sprang upon her, and hurled her over to the other side of the
standing-room. I disengaged my hands; but the line which secured my
feet was made fast to a cleat, and when I attempted to rise, I was
thrown down upon the floor. Peter leaped upon me, and shouted for Mr.
Whippleton.




CHAPTER XXVI.

IN WHICH PHIL FINDS THE TABLES TURNED, AND THE MARIAN RUNS INTO CHICAGO
RIVER.


"Gorrificious!--Mr. Whippleton!" shouted Peter, as he lay down upon me.

"Let him alone, Peter," pleaded Marian, as she rushed to the rope which
bound my feet.

"Can't do it, miss. Mr. Whippleton will shoot me," answered the cook,
in high excitement.

Marian cast off the rope which bound me to the cleat, and then untied
my feet; but the negro had placed his knee upon my breast, and held me
by the throat with both hands. The condition to which I was reduced was
desperate, and only desperate measures could redeem me. I began to
struggle, and when my feet were free, I began to use them with
