label says."

"What do you think, Mr. Arbuton?" asked Mrs. Ellison with unabated
anxiety.

"Well, really, I don't know," said Mr. Arbuton, who thought it a very
trivial kind of talk, "I can't say, indeed. I haven't taken any of it up
in my hand."

"That's true," said Mrs. Ellison gravely, with an accent of reproval for
the others who had not thought of so simple a solution of the problem,
"very true."

The colonel looked into her face with an air of well-feigned alarm. "You
don't think the sprain has gone to your head, Fanny?" he asked, and
walked away, leaving Mr. Arbuton to the ladies. Mrs. Ellison did not
care for this or any other gibe, if she but served her own purposes; and
now, having made everybody laugh and given the conversation a lively
turn, she was as perfectly content as if she had not been herself an
offering to the cause of cheerfulness. She was, indeed, equal to any
sacrifice in the enterprise she had undertaken, and would not only have
given Kitty all her worldly goods, but would have quite effaced herself
to further her own designs upon Mr. Arbuton. She turned again to her
guide-book, and left the young people to continue the talk in unbroken
gayety. They at once became serious, as most people do after a hearty
laugh, which, if you think, seems always to have something strange and
sad in it. But besides, Kitty was oppressed by the coldness that seemed
perpetually to hover in Mr. Arbuton's atmosphere, while she was
interested by his fastidious good looks and his blameless manners and
his air of a world different from any she had hitherto known. He was one
of those men whose perfection makes you feel guilty of misdemeanor
whenever they meet you, and whose greeting turns your honest good-day
coarse and common; even Kitty's fearless ignorance and more than Western
disregard of dignities were not proof against him. She had found it easy
to talk with Mrs. March as she did with her cousin at home: she liked to
be frank and gay in her parley, to jest and to laugh and to make
harmless fun, and to sentimentalize in a half-earnest way; she liked to
be with Mr. Arbuton, but now she did not see how she could take her
natural tone with him. She wondered at her daring lightness at the
breakfast-table; she waited for him to say something, and he said, with
a glance at the gray heaven that always overhangs the Saguenay, that it
was beginning to rain, and unfurled the slender silk umbrella which
harmonized so perfectly with the London effect of his dress, and held it
over her. Mrs. Ellison sat within the shelter of the projecting roof,
and diligently perused her book with her eyes, and listened to their
talk.

"The great drawback to this sort of thing in America," continued Mr.
Arbuton, "is that there is no human interest about the scenery, fine as
it is."

"Why, I don't know," said Kitty, "there was that little settlement round
the saw-mill. Can't you imagine any human interest in the lives of the
people there? It seems to me that one might make almost anything out of
them. Suppose, for example, that the owner of that mill was a
disappointed man who had come here to bury the wreck of his life
in--sawdust?"

"O, yes! That sort of thing; certainly. But I didn't mean that, I meant
something historical. There is no past, no atmosphere, no traditions,
you know."

"O, but the Saguenay has a tradition," said Kitty. "You know that a
party of the first explorers left their comrades at Tadoussac, and came
up the Saguenay three hundred years ago, and never were seen or heard of
again. I think it's so in keeping with the looks of the river. The
Saguenay would never tell a secret."

"Um!" uttered Mr. Arbuton, as if he were not quite sure that it was the
Saguenay's place to have a legend of this sort, and disposed to snub the
legend because the Saguenay had it. After a little silence, he began to
speak of famous rivers abroad.

"I suppose," Kitty said, "the Rhine has traditions enough, hasn't it?"

"Yes," he answered, "but I think the Rhine rather overdoes it. You can't
help feeling, you know, that it's somewhat melodramatic and--common.
Have you ever seen the Rhine?"

"O, no! This is almost the first I've seen of anything. Perhaps," she
added, demurely, yet with a tremor at finding herself about to make
light of Mr. Arbuton, "if I had had too much of tradition on the Rhine I
should want more of it on the Saguenay."

"Why, you must allow there's a golden mean in everything, Miss Ellison,"
said her companion with a lenient laugh, not feeling it disagreeable to
be made light of by her.

"Yes; and I'm afraid we're going to find Cape Trinity and Cape Eternity
altogether too big when we come to them. Don't you think eighteen
hundred feet excessively high for a feature of river scenery?"

Mr. Arbuton really did have an objection to the exaggerations of nature
on this continent, and secretly thought them in bad taste, but he had
never formulated his feeling. He was not sure but it was ridiculous, now
that it was suggested, and yet the possibility was too novel to be
entertained without suspicion.

However, when after a while the rumor of their approach to the great
objects of the Saguenay journey had spread among the passengers, and
they began to assemble at points favorable for the enjoyment of the
spectacle, he was glad to have secured the place he held with Miss
Ellison, and a sympathetic thrill of excitement passed through his loath
superiority. The rain ceased as they drew nearer, and the gray clouds
that had hung so low upon the hills sullenly lifted from them and let
their growing height he seen. The captain bade his sight-seers look at
the vast Roman profile that showed itself upon the rock, and then he
pointed out the wonderful Gothic arch, the reputed doorway of an
unexplored cavern, under which an upright shaft of stone had stood for
ages statue-like, till not many winters ago the frost heaved it from its
base, and it plunged headlong down through the ice into the unfathomed
depths below. The unvarying gloom of the pines was lit now by the
pensive glimmer of birch-trees, and this gray tone gave an indescribable
sentiment of pathos and of age to the scenery. Suddenly the boat rounded
the corner of the three steps, each five hundred feet high, in which
Cape Eternity climbs from the river, and crept in under the naked side
of the awful cliff. It is sheer rock, springing from the black water,
and stretching upward with a weary, effort-like aspect, in long impulses
of stone marked by deep seams from space to space, till, fifteen hundred
feet in air, its vast brow beetles forward, and frowns with a scattering
fringe of pines. There are stains of weather and of oozing springs upon
the front of the cliff, but it is height alone that seems to seize the
eye, and one remembers afterwards these details, which are indeed so few
as not properly to enter into the effect. The rock fully justifies its
attributive height to the eye, which follows the upward rush of the
mighty acclivity, steep after steep, till it wins the cloud-capt summit,
when the measureless mass seems to swing and sway overhead, and the
nerves tremble with the same terror that besets him who looks downward
from the verge of a lofty precipice. It is wholly grim and stern; no
touch of beauty relieves the austere majesty of that presence. At the
foot of Cape Eternity the water is of unknown depth, and it spreads, a
black expanse, in the rounding hollow of shores of unimaginable wildness
and desolation, and issues again in its river's course around the base
of Cape Trinity. This is yet loftier than the sister cliff, but it
slopes gently backward from the stream, and from foot to crest it is
heavily clothed with a forest of pines. The woods that hitherto have
shagged the hills with a stunted and meagre growth, showing long
stretches scarred by fire, now assume a stately size, and assemble
themselves compactly upon the side of the mountain, setting their
serried stems one rank above another, till the summit is crowned with
the mass of their dark green plumes, dense and soft and beautiful; so
that the spirit perturbed by the spectacle of the other cliff is calmed
and assuaged by the serene grandeur of this.

There have been, to be sure, some human agencies at work even under the
shadow of Cape Eternity to restore the spirit to self-possession, and
perhaps none turns from it wholly dismayed. Kitty, at any rate, took
heart from some works of art which the cliff wall displayed near the
water's edge. One of these was a lively fresco portrait of
Lieutenant-General Sherman, with the insignia of his rank, and the other
was an even more striking effigy of General O'Neil, of the Armies of the
Irish Republic, wearing a threatening aspect, and designed in a bold
conceit of his presence there as conqueror of Canada in the year 1875.
Mr. Arbuton was inclined to resent these intrusions upon the sublimity
of nature, and he could not conceive, without disadvantage to them, how
Miss Ellison and the colonel should accept them so cheerfully as part of
the pleasure of the whole. As he listened blankly to their exchange of
jests he found himself awfully beset by a temptation which one of the
boat's crew placed before the passengers. This was a bucket full of
pebbles of inviting size; and the man said, "Now, see which can hit the
cliff. It's farther than any of you can throw, though it looks so near."

The passengers cast themselves upon the store of missiles, Colonel
Ellison most actively among them. None struck the cliff, and suddenly
Mr. Arbuton felt a blind, stupid, irresistible longing to try his
chance. The spirit of his college days, of his boating and ball-playing
youth, came upon him. He picked up a pebble, while Kitty opened her eyes
in a stare of dumb surprise. Then he wheeled and threw it, and as it
struck against the cliff with a shock that seemed to have broken all the
windows on the Back Bay, he exulted in a sense of freedom the havoc
caused him. It was as if for an instant he had rent away the ties of
custom, thrown off the bonds of social allegiance, broken down and
trampled upon the conventions which his whole life long he had held so
dear and respectable. In that moment of frenzy he feared himself capable
of shaking hands with the shabby Englishman in the Glengarry cap, or of
asking the whole admiring company of passengers down to the bar. A cry
of applause had broken from them at his achievement, and he had for the
first time tasted the sweets of popular favor. Of course a revulsion
must come, and it must be of a corresponding violence; and the next
moment Mr. Arbuton hated them all, and most of all Colonel Ellison, who
had been loudest in his praise. Him he thought for that moment
everything that was aggressively and intrusively vulgar. But he could
not utter these friendly impressions, nor is it so easy to withdraw from
any concession, and he found it impossible to repair his broken
defences. Destiny had been against him from the beginning, and now why
should he not strike hands with it for the brief half-day that he was to
continue in these people's society? In the morning he would part from
them forever, and in the mean time why should he not try to please and
be pleased? There might, to be sure, have been many reasons why he
should not do this; but however the balance stood he now yielded himself
passively to his fate. He was polite to Mrs. Ellison, he was attentive
to Kitty, and as far as he could he entered into the fantastic spirit of
her talk with the colonel. He was not a dull man; he had quite an apt
wit of his own, and a neat way of saying things; but humor always seemed
to him something not perfectly well bred; of course he helped to praise
it in some old-established diner-out, or some woman of good fashion,
whose mots it was customary to repeat, and he even tolerated it in
books; but he was at a loss with these people, who looked at life in so
bizarre a temper, yet without airiness or pretension, nay, with a
whimsical readiness to acknowledge kindred in every droll or laughable
thing.

The boat stopped at Tadoussac on her return, and among the spectators
who came down to the landing was a certain very pretty,
conscious-looking, silly, bridal-faced young woman,--imaginably the
belle of the season at that forlorn watering-place,--who before coming
on board stood awhile attended by a following of those elderly imperial
and colonial British who heavily flutter round the fair at such resorts.
She had an air of utterly satisfied vanity, in which there was no harm
in the world, and when she saw that she had fixed the eyes of the
shoreward-gazing passengers, it appeared as if she fell into a happy
trepidation too blissful to be passively borne; she moistened her pretty
red lips with her tongue, she twitched her mantle, she settled the bow
at her lovely throat, she bridled and tossed her graceful head.

"What should you do next, Kitty?" asked the colonel, who had been
sympathetically intent upon all this.

"O, I think I should pat my foot," answered Kitty; and in fact the
charming simpleton on shore, having perfected her attitude, was tapping
the ground nervously with the toe of her adorable slipper.

After the boat started, a Canadian lady of ripe age, yet of a vivacity
not to be reconciled with the notion of the married state, capered
briskly about among her somewhat stolid and indifferent friends, saying,
"They're going to fire it as soon as we round the point"; and presently
a dull boom, as of a small piece of ordnance discharged in the
neighborhood of the hotel, struck through the gathering fog, and this
elderly sylph clapped her hands and exulted: "They've fired it, they've
fired it! and now the captain will blow the whistle in answer." But the
captain did nothing of the kind, and the lady, after some more girlish
effervescence, upbraided him for an old owl and an old muff, and so sank
into such a flat and spiritless calm that she was sorrowful to see.

"Too bad, Mr. Arbuton, isn't it?" said the colonel; and Mr. Arbuton
listened in vague doubt while Kitty built up with her cousin a touching
romance for the poor lady, supposed to have spent the one brilliant and
successful summer of her life at Tadoussac, where her admirers had
agreed to bemoan her loss in this explosion of gunpowder. They asked him
if he did not wish the captain had whistled; and "Oh!" shuddered
Kitty, "doesn't it all make you feel just as if you had been doing it
yourself?"--a question which he hardly knew how to answer, never having,
to his knowledge, done a ridiculous thing in his life, much less been
guilty of such behavior as that of the disappointed lady.

At Cacouna, where the boat stopped to take on the horses and carriages
of some home-returning sojourners, the pier was a labyrinth of equipages
of many sorts and sizes, and a herd of bright-hooded, gayly blanketed
horses gave variety to the human crowd that soaked and steamed in the
fine, slowly falling rain. A draught-horse was every three minutes
driven into their midst with tedious iteration as he slowly drew baskets
of coal up from the sloop unloading at the wharf, and each time they
closed solidly upon his retreat as if they never expected to see that
horse again while the world stood. They were idle ladies and gentlemen
under umbrellas, Indians and habitans taking the rain stolidly erect or
with shrugged shoulders, and two or three clergymen of the curate type,
who might have stepped as they were out of any dull English novel. These
were talking in low voices and putting their hands to their ears to
catch the replies of the lady-passengers who hung upon the rail, and
twaddled back as dryly as if there was no moisture in life. All the
while the safety-valves hissed with the escaping steam, and the boat's
crew silently toiled with the grooms of the different horses to get the
equipages on board. With the carriages it was an affair of mere muscle,
but the horses required to be managed with brain. No sooner had one of
them placed his fore feet on the gangway plank than he protested by
backing up over a mass of patient Canadians, carrying with him half a
dozen grooms and deck-hands. Then his hood was drawn over his eyes, and
he was blindly walked up and down the pier, and back to the gangway,
which he knew as soon as he touched it. He pulled, he pranced, he shied,
he did all that a bad and stubborn horse can do, till at last a groom
mounted his back, a clump of deck-hands tugged at his bridle, and other
grooms, tenderly embracing him at different points, pushed, and he was
thus conveyed on board with mingled affection and ignominy. None of the
Canadians seemed amused by this; they regarded it with serious composure
as a fitting decorum, and Mr. Arbuton had no comment to make upon it.
But at the first embrace bestowed upon the horse by the grooms the
colonel said absently, "Ah! long-lost brother," and Kitty laughed; and
as the scruples of each brute were successively overcome, she helped to
give some grotesque interpretation to the various scenes of the
melodrama, while Mr. Arbuton stood beside her, and sheltered her with
his umbrella; and a spice of malice in her heart told her that he viewed
this drolling, and especially her part in it, with grave misgiving. That
gave the zest of transgression to her excess, mixed with dismay; for the
tricksy spirit in her was not a domineering spirit, but was easily
abashed by the moods of others. She ought not to have laughed at Dick's
speeches, she soon told herself, much less helped him on. She dreadfully
feared that she had done something indecorous, and she was pensive and
silent over it as she moved listlessly about after supper; and she sat
at last thinking in a dreary sort of perplexity on what had passed
during the day, which seemed a long one.

The shabby Englishman with his wife and sister were walking up and down
the cabin. By and by they stopped, and sat down at the table facing
Kitty; the elder woman, with a civil freedom, addressed her some
commonplace, and the four were presently in lively talk; for Kitty had
beamed upon the woman in return, having already longed to know something
of them. The world was so fresh to her, that she could find delight in
those poor singing or acting folk, though she had soon to own to herself
that their talk was not very witty nor very wise, and that the best
thing about them was their good-nature. The colonel sat at the end of
the table with a newspaper; Mrs. Ellison had gone to bed; and Kitty was
beginning to tire of her new acquaintance, and to wonder how she could
get away from them, when she saw rescue in the eye of Mr. Arbuton as he
came down to the cabin. She knew he was looking for her; she saw him
check himself with a start of recognition; then he walked rapidly by the
group, without glancing at them.

"Brrrr!" said the blond girl, drawing her blue knit shawl about her
shoulders, "isn't it cold?" and she and her friends laughed.

"O dear!" thought Kitty, "I didn't suppose they were so rude. I'm afraid
I must say good night," she added aloud, after a little, and stole away
the most conscience-stricken creature on that boat. She heard those
people laugh again after she left them.




IV.

MR. ARBUTON'S INSPIRATION.


The next morning, when Mr. Arbuton awoke, he found a clear light upon
the world that he had left wrapped in fog at midnight. A heavy gale was
blowing, and the wide river was running in seas that made the boat
stagger in her course, and now and then struck her bows with a force
that sent the spray from their seething tops into the faces of the
people on the promenade. The sun, out of rifts of the breaking clouds,
launched broad splendors across the villages and farms of the level
landscape and the crests and hollows of the waves; and a certain joy of
the air penetrated to the guarded consciousness of Mr. Arbuton.
Involuntarily he looked about for the people he meant to have nothing
more to do with, that he might appeal to the sympathies of one of them,
at least, in his sense of such an admirable morning. But a great many
passengers had come on board, during the night, at Murray Bay, where the
brief season was ending, and their number hid the Ellisons from him.
When he went to breakfast, he found some one had taken his seat near
them, and they did not notice him as he passed by in search of another
chair. Kitty and the colonel were at table alone, and they both wore
preoccupied faces. After breakfast he sought them out and asked for Mrs.
Ellison, who had shared in most of the excitements of the day before,
helping herself about with a pretty limp, and who certainly had not, as
her husband phrased it, kept any of the meals waiting.

"Why," said the colonel, "I'm afraid her ankle's worse this morning, and
that we'll have to lie by at Quebec for a few days, at any rate."

Mr. Arbuton heard this sad news with a cheerful aspect unaccountable in
one who was concerned at Mrs. Ellison's misfortune. He smiled, when he
ought to have looked pensive, and he laughed at the colonel's joke when
the latter added, "Of course, this is a great hardship for my cousin,
who hates Quebec, and wants to get home to Eriecreek as soon as
possible."

Kitty promised to bear her trials with firmness, and Mr. Arbuton said,
not very consequently, as she thought, "I had been planning to spend a
few days in Quebec, myself, and I shall have the opportunity of
inquiring about Mrs. Ellison's convalescence. In fact," he added,
turning to the colonel, "I hope you'll let me be of service to you in
getting to a hotel."

And when the boat landed, Mr. Arbuton actually busied himself in finding
a carriage and putting the various Ellison wraps and bags into it. Then
he helped to support Mrs. Ellison ashore, and to lift her to the best
place. He raised his hat, and had good-morning on his tongue, when the
astonished colonel called out, "Why, the deuce! You're going to ride up
with us!"

Mr. Arbuton thought he had better get another carriage; he should
incommode Mrs. Ellison; but Mrs. Ellison protested that he would not at
all; and, to cut the matter short, he mounted to the colonel's side. It
was another stroke of fate.

At the hotel they found a line of people reaching half-way down the
outer steps from the inside of the office.

"Hallo! what's this?" asked the colonel of the last man in the queue.

"O, it's a little procession to the hotel register! We've been three
quarters of an hour in passing a given point," said the man, who was
plainly a fellow-citizen.

"And haven't got by yet," said the colonel, taking to the speaker. "Then
the house is full?"

"Well, no; they haven't begun to throw them out of the window."

"His humor is degenerating, Dick," said Kitty; and "Hadn't you better go
inside and inquire?" asked Mrs. Ellison. It was part of the Ellison
travelling joke for her thus to prompt the colonel in his duty.

"I'm glad you mentioned it, Fanny. I was just going to drive off in
despair." The colonel vanished within doors, and after long delay came
out flushed, but not with triumph. "On the express condition that I have
ladies with me, one an invalid, I am promised a room on the fifth floor
some time during the day. They tell me the other hotel is crammed and
it's no use to go there."

Mrs. Ellison was ready to weep, and for the first time since her
accident she harbored some bitterness against Mr. Arbuton. They all sat
silent, and the colonel on the sidewalk silently wiped his brow.

Mr. Arbuton, in the poverty of his invention, wondered if there was not
some lodging-house where they could find shelter.

"Of course there is," cried Mrs. Ellison, beaming upon her hero, and
calling Kitty's attention to his ingenuity by a pressure with her well
foot. "Richard, we must look up a boarding-house."

"Do you know of any good boarding-houses?" asked the colonel of the
driver, mechanically.

"Plenty," answered the man.

"Well, drive us to twenty or thirty first-class ones," commanded the
colonel; and the search began.

The colonel first asked prices and looked at rooms, and if he pronounced
any apartment unsuitable, Kitty was despatched by Mrs. Ellison to view
it and refute him. As often as she confirmed him, Mrs. Ellison was sure
that they were both too fastidious, and they never turned away from a
door but they closed the gates of paradise upon that afflicted lady. She
began to believe that they should find no place whatever, when at last
they stopped before a portal so unboarding-house-like in all outward
signs, that she maintained it was of no use to ring, and imparted so
much of her distrust to the colonel that, after ringing, he prefaced his
demand for rooms with an apology for supposing that there were rooms to
let there. Then, after looking at them, he returned to the carriage and
reported that the whole affair was perfect, and that he should look no
farther. Mrs. Ellison replied that she never could trust his judgment,
he was so careless. Kitty inspected the premises, and came back in a
transport that alarmed the worst fears of Mrs. Ellison. She was sure
that they had better look farther, she knew there were plenty of nicer
places. Even if the rooms were nice and the situation pleasant, she was
certain that there must be some drawbacks which they did not know of
yet. Whereupon her husband lifted her from the carriage, and bore her,
without reply or comment of any kind, into the house.

Throughout the search Mr. Arbuton had been making up his mind that he
would part with his friends as soon as they found lodgings, give the day
to Quebec, and take the evening train for Gorham, thus escaping the
annoyances of a crowded hotel, and ending at once an acquaintance which
he ought never to have let go so far. As long as the Ellisons were
without shelter, he felt that it was due to himself not to abandon them.
But even now that they were happily housed, had he done all that
nobility obliged? He stood irresolute beside the carriage.

"Won't you come up and see where we live?" asked Kitty, hospitably.

"I shall be very glad," said Mr. Arbuton.

"My dear fellow," said the colonel, in the parlor, "I didn't engage a
room for you. I supposed you'd rather take your chances at the hotel."

"O, I'm going away to-night."

"Why, that's a pity!"

"Yes, I've no fancy for a cot-bed in the hotel parlor. But I don't quite
like to leave you here, after bringing this calamity upon you."

"O, don't mention that! I was the only one to blame. We shall get on
splendidly here."

Mr. Arbuton suffered a vague disappointment. At the bottom of his heart
was a formless hope that he might in some way be necessary to the
Ellisons in their adversity; or if not that, then that something might
entangle him further and compel his stay. But they seemed quite equal in
themselves to the situation; they were in far more comfortable quarters
than they could have hoped for, and plainly should want for nothing;
Fortune put on a smiling face, and bade him go free of them. He fancied
it a mocking smile, though, as he stood an instant silently weighing one
thing against another. The colonel was patiently waiting his motion;
Mrs. Ellison sat watching him from the sofa; Kitty moved about the room
with averted face,--a pretty domestic presence, a household priestess
ordering the temporary Penates. Mr. Arbuton opened his lips to say
farewell, but a god spoke through them,--inconsequently, as the gods for
the most part do, saying, "Besides, I suppose you've got all the rooms
here."

"O, as to that I don't know," answered the colonel, not recognizing the
language of inspiration, "let's ask." Kitty knocked a photograph-book
off the table, and Mrs. Ellison said, "Why, Kitty!" But nothing more was
spoken till the landlady came. She had another room, but doubted if it
would answer. It was in the attic, and was a back room, though it had a
pleasant outlook. Mr. Arbuton had no doubt that it would do very well
for the day or two he was going to stay, and took it hastily, without
going to look at it. He had his valise carried up at once, and then he
went to the post-office to see if he had any letters, offering to ask
also for Colonel Ellison.

Kitty stole off to explore the chamber given her at the rear of the
house; that is to say, she opened the window looking out on what their
hostess told her was the garden of the Ursuline Convent, and stood there
in a mute transport. A black cross rose in the midst, and all about this
wandered the paths and alleys of the garden, through clumps of
lilac-bushes and among the spires of hollyhocks. The grounds were
enclosed by high walls in part, and in part by the group of the convent
edifices, built of gray stone, high gabled, and topped by
dormer-windowed steep roofs of tin, which, under the high morning sun,
lay an expanse of keenest splendor, while many a grateful shadow dappled
the full-foliaged garden below. Two slim, tall poplars stood against the
gable of the chapel, and shot their tops above its roof, and under a
porch near them two nuns sat motionless in the sun, black-robed, with
black veils falling over their shoulders, and their white faces lost in
the white linen that draped them from breast to crown. Their hands lay
quiet in their laps, and they seemed unconscious of the other nuns
walking in the garden-paths with little children, their pupils, and
answering their laughter from time to time with voices as simple and
innocent as their own. Kitty looked down upon them all with a swelling
heart. They were but figures in a beautiful picture of something old and
poetical; but she loved them, and pitied them, and was most happy in
them, the same as if they had been real. It could not be that they and
she were in the same world: she must be dreaming over a book in
Charley's room at Eriecreek. She shaded her eyes for a better look, when
the noonday gun boomed from the citadel; the bell upon the chapel
jangled harshly, and those strange maskers, those quaint black birds
with white breasts and faces, flocked indoors. At the same time a small
dog under her window howled dolorously at the jangling of the bell; and
Kitty, with an impartial joy, turned from the pensive romance of the
convent garden to the mild comedy of the scene to which his woeful note
attracted her. When he had uttered his anguish, he relapsed into the
quietest small French dog that ever was, and lay down near a large,
tranquil cat, whom neither the bell nor he had been able to stir from
her slumbers in the sun; a peasant-like old man kept on sawing wood, and
a little child stood still amidst the larkspurs and marigolds of a tiny
garden, while over the flower-pots on the low window-sill of the
neighboring house to which it belonged, a young, motherly face gazed
peacefully out. The great extent of the convent grounds had left this
poor garden scarce breathing-space for its humble blooms; with the low
paling fence that separated it from the adjoining house-yards it looked
like a toy-garden or the background of a puppet-show, and in its way it
was as quaintly unreal to the young girl as the nunnery itself.

When she saw it first, the city's walls and other warlike ostentations
had taken her imagination with the historic grandeur of Quebec; but the
fascination deepened now that she was admitted, as it were, to the
religious heart and the domestic privacy of the famous old town. She was
romantic, as most good young girls are; and she had the same pleasure in
the strangeness of the things about her as she would have felt in the
keeping of a charming story. To Fanny's "Well, Kitty, I suppose all this
just suits you," when she had returned to the little parlor where the
sufferer lay, she answered with a sigh of irrepressible content, "O yes!
could anything be more beautiful?" and her enraptured eye dwelt upon the
low ceilings, the deep, wide chimneys eloquent of the mighty fires with
which they must roar in winter, the French windows with their curious
and clumsy fastenings, and every little detail that made the place alien
and precious.

Fanny broke into a laugh at the visionary absence in her face.

"Do you think the place is good enough for your hero and heroine?" asked
she, slyly; for Kitty had one of those family reputes, so hard to
survive, for childish attempts of her own in the world of fiction where
so great part of her life had been passed; and Mrs. Ellison, who was as
unliterary a soul as ever breathed, admired her with the heartiness
which unimaginative people often feel for their idealizing friends, and
believed that she was always deep in the mysteries of some plot.

"O, I don't know," Kitty answered with a little color, "about heroes and
heroines; but, I'd like to live here, myself. Yes," she continued,
rather to herself than to her listener, "I do believe this is what I was
made for. I've always wanted to live amongst old things, in a stone
house with dormer-windows. Why, there isn't a single dormer-window in
Eriecreek, nor even a brick house, let alone a stone one. O yes, indeed!
I was meant for an old country."

"Well, then, Kitty, I don't see what you're to do but to marry East and
live East; or else find a rich husband, and get him to take you to
Europe to live."

"Yes; or get him to come and live in Quebec. That's all I'd ask, and he
needn't be a very rich man, for that."

"Why, you poor child, what sort of husband could you get to settle down
in this dead old place?"

"O, I suppose some kind of artist or literary man."

This was not Mrs. Ellison's notion of the kind of husband who was to
realize for Kitty her fancy for life in an old country; but she was
content to let the matter rest for the present, and, in a serene
thankfulness to the power that had brought two marriageable young
creatures together beneath the same roof, and under her own observance,
she composed herself among the sofa-cushions, from which she meant to
conduct the campaign against Mr. Arbuton with relentless vigor.

"Well," she said, "it won't be fair if you are not happy in this world,
Kitty, you ask so little of it"; while Kitty turned to the window
overlooking the street, and lost herself in the drama of the passing
figures below. They were new, and yet oddly familiar, for she had long
known them in the realm of romance. The peasant-women who went by, in
hats of felt or straw, some on foot with baskets, and some in their
light market-carts, were all, in their wrinkled and crooked age or their
fresh-faced, strong-limbed youth, her friends since childhood in many a
tale of France or Germany; and the black-robed priests, who mixed with
the passers on the narrow wooden sidewalk, and now and then courteously
gave way, or lifted their wide-rimmed hats in a grave, smiling
salutation, were more recent acquaintances, but not less intimate. They
were out of old romances about Italy and Spain, in which she was very
learned; and this butcher's boy, tilting along through the crowd with a
half-staggering run, was from any one of Dickens's stories, and she
divined that the four-armed wooden trough on his shoulder was the
butcher's tray, which figures in every novelist's description of a
London street-crowd. There were many other types, as French mothers of
families with market-baskets on their arms; very pretty French
school-girls with books under their arms; wild-looking country boys with
red raspberries in birch-bark measures; and quiet gliding nuns with
white hoods and downcast faces: each of whom she unerringly relegated to
an appropriate corner of her world of unreality. A young, mild-faced,
spectacled Anglican curate she did not give a moment's pause, but rushed
him instantly through the whole series of Anthony Trollope's novels,
which dull books, I am sorry to say, she had read, and liked, every one;
and then she began to find various people astray out of Thackeray. The
trig corporal, with the little visorless cap worn so jauntily, the light
stick carried in one hand, and the broad-sealed official document in the
other, had also, in his breast-pocket, one of those brief, infrequent
missives which Lieutenant Osborne used to send to poor Amelia; a tall,
awkward officer did duty for Major Dobbin; and when a very pretty lady
driving a pony carriage, with a footman in livery on the little perch
behind her, drew rein beside the pavement, and a handsome young captain
in a splendid uniform saluted her and began talking with her in a
languid, affected way, it was Osborne recreant to the thought of his
betrothed, one of whose tender letters he kept twirling in his fingers
while he talked.

Most of the people whom she saw passing had letters or papers, and, in
fact, they were coming from the post-office, where the noonday mails had
just been opened. So she went on turning substance into shadow,--unless,
indeed, flesh and blood is the illusion,--and, as I am bound to own,
catching at very slight pretexts in many cases for the exercise of her
sorcery, when her eye fell upon a gentleman at a little distance. At the
same moment he raised his eyes from a letter at which he had been
glancing, and ran them along the row of houses opposite, till they
rested on the window at which she stood. Then he smiled and lifted his
hat, and, with a start, she recognized Mr. Arbuton, while a certain
chill struck to her heart through the tumult she felt there. Till he saw
her there had been such a cold reserve and hauteur in his bearing, that
the trepidation which she had felt about him at times, the day before,
and which had worn quite away under the events of the morning, was
renewed again, and the aspect, in which he had been so strange that she
did not know him, seemed the only one that he had ever worn. This effect
lasted till Mr. Arbuton could find his way to her, and place in her
eager hand a letter from the girls and Dr. Ellison. She forgot it then,
and vanished till she read her letter.




V.

MR. ARBUTON MAKES HIMSELF AGREEABLE.


The first care of Colonel Ellison had been to call a doctor, and to know
the worst about the sprained ankle, upon which his plans had fallen
lame; and the worst was that it was not a bad sprain, but Mrs. Ellison,
having been careless of it the day before, had aggravated the hurt, and
she must now have that perfect rest, which physicians prescribe so
recklessly of other interests and duties, for a week at least, and
possibly two or three.

The colonel was still too much a soldier to be impatient at the doctor's
order, but he was of far too active a temper to be quiet under it. He
therefore proposed to himself nothing less than the capture of Quebec in
an historical sense, and even before dinner he began to prepare for the
campaign. He sallied forth, and descended upon the bookstores wherever
he found them lurking, in whatsoever recess of the Upper or Lower Town,
and returned home laden with guide-books to Quebec, and monographs upon
episodes of local history, such as are produced in great quantity by the
semi-clerical literary taste of out-of-the-way Catholic capitals. The
colonel (who had gone actively into business, after leaving the army, at
the close of the war) had always a newspaper somewhere about him, but he
was not a reader of many books. Of the volumes in the doctor's library,
he had never in former days willingly opened any but the plays of
Shakespeare, and Don Quixote, long passages of which he knew by heart.
He had sometimes attempted other books, but for the most of Kitty's
favorite authors he professed as frank a contempt as for the
Mound-Builders themselves. He had read one book of travel, namely, The
Innocents Abroad, which he held to be so good a book that he need never
read anything else about the countries of which it treated. When he
brought in this extraordinary collection of pamphlets, both Kitty and
Fanny knew what to expect; for the colonel was as ready to receive
literature at second-hand as to avoid its original sources. He had in
this way picked up a great deal of useful knowledge, and he was famous
for clipping from newspapers scraps of instructive fact, all of which he
relentlessly remembered. He had already a fair outline of the local
history in his mind, and this had been deepened and freshened by Dr.
Ellison's recent talk of his historical studies. Moreover, he had
secured in the course of the present journey, from his wife's and
cousin's reading of divers guide-books, a new store of names and dates,
which he desired to attach to the proper localities with their help.

"Light reading for leisure hours, Fanny," said Kitty, looking askance at
the colonel's literature as she sat down near her cousin after dinner.

"Yes; and you start fair, ladies. Start with Jacques Cartier, ancient
mariner of Dieppe, in the year 1535. No favoritism in this
investigation; no bringing forward of Champlain or Montcalm prematurely;
no running off on subsequent conquests or other side-issues. Stick to
the discovery, and the names of Jacques Cartier and Donnacona. Come, do
something for an honest living."

"Who was Donnacona?" demanded Mrs. Ellison, with indifference.

"That is just what these fascinating little volumes will tell us. Kitty,
read something to your suffering cousins about Donnacona,--he sounds
uncommonly like an Irishman," answered the colonel, establishing himself
in an easy-chair; and Kitty picked up a small sketch of the history of
Quebec, and, opening it, fell into the trance which came upon her at the
touch of a book, and read on for some pages to herself.

"Well, upon my word," said the colonel, "I might as well be reading
about Donnacona myself, for any comfort I get."

"O Dick, I forgot. I was just looking. Now I'm really going to
commence."

"No, not yet," cried Mrs. Ellison, rising on her elbow. "Where is Mr.
Arbuton?"

"What has he to do with Donnacona, my dear?"

"Everything. You know he's stayed on our account, and I never heard of
anything so impolite, so inhospitable, as offering to read without him.
Go and call him, Richard, do."

"O, no," pleaded Kitty, "he won't care about it. Don't call him, Dick."

"Why, Kitty, I'm surprised at you! When you read so beautifully! Yon
needn't be ashamed, I'm sure."

"I'm not ashamed; but, at the same time, I don't want to read to him."

"Well, call him any way, colonel. He's in his room."

"If you do," said Kitty, with superfluous dignity, "I must go away."

"Very well, Kitty, just as you please. Only I want Richard to witness
that I'm not to blame if Mr. Arbuton thinks us unfeeling or neglectful."

"O, if he doesn't say what he thinks, it'll make no difference."

"It seems to me that this is a good deal of fuss to make about one human
being, a mere passing man and brother of a day, isn't it?" said the
colonel. "Go on with Donnacona, do."

There came a knock at the door. Kitty leaped nervously to her feet, and
fled out of the room. But it was only the little French serving-maid
upon some errand which she quickly despatched.

"Well, now what do you think?" asked Mrs. Ellison.

"Why, I think you've a surprising knowledge of French for one who
studied it at school. Do you suppose she understood you?"

"O, nonsense! You know I mean Kitty and her very queer behavior.
Richard, if you moon at me in that stupid way," she continued, "I shall
certainly end in an insane asylum. Can't you see what's under your very
nose?"

"Yes, I can, Fanny," answered the colonel, "if anything's there. But I
give you my word, I don't know any more than millions yet unborn what
you're driving at." The colonel took up the book which Kitty had thrown
down, and went to his room to try to read up Donnacona for himself,
while his wife penitently turned to a pamphlet in French, which he had
bought with the others. "After all," she thought, "men will be men"; and
seemed not to find the fact wholly wanting in consolation.

A few minutes after there was a murmur of voices in the entry without,
at a window looking upon the convent garden, where it happened to Mr.
Arbuton, descending from his attic chamber, to find Kitty standing, a
pretty shape against the reflected light of the convent roofs, and
amidst a little greenery of house-plants, tall geraniums, an overarching
ivy, some delicate roses. She had paused there, on her way from Fanny's
to her own room, and was looking into the garden, where a pair of silent
nuns were pacing up and down the paths, turning now their backs with the
heavy sable coiffure sweeping their black robes, and now their still,
mask-like faces, set in that stiff framework of white linen. Sometimes
they came so near that she could distinguish their features, and imagine
an expression that she should know if she saw them again; and while she
stood self-forgetfully feigning a character for each of them, Mr.
Arbuton spoke to her and took his place at her side.

"We're remarkably favored in having this bit of opera under our windows,
Miss Ellison," he said, and smiled as Kitty answered, "O, is it really
like an opera? I never saw one, but I could imagine it must be
beautiful," and they both looked on in silence a moment, while the nuns
moved, shadow-like, out of the garden, and left it empty.

Then Mr. Arbuton said something to which Kitty answered simply, "I'll
see if my cousin doesn't want me," and presently stood beside Mrs.
Ellison's sofa, a little conscious in color. "Fanny, Mr. Arbuton has
asked me to go and see the cathedral with him. Do you think it would be
right?"

Mrs. Ellison's triumphant heart rose to her lips. "Why, you dear,
particular, innocent little goose," she cried, flinging her arms about
Kitty, and kissing her till the young girl blushed again; "of course it
