
Wyllys' mood, at sight of the rapid signal or query that passed from
husband to wife, was the exact reverse of amiable, and he was not
pacified by Hester's conduct. Hitching her chair close to her
lord's, she stroked his hair and beard, smiling affectedly, in
amorous languishment, at her lately purchased vassal, and purring
like a cat. So soon as he could decently seek deliverance from the
absurd situation, Orrin slipped from under the crawling fingers, and
began to examine the books upon the centre-table.

"Isn't he looking well?" said his tormentor to Roy, showing all her
prominent teeth in the affectionate leer she sent after him.

"Very well. His health has always been excellent, I believe,"
rejoined Roy. "Although his active habits have hindered the gain of
so much as a pound of superfluous flesh."

It hurt him to see his gay and gallant clansman in the humiliating
position of a led bear, at the mercy of a marmoset, but he could not
be anything but civil in his own house.

"Oh! Oh! don't hint at the possibility of his ever getting fat! I
think lean people are just too sweet! I wouldn't have him altered
by the change of a single hair in his mustache. Women ought to think
their husbands perfect, oughtn't they, Cousin Jessie?"

"If they are perfect!" was the reply.

Mrs. Wyllys accomplished a compound toss of her head; her ear-rings
fairly jingling, and the flowers in her sandy braids and frizettes
quivering like aspens in an east wind.

"That is rank heresy! Love that isn't blind is no love at all. I
wouldn't give a fig for the constancy of a wife who could detect the
slightest flaw in the man she has promised to love, honor, and obey.
Would you now, Mr. Fordham?"

"If you would have my candid opinion, I should prefer intelligent
and discriminating esteem to blind adoration," was the courteous
rejoinder, at which the lady bridled.

"I might have expected some such answer in this staid,
matter-of-fact household! Now, Orrin and I--"

"You are true to your penchant for Mrs. Norton, I perceive!" Orrin
interrupted her unceremoniously, looking across at Jessie. "This is
a handsome English edition of her poems."

"Yes! I have had it for several years."

"Is that an implication that you would not procure it now, if you
did not possess it?"

"I imply nothing, except that she is popular with most young girls."

"Woman, then, in her maturity of mind and affection, grows out of
the taste for the 'female Byron'--for that is Mrs. Norton's
sobriquet in the literary world?" he said, interrogatively, and in
suave deference to her judgment. "What some contend poetry should
be,--the lyrical, expression of passion,--sounds extravagant to one
who has studied life for herself. Must this be so? Are there no
recesses far down in the heart where the dew will lie all day?
Because we have learned to think in sober and weighty prose, must we
blush to remember that our souls once melted through our eyes as we
sang, 'Thy Name was Once the Magic Spell,' or read, 'The Tryst,' and
'I Cannot Love Thee?'"

"I have a song, called--'I do not Love Thee,'" interposed Mrs.
Wyllys. "It is just the sweetest thing you ever heard. Let me see!
How does the air go?" humming. "I do not love thee! No! I do not
love thee!"

"I am tempted to doubt the decline of your admiration for our
poetess," pursued Wyllys to Jessie, with royal disregard of his
beloved's vocalization. "The book opens of itself at the last-named
poem."

"Do read it aloud, lovey!" begged Hester, eagerly. "I should so
like to hear it! And he does read poetry so exquisitely!" to the
Fordhams. "It is just perfectly delightful to listen to him! I tell
him that was the way he captivated me, with his reading and his
singing. They are too sweet!"

"Let us have it, Orrin!" said Roy, good-humoredly, desirous to
relieve him from the saccharine shower. "I never read it, I think.
But I was always 'matter-of-fact,' as Mrs. Wyllys has already
discovered. Perhaps the 'lyrical expression of passion' had less
hold upon my adolescent imagination than it generally has upon
impressible youth."

He resigned himself patiently to the hearing of an ultra-pathetic
love-song.

Jessie knew every line of the poem already. She had said it over to
herself, scores of times, last Summer, tossing wakefully upon her
pillow at midnight, until the pine boughs seemed to have caught the
rhythm; or pacing the garden walks with hurrying feet; or hanging
over the railing of the rustic foot-bridge. But she could not help
listening, as the cunning modulations of the reader drew out the
simple fervor of each line.

A steely-blue ray shot from beneath his eyelashes in her direction,
as he turned a leaf. She did not see it. Perfectly still, yet
attentive, she had leaned her head against the high back of her
husband's chair, and was looking straight before her.

    The cold disgust,
    Wonderful and most unjust,

found no expression in attitude and feature.

The reader's voice mellowed; the emphasis of suppressed emotion was
more artistic and effective.

    Seems to me that I should guess
    By what a world of bitterness,
    By what a gulf of hopeless care,
    Our two hearts divided are.

      

    And I praise thee as I go,
    Wandering, weary, full of woe
    To my own unwilling heart,--
    Cheating it to take thy part,
    By rehearsing each rare merit
    Which thy nature doth inherit;
    How thy heart is good and true,
    And thy face most fair to view;
    How the powers of thy mind
    Flatterers in the wisest find,
    And the talents to thee given,
    Seem as held in trust for Heaven,
    Laboring on for noble ends,
    Steady to thy boyhood's friends,
    Slow to give or take offence,
    Full of earnest eloquence.

      

    How, in brief, there dwells in thee
    All that's generous and free,
    All that may most aptly move
    My spirit to an answering love.

"Was'nt it too funny that she didn't give in to such a splendid
fellow?" queried Hester, sniffing away the emotion she had tried to
sop up with her laced handkerchief. "I never can hear dear Orrin
read without crying, no matter what the subject is. I couldn't have
helped falling in love with him, I know. It was queer, now!"
fretfully, as she saw Jessie's countenance. "I don't see what there
is amusing about it!"

Jessie held her head erect--a movement full of spirit and
gladness--and laughed. It was no mirthless sound, but a ripple of
real joyousness.

"Very queer!" she answered, merrily. "Mr. Wyllys! we must call upon
you to explain the phenomenon. You evidently understand it. You read
the poem con amore."

She sprang up to serve her guests from the waiter Phoebe had
placed upon the table. Roy followed her.

"They tell me you make a delicious article of domestic wine, Mrs.
Fordham--of elderberries, or grapes, or currants--or something,"
said Mrs. Wyllys, bent upon patronage at every turn. "I hope you are
going to treat us to some of it now."

"'They' are mistaken!" returned Jessie, the merry ring yet in her
voice. "I never attempted anything of the kind. The best substitute
I can offer you for the beverage you had promised yourself, is
Rhenish or Marsala which Mr. Fordham procured abroad."

"I can answer for her, I believe, Mrs. Wyllys, that her efforts in
that line have been confined to the brewing of flax-seed lemonade,
and sage tea!" chimed in Roy.

Whereat Jessie laughed again, as she had not done at Orrin's
adventure with the gargle.

Wyllys arose to receive a glass of wine from her hand, and, in
taking it, looked steadily, reproachfully, passionately, into her
eyes. They sustained the scrutiny without quailing, a glint of
roguish defiance playing within them, and her lips curling at the
corners, as she turned away. He had a misgiving then that his power
over her was at an end. This was not acting, but the flashing of a
stream where the sunshine reached to its bed; was filtrated through
pure, sweet waters. If she were disenchanted, he knew whom he had to
thank for it. He could have hated his Hester for the over-fondness
that had made him ridiculous to optics which erst surveyed him with
timid and worshipful reverence, as Semel√© may have regarded high
Jove.

He was not sorry he had wedded as he did. He had too just an
appreciation of the inconveniences of living beyond one's means; the
difficulties that environ a man of expensive tastes and a moderate
income, and the thousand goods of wealth, to regret the investment,
which had assuredly yielded more than cent. per cent., whether he
estimated either the affection or the money he had put into the
speculation. He was wise in his generation. Hester was the richest
spoil that had ever been laid in his way, and he had not hesitated
as to the line of duty. But he did wish she had not wheedled him
into this visit, that she might have another opportunity to play the
fool herself, and force a like part upon him. Jessie's laughter had
stung him unreasonably, and in his avarice of the praise of his
kind, he grudged the loss of a moiety of Roy's affectionate
admiration.

Fordham did not return to the sitting-room when he had escorted his
guests to the outer door. He bade his wife "Good-night," in the
hall.

"Must you work to-night?" she asked, imploringly. "I meant--I
hoped--that is, I thought we would have a pleasant chat over my
fire."

Her manner was agitated, her eye restless; but he scarcely noted
this, or that she stammered strangely in preferring the petition.

"Don't tempt me!"

He would have made his answer playful. It was a sickly show, and
repulsed Jessie more effectually than sternness would have done.

With a burning blush, she dropped the hand she had laid lightly on
his sleeve; murmured an apology, and hurried upstairs, forgetting
that she had intended to sit for a while longer in the lower room.
In her own chamber, she walked the floor in an agony of shame and
despair.

"He would never have my love now, if it were offered him!" she said,
wringing her hands. "He knows me too well! The glamour of that happy
love-summer has gone! gone! To-night, I feel further off from him
than ever. He despises me as I deserve! But righteous punishment is
as hard to bear as unjust condemnation. And I have suffered so much,
and so long! I could have been wholly frank with him, if he had but
gone and sat with me ten minutes--if he had been himself, instead
of shrinking from my touch--rejecting my companionship."

"The book opened of itself at that place!" Roy was thinking at that
moment. He had been to the sitting-room for the volume, carried it
into the library, and re-read the poem again and yet again,
detecting what he imagined was a tear blister on the second page.
"What can I do? What course is left to me save that which I am
pursuing? Am I still odious to her?"

The girl at the spring smiled down upon him from the wall; seemed to
hold out the green leaf-cup for his acceptance. He could see the
glisten of the water upon it; fancy that he heard in the stillness
the tinkle of the bright beads as they fell into the basin. The eyes
that gave back her look were very patient, but just now it was a
patience that had in it much of the weariness of hope deferred.

"I have put a cup of bitterness to your lips, my bird of beauty!"
was his unselfish lament.

Mr. Wyllys "had builded better than he knew," that evening.

      

"I wouldn't be as cold-blooded as that woman, for all the gold of
Golconda!" exclaimed Hester, before the steps of the Fordham cottage
were cold from the touch of her Parisian gaiters.

"Maybe you mean diamonds," said her husband curtly. "It is a safe
plan not to use terms unless you are certain they are correct."

"Gold or diamonds, it makes no difference! I don't pick my words
when I am out of patience. It's precious little she has of either
commodity, I guess!" laughing spitefully.

"Take care of that rough place in the crossing," cautioned Wyllys,
in a less acrimonious tone, thus reminded what store his spouse
possessed of the valuables specified, and, by inevitable association
of ideas, of his profitable investment.


"She frets me always!" continued the sweet creature, hanging,
according to custom, basket-wise upon his arm. "This evening she was
positively rude. How provokingly she laughed at that sweet piece
you read so divinely that I was in tears all the way through. You
meant it for her, I could see well enough, you smart, sly creature!
And it served her just right! I as good as told her she did not care
a snap for her husband, before you came in. And she took it as
coolly as if I had paid her a compliment. It is awful what scared
consciences some people have. I take to myself the credit of having
seen through her from the beginning, when that horrid old
matchmaker, Mrs. Baxter, who always puts me in mind of a grinning
hyena, was trying to put her off on you. As if you would have
married a girl who was next door to a beggar! What is it, petty?"

"I trod on a pebble!"

He had almost flung her arms from their hold. For he remembered the
story he had told Jessie in the conservatory, of the woman who was
married for her money, and gloried in it.

"What a pity!" gabbled his owner. "I am morally certain that she
married Mr. Fordham, poor fellow! to get a home. If that isn't
disgustingly immoral--a perfect sale of one's self in the shambles,
as you may say, I don't know what is. To be sure, your cousin is one
of the very quiet, non-exacting kind, and I hope doesn't suffer as
you would, darling love, if she were your wife!" pinching his arm
with her claw-like fingers. "For you and I are such turtles,
dearie!"




CHAPTER XXV.


Spring was forward in Hamilton that year. Mrs. Baxter, walking on
the presidential portico at noon of a bright day in the third week
of April complimented the extraordinary benignity of that usually
coy month, by sporting the first white dress of the season.

A knot of irreverent students collected about the window of one of
the college dormitories, catching glimpses of her snowy draperies
fluttering from pillar to pillar of the porch, made merry over
profane pleasantries, touching, "flourishing almond trees," and
"antique angels."

"Wonder if she wears that red flannel night-cap to ward off the
rheumatism!" said one, directing his puny arrow of wit at the
"individualizing" scarlet scarf, now wound into a turban about her
classic head, the silken fringes sweeping her shoulder.

"It is a piratical flag!" rejoined another. "And there! she is
signalling some poor wretch on to his doom!"

The Lady President had waved her handkerchief to some one in or
near the college, and halted at the top of the front steps to
receive him.

"Who is the latest victim?" asked those in the rear of the party, as
the foremost craned his neck to peer upon the campus.

"One who is able to take care of himself," was the response. "No
less a personage than his Royal Highness."

This sobriquet, let me explain, was applied to Professor Fordham
in no unkind or depreciatory spirit by his classes. Originally
intended as a play upon his Christian name, it grew into popular
esteem as descriptive of their pride in his manly carriage and
knightly demeanor. The quintette at the window watched him with
interest and admiration now, as he strode along the gravelled avenue
leading to the Presidents' house.

"He would march up to the cannon's mouth in the same style,"
commented the chief speaker. "Did you ever see better shoulders?"

"Did you ever see a better man?" interrogated the fifth of the
group--a grave senior, who had not spoken before.

And to the honor of the watchers, as of the watched, be it recorded
that a hearty acquiescence in his verdict followed the question.

The goodly man found abundant favor, likewise in Mrs. Baxter's eyes,
as she invited him to enter her abode.

    "'Will you walk into my parlor?'
    Said the spider to the fly."

Sang one of the graceless rascals in the dormitory, as a commentary
upon the, to them, dumb show.

It was to Fordham anything but dumb. Mrs. Baxter was excruciatingly
voluble in excusing herself for "what you must, I am certain, regard
as an unparalleled liberty, my dear Professor!" she continued, when
he was seated.

"I am gratefully at your service whenever you can make use of me,
madam," was the reply, which was more sincere than professions of
the kind usually are.

Mrs. Baxter's genuine love for her young cousin, and her numberless
acts of neighborly kindness, had greatly endeared her to Jessie's
husband. Her peculiarities of manner and phraseology weighed nothing
with him when compared with her sound principles and generous heart.

"Thank you! I knew I might make the venture with you! My own
mind being ill at ease, I could not resist the impulse to waylay you
and unburden"--making as though she would clutch her heart, then
sprawling both hands, her arms widely divergent lines from her
heaving bust--"unburden myself to you, as the person most likely
to sympathize with and ameliorate my anxieties. I had nearly said,
my maternal anxieties. And indeed, Mr. Fordham, I could scarcely
love your dear wife more, if she were, in truth, my child. Dear to
me as the representative of the beloved friend of my youth, she has
enhanced that partiality a thousandfold by her own worth and
loveliness. This is my apology--this and the solicitude to which I
have referred, for what may appear to you indelicate interference
with your domestic affairs."

The polite interest with which her auditor had received her
prefatory remarks was supplanted by uneasiness, instant and
intense, as he perceived the drift of her speech. He had made a
motion to rise when the words, "your dear wife," passed her writhing
lips.

She hindered him with outstretched hands.

"Not that there is any cause for new and immediate alarm," she
hastened to assure him. "But I was in to see her this morning. She
keeps bravely up when you are at home, I dare say."

"She never complains. I have had my apprehensions that the untimely
heat of the weather has been prejudicial to her strength. Her
appetite is variable, and she is paler than she was in the winter,
but I attributed--"

"Yes! of course!" interrupted Mrs. Baxter. Once bent upon an
harangue, she was about as easily checked as a Yellowstone geyser in
full play. "I am not surprised that your fears have not been
awakened. I taxed her, to-day, with having deceived you as to the
extent of her lassitude and depression. I surprised her lying on the
sofa in her room, with the traces of fresh and copious tears upon
her cheeks. She tried to laugh me out of my fears by talk of
nervousness and hysteria, and would doubtless have succeeded, such
are her spirit and address--but, Mr. Fordham! her precise likeness
in look and manner at that moment to her sainted mother sent a
poignant fear through my soul! Far be it from me to censure the
dead, but I have always maintained--I shall ever believe that my
precious Ginevra's life might have been spared--prolonged for
years--had her husband conferred with those who were conversant
with her idiosyncrasies--spiritual and physical. Although--I will
reveal to you, my dear sir, under the seal of a secrecy you will see
the expediency of respecting, what I have never lisped to her
daughter, or even to the best of husbands and men--Dr. Baxter. My
cousin Ginevra carried a blighted heart to Dundee when she went
thither as Mr. Kirke's bride. An unfortunate misunderstanding had
alienated her from one to whom her girlish affections were given. It
is needless to enter into particulars. It is enough to say that they
had loved and they were parted. She had not seen or heard from him
for two years, most of which time she had passed abroad; indeed, she
believed him to be the husband of another when she accepted Mr.
Kirke. I own to you that my instinct and my reason opposed this
fatal step. I expostulated with her.

"'Jane!' said she (you can imagine how Jessie would utter it!) 'say
no more. My resolution is taken. This is a good man, and he loves
me! In this union I shall--I may find rest, quiet, and in some
measure, peace. I have been storm-tossed until I have no strength
left for struggling!'

"Upon the eve of her marriage, the man whom she loved returned and
sought an interview. I was with her in her chamber when his card,
requesting this favor, was handed her. At sight of the familiar
characters the buried love sprang up alive, strong, importunate! It
was a fearful scene--that resurrection! What should she have done?"

"Confessed all to her promised husband!" came low and sternly from
the man's heart. "He would have resigned her to her lover without a
word of blame. I knew Mr. Kirke well. I do not speak unadvisedly."

"Such was my counsel. But she would not heed it. She refused to look
again upon the face of him whose heart was breaking with love and
vain regrets, and went right on to her bridal. And her daughter, if
subjected to a like test, would act as she did."

"You say that Jessie is not well?" said Roy, shortly.

There were limits to his fortitude. He could not hear other lips
tell what would be Jessie's action were an abhorrent marriage forced
upon her by conscience or honor.

"In my estimation, she is very far"--arms again divergent--"very
far from well, even taking into consideration the provocatives to
languor you alluded to, just now. Furthermore--and again let me
beg you to receive this intimation in the spirit in which I offer
it!--furthermore, she is homesick for Dundee and her sister. I
adverted to them casually to assure myself that my views on this
point were correct, and her eyes filled again directly.

"'I had hoped to see Euna this month,' she said, 'but the change in
the college vacation, abolishing the intermediate, and making one
long term instead of two short ones, has prevented it.'

"But when I remarked--'I wish Eunice could pay you a visit, were it
only from Saturday to Monday!' the loyal wife (such a stanch
advocate as you have in her, Mr. Fordham!), took alarm.

"'Indeed, Cousin Jane, no one could take kinder care of me than Roy
does!' she said, warmly. 'He spoils and pets me beyond reason, and
when he is in the house, I desire no other society.'

"'But my precious girl!' I remonstrated; 'he cannot be with you all
the time?'

"I wish you had seen the smile with which she replied--'Ah! but I
have the memory of his goodness to live on in his absence!'

"She is true and fond, Mr. Fordham! Nevertheless, she does need
change of air and scene. Her mother pined herself into an untimely
grave in her longing for a sight of her old home and the faces of
beloved ones."

Roy was silent; his eyes downcast, his lips whitening with the
pressure this story had brought to bear upon him. It was not so much
the consciousness that, in sending his wife away, he would rob his
life of repression and self-denial of the little sunshine left to
it, as the thought that she was sickening of his companionship;
could not live and grow in his shadow. This was the naked truth,
disguise it as she might from her cousin; deny it to herself as she
probably did. In every point of Mrs. Baxter's description, he
recognized this terrible sense of bondage, crushing spirit and life;
heard, even in her tribute to his loving watchfulness over her
health and bodily comfort, the plaint embodied in the poem he had
learned by heart:

    "Like a chain√®d thing, caressed
    By the hand it knows the best,
    By the hand which, day by day,
    Visits its imprisoned stay,
    Bringing gifts of fruit and blossom
    From the green earth's plenteous bosom;
    All but that for which it pines,
    In these narrow, close confines,
    With a sad and ceaseless sigh,--
    Wild and wing√®d Liberty!"

With a deep inspiration which was the farewell to more hopeful
dreams than he knew, until then, he had nursed, he collected his
senses to reply.

"It was my intention to take Jessie to Dundee in June, at the
beginning of my vacation. She set the time herself--I can see now,
in compliance with what she believed were my wishes. But she shall
go at once. I thank you for your more than friendly concern for her,
your frank dealing with me."

He arose to go. The lady scanned his face somewhat uneasily. There
was something there that foiled her penetration.

"You understand, my dear sir, that nothing would have tempted me
to intermeddle in this affair, were the case precisely what you have
supposed. But there is an undercurrent, Mr. Fordham, the effect of
which I can trace, that seriously complicates anything like
hysterical depression. And loving the child as we do--as every one
does, it behooves us to watch her warily, minister to her
intelligently as tenderly. The affection between the sisters is
unusually strong, and we should remember that the dear lamb has
known no other mother."

"I have offered, several times during the winter, to take her to
visit Eunice. We were to have gone at Christmas, but Jessie had a
severe cold that confined her to the house a fortnight."

"I remember! To be quite sincere with you--not that I consider it
a dangerous symptom--but I wish she were rid of that little
hacking cough. She makes light of it. Says it is nervous, or from
the stomach. But I do not like it!"

She attended him to the portico, disclaiming, cautioning, and
thanking him,--gesticulating through it all--as the wickedest of the
wicked quintette of observers had it--"like a lunatic windmill."
They espied no change in the Professor's gait or air. He walked
firmly, head erect and countenance composed. And their distance
from him was too great to allow them to note the want of color in
his complexion.

He entered his own house, more slowly than he had trodden the
pavement. Jessie had fallen into the habit common to wives who hail
their husbands' return as cheering events, of meeting him in the
hall, sometimes at the front door. She appeared from the
sitting-room, while he was hanging up his hat and dusting his boots.
He was particular in all that pertained to personal neatness.

"Your step sounds weary," she said. "It is very warm, really
debilitating, to-day--is it not?"

During his brief answer he surveyed her narrowly, the dread that had
been gnawing his heart all the way home sharpening his vision in the
search for signs of debility and disease.

She, too, wore a white dress, but a black grenadine shawl was folded
over her chest, and Roy's eye rested aghast upon the thin hand that
held it together. What had he been thinking of, not to discern the
inroads of the destroyer in this, and in the finer oval of her face;
in the slight cough that succeeded her question, and the hurried
breathing he could hear in approaching her? If his awakening should
have come too late!

"I believe I have the Spring fever," he said, affecting to suppress
a yawn. "This weather puts one in mind of country delights; makes
him crave the smell of the freshly upturned earth, and the sight of
green land growing things."

"Then take a look at my conservatory," she returned, playfully,
leading the way to the open bay-window.

The sill, without and within, was crowded with plants. She had been
at work among them for an hour, and they were in their freshest
trim. The pruning-scissors lay upon the shelf, and, taking them up,
she clipped a sprig of heliotrope, another of mignonette, a
rose-bud, and a bit of citron-aloes, bound them together with silk
from her work-basket, and offered them smilingly.

"Thank you. They are very sweet, very beautiful! How does the
jessamine thrive?"

"Not so well as it should--ungrateful little thing!" touching the
leaves of a stunted vine which was honored with a china flower-pot
and the sunniest stand in the window. "I am afraid it cannot
flourish in this high latitude. It needs warmer earth, less fitful
sunshine. Or it may be that I am killing it with kindness," she
added, shaking her head pensively.

Roy detected another meaning in her thoughtfulness. Ungenial
influences, unwelcome assiduity of attention, were sapping her
vitality, and the analogy between her lot and that of her fading
favorite was wearing upon her imagination.

"We will try again."

He had to clear his throat before he could speak. Jessie smiled
slightly, with no misgiving of the communication that awaited her.
She even stooped to pick off a few withered leaves that had
previously escaped her notice. The two were side by side within the
recess; so near together that the warm breeze blew the light folds
of the wife's dress over the husband's arm; but she recked no more
of the wretchedness kept down by his strong will than if a thousand
leagues of ocean divided them.

"I have been thinking seriously all the way home of taking you to
Dundee, and leaving you in Eunice's charge for a time," continued
Roy, presently. "You are not so rosy and light-footed here as you
were among the mountains. And the sudden variations of our climate
affect the human Jessamine also! You should have a change, and
without delay."

"I am very well--entirely contented!" she interposed, reddening
vividly.

"You are kind to say so!" gratefully. "But there are other reasons
why you should anticipate the date originally set for your visit to
your old home. Eunice has been very self-denying and patient, and
she should have her reward. While you are regaining health and
strength, winning back your lost roses, you can accumulate a
plentiful supply of seeds and roots of all descriptions, besides
studying floriculture with your sister--if it be true, as you would
make me believe, that she excels you in skill. For in your absence I
shall have a real conservatory built back of this room, and our long
talked of oriel run out here."

Jessie made a desperate effort to jest away the discussion.

"Oh! as to the oriel, I have quite abandoned the project since Mrs.
Wyllys told me--having learned from the Provosts that we meditated
something of the sort--that oriels had 'gone out entirely; that no
stylish house nowadays is disfigured by them.' The only thing
resembling the obsolete excrescences that would be admitted into a
modern 'establishment' is a mullioned window, my good sir! I should
never hold up my head in Hamilton again if I were to offend so
boldly against the rules of art governing the best society!"

The toss of her head and her tones were Mrs. Orrin's to the life.
But Roy had hard work to smile. In his state of mind, badinage was
like jesting over a death-bed.

"Mrs. Wyllys must look the other way, then--at the majestic
proportions of her cupola, if she likes, for the oriel is to be a
fact next month. The work will be better done if I am on the ground
to oversee operations, and it would not be pleasant for you to
remain in the house while it is in confusion, not to mention the
risk of taking cold from the damp walls and the open room, while the
wall is down. It will be a convenience all around, you see."

"If you really think that I will be in the way--"

"I did not say that!" The correction was so prompt as to sound
sharp. "But my judgment tells me that the plan I suggest is the best
for both of us. My mind will be easier with regard to you if you are
safe and happy in Eunice's care."

Jessie had turned her face quite away, and seemed to be gazing at
some object in the street.

"I see!" she said, finally. "When do you wish me to go?"

"Whenever it suits your convenience. If you desire my escort, we had
best leave Hamilton on Saturday of this or the next week."

"I can travel alone easily if it is not convenient for you to leave
your classes. If you go on Saturday you lose Monday also. This is
Tuesday. I can be ready by Thursday morning. If the change be as
needful as you suppose, the sooner it is made the better. As to an
escort, a lady needs none when there is no change of cars."

Roy pinched the succulent stems of his flowers until the perfume
was hot and sickly. How impatient she was to be gone! She had gasped
when he opened the door of escape from her cage, as if she already
saw "wild and wing√®d liberty" beyond.

"You do not think it necessary to notify Eunice of your coming,
then?" he inquired.

"You can telegraph on Thursday morning, when you are fairly rid of
me. Euna is always at home, and always ready and glad to see me. My
visit will make her very happy."

The rising tears broke through her assumed lightness. She struggled
to drive them back, and failing, walked abruptly from the room.

And thus the question was settled.

Jessie began to pack that afternoon; working so diligently as to be
wan and appetiteless by supper time. Fanny Provost and her
betrothed, Lieutenant Averill, who was in Hamilton on furlough,
called in the evening. Warren Provost and Selina Bradley came in
afterward, and the hostess revived visibly in their society. Her
eyes and color were brilliant; her laugh ready; her repartee pointed
and felicitous. The young people, regretting the near prospect of
her departure, fell to rallying her upon her partiality for country
life, and she defended the preference with spirit. Then, at Fanny's
earnest request, she told the authentic legend of Dundee and "auld
Davie," appearing to forget herself and her slavery (thought Roy),
in her enthusiasm.

"The women fought too!" ejaculated Selina, when it was finished.
"They were made of different stuff from me, or any other young lady
of this generation that I know. I go into convulsions at the sight
of an empty gun."

"They were warring for home and freedom!" rejoined Jessie. "To avoid
captivity I would fight in the open field in the ranks. And so would
you. But the love of liberty is oftener a passion with us
mountaineers, than with lowlanders."

She caught her breath strangely--something between a sob and a
laugh--which she tried to cover with a cough.

    "A sad and ceaseless sigh!"

repeated the haunting demon in Roy's heart.

The hilarious talk went on, unchecked by his occasional fits of
abstraction. Jessie was like another being in the anticipation of
liberation.

"Heartlessly cheerful!" said Selina, with her usual aptitude for
making unlucky observations.

"One would think you two were tired of each other already!" she
subjoined. "And you haven't been married more than half a year! I
shall tell this to papa. He raved over your mutual attachment and
your devoted attentions to Mr. Fordham when he was sick, Jessie!"

"Say, at the same time, that she does not go, of her own accord!"
said Roy--"but because I try to be as careful of her health as she
was of mine. Although, if you had ever visited Dundee, you would not
be scandalized by her desire to revisit it."

Fanny, observing Jessie's quick, hot blush and averted eyes, and
divining that something was ajar, came to the relief of the hardly
pressed couple.

"Did Jessie ever tell you, Mr. Fordham," she said, in her liveliest
tone--"of the astounding poetical effort put forth by her admirer,
Mr. Lowndes, the rich student, they used to call him--entitled,
'Jessie the flower o' Dundee'! The graceless youths of his class
set it to the good old Scotch tune of that name. It was in a
different metre--very uncommon, I believe, and the fun of the joke
was in fitting the words in, after the manner of 'Ancient Uncle
Edward.' I will get you a copy, and Warren here shall teach you how
to sing it."




CHAPTER XXVI.


The weather changed on the morrow.

Coming home at nightfall, Roy found Jessie standing at the western
window, surveying sorrowfully the unfavorable aspect of the heavens.

"It will be very unpleasant travelling in the rain!" she remarked as
he entered. "The sun went down behind a portentous bank of clouds.
And the wind is veering to the storm-quarter."

It was evident that the possibility of a single day's delay made her
restless and anxious.

"The signs portend nothing worse than April showers, I hope," he
encouraged her to believe. "Or, should there be a steady rain, you
will soon run out of it into the region of blue skies and milder
airs. I see no reason for altering your arrangements. You will be
sheltered and dry in the cars."

"True!" she answered, musingly, returning to her contemplation of
the unpromising horizon.

She was perturbed, however, and unusually taciturn while they were
at supper; dull and spiritless during the hour they spent together
in the sitting-room; arousing herself with apparent effort to reply
to his remarks, and rarely offering one of her own accord. Roy's
