was really horrible to see the whole party going to the Sea Cliff.

"How do you do, Mr. Hamilton?" said Squire Moses, extending his withered
hand to the New York merchant. "Glad to see you come down to the old
place once in a while."

"Ah, how do you do, Squire Wormbury?" replied Mr. Hamilton, taking the
offered hand. "I mean to come down here every year."

"My son keeps the Island Hotel," insinuated the squire. "He don't make
quite so much show as Bennington, but he will take good care of you, and
feed you better. Folks that know say he keeps the best house. And
Bennington has raised his price to three dollars a day; the Island
Hotel is only two."

Moses Wormbury considered the last argument as by far the most powerful
one he could present. How any man could help wishing to save a dollar a
day on his board, was more than the squire was able to comprehend.

"I have already spoken for rooms at the Sea Cliff House, and they have
made fires in them for us," replied Mr. Hamilton, unmoved by the old
man's powerful appeal.

"Ethan will give you a fire, and not charge you anything extra for it,
as they do at Bennington's," added the squire. "He can accommodate the
whole party if you will sleep two in a bed. You will save at least
fifteen dollars a day by going to the Island Hotel."

"As we have spoken for rooms at the Sea Cliff House, I think we ought to
go there," answered the New Yorker, rather coldly, unmoved by the
economical considerations of the squire.

"Stage all ready, Mr. Hamilton," interposed Leopold, who had listened
with painful anxiety to a portion of the old man's arguments.

The "stage" was a long wagon, like an omnibus, but with no top; and
Ethan saw, with an aching and an angry heart, the entire party of
fifteen crowd into this vehicle. Squire Moses was not only vexed, he was
downright mad. At any time it would have annoyed him, as well as Ethan,
to see fifteen "arrivals" go to the "other house," and not a single one
to the Island Hotel. To the old man it was doubly grievous at the
present time, for every day the party staid at the Sea Cliff House would
put at least forty-five dollars into the pocket of its landlord; and he
was afraid Mr. Bennington would be able to pay his interest money on the
day it was due. He wanted the new hotel for his son, if he could get it
cheap enough, that is, for one third or one half of its value. This
dawning of prosperity upon the Sea Cliff was, therefore, very unwelcome
to the squire and his son.

Leopold leaped upon the box with the driver as soon as the passengers
were all seated, and the two horses tugged up the steep hill from the
wharf with the heavy load. On the level road above, the excited teamster
put the whip upon his horses, and dashed up to the hotel at full
gallop. Fifteen arrivals at once, at this time in the year, was very
unusual, and everybody about the hotel was thrown into a fever of
excitement. The landlord stood upon the piazza, with no hat on his head,
bowed and scraped, and helped the ladies out of the wagon. The party
were shown to the parlor, which the roaring fire had heated to a fever
temperature, so that the perspiration stood upon the landlord's brow
when he entered it. In the mean time Leopold had hastened to his room to
change his clothes, and make himself presentable to the party.

"This is delicious--isn't it?" said one of the ladies, when she felt the
warm air of the parlor.

"It feels like a new world," added another.

"What a blessing it will be to be warm and dry once more!" put in a
third.

"We have made fires in your rooms, ladies," interposed the polite
landlord, doubly courteous under the avalanche of good fortune which had
fallen upon him. "I will show you your rooms as soon as you wish."

"Let us get warm before we do anything," said Mr. Hamilton, removing
his heavy coat. "You have a very nice house, Mr. Bennington."

"We think it is pretty fair down here," replied the modest landlord. "We
have a parlor up one flight, with a bed-room on each side, which Leopold
always calls 'Mr. Hamilton's rooms.' I think they will suit you; at any
rate, I fitted them on purpose for your use."

"That was very considerate," laughed the merchant.

"The three rooms will just accommodate your family. I have four other
parlors, not quite so large, with one bed-room to each," continued the
landlord, looking around at the New Yorkers, as if to ascertain their
wants. "Of course you needn't have private parlors, if you don't want
them. I have plenty of nice single rooms."

"We want the private parlors," replied Mr. Hamilton. "I did not expect
to find such accommodations in Rockhaven."

"I think I know what a hotel ought to be," added the landlord. "By and
by, if our guests don't want private parlors, we shall put beds in
them."

"Squire Moses says you have raised the price," laughed the rich
merchant.

"Yes, sir: I couldn't afford to keep such a house as I mean to keep at
two dollars a day in these times."

"You have done quite right, and the price is very reasonable."

"I shall have to charge five dollars a day for the parlors, if anybody
wants them."

"Certainly; that is also proper; and we want five of them. Now I will go
to the office, and enter the names on the register," said Mr. Hamilton.

Their were five gentlemen with their wives, two single gentlemen, two
young ladies, and one young gentleman of sixteen. Rooms were assigned to
them according to their several needs, and all the party expressed
themselves as delighted with their accommodations. The furniture was not
costly, but it was neat and comfortable. The beds were clean, and
everything was in good order. The baggage, which the boats had brought
ashore after landing the passengers, was conveyed by the wagon to the
hotel. In less than an hour, the guests were all comfortable and happy.

Mr. Bennington was on the jump all the time, and so was Leopold. The
landlady, who was also the cook, was "spreading herself" to the utmost
upon the dinner. They all knew that the success of the house depended in
a very great measure upon the satisfaction given to these wealthy and
influential guests. The landlord, however, knew better than to waste his
strength upon mere "style," for he could not expect to equal that to
which his present patrons were all accustomed at home. He wanted the
best of meats and vegetables, well cooked, and served hot. He knew very
well that a teaspoonful of string beans, mashed potato, stewed tomato,
or green peas, in a miniature dish, placed before a guest after it had
been standing half an hour on the pantry table, was not eatable; and he
governed himself accordingly.

At dinner the guests appeared modestly dressed, and it would have been
difficult to identify in them the bundles of water-proofs, shawls, and
overcoats which had landed at the wharf. Leopold had put on a "biled
shirt," as he called it, and dressed himself in his best clothes. To
him was assigned the duty of waiting upon Mr. Hamilton and his family.
In his "store clothes" Leopold was a good-looking fellow, and he was
remarkably attentive to the wants of Miss Rosabel.

The dinner proceeded satisfactorily to the new guests, as to the old
ones. Dr. Heilenwinder declared that the soup was marvellously good; and
when he learned that Mrs. Bennington, who made it was a German by birth,
its excellence was explained to him.

The fog and rain continued for three days, and the ladies of the party
hardly ventured out of the house. The bowling alleys and billiard tables
were in constant use, and every evening, in the large hall connected
with the hotel, there was a dance, to which Mr. Hamilton invited many of
the town's people. It was fun and frolic from morning till midnight; and
no party weather-bound in a hotel ever enjoyed themselves more.

The fourth day was bright and pleasant.




CHAPTER XIII.

THE EXCURSION TO HIGH ROCK.


The yacht party which had come to Rockhaven in the Orion, in spite of
the fog and the rain, appeared to be very happy. If they were
aristocratic in the metropolis, they were not so in their summer resort.
Though the party was large enough to enable them to "have a good time"
without any assistance from outside of the hotel, they invited many of
the people of Rockhaven to join them in their indoor amusements. As Mr.
Hamilton was a native of the town, he was quite at home there, though he
had been absent from his boyhood. In addition to the dancing, the
billiards, and the bowling, one of the gentlemen of the party was an
elocutionist, and gave several "readings" in the parlor. A celebrated
writing-master, who was a guest at the hotel, gave an exhibition of his
sleight of hand tricks, in which he was almost as skillful as in the use
of his pen. At the end of the third day it was voted that, in spite of
the weather, the party had enjoyed themselves to the utmost. Mr.
Bennington and Leopold were unremitting in their efforts to make the
guests comfortable and happy.

But in spite of the enjoyment within doors, the New Yorkers were glad to
see the sun shine again. For the first time since their arrival they
were permitted to gaze upon the rugged and beautiful scenery of the
island. They were delighted with the cliffs, and with the views from
them. Most of the party spent the day in rambling about the town and in
climbing the rocks; but the younger members of it insisted upon
something more exciting. When Leopold carried their coffee to Rosabel
and her friend Isabel Peterson, at the breakfast table, he found them
very much excited. They were talking together with a furious enthusiasm,
though there was to be no wedding, or even a grand ball.

"We want to go to High Rock right off after breakfast," said Rosabel;
and it appeared that the high spirits of the young ladies were produced
simply by the anticipation of this excursion.

"In the Rosabel?" asked Leopold.

"Yes, certainly," answered Miss Hamilton.

"I will be ready for you," added the skipper.

"High Rock is such a delightful place!" exclaimed Rosabel, turning to
Isabel again. "I went there twice last summer; and I never enjoyed
myself so much as I did in climbing the rocks, and looking out upon the
ocean. I want you to see the place at once, Belle."

"I shall be delighted to go, especially if we are to sail in the
Rosabel," replied Miss Peterson. "Isn't it a nice thing to have a boat
named after you!"

"Of course it is a very great honor," laughed Rosabel, as she shook back
the affluence of wavy auburn locks which fell upon her shoulders.
"Leopold is a real good fellow."

"He is a very good-looking fellow, too," added Isabel, in a lower tone.
"His face is handsome, and if he were only dressed in good style, he
would be magnificent."

"I think he is nice now," said Rosabel, candidly, and without a blush,
for the little beauty was conscious of nothing but a kindly regard for
the landlord's son.

"He doesn't talk a bit country, and isn't clumsy and awkward, like many
young fellows away from the city."

"His manners are as pleasant as those of any young man I ever met. Do
you know, Belle, he speaks German?"

"What, Leopold!"

"He knows how to speak it a great deal better than I do, though he never
studied it in school, as I have for two years."

Leopold had left the dining-room for a moment, so that he did not hear
any of this conversation, and therefore had no idea how well he stood in
the estimation of these young ladies. Of course they did not intend that
he should know; and the next remark of Isabel, to the effect that she
wished he was not a "waiter," would certainly have hurt his feelings.
Leopold had gone into the office, where he found a boy waiting for a
chance to set up pins in the bowling alley, whom he sent for Stumpy,
with directions for him to have the Rosabel ready immediately for the
excursion to High Rock. Stumpy often went with him, and, as he intended
to wear his good clothes on the trip, he wanted his help on this
occasion.

As soon as breakfast was finished, Leopold was ready. His passengers
were to be Rosabel, Isabel, and Charley Redmond, a young man of
seventeen, and the son of one of the New Yorkers in the party. The sloop
was all ready when they reached the river. Stumpy had hoisted the
mainsail, and hauled her up where the passengers could embark without
difficulty.

"Why, she is a real nice boat!" exclaimed Isabel, as she seated herself
in the standing-room.

"I told you she was," replied Rosabel.

"Quite nobby," added Charley Redmond, with a patronizing tone, as he
adjusted his eye-glasses, for he was either near-sighted, or fancied
that the glasses added to his dignity and importance. "I dare say this
rustic is quite a boatman."

"He may be a rustic, but he is not so green as you are, Charley
Redmond," added Isabel, indignantly; but she spoke for her friend rather
than for herself.

The "rustic" did not hear any of these remarks, for after helping the
girls to their seats, he had gone to cast off the cable which Stumpy was
hauling in. But Leopold did not like Charley Redmond, for the young
gentleman was a person of ten times as much importance, in his own
estimation, as his father. He was supercilious, and, unlike the rest of
the party, looked down upon the boatman, and everybody else in the town.

"Of course you couldn't expect much of a fellow down here," added
Charley.

"He knows twice as much as you do," retorted Isabel, as the skipper took
his place at the helm, thus putting an end to the conversation.

"Now shove her off, Stumpy," said Leopold.

"Stumpy!" ejaculated Charley, with a laugh. "That's a romantic name."

"His name is Stumpfield Wormbury," Leopold explained. "He is a
first-rate fellow."

"No doubt of it," sneered the New Yorker, who was not a good specimen of
his genus, and could not appreciate such a "good fellow," with his
brown face and coarse clothes.

"He don't like his nickname very well, and when he objected to it, years
ago, the fellows began to call him 'Wormy.' He couldn't stand that, and
is satisfied now to be called 'Stumpy.'"

"Stumpy is better than Wormy," added Charley Redmond.

"Hoist the jib," said Leopold.

The Rosabel went off with a brisk breeze, at a speed which immediately
rekindled the enthusiasm of the girls; and, to prolong the sail, Leopold
stood off into the bay, going around a small rocky island, a mile from
the light-house.

"It's rather rough out here," said Charley Redmond, when the sloop began
to dance and leap on the waves thrown up by the fresh north-west wind.

"It's delightful!" exclaimed Isabel; "isn't it, Rose?"

"I think so, Belle; I enjoy it above all things."

"But the boat is rather small," suggested Charley, as a cloud of spray
dashed over the bow.

"So much the better," added Rosabel.

When the sloop was a mile from the shore, where the water was not
sheltered by the high cliffs, the white caps lighted up the bay, and it
was very lively sailing. The Rosabel, close-hauled, pitched smartly, and
the spray soon drenched Stumpy, who, presuming not to intrude himself
into the presence of the New Yorkers in the standing-room, remained upon
the half-deck. Mr. Redmond was not willing to own it, but he was
actually frightened, as Leopold could see by the way he started when the
boat pitched, and by the energy with which he held on to the washboard.

"I don't know that I like this very well," said he, at last, with a sort
of shudder.

"It's perfectly splendid," exclaimed Belle.

"Elegant," added Rosabel.

"I will come about whenever you wish, Miss Hamilton," said Leopold.

"O, no, not yet," protested Isabel.

"I think it is about time," put in Charley. "It is cold and wet."

The skipper enjoyed the starts and squirmings of the young gentleman. He
had the boat perfectly in hand, though by this time she had all the wind
she could stagger under. He knew very well that the most exciting part
of the sail was yet to come, for he would have the wind free as soon as
he came about. If the girls had not been on board, he would have let the
boat over far enough to take in a few buckets of water, for the especial
benefit of Mr. Redmond. He knew just how much she would bear, and he
could do it with entire safety; but he did not care to alarm his fair
passengers. Having weathered the island, he let off the sheets a little.
The Rosabel heeled over, and promptly increased her speed. The wind came
in gusts, and now every flaw carried her down to the washboard. Mr.
Redmond was more uneasy than ever, but the girls only shouted in the
exuberance of their delight.

"I don't believe in this thing," said Charley, at last, when his
nervousness overcame him.

"Are you afraid, Charley?" laughed Belle.

"Of course I'm not afraid--ugh!" he muttered, as the sloop heeled over
till the waves threatened to invade the standing-room.

"You are afraid Charley."

"I'm not afraid; but I don't think it is safe. I've been in boats enough
to know that this isn't the way to do the thing. Why don't you lower
one of the sails, Leopold?"

"What for?" asked the skipper quietly.

"You will upset the boat!" gasped Charley.

"No danger of that."

"But I know there is: I have been in boats before," protested Charley.

"If the ladies wish me to reef the mainsail, I will do so," said
Leopold.

"O, no; don't, don't, Leopold!" cried Belle. "I think this is just
lovely."

"Fun alive--isn't it?" chimed in Rosabel. "It would spoil it all to
reef."

"If we only had a man with us, it would be another thing," groaned Mr.
Redmond, with a shudder, as the boat went down to her washboard again.

"I think I am strong enough to handle her," suggested Leopold.

"But you don't understand it," exclaimed the New Yorker, desperately.

"If you think you understand it any better than I do, I am willing to
let you take my place," said the skipper, with a smile.

"O, no! don't let him! I should certainly be afraid then," cried Belle.

"I don't pretend to know anything about a boat; and I don't think you
do," blubbered Charley, angrily.

"I think I can get along with her," added Leopold, pleasantly. "This is
a quiet time compared with what I have seen out here in this boat."

Mr. Raymond continued to growl, and the girls continued to scream and
"squeal" with delight when the sloop heeled over, and when the spray
drenched their water-proofs. The Rosabel was at least five miles from
the land, still making things very lively on board, when a large
schooner was seen dead ahead.

"I've had enough of this thing," said Charley, clinging to the washboard
behind him. "If you don't turn round, or lower one of the sails, I shall
call for help from that vessel."

"What a simpleton you are!" exclaimed Belle; and her remarks were often
much stronger than Rosabel could approve.

Leopold quietly put the helm up, and let off the sheets, so that the
boat did not go within half a mile of the schooner. Half an hour later
he put her about, and, with the wind on the quarter, stood in towards
High Rock. Being almost before the wind, the Rosabel jumped, leaped, and
"yawed" about more than ever; but she took in no more spray over her
bow. She seemed to fly on her course, and Charley Redmond expected every
moment to feel her go over. He held on with desperation, unnoticed now
by the girls. In another half hour the sloop passed into the calmer
waters, sheltered by the high cliffs. Charley began to be brave again.

"You feel better--do you, Mr. Redmond?" said the laughing Belle.

"I feel well enough."

"You were afraid."

"Afraid--I? Not a bit of it; at least not for myself," replied the young
gentleman. "The boatman don't understand his business. That's the whole
of this thing."

"My father says he knows all about a boat; and he would trust him
farther than he would most men," added Rosabel. "Didn't he take the
Orion into the river in the fog?"

"He didn't manage the yacht: Captain Bounce was on board. I have been in
boats before, and I think I can tell when a boatman knows his biz,"
replied Charley, confidently. "I wasn't at all concerned about myself;
but I was afraid he would drown you girls. You were placed in my care--"

"Were we? Indeed! Didn't we invite you to come?" demanded Belle.

"If you did, of course it was my duty, as a gentleman, to look out for
you. No; I wasn't a bit concerned about myself; but I was afraid for
you."

"It was very kind of you to be afraid for us," sneered his fair
tormentor. "It was very unselfish in you. I think I see you now,
reckless of yourself, but trembling for our safety! I hope you will tell
Leopold how to manage a boat!"

"I shall be glad to learn," laughed the skipper.

Leopold ran the sloop alongside a rock, which at this time of tide
served as a wharf, and landed his party. Rosabel led the way to the Hole
in the Wall, and they soon disappeared in the deep ravine. The skipper
would have been very glad to go with them, but he was not invited to do
so; and without this formality he was unwilling to do that which might
possibly be deemed an intrusion. Rosabel wondered that he did not come
with them, and would have been glad of his company; but as she did not
feel herself above the boatman, it did not occur to her to ask him.

"That fellow was scared--wasn't he, Le?" said Stumpy, when they were
alone.

"Of course he was. He is a regular spooney," replied the skipper. "If
the girls hadn't been with us, I would have put him through a course of
sprouts."

"He thinks he is a bigger man than the president of the United States.
You won't catch him in the Rosabel again."

"I don't want to catch him there."

"How long are they going to stay up there, Le?" asked Stumpy.

"They won't come down for a couple of hours yet."

"Then I can dig a bucket of clams while we are waiting," added Stumpy,
as he took the shovel and a pail from the cuddy.

Leopold fastened the painter to the rocks, and followed his friend. The
bucket was soon filled with clams, the largest and finest to be found on
the coast, for they were seldom dug on this beach. In returning to the
boat, they passed quite near Coffin Rock, and of course Leopold could
not help thinking of the hidden treasure in the sand. Stumpy, with the
bucket of clams in his hand, led the way to the spot, not exactly with
the approbation of his companion, who was afraid that the waters had not
yet smoothed over the beach so as to conceal his recent operations.

"Come, Stumpy, ain't you going down to the boat?" asked Leopold, as he
began to move in a different direction from that of his friend.

"No hurry--is there? I want to go to the spring, and clean up a
little," replied the clam-digger.

"Can't you do it down by the boat?" suggested the money-digger, who did
not feel inclined to answer the questions which the disturbed state of
the beach under Coffin Rock would put into the mouth of Stumpy.

"I never wash in salt water when I can get fresh. Besides I want a
drink."

Without intending to be obstinate, Stumpy silently insisted upon having
his own way, by directing his steps towards the springs, which flowed
from the rocks not twenty feet from the hidden treasure. The pure water
dropped from an overhanging cliff, in a kind of alcove in the precipice.
It was clear and cold, and on a warm day it was emphatically a luxury.
If the weather was not warm on the present occasion, Stumpy was, for he
had been digging deep into the sand and mud of the beach. The water
dropping from the spring had formed a deep pool under the cliff, which
overflowed, and was discharged by a stream flowing down the sands into
the ocean. In this stream Stumpy washed his face and hands, and then his
feet, covered with the black mud which he had thrown up from under the
sand at low tide.

Leopold sat down on a bowlder, some distance from the cliff, to wait for
his companion. Stumpy seemed to be determined to do just what his friend
did not want him to do, for, as soon as he had washed his feet, he
walked directly out of the alcove to the spot under Coffin Rock, taking
the clams and shovel with him.

"I say, Le, can't we get up a clam-bake for the girls?" said he, calling
to the skipper in the distance.

"It won't pay," replied Leopold, walking to the place where Stumpy
stood, exactly over the buried treasure.

"Why not? You said Miss Rosabel liked clams."

"It will take too long. We must get back to the hotel by dinner time."

"Just as you say; but if the girls like clams, it would be a treat to
them; and this is just the place to do this thing."

"We haven't time to-day."

"All right," replied Stumpy, who seemed to be just then engaged in a
survey of the locality. "What in the world were you doing here, Le?" he
added. "This sand looks as though it had been all dug over."

No high tide had washed the beach since Leopold dug for the treasure,
and even his shovel marks were plainly to be seen under the overhanging
rock.

"I might as well tell him all about it," thought Leopold. "I can trust
him till the end of the world; and I should like to have some one to
help me bear the burden of the secret."

"What were you digging for, Le?" repeated Stumpy, his curiosity
considerably excited.

"Can you keep a secret, Stumpy?"

"Of course I can till the rocks crumble, and the earth sinks," replied
he, warmly.

Leopold told him the whole story, from the first glimpse he had of
Harvey Barth's diary, down to the finding of the bag of gold.

"I swow!" exclaimed Stumpy, drawing a long breath, when the narrative
was finished. "Twelve hundred in gold!"

"I haven't counted it; but that's what the diary says," replied Leopold.

"You will be as rich as mud, Le. Gold! Then it's worth double that in
paper."

"It don't belong to me," answered Leopold, decidedly.

"It belongs to you as much as it does to any one."

"But I intend to find the owner, or the heirs of the man who buried the
gold."

"I wouldn't leave it here a day longer, if I were you, Le," said
Stumpy. "Somebody else will find it."

This suggestion was considered for some time, and Leopold finally
concluded to dig up the treasure, and conceal it in some safer place. In
a few moments more the shot bag was unearthed, and Stumpy held it in his
hand.

"I swow! Solid gold!" exclaimed he.

"Halveses!" shouted Charley Redmond, suddenly stepping between the
money-diggers.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE FAIR THING.


Leopold immediately began to realize that he had no talent for
concealment; that he was a sad bungler in the management of any business
which was not open and above-board. This impertinent, disagreeable
little coxcomb of a New Yorker, without a warning sound to announce his
coming, had suddenly stepped between him and Stumpy, who held the hidden
treasure in his hand. If there was any person in or about Rockhaven from
whom he would have particularly desired to keep his secret, it was Mr.
Charles Redmond, or any other person like him.

Both Leopold and Stumpy supposed the little New Yorker with the
eye-glass was making himself as agreeable as he could to the young
ladies on the cliffs above. It is true there was an angle in the cliffs
which concealed his approach from the eye, and the soft sand deadened
the sound of footsteps to the ear; but both the money-digger and the
clam-digger would have deemed it impossible for any one to come into
their presence without being heard. But then both of them were absorbed
in the unearthing of the treasure, and Leopold made so much noise with
his shovel that the sound of Charley Redmond's approach, if there were
any, could not be heard.

Leopold looked at Stumpy, and Stumpy looked at Leopold. The money-digger
and the clam-digger realized that they were in a bad scrape. This little
dandy in eye-glasses had certainly upset all Leopold's plans for the
disposition of the gold.

"Halveses!" shouted Charley a second time, as he adjusted his
eye-glasses, and fixed his gaze upon the wet shot-bag which contained
the hidden treasure.

"I think not," added Leopold.

"No? When a fellow finds any money, the rule is to divy with all
present," added Charley.

"And for that reason you modestly ask for one half?"

"Well that's a conventional phrase, you see. Of course I meant
shareses. I shall be quite satisfied with one-third; and that's the
way to do the thing."

"Where did you come from? I thought you were on the cliff with the young
ladies," asked Leopold.

"I was there; but it seems that I came down just in the nick of time,"
replied the little fop. "The fact is, I drank too much wine last night,
and it makes me thirsty to-day. I was almost choked, and the ladies had
seated themselves on a rock, to enjoy a view of the boundless ocean, you
see; and it looked to me just as though they intended to stay there all
day, you see. In the mean time I was suffering with thirst; but it
wasn't polite, you see, for me to leave them. It isn't the way to do the
thing, you see. I knew they wouldn't want me to leave them."

Leopold looked at Stumpy, and smiled significantly.



"My throat was as parched as though I had spent a month in the Desert of
What-you-call-it, you see," continued Mr. Redmond. "I desired very much
to come down to the boat and obtain a draught of cold water. I didn't
expect to obtain a draft on a gold bank then--ha, ha! you see? Not
bad--eh? Even a gentleman can't help making a pun sometimes, you see."

"Making a what?" asked Leopold.

"A pun--you see," laughed Mr. Redmond.

"Which was the pun?"

"Don't you see it? Why, a draught of water, and a draft on a gold bank.
Ha, ha!"

"O, that was it--was it? I'm much obliged to you for telling me."

Of course Mr. Redmond hardly expected a "countryman" to appreciate his
wit.

"I was suffering with thirst, you see," continued the fop.

"I think you said so before."

"I wanted to introduce the matter so as not to be abrupt; not to tear
myself rudely away from the ladies, you see. We were gazing out upon the
vast ocean, you see; and a quotation from the poet--ah--a doosed odd
sort of a thing, written by the poet--what's his name? you know--about
an old salt that killed a wild goose, or some sort of a thing, and then
had nothing to drink. I repeated the quotation, and both of the girls
laughed: 'Water, water, all around, but not a drop of whiskey to
drink.'"

"I don't wonder the girls laughed," replied Leopold.

"Why so?" asked Mr. Redmond, blankly.

"You didn't quote it just as the poet 'What-you-call-him' wrote it,
Stumpy can give it to you correctly."

     "'Water, water everywhere;
     Not any drop to drink,'"

added Stumpy; "and Coleridge was the fellow that wrote it."

"Not correct," protested Mr. Redmond, emphatically. "Do you mean to tell
me that an old salt thought of drinking water? It isn't the way old
salts do that sort of thing, you see."

The coxcomb felt that he had the best of the argument, however
astonished he was to find that these countrymen knew something about the
poets.

"I told the ladies that I felt just as that old salt did, only I would
rather have water just then than whiskey, however good whiskey may be in
its place, you see. From this it was quite easy to say that I was very
thirsty; and I said so. Though Miss Hamilton did not wish me to leave
her, you see, she was kind enough to tell me that I should find a spring
of nice cold water under the cliff. I apologized for leaving the ladies,
you see; but they were so self-sacrificing as to say that I needn't
climb up the rocks to join them again; they would soon meet me on the
beach. Isn't it strange how these girls will sometimes give up all their
joys for a feller?"

"The girls must be miserable up there without you," added Leopold.

"The water was clear and cold, and it suited me better than the whiskey
that old salt wanted in the poem. I found a tin cup at the spring, and I
drank half a gallon. I was very thirsty, you see. While I was drinking,
I heard you talking about the bag of gold; and then I stepped in here
under this rock, just in the nick of time. Come, Stumpy, cut the string
of the bag, and let us divy before the ladies join us."

"Why should you want a share of it Mr. Redmond?" asked Leopold very much
embarrassed by the situation. "You are the son of a rich man, and seem
to have all the money you want."

"No, not at all. That isn't the way my governor does that sort of thing,
you see. A year ago he used to do the handsome thing, and then I could
give a champagne supper to my friends at Delmonico's. But one night, you
see, I came home just a little elevated, you see; and when I went up to
my bed, I had the misfortune to tumble down--it was quite accidental,
you see--near the door of my governor's chamber. The patriarch came out.
I was rather bewildered, you see, by my fall; and he had the
impertinence to tell me I was intoxicated. After that he reduced my
allowance of pocket money about one half, so that I have been short ever
since, you see. Cruel--wasn't it? What would you say, Leopold, if your
governor should tell you you were intoxicated?"

"If I had been drinking champagne, or any other kind of wine, I should
believe he spoke the truth."

"Nonsense! You see, I'm a two-bottle man, and I was only just a little
heavy, you see. But we are wasting time. Let us proceed to business. I
have told you just how this sort of thing ought to be done; and I ask
only the fair thing, you see. How much is there in the bag?" added Mr.
Redmond, extending his hand to Stumpy to take the treasure.

Stumpy did not respond to this application for the money. On the
contrary, he handed it to Leopold.

"How much is there? Do you know?" repeated the fop.

"I do know: the bag contains twelve hundred dollars in gold," replied
Leopold, as he dropped the four-pound bag into his trousers pocket,
where it weighed heavily upon his starboard suspender.

"Bully for you, my countryman;" exclaimed Mr. Redmond. "Twelve hundred
dollars in gold! that's four hundred apiece, you see; and I don't ask
for more than my third. Four hundred in gold! And that's over eight
hundred dollars in greenbacks at the present time! I can give a dozen
champagne suppers on that, you see; and when you fellows come to New
York, I shall invite you to one of them, and tell my friends the
romantic incident of the finding of the bag of gold."

"I don't believe that any of this money will be spent for champagne
suppers--at least, not yet a while," replied Leopold.

"Aren't you going to divy?" demanded Mr. Redmond, looking as though he
had regarded such a disposition of the treasure as a foregone
conclusion.

"I am not going to divy."

"No? But that's mean you see."

"I don't see it."

"But it's the thing to do, when you find any money, you see."

"Do you think you had any share in finding it, Mr. Redmond?" asked
Leopold, quietly, as he began to move towards the boat.

"I was looking on when you found it, Leopold; and it's the rule, you
see, in such cases, to divy. I was here when you unearthed the thing."

"No, you were not," answered Leopold, decidedly. "I dug it before you
came to Rockhaven."

"I don't claim any share of it," Stumpy put in. "Le didn't find it by
accident. No part of it belongs to me, and I don't ask for a dollar of
the money."

"O, you don't!" exclaimed Mr. Redmond; "then Leopold and I will divy
even, you see; half to each."

