that dared to show his long tail on the premises. He fought many a
gallant fight, and slew his thousands, always bringing his dead foe to
display him to us, and receive our thanks.

It was sometimes rather startling to find a large rat reposing in the
middle of your parlor; not always agreeable to have an excited cat
bounce into your lap, lugging a half-dead rat in his mouth; or to have
visitors received by the Czar, tossing a mouse on the door-steps, like a
playful child with its cup and ball.

He was not fond of petting, but allowed one or two honored beings to
cuddle him. My work-basket was his favorite bed, for a certain fat
cushion suited him for a pillow, and, having coolly pulled out all the
pins, the rascal would lay his handsome head on the red mound, and wink
at me with an irresistibly saucy expression that made it impossible to
scold.

All summer we enjoyed his pranks and admired his manly virtues; but in
the winter we lost him, for, alas! he found his victor in the end, and
fell a victim to his own rash daring.

One morning after a heavy snow-fall, Czar went out to take a turn up and
down the path. As he sat with his back to the gate, meditatively
watching some doves on the shed-roof, a big bull-dog entered the yard,
and basely attacked him in the rear. Taken by surprise, the dear fellow
did his best, and hit out bravely, till he was dragged into the deep
snow where he could not fight, and there so cruelly maltreated that he
would have been murdered outright, if I had not gone to the rescue.

Catching up a broom, I belabored the dog so energetically that he was
forced to turn from the poor Czar to me. What would have become of me I
don't know, for the dog was in a rage, and evidently meditating a grab
at my ankles, when his master appeared and ordered him off.

Never was a boy better scolded than that one, for I poured forth vials
of wrath upon his head as I took up my bleeding pet, and pointed to his
wounds as indignantly as Antony did to CÃ¦sar's.

The boy fled affrighted, and I bore my poor Czar in to die. All day he
lay on his cushion, patient and quiet, with his torn neck tied up in a
soft bandage, a saucer of cream close by, and an afflicted mistress to
tend and stroke him with tender lamentations.

We had company in the evening, and my interesting patient was put into
another room. Once, in the midst of conversation, I thought I heard a
plaintive mew, but could not go to see, and soon forgot all about it;
but when the guests left, my heart was rent by finding Czar stretched
out before the door quite dead.

Feeling death approach, he had crept to say good-by, and with a farewell
mew had died before the closed door, a brave and faithful cat to the
end.

He was buried with great pomp, and before his grave was green, little
Blot came to take his place, though she never filled it. Blot's career
was a sad and brief one. Misfortune marked her for its own, and life was
one too many for her.

I saw some boys pelting a wretched object with mud. I delivered a
lecture on cruelty to animals, confiscated the victim, and, wrapping
her in a newspaper, bore the muddy little beast away in triumph. Being
washed and dried, she turned out a thin black kit, with dirty blue bows
tied in her ears. As I don't approve of ear-rings, I took hers out, and
tried to fatten her up, for she was a forlorn creature at first.

But Blot would not grow plump. Her early wrongs preyed upon her, and she
remained a thin, timid, melancholy little cat all her days. I could not
win her confidence. She had lost her faith in mankind, and I don't blame
her. She always hid in corners, quaked when I touched her, took her food
by stealth, and sat in a forlorn bunch in cold nooks, down cellar or
behind the gate, mewing despondently to herself, as if her woes must
find a vent. She would not be easy and comfortable. No cushion could
allure, no soft beguilements win her to purr, no dainty fare fill out
her rusty coat, no warmth or kindness banish the scared look from her
sad green eyes, no ball or spool lure her to play, or cause her to wag
her mortified thin tail with joy.

Poor, dear little Blot! She was a pathetic spectacle, and her end was
quite in keeping with the rest of her hard fate. Trying one day to make
her come and be cuddled, she retreated to the hearth, and when I pursued
her, meaning to catch and pet her, she took a distracted skip right into
a bed of hot coals. One wild howl, and another still more distracted
skip brought her out again, to writhe in agony with four burnt paws and
a singed skin.

"We must put the little sufferer out of her pain," said a strong-minded
friend; and quenched little Blot's life and suffering together in a pail
of water.

I laid her out sweetly in a nice box, with a doll's blanket folded round
her, and, bidding the poor dear a long farewell, confided her to old
MacCarty for burial. He was my sexton, and I could trust him to inter my
darlings decently, and not toss them disrespectfully into a dirt-cart or
over a bridge.

My dear Mother Bunch was an entire contrast to Blot. Such a fat, cosey
old mamma you never saw, and her first appearance was so funny, I never
think of her without laughing.

In our back kitchen was an old sideboard, with two little doors in the
lower part. Some bits of carpet were kept there, but we never expected
to let that small mansion till, opening the door one day, I found Mrs.
Bunch and her young family comfortably settled.

I had never seen this mild black cat before, and I fancy no one had ever
seen her three roly-poly, jet-black kits. Such a confiding puss I never
met, for when I started back, surprised, Mrs. Bunch merely looked at me
with an insinuating purr, and began to pick at my carpet, as if to
say,--

"The house suited me; I'll take it, and pay rent by allowing you to
admire and pet my lovely babies."

I never thought of turning her out, and there she remained for some
months, with her children growing up around her, all as fat and funny,
black and amiable, as herself.

Three jollier kits were never born, and a more devoted mother never
lived. I put her name on the door of her house, and they lived on most
comfortably together, even after they grew too big for their
accommodations, and tails and legs hung out after the family had
retired.

I really did hope they would escape the doom that seemed to pursue my
cats, but they did not, for all came to grief in different ways. Cuddle
Bunch had a fit, and fell out of the window, killing herself instantly.
Othello, her brother, was shot by a bad boy, who fired pistols at all
the cats in the neighborhood, as good practice for future gunning
expeditions.

Little Purr was caught in a trap, set for a woodchuck, and so hurt she
had to be gently chloroformed out of life. Mother Bunch still remained,
and often used to go and sit sadly under the tree where her infants were
buried,--an afflicted, yet resigned parent.

Her health declined, but we never had the heart to send her away, and it
wouldn't have done any good if we had tried. We did it once, and it was
a dead failure. At one time the four cats were so wearing that my
honored father, who did not appreciate the dears, resolved to clear the
house of the whole family; so he packed them in a basket, and carried
them "over the hills and far away," like the "Babes in the Wood." Coming
to a lonely spot, he let them out, and returned home, much relieved in
mind. Judge of his amazement when the first thing he saw was Mrs. Bunch
and her children, sitting on the steps resting after their run home.

We all laughed at the old gentleman so that he left them in peace, and
even when the mamma alone remained, feeble and useless, her bereavement
made her sacred.

When we shut up the house, and went to the city for the winter, we gave
Mother Bunch to the care of a kind neighbor, who promised to guard her
faithfully. Returning in the spring, one of my first questions was,--

"How is old Pussy?"

Great was my anguish when my neighbor told me that she was no more. It
seems the dear thing pined for her old home, and kept returning to it in
spite of age or bad weather.

Several times she was taken back when she ran away, but at last they
were tired of fussing over her, and let her go. A storm came on, and
when they went to see what had become of her, they found her frozen, in
the old sideboard, where I first discovered her with her kits about
her.

As a delicate attention to me, Mrs. Bunch's skin was preserved, and
presented when the tale was told. I kept it some time, but the next
Christmas I made it into muffs for several dolls, who were sent me to
dress; and very nice little muffs the pretty black fur made, lined with
cherry silk, and finished off with tiny tassels.

I loved the dear old puss, but I knew the moths would get her skin if I
kept it, and preferred to rejoice the hearts of several small friends
with dolls in full winter costume. I am sure Mrs. Bunch would have
agreed with me, and not felt that I treated her remains with disrespect.

The last of my cats was the blackest of all, and such a wild thing we
called him the Imp. He tumbled into the garret one day through a broken
scuttle, and took possession of the house from that time forth, acting
as if bewitched.

He got into the furnace pipes, but could not get out, and kept me up one
whole night, giving him air and light, food and comfort, through a
little hole in the floor, while waiting for a carpenter to come and saw
him out.

He got a sad pinch in his tail, which made it crooked forever after. He
fell into the soft-soap barrel, and was fished out a deplorable
spectacle. He was half strangled by a fine collar we put on him, and was
found hanging by it on a peg.

People sat down on him, for he would lie in chairs. No one loved him
much, for he was not amiable in temper, but bit and scratched if
touched, worried the bows off our slippers in his play, and if we did
not attend to him at once, he complained in the most tremendous bass
growl I ever heard.

He was not beautiful, but very impressive; being big, without a white
hair on him. One eye was blue and one green, and the green one was
always half shut, as if he was winking at you, which gave him a rowdy
air comical to see. Then he swaggered in his walk, never turned out for
any one, and if offended fell into rages fit to daunt the bravest soul.

Yes, the Imp was truly an awful animal; and when a mischievous cousin of
ours told us he wanted a black cat, without a single white hair on it,
to win a wager with, we at once offered ours.

It seems that sailors are so superstitious they will not sail in a ship
with a black cat; and this rogue of a cousin was going to send puss off
on a voyage, unknown to any one but the friend who took him, and when
the trip was safely over, he was to be produced as a triumphant proof of
the folly of the nautical superstition.

So the Imp was delivered to his new master, and sailed away packed up in
an old fishing-basket, with his head poked out of a hole in the cover.

We waited anxiously to hear how the joke ended; but unfortunately the
passage was very rough, his guardian too ill to keep him safe and quiet,
so the irrepressible fellow escaped from prison, and betrayed himself by
growling dismally, as he went lurching across the deck to the great
dismay of the sailors.

They chased, caught, and tossed the poor Imp overboard without loss of
time. And when the joke came out, they had the best of it, for the
weather happened to improve, and the rest of the voyage was prosperous.
So, of course, they laid it all to the loss of the cat, and were more
fixed in their belief than ever.

We were sorry that poor old Imp met so sad a fate, but did not mourn him
long, for he had not won our hearts as some of our other pets had.

He was the last of the seven black cats, and we never had another; for I
really did feel as if there was something uncanny about them after my
tragical experiences with Czar, Blot, Mother Bunch's family, and the
martyred Imp.




V.

ROSA'S TALE.


"Now, I believe every one has had a Christmas present and a good time.
Nobody has been forgotten, not even the cat," said Mrs. Ward to her
daughter, as she looked at Pobbylinda, purring on the rug, with a new
ribbon round her neck and the remains of a chicken bone between her
paws.

It was very late, for the Christmas-tree was stripped, the little folks
abed, the baskets and bundles left at poor neighbors' doors, and
everything ready for the happy day which would begin as the clock struck
twelve. They were resting after their labors, while the yule log burned
down; but the mother's words reminded Belinda of one good friend who had
received no gift that night.

"We've forgotten Rosa! Her mistress is away, but she shall have a
present nevertheless. Late as it is, she will like some apples and cake
and a Merry Christmas from the family."

Belinda jumped up as she spoke, and, having collected such remnants of
the feast as a horse would relish, she put on her hood, lighted a
lantern, and trotted off to the barn.

As she opened the door of the loose box in which Rosa was kept, she saw
her eyes shining in the dark as she lifted her head with a startled air.
Then, recognizing a friend, she rose and came rustling through the straw
to greet her late visitor. She was evidently much pleased with the
attention, and rubbed her nose against Miss Belinda gratefully, but
seemed rather dainty, and poked over the contents of the basket, as if a
little suspicious, though apples were her favorite treat.

Knowing that she would enjoy the little feast more if she had company
while she ate it, for Rosa was a very social beast, Miss Belinda hung up
the lantern, and, sitting down on an inverted bucket, watched her as she
munched contentedly.

"Now really," said Miss Belinda, when telling her story afterwards, "I
am not sure whether I took a nap and dreamed what follows, or whether
it actually happened, for strange things do occur at Christmas time, as
every one knows.

"As I sat there the town clock struck twelve, and the sound reminded me
of the legend which affirms that all dumb animals are endowed with
speech for one hour after midnight on Christmas eve, in memory of the
animals about the manger when the blessed Child was born.

"'I wish the pretty fancy was a fact, and our Rosa could speak, if only
for an hour, because I am sure she has an interesting history, and I
long to know it.'

"I said this aloud, and to my utter amazement the bay mare stopped
eating, fixed her intelligent eyes upon my face, and answered in a
language I understood perfectly well,--

"'You shall know it, for whether the legend is true or not I feel as if
I could confide in you and tell you all I feel. I was lying awake
listening to the fun in the house, thinking of my dear mistress over the
sea and feeling very sad, for I heard you say I was to be sold. That
nearly broke my heart, for no one has ever been so kind to me as Miss
Merry, and nowhere shall I be taken care of, nursed, and loved as I have
been since she bought me. I know I am getting old, and stiff in the
knees, and my forefoot is lame, and sometimes I'm cross when my shoulder
aches; but I do try to be a patient, grateful beast. I've got fat with
good living, my work is not hard, I dearly love to carry those who have
done so much for me, and I'll tug for them till I die in harness, if
they will only keep me.'

"I was so astonished at this address that I tumbled off the pail, and
sat among the straw staring up at Rosa, as dumb as if I had lost the
power she had gained. She seemed to enjoy my surprise, and added to it
by letting me hear a genuine horse laugh, hearty, shrill, and clear,
as she shook her pretty head, and went on talking rapidly in the
language which I now perceived to be a mixture of English and the
peculiar dialect of the horse-country Gulliver visited.

"'Thank you for remembering me to-night, and in return for the goodies
you bring I'll tell my story as fast as I can, for I have often longed
to recount the trials and triumphs of my life. Miss Merry came last
Christmas eve to bring me sugar, and I wanted to speak, but it was too
early and I could not say a word, though my heart was full.'

"Rosa paused an instant, and her fine eyes dimmed as if with tender
tears at the recollection of the happy year which had followed the day
she was bought from the drudgery of a livery-stable to be a lady's pet.
I stroked her neck as she stooped to sniff affectionately at my hood,
and said eagerly,--

"'Tell away, dear, I'm full of interest, and understand every word you
say.'

"Thus encouraged, Rosa threw up her head, and began with an air of pride
which plainly proved, what we had always suspected, that she belonged to
a good family.

"'My father was a famous racer, and I am very like him; the same color,
spirit, and grace, and but for the cruelty of man I might have been as
renowned as he. I was a very happy colt, petted by my master, tamed by
love, and never struck a blow while he lived. I gained one race for him,
and promised so well that when he died I brought a great price. I
mourned for him, but was glad to be sent to my new owner's racing-stable
and made much of, for people predicted that I should be another
Goldsmith Maid or Flora Temple. Ah, how ambitious and proud I was in
those days! Vain of my good blood, my speed, and my beauty; for indeed I
was handsome then, though you may find it hard to believe now.' And
Rosa sighed regretfully as she stole a look at me, and took the attitude
which showed to advantage the fine lines about her head and neck.

"'I do not find it hard, for we have always said you had splendid points
about you. Miss Merry saw them, though you were a skeleton, when she
bought you; so did the skilful Cornish blacksmith when he shod you. And
it is easy to see that you belong to a good family by the way you hold
your head without a check-rein and carry your tail like a plume,' I
said, with a look of admiration which comforted her as much as if she
had been a passÃ©e belle.

"'I must hurry over this part of my story, because, though brilliant,
it was very brief, and ended in a way which made it the bitterest
portion of my life,' continued Rosa. 'I won several races, and great
fame was predicted for me. You may guess how high my reputation was when
I tell you that before my last fatal trial thousands were bet on me, and
my rival trembled in his shoes. I was full of spirit, eager to show my
speed and sure of success. Alas, how little I knew of the wickedness of
human nature then, how dearly I bought the knowledge, and how it has
changed my whole life! You do not know much about such matters, of
course, and I won't digress to tell you all the tricks of the trade;
only beware of jockeys and never bet.

"'I was kept carefully out of every one's way for weeks, and only taken
out for exercise by my trainer. Poor Bill! I was fond of him, and he was
so good to me that I never have forgotten him, though he broke his neck
years ago. A few nights before the great race, as I was getting a good
sleep, carefully tucked away in my roomy stall, some one stole in and
gave me a warm mash. It was dark, I was half awake, and I ate it like a
fool, though I knew by instinct that it was not Bill who fed it to me. I
was a confiding creature then, and as all sorts of queer things had been
done to prepare me I thought it was all right. But it was not, and that
deceit has caused me to be suspicious about my food ever since, for the
mash was dosed in some way; it made me very ill, and my enemies nearly
triumphed, thanks to this cowardly trick.

"'Bill worked over me day and night, that I might be fit to run. I did
my best to seem well and gay, but there was not time for me to regain my
lost strength and spirit, and pride alone kept me up. "I'll win for my
master if I die in doing it," I said to myself, and when the hour came
pranced to my place trying to look as well as ever, though my heart was
very heavy and I trembled with excitement. "Courage, my lass, and we'll
beat in spite of their black tricks," whispered Bill, as he sprung to
his place.

"'I lost the first heat, but won the second, and the sound of the
cheering gave me strength to walk away without staggering, though my
legs shook under me. What a splendid minute that was when, encouraged
and refreshed by my faithful Bill, I came on the track again! I knew my
enemies began to fear, for I had borne myself so bravely they fancied I
was quite well, and now, excited by that first success, I was mad with
impatience to be off and cover myself with glory.'

"Rosa looked as if the 'splendid minute' had come again, for she arched
her neck, opened wide her red nostrils, and pawed the straw with one
little foot, while her eyes shone with sudden fire, and her ears were
pricked up as if to catch again the shouts she heard that day.

"'I wish I had been there to see you!' I exclaimed, quite carried away
by her ardor.

"'I wish you had, for I won, I won! The big black horse did his best,
but I had vowed to win or die, and I kept my word, for I beat him by a
head, and then dropped as if dead. I might as well have died then,
people thought, for the poison, the exertion, and the fall ruined me for
a racer. My master cared no more for me, and would have had me shot if
Bill had not saved my life. I was pronounced good for nothing, and he
bought me cheap. I was lame and useless for a long time, but his patient
care did wonders, and just as I was able to be of use to him he was
killed.

"'A gentleman in want of a saddle-horse purchased me because my easy
gait and quiet temper suited him; for I was meek enough now, and my size
fitted me to carry his delicate daughter.

"'For more than a year I served little Miss Alice, rejoicing to see how
rosy her pale cheeks became, how upright her feeble figure grew, thanks
to the hours spent with me; for my canter rocked her as gently as if she
were in a cradle, and fresh air was the medicine she needed. She often
said she owed her life to me, and I liked to think so, for she made my
life a very easy one.

"'But somehow my good times never lasted long, and when Miss Alice went
West I was sold. I had been so well treated that I looked as handsome
and gay as ever, though my shoulder never was strong again, and I often
had despondent moods, longing for the excitement of the race-course with
the instinct of my kind; so I was glad when, attracted by my spirit and
beauty, a young army officer bought me and I went to the war. Ah! you
never guessed that, did you? Yes, I did my part gallantly and saved my
master's life more than once. You have observed how martial music
delights me, but you don't know that it is because it reminds me of the
proudest hour of my life. I've told you about the saddest; let me relate
this also, and give me a pat for the brave action which won my master
his promotion, though I got no praise for my part of the achievement.

"'In one of the hottest battles my captain was ordered to lead his men
to a most perilous exploit. They hesitated, so did he; for it must cost
many lives, and, brave as they were, they paused an instant. But I
settled the point, for I was wild with the sound of drums, the smell of
powder, the excitement of the hour, and, finding myself sharply reined
in, I rebelled, took the bit between my teeth, and dashed straight away
into the midst of the fight, spite of all my rider could do. The men
thought their captain led them on, and with a cheer they followed,
carrying all before them.

"'What happened just after that I never could remember, except that I
got a wound here in my neck and a cut on my flank; the scar is there
still, and I'm proud of it, though buyers always consider it a blemish.
But when the battle was won my master was promoted on the field, and I
carried him up to the general as he sat among his officers under the
torn flags.

"'Both of us were weary and wounded, both were full of pride at what we
had done; but he got all the praise and the honor, I only a careless
word and a better supper than usual.

"'I thought no one knew what I had done, and resented the ingratitude of
your race; for it was the horse, not the man, who led that forlorn hope,
and I did think I should have a rosette at least, when others got stars
and bars for far less dangerous deeds. Never mind, my master knew the
truth, and thanked me for my help by keeping me always with him till the
sad day when he was shot in a skirmish, and lay for hours with none to
watch and mourn over him but his faithful horse.

"'Then I knew how much he loved and thanked me, for his hand stroked me
while it had the strength, his eye turned to me till it grew too dim for
seeing, and when help came, among the last words he whispered to a
comrade were these, "Be kind to Rosa and send her safely home; she has
earned her rest."

"'I had earned it, but I did not get it, for when I was sent home the
old mother's heart was broken at the loss of her son, and she did not
live long to cherish me. Then my hard times began, for my next owner was
a fast young man, who ill used me in many ways, till the spirit of my
father rose within me, and I gave my brutal master a grand runaway and
smash-up.

"'To tame me down, I was sold for a car horse; and that almost killed
me, for it was dreadful drudgery to tug, day after day, over the hard
pavement with heavy loads behind me, uncongenial companions beside me,
and no affection to cheer my life.

"'I have often longed to ask why Mr. Bergh does not try to prevent such
crowds from piling into those cars; and now I beg you to do what you can
to stop such an unmerciful abuse.

"'In snow-storms it was awful, and more than one of my mates dropped
dead with overwork and discouragement. I used to wish I could do the
same, for my poor feet, badly shod, became so lame I could hardly walk
at times, and the constant strain on the up grades brought back the old
trouble in my shoulder worse than ever.

"'Why they did not kill me I don't know, for I was a miserable creature
then; but there must be something attractive about me, I fancy, for
people always seem to think me worth saving. What can it be, ma'am?'

"'Now, Rosa, don't be affected; you know you are a very engaging little
animal, and if you live to be forty will still have certain pretty ways
about you, that win the hearts of women, if not of men. They see your
weak points, and take a money view of the case; but we sympathize with
your afflictions, are amused with your coquettish airs, and like your
affectionate nature. Now hurry up and finish, for I find it a trifle
cold out here.'

"I laughed as I spoke, for Rosa eyed me with a sidelong glance and
gently waved the docked tail, which was her delight; for the sly thing
liked to be flattered and was as fond of compliments as a girl.

"'Many thanks. I will come now to the most interesting portion of my
narrative. As I was saying, instead of knocking me on the head I was
packed off to New Hampshire, and had a fine rest among the green hills,
with a dozen or so of weary friends. It was during this holiday that I
acquired the love of nature which Miss Merry detected and liked in me,
when she found me ready to study sunsets with her, to admire new
landscapes, and enjoy bright summer weather.

"'In the autumn a livery-stable keeper bought me, and through the winter
fed me up till I was quite presentable in the spring. It was a small
town, but through the summer many city people visited there, so I was
kept on the trot while the season lasted, because ladies could drive me.
You, Miss Belinda, were one of the ladies, and I never shall forget,
though I have long ago forgiven it, how you laughed at my queer gait the
day you hired me.

"'My tender feet and stiff knees made me tread very gingerly, and amble
along with short mincing steps, which contrasted oddly, I know, with my
proudly waving tail and high-carried head. You liked me nevertheless,
because I didn't rattle you down the steep hills, was not afraid of
locomotives, and stood patiently while you gathered flowers and enjoyed
the lovely prospects.

"'I have always felt a regard for you since you did not whip me, and
admired my eyes, which, I may say without vanity, have always been
considered unusually fine. But no one ever won my whole heart like Miss
Merry, and I never shall forget the happy day when she came to the
stable to order a saddle-horse. Her cheery voice made me prick up my
ears, and when she said, after looking at several showy beasts, "No,
they don't suit me. This one now has the right air; can I ride her?" my
heart danced within me and I looked round with a whinny of delight. She
understood my welcome, and came right up to me, patted me, peered into
my face, rubbed my nose, and looked at my feet with an air of interest
and sympathy, that made me feel as if I'd like to carry her round the
world.

"'Ah, what rides we had after that! What happy hours trotting gayly
through the green woods, galloping over the breezy hills, or pacing
slowly along quiet lanes, where I often lunched luxuriously on
clover-tops, while Miss Merry took a sketch of some picturesque bit with
me in the foreground.

"'I liked that, and we had long chats at such times, for she seemed to
understand me perfectly. She was never frightened when I danced for
pleasure on the soft turf, never chid me when I snatched a bite from the
young trees as we passed through sylvan ways, never thought it a trouble
to let me wet my tired feet in babbling brooks, or to dismount and take
out the stones that plagued me.

"'Then how well she rode! So firm yet light a seat, so steady a hand, so
agile a foot to spring on and off, and such infectious spirits, that no
matter how despondent or cross I might be, in five minutes I felt gay
and young again when dear Miss Merry was on my back.'

"Here Rosa gave a frisk that sent the straw flying, and made me shrink
into a corner, while she pranced about the box with a neigh which waked
the big brown colt next door, and set poor Buttercup to lowing for her
calf, the loss of which she had forgotten for a little while in sleep.

"'Ah, Miss Merry never ran away from me! She knew my heels were to be
trusted, and she let me caper as I would, glad to see me lively. Never
mind, Miss Belinda, come out and I'll be sober, as befits my years,'
laughed Rosa, composing herself, and adding, so like a woman that I
could not help smiling in the dark,--

"'When I say "years" I beg you to understand that I am not as old as
that base man declared, but just in the prime of life for a horse. Hard
usage has made me seem old before my time, and I am good for years of
service yet.'

"'Few people have been through as much as you have, Rosa, and you
certainly have earned the right to rest,' I said consolingly, for her
little whims and vanities amused me much.

"'You know what happened next,' she continued; 'but I must seize this
opportunity to express my thanks for all the kindness I've received
since Miss Merry bought me, in spite of the ridicule and dissuasion of
all her friends.

"'I know I didn't look like a good bargain, for I was very thin and
lame and shabby; but she saw and loved the willing spirit in me, pitied
my hard lot, and felt that it would be a good deed to buy me even if she
never got much work out of me.

"'I shall always remember that, and whatever happens to me hereafter, I
never shall be as proud again as I was the day she put my new saddle and
bridle on, and I was led out, sleek, plump, and handsome, with blue
rosettes at my ears, my tail cut in the English style, and on my back
Miss Merry in her London hat and habit, all ready to head a cavalcade of
eighteen horsemen and horsewomen. We were the most perfect pair of
all, and when the troop caracoled down the wide street six abreast, my
head was the highest, my rider the straightest, and our two hearts
the friendliest in all the goodly company.

"'Nor is it pride and love alone that binds me to her, it is gratitude
as well, for did not she often bathe my feet herself, rub me down, water
me, blanket me, and daily come to see me when I was here alone for weeks
in the winter time? Didn't she study horses' feet and shoes, that I
might be cured if possible? Didn't she write to the famous friend of my
race for advice, and drive me seven miles to get a good smith to shoe me
well? Have not my poor contracted feet grown much better, thanks to the
weeks of rest without shoes which she gave me? Am I not fat and
handsome, and, barring the stiff knees, a very presentable horse? If I
am, it is all owing to her; and for that reason I want to live and die
in her service.

"'She doesn't want to sell me, and only bade you do it because you
didn't want the care of me while she is gone. Dear Miss Belinda, please
keep me! I'll eat as little as I can. I won't ask for a new blanket,
though your old army one is very thin and shabby. I'll trot for you all
winter, and try not to show it if I am lame. I'll do anything a horse
can, no matter how humble, to earn my living, only don't, pray don't
send me away among strangers who have neither interest nor pity for me!'

"Rosa had spoken rapidly, feeling that her plea must be made now or
never, for before another Christmas she might be far away and speech of
no use to win her wish. I was much touched, though she was only a
horse; for she was looking earnestly at me as she spoke, and made the
last words very eloquent by preparing to bend her stiff knees and lie
down at my feet. I stopped her, and answered, with an arm about her neck
and her soft nose in my hand,--

"'You shall not be sold, Rosa! you shall go and board at Mr. Town's
great stable, where you will have pleasant society among the eighty
horses who usually pass the winter there. Your shoes shall be taken off,
and you shall rest till March at least. The best care will be taken of
you, dear, and I will come and see you; and in the spring you shall
return to us, even if Miss Merry is not here to welcome you.'

"'Thanks, many, many thanks! But I wish I could do something to earn my
board. I hate to be idle, though rest is delicious. Is there nothing I
can do to repay you, Miss Belinda? Please answer quickly, for I know the
hour is almost over,' cried Rosa, stamping with anxiety; for, like all
her sex, she wanted the last word.

"'Yes, you can,' I cried, as a sudden idea popped into my head. 'I'll
write down what you have told me, and send the little story to a certain
paper I know of, and the money I get for it will pay your board. So rest
in peace, my dear; you will have earned your living, and may feel that
your debt is paid.'

"Before she could reply the clock struck one, and a long sigh of
satisfaction was all the response in her power. But we understood each
other now, and, cutting a lock from her mane for Miss Merry, I gave Rosa
a farewell caress and went away, wondering if I had made it all up, or
if she had really broken a year's silence and freed her mind.

"However that may be, here is the tale, and the sequel to it is, that
the bay mare has really gone to board at a first-class stable,"
concluded Miss Belinda. "I call occasionally and leave my card in the
shape of an apple, finding Madam Rosa living like an independent lady,
with her large box and private yard on the sunny side of the barn, a
kind ostler to wait upon her, and much genteel society from the city
when she is inclined for company.

"What more could any reasonable horse desire?"




VI.

LUNCH.


"Sister Jerusha, it really does wear upon me to see those dear boys eat
such bad pies and stuff day after day when they ought to have good
wholesome things for lunch. I actually ache to go and give each one of
'em a nice piece of bread-and-butter or one of our big cookies," said
kind Miss Mehitable Plummer, taking up her knitting after a long look at
the swarm of boys pouring out of the grammar school opposite, to lark
about the yard, sit on the posts, or dive into a dingy little shop close
by, where piles of greasy tarts and cakes lay in the window. They would
not have allured any but hungry school-boys, and ought to have been
labelled Dyspepsia and Headache, so unwholesome were they.

Miss Jerusha looked up from her seventeenth patchwork quilt, and
answered, with a sympathetic glance over the way,--

"If we had enough to go round I'd do it myself, and save these poor
deluded dears from the bilious turns that will surely take them down
before vacation comes. That fat boy is as yellow as a lemon now, and no
wonder, for I've seen him eat half a dozen dreadful turnovers for one
lunch."

Both old ladies shook their heads and sighed, for they led a very quiet
life in the narrow house that stood end to the street, squeezed in
between two stores, looking as out of place as the good spinsters would
have done among the merry lads opposite. Sitting at the front windows
day after day, the old ladies had learned to enjoy watching the boys,
who came and went, like bees to a hive, month by month. They had their
favorites, and beguiled many a long hour speculating on the looks,
manners, and probable station of the lads. One lame boy was Miss
Jerusha's pet, though she never spoke to him, and a tall bright-faced
fellow, who rather lorded it over the rest, quite won Miss Hetty's old
heart by helping her across the street on a slippery day. They longed to
mend some of the shabby clothes, to cheer up the dull discouraged ones,
advise the sickly, reprove the rude, and, most of all, feed those who
persisted in buying lunch at the dirty bake-shop over the way.

The good souls were famous cooks, and had many books full of all manner
of nice receipts, which they seldom used, as they lived simply and saw
little company. A certain kind of molasses cookie made by their honored
mother,--a renowned housewife in her time,--and eaten by the sisters as
children, had a peculiar charm for them. A tin box was always kept full,
though they only now and then nibbled one, and preferred to give them
away to poor children, as they trotted to market each day. Many a time
had Miss Hetty felt sorely tempted to treat the boys, but was a little
timid, for they were rough fellows, and she regarded them much as a
benevolent tabby would a party of frisky puppies.

To-day the box was full of fresh cookies, crisp, brown, and sweet; their
spicy odor pervaded the room, and the china-closet door stood
suggestively open. Miss Hetty's spectacles turned that way, then went
back to the busy scene in the street, as if trying to get courage for
the deed. Something happened just then which decided her, and sealed
the doom of the bilious tarts and their maker.

Several of the younger lads were playing marbles on the sidewalk, for
Hop Scotch, Leap Frog, and friendly scuffles were going on in the yard,
and no quiet spot could be found. The fat boy sat on a post near by,
and, having eaten his last turnover, fell to teasing the small fellows
peacefully playing at his feet. One was the shabby lame boy, who hopped
to and fro with his crutch, munching a dry cracker, with now and then a
trip to the pump to wash it down. He seldom brought any lunch, and
seemed to enjoy this poor treat so much that the big bright-faced chap
tossed him a red apple as he came out of the yard to get his hat, thrown
there by the mate he had been playfully thrashing.

The lame child eyed the pretty apple lovingly, and was preparing to take
the first delicious bite, when the fat youth with a dexterous kick sent
it flying into the middle of the street, where a passing wheel crushed
it down into the mud.

"It's a shame! He shall have something good! The scamp!" And with this
somewhat confused exclamation Miss Hetty threw down her work, ran to
the closet, then darted to the front door, embracing the tin box, as if
the house was on fire and that contained her dearest treasures.

"Sakes alive, what is the matter with sister?" ejaculated Miss
Jerusha, going to the window just in time to see the fat boy tumble off
the post as the tall lad came to the rescue, while the cripple went
hopping across the street in answer to a kindly quavering voice that
called out to him,--

"Come here, boy, and get a cookie,--a dozen if you want 'em."

"Sister's done it at last!" And, inspired by this heroic example, Miss
Jerusha threw up the window, saying, as she beckoned to the avenger,--

"You too, because you stood by that poor little boy. Come right over and
help yourself."

Charley Howe laughed at the indignant old ladies, but, being a
gentleman, took off his hat and ran across to thank them for their
interest in the fray. Several other lads followed as irresistibly as
flies to a honey-pot, for the tin box was suggestive of cake, and they
waited for no invitation.

Miss Hetty was truly a noble yet a droll sight, as she stood there, a
trim little old lady, with her cap-strings flying in the wind, her rosy
old face shining with good-will, as she dealt out cookies with a lavish
hand, and a kind word to all.

"Here's a nice big one for you, my dear. I don't know your name, but I
do your face, and I like to see a big boy stand up for the little ones,"
she said, beaming at Charley as he came up.

"Thank you, ma'am. That's a splendid one. We don't get anything so nice
over there." And Charley gratefully bolted the cake in three mouthfuls,
having given away his own lunch.

"No, indeed! One of these is worth a dozen of those nasty pies. I hate
to see you eating them, and I don't believe your mothers know how bad
they are," said Miss Hetty, diving for another handful into the depths
of the box, which was half empty already.

"Wish you'd teach old Peck how you make 'em. We'd be glad enough to buy
these and let the cockroach pies alone," said Charley, accepting another
and enjoying the fun, for half the fellows were watching the scene from
over the way.

"Cockroach pies! You don't mean to say?" cried Miss Hetty, nearly
dropping her load in her horror at the idea, for she had heard of
fricasseed frogs and roasted locusts, and thought a new delicacy had
been found.
