
"This week--Saturday. His name is Dillwyn."

"Dillwyn!" Lois repeated. "Dillwyn? I saw a Mr. Dillwyn at Mrs.
Wishart's once or twice."

"It must be the same. I do not know of two. And he knows Mrs. Wishart.
So you remember him? What do you remember about him?"

"Not much. I have an impression that he knows a great deal, and has
very pleasant manners."

"Quite right. That is the man. So he may come? Thank you."

Lois took up one of her baskets of apples and carried it into the
house, where she deposited it at Mrs. Armadale's feet.

"They are beautiful this year, aren't they, mother? Girls, we are going
to have a visitor."

Charity was brushing up the floor; the broom paused. Madge was sewing;
the needle remained drawn out. Both looked at Lois.

"A visitor!" came from both pairs of lips.

"Yes, indeed. A visitor. A gentleman. And he is coming to stay over
Sunday. So, Charry, you must see and have things very special. And so
must I."

"A gentleman! Who is he? Uncle Tim?"

"Not a bit of it. A young, at least a much younger, gentleman; a
travelled gentleman; an elegant gentleman. A friend of Mrs. Barclay."

"What are we to do with him?"

"Nothing. Nothing whatever. We have nothing to do with him, and
couldn't do it if we had."

"You needn't laugh. We have got to lodge him and feed him."

"That's easy. I'll put the white spread on the bed in the spare room;
and you may get out your pickles."

"Pickles! Is he fond of pickles?"

"I don't know!" said Lois, laughing still. "I have an impression he is
a man who likes all sorts of nice things."

"I hate men who like nice things! But, Lois!--there will be Saturday
tea, and Sunday breakfast and dinner and supper, and Monday morning
breakfast."

"Perhaps Monday dinner."

"O, he can't stay to dinner."

"Why not?"

"It is washing day."

"My dear Charry! to such men Monday is just like all other days; and
washing is--well, of course, a necessity, but it is done by fairies, or
it might be, for all they know about it."

"There's five meals anyhow," Charity went on.--"Wouldn't it be a good
plan to get uncle Tim to be here?"

"What for?"

"Why, we haven't a man in the house."

"What then?"

"Who'll talk to him?"

"Mrs. Barclay will take care of that. You, Charity dear, see to your
pickles."

"I don't know what you mean," said Charity fretfully. "What are we
going to have for dinner, Sunday? I could fricassee a pair of chickens."

"No, Charity, you couldn't. Sunday is Sunday, just as much with Mr.
Dillwyn here."

"Dillwyn!" said Madge. "I've heard you speak of him."

"Very likely. I saw him once or twice in my New York days."

"And he gave you lunch."

"Mrs. Wishart and me. Yes. And a good lunch it was. That's why I spoke
of pickles, Charity. Do the very best you can."

"I cannot do my best, unless I can cook the chickens," said Charity,
who all this while stood leaning upon her broom. "I might do it for
once."

"Where is your leave to do wrong once?"

"But this is a particular occasion--you may call it a necessity; and
necessity makes an exception."

"What is the necessity, Charity?" said Mrs. Armadale, who until now had
not spoken.

"Why, grandma, you want to treat a stranger well?"

"With whatever I have got to give him. But Sunday time isn't mine to
give."

"But necessary things, grandma?--we may do necessary things?"

"What have you got in the house?"

"Nothing on earth, except a ham to boil. Cold ham,--that's all. Do you
think that's enough?"

"It won't hurt him to dine on cold ham," the old lady said complacently.

"Why don't you cook your chickens and have them cold too?" Lois asked.

"Cold fricassee ain't worth a cent."

"Cook them some other way. Roast them,--or-- Give them to me, and I'll
do them for you! I'll do them, Charity. Then with your nice bread, and
apple sauce, and potatoes, and some of my pears and apples, and a
pumpkin pie, Charity, and coffee,--we shall do very well. Mr. Dillwyn
has made a worse dinner in the course of his wanderings, I'll undertake
to maintain."

"What shall I have for supper?" Charity asked doubtfully. "Supper comes
first."

"Shortcake. And some of your cold ham. And stew up some quinces and
apples together, Cherry. You don't want anything more,--or better."

"Do you think he will understand having a cold dinner, Sunday?" Charity
asked. "Men make so much of hot dinners."

"What does it signify, my dear, whether he understands it or not?" said
Mrs. Armadale. "What we have to do, is what the Lord tells us to do.
That is all you need mind."

"I mind what folks think, though," said Charity. "Mrs. Barclay's friend
especially."

"I do not think he will notice it," said simple Mrs. Armadale.



CHAPTER XXXIII.



THE VALUE OF MONEY.



There was a little more bustle in the house than usual during the next
two days; and the spare room was no doubt put in very particular order,
with the best of all the house could furnish on the bed and
toilet-table. Pantry and larder also were well stocked; and Lois was
just watching the preparation of her chickens, Saturday evening, and
therefore in the kitchen, when Mr. Dillwyn came to the door. Mrs.
Barclay herself let him in, and brought him into her own warm,
comfortable, luxurious-looking sitting-room. The evening was falling
dusk, so that the little wood lire in Mrs. Barclay's chimney had
opportunity to display itself, and I might say, the room too; which
never could have showed to better advantage. The flickering light
danced back again from gilded books, from the polished case of the
piano, from picture frames, and pictures, and piles of music, and
comfortable easy-chairs standing invitingly, and trinkets of art or
curiosity; an unrolled engraving in one place, a stereoscope in
another, a work-basket, and the bright brass stand of a microscope.

The greeting was warm between the two friends; and then Mrs. Barclay
sat down and surveyed her visitor, whom she had not seen for so long.
He was not a beauty of Tom Caruthers' sort, but he was what I think
better; manly and intelligent, and with an air and bearing of frank
nobleness which became him exceedingly. That he was a man with a
serious purpose in life, or any object of earnest pursuit, you would
not have supposed; and that character had never belonged to him. Mrs.
Barclay, looking at him, could not see any sign that it was his now.
Look and manner were easy and careless as of old.

"You are not changed," she remarked.

"What should change me?" said he, while his eye ran rapidly over the
apartment. "And you?--you do not look as if life was stagnating here."

"It does not stagnate. I never was further from stagnation in all my
life."

"And yet Shampuashuh is in a corner!"

"Is not most of the work of the world done in corners? It is not the
butterfly, but the coral insect, that lays foundations and lifts up
islands out of the sea."

"You are not a coral insect any more than I am a butterfly," said
Dillwyn, laughing.

"Rather more."

"I acknowledge it, thankfully. And I am rejoiced to know from your
letters that the seclusion has been without any evil consequences to
yourself. It has been pleasant?"

"Royally pleasant. I have delighted in my building; even although I
could not tell whether my island would not prove a dangerous one to
mariners."

"I have just been having a discourse on that subject with my sister. I
think one's sisters are--I beg your pardon!--the mischief. Tom's sister
has done for him; and mine is very eager to take care of me."

"Did you consult her?" asked Mrs. Barclay, with surprise.

"Nothing of the kind! I merely told her I was coming up here to see
you. A few questions followed, as to what you were doing here,--which I
did not tell her, by the way,--and she hit the bull's eye with the
instinctive accuracy of a woman; poured out upon me in consequence a
lecture upon imprudence. Of course I confessed to nothing, but that
mattered not. All that Tom's sister urged upon him, my good sister
pressed upon me."

"So did I once, did I not?"

"You are not going to repeat it?"

"No; that is over, for me. I know better. But, Philip, I do not see the
way very clear before you."

He left the matter there, and went off into a talk with her upon
widely-different subjects, touching or growing out of his travels and
experiences during the last year and a half. The twilight darkened, and
the fire brightened, and in the light of the fire the two sat and
talked; till a door opened, and in the same flickering shine a figure
presented itself which Mr. Dillwyn remembered. Though now it was
clothed in nothing finer than a dark calico, and round her shoulders a
little white worsted shawl was twisted. Mrs. Barclay began a sentence
of introduction, but Mr. Dillwyn cut her short.

"Do not do me such dishonour," he said. "Must I suppose that Miss
Lothrop has forgotten me?"

"Not at all, Mr. Dillwyn," said Lois frankly; "I remember you very
well. Tea will be ready in a minute--would you like to see your room
first?"

"You are too kind, to receive me!"

"It is a pleasure. You are Mrs. Barclay's friend, and she is at home
here; I will get a light."

Which she did, and Mr. Dillwyn, seeing he could not find his own way,
was obliged to accept her services and see her trip up the stairs
before him. At the door she handed him the light and ran down again.
There was a fire here too--a wood fire; blazing hospitably, and
throwing its cheery light upon a wide, pleasant, country room, not like
what Mr. Dillwyn was accustomed to, but it seemed the more hospitable.
Nothing handsome there; no articles of luxury (beside the fire); the
reflection of the blaze came back from dark old-fashioned chairs and
chests of drawers, dark chintz hangings to windows and bed, white
counterpane and napery, with a sonsy, sober, quiet air of comfort; and
the air was fresh and sweet as air should be, and as air can only be at
a distance from the smoke of many chimneys and the congregated
habitations of many human beings. I do not think Mr. Dillwyn spent much
attention upon these details; yet he felt himself in a sound, clear,
healthy atmosphere, socially as well as physically; also had a
perception that it was very far removed from that in which he had lived
and breathed hitherto. How simply that girl had lighted him up the
stairs, and given him his brass candlestick at the door of his room!
What à plomb could have been more perfect! I do not mean to imply
that Mr. Dillwyn knew the candlestick was brass; I am afraid there was
a glamour over his eyes which made it seem golden.

He found Mrs. Barclay seated in a very thoughtful attitude before her
fire, when he came down again; but just then the door of the other room
was opened, and they were called in to tea.

The family were in rather gala trim. Lois, as I said, wore indeed only
a dark print dress, with her white fichu over it; but Charity had put
on her best silk, and Madge had stuck two golden chrysanthemums in her
dark hair (with excellent effect), and Mrs. Armadale was stately in her
best cap. Alas! Philip Dillwyn did not know what any of them had on. He
was placed next to Mrs. Armadale, and all supper time his special
attention, so far as appeared, was given to the old lady. He talked to
her, and he served her, with an easy, pleasant grace, and without at
all putting himself forward or taking the part of the distinguished
stranger. It was simply good will and good breeding; however, it
produced a great effect.

"The air up here is delicious!" he remarked, after he had attended to
all the old lady's immediate wants, and applied himself to his own
supper. "It gives one a tremendous appetite."

"I allays like to see folks eat," said Mrs. Armadale. "After one's done
the gettin' things ready, I hate to have it all for nothin'."

"It shall not be for nothing this time, as far as I am concerned."

"Ain't the air good in New York?" Mrs. Armadale next asked.

"I do not think it ever was so sweet as this. But when you crowd a
million or so of people into room that is only enough for a thousand,
you can guess what the consequences must be."

"What do they crowd up so for, then?"

"It must be the case in a great city."

"I don't see the sense o' that," said Mrs. Armadale. "Ain't the world
big enough?"

"Far too big," said Mr. Dillwyn. "You see, when people's time is very
valuable, they cannot afford to spend too much of it in running about
after each other."

"What makes their time worth any more'n our'n?"

"They are making money so fast with it."

"And is that what makes folks' time valeyable?"

"In their opinion, madam."

"I never could see no use in havin' much money," said the old lady.

"But there comes a question," said Dillwyn. "What is 'much'?"

"More'n enough, I should say."

"Enough for what? That also must be settled."

"I'm an old-fashioned woman," said the old lady, "and I go by the
old-fashionedst book in the world. That says, 'we brought nothing into
this world, and we can carry nothing out; therefore, having food and
raiment, let us be therewith content.'"

"But, again, what sort of food, and what sort of raiment?" urged the
gentleman pleasantly. "For instance; would you be content to exchange
this delicious manufacture,--which seems to me rather like ambrosia
than common food,--for some of the black bread of Norway? with no
qualification of golden butter? or for Scotch oatmeal bannocks? or for
sour corn cake?"

"I would be quite content, if it was the Lord's will," said the old
lady. "There's no obligation upon anybody to have it sour."

Mr. Dillwyn laughed gently. "I can fancy," he said, "that you never
would allow such a dereliction in duty. But, beside having the bread
sweet, is it not allowed us to have the best we can get?"

"The best we can make," answered Mrs. Armadale; "I believe in
everybody doin' the best he kin with what he has got to work with; but
food ain't worth so much that we should pay a large price for it."

The gentleman's eye glanced with a scarcely perceptible movement over
the table at which he was sitting. Bread, indeed, in piles of white
flakiness; and butter; but besides, there was the cold ham in delicate
slices, and excellent-looking cheese, and apples in a sort of beautiful
golden confection, and cake of superb colour and texture; a pitcher of
milk that was rosy sweet, and coffee rich with cream. The glance that
took all this in was slight and swift, and yet the old lady was quick
enough to see and understand it.

"Yes," she said, "it's all our'n, all there is on the table. Our cow
eats our own grass, and Madge, my daughter, makes the butter and the
cheese. We've raised and cured our own pork; and the wheat that makes
the bread is grown on our ground too; we farm it out on shares; and it
is ground at a mill about four miles off. Our hens lay our eggs; it's
all from home."

"But suppose the case of people who have no ground, nor hens, nor pork,
nor cow? they must buy."

"Of course," said the old lady; "everybody ain't farmers."

"I am ready to wish I was one," said Dillwyn. "But even then, I
confess, I should want coffee and tea and sugar--as I see you. do."

"Well, those things don't grow in America," said Mrs. Armadale.

"And spice don't, neither, mother," observed Charity.

"So it appears that even you send abroad for luxuries," Mr. Dillwyn
went on. "And why not? And the question is, where shall we stop? If I
want coffee, I must have money to buy it, and the better the coffee the
more money; and the same with tea. In cities we must buy all we use or
consume, unless one is a butcher or a baker. May I not try to get more
money, in order that I may have better things? We have got round to our
starting-point."

"'They that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare,'" Mrs.
Armadale said quietly.

"Then where is the line?--Miss Lois, you are smiling. Is it at my
stupidity?"

"No," said Lois. "I was thinking of a lunch--such as I have seen it--in
one of the great New York hotels."

"Well?" said he, without betraying on his own part any recollection;
"how does that come in? By way of illustrating Mrs. Armadale, or me?"

"I seem to remember a number of things that illustrate both," said
Lois; "but as I profited by them at the time, it would be ungrateful in
me to instance them now."

"You profited by them with pleasure, or otherwise?"

"Not otherwise. I was very hungry."

"You evade my question, however."

"I will not. I profited by them with much pleasure."

"Then you are on my side, as far as I can be said to have a side?"

"I think not. The pleasure is undoubted; but I do not know that that
touches the question of expediency."

"I think it does. I think it settles the question. Mrs. Armadale, your
granddaughter confesses the pleasure; and what else do we live for, but
to get the most good out of life?"

"What pleasure does she confess?" asked the old lady, with more
eagerness than her words hitherto had manifested.

"Pleasure in nice things, grandmother; in particularly nice things;
that had cost a great deal to fetch them from nobody knows where; and
pleasure in pretty things too. That hotel seemed almost like the halls
of Aladdin to my inexperienced eyes. There is certainly pleasure in a
wonderfully dainty meal, served in wonderful vessels of glass and china
and silver, and marble and gold and flowers to help the effect. I could
have dreamed myself into a fairy tale, often, if it had not been for
the people."

"Life is not a fairy tale," said Mrs. Armadale somewhat severely.

"No, grandmother; and so the humanity present generally reminded me.
But the illusion for a minute was delightful."

"Is there any harm in making it as much like a fairy tale as we can?"

Some of the little courtesies and hospitalities of the table came in
here, and Mr. Dillwyn's question received no answer. His eye went round
the table. No, clearly these people did not live in fairyland, and as
little in the search after it. Good, strong, sensible, practical faces;
women that evidently had their work to do, and did it; habitual energy
and purpose spoke in every one of them, and purpose attained. Here
was no aimless dreaming or fruitless wishing. The old lady's face was
sorely weather-beaten, but calm as a ship in harbour. Charity was
homely, but comfortable. Madge and Lois were blooming in strength and
activity, and as innocent apparently of any vague, unfulfilled longings
as a new-blown rose. Only when Mr. Dillwyn's eye met Mrs. Barclay's he
was sensible of a different record. He half sighed. The calm and the
rest were not there.

The talk rambled on. Mr. Dillwyn made him self exceedingly pleasant;
told of things he had seen in his travels, things and people, and ways
of life; interesting even Mrs. Armadale with a sort of fascinated
interest, and gaining, he knew, no little share of her good-will. So,
just as the meal was ending, he ventured to bring forward the old
subject again.

"You will pardon me, Mrs. Armadale," he began,--"but you are the first
person I ever met who did not value money."

"Perhaps I am the first person you ever met who had something better."

"You mean--?" said Philip, with a look of inquiry. "I do not
understand."

"I have treasure in heaven."

"But the coin of that realm is not current here?--and we are here."

"That coin makes me rich now; and I take it with me when I go," said
the old lady, as she rose from the table.



CHAPTER XXXIV.



UNDER AN UMBRELLA.



Mrs. Barclay returned to her own room, and Mr. Dillwyn was forced to
follow her. The door was shut between them and the rest of the
household. Mrs. Barclay trimmed her fire, and her guest looked on
absently. Then they sat down on opposite sides of the fireplace; Mrs.
Barclay smiling inwardly, for she knew that Philip was impatient;
however, nothing could be more sedate to all appearance than she was.

"Do you hear how the wind moans in the chimney?" she said. "That means
rain."

"Rather dismal, isn't it?"

"No. In this house nothing is dismal. There is a wholesome way of
looking at everything."

"Not at money?"

"It is no use, Philip, to talk to people about what they cannot
understand."

"I thought understanding on that point was universal."

"They have another standard in this family for weighing things, from
that which you and I have been accustomed to go by."

"What is it?"

"I can hardly tell you, in a word. I am not sure that I can tell you at
all. Ask Lois."

"When can I ask her? Do you spend your evenings alone?"

"By no means! Sometimes I go out and read 'Rob Roy' to them. Sometimes
the girls come to me for some deeper reading, or lessons."

"Will they come to-night?"

"Of course not! They would not interfere with your enjoyment of my
society."

"Cannot you ask Lois in, on some pretext?"

"Not without her sister. It is hard on you, Philip! I will do the best
for you I can; but you must watch your opportunity."

Mr. Dillwyn gave it up with a good grace, and devoted himself to Mrs.
Barclay for the rest of the evening. On the other side of the wall
separating the two rooms, meanwhile a different colloquy had taken
place.

"So that is one of your fine people?" said Miss Charity. "Well, I don't
think much of him."

"I have no doubt he would return the compliment," said Madge.

"No," said Lois; "I think he is too polite."

"He was polite to grandmother," returned Charity. "Not to anybody else,
that I saw. But, girls, didn't he like the bread!"

"I thought he liked everything pretty well," said Madge.

"When's he goin'?" Mrs. Armadale asked suddenly.

"Monday, some time," Madge answered. "Mrs. Barclay said 'until Monday.'
What time Monday I don't know."

"Well, we've got things enough to hold out till then," said Charity,
gathering up her dishes. "It's fun, too; I like to set a nice table."

"Why, grandmother?" said Lois. "Don't you like Mrs. Barclay's friend?"

"Well enough, child. I don't want him for none of our'n."

"Why, grandmother?" said Madge.

"His world ain't our world, children, and his hopes ain't our hopes--if
the poor soul has any. 'Seems to me he's all in the dark."

"That's only on one subject," said Lois. "About everything else he
knows a great deal; and he has seen everything."

"Yes," said Mrs. Armadale; "very like he has; and he likes to talk
about it; and he has a pleasant tongue; and he is a civil man. But
there's one thing he hain't seen, and that is the light; and one thing
he don't know, and that is happiness. And he may have plenty of
money--I dare say he has; but he's what I call a poor man. I don't want
you to have no such friends."

"But grandmother, you do not dislike to have him in the house these two
days, do you?"

"It can't be helped, my dear, and we'll do the best for him we can. But
I don't want you to have no such friends."

"I believe we should go out of the world to suit grandmother," remarked
Charity. "She won't think us safe as long as we're in it."

The whole family went to church the next morning. Mr. Dillwyn's
particular object, however, was not much furthered. He saw Lois,
indeed, at the breakfast table; and the sight was everything his fancy
had painted it. He thought of Milton's



   "Pensive nun, devout and pure,
   Sober, stedfast, and demure"--



only the description did not quite fit; for there was a healthy, sweet
freshness about Lois which gave the idea of more life and activity,
mental and bodily, than could consort with a pensive character. The
rest fitted pretty well; and the lines ran again and again through Mr.
Dillwyn's head. Lois was gone to church long before the rest of the
family set out; and in church she did not sit with the others; and she
did not come home with them. However, she was at dinner. But
immediately after dinner Mrs. Barclay with drew again into her own
room, and Mr. Dillwyn had no choice but to accompany her.

"What now?" he asked. "What do you do the rest of the day?"

"I stay at home and read. Lois goes to Sunday school."

Mr. Dillwyn looked to the windows. The rain Mrs. Barclay threatened had
come; and had already begun in a sort of fury, in company with a wind,
which drove it and beat it, as it seemed, from all points of the
compass at once. The lines of rain-drops went slantwise past the
windows, and then beat violently upon them; the ground was wet in a few
minutes; the sky was dark with its thick watery veils. Wind and rain
were holding revelry.

"She will not go out in this weather," said the gentleman, with
conviction which seemed to be agreeable.

"The weather will not hinder her," returned Mrs. Barclay.

"This weather?"

"No. Lois does not mind weather. I have learned to know her by this
time. Where she thinks she ought to go, or what she thinks she ought to
do, there no hindrance will stop her. It is good you should learn to
know her too, Philip."

"Pray tell me,--is the question of 'ought' never affected by what
should be legitimate hindrances?"

"They are never credited with being legitimate," Mrs. Barclay said,
with a slight laugh. "The principle is the same as that old soldier's
who said, you know, when ordered upon some difficult duty, 'Sir, if it
is possible, it shall be done; and if it is impossible, it must be
done!'"

"That will do for a soldier,", said Dillwyn. "At what o'clock does she
go?"

"In about a quarter of an hour I shall expect to hear her feet
pattering softly through the hall, and then the door will open and shut
without noise, and a dark figure will shoot past the windows."

Mr. Dillwyn left the room, and probably made some preparations; for
when, a few minutes later, a figure all wrapped up in a waterproof
cloak did pass softly through the hall, he came out of Mrs. Barclay's
room and confronted it; and I think his overcoat was on.

"Miss Lois! you cannot be going out in this storm?"

"O yes. The storm is nothing--only something to fight against."

"But it blows quite furiously."

"I don't dislike a wind," said Lois, laying her hand on the lock of the
door.

"You have no umbrella?"

"Don't need it. I am all protected, don't you see? Mr. Dillwyn, you
are not going out?"

"Why not?"

"But you have nothing to call you out?"

"I beg your pardon. The same thing, I venture to presume, that calls
you out,--duty. Only in my case the duty is pleasure."

"You are not going to take care of me?"

"Certainly."

"But there's no need. Not the least in the world."

"From your point of view."

He was so alertly ready, had the door open and his umbrella spread, and
stood outside waiting for her, Lois did not know how to get rid of him.
She would surely have done it if she could. So she found herself going
up the street with him by her side, and the umbrella warding off the
wind and rain from her face. It was vexatious and amusing. From her
face! who had faced Sharnpuashuh storms ever since she could remember.
It is very odd to be taken care of on a sudden, when you are
accustomed, and perfectly able, to take care of your self. It is also
agreeable.

"You had better take my arm, Miss Lois," said her companion. "I could
shield you better."

"Well," said Lois, half laughing, "since you are here, I may as well
take the good of it."

And then Mr. Dillwyn had got things as he wanted them.

"I ventured to assume, a little while ago, Miss Lois, that duty was
taking you out into this storm; but I confess my curiosity to know what
duty could have the right to do it. If my curiosity is indiscreet, you
can rebuke it."

"It is not indiscreet," said Lois. "I have a sort of a Bible class, in
the upper part of the village, a quarter of a mile beyond the church."

"I understood it was something of that kind, or I should not have
asked. But in such weather as this, surely they would not expect you?"

"Yes, they would. At any rate, I am bound to show that I expect them."

"Do you expect them, to come out to-day?"

"Not all of them," Lois allowed. "But if there would not be one, still
I must be there."

"Why?--if you will pardon me for asking."

"It is good they should know that I am regular and to be depended on.
And, besides, they will be sure to measure the depth of my interest in
the work by my desire to do it. And one can do so little in this world
at one's best, that one is bound to do all one can."

"All one can," Mr. Dillwyn repeated.

"You cannot put it at a lower figure. I was struck with a word in one
of Mrs. Barclay's books--'the Life and Correspondence of John
Foster,'--'Power, to its very last particle, is duty.'"

"But that would be to make life a terrible responsibility."

"Say noble--not terrible!" said Lois.

"I confess it seems to me terrible also. I do not see how you can get
rid of the element of terribleness."

"Yes,--if duty is neglected. Not if duty is done."

"Who does his duty, at that rate?"

"Some people try," said Lois.

"And that trying must make life a servitude."

"Service--not servitude!" exclaimed Lois again, with the same
wholesome, hearty ring in her voice that her companion had noticed
before.

"How do you draw the line between them?" he asked, with an inward
smile; and yet Mr. Dillwyn was earnest enough too.

"There is more than a line between them," said Lois. "There is all the
distance between freedom and slavery." And the words recurred to her,
"I will walk at liberty, for I seek thy precepts;" but she judged
they would not be familiar to her companion nor meet appreciation from
him, so she did not speak them. "Service," she went on, "I think is
one of the noblest words in the world; but it cannot be rendered
servilely. It must be free, from the heart."

"You make nice distinctions. Service, I suppose you mean, of one's
fellow creatures?"

"No," said Lois, "I do not mean that. Service must be given to God. It
will work out upon one's fellow-creatures, of course."

"Nice distinctions again," said Mr. Dillwyn.

"But very real! And very essential."

"Is there not service--true service--that is given wholly to one's
needy fellows of humanity? It seems to me I have heard of such."

"There is a good deal of such service," said Lois, "but it is not the
true. It is partial, and arbitrary; it ebbs and flows, and chooses; and
is found consorting with what is not service, but the contrary. True
service, given to God, and rising from the love of him, goes where it
is sent and does what it is bidden, and has too high a spring ever to
fail. Real service gives all, and is ready for everything."

"How much do you mean, I wonder, by 'giving all'? Do you use the words
soberly?"

"Quite soberly," said Lois, laughing.

"Giving all what?"

"All one's power,--according to Foster's judgment of it."

"Do you know what that would end in?"

"I think I do. How do you mean?"

"Do you know how much a man or a woman would give who gave all he
