desk, and running off to California after a lover in the mines. It's
turned out exactly as he said."

"Did he dare to slander me in that way?" demanded Florence, so
indignantly that her jailer drew back in some alarm.

"No violence, miss, if you please," she said. "You'd better be quiet, or
you'll have to be tied."

"Good Heavens!" exclaimed Florence, "I would not have believed Orton
Campbell so false and artful!"

"He's acting for your good, miss. So you'd better not make a fuss;" and
the landlady left the room, not failing to lock the door securely behind
her.




CHAPTER XXVII.

A STAR IN THE CLOUD.


Meanwhile, though things looked dark for Florence and favorable for her
persecutor, there was one circumstance that threatened failure to the
latter's plans. Orton Campbell was a mean man, and his meanness in this
instance worked against him. He had promised his confederate, Jones, a
thousand dollars as the price of his information and co-operation, but
intended all the while to avoid paying it if it were a possible thing.
Of this sum seven hundred dollars were still due, besides an extra sum
for the services of Jones in making Florence a captive.

It was in regard to these sums that Jones called on Mr. Campbell on the
evening succeeding the success of the plot.

Orton Campbell was about to go out when Jones appeared at his hotel.

"I would like to see you a few minutes, Mr. Orton," said the man
respectfully.

"You must come some other time, Jones," said Campbell, carelessly; "I've
got an engagement."

"I must see you now, sir," said Jones, still respectfully, but in a
resolute tone.

"'Must'?" repeated Orton Campbell, arching his brows. "You are
impertinent."

"Call me what you please," said Jones, doggedly; "I'm not to be put
off."

"What do you mean?" demanded his employer, angrily.

"You know well enough. I want the money you are owing me."

"You seem to be in a hurry," said Campbell, with a sneer.

"You don't," retorted Jones. "All I ask is that you will keep your
promise."

"What promise do you refer to?"

"'What promise do I refer to?' You said if I would join you in
kidnapping--"

"Hush!" said Orton looking around, apprehensive of listeners.

"The young lady," Jones continued, "you would pay me the seven hundred
dollars you owed me, and two hundred dollars extra for my help."

Now, Orton Campbell knew very well that he had made this promise, but
the payment of nine hundred dollars he dreaded as much as some of my
readers would dread the extraction of half a dozen teeth. He had got all
he needed from Jones, and he decided that it would be safe to throw him
off. It might be dishonorable, but for that he cared little.

"I suppose you have my promise in writing, Jones?" he said, with a
sneer.

"No, I haven't, Mr. Campbell."

"Then you can't prove that I owe you anything, I take it."

"You don't mean to say, Mr. Orton, you'd cheat a poor man out of his
hard-earned money?" ejaculated Jones, who, in spite of his knowledge of
his employer's character, could hardly believe his ears.

"I never intended to give you such an enormous sum for the little you
have done for me."

"Didn't you promise it, sir?" demanded Jones, exasperated.

"Not that I remember," answered Campbell, coolly. "I should have been a
fool to promise so large a sum. I paid your expenses out to California
and three hundred dollars. That, I take it, is pretty liberal pay for
your services for a month."

"I'll have justice if I live!" said Jones, furiously.

He looked so threatening that Orton Campbell thought it might be best to
placate him, even at the expense of a small extra sum. "Don't be a fool,
Jones," he said. "You know very well that your demands are beyond all
reason. I've treated you very liberally already, but I don't mind doing
a little more. I'll go so far as to give you fifty dollars down, and a
further sum of one hundred dollars on my wedding-day if I marry Florence
Douglas, if you'll be content with that."

"I won't be content with it, Orton Campbell," said Jones, indignantly;
"I won't be content with anything less than the full sum you promised
me. You'd better pay me at once, or you may see trouble."

Orton Campbell should have known that it was dangerous to trifle with a
man so thoroughly roused as Jones was, but his love of money and dislike
to part with it overcame every other consideration, and he said, "You've
refused my offer, and I have done with you. You needn't come near me
again."

"Do you mean this?" asked Jones, slowly.

"Of course I do. You have served my purpose, and been paid. I have
offered you more, and you have refused it. That ends everything."

"I understand you now, Orton Campbell."

"Mr. Campbell, if you please," interrupted Campbell, haughtily.

"Mr. Campbell, then; and I am sorry I didn't know you better before,
but it isn't too late yet."

"That's enough: you can go."

As Jones walked away Campbell asked himself, "What is the fellow going
to do, I wonder? I suppose he will try to annoy me. Never mind: I have
saved nine hundred dollars. That will more than cover all the damage he
can do me."

It was about the same hour that a party of three, dusty and shabby,
entered San Francisco, and made their way to a respectable but not
prominent hotel.

"We look like three tramps, Ben," said Bradley. "Anywhere but in San
Francisco I don't believe we could get lodged in any respectable hotel,
but they'll know at once that we are from the mines, and may have a good
store of gold-dust in spite of our looks."

"If my friends at home could see me now," said Ben, laughingly, "they
wouldn't think I had found my trip to California profitable. It would
give my friend Sam Sturgis a good deal of pleasure to think that I was a
penniless adventurer."

"He might be disappointed when he heard that you were worth not far from
a thousand dollars, Ben."

"He certainly would be. On the other hand, Uncle Job would be delighted.
I wish I could walk into his little cottage and tell him all about it."

"When you go home, Ben, you must have more money to carry than you have
now. A thousand dollars are all very well, but they are not quite
enough to start business on."

"A year ago I should have felt immensely rich on a thousand dollars,"
said Ben, thoughtfully.

"No doubt; but you are young enough to wait a little longer. After our
friend Dewey has seen his young lady and arranged matters we'll dust
back to our friends, the miners who came near giving us a ticket to the
next world, and see whether fortune won't favor us a little more."

"Agreed!" said Ben; "I shall be ready.--Shall you call on Miss Douglas
this evening, Mr. Dewey?" asked Ben.

"Yes," answered Dewey. "I cannot bear to feel that I am in the same city
and refrain from seeing her."

"Will she know you in your present rig?" suggested Bradley.

"I shall lose no time in buying a new outfit," said Dewey. "There must
be shops where all articles of dress can be obtained ready-made."

"I was afraid you were going as you are," said Bradley. "Of course she'd
be glad to see you, but she might be sensitive about her friends; and
that wouldn't be agreeable to you, I'm thinkin'."

"I thank you for your kind suggestion, my good friend," said Dewey; "no
doubt you are right."

Richard Dewey swallowed a hasty supper, and then sought the clothing
shops, where he had no difficulty in procuring a ready-made outfit. So
many persons came from the mines in his condition, desiring similar
accommodation, that he was not required to go far to secure what he
wanted.

Then, having obtained from Ben the proper directions, he took his way to
the house of Mrs. Armstrong, which he reached about eight o'clock.

"Can I see Miss Florence Douglas?" he asked.

Mrs. Armstrong, hearing the request, came herself to the door. She was
feeling anxious about the prolonged absence of her young friend.

"May I ask your name, sir?" she inquired.

"Richard Dewey."

"'Richard Dewey'?" repeated Mrs. Armstrong, in amazement. "Why, I
thought you were sick in bed!"

"What made you think so?" asked Dewey, in equal amazement.

"Your own note. Miss Douglas, on receiving it, went away at once with
the messenger, and has not returned."

"I have sent no note, and no messenger has come from me. I don't
understand you," said Richard Dewey, bewildered.

It was soon explained, and the bitter disappointment of Dewey may well
be imagined. This feeling was mingled with one of apprehension for the
personal safety of the young lady.

"This is indeed alarming," he ejaculated. "Who can have planned such an
outrage?"

"I will tell you, sir," said a voice.

Turning quickly, Richard Dewey's glance rested upon Jones.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

JONES CHECKMATES ORTON CAMPBELL.


"Who are you?" inquired Richard Dewey, not favorably impressed by the
appearance of the man who addressed him.

"You wouldn't know if I should tell you," said Jones; "so I may as well
say that I came out to San Francisco with Orton Campbell."

"Orton Campbell in the city?" exclaimed Dewey, apprehensively. "Had he
anything to do with the disappearance of Miss Douglas?"

"Everything, sir; but I can't tell you about it in the street. I will go
with you to your hotel."

"Tell me on the way," said Richard Dewey. "First, has any harm befallen
Florence--Miss Douglas?"

"None as yet."

"Is any threatened?"

"The loss of her liberty; but I will help you to thwart Orton Campbell."

Jones told the story, which need not be repeated here, as it is already
known to the reader. He had difficulty in restraining Mr. Dewey from
starting out instantly to the rescue of the young lady, but on his
representing that she was safe, and that it would be soon enough to go
out in the morning, Richard Dewey yielded.

A little before eight o'clock, Jones, driving the same carriage in which
he had conveyed Florence to her place of captivity, halted in front of
Mrs. Bradshaw's dwelling.

"Remain in the carriage, Mr. Dewey," he said, "and I will see if I can't
secure the young lady without any fuss."

"Won't it be better for me to accompany you?"

"I think not, sir. Mrs. Bradshaw knows I am the one who brought Miss
Douglas here, and she will think it is all right. Stay!" he continued,
with a sudden thought. "I have an idea. Mr. Campbell told Mrs. Bradshaw
that the young lady was insane. I will make her think that you are the
doctor from the asylum come to take Miss Douglas back with you."

"Did Orton Campbell really intend such an outrage?" asked Richard Dewey,
in a tone of horror.

"Yes, if Miss Douglas wouldn't consent to marry him."

"Go, then, and lose no time."

Jones knocked at the door, which was opened by Mrs. Bradshaw in person.
She naturally regarded Jones with surprise, not anticipating so early a
call.

"How is Miss Douglas?" he asked.

"Very contrary," answered the landlady. "I can't get her to eat. It's my
belief she means to starve herself."

"It's a crazy freak," said Jones, shrugging his shoulders. "Well, I've
come to take her away."

"To take her away--so soon?" asked Mrs. Bradshaw, in surprise.

"Yes, Mr. Orton thought it best."

"Is he with you?"

"No."

"I think I see some one in the carriage."

"To be sure. It's the mad doctor from the asylum. Don't let Miss Douglas
know it," continued Jones, lowering his voice, "or she wouldn't consent
to go with us."

"I see," answered the landlady, nodding. "Do you want to go up now?"

"Yes; let me see her alone, so that I can tell her a story which will
quiet her suspicions."

"Mr. Campbell hasn't paid me all he promised yet," said Mrs. Bradshaw,
rather uneasily.

"Oh, that's all right," said Jones. "He never forgets his promise--and
seldom keeps it," he said to himself.

Florence was sitting on the lounge in her room in rather a despondent
state of mind when the door opened, and she looked up, expecting to see
Orton Campbell.

Jones closed the door behind him, and then, putting his hand over his
lips, said, "Miss Douglas, I bring you good news."

"Are you not the man who brought me out here yesterday?"

"The same one."

"Then how have you the face to show yourself in my presence?"

"Because I am come to free you from your imprisonment."

Florence started to her feet in some excitement. "If this were true!"
she exclaimed. "But no; you are an agent of Orton Campbell, and this is
some new trick of his."

"I was an agent of Orton Campbell, but he deceived me, and I am his
enemy."

"Is he with you?" asked Florence, suspiciously.

"No; but in the carriage outside is one whom you will be glad to meet."

"Who is it?"

"Richard Dewey."

"You brought me a note from him which he never wrote. How do you expect
me to believe you now?"

"If he is not there, don't get into the carriage. Not a word to Mrs.
Bradshaw. She is in the employ of Mr. Campbell, who represented you as
insane, and I told her that Mr. Dewey, whom I did not dare to bring in,
was a doctor from the insane asylum."

"Are you sure you are not deceiving me?" said Florence, earnestly.

"I am on the square, miss, but you can easily convince yourself by
coming down stairs. If you prefer to remain here till nine o'clock, when
Orton Campbell will be here, you can do so."

"No, no! anything better than that!"

Mrs. Bradshaw watched the exit of her guest with a peculiar look. "She
little knows where she's going," thought the woman. "Well, if she's
crazy, it's the best place for her."

As may easily be imagined, there was scant leave-taking. Florence was
eager to leave this shabby cabin, where she had passed a night of
anxious solicitude.

She approached the carriage, and Jones opened the door. She looked in,
and saw Dewey, who said in a low voice, "Get in at once, Florence, but
keep silent till we are on our way."

An expression of joy came over her face as she saw this most convincing
proof of her driver's good faith. He mounted the box and drove rapidly
off.

On their way back to San Francisco the two who had been so long
separated had ample time to compare notes and form plans for the future.

"Florence," said Richard Dewey, "after this treachery of Orton Campbell
there is but one way of safety for you."

"And what is that?"

"Let me become your legal protector, and at once. When we are married
your guardian will be powerless. He will have me to deal with then, not
a defenceless girl."

"But, Richard, this seems so sudden!"

"It ought not to, Florence. Have we not waited for each other long
enough? Have we not been separated long enough? I am not much richer
than when I left you--not so rich," he added, smiling, "as your other
suitor, Orton Campbell."

"I will marry you if only to get rid of him, Richard," said Florence,
impetuously.

"I won't quarrel with your motives, since you consent."

So it happened that on their arrival in San Francisco they directed
Jones to drive to the house of a clergyman, and were speedily united in
marriage, the clergyman's wife and daughter being witnesses.
Circumstances compelled them to dispense with the usual "cards and
cake."

At nine o'clock, Orton Campbell, secure of his prey, drove up to Mrs.
Bradshaw's door and leisurely descended.

"Well, and how is Miss Douglas this morning?" he asked of the astonished
landlady.

"How is she? She's gone."

"What!" ejaculated Orton, furiously; "you have dared to let her escape?"

"You sent for her yourself. She went away with the mad doctor."

"'The mad doctor'? I don't know anything about any mad doctor. Woman,
you are deceiving me."

"Don't call me woman!" said Mrs. Bradshaw, offensively, putting her
arms akimbo. "I'm no more a woman than you are."

"Then you'd better dress differently," sneered Campbell. "Tell me what
all this means."

"The man that drove the lady out here yesterday came here more than an
hour ago and said you had sent for her. He said there was a doctor in
the carriage who would take her to the asylum. That corresponded with
what you told me, and I let her go."

"That scoundrel Jones!" exclaimed Orton Campbell. "So this is his
revenge? I must go back to the city at once and circumvent him if I
can."

He was about to go when Mrs. Bradshaw said, "Before you go you'd better
pay me what you promised."

"I won't pay you a cent," said Campbell, angrily.

"Jack!"

The word spoken by the woman brought a rough-looking man to the
carriage-door.

"This man says he won't pay me a cent, Jack," said Mrs. Bradshaw.

"You'd better reconsider that, stranger," said Jack, pulling out a
revolver and fingering it significantly.

"I owe her nothing," said Orton Campbell, surveying the revolver
uneasily. "If she had kept the young lady here, it would have been
different."

"If there's a trick been played on you, my wife ain't goin' to suffer by
it. She's earned the money, stranger, and I'll give you just two minutes
to pay it over."

Orton Campbell read something in the man's face that convinced him he
was not to be trifled with. With many an inward groan he drew out one
hundred dollars from his purse and handed it over.

"That's all right, stranger," said Jack, coolly. "I thought you'd be
reasonable. Short reckonings make long friends."

With a muttered imprecation Orton Campbell sharply ordered his driver to
turn the horses' heads toward San Francisco and make his way there as
quickly as possible. His thoughts were by no means pleasant company. He
had just been forced to pay out a considerable sum without value
received, and was beginning to think the sum paid to Jones also money
thrown away.




CHAPTER XXIX.

A WEDDING RECEPTION.


Orton Campbell cursed his folly in arousing the hostility of Jones. He
concluded that the latter had released Florence in order to obtain a
hold upon him, and would be ready to assist him again if satisfactorily
paid. In that event all was not lost. It was necessary to see Jones as
early as possible and make matters right with him.

He was not quite clear as to where Jones could be found, but concluded
that he had carried Florence back to her boarding-house. He therefore
ordered his driver to proceed at once to the house of Mrs. Armstrong.

He hastily descended from the carriage and rang the bell.

It was answered by Mrs. Armstrong in person, who regarded him with no
very friendly eye.

Orton Campbell, knowing his own treachery, and conscious that it was
also known to the lady before him, asked, in some embarrassment, "Is
Miss Douglas here?"

"No, sir."

Orton Campbell looked surprised. "I--I thought she might be here," he
stammered.

"Were you the person who lured her from my house yesterday by a false
letter?" demanded Mrs. Armstrong, sternly.

"No," answered Campbell, unblushingly; "it was an agent of mine, who has
deceived and betrayed me."

"Then, you had nothing to do with the disappearance of the young lady?"

"Certainly not," answered Orton Campbell, boldly. "I assure you it has
given me great concern, and I have been riding hither and thither this
morning in search of her."

"Won't you come in, sir? Perhaps we may be able to throw some light on
this mystery."

"She believes me," thought Orton Campbell, congratulating himself on the
effect of his duplicity.--"Certainly," he answered; "I shall be most
happy to do so."

He was ushered into the parlor, into which, five minutes later, entered
Florence, Richard Dewey, and a gentleman of clerical appearance.

"Miss Douglas!" exclaimed Orton Campbell, in astonishment.--"I thought
you said," turning to Mrs. Armstrong, "that Miss Douglas was not here?"

"I am not Miss Douglas," said Florence, quietly.

"I don't understand you."

"Perhaps I can explain the mystery," said Richard Dewey, coming forward.

"I wish you would, if you can," said Orton Campbell, with a sneer.

"This young lady is my wife."

"Your wife? And who are you?"

"Richard Dewey, at your service."

Orton Campbell had never known Dewey well, and his life at the mines had
so changed his appearance that it was not surprising he did not
recognize him.

"Is this true?" he asked, in visible dismay. "When were you married?"

"Half an hour since, by this gentleman;" and Richard Dewey waved his
hand in the direction of the clerical gentleman already referred to.

"You have done a good stroke of business, sir," said Campbell, with a
sneer and a look of baffled hatred. "The lady's fortune makes her a good
match."

"So you evidently thought, sir," answered Dewey. "Your unscrupulous
methods have not succeeded, and I beg to warn you that the lady now has
a protector who will punish any such persecution as that with which you
have recently visited her."

"You are quite mistaken. My agent--"

"Only followed your instructions," said an unexpected voice, as Jones,
who was within hearing, now entered from the adjoining room. "Mr. Orton,
I have confessed all, so you needn't try to humbug this gentleman."

"You are a scoundrel," said Campbell, wrathfully, excited by the
appearance of the man who, in return for being cheated, had betrayed
him.

"Then there's a pair of us, Mr. Campbell," said he, coolly. "I admit
that I behaved like a rascal, but I've tried to set matters right."

"You can find your way back to New York as you can; I have done with
you," said Campbell, hardly conscious that this very remark betrayed
him.

"Mr. Dewey has kindly offered to take me back with him," said Jones, not
at all disturbed by this notice.

"If you are going back by the next steamer, Mr. Campbell," said Richard
Dewey, "I will thank you to apprise your father of his ward's marriage,
and ask him to arrange for the surrender of her property at the proper
time."

"You may attend to your own messages, sir," said Orton, irritably. "I
will have nothing to do with them."

Without any further words he hurried out of the house, and drove at once
to the office of the steamship company, where he secured passage by the
earliest vessel eastward bound.

That same evening Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dewey held an informal reception
at their boarding-house.

It was not largely attended, for Florence had made but few
acquaintances during her stay in the city. Uncertain as her prospects
were, she had thought it best to keep aloof from her friends, who might
possibly make known her residence to her guardian. Among those present,
however, were Richard Dewey's tried friends, Bradley and Ben Stanton.

Bradley tried to excuse himself, on the ground that he was only a rough
miner and not accustomed to society, but his objection was overruled
both by Florence and her husband.

"You are a true friend, Mr. Bradley," said Florence, gratefully, "and I
should miss you more than any one else except my young friend and
cousin, Ben."

"Ben's different from what I am," said Bradley. "He ain't such a rough
specimen."

"I'm only a miner, like you," said Ben. "I am a country boy and not used
to society, but I don't believe Cousin Ida will care for that."

"Cousin Ida" was the name by which Ben had been instructed to call
Florence when she came out to California under his escort.

The upshot of it all was that both Bradley and Ben were present at the
bride's reception, and were made so thoroughly at home by Mrs. Richard
Dewey that neither felt in the least awkward.

Two weeks later Richard Dewey and his wife sailed for New York, but Ben
and Bradley remained behind.

"Come with us, Ben," said Florence. "I don't like to leave you behind."

"Thank you, Miss Florence--I mean Mrs. Dewey," said the boy--"but I am
not ready to go yet."

"Don't let the thought of money keep you here, Ben. I am rich, or I
shall be in a few months, when my guardian surrenders his trust, and I
will take care that you are well provided for."

"Thank you again," said Ben; "but I've promised to go back to the mines.
I've got a claim reserved for me, and so has Bradley. We'll go back now
and try to gather a little more gold-dust."

"But you'll let us see you in New York before long?"

"Yes, I shall go home in a few months, even if I come back again later.
I want to see Uncle Job and Cousin Jennie, and all my old friends, not
forgetting Sam Sturgis," added Ben, smiling.

"We must be content with that, I suppose," said the young lady. "I hope
you will have good luck, but even if you don't, remember that you have
two friends who will only be too glad to be of service to you.--Please
consider, Mr. Bradley, that this is said to you also."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Jake Bradley, awkwardly, for with all his good
traits he was not quite at ease in the society of ladies.

Ben and Bradley saw the young couple off on the steamer, and then
prepared to go back to the mines.

"It's made me feel kind of lonesome to part with Dick Dewey," said
Bradley, thoughtfully. "He's a whole-souled feller, and he's 'struck it
rich' in a wife."

"That's so, Jake."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE NUGGET.


Ben and Bradley made their way back to Golden Gulch by easy stages. They
reached the Gulch about sunset, and were welcomed in such noisy style by
the miners that it might almost be called an ovation.

"We reckoned you'd come," said one of the leaders. "You look like you'd
keep your promise."

"I hope there ain't any hosses been stole since we went away," said
Bradley, jocosely. "Ben and I ain't quite ready to hand in our checks."

"We wouldn't hold you responsible if there had been," was the reply.

"That makes me feel a little easier in mind," said Bradley. "It may be
pleasant to hang from a branch with a noose round your neck, but I don't
want to try it."

The miners were just preparing to take their evening meal, and Ben and
his friend were invited to share their hospitality. After supper pipes
were produced, and Bradley was called upon to bring forth his budget of
news. In the little mining-settlement, far from the great world, a man
who could give the latest news from the city or produce a late paper
from any of the Eastern cities was hailed as a public benefactor.

So it was at an unusually late hour that our friends and the miners
retired to rest.

The next morning the two new-comers were shown the claims which had been
set aside for them. They were eligibly located, and already had a
commercial value, but were bestowed out of good-will, without a cent of
compensation.

Bradley and Ben got to work at once. They had had their vacation, and
were ready to settle down to business. They were stimulated to effort by
the success of some of their fellow miners. Ben's next neighbor had
already gathered nearly three thousand dollars' worth of gold-dust, and
it was quite within the limits of probability that our young hero might
be as successful.

"If I fail it won't be for lack of trying," thought Ben.

Three thousand dollars, in addition to the thousand he already had,
would make him feel rich. Some of my readers, who have been luxuriously
reared, will be surprised to hear this. But Ben had always been used to
small things. He had been brought up in a small country town, where a
dollar counts for a good deal more than it does in the city, and where a
man possessing ten thousand dollars is thought to be independently rich.
His uncle Job, who was thrifty and industrious, and generally, through
careful economy, had a little money in the savings bank, was probably
worth, at the outside, fifteen hundred dollars.

No wonder, then, that the prospect of being worth four thousand dollars
dazzled our young hero and stimulated him to unwonted effort.

Neither of our two friends got on fast. They averaged perhaps fifty
dollars a week each, but out of this their expenses had to be paid, and
these, on account of the high price of all articles of necessity, were
rather heavy. Still, the end of each week found both richer, and they
were contented.

It was the aim of every miner to "strike it rich." Each had a dream of
some day cutting a rich vein or finding a nugget of extraordinary size
which should compress into one day the profits of a year or two of
ordinary success. But such lucky finds were not numerous. As in ordinary
life, the large prizes are rare, and average success is the rule. But
the general hope was kept up by occasional lucky strokes.

"Ben," said Bradley, one day in excitement, returning from a visit to
the claims half a mile distant on the other side of a hilly ridge, "I've
got great news."

"What is it, Jake?"

"Perkins has just found a nugget that must contain five hundred dollars'
worth of gold."

"You don't say so, Jake?"

"Fact; I just saw it."

"I hope there's more of them 'round here."

"So do I. That's a find worth having."

The discovery made a sensation at Golden Gulch. It excited the hope of
all, and stimulated labor. What had fallen to Perkins might chance to
any one of his comrades.

So, as the miners sat round their roaring fire--for it was getting
chilly in the evening--one and another discussed the interesting
question, "What would I do if I could find a nugget?" Various, of
course, were the answers. One would go home and start a dry-goods store
(he had been a dry-goods clerk in Philadelphia); another would buy the
old Stuart place and get married; another would pay off a mortgage on
the old homestead, and so on.

"What would you do, Ben?" asked Bradley.

"I would go home by the next steamer, and buy Uncle Job the three-acre
lot he has been wanting so long, and buy new dresses for aunt and
Jennie. But it isn't much use forming plans till the nugget is found."

"That's so, Ben; but you are as likely to find it as the next man."

"I will hope for it, at any rate."

Though Ben's prospects were excellent, and he had met with unusual
success, his thoughts often wandered back to the quiet village where
the years of his boyhood had been chiefly passed. From time to time he
was disturbed by the thought that something might have happened to his
uncle's family, of whom he had heard little or nothing since he went
away. He afterward learned that letters had been sent which he had not
received. He was not exactly homesick, but he felt keenly the lack of
news from home.

In spite of this, however, he worked on with energy and industry. He
felt that every dollar he earned brought nearer the day when he would
feel justified in turning his back upon the gold-fields of California
and wending his homeward way to Hampton.

Meanwhile, Ben did not neglect to do what he could for the general
entertainment. It has already been mentioned that he could sing very
