two "suppers" were paid for. It was decidedly a case for delay. He
waited, therefore, until the warning bell rang, and he was then
encountered in hot haste hurrying to meet his patron, the waiter still
balanced on his shoulder.

"No ladies there, sah. Looked everywhere fur 'em, sah."

There was no time for further parley. Heathcote hurried forward, and the
train started. They must be there, of course; probably the cars had been
changed or moved forward while the train was waiting. But although he
went from end to end of the long file of carriages, he found no one.
They were under full headway now; the great engine did not need gradual
beginnings. He could not bring himself to ask questions of the
passengers whose faces he remembered in the same car; they would open
upon him a battery of curiosity in return. He went to the rear door,
opened it, and looked out; the two grime-encircled eyes of a brakeman
met his gravely. He stepped outside, closed the door, and entered into
conversation with the eyes.

Yes, he seed two ladies get off; they come out this here end door, and
climbed down on the wrong side. Seemed to be in a hurry. Didn't know
where they went. Called after 'em that that warn't the way to the
dining-room, and the young one said, "Thanks," but didn't say no more.
Was they left behind? No, train didn't stop this side of Valley City;
but the gentleman could telegraph back, and they could come on safe and
sound in the morning express. 'Twarn't likely they'd gone north by the
little branch road, was it? Branch connects at Stringhampton for the
Northern Line.

But this suggestion made no impression upon Heathcote. Mademoiselle
lived in Valley City; he had seen her tickets for Valley City. No, it
was some unlooked-for mistake or accident. He gave the brakeman a
dollar, and went back into the car. But everything was gone--bags,
shawls, basket, cloak, bundle, and umbrella, all the miscellaneous
possessions with which mademoiselle was accustomed to travel; there had
been, then, deliberation enough to collect them all. He sat down
perplexed, and gradually the certainty stole coldly over him that Anne
had fled. It must be this.

For it was no freak of the Frenchwoman's; she had been too much pleased
with his escort to forego it willingly. He was deeply hurt. And deeply
surprised. Had he not followed her to ask her to be his wife? (This was
not true, but for the moment he thought it was.) Was this a proper
response?

Never before had he received such a rebuff, and after brooding over it
an hour in the dismal car, it grew into an insult. His deeper feelings
were aroused. Under his indolence he had a dominant pride, even
arrogance of nature, which would have astonished many who thought they
knew him. Whether his words had or had not been the result of impulse,
now that they were spoken, they were worthy of at least respect. He grew
more angry as the minutes passed, for he was so deeply hurt that he took
refuge in anger. To be so thwarted and played upon--he, a man of the
world--by a young girl; a young girl regarding whom, too, there had
sprung up in his heart almost the only real faith of his life! He had
believed in that face, had trusted those violet eyes, he did not know
how unquestioningly until now. And then, feeling something very like
moisture coming into his own eyes, he rose, angry over his weakness,
went forward to the smoking car, lit a cigar, and savagely tried to
think of other things. A pretty fool he was to be on a night train in
the heart of Pennsylvania, going no one knew whither.

But, in spite of himself, his mind stole back to Anne. She was so
different from the society women with whom he had always associated; she
had so plainly loved him. Poor, remorseful, conscientious, struggling,
faithful heart! Why had she fled from him? It did not occur to him that
she was fleeing from herself.

He arrived at Valley City at eleven o'clock, and had the very room with
gaudy carpet he had pictured to himself. The next morning, disgusted
with everything and out of temper as he was, he yet so far postponed his
return journey as to make inquiries concerning schools for girls--one in
particular, in which a certain Mademoiselle Pitre had been teaching
French and music for several years. The clerk thought it must be the
"Young Ladies' Seminary." Heathcote took down the address of this
establishment, ordered a carriage, and drove thither, inquiring at the
door if Mademoiselle Pitre had arrived.

There was no such person there, the maid answered. No; he knew that she
had not yet arrived. But when was she expected?

The maid (who admired the stranger) did not take it upon herself to deny
his statement, but went away, and returned with the principal, Professor
Adolphus Bittinger. Professor Bittinger was not acquainted with
Mademoiselle Pitre. Their instructress in the French language was named
Blanchard, and was already there. Heathcote then asked if there were any
other young ladies' seminaries in Valley City, and was told (loftily)
that there were not. No schools where French was taught? There might
be, the professor thought, one or two small establishments for day
scholars. The visitor wrote down the new addresses, and drove away to
visit four day schools in succession, sending a ripple of curiosity down
the benches, and exciting a flutter in the breasts of four French
teachers, who came in person to answer the inquiries of monsieur. One of
them, a veteran in the profession, who had spent her life in asking
about the loaf made by the distant one-eyed relative of the baker,
answered decidedly that there was no such person in Valley City.
"Monsieur" was beginning to think so himself; but having now the fancy
to exhaust all the possibilities, he visited the infant schools, and a
private class, and at two o'clock returned to the hotel, having seen
altogether about five hundred young Americans in frocks, from five years
old to seventeen.

According to the statement of the little shop-keeper at Lancaster,
mademoiselle had been teaching in Valley City for a number of years:
there remained, then, the chance that she was in a private family as
governess. Heathcote lingered in Valley City three days longer on this
governess chance. He ate three more dinners in the comfortless
dining-room, slept three more nights in the gaudy bedroom, and was at
the railway station five times each day, to wit, at the hours when the
trains arrived from the east. If they had waited at Stringhampton until
he had had time to return to New York, they would be coming on now. But
no one came. The fourth day opened with dull gray rain; the smoke of the
manufactories hung over the valley like a pall. In the dining-room there
was a sour odor of fresh paint, and from the window he could see only a
line of hacks, the horses standing in the rain with drooping heads,
while the drivers, in a row against an opposite wall, looked, in their
long oil-skin coats, as though they were drawn up there in their black
shrouds to be shot. In a fit of utter disgust he rang for his bill,
ordered a carriage, and drove to the station: he would take the morning
train for New York.

Yet when the carriage was dismissed, he let the express roll away
without him, while he walked to and fro, waiting for an incoming train.
The train was behind time; when it did come, there was no one among its
passengers whom he had ever seen before. With an anathema upon his own
folly, he took the day accommodation eastward. He would return to New
York without any more senseless delays. And then at Stringhampton
Junction he was the only person who alighted. His idea was to make
inquiries there. He spent two hours of that afternoon in the rain, under
a borrowed umbrella, and three alone in the waiting-room. No such
persons as he described had been seen at Stringhampton, and as the
settlement was small, and possessed of active curiosity, there remained
no room for doubt. There was the chance that they had followed him to
Valley City an hour later on a freight train with car attached, in which
case he had missed them. And there was the other chance that they had
gone northward by the branch road. But why should they go northward?
They lived in Valley City, or near there; their tickets were marked
"Valley City." The branch led to the Northern Line, by which one could
reach Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, the wilderness, but not Valley City.
The gentleman might go up as far as the Northern Line, and inquire of
the station agent there, suggested the Stringhampton ticket-seller, who
balanced a wooden tooth-pick in his mouth lightly, like a cigarette. But
the gentleman, who had already been looking up the narrow line of wet
rails under his umbrella for an hour, regarded the speaker menacingly,
and turned away with the ironical comment in his own mind that the
Northern Line and its station agent might be--what amounted to
Calvinized--before he sought them.

The night express came thundering along at midnight. It bore away the
visitor. Stringhampton saw him no more.

In the mean time Anne and her companion had ridden on during the night,
and the younger woman had explained to the elder as well as she could
the cause of her sudden action. "It was not right that I should hear or
that he should speak such words."

"He had but little time in which to speak them," said Jeanne-Armande,
stiffly. "He spent most of the day with me. But, in any case, why run
away? Why could you not have repelled him quietly, and with the proper
dignity of a lady, and yet remained where you were, comfortably, and
allowed me to remain as well?"

"I could not," said Anne. Then, after a moment, "Dear mademoiselle,"
she added, "do not ask me any more questions. I have done wrong, and I
have been very, very unhappy. It is over now, and with your help I hope
to have a long winter of quiet and patient labor. I am grateful to you;
you do not know how grateful. Save those far away on the island, you
seem to me now the only friend I have on earth." Her voice broke.

Jeanne-Armande's better feelings were touched. "My poor child!" she
said, pityingly.

And then Anne laid her head down upon the Frenchwoman's shoulder, and
sobbed as if her heart would break.

They reached Weston the next day. The journey was ended.

Mademoiselle selected new lodgings, in a quarter which overlooked the
lake. She never occupied the same rooms two seasons in succession, lest
she should be regarded as "an old friend," and expected to make
concessions accordingly. On the second day she called ceremoniously upon
the principal of the school, sending in her old-fashioned glazed card,
with her name engraved upon it, together with a minute "Paris" in one
corner. To this important personage she formally presented her
candidate, endowing her with so large a variety of brilliant qualities
and accomplishments that the candidate was filled with astonishment, and
came near denying them, had she not been prevented by the silent meaning
pressure of a gaiter that divined her intention, and forbade the
revelation. Fortunately an under-teacher was needed, and half an hour
later Anne went away, definitely, although at a very small salary,
engaged.

She went directly home, locked her door, took paper and pen, and began
to write. "Dear Rast," she wrote. Then, with a flood of remorseful
affection, "Dear, dear Rast." Her letter was a long one, without break
or hesitation. She told him all save names, and asked him to forgive
her. If he still loved her and wished her to be his wife, she was ready;
in truth, she seemed almost to urge the marriage, that is, if he still
loved her. When the letter was completed she went out and placed it in a
letter-box with her own hands, coming home with a conscience more free.
She had done what she could. The letter was sent to the island, where
Rast still was when she had heard from him the last time before leaving
Caryl's; for only seven days had passed since then. They seemed seven
years.

A day later she wrote to Miss Lois, telling of Miss Vanhorn's action,
her new home and change of position. She said nothing of her letter to
Rast or the story it told; she left that to him to relate or not as he
pleased. In all things he should be now her master.

When this second letter was sent, she asked herself whether she could
write to Helen. But instantly the feeling came surging over her that she
could not. In addition there was the necessity of keeping her new abode
hidden. No one knew were mademoiselle was, and the younger woman had now
the benefit of that carefully woven mystery. She was safe. She must not
disturb that safety.

To one other person she felt that she must write, namely, Miss Vanhorn.
Harsh as had been the treatment she had received, it came from her
mother's aunt. She wrote, therefore, briefly, stating that she had
obtained a teacher's place, but without saying where it was. This
letter, inclosed in another envelope, was sent to a friend of
Jeanne-Armande in Boston, and mailed from that city. Anne had written
that a letter sent to the Boston address, which she inclosed, would be
immediately forwarded to her. But no reply came. Old Katharine never
forgave.

The school opened; the young teacher had a class of new scholars. To her
also were given the little brothers who were allowed to mingle with the
flock until they reached the age of eleven, when they were banished to
rougher trials elsewhere; to these little boys she taught Latin grammar,
and the various pursuits in the imperfect tense of those two well-known
grammar worthies, Caius and Balbus. Jeanne-Armande had not failed to
proclaim far and wide her candidate's qualifications as to vocal music.
"A pupil of Belzini," she remarked, with a stately air, "was not often
to be obtained so far inland." The principal, a clear-headed Western
woman, with a keen sense of humor, perceived at once (although smiling
at it) the value of the phrase. It was soon in circulation. And it was
understood that at Christmas-time the pupil of Belzini, who was not
often to be obtained so far inland, would assume charge of the music
class, and lift it to a plane of Italian perfection hitherto unattained.

The autumn opened. Anne, walking on the lake shore at sunset, saw the
vessels steal out from port one by one, and opening white sails, glide
away in the breeze of evening silently as spirits. Then came the colored
leaves. The town, even in its meanest streets, was now so beautiful that
the wonder was that the people did not leave their houses, and live
out-of-doors altogether, merely to gaze; every leaf was a flower, and
brighter than the brightest blossom. Then came a wild storm, tearing the
splendor from the branches in a single night; in the morning, November
rain was falling, and all was desolate and bare. But after this, the
last respite, came Indian summer.

If there is a time when the American of to-day recalls the red-skinned
men who preceded him in this land he now calls his own, it is during
these few days of stillness and beauty which bear the name of the
vanished race. Work is over in the fields, they are ready for their
winter rest; the leaves are gone, the trees are ready too. The last red
apple is gathered; men and the squirrels together have gleaned the last
nut. There is nothing more to be done; and he who with a delicate
imagination walks abroad, or drives slowly along country roads, finds
himself thinking, in the stillness, of those who roved over this same
ground not many years ago, and tardily gathering in at this season their
small crops of corn beside the rivers, gave to the beautiful
golden-purple-hued days the name they bear. Through the naked woods he
sees them stealing, bow in hand; on the stream he sees their birch-bark
canoes; the smoke in the atmosphere must surely rise from their hidden
camp fires. They have come back to their old haunts from the happy
hunting grounds for these few golden days. Is it not the Indian summer?
The winter came early, with whirling snow followed by bitter cold. Ice
formed; navigation was over until spring. Anne had heard from Dr. Gaston
and Miss Lois, but not from Rast. For Rast had gone; he had started on
his preliminary journey through the western country, where he proposed
to engage in business enterprises, although their nature remained as yet
vague. The chaplain wrote that a letter addressed to Erastus in her
handwriting had been brought to him the day after the youth's departure,
and that he had sent it to the frontier town which was to be his first
stopping-place. Erastus had written to her the day before his departure,
but the letter had of course gone to Caryl's. Miss Vanhorn, without
doubt, would forward it to her niece. The old man wrote with an effort
to appear cheerful, but he confessed that he missed his two children
sadly. The boys were well, and Angélique was growing pretty. In another
year it would be better that she should be with her sister; it was
somewhat doubtful whether Miss Lois understood the child.

Miss Lois's letter was emphatic, beginning and ending with her opinion
of Miss Vanhorn in the threefold character of grandaunt, Christian, and
woman. She was able to let out her feelings at last, unhindered by the
now-withdrawn allowance. The old bitter resentment against the woman who
had slighted William Douglas found vent, and the characterization was
withering and picturesque. When she had finished the arraignment, trial,
and execution, at least in words, she turned at last to the children;
and here it was evident that her pen paused and went more slowly. The
boys, she hoped (rather as a last resort), were "good-hearted." She had
but little trouble, comparatively, with Tita now; the child was very
attentive to her lessons, and had been over to Père Michaux at his
hermitage almost every other day. The boys went sometimes; and Erastus
had been kind enough to accompany the children, to see that they were
not drowned. And then, dropping the irksome theme, Miss Lois dipped her
pen in romance, and filled the remainder of her letter with praise of
golden-haired Rast, not so much because she herself loved him, as
because Anne did. For the old maid believed with her whole heart in this
young affection which had sprung into being under her fostering care,
and looked forward to the day when the two should kneel together before
Dr. Gaston in the little fort chapel, to receive the solemn benediction
of the marriage service, as the happiest remaining in her life on earth.
Anne read the fervid words with troubled heart. If Rast felt all that
Miss Lois said he felt, if he had borne as impatiently as Miss Lois
described their present partial separation, even when he was sure of her
love, how would he suffer when he read her letter! She looked forward
feverishly to the arrival of his answer; but none came. The delay was
hard to bear.

Dr. Gaston wrote a second time. Rast had remained but a day at the first
town, and not liking it, had gone forward. Not having heard from Anne,
he sent, inclosed to the chaplain's care, a letter for her. With nervous
haste she opened it; but it contained nothing save an account of his
journey, with a description of the frontier village--"shanties, drinking
saloons, tin cans, and a grave-yard already. This will never do for a
home for us. I shall push on farther." The tone of the letter was
affectionate, as sure as ever of her love. Rast had always been sure of
that. She read the pages sadly; it seemed as if she was willfully
deceiving him. Where was her letter, the letter that told all? She wrote
to the postmaster of the first town, requesting him to return it. After
some delay, she received answer that it had been sent westward to
another town, which the person addressed, namely, Erastus Pronando, had
said should be his next stopping-place. But a second letter from Rast,
sent also to the chaplain's care, had mentioned passing through that
very town without stopping--"it was such an infernal den"; and again
Anne wrote, addressing the second postmaster, and asking for the letter.
This postmaster replied, after some tardiness, owing to his conflicting
engagements as politician, hunter, and occasionally miner, that the
letter described had been forwarded to the Dead-letter Office. This
correspondence occupied October and November; and during this time Rast
was still roaming through the West, writing frequently, but sending no
permanent address. Now rumors of a silver mine attracted him; now it was
a scheme for cattle-raising; now speculation in lands along the line of
the coming railway It was impossible to follow him--and in truth he did
not wish to be followed. He was tasting his first liberty. He meant to
look around the world awhile before choosing his home: not long, only
awhile. Still, awhile.

The chaplain added a few lines of his own when he sent these letters to
Anne. Winter had seized them; they were now fast fettered; the mail came
over the ice. Miss Lois was kind, and sometimes came up to regulate his
housekeeping; but nothing went as formerly. His coffee was seldom good;
and he found himself growing peevish--at least his present domestic, a
worthy widow named McGlathery, had remarked upon it. But Anne must not
think the domestic was in fault; he had reason to believe that she meant
well even when she addressed him on the subject of his own
short-comings. And here the chaplain's old humor peeped through, as he
added, quaintly, that poor Mistress McGlathery's health was far from
strong, she being subject to "inward tremblings," which tremblings she
had several times described to him with tears in her eyes, while he had
as often recommended peppermint and ginger, but without success; on the
contrary, she always went away with a motion of the skirts and a manner
as to closing the door which, the chaplain thought, betokened offense.
Anne smiled over these letters, and then sighed. If she could only be
with him again--with them all! She dreamed at night of the old man in
his arm-chair, of Miss Lois, of the boys, of Tita curled in her furry
corner, which she had transferred, in spite of Miss Lois's
remonstrances, to the sitting-room of the church-house. Neither Tita nor
Père Michaux had written; she wondered over their new silence.

Anne's pupils had, of course, exhaustively weighed and sifted the new
teacher, and had decided to like her. Some of them decided to adore her,
and expressed their adoration in bouquets, autograph albums, and various
articles in card-board supposed to be of an ornamental nature. They
watched her guardedly, and were jealous of every one to whom she spoke;
she little knew what a net-work of plots, observation, mines and
countermines, surrounded her as patiently she toiled through each long
monotonous day. These adorations of school-girls, although but
unconscious rehearsals of the future, are yet real while they last;
Anne's adorers went sleepless if by chance she gave especial attention
to any other pupil. The adored one meanwhile did not notice these little
intensities; her mind was absorbed by other thoughts.

Four days before Christmas two letters came; one was her own to Rast,
returned at last from the Dead-letter Office; the other was from Miss
Lois, telling of the serious illness of Dr. Gaston. The old chaplain had
had a stroke of paralysis, and Rast had been summoned; fortunately his
last letter had been from St. Louis, to which place he had unexpectedly
returned, and therefore they had been able to reach him by message to
Chicago and a telegraphic dispatch. Dr. Gaston wished to see him; the
youth had been his ward as well as almost child, and there were business
matters to be arranged between them. Anne's tears fell as she read of
her dear old teacher's danger, and the impulse came to her to go to him
at once. Was she not his child as well as Rast? But the impulse was
checked by the remainder of the letter. Miss Lois wrote, sadly, that she
had tried to keep it from Anne, but had not succeeded: since August her
small income had been much reduced, owing to the failure of a New
Hampshire bank, and she now found that with all her effort they could
not quite live on what was left. "Very nearly, dear child. I think, with
thirty dollars, I can manage until spring. Then everything will be
cheaper. I should not have kept it from you if it had not happened at
the very time of your trouble with that wicked old woman, and I did
not wish to add to your care. But the boys have what is called fine
appetites (I wish they were not quite so 'fine'), and of course this
winter, and never before, my provisions were spoiled in my own cellar."

Anne had intended to send to Miss Lois all her small savings on
Christmas-day. She now went to the principal of the school, asked that
the payment of her salary might be advanced, and forwarded all she was
able to send to the poverty-stricken little household in the
church-house. That night she wept bitter tears; the old chaplain was
dying, and she could not go to him; the children were perhaps suffering.
For the first time in a life of poverty she felt its iron hand crushing
her down. Her letter to Rast lay before her; she could not send it now
and disturb the last hours on earth of their dear old friend. She laid
it aside and waited--waited through those long hours of dreary suspense
which those must bear who are distant from the dying beds of their loved
ones.

In the mean time Rast had arrived. Miss Lois wrote of the chaplain's joy
at seeing him. The next letter contained the tidings that death had
come; early in the morning, peacefully, with scarcely a sigh, the old
man's soul had passed from earth. Colonel Bryden, coming in soon
afterward, and looking upon the calm face, had said, gently,

    "Then steal away, give little warning,
               Choose thine own time;
     Say not good-night, but, in some brighter clime,
               Bid me good-morning."

When Anne knew that the funeral was over, that another grave had been
made under the snow in the little military cemetery, and that, with the
strange swiftness which is so hard for mourning hearts to realize, daily
life was moving on again in the small island circle where the kind old
face would be seen no more, she sent her letter, the same old letter,
unaltered and travel-worn. Then she waited. She could not receive her
answer before the eighth or ninth day. But on the fifth came two
letters; on the seventh, three. The first were from Miss Lois and Mrs.
Bryden; the others from Tita, Père Michaux, and--Rast. And the
extraordinary tidings they brought were these: Rast had married Tita.
The little sister was now his wife.




CHAPTER XXII.

     "A slave had long worn a chain upon his ankle. By the order of his
     master it was removed. 'Why dost thou spring aloft and sing, O
     slave? Surely the sun is as fierce and thy burden as heavy as
     before.' The slave replied: 'Ten times the sun and the burden would
     seem light, now that the chain is removed.'"--From the Arabic.


Miss Lois's letter was a wail:

"MY POOR DEAR OUTRAGED CHILD,--What can I say to you? There is no use
in trying to prepare you for it, since you would never conceive such
double-dyed blackness of heart! Tita has run away. She slipped off
clandestinely, and they think she has followed Rast, who left
yesterday on his way back to St. Louis and the West. Père Michaux has
followed her, saying that if he found them together he should, acting
as Tita's guardian, insist upon a marriage before he returned! He
feels himself responsible for Tita, he says, and paid no attention
when I asked him if no one was to be responsible for you! My poor
child, it seems that I have been blind all along; I never dreamed of
what was going on. The little minx deceived me completely. I thought her
so much improved, so studious, while all the time she was meeting
Erastus, or planning to meet him, with a skill far beyond my
comprehension. All last summer, they tell me, she was with him
constantly; those daily journeys to Père Michaux's island were for that
purpose, while I supposed they were for prayers. What Erastus thought
or meant, no one seems to know; but they all combined in declaring that
the child (child no longer!) was deeply in love with him, and that
everybody saw it save me. My New England blood could not, I am proud
to say, grasp it! You know, my poor darling, the opinion I have always
had concerning Tita's mother, who slyly and artfully inveigled your
honored father into a trap. Tita has therefore but followed in her
mother's footsteps.

"That Erastus has ever cared, or cares now in the least, for her, save
as a plaything, I will never believe. But Père Michaux is like a
mule for stubbornness, as you know, and I fear he will marry them in
any case. He did not seem to think of you at all, and when I said,
'Anne will die of grief!' he only smiled--yes, smiled--and Frenchly
shrugged his shoulders! My poor child, I have but little hope, because
if he appeals to Erastus's honor, what can the boy do? He is the soul
of honor.

"I can hardly write, my brain has been so overturned. To think that
Tita should have outwitted us all at her age, and gained her point
over everything, over you and over Rast--poor, poor Rast, who will be so
miserably sacrificed! I will write again to-morrow; but if Père
Michaux carries out his strange Jesuitical design, you will hear from
him probably before you can hear again from me. Bear up, my dearest
Anne. I acknowledge that, so far, I have found it difficult to see the
Divine purpose in this, unless indeed it be to inform us that we are all
but cinders and ashes; which, however, I for one have long known."

Mrs. Bryden's letter:

"DEAR ANNE,--I feel drawn toward you more closely since the illness and
death of our dear Dr. Gaston, who loved you so tenderly, and talked so
much of you during his last days with us. It is but a short time since I
wrote to you, giving some of the messages he left, and telling of his
peaceful departure; but now I feel that I must write again upon a
subject which is painful, yet one upon which you should have, I think,
all the correct details immediately. Miss Hinsdale is no doubt writing
to you also; but she does not know all. She has not perceived, as we
have, the gradual approaches to this catastrophe--I can call it by no
other name.

"When you went away, your half-sister was a child. With what has seemed
lightning rapidity she has grown to womanhood, and for months it has
been plainly evident that she was striving in every way to gain and hold
the attention of Erastus Pronando. He lingered here almost all summer,
as you will remember; Tita followed him everywhere. Miss Hinsdale,
absorbed in the cares of housekeeping, knew nothing of it; but daily, on
one pretext or another, they were together. Whether Erastus was
interested I have no means of knowing; but that Tita is now extremely
pretty in a certain style, and that she was absorbed in him, we could
all see. It was not our affair; yet we might have felt called upon to
make it ours if it had not been for Père Michaux. He was her constant
guardian.

"Erastus went away yesterday in advance of the mail-train. He bade us
all good-by, and I am positive that he had no plan, not even a suspicion
of what was to follow. We have a new mail-carrier this winter, Denis
being confined to his cabin with rheumatism. Tita must have slipped away
unperceived, and joined this man at dusk on the ice a mile or two below
the island; her track was found this morning. Erastus expected to join
the mail-train to-day, and she knew it, of course; the probability is,
therefore, that they are now together. It seems hardly credible that so
young a head could have arranged its plans so deftly; yet it is
certainly true that, even if Rast wished to bring her back, he could not
do so immediately, not until the up-train passed them. Père Michaux
started after them this morning, travelling in his own sledge. He thinks
(it is better that you should know it, Anne) that Erastus is fond of
Tita, and that only his engagement to you has held him back. Now that
the step has been taken, he has no real doubt but that Rast himself will
wish to marry her, and without delay.

"All this will seem very strange to you, my dear child; but I trust it
will not be so hard a blow as Miss Hinsdale apprehends. Père Michaux
told me this morning in so many words: 'Anne has never loved the boy
with anything more than the affection of childhood. It will be for her a
release.' He was convinced of this, and went off on his journey with
what looked very much like gladness. I hope, with all my heart, that he
is right." Then, with a few more words of kindly friendship, the letter
ended.

The other envelope bore the rude pen-and-ink postmark of a Northwestern
lumber settlement, where travellers coming down, from the North in the
winter over the ice and snow met the pioneer railway, which had pushed
its track to that point before the blockade of the cold began.

Tita's letter:

"DEEREST SISTER,--You will not I am sure blaime your little Tita for
following the impulse of her hart. Since you were hear I have grown up
and it is the truth that Rast has loved me for yeers of his own accord
and because he could not help it--deerest sister who can. But he never
ment to break his word to you and he tryed not to but was devowered by
his love for me and you will forgive him deerest sister will you not
since there is no more hope for you as we were married by Père Michaux
an hour ago who approved of all and has hartily given us his
bennydiction. Since my spiritual directeur has no reproche you will not
have enny I am sure and remain your loving sister,

ANGÉLIQUE PRONANDO."

"P. S. We go to Chicago to-day. Enny money for close for me could be
sent to the Illinois Hotel, where my deerest husband says we are to
stay.

A. P."

Père Michaux's letter:

"DEAR ANNE,--It is not often that I speak so bluntly as I shall speak
now. In marrying, this morning, your half-sister Angélique to Erastus
Pronando I feel that I have done you a great service. You did not love
him with the real love of a nature like yours--the love that will
certainly come to you some day; perhaps has already come. I have always
known this, and, in accordance with it, did all I could to prevent the
engagement originally. I failed; but this day's work has made up for the
failure.

"Angélique has grown into a woman. She is also very beautiful, after a
peculiar fashion of her own. All the strength of her nature, such as it
is, is concentrated upon the young man who is now her husband. From
childhood she has loved him; she was bitterly jealous of you even before
you went away. I have been aware of this, but until lately I was not
sure of Rast. Her increasing beauty, however, added to her intense
absorbed interest in him, has conquered. Seeing this, I have watched
with satisfaction the events of the past summer, and have even assisted
somewhat (and with a clear conscience) in their development.

"Erastus, even if you had loved him, Anne, could not have made you
happy. And neither would you have made him happy; for he is
quick-witted, and he would have inevitably, and in spite of all your
tender humility, my child, discovered your intellectual superiority, and
in time would have angrily resented it. For he is vain; his nature is
light; he needs adulation in order to feel contented. On the other hand,
he is kind-hearted and affectionate, and to Tita will be a demi-god
always. The faults that would have been death to you, she will never
see. She is therefore the fit wife for him.

"You will ask, Does he love her? I answer, Yes. When he came back to the
island, and found her so different, the same elfish little creature, but
now strangely pretty, openly fond of him, following him everywhere, with
the words of a child but the eyes of a woman, he was at first surprised,
then annoyed, then amused, interested, and finally fascinated. He
struggled against it. I give him the due of justice--he did struggle.
But Tita was always there. He went away hurriedly at the last, and if
it had not been for Dr. Gaston's illness and his own recall to the
island, it might not have gone farther. Tita understood this as well as
I did; she made the most of her time. Still, I am quite sure that he had
no suspicion she intended to follow him; the plan was all her own. She
did follow him. And I followed her. I caught up with them that very day
at sunset, and an hour ago I married them. If you have not already
forgiven me, Anne, you will do so some day. I have no fear. I can wait.
I shall go on with them as far as Chicago, and then, after a day or two,
I shall return to the island. Do not be disturbed by anything Miss Lois
may write. She has been blindly mistaken from the beginning. In truth,
there is a vein of obstinate weakness on some subjects in that otherwise
estimable woman, for which I have always been at a loss to account."

Ah, wise old priest, there are some things too deep for even you to
know!

Rast's letter was short. It touched Anne more than any of the others:

"What must you think of me, Annet? Forgive me, and forget me. I did
try. But would you have cared for a man who had to try? When I think of
you I scorn myself. But she is the sweetest, dearest, most winning
little creature the world ever saw; and my only excuse is that--I love
her.

E. P."

These few lines, in which the young husband made out no case for
himself, sought no shield in the little bride's own rashness, but simply
avowed his love, and took all the responsibility upon himself, pleased
the elder sister. It was manly. She was glad that Tita had a defender.

She had read these last letters standing in the centre of her room,
Jeanne-Armande anxiously watching her from the open door. The
Frenchwoman had poured out a glass of water, and had it in readiness:
she thought that perhaps Anne was going to faint. With no distinct idea
of what had happened, she had lived in a riot of conjecture for two
days.

But instead of fainting, Anne, holding the letters in her hand, turned
and looked at her.

"Well, dear, will you go to bed?" she said, solicitously.

"Why should I go to bed?"

"I thought perhaps you had heard--had heard bad news."

"On the contrary," replied Anne, slowly and gravely, "I am afraid,
mademoiselle, that the news is good--even very good."

For her heart had flown out of its cage and upward as a freed bird darts
up in the sky. The bond, on her side at least, was gone; she was free.
Now she would live a life of self-abnegation and labor, but without
inward thralldom. Women had lived such lives before she was born, women
would live such lives after she was dead. She would be one of the
sisterhood, and coveting nothing of the actual joy of love, she would
cherish only the ideal, an altar-light within, burning forever. The
cares of each day were as nothing now: she was free, free!

In her exaltation she did not recognize as wrong the opposite course she
had intended to follow before the lightning fell, namely, uniting
herself to one man while so deeply loving another. She was of so humble
and unconscious a spirit regarding herself that it had not seemed to her
that the inner feelings of her heart would be of consequence to Rast, so
long as she was the obedient, devoted, faithful wife she was determined
with all her soul to be. For she had not that imaginative egotism which
so many women possess, which makes them spend their lives in illusion,
weaving round their every thought and word an importance which no one
else can discern. According to these women, there are a thousand
innocent acts which "he" (lover or husband) "would not for an instant
allow," although to the world at large "he" appears indifferent enough.
They go through long turmoil, from which they emerge triumphantly,
founded upon some hidden jealousy which "he" is supposed to feel, so
well hidden generally, and so entirely supposed, that persons with less
imagination never observe it. But after all, smile as we may, it is only
those who are in most respects happy and fortunate wives who can so
entertain themselves. For cold unkindness, or a harsh and brutal word,
will rend this filmy fabric of imagination immediately, never to be
rewoven again.

Anne wrote to Rast, repeating the contents of the old letter, which had
been doomed never to reach him. She asked him to return the wanderer
unopened when it was forwarded to him from the island; there was a depth
of feeling in it which it was not necessary now that he should see. She
told him that her own avowal should lift from him all the weight of
wrong-doing; she had first gone astray. "We were always like brother and
sister, Rast; I see it now. It is far better as it is."

A few days later Père Michaux wrote again, and inclosed a picture of
Tita. The elder sister gazed at it curiously. This was not Tita; and yet
those were her eyes, and that the old well-remembered mutinous
expression still lurking about the little mouth. Puzzled, she took it
to mademoiselle. "It is my little sister," she said. "Do you think it
pretty?"

Jeanne-Armande put on her spectacles, and held it frowningly at
different distances from her eyes.

"It is odd," she said at last. "Ye--es, it is pretty too. But, for a
child's face, remarkable."

"She is not a child."

"Not a child?"

"No; she is married," replied Anne, smiling.

Mademoiselle pursed up her lips, and examined the picture with one eye
closed. "After all," she said, "I can believe it. The eyes are
mature."

The little bride was represented standing; she leaned against a pillar
nonchalantly, and outlined on a light background, the extreme smallness
of her figure was clearly shown. Her eyes were half veiled by their
large drooping lids and long lashes; her little oval face looked small,
like that of a child. Her dress was long, and swept over the floor with
the richness of silk: evidently Père Michaux had not stinted the lavish
little hands when they made their first purchase of a full-grown woman's
attire. For the priest had taken upon himself this outlay; the "money
for close," of which Tita had written, was provided from his purse. He
wrote to Anne that as he was partly responsible for the wedding, he was
also responsible for the trousseau; and he returned the money which with
great difficulty the elder sister had sent.

"She must be very small," said mademoiselle, musingly, as they still
studied the picture.

"She is; she has the most slender little face I ever saw."



Tita's head was thrown back as she leaned against the pillar; there was
a half-smile on her delicate lips; her thick hair was still braided
childishly in two long braids which hung over her shoulders and down on
the silken skirt behind; in her small ears were odd long hoops of gold,
which Père Michaux had given her, selecting them himself on account of
their adaptation to her half-Oriental, half-elfin beauty. Her cheeks
showed no color; there were brown shadows under her eyes. On her
slender brown hand shone the wedding ring. The picture was well
executed, and had been carefully tinted under Père Michaux's eye: the
old priest knew that it was Rast's best excuse.

Now that Anne was freed, he felt no animosity toward the young husband;
on the contrary, he wished to advance his interests in every way that he
could. Tita was a selfish little creature, yet she adored her husband.
She would have killed herself for him at any moment. But first she would
have killed him.

He saw them start for the far West, and then he returned northward to
his island home. Miss Lois, disheartened by all that had happened,
busied herself in taking care of the boys dumbly, and often shook her
head at the fire when sitting alone with her knitting. She never opened
the old piano now, and she was less stringent with her Indian servants;
she would even have given up quietly her perennial alphabet teaching if
Père Michaux had not discovered the intention, and quizzically approved
it, whereat, of course, she was obliged to go on. In truth, the old man
did this purposely, having noticed the change in his old antagonist. He
fell into the habit of coming to the church-house more frequently--to
teach the boys, he said. He did teach the little rascals, and taught
them well, but he also talked to Miss Lois. The original founders of the
church-house would have been well astonished could they have risen from
their graves and beheld the old priest and the New England woman sitting
on opposite sides of the fire in the neat shining room, which still
retained its Puritan air in spite of years, the boys, and Episcopal
apostasy.

Regarding Rast's conduct, Miss Lois maintained a grim silence. The
foundations of her faith in life had been shaken; but how could she,
supposed to be a sternly practical person, confess it to the
world--confess that she had dreamed like a girl over this broken
betrothal?

"Do you not see how much happier, freer, she is?" the priest would say,
after reading one of Anne's letters. "The very tone betrays it."

Miss Lois sighed deeply, and poked the fire.

"Pooh! pooh! Do you want her to be unhappy?" said the old man.
"Suppose that it had been the other way? Why not rejoice as I do over
her cheerfulness?"

"Why not indeed?" thought Miss Lois. But that stubborn old heart of hers
would not let her.

The priest had sent to her also one of the pictures of Tita. One day,
after his return, he asked for it. She answered that it was gone.

"Where?"

"Into the fire."

