"I should say it did."

"When do you expect to start?" asked the stranger.

"As soon as we can get ready," Harry replied.

"You are right there. Have you got money?"

"Why?" asked Harry rather suspiciously.

"It will cost something for an outfit."

"Yes; we have a moderate sum with us."

"That is well," said the stranger approvingly. "Do you know," he
continued meditatively, "I have a great mind to go with you?"

"Then you are not satisfied with your pile?" said Harry.

"There's very little left of it," said their new acquaintance.

"You haven't spent a hundred and fifty pounds in a month?" said Harry in
surprise.

"Pretty much. I may have twenty pounds left."

"You must have been living high, then."

"No. I have lived plainly, but the faro table has taken most of it. I'm
so near broke that I may as well go back to the mines for a fresh supply
before my money is all gone."

"We shall be glad of your company, sir. May I ask if you are an
Australian?"

"I was born in England, but I have been out here half a dozen years."

"And have not made your fortune yet?"

"It is my own fault. I have been unable to keep money after I got it."

"We are from America."

"I surmised it," said the stranger. "That is a country I want to visit
before I die. You have mines there, too."

"Yes, but they are a long way from where we live."

"My name is Fletcher--Dick Fletcher my friends call me."

"I am Harry Vane, and my friend is Jack Pendleton."

"We will drink to our better acquaintance. Here, John," addressing the
barkeeper, "three glasses of ale here."

"If you won't mind, Jack and I will take sarsaparilla."

Fletcher stared at them in amazement.

"You don't drink ale?" he said.

"We belong to the temperance society," said Harry, smiling.

"You won't keep that up long at the mines," said Fletcher, shrugging his
shoulders.

Harry did not reply, but quietly resolved that he would disprove that
statement.




CHAPTER III.

FLETCHER ACTS SUSPICIOUSLY.

One circumstance led Harry to hurry his intended departure. He found to
his dismay that the hotel charge for their very plain accommodations was
a pound a day for each of them. The Crown inn was what would be called
in an American city a one-horse hotel. There are plenty such to be found
in the United States where the rate charged is but a dollar a day. But
Melbourne was full of strangers, drawn thither by flaming accounts of
the richness of the mines and the bright prospects of acquiring sudden
fortunes, and war prices were prevalent everywhere.

"Five dollars a day!" exclaimed Jack in open-eyed amazement. "Do they
take us for millionaires?"

"I began to think they were imposing upon us," said Harry, "till I made
inquiries elsewhere. I find a pound a day is about the usual tariff for
such accommodations as we have."

"But we have only a small bedroom, and the meals are very common."

"That is true, but it seems to make no difference."

"Our money will soon be gone at that rate," said Jack soberly. "Mine is
already gone."

"No, it isn't, Jack. We are going to share and share alike, you know."

"But that is imposing on you, Harry," protested the young sailor
earnestly.

"Let me judge of that, Jack; I'd a good deal rather have your company
and half of the money than be alone and have the whole."

"Thank you, Harry. You are a true friend. I can't do much for you, but
I'll do what I can."

"If I had known of the high prices, I would have drawn more money from
the professor," continued Harry. "However, I can make this do. But I
want to start to-morrow, if possible. We shall then be owing four days'
board each, and that will make forty dollars."

At this point Fletcher joined them.

"By the way," said he nonchalantly, "I want to ask a little favor."

"What is it?" asked Harry unsuspiciously.

"I am rather short of money. Can you lend me five pounds?"

Jack looked at Harry in alarm. He was afraid Harry would grant the
favor, knowing his obliging disposition. But he didn't know our hero.
Harry was ready to do anything for a near friend, but he was too prudent
to waste his money on acquaintances who had no sort of claim on him.

"I am sorry to refuse, Mr. Fletcher," he said, "but Jack and I are
ourselves very poorly provided with money, and just before you came in
we were considering how we could manage to pay for the necessary
outfit."

"Haven't you got five pounds?" asked Fletcher quickly.

"Of course we have, or we should be unable to get to the mines."

"Then I think you might oblige me," he continued, looking very much
displeased.

"I am the best judge of my circumstances," said Harry shortly.

Fletcher looked hard at him, and saw that the boy he had to deal with
had a mind of his own, and was not to be imposed upon easily. Still he
made a farther effort.

"Then I think," he said coldly, "I shall not be able to assist you in
your preparations."

"Just as you please," answered Harry promptly. "As you volunteered, I
accepted your proposal. Now I will act for myself. I have heard of a
party about to start, and I will arrange to join it."

Fletcher felt that he was outgeneralled. He did not mean to let Harry
and Jack slip through his fingers, for he had an idea, notwithstanding
Harry's disclaimer, that he had a large sum of money, and thought he
would be a good party to hang on to. He saw that he had made a false
move, and hastened to repair it.

"Excuse me," he said, assuming a hearty tone; "I was hasty, and I
apologize. You are right, and I like you too well to cut up rough, just
because you can't do me a favor. There, take my hand, and we will make
it all up."

"With pleasure," answered Harry, as he accepted the proffered hand, and
Jack followed his example. Nevertheless Fletcher's demand had produced
an unpleasant effect upon him. The coarse-grained selfishness of the man
had shown through his outward varnish of good-fellowship, and he felt
that henceforth he must be on his guard.

"I may have to ask for some money, however," continued Fletcher, in an
off-hand manner, "for it is necessary to buy supplies for our journey.
You know we shan't be able to put up at hotels on our way, but must
furnish our own meals."

"So I have heard," answered Harry. "What is it customary to take?"

"Well, it will be best to buy a bag of coffee, a sack of flour, some
ship biscuits, potatoes, and sugar. That will do to start on, and we
shall vary our diet by what we are able to kill on the way."

"What can we kill?"

"Well, kangaroo meat isn't bad, and we can bring down a few birds
occasionally."

"Then we shall need guns?"

"Yes, it will be well to have them."

This was another expense upon which Harry had not calculated. He began
to think that he had been very improvident. The professor would readily
have left him a hundred dollars more, and as it would have been repaid
with his own money, he was sorry he had not availed himself of it.

"How much do you think the supplies will cost?" asked Harry.

"Well, you had better let me have ten pounds. I think that will be
sufficient."

"For the whole or for our share?" asked Harry pointedly.

"For your share," answered Fletcher after a pause. "It seems to me you
are very suspicious."

Really he had intended to make the two boys pay for the whole stock of
provisions and save his own purse, for he had in reality as much money
as they.

"I only wanted to understand clearly," said Harry quietly. "As we are in
some sort partners, that is fair, is it not?"

"Oh, yes," returned Fletcher, but he did not respond with any alacrity.
"I'm always fair and above board, I am. No man can say that Dick
Fletcher ever tried to get the best of him. Why, if I was better fixed I
wouldn't let you two boys pay a cent. I'd shoulder the whole thing
myself."

"Your offer is a very kind one, Mr. Fletcher----"

"Don't say Mr. Fletcher; call me Dick," interrupted their new
acquaintance.

"I will if you wish it, though as you are so much older, it hardly seems
proper. What I was going to say was that Jack and myself are determined
to pay our share. We couldn't accept any such favor as you mention."

"That's all right. Now, if you let me have the ten pounds I'll take all
the trouble off your hands, and have everything ready for a start
to-morrow morning."

"I would prefer to go with you and help select the articles."

Fletcher looked disconcerted.

"Oh, well, if you think I aint capable----" he began.

"I think nothing of the kind, but I want to learn as much as I can. I
may have to do it alone some time."

It was well Harry adhered to his determination. It saved him three
pounds, and Fletcher was forced to pay his share, as he had not intended
to do. While they were making purchases they were accosted by a tall
loose-jointed man, whom it was easy to recognize as a Yankee.

"Goin' to the mines, boys?" he asked in a strong nasal tone.

"Yes," answered Harry.

"So am I. I'd like to hook on to your party if you aint no objections."

For some reason Dick Fletcher did not appear to relish the proposal.

"I don't think we can accommodate you," he said abruptly.

"I think we can," said Harry, who was beginning to be distrustful of
Fletcher, and felt safer in adding another to the party. "There are but
three of us, and we shall be glad of your company."

Dick Fletcher looked angry, but did not venture to oppose the plan
further.




CHAPTER IV.

A TIMELY RESCUE.

On the last evening spent in Melbourne the boys decided to take a
farewell walk about the city, not knowing when it would again be their
fortune to see it. Neither Fletcher nor their new Yankee acquaintance
was at hand, and they started by themselves. They did not confine
themselves to the more frequented streets, but followed wherever fancy
led.

They had no thought of an adventure, but one awaited them.

As they were turning the corner of a narrow street, their attention was
suddenly excited by a sharp cry of blended surprise and fright.

"What is it, Jack?" asked Harry, grasping his companion by the arm.

He did not need to await a reply, for by the indistinct light he saw two
men struggling a few rods further on. One appeared to be an old man,
with white hair, the other was a man of middle age. Clearly it was a
case of attempted robbery.

"Run, Jack, run!" said Harry, in excitement. "Let us help the old man!"

"I'm with you," answered the young sailor briefly.

Harry had in his hand a heavy cane--his only weapon--but he did not stop
to consider the personal risk he was running. As he drew near, the old
man, whose feeble strength was quite unequal to a conflict with a man so
much younger, swayed and fell backward. His assailant bent over him, and
despite his feeble resistance began to search his pockets, at the same
time indulging in savage threats. The old man gave himself up for lost,
but help was nearer than he anticipated.

So occupied was the villain with his disgraceful work that he did not
hear the approaching footsteps.

His first intimation of them came in a sounding blow over his shoulders,
given by Harry's stick, which was laid on with a good will.

He jumped to his feet with an oath, and darted a rapid glance at his two
assailants. Then, much to the surprise of Harry, he turned and ran
rapidly away. It was a piece of great good luck, Harry thought, for he
was not at all sure that he and Jack combined would have been a match
for the highwayman.

"Are you hurt, sir?" asked Harry, bending over the old man.

"Not seriously," was the reply. "Will you kindly help me up?"

With Jack's help Harry got the old man on his feet. He was a tall man,
of splendid aspect, over sixty years of age. He looked like a gentleman
of wealth and position.

"You have had a narrow escape, sir," said our hero.

"Yes, indeed," answered the old man, "thanks to your brave interference.
It surprises me that my brutal assailant should have run away from two
boys."

"I am surprised also, sir. I feared we should have a hard fight. I
suppose his object was robbery."

"Yes, he must have heard in some way that I had a large sum of money
about me. Thanks to you, it is safe."

"I am very glad, sir."

"Do you mind accompanying me to my house? This attack has made me
timid."

"With pleasure, sir."

The old gentleman lived perhaps a quarter of a mile distant in a
handsome house. He pressed the boys to enter, and they did so. He
questioned them as to their plans, and then selecting two bank-notes of
large denomination, urged the boys to accept them as a recognition of
the help they had given him at a critical moment. The boys, however,
declined positively to accept any compensation, but expressed their
satisfaction at having been of service.

"At least," said the old gentleman, "you must promise to call on me when
you return from the mines. There is my card."

"That we will do with pleasure, sir," answered Harry.

He looked at the card, and read the name of Henry A. Woolson.

"Harry," said Jack, as they resumed their walk, "do you know that robber
had a look like Fletcher?"

"So I thought, Jack, but I had only a glimpse, and could not be sure. I
wish he were not to be in our party."

"We must be on our guard; I don't fancy him much."

When the boys saw Fletcher in the morning he appeared as usual, and they
were disposed to think they were mistaken. Yet the lurking suspicion
occurred to them from time to time, and made them feel uneasy.

The next day they set out on their journey, accompanied by Dick Fletcher
and Obed Stackpole.




CHAPTER V.

STARTING FOR THE MINES.

Harry may be considered rash in his immediate acceptance of his Yankee
acquaintance as a member of their party, but there are some men who need
no letters of recommendation. Obed Stackpole certainly was not a
handsome man. He was tall, lean, gaunt in figure, with a shambling walk,
and his skin was tough and leathery; but in spite of all there was an
honest, manly expression, which instantly inspired confidence. Both
Harry and Jack liked him, but Dick Fletcher seemed to regard him with
instinctive dislike.

"What made you accept that scarecrow into our company?" he asked, when
Stackpole had left them to make his own arrangements for leaving the
city.

Harry smiled.

"He isn't a handsome man," he replied, "but I think he will prove a
valuable companion."

"You took no notice of my objection to him," said Fletcher, frowning.

"Our company was too small," returned Harry. "From inquiry I find that
parties seldom consist of less than half a dozen."

"I know all about that," said Fletcher impatiently. "You might have been
guided by me."

"I shall be to some extent," answered Harry, "but not implicitly."

"I am going to have trouble with that boy," thought Fletcher. "Wait till
we get on the road." Aloud he said: "If you had mentioned the matter to
me I would have found someone to go with us. You had better tell this
Yankee that we haven't room for him, and I will do it now."

Fletcher's persistence only aroused vague suspicions in Harry's breast.
He felt glad that Stackpole was neither a friend nor likely to prove a
confederate of Dick Fletcher, and was resolved to hold on to him.

"I have invited him, and I won't take back the invitation," he said.

"How old are you?" asked Fletcher abruptly.

"Sixteen."

"I should think you were sixty by the tone you assume," said Fletcher
with a sneer.

"Do I understand, Mr. Fletcher," asked Harry steadily, "that you claim
to control our party?"

"Seeing that I am more than twice as old as you are, I am the natural
head of the expedition."

"I cannot admit any such claim. If you are not satisfied to be simply a
member of the party, like the rest of us, I shall not be offended if you
back out even now."

This, however, did not suit Fletcher, and with a forced laugh he
answered, "You are a strange boy, Vane. I suppose it's the way with your
countrymen. I don't want to back out, as you term it. I fancy we shall
get along together."

"I wish he had decided to leave us," said Harry when the two boys were
alone. "Somehow I distrust him."

"I don't like him myself," said Jack, "but I don't see what harm he can
do us."

"Nor I, but I feel safer with this Yankee addition to our party."

About ten o'clock the next morning the little party got off. It is
needless to say that Obed Stackpole contributed his full share of
expense, and more too, for he furnished the yoke of oxen that were to
draw the cart which conveyed their provisions and other outfit.

"I don't want to push in where I aint wanted," he said, "but I'm used to
oxen, and if you want me to, I'll drive these critters, and you three
can foller along as you please."

"That'll suit me," said Fletcher with unusual graciousness. "I've no
doubt you understand the business better than I do."

"I ought to understand it," said Stackpole. "I was raised on a farm in
New Hampshire, and used to drive oxen when I wasn't tall enough to see
over their backs. I never thought then that I'd be drivin' a team in
Australy."

"What led you to come out here, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Harry.

"Well, a kinder rovin' disposition, I guess. A year ago I was in
Californy, but things didn't pan out very well, so when I read accounts
of the gold fields out here, I jist dropped my pick and started, and
here I am."

"Didn't you find any gold-dust in California?" asked Fletcher, with
sudden interest.

"Well, I found some," answered the Yankee, with drawling deliberation,
"but not enough to satisfy me. You see," he added, "I've got two to make
money for."

"And who are those two?" inquired Fletcher.

"The first is my old dad--he's gettin' kinder broken down, and can't
work as well as he could when he was a young man. He's got a
thousand-dollar mortgage on his farm, and I want to pay that off. It'll
kinder ease the old man's mind."

"That a very excellent object, Mr. Stackpole," said Harry, who felt
still more drawn to his plain, ungainly, but evidently good-hearted
companion.

"I think so myself," said Obed simply.

"The other person is your wife, I fancy," said Fletcher.

"I expect she will be my wife when I get forehanded enough," replied
Obed. "It's Suke Stanwood, one of Farmer Stanwood's gals. We was raised
together, and we've been engaged for nigh on to five years."

"Very romantic!" said Fletcher, but there was a veiled sneer in his
tone, as he scanned with contemptuous amusement the ungainly figure of
his Yankee companion.

"I don't know much about such things," said Obed, "but I guess Suke and
I will pull together well."

"You are not exactly a young man," said Fletcher. "You've waited some
time."

"I'm thirty-nine last birthday," said Obed. "I was engaged ten years
ago, but the girl didn't know her own mind, and she ran off with a man
that came along with a photograph saloon. I guess it's just as well, for
she was always rather flighty."

"It is very strange she should have deserted a man of your attractions,"
said Fletcher with a smile.

Harry was indignant at this open ridicule of so honest and worthy a
fellow as Stackpole, and he wondered whether the Yankee would be obtuse
enough not to see it. His doubt was soon solved.

"It looks to me as if you was pokin' fun at me, Fletcher," said Obed,
with a quiet, steady look at the other. "I'm a good-natured fellow in
the main, but I don't stand any nonsense. I know very well I'm a rough
looking chap, and I don't mind your sayin' so, but I aint willin' to be
laughed at."

"My dear fellow," said Fletcher smoothly, "you quite mistake my meaning,
I assure you. I am the last person to laugh at you. I think you are too
modest, though. You are what may be called a 'rough diamond.'"

"I accept your apology, Fletcher," said Obed. "If no offence was meant,
none is taken. I don't know much about diamonds, rough or smooth, but at
any rate I aint a paste one."

"A good hit! Bravo!" laughed Fletcher. "You are a man of great
penetration, Stackpole, and a decided acquisition to our party."

"I'm glad you think so," said Obed dryly. "If I remember right, you
didn't want me to join you."

"At first I did not, but I have changed my mind. I didn't know you
then."

"And I don't know you now," said Obed bluntly. "If you don't mind, s'pose
you tell us what brought you out here."

Fletcher frowned and regarded the Yankee suspiciously, as if seeking his
motive in asking this question, but his suspicions were dissipated by a
glance at that honest face, and he answered lightly, "Really, there
isn't much to tell. My father was a merchant of Manchester, and tried to
make me follow in his steps, but I was inclined to be wild, incurred
some debts, and finally threw up business and came out here."

"Have you prospered as far as you've gone?"

"Yes and no. I've made money and I've spent it, and the accounts are
about even."

"That means you haven't much left."

"Right you are, my friend, but in your steady company I mean to turn
over a new leaf, and go in for money and respectability. Now I've made a
clean breast of it, and you know all about me."

In spite of this statement there was not one of his three companions who
did not feel sure that there was much in Fletcher's history which he had
kept concealed, and possibly for very good reasons.




CHAPTER VI.

A NIGHT INCIDENT.

The path of a gold-seeker in Australia was beset with difficulties. The
country about Melbourne, and far inland, was boggy, the soil being
volcanic, and abounding in mud which appears to have no bottom. The road
to the mines was all the worse for having been ploughed up by bullock
teams, and worked into a slough which proved the discouragement of
mining parties. Some were even months in traversing the comparatively
small distance across the country to the goal they sought. But the
attraction of money, which is said to make the mare go, enabled them to
triumph at last over the obstacles that intervened. It was not long
before our party began to understand the nature of the task they had
undertaken. The cart sank up to the hubs in a bog, and the oxen stood
still in patient despair.

"Well, if this don't beat all creation!" ejaculated Obed. "I've been in
the Western States, and I thought I knew something about mud, but
Australy's ahead. I say, Fletcher, is there much of this that we've got
to go through?"

"Mud's the rule, and dry land the exception," answered Fletcher coolly.

"Well, that's comfortin'!" remarked Stackpole, drawing a deep breath. "I
s'pose people do get through after a while."

"Yes, generally. I was six weeks getting to the Ovens once."

"I wish we had some ovens to bake this mud," said Obed, with a grim
smile at his joke. "It would take a powerful large one."

There was nothing for it but dogged perseverance. It took an hour to get
the oxen and cart through a bog a hundred feet across, and the
appearance of the party, when they finally reached the other side, was
more picturesque than attractive.

"How would Clinton get along here?" suggested Harry. "I can imagine the
poor fellow's despair."

"His trousers would suffer some," said Jack. "I think it would break his
heart. The sea is much nicer. If we could only go by water," and the
young sailor looked down at his mud-bedraggled clothes, and his shoes
caked thickly over with the tenacious mud.

"Yes, the sea would be cleaner at any rate. I agree with you there,
Jack."

Arrived on the other side of the bog, they were obliged to give the
tired cattle a rest. Indeed, they needed rest themselves.

At the end of the day they made an encampment. As well as they could
judge, they were about eight miles from Melbourne.

"Eight miles; and how far is the whole distance?" asked Harry.

"About a hundred miles," answered Fletcher.

"At this rate, we can go through in twelve or thirteen days, then."

"You mustn't expect this rate of speed," said Fletcher. "We shan't
average over five miles."

"Well, I hope we'll get paid for it," said Obed. "If we don't I'd better
have stayed in Californy. We haven't any such mines as this in that
country."

"You'd better have stayed there," said Fletcher dryly, and he evidently
wished that his companion had done so.

"'Variety's the spice of life,' as my old schoolmaster used to say,"
responded Obed. "I kinder want to see what Australy is like. All the
same I don't want to stump through to the other side of the globe."

The travellers encamped for the night in a dry spot among a group of
gum-trees, and it may readily be believed that all slept well. The boys
felt dead tired, and it was with difficulty they were awakened in the
morning.

About five o'clock Fletcher opened his eyes. He was one who slept fast,
so to speak, and obtained as much refreshment from an hour's sleep as
most people do from a period twice as long. He had been lying on the
ground wrapped in a blanket, as was the case with the other members of
the party.

Raising himself, and leaning on his elbow, he saw that they were all
fast asleep. He nodded with satisfaction, and getting on his feet he
approached Obed Stackpole with noiseless tread. The Yankee was sleeping
with his mouth wide open, occasionally emitting a sonorous snore through
his aquiline nose. He was not beautiful to look upon, as Fletcher
evidently thought.

"Ill-favored brute!" he ejaculated. "I'd like to choke him!"

If any special advantage had been likely to accrue to him, Fletcher's
conscience would not have been likely to stand in the way of violence;
but his purpose now was different.

"The fellow must have gold about him," muttered Fletcher. "I wonder
whether I can get at it without waking him up."

Obed seemed to be in a profound slumber, but it was a peculiarity of our
Yankee friend to wake at the least touch. This, of course, was not known
to Dick Fletcher, who felt that there would be no risk in a careful
exploration of Obed's pockets.

He thrust his hand into one of the Yankee's pockets with the practiced
skill of a pickpocket, when an entirely unexpected result followed.

"Why, you skunk, what in creation are you about?" exclaimed Obed,
suddenly seizing Fletcher by the throat.

"Let me go!" said Fletcher, struggling violently, but ineffectually, to
free himself.

"Not till you've told me what you are after."

"Let go, and I'll tell you."

Obed loosened his grip, saying sternly, "Are you a pickpocket, my
enterprising friend, or what is the meaning of all this business?"

"You had better not insult me!" said Fletcher angrily. "I'm no more a
pickpocket than you are."

"Then what is the meaning of your little game? Maybe you got up in your
sleep."

"No, I didn't. I just waked up, and thought I'd like to have a smoke,
but had no matches. I thought you might have some in your pocket."

"Why didn't you wake me up and ask me?"

"You looked so comfortable, and I thought you needed rest after a hard
day's work, so I decided to help myself."

"It looks like it," responded Obed dryly. "So that's all you were after,
was it?"

"Of course," said Fletcher, regaining confidence. "What else could it
be?"

"Well, it strikes me it's rather takin' a liberty with a gentleman to
search his pockets while he's asleep, that's all! In Californy,
Fletcher, if you had been caught doin' it, ten chances to one you'd have
been lynched, and lynchin' isn't usually regarded as comfortable or
desirable. Where's your cigar?"

"I haven't any, but I've got a pipe."

"Well, I do happen to have a few matches in my other pocket, but I'd
rather you'd ask for 'em next time."

"I will. The fact is, I ought to have brought some with me. It's very
strange, old traveller as I am."

"It would have been a little better than borrowin' them of a sleepin'
man without leave. Don't do it again, Fletcher."

"I'm not very likely to borrow them of you again, except when you're
awake," said Fetcher with a short laugh. "Do you always wake up so
easy?" he asked, in some curiosity.

"Always. I sleep mighty sound, but the least touch wakes me up."

"I shall remember that," thought Fletcher. "This Yankee is rather a
dangerous man to tackle. I won't attempt it again unless I have the
decided advantage."

"I hope you'll excuse me, Mr. Stackpole," he said aloud in a smooth
tone. "I used to travel with a friend--a great chum of mine--and we
never stood on ceremony with each other. I ought to have remembered that
you and I are comparatively new acquaintances."

"Perhaps it will be best," said Obed dryly. "You see when I wake up I
don't always have my wits about me, and I might cut up rough before I
had time to think."

"Oh, no apologies, I beg," said Fletcher, waving his hand.

"Who's apologizin'?" demanded Obed, in surprise.

"Never mind, it's all right! I thought you were apologizing for seizing
me by the throat. As you say, you waked up suddenly, and didn't have
your wits about you."

"Well, I know!" ejaculated Obed half to himself. "I didn't think of that
way of puttin' it. You're a cute fellow, Fletcher."

"Thank you, Mr. Stackpole. Now I will have my smoke;" and Fletcher,
though he did not care for it, by way of removing any lingering
suspicion, lit his pipe and puffed away with apparent pleasure.




CHAPTER VII.

PARTING COMPANY.

"I mistrust that man Fletcher," said Obed to Harry Vane the next day,
taking the opportunity when, at one of their rests, the man referred to
had sauntered into the woods.

"I don't like him myself," said Harry. "Have you any particular reason
for mistrusting him?"

"He was searchin' my pockets last night when he thought I was asleep,"
answered Obed, and he related the incident of the night before.

"It looks suspicious," said Harry. "I have not much money, but I don't
care to lose what I have."

"I should like to shake him, but I don't see how we can very well. He's
a reg'lar member of the party."

"We can be on our guard at any rate," said Harry. "I'll tell Jack, and
advise him to be careful also."

At this point Dick Fletcher returned. He looked suspiciously from one to
the other, under the impression that something had been said about him.
He asked no questions, however, and no information was volunteered. He
could not but observe, however, that there was more or less restraint in
the manner of his companions toward him, and that they were not disposed
to be social.

That day they made nine miles, the road being slightly better than the
day before. About five o'clock they reached a rude wayside inn, over the
door of which was a swinging sign, on which was printed:

TRAVELLERS' REST.

