
“He will never live differently. When he dies it will go to his son,
who will get through with it in short order.”

Then Mrs. Hogan told Paul about the visit of Ellen Barclay, and her
discovering a relation in old Jerry.

“I wish she might have some of the money. Shure, she nades it with her
young children.”

“I would much rather she would have it than his son, who is a ruffian
and a burglar.”

“And you’ll help her to it, if you can, Paul?”

“Yes, I will. I don’t want Jerry’s money myself. I am young, and my
prospects are good. All I want is that it should go into the right
hands.”




CHAPTER XXVIII. JERRY FINDS A NEW RELATION.


Ellen Barclay came over the next evening according to appointment, and
had an interview with Paul. She had at first been disposed to look upon
him with suspicion, as likely to divert Jerry’s money from his legal
heirs, but the interview dispelled all such ideas. The telegraph boy
was so frank and free spoken, and showed such an interest in helping
her, that she was strongly impressed in his favor. He even told her the
particulars of his first encounter with her husband, and in what manner
he had defeated his plan of gaining possession of Mr. Cunningham’s
money.

“Yes,” said Ellen, bitterly, “he is a husband to be proud of.”

“Has he always been as bad?” asked Paul.

“Yes; I had not been married to him a month before I found out that I
was wedded to a criminal. He treated me brutally, and I only breathed
freely when he was away from home. Within a year from the wedding day,
he was condemned to a year’s imprisonment, and at least half the time
since he has been in confinement.”

“Leaving you to support yourself, I suppose?”

“Yes, I have had to support myself and the children. Even when he was a
free man, he did little or nothing for the family.”

“How did you support yourself?” asked Paul.

“At first I undertook to maintain myself by the needle, but the
miserable pittance I received showed me that I must try some other
means of support. On inquiry I found that nothing paid as well as fine
laundry work for ladies. It was a trial to my pride, for I was well
brought up and educated, to take in washing for a living, but I would
rather do that than see my children suffer. So I stifled my pride and
became a laundress. I was fortunate in securing customers, and I have
wanted for nothing, neither have my children--nothing at least that
was necessary to comfort. But when my husband came home lately, and
proposed to put upon me the additional burden of his support, I became
discouraged.”

“I hope better days are in store for you,” said Paul.

“Not while my husband lives, and can find me out,” said Ellen Barclay,
sadly.

“Do you wish me to introduce you to your husband’s father?”

“Do you think it will be best?”

“We had better try the experiment at any rate. He may die, and if he
does his money ought to go to you.”

“It would be a great relief to me if my children would be provided for.”

“Follow me, then.”

Following Paul, Ellen Barclay went into the chamber occupied by old
Jerry.

The old man looked up, noticing Paul only.

“Do you think I will get well, Paul?” he asked.

“Yes, Jerry, if you receive proper care, and have nourishing food.”

“But--I am so poor, Paul.”

“That is a mistake, Jerry, as you and I know.”

“Don’t let any one know of the few dollars I have, Paul.”

“I won’t let your son know; he is the only one of whom you need be
afraid. Did you know he was married, and had two children?”

“I--I think he said something of it.”

“Would you like to see his wife?”

“I--I don’t know,” answered the old man, in an uncertain voice.

“This lady is your son’s wife,” said Paul, beckoning Ellen to come
forward.

The old man regarded her with an uneasy look. “I hope you are not like
James,” he said; “he is a bold, bad man!”

“No one knows that better than I, Mr. Barclay. It was a sad day when I
married him.”

“You have found him out, too?”

“Yes, to my sorrow.”

“You won’t try to get my money?” asked Jerry, anxiously.

“No, but I should like to bring my children here to see their
grandfather.”

“Are they--like him?”

“No, thank Heaven!”

“Then you may bring them.”

“I will. Can I do anything for you?”

“No, except to keep James away.”

“You have made a good impression on him,” said Paul, when they had left
the room together.

“Thanks to you,” said Ellen, earnestly. “You are a good boy, and an
unselfish one. Hereafter I shall trust you fully.”




CHAPTER XXIX. A NEW COMMISSION.


“If Number 91 is unemployed, send him to No. 75, Windsor Hotel, at
eleven o’clock.”

This message came to the telegraph office at which Paul was enrolled.

The superintendent called him to the desk.

“Here is a call for you, Number 91,” he said. “It comes from a lady,
Mrs. Louisa Holbrook. Do you know her?”

“No, sir.”

“Are you familiar with the name?”

“No, sir; I never heard it before.”

“She has evidently heard of you. It is now ten o’clock. At half past
ten you may start for the Windsor Hotel. If you arrive there before
eleven, you may wait till the hour, and then report at the room
indicated.”

“Yes, sir.”

Paul arrived at the Windsor Hotel at ten minutes before the hour. This
magnificent hostelry is situated on Fifth Avenue, and occupies the
entire block between Forty Sixth and Forty Seventh Streets. It is built
of brick, and has an air of quiet elegance which makes it a favorite
with ladies and others who like to be spared the noise and bustle which
attend other prominent hotels in the city. On the corner just above
stands the luxurious home of Jay Gould, the railroad king. A few blocks
above is the great Catholic Cathedral, destined one day to rank among
the famous churches of the world. Still further up, on the opposite
side, are the stately houses occupied by the Vanderbilt family. These
things, however, did not occur to Paul, for he was too familiar with
the leading buildings on the avenue to give them a special thought,
further than to reflect, “The men who occupy these fine houses were
once poor boys--many of them. I wonder whether it will ever be my
fortune to live as handsomely!”

It was only a thought, not seriously entertained. Paul wanted to rise,
but an active, healthy boy seldom thinks of luxury, or craves it. That
comes later, after he has attained manhood.

Paul entered the hotel, and, going up to the office, expressed a wish
to see Mrs. Louisa Holbrook.

“Were you sent for?” asked the clerk.

“Yes, sir.”

“Then you may go up at once. Here”--to a bell boy--“show this boy up to
No. 75, Mrs. Holbrook’s room.”

Though the room was only on the second floor, Paul followed the bell
boy into the elevator. At the second landing he got out, and followed
the hotel attendant to the door of a room fronting on the avenue. The
bell boy knocked, and a voice said, “Come in!”

“It is a telegraph boy, ma’am,” said the servant.

“He may come in, and you can go.”

Paul entered the room--a large and handsome one--and found himself in
presence of a lady not much over thirty years of age, with a pleasant
face and manner.

“You are Number 91?” she asked.

“Yes, ma’am.”

“I suppose you are surprised that I should have sent specially for
you,” the lady said, with a smile.

“I wondered how you came to hear of me,” said Paul.

“That is easily explained. I am a cousin of Mr. Cunningham.”

Paul’s face brightened. It was pleasant to serve any one connected with
a family from which he had received so much kindness.

“That explains it,” he said; “all the family have treated me very
kindly.”

“I assure you that you stand very high in their estimation,” said
Mrs. Holbrook, smiling once more. “My young cousin Jennie was here
yesterday, and on learning the nature of my business urged me to send
for you.”

“I am very much obliged to Miss Jennie,” said Paul with genuine
pleasure, for though too young to be in love, he liked Jennie
Cunningham better than any girl he had ever seen.

“It is time I explained the errand on which I propose to employ you,”
said Mrs. Holbrook. “You must know, then, that I have an old aunt
living at the village of Rockville, in Connecticut. She is advanced
in years, and possessed of large wealth. She has a comfortable home,
and prefers to keep house rather than live with any of her relatives.
She does not live alone, however. She employs a housekeeper, a Mrs.
Mercer, whose son, a young man of twenty five, also finds employment
on the place. This woman, I have reason to think, is an artful person,
who, knowing my aunt to be wealthy, has ingratiated herself with her,
and is evidently scheming for her property, or at any rate a handsome
share of it. If it were any person who had a rightful claim, I think
I may say for myself and my cousins that we would not interfere in
the matter, as we are all moderately rich. But we decidedly object to
our aunt’s falling into the hands of an artful adventurer like this
housekeeper. You are wondering, no doubt, how all this concerns you.
I will come to that. Mrs. Cunningham tells me you are a sharp, shrewd
boy, and I propose to send you down as a confidential messenger, to
look about you, judge of the progress the housekeeper has made in her
designs, and, if you see anything wrong, apprise us, or, if there is
any chance, open my aunt’s eyes to the real character of the persons
she has trusted.”

Paul listened to Mrs. Holbrook’s statement with attention. Some
difficulties, however, presented themselves to his mind.

“Unless I am in the house,” he said, “I shall find it difficult to
carry out your instructions.”

“You will be in the house. I shall give you a letter to my aunt, saying
that you are a boy in whom I am interested, and that I am anxious to
have you pass a few weeks in the country. Can you drive a horse?”

“There is nothing I like better,” answered Paul, promptly.

“Can you take care of a horse?”

“Yes, indeed.”

“How did you acquire this knowledge in the city?”

“Not far from where I live is a stable, kept by a man whom I know well;
I have been in there a good deal, and helped him when he needed it.
Sometimes I would drive out for him.”

Mrs. Holbrook nodded approvingly. “I am glad to hear it,” she said. “My
aunt is fond of riding, and has a horse and carriage. She can make you
useful in that way, and also as her secretary if she needs any one to
write for her, or read to her. I suppose you are equal to such duties?”

“Yes, ma’am. I am not to go as a telegraph boy, I presume?”

“No; have you another suit?”

“Yes, but I am afraid it is not good enough.”

“Then I will fit you out. I may as well write a letter first to my
aunt, and then I will see about proper clothes for you. I think I will
go to Brokaw Brothers. Can you go with me at once?”

Paul answered in the affirmative.

“What is your name?”

“Paul Parton.”

“A very good name. That will do quite nicely.”

Mrs. Holbrook sat down at the desk, and wrote the following letter:

  “MY DEAR AUNT:

  “I am taking a liberty in sending you a boy in whom I am interested,
  with the request that you will give him a home for a few weeks, if
  he should be contented. I know you have a large house and plenty of
  room. I think a young companion will help enliven the house. Paul
  Parton (that is his name) will be happy to be of service to you in
  any way. He understands horses, and will drive you out any time,
  harness and unharness, read to you or write for you, should you
  require it. I ask you to receive him as a guest, for my sake, but to
  make him useful.

  “I hope, my dear aunt, you are in comfortable health, and in a
  condition to enjoy life, notwithstanding your advanced years.

  “Your affectionate niece,
  “LOUISA HOLBROOK.”

“There,” said Mrs. Holbrook, after reading the letter to Paul, “I think
this will secure you an entrance into my aunt’s house, and should it
be read by the housekeeper, as is likely to be the case, it will tell
her nothing. Now we will go out and see about getting you a supply of
clothes.”




CHAPTER XXX. PAUL’S RECEPTION AT ROCKVILLE.


Paul found himself unable to start for Rockville in the afternoon. He
was obliged to make arrangements at home for an indefinite absence, and
procure from the savings bank a supply of money for current expenses,
which he left in the hands of Mrs. Hogan. His outfit was provided
by Mrs. Holbrook, who made it as ample as if Paul were the son of a
well to do family, instead of a telegraph boy, dependent upon his own
exertions for a scanty living in a shabby tenement house.

When his new patroness parted from him, she put a pocketbook into his
hands.

“This is not intended for remuneration,” she said, “for I shall pay the
telegraph company their usual charges. But I wish you to have money to
use, as you may require it.”

“Thank you,” said Paul. “You are very kind.”

“No, I am only considerate and just.”

“Have you any special directions to give, Mrs. Holbrook?”

“None beyond what I have already given. I must trust greatly to
your own good judgment and discretion. I am sure I can do so with
confidence, after the good report Mr. Cunningham has made of you.”

“Thank you; I will try to deserve your confidence.”

“You may write to me from time to time, when you have anything to
communicate.”

Paul promised to do so, and at nine o’clock took a train at the Grand
Central Depot for Rockville.

Fairly seated in the cars, he opened the pocketbook given him by Mrs.
Holbrook.

It contained three five dollar bills, and five dollars more in small
notes.

“Mrs. Holbrook is very liberal,” he reflected, complacently. “It will
be a pleasure to be in her service. I am fortunate in finding such good
friends.”

Paul was fortunate, but his good fortune was deserved. He always tried
to do his duty, was always courteous and obliging, and not afraid to
work. Such boys generally find friends. If any of my readers think they
are badly treated by their employers, and are poorly provided with
friends, let them consider whether they have taken pains to deserve
them.

Paul had never traveled, and two hours’ ride on the cars from New York
to Rockville, on a pleasant, sunny morning, interested him very much.

He knew very little of the country, having spent most of his time
in the lower part of the city. He began to think the world was more
beautiful than he imagined.

Finally, the cars came to a stop; the conductor called out “Rockville!”
and Paul, with curious anticipation, stepped from the cars upon the
platform.

There was the usual crowd around the depot. On the platform stood a man
with a whip in his hand, evidently a driver.

“Carriage for the hotel, or any part of the village!” he called out.

Paul stepped up to him and inquired: “Can you tell me how far from here
Mrs. Granville lives?”

“The widder Granville?” queried the driver.

“I suppose so. She is an old lady.”

“Just so. Well, she lives about a mile away, on the Plainfield Road.”

“Can you take me there?”

“Well, as you ain’t over and above hefty, I guess the horses can manage
it,” added the driver, humorously. “Just hop on. We’ll be starting
directly.”

Paul got on the front seat with the driver, feeling disposed to a
social chat with that personage. There was but one other passenger, a
lady, who was bound for the hotel.

“Are you going to visit the widder?” asked the knight of the whip.

“I am expecting to stay at her house a little while.”

“I suppose you know her?”

“No, I have never seen her. I bring a letter from her niece in New
York, Mrs. Louisa Holbrook.”

“I’ve heard tell of her. She was down here a week last summer. I guess
she and the housekeeper couldn’t hitch hosses.”

“Mrs. Mercer is the housekeeper, I believe,” said Paul.

“Folks call her the housekeeper. I call her the boss,” said the driver.
“She’s got the old lady under her thumb, if all accounts are true.”

“Is she agreeable?”

Amos, the driver, emitted a short laugh. “Wait till you see her,” he
said, significantly.

“Do you think Mrs. Granville stands in dread of her?” asked Paul,
rather anxiously.

He was beginning to think his task might be a hard one.

“No; the old lady is easy goin’, that is all. If she ever got roused
she’d turn out to have a will of her own, or I’m greatly mistaken.
Bless your soul, Mrs. Mercer wouldn’t dare to go too far, for she wants
the old lady to leave her a good slice of her property. But she gets
round her in an underhand way. For instance, if her son wants to go
off anywhere, and it isn’t convenient for him to drive the old lady
out, Mrs. Mercer persuades her that she isn’t looking well, or that the
wind is cold and raw, and she’d better stay at home. I shouldn’t be
surprised if she’d get the old lady to make a will in her favor.”

“I wonder what sort of a reception the housekeeper will give me,” said
Paul, thoughtfully.

“Very likely she will not be over glad to see you, especially when
she knows you’re a friend of Mrs. Holbrook. That lady saw through the
housekeeper’s little schemes, and did what she could to put a spoke in
her wheel--that’s why she hates her.”

“Well, all I can do is to hope for the best.”

“Be yer expectin’ to stay long?” asked Amos, curiously.

“That depends on whether the housekeeper will let me, from what you
tell me.”

“You’ll find it dreadful dull.”

“Perhaps so, but I’m going to offer to drive out Mrs. Granville, and
I’m willing to take care of the horse or horses, if she wants me to.”

“Frost will like that, for he’s lazy, and will be glad to get rid of
the work.”

“I suppose Frost is the housekeeper’s son.”

“Yes, that’s the one I mean.”

“What sort of a fellow is he?”

“Good enough for those who like him,” answered Amos, dryly. “I don’t.”

“Does he resemble his mother?”

“He’s a chip of the old block, but not half so smart. His mother thinks
him an angel, and what she wants the old lady’s property for is not so
much for herself as for her son.”

“You think I won’t find him a pleasant companion, then?”

“I know you won’t.”

“Then I hope I shall like Mrs. Granville.”

“She’s a good old lady and awful rich. The only weak thing about her is
her trusting the housekeeper.”

“I should think she would prefer to have some relative with her.”

“She won’t get any to stay with her till she discharges Mrs. Mercer.
The housekeeper makes herself as disagreeable as possible to any
relation, because she’s afraid they will get an influence over the old
lady’s mind and interfere with her.”

“Perhaps she may think the same of me.”

“Like as not. You can tell better in a few days. But there’s the house,
the big white one on a little hill to the left.”

“It is a very nice one.”

“Oh, yes, it’s a good house. Why shouldn’t it be? The old lady’s got
plenty of money.”

“Have you any idea how much?”

“It’s risin’ a hundred thousand dollars, I heard Squire Taylor say
once. Squire Taylor is her lawyer, and he’s likely to know.”

“No wonder the housekeeper has designs upon it.”

“Just so--I shouldn’t mind if the old lady would leave me a slice. You
might put in a good word for me--Amos Drake--when you get acquainted.”

“I’ll think of it,” answered Paul with a smile. “I owe you something
for all the information you’ve given me.”

“That’s all right. You seem a good sort of chap, and you’re welcome.”

Amos drew up in front of the house, and reined in the horses; while
Paul descended from the carriage.

“How much is the fare?” asked Number 91.

“Twenty cents.”

“That’s near enough,” said Paul, handing him a quarter.

“You’re a gentleman,” said Amos. “Now I’ll have a cigar when I get back
to the hotel.” Paul walked up the path to the front door of the mansion
and rang the bell.

In about a minute the door opened, and he found himself confronting a
tall, grim looking woman with thin face and figure, and iron gray hair.

“Who are you, and what is your business?” she demanded in a chilly
tone. Paul had no doubt in his own mind that it was the housekeeper.

“My name is Paul Parton, from New York, and I have a letter for Mrs.
Granville.”

“You can give me the letter.”

“Thank you, but I would prefer to give it to Mrs. Granville----”

“Humph! Are you one of her relations?”

“No, but I come from Mrs. Holbrook, her niece.”

“Oh,” said the housekeeper, grimly. “Well, I don’t think you can see
Mrs. Granville; she’s got a headache, and can’t be disturbed.”




CHAPTER XXXI. A DEFEAT FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER.


The housekeeper held the door half way open, and evidently meant to
prevent Paul from entering. If he had been less determined, or more
easily abashed, he would have given up his purpose. But Number 91 had a
will of his own.

“I don’t accept a dismissal from you, madam,” he said, eying Mrs.
Mercer with a steady glance. “I demand to see Mrs. Granville.”

“Hoity toity! Who are you, I’d like to know?” demanded the housekeeper,
amazed and exasperated.

“A visitor to Mrs. Granville,” answered Paul; “you, I suppose, are a
servant.”

“Do you dare to call me a servant, you impudent boy?” answered Mrs.
Mercer, raising her voice.

“What are you, then?” asked Paul, calmly.

“I am Mrs. Mercer, the housekeeper, I’d have you to know.”

“So I suppose, and Mrs. Granville is your employer. By what right do
you dare to send away her visitors?”

Mrs. Mercer was quite unused to being defied so boldly, and she could
hardly express her indignation.

“Well, I never heard of such impudence!” she ejaculated.

In her anger she would have closed the door, but just at that moment a
voice was heard from the floor above--the voice of Mrs. Granville, who
had been attracted by the housekeeper’s loud tones.

“What is all this, Mrs. Mercer?” she asked, in a tone of authority.

“It’s a boy who wants to force his way in, ma’am,” said Mrs. Mercer, in
a sulky tone.

“What boy is it?” asked her mistress.

Paul answered this question himself.

“I come from New York with a letter from your niece, Mrs. Holbrook,” he
said.

“Then come in at once,” said the old lady, in an imperative tone. “Why
did you not admit him at once?”

“I didn’t know,” answered the housekeeper, confused.

“I beg your pardon,” said Paul, “I told you this, and you said Mrs.
Granville had a headache, and would not see me.”

“What do you mean by this misrepresentation, Mrs. Mercer?” demanded the
old lady, sternly.

“I offered to take the letter up to you,” said Mrs. Mercer, a little
alarmed at the evident anger of her mistress.

“When Mrs. Granville reads the letter she will understand why I
preferred to hand it to her myself.”

“Why did you say I had a headache? Why do you presume to send away my
visitors, Mrs. Mercer?” demanded the old lady, thoroughly aroused.

“I meant it for the best,” said the woman, sulkily.

“Never presume so far again. Now, young man, come up and let me see
you.”

Paul passed the discomfited housekeeper, and, going upstairs, followed
the old lady into a pleasant sitting room.

“I am sorry to have been the means of disturbing you,” said Paul,
politely. “Mrs. Holbrook sends you this letter, and wishes me to give
you her love.”

“You are a nice looking boy,” said the old lady, letting her glance
rest approvingly on Number 91. “I hope Louisa is well.”

“Very well, thank you.”

She put on her glasses, and read the letter.

“So you are Paul Parton,” she said, as she folded up the letter.

“Yes, madam.”

“A New York boy?”

“Yes, madam.”

“I am afraid you will find it dull here.”

“O no, Mrs. Granville, I am sure I shall like the country, for a while
at least.”

“Do you know how to drive?”

“Oh, yes; I am used to horses.”

“On the whole, I am glad Louisa sent you down here. Frost Mercer, who
usually drives me, has been getting lazy of late, and makes excuses
when I want to go out.”

“I won’t do that, Mrs. Granville. I shall be only too glad to go.”

“You are sure you won’t upset me?”

“I don’t believe I shall,” answered Paul, smiling. “I don’t care about
being upset myself.”

“I think, on the whole, I shall like to have a boy about,” said the old
lady, thoughtfully.

“I am afraid Mrs. Mercer might object to me.”

“I am the mistress of the house. Mrs. Mercer is only the housekeeper,”
said the old lady, with an unwonted assumption of dignity. “Please ring
the bell, Paul.”

Paul did so.

Presently the housekeeper entered in answer to the summons. She looked
askance at Paul.

“Mrs. Mercer,” said her mistress, “you will prepare a room for this
young gentleman. He will remain here, for the present.”

Mrs. Mercer looked disagreeably surprised.

“Perhaps you had better read this letter from my niece, Mrs. Holbrook,
as it will save explanations.”

The housekeeper read the letter, and her thin lips tightened with
displeasure.

“There is no need of your getting a boy to drive you around, ma’am,”
she said. “My son is perfectly able to do it.”

“Your son is very apt to be engaged when I want to drive out,” returned
the old lady, dryly.

“I will see that it don’t happen again,” said the housekeeper, anxious
to keep Paul out of the house.

“There is no occasion for that. Mind, I don’t blame your son. Paul here
will have nothing else to do, and can drive me as well as not. Besides,
he will read to me, and spare my eyes.”

“Frost would be willing to read to you.”

Mrs. Granville smiled.

“I don’t think reading aloud is one of your son’s accomplishments,” she
said. “His voice is not exactly musical.”

This was certainly true, for Frost Mercer had a voice deep and
croaking, like a frog’s.

“I am sorry you are so prejudiced against my poor boy,” said Mrs.
Mercer, mortified and displeased.

“You are a foolish woman, Mrs. Mercer. I am only going to make it
easier for Frost, and give this young gentleman something to do. Paul,
you may go with Mrs. Mercer, and take possession of your room. Go where
you please, till half past twelve, our dinner hour. After dinner, I may
take a drive.”

“You’d better get your life insured, then, ma’am,” muttered Mrs.
Mercer. “Boys ain’t to be trusted with horses.”

“Is your horse very lively or skittish?” asked Paul.

“No,” answered Mrs. Granville. “He is very gentle and tractable.”

“Then I don’t think there is any need of insuring your life, Mrs.
Granville.”

“I wouldn’t ride out with you,” said the housekeeper, spitefully.

“Perhaps you will think better of me after a while, Mrs. Mercer,” said
Paul, good naturedly.

The housekeeper closed her lips firmly and shook her head.

“I’ve made one enemy, that’s clear,” said Paul to himself--“probably
two, for the housekeeper’s son isn’t likely to be my friend.”

Mrs. Mercer led the way to a small room on the next floor.

“You can go in there,” she said, ungraciously.

“Thank you,” said Paul.

It occurred to him to wonder why so small a room should be assigned
him, while there seemed to be plenty of larger ones. In the arrangement
of the room, however, there was nothing to be desired. Everything was
neat and comfortable. To Paul, accustomed to a shabby tenement house,
it seemed luxurious, and he was disposed to enjoy it for the time, be
it long or short.




CHAPTER XXXII. FROST MERCER IS CONTRARY.


Mrs. Mercer, the housekeeper, was seriously annoyed by the appearance
of Paul upon the scene. For years she and her son had had charge of
Mrs. Granville’s affairs, and they had taken care to turn the charge to
profitable account. The wages which each received formed only a part
of this advantage. They bought everything for the house, and levied
tribute from every tradesman as a compensation for turning the trade in
his direction. The result was that Mrs. Granville, without being aware
of it, paid a larger price than any one else for what articles she
purchased, the storekeepers and others compensating themselves in this
way for the percentage they had to pay the housekeeper and her son.

It is for this reason that Mrs. Mercer never cared to have any visitor
in the house. She feared her dishonesty might be found out. She was
especially afraid of any one sent by Mrs. Holbrook, who during her stay
had been bold enough to interfere with the housekeeper.

When she had ushered Paul into his chamber, she went out to the barn,
where she found her son, not at work, but sitting on an old rocking
