
“Never mind!” said Peter hastily, “’nother time will do!”

“Jake has money. He doesn’t need credit,” said Wentworth.

“Yes, I’ve got money,” stammered Amsden, and pulled out the wallet he
had stolen from Wentworth.

“Give it to me, I’ll pay,” said Wentworth, and Jake yielded, not
knowing the full meaning of what was going on.

“I take you to witness, Gerald,” said Wentworth, “this is my
pocketbook, which this man Amsden stole from me last night. I’ll keep
it.”

“Stop there, gemmen!” said Pete Johnson. “Dat don’t go down. Dat wallet
belongs to Jake, I’ve seen him have it a dozen times. I won’t ’low no
stealin’ in my saloon.”

“Be careful, Mr. Johnson,” said Wentworth sternly. “There are papers in
this wallet that prove my ownership. You evidently intended to relieve
Jake of the wallet when he was sleeping off the effects of the whisky.
If you make a fuss I’ll have you arrested as a confederate of Jake
Amsden in the robbing.”

“’Fore Hebbin, massa!” said Peter, becoming alarmed, “I didn’t know
Jake stole the money.”

“Did you ever know him have so much money before?” demanded Gerald.

“Didn’t know but he might a had some money lef’ him,” said Peter
shrewdly.

“Well, you know now. When this gentleman lay asleep in our cabin last
night Jake stole in and took his wallet.”

“What’ll I do, gemmen? When Jake wakes up” (he had dropped on the
floor, where he was breathing hard with his eyes closed) “he’ll ’cuse
me of takin’ his money.”

“Tell him that the man he stole it from came here and got it,” said
Gerald.

Gerald and his companion left the saloon, leaving Peter Johnson quite
down in the mouth. His little game had been spoiled, for rightly
supposing that Jake did not know how much money there was in the
wallet, he had intended to abstract at least half the contents and
appropriate it to his own use.

“Did he use much of your money, Mr. Wentworth?” asked Gerald.

“I will examine and find out,” answered his companion.

He sat down under the tree and took out the roll of bills.

“Only five dollars are missing,” he said in a tone of satisfaction.

“Have you a son?” asked Gerald. “I think I heard my father say you had
one somewhere near my own age.”

“How old are you?”

“Sixteen.”

“My son—Victor—is seventeen. You have one advantage over him.”

“What is that, sir?”

“You are a poor man’s son.”

“Do you consider that an advantage?”

“Money is a temptation,” returned Bradley Wentworth slowly, “especially
to a boy. Victor knows that I am rich—that is, moderately rich,” he
added cautiously, “and he feels at liberty to spend money, often in
ways that don’t do him any good. He buys clothes extravagantly, but
that does no harm outside of the expense. I am sorry to say that he has
contracted a taste for drink, and has given several champagne suppers
to his friends. I suppose you don’t indulge yourself in that way,”
Wentworth added, with a faint smile.

“I have heard of champagne, but I never tasted it,” returned Gerald.

“You are as well off without it—nay, better. I noticed you merely
sipped the whisky at the place we just left.”

“Yes; I knew your object in ordering it, and did not want to arouse
Peter’s suspicions, or I would not even have done that.”

“So I supposed. I approve of your moderation. I do not myself drink
whisky, and indeed very little wine. Drink has no temptation for me. I
wish I could say as much for Victor. I presume, however, if you were in
his place, you would do the same.”

“You are quite mistaken, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald indignantly.

“Well, perhaps so, but you can’t tell, for you have never been tried.”

“I have never been tried, but I hate liquor of all kinds, and
drunkenness still more. The sight of Jake Amsden just now is enough to
sicken any one.”

“True, he makes a beast of himself. I am not afraid Victor will ever
sink to his level; but I should be glad if he would abstain from
drinking altogether.”

Bradley Wentworth rose from his recumbent position.

“Shall we take a walk?” he said.

“I would do so, but I don’t like to leave my father alone.”

“He looked comfortable when we left the cabin.”

“Yes, but he is subject to sudden attacks.”

“And you have no doctor within a reasonable distance?”

“No; but his attacks are always the same, and I know what to do for
him.”

“We will walk to the cabin, and then, if he seems well, you might
venture to take a walk.”

“Very well, Mr. Wentworth.”

When they were within a few rods of his home, Gerald, impatient and
always solicitous about the invalid, ran forward, leaving Mr. Wentworth
to follow more slowly.

The latter was startled when Gerald, pale and agitated, emerged from
the cabin and called out: “Oh, come quick, Mr. Wentworth. My father
has had a serious hemorrhage, and—” he choked, unable to finish the
sentence.

Wentworth hurried forward and entered the cabin. Mr. Lane lay back in
his chair, gasping for breath.

He opened his eyes when he heard Gerald’s voice.

“I—am—glad—you—are—come, Gerald,” he gasped. “I think—the end has
come!”

He did not utter another word, but in half an hour breathed his last!




CHAPTER IX.

ALONE IN THE WORLD.


TWO days afterward the simple burial took place. Mr Wentworth remained,
influenced by a variety of motives. He felt that with Warren Lane dead
all form of a demand upon him for the money he had once faithfully
agreed to pay had passed. Gerald might know something about it, but
what could a poor and friendless boy do against a rich manufacturer?
Still, if the boy had the papers, he might as well secure them for a
trifle. So as they sat in front of the cabin after the burial he said
suddenly: “What do you propose to do, Gerald?”

“I don’t know,” answered Gerald sadly.

“If you will go home with me, I will give you a place in my factory.”

“I prefer to remain here for a time.”

“But how will you live?”

“I can hunt and fish, and as my wants are few I think I shall get
along.”

“As your father and I were young men together, I should like to do
something for you.”

“You can do something for me,” said Gerald significantly.

“What is it you refer to?”

“Keep the promise you made to my father fifteen years ago.”

Bradley Wentworth looked uneasy. It was clear that the boy thoroughly
understood the compact.

“What do you mean, Gerald?” he asked.

“I mean that my father sacrificed his reputation to save yours. Through
him you obtained your inheritance and are to-day a rich man. For this
you solemnly agreed to give him twenty thousand dollars when you came
into your uncle’s fortune.”

“You are laboring under a delusion, boy!” said Wentworth harshly.

“You know better than that, Mr. Wentworth,” answered Gerald calmly.

“You are certainly very modest in your demands. Twenty thousand
dollars, indeed!”

“It was not I who fixed upon that sum, but yourself. As my father’s
sacrifice brought you over three hundred thousand dollars, it was a
good bargain for you.”

“What have you to show in proof of this extraordinary claim of yours?”
demanded Wentworth, waiting eagerly for the answer.

“Your confession over your own signature that you forged the check, a
crime attributed to my father, and confessing that he bore the blame to
screen you.”

“Where is this paper?” demanded Wentworth, edging, as if unconsciously,
nearer the boy.

“It is safe,” answered Gerald, rising and facing his companion.

“Show it to me! I won’t believe in its existence unless you show it to
me.”

“This is not the time to show it,” said Gerald.

“I differ with you. This is the precise time to show it if you have it,
which I very much doubt.”

“I will show it to you in due time, Mr. Wentworth. This is not the
right time, nor the right place.”

“Have you it about you?”

“I shall answer no more questions, Mr. Wentworth.”

Wentworth eyed Gerald, doubting whether he should not seize him then
and there and wrest from him the paper if he proved to have it, but
there was something in the resolute look of the boy that daunted him,
man though he was, and he decided that it would be better to have
recourse to a little strategy. For this the boy would be less prepared
than for open force.

“Look here, Gerald,” he said, moderating his tone and moving further
away, as if all thoughts of violence had left him, “I will have a few
plain words with you. If you have any paper compromising me in any way,
I will make it worth your while to give it to me. I remember that I was
in a little trouble, and being young made a mountain out of a molehill.
Still I don’t care to have it come out now, when I am a man of repute,
that I ever sowed wild oats like most young men. I will make you the
same offer that I did your father. Give me the paper and I will give
you a thousand dollars to start you in life. Think what such a sum will
be to a boy like you.”

“I don’t think I care much for money, Mr. Wentworth,” responded Gerald.
“But my father left me this claim upon you as a sacred trust. I feel
that I owe it to his memory to collect it to the uttermost farthing.”

Bradley Wentworth shrugged his shoulders.

“You are about the most foolish boy I ever met,” he said. “You are
almost a pauper, yet you refuse a thousand dollars.”

“I shall never be a pauper while I have my health and strength, Mr.
Wentworth.”

“You must think me a fool to surrender so large a sum as twenty
thousand dollars on the demand of a half-grown boy like yourself!”

“No, Mr. Wentworth. I was only trying to find out whether you were a
man of integrity!”

“Do you dare to impugn my integrity?” demanded the manufacturer angrily.

“A man of integrity keeps his engagements,” said Gerald briefly.

Bradley Wentworth regarded Gerald with a fixed and thoughtful glance.
He had expected to twine the boy round his finger, but found that he
was more resolute than he expected. He exhibited a force of character
which his father had never possessed.

Wentworth was not a patient man, and the boy’s perverseness, as
he called it, provoked him, and brought out his sterner and more
disagreeable qualities.

“Boy,” he said harshly, “I have a piece of advice to give you.”

“What is it, sir?”

“Don’t make me your enemy! I came here intending to be your friend, and
you decline my advances.”

“No, sir,” answered Gerald firmly. “I don’t consider that you act a
friendly part when you decline to carry out a solemn compact made with
my father.”

“It is a delusion of his and yours,” returned Wentworth, “I can only
look upon your attitude as that of a blackmailer.”

“No one has more contempt for a blackmailer than I,” said Gerald. “I
am old enough to understand the meaning of the term. If a man owed you
money, and you presented your claim, would you consider it blackmail?”

“Certainly not.”

“Then I need not defend myself from your charge.”

“You and I take different views on this question, but it is of some
importance to you not to offend me.”

“Why?” asked Gerald, looking straight into the eyes of his companion.

“Because I am rich and powerful.”

“And I am weak and poor?”

“Precisely.”

“What use do you propose to make of your power, Mr. Wentworth?”

“To crush you!” hissed the manufacturer.

“Listen, boy, I am capable of being a good friend——”

“As you were to my father,” suggested Gerald significantly.

“As I was to your father, only he did not appreciate it.”

“I don’t care to have such a friend.”

“But I have something to add. I can be a bitter enemy when I am badly
treated.”

“I suppose that is meant as a threat, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald
calmly.

“You can take it so.”

“Then I have my answer ready. I care neither for your friendship nor
your enmity. I shall do what I consider right, and if my own conscience
approves I shall seek no other approval.”

“You are very independent for a young boy, especially one in your
circumstances,” sneered Wentworth.

“You may be right. I am independent, and I intend to remain so.”

“Wait till you get older, and have been buffeted by the world. You will
understand then that you have made a serious mistake in repelling my
offer of help.”

“Have you anything more to say to me, Mr. Wentworth?”

“No, unless to add that I generally get even with those who oppose me.
Indeed, I have a great mind to chastise you here and now.”

Gerald rose from his seat and confronted the angry man, but without
betraying any trace of excitement or fear.

“You are probably more than a match for me physically, Mr. Wentworth,”
he said, “but if you undertake anything of that kind you will meet with
a determined resistance.”

And as Wentworth looked into the boy’s resolute face he quite
understood that he spoke only the truth.

“No,” he said, after a brief pause, “I will bide my time. You may
repent of your folly and decide to come to terms with me. If you
don’t——”

He did not finish the sentence, for a man on horseback came galloping
up to the cabin. He checked his horse, and said inquiringly, “Is this
Mr. Bradley Wentworth?”

“I am he,” answered Wentworth, rising.

“Then here is a telegram for you. It came to Denver, and I have ridden
seventy miles to bring it to you.”

Wentworth tore open the message. It contained these words:

“Come home at once. The men are on strike. I can do nothing without
your authority.

  “MORGAN.”

“This is from my foreman. I am summoned home,” said Wentworth, looking
up. “How soon can I leave here?”

“At once. I engaged a wagon that will be here in fifteen minutes.”

In fifteen minutes Bradley Wentworth set out on his return. His mind
was so much occupied with the serious news from home that he left
without a word to Gerald, who stood watching the conveyance till it
disappeared behind a bend in the cliff.

“Now I am indeed alone!” he reflected, as his eyes rested sadly on the
poor cabin which he and his father had occupied for three years. “I am
alone in the world, with no friend, but with one powerful enemy.”




CHAPTER X.

AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.


GERALD had often thought vaguely of the time when he would be left
alone. Between him and his father there had been an intimacy and mutual
dependence greater than usually exists between father and son. Now that
his father had passed away, a sudden feeling of desolation chilled the
boy’s spirits, and he asked himself what life had in store for him of
hope and happiness. But youth is buoyant, and Gerald was but sixteen.
He felt that he had something to live for. He would redeem his father’s
reputation, and instead of giving way to his feelings would fight
manfully the great battle of life.

But how? To what should he turn? He began to consider his resources.
First and most available was money. He emptied his pockets, and took
account of his worldly wealth. It amounted to one dollar and sixty-five
cents, all told.

“That isn’t much,” thought Gerald. “I shall have to go to work without
delay.”

He prepared supper as usual, but had small heart to sit down to it
alone. Little as he liked Bradley Wentworth he would have been glad to
have his company till he could endure the thought of solitude. But he
was not destined to eat by himself. Going to the door of the cabin just
as his simple preparations were made, he caught sight of an approaching
figure. It was that of a stranger, a strong, robust man of little more
than thirty, with a florid face and dressed like an English tourist.

“Hallo, there!” called out the stranger, as he caught sight of Gerald.

“Hallo!” responded Gerald.

“Is there any hotel round here?”

“Not that I know of, sir.”

“As I feared. I’ve been wandering round this confounded country till
I’ve got lost. It’s a beastly wilderness, that’s what it is.”

Gerald smiled. His experience of men was limited, and he had never met
a British tourist before.

“May I sit down awhile?” went on the newcomer.

There was a long seat built against the cabin, with the wall of the
latter for a back.

“Certainly, sir. I shall be glad of company.”

“Do you live here?”

“Yes, sir. I have lived here for three years.”

“I should think you’d commit suicide, I should, upon my word. Does no
one live with you?”

“Not now,” answered Gerald gravely. “My father died two days since.”

“Oh, I beg your pardon, I do indeed,” said the Englishman in a tone of
sympathy. “It wasn’t an accident, was it?”

“No, he had long been sick of consumption. I was feeling very lonely,
for he was only buried to-day.”

“I hope I don’t intrude. I wouldn’t do that on any account.”

“No; on the contrary I am glad to have company. I was about to sit down
to supper. If agreeable I shall be pleased to have you join me.”

“Supper!” repeated the tourist with sudden animation. “It is the one
thing I have been longing for. I haven’t eaten a particle of food since
morning, and didn’t know where to find any, though my pocket is full of
money.”

“I can’t offer you anything very inviting,” said Gerald, as he led the
way into the cabin. “I have some fish and potatoes, bread and coffee,
but I have neither milk nor butter.”

“Don’t apologize, my young friend,” interposed the Englishman. “It is
a feast fit for the gods. I have an appetite that will make anything
palatable. But where do you get your bread? There can’t be any bakers’
shops in this wilderness.”

“There are not. I make my own bread.”

“You don’t say so! And upon my word it is delicious.”

“It is fortunate that you are hungry,” said Gerald with a smile.

“No, ’pon honor, it isn’t that. It is really better than I often eat at
hotels. You really have talent as a cook.”

“I don’t think so. I don’t care for cooking, but have taken it up from
necessity.”

The tourist hadn’t exaggerated his appetite. He ate so heartily that
when the meal was concluded there wasn’t a crumb left. All the dishes
were empty.

“I ought to apologize for my appetite,” he said, “but I have been
rambling about ever since breakfast, and I find the air here very
stimulating.”

“Don’t think of apologizing!” returned Gerald. “I am glad you relished
my simple supper.”

“Now, if I were only sure of a bed, I should feel quite easy in mind.”

“I will gladly offer you a bed. This is the first night that I should
have been alone, and the solitude depressed me.”

“I will accept your kind offer thankfully. But you ought to know whom
you are obliging.”

The stranger drew from his pocket a card on which Gerald read the name:

  THE HON. NOEL BROOKE.

“I should be glad to give you my card, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, “but
here in this wilderness cards are not customary. My name is Gerald
Lane.”

“I am delighted to know you, Mr. Lane,” said the tourist offering his
hand cordially.

It seemed odd to Gerald to be called “Mr. Lane.”

“If you don’t mind, Mr. Brooke,” he said, “please call me Gerald. I
never thought of myself as Mr. Lane.”

“I will do so with pleasure, and it will seem easy and familiar, for I
have a Cousin Gerald. His name, too, is not unlike yours. He is Lord
Gerald Vane, son of the Marquis of Dunbar.”

“There is one essential difference,” said Gerald. “I am plain
Gerald—I can’t call myself a lord.”

“Oh, you are all sovereigns in America,” laughed the Englishman, “and
that is higher than the title of lord.”

“Perhaps you are a lord also?” suggested Gerald.

“No, Gerald, not at present. My father has a title, but my elder
brother will inherit that. However, that is of little importance here.”

“Have you been long in Colorado, Mr. Brooke?”

“About a month. I was told it was the Switzerland of America. So after
visiting your principal cities and having seen your famous Niagara, I
pushed on out here, but I didn’t reckon on there being no hotels, or I
might have stayed away.”

“There will be plenty of hotels in a few years. There are few
settlements as yet.”

“Just so. Excuse my saying so, but until that time comes I should
rather keep away. And you have actually lived here for three years?”

“Yes.”

“But why come here when there are plenty of places where you would have
enjoyed greater advantages?”

“We came here on account of my father’s health. He was in a
consumption, and the dry, clear air of this region is especially
favorable for any lung troubles.”

“Did he experience benefit?”

“Yes; he lived three years, when elsewhere he would probably have died
in twelve months.”

“But now you won’t stay here? You haven’t got consumption.”

“Not that I am aware of,” answered Gerald with a smile.

“Have you formed any plans?”

“No; I have not had time.”

“You ought to go to New York or Chicago. There would surely be an
opening in one of those cities for a clever boy like yourself.”

“Thank you for the compliment. There is one good reason, however, why I
cannot follow your advice.”

“Name it.”

“Money is necessary, and my poor father was unable to leave me any.”

“But this cabin?”

“That indeed belongs to me and the eighty acres adjoining, but it would
be difficult to sell it, nor do I care to do so. Some day, when the
country is more settled, it may be worth much more than at present.”

“You are right, Gerald. But you are not obliged to remain here. The
cabin and the land won’t run away.”

“That’s true. I mean to leave it and go somewhere, but my plans are not
formed yet.”

“Then let me help you form them. I want to make a prolonged tour in
this country, and I find it beastly dull without a companion. Come with
me!”

“But, Mr. Brooke, I am poor. I have less than two dollars in my
possession.”

“My dear fellow, what difference does that make?”

“But I can’t travel without money.”

“I offer you a position as my—private secretary, with a salary of—I
say now, I don’t know how much to pay you. We’ll call it four pounds a
week, twenty dollars in your money, if that is satisfactory.”

“But, Mr. Brooke,” exclaimed Gerald in astonishment. “I don’t
understand the duties of a private secretary, and I can’t possibly be
worth that money.”

“You won’t find your duties difficult. I call you my secretary, but
you’ll only have to keep me company.”

“I will do that with pleasure, Mr. Brooke.”

“Then it’s all settled, Gerald. Your hand upon it!”

The two clasped hands, and Gerald felt that this new friend would be a
good offset for his powerful enemy.




CHAPTER XI.

JAKE AMSDEN MAKES AN EARLY CALL, AND HAS A WARM RECEPTION.


THE next morning Gerald was up bright and early. He felt bound to
entertain his new employer, who was temporarily his guest, as royally
as possible. So he decided to make some fresh bread for breakfast, and
this would take him some time. Still all his preparations were made,
and breakfast all ready to be served before his companion awoke.

“He must be pretty tired,” thought Gerald. “I won’t wake him up, for
his business isn’t very pressing, and he will be glad of a good long
rest.”

He ate a little himself, for he had been up long enough to have a good
appetite, and seated himself on the settee in front of the cabin.

It was a charming morning, and as Gerald sat there, he felt that he had
good reason to be thankful. Yesterday he had felt alone in the world,
and had very little idea how he was going to make a living, but to-day
he found himself with a bright prospect ahead, and the promise of an
income which would have been satisfactory to many of double his age.

The state of the weather is apt to affect our spirits, and the clear
sunshine and cool bracing air had its effect on Gerald. From his seat
he could see at a distance of twenty-five miles the snowy top of
Pike’s Peak, looking on account of the clearness of the atmosphere not
more than five miles away. There were intermediate summits which, had
he been nearer, would have hidden the snowy crest of the grand old
mountain, but from where he was he could see clearly, rising above the
wooded slope.

“Colorado may be a wilderness, but it has grand scenery!” thought
Gerald. “Some time I must go to the top of Pike’s Peak. The view from
there must be great.”

He had entertained this wish before, but his father would not consent,
and, indeed as there was some danger of losing one’s way in case of a
sudden fog, his apprehensions were justified.

“How peaceful and beautiful everything looks this morning,” thought
Gerald.

But though Gerald was right, the peacefulness of the scene was soon
to be broken in upon by a human intruder on whom it produced no
impression.

As Gerald sat in quiet contemplation the figure of a man approached
rapidly. When he came nearer Gerald recognized his visitor as Jake
Amsden.

There was something hostile in Jake’s appearance, and there was an ugly
look on his face that indicated anything but friendship.

“Hallo, you young rascal!” he called out roughly, when he arrived
within earshot. “Why don’t you answer me?” he continued as Gerald
remained silent.

“I am no rascal, Mr. Amsden,” said Gerald in a dignified tone, “and I
don’t choose to be called one.”

“Oh, you’re puttin’ on frills, are you?” retorted Jake, halting where
he stood, and eying the boy with evident malevolence.

“If that’s what you call it, I am. If you will speak to me in a civil
manner I will answer you.”

“Oh, you will, will you?” sneered Amsden. “You’ll answer me any way.”

“Have you any business with me?”

“Yes, I have. You don’t think I’d come round here so early in the
mornin’ if I hadn’t?”

“I don’t know. I am not acquainted with your habits.”

“Has the gentleman gone that was stoppin’ here?”

“You mean Mr. Wentworth?”

“Like as not. I don’t know his name.”

“He went away yesterday.”

Jake Amsden appeared to receive this answer with satisfaction. He
wanted to be sure that Gerald was alone and unprotected.

“Ho ain’t comin’ back, is he?”

“Not that I know of.”

“Then you’re livin’ alone?”

“My poor father is dead as you know. Yes, I am alone in the world.”

“Look here, boy!” he commenced abruptly, “you asked me if I came on
business.”

“Yes.”

“Well, I have,” and the visitor eyed Gerald with a sinister glance.

Gerald suspected that Jake had heard of his visit to Pete Johnson’s
saloon, and wanted to hold him responsible for the loss of the stolen
wallet. He was not alarmed, knowing, as Jake Amsden did not, that he
had a friend within call.

“State your business,” he said calmly.

“I’ll do just that. Gerald Lane, you’ve played me a mean trick.”

“Go ahead! Tell me what it is.”

“You came to Pete Johnson’s and stole a wallet full of money from me
when I was asleep. Now it ain’t no use your denyin’ that you was there,
for Pete Johnson told me all about it.”

“I don’t intend to deny it. Mr. Wentworth and I called at Pete
Johnson’s saloon when you were lying under the counter.”

“No matter where I was. I’m a gentleman, and if I choose to lie
down under the counter of my friend Pete Johnson, it’s none of your
business.”

“Oh, I don’t care to interfere with you. You can lie there every night
if you like, so far as I am concerned.”

“Of course I can, but that ain’t business. Where’s that wallet you took
from me? Answer me that, you young jackanapes!”

“I took no wallet from you.”

“Then the man that was with you did.”

“That is nothing to me. Tell me, Jake Amsden, where did you get that
wallet, and the money that was in it?”

“It was my wallet.”

“And the money was yours, too, I suppose?”

“It’s none of your business any way. It was in my pocket when I lay
down and when I got up it was gone. You needn’t go to deny it, for Pete
Johnson saw it taken.”

“Look here, Jake Amsden!” said Gerald in a fearless tone, “the wallet
and money were stolen by you from Mr. Wentworth, and he only took what
belonged to him.”

“That’s a lie!”

“It’s the truth.”

“Did you see me take it?”

“No, but my father woke up in the night, and saw you bending over Mr.
Wentworth. That was when you took the wallet.”

“Your father was dreamin’! It’s all a made up story. Jake Amsden ain’t
no thief.”

“I shan’t call you any names. I only tell you the facts in the case.”

“Look here, boy, you’re mighty independent for a kid. Do you know who I
am?” and Jake, with his arms akimbo, faced Gerald threateningly.
