
She looked it, with the sparkle in her eye and the changing color on
her cheek. She was very pretty, but an eager child.

"And if we had some girls to make merry! Real girls, I mean, like
Patty, who is charming to have about. Suppose we keep her for the next
year or two?"

"You will have to settle that with Patty and father. And Patty has a
way of breaking out of bounds that might startle you. She is on her
best behavior now."

"And we cannot always keep up to the mark--is that what you mean me to
infer?"

"I couldn't, I am sure, if the mark was set high," and she laughed. "It
is, up to grandmamma's. And Dolly, who really is my aunt, you know,
is not much older than I am. We have royal times when she comes to
the plantation. But grandpapa is very strict and of the old--there's
a French word I ought to use," and she blushed. "My French will not
always come to the front; and so, you see, I cannot put on grand airs."

Carrington laughed. Her frankness was so piquant.

"RÃ©gime--that I think is the word you want."

"Yes. A man who believes we have had no manners since the days of
Washington and Mr. John Adams. Oh, do you truly think the country will
go to ruin and split up into fragments?"

"No, I really do not. Young countries, like young people, make
mistakes. Well, older countries do likewise. There have been many
changes in the policies of all governments, many rulers. I've quite
decided this will last my time out."

"I don't understand about the Non-Intercourse Act and all that. Father
thinks it would be good for the women not to get so much finery from
abroad. But, then, if we sell tobacco and other things to England and
France--why, it seems to me it is a good thing, a sort of give and
take. And grandpapa thinks Mr. Madison will finish what Mr. Jefferson
began, and that England will get hold of us again. Are you to go to the
levee?"

"Oh, yes."

"I am so glad! I am to make a real bow to Mrs. Madison. Oh, no; I
suppose it is a courtesy. I like to see people dressed up in pretty
clothes, and I have not been to the White House yet. And to see all the
grand men nearby, not simply in a jostling crowd. Don't you sometimes
feel a little afraid of them?"

There was a charming half-curiosity in her eyes, and a pretty smile
quivered about her red lips. What a child she was! If he was to ask her
to marry him both mother and grandmother would be quite content. As for
him--well, he had no drawing toward matrimony, but that innate chivalry
and admiration for all women so common in the men of that day, who were
trained to pay the highest respect to their mothers.

"I find myself wishing I was as wise and as experienced, and had the
clear insight that some of our best men have had, nay, have to-day. But
that comes with age and profound knowledge."

"Oh, don't get any older! I like the young men. And as for wisdom----"

She paused and colored, turning her face half away, but the roundness
of the young cheek and the graceful curve where it softly lost itself
in the white neck were truly lovely.

"We will dismiss wisdom and age," laughingly.

"Oh, where are we going!" She reigned her horse in sudden alarm.

"This is the last of the ravine. I wanted you to see the picture
beyond. Nay, there is nothing to fear."

The frowning rocks and overhanging trees on both sides almost shut
out the daylight. It did quite in summer when the foliage was thick.
Then it lightened, and the clear whistle of a bird rang out as if
heralding the end. The break was almost a level. The creek broadened
out here. The westward sun struck it and made beautiful reflections on
the undulating stretches of land. The leafless trees showed golden and
brown-red tints through the dun haze, the birches wore a rosy silver
light. Back of it the hills rose with the mysterious suggestiveness of
coming spring, full of quivering lights as the wind made perceptible
waves in the air.

"It is wonderful!" she said softly. "It is like those emotions one can
never describe, that penetrate every nerve, that make you feel half
awed. Oh, the world is beautiful!"

The eager, yet chastened, expression of her face moved him. She sat her
horse finely, girl as she was, her head proudly erect, her shoulders
in the velvet coat shaped exquisitely, the sleeve showing the arm's
perfect roundness at the top and the slope down to the slender waist.

He had meant to call her attention to this scene, but her quickness of
vision gratified him.

"It is my favorite prospect," he said. "I have watched it many a time
just at this hour in the afternoon. From early spring to midwinter the
sun makes a picture of it. We are rich in beautiful scenery, and when
we are done fighting and quarreling we should be a nation of artists.
So far we have only been inspired to portraits."

"It would be curious to be able to paint a picture. I never thought of
it before."

"That is genius, I suppose. Now, here is a nice clear bit of road. Let
us have a sharp canter out to that bend in the creek and back, then we
must hasten home before the evening dampness sets in."

Daphne threw up her head at the touch of the whip, and was off like
a flash. Roger Carrington allowed her to reach the bend first, to the
discomfiture of Ajax. Jaqueline turned her bright, rosy face, full of
smiling triumph.

"I accept," nodding with gallantry. "We should have been timed to a
second. You are an excellent rider."

"Seeing that I have been trained from babyhood it would be disgraceful
if I were not. Oh, what crazy things we have done--Louis and I! And
then we would bind ourselves by a solemn promise not to betray each
other. Children must have charmed lives!"

"You are hardly out of childhood yet."

"Wait until you see me in the gorgeousness of a train and a top-knot.
You will wonder at my dignity. Perhaps you will not recognize me. The
gown is pink. That may be some help."

"Pink. The pink roses are the sweetest, I believe."

She nodded with a spice of coquetry.

"And now are we to crawl through this dismal glade? Think of Indians
lying in ambush!"

"Nay, do not spoil a pleasant ride by such a grewsome suggestion."

He led the way, and they soon emerged to the open again. The Capital
loomed up; the scattered houses made quite a show, after all.

That evening Roger and she were partners at whist against his mother
and grandmother, and the ladies won.

The next day the girls went over to Washington.

"I wish your visit could have been longer," Mrs. Carrington said. "I
should have enjoyed asking in the young people about here and having a
dance."

Patricia was very sorry. She had been on the extreme confines of
young-ladyhood.

"It was just delightful!" Jaqueline explained to Mrs. Jettson. "Both
ladies are lovely, but Madam is grand and holds you in a little awe.
She looks like some old picture stepped out of a frame. And they are
just crazy over girls--no, you cannot imagine such stately ladies being
crazy over anything. They made so much of Patty that she put on airs."

"I'm almost as tall as you, Miss Jaqueline!"

"But you would look ridiculous with a train and your hair done up high,
and a mincing step----"

"I didn't think that you minced very much!" interrupted the younger.
"I saw you run down the garden walk, and Mr. Ralph said----" making a
sudden halt.

"Well, what did he say?"

Patty paused, for she recalled the fact that Mr. Ralph's comment had
been distinctly complimentary.

"Don't dispute, girls. Patty, you are nothing but a child, if you are
tall, and you know you wouldn't like to give up racing and climbing and
dancing to old Sam's fiddle. You girls do have the best of everything,
while poor Dolly and Marian----"

"I'm glad grandpapa isn't any real relation to me!" exclaimed Patricia.
"I like father a million times better."

"That comes of being a bachelor when you are married. I'm sure an old
maid couldn't be any queerer. But then Mr. Madison is said to be very
indulgent to his wife, and I'm sure he treats her like a prince. And
father seems to be just as bitter against him as he was against Mr.
Jefferson. It seems to me the world goes around just the same, no
matter who is President. Mr. Ralston came in this morning and begged
me to send for Marian. I couldn't tell him exactly why; and I'm sure
I wish Mrs. Greaves was back again, and there wouldn't be any look for
Marian."

"Lieutenant Ralston was over to the Carringtons' a while last evening,"
said Jaqueline, and somehow she flushed in a quick manner that
surprised herself, then added--"Mr. Carrington will be at the levee."

"Oh, of course. It will be a fine affair. And Congress will adjourn so
soon, I doubt if there will be another. There are to be state dinners
to the Cabinet and the diplomats, but next winter there will no doubt
be many gayeties. Jaqueline, you must run to bed and get your beauty
sleep, there is no knowing how late we will be up to-morrow night."

"I think Jane might feel a little sorry that I can't go," said Patty
lugubriously, as they were preparing for bed. "It's Marian all the
time."

"You don't understand, Patty----"

"Yes I do. That handsome young Mr. Ralston is in love with her, and
grandpapa is going to make her marry that old Mr. Greaves because he
has a big farm next to his. I'd marry the man I liked."

"Nonsense! I'm not thinking about marrying."

"Jaqueline, would you marry Mr. Roger?"

"I've understood that it was good manners to wait until you were
asked," turning to hide a blush.

"I mean to marry someone," answered the younger.

"Sleep on it first, Patty."

The next afternoon the hairdresser came and added much state to Mrs.
Jettson's appearance. There was pearl powder, a luxury to be indulged
in only on great occasions. And though rouge was used, Mrs. Jettson had
enough color of her own, and Jaqueline was resplendent with youth and
health.

This affair was in the state drawing room, which had grown rather
shabby. Congress was considering an appropriation of five thousand
dollars for refurnishing. The sofas were stiff, faded, and worn
threadbare, and the window hangings were limp and had lost their color.
But the light from the numerous candles softened and relieved the
impairment of time.

Mrs. Madison was in the yellow velvet; new gowns were not considered
necessary for every occasion. Her beautiful neck and arms, which still
kept the roundness of early womanhood, were adorned with strings of
pearls, the short puffed sleeves rendered still prettier by a fall of
exquisite lace. The skirt was drawn aside and displayed a white satin
petticoat embroidered with gold thread, and her slippers were adorned
with buckles that almost covered her dainty feet.

About her were arranged the members of the official family, the ladies
on one side, the gentlemen on the other. It was quite a little court.
Most of the senators and the wives who were brave enough to give up
home comforts to spend a winter in Washington had already met Mrs.
Madison; indeed, by this time there were not many among the strangers
who had not been presented.

And so Miss Jaqueline Mason made her bow to the first lady of the land
and glancing up with a quick rift of color caught the cordial smile
that came with a warm clasp of the hand.

"You have a good old Virginian name," she said. "Many of us are proud
to call it home. It is my second home, the first in my affection now,"
and she gave the child another sweet smile.

Jaqueline was more abashed than she had thought possible. She stepped
aside in a little confusion.

"Ah, here is Mr. Carrington. Shall I commend this young lady to your
care? There are some places she might like to see and some curiosities.
You are so much at home here."

Roger Carrington bowed. Mrs. Jettson had found a friend in the wife
of one of the more recent senators, and they were having a little
chat, as it was that lady's first visit to Washington to attend the
inauguration. So Roger slipped the fair hand within his arm, and they
began a tour of the still unfurnished White House, though much nearer
completion and in a better state than Abigail Adams had found it in her
brief sojourn.

Mrs. Madison's tact and grace had brought about a more congenial state
of affairs even while wife of the secretary of state. There was in
the conduct of both men and women a trifle of formality verging to a
certain grandeur, yet gracious and truly courteous. There was no mad
rush then for the first places.

Presently the company broke up into chatty little groups. Jaqueline
found herself quite a center in the midst of other centers. Here were
two or three elderly men who had known her father. She saw a young
neighbor in the throng whose eyes expressed so much amazement that she
could not help smiling. Lieutenant Ralston had come in his soldier
trappings, and there was quite a sprinkling of military men, with
others in the Continental costume that gave such a picturesque aspect.

Jaqueline had a fresh, girlish charm, and to-night she certainly
looked lovely. Women and girls, when they were admitted to society,
were expected to make themselves agreeable. No abstruse learning was
required, and though they might have strong political preferences they
were delicately veiled. Mrs. Madison had gone through four years of
unusual stress, and the few enemies she had made were only those who
envied her popularity. She had been discretion itself outwardly, and
her opinions, her conferences, and her advice had been lodged only in
her husband's bosom.

Jaqueline had no care, no experience to conceal, and she had already
tried her prentice hand on the students at Williamsburg. And that
natural art of making men pleased with themselves, that charming
deference, so great a factor in that day, was hers in an eminent
degree. Roger Carrington watched her as she caught up the merry
badinage and returned it with gay sparkles, and the pretty air that
was half girlish demureness, the other half the indefinable charm of
budding womanhood.

Lieutenant Ralston took her in to the refreshment table set in the
large dining room.

"I wonder when you will see Miss Floyd?" he began in a low tone. "I
hoped to the last moment that Mrs. Jettson could persuade her parents
to let her sister come for a few days. You go to the Pineries quite
often?"

"Why, yes--some of us. Father has a truly fervent regard for
grandmamma, and the girls come down frequently. They like better to
come to us, I think. There is no real fun in staying at the Pineries.
Of course when we were children we went dutifully."

She gave a soft, light laugh.

Ralston was considering. "Mrs. Jettson would be likely to know--of a
visit?" hesitatingly.

"She might--if we sent her the word."

"I wonder if you will ever feel friendly enough to invite me? I
like your father extremely. I was very glad to have the opportunity
of meeting him. And your mother. You know we are all interested in
Kentucky just now."

"I think my parents would give you a very pleasant visit," Jaqueline
said with a grave yet encouraging smile. The sort of conspiracy
interested her. It was quite tempting to be able to hold out a hand of
encouragement to Marian, who hated the dull life at the Pineries and
did so enjoy amusement. Then, a real love affair thrilled Jaqueline
with a delightful sensation.

He was considering how to obtain the invitation honorably, when she
furnished the key.

"I think you would like my brother Louis," she remarked with a becoming
shade of diffidence that went to his heart, it wore such a charming
air of innocence. "He will be home in the early summer, and he always
comes up to Mrs. Jettson's at once. Arthur takes a great interest in
him. He is to study law and the science of government, if there is such
a science. Father has an eye to the Presidency for him, I think."

They both laughed at that.

"The summer is a long way off," he commented rather despondingly.

"The robins are singing and violets are in bloom. At home, no doubt, I
shall find trailing arbutus."

"They are spring indications."

"You are hard to satisfy."

"Am I? Well, I would rather have that reputation than one of being
pleased with trifles."

"Sometimes the trifles prove very agreeable."

Mr. and Mrs. Cutts, Mrs. Madison's favorite sister, came sauntering
slowly down with a bevy of friends, greeting many of the guests.
She paused and glanced at Jaqueline. There was some of the charming
affability about her that characterized the wife of the President.
Indeed, she had been trained on the same lines.

"I should like to be certain of this young lady's name. I did not quite
catch it when she was introduced," Mrs. Cutts said in a tone that was
complimentary in itself.

Lieutenant Ralston presented his companion, who in turn was presented
to several other notables.

"Mason," she repeated. "Yes, I should guess you were a Virginian. My
sister, you know, adores her home at Montpellier. Are you anywhere in
her vicinity? That is, when she is in her true home? Though we have
both become endeared to this ugly, unfinished Washington that we all
have to look at by the eye of faith, and not only that, but make our
friends see through the same lenses. Lieutenant Ralston, shall we ever
have a Capital worthy of the nation?"

"That knowledge is not quite in my line," he returned laughingly.
"If war should come it will be my business to fight for it. And you
can recall the old adage that Rome was not built in a day. Is it a
historical fact or a Shaksperean apothegm? If the fact, we can take
courage and go on."

"Why, of course it took centuries to build imperial Rome," and Mrs.
Cutts' eyes twinkled with amusement.

"But they were always tearing down, you remember. Every emperor
demolished so much that his predecessor had done. There must have been
a good deal to start with."

"And we started with nothing. I wonder anyone had the courage to
leave lovely, refined, and gay Philadelphia for this desert! Now, if
the tent had even been pitched in Baltimore it would have been more
appropriate."

"But, you see, when we built a country we wanted to try our hand at
building a Capital to match. It will be fine enough when it is done,
in a dozen years or so. And it unites the warring factions. One city
cannot be jealous of another."

"Miss Mason, this young man bewilders me and leads me astray. See what
it is to be a soldier and a patriot. Now I am going to carry you off
and introduce you to some girls. Are you going to stay long enough to
go to a ball? Every Virginia girl dances."

She was so bright and pretty that Mrs. Cutts was oddly interested in
her.

"Oh, I adore dancing and riding! But I am afraid--my father is to send
for me in a few days. If he were coming himself I might beg off. Your
suggestion is so tempting."

"Perhaps you can. Now, here are some young people you must know," and
turning away from the elders she introduced Jaqueline to a merry group.

"Miss Mason and I are old friends," declared Roger Carrington with a
smile. "She has been visiting with us and left us inconsolable."

"Quite a compliment to your charms."

Jaqueline blushed. "Or to the delightful hospitality of Madam and Mrs.
Carrington. My sister was with me, and she was quite melancholy. We
did have a charming visit. I am afraid we shall be so spoiled that our
Virginia wilds will prove desert wastes."

"Mr. Carrington, you must manage to keep Miss Mason over. The Dearborns
are to give the young people a ball. We want it to be the event of
the season, and that will soon be ended, alas! And we must gather the
beauty and the chivalry."

There was quite a gay little whirl for some moments and more merry
badinage. More than one envious eye was cast upon the young girl, for
Roger Carrington was considered one of the prizes in the matrimonial
market. Sir Augustus Foster, who was secretary of the English Legation
some years before, had said there was no lack of handsome women, and
that he never saw prettier girls anywhere, and that the City was one of
the most marrying places on the whole continent.

"We missed you so very much," Roger began, when he had detached her a
little from the group. "I had half a mind to come and confiscate one of
you."

"Patty would have been glad enough."

"But you were full of pleasure! Perhaps we seemed dull to you? We are
rather quiet folk."

He uttered the pronoun quite decisively, so much so that it brought the
color to her cheek.

"Oh, no, it was not dull! I enjoyed it extremely."

"And if you stay for the ball will you not come over again? Mother
liked you both so much. You will find it delightful at the Dearborns'.
And I shall claim some dances."

"You will hardly be crowded out, in that happy event," she returned
brightly.

Then there were some other introductions to noted people. Colonel
Monroe was standing by, and shared them. Mrs. Madison came presently,
leaning on Mr. Clinton's arm.

"I hope you have had a pleasant time," the lady said graciously; "and
that we shall see you frequently. I am very fond of young people."

"I felt as if I ought to kiss her hand," Jaqueline whispered, with
a scarlet face, to her companion. "That is the obeisance people are
expected to pay to a queen."

"Not in a republic. And every lady is a queen to a man at some period
of her life."

"Oh, Mr. Carrington! no one would suspect you of such a pretty speech."

"Wouldn't they? Do I look as if I had no courteous speeches at my
command?"

He looked very handsome and winning at that moment.

The company was breaking up. People came and went early on these
occasions. Mrs. Jettson hunted up her charge.

"I declare, Jaqueline, you have been one of the belles of the evening.
Such a mere chit, too! And you looked very grand parading around with
Ralston and Mr. Carrington. Poor Marian! It is a shame she couldn't
have been here. And, Jaqueline, please don't forget that Lieutenant
Ralston in a way belongs to her."

The tone was rather sharp, but Jaqueline was too happy to resent it.
Other young men had noticed her, as well.

"He does not forget it. He was very sorry she was not here," Jaqueline
replied after a moment.

The well-trained maid helped them on with their wraps, and the footman
found their carriage.

Yes, Jaqueline was a pretty girl, Jane ruminated; but so much attention
would soon turn her head. She was proud of her, and yet a little
jealous for her sister's sake, who could enjoy pleasure quite as well.
And Lieutenant Ralston was in the way of promotion, if he was not rich.

The very next day a message came from Mr. Mason. A friend would be in
Washington on Monday, and Tuesday morning they must be ready to start
home with him. It was too late to get word back, and Jane took it for
granted that they must go. Jaqueline gave a sigh and was minded to shed
a few tears, but on Saturday Mrs. Carrington drove over for the girls
to spend the Sunday with them.

"Try and not be too coquettish, Jaqueline. It makes a young girl seem
very forward," Mrs. Jettson advised.

"Jane is growing unpleasant," Jaqueline thought to herself. "She wants
Marian in everything."

However, after the ball and one more levee there was not much gayety
in the City. Congress adjourned, senators and representatives went home
to consider at their leisure the grave questions pending. Mrs. Madison
was much engrossed in the judicious use of the grant Congress had made.
There were some new mirrors set, some dining-room furniture and china,
new curtains and hangings, and upholstery done in gorgeous brocaded
yellow satin. Still further, there was added a pianoforte; and the
President ordered a chariot in Philadelphia for his wife, and the two
horses were increased to four. The White House was to make a character
for itself.




CHAPTER VII.

THE BEGINNING OF A LOVE STORY.


"Why, you can just ask him down as you do any other friend," said
Jaqueline with an air of innocence. "I half promised he should have the
invitation. You will like him ever so much. I like him," laughingly.

"But Polly is coming----"

"Don't ever let grandfather hear that 'Polly,' or he won't even leave
you enough to buy a mourning ring. He thinks so highly of old English
customs. What a chum he would have been for Sir Charles Grandison! Are
people born too late or too early! What are you smiling at?"

"The way you leap from one thing to another."

"Which shows a variety of wit and knowledge, young collegian. Didn't
Shakspere call it nimble wit? I have learned a great many things since
I saw you last."

"In an hour?" incredulously, and Louis raised his fine brows.

"One might learn many things in an hour. And now, Mr. Tender
Conscience, don't worry about Polly, as you have taken to calling her.
She may come, and she may not. And if she comes she may be sent for the
very next day. The Fairfaxes are sure to come; they have accepted. I
warn you that Betty is a dreadful coquette. And Georgie Baker, and the
Carringtons--at least Roger. And he is great friends with Mr. Ralston."

"But we must not get in a row with grandfather. And a girl who hasn't
spunk enough to stand up for the man she loves----"

"Perhaps she isn't really in love with him. That ought to give any girl
courage--to run some risks."

"Well--I'm off. A long and sad farewell," and the young man assumed a
tragic air.

"Very good," she returned gravely. "Does a young man appreciate his
inestimable privileges when he has a sister on whom he can practice?"

He laughed and kissed her. Jaqueline went to her room and wrote a
very properly worded letter to Marian. Maum Chloe had two new pudding
recipes that were delicious. She had the latest sleeve pattern, and
Madam Weare had been to spend the day, and wore such a lovely cap that
she was quite sure grandmamma would like it. They had concocted one out
of some old mull, the torn breadth of a gown, and Marian could take it
home. Then Elizabeth Fairfax was making some of the prettiest darned
lace, a Vandyke cape that was just coming in, and she would be here for
a few days next week. If Marian could come down, even if she could only
stay one night. The week afterward there would be an influx of company.
It would be just delightful to have her and Dolly then--perhaps they
might be able to come--but Marian had better come and stay over. They
would not want to be poking over lace-making and all that when there
was lots of fun going on.

Shrewd as Grandmother Floyd was she fell into the trap so adroitly set
by this flighty young person.

"Madam Weare is very genteel in her tastes and is not given to foolish
things because they are new. I hardly know anyone who dresses so
suitably. I do think Louis or Jaqueline might have ridden up. And I do
not see what Patricia is about, or your uncle either, to let Jaqueline
have her head so much. She ought to be learning something useful. The
Fairfaxes are well enough, a nice family, and Elizabeth is a very
well-behaved girl--industrious, too. But I'd like to see the lace
Jaqueline will make!" with a strong touch of scorn in her voice, and a
slight lifting of the nose to make it more emphatic.

"The Vandyke capes are very pretty and graceful. Mrs. Lee brought
one from Paris, and it cost a fortune," remarked Marian. "And darned
net----"

"I think I know what it is. Of course it is the pattern and the amount
of work that makes it valuable. You might do one through the course of
the summer, Marian."

"If I knew how"--and the girl gave a little sigh.

"Let me see the letter." Marian had been reading it aloud. "I don't
know but you might go, but I don't care to have you in the rabble
of the week after. It would be a grand thing if that young Carrington
would fancy Jaqueline and she would have sense enough to accept him.
But such girls go through the woods and take a crooked stick at last."

Nothing more was said for a day or two. Marian found an old engraving
of a Vandyke collar and cuffs, only they were done in point lace. What
kind of net was used, she wondered. And then her mother decided she
would go down for the day and leave Marian for a night or two. But
grandfather had a poorly spell, and she thought it best not to leave
him. Marian rode her horse down, attended by old Cato, who had to go to
Alexandria on some business and would escort her home on the third day.

"Oh, good gracious!" cried Jaqueline; "if she had come! For the
rabble is here already, and someone you will like to see. They've
gone off fishing. Betty and Hester Fairfax and Georgie Baker are out
on the west porch. We're in for a good time. Mr. Ralston and Roger
Carrington came down with Louis, and to-night we are going to have a
little dance."

"Mother approves of Elizabeth Fairfax. And I do want to know about
the Vandyke cape and the cap pattern. Oh, Jacky!"

Marian clasped her arms about her cousin, and the obnoxious name was
forgiven. For the warm pressure was full of gratitude.

"You are so wise about things, Jaqueline. Of course mother sees all our
letters----"

"As if I didn't know that," laughed Jaqueline.

"But I wonder--oh, Jaqueline, do you suppose I will have to marry Mr.
Greaves? You see, father has set his heart upon it. And I should be so
near them, and so----"

"The idea! A man double your age, and four children! You don't even
like him. What is youth for but a time to be merry and glad and to
have good times? And it was a shame you could not come to Washington!
Lieutenant Ralston would have taken you everywhere, and Jane was up to
white heat about it. It was all splendid. You're not engaged--you can't
have been so foolish!"

"Oh, Jaqueline! I wish I had your----"

"Spunk!" Jaqueline exclaimed with a laugh, while Marian was considering.

"You see, no one really governs you. Your father is so indulgent."

"Oh, I don't have quite everything my own way, I assure you! But what
have you done in this matter?"

"Why, Mr. Greaves has explained to father and mother. Of course he will
not say anything to me until the year is up. He is very punctilious,
and I am so glad he believes in the year. He comes over and we have
a game of whist, which I hate, and get out of when there is other
company. But father expects me to stay in the room. Occasionally he
questions me about something--household affairs generally. Mrs. Greaves
was an excellent housekeeper--much superior to his sister, he thinks."


"Oh, Marian! I should die if I had to marry such a man. Come, let us
go down to the girls and forget all about him. Cassy will put away your
things."

Marian lingered.

"Well--what else?" impatiently. "You don't really want to tell me that
you have a fancy for this wretched old fellow?"

"Oh, no, no! But, Jaqueline--of course I did not know Mr. Ralston
would be here, yet I had a sort of presentiment that you had planned
something. And is it quite fair, do you think? I mean honest to--to
enjoy it all? I am afraid he likes me."

"I am quite sure he does. But I wasn't sure of his coming. Louis met
him at Jane's, and likes him immensely. There are other girls here--it
isn't at all as if you were the only guest. Don't worry, but let
matters take their course. Come and see the lace-making."

The three girls welcomed Marian warmly. Elizabeth Fairfax was nearly
her own age, Hester younger, and Georgie Jaqueline's compeer and near
neighbor. Elizabeth had a sweet Madonna face, with large, downcast eyes
and a soft, deferential voice, but the eyes did ready execution on the
hearts of the young men. She was always busy about something, and it
was a study to watch her hands, they were so shapely and beautiful.

Georgie was recounting amusing episodes, and in a few moments they
were all laughing and talking. A table near by was loaded with fruit
and cake, and a pitcher of homemade "shrub" gave them a delectable
nectar. Betty had attended the inauguration, and as Marian listened
her heart grew hot and rebellious that she should have been kept
from the pleasure. She and her sister had been trained to a sharp
obedience, kept in bonds like very children. Mr. Floyd had never
cordially approved of his son-in-law. He considered it almost a crime
to have been born north of Baltimore, and Mr. Jettson had grown up
in northern New York, and to some extent made his own fortune. Jane
had gone to Philadelphia for a year's schooling with an old friend of
Mrs. Floyd's and come home engaged. Mr. Jettson had a business proffer
in Washington, and somehow the marriage was pushed through in haste.
Mr. Floyd had an objection to new people, to business people, to the
manner in which things were being conducted at Washington, and to the
Jefferson party generally. But he was fond of his daughter, and though
he would not have confessed it he did admire her style, her knowledge
of the City, and the fact that she was in the best society. But, after
all, a large landed estate gave a man true dignity. Mr. Greaves agreed
with him in politics, was of good old stock, and had aristocratic
tastes, while Arthur Jettson really was plebeian. Since there was an
opportunity Marian should marry to his liking.

"I've been telling about your cape, Betty, and Marian wants to know how
to do it. Spread it out. There, isn't that lovely?"

The Brussels net was fine, and the flowers were made in outline and
filled in with stitches that seemed a little raised, they were so close
together, and had a satin-like effect. The shape was very graceful,
with the points at the shoulders and in front.

Fine needlework and lace-making were much esteemed. For years imported
articles had been very high, besides the difficulty of getting them
unless one went abroad. Beautiful specimens have come down to us, and
one wonders at the patience and taste, when there were so many cares
to life. Occasionally a slave woman evinced a peculiar genius for this
delicate work, and the family considered her quite a treasure.

"It is exquisite!" declared Marian, who was no mean needlewoman
herself. Indeed, the work rather bewitched her. "Oh, I really must have
one! But it will take a great deal of time."

"Why, you see I have mine three-quarters done, and I take it up at odd
spells and when I go visiting. And it is very easy when you once get
started. You see, you follow the pattern in outlining. Then, some of
my leaves and flowers are not wholly filled, and it has a very pretty
effect, making a variety and less work. Jaqueline, can't you find a
bit of lace; and Marian may outline this end of the pattern, and I can
show her some of the stitches before the boys come home. We are going
to ride then, I believe, and dance in the evening. We improve all our
time when we are over here."

"I shall be delighted," returned Marian. Jaqueline found some lace, and
Marian went at the work eagerly. They spiced the employment with merry
gossip and laughter and bits of teasing. The squire and Mrs. Mason came
home from a business drive to a neighboring town. They had taken the
two little girls for to-day; Varina had been in a most amiable mood.
Then the fishermen returned, rather disgusted with their want of luck.

"You know we did not want you to go," and Elizabeth raised her soft,
reproving eyes.

Mr. Ralston came around to Marian's side.

"This is a pleasant surprise. I was hoping all the time. Only Miss
Mason is such a torment. She was quite sure you wouldn't come. We
almost quarreled about it this morning. And yet she is a charming girl.
This house is the very embodiment of comfort and delight. I suppose
you know I met the Masons at the inauguration? Oh, you can't think how
disappointed I was! I had counted so on seeing you."

Marian Floyd glanced in the speaker's eyes and hers fell, while a
fluttering color crept up her face and her whole body seemed to thrill
as at the touch of some subtle magnetism. She suddenly wished he would
go away; he seemed to take the strength out of her.

"Are you glad to see me?" in a breathless sort of way that seemed to
demand an affirmative.

"Yes." She did not mean to say it. The word came of its own accord. It
was almost as if she had answered it to another question.

"Come, fellows," began Louis, "let us drop our plebeian garb, with its
ancient, fishlike smell."

"That's good, considering there wasn't fish enough to make any sort of
smell. Keep truth on your side."

"And misquoting Shakspere, when it has been presented to us all winter
in every aspect! Williamsburg has had a feast or a surfeit from college
exercises to strolling players--some very good ones, too. Jaqueline,
have you ordered the horses?"

