ought of course, now, as soon as I've seen you again, to get out of
London."

Milly thought. "May I then go back to the continent?"

"By all means back to the continent. Do go back to the continent."

"Then how will you keep seeing me? But perhaps," she quickly added,
"you won't want to keep seeing me."

He had it all ready; he had really everything all ready. "I shall
follow you up; though if you mean that I don't want you to keep seeing
me----"

"Well?" she asked.

It was only just here that he struck her the least bit as stumbling.
"Well, see all you can. That's what it comes to. Worry about nothing.
You have at least no worries. It's a great, rare chance."

She had got up, for she had had from him both that he would send her
something and would advise her promptly of the date of his coming to
her, by which she was virtually dismissed. Yet, for herself, one or two
things kept her. "May I come back to England too?"

"Rather! Whenever you like. But always, when you do come, immediately
let me know."

"Ah," said Milly, "it won't be a great going to and fro."

"Then if you'll stay with us, so much the better."

It touched her, the way he controlled his impatience of her; and the
fact itself affected her as so precious that she yielded to the wish to
get more from it. "So you don't think I'm out of my mind?"

"Perhaps that is," he smiled, "all that's the matter."

She looked at him longer. "No, that's too good. Shall I, at any rate,
suffer?"

"Not a bit."

"And yet then live?"

"My dear young lady," said her distinguished friend, "isn't to 'live'
exactly what I'm trying to persuade you to take the trouble to do?"


XIII

She had gone out with these last words so in her ears that when once
she was well away--back this time in the great square alone--it was as
if some instant application of them had opened out there before her. It
was positively, this effect, an excitement that carried her on; she
went forward into space under the sense of an impulse received--an
impulse simple and direct, easy above all to act upon. She was borne up
for the hour, and now she knew why she had wanted to come by herself.
No one in the world could have sufficiently entered into her state; no
tie would have been close enough to enable a companion to walk beside
her without some disparity. She literally felt, in this first flush,
that her only company must be the human race at large, present all
round her, but inspiringly impersonal, and that her only field must be,
then and there, the grey immensity of London. Grey immensity had
somehow of a sudden become her element; grey immensity was what her
distinguished friend had, for the moment, furnished her world with and
what the question of "living," as he put it to her, living by option,
by volition, inevitably took on for its immediate face. She went
straight before her, without weakness, altogether with strength; and
still as she went she was more glad to be alone, for nobody--not Kate
Croy, not Susan Shepherd either--would have wished to rush with her as
she rushed. She had asked him at the last whether, being on foot, she
might go home so, or elsewhere, and he had replied as if almost amused
again at her extravagance: "You're active, luckily, by nature--it's
beautiful: therefore rejoice in it. Be active, without folly--for
you're not foolish: be as active as you can and as you like." That had
been in fact the final push, as well as the touch that most made a
mixture of her consciousness--a strange mixture that tasted at one and
the same time of what she had lost and what had been given her. It was
wonderful to her, while she took her random course, that these
quantities felt so equal: she had been treated--hadn't she?--as if it
were in her power to live; and yet one wasn't treated so--was
one?--unless it came up, quite as much, that one might die. The beauty
of the bloom had gone from the small old sense of safety--that was
distinct: she had left it behind her there forever. But the beauty of
the idea of a great adventure, a big dim experiment or struggle in
which she might, more responsibly than ever before, take a hand, had
been offered her instead. It was as if she had had to pluck off her
breast, to throw away, some friendly ornament, a familiar flower, a
little old jewel, that was part of her daily dress; and to take up and
shoulder as a substitute some queer defensive weapon, a musket, a
spear, a battle-axe conducive possibly in a higher degree to a striking
appearance, but demanding all the effort of the military posture. She
felt this instrument, for that matter, already on her back, so that she
proceeded now in very truth as a soldier on a march--proceeded as if,
for her initiation, the first charge had been sounded. She passed along
unknown streets, over dusty littery ways, between long rows of fronts
not enhanced by the August light; she felt good for miles and only
wanted to get lost; there were moments at corners, where she stopped
and chose her direction, in which she quite lived up to his injunction
to rejoice that she was active. It was like a new pleasure to have so
new a reason; she would affirm, without delay, her option, her
volition; taking this personal possession of what surrounded her was a
fair affirmation to start with; and she really didn't care if she made
it at the cost of alarms for Susie. Susie would wonder in due course
"whatever," as they said at the hotel, had become of her; yet this
would be nothing either, probably, to wonderments still in store.
Wonderments in truth, Milly felt, even now attended her steps: it was
quite as if she saw in people's eyes the reflection of her appearance
and pace. She found herself moving at times in regions visibly not
haunted by odd-looking girls from New York, duskily draped,
sable-plumed, all but incongruously shod and gazing about them with
extravagance; she might, from the curiosity she clearly excited in
byways, in side-streets peopled with grimy children and costermongers
carts, which she hoped were slums, literally have had her musket on her
shoulder, have announced herself as freshly on the warpath. But for the
fear of overdoing this character she would here and there have begun
conversation, have asked her way; in spite of the fact that, as that
would help the requirements of adventure, her way was exactly what she
wanted not to know. The difficulty was that she at last accidentally
found it; she had come out, she presently saw, at the Regent's Park,
round which, on two or three occasions with Kate Croy, her public
chariot had solemnly rolled. But she went into it further now; this was
the real thing; the real thing was to be quite away from the pompous
roads, well within the centre and on the stretches of shabby grass.
Here were benches and smutty sheep; here were idle lads at games of
ball, with their cries mild in the thick air; here were wanderers,
anxious and tired like herself; here doubtless were hundreds of others
just in the same box. Their box, their great common anxiety, what was
it, in this grim breathing-space, but the practical question of life?
They could live if they would; that is, like herself, they had been
told so; she saw them all about her, on seats, digesting the
information, feeling it altered, assimilated, recognising it again as
something, in a slightly different shape, familiar enough, the blessed
old truth that they would live if they could. All she thus shared with
them made her wish to sit in their company; which she so far did that
she looked for a bench that was empty, eschewing a still emptier chair
that she saw hard by and for which she would have paid, with
superiority, a fee.

The last scrap of superiority had soon enough left her, if only because
she before long knew herself for more tired than she had proposed. This
and the charm, after a fashion, of the situation in itself made her
linger and rest; there was a sort of spell in the sense that nobody in
the world knew where she was. It was the first time in her life that
this had happened; somebody, everybody appeared to have known before,
at every instant of it, where she was; so that she was now suddenly
able to put it to herself that that hadn't been a life. This present
kind of thing therefore might be--which was where precisely her
distinguished friend seemed to be wishing her to come out. He wished
her also, it was true, not to make, as she was perhaps doing now, too
much of her isolation; at the same time however as he clearly desired
to deny her no decent source of interest. He was interested--she
arrived at that--in her appealing to as many sources as possible; and
it fairly filtered into her, as she sat and sat, that he was
essentially propping her up. Had she been doing it herself she would
have called it bolstering--the bolstering that was simply for the weak;
and she thought and thought as she put together the proofs that it was
as one of the weak he was treating her. It was of course as one of the
weak that she had gone to him--but, oh, with how sneaking a hope that
he might pronounce her, as to all indispensables, a veritable young
lioness! What indeed she was really confronted with was the
consciousness that he had not, after all, pronounced her anything: she
nursed herself into the sense that he had beautifully got out of it.
Did he think, however, she wondered, that he could keep out of it to
the end?--though, as she weighed the question, she yet felt it a little
unjust. Milly weighed, in this extraordinary hour, questions numerous
and strange; but she had, happily, before she moved, worked round to a
simplification. Stranger than anything, for instance, was the effect of
its rolling over her that, when one considered it, he might perhaps
have "got out" by one door but to come in with a beautiful, beneficent
dishonesty by another. It kept her more intensely motionless there that
what he might fundamentally be "up to" was some disguised intention of
standing by her as a friend. Wasn't that what women always said they
wanted to do when they deprecated the addresses of gentlemen they
couldn't more intimately go on with? It was what they, no doubt,
sincerely fancied they could make of men of whom they couldn't make
husbands. And she didn't even reason that it was, by a similar law, the
expedient of doctors in general for the invalids of whom they couldn't
make patients: she was somehow so sufficiently aware that her doctor
was--however fatuous it might sound--exceptionally moved. This was the
damning little fact--if she could talk of damnation: that she could
believe herself to have caught him in the act of irrelevantly liking
her. She hadn't gone to him to be liked, she had gone to him to be
judged; and he was quite a great enough man to be in the habit, as a
rule, of observing the difference. She could like him, as she
distinctly did--that was another matter; all the more that her doing so
was now, so obviously for herself, compatible with judgment. Yet it
would have been all portentously mixed had not, as we say, a final,
merciful wave, chilling rather, but washing clear, come to her
assistance.

It came, of a sudden, when all other thought was spent. She had been
asking herself why, if her case was grave--and she knew what she meant
by that--he should have talked to her at all about what she might with
futility "do"; or why on the other hand, if it were light, he should
attach an importance to the office of friendship. She had him, with her
little lonely acuteness--as acuteness went during the dog-days in the
Regent's Park--in a cleft stick: she either mattered, and then she was
ill; or she didn't matter, and then she was well enough. Now he was
"acting," as they said at home, as if she did matter--until he should
prove the contrary. It was too evident that a person at his high
pressure must keep his inconsistencies, which were probably his highest
amusements, only for the very greatest occasions. Her prevision, in
fine, of just where she should catch him furnished the light of that
judgment in which we describe her as daring to indulge. And the
judgment it was that made her sensation simple. He had distinguished
her--that was the chill. He hadn't known--how could he?--that she was
devilishly subtle, subtle exactly in the manner of the suspected, the
suspicious, the condemned. He in fact confessed to it, in his way, as
to an interest in her combinations, her funny race, her funny losses,
her funny gains, her funny freedom, and, no doubt, above all, her funny
manners--funny, like those of Americans at their best, without being
vulgar, legitimating amiability and helping to pass it off. In his
appreciation of these redundancies he dressed out for her the
compassion he so signally permitted himself to waste; but its operation
for herself was as directly divesting, denuding, exposing. It reduced
her to her ultimate state, which was that of a poor girl with her rent
to pay for example--staring before her in a great city. Milly had her
rent to pay, her rent for her future; everything else but how to meet
it fell away from her in pieces, in tatters. This was the sensation the
great man had doubtless not purposed. Well, she must go home, like the
poor girl, and see. There might after all be ways; the poor girl too
would be thinking. It came back for that matter perhaps to views
already presented. She looked about her again, on her feet, at her
scattered, melancholy comrades--some of them so melancholy as to be
down on their stomachs in the grass, turned away, ignoring, burrowing;
she saw once more, with them, those two faces of the question between
which there was so little to choose for inspiration. It was perhaps
superficially more striking that one could live if one would; but it
was more appealing, insinuating, irresistible, in short, that one would
live if one could.

She found after this, for the day or two, more amusement than she had
ventured to count on in the fact, if it were not a mere fancy, of
deceiving Susie; and she presently felt that what made the difference
was the mere fancy--as this was one--of a countermove to her great
man. His taking on himself--should he do so--to get at her companion
made her suddenly, she held, irresponsible, made any notion of her own
all right for her; though indeed at the very moment she invited herself
to enjoy this impunity she became aware of new matter for surprise, or
at least for speculation. Her idea would rather have been that Mrs.
Stringham would have looked at her hard--her sketch of the grounds of
her long, independent excursion showing, she could feel, as almost
cynically superficial. Yet the dear woman so failed, in the event, to
avail herself of any right of criticism that it was sensibly tempting,
for an hour, to wonder if Kate Croy had been playing perfectly fair.
Hadn't she possibly, from motives of the highest benevolence,
promptings of the finest anxiety, just given poor Susie what she would
have called the straight tip? It must immediately be mentioned,
however, that, quite apart from a remembrance of the distinctness of
Kate's promise, Milly, the next thing, found her explanation in a truth
that had the merit of being general. If Susie, at this crisis,
suspiciously spared her, it was really that Susie was always
suspiciously sparing her--yet occasionally, too, with portentous and
exceptional mercies. The girl was conscious of how she dropped at times
into inscrutable, impenetrable deferences--attitudes that, though
without at all intending it, made a difference for familiarity, for the
ease of intimacy. It was as if she recalled herself to manners, to the
law of court-etiquette--which last note above all helped our young
woman to a just appreciation. It was definite for her, even if not
quite solid, that to treat her as a princess was a positive need of her
companion's mind; wherefore she couldn't help it if this lady had her
transcendent view of the way the class in question were treated. Susan
had read history, had read Gibbon and Froude and Saint-Simon; she had
high-lights as to the special allowances made for the class, and, since
she saw them, when young, as effete and overtutored, inevitably ironic
and infinitely refined, one must take it for amusing if she inclined to
an indulgence verily Byzantine. If one could only be
Byzantine!--wasn't that what she insidiously led one on to sigh?
Milly tried to oblige her--for it really placed Susan herself so
handsomely to be Byzantine now. The great ladies of that race--it would
be somewhere in Gibbon--weren't, apparently, questioned about their
mysteries. But oh, poor Milly and hers! Susan at all events proved
scarce more inquisitive than if she had been a mosaic at Ravenna. Susan
was a porcelain monument to the odd moral that consideration might,
like cynicism, have abysses. Besides, the Puritan finally
disencumbered----! What starved generations wasn't Mrs. Stringham, in
fancy, going to make up for?

Kate Croy came straight to the hotel--came that evening shortly before
dinner; specifically and publicly moreover, in a hansom that, driven
apparently very fast, pulled up beneath their windows almost with the
clatter of an accident, a "smash." Milly, alone, as happened, in the
great garnished void of their sitting-room, where, a little, really,
like a caged Byzantine, she had been pacing through the queer,
long-drawn, almost sinister delay of night, an effect she yet
liked--Milly, at the sound, one of the French windows standing open,
passed out to the balcony that overhung, with pretensions, the general
entrance, and so was in time for the look that Kate, alighting, paying
her cabman, happened to send up to the front. The visitor moreover had
a shilling back to wait for, during which Milly, from the balcony,
looked down at her, and a mute exchange, but with smiles and nods, took
place between them on what had occurred in the morning. It was what
Kate had called for, and the tone was thus, almost by accident,
determined for Milly before her friend came up. What was also, however,
determined for her was, again, yet irrepressibly again, that the image
presented to her, the splendid young woman who looked so particularly
handsome in impatience, with the fine freedom of her signal, was the
peculiar property of somebody else's vision, that this fine freedom in
short was the fine freedom she showed Mr. Densher. Just so was how she
looked to him, and just so was how Milly was held by her--held as by
the strange sense of seeing through that distant person's eyes. It
lasted, as usual, the strange sense, but fifty seconds; yet in so
lasting it produced an effect. It produced in fact more than one, and
we take them in their order. The first was that it struck our young
woman as absurd to say that a girl's looking so to a man could possibly
be without connections; and the second was that by the time Kate had
got into the room Milly was in mental possession of the main connection
it must have for herself.

She produced this commodity on the spot--produced it, that is, in
straight response to Kate's frank "Well, what?" The inquiry bore of
course, with Kate's eagerness, on the issue of the morning's scene, the
great man's latest wisdom, and it doubtless affected Milly a little as
the cheerful demand for news is apt to affect troubled spirits when
news is not, in one of the neater forms, prepared for delivery. She
couldn't have said what it was exactly that, on the instant, determined
her; the nearest description of it would perhaps have been as the more
vivid impression of all her friend took for granted. The contrast
between this free quantity and the maze of possibilities through which,
for hours, she had herself been picking her way, put on, in short, for
the moment, a grossness that even friendly forms scarce lightened: it
helped forward in fact the revelation to herself that she absolutely
had nothing to tell. Besides which, certainly, there was something
else--an influence, at the particular juncture, still more obscure.
Kate had lost, on the way upstairs, the look--the look--that made her
young hostess so subtly think and one of the signs of which was that
she never kept it for many moments at once; yet she stood there, none
the less, so in her bloom and in her strength, so completely again the
"handsome girl" beyond all others, the "handsome girl" for whom Milly
had at first gratefully taken her, that to meet her now with the note
of the plaintive would amount somehow to a surrender, to a confession.
She would never in her life be ill; the greatest doctor would keep
her, at the worst, the fewest minutes; and it was as if she had asked
just with all this practical impeccability for all that was most
mortal in her friend. These things, for Milly, inwardly danced their
dance; but the vibration produced and the dust kicked up had lasted
less than our account of them. Almost before she knew it she was
answering, and answering, beautifully, with no consciousness of fraud,
only as with a sudden flare of the famous "will-power" she had heard
about, read about, and which was what her medical adviser had mainly
thrown her back on. "Oh, it's all right. He's lovely."

Kate was splendid, and it would have been clear for Milly now, had the
further presumption been needed, that she had said no word to Mrs.
Stringham. "You mean you've been absurd?"

"Absurd." It was a simple word to say, but the consequence of it, for
our young woman, was that she felt it, as soon as spoken, to have done
something for her safety.

And Kate really hung on her lips. "There's nothing at all the matter?"

"Nothing to worry about. I shall take a little watching, but I shan't
have to do anything dreadful, or even, in the least, inconvenient. I
can do in fact as I like." It was wonderful for Milly how just to put
it so made all its pieces fall at present quite properly into places.

Yet even before the full effect came Kate had seized, kissed, blessed
her. "My love, you're too sweet! It's too dear! But it's as I was
sure." Then she grasped the full beauty. "You can do as you like?"

"Quite. Isn't it charming?"

"Ah, but catch you," Kate triumphed with gaiety, "not doing----! And
what shall you do?"

"For the moment simply enjoy it. Enjoy"--Milly was completely
luminous--"having got out of my scrape."

"Learning, you mean, so easily, that you are well."

It was as if Kate had but too conveniently put the words into her
mouth. "Learning, I mean, so easily, that I am well."

"Only, no one's of course well enough to stay in London now. He can't,"
Kate went on, "want this of you."

"Mercy, no--I'm to knock about. I'm to go to places."

"But not beastly 'climates'--Engadines, Rivieras, boredoms?"

"No; just, as I say, where I prefer. I'm to go in for pleasure."

"Oh, the duck!"--Kate, with her own shades of familiarity, abounded.
"But what kind of pleasure?"

"The highest," Milly smiled.

Her friend met it as nobly. "Which is the highest?"

"Well, it's just our chance to find out. You must help me."

"What have I wanted to do but help you," Kate asked, "from the moment I
first laid eyes on you?" Yet with this too Kate had her wonder. "I like
your talking, though, about that. What help, with your luck all round,
do you want?"


XIV

Milly indeed at last couldn't say; so that she had really for the time
brought it along to the point so oddly marked for her by her visitor's
arrival, the truth that she was enviably strong. She carried this out,
from that evening, for each hour still left her, and the more easily
perhaps that the hours were now narrowly numbered. All she actually
waited for was Sir Luke Strett's promised visit; as to her proceeding
on which, however, her mind was quite made up. Since he wanted to get
at Susie he should have the freest access, and then perhaps he would
see how he liked it. What was between them they might settle as
between them, and any pressure it should lift from her own spirit they
were at liberty to convert to their use. If the dear man wished to fire
Susan Shepherd with a still higher ideal, he would only after all, at
the worst, have Susan on his hands. If devotion, in a word, was what it
would come up for the interested pair to organise, she was herself
ready to consume it as the dressed and served dish. He had talked to
her of her "appetite" her account of which, she felt, must have been
vague. But for devotion, she could now see, this appetite would be of
the best. Gross, greedy, ravenous--these were doubtless the proper
names for her: she was at all events resigned in advance to the
machinations of sympathy. The day that followed her lonely excursion
was to be the last but two or three of their stay in London; and the
evening of that day practically ranked for them as, in the matter of
outside relations, the last of all. People were by this time quite
scattered, and many of those who had so liberally manifested in calls,
in cards, in evident sincerity about visits, later on, over the land,
had positively passed in music out of sight; whether as members, these
latter, more especially, of Mrs. Lowder's immediate circle or as
members of Lord Mark's--our friends being by this time able to make the
distinction. The general pitch had thus, decidedly, dropped, and the
occasions still to be dealt with were special and few. One of these,
for Milly, announced itself as the doctor's call already mentioned, as
to which she had now had a note from him: the single other, of
importance, was their appointed leave-taking--for the shortest
separation--in respect to Mrs. Lowder and Kate. The aunt and the niece
were to dine with them alone, intimately and easily--as easily as
should be consistent with the question of their afterwards going on
together to some absurdly belated party, at which they had had it from
Aunt Maud that they would do well to show. Sir Luke was to make his
appearance on the morrow of this, and in respect to that complication
Milly had already her plan.

The night was, at all events, hot and stale, and it was late enough by
the time the four ladies had been gathered in, for their small session,
at the hotel, where the windows were still open to the high balconies
and the flames of the candles, behind the pink shades--disposed as for
the vigil of watchers--were motionless in the air in which the season
lay dead. What was presently settled among them was that Milly, who
betrayed on this occasion a preference more marked than usual, should
not hold herself obliged to climb that evening the social stair,
however it might stretch to meet her, and that, Mrs. Lowder and Mrs.
Stringham facing the ordeal together, Kate Croy should remain with her
and await their return. It was a pleasure to Milly, ever, to send Susan
Shepherd forth; she saw her go with complacency, liked, as it were, to
put people off with her, and noted with satisfaction, when she so moved
to the carriage, the further denudation--a markedly ebbing tide--of her
little benevolent back. If it wasn't quite Aunt Maud's ideal, moreover,
to take out the new American girl's funny friend instead of the new
American girl herself, nothing could better indicate the range of that
lady's merit than the spirit in which--as at the present hour for
instance--she made the best of the minor advantage. And she did this
with a broad, cheerful absence of illusion; she did it--confessing even
as much to poor Susie--because, frankly, she was good-natured. When
Mrs. Stringham observed that her own light was too abjectly borrowed
and that it was as a link alone, fortunately not missing, that she was
valued, Aunt Maud concurred to the extent of the remark: "Well, my
dear, you're better than nothing." To-night, furthermore, it came up
for Milly that Aunt Maud had something particular in mind. Mrs.
Stringham, before adjourning with her, had gone off for some shawl or
other accessory, and Kate, as if a little impatient for their
withdrawal, had wandered out to the balcony, where she hovered, for the
time, unseen, though with scarce more to look at than the dim London
stars and the cruder glow, up the street, on a corner, of a small
public-house, in front of which a fagged cab-horse was thrown into
relief. Mrs. Lowder made use of the moment: Milly felt as soon as she
had spoken that what she was doing was somehow for use.

"Dear Susan tells me that you saw, in America, Mr. Densher--whom I've
never till now, as you may have noticed, asked you about. But do you
mind at last, in connection with him, doing something for me?" She had
lowered her fine voice to a depth, though speaking with all her rich
glibness; and Milly, after a small sharpness of surprise, was already
guessing the sense of her appeal. "Will you name him, in any way you
like, to her"--and Aunt Maud gave a nod at the window; "so that you
may perhaps find out whether he's back?"

Ever so many things, for Milly, fell into line at this; it was a
wonder, she afterwards thought, that she could be conscious of so many
at once. She smiled hard, however, for them all. "But I don't know that
it's important to me to 'find out.'" The array of things was further
swollen, however, even as she said this, by its striking her as too
much to say. She therefore tried as quickly to say less. "Except you
mean, of course, that it's important to you." She fancied Aunt Maud
was looking at her almost as hard as she was herself smiling, and that
gave her another impulse. "You know I never have yet named him to
her; so that if I should break out now----"

"Well?"--Mrs. Lowder waited.

"Why, she may wonder what I've been making a mystery of. She hasn't
mentioned him, you know," Milly went on, "herself."

"No"--her friend a little heavily weighed it--"she wouldn't. So it's
she, you see then, who has made the mystery."

Yes, Milly but wanted to see; only there was so much. "There has been
of course no particular reason." Yet that indeed was neither here nor
there. "Do you think," she asked, "he is back?"

"It will be about his time, I gather, and rather a comfort to me
definitely to know."

"Then can't you ask her yourself?"

"Ah, we never speak of him!"

It helped Milly for the moment to the convenience of a puzzled pause.
"Do you mean he's an acquaintance of whom you disapprove for her?"

Aunt Maud, as well, just hung fire. "I disapprove of her for the poor
young man. She doesn't care for him."

"And he cares so much----?"

"Too much, too much. And my fear is," said Mrs. Lowder, "that he
privately besets her. She keeps it to herself, but I don't want her
worried. Neither, in truth," she both generously and confidentially
concluded, "do I want him."

Milly showed all her own effort to meet the case. "But what can I do?"

"You can find out where they are. If I myself try," Mrs. Lowder
explained, "I shall appear to treat them as if I supposed them
deceiving me."

"And you don't. You don't," Milly mused for her, "suppose them
deceiving you."

"Well," said Aunt Maud, whose fine onyx eyes failed to blink, even
though Milly's questions might have been taken as drawing her rather
further than she had originally meant to go--"well, Kate is thoroughly
aware of my views for her, and that I take her being with me, at
present, in the way she is with me, if you know what I mean, as a loyal
assent to them. Therefore as my views don't happen to provide a place,
at all, for Mr. Densher, much, in a manner, as I like him"--therefore,
therefore in short she had been prompted to this step, though she
completed her sense, but sketchily, with the rattle of her large fan.

It assisted them perhaps, however, for the moment, that Milly was able
to pick out of her sense what might serve as the clearest part of it.
"You do like him then?"

"Oh dear, yes. Don't you?"

Milly hesitated, for the question was somehow as the sudden point of
something sharp on a nerve that winced. She just caught her breath, but
she had ground for joy afterwards, she felt, in not really having
failed to choose with quickness sufficient, out of fifteen possible
answers, the one that would best serve her. She was then almost proud,
as well, that she had cheerfully smiled. "I did--three times--in New
York." So came and went for her, in these simple words, the speech that
was to figure for her, later on, that night, as the one she had ever
uttered that cost her most. She was to lie awake, at all events, half
the night, for the gladness of not having taken any line so really
inferior as the denial of a happy impression.

For Mrs. Lowder also, moreover, her simple words were the right ones;
they were at any rate, that lady's laugh showed, in the natural note of
the racy. "You dear American thing! But people may be very good, and
yet not good for what one wants."

"Yes," the girl assented, "even I suppose when what one wants is
something very good."

"Oh, my child, it would take too long just now to tell you all I
want! I want everything at once and together--and ever so much for you
too, you know. But you've seen us," Aunt Maud continued; "you'll have
made out."

"Ah," said Milly, "I don't make out"; for again--it came that way in
rushes--she felt an obscurity in things. "Why, if our friend here
doesn't like him----"

"Should I conceive her interested in keeping things from me?" Mrs.
Lowder did justice to the question. "My dear, how can you ask? Put
yourself in her place. She meets me, but on her terms. Proud young
women are proud young women. And proud old ones are--well, what I am.
Fond of you as we both are, you can help us."

Milly tried to be inspired. "Does it come back then to my asking her
straight?"

At this, however, finally, Aunt Maud threw her up. "Oh, if you've so
many reasons not----!"

"I've not so many," Milly smiled "but I've one. If I break out so
suddenly as knowing him, what will she make of my not having spoken
before?"

Mrs. Lowder looked blank at it. "Why should you care what she makes?
You may have only been decently discreet."

"Ah, I have been," the girl made haste to say.

"Besides," her friend went on, "I suggested to you, through Susan, your
line."

"Yes, that reason's a reason for me."

"And for me," Mrs. Lowder insisted. "She's not therefore so stupid as
not to do justice to grounds so marked. You can tell her perfectly that
I had asked you to say nothing."

"And may I tell her that you've asked me now to speak?"

Mrs. Lowder might well have thought, yet, oddly, this pulled her up.
"You can't do it without----?"

Milly was almost ashamed to be raising so many difficulties. "I'll do
what I can if you'll kindly tell me one thing more." She faltered a
little--it was so prying; but she brought it out. "Will he have been
writing to her?"

"It's exactly, my dear, what I should like to know." Mrs. Lowder was at
last impatient. "Push in for yourself, and I dare say she'll tell you."

Even now, all the same, Milly had not quite fallen back. "It will be
pushing in," she continued to smile, "for you" She allowed her
companion, however, no time to take this up. "The point will be that if
he has been writing she may have answered."

"But what point, you subtle thing, is that?"

"It isn't subtle, it seems to me, but quite simple," Milly said, "that
if she has answered she has very possibly spoken of me."

"Very certainly indeed. But what difference will it make?"

The girl had a moment, at this, of thinking it natural that her
interlocutress herself should so fail of subtlety. "It will make the
difference that he will have written to her in answer that he knows me.
And that, in turn," our young woman explained, "will give an oddity to
my own silence."

"How so, if she's perfectly aware of having given you no opening? The
only oddity," Aunt Maud lucidly professed, "is for yourself. It's in
her not having spoken."

"Ah, there we are!" said Milly.

And she had uttered it, evidently, in a tone that struck her friend.
"Then it has troubled you?"

But ah, the inquiry had only to be made to bring the rare colour with
fine inconsequence, to her face. "Not, really, the least little bit!"
And, quickly feeling the need to abound in this sense, she was on the
point, to cut short, of declaring that she cared, after all, no scrap
how much she obliged. Only she felt at this instant too the
intervention of still other things. Mrs. Lowder was, in the first
place, already beforehand, already affected as by the sudden vision of
her having herself pushed too far. Milly could never judge from her
face of her uppermost motive--it was so little, in its hard, smooth
sheen, that kind of human countenance. She looked hard when she spoke
fair; the only thing was that when she spoke hard she likewise didn't
look soft. Something, none the less, had arisen in her now--a full
appreciable tide, entering by the rupture of some bar. She announced
that if what she had asked was to prove in the least a bore her young
friend was not to dream of it; making her young friend at the same
time, by the change in her tone, dream on the spot more profusely. She
spoke with a belated light, Milly could apprehend--she could always
apprehend--from pity; and the result of that perception, for the girl,
was singular: it proved to her as quickly that Kate, keeping her
secret, had been straight with her. From Kate distinctly then, as to
why she was to be pitied, Aunt Maud knew nothing, and was thereby
simply putting in evidence the fine side of her own character. This
fine side was that she could almost at any hour, by a kindled
preference or a diverted energy, glow for another interest than her
own. She exclaimed as well, at this moment, that Milly must have been
thinking, round the case, much more than she had supposed; and this
remark could, at once, affect the girl as sharply as any other form of
the charge of weakness. It was what everyone, if she didn't look out,
would soon be saying--"There's something the matter with you!" What one
was therefore one's self concerned immediately to establish was that
there was nothing at all. "I shall like to help you; I shall like, so
far as that goes, to help Kate herself," she made such haste as she
could to declare; her eyes wandering meanwhile across the width of the
room to that dusk of the balcony in which their companion perhaps a
little unaccountably lingered. She suggested hereby her impatience to
begin; she almost overtly wondered at the length of the opportunity
this friend was giving them--referring it, however, so far as words
went, to the other friend, breaking off with an amused: "How
tremendously Susie must be beautifying!"

It only marked Aunt Maud, none the less, as too preoccupied for her
allusion. The onyx eyes were fixed upon her with a polished pressure
that must signify some enriched benevolence. "Let it go, my dear. We
shall, after all, soon enough see."

"If he has come back we shall certainly see," Milly after a moment
replied; "for he'll probably feel that he can't quite civilly not come
to see me. Then there," she remarked, "we shall be. It wouldn't then,
you see, come through Kate at all--it would come through him. Except,"
she wound up with a smile, "that he won't find me."

She had the most extraordinary sense of interesting her interlocutress,
in spite of herself, more than she wanted; it was as if her doom so
floated her on that she couldn't stop--by very much the same trick it
had played her with her doctor. "Shall you run away from him?"

She neglected the question, wanting only now to get off. "Then," she
went on, "you'll deal with Kate directly."

"Shall you run away from her?" Mrs. Lowder profoundly inquired, while
they became aware of Susie's return through the room, opening out
behind them, in which they had dined.

This affected Milly as giving her but an instant; and suddenly, with
it, everything she felt in the connection rose to her lips in a
question that, even as she put it, she knew she was failing to keep
colourless. "Is it your own belief that he is with her?"

Aunt Maud took it in--took in, that is, everything of the tone that she
just wanted her not to; and the result for some seconds, was but to
make their eyes meet in silence. Mrs. Stringham had rejoined them and
was asking if Kate had gone--an inquiry at once answered by this young
lady's reappearance. They saw her again in the open window, where,
looking at them, she had paused--producing thus, on Aunt Maud's part,
almost too impressive a "Hush!" Mrs. Lowder indeed, without loss of
time, smothered any danger in a sweeping retreat with Susie; but
Milly's words to her, just uttered, about dealing with her niece
directly, struck our young woman as already recoiling on herself.
Directness, however evaded, would be, fully, for her; nothing in fact
would ever have been for her so direct as the evasion. Kate had
remained in the window, very handsome and upright, the outer dark
framing in a highly favourable way her summery simplicities and
lightnesses of dress. Milly had, given the relation of space, no real
fear she had heard their talk; only she hovered there as with conscious
eyes and some added advantage. Then indeed, with small delay, her
friend sufficiently saw. The conscious eyes, the added advantage were
but those she had now always at command--those proper to the person
Milly knew as known to Merton Densher. It was for several seconds again
as if the total of her identity had been that of the person known to
him--a determination having for result another sharpness of its own.
Kate had positively but to be there just as she was to tell her he had
come back. It seemed to pass between them, in fine, without a word,
that he was in London, that he was perhaps only round the corner; and
surely therefore no dealing of Milly's with her would yet have been so
direct.


XV

It was doubtless because this queer form of directness had in itself,
for the hour, seemed so sufficient that Milly was afterwards aware of
having really, all the while--during the strange, indescribable session
before the return of their companions--done nothing to intensify it. If
she was most aware only afterwards, under the long, discurtained ordeal
of the morrow's dawn, that was because she had really, till their
evening's end came, ceased, after a little, to miss anything from their
ostensible comfort. What was behind showed but in gleams and glimpses;
what was in front never at all confessed to not holding the stage.
Three minutes had not passed before Milly quite knew she should have
done nothing Aunt Maud had just asked her. She knew it moreover by much
the same light that had acted for her with that lady and with Sir Luke
Strett. It pressed upon her then and there that she was still in a
current determined, through her indifference, timidity, bravery,
generosity--she scarce could say which--by others; that not she but the
current acted, and that somebody else, always, was the keeper of the
lock or the dam. Kate for example had but to open the flood-gate: the
current moved in its mass--the current, as it had been, of her doing as
Kate wanted. What, somehow, in the most extraordinary way in the world,
had Kate wanted but to be, of a sudden, more interesting than she had
ever been? Milly, for their evening then, quite held her breath with
the appreciation of it. If she hadn't been sure her companion would
have had nothing, from her moments with Mrs. Lowder, to go by, she
would almost have seen the admirable creature "cutting in" to
anticipate a danger. This fantasy indeed, while they sat together,
dropped after a little; even if only because other fantasies multiplied
and clustered, making fairly, for our young woman, the buoyant medium
in which her friend talked and moved. They sat together, I say, but
Kate moved as much as she talked; she figured there, restless and
charming, just perhaps a shade perfunctory, repeatedly quitting her
place, taking slowly, to and fro, in the trailing folds of her light
dress, the length of the room, and almost avowedly performing for the
pleasure of her hostess.

Mrs. Lowder had said to Milly at Matcham that she and her niece, as
allies, could practically conquer the world; but though it was a speech
about which there had even then been a vague, grand glamour, the girl
read into it at present more of an approach to a meaning. Kate, for
that matter, by herself, could conquer anything, and she, Milly
Theale, was probably concerned with the "world" only as the small scrap
of it that most impinged on her and that was therefore first to be
dealt with. On this basis of being dealt with she would doubtless
herself do her share of the conquering: she would have something to
supply, Kate something to take--each of them thus, to that tune,
something for squaring with Aunt Maud's ideal. This in short was what
it came to now--that the occasion, in the quiet late lamplight, had the
quality of a rough rehearsal of the possible big drama. Milly knew
