
“No, thank you. I am not thirsty,” said Bernard.

“Give it to me, then.”

Much against his will Bernard handed the bottle to his learned employer,
who poured down the small amount that was left in it.

“Thatsh good!” he ejaculated.

“Have I got to occupy the room with a man like that?” thought Bernard,
with disgust. “I hope there are very few professors like Professor
Puffer.”




CHAPTER XIV.  SOME OF THE PASSENGERS.

|Bernard had always cherished high respect for literary men and
professors, though it must be confessed that he did not venerate
Professor Snowdon. To find Professor Puffer an inebriate was certainly a
shock to him. Still, he remembered that Burns had been intemperate, and
that Byron loved gin, and that in spite of his taste for whisky
Professor Puffer might be a learned man.

The next day the professor was sober, partly, perhaps, because his
supply of drink had given out. Bernard resolved to get better acquainted
with him.

“Professor Puffer,” he said, after breakfast, “I am ready to begin work
whenever you please.”

“All right! Have you been seasick?”

“No, sir.”

“I thought perhaps for the first three or four days you might be
affected.”

“I thought so, too, as I am not used to the sea, but I haven’t had any
trouble yet, so that I can go to work any time you desire.”

“I shan’t undertake to do any work on the ship, Mr.---- what is your
name?”

“Brooks--Bernard Brooks.”

“Just so. I shall remember after a while.”

“I am very much obliged to you for giving me a situation when you don’t
know any more of me.”

“Oh, Mr. McCracken spoke for you. A sharp man is Mr. McCracken.”

“I dare say he is, but I don’t know much about him.”

“Don’t you?” asked the professor, showing some interest. “Isn’t he your
guardian?”

“Yes, sir, but I have never spent much time with him.”

“Has he charge of much property of yours?”

“He says I have no property.”

“Ha, indeed! As a rule, guardians are not appointed unless there is
property.”

“He was a friend--that is, an acquaintance of my father.”

“How long has your father been dead?”

“Ever since I was five years old.”

Now it occurred to Bernard to ask some questions. “Mr. McCracken told me
you were interested in antiquities.”

“Yes--antiquities.”

“Have you written any works on the subject?”

“Yes, several,” answered the professor, with some hesitation.

“Have you any of them with you?”

“No.”

“I thought I should like to look them over if you had, and it might help
qualify me for my duties.”

“I have no doubt you will answer my purpose,” said the professor,
yawning, as if he did not feel much interest in the subject.

Bernard was rather disappointed. He wished the professor would talk to
him on his specialty, as it would be interesting and instructive.

“Are we going to stay abroad long?” he asked.

“My plans are not fully formed,” said the professor. He gave the
impression of not caring to talk on the subject, and Bernard took the
hint, and ceased to question him. He found time hanging heavily on his
hands, as he appeared to have no duties and thought it might be
interesting to make some acquaintances on board the ship.

There were ten passengers besides Professor Puffer and himself. The
first he became acquainted with was a thin, sallow-faced man who wore
green glasses. What he was Bernard could not conjecture, but soon
learned.

He was standing forward looking out at the white capped waves when a
voice accosted him. “Young man, are you bilious?”

Opening his eyes in surprise, Bernard recognized the sallow-faced
passenger.

“I don’t think I am,” he answered.

“I am Dr. Felix Hampton,” said his new acquaintance. “I have discovered
a medicine which will effectually cure biliousness.”

“Indeed, sir! You will be a public benefactor, in that case.”

“True, young man. I feel that my work is a great one. Thousands will
bless my name. I am going abroad to introduce my medicine in Europe.
There must be thousands of bilious cases in London alone.”

“I presume you are right. Shall you establish yourself in London?”

“I cannot give myself to any one country. I shall endeavor to sell an
interest in my medicine to some responsible party who will push it in
Great Britain. Who is the red-faced man you are traveling with?”

“Professor Ezra Puffer.”

“What is he professor of?”

“I don’t know, sir. I believe he is interested in antiquities.”

“Is he bilious?”

“I haven’t known him long enough to tell.”

“Would you mind recommending my medicine to him?”

“I think you had better do so yourself. I don’t know anything about the
medicine, you know.”

“Is he your father?”

“No, sir.”

The idea of being the son of Professor Puffer was quite repugnant to
Bernard, and he answered promptly.

“You may be bilious without knowing it. If you will, come to my
stateroom I will give you a teaspoonful of the medicine without charge.”

“Thank you, sir. I don’t care for it. If I were sick I would make up my
mind to buy medicine, but I feel perfectly healthy. Do you use it
yourself?”

“I did, but now I am entirely cured of the insidious disease.”

It struck Bernard that Dr. Hampton was singularly unhealthy in
appearance, but this he kept to himself.

As he walked to another part of the deck he was accosted by a bright,
healthy looking man of perhaps thirty-five, with a rosy face and a
quick, alert manner.

“I see you have been talking with Dr. Hampton,” he said.

“I didn’t know that was his name.”

“Did he ask you if you were bilious?”

“Yes, and offered me a dose of his medicine without charge.”

The other laughed. “He made me the same liberal offer. Neither you nor I
look like bilious cases.”

“I should think not,”

“The doctor himself looks like a victim of liver complaint. Are you
traveling alone?”

“No, sir. I am traveling with Professor Puffer.”

“A short man with a red face?”

“Yes.”

“A friend of your family?”

“I never saw him until I met him on the ship.”

“You called him Professor Puffer. What is he professor of?”

“I believe he is interested in antiquities.”

“He seems to me more interested in liquor. But I must apologize. I
should not speak so of your friend.”

Bernard laughed.

“I am not sensitive on the subject of my friend, or rather my employer,”
 he said.

“Your employer?”

“Yes; I am his secretary, and I believe I am to assist him in his
literary labors.”

“Then I suppose you will become a professor of antiquities also.”

“Perhaps so,”  assented Bernard, with a smile.

“For my part, I don’t care much for antiquities. I am more interested in
the present than in the past. I am buyer for a Boston house, and my name
is Nelson Sturgis. How may I call you?”

“Bernard Brooks.”

“Professor Brooks?” asked Sturgis.

“Not yet,” laughed Bernard.

“Suppose we take a little promenade. I make a practice of walking two
hours daily on shipboard in order to get my customary exercise.”

“I shall be glad to join you, Mr. Sturgis.”

As they were walking they had an opportunity to witness an amusing
meeting between Professor Puffer and Dr. Hampton.

As Professor Puffer emerged from the cabin the sallow-faced man
approached him with the stereotyped question, “Pardon me, sir, but are
you bilious?”

“What the--dickens do you mean?” demanded Professor Puffer, glaring at
the doctor.

“No offense, sir, but I think most persons are bilious.”

“You look a good deal more bilious than I.”

“No, sir, you are mistaken. I have cured myself of liver complaint by
Dr. Hampton’s celebrated liver tonic. I am Dr. Hampton.”

“Are you? Well, your appearance doesn’t speak very well for your remedy.
My liver is perfectly regular.”

“I am glad to hear it, sir. I was speaking to your secretary a short
time since, but he doesn’t think he is bilious. A boy of his age
wouldn’t be apt to know. I will make you the same offer that I did him.
I will give you a dose of the tonic free gratis, and you may find that
it will benefit you.”

“Is there any whisky or brandy in the tonic?” asked Professor Puffer,
with sudden interest.

“No, sir, not a drop. You may rest assured that it is a strict
temperance medicine.”

“Then I don’t want any of it, sir. Temperance is a humbug. Are you a
temperance man?”

“Yes, sir.”

“I am not. Good morning.”

Dr. Hampton’s next interview was more satisfactory. Among the passengers
was a thin maiden lady of uncertain age. She was beginning to suffer
seasickness when Dr. Hampton approached her.

“Pardon me,” he said, “but you look bilious.”

“I fear I am,” she answered, in a hollow tone. “I feel dreadfully.”

“I thought I could not be mistaken. Shall I relieve you?”

“Oh, sir, if you only could.”

“I can. A bottle of my celebrated liver tonic will make a new man--I
mean woman--of you.”

“Bring me some, please, for indeed I feel very sick.”

Dr. Hampton produced a small bottle from his pocket. “This is it,” he
said. “A dollar, please.”

The maiden lady drew a dollar bill from her pocket, and the doctor,
producing a spoon, administered a dose. The result was magical! The lady
rushed hastily to the side of the vessel, and was relieved of her
breakfast.

“I feel better,” she gasped.

“I knew you would,” said the doctor, and he put the bill into his pocket
with a smile of satisfaction.




CHAPTER XV.  JACK STAPLES.

|Professor Puffer had a grievance. He had sent on board a good supply of
whisky--sufficient to last him through the voyage--but the greater part
of this had mysteriously disappeared. Whether it had been carried to the
wrong vessel or not could not be ascertained. At any rate, he had to do
without it, and this to a man of the professor’s tastes was a great
deprivation.

He was quite ready to buy some, and applied to the captain, but Captain
Smith had no more than he desired for his own use. He occasionally
invited the professor to take a glass, in his own cabin, but this by no
means satisfied Mr. Puffer. The enforced abstinence made him irritable,
and he vented this irritation on Bernard, with the result of making the
boy shun his company.

“Where do you keep yourself all the time?” asked Professor Puffer, one
afternoon. “I haven’t seen you for hours.”

“Have you any work for me to do?” asked Bernard hopefully.

“No. I shall do no work on board ship.”

“Would you like to have me read to you?”

“You may read the morning paper if you can find one,” sneered the
professor.

But it appeared that Professor Puffer had nothing for him to do, and had
only complained of his absence because he was irritable, and wanted
something to find fault with.

Bernard made the acquaintance of one of the sailors, Jack Staples, who
was a stout, good-humored man of thirty. He possessed a shrewd
intelligence that interested Bernard, and he often chatted with him
about his Vermont home.

“How came you to go to sea?” asked Bernard one day.

“Well, you see, my father died and my mother married again. You never
had a stepfather, I take it.”

“No; my mother died when I was a baby, and my father when I was five
years old.”

“That was bad luck.”

“Yes,” answered Bernard gravely.

“I think,” said Jack, shifting his quid of tobacco from one cheek to the
other, “that I was about fifteen when my mother told me that she had
decided to marry Mr. Stubbs. Stubbs kept a grocery store in the village,
and passed for a man well to do. My mother had about two thousand
dollars, left by my father, and she did some dressmaking, while I did
chores for the neighbors, and sometimes worked on a farm, so that
between us we made a comfortable living, and always had enough to eat.
When mother told me that, I felt very much upset, for I didn’t like Mr.
Stubbs, who was a mean, grasping man, and I tried to get her off the
notion of marrying him. But it was of no use. She said she had given her
word.

“‘Besides,’ she added, ‘we haven’t got much money, Jack, and Mr. Stubbs
says he will support, us both in comfort.’

“‘Are you going to give him your money, mother?’ I asked.

“‘Well, yes, Jack. Mr. Stubbs says he can use it in his business, and he
will allow me interest on it at the rate of six per cent. You know I
only get five per cent in the savings bank.’

“‘It is safe in the savings bank,’ I said.

“‘And so it will be with Mr. Stubbs. He is a good, honorable man.’

“‘I don’t know about that. All the boys in town dislike him.’

“‘He says they tease him, and steal apples and other things from the
store,’ she replied.

“‘I don’t like the idea of having such a man as that for my father.’

“‘He is going to put you into his store, and teach you business, and
make a man of you,’ she said.

“I made a wry face, for I knew of one or two boys who had worked for
Stubbs, and complained that he had treated them like niggers. However, I
soon found that it was no use talking to mother, for she had made up her
mind and I couldn’t alter it. In a month she changed her name to Stubbs,
and we went to live at the house of my stepfather.

“I soon found that he lived very meanly. We didn’t live half so well as
mother and I had before she married, although our means were small. I
went into the store, and I never worked so hard in my life. I went to
bed tired, and I got up at five o’clock in the morning, feeling more
tired than when I went to bed. Presently I needed some new clothes, so I
went to mother, and asked for some. She applied to Stubbs, but he
refused to get them for me..

“‘The boy is proud,’ he said. ‘He wants to look like a dude. I won’t
encourage him in such foolishness.’

“‘He really needs some new clothes,’ pleaded mother.

“‘Then he can buy them himself,’ he returned.

“‘I will buy some out of my interest money,’ said mother.

“‘Your interest isn’t due,’ he said shortly.

“‘You might advance me a little,’ she returned ‘Say, ten dollars.’

“But he wouldn’t do it, and while I am on the subject I may as well say
that he never did pay her the interest he promised. Of course he had to
give her a few dollars now and then, but I don’t think it amounted to
more than thirty or forty dollars a year, while she was entitled to a
hundred and twenty.”

“He must have been a mean man,” said Bernard, in a tone of sympathy.

“Mean was no name for it. I tried to get him to pay me wages, no matter
how small, so that I could have something to spend for myself, but it
was of no use. He wouldn’t agree to it. Finally I told mother I couldn’t
stand it any longer; I must run away and earn my own living. She felt
bad about having me go, but she saw how I was treated, and she cried a
little, but didn’t say much. So I ran away, and when I reached Boston I
tried to get a place. This I couldn’t do, as I had no friends and no one
to recommend me; and finally, not knowing what else to do, I shipped as
a sailor.”

“Have you ever been home since?”

“Yes, I went two or three times, and I always carried some money to
mother, who needed it enough, poor woman! Finally I went home two years
since and I found that my mother was dead;” and Jack wiped away a tear
from his eye. “I don’t think I shall ever go there again.”

“And did Mr. Stubbs keep your mother’s money?” asked Bernard.

“You may be sure he did. But it didn’t do him much good.”

“How is that?”

“His store burned down. Some say it was set on fire by an enemy, and he
had plenty. It wasn’t insured, for the insurance company had increased
its rates, and Mr. Stubbs was too mean to pay them. Then in trying to
put out the fire--it was a cold winter night--he caught a bad cold which
brought on consumption, and finally made him helpless. Would you like to
know where he is now?”

“Yes.”

“He is in the poorhouse, for all his means had melted away. The man in
charge is about as amiable as Stubbs himself, and I have no doubt he has
a pretty hard time of it. I don’t pity him, for my part, for he made my
mother unhappy, and drove me to sea.”

“I am sorry for you, Jack. Your luck has been worse than mine. My father
and mother are both dead, but as long as they lived they fared well.”

“No one ever tried to rob them of money, as my mother was robbed of her
small fortune?”

“I don’t feel sure of that,” said Bernard thoughtfully.

“What do you mean?”

Then Bernard told Jack what he had heard from Alvin Franklin about his
father’s having had money, and of his suspicion that Mr. McCracken had
appropriated it.

The story made an impression on Jack Staples.

“I shouldn’t wonder if you were right, Bernard,” he said. “He seems to
have treated you in a queer way. What sort of a man is this Professor
Puffer?”

“I don’t know much about him.”

“Do you like him?”

“No.”

“I’ll tell you what--he looks to me like my stepfather.”

“I am puzzled about him,” said Bernard. “He doesn’t look in the least
like a literary man, or a professor.”

“That’s so.”

“Then I find he is intemperate. I haven’t been able to learn anything
about his business, or studies, but he is fond of whisky. Do you know,
Jack, I don’t believe I shall be content to stay with him very long.”

“Is he a friend of your guardian?”

“I suppose so.”

“Are you to get any pay?”

“Twenty-five dollars a month and my expenses.”

“That is good--if you get it.”

“Don’t you think I will?”

“I don’t think you’ll get it any more than my mother got her interest.”

“Then I certainly shall not stay with him.”

“But what can you do? You will be in Europe.”

“I don’t know, Jack, but I think I shall get along somehow.”

“To my mind your guardian had some object in putting you with such a
man.”

“Perhaps so, but I may be doing Mr. McCracken an injustice.”

“If ever you get into trouble, Bernard, don’t forget that Jack Staples
is your friend. I have got a few dollars stowed away in a bank at home,
and they are yours if you need them.”

“I will remember it, Jack, and thank you, whether I need them or not.”

A day or two later something happened that made Bernard still more
suspicious of his guardian and Professor Puffer.




CHAPTER XVI.  A SCRAP OF PAPER.

|Bernard was in the stateroom one day during the absence of Professor
Puffer, when he noticed on the floor a fragment of paper, looking like a
portion of a letter with writing upon it. He picked it up and
mechanically read the words which it contained.

The paper had been torn irregularly across, so that it contained no
complete sentence. The words it did contain arrested his attention. This
is a transcript of them:

              the boy in my way.
                 Would like to get rid
            don’t bring him back to
                your discretion.

Bernard could not doubt that the reference was to him, and that the
letter of which this was a fragment had been written by his guardian, as
a document of instruction to Professor Puffer. It was clear that the
professor was an agent of Mr. McCracken, and that the latter was anxious
to get him out of the way.

But how? How much danger was involved in this unfriendly disposition of
his guardian? Again, why did he want to get rid of him? These were
questions which Bernard found himself unable to answer.

It was clear, however, that his engagement as private secretary was only
a subterfuge in order to get him under the charge of Puffer, who was
evidently no professor at all. It seemed an elaborate and clumsy device
on the part of Mr. McCracken, but Bernard must take things as he found
them, and form his own plans accordingly.

He wished he could have seen the whole letter, as the additional
information it contained might help him to a decision. One thing,
however, seemed evident: that it would be wise to part company with
Professor Puffer as soon as practicable after he reached Europe. On the
ship it was policy for him to continue the companionship, and leave the
professor ignorant of the discovery he had made.

Bernard considered whether he had better communicate the contents of the
scrap of paper to any one on board. On the whole, it seemed wise, in
case anything should happen. There was not one of the passengers whom he
felt like taking into his confidence.

Dr. Felix Hampton had no thought except for his bilious tonic, and
Bernard doubted if he was a man of discretion. Nelson Sturgis was
probably reliable, and seemed friendly, but, upon the whole, Bernard
preferred to intrust the secret to Jack Staples. He was an humble
friend, but a man to be trusted. He therefore took the earliest
opportunity of speaking to Jack.

“I’ve got something to show you, Jack,” he said, when he found the
sailor alone.

“All right, lad. What is it?”

“This scrap of paper.”

“Do you want me to give you my opinion of your handwriting?”

“It isn’t my handwriting.”

“Whose then?”

“To the best of my knowledge, it is the handwriting of my guardian,
Cornelius McCracken.”

Jack studied the paper, and then asked quietly: “Where did you find
this, lad?”

“In my stateroom. It was dropped, no doubt, by Professor Puffer.”

“So I surmised. You think it was written to him by your guardian?”

“Yes; I think there can be no doubt of that. Now, what do you think it
means, Jack?”

“It means mischief,” said Jack sententiously. “It was written by one
rascal to another. Of course, by ‘the boy’ he means you.”

“Yes.”

“And he wants to get rid of you?”

Bernard nodded.

“If we had the whole letter we could see into this thing better. How did
he expect that professor fellow to get rid of you?”.

“That’s the question I’ve been asking myself, but I can’t answer it.”.

“What do you think of doing, lad?”

“I shall leave the professor as soon as I get a chance.”

“Yes, that’s sensible.”

“But I can’t leave him while we are on shipboard. I must wait till we
get to the other side.”

“I suppose he wouldn’t try to do you any harm on board the Vesta,” said
the sailor thoughtfully.

“I don’t think so.”

“Still, it’s best to watch.”

“I was going to ask you to do that, Jack.”

“So I will, lad, as well as I can, but you know I’m just a sailor, and
my duties on this here vessel don’t give me much of a chance.”

“That’s true, Jack.”

“Do you think that he’ll suspect that you’ve got the paper?”

“I can’t tell yet.  It seems to have been torn off, perhaps, for a
lighter. He may not miss it.”

“If he had sense he’d guard such a letter as that carefully.”

“I would, if it were mine, but some men are careless, and I think he is
one of that kind.”

“You mean to leave him when you get to the other side?”

“Yes, Jack.”

“Have you any money?”

“Only a few dollars.”

“If I was only at home, lad, I’d see that you had money. But all my
money--over a hundred dollars,” added Jack, with pride--“is in a savings
bank in York. I don’t carry any money with me.”

“Thank you, all the same, Jack; I guess I’ll get along somehow.”

“It’s a hard thing to be three thousand miles away from home without
brass. Still, there’s one thing in your favor, lad.”

“What is that?”

“You’re sure to make friends. Why, I was your friend as soon as I
clapped eyes on you.”

“Thank you, Jack; but all may not be as friendly as you.”

“You’ll get along, lad; take my word for that.”

“Your words encourage me, Jack. Any way, I’d rather trust a perfect
stranger than Professor Puffer.”

“I surmise you’re right there, lad.”

Bernard was curious to find out whether the professor had discovered the
loss of the telltale scrap of paper. He therefore watched him carefully,
thinking that he might learn this by his manner. But Professor Puffer
didn’t appear to suspect anything, and Bernard took care not to betray
by his own manner that he had made any discovery.

Days passed--a period more than long enough to reach their destined port
had the Vesta been a steamer, but being only a sailing vessel, contrary
winds kept her back, and when twenty days had passed they were still out
at sea. Both Jack and Bernard kept the professor under careful watch,
but neither one detected anything of a suspicious character.

This Bernard remarked to Jack one day.

“You’re right, lad; the time hasn’t come yet. The mischief he’s up to
isn’t on board ship. He will wait till he has you on shore.”

“If he does that, it’ll be too late, for as soon as we reach port, or as
soon after as I can, I mean to leave him.”

“That’ll be the best way. Didn’t you tell me he was going to pay you a
salary?”

“Yes.”

“How much?”

“Twenty-five dollars a month.”

“More than half the month has passed. Why don’t you strike him for a
part of your salary?”

“He would think I had no use for money on board.”

“All the same, lad, ask him. It won’t do no harm, and if you get
anything, it will help you after you have left him. You can’t get along
in England without money, or, for that matter, anywhere else.”

“I can think of one place, Jack.”

“Where’s that?”

“Where Robinson Crusoe was wrecked on a desolate island money was of
no use to him, though I believe some was saved from the wreck.”

“You’re right there, lad; but as soon as he got off it would help him.”

“Well, Jack, I’ll take your advice, and let you know what he says.”

Accordingly, the next day, when Bernard found himself alone with
Professor Puffer, he said: “I have been with you about twenty days,
professor.”

“Is it as long as that? What of it?”

“I thought you might be willing to advance me half a month’s salary?”

“What do you want of money? There are no shops on the Vesta.”

“That’s true, but I should feel a bit more comfortable with a little
money in my pocket.”

“Do you want to play for money?”

“No, sir.”

“You can’t use any money till you get to Liverpool.”

“I know it, sir, but----”

“When you get there I will give you some; till then you have no occasion
for any. Besides, you have done no work.”

“I have been ready for work if you had any for me.”

“That’s all right. You shall have a chance to work in due time. We
couldn’t do any work on the ship.”

Bernard had to be content with this. He reflected that if the professor
carried out his promise, and gave him half a month’s salary on reaching
Liverpool, that would be as soon as he would have any use for it.

As the voyage drew nearer and nearer the end, Bernard grew excited. A
new life lay before him. What would be the result of his efforts to make
his own living, after he had left the professor?




CHAPTER XVII.  BERNARD’S PERIL.

|One evening Bernard was standing at the side of the vessel, looking out
over the waste of waters, and wondering what was to be his future. It
was quite dark, so that he was unable to see far.

He felt that this symbolized his own life. He could not see far ahead of
him, and what he could see was obscure. He didn’t dream that he was in
great peril, and yet the greatest danger of his life hung over him.
Whence did it come? The night was still, and the waves were calm. Nature
was kind, but the peril came from a human source.

All at once he felt himself lifted in a pair of powerful arms--lifted
to a level with the rail, so that his startled eyes looked down in
helpless fear upon the cruel waves beneath. He uttered a sharp cry, and
this saved his life.

His stanch friend, Jack Staples, was close at hand. He sprang forward
and grasped Professor Puffer by the throat, at the same time tearing
Bernard from his grasp.

