
"I will take this Canova, I believe," she finally decided, opening her
purse and producing the necessary silver.  "Of course, it is quite
impossible to send this?"

"Yes, ma'am.  Sending it would eat up all the profits."  But, with
ill-concealed eagerness, "If you will leave your address I can send as
many as you like."

"I will do that."

Incredible as it seemed, neither face lost its repose; he dared not
smile, and the young woman did not care to.  There was something
familiar to his memory in the oval face, but this was no time for a
diligent search.

"Hey, miss," yelled one of the newsboys, "you're t'rowin' your money
away.  He's a fake; he ain't no statoo seller.  He's doing it for a
joke!"

Fitzgerald lost a little color, that was all.  But his customer ignored
the imputation.  She took out a card and laid it on the tray, and
without further ado went serenely on her way.  The policeman stepped
toward her as if to speak, but she turned her delicate head aside.  The
crowd engulfed her presently, and Fitzgerald picked up the card.  There
was neither name nor definite address on it.  It was a message, hastily
written; and it sent a thrill of delight and speculation to his
impressionable heart.  Still carrying the tray before him he hastened
over to the club, where there was something of an ovation.  Instead of
a dinner for three it became one for a dozen, and Fitzgerald passed the
statuettes round as souvenirs of the most unique bet of the year.
There were lively times.  Toward midnight, as Fitzgerald was going out
of the coat room, Cathewe spoke to him.

"What was her name, Jack?"

"Hanged if I know."

"She dropped a card on your tray."

Fitzgerald scrubbed his chin.  "There wasn't any name on it.  There was
an address and something more.  Now, wait a moment, Arthur; this is no
ordinary affair.  I would not show it to any one else.  Here, read it
yourself."

"Come to the house at the top of the hill, in Dalton, to-morrow night
at eight o'clock.  But do not come if you lack courage."

That was all.  Cathewe ran a finger, comb-fashion, through his
mustache.  He almost smiled.

"Where the deuce is Dalton?" Fitzgerald inquired.

"It is a little village on the New Jersey coast; not more than forty
houses, post-office, hotel, and general store; perhaps an hour out of
town."

"What would you do in my place?  It may be a joke, and then again it
may not.  She knew that I was a rank impostor."

"But she knew that a man must have a certain kind of daredevil courage
to play the game you played.  Well, you ask me what I should do in your
place.  I'd go."

"I shall.  It will double discount fishing.  And the more I think of
it, the more certain I become that she and I have met somewhere.
By-by!"

Cathewe lingered in the reading-room, pondering.  Here was a twist to
the wager he was rather unprepared for; and if the truth must be told,
he was far more perplexed than Fitzgerald.  He knew the girl, but he
did not know and could not imagine what purpose she had in aiding
Fitzgerald to win his wager or luring him out to an obscure village in
this detective-story manner.

"Well, I shall hear all about it from her father," he concluded.

And all in good time he did.




CHAPTER IV

PIRATES AND PRIVATE SECRETARIES

It was a little station made gloomy by a single light.  Once in so
often a fast train stopped, if properly flagged.  Fitzgerald, feeling
wholly unromantic, now that he had arrived, dropped his hand-bag on the
damp platform and took his bearings.  It was after sundown.  The sea,
but a few yards away, was a murmuring, heaving blackness, save where
here and there a wave broke.  The wind was chill, and there was the
hint of a storm coming down from the northeast.

"Any hotel in this place?" he asked of the ticket agent, the telegraph
operator, and the baggageman, who was pushing a crate of vegetables off
a truck.

"Swan's Hotel; only one."

"Do people sleep and eat there?"

"If they have good digestions."

"Much obliged."

"Whisky's no good, either."

"Thanks again.  This doesn't look much like a summer resort."

"Nobody ever said it was.  I beg your pardon, but would you mind taking
an end of this darned crate?"

"Not at all."  Fitzgerald was beginning to enjoy himself.  "Where do
you want it?"

"In here," indicating  the  baggage-room.  "Thanks.  Now, if there's
anything I can do to help you in return, let her go."

"Is there a house hereabouts called the top o' the hill?"

"Come over here," said the agent.  "See that hill back there, quarter
of a mile above the village; those three lights?  Well, that's it.
They usually have a carriage down here when they're expecting any one."

"Who owns it?"

"Old Admiral Killigrew.  Didn't you know it?"

"Oh, Admiral Killigrew; yes, of course.  I'm not a guest.  Just going
up there on business.  Worth about ten millions, isn't he?"

"That and more.  There's his yacht in the harbor.  Oh, he could burn up
the village, pay the insurance, and not even knock down the quality of
his cigars.  He's the best old chap out.  None of your red-faced,
yo-hoing, growling seadogs; just a kindly, generous old sailor, with
only one bee in his bonnet."

"What sort of bee?"

"Pirates!" in a ghostly whisper.

"Pirates?  Oh, say, now!" with a protest.

"Straight as a die.  He's got the finest library on piracy in the
world, everything from The Pirates of Penzance to The Life of
Morgan."

"But there's no pirate afloat these days."

"Not on the high seas, no.  It's just the old man's pastime.  Every so
often, he coals up the yacht, which is a seventeen-knotter, and goes
off to the South Seas, hunting for treasures."

"By George!" Fitzgerald whistled softly.  "Has he ever found any?"

"Not so much as a postage stamp, so far as I know.  Money's always been
in the family, and his Wall Street friends have shown him how to double
what he has, from time to time.  Just for the sport of the thing some
old fellows go in for crockery, some for pictures, and some for horses.
The admiral just hunts treasures.  Half-past six; you'll excuse me.
There'll be some train despatches in a minute."

Fitzgerald gave him a good cigar, took up his bag, and started off for
the main street; and once there he remembered with chagrin that he had
not asked the agent the most important thing of all: Had the admiral a
daughter?  Well, at eight o'clock he would learn all about that.
Pirates!  It would be as good as a play.  But where did he come in?
And why was courage necessary?  His interest found new life.

Swan's Hotel was one of those nondescript buildings of wood which are
not worth more than a three-line paragraph even when they burn down.
It was smelly.  The kitchen joined the dining-room, and the dining-room
the office, which was half a bar-room, with a few boxes of sawdust
mathematically arranged along the walls.  There were many like it up
and down the coast.  There were pictures on the walls of terrible
wrecks at sea, naval battles, and a race horse or two.

The landlord himself lifted Fitzgerald's bag to the counter.

"A room for the night and supper, right away."

"Here, Jimmy," called the landlord to a growing, lumbering boy, "take
this satchel up to number five."

The boy went his way, eying the labels respectfully and with some awe.
This was the third of its kind he had ported up-stairs in the past
twenty-four hours.

Fitzgerald cast an idle glance at the loungers.  There were half a
dozen of them, some of them playing cards and some displaying talent on
a pool table, badly worn and beer-stained.  There was nothing
distinctive about any of them, excepting the little man who was reading
an evening paper, and the only distinctive thing about him was a pair
of bright eyes.  Behind their gold-rimmed spectacles they did not waver
under Fitzgerald's scrutiny; so the latter dismissed the room and its
company from his mind and proceeded into dinner.  As he was late, he
dined alone on mildly warm chicken, greasy potatoes, and muddy coffee.
He was used often to worse fare than this, and no complaint was even
thought of.  After he had changed his linen he took the road to the
house at the top of the hill.  Now, then, what sort of an affair was
this going to be, such as would bend a girl of her bearing to speak to
him on the street?  Moreover, at a moment when he was playing a
grown-up child's game?  She had known that he was prevaricating when he
had stated that he represented a charitable organization; and he knew
that she knew he knew it.  What, then?  It could not be a joke; women
never rise to such extravagant heights.  Pirates and treasures; he
wouldn't have been surprised at all had Old Long John Silver hobbled
out from behind any one of those vine-grown fences, and demanded his
purse.

The street was dim, and more than once he stumbled over a loose board
in the wooden walk.  If the admiral had been the right kind of
philanthropist he would have furnished stone.  But then, it was one
thing to give a country town something and another to force the town
council into accepting it.  The lamp-posts, also of wood, stood
irregularly apart, often less than a hundred feet, and sometimes more,
lighting nothing but their immediate vicinity.  Fitzgerald could see
the lamps, plainly, but could separate none of the objects round or
beneath.  That is why he did not see the face of the man who passed him
in a hurry.  He never forgot a face, if it were a man's; his only
difficulty was in placing it at once.  Up to this time one woman
resembled another; feminine faces made no particular impression on his
memory.  He would have remembered the face of the man who had just
passed, for the very fact that he had thought of it often.  The man had
come into the dim radiance of the far light, then had melted into the
blackness of the night again, leaving as a sign of his presence the
creak of his shoes and the aroma of a cigarette.

Fitzgerald tramped on cheerfully.  It was not an unpleasant climb, only
dark.  The millionaire's home seemed to grow up out of a fine park.
There was a great iron fence inclosing the grounds, and the lights on
top of the gates set the dull red trunks of the pines a-glowing.  There
were no lights shining in the windows of the pretty lodge.  Still, the
pedestrians' gate was ajar.  He passed in, fully expecting to be
greeted by the growl of a dog.  Instead, he heard mysterious footsteps
on the gravel.  He listened.  Some one was running.

"Hello, there!" he called.

No answer.  The sound ceased.  The runner had evidently taken to the
silent going of the turf.  Fitzgerald came to a stand.  Should he go on
or return to the hotel?  Whoever was running had no right here.
Fitzgerald rarely carried arms, at least in civilized countries; a
stout cane was the best weapon for general purposes.  He swung this
lightly.

"I am going on.  I should like to see the library."

He was not overfond of unknown dangers in the night; but he possessed a
keen ear and a sharp pair of eyes, being a good hunter.  A poacher,
possibly.  At any rate, he determined to go forward and ring the bell.

Both the park and the house were old.  Some of those well-trimmed pines
had scored easily a hundred and fifty years, and the oak, standing
before the house and dividing the view into halves, was older still.
No iron deer or marble lion marred the lawn which he was now
traversing; a sign of good taste.  Gardeners had been at work here, men
who knew their business thoroughly.  He breathed the odor of trampled
pine needles mingled with the harsher essence of the sea.  It was tonic.

In summer the place would be beautiful.  The house itself was built on
severe and simple lines.  It was quite apparent that in no time of its
history had it been left to run down.  The hall and lower left wing
were lighted, but the inner blinds and curtains were drawn.  He did not
waste any time.  It was exactly eight o'clock when he stepped up to the
door and pulled the ancient wire bell.  At once he saw signs of life.
The broad door opened, and an English butler, having scrutinized his
face, silently motioned him to be seated.  The young man in search of
an adventure selected the far end of the hall seat and dandled his hat.
An English butler was a good beginning.  Perhaps three minutes passed,
then the door to the library opened and a young woman came out.
Fitzgerald stood up.

Yes, it was she.

"So you have come?"  There was welcome neither in her tone nor face,
nor was there the suggestion of any other sentiment.

"Yes.  I am not sure that I gave you my name, Miss Killigrew."  He was
secretly confused over this enigmatical reception.

She nodded.  She had been certain that, did he come at all, he would
come in the knowledge of who she was.

"I am John Fitzgerald," he said.

She thought for a space.  "Are you the Mr. Fitzgerald who wrote the
long article recently on the piracy in the Chinese Seas?"

"Yes," full of wonder.

Interest began to stir her face.  "It turns out, then, rather better
than I expected.  I can see that you are puzzled.  I picked you out of
many yesterday, on impulse, because you had the sang-froid necessary to
carry out your jest to the end."

"I am glad that I am not here under false colors.  What I did yesterday
was, as you say, a jest.  But, on the other hand, are you not playing
me one in kind?  I have much curiosity."

"I shall proceed to allay it, somewhat.  This will be no jest.  Did you
come armed?"

"Oh, indeed, no!" smiling.

She rather liked that.  "I was wondering if you did not believe this to
be some silly intrigue."

"I gave thought to but two things: that you were jesting, or that you
were in need of a gentleman as well as a man of courage.  Tell me, what
is the danger, and why do you ask me if I am armed?"  It occurred to
him that her own charm and beauty might be the greatest danger he could
possibly face.  More and more grew the certainty that he had seen her
somewhere in the past.

"Ah, if I only knew what the danger was.  But that it exists I am
positive.  Within the past two weeks, on odd nights, there have been
strange noises here and there about the house, especially in the
chimney.  My father, being slightly deaf, believes that these sounds
are wholly imaginative on my part.  This is the first spring in years
we have resided here.  It is really our summer home.  I am not more
than normally timorous.  Some one we do not know enters the house at
will.  How or why I can't unravel.  Nothing has ever disappeared,
either money, jewels, or silver, though I have laid many traps.  There
is the huge fireplace in the library, and my room is above.  I have
heard a tapping, like some one hammering gently on stone.  I have
examined the bricks and so has my father, but neither of us has
discovered anything.  Three days ago I placed flour thinly on the
flagstone before the fireplace.  There were footprints in the
morning--of rubber shoes.  When I called in my father, the maid had
unfortunately cleaned the stone without observing anything.  So my
father still holds that I am subject to dreams.  His secretary, whom he
had for three years, has left him.  The butler's and servants' quarters
are in the rear of the other wing.  They have never been disturbed."

"I am not a detective, Miss Killigrew," he remarked, as she paused.

"No, but you seem to be a man of invention and of good spirit.  Will
you help me?"

"In whatever way I can."  His opinion at that moment perhaps agreed
with that of her father.  Still, a test could be of no harm.  She was a
charming young woman, and he was assured that beneath this present
concern there was a lively, humorous disposition.  He had a month for
idleness, and why not play detective for a change?  Then he recalled
the trespasser in the park.  By George, she might be right!

"Come, then, and I will present you to my father.  His deafness is not
so bad that one has to speak loudly.  To speak distinctly will be
simplest."

She thereupon conducted him into the library.  His quick glance, thrown
here and there absorbingly, convinced him that there were at least five
thousand volumes in the cases, a magnificent private collection,
considering that the owner was not a lawyer, and that these books were
not dry and musty precedents from the courts of appeals and supreme.
He was glad to see that some of his old friends were here, too, and
that the shelves were not wholly given over to piracy.  What a hobby to
follow!  What adventures all within thirty square feet!  And a shiver
passed over his spine as he saw several tattered black flags hanging
from the walls; the real articles, too, now faded to a rusty brown.
Over what smart and lively heeled brigs had they floated, these
sinister jolly rogers?  For in a room like this they could not be other
than genuine.  All his journalistic craving for stories awakened.

Behind a broad, flat, mahogany desk, with a green-shaded student lamp
at his elbow, sat a bright-cheeked, white-haired man, writing.
Fitzgerald instantly recognized him.  Abruptly his gaze returned to the
girl.  Yes, now he knew.  It was stupid of him not to have remembered
at once.  Why, it was she who had given the bunch of violets that day
to the old veteran in Napoleon's tomb.  To have remembered the father
and to have forgotten the daughter!

"I was wondering where I had seen you," he said lowly.

"Where was that?"

"In Napoleon's tomb, nearly a year ago.  You gave an old French soldier
a bouquet of violets.  I was there."

"Were you?"  As a matter of fact his face was absolutely new to her.
"I am not very good at recalling faces.  And in traveling one sees so
many."

"That is true."  Queer sort of girl, not to show just a little more
interest.  The moment was not ordinary by any means.  He was
disappointed.

"Father!" she called, in a clear, sweet voice, for the admiral had not
heard them enter.

At the call he raised his head and took off his Mandarin spectacles.
Like all sailors, he never had any trouble in seeing distances clearly;
the difficulty lay in books, letters, and small type.

"What is it, Laura?"

"This is Mr. Fitzgerald, the new secretary," she answered blandly.

"Aha!  Bring a chair over and sit down.  What did you say the name is,
Laura?"

"Fitzgerald."

"Sit down, Mr. Fitzgerald," repeated the admiral cordially.

Fitzgerald desired but one thing; the privilege of laughter!




CHAPTER V

NO FALSE PRETENSES

A private secretary, and only one way out!  If the girl had been kind
enough to stand her ground with him he would not have cared so much.
But there she was vanishing beyond the door.  There was a suggestion of
feline cruelty in thus abandoning him.  He dared not call her back.
What the devil should he say to the admiral?  There was one thing he
knew absolutely nothing about, and this was the duties of a private
secretary to a retired admiral who had riches, a yacht, a hobby, and a
beautiful, though impulsive daughter.  His thought became irrelevant,
as is frequent when one faces a crisis, humorous or tragic; here indeed
was the coveted opportunity to study at close range the habits of a man
who spent less than his income.

"Come, come; draw up your chair, Mr. Fitzgerald."

"I beg your pardon; I--that is, I was looking at those flags, sir,"
stuttered the self-made victim of circumstances.

"Oh, those?  Good examples of their kind; early part of the nineteenth
century.  Picked them up one cruise in the Indies.  That faded one
belonged to Morgan, the bloodthirsty ruffian.  I've always regretted
that I wasn't born a hundred years ago.  Think of bottling them up in a
shallow channel and raking 'em fore and aft!"  With a bang of his fist
on the desk, setting the ink-wells rattling like old bones, "That would
have been sport!"

The keen, blue, sailor's eye seemed to bore right through Fitzgerald,
who thought the best thing he could do was to sit down at once, which
he did.  The ticket agent had said that the admiral was of a quiet
pattern, but this start wasn't much like it.  The fire in the blue eyes
suddenly gave way to a twinkle, and the old man laughed.

"Did I frighten you, Mr. Fitzgerald?"

"Not exactly."

"Well, every secretary I've had has expected to see a red-nosed,
swearing, peg-legged sailor; so I thought I'd soften the blow for you.
Don't worry.  Sailor?"

"Not in the technical sense," answered Fitzgerald, warming.  "I know a
stanchion from an anchor and a rope from a smoke-stack.  But as for
travel, I believe that I have crossed all the high and middle seas."

"Sounds good.  Australia, East Indies, China, the Antilles, Gulf, and
the South Atlantic?"

"Yes; round the Horn, too, and East Africa."  Fitzgerald remembered his
instructions and spoke clearly.

"Well, well; you are a find.  In what capacity have you taken these
voyages?"

Here was the young man's opportunity.  This was a likeable old sea-dog,
and he determined not to impose upon him another moment.  Some men, for
the sake of the adventure, would have left the truth to be found out
later, to the disillusion of all concerned.  The abrupt manner in which
Miss Killigrew had abandoned him merited some revenge.

"Admiral, I'm afraid there has been a mistake, and before we go any
further I'll be glad to explain.  I'm not a private secretary and never
have been one.  I should be less familiar with the work than a
Chinaman.  I am a special writer for the magazines, and have been at
odd times a war correspondent."  And then he went on to describe the
little comedy of the statuettes, and it was not without some charm in
the telling.

Plainly the admiral was nonplussed.  That girl; that minx, with her
innocent eyes and placid face!  He got up, and Fitzgerald awaited the
explosion.  His expectancy missed fire.  The admiral exploded, but with
laughter.

"I beg pardon, Mr. Fitzgerald, and I beg it again on my daughter's
behalf.  What would you do in my place?"

"Show me the door at once and have done with it."

"I'm hanged if I do!  You shall have a toddy for your pains, and, by
cracky, Laura shall mix it."  He pushed the butler's bell.  "Tell Miss
Laura that I wish to see her at once."

"Very well, sir."

She appeared shortly.  If Fitzgerald admired her beauty he yet more
admired her perfect poise and unconcern.  Many another woman would have
evinced some embarrassment.  Not she.

"Laura, what's the meaning of this hoax?" the admiral demanded sternly.
"Mr. Fitzgerald tells me that he had no idea you were hiring him as my
secretary."

"I am sure he hadn't the slightest."  The look she sent Fitzgerald was
full of approval.  "He hadn't any idea at all save that I asked him to
come here at eight this evening.  And his confession proves that I
haven't made any mistake."

"But what in thunder--"

"Father!"

"My dear, give me credit for resisting the desire to make the term
stronger.  Mr. Fitzgerald's joke, I take it, bothered no one.  Yours
has put him in a peculiar embarrassment.  What does it mean?  You went
to the city to get me a first-class secretary."

"Mr. Fitzgerald has the making of one, I believe."

"But on your word I sent a capable man away half an hour gone.  He
could speak half a dozen languages."

"Mr. Fitzgerald is, perhaps, as efficient."

Fitzgerald's wonder grew and grew.

"But he doesn't want to be a secretary.  He doesn't know anything about
the work.  And I haven't got the time to teach him, even if he wanted
the place."

"Father," began the girl, the fun leaving her eyes and her lips
becoming grave, "I do not like the noises at night.  I have not
suggested the police, because robbery is not the motive."

"Laura, that's all tommyrot.  This is an old house, and the wood always
creaks with a change of temperature.  But this doesn't seem to touch
Mr. Fitzgerald."

The girl shrugged.

"Well, I'm glad I told that German chap not to leave till he heard
again from me.  I'll hire him.  He looks like a man who wouldn't let
noises worry him.  You will find your noises are entirely those of
imagination."

"Have it that way," she agreed patiently.

"But here's Mr. Fitzgerald still," said the admiral pointedly.

"Not long ago you said to me that if ever I saw the son of David
Fitzgerald to bring him home.  Till yesterday I never saw him; only
then because Mrs. Coldfield pointed him out and wondered what he was
doing with a tray of statuettes around his neck.  As I could not invite
him to come home with me, I did the next best thing; I invited him to
call on me.  I was told that he was fond of adventures, so I gave the
invitation as much color as I could.  Do I stand pardoned?"

"Indeed you do!" cried Fitzgerald.  So this was the Killigrew his
father had known?

"David Fitzgerald, your father?  That makes all the difference in the
world."  The admiral thrust out a hand.  "Your father wasn't a good
business man, nor was he in the navy, but he could draw charts of the
Atlantic coast with his eyes shut.  Laura, you get the whisky and sugar
and hot water.  You haven't brought me a secretary, but you have
brought under my roof the son of an old friend."

She laughed.  It was rich and free-toned laughter, good for any man to
hear.  As she went to prepare the toddy, the music echoed again through
the hall.

"Sometimes I wake up in the morning with a new gray hair," sighed the
admiral.  "What would you do with a girl like that?"

"I'd hang on to her as long as I could," earnestly.

"I shall," grimly.  "Your father and I were old friends.  There wasn't
a yacht on these waters that could show him her heels, not even my own.
You don't mean to tell me you're no yachtsman!  Why, it ought to be in
the blood."

"Oh, I can handle small craft, but I don't know much about the
engine-room.  What time does the next train return to New York?"

"For you there'll be no train under a week.  You're going to stay here,
since you've been the victim of a hoax."

"Disabuse your mind there, sir.  I don't know when I've enjoyed
anything so thoroughly."

"But you'll stay?  Oh, yes!" as Fitzgerald shook his head.  "The
secretary can do the work here while you and I can take care of the
rats in the hold.  Laura's just imagining things, but we'll humor her.
If there's any trouble with the chimney, why, we'll get a bricklayer
and pull it down."

"Miss Killigrew may have some real cause for alarm.  I saw a man, or
rather, I heard him, running, as I came up the road from the gates.  I
called to him, but he did not answer."

"Is that so?  Wasn't the porter at the gates when you came in?"

"No.  The footpath was free."

"This begins to look serious.  If the porter isn't there the gate bell
rings, I can open it myself by wire.  I never bother about it at night,
unless I am expecting some one.  But in the daytime I can see from here
whether or not I wish to open the gate.  A man running in the park, eh?
Little good it will do him.  The house is a network of burglar alarms."

"Wires can be cut and quickly repaired."

"But this is no house to rob.  All my valuables, excepting these books,
are in New York.  The average burglar isn't of a literary turn of mind.
Still, if Laura has really heard something, all the more reason why you
should make us a visit.  Wait a moment.  I've an idea."  The admiral
set the burglar alarm and tried it.  The expression on his face was
blank.  "Am I getting deafer?"

"No bell rang," said Fitzgerald quickly.

"By cracky, if Laura is right!  But not a word to her, mind.  When she
goes up-stairs we'll take a trip into the cellar and have a look at the
main wire.  You've got to stay; that's all there is about it.  This is
serious.  I hadn't tested the wires in a week."

"Perhaps it's only a fuse."

"We can soon find out about that.  Sh!  Not a word to her!"

She entered with a tray and two steaming toddies, as graceful a being
as Hebe before she spilled the precious drop.  The two men could not
keep their eyes off her, the one with loving possession, the other with
admiration not wholly free from unrest.  The daring manner in which she
had lured him here would never be forgetable.  And she had known him at
the start?  And that merry Mrs. Coldfield in the plot!

"I hope this will cheer you, father."

"It always does," replied the admiral, as he took the second glass.  "I
have asked Mr. Fitzgerald to spend a week with us."

"Thank you, father.  It was thoughtful of you.  If you had not asked
him, the pleasure of doing so would have been mine.  Mrs. Coldfield
pointed you out to me as a most ungrateful fellow, because you never
called on your father's or mother's friends any more, but preferred to
gallivant round the world.  You will stay?  We are very unconventional
here."

"It is all very good of you.  I am rather a lonesome chap.  The
newspapers and magazines have spoiled me.  There's never a moment so
happy to me as when I am ordered to some strange country, thousands of
miles away.  It is in the blood.  Thanks, very much; I shall be very
happy to stay.  My hand-bag, however, is at Swan's Hotel, and there's
very little in it."

"A trifling matter to send to New York for what you need," said the
admiral, mightily pleased to have a man to talk to who was not paid to
reply.  "I'll have William bring the cart round and take you down."

"No, no; I had much rather walk.  I'll turn up some time in the
morning, say luncheon, if that will be agreeable to you."

"As you please.  Only, I should like to save you an unpleasant walk in
the dark."

"I don't mind.  A dark street in a country village this side of the
Atlantic holds little or no danger."

"I offered to build a first-class lighting plant if the town would
agree to pay the running expenses; but the council threw it over.  They
want me to build a library.  Not much!  Hold on," as Fitzgerald was
rising.  "You are not going right away.  I shan't permit that.  Just a
little visit first."

Fitzgerald resumed his chair.

"Have a cigar.  Laura is used to it."

"But does Miss Killigrew like it?" laughing.

"Cigars, and pipes, and cigarettes," she returned.  "I am really fond
of the aroma.  I have tried to acquire the cigarette habit, but I have
yet to learn what satisfaction you men get out of it."

Conversation veered in various directions, and finally rested upon the
subject of piracy; and here the admiral proved himself a rare scholar.
By some peculiar inadvertency, as he was in the middle of one of his
own adventures, his finger touched the burglar alarm.  Clang!  Brrrr!
From top to bottom of the house came the shock of differently voiced
bells.  The two men gazed at each other dumfounded.  But the girl
laughed merrily.

"You touched the alarm, father."

"I rather believe I did.  And a few minutes before you came in with the
toddies I tried it and it didn't work."

It took some time to quiet the servants; and when that was done
Fitzgerald determined to go down to the village.

"Good night, Mr. Fitzgerald," said the girl.  "Better beware; this
house is haunted."

"We'll see if we can't lay that ghost, as they say," he responded.

The admiral came to the door.  "What do you make of it?" he whispered.

"You possibly did not press the button squarely the first time."  And
that was Fitzgerald's genuine belief.

"By the way, will you take a note for me to Swan's?  It will not take
me a moment to scribble it."

"Certainly."

Finally the young man found himself in the park, heading quickly toward
the gates.  He searched the night keenly, but this time he neither
heard nor saw any one.  Then he permitted his fancy to take short
flights.  Interesting situation!  To find himself a guest here, when he
had come keyed up for something strenuous!  Pirates and jolly-rogers
and mysterious trespassers and silent bells, to say nothing of a
beautiful young woman with a leaning toward adventure!  But the most
surprising turn was yet to come.

In the office of Swan's hotel the landlord sat snoozing peacefully
behind the desk.  There was only one customer.  He was a gray-haired,
ruddy-visaged old salt in white duck--at this time of year!--and a blue
sack-coat dotted with shining brass buttons, the whole five-foot-four
topped by a gold-braided officer's cap.  He was drinking what is
jocularly called a "schooner" of beer, and finishing this he lurched
from the room with a rolling, hiccoughing gait, due entirely to a
wooden peg which extended from his right knee down to a highly polished
brass ferrule.

Fitzgerald awakened the landlord and gave him the admiral's note.

"You will be sure and give this to the gentleman in the morning?"

"Certainly, sir.  Mr. Karl Breitmann," reading the superscription
aloud.  "Yes, sir; first thing in the morning."




CHAPTER VI

SOME EXPLANATIONS

Karl Breitmann!  Fitzgerald pulled off a shoe, and carefully deposited
it on the floor beside his chair.  Private secretary to Rear Admiral
Killigrew, retired; Karl Breitmann!  He drew off the second shoe, and
placed it, with military preciseness, close to the first.  Absently, he
rose, with the intention of putting the pair in the hall, but
remembered before he got as far as the door that it was not customary
in America to put one's shoes outside in the halls.  Ultimately, they
would have been stolen or have remained there till the trump of doom.

Could there be two Breitmanns by the name of Karl?  Here and there,
across the world, he had heard of Breitmann, but never had he seen him
since that meeting in Paris.  And, simply because he had proved to be
an enthusiastic student of Napoleon, like himself, he had taken the man
to dinner.  But that was nothing.  Under the same circumstances he
would have done the same thing again.  There had been something
fascinating about the fellow, either his voice or his manner.  And
there could be no doubting that he had been at ebb tide; the shiny
coat, the white, but ragged linen, the cracked patent leathers.

A baron, and to reach the humble grade of private secretary to an
eccentric millionaire--for the admiral, with all his kindliness and
common sense, was eccentric--this was a fall.  Where were his
newspapers?  There was a dignity to foreign work, even though in Europe
the pay is small.  There was trouble going on here and there, petty
wars and political squabbles.  Yes, where were his newspapers?  Had he
tried New York?  If not, in that case, he--Fitzgerald--could be of some
solid assistance.  And Cathewe knew him, or had met him.

Fitzgerald had buffeted the high and low places; he seldom made
mistakes in judging men offhand, an art acquired only after many
initial blunders.  This man Breitmann was no sham; he was a scholar, a
gentleman, a fine linguist, versed in politics and war.  Well, the
little mystery would be brushed aside in the morning.  Breitmann would
certainly recognize him.

But to have forgotten the girl!  To have permitted a course of events
to discover her!  Shameful!  He jumped into bed, and pulled the
coverlet close to his nose, and was soon asleep, sleep broken by
fantastic dreams, in which the past and present mixed with the
improbable chances of the future.

Thump-thump, thump-thump!  To Fitzgerald's fogged hearing, it was like
the pulse beating in the bowels of a ship, only that it stopped and
began at odd intervals, intermittently.  At the fourth recurrence, he
sat up, to find that it was early morning, and that the sea lay; gray
and leaden, under the pearly haze of dawn.  Thump-thump!  He rubbed his
eyes, and laughed.  It could be no less a person than the old sailor in
the summer-yachting toggery.  Drat 'em!  These sailors were always
