
"Who is it?" she asked.

"A chap worth knowing; a reporter just a little out of the ordinary.
I'm going to introduce him.  You never can tell.  We might need him
some day.  Ah, Norton, how are you?"

"Good evening, Mr. Braine."  The reporter, catching sight of a pair of
dazzling eyes, hesitated.

"The Countess Perigoff, Norton.  You're in no hurry, are you?"



"Not now," smiled the reporter.

"Ah!" said the countess, interested.  It was the old compliment, said
in an unusual way.  It pleased her.

The reporter sank into a chair.  When inactive he was rather a
dreamy-eyed sort of chap.  He possessed that rare accomplishment of
talking upon one subject and thinking upon another at the same time.
So while he talked gaily with the young woman on varied themes, his
thoughts were busy speculating upon her companion.  He was quite
certain that the name Braine was assumed, but he was also equally
certain that the man carried an extraordinary brain under his thatch of
salt and pepper hair.  The man had written three or four brilliant
monographs on poisons and the uses of radium, and it was through and by
these that the reporter had managed to pick up his acquaintance.  He
lived well, but inconspicuously.

Suddenly the pupils of Braine's eyes narrowed; the eye became cold.
Over the smoke of his cigarette he was looking into the wall mirror.  A
man had passed behind him and sat down at the next table.  Still gazing
into the mirror, Braine saw Norton wave his hand; saw also the open
wonder on the reporter's pleasant face.

"Who is your friend, Norton?" Braine asked indifferently, his head
still unturned.

"Stanley Hargreave.  Met him in Hongkong when I was sent over to handle
a part of the revolution.  War correspondence stuff.  First time I ever
ran across him on Broadway at night.  We've since had some powwows over
some rare books.  Queer old cock; brave as a lion, but as quiet as a
mouse."

"Bookish, eh?  My kind.  Bring him over."  Underneath the table Braine
maneuvered to touch the foot of the countess.

"I don't know," said the reporter dubiously.  "He might say no, and
that would embarrass the whole lot of us.  He's a bit of a hermit.  I'm
surprised to see him here."

"Try," urged the countess.  "I like to meet men who are hermits."

"I haven't the least doubt about that," the reporter laughed.  "I'll
try; but don't blame me if I'm rebuffed."

He left the table with evident reluctance and approached Hargreave.
The two shook hands cordially, for the elder man was rather fond of
this medley of information known as Jim Norton.

"Sit down, boy; sit down.  You're just the kind of a man I've been
wanting to talk to to-night."

"Wouldn't you rather talk to a pretty woman?"

"I'm an old man."

"Bah!  That's a hypocritical bluff, and you know it.  My friends at the
next table have asked me to bring you over."

"I do not usually care to meet strangers."

"Make an exception this once," said the reporter, who had seen Braine's
eyes change and was curious to know why the appearance of Hargreave in
the mirror had brought about that metally gleam.  Here were two unique
men; he desired to see them face to face.

"This once.  My fault; I ought not to be here; I feel out of place.
What a life, though, you reporters lead!  To meet kings and presidents
and great financiers, socialists and anarchists, the whole scale of
life, and to slap these people on the back as if they were every-day
friends!"

"Now you're making fun of me.  For one king there are always twenty
thick brogans ready to kick me down the steps; don't forget that."

Hargreave laughed.  "Come, then; let us get it over with."

The introductions were made.  Norton felt rather chagrined.  As far as
he could see, the two men were total strangers.  Well, it was all in
the game.  Nine out of ten opportunities for the big story were fake
alarms; but he was always willing to risk the labor these nine entailed
for the sake of the tenth.

At length Braine glanced at his watch, and the countess nodded.  Adieux
were said.  Inside the taxicab Braine leaned back with a deep, audible
sigh.

"What is it?" she asked.

"The luck of the devil's own," he said.  "Child of the Steppes, for
years I've flown about seas and continents, through valleys and over
mountains--for what?  For the sight of the face of that man we have
just left.  At first glance I wasn't sure; but the sound of his voice
was enough.  Olga, the next time you see that reporter, throw your arms
around his neck and kiss him.  What did I tell you?  Without Norton's
help I would not have been sure.  I'm going to leave you at your
apartment."

"The man of the Black Hundred?" she whispered.

"The man who deserted and defied the Black Hundred, who broke his vows,
and never paid a kopeck for the privilege; the man who had been
appointed for the supreme work and who ran away.  In those days we
needed men of his stamp, and to accomplish this end...."

"There was a woman," she interrupted, with a touch of bitterness.

"Always the woman.  And she was as clever and handsome as you are."

"Thanks.  Sometimes..."

"Ah, yes!" ironically.  "Sometimes you wish you could settle down,
marry and have a family!  Your domesticity would last about a month."

She made no retort because she recognized the truth of this statement.

"There's an emerald I know of," he said ruminatively.  "It's quite
possible that you may be wearing it within a few days."

"I am mad over them.  There is something in the green stone that
fascinates me.  I can't resist it."

"That's because, somewhere in the far past, your ancestors were
orientals.  Here we are.  I'll see you to-morrow.  I must hurry.  Good
night."

She stood on the curb for a moment and watched the taxicab as it
whirled around a corner.  The man held her with a fascination more
terrible than any jewel.  She knew him to be a great and daring rogue,
cunning, patient, fearless.  Packed away in that mind of his there were
a thousand accomplished deeds which had roused futilely the police of
two continents.  Braine!  She could have laughed.  The very name he had
chosen was an insolence directed at society.

The subject of her thoughts soon arrived at his destination.  A flight
of stairs carried him into a dimly lighted hall, smelling evilly of
escaping gas.  He donned a black mask and struck the door with a series
of light blows; two, then one, then three, and again one.  The door
opened and he slipped inside.  Round a table sat several men, also
masked.  They were all tried and trusted rogues; but not one of them
knew what Braine looked like.  He alone remained unknown save to the
man designated as the chief, who was only Braine's lieutenant.  The
mask was the insignia of the Black Hundred, an organization with all
the ramifications of the Camorra without their abiding stupidity.  From
the assassination of a king, down to the robbery of a country
post-office, nothing was too great or too small for their nets.  Their
god dwells in the hearts of all men and is called greed.

The ordinary business over, the chief dismissed the men, and he and
Braine alone remained.

"Vroon, I have found him," said Braine.

"There are but few: which one?"

"Eighteen years ago, in St. Petersburg."

"I remember.  The millionaire's son.  Did he recognize you?"

"I don't know.  Probably he did.  But he always had good nerves.  He is
being followed at this moment.  We shall strike quick; for if he
recognized me he will act quick.  He is cool and brave.  You remember
how he braved us that night in Russia.  Jumped boldly through the
window at the risk of breaking his neck.  He landed safely; that is the
only reason he eluded us.  Millions--and they slipped through our
fingers.  If I could only find some route to his heart!  The lure we
held out to him is dead."



"Or in the fortress, which is the same thing.  What are your plans?"

"I have in mind something like this."

And Hargreave was working out his plans, too; and he was just as much
of a general as Braine.  He sat at his library table, the maxillary
muscles of his jaws working.  So they had found him?  Well, he had
broken the law of his own making and he must suffer the consequences.
Braine, who was Menshikoff in Russia, Schwartz in Germany, Mendoza in
Spain, Cartucci in Italy, and Du Bois in France; so the rogue had found
him out?  Poor fool that he had been!  High spirited, full of those
youthful dreams of doing good in the world, he had joined what he had
believed a great secret socialistic movement, to learn that he had been
trapped by a band of brilliant thieves.  Kidnapers and assassins for
hire; the Black Hundred; fiends from Tophet!  For nearly eighteen years
he had eluded them, for he knew that directly or indirectly they would
never cease to hunt for him; and an idle whim had toppled him into
their clutches.

He wrote several letters feverishly.  The last was addressed to Miss
Susan Farlow and read: "Dear Madam: Send Florence Gray to New York, to
arrive here Friday morning.  My half of the bracelet will be
identification.  Inclosed find cash to square accounts."  He would get
together all his available funds, recover his child, and fly to the
ends of the world.  He would tire them out.  They would find that the
peaceful dog was a bad animal to rouse.  He rang for the faithful Jones.

"Jones, they have found me," he said simply.

"You will need me, then?"

"Quite possible.  Please mail these and then we'll talk it over.  No
doubt some one is watching outside.  Be careful."

"Very good, sir."

Hargreave bowed his head in his hands.  Many times he had journeyed to
the school and hung about the gates, straining his eyes toward the
merry groups of young girls.  Which among them was his, heart of his
heart, blood of his blood?  That she might never be drawn into this
abominable tangle, he had resolutely torn her out of his life
completely.  The happiness of watching the child grow into girlhood he
had denied himself.  She at least would be safe.  Only when she was
safe in a far country would he dare tell her.  He tried in vain to
conjure up a picture of her; he always saw the mother whom he had loved
and hated with all the ardor of his youth.

Many things happened the next day.  There was a visit to the hangar of
one William Orts, the aviator, famous for his daredevil exploits.
There were two visitors, in fact, and the second visitor was knocked
down for his pains.  He had tried to bribe Orts.

There were several excited bankers, who protested against such large
withdrawals without the usual formal announcement.  But a check was a
check, and they had to pay.



Hargreave covered a good deal of ground, but during all this time his
right hand never left the automatic in his overcoat pocket, except at
those moments when he was obliged to sign his checks.  He would shoot
and make inquiries afterward.

Far away a young girl and her companion got on the train which was to
carry her to New York, the great dream city she was always longing to
see.

And the spider wove his web.

Hargreave reached home at night.  He put the money in the safe and was
telephoning when Jones entered and handed his master an unstamped note.

"Where did you get this?"

"At the door, sir.  I judge that the house is surrounded."

Hargreave read the note.  It stated briefly that all his movements
during the day had been noted.  It was known that he had collected a
million in paper money.  If he surrendered this he would be allowed
twenty-four hours before the real chase began.  Otherwise he should die
before midnight.  Hargreave crushed the note in his hand.  They might
kill him; there was a chance of their accomplishing that; but never
should they touch his daughter's fortune.

"Jones, you go to the rear door and I'll take a look out of the front.
We have an hour.  I know the breed.  They'll wait till midnight and
then force their way in."

Hargreave saw a dozen shadows in the front yard.

"Men all about the back yard," whispered Jones down the hall.

The master eyed the man.

"Very well, sir," replied the latter, with understanding.  "I am ready."

The master went to the safe, emptied it of its contents, crossed the
hall to the bedroom, and closed the door softly behind him, Jones
having entered the same room through another door to befool any
possible watcher.  After a long while, perhaps an hour, the two men
emerged from the room from the same doors they had entered.  So
whispered the watcher to his friends below.

"Hargreave is going up-stairs."

"Let him go.  Let him take a look at us from the upper windows.  He
will understand that nothing but wings will save him."

Silence.  By and by a watcher reported that he heard the scuttle of the
roof rattle.

"Look!" another cried, startled.

A bluish glare came from the roof.

"He's shooting off a Roman candle!"

They never saw the man-made bird till it alighted upon the roof.  They
never thought of shooting at it until it had taken wing!  Then they
rushed the doors of the house.  They made short work of Jones, whom
they tied up like a Christmas fowl and plumped roughly into a chair.
They broke open the safe, to find it empty.  And while the rogues were
rummaging about the room, venting their spite upon many a treasure they
could neither appreciate nor understand, a man from the outside burst
in.

"The old man is dead and the money is at the bottom of the ocean!  We
punctured her.  She's gone!"

A thin, inscrutable smile stirred the lips of the man bound in the
chair.




CHAPTER II

Vroon faced Hargreave's butler somberly.  The one reason why Braine
made this man his lieutenant was because Vroon always followed the
letter of his instructions to the final period; he never sidestepped or
added any frills or innovations of his own, and because of this very
automatism he rarely blundered into a trap.  If he failed it was for
the simple fact that the master mind had overlooked some essential
detail.  The organization of the Black Hundred was almost totally
unknown to either the public or the police.  It is only when you fail
that you are found out.

"The patrolman has been trussed up like you," began Vroon.  "If they
find him they will probably find you.  But before that you will grow
thirsty and hungry.  Where did your master put that money?"

"He carried it with him."

"Why didn't you call for help?"

"The houses on either side are too far away.  I might yell till
doomsday without being heard.  They will have heard the pistol shots;
but Mr. Hargreave was always practising in the back yard."

"The people in those two houses have been called out of town.  The
servants are off for the night."

"Very interesting," replied Jones, staring at the rug.

"Your master is dead."

Jones' chin sank upon his breast.  His heart was heavy, heavier than it
had ever been before.

"Your master left a will?"

"Indeed, I could not say."

"We can say.  He has still three or four millions in stocks and bonds.
What he took to the bottom of the sea with him was his available cash."

"I know nothing about his finances.  I was his butler and valet."

Vroon nodded.  "Come, men; it is time we took ourselves off.  Put
things in order; close the safe.  You poor jackals, I always have to
watch you for outbreaks of vandalism.  Off with you!"

He was the last to leave.  He stared long and searchingly at Jones, who
felt the burning gaze but refused to meet it lest the plotter see the
fire in his.  The door closed.  For fully an hour Jones listened but
did not stir.  They were really gone.  He pressed his feet to the floor
and began to hitch the chair toward the table.  Half-way across the
intervening space he crumpled in the chair, almost completely
exhausted.  He let a quarter of an hour pass, then made the final
attack upon the remaining distance.  He succeeded in reaching the desk,
but he could not have stirred an inch farther.  The hair on his head
was damp with sweat and his hands were clammy.

When he felt strength returning he lifted the telephone off the hook
with his teeth.

"Central, central!  Call the police to come to this number at once;
Hargreave's house, Riverdale.  Tell them to break in."

After what seemed an age of waiting to the exhausted prisoner, with
crashing and smashing of doors, the police appeared in the room.

"Where's your gag?" demanded the first officer to reach Jones' side.

"There wasn't any."

"Then why didn't you yell for help?"

"The thieves lured our neighbors away from town.  The patrolman who
walks this beat is bound and gagged and is probably reposing back of
the billboard in the next block."

"Murphy, you watch this man while I make a call on the neighbors," said
the officer who seemed to be in authority.  When he returned he was
frowning seriously.  "We'd better telephone to the precinct to search
for Dennison.  There's nobody at home in either house and there's
nobody back of the billboards.  Untie the man."  When this was done,
the officer said: "Now, tell us what's happened; and don't forget any
of the details."

Jones told a simple and convincing story; it was so simple and
convincing that the police believed it without question.

"Well, if that ain't the limit!  Did you hear any autos outside?"

"I don't recollect," said Jones, stretching his legs gratefully.  "Why?"

"The auto bandits held up a bank messenger to-day and got away with
twenty thousand.  Whenever a man draws down a big sum they seem to know
about it.  And say, Murphy, call up and have the river police look out
for a new-fangled airship.  Your master may have been rescued," turning
to Jones.

"If I were only sure of that, sir!"

When the police took themselves off Jones proceeded to act upon those
plans laid down by Hargreave early that night.  When this was done he
sought his bed and fell asleep, the sleep of the exhausted.  When
Hargreave picked up Jones to share his fortunes, he had put his trust
in no ordinary man.

A dozen reporters trooped out to the Hargreave home, only to find it
deserted.  And while they were ringing bells and tapping windows, the
man they sought was tramping up and down the platform of the railway
station.

Through all this time Norton, the reporter, Hargreave's only friend,
slept the sleep of the just and unjust.  He rarely opened his eyes
before noon.

Group after group of passengers Jones eyed eagerly.  Often, just as he
was in the act of approaching a couple of young women, some man would
hurry up, and there would be kisses or handshakes.  At length the crowd
thinned, and then it was that he discovered a young girl perhaps
eighteen, accompanied by a young woman in the early thirties.  They had
the appearance of eagerly awaiting some one.  Jones stepped forward
with a good deal of diffidence.

"You are waiting for some one?"

"Yes," said the elder woman, coldly.

"A broken bracelet?"

The distrust on both faces vanished instantly.  The young girl's face
brightened, her eyes sparkled with suppressed excitement.

"You are ... my father?"

"No, miss," very gravely.  "I am the butler."

"Let me see your part of the bracelet," said the young girl's guardian,
a teacher who had been assigned to this delicate task by Miss Farlow,
who could not bring herself to say good-by to Florence anywhere except
at the school gates.

The halves were produced and examined.

"I believe we may trust him, Florence."

"Let us hurry to the taxicab.  We must not stand here."

"My mother?"

"She is dead.  I believe she died shortly after your birth.  I have
been with your father but fourteen years.  I know but little of his
life prior to that."

"Why did he leave me all these years without ever coming to see me?
Why?"

"It is not for me, Miss Florence, to inquire into your father's act.
But I do know that whatever he did was meant for the best.  Your
welfare was everything to him."

"It is all very strange," said the girl, bewilderedly.  "Why didn't he
come to meet me instead of you?"

Jones stared at his hands, miserably.

"Why?" she demanded.  "I have thought of him, thought of him.  He has
hurt me with all this neglect.  I expected to see him at the station,
to throw my arms, around his neck and ... forgive him!"  Tears swam in
her eyes as she spoke.

"Everything will be explained to you when we reach the house.  But
always remember this, Miss Florence: You were everything in this wide
world to your father.  You will never know the misery and loneliness he
suffered that you might not have one hour of unrest.  What are your
plans?" he asked abruptly of the teacher from Miss Farlow's.

"That depends," she answered, laying her hand protectingly over the
girl's.

"You could leave Miss Farlow's on the moment?"

"Yes."

"Then you will stay and be Miss Florence's companion?"

"Gladly."

"What is my father's name?"

"Hargreave, Stanley Hargreave."

The girl's eyes widened in terror.  Suddenly she burst into a wild
frenzy of sobbing, her head against the shoulder of her erstwhile
teacher.

Jones appeared visibly shocked.  "What is it?"

"We read the story in the newspaper," said the elder woman, her own
eyes filling with tears.  "The poor child!  To have all her
castles-in-air tumble down like this!  But what authority have you to
engage me?" sensibly.

Jones produced a document, duly signed by Hargreave, and witnessed and
sealed by a notary, in which it was set forth that Henry Jones, butler
and valet to Stanley Hargreave, had full powers of attorney in the
event of his (Hargreave's) disappearance; in the event of his death,
till Florence became of legal age.

Said Jones as he put the document back in his pocket: "What is your
name?"

"Susan Wane."

"Do you love this child?"

"With all my heart, the poor unhappy babe!"

"Thank you!"

Inside the home he conducted them through the various rooms, at the
same time telling them what had taken place during the preceding night.

"They have not found his body?" asked Florence.  "My poor, poor father!"

"No."

"Then he may be alive!"

"Please God that he may!" said the butler, with genuine piety, for he
had loved the man who had gone forth into the night so bravely and so
strangely.  "This is your room.  Your father spent many happy hours
here preparing it for you."

Tears came into the girl's eyes again, and discreetly Jones left the
two alone.

"What shall I do, Susan?  Whatever shall I do?"

"Be brave as you always are.  I will never leave you till you find your
father."

Florence kissed her fervently.  "What is your opinion of the butler?"

"I think we may both trust him absolutely."

Then Florence began exploring the house.  Susan followed her closely.
Florence peered behind the mirrors, the pictures, in the drawers of the
desk, in the bookcases.

"What are you hunting for, child?"

"A photograph of father."  But she found none.  More, there were no
photographs of any kind to be found in Stanley Hargreave's home.

When Norton awoke, he naturally went to the door for the morning papers
which were always placed in a neat pile before the sill.  He yawned,
gathered up the bundle, was about to climb back into bed, when a
headline caught his dull eyes.  Twenty-one minutes later, to be
precise, he ran up the steps of the Hargreave home and rang the bell.
He was admitted by the taciturn Jones, to whom the reporter had never
paid any particular attention.  Somehow Jones always managed to stand
in shadows.

"I can add nothing to what has already appeared in the newspapers,"
replied Jones, as Norton opened his batteries of inquiries.

"Mr. Jones, I have known your master several years, as you will
recollect.  There never was a woman in this house, not even among the
servants.  There are two in the other room.  Who are they?  And what
are they doing here?"

Jones shook his head.

"Well, I can easily find out."

Jones barred his path, and for the first time Norton gazed into the
eyes of the man servant.  They were as hard as gun metal.

"My dear Mr. Jones, you ought to know that sooner or later we reporters
find out what we seek."

Jones appeared to reflect.  "Mr. Norton, you claim to be a friend of
Mr. Hargreave?"

"I do not claim.  I am.  More than that I do not believe he is dead.
He was deep.  He had some relentless enemies--I don't know where from
or what kind--and he is pretending he's dead till this blows over and
is forgotten."

"You are not going to say that in your newspaper?"  Jones was visibly
agitated.

"Not if I can prove it."

"If I tell you who those young ladies are, will you give me your word
of honor not to write about them till I give my permission?"

Norton, having in mind the big story at the end of the mystery tangle,
agreed.

"The elder is a teacher from a private school; the other is Stanley
Hargreave's daughter."

"Good lord!" gasped the astonished reporter.  "He never mentioned the
fact to me, and we've been together in some tight places."

"He never mentioned it to any one but me."  Jones again seemed to
reflect.  At last he raised his glance to the reporter.  "Are you
willing to wait for a great story, the real story?"

"If there is one," answered Norton with his usual caution.

"On my word of honor, you shall have such a story as you never dreamed
of, if you will promise not to divulge it till the appointed time."

"I agree."

"The peace and happiness of that child depends upon how you keep your
word."

That was sufficient for Norton.  "Your master knew me.  He also knew
that I am not a man who promises lightly.  Now introduce me to the
daughter."

With plain reluctance Jones went about the affair.  Norton put a dozen
perfunctory questions to the girl.  What he was in search of was not
news but the sound of her voice.  In that quarter of an hour he felt
his heart disturbed as it had never before been disturbed.

"Now, Mr. Norton," said Jones gloomily, "will you be so kind as to
follow me?"

Norton was led to Jones' bedroom.  The butler-valet closed the door and
drew the window shade.  Always seeking shadows.  This did not impress
the reporter at the time; he had no other thought but the story.  Jones
then sat down beside the reporter and talked in an undertone.  When he
had done he took Norton by the elbow and gently but forcibly led him
down to the front door and ushered him forth.  Norton jumped into his
taxicab and returned to his rooms, which were at the top of the huge
apartment hotel.  He immediately called up his managing editor.

"Hello!  This is Norton.  Put Griffin on the Hargreave yarn.  I'm off
on another deal."

"But Hargreave was a friend of yours," protested the managing editor.

"I know it.  But you know me well enough, Mr. Blair.  I should not ask
the transfer if it was not vitally important."

"Oh, very well."

"We shan't be scooped."

"If you can promise that, I don't care who works on the job.  Will you
be in the office to-night?"

"If nothing prevents me."

"Well, good-by."

Norton filled his pipe, drew his chair to the window, and stared at the
great liner going down to sea.

"Lord, lord!" he murmured.  Then he smiled and chuckled.  Some bright
morning he would have all New York by the ears, the police running
round in circles, and the chiefs of the rival sheets tearing their
hair.  What a story!  Four columns on the first page, and two whole
pages Sunday....  And all of a sudden he ceased to smile and chuckle.

In the living room of the Countess Olga Perigoff's apartment the
mistress lay reading on the divan.  There was no cigarette between her
well shaped lips, for she was not the accepted type of adventuress.  In
fact, she was not an adventuress; she was really the Countess Perigoff.
Her maiden name had been Olga Pushkin; but more of that later.

When Braine came in he found her dreaming with half-closed eyes.  He
flourished an evening newspaper.

"Olga, even the best of us make mistakes.  Here, just glance over this."

The Russian accepted the newspaper and read the heading indicated:
"Aeronaut picked up far out at sea.  Slips ashore from tramp steamer.
Had five thousand in cash in his pockets."

"Hargreave escaped!"

"Not necessarily," she replied.  "If it was Hargreave he would have had
more than five thousand in his pockets.  My friend, I believe it an
attempt to fool you; or it is another man entirely."  She clicked her
teeth with the tops of her polished nails.

"There are two young women in the house.  What the deuce can that mean?"

"Two young women?  Oh! then everything's as simple as daylight.
Katrina Pushkin, my cousin, had a child."

"Child?  Hargreave had a child?  What do you mean by keeping this fact
from me?" he stormed.

"It was useless till this moment.  He probably sent for her yesterday;
but in his effort to escape had to turn her over to his butler.  We
shall soon learn whether Hargreave is dead or alive.  We can use the
child to bring him back."

The anger went out of his eyes.  "You're a wonder, Olga."

"But you should have gone with Vroon last night.  He does everything
just as you tell him.  When they reported that Hargreave had visited
Orts' hangar you ought to have prepared against such a coup as flight
through the air."

"I admit it.  But a daughter!  Well, I can bring him back," with a
sinister laugh.  "By the Lord Harry, I have him in my hands this time,
that is, if this girl turns out to be his daughter.  A million?  Two,
three, all he has in the world.  I want you to pay a visit right away.
Watch the butler, Jones.  He'll lie, of course; but note how he treats
the girl; and if you get the chance look around the walls for a secret
panel.  He might not have carried away the cash at all, only enough for
his immediate needs, which would account for that five thousand on the
man picked up at sea.  If I could only get inside that house for an
hour!"

"I believe I'll call at once.  Leo, was Hargreave the man's real name?"

Braine laughed.  "That is of no vital consequence.  He will be
Hargreave till the end of the chapter, dead or alive.  You can tell me
the news at dinner to-night."

So, later, when the butler accepted her card at the door, loath as he
might be, there was nothing for him to do but admit her.

"Whom do you wish to see, madam?" stepping back into the shadow.

"Miss Hargreave.  I'm an old friend of her mother's."

"There is no such person here."

"To whom, then, does this hat belong?" she asked quietly.  She waved
her hand indolently toward the hall rack.

Jones' lips tightened.  "That belongs to Miss Gray, a kind of protégée
of Mr. Hargreave's."

"Indeed!  You have no objections to my seeing her?  My maiden name was
Olga Pushkin, cousin to Katrina, wife of Stanley Hargreave.  I am, if
you will weigh the matter carefully, a kind of aunt."

To Jones it was as if ice had suddenly come into contact with his
heart's blood.  But as he still stood in the shadow, she did not
observe the pallor of his face.

"If you will state exactly why you wish to see her, madam."

"You seem to possess authority?"

"Yes, madam, absolute authority."

Jones produced his document and presented it to her.

"There is no flaw in that," she agreed readily.  "I wish to see the
child.  I have told you why."

"Very well, madam."  Why had they not telegraphed the child, even on
the train, to return to Farlow's.  He knew nothing of this woman,
whether she was an enemy or a friend.  He conducted his unwelcome guest
into the library.

"How did you know that she was here?" suddenly.

But she was ready.  "I did not.  But the death of Mr. Hargreave brought
me.  And that youthful hat in the hall was a story all its own.  Later
I shall show you some papers of my own.  You will have no cause to
doubt them.  They have not the legal power of yours, but they would
find standing in any court."

Jones turned and went in search of Florence.

The countess lost no time in beginning her investigations, but she
wasted her time.  There was no secret panel in evidence.

"Who is she?" asked Florence as she looked at the card.  "Did my father
know countesses?"
