From the house to the hospital and back home again, days, weeks, years.
She had begun to hate white; her soul thirsted for colour, movement,
thrill. The call that had been walled in, suppressed, broke through.
Piracy on high seas, and Jane Norman in the cast!

She was not in the least afraid of the whimsical rogue opposite. He was
more like an uninvited dinner guest. Perhaps this lack of fear had its
origin in the oily smoothness by which the yacht had changed hands. Beyond
the subjugation of Dodge, there had not been a ripple of commotion. It was
too early to touch the undercurrents. All this lulled and deceived her.
Piracy? Where were the cutlasses, the fierce moustaches, the red
bandannas, the rattle of dice, and the drunken songs?--the piracy of
tradition? If she had any fear at all it was for the man at her
left--Denny--who might run amuck on her account and spoil everything. All
her life she would hear the father's voice--"The jam and the cheese,
Togo." What men, all three of them!

Cunningham laid his napkin on the table and stood up.

"Absolute personal liberty, if you will accept the situation sensibly."

Dennison glowered at him, but Jane reached out and touched the soldier's
sleeve.

"Please!"

"For your sake, then. But it's tough medicine for me to swallow."

"To be sure it is," agreed the rogue. "Look upon me as a supercargo for
the next ten days. You'll see me only at lunch and dinner. I've a lot of
work to do in the chart house. By the way, the wireless man is mine,
Cleigh, so don't waste any time on him. Hope you're a good sailor, Miss
Norman, for we are heading into rough weather, and we haven't much beam."

"I love the sea!"

"Hang it, you and I shan't have any trouble! Good-night."

Cunningham limped to the door, where he turned and eyed the elder Cleigh,
who was stirring his coffee thoughtfully. Suddenly the rogue burst into a
gale of laughter, and they could hear recurrent bursts as he wended his
way to the companion.

When this sound died away Cleigh turned his glance levelly upon Jane. The
stone-like mask dissolved into something that was pathetically human.

"Miss Norman," he said, "I don't know what we are heading into, but if we
ever get clear I will make any reparation you may demand."

"Any kind of a reparation?"--an eager note in her voice.

Dennison stared at her, puzzled, but almost instantly he was conscious of
the warmth of shame in his cheeks. This girl wasn't that sort--to ask for
money as a balm for the indignity offered her. What was she after?

"Any kind of reparation," repeated Cleigh.

"I'll remember that--if we get through. And somehow I believe we shall."

"You trust that scoundrel?" asked Cleigh, astonishedly.

"Inexplicably--yes."

"Because he happens to be handsome?"--with frank irony.

"No." But she looked at the son as she spoke. "He said he never broke his
word. No man can be a very great villain who can say that. Did he ever
break his word to you?"

"Except in this instance."

"The beads?"

"I am quite confident he knows where they are."

"Are they so precious? What makes them precious?"

"I have told you--they are love beads."

"That's rank nonsense! I'm no child!"

"Isn't love rank nonsense?" Cleigh countered. He was something of a
banterer himself.

"Have you never loved anybody?" she shot back at him.

A shadow passed over the man's face, clearing the ironic expression.

"Perhaps I loved not wisely but too well."

"Oh, I'm sorry! I didn't mean----"

"You are young; all about you is sunshine; I myself have gone down among
the shadows. Cunningham may keep his word; but there is always the
possibility of his not being able to keep it. He has become an outlaw; he
is in maritime law a pirate. The crew are aware of it; prison stares them
in the face, and that may make them reckless. If you weren't on board I
shouldn't care. But you are young, vital, attractive, of the type that
appeals to strong men. In the dry stores there are many cases of liquor
and wine. The men may break into the stuff before we reach the Catwick.
That will take ten or twelve days if Cunningham lays a course outside
Formosa. What's his game? I don't know. Probably he will maroon us on the
Catwick, an island I know nothing about, except that it is nearer to
Saigon than to Singapore. So then in the daytime stay where I am or where
Captain Dennison is. Good-night."

Dennison balanced his spoon on the rim of the coffee cup--not a
particularly easy job.

"Whatever shall I do with the jade?" Jane asked, irrelevantly.

"What?"

"The jade necklace. That poor Chinaman!"

"Ling Foo? I wish I had broken his infernal yellow neck! But for him
neither of us would be here. But he is right," Dennison added, with a jerk
of his head toward the door. "You must always be with one or the other of
us--preferably me." He smiled.

"Will you promise me one thing?"

"Denny."

"Will you promise me one thing, Denny?"

"And that is not to attempt to mix it with the scoundrel?"

"Yes."

"I promise--so long as he keeps his. But if he touches you--well, God help
him!"

"And me! Oh, I don't mean him. It is you that I am afraid of. You're so
terribly strong--and--and so heady. I can never forget how you went into
that mob of quarrelling troopers. But you were an officer there; your
uniform doesn't count here. If only you and your father stood together!"

"We do so far as you are concerned. Never doubt that. Otherwise, though,
it's hopeless. What are you going to demand of him--supposing we come
through safely?"

"That's my secret. Let's go on deck."

"It's raining hard, and there'll be a good deal of pitching shortly.
Better turn in. You've been through enough to send the average woman into
hysterics."

"It won't be possible to sleep."

"I grant that, but I'd rather you would go at once to your cabin."

"I wonder if you will understand. I'm not really afraid. I know I ought to
be, but I'm not. All my life has been a series of humdrum--and here is
adventure, stupendous adventure!" She rose abruptly, holding out her arms
dramatically toward space. "All my life I have lived in a shell, and
chance has cracked it. If only you knew how wonderfully free I feel at
this moment! I want to go on deck, to feel the wind and the rain in my
face!"

"Go to bed," he said, prosaically.

Though never had she appeared so poignantly desirable. He wanted to seize
her in his arms, smother her with kisses, bury his face in her hair. And
swiftly upon this desire came the thought that if she appealed to him so
strongly, might she not appeal quite as strongly to the rogue? He laid the
spoon on the rim of the cup again and teetered it.

"Go to bed," he repeated.

"An order?"

"An order. I'll go along with you to the cabin. Come!" He got up.

"Can you tell me you're not excited?"

"I am honestly terrified. I'd give ten years of my life if you were safely
out of this. For seven long years I have been knocking about this world,
and among other things I have learned that plans like Cunningham's never
get through per order. I don't know what the game is, but it's bound to
fail. So I'm going to ask you, in God's name, not to let any romantical
ideas get into your head. This is bad business for all of us."

There was something in his voice, aside from the genuine seriousness, that
subdued her.

"I'll go to bed. Shall we have breakfast together?"

"Better that way."

To reach the port passage they had to come out into the main salon. Cleigh
was in his corner reading.

"Good-night," she called. All her bitterness toward him was gone. "And
don't worry about me."

"Good-night," replied Cleigh over the top of the book. "Be sure of your
door. If you hear any untoward sounds in the night call to the captain
whose cabin adjoins yours."

When she and Dennison arrived at the door of her cabin she turned
impulsively and gave him both her hands. He held them lightly, because his
emotions were at full tide, and he did not care to have her sense it in
any pressure. Her confidence in him now was absolute, and he must guard
himself constantly. Poor fool! Why hadn't he told her that last night on
the British transport? What had held him back?

The uncertain future--he had let that rise up between. And now he could
not tell her. If she did not care, if her regard did not go beyond
comradeship, the knowledge would only distress her.

The yacht was beginning to roll now, for they were making the East China
Sea. The yacht rolled suddenly to starboard, and Jane fell against him. He
caught her, instantly turned her right about and gently but firmly forced
her into the cabin.

"Good-night. Remember! Rap on the partition if you hear anything you don't
like."

"I promise."

After she had locked and latched the door she set about the business of
emptying her kit bags. She hung the evening gown she had worn all day in
the locker, laid her toilet articles on the dresser, and set the brass
hand warmer on the lowboy. Then she let down her hair and began to brush
it. She swung a thick strand of it over her shoulder and ran her hand down
under it. The woman in "Phra the Phoenician," Allori's Judith--and she had
always hated the colour of it! She once more applied the brush, balancing
herself nicely to meet the ever-increasing roll.

Nevertheless, she did feel free, freer than she had felt in all her life
before. A stupendous adventure! After the braids were completed she flung
them down her back, turned off the light, and peered out of the
rain-blurred port. She could see nothing except an occasional flash of
angry foam as it raced past. She slipped into bed, but her eyes remained
open for a long time.

Dennison wondered if there would be a slicker in his old locker. He opened
the door. He found an oilskin and a yellow sou'wester on the hooks. He
took them down and put them on and stole out carefully, a hand extended
each side to minimize the roll. He navigated the passage and came out into
the salon.

Cleigh was still immersed in his book. He looked up quickly, but
recognizing the intruder, dropped his gaze instantly. Dennison crossed the
salon to the companionway and staggered up the steps. Had his father ever
really been afraid of anything? He could not remember ever having seen the
old boy in the grip of fear. What a devil of a world it was!

Dennison was an able seaman. He had been brought up on the sea--seven
years on the first Wanderer and five on the second. He had, in company
with his father, ridden the seven seas. But he had no trade; he hadn't the
money instinct; he would have to stumble upon fortune; he knew no way of
making it. And this knowledge stirred his rancor anew--the father hadn't
played fair with the son.

He gripped the deck-house rail to steady himself, for the wind and rain
caught him head-on.

Then he worked his way slowly along to the bridge. Twice a comber broke on
the quarter and dropped a ton of water, which sloshed about the deck,
drenching his feet. He climbed the ladder, rather amused at the recurrence
of an old thought--that climbing ship ladders in dirty weather was a good
deal like climbing in nightmares: one weighed thousands of pounds and had
feet of lead.

Presently he peered into the chart room, which was dark except for the
small hooded bulbs over the navigating instruments. He could see the chin
and jaws of the wheelman and the beard of old Captain Newton. From time to
time a wheel spoke came into the light.

On the chart table lay a pocket lamp, facing sternward, the light pouring
upon what looked to be a map; and over it were bent three faces, one of
which was Cunningham's. A forefinger was tracing this map.

Dennison opened the door and stepped inside.




CHAPTER XII


"How are you making out, Newton?" he asked, calmly.

"Denny? Why, God bless me, boy, I'm glad to see you! How's your dad?"

"Reading."

"That would be like him. I don't suppose if hell opened under his feet
he'd do anything except look interested. And it 'pears to me's though hell
had opened up right now!"

A chuckle came from the chart table.

"What's your idea of hell, Newton?" asked Cunningham.

"Anything you might have a hand in," was the return bolt.

"Why, you used to like me!"

"Yes, yes! But I didn't know you then. The barometer's dropping. If it was
August I'd say we were nosing into a typhoon. I always hated this yellow
muck they call a sea over here. Did you pick up that light?"

"Yes, sir," answered the wheelman. "I take it she's making
south--Hong-Kong way. There's plenty of sea room. She'll be well down
before we cross her wake."

Silence except for the rumble of the weather canvas standing up against
the furious blasts of the wind. Dennison stepped over to the chart table.

"Cunningham, I would like to have a word with you."

"Go ahead. You can have as many as you like."

"At dinner you spoke of your word."

"So I did. What about it?"

"Do you keep it?"

"Whenever I humanly can. Well?"

"What's this Catwick Island?"

"Hanged if I know!"

"Are you going to maroon us there?"

"No. At that point the yacht will be turned back to your father, and he
can cruise until the crack o' doom without further interference from yours
truly."

"That's your word?"

"It is--and I will keep it. Anything else?"

"Yes. I will play the game as it lies, provided that Miss Norman is in
nowise interfered with or annoyed."

"How is she taking it?"

"My reply first."

"Neither I nor the crew will bother her. She shall come and go free as the
gull in the air. If at any time the men do not observe the utmost
politeness toward her you will do me a favour to report to me. That's my
word, and I promise to keep it, even if I have to kill a man or two. I
wish to come through clean in the hands so far as your father, Miss
Norman, and yourself are concerned. I'm risking my neck and my liberty,
for this is piracy on the high seas. But every man is entitled to one good
joke during his lifetime, and when we raise the Catwick I'll explain this
joke in full. If you don't chuckle, then you haven't so much as a grain of
humour in your make-up."

"Well, there's nothing for me to do but take your word as you give it."

"That's the way to talk. Now, Flint, this bay or lagoon----"

The voice dropped into a low, indistinguishable murmur. Dennison realized
that the moment had come to depart; the edge of the encounter was in
Cunningham's favour and to remain would only serve to sharpen this edge.
So he went outside, slamming the door behind him.

The word of a rogue! There was now nothing to do but turn in. He believed
he had a glimmer. Somewhere off the Catwick Cunningham and his crew were
to be picked up. He would not be going to the Catwick himself, not
knowing whether it was jungle or bald rock. But if a ship was to pick him
up, why hadn't she made Shanghai and picked him up there? Why commit
piracy--unless he was a colossal liar, which Dennison was ready enough to
believe. The word of a rogue!

Some private war? Was Cunningham paying off an old grudge? But was any
grudge worth this risk? The old boy wasn't to be scared; Cunningham ought
to have known that. If Cleigh came through with a whole skin he'd hunt the
beggar down if it carried him to the North Pole. Cunningham ought to have
known that, too. A planted crew, piracy--and he, Dennison Cleigh, was
eventually to chuckle over it! He had his doubts. And where did the glass
beads come in? Or had Cunningham spoken the truth--a lure? A big game
somewhere in the offing. And the rogue was right! The world, dizzily
stewing in a caldron of monumental mistakes, would give scant attention to
an off-side play such as this promised to be. Not a handhold anywhere to
the puzzle. The old boy might have the key, but Dennison Cleigh could not
go to him for the solution.

His own father! Just as he had become used to the idea that the separation
was final, absolute, to be thrown together in this fantastic manner! The
father's arm under his neck and the cup at his lips had shaken him
profoundly. But Cleigh would not have denied a dog drink had the dog
exhibited signs of thirst. So nothing could be drawn from that.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Morning. Jane opened her eyes, only to shut them quickly. The white
brilliancy of the cabin hurt. Across the ceiling ran a constant flicker of
silver--reflected sunshine on the water. Southward--they were heading
southward. She jumped out of bed and stepped over to the port. Flashing
yellow water, a blue sky, and far off the oddly ribbed sails of a Chinese
junk labouring heavily in the big sea that was still running. Glorious!

She dressed hurriedly and warmly, bundling her hair under a velours hat
and ramming a pin through both.

"Denny?" she called.

There was no answer. He was on deck, probably.

An odd scene awaited her in the main salon. Cleigh, senior, stood before
the phonograph listening to Caruso. The roll of the yacht in nowise
disturbed the mechanism of the instrument. There was no sudden sluing of
the needle, due to an amateurish device which Cleigh himself had
constructed. The son, stooping, was searching the titles of a row of new
novels. The width of the salon stretched between the two.

"Good morning, everybody!"

There was a joyousness in her voice she made not the least attempt to
conceal. She was joyous, alive, and she did not care who knew it.

Dennison acknowledged her greeting with a smile, a smile which was a
mixture of wonder and admiration. How in the world was she to be made to
understand that they were riding a deep-sea volcano?

"Nothing disturbed you through the night?" asked Cleigh, lifting the pin
from the record.

"Nothing. I lay awake for an hour or two, but after that I slept like a
log. Have I kept you waiting?"

"No. Breakfast isn't quite ready," answered Cleigh.

"What makes the sea so yellow?"

"All the big Chinese rivers are mud-banked and mud-bottomed. They pour
millions of tons of yellow mud into these waters. By this afternoon,
however, I imagine we'll be nosing into the blue. Ah!"

"Breakfast iss served," announced Togo the Jap.

The trio entered the dining salon in single file, and once more Jane found
herself seated between the two men. One moment she was carrying on a
conversation with the father, the next moment with the son. The two
ignored each other perfectly. Under ordinary circumstances it would have
been strange enough; but in this hour, when no one knew where or how this
voyage would end! A real tragedy or some absurd trifle? Probably a trifle;
trifles dug more pits than tragedies. Perhaps tragedy was mis-named. What
humans called tragedy was epic, and trifles were real tragedies. And then
there were certain natures to whom the trifle was epical; to whom the
inconsequent was invariably magnified nine diameters; and having made a
mistake, would die rather than admit it.

To bring these two together, to lure them from behind their ramparts of
stubbornness, to see them eventually shake hands and grin as men will who
recognize that they have been playing the fool! She became fired with the
idea. Only she must not move prematurely; there must arrive some
psychological moment.

During the meal, toward the end of it, one of the crew entered. He was
young--in the early twenties. The manner in which he saluted convinced
Dennison that the fellow had recently been in the United States Navy.

"Mr. Cunningham's compliments, sir. Canvas has been rigged on the port
promenade and chairs and rugs set out."

Another salute and he was off.

"Well, that's decent enough," was Dennison's comment. "That chap has been
in the Navy. It's all miles over my head, I'll confess. Cunningham spoke
of a joke when I accosted him in the chart house last night."

"You went up there?" cried Jane.

"Yes. And among other things he said that every man is entitled to at
least one good joke. What the devil can he mean by that?"

Had he been looking at his father Dennison would have caught a fleeting,
grim, shadowy smile on the strong mouth.

"You will find a dozen new novels on the shelves, Miss Norman," said
Cleigh as he rose. "I'll be on deck. I generally walk two or three miles
in the morning. Let us hang together this day to test the scalawag's
promise."

"Mr. Cleigh, when you spoke of reparation last night, you weren't thinking
in monetary terms, were you?"

Cleigh's brows lowered a trifle, but it was the effect of puzzlement.

"Because," she proceeded, gravely, "all the money you possess would not
compensate me for the position you have placed me in."

"Well, perhaps I did have money in mind. However, I hold to my word.
Anything you may ask."

"Some day I will ask you for something."

"And if humanly possible I promise to give it," and with this Cleigh took
leave.

Jane turned to Dennison.

"It is so strange and incomprehensible! You two sitting here and ignoring
each other! Surely you don't hate your father?"

"I have the greatest respect and admiration for him. To you no doubt it
seems fantastic; but we understand each other thoroughly, my father and I.
I'd take his hand instantly, God knows, if he offered it! But if I offered
mine it would be glass against diamond--I'd only get badly scratched.
Suppose we go on deck? The air and the sunshine----"

"But this catastrophe has brought you together after all these years.
Isn't there something providential in that?"

"Who can say?"

On deck they fell in behind Cleigh, and followed him round for fully an
hour; then Jane signified that she was tired, and Dennison put her in the
centre chair and wrapped the rug about her. He selected the chair at her
right.

Jane shut her eyes, and Dennison opened a novel. It was good reading, and
he became partially absorbed. The sudden creak of a chair brought his
glance round. His father had seated himself in the vacant chair.

The phase that dug in and hurt was that his father made no endeavour to
avoid him--simply ignored his existence. Seven years and not a crack in
the granite! He laid the book on his knees and stared at the rocking
horizon.

One of the crew passed. Cleigh hailed him.

"Send Mr. Cleve to me."

"Yes, sir."

The air and the tone of the man were perfectly respectful.

When Cleve, the first officer, appeared his manner was solicitous.

"Are you comfortable, sir?"

"Would ten thousand dollars interest you?" said Cleigh, directly.

"If you mean to come over to your side, no. My life wouldn't be worth a
snap of the thumb. You know something about Dick Cunningham. I know him
well. The truth is, Mr. Cleigh, we're off on a big gamble, and if we win
out ten thousand wouldn't interest me. Life on board will be exactly as it
was before you put into Shanghai. More I am not at liberty to tell you."

"How far is the Catwick?"

"Somewhere round two thousand--eight or nine days, perhaps ten. We're not
piling on--short of coal. It's mighty difficult to get it for a private
yacht. You may not find a bucketful in Singapore. In America you can
always commandeer it, having ships and coal mines of your own. The drop
down to Singapore from the Catwick is about forty hours. You have coal in
Manila. You can cable for it."

"You are honestly leaving us at that island?"

"Yes, sir. You can, if you wish, take the run up to Saigon; but your
chance for coal there is nil."

"Cleve," said Cleigh, solemnly, "you appreciate the risks you are
running?"

"Mr. Cleigh, there are no risks. It's a dead certainty. Cunningham is one
of your efficiency experts. Everything has been thought of."

"Except fate," supplemented Cleigh.

"Fate? Why, she's our chief engineer!"

Cleve turned away, chuckling; a dozen feet off this chuckle became
boisterous laughter.

"What can they be after? Sunken treasure?" cried Jane, excitedly.

"Hangman's hemp--if I live long enough," was the grim declaration, and
Cleigh drew the rug over his knees.

"But it can't be anything dreadful if they can laugh over it!"

"Did you ever hear Mephisto laugh in Faust? Cunningham is a queer duck. I
don't suppose there's a corner on the globe he hasn't had a peek at. He
has a vast knowledge of the arts. His real name nobody seems to know. He
can make himself very likable to men and attractive to women. The sort of
women he seeks do not mind his physical deformity. His face and his
intellect draw them, and he is as cruel as a wolf. It never occurred to me
until last night that men like me create his kind. But I don't understand
him in this instance. A play like this, with all the future risks! After I
get the wires moving he won't be able to stir a hundred miles in any
direction."

"But so long as he doesn't intend to harm us--and I'm convinced he
doesn't--perhaps we'd better play the game as he asks us to."

"Miss Norman," said Cleigh in a tired voice, "will you do me the favour to
ask Captain Dennison why he has never touched the twenty thousand I
deposited to his account?"

Astonished, Jane turned to Dennison to repeat the question, but was
forestalled.

"Tell Mr. Cleigh that to touch a dollar of that money would be a tacit
admission that Mr. Cleigh had the right to strike Captain Dennison across
the mouth."

Dennison swung out of the chair and strode off toward the bridge, his
shoulders flat and his neck stiff.

"You struck him?" demanded Jane, impulsively.

But Cleigh did not answer. His eyes were closed, his head rested against
the back of the chair so Jane did not press the question. It was enough
that she had seen behind a corner of this peculiar veil. And, oddly, she
felt quite as much pity for the father as for the son. A wall of pride,
Alpine high, and neither would force a passage!

They did not see the arch rogue during the day, but he came in to dinner.
He was gay--in a story-telling mood. There was little or no banter, for he
spoke only to Jane, and gave her flashes of some of his amazing activities
in search of art treasures. He had once been chased up and down Japan by
the Mikado's agents for having in his possession some royal-silk tapestry
which it is forbidden to take out of the country. Another time he had gone
into Tibet for a lama's ghost mask studded with raw emeralds and
turquoise, and had suffered untold miseries in getting down into India.
Again he had entered a Rajput haremlik as a woman, and eventually escaped
with the fabulous rug which hung in the salon. Adventure, adventure, and
death always at his elbow! There was nothing of the braggart in the man;
he recounted his tales after the manner of a boy relating some college
escapades, deprecatingly.

Often Jane stole a glance at one or the other of the Cleighs. She was
constantly swung between--but never touched--the desire to laugh and the
desire to weep over this tragedy, which seemed so futile.

"Why don't you write a book about these adventures?" she asked.

"A book? No time," said Cunningham. "Besides, the moment one of these
trips is over it ends; I can recount it only sketchily."

"But even sketchily it would be tremendously interesting. It is as if you
were playing a game with death for the mere sport of it."

"Maybe that hits it, though I've never stopped to analyze. I never think
of death; it is a waste of gray matter. I should be no nearer death in
Tibet than I should be asleep in a cradle. Why bother about the absolute,
the inevitable? Humanity wears itself out building bridges for imaginary
torrents. I am an exception; that is why I shall be young and handsome up
to the moment the grim stalker puts his claw on my shoulder."

He smiled whimsically.

"But you, have you never caught some of the passion for possessing rare
paintings, rugs, manuscripts?"

"You miss the point. What does the sense of possession amount to beside
the sense of seeking and finding? Cleigh here thinks he is having a thrill
when he signs a check. It is to laugh!"

"Have you ever killed a man?" It was one of those questions that leap
forth irresistibly. Jane was a bit frightened at her temerity.

Cunningham drank his coffee deliberately.

"Yes."

"Oh!"

Jane shrank back a little.

"But never willfully," Cunningham added--"always in self-defence, and
never a white man."

There was a peculiar phase about the man's singular beauty. Animated, it
was youthful; in grim repose, it was sad and old.

"Death!" said Jane in a kind of awed whisper. "I have watched many die,
and I cannot get over the terror of it. Here is a man with all the
faculties, physical and mental; a human being, loving, hating, working,
sleeping; and in an instant he is nothing!"

"A Chinaman once said that the thought of death is as futile as water in
the hand. By the way, Cleigh--and you too, captain--give the wireless a
wide berth. There's death there."

Jane saw the fire opals leap into the dark eyes.




CHAPTER XIII


The third day out they were well below Formosa, which had been turned on a
wide arc. The sea was blue now, quiescent, waveless; there was only the
eternal roll. Still Jane could not help comparing the sea with the
situation--the devil was slumbering. What if he waked?

Time after time she tried to force her thoughts into the reality of this
remarkable cruise, but it was impossible. Romance was always smothering
her, edging her off, when she approached the sinister. Perhaps if she had
heard ribald songs, seen evidence of drunkenness; if the crew had loitered
about and been lacking in respect, she would have been able to grasp the
actuality; but so far the idea persisted that this could not be anything
more than a pleasure cruise. Piracy? Where was it?

So she measured her actions accordingly, read, played the phonograph, went
here and there over the yacht, often taking her stand in the bow and
peering down the cutwater to watch the antics of some humorous porpoise or
to follow the smother of spray where the flying fish broke. In fact, she
conducted herself exactly as she would have done on board a passenger
ship. There were moments when she was honestly bored.

Piracy! This was an established fact. Cunningham and his men had stepped
outside the pale of law in running off with the Wanderer. But piracy
without drunken disorder, piracy that wiped its feet on the doormat and
hung its hat on the rack! There was a touch of the true farce in it.
Hadn't Cunningham himself confessed that the whole affair was a joke?

Round two o'clock on the afternoon of the third day Jane, for the moment
alone in her chair, heard the phonograph--the sextet from Lucia. She left
her chair, looked down through the open transom and discovered Dennison
cranking the machine. He must have seen her shadow, for he glanced up
quickly.

He crooked a finger which said, "Come on down!" She made a negative sign
and withdrew her head.

Here she was again on the verge of wild laughter. Donizetti! Pirates!
Glass beads for which Cleigh had voyaged sixteen thousand miles! A father
and son who ignored each other! She choked down this desire to laugh,
because she was afraid it might end suddenly in hysteria and tears. She
returned to her chair, and there was the father arranging himself
comfortably. He had a book.

"Would you like me to read a while to you?" she offered.

"Will you? You see," he confessed, "I'm troubled with insomnia. If I read
by myself I only become interested in the book, but if someone reads aloud
it makes me drowsy."

"As a nurse I've done that hundreds of times. But frankly, I can't read
poetry; I begin to sing-song it at once; it becomes rime without reason.
What is the book?"

Cleigh extended it to her. The moment her hands touched the volume she saw
that she was holding something immeasurably precious. The form was unlike
the familiar shapes of modern books. The covers consisted of exquisitely
hand-tooled calf bound by thongs; there was a subtle perfume as she opened
them. Illuminated vellum. She uttered a pleasurable little gasp.

"The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's," she read.

"Fifteenth century--the vellum. The Florentine covers were probably added
in the seventeenth. I have four more downstairs. They are museum pieces,
as we say."

"That is to say, priceless?"

"After a fashion."

"'Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it; if a
man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would utterly
be contemned!'"

"Why did you select that?"

"I didn't select it; I remembered it--because it is true."

"You have a very pleasant voice. Go on--read."

Thus for an hour she read to him, and by the time she grew tired Cleigh
was sound asleep. The look of granite was gone from his face, and she saw
that he, too, had been handsome in his youth. Why had he struck Denny on
the mouth? What had the son done so to enrage the father? Some woman! And
where had she met the man? Oh, she was certain that she had encountered
him before! But for the present the gate to recollection refused to swing
outward. Gently she laid the beautiful book on his knees and stole over to
the rail. For a while she watched the flying fish.

Then came one of those impulses which keep human beings from becoming half
gods--a wrong impulse, surrendered to immediately, unweighed, unanalyzed,
unchallenged. The father asleep, the son amusing himself with the
phonograph, she was now unobserved by her guardians; and so she put into
execution the thought that had been urging and intriguing her since the
strange voyage began--a visit to the chart house. She wanted to ask
Cunningham some questions. He would know something about the Cleighs.

The port door to the chart house was open, latched back against the side.
She hesitated for a moment outside the high-beamed threshold--hesitated
because Captain Newton was not visible. The wheelman was alone. Obliquely
she saw Cunningham, Cleve, and a third man seated round a table which was
littered. This third man sat facing the port door, and sensing her
presence he looked up. Rather attractive until one noted the thin, hard
lips, the brilliant blue eyes. At the sight of Jane something flitted over
his face, and Jane knew that he was bad.

