species change by the gradual elimination of the unfit, or do they
change by sudden leaps, the "mutation" theory of de Vries? Are acquired
powers transmitted to posterity, or is the germ plasm unaffected by its
environment? Concerning such questions the scientists debate. But the
fact that life has evolved in an ordered series from the lower forms to
the higher, and that each individual reproduces in embryo and in infancy
the history of this long process--these facts are now the basis of all
modern thinking, and as generally accepted as the rotation of the earth.

You may study this process of evolution from the outside, in the
multitude of forms which it has assumed and in their reactions one to
another; or you may study it from the inside in your own soul, the
emotions which accompany it, the impulse or craving which impels it, the
Ã©lan vital, as it is called by the French philosopher Bergson. The
Christians call it love, and Nietzsche, who hated Christianity, called
it "the will to power," and persuaded himself that it was the opposite
of love.

You will find in the essays of Professor Huxley, one entitled
"Evolution and Ethics," in which he sets forth the complete unmorality
of nature, and declares that there is no way by which what mankind knows
as morality can have originated in the process of nature or can be
reconciled to natural law. This statement, coming from a leading
agnostic, was welcome to the theologians. But when I first read the
essay, as a student of sixteen, it seemed to me narrow; I thought I saw
a standpoint from which the contradiction disappeared. The difference
between the morality of Christ and the morality of nature is merely the
difference between a lower and a higher stage of mental development. The
animal loves and seeks by instinct to preserve the life which it
knows--that is to say, its own life and the life of its young. The wolf
knows nothing about the feelings of a deer; but man in his savage state
develops reasoning powers enough to realize that there are others like
himself, the members of his own tribe, and he makes for himself taboos
which forbid him to kill and eat the members of that tribe. At the
present time humanity has developed its reason and imaginative sympathy
to include in the "tribe" one or two hundred million people; while to
those outside the tribe it still preserves the attitude of the wolf.

How came it that a mind so acute as Huxley's went so far astray on the
question of the evolution of morality? The answer is that this was the
factory age in England, and the great scientist, a rebel in theological
matters, was in economics a child of his time. We find him using the
formulas of bourgeois biology to ridicule Henry George and his plea for
the freeing of the land. "Competition is the life of trade," ran the
nineteenth century slogan; and competition was the god of nineteenth
century biology. Tennyson summed it up in the phrase: "Nature red in
tooth and claw with ravin;" and this was found convenient by Manchester
manufacturers who wished to shut little children up for fourteen hours a
day in cotton mills, and to harness women to drag cars in the coal
mines, and to be told by the learned men of their colleges and the holy
men of their churches that this was "the survival of the fittest," it
was nature's way of securing the advancement of the race.

But now we are preparing for an era of cooperation, and it occurs to our
men of science to go back to nature and find out what really are her
ways. If you will read Kropotkin's "Mutual Aid as a Factor in
Evolution," you will find a complete refutation of the old bourgeois
biology, and a view of nature which reveals in it the germs of human
morality. Kropotkin points out that everywhere throughout nature it is
the social and not the solitary animals which are most numerous and most
successful. There are many millions of ants and bees for every hawk or
eagle, and certainly in the state of nature there were thousands of deer
for every lion or tiger that preyed upon them. And all these social
creatures have their ways of being, which it requires no stress of the
imagination to compare with the tribal customs and the moral codes of
mankind. The different animals prey upon one another, but they do not
prey upon their own species, except in a few rare cases. The only beast
that makes a regular practice of exploiting his own kind is man.

By hundreds of interesting illustrations Kropotkin shows that mutual aid
and mutual self-protection are the means whereby the higher forms of
being have been evolved. Insects and birds and fish, nearly all the
herbivorous mammals, and even a great many of the carnivores, help one
another and protect one another. The chattering monkeys in the treetops
drove out the saber-tooth tiger from the grove because there were so
many of them, and when they saw him they all set up a shriek and clamor
which deafened and confused him. And when by and by these monkeys
developed an opposed thumb, and broke off a branch of a tree for a club,
and fastened a sharp stone on the end of it for an axe, and fell upon
the saber-toothed tiger and exterminated him, they did it because they
had learned solidarity--even as the workers of the world are today
learning solidarity in the face of the beast of capitalism.

Man has survived by the cunning of his brain, we are told, and that is
true. But first among the products of that cunning brain has been the
knowledge that by himself he is the most helpless and pitiful of
creatures, while standing together and forming societies and developing
moralities, he is master of the world. He has not yet learned that
lesson entirely; he has learned it only for his own nation. Therefore he
takes the highest skill of his hand and the subtlest wit of his brain,
and uses them to manufacture poison gases. At the present hour he is
painfully realizing that his poison formulas all become known to the
tribes whom he calls his enemies, and so it is his own destruction he is
engaged in contriving. In other words, man has come to a time when his
mechanical skill, his mastery over the forces of nature, has developed
more rapidly than his moral sense and his imaginative sympathy. His
ability to destroy life has become dangerously greater than his desire
to preserve it. So he confronts the fair face of nature as an insane
creature, wrecking not merely everything that he himself has built up,
but everything that nature has built in the ages before him. He is
striving now with infinite agony to make this fact real to himself, and
to mend his evil ways; and the first step in that process is to root out
from his mind the devil's doctrine which in his blindness and greed he
has himself implanted, that there is any way for him to find real
happiness, or to make any worth while progress on this earth, by the
method of inflicting misery and torment upon his fellow men.




CHAPTER V

NATURE AND MAN

     (Attempts to show how man has taken control of nature, and is
     carrying on her processes and improving upon them.)


If the argument of the preceding chapter is sound, human morality is not
a fixed and eternal set of laws, but is, like everything else in the
world, a product of natural evolution. We can trace the history of it,
just as we trace the story of the rocks. It is not a mysterious or
supernatural thing, it is simply the reaction of man to his environment,
and more especially to his fellow men. The source of it is that same
inner impulse, that love of life, that joy in growing, that faith which
appears to be the soul of all being.

Man is a part of nature and a product of nature; in many fundamental
respects his ways are still nature's ways and his laws still nature's
laws. But there are other and even more significant ways in which man
has separated himself from nature and made himself something quite
different. In order to reveal this clearly, we draw a distinction
between nature and man. This is a proper thing to do, provided we bear
in mind that our classification is not permanent or final. We
distinguish frogs from tadpoles, in spite of the fact that at one stage
the creature is half tadpole and half frog. We distinguish the animal
from the vegetable kingdom, despite the fact that in their lower forms
they cannot be distinguished.

What, precisely, is the difference between nature and man? The
difference lies in the fact that nature is apparently blind in her
processes; she produces a million eggs in order to give life to one
salmon, she produces countless millions of salmon to be devoured by
other fish apparently no better than salmon. Poets may take up the
doctrine of evolution and dress it out in theological garments, talking
about the "one far off divine event towards which the whole creation
moves," but for all we can see, nature, apart from man, is just as well
satisfied to move in circles, and to come back exactly where she
started. Nature made a whole world of complicated creatures in the
steamy, luke-warm swamps of the Mesozoic era, and then, as if deciding
that the pattern of a large body and a small brain was not a success,
she froze them all to death with a glacial epoch, and we have nothing
but the bones to tell us about them.

No one understands anything about evolution until he has realized that
the phrase "the survival of the fittest" does not mean the survival of
the best from any human point of view. It merely means the survival of
those capable of surviving in some particular environment. We consider
our present civilization as "fit"; but if astronomical changes should
cause another ice age, we should discover that our "fitness" depended
upon our ability to live on lichens, or on something we could grow by
artificial light in the bowels of the earth.

So much for our ancient mother, nature. But now--whether we say with the
theologians that it was divine providence, or with the materialist
philosophers that it was an accidental mixing of atoms--at any rate it
has come about that nature has recently produced creatures who are
conscious of her process, who are able to observe and criticize it, to
take up her work and carry it on in their own way, for better or for
worse. Whether by accident or design, there has been on parts of our
planet such a combination of climate and soil as has brought into being
a new product of nature, a heightened form of life which we call
"intelligence." Creation opens its eyes, and beholds the work of the
creator, and decides that it is good--yet not so good as it might be!
Creation takes up the work of the creator, and continues it, in many
respects annulling it, in other respects revising it entirely. Whether a
sonnet is a better or a higher product than a spider is a question it
would be futile to discuss; but this, at least, should be clear--nature
has produced an infinity of spiders, but nature never produced a sonnet,
nor anything resembling it.

Man, the creature of God, takes over the functions of God. This fact may
shock us, or it may inspire us; to the metaphysically minded it offers a
great variety of fascinating problems. Can it be that God is in process
of becoming, that there is no God until he has become, in us and through
us? H. G. Wells sets forth this curious idea; and then, of course, the
bishops and the clergy rise up in indignation and denounce Mr. Wells as
an upstart and trespasser upon their field. They have been worshipping
their God for some three or four thousand years, and know that He has
been from eternity; He created the world at His will, and how shall
impious man presume to rise up and criticize His product, and imagine
that he can improve upon it? Man, with his cheap and silly little toys,
his sonnets and scientific systems, his symphony concerts and such pale
imitations of celestial harmonies!

Mr. Wells, in his character of God in the making, has created a bishop
of his own, and no doubt would maintain the thesis that he is a far
better bishop than any created by the God of the Anglican churches. We
will leave Mr. Wells' bishop to argue these problems with God's bishops,
and will merely remind the reader of our warning about these
metaphysical matters. You can prove anything and everything, whichever
and however, all or both; and discussions of the subject are merely your
enunciation of the fact that you have your private truth as you want it.
It may be that there is an Infinite Consciousness, which carries the
whole process of creation in itself, and that all the seeming wastes and
blunders of nature can be explained from some point of view at present
beyond the reach of our minds. On the other hand it may be that
consciousness is now dawning in the universe for the first time. It may
be that it is an accident, a fleeting product like the morning mist on
the mountain top. On the other hand, it may be that it is destined to
grow and expand and take control of the entire universe, as a farmer
takes control of a field for his own purposes. It may be that just as
our individual fragments of intelligence communicate and merge into a
family, a club, a nation, a world culture, so we shall some day grope
our way toward the consciousness of other planets, or of other states of
being subsisting on this planet unknown to us, or perhaps even toward
the cosmic soul, the universal consciousness which we call God.

But meantime, all we can say with positiveness is this: man, the
created, is becoming the creator. He is taking up the world purpose, he
is imposing upon it new purposes of his own, he is attempting to impose
upon it a moral code, to test it and discipline it by a new standard
which he calls economy. To the present writer this seems the most
significant fact about life, the most fascinating point of view from
which life can be regarded. The reader who wishes to follow it into
greater detail is referred to a little book by Professor E. Ray
Lankester, "The Kingdom of Man"; especially the opening essay, with its
fascinating title, "Nature's Insurgent Son."

In what ways have the reasoned and deliberate purposes of man revised
and even supplanted the processes of nature? The ways are so many that
it would be easier to mention those in which he has not done so. A
modern civilized man is hardly content with anything that nature does,
nor willing to accept any of nature's products. He will not eat nature's
fruits, he prefers the kinds that he himself has brought into being. He
is not content with the skin that nature has given him; he has made
himself an infinite variety of complicated coverings. He objects to
nature's habit of pouring cold water upon him, and so he has built
himself houses in which he makes his own climate; he has recently taken
to creating for himself houses which roll along the ground, or which fly
through the air, or which swim under the surface of the sea; so he
carries his private climate with him to all these places. It was
nature's custom to remove her blunders and her experiments quickly from
her sight. But man has decided that he loves life so well that he will
preserve even the imbeciles, the lame and the halt and the blind. In a
state of nature, if a man's eyes were not properly focused, he blundered
into the lair of a tiger and was eaten. But civilized man despises such
a method of maintaining the standard of human eyes; he creates for
himself a transparent product, ground to such a curve that it corrects
the focus of his eyes, and makes them as good as any other eyes. In ten
thousand such ways we might name, man has rebelled against the harshness
of his ancient mother, and has freed himself from her control.

But still he is the child of his mother, and so it is his way to act
first, and then to realize what he has done. So it comes about that very
few, even of the most highly educated men, are aware how completely the
ancient ways of nature have been suppressed by her "insurgent son." It
is a good deal as in the various trades and professions which have
developed with such amazing rapidity in modern civilization; the paper
man knows how to make paper, the shoe man knows how to make shoes, the
optician knows about grinding glasses, but none of these knows very much
about the others' specialties, and has no realization of how far the
other has gone. So it comes about that in our colleges we are still
teaching ancient and immutable "laws of nature," which in the actual
practice of men at work are as extinct and forgotten as the dodo. In all
colleges, except a few which have been tainted by Socialist thought,
the students are solemnly learning the so-called "Malthusian law," that
population presses continually upon the limits of subsistence, there are
always a few more people in every part of the world than that part of
the world is able to maintain. At any time we increase the world's
productive powers, population will increase correspondingly, so there
can never be an end to human misery, and abortion, war and famine are
simply nature's eternal methods of adjusting man to his environment.

Thus solemnly we are taught in the colleges. And yet, nine out of ten of
the students come from homes where the parents have discovered the
modern practice of birth control; all the students are themselves
finding out about it in one way or another, and will proceed when they
marry to restrict themselves to two or three children. In vain will the
ghost of their favorite statesman and hero, Theodore Roosevelt, be
traveling up and down the land, denouncing them for the dreadful crime
of "race suicide"--that is to say, their presuming to use their reason
to put an end to the ghastly situation revealed by the Malthusian law,
over-population eternally recurring and checked by abortion, war and
famine! In vain will the ghost of their favorite saint and moralist,
Anthony Comstock, be traveling up and down the land, putting people in
jail for daring to teach to poor women what every rich woman knows, and
for attempting to change the entirely man-made state of affairs whereby
an intelligent and self-governing Anglo-Saxon land is being in two or
three generations turned over to a slum population of Italians, Poles,
Hungarians, Portuguese, French-Canadians, Mexicans and Japanese!

Likewise in every orthodox college the student is taught what his
professors are pleased to call "the law of diminishing returns of
agriculture." That is to say, additional labor expended upon a plot of
land does not result in an equal increase of produce, and the increase
grows less, until finally you come to a time when no matter how much
labor you expend, you can get no more produce from that plot of land.
All professors teach this, because fifty years ago it was true, and
since that time it has not occurred to any professor of political
science to visit a farm. And all the while, out in the suburbs of the
city where the college is located, market gardeners are practicing on an
enormous scale a new system of intensive agriculture which makes the
"law of diminishing returns" a foolish joke.

As Kropotkin shows in his book, "Fields, Factories and Workshops," the
modern intensive gardener, by use of glass and the chemical test-tube,
has developed an entirely new science of plant raising. He is
independent of climate, he makes his own climate; he is independent of
the defects of the soil, he would just as soon start from nothing and
make his soil upon an asphalt pavement. By doubling his capital
investment he raises, not twice as much produce, but ten times as much.
If his methods were applied to the British Isles, he could raise
sufficient produce on this small surface to feed the population of the
entire globe.

So we see that by simple and entirely harmless devices man is in
position to restrict or to increase population as he sees fit. Also he
is in position to raise food and produce the necessities of life for a
hundred or thousand times as many people as are now on the earth. But
superstition ordains involuntary parenthood, and capitalism ordains that
land shall be held out of use for speculation, or shall be exploited for
rent! And this is done in the name of "nature"--that old nature of the
"tooth and claw," whose ancient plan it is "that they shall take who
have the power, and they shall keep who can"; that ancient nature which
has been so entirely suppressed and supplanted by civilized man, and
which survives only as a ghost, a skeleton to be resurrected from the
tomb, for the purpose of frightening the enslaved. When a predatory
financier wishes a fur overcoat to protect himself from the cold, or
when he hires a masseur to keep up the circulation of his blood, you do
not find him troubling himself about the laws of "nature"; never will he
mention this old scarecrow, except when he is trying to persuade the
workers of the world to go on paying him tribute for the use of the
natural resources of the earth!




CHAPTER VI

MAN THE REBEL

     (Shows the transition stage between instinct and reason, in which
     man finds himself, and how he can advance to a securer condition.)


In the state of nature you find every creature living a precarious
existence, incessantly beset by enemies; and the creature survives only
so long as it keeps itself at the top of its form. The result is the
maintenance of the type in its full perfection, and, under the
competitive pressure, a gradual increase of its powers. Excepting when
sudden eruptions of natural forces occur, every creature is perfectly
provided with a set of instincts for all emergencies; it is in
harmonious relationship to its environment, it knows how to do what it
has to do, and even its fears and its pains serve for its protection.
But now comes man and overthrows this state of nature, abolishes the
competitive struggle, and changes at his own insolent will both his
environment and his reaction thereto.

Man's changes are, in the beginning, all along one line; they are for
his own greater comfort, the avoidance of the inconveniences of nature
and the stresses of the competitive struggle. In a state of nature there
are no fat animals, but in civilization there are not merely fat
animals, but fat men to eat the fat animals. In a state of nature no
animal loafs very long; it has to go out and hunt its food again. But
man, by his superior cunning, compels the animals to work for him, and
also his fellow men. So he produces unlimited wealth for himself; not
merely can he eat and drink and sleep all he wants, but he builds a
whole elaborate set of laws and moral customs and religious codes about
this power, he invents manners and customs and literatures and arts,
expressive of his superiority to nature and to his fellow men, and of
his ability to enslave and exploit them. So he destroys for his
imperious self the beneficent guardianship which nature had maintained
over him; he develops a thousand complicated diseases, a thousand
monstrous abnormalities of body and mind and spirit. And each one of
these diseases and abnormalities is a new life of its own; it develops
a body of knowledge, a science, and perhaps an art; it becomes the means
of life, the environment and the determining destiny of thousands,
perhaps millions, of human beings. So continues the growth of the
colossal structure which we call civilization--in part still healthy and
progressive, but in part as foul and deadly as a gigantic cancer.

What is to be done about this cancer? First of all, it must be
diagnosed, the extent of it precisely mapped out and the causes of it
determined. Man, the rebel, has rejected his mother nature, and has lost
and for the most part forgotten the instincts with which she provided
him. He has destroyed the environment which, however harsh to the
individual, was beneficent to the race, and has set up in the place of
it a gigantic pleasure-house, with talking machines and moving pictures
and soda fountains and manicure parlors and "gents' furnishing
establishments."

Shall we say that man is to go back to a state of nature, that he shall
no longer make asylums for the insane and homes for the defective,
eye-glasses for the astigmatic and malted milk for the dyspeptic? There
are some who preach that. Among the multitude of strange books and
pamphlets which come in my mail, I found the other day a volume from
England, "Social Chaos and the Way Out," by Alfred Baker Read, a learned
and imposing tome of 364 pages, wherein with all the paraphernalia of
learning it is gravely maintained that the solution for the ills of
civilization is a return to the ancient Greek practice of infanticide.
Every child at birth is to be examined by a committee of physicians, and
if it is found to possess any defect, or if the census has established
that there are enough babies in the world for the present, this baby
shall be mercifully and painlessly asphyxiated. You might think that
this is a joke, after the fashion of Swift's proposal for eating the
children of famine-stricken Ireland. I have spent some time examining
this book before I risk committing myself to the statement that it is
the work of a sober scientist, with no idea whatever of fun.

If we are going to think clearly on this subject, the first point we
have to understand is that nature has nothing to do with it. We cannot
appeal to nature, because we are many thousands of years beyond her
sway. We left her when the first ape came down from the treetop and
fastened a sharp stone in the end of his club; we bade irrevocable
good-bye to her when the first man kept himself from freezing and
altered his diet by means of fire. Therefore, it is no argument to say
that this, that, or the other remedy is "unnatural." Our choice will lie
among a thousand different courses, but the one thing we may be sure of
is that none of them will be "natural." Bairnsfather, in one of his war
cartoons, portrays a British officer on leave, who got homesick for the
trenches and went out into the garden and dug himself a hole in the mud
and sat shivering in the rain all night. And this amuses us vastly; but
we should be even more amused if any kind of reformer, physician,
moralist, clergyman or legislator should suggest to us any remedy for
our ills that was really "according to nature."

Civilized man, creature of art and of knowledge, has no love for nature
except as an object for the play of his fancy and his wit. He means to
live his own life, he means to hold himself above nature with all his
powers. Yet, obviously, he cannot go on accumulating diseases, he cannot
give his life-blood to the making of a cancer while his own proper
tissues starve. He must somehow divert the flow of his energies, his
social blood-stream, so to speak, from the cancer to the healthy growth.
To abandon the metaphor, man will determine by the use of his reason
what he wishes life to be; he will choose the highest forms of it to
which he can attain. He will then, by the deliberate act of his own
will, devote his energies to those tasks; he will make for himself new
laws, new moral codes, new customs and ways of thought, calculated to
bring to reality the ideal which he has formed. So only can man justify
himself as a creator, so can he realize the benefit and escape the
penalties of his revolt from his ancient mother.

And then, perhaps, we shall make the discovery that we have come back to
nature, only in a new form. Nature, harsh and cruel, wasteful and blind
as we call her, yet had her deep wisdom; she cared for the species, she
protected and preserved the type. Man, in his new pride of power, has
invented a philosophy which he dignifies by the name of "individualism."
He lives and works for himself; he chooses to wear silk shirts, and to
break the speed limit, and to pin ribbons and crosses on his chest. Now
what he must do with his new morality, if he wishes to save himself from
degeneration, is to manifest the wisdom and far vision of the old
mother whom he spurned, and to say to himself, deliberately, as an act
of high daring: I will protect the species, I will preserve the type! I
will deny myself the raptures of alcoholic intoxication, because it
damages the health of my offspring; I will deny myself the amusement of
sexual promiscuity for the same reason. I will devise imitations of the
chase and of battle in order that I may keep my physical body up to the
best standard of nature. Because I understand that all civilized life is
based upon intelligence, I will acquire knowledge and spread it among my
fellow men. Because I perceive that civilization is impossible without
sympathy, and because sympathy makes it impossible for me to be happy
while my fellow men are ignorant and degraded, therefore I dedicate my
energies to the extermination of poverty, war, parasitism and all forms
of exploitation of man by his fellows.

Professor William James is the author of an excellent essay entitled "A
Moral Equivalent for War." He sets forth the idea that men have loved
war through the ages because it has called forth their highest efforts,
has made them more fully aware of the powers of their being. He asks,
May it not be possible for man, of his own free impulse, born of his
love of life and the wonderful potentialities which it unfolds, to
invent for himself a discipline, a code based, not upon the destruction
of other men and their enslavement, but upon cooperative emulation in
the unfoldment of the powers of the mind? That this can be done by men,
I have never doubted. That it will be done, and done quickly, has been
made certain by the late world conflict, which has demonstrated to all
thinking people that the progress of the mechanical arts has been such
that man is now able to inflict upon his own civilization more damage
than it is able to endure.




CHAPTER VII

MAKING OUR MORALS

     (Attempts to show that human morality must change to fit human
     facts, and there can be no judge of it save human reason.)


Assuming the argument of the preceding chapters to be accepted, it
appears that human life is in part at least a product of human will,
guided by human intelligence. Man finds himself in the position of the
crew of a ship in the middle of the ocean; he does not know exactly how
the ship was made, or how it came to be in its present position, but he
has discovered how the engines are run, and how the ship is steered, and
the meaning of the compass. So now he takes charge of the ship, and
keeps it afloat amid many perils; and meantime, on the bridge of the
vessel, there goes on a furious argument over the question what port the
ship shall be steered to and what chart shall be used.

It is not well as a rule to trust to similes, but this simile is useful
because it helps us to realize how fluid and changeable are the
conditions of man's life, and how incessant and urgent the problems with
which he finds himself confronted. The moral and legal codes of mankind
may be compared to the steering orders which are given to the helmsman
of the vessel. Northeast by north, he is told; and if during the night a
heavy wind arises, and pushes the bow of the vessel off to starboard,
then the helmsman has to push the wheel in the opposite direction. If he
does not do so, he may find that his vessel has swung around and is
going to some other part of the world. Next morning the passengers may
wake up and find the ship on the rocks--because the helmsman persisted
in following certain steering directions which were laid down in an
ancient Hebrew book two or three thousand years ago!

If life is a continually changing product, then the laws which govern
conduct must also be continually changing, and morality is a problem of
continuous adjustment to new circumstances and new needs. If man is free
to work upon this changing environment, he must be free to make new
tools and devise new processes. If it is the task of reason to choose
among many possible courses and many possible varieties of life, then
clearly it is man's duty to examine and revise every detail of his laws
and customs and moral codes.

This is, of course, in flat contradiction to the teachings of all
religions. So far as I know there is no religion which does not teach
that the conduct of man in certain matters has been eternally fixed by
some higher power, and that it is man's duty to conform to these rules.
It is considered to be wicked even to suggest any other idea; in fact,
to do so is the most wicked thing in the world, far more dangerous than
any actual infraction of the code, whatever it may be.

Let us see how this works out in practice. Let us take, for a test, the
Ten Commandments. These commandments were graven upon stone tablets some
four thousand years ago, and are supposed to have been valid ever since.
"Thou shalt not kill," is one; others phrase it, "Thou shall do no
murder"; and in this double version we see at once the beginnings of
controversy. If you are a Quaker, you accept the former version, while
if you are a member of the military general staff of your country you
accept the latter. You maintain the right to kill your fellow men,
provided that those who do the killing have been previously clad in a
special uniform, indicating their distinctive function as killers of
their fellow men. You maintain, in other words, the right of making war;
and presently, when you get into making war, you find yourself
maintaining the right to kill, not merely by the old established method
of the sword and the bullet, but by means of poison gases which destroy
the lives of women and children, perhaps a whole city full at a time.

And also, of course, you maintain the right to kill, provided the
killing has been formally ordered and sanctioned by a man who sits upon
a raised bench and wears a black robe, and perhaps a powdered wig. You
consider that by the simple device of putting this man into a black robe
and a powdered wig, you endow him with authority to judge and revise the
divine law. In other words, you subject this divine law to human reason;
and if some religious fanatic refuses to be so subjected, you call him
by the dread name "pacifist," and if he attempts to preach his idea, you
send him to prison for ten or twenty years, which means in actual
practice that you kill him by the slow effects of malnutrition and
tubercular infection. If he is ordered to put on the special costume of
killing, and refuses to do so, you call him a "C. O.," and you bully and
beat him, and perhaps administer to him the "water cure" in your
dungeons.

Or take the commandment that we shall not commit adultery. Surely this
is a law about which we can agree! But presently we discover that
unhappily married couples desire to part, and that if we do not allow
them to part, we actually cause the commission of a great deal more
adultery than otherwise. Therefore, our wise men meet together, and
revise this divine law, and decide that it is not adultery if a man
takes another wife, provided he has received from a judge an engraved
piece of paper permitting him to do so. But some of the followers of
religion refuse to admit this right of mere mortal man. The Catholic
Church attempts to enforce its own laws, and declares that people who
divorce and remarry are really living in adultery and committing mortal
sin. The Episcopal Church does not go quite so far as that; it allows
the innocent party in the divorce to remarry. Other churches are content
to accept the state law as it stands. Is it not manifest that all these
groups are applying human reason, and nothing but human reason, to the
interpreting and revising of their divine commandments?

Or take the law, "Thou shalt not steal." Surely we can all agree upon
that! Let us do so; but our agreement gets us nowhere, because we have
to set up a human court to decide what is "stealing." Is it stealing to
seize upon land, and kill the occupants of it, and take the land for
your own, and hand it down to your children forever? Yes, of course,
that is stealing, you say; but at once you have to revise your
statement. It is not stealing if it was done a sufficient number of
years ago; in that case the results of it are sanctified by law, and
held unchangeable forever. Also, we run up against the fact that it is
not stealing, if it is done by the State, by men who have been dressed
up in the costume of killers before they commit the act.

Again, is it stealing to hold land out of use for speculation, while
other men are starving and dying for lack of land to labor upon? Some of
us call this stealing, but we are impolitely referred to as "radicals,"
and if we venture to suggest that anyone should resist this kind of
stealing, we are sentenced to slow death from malnutrition and
tubercular infection. Again, is it stealing for a victim of our system
of land monopoly to take a loaf of bread in order to save the life of
his starving child? The law says that this is stealing, and sends the
man to jail for this act; yet the common sense of mankind protests, and
I have heard a great many respectable Americans venture so far in
"radicalism" as to say that they themselves would steal under such
circumstances.

One could pile up illustrations without limit; but this is enough to
make clear the point, that it is perfectly futile to attempt to talk
about "divine" rules for human conduct. Regardless of any ideas you may
hold, or any wishes, you are forced at every hour of your life to apply
your reason to the problems of your life, and you have no escape from
the task of judging and deciding. All that you do is to judge right or
to judge wrong; and if you judge wrong, you inflict misery upon yourself
and upon all who come into contact with you. How much more sensible,
therefore, to recognize the fact of moral and intellectual
responsibility; to investigate the data of life with which you have to
deal, the environment by which you are surrounded, and to train your
judgment so that you will be able to fit yourself to it with quickness
and certainty!

"But," the believer in religion will say, "this leaves mankind without
any guide or authority. How can human beings act, how can they deal with
one another, if there are no laws, no permanent moral codes?"

The answer is that to accept the idea of the evolution of morality does
not mean at all that there will be no permanent laws and working
principles. Many of the facts of life are fixed for all practical
purposes--the purposes not merely of your life and my life, but the life
of many generations. We are not likely to see in our time the end of the
ancient Hebrew announcement that "the sins of the father are visited
upon the children"; therefore it is possible for us to study out a
course of action based upon the duty of every father to hand down to his
children the gift of a sound mind in a sound body. The Catholic Church
has had for a thousand years or more the "mortal sin" of gluttony upon
its list; and today comes experimental science with its new weapons of
research, and discovers autointoxication and the hardening of the
arteries, and makes it very unlikely that the moral codes of men will
ever fail to list gluttony as a mortal sin. Indeed, science has added to
gluttony, not merely drunkenness, but all use of alcoholic liquor for
beverage purposes; we have done this in spite of the manifest fact that
the drinking of wine was not merely an Old Testament virtue, but a New
Testament religious rite.

To say that human life changes, and that new discoveries and new powers
make necessary new laws and moral customs, is to say something so
obvious that it might seem a waste of paper and ink. Man has invented
the automobile and has crowded himself into cities, and so has to adopt
a rigid set of traffic regulations. So far as I know, it has never
occurred to any religious enthusiast to seek in the book of Revelation
for information as to the advisability of the "left hand turn" at
Broadway and Forty-second Street, New York, at five o'clock in the
afternoon. But modern science has created new economic facts, just as
unprecedented as the automobile; it has created new possibilities of
spending and new possibilities of starving for mankind; it has made new
cravings and new satisfactions, new crimes and new virtues; and yet the
great mass of our people are still seeking to guide themselves in their
readjustments to these new facts by ancient codes which have no more
relationship to these facts than they have to the affairs of Mars!

I am acquainted with a certain lady, one of the kindest and most devoted
souls alive, who seeks to solve the problems of her life, and of her
large family of children and grand-children, according to sentences
which she picks out, more or less at random, from certain more or less
random chapters of ancient Hebrew literature. This lady will find some
words which she imagines apply to the matter, and will shut her devout
eyes to the fact that there are other "texts," bearing on the matter,
which say exactly the opposite. She will place the strangest and most
unimaginable interpretations upon the words, and yet will be absolutely
certain that her interpretation is the voice of God speaking directly to
her. If you try to tell her about Socialism, she will say, "The poor ye
have always with you"; which means that it is interfering with Divine
Providence to try to remedy poverty on any large scale. This lady is
ready instantly to relieve any single case of want; she regards it as
her duty to do this; in fact, she considers that the purpose of some
people's poverty is to provide her with a chance to do the noble action
of relieving it. You would think that the meaning of the sentence,
"Spare the rod and spoil the child," would be so plain that no one
could mistake it; but this good lady understood it to mean that God
forbade the physical chastisement of children, and preferred them
"spoiled." She held this idea for half a lifetime--until it was pointed
out to her that the sentence was not in the Bible, but in "Hudibras," an
old English poem!




CHAPTER VIII

THE VIRTUE OF MODERATION

     (Attempts to show that wise conduct is an adjustment of means to
     ends, and depends upon the understanding of a particular set of
     circumstances.)


Some years ago I used to know an ardent single tax propagandist who
found my way of arguing intensely irritating, because, as he phrased it,
I had "no principles." We would be discussing, for example, a protective
tariff, and I would wish to collect statistics, but discovered to my
bewilderment that to my single tax friend a customs duty was "stealing"
on the part of the government. The government had a right to tax land,
because that was the gift of nature, but it had no right to tax the
products of human labor, and when it took a portion of the goods which
anyone brought into a country, the government was playing the part of a
robber. Of course such a man was annoyed by the suggestion that in the
early stages of a country's development it might possibly be a good
thing for the country to make itself independent and self-sufficient by
encouraging the development of its manufactures; that, on the other
hand, when these manufactures had grown to such a size that they
controlled the government, it might be an excellent thing for the
country to subject them to the pressure of foreign competition, in order
to lower their value as a preliminary to socializing them.

The reader who comes to this book looking for hard and fast rules of
life will be disappointed. It would be convenient if someone could lay
down for us a moral code, and lift from our shoulders the inconvenient
responsibility of deciding about our own lives. There may be persons so
weak that they have to have the conditions of their lives thus
determined for them; but I am not writing for such persons. I am writing
for adult and responsible individuals, and I bear in mind that every
individual is a separate problem, with separate needs and separate
duties. There are, of course, a good many rules that apply to everybody
in almost all emergencies, but I cannot think of a single rule that I
would be willing to say I would apply in my life without a single
exception. "Thou shalt not kill" is a rule that I have followed, so far
without exception; but as soon as I turn my imagination loose, I can
think of many circumstances under which I should kill. I remember
discussing the matter with a pacifist friend of mine, an out-and-out
religious non-resistant. I pointed out to him that people sometimes went
insane, and in that condition they sometimes seized hatchets and killed
anyone in sight. What would my pacifist friend do if he saw a maniac
attacking his children with a hatchet? It did not help him to say that
he would use all possible means short of killing the maniac; he had
finally to admit that if he were quite sure it was a question of the
life of the maniac or the life of his child, he would kill. And this is
not mere verbal quibbling, because such things do happen in the world,
and people are confronted with such emergencies, and they have to
decide, and no rule is a general rule if it has a single exception.
There is a saying that "the exception proves the rule," but this is very
silly; it is a mistranslation of the Latin word "probat," which means,
not proves, but tests. No exception can prove a rule. What the exception
does is to test the rule by showing that the result does not follow in
the exceptional case.

The only kind of rule which can be laid down for human conduct is a rule
in such general terms that it escapes exceptions by leaving the matter
open for every man's difference of opinion. Any kind of rule which is
specific will sooner or later pass out of date. Take, by way of
illustration, the ancient and well-established virtue of frugality.
Obviously, under a state of nature, or of economic competition, it is
necessary for every man to lay by a store "for a rainy day." But suppose
we could set up a condition of economic security, under which society
guaranteed to every man the full product of his labor, and the old and
the sick were fully taken care of--then how foolish a man would seem who
troubled to acquire a surplus of goods! It would be as if we saw him
riding on horseback through the main street of our town in a full suit
of armor!

I devote a good deal of space to this question of a fixed and
unchangeable morality, because it is one of the heaviest burdens that
mankind carries upon its back. The record of human history is sickening,
not so much because of blood and slaughter, but because of fanaticism;
because wherever the mind of man attempts to assert itself, to escape
from the blind rule of animal greed, it adopts a set of formulas, and
proceeds to enforce them, regardless of consequences, upon the whole of
life. Consider, for example, the rule of the Puritans in England. The
Puritans glorified conscience, and it is perfectly proper to glorify
conscience, but not to the entire suppression of the beauty-making
faculties in man. Macaulay summed up the Puritan point of view in the
sentence that they objected to bear-baiting, not because it gave pain to
the bear, but because it gave pleasure to the spectators. As a result of
applying that principle, and lacing mankind in a straight-jacket by
legislation, England swung back into a reaction under the Cavaliers, in
which debauchery held more complete sway than ever before or since in
English life.

This is a hard lesson, but it must be learned: there is no virtue that
does not become a vice if it is carried to extremes; there is no virtue
that does not become a vice if it is applied at the wrong time, or under
the wrong circumstances, or at the wrong stage of human development. In
fact, we may say that most vices are virtues misapplied. The so-called
natural vices are simply natural impulses carried to excess, while the
unnatural vices result from the suppression and distortion of natural
impulses. The Greeks had as their supreme virtue what they called
"sophrosunÃ©." It is a beautiful word, worth remembering; it means a
beautiful quality called moderation. We shall find, as we come to
investigate, that life is a series of compromises among many different
needs, many different desires, many different duties; and reason sits as
a wise and patient judge, and appoints to each its proper portion, and
denies to it an excess which would starve the others. Such is true
morality, and it is incompatible with the existence of any fixed code,
whether of human origin or divine.

The fixed morality is a survival of a far-off past, of the days of
instinct and servitude. Human reason has developed but slowly, and
perhaps only a few people are as yet entirely capable of taking control
of their own destiny; perhaps it is really dangerous to think for
oneself! But if we investigate carefully, we may decide that the danger
is not so much to ourselves as it is to others. The most evil of all the
