speaking, "that Mr. Hambleton's exterior attractions are not to be
compared with those of Mr. Gray; but, as I said before, in a matter
like this, where it is the quality of the mind, and not the external
appearance of the man alone, that is to give happiness, it behooves
a maiden to look beneath the surface, as I am trying to do now."

"But I could not love a man like Mr. Hambleton, unless, indeed,
there were no possibility of getting any one else. In that case, I
would make a choice of evils between single blessedness and such a
husband. But to have two such offers as these, Rose, and hesitate to
make a choice, strikes me as singular indeed!"

"I do not hesitate, Annette," was the quiet reply.

"Have you, then, indeed decided, Rose?"

"I have--and this conversation has caused me to decide; for, as it
has progressed, my mind has been enabled to see truly the real
difference in the characters of my suitors."

"You have, then, decided in favor of Mr. Gray?"

"Indeed I have not, Annette. Though I admire his fine talents and
his polished exterior, yet I have never been able to perceive in him
those qualities upon which my heart can rest in confidence. He may
possess these in even a higher degree than Mr. Hambleton, but I am
afraid to run so great a risk. In the latter, I know there are moral
qualities that I can love, and that I can repose upon."

"But he is so dull, Rose."

"I really do not think so, Annette. There is not so much flash about
him, if I may use the word, as about Mr. Gray. But as to his being
dull, I must beg to differ with you. To me, his conversation is
always interesting."

"It never is so to me. And, besides all that, his tastes and mine
are as widely different as the poles. Why, Rose, if you become his
wife, you will sink into obscurity at once. He never can make any
impression on society. It is not in him."

"Rather make no impression on society at all, than a false or
disgraceful one, say I," was the firm reply of Rose.

"You cannot, certainly, mean to say," returned her friend, "that the
impression made upon society by Mr. Gray is either a false or
disgraceful one."

"I should be sorry to make that assertion, for I do not believe such
to be the case," Rose replied. "What I mean is, that I can read Mr.
Hambleton's true character, and I know it to be based upon fixed and
high-toned principles. These can never make the woman who truly
loves him unhappy. They give place to no moral contingencies, by
which hopes are so often wrecked, and hearts broken. Now, in regard
to Mr. Gray, there is nothing in his character, so far as I can,
read it, upon which to predicate safe calculations of this kind. He
is intelligent, and highly interesting as a companion. His personal
appearance and his address are attractive. But all below the
exterior is hidden. The moral qualities of the man never show
themselves. I feel that to give my heart to such a one would be
risking too much. Of course, I must decline his offer."

"Indeed, indeed, Rose, I think you are very foolish!"

"Time will show, Annette."

"Yes, time will show," was the prophetic response. And time did show
that Rose made a right choice, when she accepted the offer of James
Hambleton, and gave him, with her hand, a warm, true heart.




THE FORTUNE-HUNTER.


"I KNOW a young lady who will suit you exactly."

"Indeed!"

"It's a fact. She is just the thing."

"Is she rich?"

"Of course."

"How rich?"

"Worth some fifty thousand dollars."

"Are you sure?"

"Certainly. Her father died about a year ago, and she was his only
child. Her mother has been dead many years. The old man was well
off, and his daughter received all of his property, and, as she is
of age, she has it all under her own control."

"Is she handsome?"

"Just so-so. But that don't matter a great deal. Gold is beautiful."

"Exactly. And intelligent?"

"I've seen smarter girls. But that's all the better, you know."

"Yes. Well now, who is she? That's the next question."

"Her name is Margaretta Riston, and she is now living with an old
aunt in Sycamore street."

"Are you acquainted?"

"Intimately."

"Then be kind enough to introduce me forthwith. I must make a
conquest of some rich heiress soon, or I shall have to run away, or
petition for the benefit of the Insolvent Law."

"To-night, if you choose."

"Very well--let it be to-night. There is no time to be lost."

"Suppose she won't accept you?"

"She must. I'm as good-looking a fellow as you'll find in a dozen;
and I flatter myself that I have a smooth tongue in my head."

"Well, success to you, I say! But look here, Smith: if you succeed,
I shall expect a premium."

"There'll be no difficulty about that, Perkins. But let me secure
the prize first; and then say how much you'll want. You'll not find
me the man to forget a friend."

"I'm sure of that," responded the other, laughing.

And then the friends shook each other's hands heartily, promising,
as they parted, to meet early in the evening, preparatory to
visiting the heiress.

"You would not have me suspicious of every young man who visits me!"
said Margaretta Riston, in reply to a remark made by her aunt, on
the same evening that the two young men had proposed calling on her.

"I would rather have you suspicious, or, rather, exceedingly
watchful, than to be altogether off of your guard. Many dangers
beset the path of a rich young girl like you. There are, and I am
sorry to say it, too many young men in society, who are mere
money-hunters--young men who would marry an heiress during the first
hour of their acquaintance, and marry her, of course, only for her
money."

"I can hardly credit it, aunt. And I am sure that no young men of my
acquaintance are so selfish and mercenary!"

"In that assumption lies a fatal error, believe me, my dear niece!
Too many, alas! too many young girls have vainly imagined, as you do
now, that, though there might be men of base characters in society,
none such were of their acquaintances. These have awakened from
their fatal error with the sad consciousness that they had become
victims to their fond infidelity. Rather suspect all until you have
convincing evidence to the contrary, than remain unguarded until it
is too late."

"But don't you see, aunt, how in this case I would do wrong to
sincere and honest minds? And I cannot bear the thought of doing
wrong to any one."

"You do no wrong to any one, my niece, in with-holding full
confidence until there is evidence that full confidence may be
safely bestowed. In the present evil state of the world, involving,
as it does, so much of false appearance, hypocrisy, and selfish
motive, it is absolutely necessary, especially with one in your
situation, to withhold all confidence, until there is unquestionable
proof of virtuous principle."

"There is at least one young man, who visits here, that I think is
above such mean suspicions," Margaretta said.

"So I think," the aunt replied.

"Whom do you mean, aunt?"

"I mean Thomas Fielding."

"Thomas Fielding! Well, he may be; but--"

"But what, Margaretta?"

"Oh, nothing, aunt. But I do not like Mr. Fielding so very much."

"Why not, child?"

"I can hardly tell. But there is no character about him."

"No character! Really, Margaretta, you surprise me. There is more
character and principle about him than about any young man who comes
to this house."

"I cannot think so, aunt. He is too tame, prosy, and old-fashioned
for me."

"Whom then did you mean?" the aunt asked, with an expression of
concern in her tones.

"Why, Mr. Perkins, to be sure."

The aunt shook her head.

"I am afraid, Margaretta, that Mr. Perkins is a man of few
principles, but thoroughly selfish ones."

"How strangely you talk, aunt! Why, he is any thing but a selfish
man. I am sure he is the most gentlemanly, thoughtful, and polite
man that visits here. He is much more attentive to others, in
company, than Mr. Fielding; and that, I am sure, indicates a kinder
regard for others."

"Not always, Margaretta. It may sometimes indicate a cold-hearted,
calm assurance, assumed for selfish ends; while its opposite may be
from a natural reserve or timidity of character."

"But you don't mean to say, surely, that Mr. Perkins is such a one
as you intimate?"

"If I am correct in my observation, he is all that I have
insinuated. In a word, he is, in my opinion, a mere money-hunter."

"I am sure, aunt, he is not so constant in his attentions as he was
some time, ago; and, if he were merely a money-hunter, he would not,
of course, abate those attentions."

"No--not unless he had discovered a richer prize."

"Indeed, aunt, you wrong him."

"I should be sorry to do so, Margaretta. But I do not form my
opinions hastily. I try to look close before I come to conclusions.
But I have stronger testimony than my own observations."

"What is that?"

"Why, I heard this morning that he is to be married in a few weeks
to Harriet Pomeroy."

"Indeed, you must be mistaken, aunt," said Margaretta, suddenly
rising to her feet.

"I presume not," was the quiet reply. "My information came almost
direct."

The entrance of visitors now interrupted the conversation.

"Permit me to introduce my very particular friend, Mr. Smith," said
the individual about whom the aunt and her niece were conversing, as
he entered the handsome parlour of Mrs. Riston.

Mr. Smith and Mr. Perkins were, of course, received with great
affability by Margaretta, who concealed the impression made upon her
mind by the piece of information just conveyed by her aunt.

As for Mrs. Riston, she was studiedly polite, but gave the young men
no very apparent encouragement. An hour soon passed away, and then
the visitors retired.

"Well, Smith, what do you think of her?" asked Perkins, as the two
gained the street.

"You're sure she's worth fifty thousand dollars?"

"Oh, yes. There's no mistake about that."

"But how do you know? This is a matter about which there should be
no mistake."

"I got a friend to examine the transfer books of the bank where the
stock is. Will that satisfy you?"

"You did? And pray why did you do that?"

"A strange question! but I'll tell you, as you seem dull. I had a
notion of her myself."

"You had?"

"I had."

"And why did you get out of the notion?"

"Because I saw another whom I liked better."

"She was richer, I suppose."

"How can you insinuate such a thing?" And Perkins laughed in a low,
meaning chuckle.

"Ah, I perceive. Well, how much is she worth?"

"About a hundred thousand."

"Are you sure of her?"

"Certainly! The thing's all settled."

"You're a lucky dog, Perkins! But see here, what did you mean by the
premium you talked of for bringing about a match between me and Miss
Riston?"

"Oh, as to that, I was only jesting. But you haven't told me how you
like the young lady yet."

"Oh, she'll do, I reckon," said Smith, tossing his head half
contemptuously.

"Do you think you can secure her?"

"Easily enough. But then I must get her away as often as possible
from that old Cerberus of an aunt. I didn't like her looks at all."

"She's suspicious."

"That's clear. Well, she must be wide awake if I commence playing
against her in real earnest. I can win any girl's affections that I
choose."

"You have a pretty fair conceit of yourself, I see."

"I wouldn't give a cent for a man that hadn't. The fact is, Perkins,
these girls have but one end in view, and that is to get married.
They know that they have to wait to be asked, and, trembling in fear
lest they shall not get another offer, they are always ready to jump
eagerly at the first."

"Pretty true, I believe. But, Smith, don't you think Margaretta
quite a fair specimen of a girl?"

"Oh, yes. And I have no doubt that I shall love her well enough, if
she don't attempt to put on airs, and throw up to me that she was
rich, and I poor. I'll never stand that."

"She'll not be so foolish, I presume."

"She'd better not, I can tell her, if she doesn't wish to get into
hot water." And the young man laughed at his own half-in-earnest
jesting.

"He's a very agreeable young man, isn't he, aunt?" said Margaretta,
after the two young men had gone away.

"Who? Mr. Smith, as Mr. Perkins called him?"

"Yes."

"He has a smooth enough tongue, if that is any recommendation; but I
do not like him. Indeed, he is far more disagreeable to me than his
very particular friend, Mr. Perkins."

"Oh, aunt, how can you talk so! I'm sure he was very agreeable. At
least, I thought so."

"That was because he flattered you so cleverly."

"How can you insinuate such a thing, aunt? Surely I am not so weak
and vain as to be imposed upon and beguiled by a flatterer!"

"Some men understand how to flatter very ingeniously; and, to me,
Mr. Smith seemed peculiarly adept in the art. He managed it so
adroitly as to give it all the effect, without its being apparent to
the subject of his experiments."

"Indeed, aunt, you are mistaken. I despise a flatterer as much as
you do. But I am sure that I saw nothing like flattery about Mr.
Smith."

"I am sorry that you did not, Margaretta. But take my advice, and be
on your guard. That man's motives in coming to see you, believe me,
are not the purest in the world."

"You are far too suspicious, aunt; I am sure you are."

"Perhaps I have had cause. At any rate, Margaretta, I have lived
longer in, and seen much more of the world than you have, and I
ought to have a clearer perception of character. For your own sake,
then, try and confide in my judgment."

"I ought to confide in your judgment, aunt, I know; but I cannot see
as you do in this particular instance."

"Then you ought rather to suspect the correctness of your own
observation, when it leads to conclusions so utterly opposed to
mine."

To this Margaretta did not reply. It seemed too much like giving up
her own rationality to assent to it, and she did not wish to pain
her aunt by objections.

On the next evening, a quiet, intelligent, and modest-looking young
man called in, and spent an hour or two with Margaretta and her
aunt. He did not present so imposing and showy an exterior as did
Mr. Smith, but his conversation had in it far more substance and
real common sense. After he had retired, Margaretta said--

"Well, it is no use; I cannot take any pleasure in the society of
Thomas Fielding."

"Why not, my dear?" asked the aunt.

"Oh, I don't know; but he is so dull and prosy."

"I am sure he don't seem dull to me, Margaretta. He doesn't talk a
great deal, it is true; but, then, what he does say is characterized
by good sense, and evinces a discriminating mind."

"But don't you think, aunt, that my money has some influence in
bringing him here?" And Margaretta looked up archly into her aunt's
face.

"It may have, for aught I can tell. We cannot see the motives of any
one. But I should be inclined to think that money would have little
influence with Thomas Fielding, were not every thing else in
agreement. He is, I think, a man of fixed and genuine principles."

"No doubt, aunt. But, still, I can't relish his society. And if I
can't, I can't."

"Very true. If you can't enjoy his company, why you can't. But it
cannot be, certainly, from any want, on his part, of gentlemanly
manners, or kind attentions to you."

"No; but, then, he is so dull. I should die if I had no other
company."

"Indeed, my child," Aunt Riston said, in a serious tone, "you ought
to make the effort to esteem and relish the society of those who
have evidently some stability of character, and whose conversation
has in it the evidence of mature observation, combined with sound
and virtuous principles, more than you do the flippant nonsense of
mere ladies' men, or selfish, unprincipled fortune-hunters."

"Indeed, aunt, you are too severe on my favourites!" And Margaretta
laughed gaily.

But to her aunt there was something sad in the sound of that laugh.
It seemed like the knell of long and fondly cherished hopes.

"What do you think of Margaretta Riston, Mary?" asked Thomas
Fielding of his sister, on the next evening after the visit just
mentioned.

"Why do you ask so seriously, brother?" the sister said, looking
into his face, with a smile playing about her lips.

"For a serious reason, sister. Can you guess what it is?"

"Perhaps so, and therefore I will not tax your modesty so far as to
make you confess it."

"Very well, Mary. And now answer my question. What do you think of
Margaretta?"

"I know nothing against her, brother."

"Nothing against her! Don't you know any thing in her favour?"

"Well, perhaps I do. She is said to be worth some fifty thousand
dollars."

"Nonsense, Mary! What do I care about her fifty thousand dollars?
Don't you know any thing else in her favour?"

"Why, yes, brother. As long as you seem so serious about the matter,
I think Margaretta a fine girl. She is amiable in disposition--is
well educated--tolerably good-looking, and, I think, ordinarily
intelligent."

"Ordinarily intelligent!"

"Yes. Certainly there is nothing extraordinary about her."

"No, of course not."

"Well, brother, what next?"

"Why, simply, Mary, I like Margaretta very much. The oftener I see
her, the more am I drawn towards her. To tell the plain, homely
truth, I love her."

"And don't care any thing about her fifty thousand dollars?"

"No Mary, I don't think I do. Indeed, if I know my own feelings, I
would rather she were not worth a dollar."

"And why so, Thomas?"

"Because, I fear the perverting influence of wealth on her mind. I
am afraid her position will give her false views of life. I wish to
marry for a wife--not for money. I can make money myself."

"Still, Thomas, Margaretta is, I think, an innocent-minded, good
girl. I do not see that she has been much warped by her position."
