closer.

“‘I am standing,’ she said, speaking slowly and solemnly, ‘at the edge
of a deep abyss, my way hedged up on both sides, and enemies coming on
behind. I have not strength to spring over; and to fall is destruction.
In my weakness and despair, I turn to you for help. If there is help in
any mortal arm, something tells me it is in yours.’

“She did not weep, nor show strong emotion. But her face was almost
colorless, and presented an image of woe such as never met my eyes,
except in pictures.

“‘You have heard, no doubt,’ she went on, ‘some of the stories to
my discredit which have been circulated in S----. That I was gay and
imprudent at Saratoga, cannot be denied--gay and imprudent as are too
many fashionable women, under the exciting allurements of the place.
Little fond flirtations with gentlemen made up a part of our pastime
there. But as for sin--it was not in my thoughts!’ She said this with
an emphasis that assured me of its truth. ‘A mere life of fashionable
pleasure is a great exhauster of resources. One tires of this excitement
and of that, pushing them aside, as a child does an old or broken toy,
to grasp after something new. It is not surprising, therefore, that mere
pleasure-seeking women forget at times the just proprieties of life,
and, before they are aware of danger, find themselves in very equivocal
positions. This was simply my case. Nothing more--nothing less.’

“She paused and looked earnestly into my face, to see if I credited this
assertion.

“‘I have never believed any thing else,’ said I.

“A faint, sad smile flitted across her wan face.

“‘The consequences of this error on my part,’ she went on, ‘threaten
to be of the most disastrous kind. My husband has ever since conducted
himself towards me as if I were a guilty and disgraced thing. We occupy
separate apartments; and though we sit together at the same table, words
rarely pass between us. Occasionally he comes home under the influence
of wine, and then his abuse of me is fearful to think of. If any thing
could waken a thoughtless creature sleeping on enchanted ground, it was
this.’

“‘There has never been anything more than the semblance of love between
us,’ she continued. ‘The more intimately I came to know him, after
our marriage, the more did my soul separate itself from him, until the
antipodes were not farther apart than we. So we lived on; I seeking a
poor compensation in fashionable emulations and social triumphs; and he
in grand business enterprises--castles in the air perhaps. Living
thus, we have come to this point in our journey; and now the crisis has
arrived!’

“She paused.

“’ What crisis?’ I asked.

“‘He demands a separation.’ Her voice choked--‘a divorce--’

“‘On what ground?’

“‘On legal ground.’ She bent down, covered her face, and uttered a
groan so full of mental anguish, that I almost shuddered as the sound
penetrated my ears.

“‘I am to remain passive,’ she resumed, while he charges me before the
proper court, with infidelity, and gains a divorce through failure on
my part to stand forth and defend myself. This, or a public trial of the
case, at which he pledges himself to have witnesses who will prove me
criminal, is my dreadful alternative. If he gains a divorce quietly on
the charge of infidelity, I am wronged and disgraced; and if successful
in a public trial, through perjured witnesses, the wrong and disgrace
will be more terrible. Oh, my friend! pity and counsel me.’

“‘There is one,’ said I, ‘better able to stand your friend in a crisis
like this than I am.’

“‘Who?’ She looked up anxiously.

“‘Your father.’

“A shadow fell over her face, and she answered mournfully,

“‘Even he is against me. How it is I cannot tell; but my husband seems
to have my father completely under his influence.’

“‘Your mother?’ I suggested.

“‘Can only weep with me. I have no adviser, and my heart beats so wildly
all the time, that thought confuses itself whenever it makes an effort
to see the right direction. Fear of a public trial suggests passive
endurance of wrong on my part; but an innate sense of justice cries out
against this course, and urges me to resistance.’

“‘If you are innocent,’ said I, firmly, ‘in the name and strength of
innocence defend yourself! All that a woman holds dearest is at stake.
If they drive you to this great extremity, do not shrink from the
trial.’

“‘But what hope have I in such a trial if false witnesses come up
against me?’

“‘God and justice are stronger than all the powers of evil,’ said I.

“‘They might be, in your case,’ she answered, mournfully; ‘for you have
made God your friend, and justice your strong tower. But I--what have I
to hope for in God? He has not been in all my thoughts; and now will He
not mock at my calamity?’

“‘No--no, my unhappy friend!’ I answered. ‘He never turns from any; it
is we who turn from Him. His tender mercy is over all His works. All
human souls are alike precious in His eyes. If you trust in Him, you
need not fear your bitterest enemies.’

“‘How shall I trust in him?’

“She bent towards me eagerly.

“‘In the simple work of doing right,’ said I.

“‘Doing right?’

“She did not clearly understand me.

“Do you think it would be right to let a charge of crime lie,
unrepelled, against you; a great crime, such as is alleged--destroying
your good name, and throwing a shadow of disgrace over your children!’

“‘No,’ was her unhesitating reply.

“‘Then it would be wrong for you to suffer a divorce to issue on the
ground of infidelity, without a defence of yourself by every legal means
in your power. Do right, then, in so defending yourself, and trust in
God for the result.’

“I shudder at the bare thought of a public trial,’ she answered.

“‘Don’t think of anything but right action, said I. If you would have
the Hosts of Heaven on your side, give them power by doing the right;
and they will surely achieve for you the victory over all your enemies.
Have any steps been taken by Mr. Dewey?’

“‘I fear so.’

“‘How long is it since your husband entertained this purpose?’

“‘I think it has been growing in his mind ever since that unhappy affair
at Saratoga.’

“As she said this, her thoughts seemed to turn aside upon something
else, and she sat looking down upon the floor in a state of deep
abstraction. At last, taking a long breath, she looked up, and said with
trembling lips and a husky voice,

“‘I have something more to tell you. There is another aspect to this
miserable affair.’

“And she drew forth a crumpled letter.

“‘I found this, sealed, and directed, lying on the floor of my husband’s
room, two days ago. It is in his hand writing; addressed to a lady
in New York, and signed R. D. I will read you its contents.’ And she
unfolded the letter, and read:

“‘My dearest Caroline,’ it began; and then went on for a few paragraphs,
in a lover-like strain; after which, the divorce from the writer’s wife
was referred to as a thing of speedy attainment, there being little fear
of opposition on her part, as he had given her to understand that he had
witnesses ready to prove her criminal conduct; if she dared to resist
his will in the matter. ‘A few months of patient waiting, dearest
Caroline,’ was the concluding sentence, ‘and then for that happy
consummation we have so long desired.’

“‘What do you think of that?’ asked poor Delia, looking almost wildly
into my face.

“‘I think,’ said I, ‘that you hold in your hands the means of safety.
Your husband will not dare to force you into a defensive position, when
he learns that you have this document in your possession. It would tell
strongly against him and his perjured witnesses if produced in court.
Then take heart, my friend. This worst evil that you dreaded will
not come to pass. If a divorce is granted, it will have to be on some
different allegation.’

“She grasped my hand, and said, ‘Oh, do you think so? Do you think so?’”

“‘I am sure of it,’ was my confident answer. ‘Sure of it. Why the man
would only damage his cause, and disgrace himself, by venturing into a
trial with a witness like this against him.’”

“‘Oh, bless you for such confidently assuring words!’ and the poor
creature threw herself forward, and laid her face upon my bosom. For
the first time she wept, and for a season, oh how wildly! You will not
wonder that my tears fell almost as fast as hers.

“‘I turned in my despair to you,’ she said, on growing calm, ‘you whom
I loved, and almost revered, in the earlier and better days of my life,
and my heart tells me that I have not turned in vain. Into the darkness
that surrounded me like the pall of death, a little light has already
penetrated.’”

“May it shine unto the perfect day!” I answered fervently.

“And, dear husband! it will shine,” said Constance, a glow of enthusiasm
lighting up her face, and giving it a new beauty, “even unto the perfect
day! Not the perfect day of earthly bliss--for I think the sun of that
day has gone down never to rise again for her--but the perfect day of
that higher life, which to many comes not, except through the gates of
tribulation.”



CHAPTER XXII.



I was shocked and distressed by the painful revelation which Mrs. Dewey
had made to Constance. A sadder history in real life I had never heard.

A few days after this memorable visit to the Allen House, a note was
received by my wife, containing this single word, “Come,” and signed
Delia.

“Any change in the aspect of affairs?” I inquired of Constance on her
return.

“Yes. Mrs. Dewey has received notice, in due form, of her husband’s
application for a divorce.”

“What has she done?”

“Nothing yet. It was to ask my advice as to her best course that she
sent for me.”

“And what advice did you give her?”

“I gave none. First, I must consult you.”

I shook my head and replied,

“It will not do for me to be mixed up in this affair, Constance.”

Worldly prudence spoke there.

My wife laid her hand upon my arm, and looking calmly in my face, said,

“The right way is always a safe way.”

“Granted.”

“It will be right for you to give such advice as your judgment dictates,
and therefore safe. I do not know much about law matters, but it occurs
to me that her first step should be the employment of counsel.”

“Is her father going to stand wholly aloof?” I inquired.

“Yes, if she be resolved to defend herself in open court. He will not
sanction a course that involves so much disgrace of herself and family.”

“Has she shown him the letter you saw?”

“No.”

“Why?”

“I think she is afraid to let it go out of her hands.”

“She might trust it with her father, surely,” said I.

“Her father has been very hard with her; and seems to take the worst for
granted. He evidently believes that it is in the power of Dewey to prove
her guilty; and that if she makes any opposition to his application for
a divorce, he will hold her up disgraced before the world.”

“This letter might open his eyes.”

“The letter is no defence of her; only a witness against him. It does
not prove her innocence. If it did, then it would turn toward her a
father’s averted face. In court its effect will be to throw doubt
upon the sincerity of her husband’s motives, and to show that he had a
reason, back of alleged infidelity, for wishing to be divorced from his
wife.”

“I declare, Constance!” said I, looking at my wife in surprise, “you
have taken upon yourself a new character. I think the case is safe in
your hands, and that Mrs. Dewey wants no more judicious friend. If
you were a man, you might conduct the defence for her to a successful
issue.”

“I am not a man, and, therefore, I come to a man,” she replied, “and ask
the aid of his judgment. I go by a very straight road to conclusions;
but I want the light of your reason upon these conclusions.”

“I am not a lawyer as you are aware, Constance--only a doctor.”

“You are a man with a heart and common sense,” she answered, with just
a little shade of rebuke in her tones, “and as God has put in your way a
wretched human soul that may be lost, unless you stretch forth a saving
hand, is there any room for question as to duty? There is none, my
husband! Squire Floyd believes his daughter guilty; and while he rests
in this conclusion, he will not aid her in anything that points to
exposure and disgrace. She must, therefore, if a vigorous defence is
undertaken, look elsewhere for aid and comfort.”

I began to see the matter a little clearer.

“Mr. Wallingford is the best man I know.”

“Mr. Wallingford!” I thought Constance would have looked me through.

“Mr. Wallingford!” she repeated, still gazing steadily into my face.
“Are you jesting?”

“No,” I replied calmly. “In a case that involves so much, she wants a
wise and good defender; and I do not know of any man upon whom she could
so thoroughly rely.”

Constance dropped her eyes to the floor.

“It would not do,” she said, after some moments.

“Why?”

“Their former relation to each other precludes its possibility.”

“But, you must remember, Constance, that Delia never knew how deeply he
was once attached to her.”

“She knows that he offered himself.”

“And that, in a very short time afterwards, he met her with as much
apparent indifference as if she had never been to him more than a
pleasant acquaintance. Of the struggle through which he passed, in the
work of obliterating her image from his mind, she knows nothing.”

“But he knows it,” objected Constance.

“And what does that signify? Will he defend her less skillfully on this
account? Rather will he not feel a stronger interest in the case?”

“I do not think that she will employ him to defend her,” said Constance.
“I would not, were the case mine.”

“Womanly pride spoke there, Constance.”

“Or rather say a manly lack of perception in your case.”

“Perception of what?”

“Of the fitness of things,” she answered.

“That is just what I do see,” I returned. “There is no man in
S----better fitted for conducting this case than Mr. Wallingford.”

“She will never place it in his hands; you may take a woman’s word for
that,” said my wife confidently. “Of all living men he is the last one
to whom she could talk of the humiliating particulars involved in a case
like this.”

“Suppose you suggest his name to her. Twelve years of such a life as she
has led may have almost obliterated the memory of that passage in her
life.”

“Don’t believe it. A woman never forgets a passage like that;
particularly when the events of every passing day but serve to remind
her of the error she once committed.”

“I don’t know what else to advise,” said I. “She ought to have a good
and discreet man to represent her, or all may be lost.”

“Would you have any objection to confer with Mr. Wallingford on the
subject in a private, confidential way?”

“None in the world,” I replied.

“Will you see him at once?” The interest of Constance was too strongly
excited to brook delay.

“Yes, immediately.”

And putting on my overcoat I went to the office of Mr. Wallingford. I
found him alone, and at once laid the whole case before him--relating,
with particularity, all that had occurred between my wife and Mrs.
Dewey. He listened with deep and pitying attention; and when I was
through, expressed his opinion of Dewey in very strong language.

“And now what is to be done?” I asked, going at once to the vital
question.

“Your wife is right,” he answered. “I can hardly become her advocate. It
would involve humiliation on her part too deep to be borne. But my aid
she shall have to the fullest extent; and it will be strange if I do not
thwart his wicked scheme.”

“How will you aid her?”

“Through her right attorney, if my advice as to the choice be followed.
You know James Orton?”

“Yes.”

“He is a young man to be relied upon. Let Mrs. Dewey put the case in his
hands. If she does so, it will be, virtually, in mine.”

“Enough, Mr. Wallingford,” said I. “It looks more hopeful for our poor
unhappy friend, against whom even her own flesh and blood have turned.”

When I gave Constance the result of my interview with Mr. Wallingford,
she was quite elated at the prospect of securing his most valuable aid
for Mrs. Dewey. Orton was young, and had been practising at the bar for
only a couple of years. Up to this time he had not appeared in any case
of leading importance; and had, therefore, no established reputation.
Our fear was that Mrs. Dewey might not be willing to place her case in
such inexperienced hands. In order to have the matter settled with as
little delay as possible, Constance paid an early visit to the Allen
House, and suggested Mr. Orton as counsel. Mrs. Dewey had not even heard
his name; but, after being assured that I had the fullest confidence in
him, and particularly advised his employment, she consented to accept of
his services.

Their first interview was arranged to take place at my house, and in
the presence of my wife, when the notice Mrs. Dewey had received on the
institution of proceedings, was placed in the young lawyer’s hands, and
some conversation had as to the basis and tenor of an answer. A second
interview took place on the day following, at which Mrs. Dewey gave a
full statement of the affair at Saratoga, and asserted her innocence in
the most solemn and impressive manner. The letter from her husband to
the lady in New York, was produced, and at the request of Mr. Orton,
given into his possession.

The answer to Mr. Dewey’s application for a divorce was drawn up by Mr.
Wallingford, who entered with great earnestness into the matter. It
was filed in court within a week after notice of the application
was received. This was altogether unexpected by the husband, who, on
becoming aware of the fact, lost all decent control of himself, and
ordered his wretched wife to leave his house. This, however, she refused
to do. Then she had her father’s angry opposition to brave. But she
remained firm.

“He will cover you with infamy, if you dare to persevere in this mad
opposition,” he said. And she answered--

“The infamy may recoil upon his own head. I am innocent--I will not be
such a traitor to virtue as to let silence declare me guilty.”

There was a pause, now, for a few weeks. The unhappy state of affairs at
the Allen House made it hardly proper for my wife to continue her visits
there, and Mrs. Dewey did not venture to call upon her. The trial of the
case would not come up for some two or three months, and both parties
were waiting, in stern resolution, for the approaching contest.

One day I received a message from Mrs. Dewey, desiring me to call
and see two of her children who were sick. On visiting them--the two
youngest--I found them seriously ill, with symptoms so like scarletina,
that I had little question in my mind as to the character of the disease
from which they were suffering. My second visit confirmed these fears.

“It is scarlet fever?” said Mrs. Dewey, looking at me calmly, as I moved
from the bed-side after a careful examination of the two little ones.

I merely answered--

“Yes.”

There was no change in her countenance.

“They are both very ill.”

She spoke with a slow deliberateness, that was unusual to her.

“They are sick children,” said I.

“Sick, it may be, unto death.”

There was no emotion in her voice.

I looked at her without replying.

“I can see them die, Doctor, if that must be.”

Oh, that icy coldness of manner, how it chilled me!

“No hand but mine shall tend them now, Doctor. They have been long
enough in the care of others--neglected--almost forgotten--by their
unworthy mother. But in this painful extremity I will be near them. I
come back to the post of duty, even at this late hour, and all that is
left for me, that will I do.”

I was deeply touched by her words and manner.

The latter softened a little as she uttered the closing sentence.

“You look at the darkest side,” I answered. “With God are the issues of
life. He calls us, our children, or our friends, in His own good time.
We cannot tell how any sickness will terminate; and hope for the best is
always our truest state.”

“I hope for the best,” she replied; but with something equivocal in her
voice.

“The best is life,” I said, scarcely reflecting upon my words.

