"You fill me with amazement!" exclaimed the chaplain.

"You know it was not fair to give out the offices by last year's marks,"
protested Shuffles.

"On the contrary, I think it was entirely fair."

"I haven't anything more to say if it was," replied Shuffles, in surly
tones.

The chaplain, finding the prisoner was not in a proper frame of mind for
edifying conversation, left him, and returned to the professors' cabin.
The boys had been forbidden to go near the brig, or to speak to the
prisoner; and thus far no one had exhibited any disposition to disregard
the order. Many of them, as they passed near the brig, glanced curiously
at him. After the departure of the chaplain, Wilton sat down on a stool
near the lock-up.

"How are you. Shuffles?" said he, in a low tone.

"Come here, Wilton--will you?" replied the prisoner.

"I can't; we are not allowed to speak to you."

"What do you care for that? No one can see you."

"What do you want?"

"I want to talk with you."

"I shall be punished if I'm caught."

"You won't be caught. How are our fellows now?"

"First rate," replied Wilton, walking up and down the berth deck, rising
and looking as though nothing was going on.

"You know what we were talking about just before the row," added
Shuffles, drawing his stool up to the palings.

"You said you wouldn't trust me," answered Wilton, still pacing the deck
in front of the brig.

"You told Lowington about something he had no business to know; but I
forgive you, Wilton."

"You are very willing to forgive me, now you are in a tight place."

"It was mean of you to do it, Wilton; you can't deny that. Lowington was
on the best of terms with me when I was in the after cabin, and I might
have told him a hundred things about you."

"Didn't you tell him anything?"

"Not a word."

"Well, you are a good fellow, and I always thought you were. I couldn't
see why you turned traitor to us when we intended to spend the Fourth of
July on shore."

"I was obliged to do what I did. If I hadn't, I should have been turned
out of my office."

"Perhaps you were right, Shuffles, and we won't say anything more about
the past," replied Wilton, who was too willing to be on good terms with
the powerful malcontent, even while he was a prisoner and in disgrace.

"Wilton, I am going to be captain of this ship within ten days," said
Shuffles, in a whisper. "Now you may go and tell Lowington of that."

"Of course I shall not tell him," added Wilton, indignantly.

"I told you merely to show you that I had full confidence in you--that's
all. You can betray me if you wish to do so."

"I don't wish to do anything of the kind. Of course we shall always go
together, as we did before you were an officer."

"I shall be an officer again soon."

"What's the use of talking about such a thing?"

"I shall."

"Do you mean to get up the mutiny?"

"I do. I feel more like it now than I ever did before," replied
Shuffles; and his low tones came from between his closed teeth.

"It's no use to think of such a thing. It's too wild."

"No matter if it is; it shall be carried out."

"The fellows won't go in for it; they won't dare to do it."

"Yes, they will. I know them better than you do, Wilton. It isn't quite
time yet; but in three or four days they will be ready for anything."

"You can't bring them up to what you mean."

"Yes, I can."

"What do you expect to do, locked up in that place?" demanded Wilton,
incredulously.

"When I get ready to go out of this place, I shall go. I needn't stay
here any longer than I please."

"Do you really mean to get up a mutiny?"

"Hush! Don't call it by that name."

"What shall I call it?"

"Call it making a chain."

"I don't understand you," answered Wilton, puzzled by the expression.

"I know what I'm about, and I have got more friends in the ship than
Lowington has. And I know exactly how to manage the whole thing," added
Shuffles, confidently.

"But the fellows are all perfectly satisfied with their condition. They
wish to go to Europe, and are pleased with the prospect before them."

"Perhaps they are; and they shall all go to Europe, and travel about
without being tied to Lowington's coat-tails. I shall come out of this
place to-morrow, and we will work the thing up."

"I'm in for a time with any good fellow; but I don't think we can make
this thing go," said Wilton. "Hush! Don't say another word. There comes
an officer."

One bell, indicating half past eight in the evening, struck on deck. It
was the duty of the master and midshipman on deck, alternately, to pass
through the steerage every half hour during the watch, to see that there
was no disorder, and that the lights were all secure, so as to avoid any
danger from fire. Henry Martyn, the second master, performed this office
on the present occasion. He descended the main ladder, and Wilton, who
expected the visit when he heard the stroke of the bell, retreated to
his mess room, and threw himself into his berth. Harry walked around the
steerage, and glanced into the gangways, from which the rooms opened.

"Harry," said Shuffles, in a low tone, as the master was about to return
to the deck.

"Did you speak to me?" asked Harry, stepping up to the bars of the cage.

"I did. Will you oblige me by telling the chaplain that I would like to
see him?" added the prisoner.

"I will;" and Harry knocked at the door of the professors' cabin.




CHAPTER X.

MAKING A CHAIN.


The chaplain was too glad of an opportunity to converse with the
prisoner to refuse his request, and he hastened to the brig, hoping to
find Shuffles in a better state of mind than when he had visited him
before. Mr. Agneau entered the lock-up, and was securing the door behind
him, when the prisoner spoke.

"You needn't lock it, sir; I will not attempt to escape," said he. "I
sent for you to apologize for my rudeness."

"Indeed! Then I am very glad to see you," replied the delighted
chaplain. "I have been sorely grieved at your misconduct, and I would
fain have brought you to see the error of your ways."

"I see it now, sir," replied Shuffles, with apparent penitence. "I'm
afraid I am a great deal worse than you think I am, sir."

"It is of no consequence what I think, Shuffles, if you are conscious of
the wrong you have done," added the worthy chaplain. "You behaved
exceedingly well last year, and it almost broke my heart to see you
relapsing into your former evil habits."

"I am grateful to you for the interest you have taken in me, and I
assure you I have often been encouraged to do well by your kind words,"
continued the penitent, with due humility. "I have done wrong, and I
don't deserve to be forgiven."

"'He that humbleth himself shall be exalted,'" said Mr. Agneau,
gratified at the great change which had apparently been wrought in the
prisoner. "If you are really sorry for your offence, Mr. Lowington, I
doubt not, will pardon you, and restore you to favor again."

"I don't deserve it, sir. Since you left me, I have been thinking of my
past life. I dare not tell you how bad I have been."

"You need not tell me. It is not necessary that you should confess your
errors to me. There is One who knows them, and if you are sincerely
repentant He will pity and forgive you."

"I think I should feel better if I told some one of my misdeeds."

"Perhaps you would; that is for you to judge. I will speak to Mr.
Lowington about you to-night. What shall I say to him?"

"I hardly know. I deserve to be punished. I have done wrong, and am
willing to suffer for it."

The tender-hearted chaplain thought that Shuffles was in a beautiful
state of mind, and he desired to have him released at once, that he
might converse with him on great themes under more favorable
circumstances; but Shuffles still detained him.

"I'm afraid I have ruined myself on board this ship," continued
Shuffles, persisting in his self-humiliation.

"If you manfully acknowledge your fault, you will be freely and
generously forgiven."

"Mr. Lowington hates me now, after what I have done."

"O, far from it!" exclaimed the chaplain. "It will be a greater
satisfaction to him than to you to forgive you. You are no longer of the
opinion that you were unfairly used in the distribution of the offices,
I suppose."

"Mr. Agneau, I was beside myself when I resisted the principal. I should
not have done it if I had been in my right mind."

"You were very angry."

"I was--I was not myself."

"Anger often makes men crazy."

"You don't understand me, Mr. Agneau."

"Indeed, I do. You mean that you deluded yourself into the belief that
you had been wronged, and that you ought not to obey the orders of your
officers, and of the principal. The force that was used made you so
angry that you did not know what you were about," added the sympathizing
chaplain.

"In one word, Mr. Agneau, I had been drinking," said Shuffles, with
something like desperation in his manner, as he bent his head, and
covered his face with his hands.

"Drinking!" gasped the chaplain, filled with horror at the confession.

"I told you I was worse than you thought I was," moaned Shuffles.

"Is it possible!"

"It is true, sir; I say it with shame."

"Are you in the habit of taking intoxicating drinks?" asked the
chaplain, confounded beyond measure at this complication of the
difficulty.

"I am not in the habit of it, because I can't get liquor all the time.
My father has wine on his table, and I always was allowed to drink one
glass."

"Can it be!" ejaculated the chaplain. "A youth of seventeen----"

"I'm eighteen now, sir."

"A youth of eighteen in the habit of taking wine!" groaned Mr. Agneau.

"I drank a great deal more than my father knew of while I was at home."

"I am amazed!"

"I knew you would be, sir; but I have told you the truth now."

"But where did you get your liquor to-day?"

"It was wine, sir."

"Where did you get it?"

"I brought two bottles on board with me when I reported for duty
yesterday."

"This is terrible, Shuffles! Do you know what an awful habit you are
contracting, my dear young friend?"

"I never thought much about it till to-night. It has got me into such a
scrape this time, that I don't believe I shall ever drink any more."

"As you respect yourself, as you hope for peace in this world, and peace
in the next, never put the cup to your lips again. 'Wine is a mocker;
strong drink is raging; and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.'
Did you drink the two bottles?"

"No, sir; only part of one bottle," replied Shuffles, with commendable
promptness.

"Where is the rest of it?"

"Under my berth-sack."

"Are you willing I should take possession of it, and hand it to Mr.
Lowington?"

"I will agree to anything which you think is right."

"Then I will take the wine and throw it overboard."

"Just as you think best, sir. You will find the two bottles in my berth,
No. 43, Gangway D,--the forward one on the starboard side."

"I hope you will never touch the wine-cup again."

"I will not--till next time," added Shuffles, as the chaplain moved
towards the door of the brig.

"'Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his color
in the cup, at the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an
adder,'" continued the chaplain, as he passed out of the lock-up.

Mr. Agneau went to the prisoner's berth, and found the two bottles of
wine. They were a sufficient explanation of the remarkable conduct of
Shuffles. The youth had "drank wine, and was drunken," otherwise he
would not have been guilty of such flagrant disobedience. Though in his
own estimation the excuse was worse than the original fault, yet it was
an explanation; and if the root of the evil could be removed, the evil
itself would cease to exist. The wine could be thrown overboard, and as
no more could be obtained during the voyage, the good conduct of the
young tippler would be insured, at least till the ship reached
Queenstown, which was the port to which she was bound.

With the two bottles in his hands, the chaplain returned to the
professors' cabin. Mr. Lowington was on deck. He did not deem it prudent
to leave the ship in the hands of the students, at first, without any
supervision, and it was arranged that the principal, Mr. Fluxion, and
Mr. Peake, the boatswain, should take turns in observing the course and
management of the vessel. Mr. Agneau carried the prize he had captured
on deck, and informed Mr. Lowington what had just transpired in the
brig.

"I knew the boy drank wine when he was at home," replied the principal;
"and if he is ruined, his father must blame himself."

"But it is really shocking!" exclaimed the chaplain as he tossed one of
the bottles of wine over the rail. "How can a parent permit his son to
drink wine, when he knows that more men are killed by intemperance than
by war and pestilence? I am amazed!"

"So am I, Mr. Agneau."

"The boy is hardly to blame for his conduct, since he contracted this
vicious habit under the eye of his father."

"The discipline of the ship must be preserved."

"Certainly, Mr. Lowington."

"And the boy is just as much to blame for his act of disobedience as
though it had been done in his sober senses."

"But you can afford to pardon him, under the circumstances."

"I will do that when he is willing to make a proper acknowledgment of
his offence in the presence of the ship's company, before whom the act
was committed."

"He is quite ready to do so now."

"If he will say as much as that to me, he shall be released at once."

"He will, sir."

"It is very strange to me that I noticed nothing peculiar in the boy's
speech or manner at the time," added the principal. "He certainly did
not seem to be intoxicated."

"Probably he had taken just enough to inflame his evil passions, without
affecting his manner," suggested the chaplain.

"I did not even discover the odor of wine upon him."

"Perhaps you did not go near enough to him. If you please, Mr.
Lowington, we will go down and see him; and you can judge for yourself
whether or not it is prudent to release him."

"I will."

"Thank you, sir. I feel a deep interest in the young man, and I hope he
may yet be saved."

When Mr. Agneau left the brig, after his second visit, Wilton, who was
very anxious to know what Shuffles meant by "making a chain," came out
of his mess room. He had been watching the chaplain, and wondering what
the prisoner could have to say to him.

"What's up, Shuffles?" asked Wilton, when Mr. Agneau had left the
steerage.

"I've been smoothing him down," laughed Shuffles, with an audible
chuckle. "I have concluded not to stay in here any longer."

"What do you mean?"

"I'm coming out pretty soon, though it has cost me a bottle and a half
of old sherry to get out," laughed Shuffles.

"I don't know what you mean."

"I told the parson that I was drunk when I disobeyed orders, and that I
was very sorry for it, and wouldn't get drunk any more."

"Did you tell him that?"

"I did; I assured him I was the worst fellow in the whole world, and
ought to be hung, drawn, and quartered for my wickedness; and he
swallowed it as a codfish does a clam."

"And you gave him all the wine?"

"No, I didn't; I gave him one full bottle, and what was left in the one
from which we drank this afternoon. I have two more."

"We were going to have a good time with that wine."

"I have enough left."

"Where is it?"

"In my locker."

"They may find it."

"No, they won't; I will put it in some other place before inspection
day. There is plenty of wine in the medical stores. It was a good joke
for the parson to suppose I was drunk."

"Perhaps you were," suggested Wilton.

"I felt good; but I was as sober as I am now."

"The drink I took went into my head, and I felt as though I was going up
in a ballon."

"That was because you are not used to the article. It waked me up a
little, but I knew what I was about."

"I think you were a confounded fool to do what you did."

"Wilton, I'm not going to live in the steerage--you may take my word for
it. I've been an officer too long to come down to that. If we don't
succeed in making a chain, I shall quit the concern the first time I put
my foot on shore in Ireland."

"What do you mean by making a chain?" asked Wilton, eagerly.

"A chain is strong."

"Well; what of it?"

"It is composed of many links. Can't you understand that?"

"Hush up! Some one is coming," said Wilton, as he walked away from the
brig.

"Here! who is that?" demanded Mr. Lowington, as he saw Wilton moving
away from the lock-up.

"No. 59, sir--Wilton," replied he. "I was just going on deck to find
you, sir."

"To find me?" asked the principal.

"Yes, sir. Shuffles called me when I was passing, and wished me to tell
you he wanted to see you very much. I was just going after you, sir."

"If there is any blame, sir, it rests on me," interposed Shuffles,
through the bars of his prison.

Mr. Lowington unlocked the door of the brig, and entered, followed by
Mr. Agneau, leaving Wilton to congratulate himself on the result of the
lies he had uttered.

"I am told you wish to see me, Shuffles," said the principal.

"Yes, sir; I wish to say that I am extremely sorry for what I have
done."

"I thought you were crazy when you refused to obey; and now I find you
were."

"I had been drinking, sir, I confess."

"Mr. Agneau has told me your story; it is not necessary to repeat it
now. To-morrow I shall require you to acknowledge your error at muster,
and promise obedience in the future. Are you willing to do so?"

"I am, sir."

"You are discharged from confinement then, and will at once return to
your duty," replied Mr. Lowington, upon whom Shuffles did not venture to
