though great drops stood upon his forehead, “I have something dearer
even than health to win. Hold me up, Jasper, and let me stagger on, in
spite of everything, till my twelve turns are made.”

He remembered Lady Treherne’s words, “If you were well, I’d gladly give
my girl to you.” This inspired him with strength, endurance, and a
happiness which could not be concealed. It overflowed in looks, words,
and acts; it infected everyone, and made these holidays the blithest the
old abbey had seen for many a day.

Annon devoted himself to Octavia, and in spite of her command to be left
in peace till the New Year, she was very kind--so kind that hope flamed
up in his heart, though he saw that something like compassion often
shone on him from her frank eyes, and her compliance had no touch of the
tender docility which lovers long to see. She still avoided Treherne,
but so skillfully that few observed the change but Annon and himself. In
public Sir Jasper appeared to worship at the sprightly Rose’s shrine,
and she fancied her game was prospering well.

But had any one peeped behind the scenes it would have been discovered
that during the half hour before dinner, when everyone was in their
dressing rooms and the general taking his nap, a pair of ghostly black
figures flitted about the haunted gallery, where no servant ventured
without orders. The major fancied himself the only one who had made this
discovery, for Mrs. Snowdon affected Treherne’s society in public, and
was assiduous in serving and amusing the “dear convalescent,” as she
called him. But the general did not sleep; he too watched and waited,
longing yet dreading to speak, and hoping that this was but a harmless
freak of Edith’s, for her caprices were many, and till now he had
indulged them freely. This hesitation disgusted the major, who, being a
bachelor, knew little of women’s ways, and less of their powers of
persuasion. The day before New Year he took a sudden resolution, and
demanded a private interview with the general.

“I have come on an unpleasant errand, sir,” he abruptly began, as the
old man received him with an expression which rather daunted the major.
“My friendship for Lady Treherne, and my guardianship of her children,
makes me jealous of the honor of the family. I fear it is in danger,
sir; pardon me for saying it, but your wife is the cause.”

“May I trouble you to explain, Major Royston” was all the general’s
reply, as his old face grew stern and haughty.

“I will, sir, briefly. I happen to know from Jasper that there were love
passages between Miss Dubarry and himself a year or more ago in Paris. A
whim parted them, and she married. So far no reproach rests upon either,
but since she came here it has been evident to others as well as myself
that Jasper’s affection has revived, and that Mrs. Snowdon does not
reject and reprove it as she should. They often meet, and from Jasper’s
manner I am convinced that mischief is afloat. He is ardent, headstrong,
and utterly regardless of the world’s opinion in some cases. I have
watched them, and what I tell you is true.”

“Prove it.”

“I will. They meet in the north gallery, wrapped in dark cloaks, and
play ghost if anyone comes. I concealed myself behind the screen last
evening at dusk, and satisfied myself that my suspicions were correct. I
heard little of their conversation, but that little was enough.”

“Repeat it, if you please.”

“Sir Jasper seemed pleading for some promise which she reluctantly gave,
saying, ‘While you live I will be true to my word with everyone but him.
He will suspect, and it will be useless to keep it from him.’

“‘He will shoot me for this if he knows I am the traitor,’
expostulated Jasper.

“‘He shall not know that; I can hoodwink him easily, and serve my
purpose also.’

“‘You are mysterious, but I leave all to you and wait for my reward.
When shall I have it, Edith?’ She laughed, and answered so low I could
not hear, for they left the gallery as they spoke. Forgive me, General,
for the pain I inflict. You are the only person to whom I have spoken,
and you are the only person who can properly and promptly prevent this
affair from bringing open shame and scandal on an honorable house. To
you I leave it, and will do my part with this infatuated young man if
you will withdraw the temptation which will ruin him.”

“I will. Thank you, Major. Trust to me, and by tomorrow I will prove
that I can act as becomes me.”

The grief and misery in the general’s face touched the major; he
silently wrung his hand and went away, thanking heaven more fervently
than ever that no cursed coquette of a woman had it in her power to
break his heart.

While this scene was going on above, another was taking place in the
library. Treherne sat there alone, thinking happy thoughts evidently,
for his eyes shone and his lips smiled as he mused, while watching the
splendors of a winter sunset. A soft rustle and the faint scent of
violets warned him of Mrs. Snowdon’s approach, and a sudden foreboding
told him that danger was near. The instant he saw her face his fear
was confirmed, for exultation, resolve, and love met and mingled in
the expression it wore. Leaning in the window recess, where the red
light shone full on her lovely face and queenly figure, she said,
softly yet with a ruthless accent below the softness, “Dreaming
dreams, Maurice, which will never come to pass, unless I will it. I
know your secret, and I shall use it to prevent the fulfillment of the
foolish hope you cherish.”

“Who told you?” he demanded, with an almost fierce flash of the eye and
an angry flush.

“I discovered it, as I warned you I should. My memory is good, I recall
the gossip of long ago, I observe the faces, words, and acts of those
whom I suspect, and unconscious hints from them give me the truth.”

“I doubt it,” and Treherne smiled securely.

She stooped and whispered one short sentence into his ear. Whatever it
was it caused him to start up with a pale, panic-stricken face, and eye
her as if she had pronounced his doom.

“Do you doubt it now?” she asked coldly.

“He told you! Even your skill and craft could not discover it alone,”
 he muttered.

“Nay, I told you nothing was impossible to a determined woman. I needed
no help, for I knew more than you think.”

He sank down again in a despairing attitude and hid his face, saying
mournfully, “I might have known you would hunt me down and dash my hopes
when they were surest. How will you use this unhappy secret?”

“I will tell Octavia, and make her duty less hard. It will be kind to
both of you, for even with her this memory would mar your happiness; and
it saves her from the shame and grief of discovering, when too late,
that she has given herself to a--”

“Stop!” he cried, in a tone that made her start and pale, as he rose out
of his chair white with a stern indignation which awed her for a moment.
“You shall not utter that word--you know but half the truth, and if you
wrong me or trouble the girl I will turn traitor also, and tell the
general the game you are playing with my cousin. You feign to love me as
you feigned before, but his title is the bait now as then, and you fancy
that by threatening to mar my hopes you will secure my silence, and gain
your end.”

“Wrong, quite wrong. Jasper is nothing to me; I use him as a tool, not
you. If I threaten, it is to keep you from Octavia, who cannot forgive
the past and love you for yourself, as I have done all these miserable
months. You say I know but half the truth. Tell me the whole and I will
spare you.”

If ever a man was tempted to betray a trust it was Treherne then. A
word, and Octavia might be his; silence, and she might be lost; for this
woman was in earnest, and possessed the power to ruin his good name
forever. The truth leaped to his lips and would have passed them, had
not his eye fallen on the portrait of Jasper’s father. This man had
loved and sheltered the orphan all his life, had made of him a son, and,
dying, urged him to guard and serve and save the rebellious youth he
left, when most needing a father’s care.

“I promised, and I will keep my promise at all costs,” sighed Treherne,
and with a gesture full of pathetic patience he waved the fair tempter
from him, saying steadily, “I will never tell you, though you rob me of
that which is dearer than my life. Go and work your will, but remember
that when you might have won the deepest gratitude of the man you
profess to love, you chose instead to earn his hatred and contempt.”

Waiting for no word of hers, he took refuge in his room, and Edith
Snowdon sank down upon the couch, struggling with contending emotions of
love and jealousy, remorse and despair. How long she sat there she could
not tell; an approaching step recalled her to herself, and looking up
she saw Octavia. As the girl approached down the long vista of the
drawing rooms, her youth and beauty, innocence and candor touched that
fairer and more gifted woman with an envy she had never known before.
Something in the girl’s face struck her instantly: a look of peace and
purity, a sweet serenity more winning than loveliness, more impressive
than dignity or grace. With a smile on her lips, yet a half-sad,
half-tender light in her eyes, and a cluster of pale winter roses in her
hand, she came on till she stood before her rival and, offering the
flowers, said, in words as simple as sincere, “Dear Mrs. Snowdon, I
cannot let the last sun of the old year set on any misdeeds of mine for
which I may atone. I have disliked, distrusted, and misjudged you, and
now I come to you in all humility to say forgive me.”

With the girlish abandon of her impulsive nature Octavia knelt down
before the woman who was plotting to destroy her happiness, laid the
roses like a little peace offering on her lap, and with eloquently
pleading eyes waited for pardon. For a moment Mrs. Snowdon watched her,
fancying it a well-acted ruse to disarm a dangerous rival; but in that
sweet face there was no art; one glance showed her that. The words smote
her to the heart and won her in spite of pride or passion, as she
suddenly took the girl into her arms, weeping repentant tears. Neither
spoke, but in the silence each felt the barrier which had stood between
them vanishing, and each learned to know the other better in that moment
than in a year of common life. Octavia rejoiced that the instinct which
had prompted her to make this appeal had not misled her, but assured her
that behind the veil of coldness, pride, and levity which this woman
wore there was a heart aching for sympathy and help and love. Mrs.
Snowdon felt her worser self slip from her, leaving all that was true
and noble to make her worthy of the test applied. Art she could meet
with equal art, but nature conquered her. For spite of her misspent life
and faulty character, the germ of virtue, which lives in the worst, was
there, only waiting for the fostering sun and dew of love to strengthen
it, even though the harvest be a late one.

“Forgive you!” she cried, brokenly. “It is I who should ask forgiveness
of you--I who should atone, confess, and repent. Pardon me, pity me,
love me, for I am more wretched than you know.”

“Dear, I do with heart and soul. Believe it, and let me be your friend”
 was the soft answer.

“God knows I need one!” sighed the poor woman, still holding fast the
only creature who had wholly won her. “Child, I am not good, but not so
bad that I dare not look in your innocent face and call you friend. I
never had one of my own sex. I never knew my mother; and no one ever saw
in me the possibility of goodness, truth, and justice but you. Trust and
love and help me, Octavia, and I will reward you with a better life, if
I can do no more.”

“I will, and the new year shall be happier than the old.”

“God bless you for that prophecy; may I be worthy of it.”

Then as a bell warned them away, the rivals kissed each other tenderly,
and parted friends. As Mrs. Snowdon entered her room, she saw her
husband sitting with his gray head in his hands, and heard him murmur
despairingly to himself, “My life makes her miserable. But for the sin
of it I’d die to free her.”

“No, live for me, and teach me to be happy in your love.” The clear
voice startled him, but not so much as the beautiful changed face of the
wife who laid the gray head on her bosom, saying tenderly, “My kind and
patient husband, you have been deceived. From me you shall know all the
truth, and when you have forgiven my faulty past, you shall see how
happy I will try to make your future.”




Chapter VII


A GHOSTLY REVEL

“Bless me, how dull we are tonight!” exclaimed Rose, as the younger
portion of the party wandered listlessly about the drawing rooms that
evening, while my lady and the major played an absorbing game of piquet,
and the general dozed peacefully at last.

“It is because Maurice is not here; he always keeps us going, for he is
a fellow of infinite resources,” replied Sir Jasper, suppressing a yawn.

“Have him out then,” said Annon.

“He won’t come. The poor lad is blue tonight, in spite of his
improvement. Something is amiss, and there is no getting a word
from him.”

“Sad memories afflict him, perhaps,” sighed Blanche.

“Don’t be absurd, dear, sad memories are all nonsense; melancholy is
always indigestion, and nothing is so sure a cure as fun,” said Rose
briskly. “I’m going to send in a polite invitation begging him to come
and amuse us. He’ll accept, I haven’t a doubt.”

The message was sent, but to Rose’s chagrin a polite refusal was
returned.

“He shall come. Sir Jasper, do you and Mr. Annon go as a deputation
from us, and return without him at your peril” was her command.

They went, and while waiting their reappearance the sisters spoke of
what all had observed.

“How lovely Mrs. Snowdon looks tonight. I always thought she owed half
her charms to her skill in dress, but she never looked so beautiful as
in that plain black silk, with those roses in her hair,” said Rose.

“What has she done to herself?” replied Blanche. “I see a change,
but can’t account for it. She and Tavie have made some beautifying
discovery, for both look altogether uplifted and angelic all of a
sudden.”

“Here come the gentlemen, and, as I’m a Talbot, they haven’t got him!”
 cried Rose as the deputation appeared, looking very crestfallen. “Don’t
come near me,” she added, irefully, “you are disloyal cowards, and I
doom you to exile till I want you. I am infinite in resources as well
as this recreant man, and come he shall. Mrs. Snowdon, would you mind
asking Mr. Treherne to suggest something to wile away the rest of this
evening? We are in despair, and can think of nothing, and you are
all-powerful with him.”

“I must decline, since he refuses you” was the decided answer, as Mrs.
Snowdon moved away.

“Tavie, dear, do go; we must have him; he always obeys you, and you
would be such a public benefactor, you know.”

Without a word Octavia wrote a line and sent it by a servant. Several
minutes passed, and the gentlemen began to lay wagers on the success of
her trial. “He will not come for me, you may be sure,” said Octavia. As
the words passed her lips he appeared.

A general laugh greeted him, but, taking no notice of the jests at
his expense, he turned to Octavia, saying quietly, “What can I do for
you, Cousin?”

His colorless face and weary eyes reproached her for disturbing him, but
it was too late for regret, and she answered hastily, “We are in want of
some new and amusing occupation to wile away the evening. Can you
suggest something appropriate?”

“Why not sit round the hall fire and tell stories, while we wait to see
the old year out, as we used to do long ago?” he asked, after a
moment’s thought.

“I told you so! There it is, just what we want.” And Sir Jasper looked
triumphant.

“It’s capital--let us begin at once. It is after ten now, so we shall
not have long to wait,” cried Rose, and, taking Sir Jasper’s arm, she
led the way to the hall.

A great fire always burned there, and in wintertime thick carpets
and curtains covered the stone floor and draped the tall windows.
Plants blossomed in the warm atmosphere, and chairs and lounges
stood about invitingly. The party was soon seated, and Treherne was
desired to begin.

“We must have ghost stories, and in order to be properly thrilling and
effective, the lights must be put out,” said Rose, who sat next him, and
spoke first, as usual.

This was soon done, and only a ruddy circle of firelight was left to
oppose the rapt gloom that filled the hall, where shadows now seemed to
lurk in every corner.

“Don’t be very dreadful, or I shall faint away,” pleaded Blanche,
drawing nearer to Annon, for she had taken her sister’s advice, and laid
close siege to that gentleman’s heart.

“I think your nerves will bear my little tale,” replied Treherne.
“When I was in India, four years ago, I had a very dear friend in my
regiment--a Scotchman; I’m half Scotch myself, you know, and clannish,
of course. Gordon was sent up the country on a scouting expedition,
and never returned. His men reported that he left them one evening to
take a survey, and his horse came home bloody and riderless. We
searched, but could not find a trace of him, and I was desperate to
discover and avenge his murder. About a month after his disappearance,
as I sat in my tent one fearfully hot day, suddenly the canvas door
flap was raised and there stood Gordon. I saw him as plainly as I see
you, Jasper, and should have sprung to meet him, but something held me
back. He was deathly pale, dripping with water, and in his bonny blue
eyes was a wild, woeful look that made my blood run cold. I stared
dumbly, for it was awful to see my friend so changed and so unearthly.
Stretching his arm to me he took my hand, saying solemnly, ‘Come!’ The
touch was like ice; an ominous thrill ran through me; I started up to
obey, and he was gone.”

“A horrid dream, of course. Is that all?” asked Rose.

With his eyes on the fire and his left hand half extended, Treherne went
on as if he had not heard her.

“I thought it was a fancy, and soon recovered myself, for no one had
seen or heard anything of Gordon, and my native servant lay just outside
my tent. A strange sensation remained in the hand the phantom touched.
It was cold, damp, and white. I found it vain to try to forget this
apparition; it took strong hold of me; I told Yermid, my man, and he
bade me consider it a sign that I was to seek my friend. That night I
dreamed I was riding up the country in hot haste; what led me I know
not, but I pressed on and on, longing to reach the end. A half-dried
river crossed my path, and, riding down the steep bank to ford it, I saw
Gordon’s body lying in the shallow water looking exactly as the vision
looked. I woke in a strange mood, told the story to my commanding
officer, and, as nothing was doing just then, easily got leave of
absence for a week. Taking Yermid, I set out on my sad quest. I thought
it folly, but I could not resist the impulse that drew me on. For seven
days I searched, and the strangest part of the story is that all that
time I went on exactly as in the dream, seeing what I saw then, and led
by the touch of a cold hand on mine. On the seventh day I reached the
river, and found my friend’s body.”

“How horrible! Is it really true?” cried Mrs. Snowdon.

“As true as I am a living man. Nor is that all: this left hand of mine
never has been warm since that time. See and feel for yourselves.”

He opened both hands, and all satisfied themselves that the left was
smaller, paler, and colder than the right.

“Pray someone tell another story to put this out of my mind; it makes me
nervous,” said Blanche.

“I’ll tell one, and you may laugh to quiet your nerves. I want to have
mine done with, so that I can enjoy the rest with a free mind.” With
these words Rose began her tale in the good old fashion.

“Once upon a time, when we were paying a visit to my blessed grandmamma,
I saw a ghost in this wise: The dear old lady was ill with a cold and
kept her room, leaving us to mope, for it was very dull in the great
lonely house. Blanche and I were both homesick, but didn’t like to leave
till she was better, so we ransacked the library and solaced ourselves
with all manner of queer books. One day I found Grandmamma very low and
nervous, and evidently with something on her mind. She would say
nothing, but the next day was worse, and I insisted on knowing the
cause, for the trouble was evidently mental. Charging me to keep it from
Blanche, who was, and is, a sad coward, she told me that a spirit had
appeared to her two successive nights. ‘If it comes a third time, I
shall prepare to die,’ said the foolish old lady.

“‘No, you won’t, for I’ll come and stay with you and lay your ghost,’ I
said. With some difficulty I made her yield, and after Blanche was
asleep I slipped away to Grandmamma, with a book and candle for a long
watch, as the spirit didn’t appear till after midnight. She usually
slept with her door unlocked, in case of fire or fright, and her maid
was close by. That night I locked the door, telling her that spirits
could come through the oak if they chose, and I preferred to have a fair
trial. Well, I read and chatted and dozed till dawn and nothing
appeared, so I laughed at the whole affair, and the old lady pretended
to be convinced that it was all a fancy.

“Next night I slept in my own room, and in the morning was told that not
only Grandmamma but Janet had seen the spirit. All in white, with
streaming hair, a pale face, and a red streak at the throat. It came and
parted the bed-curtains, looking in a moment, and then vanished. Janet
had slept with Grandmamma and kept a lamp burning on the chimney, so
both saw it.

“I was puzzled, but not frightened; I never am, and I insisted on trying
again. The door was left unlocked, as on the previous night, and I lay
with Grandmamma, a light burning as before. About two she clutched me as
I was dropping off. I looked, and there, peeping in between the dark
curtains, was a pale face with long hair all about it, and a red streak
at the throat. It was very dim, the light being low, but I saw it, and
after one breathless minute sprang up, caught my foot, fell down with a
crash, and by the time I was around the bed, not a vestige of the thing
appeared. I was angry, and vowed I’d succeed at all hazards, though I’ll
confess I was just a bit daunted.

“Next time Janet and I sat up in easy chairs, with bright lights
burning, and both wide awake with the strongest coffee we could make. As
the hour drew near we got nervous, and when the white shape came gliding
in Janet hid her face. I didn’t, and after one look was on the point of
laughing, for the spirit was Blanche walking in her sleep. She wore a
coral necklace in those days, and never took it off, and her long hair
half hid her face, which had the unnatural, uncanny look somnambulists
always wear. I had the sense to keep still and tell Janet what to do, so
the poor child went back unwaked, and Grandmamma’s spirit never walked
again for I took care of that.”

“Why did you haunt the old lady?” asked Annon, as the laughter ceased.

“I don’t know, unless it was that I wanted to ask leave to go home, and
was afraid to do it awake, so tried when asleep. I shall not tell any
story, as I was the heroine of this, but will give my turn to you, Mr.
Annon,” said Blanche, with a soft glance, which was quite thrown away,
for the gentleman’s eyes were fixed on Octavia, who sat on a low ottoman
at Mrs. Snowdon’s feet in the full glow of the firelight.

“I’ve had very small experience in ghosts, and can only recall a little
fright I once had when a boy at college. I’d been out to a party, got
home tired, couldn’t find my matches, and retired in the dark. Toward
morning I woke, and glancing up to see if the dim light was dawn or
moonshine I was horrified to see a coffin standing at the bed’s foot. I
rubbed my eyes to be sure I was awake, and looked with all my might.
There it was, a long black coffin, and I saw the white plate in the
dusk, for the moon was setting and my curtain was not drawn. ‘It’s some
trick of the fellows,’ I thought; ‘I’ll not betray myself, but keep
cool.’ Easy to say but hard to do, for it suddenly flashed into my mind
that I might be in the wrong room. I glanced about, but there were the
familiar objects as usual, as far as the indistinct light allowed me to
see, and I made sure by feeling on the wall at the bed’s head for my
watchcase. It was there, and mine beyond a doubt, being peculiar in
shape and fabric. Had I been to a college wine party I could have
accounted for the vision, but a quiet evening in a grave professor’s
well-conducted family could produce no ill effects. ‘It’s an optical
illusion, or a prank of my mates; I’ll sleep and forget it,’ I said, and
for a time endeavored to do so, but curiosity overcame my resolve, and
soon I peeped again. Judge of my horror when I saw the sharp white
outline of a dead face, which seemed to be peeping up from the coffin.
It gave me a terrible shock for I was but a lad and had been ill. I hid
my face and quaked like a nervous girl, still thinking it some joke and
too proud to betray fear lest I should be laughed at. How long I lay
there I don’t know, but when I looked again the face was farther out and
the whole figure seemed rising slowly. The moon was nearly down, I had
no lamp, and to be left in the dark with that awesome thing was more
than I could bear. Joke or earnest, I must end the panic, and bolting
out of my room I roused my neighbor. He told me I was mad or drunk, but
lit a lamp and returned with me, to find my horror only a heap of
clothes thrown on the table in such a way that, as the moon’s pale light
shot it, it struck upon my black student’s gown, with a white card lying
on it, and produced the effect of a coffin and plate. The face was a
crumpled handkerchief, and what seemed hair a brown muffler. As the moon
sank, these outlines changed and, incredible as it may seem, grew like a
face. My friend not having had the fright enjoyed the joke, and
‘Coffins’ was my sobriquet for a long while.”

“You get worse and worse. Sir Jasper, do vary the horrors by a touch of
fun, or I shall run away,” said Blanche, glancing over her shoulder
nervously.

