and in his inactivity he chafed like a caged lion. Mr. Watson had gone
to Boston soon after his arrival, taking Mr. Gayles with him. He did
not return till the next day. He had chartered a swift steamer, and the
constable, with other officers, had gone in pursuit of the Caribbee.

In the morning mail, on the second day after the disappearance of
Bessie, came a letter to her father. Levi was present when it was
opened, and it contained a full confirmation of his theory that Bessie
had been carried off in the Caribbee, and was now going half round the
world to Australia. The letter was written by Dock Vincent, and dated
ten days before its receipt. The villain assured the distracted parents
that Bessie should be kindly cared for by Mrs. Vincent, and should be
restored to her friends as soon as possible after her father had paid
over to Mr. Fairfield the sum of seventy thousand dollars.

Mr. Watson dropped the letter on the floor, and breathed a deep sigh.
He would have given double the sum for the return of Bessie; but his
conscience would not permit him to reward villany like that of Dock
Vincent.

"Levi, your uncle is concerned in this affair," said Mr. Watson,
turning to the young skipper with a sad look.

"I suppose he is. I will go and see him at once."

"I will go with you."

They went.

"Mr. Fairfield, where is Dock Vincent?" asked the suffering father,
when he and Levi had been admitted to the kitchen.

"I don't know no more'n nothin' in the world," whined the miser. "I
hain't seen nothin' on him."

"You don't know!" repeated Mr. Watson, sternly.

"No more'n nothin' in the world," answered the old man, who realized
that the first instalment of trouble on account of Dock's little plan
was about to come upon him.

"Yes, you do know where he is. Read that letter;" and the merchant
handed him the epistle he had received from Dock.

Mr. Fairfield took the letter, put on his glasses, and studied out its
contents.

"I don't know nothin' about it," pleaded the old man, as he looked over
his spectacles at the stern parent.

"Don't tell me that! I'm not to be trifled with. I want my daughter,
and you are a party to this conspiracy. If you don't speak I'll wring
an answer out of you by force," said Mr. Watson, his patience
exhausted, and his indignation so aroused that he could not control it.



"I tell you I don't know nothin' at all about it. I hain't seen your
darter, nor Cap'n Vincent nuther," whimpered the miser.

"No evasion! Answer me at once," thundered the enraged merchant, goaded
to desperation by the anguish his injury called forth. "Your name is
mentioned in this letter. You are to receive the money, and share it
with the scoundrel who intends to filch it from me. Vincent did not go
in the vessel. Where is he?"

"I don't know nothin' at all about it," answered Mr. Fairfield,
wriggling like a worm in his chair.

"Yes, you do. You are to send the money to him. Where is he?" demanded
Mr. Watson, as he seized the old man by the throat, and dragged him out
of his chair.

"Lem me be!" sputtered the miser, trying to free himself from the grasp
of the wrathful father.

"Speak, old man! Where is he? Speak, or I will tear the answer from
you."

"Be calm, Mr. Watson," interposed Levi, gently.

"For massy's sake! You don't mean to kill him--do you?" exclaimed Mrs.
Fairfield, alarmed for the safety of her husband. "Don't hurt him! He's
a poor old man, and don't know no better."

Mr. Watson, conscious that he had gone too far in his violent
indignation, released his grasp upon the miser, and he sank back into
his chair more frightened than hurt.

"If I knew anything consarnin' this business, I'd tell you all about
it," added the old man, when he had regained his breath.

"Uncle Nathan, this money is to be paid over to you, and you must know
something about it," said Levi, decidedly.

"O, yes; you hate me, and you want to persecute me," replied the old
man, bitterly, as he glanced spitefully at his nephew. "There, now, you
broke my glasses," continued the miser, as he picked them up from the
hearth, on which they had fallen. "I gin a dollar for them glasses; I'm
a poor man, and 'tain't right I should lose 'em."

"Will you tell me where Vincent is, or shall I send a constable to
arrest you for conspiracy?" demanded Mr. Watson.

"I don't know nothin' at all where he is," replied the miser, alarmed
by this threat.

"You were to receive this money."

"That may be. Cap'n Vincent did tell me if you paid any money to me for
him to keep it till he come for't. He didn't tell me nothin' at all he
was go'n' to do, nor where he was goin' to. I hain't no idee in the
world where he is."

This was all that either Mr. Watson or Levi could get out of the old
man. It was really all he knew; and the visitors, disappointed and
disheartened, retired from the miser's presence, though not till the
merchant had declared that he did not intend to pay one penny to Dock
to restore his daughter. The old man groaned when they had gone; but it
was because he was to lose his reward, and probably the money he had
loaned. It was a bitter hour to him.

Mr. Watson and Levi conferred together as they walked home. From that
time no one passed in or out of the miser's house without being
observed. Levi watched that day; but at nine o'clock in the evening,
Mr. C. Augustus Eb√©nier took his place, to serve for the night.




CHAPTER XXI.

THE CARIBBEE SAILS FOR AUSTRALIA.


If Mrs. Dock Vincent had not been a person of higher moral purposes
than her husband, sad indeed would have been the lot of the two
children that slept in the captain's state-room on board of the
Caribbee. As is often the case, she knew less of her husband's moral
obliquity than the world at large, though even she knew enough to
believe that he was not what he should be. People did not tell her of
Dock's wicked deeds, and he complained bitterly to her of the hard
treatment which the world bestowed upon him. That good men frowned at
him and spurned him he unjustly attributed to their hypocrisy and
self-esteem, rather than to his own evil deeds and evil intentions.

Dock had spent a term in the state prison, and his character was
damaged, if not ruined. Men would not trust him, and the reprobate
chafed under the public censure. To his wife and his friends he made
himself appear like a deeply injured person, like a martyr--in what
good cause he could not say. He was going to Australia to begin life
anew, to carve out his fortune in a strange land, where he was not
known. Mrs. Vincent was willing to leave her native land, and make a
new home in a distant country for this purpose, for the motive seemed
to be a laudable one.

She had no knowledge, guilty or innocent, of the abduction of Bessie,
until after the Caribbee had sailed; but she felt herself powerless to
undo the mischief. If her husband had been on board, she would not have
dared to oppose him, he was so violent and savage when she interfered
with his plans. She could at least protect the poor girl from insult
and injury, and she determined to do this at all hazards. It was
evident to her that the Caribbee would not proceed immediately to her
destination without her owner and captain. It was probably the
intention of Captain Gauley to put into some port before she started on
her long voyage, when Dock would join her.

Mrs. Vincent pitied Bessie Watson, and almost hated her husband when
she realized of what infamy he was capable. She comforted the poor girl
as well as she was able, and promised to be her friend under all
circumstances. She conducted her to an unoccupied state-room, which had
doubtless been reserved for her use, and spent half the night with her;
for Bessie trembled at the thought of being alone on board of the
vessel of her great enemy.

Bessie was truly grateful to Mrs. Vincent, who, though rough and rude
in her manners, was kind at heart; and her presence was a great
comfort. The poor girl, torn thus suddenly from her friends, wept long
and bitterly at her sad fate; but at last she fell asleep, committing
herself to the care of the heavenly Father, and relying upon him for
the succor which he alone could give. No one disturbed her; and Mrs.
Vincent watched over her, as a child, till she was fast asleep.

When she awoke, late in the morning, she heard the voices of children
in the cabin, and it was hard to realize that she was the victim of
Dock Vincent's villany. She was kindly greeted by Mrs. Vincent, and
the children stared at her as though she had come up from the depths of
the ocean. She soon made friends with the boy of eight and the girl of
ten, who were included in the family of her persecutor. After breakfast
she went on deck with them, and learned that the vessel was off Cape
Cod. Captain Gauley was very civil to her; but she did not allude to
the events of the previous evening. He was a bad man, and she could
hardly help shuddering in his presence.

All day long she played with the children, and short as she made the
hours to them, they were very long to her. She was so gentle, and kind,
and unselfish, even in her woe, that the little ones loved her, and
would hardly leave her for a moment. She was certainly comforted by
their presence, and her endeavors to assure them lightened the moments
of the long day. The kindness of Mrs. Vincent did much to assure her;
she was satisfied that nothing worse than a long separation from her
parents was likely to happen to her. Feeling that it was useless to
repine at her condition, or to weep over what she could not avoid, she
resolved to make the best of it. There was no real hardship in her
situation, and the circumstances were certainly more agreeable than
when she had before been an involuntary passenger in Dock's vessel. The
absence of the villain himself was perhaps her greatest consolation;
but the presence of Mrs. Vincent and the children was a real comfort.

In the evening Bessie and Dock's wife talked the matter over again in
her state-room. Mrs. Vincent roundly and unequivocally condemned the
conduct of her husband. She had discovered that the Caribbee was now
headed to the west, and it was plain to her that she was not yet on her
way to Australia. Dock had told her he was going to New York, and it
was possible that he intended to join them there. She told Bessie that
she might be able to leave the vessel when she reached her destined
port. The poor girl became more reconciled to her situation only
because it was no worse, rather than because it was not bad enough. She
slept well that night.

The next day she played with the children, read to them, and dressed
the girl's doll in the latest fashion. In the evening, after Bessie had
retired, the Caribbee ran by Sandy Hook, and made a harbor near Amboy,
where she came to anchor. She was moored a mile from the shore, and no
other vessel was near her. Captain Gauley had carried out the plans of
Dock to the letter. He had been a steamboat pilot in these waters, and
was quite familiar with the navigation. Dock had made his acquaintance
while he was acting as mate of a boat, and the mate and the pilot were
congenial spirits.

When Bessie went on deck with the children in the morning, Captain
Gauley told her, if she wished to write to her father, her letter
should be forwarded, as he was going on shore during the forenoon. She
was glad to assure her parents of her safety, and she wrote a long
letter, describing her capture and her situation on board of the
Caribbee. She stated the facts as they were. Dock's agent was writing
at the same time in the cabin; and when she was about to fold her
sheet, he wished to see it. He read it through, tore off the heading,
"Near New York," and the date, and then suggested that she had better
ask her father to pay the money required for her release.

"My father must do as he thinks best about that," replied Bessie,
decidedly.

"You don't understand your situation, I see," added the captain. "It is
impossible for you to escape from the vessel, and if your father does
not pay the money, you will go to Australia with us."

"My father will do what is best," repeated Bessie.

"Very well," added Captain Gauley, sourly. "If your father is not wiser
than you are, you may spend the rest of your days in Australia."

Bessie made no reply, but folded and directed her letter. It was plain
now that Dock was to levy his contribution on Mr. Watson before he came
on board. This out-of-the-way place had been selected, where no one
would be likely to hear of her, for the vessel to remain until Dock
could obtain his money. Captain Gauley went off in a boat, with one
man, leaving the schooner in charge of Mat Mogmore. He did not return
till night; but Bessie, though she considered various plans to escape
from the vessel, was satisfied that nothing could be done, for Mat
watched her all the time. Her only hope was, that she might induce one
of the sailors to assist her by promising him a large sum of money; but
her vigilant guardian would not permit her to speak to any man on
board. If one of the seamen came aft, he was ordered forward; and
Bessie's hope faded away.

The Caribbee remained for ten days in the vicinity of Sandy Hook,
changing her anchorage several times. Every day, either Mat Mogmore or
Captain Gauley went on shore, evidently expecting to see Dock, or to
hear from him. Bessie watched in vain for an opportunity to make a
friend of one of the sailors, or to hail a passing boat; but so
carefully was she guarded, that all hope in this direction was cut off.
She began to wish that her father would pay the money, for this seemed
to be her only chance of escape. Dock's non-appearance indicated that
his little plan was not working as well as he had expected, and Mrs.
Vincent and Bessie saw that Captain Gauley and Mat were becoming very
anxious.

On the tenth day after the arrival of the Caribbee, Mat Mogmore, who
had been on shore, returned with a letter, directed, in a strange hand,
to Captain Gauley. He opened it in the cabin. It contained but a few
lines, which he read and then hastened upon deck, leaving the letter on
the table. The rattling of ropes and the flapping of sails were
immediately heard; and it was plain to Bessie that the vessel was
getting under way.

"I wonder what is to be done now," said Mrs. Vincent, coming out of her
state-room.

"I don't know. Captain Gauley read the letter which lies on the table,
and then hurried on deck," replied Bessie.

"A letter!" exclaimed Mrs. Vincent, who was continually on the lookout
for news; for she was hardly less a prisoner than Bessie.

She took it from the table, and without hesitation opened it.

"It is from my husband," said she, glancing at the signature. "Things
are going wrong with me, and you will sail for Australia without me,"
she read, "the moment you get this letter. Keep things as before, and
do not let any one leave the vessel. If you don't do this, my only
chance is lost. Be careful, for they are after you. I shall get the
money, and go to Australia by steamer from England, and shall probably
be there before you."

"Then we are actually starting for Australia!" exclaimed Bessie, with a
deep sigh.

"I suppose so."

Bessie went into her state-room and wept bitterly, as all hope deserted
her. She cried, and she prayed, and then endeavored to reconcile
herself anew to her situation. The sails were hoisted, and the Caribbee
was standing out to sea.

Captain Gauley was at the helm, and Mat Mogmore was at his side,
talking with him about the prospect.

"If he wrote a letter at all, he ought to have told us all about it,"
said Mat, disappointed at the meagreness of the news from Dock.

"He says things are going against him."

"And he says they are after us; but he don't say who, nor what," added
Mat. "I would like to know what has gone wrong, and who is after us."

"Do you see that schooner on the weather bow?" said Captain Gauley,
pointing to a trim-looking craft. "She has an eye on us, and we must
give her a wide berth. She came about just now, and is running across
our fore-foot."

"That's the yacht, as true as I live!" exclaimed Mat, when he
discovered her.

"What yacht?"

"The Starry Flag!"

She had been standing off and on between Sandy Hook and Coney Island
for twenty-four hours, on the lookout for the Caribbee.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE TRAVELLER WHO LOST HIS WAY.


The steward of the yacht watched the house of Mr. Fairfield all night;
but no one entered or left it. Levi took his turn the next day again;
and, when he proposed to employ a fresh hand for the second night,
Augustus insisted upon serving, himself. He had slept enough during the
day, and he wanted the satisfaction of capturing Dock, if he presented
himself.

This time he was in luck, as he declared, for about one o'clock at
night, when the town was as still as though it contained not a single
living inhabitant, the villain came to obtain his money, probably not
doubting that by this time it had been paid to his agent.

The steward had stationed himself in such a position that no one could
approach the house unseen by him. Just after the clock on one of the
churches had struck one, he heard footsteps on the road, and presently
a man stopped in front of the miser's house. Contrary to the usual
custom of rogues and villains, he went up to the front door, and
knocked vigorously. The heart of the watcher leaped with expectation,
and he crept like a cat on the grass till he had obtained a position
behind a lilac bush, near the front door. The first summons of the
unseasonable visitor did not procure a response from within, and the
man knocked again.

Though the vigilant sentinel did not recognize his cowardly enemy, he
had no doubt it was he. The form was about the height of Dock, but
appeared to be better dressed than when he had seen the ruffian. Who
else should go to the house of the miser at that unseemly hour?

"Who's there?" called Mr. Fairfield, with his impatient whine, as he
threw open one of the windows of his chamber.

"I've got lost, and I want some one to show me the way to Gloucester,"
replied the visitor, in a tone so different from the voice of Dock that
Augustus did not recognize it, and began to fear that the villain was
not within his reach, as he had confidently believed.

"Got lost--have you? Well, take the right hand road out by the
school-'us," added the miser, not so sourly as most people would have
spoken when roused from their sleep to direct a night traveller.

"There are two or three roads there, and I can't afford to go much out
of my way. Come out and show me, and I'll pay you for your trouble."

This was quite enough for the miser, and he promised to come. The
caller stepped out into the road, and Augustus crouched down under the
lilac bushes to escape observation. In a few moments Mr. Fairfield
appeared, muffled up in a ragged overcoat.

"Well, Squire Fairfield, what's the news?" demanded the visitor, when
the old man joined him.

If the steward had any doubts before, he had none now. It was Dock
Vincent beyond a peradventure, and his voice sounded as natural as on
former occasions. It was plain that the bewildered traveller was a myth
for the benefit of Mrs. Fairfield, who, being "women folks," and not
understanding business, was not permitted to share the heavy secrets of
her husband, especially on the present momentous occasion.

"There ain't nothin' at all for news," replied the old man, as he
glanced at the house, as if to assure himself that his wife was not
watching him.

"No news?" exclaimed Dock. "Hasn't Watson come done with the money
yet?"

"No; nor that ain't the wust on't, nuther. I don't believe he will."

"O, yes, he will!" replied Dock, confidently. "I've got things fixed
this time so that he can't help planking down the money. He'll be glad
to pay it, I can tell you."

"What have you done with the gal, cap'n?"

"We've got her; and Watson never'll see her again unless he pays the
money--that's so."

"But he won't pay it; and I ain't go'n' to git my share on't at all,"
whined the miser.

"Yes, you will; don't be alarmed, Squire Fairfield."

"They've sent a steamer off arter the vessel."

"Have they, though?"

"Yes, they have; and Gayles has gone in her."

"All right; the steamer'll cost some money, and won't do any good.
She'll come back without the girl. My vessel isn't a great ways from
New York, and when I say the word she'll start, whether I go in her or
not. I tell you, Mr. Watson will be glad to pay the money before many
days. He don't understand the matter yet. I'll come again in two or
three days; and I reckon you'll have the money next time I come."

"Where are you stoppin' now?" asked Mr. Fairfield.

"Nowhere in these parts; but I'll be here in two or three days."

"But Watson won't pay that money, no more'n nothin' in the world."

"Yes, he will. He can't help doing it, if he wants his daughter again.
Where's Levi now?"

"He's round here; but what am I go'n' to do for what you owe me, if
Watson don't pay the money?" asked the old man, anxiously.

"I'll pay it all just as I agreed to do. Now go to bed again, Squire
Fairfield, or your wife will be out looking for you."

"But I want to know sunthin more about this business."

"You mustn't know any more than you do. I didn't mean you should know
anything about it. I never told you anything. When you get the money,
you hold on to it till I come. I don't know as it's quite safe for me
to come here again, even in the night. I guess we'll fix it some other
way."

Dock did "fix it some other way"--it is of no consequence how.

"After I get this money, and get all ready to start, I'm going to
settle up matters with Levi and that nigger before I go. I expect I
shall kill that nigger if I ever see him again."

"Shall you? Then now's your time!" yelled Mr. C. Augustus Eb√©nier, as
he sprang from his covert, and rushed upon his enemy.

Dock Vincent was startled, as a braver man than he might have been
under such circumstances; but the steward did not permit him to recover
his self-possession. With an oak stick he carried in his hand, he dealt
a heavy blow upon the head of the villain. But his cranium seemed to be
made of more solid material than his African assailant's, for he
attempted to rise, when the steward repeated the stroke so effectually
that he lay still on the ground.

"Don't! Don't!" pleaded Mr. Fairfield, terrified by the tragic event.
"Don't tech him agin. Let him be."

But Dock was not deprived of his consciousness even by the severe blows
he had received, and again he attempted to rise.

"Lay still! If you don't there'll be a dead man not far from here,"
said the steward, as he took his revolver from his pocket.

Dock saw it, and dared not move.

"Don't tech him no more. Let him go now."

"Not if I know it! Allow me to insinuate, in the most direct manner
possible, that this man is my prisoner; and if he don't spend the rest
of his days in the state prison, it will be an outrage upon humanity,"
