smaller numbers; and, though it was impossible to count them, there
were not less than a hundred and fifty white mice in the basement.

When Leo conducted the visitors to the cellar, all the tribes of mice
were in the highest enjoyment of colonial and domestic bliss. Though
most of them scampered to their lairs when the gentlemen appeared, they
returned in a moment, looked at the strangers, snuffed and stared, and
then went to work upon the buckwheat and canary seed, which Leo gave
them as a special treat. Squatting on their hind legs, they picked up
grains or seeds, and holding them in their fore paws, like squirrels,
picked out the kernels.



In other houses, they were chasing each other along the galleries,
performing various gymnastics on the apparatus provided for the
purpose, or revolving in the whirligigs that some of the cages
contained. It was after dark; and, having reposed during the day, they
were full of life and spirit at night. The detective was delighted, and
even Mr. Checkynshaw for a few moments forgot that his valuable papers
had been stolen. Both of them gazed with interest at the cunning
movements and the agile performances of the little creatures.

"I see why you remained down cellar so long," said the detective, with
a smile.

"I was at work on that mouse-house," replied Leo, pointing to the
bench.

The palace in process of construction was somewhat different from the
others. Instead of being open in front of the "grand parade," it had a
glass door, so that the occupants of the establishment could be seen,
but could not fall out.

"What is that one for?" asked Mr. Clapp.

"I'm making that for Mr. Stropmore," answered Leo. "I gave him one lot,
but his cat killed them all. The cat can't get at them in this house,
and they can't fall out."

"Elinora would like to see them," said Mr. Checkynshaw, graciously.

"I should be very glad to show them to her, or to give her as many of
them as she wants," replied Leo.

"Perhaps she will come and see them. But, Mr. Clapp, we must attend to
business."

The detective was in no hurry to attend to business, so interested was
he in the performances of the mice. He was quite satisfied that a boy
whose thoughts were occupied as Leo's were could not be implicated in
the robbery. The banker led the way up stairs, and Leo was questioned
again. He described the rogue once more, and was sure he should know
him if he saw him again. The banker said he would call and see Mrs.
Wittleworth and her son, while the detective was to take the night
train for New York, where "Mr. Hart" was supposed to have gone. The
officer, who knew all the rogues, was confident, from the description,
that the thief was "Pilky Wayne," a noted "confidence man." The theft
was according to his method of operation.

"Where do you suppose father is?" asked Maggie, as Leo was about to
leave the house to show Mr. Checkynshaw where Mrs. Wittleworth lived.
"It is after seven o'clock, and he is never so late as this."

"I don't know," replied Leo. "I haven't seen him since one o'clock."

The banker was disturbed by the question. It would be annoying to tell
such a pretty and interesting young lady, poor girl though she was,
that her father was very ill. It would make a "scene," and he would be
expected to comfort her in her great grief.

"Your father--Is he your father, miss?" asked he, doubtfully.

"He is just the same. He adopted both Leo and me," replied Maggie.

"He went to my house, this afternoon, to dress my daughter's hair,"
added Mr. Checkynshaw; and there was something in his manner which
disturbed the fair girl.

"Is he there now?"

"Yes, I think he is. My people will take good care of him."

"Why, what do you mean, sir?" demanded Maggie. "Take good care of him?"

"He had an ill turn this afternoon."

"My father!" exclaimed Maggie.

"I sent for the doctor, and he has had good care," added the banker, as
soothingly as he could speak, which, however, was not saying much.

"What ails him?"

"Well, it was an attack of apoplexy, paralysis, or something of that
kind."

"My poor father!" ejaculated Maggie, her eyes filling with tears. "I
must go to him at once."

Maggie took down her cloak and hood, and put them on.




CHAPTER VII.

MON PERE.


Maggie's ideas of apoplexy or paralysis were not very definite, and she
only understood that something very terrible had happened to her
foster-father, whom she loved as though he had been her real parent.
Leo was hardly less affected, though, being a boy, his susceptibility
was not so keen. His first feeling was one of indignation that the
banker had not told him before of the misfortune which had overtaken
the family. It was cruel to have kept Maggie from her father a single
moment longer than was necessary.

"Where is poor father now?" asked Maggie, as she adjusted her hood, and
wiped the tears from her eyes.

"He is at my house; but you need not worry about him," replied Mr.
Checkynshaw. "The doctor has attended to his case, and he shall have
everything he needs."

"Where do you live, sir?" asked Leo.

"No.--Pemberton Square."

"Come, Maggie, we will go to him," added the boy.

"I want you to go with me, and show me where Fitz lives," interposed
the banker.

"He lives at No.--Atkinson Street, up the court," answered Leo, rather
coolly, as he picked up his cap and comforter.

"I want you to show me the house."

"I must go with Maggie."

Mr. Checkynshaw looked as though the barber's serious illness was of no
consequence, compared with his affairs.

"We can go that way, Leo, and you can show him the house as we pass
through Atkinson Street," said Maggie, leading the way to the door.

This arrangement was satisfactory to the banker; the house was locked,
and Leo led the way out of the court. The humble abode of Mrs.
Wittleworth was pointed out to Mr. Checkynshaw; and, after he had been
admitted, Leo and Maggie hastened to Pemberton Square, so sad and
sorrowful that hardly a word was spoken till they reached the lofty
mansion of the great man. With trembling hand Leo rang the bell; and
Maggie's slender frame quivered with apprehension while they waited for
a reply to the summons. Lawrence answered the bell more promptly than
when its call had disturbed him at his dinner.

"Is André Maggimore here?" asked Leo, timidly.

"Who?" demanded Lawrence.

"André Maggimore--the barber--the hair-dresser," replied Leo.

"You mane the man that had the fit," added the servant. "Indade, he's
here, thin."

"How is he?" asked Maggie, her heart bounding with fear lest she should
be told that her poor father was no more.

"He's a little better; but the docthor says it'll be a long day till he
is able to handle his razors again. What's this he called the disase?
The para-ly-sis! That's just what it is!"

"Poor mon père!" sighed Maggie.

"We would like to see him, if you please," added Leo.

"And who be you? Are you his children?" asked Lawrence.

"We are."

"I'm sorry for you; but he's very bad," added Lawrence, who had an
Irish heart under his vest, as he closed the front door.

"Is he--will he--"

Poor Maggie could not ask the question she desired to ask, and she
covered her face and wept.

"No, he won't," replied Lawrence, tenderly. "He won't die. The docthor
says he's comin' out of it; but the para-ly-sis will bodther him for
a long time."

Maggie was comforted by this reply, and she followed Lawrence up stairs
to the chamber where André lay. He had been conveyed from Elinora's
dressing-room to an apartment in the L, over the dining-room, where the
banker and his friends smoked their cigars after dinner. He was lying
on a lounge, covered with blankets, and the housekeeper was attending
him.

"Poor mon père!" exclaimed Maggie, as she threw herself on her knees
on the floor by the side of the sick man's couch, and kissed his pale,
thin face.



Leo bent over his father's prostrate form, and clasped one of his silky
hands, which now felt so cold that the touch chilled his heart. The
doctor had just come in to pay his patient a second visit, and stood by
the lounge, regarding with interest the devotion of the boy and girl.

André had "come out" of the fit, and recognized his children, as he
always called them. He smiled faintly, and tried to return the pressure
of Leo's hand, and to kiss the lips of Maggie, pressed to his own; but
his strength was not yet equal to his desire.

"I think it would be better to remove him to the hospital," said the
doctor to the housekeeper. "He will be well nursed there."

"No, no, no!" exclaimed Maggie, rising and walking up to the physician.

Her idea of the hospital was not a very clear one, and she did not
consider it much better than a prison; at least, it was to her a place
where sick people who had neither home nor friends were sent; a place
where other hands than her own would lave her father's fevered brow,
and administer the cooling draught. To her it was sacrilege to permit
any but herself to nurse him; and she felt that it was a privilege to
stand day and night by his bed, and hold his hand, and anticipate all
his wants. Her womanly instincts were strong, and she heard with horror
the suggestion to take the sufferer to the hospital.

"Your father would be very kindly cared for at the hospital," said the
doctor.

"But it would not be his own home!" pleaded Maggie. "O, he so loves his
own home! He always staid there when he was not in the shop. It would
break his heart to send him away from his own home when he is sick."

"Have you a mother?" asked Dr. Fisher, kindly.

"I have not; but I will nurse him by day and night. I will be mother,
wife, and daughter to him. Do not send him away from me--not from his
own home!" continued Maggie, so imploringly that the good physician had
to take off his spectacles and wipe the moisture from his eyes.

"We will take good care of him at home," added Leo.

"Very well," replied the doctor. "He shall be removed to his own home,
since you desire it so much. Lawrence, will you send for a carriage?"

"I will, sir," answered the servant, leaving the room.

André had turned his eyes towards the group, and appeared to understand
the matter they were discussing. He smiled as he comprehended the
decision, and made an effort to embrace Maggie, when she again knelt at
his side; but a portion of his frame was paralyzed, and he could not
move.

"Your father may be sick a long time," said Dr. Fisher.

"I'm so sorry! But I will take such good care of him!" replied Maggie.

"He needs very careful nursing."

"O, he shall have it! He would rather have me nurse him than any other
person. I will watch him all the time. I will sit by his bed all day
and all night," added she, with womanly enthusiasm.

"You will wear yourself out. You are not strong enough to do without
your sleep."

"I am very strong, sir. I do all the work in the house myself. I know
how to make gruel, and porridge, and beef tea, and soup; and mon père
shall have everything nice."

The doctor smiled, and felt sure that no better nurse could be provided
for the sick man.

"Where is your mother?" he asked. "Is she living?"

"I have no mother. Leo has no mother. We are not André's own children;
but we love him just the same, and he loves us just the same."

"But who was your mother?"

"I don't know."

"Doesn't André know?"

"He does not."

"You have some kind of a history, I suppose," added the doctor, greatly
interested in the girl.

"Mon père don't like to talk about it. He seems to be afraid that
some one will get me away from him; but I'm sure I don't want to go
away from him; I wouldn't leave him for a king's palace."

"Why do you call him 'mon père'?"

"He taught me to call him so when I was little. André's father was an
Italian, and his mother a French woman; but he was born in London."

"Where did he find you?"

"At the cholera hospital."

"Where?"

"I don't know. He always looked so sad, and his heart seemed to be so
pained when I asked him any questions about myself, that I stopped
doing so long ago. When I was five years old, he found me playing about
the hospital, where hundreds and hundreds of people had died with
cholera. I had the cholera myself; and he came to play with me every
day; and when they were going to send me to an orphan asylum, or some
such place, he took me away, and promised to take care of me. Ah, mon
père" said she, glancing tenderly at the sick man, and wiping a tear
from her eyes, "how well he has kept his promise! I can't help thinking
he loved me more than any real father could. I never saw any father who
was so kind, and tender, and loving to his child as André is to me."

"And you don't know where this hospital was?"

"No, sir; and I don't want to know. Mon père thinks my parents died
of the cholera; but André has been father and mother to me. He would
die if he lost me."

"And your brother--was he taken from the cholera hospital?" asked the
doctor.

"No, sir," replied Maggie, rising and speaking in a whisper to the
physician, so that Leo should not hear what she said. "André had to
leave me all alone when he went to the shop, and he went to the
almshouse to find a poor orphan to keep me company. He found Leo, whose
father and mother had both died from drinking too much. He took him
home, and mon père has been as good to him as he has to me."

"His name is Leo--the Lion?"

"No, sir; not the lion. Mon père called him Leopold, after the King
of Belgium, in whose service he once was; but we always call him Leo.
He is a real good boy, and will get the medal at his school this year."

"The carriage has come, sir," said Lawrence, opening the door.

The arrangements were made for the removal of the barber to his house.
The hackman and the man servant came to carry him down stairs in an
armchair, and the doctor was to go with his patient, and assist in
disposing of him at his house. André was placed in the chair, covered
with blankets, and the door opened in readiness to carry him down.
Maggie kept close to him, comforting him with the kindest words, and
adjusting the blanket so that the rude blasts of winter might not reach
him.

"Lawrence!" called Elinora, in a petulant tone, from the dressing-room
on the same floor.

Under the circumstances, Lawrence was not disposed to heed the call;
but it was so often and so ill-naturedly repeated, that Dr. Fisher told
him to go and see what she wanted, fearful that some accident had
happened to her. The man went into the hall. Elinora had come out of
her room in her impatience, arrayed for the party she was to attend.
Another hair-dresser had been sent for to complete the work which André
had begun; but the young lady was more than an hour late, and
proportionally impatient.

"Are you deaf, Lawrence? The carriage has come," pouted Elinora.

"That's not the carriage for you, miss. It's to take the barber to his
own place," replied Lawrence.

"That horrid barber again! I shall not get over the fright he gave me
for a month! I will take this carriage, and he may have the other when
it comes," said she, walking to the stairs. "Go down and open the door
for me."

"If you plaze, miss, you can't go in this carriage. It's for the sick
man."

"I don't care what it's for! I'm in a hurry, Lawrence. I must have the
first carriage."

"Indade, miss, but we have the sick man up in the chair, ready to take
him down the stairs. It's very bad he is."

"Let him wait! Go down and open the door, as I tell you."

"I beg your pardon, miss, but the docthor--"

"If you don't do what I tell you this instant, I'll ask pa to discharge
you."

Dr. Fisher came out to ascertain the cause of the delay. He explained
that the carriage had been ordered to convey the barber to his home,
and he insisted that it should be used for that purpose. André was his
patient, and he would not permit any further delay. Elinora pouted and
flouted, and hopped back into her chamber.

André was borne carefully down the stairs, and placed in the carriage.
Maggie and the doctor entered the vehicle with him, and they were
driven to the barber's own home, where he was placed upon his bed in
the front room.




CHAPTER VIII.

MAKE OR BREAK.


Maggie plied the kind-hearted physician with questions in regard to her
father's condition--with questions which no man with merely human
knowledge could answer. He thought André would be able to talk to her
by the next day; but he feared the patient would not be well enough to
resume his place in the shop for weeks, and perhaps months.

André appeared to be quite comfortable, and did not seem to be
suffering very severely. The doctor had given him some medicine before
he was removed from the banker's house, and the sick man went to sleep
soon after he was put to bed in his own room. Dr. Fisher then went out
into the rear room, and told Maggie that her father would probably
sleep for several hours.

"I will come again in the morning, Maggie," said he. "Is there anything
I can do for you?"

"Nothing more, I thank you, sir," replied she. "I am very grateful to
you for what you have done."

"I know nothing about your father's circumstances; but if you need any
assistance, I hope you will make it known."

"Thank you, sir; I don't think we need anything," replied Maggie, a
slight blush mantling her pretty face; for the idea of asking or
accepting charity was painful to her.

"I fear it will be a long time before your father will be able to work
again," continued Dr. Fisher, glancing around the room to ascertain, if
possible, whether the singular family were in poverty or in plenty.

"I will take good care of him, whether it be for weeks or for months,
or even for years. You don't know how sorry I am to have poor mon
père sick; but you can't think what a pleasure it is to me to have
an opportunity to do something for him. I wish I could tell you how
good and kind he has always been to me; how tenderly he watched over me
when I was sick; how lovingly he prayed for me; but I cannot, though it
makes me happy to think I can now do something for him."

"You are a good girl, Maggie, and I don't see how André could have done
any less for you," replied the doctor. "Who keeps house here?"

"O, I do that, sir."

"Then you must have to work very hard."

"Indeed, I don't! I have to keep busy almost all day; but it is such a
pleasure to me to know that I am doing something for mon père, that I
never think it is hard at all."

Everything looked so neat and nice in the house that the doctor could
not decide whether any assistance was required or not. He was one of
those good physicians who felt for the poor and the humble. Though he
practised in some of the richest and most aristocratic families in the
city, his mission was not to them alone. He visited the haunts of
poverty, and not only contributed his professional services in their
aid, but he gave with no stinted hand from his own purse to relieve
their wants. When he died, the sermon preached on the Sunday after his
funeral was from the text, "The beloved physician;" and no one ever
went to his reward in heaven who better deserved the praise bestowed
upon him.

In the present instance, he felt that his work was not alone to heal
the sick. His patient was a journeyman barber, with only a boy, and a
girl of fifteen, to depend upon. This same doctor often went among his
friends in State Street, in 'change hours, to preach the gospel of
charity in his own unostentatious way. All gave when he asked, and it
was not a very difficult matter for him to raise fifty or a hundred
dollars for a deserving family. He purposed to do this for those under
the barber's humble roof, who, without being connected by the remotest
tie of blood, were more loving and devoted towards each other than many
whom God had joined by the ties of kindred.

The doctor never told anybody of his good deeds. Hardly did his left
hand know what his right hand did; and one of his eyes, which followed
not the other's apparent line of vision, seemed to be looking out all
the time for some hidden source of human suffering. He was as tender of
the feelings of others as he was of the visible wounds of his patients.
He saw the blush upon the cheeks of Maggie, and he interpreted it as
readily as though the sentiment had been expressed in words. He forbore
to make any further inquiries in regard to the pecuniary condition of
the strange family; but he was determined that all their wants should
be supplied, without injury to their laudable pride. He went away, and
Maggie and Leo were left to themselves.

"You haven't been to supper, Leo," said Maggie, when Dr. Fisher had
gone.

"I don't seem to care about any supper," replied Leo, gloomily.
