
"What an incomprehensible girl you are!" Ransom answered
impatiently.

"She'll mend -" said mamma.

"But, Miss Randolph," said Mr. Marshall, "the care of infirm
relatives, a father or a mother, can anything make that
unworthy?"

"Not in itself," I said; "but suppose a man's duty calls him
away? It might. You can suppose such a case."

"I see what I have to expect," mamma said with a laugh. "Daisy
will take care of me, until some duty calls her away. I will
not count upon you, Daisy, any longer than that. De Saussure,
what is your estimate of life's objects? On honour, now!"

"I can think of nothing better than to live for somebody that
one loves," he said.

"I knew you would say that," she rejoined. "Hugh, what do you
say?"

"I need to go to school, Mrs. Randolph."

"Well, go to school to Daisy," said mamma with another light
laugh. "And come, let us walk, or we shall not have time.
Eugne Sue, is it, that we are going to see?"

"Only his house, madam. Miss Randolph, I am charged, you know,
with your studies to-day."

I was not in the mood of accepting Mr. De Saussure's arm, but
just then it was the only thing to do. My mother and Ransom
and Hugh Marshall were presently some little distance behind,
an interval separating us; and Mr. De Saussure and I followed
the shores of the lake, taking such counsel together as our
somewhat diverse moods made possible. I was thinking, what a
life of hard work the two prophets Elijah must have known in
their time; he who was first of the name, and his greater
successor, John the Baptist. Each of them worked alone,
against a universal tide of adverse evil that flooded the
land. If I found it so sorrowful to be alone in my family and
society, what must they have felt with the whole world against
them. And Elijah's spirit did once give out, brave as he was:
"It is enough, O Lord; take away my life." I thought I could
understand it. To be all alone; to have no sympathy in what is
dearest to you; to face opposition and scorn and ridicule and
contumely while trying to do people good and bring them to
good; to have only God on your side, with the bitter
consciousness that those whom you love best are arrayed
against him; your family and country; - I suppose nobody can
tell how hard that is to endure, but he who has tasted it. My
taste of it was light indeed; but a half hour with Miss
Cardigan would have been inexpressibly good to me that day. So
I thought, as I walked along the bank of the lake with Mr. De
Saussure; and then I remembered "my hiding-place and my
shield."

"You are very silent to-day, Miss Randolph," said my companion
at length. I may remark, in passing, that he had not been.

"It is enough to look, and to think," I answered, "with such a
sight before one's eyes."

"Do you know," said he, "such independence of all the exterior
world, - of mortals, I mean, - is very tantalising to those
disregarded mortals?"

"Do you find it so? It is fair then to presume, in a place
like this, that what takes up my attention has not so much
charm for you."

"That is severe!" he said. "Do you think I do not see all this
beauty before us? But pardon me, - have you seen it?"

"I have tasted it every step of the way, Mr. De Saussure."

"I am rebuked," he said. "You must excuse me - I had counted
upon the pleasure of seeing you enjoy it."

"One's enjoyment is not always heightened by giving it
expression," I said.

"No, I know that is your theory - or practice," he said. "My
sisters are always so vehement in their praises of anything
they like, that nobody else has a chance to know whether he
likes it or not. I generally incline to the not."

I added no remark upon Mr. De Saussure's or his sisters'
peculiar way of enjoying themselves.

"But you are uncommonly silent," he went on presently; -
"triste, rêveuse. It is impossible not to suffer from it, - in
one who values your words as much as I do."

"Why, I thought you were apt to look upon things from a
different point of view, - not from mine," I said.

"I must be wrong then - always. Miss Randolph, you are of a
gentle and kind disposition, - I wish you would be my Mentor!"

"I am not old enough to be Mentor," I said.

"To be mine! Yes, you are," he rejoined eagerly. "I would not
have you a day older."

"I shall be that to-morrow," I said, laughing.

"But if you were mine," he said, changing his tone, "every day
would only add to your power and your qualifications for doing
me good. And I know that is what you love."

"I cannot see that I have done you the least good, so far, Mr.
De Saussure," I said, amused. "I think you must be mistaken."

"Will you try, Daisy?" he said insinuatingly, and stopping
short in our walk.

"Try what, Mr. De Saussure?" I said, beginning to be
bewildered.

"Surely you know! You are a little cruel. But you have the
right. Be my Mentor - be my darling - promise to be, one of
these days, my wife."

I dropped my arm from Mr. De Saussure's and stood in a maze, I
might say with truth, frightened. Up to that minute, no
suspicion of his purpose or mind regarding me had entered my
thoughts. I suppose I was more blind than I ought to have
been; and the truth was, that in the utter preoccupation of my
own heart, the idea that I could like anybody else but Mr.
Thorold, or that anybody else could like me, had been simply
out of sight. I knew myself so thoroughly beyond anybody's
reach, the prior possession of the ground was so perfect and
settled a thing, that I did not remember it was a fact hidden
from other eyes but mine. And I had gone on in my supposed
walled-in safety; - and here was somebody presuming within the
walls, who might allege that I had left the gate open.
However, to do Mr. De Saussure justice, I never doubted for a
moment that his heart might be in any danger of breaking if I
thrust him out. But for all that, I lost my breath in the
first minute of discovery of what I had been doing.

"You hesitate," said he. "You shall command me, Daisy. I will
go instantly, hard as it would be, and give all my power to
furthering the war at home; - or, if you bid me, I will keep
out of it, which would be harder still, were you not here
instead of there. Speak, won't you, -a good word for me?"

"You must do nothing at my command, Mr. de Saussure," I said.
"I have known you only as mamma's and my brother's friend; - I
never thought you had any other feeling; and I had no other
towards you."

"Mrs. Randolph is my friend," he said eagerly. "She does me
the honour to wish well to my suit. She looks at it, not with
my eyes, but with the eyes of prudence; and she sees the
advantages that such an arrangement would secure. I believe
she looks at it with patriotic eyes too. You know my estates
are nearly adjoining to yours. I may say too, that our
families are worthy one of another. But there, I am very
conscious, my worthiness ends. I am not personally deserving
of your regard - I can only promise under your guidance to
become so."

A light broke upon me.

"Mr. De Saussure" - I began; but he said hastily, "Let us go
on - they are coming near us;" and I took his offered arm
again, not wishing more than he to have spectators or hearers
of our talk; and now that the talk was begun, I wished to end
it.

"Mr. de Saussure," I said, "you are under a serious mistake.
You speak of my estates; I must inform you that I shall never,
under any circumstances, be an heiress. Whoever marries me -
if I ever marry - will marry a poor girl."

"Pardon me -" he began.

"Yes," said I interrupting him; - "I know of what I speak."

"What can you mean, Miss Randolph?"

"I assure you, I mean exactly what I say. Pray take it so."

"But I do not understand you."

"Understand this, - that I shall be a penniless woman; or
something very like it. I am making no jest. I am no heiress -
as people think."

"But you confound me, Miss Randolph," he said, looking both
curious and incredulous. "May I ask, what can be the
explanation of your words? I know your Magnolia property - and
it is, I assure you, a very noble one, and unencumbered.
Nothing can hinder you from inheriting it - at some, we hope,
of course, very distant day."

"Nevertheless," I said, "if I live to see that day, I shall be
very poor, Mr. De Saussure."

"You will condescend to explain so extraordinary a statement?"

"Is not my word sufficient?"

"Pardon me, a thousand times; but you must see that I am in a
difficulty. Against your word I have the word of two others -
your mother and your brother, who both assure me of the
contrary. May it not be, that they know best?"

"No, Mr. De Saussure; for the fact depends on something out of
their knowledge."

"It is out of my knowledge too," he said.

I hesitated a little, and then said, -

"I will explain myself, Mr. De Saussure, trusting to your
honour to keep silence about it. I am a friend of the coloured
people."

"Oh! - So are we all," he said.

"And I will never be rich at their expense."

"By their means, is not necessarily at their expense," he said
gently.

"It is at their expense," I repeated. "I do not choose to be
rich so. And the religion I live by, forbids me to do to
others as I would not like they should do to me."

"I am sure, by that rule, your dependants at Magnolia would
implore you not to give them over to other hands. They will
never have so kind a mistress. Don't you see?" he said with
the same insinuating gentleness.

"I shall give them over to no other hands. I would make them
as free as myself."

"Make them free!"

"That is what I would do."

"You cannot mean it," he said.

"You see, Mr. De Saussure, that I shall be very poor."

"You are playing with me."

"I am very serious."

"It is rank Northern madness!" he said to himself. "And it is
Mrs. Randolph's daughter. The thing is impossible."

"It is Mrs. Randolph's daughter," I said, withdrawing my hand
from his arm. "I pray you not to forget it."

"Pray, forgive me!" he said eagerly. "I was bewildered, and am
yet. I did not know where I was. It seems to me I cannot have
heard you aright."

"Quite right, Mr. De Saussure."

"But just reflect!" he said. "These creatures, whose cause you
are advocating, they are but half human; they cannot take care
of themselves; their very happiness is identified with their
present position."

"It is not the view they take of it."

"They are incapable of forming any judgment on the matter."

"At least they know what they mean by happiness," I said; "and
in their mouths it is not a synonym with slavery. And if your
words are true, Mr. De Saussure, in the case of some of those
poor people, - and I know they are, - it is one of the worst
things that can be said of the system. If some of them are
brought so low as to be content with being slaves, we have
robbed them of their humanity."

"It is absolutely Northern radicalism!" said Mr. De Saussure
to himself.

"No," I said, - "it is Christian justice and mercy."

"You will allow me to represent to you, without any
presumption, that there are very many Christians, both at the
South and North, who do not look at the matter with your
eyes."

"I suppose they have never really seen it," I answered sadly.
"People that have always lived close to something, often do
not know what it is. My father has never seen it - nor, my
mother. I have."

"They would not agree with you; your views would not harmonise
with theirs."

"And therefore I trust to your honour to keep silence
respecting mine."

"I am bound," he answered gloomily; and we walked a few
minutes in silence.

"You will change your manner of thinking, Miss Randolph," he
began again. "Yours is the vision of inexperienced eyes and of
impulsive generosity. It will not remain what it is."

"Inexperienced eyes see the clearest," I answered. "The habit
of wrong is no help towards judging of the right."

"You will think differently by and by."

"Not while I am a servant of God and He commands me to break
every yoke, to do as I would be done by, to look not on my own
things, but also on the things of others. We owe our poor
people not liberty only, but education, and every advantage
for restored civilisation; - a great long debt."

"And is this the reason why you will not look favourably on my
suit?" he said after another interval.

"It is a reason why you will not wish to prosecute it, Mr. De
Saussure."

"You are very severe!" he said. "Do you really think that?"

"You know it is true. I do not wish to be severe."

"Have you then no kindness for me?"

"Why do you ask?"

"You are so dreadfully calm and cool!" he said. "One has no
chance with you. If this matter were not in the way, would you
have any kindness for me, Daisy? Is this all that separates
us?"

"It is quite enough, Mr. De Saussure. It is as powerful with
you as with me."

"I am too late, I suppose!" he said, as it seemed to me,
rather spitefully. As he was too late, it was no use to tell
him he could never have been early enough. I was silent; and
we walked on unenjoyingly. Vexation was working in his
countenance, and a trace of that same spite; I was glad when
we came to the end of our way and the other members of our
party closed up and joined us.

As I cared nothing for the house they had come to see, I
excused myself from going any nearer, and sat down upon the
bank at a little distance while they gratified their
curiosity. The view of the lake and lake shores here was very
lovely; enough to satisfy any one for a long while; but now,
my thoughts only rested there for a minute, to make a spring
clear across the Atlantic. Mr. Thorold was very close to me,
and I was very far from him; that was the burden of my heart.
So close to me he had been, that I had never dreamed any one
could think of taking his place. I saw I had been a simpleton.
Up to that day I had no suspicion that Mr. De Saussure liked
me more than would be convenient; and indeed I had no fear now
of his heart being broken; but I saw that his unlucky suit
made a complication in my affairs that they certainly did not
need. - Mamma approved it; yes, I had no doubt of that. I knew
of a plantation of his, Briery Bank, only a few miles distant
from Magnolia and reputed to be very rich in its incomings.
And, no doubt Mr. De Saussure would have liked the
neighbourhood of Magnolia, and to add its harvest to his own.
And all the while I belonged to Mr. Thorold, and nobody else
could have me. My thoughts came back to that refrain with a
strong sense of pain and gladness. However, the gladness was
the strongest. How lovely the lake was, with its sunlit hills!

In the midst of my musings, Hugh Marshall came and threw
himself on the ground at my side. I welcomed him with a smile;
for I liked him; he was a friend; and I thought, - This one
does not want me at any rate. I was a great simpleton, I
suppose.

"I was afraid you had deserted me to-day," he said.

"I am sure, it is I who might rather have thought that of
you," I answered; and indeed I had wished for his company more
than once.

"You could not have thought it!" he said.

"Have you satisfied your curiosity with Eugene Sue's house?"

"I do not care to look at anything that you don't like," he
replied.

"Cigars? -" I suggested.

"No indeed. If you disapprove of them, I shall have no more
fellowship with them."

"That is going quite too far, Mr. Marshall. A man should never
give up anything that he does not disapprove of himself."

"Not to please somebody he wishes to please?"

"Of course," I said, thinking of Mr. Thorold, - "there might
be such cases. But in general."

"This is one of the cases. I wish to please you."

"Thank you," I said earnestly. "But indeed, I should be more
pleased to have you follow your own sense of right than any
notion of another, even of myself."

"You are not like any other woman I ever saw," he said
smiling. "Do you know, they all have a passion for command?
There are De Saussure's mother and sisters, - they do not
leave him a moment's peace, because he is not at home
fighting."

I was silent, and hoped that Mr. De Saussure's friends might
now perhaps get him away from Geneva at least.

"You think with them, that he ought to go?" Hugh Marshall said
presently with a shadow, I thought, on his words.

"I would not add one more to the war," I answered.

"Your mother does not think so."

"No."

"Mrs. Randolph has almost signified to me that her favour will
depend on my taking such a course, and doing all I can to help
on the Confederacy."

"Yes, I know," I said rather sadly; "mamma feels very strongly
about it."

"You do not?"

"Yes, Mr. Marshall, I do; but it is in a different way."

"I wish you would explain," he said earnestly.

"But I do not like to set myself in opposition to mamma; and
you ought to do what you yourself think right, Mr. Marshall;
not what either of us thinks."

"What do you think is right?" he repeated eagerly.

"My thoughts do not make or unmake anything."

"They make - they will make, if you will let them - the rule
of my life," he answered. "I have no dearer wish."

I was struck with dismay.

"Please do not say that!" I said trembling. "My thoughts
should rule only my own life; not anybody, else's."

"One more!" said Hugh Marshall. "They must rule one more.
There will be one, somewhere, whose highest pleasure will be
to please you, as long as he has a life to give to it. - Will
you take mine?" he said after a pause and in a lower tone. "I
offer it to you undividedly."

It cannot be told, the sickness of heart which came over me.
The mistake I had made in my blindness, the sorrowfulness of
it, the pain I must give, the mischief it might do, I saw it
all at once. For a while, I could not find words to speak.
Hugh studied my face, and must have seen no ground of hope
there, for he did not speak either. He was quite silent and
left it to me. Oh, Lake of Annecy! what pain comes to me now
with the remembrance of your sweet waters.

I turned at last and laid my hand upon Hugh's arm. He did not
mistake me; he took my hand in his, and stood looking at me
with a face as grave as my own.

"What is the matter, Daisy?" he said sorrowfully.

"I have made a miserable mistake!" I said. "Cannot we be
friends, Mr. Marshall? - dear friends, and nothing more?"

"Why 'nothing more'?"

"I can be no more to you," I answered.

"Why not?"

"I have not the feeling. I have not the power. I would, if I
could."

"It is I who have made a mistake," he said, as he dropped my
hand.

"No, it is I," I said bitterly. "I have been childishly wrong.
I have been foolish. It never entered my thought, that you -
