while waiting for Laurie, and once arranged herself under the
chandelier, which had a good effect upon her hair; then she thought
better of it, and went away to the other end of the room, as if ashamed
of the girlish desire to have the first view a propitious one. It so
happened that she could not have done a better thing, for Laurie came in
so quietly she did not hear him; and, as she stood at the distant
window, with her head half turned, and one hand gathering up her dress,
the slender, white figure against the red curtains was as effective as a
well-placed statue.

"Good evening, Diana!" said Laurie, with the look of satisfaction she
liked to see in his eyes when they rested on her.

"Good evening, Apollo!" she answered, smiling back at him, for he, too,
looked unusually debonnaire, and the thought of entering the ball-room
on the arm of such a personable man caused Amy to pity the four plain
Misses Davis from the bottom of her heart.

"Here are your flowers; I arranged them myself, remembering that you
didn't like what Hannah calls a 'sot-bookay,'" said Laurie, handing her
a delicate nosegay, in a holder that she had long coveted as she daily
passed it in Cardiglia's window.

                  [Illustration: Here are your flowers]

"How kind you are!" she exclaimed gratefully. "If I'd known you were
coming I'd have had something ready for you to-day, though not as pretty
as this, I'm afraid."

"Thank you; it isn't what it should be, but you have improved it," he
added, as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist.

"Please don't."

"I thought you liked that sort of thing?"

"Not from you; it doesn't sound natural, and I like your old bluntness
better."

"I'm glad of it," he answered, with a look of relief; then buttoned her
gloves for her, and asked if his tie was straight, just as he used to do
when they went to parties together, at home.

The company assembled in the long salle à manger, that evening, was
such as one sees nowhere but on the Continent. The hospitable Americans
had invited every acquaintance they had in Nice, and, having no
prejudice against titles, secured a few to add lustre to their Christmas
ball.

A Russian prince condescended to sit in a corner for an hour, and talk
with a massive lady, dressed like Hamlet's mother, in black velvet, with
a pearl bridle under her chin. A Polish count, aged eighteen, devoted
himself to the ladies, who pronounced him "a fascinating dear," and a
German Serene Something, having come for the supper alone, roamed
vaguely about, seeking what he might devour. Baron Rothschild's private
secretary, a large-nosed Jew, in tight boots, affably beamed upon the
world, as if his master's name crowned him with a golden halo; a stout
Frenchman, who knew the Emperor, came to indulge his mania for dancing,
and Lady de Jones, a British matron, adorned the scene with her little
family of eight. Of course, there were many light-footed, shrill-voiced
American girls, handsome, lifeless-looking English ditto, and a few
plain but piquante French demoiselles; likewise the usual set of
travelling young gentlemen, who disported themselves gayly, while mammas
of all nations lined the walls, and smiled upon them benignly when they
danced with their daughters.

Any young girl can imagine Amy's state of mind when she "took the stage"
that night, leaning on Laurie's arm. She knew she looked well, she loved
to dance, she felt that her foot was on her native heath in a ball-room,
and enjoyed the delightful sense of power which comes when young girls
first discover the new and lovely kingdom they are born to rule by
virtue of beauty, youth, and womanhood. She did pity the Davis girls,
who were awkward, plain, and destitute of escort, except a grim papa and
three grimmer maiden aunts, and she bowed to them in her friendliest
manner as she passed; which was good of her, as it permitted them to see
her dress, and burn with curiosity to know who her distinguished-looking
friend might be. With the first burst of the band, Amy's color rose, her
eyes began to sparkle, and her feet to tap the floor impatiently; for
she danced well, and wanted Laurie to know it: therefore the shock she
received can better be imagined than described, when he said, in a
perfectly tranquil tone,--

"Do you care to dance?"

"One usually does at a ball."

Her amazed look and quick answer caused Laurie to repair his error as
fast as possible.

"I meant the first dance. May I have the honor?"

"I can give you one if I put off the Count. He dances divinely; but he
will excuse me, as you are an old friend," said Amy, hoping that the
name would have a good effect, and show Laurie that she was not to be
trifled with.

"Nice little boy, but rather a short Pole to support

        "'A daughter of the gods,
          Divinely tall, and most divinely fair,'"

was all the satisfaction she got, however.

The set in which they found themselves was composed of English, and Amy
was compelled to walk decorously through a cotillon, feeling all the
while as if she could dance the Tarantula with a relish. Laurie resigned
her to the "nice little boy," and went to do his duty to Flo, without
securing Amy for the joys to come, which reprehensible want of
forethought was properly punished, for she immediately engaged herself
till supper, meaning to relent if he then gave any signs of penitence.
She showed him her ball-book with demure satisfaction when he strolled,
instead of rushing, up to claim her for the next, a glorious
polka-redowa; but his polite regrets didn't impose upon her, and when
she gallopaded away with the Count, she saw Laurie sit down by her aunt
with an actual expression of relief.

That was unpardonable; and Amy took no more notice of him for a long
while, except a word now and then, when she came to her chaperon,
between the dances, for a necessary pin or a moment's rest. Her anger
had a good effect, however, for she hid it under a smiling face, and
seemed unusually blithe and brilliant. Laurie's eyes followed her with
pleasure, for she neither romped nor sauntered, but danced with spirit
and grace, making the delightsome pastime what it should be. He very
naturally fell to studying her from this new point of view; and, before
the evening was half over, had decided that "little Amy was going to
make a very charming woman."

It was a lively scene, for soon the spirit of the social season took
possession of every one, and Christmas merriment made all faces shine,
hearts happy, and heels light. The musicians fiddled, tooted, and banged
as if they enjoyed it; everybody danced who could, and those who
couldn't admired their neighbors with uncommon warmth. The air was dark
with Davises, and many Joneses gambolled like a flock of young giraffes.
The golden secretary darted through the room like a meteor, with a
dashing Frenchwoman, who carpeted the floor with her pink satin train.
The Serene Teuton found the supper-table, and was happy, eating steadily
through the bill of fare, and dismayed the garçons by the ravages he
committed. But the Emperor's friend covered himself with glory, for he
danced everything, whether he knew it or not, and introduced impromptu
pirouettes when the figures bewildered him. The boyish abandon of that
stout man was charming to behold; for, though he "carried weight," he
danced like an india-rubber ball. He ran, he flew, he pranced; his face
glowed, his bald head shone; his coat-tails waved wildly, his pumps
actually twinkled in the air, and when the music stopped, he wiped the
drops from his brow, and beamed upon his fellow-men like a French
Pickwick without glasses.

Amy and her Pole distinguished themselves by equal enthusiasm, but more
graceful agility; and Laurie found himself involuntarily keeping time to
the rhythmic rise and fall of the white slippers as they flew by as
indefatigably as if winged. When little Vladimir finally relinquished
her, with assurances that he was "desolated to leave so early," she was
ready to rest, and see how her recreant knight had borne his punishment.

It had been successful; for, at three-and-twenty, blighted affections
find a balm in friendly society, and young nerves will thrill, young
blood dance, and healthy young spirits rise, when subjected to the
enchantment of beauty, light, music, and motion. Laurie had a waked-up
look as he rose to give her his seat; and when he hurried away to bring
her some supper, she said to herself, with a satisfied smile,--

"Ah, I thought that would do him good!"

"You look like Balzac's 'Femme peinte par elle-même,'" he said, as he
fanned her with one hand, and held her coffee-cup in the other.

"My rouge won't come off;" and Amy rubbed her brilliant cheek, and
showed him her white glove with a sober simplicity that made him laugh
outright.

"What do you call this stuff?" he asked, touching a fold of her dress
that had blown over his knee.

"Illusion."

"Good name for it; it's very pretty--new thing, isn't it?"

"It's as old as the hills; you have seen it on dozens of girls, and you
never found out that it was pretty till now--stupide!"

"I never saw it on you before, which accounts for the mistake, you see."

"None of that, it is forbidden; I'd rather take coffee than compliments
just now. No, don't lounge, it makes me nervous."

Laurie sat bolt upright, and meekly took her empty plate, feeling an odd
sort of pleasure in having "little Amy" order him about; for she had
lost her shyness now, and felt an irresistible desire to trample on him,
as girls have a delightful way of doing when lords of creation show any
signs of subjection.

"Where did you learn all this sort of thing?" he asked, with a quizzical
look.

"As 'this sort of thing' is rather a vague expression, would you kindly
explain?" returned Amy, knowing perfectly well what he meant, but
wickedly leaving him to describe what is indescribable.

"Well--the general air, the style, the self-possession,
the--the--illusion--you know," laughed Laurie, breaking down, and
helping himself out of his quandary with the new word.

Amy was gratified, but, of course, didn't show it, and demurely
answered, "Foreign life polishes one in spite of one's self; I study as
well as play; and as for this"--with a little gesture toward her
dress--"why, tulle is cheap, posies to be had for nothing, and I am used
to making the most of my poor little things."

Amy rather regretted that last sentence, fearing it wasn't in good
taste; but Laurie liked her the better for it, and found himself both
admiring and respecting the brave patience that made the most of
opportunity, and the cheerful spirit that covered poverty with flowers.
Amy did not know why he looked at her so kindly, nor why he filled up
her book with his own name, and devoted himself to her for the rest of
the evening, in the most delightful manner; but the impulse that wrought
this agreeable change was the result of one of the new impressions which
both of them were unconsciously giving and receiving.




                     [Illustration: Demi and Daisy]

                                XXXVIII.

                             ON THE SHELF.


In France the young girls have a dull time of it till they are married,
when "Vive la liberté" becomes their motto. In America, as every one
knows, girls early sign the declaration of independence, and enjoy their
freedom with republican zest; but the young matrons usually abdicate
with the first heir to the throne, and go into a seclusion almost as
close as a French nunnery, though by no means as quiet. Whether they
like it or not, they are virtually put upon the shelf as soon as the
wedding excitement is over, and most of them might exclaim, as did a
very pretty woman the other day, "I'm as handsome as ever, but no one
takes any notice of me because I'm married."

Not being a belle or even a fashionable lady, Meg did not experience
this affliction till her babies were a year old, for in her little world
primitive customs prevailed, and she found herself more admired and
beloved than ever.

As she was a womanly little woman, the maternal instinct was very
strong, and she was entirely absorbed in her children, to the utter
exclusion of everything and everybody else. Day and night she brooded
over them with tireless devotion and anxiety, leaving John to the tender
mercies of the help, for an Irish lady now presided over the kitchen
department. Being a domestic man, John decidedly missed the wifely
attentions he had been accustomed to receive; but, as he adored his
babies, he cheerfully relinquished his comfort for a time, supposing,
with masculine ignorance, that peace would soon be restored. But three
months passed, and there was no return of repose; Meg looked worn and
nervous, the babies absorbed every minute of her time, the house was
neglected, and Kitty, the cook, who took life "aisy," kept him on short
commons. When he went out in the morning he was bewildered by small
commissions for the captive mamma; if he came gayly in at night, eager
to embrace his family, he was quenched by a "Hush! they are just asleep
after worrying all day." If he proposed a little amusement at home, "No,
it would disturb the babies." If he hinted at a lecture or concert, he
was answered with a reproachful look, and a decided "Leave my children
for pleasure, never!" His sleep was broken by infant wails and visions
of a phantom figure pacing noiselessly to and fro in the watches of the
night; his meals were interrupted by the frequent flight of the
presiding genius, who deserted him, half-helped, if a muffled chirp
sounded from the nest above; and when he read his paper of an evening,
Demi's colic got into the shipping-list, and Daisy's fall affected the
price of stocks, for Mrs. Brooke was only interested in domestic news.

The poor man was very uncomfortable, for the children had bereft him of
his wife; home was merely a nursery, and the perpetual "hushing" made
him feel like a brutal intruder whenever he entered the sacred precincts
of Babyland. He bore it very patiently for six months, and, when no
signs of amendment appeared, he did what other paternal exiles
do,--tried to get a little comfort elsewhere. Scott had married and gone
to housekeeping not far off, and John fell into the way of running over
for an hour or two of an evening, when his own parlor was empty, and his
own wife singing lullabies that seemed to have no end. Mrs. Scott was a
lively, pretty girl, with nothing to do but be agreeable, and she
performed her mission most successfully. The parlor was always bright
and attractive, the chessboard ready, the piano in tune, plenty of gay
gossip, and a nice little supper set forth in tempting style.

John would have preferred his own fireside if it had not been so lonely;
but as it was, he gratefully took the next best thing, and enjoyed his
neighbor's society.

Meg rather approved of the new arrangement at first, and found it a
relief to know that John was having a good time instead of dozing in the
parlor, or tramping about the house and waking the children. But by and
by, when the teething worry was over, and the idols went to sleep at
proper hours, leaving mamma time to rest, she began to miss John, and
find her work-basket dull company, when he was not sitting opposite in
his old dressing-gown, comfortably scorching his slippers on the fender.
She would not ask him to stay at home, but felt injured because he did
not know that she wanted him without being told, entirely forgetting the
many evenings he had waited for her in vain. She was nervous and worn
out with watching and worry, and in that unreasonable frame of mind
which the best of mothers occasionally experience when domestic cares
oppress them. Want of exercise robs them of cheerfulness, and too much
devotion to that idol of American women, the teapot, makes them feel as
if they were all nerve and no muscle.

"Yes," she would say, looking in the glass, "I'm getting old and ugly;
John doesn't find me interesting any longer, so he leaves his faded wife
and goes to see his pretty neighbor, who has no incumbrances. Well, the
babies love me; they don't care if I am thin and pale, and haven't time
to crimp my hair; they are my comfort, and some day John will see what
I've gladly sacrificed for them, won't he, my precious?"

To which pathetic appeal Daisy would answer with a coo, or Demi with a
crow, and Meg would put by her lamentations for a maternal revel, which
soothed her solitude for the time being. But the pain increased as
politics absorbed John, who was always running over to discuss
interesting points with Scott, quite unconscious that Meg missed him.
Not a word did she say, however, till her mother found her in tears one
day, and insisted on knowing what the matter was, for Meg's drooping
spirits had not escaped her observation.

"I wouldn't tell any one except you, mother; but I really do need
advice, for, if John goes on so much longer I might as well be widowed,"
replied Mrs. Brooke, drying her tears on Daisy's bib, with an injured
air.

"Goes on how, my dear?" asked her mother anxiously.

"He's away all day, and at night, when I want to see him, he is
continually going over to the Scotts'. It isn't fair that I should have
the hardest work, and never any amusement. Men are very selfish, even
the best of them."

"So are women; don't blame John till you see where you are wrong
yourself."

"But it can't be right for him to neglect me."

"Don't you neglect him?"

"Why, mother, I thought you'd take my part!"

"So I do, as far as sympathizing goes; but I think the fault is yours,
Meg."

"I don't see how."

"Let me show you. Did John ever neglect you, as you call it, while you
made it a point to give him your society of an evening, his only leisure
time?"

"No; but I can't do it now, with two babies to tend."

"I think you could, dear; and I think you ought. May I speak quite
freely, and will you remember that it's mother who blames as well as
mother who sympathizes?"

"Indeed I will! Speak to me as if I were little Meg again. I often feel
as if I needed teaching more than ever since these babies look to me for
everything."

Meg drew her low chair beside her mother's, and, with a little
interruption in either lap, the two women rocked and talked lovingly
together, feeling that the tie of motherhood made them more one than
ever.

"You have only made the mistake that most young wives make,--forgotten
your duty to your husband in your love for your children. A very natural
and forgivable mistake, Meg, but one that had better be remedied before
you take to different ways; for children should draw you nearer than
ever, not separate you, as if they were all yours, and John had nothing
to do but support them. I've seen it for some weeks, but have not
spoken, feeling sure it would come right in time."

"I'm afraid it won't. If I ask him to stay, he'll think I'm jealous; and
I wouldn't insult him by such an idea. He doesn't see that I want him,
and I don't know how to tell him without words."

"Make it so pleasant he won't want to go away. My dear, he's longing for
his little home; but it isn't home without you, and you are always in
the nursery."

"Oughtn't I to be there?"

"Not all the time; too much confinement makes you nervous, and then you
are unfitted for everything. Besides, you owe something to John as well
as to the babies; don't neglect husband for children, don't shut him out
of the nursery, but teach him how to help in it. His place is there as
well as yours, and the children need him; let him feel that he has his
part to do, and he will do it gladly and faithfully, and it will be
better for you all."

"You really think so, mother?"

"I know it, Meg, for I've tried it; and I seldom give advice unless I've
proved its practicability. When you and Jo were little, I went on just
as you are, feeling as if I didn't do my duty unless I devoted myself
wholly to you. Poor father took to his books, after I had refused all
offers of help, and left me to try my experiment alone. I struggled
along as well as I could, but Jo was too much for me. I nearly spoilt
her by indulgence. You were poorly, and I worried about you till I fell
sick myself. Then father came to the rescue, quietly managed everything,
and made himself so helpful that I saw my mistake, and never have been
able to get on without him since. That is the secret of our home
happiness: he does not let business wean him from the little cares and
duties that affect us all, and I try not to let domestic worries destroy
my interest in his pursuits. Each do our part alone in many things, but
at home we work together, always."

"It is so, mother; and my great wish is to be to my husband and children
what you have been to yours. Show me how; I'll do anything you say."

"You always were my docile daughter. Well, dear, if I were you, I'd let
John have more to do with the management of Demi, for the boy needs
training, and it's none too soon to begin. Then I'd do what I have often
proposed, let Hannah come and help you; she is a capital nurse, and you
may trust the precious babies to her while you do more housework. You
need the exercise, Hannah would enjoy the rest, and John would find his
wife again. Go out more; keep cheerful as well as busy, for you are the
sunshine-maker of the family, and if you get dismal there is no fair
weather. Then I'd try to take an interest in whatever John likes,--talk
with him, let him read to you, exchange ideas, and help each other in
that way. Don't shut yourself up in a bandbox because you are a woman,
but understand what is going on, and educate yourself to take your part
in the world's work, for it all affects you and yours."

"John is so sensible, I'm afraid he will think I'm stupid if I ask
questions about politics and things."

"I don't believe he would; love covers a multitude of sins, and of whom
could you ask more freely than of him? Try it, and see if he doesn't
find your society far more agreeable than Mrs. Scott's suppers."

"I will. Poor John! I'm afraid I have neglected him sadly, but I
thought I was right, and he never said anything."

"He tried not to be selfish, but he has felt rather forlorn, I fancy.
This is just the time, Meg, when young married people are apt to grow
apart, and the very time when they ought to be most together; for the
first tenderness soon wears off, unless care is taken to preserve it;
and no time is so beautiful and precious to parents as the first years
of the little lives given them to train. Don't let John be a stranger to
the babies, for they will do more to keep him safe and happy in this
world of trial and temptation than anything else, and through them you
will learn to know and love one another as you should. Now, dear,
good-by; think over mother's preachment, act upon it if it seems good,
and God bless you all!"

Meg did think it over, found it good, and acted upon it, though the
first attempt was not made exactly as she planned to have it. Of course
the children tyrannized over her, and ruled the house as soon as they
found out that kicking and squalling brought them whatever they wanted.
Mamma was an abject slave to their caprices, but papa was not so easily
subjugated, and occasionally afflicted his tender spouse by an attempt
at paternal discipline with his obstreperous son. For Demi inherited a
trifle of his sire's firmness of character,--we won't call it
obstinacy,--and when he made up his little mind to have or to do
anything, all the king's horses and all the king's men could not change
that pertinacious little mind. Mamma thought the dear too young to be
taught to conquer his prejudices, but papa believed that it never was
too soon to learn obedience; so Master Demi early discovered that when
he undertook to "wrastle" with "parpar," he always got the worst of it;
yet, like the Englishman, Baby respected the man who conquered him, and
loved the father whose grave "No, no," was more impressive than all
mamma's love-pats.

A few days after the talk with her mother, Meg resolved to try a social
evening with John; so she ordered a nice supper, set the parlor in
order, dressed herself prettily, and put the children to bed early, that
nothing should interfere with her experiment. But, unfortunately, Demi's
most unconquerable prejudice was against going to bed, and that night he
decided to go on a rampage; so poor Meg sung and rocked, told stories
and tried every sleep-provoking wile she could devise, but all in vain,
the big eyes wouldn't shut; and long after Daisy had gone to byelow,
like the chubby little bunch of good-nature she was, naughty Demi lay
staring at the light, with the most discouragingly wide-awake expression
of countenance.

"Will Demi lie still like a good boy, while mamma runs down and gives
poor papa his tea?" asked Meg, as the hall-door softly closed, and the
well-known step went tiptoeing into the dining-room.

"Me has tea!" said Demi, preparing to join in the revel.

"No; but I'll save you some little cakies for breakfast, if you'll go
bye-by like Daisy. Will you, lovey?"

"Iss!" and Demi shut his eyes tight, as if to catch sleep and hurry the
desired day.

Taking advantage of the propitious moment, Meg slipped away, and ran
down to greet her husband with a smiling face, and the little blue bow
in her hair which was his especial admiration. He saw it at once, and
said, with pleased surprise,--

"Why, little mother, how gay we are to-night. Do you expect company?"

"Only you, dear."

"Is it a birthday, anniversary, or anything?"

