pleasant to think of hard work and hard study for the next week or two.



"There comes the commodore's barge," continued Little, as he pointed to
the boat, which was rapidly approaching the ship. "The Arbuckles are on
board, with all their trunks. What do you think of that, Raymond?"

The mischief-maker looked triumphant. The pile of baggage in the boat
seemed to furnish sufficient testimony to clinch the argument he had
used.

"That looks like a long cruise, certainly. I suppose they are going
with us," replied Raymond, with a sorrowful and disappointed look.

"To be sure they are. In my opinion we are going to sail for Belfast,
to convey the Arbuckles home. You won't see any Rhine, except a pork
rind, on this cruise. If the fellows have any spunk at all, they won't
stand this thing."

"Stand it! What can they do?" asked Raymond, who really believed the
crew to be unfairly treated.

"Don't you know what they can do? Who works the ship?"

"We do, of course."

"Who would work her if we did not?"

"Well, I suppose she would not be worked at all," replied Raymond,
smiling.

"Then, if all the fellows respectfully refuse to man the capstan, or to
unloose a sail, till they have their rights, who will get the ship
under way?"

"We are not going to do anything of that sort," answered Raymond,
rather indignantly. "It would be mutiny."

"You needn't call it by that name, if you don't wish to. Lowington
promised the fellows a trip down the Rhine. Now, because the new
captain could not handle the ship, we are to be sent off to sea. If the
fellows had any grit at all in their bones, they would show Lowington
that they are not slaves to him, or any other man."

"I think we won't talk any more about that," said Raymond, as he moved
off, for the bold speech of the mischief-maker alarmed him, and caused
him to realize that he was listening to one of the ringleaders of the
runaways.

The commodore's barge came up to the gangway. The ladies were assisted
up the steps, and the trunks hoisted on board and stowed away in the
after cabin. The two state-rooms, which had been built for the use of
the commodore and the past officers, were appropriated to their use.

If Raymond, and such as he, were not willing to listen to the mutinous
counsels of the runaways, he was not the less dissatisfied and
discontented. The arrival of the Arbuckles, with their baggage,
indicated that the trip to the Rhine had been abandoned. Perhaps the
well-disposed students could have submitted to this disappointment, if
it had not been inflicted upon them as a punishment. It seemed to them
that they were to suffer for a whim of Shuffles. The runaways had taken
pains to disseminate this idea among the crew, as they had also
succeeded in involving the whole of them in the mischief which induced
the principal to go to sea that night.

All over the deck and throughout the steerage, the boys were grumbling
and growling like regular old salts, whose prerogative it is to find
fault. When Howe and Spencer returned in the barge, they readily
perceived the state of feeling on board. Little told them what he had
said and done, and convinced them that the whole crew were ripe for a
strike. The entire ship's company were discussing their grievances, and
even a large portion of the officers were dissatisfied. Very likely the
sudden elevation of Shuffles had created a feeling of jealousy in the
minds of a portion of them.

The mischief-makers were prompt in taking advantage of this state of
feeling in the crew. They fanned the flame of discontent, and it was
not difficult to convince their shipmates that they were very hardly
used; that the new captain was imposing a heavy burden upon them. Some
of the best disposed of them were in favor of waiting upon the
principal, and representing their view of the case to him; but the more
impetuous ones laughed at this plan. Shuffles was the principal's pet,
and he would support his protégé against everybody else on board. The
students talked as boys talk, and acted as boys act. At that moment
Shuffles was the most unpopular fellow on board, for it was understood
that he had proposed and advocated the obnoxious measure. The ship's
company were willing to believe that Mr. Lowington had yielded his
assent to please the new captain, rather than because he deemed it
necessary to go to sea himself.

By the time the first cutter returned, a large majority of the students
had decided that something should be done. They could not agree upon
the precise step to be taken. Some advocated a protest, others a
respectful refusal to do duty; and a few went in for a square mutiny.
The provisions were transferred from the cutter to the ship, and the
boat was hoisted up before the perplexing question could be settled.

"After supper, let every fellow go to his mess-room. Don't answer the
boatswain's call to weigh anchor," said Raymond, who had made
considerable progress in rebellion since his conversation with Little.

"Ay, ay! That's the talk!" responded half a dozen of the group, who had
been anxiously discussing the question.

"No, no!" added half a dozen others.

"Why not?" demanded Raymond of the opponents of the plan.

"Because the Arbuckles are on board, for one reason, and because it
will be mutiny, for the second," said Tremere, who volunteered to be
spokesman for the opposition. "Mr. Arbuckle has taken us through
Switzerland, and paid all the bills, and has invited us to another
excursion on the same terms. Now, when he comes on board with his
family, to take a little sail with us, we refuse to do duty. It looks
like contempt and ingratitude to him."

"It has nothing to do with him," replied Raymond, warmly. "Here is the
whole matter in a nutshell. Mr. Arbuckle invited us to take a trip into
Germany, and Mr. Lowington promised that we should go. Then, because we
don't drill quite as well as the new captain wishes, he insists upon
going to sea. The cruise down the Rhine is given up, and we are to
carry the Arbuckles to Belfast."

"Who says we are going to Belfast?" demanded Tremere.

"All the fellows say so."

"That doesn't prove that we are going there. I go for obeying orders,
wherever we go."

"No, no!" replied a dozen of the group.

"We don't intend to do anything wicked," said Raymond. "When the
boatswain calls, we don't answer--that's all. Then the officers will
want to know what the matter is, and we shall have a chance to explain
our position. When we get fair play, we shall be all right, and return
to duty."

The group separated, and while the ship's company were waiting for the
supper call, those in favor of the strike used all their influence to
carry their measure, while those who were opposed to it remained
passive.




CHAPTER IV.

THE YOUNG AMERICA MUTINY.


It was impossible for the advocates of the mutiny to determine what
success had attended their efforts, when the crew were piped to supper.
Howe and Little were delighted to find the work in which they were
interested progressing so finely. Nearly the whole crew were arrayed
against the new captain, and in half an hour the grand explosion would
take place. Not more than twenty of the students were expected to
respond to the boatswain's call to get under way, and it would be
impossible to go to sea. The seamen went below at the supper call, but
most of them were too much excited to eat their usual allowance.

The officers, who were to take their supper at a later hour, were all
on deck. Paul Kendall was seated by the side of Grace Arbuckle,
enjoying a pleasant chat, while her father and mother were in
conversation with the principal. Captain Shuffles was planking the
deck, apparently engaged in deep thought. Possibly the events of the
afternoon disturbed him, for he had already received a hint that the
ship's company were much dissatisfied at the idea of going to sea. He
could not see why they should be. If the crew did their duty, and
everything worked well, the squadron would proceed immediately to
Brest, and the cruise need not last more than two days. He knew the
programme himself, but he forgot that it was the policy of the
principal to keep the destination of the ship a secret, as a general
rule, until she was out of sight of land. The Arbuckles had brought
their baggage with them, because the party was to proceed to Brest, and
would not return to Havre.

Popularity is certainly a very insecure possession; for, three weeks
before, Shuffles had been the favorite of the whole ship's company.
Now, he was the most unpopular person on board; partly, it is true,
because he was misunderstood. Both officers and seamen regarded him as
the cause of the present movement. Most of them believed, or at least
feared, that the trip to the Rhine had been abandoned, and that the new
captain was responsible for this change in the programme. They
concluded that he preferred to exercise his new authority, to roaming
on shore, where he was, practically, no more than any other student. It
was true that Shuffles had suggested to the principal the idea of going
to sea, as a measure for perfecting the discipline of the crew. Mr.
Lowington had permitted the captain to fight his own battle with the
crew, and he fully believed that a little sea service was necessary,
after the disorder and insubordination which had prevailed in the ship
during the drill. Some of those who complained the loudest had
permitted their love of fun to get the better of their discretion, and
had joined in the disorder which prevailed during the drill. Many
well-disposed boys had assisted the conspirators against the peace of
the ship by joining in what appeared to them to be but a mere frolic,
while it was, in fact, an organized attempt to make mischief. They had
encouraged the spirit of insubordination, without supposing they were
engaged in anything more than a mere lark, involuntary on their part,
and suggested only by the circumstances of the moment.

From the captain's stand-point, the confusion had a very grave aspect;
while from that of the seamen, it was a matter of trivial consequence.
The commander was mortified to find the discipline so weak; and he
could have no confidence in himself or his crew until his orders were
promptly obeyed. He was thinking only of the welfare of the ship and
her crew. He had no intention of punishing the students, when he
suggested the plan of going to sea,--only of perfecting the discipline.
It seemed to him just as though three weeks on shore had demoralized
the ship's company. Though he was now aware that the runaways had done
what they could to make trouble, the confusion seemed to be too
extensive to be accounted for by their agency. Two of the best boys on
board had been sent to the mainmast for disobedience; and it was clear
that the runaways had not produced all the trouble.

The commodore fully sustained him, and believed that it was best for
the ship to go to sea. If the students had forgotten the ropes, or were
so much embarrassed in their new stations, that they could not set a
sail or get up the anchor without making a mess of it, the ship ought
to go to sea. On the return of the excursionists from Germany, it might
be necessary to put to sea without an hour's delay, as the principal
had suggested. Shipwreck and disaster might follow if the crew were not
in working order. It was a plain case to the captain.

Paul Kendall had explained the situation to the Arbuckles as mildly as
he could. He had told them that the seamen were a little disorderly,
and that it was necessary to have them in perfect discipline before
they went to Germany. Without intending to do so, he had produced the
impression on their minds, that the trip would be given up unless the
boys performed their duty to the entire satisfaction of the principal.
In talking with the officers, they had expressed their fear that the
proposed excursion would not take place. Perhaps the guests were not
far from right; for certainly the students would not be allowed to step
on shore if the discipline of the ship was not satisfactory. Miss Grace
was sadly disturbed at the thought of depriving the students of the
pleasure of seeing the Rhine, its wonders and its beauties.

"Why, I thought your crew were in perfect discipline, Captain--no, I
mean Commodore--Kendall," said she, as they sat upon the quarter-deck,
discussing the great question of the hour.

"They are, generally," replied Paul. "But you know we are a little
world by ourselves, and we have our troubles just like other people. It
will be all right, I hope, in a day or two. The students get a little
wild sometimes."

"Captain Shuffles is such a noble fellow, I should think they would all
wish to do their best. I'm sure I should, if I were a sailor in your
ship."

"Shuffles is a capital fellow," added Paul, who was certainly more
pleased to praise the commander himself, than to have his fair
companion do so.

"I shall never forget his noble conduct on that terrible night when the
steamer was burned," said Grace, warmly.

"Probably none of us will ever forget it. But I am sorry to say that
there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with the new captain, just
now, even among the officers," added Paul.

"I'm very sorry."

"But it is not his fault; really it is not," continued Paul, fearing
that he had said too much.

"I'm sure it is not," protested Grace. "I wonder if I have any
influence with the officers."

"I think you have: indeed, I know you have with one of them," replied
Paul; but he began to choke before he had uttered the last clause of
the sentence.

"With one of them?"

"Yes, with all of them; but perhaps more with one than with others,"
stammered Paul, studying the seams in the quarter-decks.

"Who is he, pray?" asked Grace, rather timidly.

"With the commodore," answered he, desperately.

"Thank you, Commodore Kendall. Then we will both use our influence to
have the captain set right with the officers and the crew."

"Well, it is not exactly the right thing for so dignified a personage
as the commodore to persuade his inferiors that his views are correct.
He issues orders, and others obey them," laughed Paul. "But really I
cannot, in courtesy, meddle with the discipline of the ship."

"I'm going to meddle with it, if I can do anything to set Captain
Shuffles right," said Grace, who was very confident that it was quite
impossible for her noble preserver to do, or even think, anything
wrong.

"The officers will do their duty, whatever they think," added Paul. "In
due time they will be satisfied that the captain is right. I fully
agree with him, and think that the ship ought to go to sea."

"Of course, I expect to find you on the right side, Commodore Kendall,"
said Grace.

"Certainly I'm always on your side," he replied, becoming astonishingly
bold for him.

"Then we are both on Captain Shuffles's side. Who is the officer
standing near us?"

It happened to be Master Perth; and Miss Arbuckle called him, intent
upon finding some one who was not on the captain's side. Paul, however,
did not think it was in accordance with the dignity of the commodore of
the squadron to listen to any criticism of the captain's action, and he
reluctantly left the pleasant seat he occupied by the side of the young
lady. If there was any one on board who hated Shuffles, Perth was he.

"I wanted to get acquainted with you, Mr. Perth; for it seems to me I
have not met you before," she began.

"Probably not, Miss Arbuckle, for I was not one of the party who went
to Paris and Switzerland with you," replied the second master.

"Indeed!" exclaimed she, understanding, without further explanation,
why he was not one of the party, and that he was one of the runaways,
though she could not exactly comprehend how he happened to be an
officer if he had been a rebel.

"I had the honor to command the Josephine during a portion of the time
the ship's company were absent," laughed he, with anything but
penitence for his past offences.

"I am very sorry you were not with the others."

"So am I, for one reason--it deprived me of the pleasure of seeing your
pretty face for three or four weeks," said Perth, lightly.

"Perhaps I shall change my mind if I find your absence saved me from
such annoyance as I feel at the present moment," replied Grace,
blushing, and looking much displeased.

"I beg your pardon! I meant no offence," stammered Perth.

Grace smiled again; for she did not believe he would again venture to
indulge in an impudent compliment.

"I am very sorry to learn from what you say that you were one of the
runaways," she continued.

"I was one of them--I may say that I was the chief of them," replied
Perth, without a blush.

"Of course you are very sorry for it, and very glad that Captain
Shuffles brought you back."

"That's an open question," laughed Perth. "I don't think Shuffles made
much by what he did. I don't believe any fellow makes anything by being
a hypocrite, and selling out his friends."

"I don't think so, either. But you certainly cannot mean to say that
Captain Shuffles is a hypocrite, or that he ever betrayed his friends?"

"I suppose I ought not to say anything to you about it, knowing that he
is a strong friend of yours."

"Whatever you say, Mr. Perth, shall not be repeated. I have been told
that some of the officers are opposed to the new captain; and I do not
see how it can be true, when he is so noble and good."

"Noble and good!" ejaculated Perth.

"Certainly. You know what he did for me on the night the steamer was
burned."

"There isn't a fellow on board that would not have given all he had for
a chance to do the same thing for you," protested Perth.

"But all the students like him."

"I don't believe he has twenty friends in the ship."

"Then they do not know him as I do," replied Grace, indignantly.

"They know him better than you do. He's smart, and a good officer; but
when you have said that, you have said all that can be said," continued
Perth, bluntly.

"I am sorry to hear you say so," added Grace, really grieved, even
while she was incredulous. "I am afraid you are prejudiced against him
because he broke up your plan to run away with the Josephine."

"He didn't break it up. Our fellows disagreed among themselves; that's
the reason why we had to come back," explained Perth, whose pride did
not permit him to acknowledge that he had been beaten by the superior
skill and energy of Shuffles. "Now, all the fellows are on the very
verge of mutiny, because he insists upon taking the ship to sea,
instead of going down the Rhine."

"I'm sure he is doing no more than his duty," persisted Grace, stoutly.
"It appears that Mr. Lowington thinks he is right, or he would not send
the ship to sea. I am really sorry to hear you speak so unkindly of
your captain, for I must say that I cannot believe a word you say about
him."

"Thank you," replied Perth, dryly.

"I think you are sincere in your belief," added she. "Paul Kendall says
that the captain is right."

"Well, he is commodore, you know, and must believe everything the
principal says," laughed Perth. "It is not quite proper for any of us
to have opinions of our own, but you see some of us have them."

Perth was certainly good-natured, whatever else he was, and as Grace
said no more, he touched his cap, and passed on. The devoted admirer of
Shuffles's nobleness and goodness was greatly disconcerted by the blunt
statements of the second master, who had declared that the ship's
company were almost in a state of mutiny against the captain. She
continued her inquiries among other officers; but, though some of them
thought it was quite unnecessary to go to sea, they all spoke very
handsomely of Shuffles. It was plain enough that Perth had injured
himself more than the object of his calumny, by what he had said.

"Are you ready to go to sea, Miss Arbuckle?" asked the captain, as he
came on deck, and touched his cap to her.

"I am quite ready; indeed, I am afraid I am more ready than many others
on board of this ship," she replied. "I am sorry to hear that some of
the officers and seamen are very much displeased at the idea of going
to sea."

"So far as the seamen are concerned, it is their own fault, for they
have not done their duty," added the captain.

"Not the fault of all of them, I hope."

"Not all, certainly; but if they don't know their stations, they must
learn them. If you are all ready to go, I think we will be off," said
Shuffles, as he glanced at his watch. "You will get the ship under way,
if you please, Mr. Goodwin," he added, addressing the first lieutenant,
who was standing near him.

"I really hope there will be no trouble, Captain Shuffles," continued
Grace.

"There can be no trouble. All sailors grumble, you know, Miss Arbuckle,
and our boys imitate their elders in this respect. They will growl for
a while, but just as soon as they work the ship with skill and
promptness, we shall put into Brest, and make our trip down the Rhine.
I think we shall not be at sea beyond a couple of days."

"I hope not, for the sake of the crew."

"All hands, weigh anchor, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, as his sharp
pipe rang through the ship.

Less than thirty of the seamen answered to the call, and it was
apparent that a very large majority of them had chosen to follow the
evil counsels of the runaways, or the foolish counsels of other
discontented spirits. It was the first time since the ship went into
commission that any considerable number of the crew had failed to
respond to the call. Shuffles was confounded, and the first lieutenant
actually turned pale. It looked like such a mutiny as the Chain League
had planned.

"Pipe again," said Shuffles, as quietly as he could.

Again the boatswain sounded the call, and repeated the order, but with
no better success than before. Not another seaman appeared upon deck.

"What does this mean?" said the commodore to the captain.

"As near as I can interpret it, the greater part of the crew do not
intend to obey orders," replied Shuffles.

"It certainly looks so."

"Mr. Goodwin, will you inquire of those who obeyed the order, whether
their shipmates heard the call?" continued the captain, laboring very
hard to appear cool and collected, as a commander ought to be in every
emergency.

Paul Kendall's curiosity prompted him to follow the executive officer
to the waist, where the seamen who had obeyed the call were waiting for
orders. He was unwilling to believe the evidence of his senses, though
he knew that there was considerable disaffection on board.

"Did the rest of the crew hear the boatswain's pipe?" asked Goodwin of
the faithful few.

"Yes, sir," replied Tremere.

"Where are they now?"

"In the mess-rooms."

"Why don't they obey?"

"They say they don't want to go to sea: they say they haven't done
anything to deserve punishment, and they object to being punished,"
replied the spokesman.
