part of the country discouraged and disheartened. I hope he was never
in want, or anything of that kind."

"No, sir; he always had plenty; and when he died he left some property."

"I'm very glad to hear it, for I have had times when I worried a great
deal about it. I tried to find out where he was, but I never succeeded.
Were you with him when he died?"

"I was, sir," I replied, not a little embarrassed; for I did not like
to reveal the manner of his death.

"Was he sick long?"

"No, sir; he had been troubled with the rheumatism for two or three
months; but he was able to be about on crutches at the time he died."

"Did he die of rheumatism?"

"No, sir; he did not die of any disease, nor suffer any pain."

"What do you mean, young man?"

"He was shot, and instantly killed, in a fight with the Indians."

"Poor Matt!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood, averting his gaze from me.

"I was as near to him as I am to you now when he fell. He never moved
or breathed after he went down," I added.

"Well, he had lived his threescore and ten, and perhaps one could not
pass away any easier; but it is grating to one's feelings to know that
his brother was shot."

I related to him very minutely the history of Matt Rockwood; and he
listened, as may well be supposed, with the deepest interest.

"And so you found your father?" said he, as I concluded the narrative.

"Yes, sir; and I hope yet to save him from himself."

"I hope so; and I am willing to do all I can for you and for him."

"Thank you, sir. As I said before, sir, your brother left about a
thousand dollars in gold, and by selling wood and produce we made
the amount up to about sixteen hundred dollars. A young man, by the
name of Morgan Blair, says he is the son of Matt's sister, and claims
this money."

  [Illustration: PHIL BEFORE THE DOOR OF THE SOUTHERN PLANTER.
  Page 244.]

"Matt had no sister," replied Mr. Rockwood, smiling.

I told him what had happened to me that night; but, as I related the
story in a good-natured vein, he was rather amused at it.

"Then you did not come to this hotel to see me?"

"No, sir; I blundered upon you;" and I explained how I had happened to
be before his door when he discovered me, and why I had paused there
longer than I intended.

He laughed heartily at my story, but I noticed that he suddenly became
sad whenever I alluded, directly or indirectly, to his brother.

"We will take care of Mr. Morgan Blair in due time," said Mr. Rockwood.
"Now, Phil, what do you do?"

"I am a carpenter."

"Where do you live?"

I gave him Mrs. Greenough's address, and he wrote it down in his
memorandum book.

"But I must go home, sir; I ought to have gone long ago. I am afraid my
father will think something has happened to me," I continued.

"Well I think something has happened to you. But I will not keep you
any longer. I will go home with you, if you have no objection."

"I should be very glad to have you, sir."

"I should like to see your father."

While he was putting on his overcoat, I took Mr. Gracewood's note from
my pocket, and tendered it to him.

"What's that, Phil?" he asked.

"It's a note for fifteen hundred dollars--the money your brother left
and the proceeds of the sale of some of his property."

"This is the note that those ruffians wanted?" he replied, taking the
paper and reading it.

"I think a little of it belongs to me, for I earned it after the death
of your brother."

"O, my boy, you shall have the whole of it! I will never touch a penny
of it."

"But it does not all belong to me."

"Every mill of it," said he, earnestly. "You took care of my brother
when he was sick, and he brought you up. You have a better claim to his
property than I have, or should have if I needed it, which I do not."

"You are very kind, sir."

"Only just."

We went down stairs, and I saw that all the people in the hotel treated
Mr. Rockwood with "distinguished consideration." At his request, the
landlord called a carriage, and I went home in state. I had never been
in a carriage before, and I regarded it as a very pleasant mode of
conveyance.

"I am sorry I did not see you before, Phil, for I must leave for the
south in a day or two," said Mr. Rockwood, as the carriage drove off.

"Do you live at the south?"

"Yes; I have been in Mississippi almost twenty years. I have a large
plantation there. I made my fortune down there; but I don't think I
shall remain there much longer. The climate don't agree with my wife as
well as St. Louis. I have been investing money in this city for several
years, and when I can sell my plantation I shall come here to live. I
own that hotel and the block of buildings with the flat roof over which
you passed. I have to come here two or three times a year to look after
the property; and my family generally spend the summer here. I hope I
shall see more of you, Phil."

"Thank you, sir."

"If you were a little older, I could give you something better to do
than carpentering."

"I like that business, sir, and don't care about leaving it at present."

The carriage stopped at Mrs. Greenough's, and we went up stairs. I was
obliged to show my wealthy friend into the kitchen, for there was no
fire in the parlor. However, there was not much difference between the
two rooms.

"I am so glad you have come home, Phil!" said my landlady, descending
the stairs when she heard me. "We have been really worried about you."

"I am all right," I replied; and then I introduced Mr. Rockwood.

Mrs. Greenough apologized for meeting him in the kitchen. She was
obliged to stay with Mr. Farringford so much of the time that she did
not keep a fire in the parlor. She would make one, if he would excuse
her; but the distinguished gentleman declined to excuse her, and
thought the kitchen was very comfortable and very pleasant.

"And so you got out, Phil," she added, turning to me.

"Out? How did you know anything about it?" I inquired, very much
surprised to find that the intelligence of my adventure had preceded me.

"Why, a policeman has been here with your note."

"My note! What note?"

"Didn't you write a billet to me?" she continued, bustling about to
find the important document.

"I am not aware that I did," I replied.

"Why, yes, you did, Phil. Where is it? I must have left it up stairs. I
will go up after it."

"But I haven't written any billet," I protested.

"I will show it to you," said she, hastening up stairs to find the note.

"Your friends appear to have doubled on you, after all," laughed Mr.
Rockwood.

"I don't understand it, though I remember that in order to save the
rascals the trouble of attempting to get any money out of me, I told
them I had left my balance at home."

Mrs. Greenough returned with the note, and handed it to me. I read it
with astonishment and indignation. My name was signed at the end of it;
but, of course, no part of the contents was written by me. In the note
I was represented as informing the good lady that I had been arrested,
and conveyed to the station-house; but I could be bailed out till
Monday by depositing sixty-five dollars with the sergeant of police.

"Who brought this?" I asked.

"A man who said he was a policeman."

"Did you know him?"

"No; but after consulting a long time with your father, we sent the
money."

"You did!" I exclaimed.

I concluded that I was sixty-five dollars out.




  CHAPTER XXII.

  IN WHICH PHIL RETURNS TO THE DEN OF THE ENEMY.


I felt that I could afford to lose sixty-five dollars better than
ever before; but I did not like the idea of being swindled. It was
especially repugnant to be overreached by such scoundrels as Lynch and
Blair, though the latter appeared to be only the tool of the former.

"I did not like to give the man the money, but your father thought
that, as he was a policeman, it was all right," Mrs. Greenough
explained. "Your father was very much worried when he heard you were
arrested."

"I have not been arrested," I replied.

"Your father wishes to see you," added the landlady.

"I will go up with you, if you please," said Mr. Rockwood.

We went up to my father's room, where I introduced my new friend to
him. It required some time, of course, to explain who and what the
planter was, and how I had made his acquaintance.

"Then you have not been arrested," said my father.

"No; but I was kept a prisoner by these scoundrels."

"We must attend to them," added Mr. Rockwood, consulting his watch.

"Dear me! there is the door-bell again!" exclaimed Mrs. Greenough. "Who
can it be at this time of night!"

"It is only half past nine," added the planter, as I took a light to
answer the bell. "I think Mrs. Greenough had better go to the door,
for I don't believe these scoundrels will be satisfied with sixty-five
dollars."

At this suggestion Mrs. Greenough answered the summons, and soon
returned with another note--from me! I opened it, and read that I had
been arrested in connection with the claim of Morgan Blair, and that
when the police sergeant heard there was a note, which represented the
property claimed, in my possession, he thought it was better to have
it deposited with the chief of police for safe keeping.

"These fellows evidently think you have not yet returned to your home,
Phil," said Mr. Rockwood.

"I don't blame them much for thinking so, for I expected to stay on
those roofs all night; and I think I should if you had not been so wise
as to put a hotel in the block," I replied.

"The man asked if Phil was at home before he gave me the note," said
the landlady, "and I evaded the question."

"What shall we do?" asked my father, raising himself in the bed.

"Phil and I will pay a visit to these rascals," answered the planter.
"Have you an envelope?"

"Yes," I replied, producing one, with some paper.

He folded up a sheet of paper, put it in the envelope, and requested
the landlady to direct it to the chief of police.

"Where is this messenger?" asked Mr. Rockwood.

"He is waiting in the kitchen."

"Very well, Mrs. Greenough. If you will close the door, so that we can
get into the street without his knowledge, we will follow him up and
attend to this business."

The landlady went down stairs, and when she had closed the kitchen
door, the planter and myself crept softly down stairs, and went into
the street. We placed ourselves where we could identify the messenger
when he came out of the house. He was evidently satisfied that the
envelope contained the document for which he had been sent, for he
immediately followed us out of the house. He was a well-dressed man, as
we saw by the light of the corner street lamp. He wore a light-colored
overcoat, so that we could easily follow him as he passed through the
streets. Mr. Rockwood went behind him, while I walked on the other side
of the street, and kept up with him. He went, as I supposed he would,
to the house to which I had been enticed earlier in the evening. He
went in by the aid of a night-key, and doubtless believed that he had
fully accomplished the mission upon which he had been sent.

"You are younger and more active than I am, Phil," said Mr. Rockwood,
when the man had entered the house and closed the door behind him.
"If you will stay here, and follow any of the rascals if they come out
again, I will get an officer."

"Very well, sir."

The planter hastened to his hotel, and I stationed myself where I could
see who left the house. My friend was not absent more than a quarter
of an hour, and returned with two officers, whom the landlord of the
hotel had procured for him. One of them was in uniform, and the other
a detective in plain clothes. I concluded that Mr. Rockwood meant
business, and instead of my spending Sunday as a prisoner, this would
be the fate of those who were trying to swindle me.

"That's a gambling-house," said the policeman in uniform, when I
pointed out the door where the man entered.

"Undoubtedly it is a gambling-house," replied the detective, gazing
inquiringly at me, as though he was not quite satisfied with the story
related to him by Mr. Rockwood; "but even a gambling-house has certain
rights, which may not be disturbed without proper cause."

"Proper cause!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood. "Don't I tell you that this
young man has been robbed and abused by the villains in this house?"

"You will excuse me, sir, but it is possible to be mistaken. If I
understand you, Mr. Rockwood, you met this boy for the first time about
two hours ago."

"But I have entire confidence in him. He is the son of Edward
Farringford."

"Perhaps he is, though I do not believe it; but that is nothing to
recommend him. His story is absurd on the face of it."

"My story is true, sir, every word of it," I interposed, indignantly.

Mr. Bogart, the detective, asked me a few questions in regard to my
escape from the building, and I repeated all the particulars. He shook
his head, and declared that he was unwilling to enter the house upon
the strength of such a story. It would damage his reputation as an
officer, and his superiors would not justify the measure.

"I'll tell you what I will do," he continued.

"Well, what will you do?" demanded Mr. Rockwood, impatiently.

"I will go with this young man to the top of the house, where he left
the chamber of the gambler. I will follow him into the house by the
window through which he came out."

"I don't think you can get in at the window."

"I suppose not," said Mr. Bogart, with a palpable sneer.

"But I will go with you, and show you the window," I added.

"I wish you would," replied the officer, who evidently believed that I
should give him the slip before I verified my position.

Mr. Rockwood and the policeman were to remain in the street and keep
watch of the house during our absence. If the gambler's messenger who
had gone to the house of Mrs. Greenough appeared, he was to be arrested.

Mr. Bogart and myself went to the hotel, where, after my companion had
spoken to the landlord, we ascended to the roof.

"Now, young man, if you will go ahead, I will follow you," said the
detective.

"I hope you are used to climbing," I replied.

"Don't borrow any trouble on my account; I will follow anywhere that
you will lead."

"All right, sir; I hope I shall soon be able to prove all that I have
stated."

"I hope so," replied he, in a tone which assured me that he did not
expect anything of the kind.

I led the way across the flat roof, and at the next block we mounted
the ridge-pole of the pitch roof. Mr. Bogart cautioned me to move with
care, so as not to disturb the inmates of the houses beneath us. I was
soon in position to see the bright light streaming up from the tenement
to which I had been decoyed by the villains.

"That's the house," said I, pointing to the light.

"Did you come up through that scuttle?" he asked.

"No, I came up over the top of the luthern window."

"Impossible!" exclaimed he, glancing at the window.

"It is true; and I suppose I shall have to go in that way," I
continued; and I explained minutely how I had made my exit from the
chamber.

"Lead on. We will examine the house," said Mr. Bogart.

On a nearer approach to the roof of the gambling-house, I discovered
that the glass scuttle was open, and I concluded that Lynch and Blair
had been upon the roof in search of me. When I reached the opening I
found a ladder conveniently placed for my descent, if I chose to avail
myself of its aid. I looked down into the entry, where the gas-light
still blazed cheerfully. The door of Lynch's room was open, and I could
distinctly hear the voices of my late captors.

"They took me into that front room," I whispered to my doubting
companion.

"This looks a little as though your story was true," said Mr. Bogart.

"Will you follow me down this ladder?"

"No, not yet. I wish to get a little better idea of what these fellows
mean. Are you afraid of them?"

"No; not a bit," I answered, raising the poker which I had picked up
where I left it on the roof.

"Will you go down alone?" he asked.

"Yes, if you desire it."

"I will keep the run of you, and see what is done. If you get into
trouble with them, just whistle as loud as you can, and I will join
you."

"But suppose they take away the ladder?"

"Then I will go down as I came up, and enter the house by the front
door. Don't be afraid of anything."

"I'm not afraid."

"I will be near you. I want to know what these fellows mean to do. If
they close the door, I will go down the ladder into the entry."

Suddenly my companion appeared to have become very enthusiastic in the
business upon which we were engaged. Though he did not say so, I was
satisfied that he was convinced of the truth of my statement.

"What shall I do?" I asked, rather puzzled by the tactics of the
detective.

"Do whatever they wish you to do; but don't let them know that you have
been off the roof since you escaped.

"Why not?"

"I cannot stop to explain now; only I don't think these rascals have
taken all this trouble with you for fifty or a hundred dollars; and
they mean to use you as a cat's paw for something else."

"I know they do," I replied, in a whisper. "They want the fifteen
hundred dollars in gold, for which I hold a note signed by Mr.
Gracewood."

"No matter now," said he, impatiently. "Go down, and give them all the
rope they want."

"Shall I give them the note, which I have in my pocket?"

"I haven't heard about the note. If you had told me the whole story
before now, I should have known better what to do."

We retreated a few paces from the skylight, and I told him all about
the note and the object of Lynch. I assured him that Mr. Rockwood was
the legal heir of the property.

"The note is of no consequence then," said Mr. Bogart. "Give it to
them, but don't indorse it, and I will see that it is returned to you.
We have them now. They can't escape us. Now, go down, and let them have
their own way, but with some show of opposition."

I descended the ladder, and stood before the open door of the chamber,
when I saw Lynch, with his feet on the table, smoking. Morgan Blair sat
opposite him. They discovered me as soon as I landed in the hall, and
made haste to place themselves between me and the stairs, in order to
cut off my escape. As I did not wish to escape, I gave them no trouble
in this direction, but entered the chamber.




  CHAPTER XXIII.

  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS A PALE GENTLEMAN WITH ONE ARM IN A SLING.


"I thought you would come back, my dear Phil," said Mr. Leonidas
Lynchpinne, as he placed himself in the doorway before me. "I knew you
had so much respect and regard for us that you would not break our
hearts by being long absent. By the way, Phil, how is the weather on
the roof?"

"It is rather cool," I replied, seating myself in the vacant chair,
"but not quite so cool as you are, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne."

"Phil, be virtuous, and you will always be happy; that is the secret of
my uninterrupted cheerfulness; that enables me always and everywhere to
