whisper of Autumn in the air, the mellowness of Autumnal light over
plain and water and hill.

There was nothing in landscape, air, or sunlight that should have
reminded Jessie Kirke of the miserable February afternoon when she
stood on the Hamilton bridge, staring down at the black ice below,
and fought her first battle of life. But that other scene and the
strife of that hour were very present to her, as she halted on the
foot-bridge and leaned over the rail to gaze at the slow, smooth
current of the creek. The narrow crossing had been designed and
partly built by Mr. Kirke himself. The floor was of oak plank; the
railing was composed of cedar branches with the bark left on,
arranged in fantastic figures, and surmounted by a slender pole of
the same wood. Many stopped to examine and admire it in passing
over, and it made a picturesque feature in the view. It was familiar
in every joint to Jessie, having formed a part of her favorite walk
for ten years; but she chose to linger there on this morning, to
hang over the parapet, pick bits of bark from the side and fling
them into the creek, as an idle child might launch and watch a
miniature fleet.

It was a face many removes from childhood's thoughtlessness and
childish glee that looked back at her from the glassy surface. A
face, wild-eyed and haggard, with bent brows betokening suffering
and conflict; a mouth telling, in piteous and patient lines, of
defeat.

She had returned from Hamilton in April, looking jaded and ill, said
the Dundeeians, who shook sagacious heads over her winter's
dissipation. Her father and Eunice attributed her loss of bloom and
liveliness to too close application to her studies, and cited her
improvement in music, French, and German, in proof of their theory.
She did not relax her diligence when she was settled at home.
Eunice, whose name was a synonym for industry, did not surpass her
in strict attention to all departments of feminine work. In the
kitchen and the garden, at the needle, the piano, writing-desk, and
her books, she toiled from sunrise until bedtime, with energy Eunice
silently likened to greediness for occupation of mind and body,
while Mr. Kirke hardly recognized his darling in the decorous
thrifty housewife and busy student. Intonations, phraseology, and
deportment--all were altered. She was an elegant woman in appearance
and conversation, but the fond parent missed the tricksy sprite who
had wrought mischief and mirth in his home; missed her teasing and
her follies, her exactions and her caresses. Not that she was cold
or sullen. She told long and entertaining stories of her Hamilton
life; gave faithful descriptions of the people and things she had
seen while away from them; listened with apparent interest to
neighborhood news and family plans; talked of art, literature, and
philosophy to him by the hour; was attentive to his every possible
want, and offered regularly the morning and evening kiss she had
been accustomed to bestow from her infancy. But, having already one
daughter who was an exemplar to her sex, he recollected the
bewitching naughtiness of the old-time Jessie, and wished fervently
that he had met Mrs. Baxter's invitation by a peremptory negative,
and kept his gem as it was. To his taste, it had lost--not
gained--in the cutting and polishing.

Eunice was discreet when he intimated something of the kind to her.

"She is certainly more quiet and studious," she replied, "but she
says she is very well, and she has much to make her thoughtful in
Roy's absence. The long separation must, of itself, oppress her
spirits continually. And, Father, our Jessie has gained new views of
Life and Duty within the last year. She can never be a child again.
Her nature--mind and affections--must broaden and deepen with time.
We would not have it otherwise, strange as the change is to us now.
I fear, though, that she works too hard, while I honor her
determination to prepare herself thoroughly for her future position.
She will be a wife of whom Roy may justly be proud."

Again, when Mr. Kirke feared that Jessie was often depressed to
despondency, although she strove bravely to conceal it, the elder
sister "hoped all would be well again when Roy came back."

"He can reason or soothe her out of morbid fancies better and sooner
than either you or I. His influence over her is wonderful and always
beneficial."

"I wish he were home again then!" sighed the parent.

He did not guess how heartily Eunice echoed the desire. She might be
partially successful in quelling his anxieties, but the beryl eyes
saw that, so far from all being right with her young sister,
something was lamentably wrong. Jessie's very manner of speaking of
Roy and her marriage was totally dissimilar to her former frank or
bashful confession. If she had lived with him as his wife a dozen
years, she could not have mentioned his name more composedly, or
talked of housekeeping and other practicalities in a more
matter-of-fact strain. This was exceedingly sensible, but it was
not, on that account, the more like Jessie. The transformation from
an enthusiastic madcap, who did and felt nothing by halves--let it
be loving, laughing, sorrowing, or working--into the dignified
partner of Eunice's everyday cares and duties, equable in temper,
reliable in judgment, and judicious in action--ought, perhaps, to
have elicited commendation from one who was herself a model in all
these respects; but, instead of gratification, she felt only
bewilderment and alarm at the completeness of the change. It had
been her habit to think and say, when her sister's crudities or
extravagances were more marked than her quieter taste approved, that
the discipline of life, as life went on, would rectify these; that
they were but the redundant growth of a noble stock. A little
pruning--a few sharp experiences, and hypercritical indeed would be
the judgment that should find room for blame. She was displeased
with herself in recollecting this, now that the discipline had
wrought upon the free, wild spirit; the redundancies had fallen
under the pruning-knife.

Something of this external change must have manifested itself in
Jessie's letters, for Roy had twice written privately to Eunice,
questioning her closely about her sister's health and spirits.

"Her letters are as regular as ever, and no less beautiful than
punctual," he said. "But they contain so few particulars of her
daily life and feelings, while they treat freely of other subjects,
that I have fancied there is something pertaining to her individual
experience she desires to hide from me, lest the knowledge of it
should pain me. My noble, generous girl! She would bear any distress
or inconvenience rather than afflict me by revealing the extent of
her suffering or perplexity. I intrust my sometimes wayward--always
sweet, graceful, and clinging Jessamine to you, our sister! Tend and
guard it tenderly for me."

Eunice answered hopefully and with such reassurance as she could
truthfully impart, and wished more ardently than ever that he would
return and assume the charge of his treasure--the charge and the
cure.

They had had a quiet summer, the most stirring event being a visit
from Mrs. Baxter and Orrin Wyllys, who acted as her escort. They
were domesticated for a week at the parsonage, and Jessie's monopoly
of her cousin's society had left Orrin almost entirely to her
father's and sister's care. Nobody made verbal objection to this
division of hospitable duties. Mr. Wyllys held long talks with his
host--scientific, theological, literary, and political--during
post-prandial smokes, besides driving and walking with him in his
professional rounds at such seasons as Eunice was too busy to attend
to her guests. When she was at liberty to devote herself to social
duties, there were hours of music and reading; long rambles among
the hills--Mrs. Baxter and Jessie far in advance--for the latter
always outstripped her sister in pedestrian expeditions; moonlight
promenades and conferences on the piazza that left Jessie all the
time she desired for conversation with her late chaperone. It was
generally agreed at parting that the week had passed swiftly and
delightfully; farewells were linked with hopes of a repetition of
the pleasure, and the household relapsed into its ordinary aspect
and ways. If there were any perceptible difference in those
composing it, it was that Jessie worked harder and was paler than
before the interruption, while Eunice grew younger and prettier
every day.

"I have tried very hard!" Jessie said aloud, still hanging over the
water, but clasping her hands in a sort of despair. "And I am very
tired!"

Then two heavy tears rolled from her eyes and broke up the
reflection of the sad face below into little dancing circles.

An hour ago, as she stood in the garden grafting a rosebush, a
neighbor rode up to the fence to say, "Good-day," and inquire after
the health of the clergyman's family.

"You'll have company pretty soon, I'm thinking," he said, knowingly.
"I suppose that's no news to you, though?"

"We expect no one," said Jessie, carelessly.

"It will be a pleasant surprise to you, then. I saw Mr. Wyllys at
the hotel as I came by."

Jessie's knife swerved slightly as she made the incision in the
bark, but her voice was firm.

"Are you sure?"

"Oh, yes! I talked with him. He got up late last night, he said.
Come now, Miss Jessie; I am an old friend, which of you is he
after?"

"Neither that I know of. Certainly not me!" replied she,
imperturbably.

She finished her task carefully, when the inquisitor had passed;
carried twine and scissors into the house; gave Patsey an order as
she glanced into the kitchen, and, unobserved by the servant, left
the dwelling and went down through the garden into the meadow.

Her father and Eunice were away from home for the day--probably for
the night also, and she had her reasons for preferring the solitude
of the woods, or a retreat among the crags of Old Windbeam, to a
prolonged interview with Orrin Wyllys.

Did I say, "preferred"? Does not the opium-eater, in his lucid
intervals, prefer thirst and languor and pain to the drug for which
his diseased appetite cries out as the dying for breath, and the
fever-scorched for water? Prefer it with mind and conscience, if not
with flesh and will? Jessie Kirke's will lived yet, and it had borne
her beyond the reach of temptation and kept her there. But it did
not hinder her from picturing Orrin pacing the portico, or, sitting
in the parlor, awaiting her while she hid herself and her
wretchedness among the willows. She had but to go back by the way
she had come, and hours of blissful companionship would be hers;
full draughts of enjoyment such as those which had intoxicated the
unwary girl who, last winter, had believed that she might drink and
be blameless. His eyes would kindle into the magic gleam that
enervated resolution and let loose a flood of vague, delicious
fancies upon her brain; his voice melt into the modulations that
enchained the ear like pathetic music. Under the spell of his
consummate address she would believe, for the moment, or the hour,
or the day he spent with her, all that he said or looked, although
dimly conscious, the while, that she would despise herself as a
weak, guilty fool for the temporary faith, through weeks and months
afterward.

As she did now! She was wrung by self-contempt for nursing these
imaginations, yet dallied with them--sipped shudderingly, yet with
avidity, of their dangerous sweetness.

"I have tried very hard!" she moaned again.

Tried to hold fast to her trust in her betrothed after the cruel
shock it had sustained from Hester Sanford's story, for she still
believed that it was firm and absolute up to that hour; ignored
persistently the fact that other influences had previously been at
work sapping her confidence in the attachment of one who, his
nearest of kin reluctantly admitted, was a man of granite,
virtuously severe to the frailties of others, because he was himself
prudent, sage, and incorruptible by such bribes as most men found
potent--love, and the hope and opportunity of making the beloved one
happy. Not one word of this had Wyllys ever uttered. He always spoke
of Roy with seriousness and respect, confessing voluntarily, time
and again, his own moral and intellectual inferiority to his cousin,
and scrupulously keeping her betrothment before Jessie's mind.
Whatever might have been her lapses from loyalty, she could not deny
that in this oft-repeated acknowledgment of her paramount
obligation to her affianced husband, Orrin had been honorable to
punctiliousness. She had not yet come to see that he had also been
ingenious in pressing invisible shackles into her soul; in reminding
her perpetually that she was no longer a free agent. The girl had
chafed under the process, without knowing that she did so, and why.
Her brotherly friend, who had seen a blooded horse, although docile
by nature and well broken in, fret and grow restive under an
over-tight check-rein, may have known, better than she, what he was
about.

She was still uncertain how much or how little truth there was in
the heiress' tale. She had contrived to see her but seldom after the
scene in the billiard-room, and in this she was ably seconded by
Miss Sanford when the news of "that Miss Kirke's" engagement to
Professor Fordham was circulated in Hamilton circles. Jessie did not
try to analyze the impulse that bade her announce the relation she
bore to Roy at the very time when her doubts of him were at their
height. Perhaps she felt the need of a safeguard for herself; or her
conscience may have rebuked her that she had not defended him--right
or wrong--when attacked; or the suspicion of his unworthiness
stimulated her to a strained generosity, a resolve to leave undone
no part of the duty she owed, while she was under contract to him.
It had been long since her latest mention of the matter to Wyllys.
He had replied to her queries by an injunction to continued
confidence in Roy's integrity, which was construed by her into a
charitable evasion. He promised again and solemnly to push his
investigations as occasion might offer, but she believed that he was
afraid to keep his word. He would preserve intact his own love and
esteem for the cousin he professed to revere, and blindly declined
to undertake the examination of a record he more than feared
contained entries that would lower his opinion of his hero, and
damage the latter's character irretrievably with herself.

Given this lever of unappeased distrust in, and latent resentment
toward him, to whom her allegiance was due, and a less adroit
diplomat than Orrin Wyllys might have so weakened the defences of
her love and constancy as to make her question whether surrender
were not unavoidable--even desirable. She was "tired," poor child!
dismayed that her labor in "deep mid-ocean" was so tedious and
severe, longing for rest in whatever port her worn heart might make.

"I shall be tamed by the time you come home," she had said, 'twixt
tears and smiles, to Roy at their parting. "Quite tame and old!"

"And I am!" she thought, the jest recurring to her now. "Only life
has also grown tame, and the world old and gray!"

She had swung her hat upon her arm, and pushing back her hair with
the palms that supported her forehead, that the wind from the water
might cool her beating temples, she rested her listless weight upon
the frail railing. The woven twigs, once supple, were dry and rotten
under the bark, and swayed outward with a sharp crack--a warning
that came too late to save her. She caught, in falling, at the
shattered panels left standing, and dragged only a handful of broken
sticks with her into the creek. Coming to the surface after the
plunge, she threw her grasping, struggling hands widely abroad,
succeeded in seizing one of the upright supports of the bridge, and
clung to it. Her head and shoulders were out of water. She was not
actually drowning. In the strength imparted by this consciousness,
she drew a long breath, and called for help.

A faint echo came back from the hills. The rest of the shout was
lost in the spreading meadows, or overpowered by the commingled
sounds that were the voice of the early autumn day.

She heard them more distinctly than when she had stood upon the
bridge; the beat of the mill-wheel, the rattle and rumble of the
farm-wagons, even the tread of the teams upon the oaken flooring;
the now distant whistle of the quail, and, close beside her, the
lapping of the creek among the sedges.

She weighed her chances of speedy release from her unpleasant and
dangerous situation before she raised another outcry. The stream was
the feeder of the mill-pond, and was made deeper and more sluggish
by the dam, less than half a mile farther down. She remembered to
have heard that the depth just under the bridge was about ten feet.
It might as well be a hundred if she were to relinquish her hold.
She could do nothing but cling and wait until her calls should bring
rescue, or some chance passenger espy her. This was an unfrequented
by-way, and it might be many hours before assistance came to her in
the latter form. As to the other, the Parsonage was the nearest
dwelling. The mill was no farther off, but the united shriek of
twenty drowning women could not be heard above the clatter of the
machinery. Patsey was alone in the kitchen, her whole soul in her
semi-weekly baking, and deaf to all out-door noises excepting those
from the poultry-yard. There was no one else in the house, unless
Orrin had arrived. Jessie believed that she tasted the bitterness of
death, as she imagined him, expectant of her coming, yet thoughtless
of evil as the reason of her delay, taking a few restless turns upon
the portico; then, wandering into the parlor, and standing, as he
often did, for several minutes together, gazing at the picture of
the girl at the wishing-well; opening the piano and running over
some remembered air, or improvising dreamy, wistful strains, with
absent thoughts, and eyes fixed upon vacancy.

And she was here! nearing the gates that were to shut down between
them forever.

She called again--a shrill scream that scared the birds from their
perches on the willow and birch boughs, and awoke a wailing echo
among the mountains. Then all was quiet, save for the mill, the
fainter roll of heavy wheels, and, louder than either, the lap! lap!
lap! of the waves upon the grassy bank. How deadly cold the water
was! And she became sensible now of an increasing weight drawing her
downward--the strain of her saturated garments upon the arms wound
about the rough pole which stood between her and death. There was a
current, also, to be resisted, placid as the mirror had seemed from
above, and her sinews were aching already. Her whole body would be
numb presently--her clutch be relaxed by cold and the prostration of
the nervous and muscular system.

She had decried life as tame, and the world as unlovely. She found
them, in this fearfully honest hour, too dear and beautiful to leave
thus suddenly. She recollected, even in this season of peril and
dread, the oft-repeated story that one in the act of drowning
recalls, in a flash of memory, every event of his past existence,
however remote and minute; reasoned within herself that this must be
an old wives' fable, since she, on the brink of eternity, had but
one overmastering idea--how to avert impending dissolution. Her
father, Eunice, Roy, and Orrin, were all in her mind by turns, but
there was no quickening of affection now that she might be leaving
them to return no more. They were, in comparison with the
terrible fact of her present danger, but misty and far-off
abstractions--faded portraits in her mental gallery, hardly
deserving a glance. She dwelt, in agony, upon the circumstances that
the stream was becoming like ice to her limbs, and the pain in her
arms intense, while her soaked clothing and the current were sucking
her downward. When the last remnant of her strength should fail,
would she be drowned by the cruel waters where she had fallen in, or
borne, conscious, and writhing in the throes of suffocation, over
the dam, to be mangled by the rocks below the fall?

The horror of the last fancy drew from her another shriek. The echo
taunted her by its feeble mimickry; the dull boom of the mill-wheel,
the teamster's shout to his oxen, had the same meaning, and the
lapping of the water was that of a fierce destroyer, hungering for
his prey.

Meanwhile, the visitor at the Parsonage had been through the round
Jessie had sketched for him in her tortured imagination; had paced
the porch until he was weary of the solitary turns; surveyed the
portrait to his heart's content, regretting, in his æsthetic mind,
that the original had toned down to the level of commonplace
refinement, and had played a pensive "thought" on the piano.

This performance brought in Patsey.

"Dick Van Brunt was by the gate just now, Mr. Wyllys, and he said as
how he seen Miss Jessie going down toward the crick, nigh upon an
hour ago. You mought see something of her if you was to walk that
way."

"Thank you, Patsey. Perhaps I will if she do not come in soon. And
perhaps I 'mought' make a fool of myself, clambering over those
confounded mountain-paths for half a day, and not get a glimpse of
her!" he muttered, when the handmaiden had withdrawn.

He stepped through the oriel-window into the garden, humming, sotto
voce, "My heart's in the Hielands, my heart is not here;" made the
tour of the enclosure, noting how Eunice's rose labyrinth had grown,
and that the rarer plants he had sent her in the Spring were
recompensing her for the care she had bestowed upon them; brushed
both hands over a bed of bergamot until the air reeked with perfume,
and plucked a sprig of rosemary from the spot where he had stood to
overhear the sisters' criticisms of himself sixteen months
before--smiling queerly as he did so.

"I will send the fair Una a root of 'Cæsar's Bay,' with the
stipulation that she shall set it just here," he said inwardly, the
smile brightening at the apt conceit. "It shall be to me a floral
monument--a Cupid's Ebenezer."

He gathered, furthermore, several bunches of choice roses, rifling
them of their freshest odor by ruthless handling, and strewing them
to the right and left as he went from the garden into the meadow.
The day was fine, and not warm enough to make walking a grievous
task, and he might find Jessie at or near the bridge. He whistled
"Casta Diva" as he strolled over the short, thick grass, elastic to
the foot as carpets of the deepest pile,--whistled melodiously, and,
one would have said, for want of thought, in remarking his roving
eyes and tranquil physiognomy. He looked, as he felt, on excellent
terms with himself and the rest of the world; like a man who had
eaten to satisfaction, but not to repletion, of the sunny side of
the peach tendered by Fortune, and who was suitably grateful to the
person to whom he considered that he owed his success in life--to
wit, Orrin Wyllys.

What a companion portrait to set over against this serene visage and
lounging figure in the pleasant meadow-paths was that, which, with
distorted limbs, and countenance eager to frenzy, hung midway over
the stream he was approaching! Jessie had heard the whistle, and
known it for his; caught from afar his measured tread upon the
sward, and, feeling herself grow weak and voiceless in the rush of
reviving hope, had painfully gathered her remaining forces to abide
his coming. She could see him through rifts in the low-branching
birches; counted every step with trembling impatience until he was
within a stone's throw.

Then she signalled him in a husky, dissonant voice that shocked
herself, fainting though she was with suspense, intent only upon
watching his movements, which meant to her deliverance, sure and
swift.

"Orrin! make haste! I am perishing!"

A glimpse of the broken railing told him all.

Tearing off his coat as he ran, he leaped into the creek, swam out
to her, and bade her loosen her hold, and remain perfectly quiet.

"Don't seize me! I will save you! Trust me!" he said, in authority
she did not dream of resisting.

In a minute more he had dragged her through the water and laid her
upon the warm turf, where the sun fell in brightness that meant
comfort to her now as emphatically as the wavering glitter upon the
stream had signified derision of her sufferings when she was very
nigh to death.

In all their intercourse, Orrin had never spoken words that came so
directly from what had once been a heart, as those that stirred the
languid pulses and brought back the fleeting senses of the forlorn
creature who lay gasping within his arms--livid, sodden, almost
lifeless.

"Darling Jessie! Precious child! Thank Heaven, I was in time!"

The blue lips were touched by a smile; her eyes unclosed upon his
with a look of worshipful love and gratitude that appealed to meaner
elements of his character than those that had prompted his first
outburst. He was himself again as his gaze kindled into responsive
softness and fire.

"My love!" he murmured, bending to kiss her. "May I not call you
so for one blessed instant? My only love, and mine alone!"




CHAPTER XIV.


Mr. Kirke and Eunice were still absent when Orrin paid his second
call at the Parsonage that day. He had conducted Jessie home in the
forenoon--a drenched and shivering figure, at which Patsey screeched
with terror; stayed long enough to learn from the girl that the
preventives he had ordered against cold were administered, and that
her young mistress was put comfortably to bed, after which he betook
himself to the hotel to make the requisite changes in his own
apparel.

"Miss Jessie hopes you'll stay here, sir," remarked Patsey. "She
says you'll find dry things in Mr. Kirke's room. I've just laid 'em
out all ready."

"I am much obliged to Miss Jessie and to you, my good girl; but I
shall run no risk in going down to the village. Say to Miss Jessie
that she will hear from, or see me again before night."

Three hours later, a messenger brought a note, inquiring how Jessie
was, and if she would be quite able to see him in the evening.

"For I must return to Hamilton to-morrow," he added.

Jessie wrote one line in reply:

