After supper Harry went round to the tavern to see about his trunk.
A group of young men were in the bar-room, some of whom looked up as
he entered.  Among these was Luke Harrison, who was surprised and by
no means pleased to see his creditor.  Harry recognized him at the
same instant, and said, "How are you, Luke?"

"Is that you, Walton?" said Luke.  "What brings you to Centreville?
Professor Henderson isn't here, is he?"

"No; I have left him."

"Oh, you're out of a job, are you?" asked Luke, in a tone of
satisfaction, for we are apt to dislike those whom we have injured,
and for this reason he felt by no means friendly.

"No, I'm not," said Harry, quietly.  "I've found work in Centreville."

"Gone back to pegging, have you?  Whose shop are you in?"

"I am in a different business."

"You don't say!  What is it?" asked Luke, with some curiosity.

"I'm in the office of the 'Centreville Gazette.'  I'm going to learn
the printing business."

"You are?  Why, I've got a friend in the office,--John Clapp.  He
never told me about your being there."

"He didn't know I was coming.  I only went to work this afternoon."

"So you are the printer's devil?" said Luke, with a slight sneer.

"I believe so," answered our hero, quietly.

"Do you get good pay?"

"Not much at first.  However, I can get along with what money I have,
and what is due me."

Luke Harrison understood the last allusion, and turned away abruptly.
He had no wish to pay up the money which he owed Harry, and for this
reason was sorry to see him in the village.  He feared, if the
conversation were continued, Harry would be asking for the money, and
this would be disagreeable.

At this moment John Clapp entered the bar-room.  He nodded slightly
to Harry, but walked up to Luke, and greeted him cordially.  There
were many points of resemblance between them, and this drew them into
habits of intimacy.

"Will you have something to drink, Harrison?" said Clapp.

"I don't mind if I do," answered Luke, with alacrity.

They walked up to the bar, and they were soon pledging each other in
a fiery fluid which was not very likely to benefit either of them.
Meanwhile Harry gave directions about his trunk, and left the room.

"So you've got a new 'devil' in your office," said Luke, after
draining his glass.

"Yes.  He came this afternoon.  How did you hear?"

"He told me."

"Do you know him?" asked Clapp, in some surprise.

"Yes.  I know him as well as I want to."

"What sort of a fellow is he?"

"Oh, he's a sneak--one of your pious chaps, that 'wants to be an
angel, and with the angels stand.'"

"Then he's made a mistake in turning 'devil,'" said Clapp.

"Good for you!" said Luke, laughing.  "You're unusually brilliant
to-night, Clapp."

"So he's a saint, is he?"

"He set up for one; but I don't like his style myself.  He's as mean
as dirt.  Why I knew him several months, and he never offered to
treat in all that time.  He's as much afraid of spending a cent as if
it were a dollar."

"He won't have many dollars to spend just at present.  He's working
for his board."

"Oh, he's got money saved up," said Luke.  "Fellows like him hang on
to a cent when they get it.  I once asked him to lend me a few
dollars, just for a day or two, but he wouldn't do it.  I hate such
mean fellows."

"So do I.  Will you have a cigar?"

"I'll treat this time," said Luke, who thought it polite to take his
turn in treating once to his companion's four or five times.

"Thank you.  From what you say, I am sorry Anderson has taken the
fellow into the office."

"You needn't have much to say to him."

"I shan't trouble myself much about him.  I didn't like his looks
when I first set eyes on him.  I suppose old Mother Anderson will
like him.  She couldn't abide my smoking, and he won't trouble her
that way."

"So; he's too mean to buy the cigars."

"He said he couldn't afford it."

"That's what it comes to.  By the way, Clapp, when shall we take
another ride?"

"I can get away nest Monday afternoon, at three."

"All right.  I'll manage to get off at the same time.  We'll go to
Whiston and take supper at the hotel.  It does a fellow good to get
off now and then.  It won't cost more than five dollars apiece
altogether."

"We'll get the carriage charged.  The fact is, I'm little low on
funds."

"So am I, but it won't matter.  Griffin will wait for his pay."

While Harry's character waa being so unfavorably discussed, he was
taking a walk by himself, observing with interest the main features
of his new home.  He had been here before with Professor Henderson,
but had been too much occupied at that time to get a very clear idea
of Centreville, nor had it then the interest for him which it had
acquired since.  He went upon a hill overlooking the village, and
obtained an excellent view from its summit.  It was a pleasant,
well-built village of perhaps three thousand inhabitants, with
outlying farms and farm-houses.  Along the principal streets the
dwellings and stores were closely built, so as to make it seem quite
city-like.  It was the shire town of the county, and being the
largest place in the neighborhood, country people for miles around
traded at its stores.  Farmers' wives came to Centreville to make
purchases, just as ladies living within a radius of thirty miles
visit New York and Boston, for a similar purpose.  Altogether,
therefore, Centreville was quite a lively place, and a town of
considerable local importance.  The fact that it had a weekly paper
of its own, contributed to bring it into notice.  Nor was that all.
Situated on a little hillock was a building with a belfry, which
might have been taken for a church but for a play-ground near by,
which indicated that it had a different character.  It was in fact
the Prescott Academy, so called from the name of its founder, who had
endowed it with a fund of ten thousand dollars, besides erecting the
building at his own expense on land bought for the purpose.  This
academy also had a local reputation, and its benefits were not
confined to the children of Centreville.  There were about twenty
pupils from other towns who boarded with the Principal or elsewhere
in the town, and made up the whole number of students in
attendance--about eighty on an average.

Standing on the eminence referred to, Harry's attention was drawn to
the Academy, and he could not help forming the wish that he, too,
might share in its advantages.

"There is so much to learn, and I know so little," he thought.

But he did not brood over the poverty which prevented him from
gratifying his desire.  He knew it would do no good, and he also
reflected that knowledge may be acquired in a printing office as well
as within the walls of an academy or college.

"As soon as I get well settled," he said to himself, "I mean to get
some books and study a little every day.  That is the way Franklin
did.  I never can be an editor, that's certain, without knowing more
than I do now.  Before I am qualified to teach others, I must know
something myself."

Looking at the village which lay below him, Harry was disposed to
congratulate himself on his new residence.

"It looks like a pleasant place," he said to himself, "and when I get
a little acquainted, I shall enjoy myself very well, I am sure.  Of
course I shall feel rather lonely just at first."

He was so engrossed by his thoughts that he did not take heed to his
steps, and was only reminded of his abstraction by his foot suddenly
coming in contact with a boy who was lying under a tree, and pitching
headfirst over him.

"Holloa!" exclaimed the latter, "what are you about?  You didn't take
me for a foot-ball, did you?"

"I beg your pardon," said Harry, jumping up in some confusion.  "I
was so busy thinking that I didn't see you.  I hope I didn't hurt
you."

"Nothing serious.  Didn't you hurt yourself?"

"I bumped my head a little, but it only struck the earth.  If it had
been a stone, it might have been different.  I had no idea there was
any one up here except myself."

"It was very kind of you to bow so low to a perfect stranger," said
the other, his eyes twinkling humorously.  "I suppose it would only
be polite for me to follow your example."

"I'll excuse you," said Harry laughing.

"Thank you.  That takes a great burden off my mind.  I don't like to
be outdone in politeness, but really I shouldn't like to tumble over
you.  My head may be softer than yours.  There's one thing clear.  We
ought to know each other.  As you've taken the trouble to come up
here, and stumble over me, I really feel as if we ought to strike up
a friendship.  What do you say?"

"With all my heart," said our hero.




CHAPTER IV.

OSCAR VINCENT.

"Allow me to introduce myself," said the stranger boy.  "My name is
Oscar Vincent, from Boston, at present a student at the Prescott
Academy, at your service."

As he spoke, he doffed his hat and bowed, showing a profusion of
chestnut hair, a broad, open brow, and an attractive face, lighted up
by a pleasant smile.

Harry felt drawn to him by a feeling which was not long in ripening
into friendship.

Imitating the other's frankness, he also took off his hat and
replied,--

"Let me introduce myself, in turn, as Harry Walton, junior apprentice
in the office of the 'Centreville Gazette,' sometimes profanely
called 'printer's devil.'"

"Good!" said Oscar, laughing.  "How do you like the business?"

"I think I shall like it, but I have only just started in it.  I went
into the office for the first time to-day."

"I have an uncle who started as you are doing," said Oscar.  "He is
now chief editor of a daily paper in Boston."

"Is he?" said Harry, with interest.  "Did he find it hard to rise?"

"He is a hard worker.  I have heard him say that he used to sit up
late of nights during his apprenticeship, studying and improving
himself."

"That is what I mean to do," said Harry.

"I don't think he was as lazy as his nephew," said Oscar.  "I am
afraid if I had been in his place I should have remained in it."

"Are you lazy?" asked Harry, smiling at the other's frankness.

"A little so; that is, I don't improve my opportunities as I might.
Father wants to make a lawyer of me so he has put me here, and I am
preparing for Harvard."

"I envy you," said Harry.  "There is nothing I should like so much as
entering college."

"I daresay I shall like it tolerably well," said Oscar; "but I don't
hanker after it, as the boy said after swallowing a dose of castor
oil.  I'll tell you what I should like better--"

"What?" asked Harry, as the other paused.

"I should like to enter the Naval Academy, and qualify myself for the
naval service.  I always liked the sea."

"Doesn't your father approve of your doing this?"

"He wouldn't mind my entering the navy as an officer, but he is not
willing to have me enter the merchant service."

"Then why doesn't he send you to the Naval Academy?"

"Because I can't enter without receiving the appointment from a
member of Congress.  Our member can only appoint one, and there is no
vacancy.  So, as I can't go where I want to, I am preparing for
Harvard."

"Are you studying Latin and Greek?"

"Yes."

"Have you studied them long?"

"About two years.  I was looking over my Greek lesson when you
playfully tumbled over me."

"Will you let me look at your book?  I never saw a Greek book."

"I sometimes wish I never had," said Oscar; "but that's when I am
lazy."

Harry opened the book--a Greek reader--in the middle of an extract
from Xenophon, and looked with some awe at the unintelligible letters.

"Can you read it?  Can you understand what it means?" he asked,
looking up from the book.

"So-so."

"You must know a great deal."

Oscar laughed.

"I wonder what Dr. Burton would say if he heard you," he said.

"Who is he?"

"Principal of our Academy.   He gave me a blowing up for my ignorance
to-day, because I missed an irregular Greek verb.  I'm not exactly a
dunce, but I don't think I shall ever be a Greek professor."

"If you speak of yourself that way, what will you think of me?  I
don't know a word of Latin, of Greek, or any language except my own."

"Because you have had no chance to learn.  There's one language I
know more about than Latin or Greek."

"English?"

"I mean French; I spent a year at a French boarding-school, three
years since."

"What!  Have you been in France?"

"Yes; an uncle of mine--in fact, the editor--was going over, and
urged father to send me.  I learned considerable French, but not much
else.  I can speak and understand it pretty well."

"How I wish I had had your advantages," said Harry.  "How did you
like your French schoolmates?"

"They wouldn't come near me at first.  Because I was an American they
thought I carried a revolver and a dirk-knife, and was dangerous.
That is their idea of American boys.  When they found I was tame, and
carried no deadly weapons, they ventured to speak with me, and after
that we got along pretty well."

"How soon do you expect to go to college?"

"A year from next summer.  I suppose I shall be ready by that time.
You are going to stay in town, I suppose?"

"Yes, if I keep my place."

"Oh, you'll do that.  Then we can see something of each other.  You
must come up to my room, and see me.  Come almost any evening."

"I should like to.  Do you live in Dr. Barton's family?"

"No, I hope not."

"Why not?"

"Oh, the Doctor has a way of looking after the fellows that room in
the house, and of keeping them at work all the time.  That wouldn't
suit me.  I board at Mrs. Greyson's, at the south-east corner of the
church common.  Have you got anything to do this evening?"

"Nothing in particular."

"Then come round and take a look at my den, or sanctum I ought to
call it; as I am talking to a member of the editorial profession."

"Not quite yet," said Harry, smiling.

"Oh, well that'll come in due time.  Will you come?"

"Sha'n't I be disturbing you?"

"Not a bit.  My Greek lesson is about finished, and that's all I've
got to do this evening.  Come round, and we will sit over the fire,
and chat like old friends."

"Thank you, Oscar," said Harry, irresistibly attracted by his bright
and lively acquaintance, "I shall enjoy calling.  I have made no
acquaintances yet, and I feel lonely."

"I have got over that," said Oscar.  "I am used to being away from
home and don't mind it."

The two boys walked together to Oscar's boarding-place.  It was a
large house, of considerable pretension for a village, and Oscar's
room was large and handsomely furnished.  But what attracted Harry's
attention was not the furniture, but a collection of over a hundred
books, ranged on shelves at one end of the room.  In his father's
house it had always been so difficult to obtain the necessaries of
life that books had necessarily been regarded as superfluities, and
beyond a dozen volumes which Harry had read and re-read, he was
compelled to depend on such as he could borrow.  Here again his
privileges were scanty, for most of the neighbors were as poorly
supplied as his father.

"What a fine library you have, Oscar!" he exclaimed.

"I have a few books," said Oscar.  "My father filled a couple of
boxes, and sent me.  He has a large library."

"This seems a large library to me," said Harry.  "My father likes
reading, but he is poor, and cannot afford to buy books."

He said that in a matter-of-fact tone, without the least attempt to
conceal what many boys would have been tempted to hide.  Oscar noted
this, and liked his new friend the better for it.

"Yes," he said, "books cost money, and one hasn't always the money to
spare."

"Have you read all these books?"

"Not more than half of them.  I like reading better than studying, I
am afraid.  I am reading the Waverley novels now.  Have you read any
of them?"

"So; I never saw any of them before."

"If you see anything you would like to read, I will lend it to you
with pleasure," said Oscar, noticing the interest with which Harry
regarded the books.

"Will you?" said Harry, eagerly.  "I can't tell you how much obliged
I am.  I will take good care of it."

"Oh, I am sure of that.  Here, try Ivanhoe.  I've just read it, and
it's tip-top."

"Thank you; I will take it on your recommendation.  What a nice room
you have!"

"Yes, it's pretty comfortable.  Father told me to fix it up to suit
me.  He said he wouldn't mind the expense if I would only study."

"I should think anybody might study in such a room as this, and with
such a fine collection of books."

"I'm rather lazy sometimes," said Oscar, "but I shall turn over a new
leaf some of these days, and astonish everybody.  To-night, as I have
no studying to do, I'll tell you what we'll do.  Did you ever pop
corn?"

"Sometimes."

"I've got some corn here, and Ma'am Greyson has a popper.  Stay here
alone a minute, and I'll run down and get it."

Oscar ran down stairs, and speedily returned with a corn-popper.

"Now we'll have a jolly time," said he.  "Draw up that arm-chair, and
make yourself at home.  If Xenophon, or Virgil, or any of those Greek
and Latin chaps call, we'll tell 'em we are transacting important
business and can't be disturbed.  What do you say?"

"They won't be apt to call on me," said Harry.  I haven't the
pleasure of knowing them."

"It isn't always a pleasure, I can assure you, Harry.  Pass over the
corn-popper."




CHAPTER  V.

A YOUNG F. F. B.

As the two boys sat in front of the fire, popping and eating the
corn, and chatting of one thing and another, their acquaintance
improved rapidly.  Harry learned that Oscar's father was a Boston
merchant, in the Calcutta trade, with a counting-room on Long Wharf.
Oscar was a year older than himself, and the oldest child.  He had a
sister of thirteen, named Florence, and a younger brother, Charlie,
now ten.  They lived on Beacon Street, opposite the Common.  Though
Harry had never lived in Boston, be knew that this was a fashionable
street, and he had no difficulty in inferring that Mr. Vincent was a
rich man.  He felt what a wide gulf there was socially between
himself and Oscar; one the son of a very poor country farmer, the
other the son of a merchant prince.  But nothing in Oscar's manner
indicated the faintest feeling of superiority, and this pleased
Harry.  I may as well say, however, that our hero was not one to show
any foolish subserviency to a richer boy; he thought mainly of
Oscar's superiority in knowledge; and although the latter was far
ahead of Harry on this score, he was not one to boast of it.

Harry, in return for Oscar's confidence, acquainted him with his own
adventures since he had started out to earn his own living.  Oscar
was most interested in his apprenticeship to the ventriloquist.

"It must have been jolly fun," he said.   "I shouldn't mind
