"He couldn't make me."

"If you didn't pay, he'd have locked you in, and driven you off to the
river, and dumped you in."

"Do they ever do such things?" asked the old lady, startled.

"In course they do. Only last week a beautiful young lady was served
that way, 'cause she wouldn't pay what the hackman wanted."

"And what was done to him?"

"Nothin'," said Ben. "The police is in league with 'em, and get their
share of the money."

"Why, you don't say so! What a wicked place New York is, to be sure!"

"Of course it is. It's so wicked I'm goin' to the country myself as soon
as I get money enough to buy a farm."

"Have you got much money saved up?" asked the old lady, interested.

"Four thousand six hundred and seventy-seven dollars and fifty-five
cents. I don't count this money you give me, 'cause I'm goin' to spend
it."

"You didn't make it all carryin' carpet-bags," said the old lady,
incredulously.

"No, I made most of it spekilatin' in real estate," said Ben.

"You don't say!"

"Yes, I do."

"You've got most enough to buy a farm a'ready."

"I aint goin' to buy till I can buy a good one."

"What's the name of this street?"

"West Broadway."

They were really upon West Broadway by this time, that being as direct a
line as any to Bleecker Street.

"You see that store," said Ben.

"Yes; what's the matter of it?"

"I don't own it now," said Ben. "I sold it, cos the tenants didn't pay
their rent reg'lar."

"I should think you'd dress better if you've got so much money," said
the old lady, not unnaturally.

"What's the use of wearin' nice clo'es round among the wharves?" said
Ben.

"There's suthin in that. I tell my darter Jane--she lives in the
country--that it's no use dressin' up the children to go to
school,--they're sure to get their clo'es tore and dirty afore they get
home."

So Ben beguiled the way with wonderful stories, with which he played
upon the old lady's credulity. Of course it was wrong; but a street
education is not very likely to inspire its pupils with a reverence for
truth; and Ben had been knocking about the streets of New York, most of
the time among the wharves, for six years. His street education had
commenced at the age of ten. He had adopted it of his own free will.
Even now there was a comfortable home waiting for him; there were
parents who supposed him dead, and who would have found a difficulty in
recognizing him under his present circumstances. In the next chapter a
light will be thrown upon his past history, and the reader will learn
how his street life began.




CHAPTER II.

HOW BEN COMMENCED HIS STREET LIFE.


One pleasant morning, six years before the date at which this story
commences, a small coasting-vessel drew up at a North River pier in the
lower part of the city. It was loaded with freight, but there was at
least one passenger on board. A boy of ten, dressed in a neat jacket and
pants of gray-mixed cloth, stood on deck, watching with interest the
busy city which they had just reached.

"Well, bub, here we are," said the captain as he passed. "I suppose you
know your way home."

"Yes, sir."

"Are you going on shore now?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, good luck to you, my lad. If you are ever down this way, when I'm
in port, I shall be glad to see you."

"Thank you, sir; good-by."

"Good-by."

Ben clambered over the side, and stepped upon the wharf. In the great
city he knew no one, and he was an utter stranger to the streets, never
before having visited it. He was about to begin life for himself at the
age of ten. He had voluntarily undertaken to support himself, leaving
behind him a comfortable home, where he had been well cared for. I must
explain how this came about.

Ben had a pleasant face, and would be considered good-looking. But there
was a flash in his eye, when aroused, which showed that he had a quick
temper, and there was an expression of firmness, unusual to one so
young, which might have been read by an experienced physiognomist. He
was quick-tempered, proud, and probably obstinate. Yet with these
qualities he was pleasant in his manners, and had a sense of humor,
which made him a favorite among his companions.

His father was a coal-dealer in a town a few miles distant from
Philadelphia, of a hasty temper like Ben himself. A week before he had
punished Ben severely for a fault which he had not committed. The boy's
pride revolted at the injustice, and, young as he was, he resolved to
run away. I suppose there are few boys who do not form this resolution
at some time or other in their lives; but as a general thing it amounts
to nothing. With Ben it was different. His was a strong nature, whether
for good or for evil, and when he decided to do anything he was not
easily moved from his resolve. He forgot, in the present case, that,
though he had been unjustly punished, the injustice was not intentional
on the part of his father, who had been under a wrong impression
respecting him. But right or wrong, Ben made up his mind to run away;
and he did so. It was two or three days before a good opportunity
presented itself. Then, with a couple of shirts and collars rolled up in
a small bundle, he made his escape to Philadelphia, and after roaming
about the streets for several hours he made his way to the wharves,
where he found a vessel bound for New York. Representing to the captain
that he lived in New York, and had no money to pay his passage home,
that officer, who was a good-natured man, agreed to carry him for
nothing.

The voyage was now over, and Ben landed, as we have said, an utter
stranger, with very indefinite ideas as to how he was to make his
living. He had told the captain that he knew his way home, for having
falsely represented that he lived in New York, he was in a manner
compelled to this additional falsehood. Still, in spite of his
friendless condition, his spirits were very good. The sun shone
brightly; all looked animated and cheerful. Ben saw numbers of men at
work about him, and he thought, "It will be a pity if I cannot make a
living."

He did not care to linger about the wharf, for the captain might be led
to doubt his story. Accordingly he crossed the street, and at a venture
turned up a street facing the wharf.

Ben did not know much about New York, even by report. But he had heard
of Broadway,--as who has not?--and this was about all he did know. When,
therefore, he had gone a short distance, he ventured to ask a
boot-black, whom he encountered at the corner of the next block, "Can
you tell me the shortest way to Broadway?"

"Follow your nose, Johnny," was the reply.

"My name isn't Johnny," replied Ben, rather indignant at the
familiarity. He had not learned that, in New York, Johnny is the generic
name for boy, where the specific name is unknown.

"Aint it though?" returned the boot-black "What's the price of turnips
out where you live?"

"I'll make your nose turn up if you aint careful," retorted Ben,
wrathfully.

"You'll do," said the boot-black, favorably impressed by Ben's pluck.
"Just go straight ahead, and you'll come to Broadway. I'm going that
way, and you can come along with me if you want to."

"Thank you," said Ben, appeased by the boy's changed manner.

"Are you going to stay here?" inquired his new acquaintance.

"Yes," said Ben; "I'm going to live here."

"Where do your friends live?"

"I haven't got any friends in New York," said Ben, with a little
hesitation.

"Over in Brooklyn, or Jersey, maybe?"

"No, I don't know anybody this way."

"Whew!" whistled the other. "How you goin' to live?"

"I expect to earn my living," said Ben, in a tone of importance.

"Father and mother dead?"

"No, they're alive."

"I s'pose they're poor?"

"No, they're not; they're well off."

The boot-black looked puzzled.

"Why didn't you stay at home then? Wouldn't they let you?"

"Of course they would. The fact is, I've run away."

"Maybe they'd adopt me instead of you."

"I don't think they would," said Ben, laughing.

"I wish somebody with lots of cash would adopt me, and make a gentleman
of me. It would be a good sight better'n blackin' boots."

"Do you make much money that way?" inquired Ben.

"Pleasant days like this, sometimes I make a dollar, but when it rains
there aint much doin'."

"How much have you made this morning?" asked Ben, with interest.

"Sixty cents."

"Sixty cents, and it isn't more than ten o'clock. That's doing pretty
well."

"'Taint so good in the afternoon. Most every body gets their boots
blacked in the mornin'. What are you goin' to do?"

"I don't know," said Ben.

"Goin' to black boots? I'll show you how," said the other, generously
overlooking all considerations of possible rivalry.

"I don't think I should like that very well," said Ben, slowly.

Having been brought up in a comfortable home, he had a prejudice in
favor of clean hands and unsoiled clothes,--a prejudice of which his
street life speedily cured him.

"I think I should rather sell papers, or go into a store," said Ben.

"You can't make so much money sellin' papers," said his new
acquaintance. "Then you might get 'stuck'".

"What's that?" inquired Ben, innocently.

"Don't you know?" asked the boot-black, wonderingly. "Why, it's when
you've got more papers than you can sell. That's what takes off the
profits. I was a newsboy once; but it's too hard work for the money.
There aint no chance of gettin' stuck on my business."

"It's rather a dirty business," said Ben, venturing to state his main
objection, at the risk of offending. But Jerry Collins, for that was his
name, was not very sensitive on this score.

"What's the odds?" he said, indifferently. "A feller gets used to it."

Ben looked at Jerry's begrimed hands, and clothes liberally marked with
spots of blacking, and he felt that he was not quite ready to get used
to appearing in public in this way. He was yet young in his street life.
The time came when he ceased to be so particular.

"Where do you board?" asked Ben, after a little pause.

Jerry Collins stared at the questioner as if he suspected that a joke
was intended. But Ben's serious face assured him that he was in earnest.

"You're jolly green," he remarked, sententiously.

"Look here," said Ben, with spirit, "I'll give you a licking if you say
that again."

It may be considered rather singular that Jerry, Instead of resenting
this threat, was led by it to regard Ben with favor.

"I didn't mean anything," he said, by way of apology. "You're a trump,
and you'll get over it when you've been in the city a week."

"What made you call me green?" asked Ben.

"Did you think I boarded up to the Fifth Avenue?" asked Jerry.

"What's that,--a hotel?"

"Yes, it's one of the big hotels, where they eat off gold plates."

"No, I don't suppose you board there," said Ben, laughing; "but I
suppose there are cheaper boarding-places. Where do you sleep?"

"Sometimes in wagons, or in door-ways, on the docks, or anywhere where I
get a chance."

"Don't you get cold sleeping out-doors?" asked Ben.

"Oh, I'm used to it," said Jerry. "When it's cold I go to the Lodging
House."

"What's that?"

Jerry explained that there was a Newsboys' Lodging House, where a bed
could be obtained for six cents a night.

"That's cheap," said Ben.

"'Taint so cheap as sleepin' out-doors," returned the boot-black.

This was true; but Ben thought he would rather pay the six cents than
sleep out, if it were only for the damage likely to come to his clothes,
which were yet clean and neat. Looking at Jerry's suit, however, he saw
that this consideration would be likely to have less weight with him. He
began to understand that he had entered upon a very different life from
the one he had hitherto led. He was not easily daunted, however.

"If he can stand it, I can," he said to himself.




CHAPTER III.

STREET SCENES.


"Here's Broadway," said Jerry, suddenly.

They emerged from the side street on which they had been walking, and,
turning the corner, found themselves in the great thoroughfare, a block
or two above Trinity Church.

Ben surveyed the busy scenes that opened before him, with the eager
interest of a country boy who saw them for the first time.

"What church is that?" he asked, pointing to the tall spire of the
imposing church that faces Wall Street.

"That's Trinity Church."

"Do you go to church there?"

"I don't go anywhere else," said Jerry, equivocally. "What's the use of
going to church?"

"I thought everybody went to church," said Ben, speaking from his
experience in a country village "that is, most everybody," he corrected
himself, as several persons occurred to his mind who were more punctual
in their attendance at the liquor saloon than the church.

"If I'd got good clothes like you have I'd go once just to see what it's
like; but I'd a good sight rather go to the old Bowery Theatre."

"But you ought not to say that," said Ben, a little startled.

"Why not?"

"Because it's better to go to church than to the theatre."

"Is it?" said Jerry. "Well, you can go if you want to. I'd give more for
a stunnin' old play at the Bowery than fifty churches."

Ben began to suspect that Jerry was rather loose in his ideas on the
subject of religion, but did not think it best to say so, for fear of
giving offence, though in all probability Jerry's sensitiveness would
not have been at all disturbed by such a charge.

During the last portion of the conversation they had been standing still
at the street corner.

"I'm goin' to Nassau Street," said Jerry. "If you want to go up
Broadway, that's the way."

Without waiting for an answer he darted across the street, threading his
way among the numerous vehicles with a coolness and a success which
amazed Ben, who momentarily expected to see him run over. He drew a long
breath when he saw him safe on the other side, and bethought himself
that he would not like to take a similar risk. He felt sorry to have
Jerry leave him so abruptly. The boot-black had already imparted to him
considerable information about New York, which he saw was likely to be
of benefit to him. Besides, he felt that any society was better than
solitude, and a sudden feeling of loneliness overpowered him, as he felt
that among the crowd of persons that jostled him as he stood at the
corner, there was not one who felt an interest in him, or even knew his
name. It was very different in his native village, where he knew
everybody, and everybody had a friendly word for him. The thought did
occur to him for a moment whether he had been wise in running away from
home; but the thought of the unjust punishment came with it, and his
expression became firmer and more resolute.

"I won't go home if I starve," he said proudly to himself; and armed
with this new resolution he proceeded up Broadway.

His attention was soon drawn to the street merchants doing business on
the sidewalk. Here was a vender of neckties, displaying a varied
assortment of different colors, for "only twenty-five cents each." Next
came a candy merchant with his stock in trade, divided up into irregular
lumps, and labelled a penny apiece. They looked rather tempting, and Ben
would have purchased, but he knew very well that his cash capital
amounted to only twenty-five cents, which, considering that he was as
yet without an income, was likely to be wanted for other purposes.

Next came a man with an assortment of knives, all of them open, and
sticking into a large board, which was the only shop required by their
proprietor. Ben stopped a moment to look at them. He had always had a
fancy for knives, but was now without one. In fact he had sold a
handsome knife, which he had received as a birthday present, for
seventy-five cents, to raise money for his present expedition. Of this
sum but twenty-five cents remained.

"Will you buy a knife to-day, young gentleman?" asked the vender, who
was on the alert for customers.

"No, I guess not," said Ben.

"Here's a very nice one for only one dollar," said the street merchant,
taking up a showy-looking knife with three blades. "Its the best of
steel, warranted. You won't get another such knife for the price in the
city."

It did look cheap certainly. Ben could not but allow that. He would like
to have owned it, but circumstances forbade.

"No, I won't buy to-day," he said.

"Here, you shall have it for ninety-four cents," and the vender began to
roll it up in a piece of paper. "You can't say it isn't cheap."

"Yes, it's cheap enough," said Ben, moving away, "but I haven't got the
money with me."

This settled the matter, and the dealer reluctantly unrolled it, and
replaced it among his stock.

"If you'll call round to-morrow, I'll save it for you till then," he
said.

"All right," said Ben.

"I wonder," he thought, "whether he would be so anxious to sell, if he
knew that I had run away from home, and had but twenty-five cents in the
world?"

Ben's neat dress deceived the man, who naturally supposed him to belong
to a city family well to do.

Our young hero walked on till he came to the Astor House. He stood on
the steps a few minutes taking a view of what may be considered the
liveliest and most animated part of New York. Nearly opposite was
Barnum's American Museum, the site being now occupied by the costly and
elegant Herald Building and Park Bank. He looked across to the lower end
of the City Hall Park, not yet diverted from its original purpose for
the new Post Office building. He saw a procession of horse-cars in
constant motion up and down Park Row. Everything seemed lively and
animated; and again the thought came to Ben, "If there is employment for
all these people, there must be something for me to do."

He crossed to the foot of the Park, and walked up on the Park Row side.
Here again he saw a line of street merchants. Most conspicuous were the
dealers in penny ballads, whose wares lined the railings, and were
various enough to suit every taste. Here was an old woman, who might
have gained a first prize for ugliness, presiding over an apple-stand.

"Take one, honey; it's only two cints," she said, observing that Ben's
attention was drawn to a rosy-cheeked apple.

Ben was rather hungry, and reflecting that probably apples were as cheap
as any other article of diet, he responded to the appeal by purchasing.
It proved to be palatable, and he ate it with a good relish.

"Ice-cream, only a penny a glass," was the next announcement. The
glasses, to be sure, were of very small size. Still ice-cream in any
quantity for a penny seemed so ridiculously cheap that Ben, poor as he
was, could not resist the temptation.

"I'll take a glass," he said.

A dab of ice-cream was deposited in a glass, and with a pewter spoon
handed to Ben. He raised the spoon to his mouth, but alas! the mixture
was not quite so tempting to the taste as to the eye and the pocket. It
might be ice-cream, but there was an indescribable flavor about it, only
to be explained on the supposition that the ice had been frozen
dish-water. Ben's taste had not been educated up to that point which
would enable him to relish it. He laid it down with an involuntary
contortion of the face.

"Give it to me, Johnny," he heard at his elbow.

Turning, he saw a small, dirty-faced boy of six, with bare feet and
tattered attire, who was gazing with a look of greedy desire at the
delicious mixture.

Ben handed him the glass and spoon, and stood by, looking at him with
some curiosity as he disposed of the contents with a look of evident
enjoyment.

"Do you like it?" he asked.
