faith. Norsemen carried it to Iceland, and it is odd enough that from
Iceland we get our best accounts of it."

Maggie had mounted up with her knees in a chair and her elbows on the
table, leaning over towards Meredith, and now begged he would tell about
Thor.

"Thor was the thunderer."

"What do you mean?"

"The god of thunder and lightning. He was the son of Odin, or Woden. He
is represented driving in a car drawn by two goats and with a great
hammer in his hand. This hammer was forged by the dwarfs, Kobolds, I
suppose, who dwelt in the centre of the earth."

"What did he want a hammer for?"

"To strike withal. And when Thor's hammer came down, that made the
thunder, don't you see? and his stroke was the thunderbolt."

"I should think they would have been frightened to death in a
thunder-storm."

"Not an expression those old Saxons knew anything about."

"Well, I should think they would have feared Thor."

"There is no doubt but they did. Those poor captives at the stone-houses
were slaughtered in honour of Woden and Thor, don't you remember? But he
was also the god of fire, and the god of the domestic hearth. Listen to
this: 'Among the pagan Norsemen, Thor's hammer was held in as much
reverence as Christ's cross among Christians. It was carved on their
gravestones; and wrought of wood or iron, it was suspended in their
temples.'"

"Thor's hammer!" repeated Maggie. "Poor people!"

"Nobody worships Thor now," observed Esther scornfully.

"We call one of our days after him yet," said Meredith. "There is a
relic of the old Thor worship. Indeed all our days are heathenish in
name."

"All?" said Flora, looking up. "What is Monday?"

"Just the Moon's day, don't you see? Sunday is the Sun's day. Woden's
day and Thor's day, you know. Then Friday is of course Freija's day--or
Freyr's day--I don't know which. Freyr was the god of weather and
fruits--another impersonation of Odin. He rode through the air on a wild
boar, faster than any horse could catch him. An odd steed! And Tuesday
is Tyr's day, or Zin's day--it comes to much the same thing. He was
especially the 'god of war and of athletic sports.'"

"Then there is Saturday left," said Maggie. "What is Saturday?"

"I think it must have been Saturn's day--and so not Saxon, Maggie, but
Roman. The names of our months are all Roman, you know?"

"Are they?"

"Yes, but wait. Here is something curious. The Saxon devil was called
Loki. Now Loki had three children. Listen to this. 'One was the huge
wolf Fenris, who at the last day shall hurry gaping to the scene of
battle, with his lower jaw scraping the earth and his nose scraping the
sky.'"

"What is curious in that?" asked Flora. "It is just like a children's
fairy tale."

"But these are not children's fairy tales; and they mean something. How
did these old Norsemen know there would be a scene of battle at the last
day, and great destruction?"

"How do you know it?"

"The Bible."

"Does the Bible say so, Ditto?" said Maggie. "Where does it say so?"

"Many places."

"Tell us one, Ditto."

Meredith rose up and fetched a Bible and pushed his book of Norse
mythology on one side. Then he opened at the nineteenth chapter of the
Revelation.

"'And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat
upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth
judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head
were many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he
himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood; and his name
is called The Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed
him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out
of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the
nations; and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the
wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on
his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF
LORDS.

"'And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud
voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and
gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God; that ye may
eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of
mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and
the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great.

"'And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies,
gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse, and
against his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false
prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them
that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his
image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with
brimstone. And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat
upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the
fowls were filled with their flesh.'"

"I do not understand all that, the least bit," said Flora.

"You understand there will be a war, and a battle?"

"But that's a figure."

"No, it's a fact. How should it be a figure?"

"What do you understand by a 'sword proceeding out of His mouth?'"

"That is in the description of Christ in the first chapter: 'And he had
in his right hand seven stars; and out of his mouth went a sharp
two-edged sword.'"

"Well, isn't that a figure? What does it mean?"

"Listen to the description of Christ that Isaiah gives: 'With
righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the
meek of the earth; and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his
mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.'"

"Well?"

"And in Thessalonians: 'Then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the
Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with
the brightness of his coming.' And in Ephesians: 'The sword of the
Spirit, which is the word of God.'"

"Well," said Flora, "that is not a real sword, with a handle and an
edge."

"The Bible says it has two edges."

"Nonsense! you know what I mean."

"I know. Certainly, Flora, the weapons of that battle may not be weapons
of flesh and blood, or for flesh and blood; but the battle is real,
don't you see? and the awful overthrow and destruction, and what I am
wondering about is, how those old Saxons knew there would be such a
battle at the end? and how they knew that the mischief would in some
sense come from the devil."

"Did they know it?"

"The wolf Fenris was one of the devil's children, as they made it out.
And another was the serpent which Odin cast into the sea, where it grew
and grew till it had wound up the whole earth in its folds. That is very
curious!"

"What, Ditto?"

"How did they know that?"

"Know what?"

"Why, don't you see? The serpent is one of the Bible words for the
devil; here, it is a child of the devil who, coming to the earth, has
enveloped the whole world in his toils. The Bible says, I know,
somewhere, that those who are not saved by Christ are 'in the Wicked
one.' How did they know so much, and so little, those old people?"

"Where did you find all those Bible verses just now about the sword,
Ditto?"

"References here, Maggie."

"Well, go on, Ditto. There were three children of the devil."

"The third was the goddess Hel or Hela. She was the goddess of the lower
world, and was half black and half blue. I wonder! that must be where
our word 'hell' comes from. What dreadful old times! And times now are
just as bad, for a great part of the world. The goddess Hel was very
like the horrible Hindoo goddess Kali, they say here."

"I don't believe those times were so much worse than these times," said
Flora.

"You think human sacrifices are a pleasant religious feature?"

"Not to the victims; but I suppose the rest were all accustomed to it,
and didn't feel so shocked as you do."

"Landolf seems to have been a good deal shocked."

"Are you going to read us anything more, Ditto, about those queer old
gods?"

"There isn't much more that I need read, Maggie. I have told you about
the principal deities. They believed in quantities of lesser
ones--really, personifications of the good and evil powers of nature.
The elves and their king, and the dwarfs living inside the hills. The
dwarfs owned the treasures of the mines, and worked in metals and
precious stones."

"I should like to believe in elves and fairies," said Flora.

"Why?"

"Oh, it's pretty and poetical. Fairy rings, and all that."

"Would you like to think there were hidden powers in every piece of
water, and rock, and hill, which might feel kindly disposed towards you
and might not? which might suddenly play you an ill trick and make you
most mischievous trouble, for nothing but mischief."

"Did people believe so, Ditto?"

"Certainly. A great many people, in various parts of the world."

"I would rather believe that God has it all in His hand," said Maggie
contentedly.

"So would I, Maggie. And that Jesus has the keys of hell and of death."

"I wonder when Fenton will be here," remarked Esther.

"I hope--he won't come--till--Uncle Eden gets here," said Maggie very
deliberately.

"Why not?" said Esther sharply.

"He is uneasy," said Maggie, with a corresponding shrug of her
shoulders; "I never know what Fenton will take it into his head to do."

"That is a nice way to speak of your brother."

Maggie considered that. "I can't find any nicer," she said at length.

"Then I wouldn't speak at all."

"Never mind," said Flora. "One's brothers are always a mixture of
comfort and plague. And that is true of the best of them, Esther; you
never know what they will take into their heads to do."

"Oh, Flora!"----Maggie began, and stopped.

"You think there is a difference between brothers and brothers," said
Flora laughing. "Well, my experience is what I tell you."

"Ditto," said Maggie suddenly, "are there any such stones as those queer
stone-houses in this country?"

"Not that ever I heard of, Maggie. But in the old world, as it is
called, there are a great many, scattered over a great many countries.
Not all just like the stone-houses. Some are just single stones set up
on end. Some are two laid together, one resting on the other slantwise;
the stone-houses in Lüneburg seem to have been made of nine stones, one
lying on eight."

"Did people offer human sacrifices on all of them?"

"I fancy not. But I believe it is tolerably uncertain. Did you never see
a picture of Stonehenge?"

Maggie knew nothing about Stonehenge. Meredith went to the bookcases
again and got another volume. This contained many illustrations of old
stone monuments of various kinds, and he and Maggie were soon absorbed
in studying them.

"There!" cried Maggie, as he opened at one of the earliest
illustrations, "there, Ditto! that is very like--very like--what you
read of the stone-houses. Isn't it?"

"Fearfully like," said Meredith. "This is in Ireland. I dare say some of
those old Druids sacrificed men on it."

"How could they set it up so? Look, Ditto--the top stone rests just on
one point at the lowest end. I should think it would topple down."

"It has stood hundreds of years, Maggie, and will stand for all
time--unless an earthquake shakes it down. This dolmen is made of four
stones."

"What is a dolmen?"

"This is one. It says here in a note, that the name comes 'from the
Celtic word Daul, a table, and Chen or Chaen, a stone.' A stone
table. And it says here that there are probably a hundred of such
dolmens in Great Britain and Ireland. How ever did the builders get
that enormous block poised on the tips of the other three?"

Slowly and absorbedly the two went on exploring the pages of the book;
stopping to read, stopping to talk and discuss the questions of tumuli
and stone circles, dolmens and menhirs. The opinion of the author, that
the great circles commemorated great battles, and were raised in honour
of the dead buried within them, and that many dolmens had a sepulchral
character, was somewhat confusing to the Druidical and tragical
impressions left from the Saxon chronicle; which, however, at last got
an undeniable support. In the stones of Stennis, over which Maggie and
Meredith pondered with intense interest, one of the enormous up-standing
masses has a hole through it. And this stone, there is no doubt, was
dedicated to Woden. And so long had the superstition of Woden's worship
clung to it, that until very lately an oath sworn by persons joining
their hands through this hole, was reckoned especially sacred; even the
courts of law so recognising it. After that, Woden seemed to Maggie to
have strong claim to all the upright stones and altar-looking dolmens
that are found where the worship of Woden has once prevailed. Leaving
Stennis they went on to Runic crosses, German dolmens, and French
dolmens, and on and on, from country to country. When at last they
lifted up their heads and looked around them, they were alone. The girls
had gone off to bed; the worsted work lay, left on the table; the fire
was out; the minute-hand pointed to ten o'clock. Meredith and Maggie
glanced at each other and smiled.

"We have forgotten ourselves," said he.

"You see, Ditto," said Maggie, "we've been travelling. Oh, I wish I
could see the Stones of Stennis, don't you? and the Stone of Woden?"

"Well, now, you had better travel to bed, little one, and forget it all.
Don't see it in your dreams."




CHAPTER VI.


One expects steady weather in October; so it was really not
extraordinary that the next morning should break fair and quiet, with a
sunny haze lying over the river. Nevertheless, Maggie rejoiced.

"What a pleasant day we had yesterday!" she exclaimed, as the party sat
at breakfast.

"Are not all your days pleasant?" said Meredith.

"Yes, but yesterday was uncommon. O Ditto! we didn't look at the map
last night!"

"We were looking at stones."

"Yes, but we must look at the map after breakfast. I want to find all
those places."

"Take time," said Meredith, "and eat your breakfast. Lüneburg heath will
not run away."

But, after breakfast, indeed, the great atlas was fetched out to the
sunny terrace in front of the house and laid on a settee, and Maggie and
Meredith sat down before the map of Germany with business faces.

"Now, here is the Elbe," said Maggie, "it is big enough to be seen; here
is the mouth of it, just in a corner under Denmark, where those ships
went from."

"What ships?"

"Why, the ships in which the Saxons went over to England--the Saxons
that conquered England, Meredith."

"You do remember," said Meredith smiling. "It is worth while reading to
you."

"They sailed from the mouths of the Elbe and the Weser--and here is the
Weser. The mouths are pretty near together. Now, between the Elbe and
the Weser were--which Saxons, Ditto?"

"Towards the Elbe and beyond it were the Eastphalians; those our story
belongs to, among whom Landolf went."

"Well, here is the Aller, Ditto! they lived there, you know; that is
pretty far west. And here is Hermannsburg! Oh, I am glad we have found
that. And here is Lüneburg--all over here, I suppose. I suppose we
couldn't find the stone-houses, Ditto?"

"I suppose not. But here is Verden on the Aller, Maggie, where
Charlemagne had those 4500 Saxons hewed to pieces. And here are
Osnabrück and Detmold, where the Saxons beat him again, and took the
4000 captives that they slew at the stone-houses."

"Horrid Charlemagne!"

"It was all horrid, what concerned the fighting. But here is Minden,
Maggie, from which good Landolf set out in his little boat, and dropped
down the Weser to go to the East Saxons."

"And, then, when he got to the Aller he went up that; then he had to
row hard, I guess."

"I guess he did a good deal of hard rowing, first and last, Maggie."

"Then to get to the stone-houses he went further up the Aller and turned
into the Oerze. Here is the Oerze! Then the stone-houses must be
somewhere hereabouts, Ditto; for they are not very far from
Hermannsburg."

"There is the little river Wieze, Maggie; and here, where it flows into
the Oerze, was that oak wood, sacred to Thor, where the village of Müden
now is. And here is the village of Munster where Freija was honoured.
All over the land, then, it was wild country, woods and morasses. And
now--think what Germany is!"

"What is it, Ditto?"

"It is the land of Thought, and Art, and Learning, and Criticism."

"Look here!" broke in a lively voice behind them. "Do you know the sun
is getting up in the sky? and we have settled nothing. And here are two
heads over a map!"

"It would not hurt a third head," said Meredith. "And Maggie and I have
settled a good deal, thank you."

"But where are we going to-day?"

"Yes," added Esther behind, "where are we going? I think it is time to
be getting ready, because it takes us a good while."

"Esther," said Maggie, "Fairbairn and the men are going over to the pine
terrace to cut down some trees papa wants cut; let us go there and have
a big bonfire, and then Ditto will have plenty of coals for his friar's
omelet."

"Betsey is making us a chicken pie."

"Well, the omelet will do no harm besides."

"No. It is a good way over to the pine terrace."

"I don't care how far it is. So much the better. It is nice walking. Do
you care, Flora?"

"She don't care," said Meredith. "Come, let us load up. If we have a
journey before us, best be about it."

"And then, Esther," Maggie went on, "we can go to the Lookout rock to
read."

"It will be sunny there."

"Well, it's all nice on the pine terrace, and we can find plenty of
shade. Now, then, Ditto--if you'll bring up the waggon."

The business of loading-up began. There were always some varieties every
time. To-day a basket of sweet potatoes formed one item, going to be
roasted in the great fire-heap which would be left from the bonfire. A
great chicken pie, fresh and hot, was carefully wrapped up and put in.
Meredith provided a hatchet to trim branches with. Worsted work and
afghan, of course; but the only book was in Meredith's pocket. The cart
was quite loaded when all was done; for you know, cups and saucers and
plates weigh heavy, if you put enough of them together, and the chicken
pie in the dish was a matter of a good many pounds, and potatoes are
heavy, too. Somebody had to carry the bottle of cream, and Fairbairn
went laden with a pail of water.

The day was just another like the day before, but the direction of the
walk was different. The party turned to the left instead of to the
right, and leaving the flower-beds and shrubbery, entered a pretty
winding road which curled about through a grove of red cedars. The air
was spicy, dry and warm. A soft, rather thick, haze filled the air,
turning the whole world into a sort of fairy land. The hills looked
misty, the river still and dreamy; outlines were softened, colours were
grown tender. The happy little party, it is true, gave not much heed to
this bewitchment of nature, with the one exception of Meredith; Flora
and Esther were in a contented state of practical well-being which had
no sentiment in it; Maggie and her dog were a pair for jocund spirits
and thoughtless delight-taking. They both went bounding about, very much
taken up with each other; while Meredith pulled the cart steadily on and
feasted mentally on every step of the way. The road brought them soon to
the neighbourhood of the river again, and ran along a grassy bank which
sloped gently down to the edge of the water. The green sward was dotted
with columnar red cedars, growing to a height of thirty feet, with a
diameter of two or two and a half all the way, straight as a pillar. On
the other hand a low, rocky height grown with oaks and hemlocks overhung
the valley, and the rocky ridge seemed to sweep round to the front of
them in a wide amphitheatre, giving a sky-line of variegated colour,
soft and glowing under the haze. Travelling on, they got next into a
wood and lost the river. Here all was wild; the ground strewn with rock
and encumbered with low growth of huckleberry bushes, brambles, and
ferns. The road, however, was good; and Meredith drew the cart without
any difficulty. After a time the ground began to rise, for, in fact,
they were approaching the further end of the rocky ridge before
mentioned, where it swept round to the river. Midway of the height the
hill shelved into a wide plateau or terrace; at the back of it the
sharp, rocky hillside, in front of it a green slope leading down to the
river. The ground on the plateau was gravelly and poor; it gave foothold
to little beside white and yellow pines, which in places stood thick, in
other places parted and opened for spaces of mossy turf, where the too
shallow soil would not nourish them. Here, there was a wild wilderness
of natural beauty. Now and then a lovely low-growing white pine
spreading abroad its bluish-green branches; in other parts scraggy,
