
"Is Mr. Hartley in the counting-room?" he asked, as he reÃ«ntered the
store.

"Yes, sir, and he wishes to see you."

"Of course he wants to see me,--to hear my report."

The merchant looked up as Haynes entered the counting-room.

"So you are back?" he said, gravely.

"Yes, sir; I was detained a little, but I fulfilled my commission."

"That is well."

Here Haynes made his report. Mr. Hartley listened with an abstracted
air, for his thoughts were upon the defalcation of the man before him.

Finishing his statement, James Haynes turned to leave the office, but
his employer called him back.

"Wait a minute, Mr. Haynes," he said, gravely. "I wish to ask you one or
two questions."

"Certainly, sir."

"I believe we have transactions with a party in Hartford, with the
firm-name of H. L. Davis & Co.?"

"Yes, sir," said Haynes, starting and flushing a little.

"Is Mr. Davis a relative of yours?"

"Yes, sir. I wonder where he heard that?" Haynes asked himself. "Is
there any trouble? Is he behind in his payments?" inquired the clerk.

"No; he has always settled his bills with commendable promptness."

"I insisted on that," said Haynes, in a satisfied tone. "I didn't want
you to lose by any connection of mine."

"And you are quite sure that I have lost nothing by Mr. Davis?" demanded
the merchant, regarding Haynes intently.

The latter changed color.

"How is that possible," he inquired, "since he has met his payments
promptly?"

"You have personally seen to the packing of Mr. Davis's goods, I
believe, Mr. Haynes?"

"Well--generally," stammered the rather disconcerted clerk.

"At all events, you did so this morning?"

"Ye-es."

"After you started for Brooklyn, I had the case opened, and found some
patterns of silk not included in the bill."

"I suppose there was a mistake," said Haynes, turning pale.

"You think this has not happened before?"

"I am sure of it."

"Mr. Haynes," said his employer, sternly, "you may as well drop the mask
of innocence. I have been robbed systematically for the last three
years, and I now understand how it was done. You and Davis, between you,
have plundered me in an exceedingly ingenious manner. It will go hard
with you before a jury."

"You won't have me arrested!" exclaimed Haynes, his pallor indicating
his dismay.

"Why should I not?"

"You could prove nothing."

"I will take my chance of that. Have you nothing more to say?"

"I--though I do not admit that your charge is correct--I am willing to
make over to you the greater part of my property, to avoid the scandal
of a trial."

"That will not do, Mr. Haynes. Were I to accept this upon such a ground,
you could rightfully bring against me a charge of blackmail."

"What, then, are your terms?" asked Haynes, sullenly.

"You must write out a confession of your guilt, which I shall put among
my private papers, and not make public unless necessary, and in addition
you must make over to me property to the amount of ten thousand dollars.
It will not make up my losses, but I will accept it as restitution in
full."

Against this James Haynes most strongly protested, alleging that the sum
demanded was far beyond the amount of his purloinings; but finally he
yielded, being privately resolved to make his brother-in-law pay
one-half of the forfeiture.

"You will leave my service at the end of the week, Mr. Haynes," said his
employer, "and during next week you must attend to the transfer."

"How did he find out?" said Haynes to himself, as with grave face he
went about the duties of the place he was so soon to leave. "If I could
find out, I would have my revenge."




CHAPTER XXIV.

AN OPEN ENEMY.


Frank remained with Mr. Hartley till the guilty clerk left the
establishment. This was at the special request of the merchant, who did
not care to let Mr. Haynes suspect who had been instrumental in bringing
his guilt to light.

"I suppose you have no further use for me, now, Mr. Hartley?" said the
telegraph boy.

"Not at present, Frank," said his employer, kindly.

"Then I will report for duty at the telegraph office."

"Wait a moment. You have done me a great service."

"I am glad of that sir," answered Frank, modestly.

"You have shown uncommon shrewdness and intelligence."

Frank looked gratified, and expressed his thanks for the compliment.

"I want to make you a present, in addition to the wages which you
receive from the office," said Mr. Hartley.

"Thank you, sir."

Mr. Hartley drew from his desk a five-twenty government bond, of one
hundred dollars, and handed it to our hero.

"Do you mean all this for me?" asked Frank, quite overwhelmed by the
magnitude of the gift.

"It is not more than you deserve. I might have given you the money value
of the bond; but I give it to you in this shape, because I hope you will
keep it as an investment. It will yield you six dollars interest
annually in gold. I hope the time will come when you will have more
interest in the same way."

"I hope I shall, sir. I shall feel quite rich now."

"You are richer in the qualities which have won you this acknowledgment.
How do you like the telegraph service?"

"Very well, sir, for the present. It is much better than being a
newsboy."

"Exactly; but there are positions you would prefer?"

"Yes, sir; I would like to be in some mercantile business, where I might
work my way up. In a few years I shall be too old for a telegraph boy,
and then I shall be out of place."

"I will relieve your fears on that score. In six months I shall make
some changes in the list of employees. When that time comes I will find
a place for you."

"There is nothing I should like better, sir," said Frank, his face
flushing with pleasure.

"I am satisfied that you will make a useful and intelligent clerk. Until
I want you, remain where you are. The discipline of your present office
will do you no harm, but will help qualify you for usefulness and
success in the mercantile career."

"Thank you, sir. Now I have something to look forward to I shall work
much more cheerfully."

Frank went back to the office, and resumed his ordinary duties. One day
he was riding down Broadway in a stage, when he became sensible that he
had attracted the attention of a gentleman sitting opposite. This led
him to scan the face of the man who was observing him. He at once
recognized Mr. Haynes.

The stage was not full, and the latter came over, and took a seat next
to the telegraph boy.

"Isn't your name Frank Kavanagh?" he asked, abruptly.

"Yes, sir."

"Were you not for a short time in the employ of Mr. Hartley?"

"Yes," answered Frank, feeling embarrassed, for he knew that he was
suspected.

"I infer from your uniform that you have left Mr. Hartley."

"Yes."

"Why did you leave him?" asked Haynes, sharply.

"Because he had no further occasion for my services. Why did you
leave him?" asked Frank, in turn.

James Haynes colored, and looked angry. However, he answered the
question.

"I have other business views," he said, briefly.

"So have I."

The next question was also of an embarrassing character.

"Were you a telegraph boy before you entered Mr. Hartley's employ?"

"I was," answered Frank.

"Were you detailed for duty there?"

Our hero thought that he had answered questions enough by this time, and
signified as much to his questioner.

"If I had been," he said, "I shouldn't be permitted to inform a
stranger."

"I have particular reasons for asking the question," said Haynes.

"Then you can ask Mr. Hartley, or the superintendent of my office.
Good-morning, sir, I get out here."

Frank pulled the strap, and got out. But he was not rid of his
questioner. Haynes got out too, and walked beside our hero.

"I believe," he said, sternly, "that you were sent for to act as a spy
on me."

"What makes you think so?" asked the telegraph boy, looking him in the
eye.

"There was a difficulty between Mr. Hartley and myself, occasioned by a
base and groundless charge, concocted by some enemy. I believe that you
had something to do with this."

"I have brought no groundless charge against any one," said Frank.

"Did you make any report to Mr. Hartley in regard to me?"

"I must refer you to Mr. Hartley for information," said Frank. "I have
an errand in here;" and he entered a store in the lower part of
Broadway.

"There is no doubt about it," thought Haynes.

"That boy was a spy upon me. I have learned all I cared to. I owe you a
debt of gratitude for this, Frank Kavanagh, and mean to pay the debt."

When Frank came out he thought it possible that Haynes might be waiting
for him; but the disgraced clerk was gone.

"I suppose he would injure me if he had a chance," thought the telegraph
boy. "I won't give him the chance if I can help it."




CHAPTER XXV.

WHAT THE OLD TRUNK CONTAINED.


Mention has been made of an old trunk belonging to Frank's father,
which, had been forwarded to him from the country by his Uncle Pelatiah.
It may be mentioned here that our hero's father had been agent of a
woollen mill in a large manufacturing town. For a considerable number of
years he had been in receipt of a handsome salary, and had lived in good
style, but still within his income. He was naturally supposed to possess
a comfortable property.

His death was sudden. He was thrown from a carriage, and, striking his
head upon the curbstone, was picked up senseless, and died unconscious.
Upon examining into his affairs his administrator was unable to find any
property beyond what was needed to pay the few debts he left behind him.
So it came about that Frank was left a penniless orphan. His Uncle
Pelatiah was his nearest relative, and to him he was sent. Pelatiah
Kavanagh was not a bad man, nor was he intentionally unkind; but he was
very close. All his life he had denied himself, to save money; and in
this he had been ably assisted by his wife, who was even closer and
meaner than her husband. It may readily be supposed that it was very
disagreeable to both husband and wife to have a penniless nephew thrown
upon their care and protection.

"How could your brother be so thoughtless and inconsiderate as to use up
all his money, and leave his son destitute? Didn't he have a handsome
income?"

"Yes," said Pelatiah. "He got two thousand dollars a year, and maybe
more."

"You don't say so!" ejaculated his wife. "He'd ought to have saved
two-thirds of it. I declare it's scandalous for a man to waste his
substance in that way."

"My brother was allus free with his money. He wasn't so keerful as you
and I be."

"I should think not, indeed. We don't begin to spend half as much as he
did, and now he comes upon us to support his child."

"It don't seem right," said Pelatiah.

"Right? It's outrageous!" exclaimed Mrs. Kavanagh, energetically. "I
declare I have no patience with such a man. It would only be right to
send this boy Frank to the poor-house."

"The neighbors would talk," protested Pelatiah, who was half inclined to
accept his wife's view, but was more sensitive to the criticism of the
community in which he lived.

"Let 'em talk!" said his more independent helpmate. "It isn't right that
this boy should use up the property that we have scraped together for
his cousin Jonathan."

"We must keep him for a while, Hannah; but I'll get rid of him as soon I
can consistently."

With this Mrs. Kavanagh had to be satisfied; but, during her nephew's
stay of two months in the farm-house, she contrived to make him
uncomfortable by harsh criticisms of his dead father, whom he had
tenderly loved.

"You must have lived very extravagant," she said, "or your father would
have left a handsome property."

"I don't think we did, Aunt Hannah."

"You father kept a carriage,--didn't he?"

"Yes; he had considerable riding to do."

"How much help did he keep?"

"Only one servant in the kitchen, and a stable-boy."

"There was no need of a boy. You could have done the work in the
stable."

"I was kept at school."

"Oh, of course!" sneered his aunt. "You must be brought up as a young
gentleman. Our Jonathan never had any such chances, and now you're
livin' on him, or about the same. I suppose you kept an extravagant
table too. What did you generally have for breakfast?"

So Aunt Hannah continued her catechising, much to Frank's discomfort.
She commented severely upon the wastefulness of always having pastry for
dinner.

"We can't afford it," she said, emphatically; "but then again we don't
mean to have our Jonathan beholden to anybody in case your uncle and I
are cast off sudden. What did you have for dinner on Sunday?"

"Meat and pudding and ice-cream,--that is, in warm weather."

"Ice-cream!" ejaculated Aunt Hannah, holding up both hands. "No wonder
your father didn't leave nothin'. Why, we don't have ice-cream more'n
once a year, and now we can't afford to have it at all, since we've got
another mouth to feed."

"I am sorry that you have to stint yourself on my account," replied
Frank, feeling rather uncomfortable.

"I suppose it's our cross," said Mrs. Kavanagh, gloomily; "but it does
seem hard that we can't profit by our prudence because of your father's
wasteful extravagance."

Such remarks were very disagreeable to our young hero, and it was hard
for him to hear his father so criticised. He supposed they must have
lived extravagantly, since it was so constantly charged by those about
him, and he felt puzzled to account for his father's leaving nothing.
When, after two months, his uncle and aunt, who had deliberated upon
what was best to be done, proposed to him to go to New York and try to
earn his own living, he caught at the idea. He knew that he might suffer
hardships in the new life that awaited him, but if he could support
himself in any way he would escape from the cruel taunts to which he was
now forced to listen every day. How he reached the city, and how he
succeeded, my readers know. We now come to the trunk, which, some time
after its reception, Frank set about examining.

He found it was filled with clothing belonging to his father. Though a
part were in good condition it seemed doubtful whether they would be of
much service to him. It occurred to him to examine the pockets of the
coats. In one he found a common yellow envelope, bearing his father's
name. Opening it, he found, to his great astonishment, that it was a
certificate of railroad stock, setting forth his father's ownership of
one hundred shares of the capital stock of the said railway.

Our hero was greatly excited by his discovery. This, then, was the form
in which his father had invested his savings. What the shares were worth
he had no idea; but he rejoiced chiefly because now he could defend his
father from the charge of recklessly spending his entire income, and
saving nothing. He resolved, as soon as he could find time, to visit a
Wall-street broker, by whom he had occasionally been employed, and
inquire the value of the stock. Two days afterwards the opportunity
came, and he availed himself of it at once.

"Can you tell me the value of these shares, Mr. Glynn?" he asked.

"They are quoted to-day at one hundred and ten," answered the broker,
referring to a list of the day's stock quotations.

"Do you mean that each share is worth a hundred and ten dollars?" asked
Frank, in excitement.

"Certainly."

"Then the whole are worth five thousand five hundred dollars?"

"Rather more; for the last semi-annual dividend has not been collected.
To whom do they belong?"

"They did belong to my father. Now I suppose they are mine."

"Has your father's estate been administered upon?"

"Yes; but these shares had not then been found."

"Then some legal steps will be necessary before you can take possession,
and dispose of them. I will give you the address of a good lawyer, and
advise you to consult him at once."

Frank did so, and the lawyer wrote to Uncle Pelatiah to acquaint him
with the discovery. The news created great excitement at the farm.

"Why, Frank's a rich boy!" ejaculated Aunt Hannah.

"And my brother wasn't so foolishly extravagant as we supposed."

"That may be; but with his salary we could have saved more."

"Perhaps we might; but these shares are worth almost six thousand
dollars. That's a good deal of money, Hannah."

"So it is, Pelatiah. I'll tell you what we'd better do."

"What?"

"Invite Frank to come back and board with us. He can afford to pay
handsome board, and it seems better that the money should go to us than
a stranger."

"Just so, Hannah. He could board with us, and go to school."

"You'd better write and invite him to come. I allus liked the boy, and
if we could have afforded it, I'd have been in favor of keepin' him for
nothing."

"So would I," said his uncle; and he probably believed it, though after
what had happened it will be rather difficult for the reader to credit
it.

The letter was written, but Frank had no desire to return to the old
farm, and the society of his uncle's family.

"I have got used to the city," he wrote, "and have made a good many
friends here. I don't know yet whether I shall take a business position,
or go to school; but, if the latter, the schools here are better than in
the country. I hope to come and see you before long; but, I would prefer
to live in New York."

"He's gettin' uppish," said Aunt Hannah, who was considerably
disappointed, for she had made up her mind just how much they could
venture to charge for board, and how this would increase their annual
savings.

"I suppose it's natural for a boy to prefer the city," said his uncle.

"If the boy has a chance to handle his money there won't be much of it
left by the time he's twenty-one," said Aunt Hannah. "You ought to be
his guardian."

"He has the right to choose his own guardian," said Uncle Pelatiah.
"He'll take some city man likely."

Frank did, in fact, select the lawyer, having learned that he was a man
of high reputation for integrity. He offered it to Mr. Bowen; but that
gentleman, while congratulating his young friend upon his greatly
improved prospects, said that he was a man of books rather than of
business, and would prefer that some other person be selected.

The next thing was to resign his place as telegraph boy.

"We are sorry to lose you," said the superintendent. "Your are one of
our best boys. Do you wish to go at once?"
