skipper. "She has run by any of the big steamers, except the Vermont,
which is good for eighteen miles an hour."

Dory had seen the steamer before, and he never saw her without having
sad thoughts. He always kept away from her if she happened to be in any
port where he was. But she was a beautiful craft, and her ordinary rate
of sailing was twelve miles an hour; and it was said that she was good
for two or three miles more if her owner would only "let her out."

"I don't think there is any comfort in her for you," chuckled Pearl.
"She is a private yacht, belonging to Captain Gildrock; and he don't go
out of his way to assist poor and distressed fellow-creatures like you."

"How far off is she, Dory?" asked the officer.

"She is half way across Cumberland Bay; and I should think she was four
miles off, or thereabouts," answered Dory.

"Just about four: that was a good guess, Dory Dornwood," added the
skipper.

"Can't you hail her if she comes near us?" suggested Peppers.

"No, he can't!" exclaimed Pearl sharply. "It would be cruel of you to
ask him to do such a thing; for as sure as he makes a sign to that
steamer, or to any other craft, I will throw him overboard, with his
hands tied behind him."

"It would be cruel of you to do such a thing, Hawlinshed."

"I know it would, and I shall not do it unless you compel me to act in
self-defence."

"Where is this thing to end?" demanded Peppers in a disgusted tone of
voice.

"Somewhere up in Canada, I guess," replied Pearl. "I don't believe it
will end before we get there, and I think we shall be over the line some
time to-night."

"Then you intend to take us into Canada, Hawlinshed?"

"Yes: unless we can make some better arrangement. If you prefer to land
at some point on Grand Island, I think we could fix it so as to
accommodate you."

"How can we fix it?" asked Peppers rather anxiously.

"I have been thinking the matter over, and I believe I have a plan by
which I might safely oblige you," said Pearl. "I have concluded not to
go back to Plattsburgh: in fact, I don't believe I should be comfortable
and happy there."

"I don't believe you would," added the officer significantly. "We should
be apt to make it warm for you."

"Why so, Peppers? You and I have always been good friends, and we never
quarrelled. Why should we now?"

"We shouldn't, and I don't intend to quarrel with you. But in my private
opinion you will spend the greater part of the rest of your days within
the stone walls."

"I don't intend to do any thing of the sort; and I don't believe I
shall, if I only take good care of you while I have you as a passenger."

"But how can we fix this matter?" inquired the officer.

"If you will put your hands behind you, and then put them out through
that hole you have made, I will fasten them together, as I have Dory
Dornwood's. I will do the same with your roommate; and then I will land
all three of you at Wilcox Cove, or some other good place. How does this
plan strike you?"

"It don't strike me at all," protested Dory. "I won't agree to it."

"But, my dear little Bantam, I didn't ask you to agree to it. Your hands
are already tied behind you; and, when I have done with you, I shall
throw you overboard, if that happens to be the most convenient way to
get rid of you. I was speaking to Mr. Peppers, whose hands are not yet
tied behind him; and you should not interrupt the conversation of those
who are older and wiser than you are."

"I don't agree to the plan. We will turn in and go to sleep, and you can
take us where you please; but you will find in the end that this world
isn't big enough to hide you from me," replied Peppers.

"Just as you please, Peppers. We shall not quarrel about a little matter
like this. I suppose you came over after me. Allow me to suggest that
you haven't stated the nature of your business with me," continued Pearl
gayly in appearance, though Dory could see that he did not feel half so
chipper as he talked.

"I think I won't talk any more at present," replied Peppers. "I can wait
till we see this thing through."

"You won't have to wait many hours," answered the skipper, as he looked
astern to see if any craft was coming near the Goldwing.

Dory was certain that the skipper was disgusted with the decision of the
officer, and that he was very anxious to get rid of his troublesome
passengers. But the owner of the boat was delighted with the conduct of
the detective. He had been afraid that he would compromise with the
villain, and that he should lose his boat, or at least be deprived of
the use of her for a long time.

"Where is the Sylph now?" asked the officer half an hour later.

"She is not more than a mile astern of us," replied Dory.

"Is she coming near us?"

"She is headed directly for us."

"And where is this boat?" continued Peppers.

"We are approaching Long Point, and are within half a mile of it. We are
inside of Sister Islands, and the Sylph seems to be taking the same
course. She acts just as though she was following us," said Dory, who
had been watching the progress of the beautiful steam-yacht ever since
she first came in sight.

"She does act as though she was following us, don't she, Dory Dornwood?"
added Pearl Hawlinshed.

"I have no doubt she is following us," replied Dory.

"Do you know of any reason why she should follow us?" asked the skipper,
trying to conceal his anxiety.

"I don't," answered Dory.

"Do you know her owner, Dory?" inquired Pearl.

Dory hesitated. It was a disagreeable topic to him, and he would gladly
have avoided it. It was plain enough that the Sylph was following the
Goldwing, but Dory could think of no reason why she should do so.

"Do you know Captain Gildrock, her owner?" asked Pearl again, and with
more energy than before.

"I do know him: he is my uncle," replied Dory, who could see no reason
why he should conceal the disagreeable truth--for it was disagreeable to
him--from the skipper.

"Your uncle!" exclaimed Pearl, apparently startled at the reply. "Do you
mean to say that Captain Gildrock is your uncle, you young cub?"

"I mean to say it, and I do say it."

But Dory wished with all his might that the captain was not his uncle,
or any other relation.

"He is one of the richest men in this part of the country," added Pearl,
looking astern at the elegant steam-yacht.

"I know it; but I don't have any thing to do with him, and I don't think
he is coming after this boat on my account," added Dory.

"I suppose you will be glad to get on board of her," suggested Pearl,
who had now become quite nervous in spite of his fine philosophy.

"No, I shouldn't. I was never on board of the Sylph in my life; and I
shall not go on board of her if I can help it," answered Dory.

"You and your uncle don't seem to be on the best of terms," continued
Pearl, as he headed the boat to the eastward, after passing Long Point.

The skipper ran the Goldwing close to the point. The Sylph was within
hailing-distance of her at this time; but the steamer had to go a
quarter of a mile or more to the northward of the point in order to find
water enough for her greater draught. In this way Pearl gained half a
mile or more upon her. This enabled him to run the distance to the Gut,
which is the strait, or channel, between North Hero and South Hero, or
Grand Isle. It was about half a mile wide, between Bow-Arrow Point and
Tromp's Point; though there is only a narrow channel, between a red and
a black buoy, for vessels that drew over five feet of water at the
lowest stage of the lake.

Pearl headed the Goldwing to the southward of the buoys. The Sylph was
almost up with the schooner again; and, if the latter had gone between
the buoys, the steamer would have overhauled her before she reached
them. The skipper became more and more nervous. It was clear to Dory
that Pearl was not familiar with the navigation of this difficult
place; for he frequently looked over the side of the boat into the
water, doubtless to see how deep it was.

"How deep is the water ahead, Dory Dornwood?" asked the skipper, when he
seemed to be bewildered, and evidently expected the boat to take the
bottom every moment.

"If you are going to sail the boat, you must do it alone," replied Dory
after a little hesitation. "I won't do any thing to help you as things
are now."

"Goldwing, ahoy!" shouted some one with a gruff voice in the forward
part of the Sylph.

But the steam-yacht had stopped her propeller, and immediately began to
back. Her pilot knew how deep the water was on the shoal. Pearl made no
reply to the hail, and the schooner continued on her course. Off Tromp's
Point she struck her centre-board; but, as she was going before the
wind, she did not need it, and Pearl hauled it up so that the boat slid
over the shallow place.

The man with the gruff voice hailed the boat again; but the skipper did
not respond. Pearl hauled in his sheets, and headed the boat to the
north-west. The steamer then went through the channel.

"I will play your game upon him, Dory Dornwood," said Pearl, as he put
the boat about.

The Sylph stopped her propeller again.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE GAME AMONG THE SHALLOWS


The Sylph was bothered by the last movement of the Goldwing. No one knew
what she wanted; but she had demonstrated that she was after the
schooner, and had business with her. Pearl seemed to be delighted with
the success of his manoeuvre. He had to drop the centre-board, and
beat back. He gave the point a wide berth in standing to the north-west.

"We can keep her going back and forth through the channel till night,"
said Pearl in high glee. "This is really exciting business, and I enjoy
it more than I should a game of cards. I am much obliged to you, Dory
Dornwood, for showing me this little trick."

Dory said nothing; for he saw that the game was not the same that he had
played early in the morning. There was an element in the contest which
had not entered into that between the Goldwing and the Missisquoi; and
he thought Pearl was very stupid not to see it. He did not point it out,
or even hint at it. He hoped and expected that the interference of the
Sylph would restore the schooner to him; and that was all he cared for,
though he was quite willing that Peppers should capture and take his
prisoner to Plattsburgh.

The steam-yacht started her screw again, and went ahead. In the Gut she
came about, and passed between the buoys again. The schooner was almost
up with the red buoy when the Sylph passed it, and again the man with
the gruff voice hailed the boat. At this moment Pearl tacked, and stood
to the south-west.

"I guess she will get tired of this game before a great while," said
Pearl, elated with the success of his movements. "She had better give it
up, and go about her business."

When the Sylph had passed the buoys, she put her head to the south, and
ran down close to the shoal-water. Pearl was so delighted that he was
becoming reckless, and he held on to his course until he came within a
hundred feet of the steamer. Once more she hailed the boat. "Is
Theodore Dornwood on board of that boat?" shouted the man with the gruff
voice.

"If you answer, Dory Dornwood, I'll pitch you overboard!" exclaimed the
skipper savagely.

Dory did not answer: he had no intention of doing so before Pearl used
his threatening expression. He was not on the best of terms with his
uncle; and he did not care to have any thing to do with him, or even to
say to him.

There seemed to be a dozen persons on board of the Sylph. But she was a
large craft for a steam-yacht, and doubtless some of them were the
guests of the owner.

"That will do nicely," said Pearl, as he came about, and let off his
sheets again. "The steamer has my permission to go through the channel
again. This is better than a game of checkers."

To Dory it was getting rather monotonous. But he did not believe that
the people on board of the Sylph would be willing to play at this game
much longer. The man with the gruff voice had indicated in his tones,
the last time he hailed the boat, that he was becoming impatient at the
failure of the Goldwing to answer him.

Dory felt like one who stands between two fires, and he was sure to be
hit by one of them. He was in the frying-pan now, and he did not at all
like the idea of being compelled to jump into the fire by the Sylph. He
did not like his uncle, her owner; and he did not care to be redeemed
from his present unpleasant position by him.

It was bad enough to remain in the power of Pearl Hawlinshed, and to be
subject to his caprice; but it seemed worse to be taken out of his hands
by Captain Gildrock. If Pearl had not been a villain, in the very act of
breaking the laws and committing an outrage upon him and the two
passengers in the cabin, he would have been willing to assist him in
keeping out of the way of the Sylph. He thought he knew just how this
could be done; but, as he could not do any thing to help the rascal, he
said nothing. He could not get himself out of the frying-pan, but he
meant to keep out of the fire if he could.

"She is coming about," said Pearl, as the Sylph began to stir up the
water again with her propeller. "She is going through the channel again
to head off the Goldwing. I hope she will have a good time doing this
thing."

Dory made no reply to this remark; but he felt that the end of the
adventure was rapidly approaching. Captain Gildrock was not a man to be
trifled with, or one to be balked by a sailboat like the schooner. The
Sylph went through the Western Cut again. Pearl had run almost up to the
red buoy, and was near it when the steam-yacht passed through.

The skipper of the Goldwing started his sheets, and stood off in the
shoal-water, where the steamer could not follow him. He chuckled as he
did so; and he did not appear to harbor a suspicion that his pursuer
could do any thing but run back and forth through the cut.

"I think I shall take my passengers into Canada in spite of the
opposition of that big steam-yacht. A mouse or a mosquito can make it
uncomfortable for a lion," said Pearl, as he stood off from his pursuer.
"Do you know how the water is in this bay beyond the next point, Dory
Dornwood?" and the skipper indicated Simms's Point with his hand.

"I do," replied Dory.

"Well, how is the water?"

"It is wet," answered Dory.

"Is that so? How did you find it out?" asked Pearl.

"I felt of it one day."

"If you don't keep a civil tongue in your head, you will feel of it
again to-day," added Pearl savagely.

Dory knew there was a half mile of shoal water, deep enough for the
Goldwing, but not for the Sylph. But it was shallow off the point; and
Dory thought the skipper would get aground before he reached Hyde's Bay.
But the water was clear, and Pearl saw the bottom in season to avoid the
danger. He stood to the southward then, watching the bottom all the
time.

Dory saw that the skipper was making the worst possible move for his own
case, and he was rejoiced to see him do it. The Sylph continued farther
into the Gut, and finally stopped her screw half a mile east of Simms's
Point.

"All right!" exclaimed Pearl, who had half a mile of shoal water between
the steamer and the shore on either side of her. "I couldn't have put
her in a better place myself."

The skipper looked about him anxiously, as though he was in doubt
whether to go to the east or the west. But he had been around the two
points west of him, and he seemed to think that his safest way was to
stick to the ground with which he had become acquainted. The schooner
was half a mile from Simms's Point by this time; but Pearl evidently
thought that all he had to do was to return to the westward of the buoys
by the way he had come into the Gut, and the Sylph could not come near
his boat. He came about, and stood to the north-west.

"We are all right still, Dory Dornwood," said Pearl, as he glanced at
the steamer. "She can't come any nearer to us than she is now, and a
quarter of a mile is as good as a mile."

Dory kept his eye on the Sylph. The moment she stopped her screw, there
was a lively movement on board of her. Orders were given in quick and
sharp tones; and presently her two quarter-boats, which were swung on
davits, were dropping into the water. This was what Dory had expected
her to do before this time.

"What is she doing, Dory Dornwood?" asked Pearl, when he discovered that
something was going on upon the deck of the steamer.

"She is doing the next thing," answered Dory, who was determined not to
give the enemy any comfort.

"What is she about?" demanded the skipper.

"You have a pair of eyes, and you know how to use them."

By this time the boats began to drop into the water. They were lowered
from the davits with the oarsmen on the thwarts, and an officer in the
stern-sheets. Pearl could not help seeing what the steamer was doing
now. He looked troubled, and he used some needless profanity in an under
tone.

"What is going on now, Dory?" asked Peppers, who could not see the
steamer through the aperture in the door.

"The steamer is getting out her boats," replied Dory. "She has just
dropped one from each quarter into the water."

"Four boats!" exclaimed Peppers.

"No," answered Dory, laughing in spite of his situation. "I didn't say
four boats."

"You said one from each quarter; and there are four quarters in any
thing, according to my arithmetic," added the officer.

"A vessel has but two quarters, and she has dropped two boats into the
water. There are five men in each of them," continued Dory.

"That will do! Dry up, and shut up, all of you!" interposed Pearl. "I
am going to fight this thing out to the end, and I don't want any more
talk."

The Goldwing was in behind the land, so that she did not feel the full
force of the wind. The lake was calm and smooth behind the point, and
the boat moved very sluggishly. Pearl began to be very impatient; but a
short distance ahead the surface was ruffled, and she would soon have a
better breeze.

The starboard quarter-boat pulled towards Simms's Point, and the port
boat in the opposite direction. Whichever way the schooner went, she was
sure to be intercepted by one or the other of them. The oarsmen of the
boats appeared to be all young fellows. They were dressed in a blue
uniform; and all of them wore white linen caps, without visors. The
officers showed a profusion of brass buttons on their frock-coats, and
wore yacht-caps of white linen.

The boats were white, and were very graceful in their build. The four
rowers in each boat pulled a man-of-war stroke. The starboard
quarter-boat was ahead of the Goldwing; and the officer in charge of her
was urging his men to their best exertions, so as to come in ahead of
the schooner. Before the Goldwing could reach the point, she was in
position to intercept her.

Pearl scowled when he saw the boat directly in his course. He looked
back, and saw the other boat beyond the steamer. He could not help
realizing that the pleasant game he had been playing had ended in his
being beaten.

"Goldwing, ahoy!" shouted the officer in charge of the starboard
quarter-boat.

"In the boat!" replied Pearl in a surly tone: "what do you want?"

"Is Theodore Dornwood on board of your boat?" asked the officer.

"Yes, he is," answered Pearl. "If you want him, you can have him."

At this moment the skipper threw the Goldwing up into the wind, and
sprang forward to the place where Dory was seated. Without saying a
word, he dragged him off the seat, and proceeded to remove the cord that
bound his hands behind him. The prisoner's wrists were numb from the
pressure of the line, and he stood up to rub a little life into them.
Pearl put the boat about, and headed her for the shore.




CHAPTER XXIII.

HEADED OFF ON BOTH SIDES.


"Hold on there! What are you about?" shouted the officer, as the
Goldwing filled away on the starboard tack. "We want to see Theodore
Dornwood."

"I can't sail dead to windward," replied Pearl.

"You needn't sail at all," replied the officer. "Captain Gildrock wished
to see Dornwood on a matter of the utmost importance: it is a case of
life and death."

Dory was startled by these words. What could his uncle want of him? If
anybody was dead, who was it? It might be his mother. His blood seemed
to freeze in his veins as he thought of the possibility of such a
terrible event. He sprang upon the seat, and hailed the boat at once.

"Is my mother dead?" shouted he; and the agony of his tone was borne
across the water with his words.

"No: your mother is not dead. She is quite well," replied the officer,
who could not but have been impressed by the despairing tone in which
the question was put to him; and he had not lost an instant in relieving
the anxiety of the inquirer.

Dory dropped down upon the seat again. His mother was not sick or dead.
The current of life began to flow through his veins again. A terrible
load was removed from his mind almost as soon as laid upon it. He even
began to think that the officer was playing a trick upon him to get him
to see the captain of the steamer, whom he had so carefully avoided.

"Give way, my lads!" shouted the officer of the boat, as soon as he had
answered Dory's question. "I want Theodore Dornwood. Will you give him
up?"

This question was addressed to the skipper of the schooner, which was
not more than a hundred feet from the boat.

"Yes, with the greatest pleasure," replied Pearl. "I will put him ashore
in here, and you can take him on board."

Dory heard this reply with astonishment and indignation. Pearl intended
to put him ashore, and then allow the boat from the steam-yacht to pick
him up. If he could keep the boat from coming alongside, and thus
prevent the officer from ascertaining the condition of things on board
of the Goldwing, the Sylph would trouble him no more. If the business on
which she came after Dory was a matter of life and death, Captain
Gildrock would not be likely to molest him after he had accomplished his
