
"That's a fact; but I don't see no end o' this to take hold of. You
hain't got the money; and if you had it, you don't know what you want;
and if you did know, it ain't in Shampuashuh; and I don't see who is to
go to New York or New Haven, shopping for you. And if you had it, who
knows how to fix a Christmas tree? Not a soul in our church."

Mrs. Barclay and her guest withdrew at this point of the discussion.
But later, when the visitors were gone, she opened the door of her
room, and said,

"Madge and Lois, can you come in here for a few minutes? It is
business."

The two girls came in, Madge a little eagerly; Lois, Mrs. Barclay
fancied, with a manner of some reserve.

"Mr. Dillwyn has something to suggest," she began, "about this plan we
have heard talked over; that is, if you care about it's being carried
into execution."

"I care, of course," said Madge. "If it is to be done, I think it will
be great fun."

"If it is to be done," Lois repeated. "Grandmother does not approve of
it; and I always think, what she does not like, I must not like."

"Always?" asked Mr. Dillwyn.

"I try to have it always. Grandmother thinks that the way--the best
way--to keep a Sunday school together, is to make the lessons
interesting."

"I am sure she is right!" said Mr. Dillwyn.

"But to the point," said Mrs. Barclay. "Lois, they will do this thing,
I can see. The question now is, do you care whether it is done ill or
well?"

"Certainly! If it is done, I should wish it to be as well done as
possible. Failure is more than failure."

"How about ways and means?"

"Money? O, if the people all set their hearts on it, they could do it
well enough. But they are slow to take hold of anything out of the
common run they are accustomed to. The wheels go in ruts at
Shampuashuh."

"Shampuashuh is not the only place," said Philip. "Then will you let an
outsider help?"

"Help? We would be very glad of help," said Madge; but Lois remarked,
"I think the church ought to do it themselves, if they want to do it."

"Well, hear my plan," said Mr. Dillwyn. "I think you objected to two
rival trees?"

"I object to rival anythings," said Lois; "in church matters
especially."

"Then I propose that no tree be set up, but instead, that you let Santa
Claus come in with his sledge."

"Santa Claus!" cried Lois. "Who would be Santa Claus?"

"An old man in a white mantle, his head and beard covered with snow and
fringed with icicles; his dress of fur; his sledge a large one, and
well heaped up with things to delight the children. What do you think?"

Madge's colour rose, and Lois's eye took a sparkle; both were silent.
Then Madge spoke.

"I don't see how that plan could be carried out, any more than the
other. It is a great deal better, it is magnificent; but it is a
great deal too magnificent for Shampuashuh."

"Why so?"

"Nobody here knows how to do it."

"I know how."

"You! O but,--that would be too much--"

"All you have to do is to get the other things ready, and let it be
known that at the proper time Santa Claus will appear, with a
well-furnished sled. Sharp on time."

"Well-furnished!--but there again--I don't believe we can raise money
enough for that."

"How much money?" asked Dillwyn, with an amused smile.

"O, I can't tell--I suppose a hundred dollars at least."

"I have as much as that lying useless--it may just as well do some
good. It never was heard that anybody but Santa Claus furnished his own
sled. If you will allow me, I will take care of that."

"How splendid!" cried Madge. "But it is too much; it wouldn't be right
for us to let you do all that for a church that is nothing to you."

"On the contrary, you ought to encourage me in my first endeavours to
make myself of some use in the world. Miss Madge, I have never, so far,
done a bit of good in my life."

"O, Mr. Dillwyn! I cannot believe that. People do not grow useful so
all of a sudden, without practice," said Madge, hitting a great general
truth.

"It is a fact, however," said he, half lightly, and yet evidently
meaning what he said. "I have lived thirty-two years in the
world--nearly thirty-three--without making my life of the least use to
anybody so far as I know. Do you wonder that I seize a chance?"

Lois's eyes were suddenly lifted, and then as suddenly lowered; she did
not speak.

"I can read that," he said laughingly, for his eyes had caught the
glance. "You mean, if I am so eager for chances, I might make them!
Miss Lois, I do not know how."

"Come, Philip," said Mrs. Barclay, "you are making your character
unnecessarily bad. I know you better than that. Think what you have
done for me."

"I beg your pardon," said he. "Think what you have done for me. That
score cannot be reckoned to my favour. Have no scruples, Miss Madge,
about employing me. Though I believe Miss Lois thinks the good of this
undertaking a doubtful one. How many children does your school number?"

"All together,--and they would be sure for once to be all
together!--there are a hundred and fifty."

"Have you the names?"

"O, certainly."

"And ages--proximately?"

"Yes, that too."

"And you know something, I suppose, about many of them; something about
their families and conditions?"

"About all of them?" said Madge. "Yes, indeed we do."

"Till Mrs. Barclay came, you must understand," put in Lois here, "we
had nothing, or not much, to study besides Shampuashuh; so we studied
that."

"And since Mrs. Barclay came?--" asked Philip.

"O, Mrs. Barclay has been opening one door after another of knowledge,
and we have been peeping in."

"And what special door offers most attraction to your view, of them
all?"

"I don't know. I think, perhaps, for me, geology and mineralogy; but
almost every one helps in the study of the Bible."

"O, do they!" said Dillwyn somewhat dryly.

"I like music best," said Madge.

"But that is not a door into knowledge," objected Lois.

"I meant, of all the doors Mrs. Barclay has opened to us."

"Mrs. Barclay is a favoured person."

"It is we that are favoured," said Madge. "Our life is a different
thing since she came. We hope she will never go away." Then Madge
coloured, with some sudden thought, and she went back to the former
subject. "Why do you ask about the children's ages and all that, Mr.
Dillwyn?"

"I was thinking-- When a thing is to be done, I like to do it well. It
occurred to me, that as Santa Claus must have something on his sledge
for each one, it might be good, if possible, to secure some adaptation
or fitness in the gift. Those who would like books should have books,
and the right books; and playthings had better not go astray, if we can
help it; and perhaps the poorer children would be better for articles
of clothing.--I am only throwing out hints."

"Capital hints!" said Lois. "You mean, if we can tell what would be
good for each one--I think we can, pretty nearly. But there are few
poor people in Shampuashuh, Mr. Dillwyn."

"Shampuashuh is a happy place."

"This plan will give you an immensity of work, Mr. Dillwyn."

"What then?"

"I have scruples. It is not fair to let you do it. What is Shampuashuh
to you?"

"It might be difficult to make that computation," said Mr. Dillwyn
dryly. "Have no scruples, Miss Lois. As I told you, I have nothing
better to do with myself. If you can make me useful, it will be a rare
chance."

"But there are plenty of other things to do, Mr. Dillwyn," said Lois.

He gave her only a glance and smile by way of answer, and plunged
immediately into the business question with Madge. Lois sat by, silent
and wondering, till all was settled that could be settled that evening,
and she and Madge went back to the other room.



CHAPTER XXXVII.



AN OYSTER SUPPER.



"Hurrah!" cried Madge, but softly--"Now it will go! Mother! what do you
think? Guess, Charity! Mr. Dillwyn is going to take our Sunday school
celebration on himself; he's going to do it; and we're to have, not a
stupid Christmas tree, but Santa Claus and his sled; and he'll be Santa
Claus! Won't it be fun?"

"Who'll be Santa Claus?" said Charity, looking stupefied.

"Mr. Dillwyn. In fact, he'll be Santa Claus and his sled too; he'll do
the whole thing. All we have got to do is to dress the children and
ourselves, and light up the church."

"Will the committees like that?"

"Like it? Of course they will! Like it, indeed! Don't you see it will
save them all expense? They'll have nothing to do but dress up and
light up."

"And warm up too, I hope. What makes Mr. Dillwyn do all that? I don't
just make out."

"I'll tell you," said Madge, shaking her finger at the others
impressively. "He's after Mrs. Barclay. So this gives him a chance to
come here again, don't you see?"

"After Mrs. Barclay?" repeated Charity. "I want to know!"

"I don't believe it," said Lois. "She is too old for him."

"She's not old," said Madge. "And he is no chicken, my dear. You'll
see. It's she he's after. He's coming next time as Santa Claus, that's
all. And we have got to make out a list of things--things for
presents,--for every individual girl and boy in the Sunday school;
there's a job for you. Santa Claus will want a big sled."

"Who is going to do what?" inquired Mrs. Armadale here. "I don't
understand, you speak so fast, children."

"Mother, instead of a Christmas tree, we are going to have Santa Claus
and his sled; and the sled is to be heaped full of presents for all the
children; and Mr. Dillwyn is going to do it, and get the presents, and
be Santa Claus himself."

"How, be Santa Claus?"

"Why, he will dress up like Santa Claus, and come in with his sled."

"Where?"

"In the church, grandmother; there is no other place. The other church
have their Sunday-school room you know; but we have none."

"They are going to have their tree in the church, though," said
Charity; "they reckon the Sunday-school room won't be big enough to
hold all the folks."

"Are they going to turn the church into a playhouse?" Mrs. Armadale
asked.

"It's for the sake of the church and the school, you know, mother.
Santa Claus will come in with his sled and give his presents,--that is
all. At least, that is all the play there will be."

"What else will there be?"

"O, there'll be singing, grandma," said Madge; "hymns and carols and
such things, that the children will sing; and speeches and prayers, I
suppose."

"The church used to be God's house, in my day," said the old lady, with
a concerned face, looking up from her knitting, while her fingers went
on with their work as busily as ever.

"They don't mean it for anything else, grandmother," said Madge. "It's
all for the sake of the school."

"Maybe they think so," the old lady answered.

"What else, mother? what else should it be?"

But this she did not answer.

"What's Mr. Dillwyn got to do with it?" she asked presently.

"He's going to help," said Madge. "It's nothing but kindness. He
supposes it is something good to do, and he says he'd like to be
useful."

"He hain't no idea how," said Mrs. Armadale, "Poor creatur'! You can
tell him, it ain't the Lord's work he's doin'."

"But we cannot tell him that, mother," said Lois.

"If the people want to have this celebration,--and they will,--hadn't
we better make it a good one? Is it really a bad thing?"

"The devil's ways never help no one to heaven, child, not if they go
singin' hymns all the way."

"But, mother!" cried Madge. "Mr. Dillwyn ain't a Christian, maybe, but
he ain't as bad as that."

"I didn't mean Mr. Dillwyn, dear, nor no one else. I meant theatre
work."

"Santa Claus, mother?"

"It's actin', ain't it?"

The girls looked at each other.

"There's very little of anything like acting about it," Lois said.

"'Make straight paths for your feet'!" said Mrs. Armadale, rising to go
to bed. "'Make straight paths for your feet,' children. Straight ways
is the shortest too. If the chil'en that don't love their teachers
wants to go to the yellow church, let 'em go. I'd rather have the Lord
in a little school, than Santa Claus in a big one."

She was leaving the room, but the girls stayed her and begged to know
what they should do in the matter of the lists they were engaged to
prepare for Mr. Dillwyn.

"You must do what you think best," she said. "Only don't be mixed up
with it all any more than you can help, Lois."

Why did the name of one child come to her lips and not the other? Did
the old lady's affection, or natural acuteness, discern that Mr.
Dillwyn was not drawn to Shampuashuh by any particular admiration of
his friend Mrs. Barclay? Had she some of that preternatural intuition,
plain old country woman though she was, which makes a woman see the
invisible and hear the inaudible? which serves as one of the natural
means of defence granted to the weaker creatures. I do not know; I do
not think she knew; however, the warning was given, and not on that
occasion alone. And as Lois heeded all her grandmother's admonitions,
although in this case without the most remote perception of this
possible ground to them, it followed that Mr. Dillwyn gained less by
his motion than he had hoped and anticipated.

The scheme went forward, hailed by the whole community belonging to the
white church, with the single exception of Mrs. Armadale. It went
forward and was brought to a successful termination. I might say, a
triumphant termination; only the triumph was not for Mr. Dillwyn, or
not in the line where he wanted it. He did his part admirably. A better
Santa Claus was never seen, nor a better filled sled. And genial
pleasantness, and wise management, and cool generalship, and fun and
kindness, were never better represented. So it was all through the
consultations and arrangements that preceded the festival, as well as
on the grand occasion itself; and Shampuashuh will long remember the
time with wonder and exultation; but it was Madge who was Mr. Dillwyn's
coadjutor and fellow-counsellor. It was Madge and Mrs. Barclay who
helped him in all the work of preparing and ticketing the parcels for
the sled; as well as in the prior deliberations as to what the parcels
should be. Madge seemed to be the one at hand always to answer a
question. Madge went with him to the church; and in general, Lois,
though sympathizing and curious, and interested and amused, was very
much out of the play. Not so entirely as to make the fact striking;
only enough to leave Mr. Dillwyn disappointed and tantalized.

I am not going into a description of the festival and the show. The
children sang; the minister made a speech to them, not ten consecutive
words of which were listened to by three-quarters of the people. The
church was filled with men, women, and children; the walls were hung
with festoons and wreaths, and emblazoned with mottoes; the anthems and
carols followed each other till the last thread of patience in the
waiting crowd gave way. And at last came what they were waiting
for--Santa Claus, all fur robes and snow and icicles, dragging after
him a sledge that looked like a small mountain with the heap of
articles piled and packed upon it. And then followed a very busy and
delightful hour and a half, during which the business was--the
distribution of pleasure. It was such warm work for Santa Claus, that
at the time he had no leisure for thinking. Naturally, the thinking
came afterwards.

He and Mrs. Barclay sat by her fire, resting, after coming home from
the church. Dillwyn was very silent and meditative.

"You must be glad it is done, Philip," said his friend, watching him,
and wishing to get at his thoughts.

"I have no particular reason to be glad."

"You have done a good thing."

"I am not sure if it is a good thing. Mrs. Armadale does not think so."

"Mrs. Armadale has rather narrow notions."

"I don't know. I should be glad to be sure she is not right. It's
discouraging," he added, with half a smile;--"for the first time in my
life I set myself to work; and now am not at all certain that I might
not just as well have been idle."

"Work is a good thing in itself," said Mrs. Barclay, smiling.

"Pardon me!--work for an end. Work without an end--or with the end not
attained--it is no better than a squirrel in a wheel."

"You have given a great deal of pleasure."

"To the children! For ought I know, they might have been just as well
without it. There will be a reaction to-morrow, very likely; and then
they will wish they had gone to see the Christmas tree at the other
church."

"But they were kept at their own church."

"How do I know that is any good? Perhaps the teaching at the other
school is the best."

"You are tired," said Mrs. Barclay sympathizingly.

"Not that. I have done nothing to tire me; but it strikes me it is very
difficult to see one's ends in doing good; much more difficult than to
see the way to the ends."

"You have partly missed your end, haven't you?" said Mrs. Barclay
softly.

He moved a little restlessly in his chair; then got up and began to
walk about the room; then came and sat down again.

"What are you going to do next?" she asked in the same way.

"Suppose you invite them--the two girls--or her alone--to make you a
visit in New York?"

"Where?"

"At any hotel you prefer; say, the Windsor."

"O Philip, Philip!"--

"What?--You could have pleasant rooms, and be quite private and
comfortable; as much as if you were in your own house."

"And what should we cost you?"

"You are not thinking of that?" said he. "I will get you a house, if
you like it better; but then you would have the trouble of a staff of
servants. I think the Windsor would be much the easiest plan."

"You are in earnest!"

"In earnest!" he repeated in surprise. "Have you ever questioned it?
You judge because you never saw me in earnest in anything before in my
life."

"No, indeed," said Mrs. Barclay. "I always knew it was in you. What you
wanted was only an object."

"What do you say to my plan?"

"I am afraid they would not come. There is the care of the old
grandmother; they would not leave everything to their sister alone."

"Tempt them with pictures and music, and the opera."

"The opera! Philip, she would not go to a theatre, or anything
theatrical, for any consideration. They are very strict on that point,
and Sunday-keeping, and dancing. Do not speak to her of the opera."

"They are not so far wrong. I never saw a decent opera yet in my life."

"Philip!" exclaimed Mrs. Barclay in the greatest surprise. "I never
heard you say anything like that before."

"I suppose it makes a difference," he said thoughtfully, "with what
eyes a man looks at a thing. And dancing--I don't think I care to see
her dance."

"Philip! You are extravagant."

"I believe I should be fit to commit murder if I saw her waltzing with
anybody."

"Jealous already?" said Mrs. Barclay slyly.

