into execution the plan it suggested.

She took a parasol and went out of the hotel, hatless and gloveless,
into the garden of orange trees which lies between the buildings and the
gate. She strolled leisurely along the path towards the exit, on one
side of which is the porter's lodge, while the little square stone box
of a building which is the telegraph office stands on the other. She
knew that just before twelve o'clock Ruggiero and his brother were
generally seated on the bench before the lodge waiting for orders for
the afternoon. As she expected, she found them, and she beckoned to
Ruggiero and turned back under the trees. In an instant he was at her
side. She was startled to see how pale he was and how suddenly his face
seemed to have grown thin. She stopped and he stood respectfully before
her, cap in hand, looking down.

"Ruggiero," she said, "will you do me a service?"

"Yes, Excellency."

"Yes, I know--but it is something especial. You must tell no one--not
even your brother."

"Speak, Excellency--not even the stones shall hear it."

"I want you to find out at the telegraph office whether your master has
sent a telegram anywhere this morning. Can you ask the man and bring me
word here? I will walk about under the trees."

"At once, Excellency."

He turned and left her, and she strolled up the path. She wondered a
little why she was doing this underhand thing. It was not like her, and
whatever answer Ruggiero brought her she would gain nothing by it. If
San Miniato had spoken the truth, then he had really believed the
engagement already binding, as her mother had said. If he had lied, that
would not prevent his really telegraphing within the next half hour,
and matters would be in just the same situation with a slight difference
of time. She would, indeed, in this latter case, have a fresh proof of
his duplicity. But she needed none, as it seemed to her. It was enough
that he should have acted his comedy last night and got by a stratagem
what he could never have by any other means. Ruggiero returned after two
or three minutes.

"Well?" inquired Beatrice.

"He sent one at nine o'clock this morning, Excellency."

For one minute their eyes met. Ruggiero's were fierce, bright and clear.
Beatrice's own softened almost imperceptibly under his glance. If she
had seen herself at that moment she would have noticed that the hard
look she had observed in her own face had momentarily vanished, and that
she was her gentle self again.

"One only?" she asked.

"Only one, Excellency. No one will know that I have asked, for the man
will not tell."

"Are you sure? What did you say to him? Tell me."

"I said to him, 'Don Gennaro, I am the Conte di San Miniato's sailor.
Has the Conte sent any telegram this morning, to any one, anywhere?'
Then he shook his head; but he looked into his book and said, 'He sent
one to Florence at nine o'clock.' Then I said, 'I thank you, Don
Gennaro, and I will do you a service when I can.' That was for good
manners. Then I said, 'Don Gennaro, please not to tell any one that I
asked the question, and if you tell any one I will make you die an evil
death, for I will break all your bones and moreover drown you in the
sea, and go to the galleys very gladly.' Then Don Gennaro said that he
would not tell. And here I am, Excellency."

In spite of all she was suffering, Beatrice laughed at Ruggiero's
account of the interview. It was quite evident that Ruggiero had
repeated accurately every word that had been spoken, and he looked the
man to execute the threat without the slightest hesitation. Beatrice
wondered how the telegraph official had taken it.

"What did Don Gennaro do when you frightened him, Ruggiero?" she asked.

"He said he would not tell and got a little white, Excellency. But he
will say nothing, and will not complain to the syndic, because he knows
my brother."

"What has that to do with it?" asked Beatrice with some curiosity.

"It is natural, Excellency. For if Don Gennaro went to the syndic and
said, 'Signor Sindaco, Ruggiero of the Children of the King has
threatened to kill me,' then the syndic would send for the gendarmes and
say, 'Take that Ruggiero of the Children of the King and put him in, as
we say, and see that he does not run away, for he will do a hurt to
somebody.' And perhaps they would catch me and perhaps they would not.
Then Bastianello, my brother, would wait in the road in the evening for
Don Gennaro, and would lay a hand on him, perhaps, or both. And I think
that Don Gennaro would rather be dead in his telegraph office than alive
in Bastianello's hands, because Bastianello is very strong in his hands,
Excellency. And that is all the truth."

"But I do not understand it all, Ruggiero, though I see what you mean. I
am afraid it is your language that is different from mine."

"It is natural, Excellency," answered the sailor, a deep blush spreading
over his white forehead as he stood bareheaded before her. "You are a
great lady and I am only an ignorant seaman."

"I do not mean anything of the sort, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quickly,
for she saw that she had unintentionally hurt him, and the thought
pained her strongly. "You speak very well and I have always understood
you perfectly. But you spoke of the King's Children and I could not make
out what they had to do with the story."

"Oh, if it is that, Excellency, I ask your pardon. I do not wonder that
you did not understand. It is my name, Excellency."

"Your name? Still I do not understand---"

"I have no other name but that--dei figli del RÃ¨--" said Ruggiero. "That
is all."

"How strange!" exclaimed Beatrice.

"It is the truth, Excellency, and to show you that it is the truth here
is my seaman's license."

He produced a little flat parchment case from his pocket, untied the
thong and showed Beatrice the first page on which, was inscribed his
name in full.

"Ruggiero of the Children of the King, son of the late Ruggiero, native
of Verbicaro, province of Calabria--you see, Excellency. It is the
truth."

"I never doubt anything you say, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quietly.

"I thank you, Excellency," answered the sailor, blushing this time with
pleasure. "For this and all your Excellency's kindness."

What a man he was she thought, as he stood there before her, bareheaded
in the sun-shot shade under the trees, the light playing upon his fair
hair and beard, and his blue eyes gleaming like drops from the sea! What
boys and dwarfs other men looked beside him!

"Do you know how your family came by that strange name, Ruggiero?" she
asked.

"No, Excellency. But they tell so many silly stories about us in
Verbicaro. That is in Calabria where I and my brother were born. And
when our mother, blessed soul, was dying--good health to your
Excellency--she blessed us and said this to us. 'Ruggiero, Sebastiano,
dear sons, you could not save me and I am going. God bless you,' said
she. 'Our Lady help you. Remember, you are the Children of the King.'
Then she said, 'Remember' again, as though she would say something more.
But just at that very moment Christ took her, and she did not speak
again, for she was dead--good health to your Excellency for a thousand
years. And so it was."

"And what happened then?" asked Beatrice, strangely interested and
charmed by the man's simple story.

"Then we beat Don Pietro Casale, Excellency, and spoiled all his face
and head. We were little boys, twelve and ten years old, but there was
the anger to give us strength. And so we ran away from Verbicaro,
because we had no one and we had to eat, and had beaten Don Pietro
Casale, who would have had us put in prison if he had caught us. But
thanks to Heaven we had good legs. And so we ran away, Excellency."

"It is very interesting. But what were those stories they told about you
in Verbicaro?"

"Silly stories, Excellency. They say that once upon a time King Roger
came riding by with all his army and many knights; and all armed
because there was war. And he took Verbicaro from the Turks and gave it
to a son of his who was called the Son of the King, as I would give
Bastianello half a cigar or a pipe of tobacco in the morning--it is true
he always has his own--and so the Son of the King stayed in that place
and lived there, and I have heard old men say that when their
fathers--who were also old, Excellency--were boys, many houses in
Verbicaro belonged to the Children of the King. But then they ate
everything and we have had nothing but these two hands and these two
arms and now we go about seeking to eat. But thanks to Heaven--and
to-day is Saturday--we have been able to work enough. And that is the
truth, Excellency."

"What a strange tale!" exclaimed the young girl. "But to-day is Tuesday,
Ruggiero. Why do you say it is Saturday?"

"I beg pardon of your Excellency, it is a silly custom and means
nothing. But when a man says he is well, or that there is a west wind,
or that his boat is sound, he says 'to-day is Saturday,' because it
might be Friday and he might have forgotten that. It is a silly custom,
Excellency."

"Do not call me excellency, Ruggiero," said Beatrice. "I have no right
to be called so."

"And what could I call you when I have to speak to you, Excellency? I
have been taught so."

"Only princes and dukes and their children are excellencies," answered
Beatrice. "My father was only a Marchese. So if you wish to please me,
call me 'signorina.' That is the proper way to speak to me."

"I will try, Excellency," answered Ruggiero, opening his blue eyes very
wide. Beatrice laughed a little.

"You see," she said, "you did it again."

"Yes, Signorina," replied Ruggiero. "But I will not forget again. When
the tongue of the ignorant has learned a word it is hard to change it."

"Well, good-day Ruggiero. Your story is very interesting. I am going to
breakfast, and I thank you for what you did for me."

"It is not I who deserve any thanks. And good appetite to you,
Signorina." She turned and walked slowly back towards the hotel.

"And may Our Lady bless you and keep you, and send an angel to watch
over every hair of your blessed head!" said Ruggiero in a low voice as
he watched her graceful figure retreating in the distance.




CHAPTER IX.



After what had happened on the previous evening Ruggiero had expected
that Beatrice would treat him very differently. He had assuredly not
foreseen that she would call him from his seat by the porter's lodge,
ask an important service of him, and then enter into conversation with
him about the origin of his family and the story of his own life. His
slow but logical mind pondered on these things in spite of the
disordered action of his heart, which had almost choked him while he had
been talking with the young girl. Instead of going back to his brother,
he turned aside and entered the steep descending tunnel through the rock
which leads down to the sea and the little harbour.

Two things were strongly impressed on his mind. First, the nature of the
service he had done Beatrice in making that enquiry at the telegraph
office, and secondly her readiness to forget his own reckless conduct at
Tragara. Both these points suggested reflections which pleased him
strangely. It was quite clear to him that Beatrice distrusted San
Miniato, though he had of course no idea of the nature of the telegram
concerning which she had wanted information. He only understood that she
was watching San Miniato with suspicion, expecting some sort of foul
play. But there was an immense satisfaction in that thought, and
Ruggiero's eyes sparkled as he revolved it in his brain.

As for the other matter, he understood it less clearly. He was quite
conscious of the enormity of his misdeed in telling a lady, and a great
lady, according to his view, that he loved her, and in daring to touch
the sleeves of her dress with his rough hands. He could not find it in
him to regret what he had done, but he was prepared for very hard
treatment as his just reward. It would not have surprised him if
Beatrice had then and there complained of him to her mother or to San
Miniato himself, and the latter, Ruggiero supposed, would have had no
difficulty in having him locked up in the town gaol for a few weeks on
the rather serious ground of misdemeanour towards the visitors at the
watering-place. A certain amount of rather arbitrary power is placed in
the hands of the local authorities in all great summer resorts, and it
is quite right that it should be so--nor is it as a rule unjustly used.

But Beatrice had acted very differently, very kindly and very
generously. That was because she was naturally so good and gentle,
thought Ruggiero. But the least he had expected was that she would never
again speak to him save to give an order, nor say a kind word, no matter
what service he rendered her, or what danger he ran for her sake. And
now, a moment ago, she had talked with him with more interest and kindly
condescension than she had ever shown before. He refused, and rightly,
to believe that this was because she had needed his help in the matter
of the telegram. She could have called Bastianello, who was in her own
service, and Bastianello would have done just as well. But she had
chosen to employ the man who had so rudely forgotten himself before her
less than twenty-four hours earlier. Why? Ruggiero, little capable, by
natural gifts or by experience, of dealing with such questions, found
himself face to face with a great problem of the human self, and he
knew at once that he could never solve it, try as he might. His
happiness was none the less great, nor his gratitude the less deep and
sincere, and with both these grew up instantly in his heart the strong
determination to serve her at every turn, so far as lay in his power.

It was not much that he could do, he reflected, unless she would show
him the way as she had done this very morning. But, considering the
position of affairs, and her evident distrust of her betrothed, it was
not impossible that similar situations might arise before long. If they
did, Ruggiero would be ready, as he had now shown himself, to do her
bidding with startling directness and energy. He was well aware of his
physical superiority over every one else in Sorrento, and he was dimly
conscious that a threat from him was something which would frighten most
men, and which none could afford to overlook. He remembered poor Don
Gennaro's face just now, when he had quietly told him what he might
expect if he did not hold his tongue. Ruggiero had never valued his life
very highly, and since he had loved Beatrice he did not value it a
straw. This state of mind can make a man an exceedingly dangerous
person, especially when he is so endowed that he can tear a new horse
shoe in two with his hands, and break a five franc piece with his thumbs
and forefingers as another man breaks a biscuit.

As Ruggiero came out of the tunnel and reached the platform of rock from
which the last part of the descent goes down to the sea in the open air,
he stood still a moment and expressed his determination in a low tone.
There was no one near to hear him.

"Whatever she asks," he said. "Truly it is of great importance what
becomes of me! If it is a little thing it costs nothing. If it is a
great thing--well, I will do it if I can. Then I will say,
'Excellency'--no--'Signorina, here it is done. And I beg to kiss your
Excellency's hand, because I am going to the galleys and you will not
see me any more.' And then they will put me in, and it will be finished,
and I shall always have the satisfaction."

Ruggiero produced a fragment of a cigar from his cap and a match from
the same safe place and began to smoke, looking at the sea. People not
used to the peculiarities of southern thought would perhaps have been
surprised at the desperate simplicity of Ruggiero's statement to
himself. But those who have been long familiar with men of his country
and class must all have heard exactly such words uttered more than once
in their experience, and will remember that in some cases at least they
were not empty threats, which were afterwards very exactly and
conscientiously fulfilled by him who uttered them, and who now either
wears a green cap at Ponza or Ischia, or is making a fortune in South
America, having had the luck to escape as a stowaway on a foreign
vessel.

Nor did it strike Ruggiero as at all improbable that Beatrice might some
day wish to be rid of the Conte di San Miniato, and might express such a
wish, ever so vaguely, within Ruggiero's hearing. He had the bad taste
to judge her by himself, and of course if she really hated her betrothed
she would wish him to die. It was a sin, doubtless, to wish anybody
dead, and it was a greater sin to put out one's hands and kill the
person in question. But it was human nature, according to Ruggiero's
simple view, and of course Beatrice felt like other human beings in
this matter and all the principal affairs of life. He had made up his
mind, and he never repeated the words he had spoken to himself. He was a
simple man, and he puffed at his stump of a black cigar and strolled
down to the boat to find out whether the Cripple and the Son of the Fool
had spliced that old spare mooring-rope which had done duty last night
and had been found chafed this morning.

Meanwhile the human nature on which Ruggiero counted so naturally and
confidently was going through a rather strange phase of development in
the upper regions where the Marchesa's terrace was situated.

Beatrice walked slowly back under the trees. Ruggiero's quaint talk had
amused her and had momentarily diverted the current of her thoughts. But
the moment she left him, her mind reverted to her immediate trouble, and
she felt a little stab of pain at the heart which was new to her. The
news that San Miniato had actually sent a telegram was unwelcome in the
extreme. He had, indeed, said in her presence that he had sent several.
But that might have been a careless inaccuracy, or he might have
actually written the rest and given them to be despatched before coming
upstairs. To doubt that the one message already sent contained the news
of his engagement, seemed gratuitous. It was only too sure that he had
looked upon what had passed at Tragara as a final decision on the part
of Beatrice, and that henceforth she was his affianced bride. Her mother
had not even found great difficulty in persuading her of the fact, and
after that one bitter struggle she had given up the battle. It had been
bitter indeed while it had lasted, and some of the bitterness returned
upon her now. But she would not again need to force the tears back,
pressing her hands upon her eyes with desperate strength as she had
done. It was useless to cry over what could not be helped, and since she
had made the great mistake of her life she must keep her word or lose
her good name for ever, according to the ideas in which she had been
brought up. But it would be very hard to meet San Miniato now, within
the next quarter of an hour, as she inevitably must. Less hard, perhaps,
than if she had convicted him of falsehood in the matter of the
telegram, as she had fully expected that she could--but painful enough,
heaven knew.

There was an old trace of oriental fatalism in her nature, passed down
to her, perhaps, from some Saracen ancestor in the unknown genealogy of
her family. It is common enough in the south, often profoundly leavened
with superstition, sometimes existing side by side with the most
absolute scepticism, but its influence is undeniable, and accounts for a
certain resignation in hopeless cases which would be utterly foreign to
the northern character. Beatrice had it, and having got the worst of the
first contest she conceived that further resistance would be wholly
useless, and accepted the inevitable conclusion that she must marry San
Miniato whether she liked him or not. But this state of mind did not by
any means imply that she would marry him with a good grace, or ever
again return in her behaviour towards him to the point she had reached
on the previous evening. That, thought Beatrice, would be too much to
expect, and was certainly more than she intended to give. She would be
quite willing to show that she had been deceived into consenting, and
was only keeping her word as a matter of principle. San Miniato might
think what he pleased. She knew that whatever she did, he would never
think of breaking off the engagement, since what he wanted was not
herself but her fortune. She shut her parasol with a rather vicious snap
as she went into the cool hall out of the sun, and the hard look in her
face was more accentuated than before, as she slowly ascended the steps.

The conversation between her mother and San Miniato during her short
absence had been characteristic. They understood each other perfectly
but neither would have betrayed to the other, by the merest hint, the
certainty that the marriage was by no means agreeable to poor Beatrice
herself.

"Dearest Marchesa," said San Miniato, touching her hand with his lips,
and then seating himself beside her, "tell me that you are not too much
exhausted after your exertions last night? Have you slept well? Have you
any appetite?"

"What a good doctor you would make, dear friend!" exclaimed the Marchesa
with a little smile.

And so they exchanged the amenities usual at their first meeting in the
day, as though they had not been buying and selling an innocent soul,
and did not appreciate the fact in its startling reality. Several more
phrases of the same kind were spoken.

"And how is Donna Beatrice?" inquired San Miniato at last.

"Why not call her Beatrice?" asked the Marchesa carelessly. "She is very
well. You just saw her."

"I fancy it would seem a little premature, a little familiar to call her
so," answered the Count, who remembered his recent discomfiture. "For
the present, I believe she would prefer a little more ceremony. I do not
know whether I am right. Pray give me your advice, Marchesa carissima."

"Of course you are right--you always are. You were right about the moon
yesterday--though I did not notice that it was shining here when we came
home," she added thoughtfully, not by any means satisfied with the
insufficient demonstration he had given her at first.

"No doubt," replied San Miniato indifferently. He took no further
interest in the movements of the satellite since he had gained his
point, and the Marchesa was far too lazy to revive the discussion. "I am
glad you agree with me about my behaviour," he continued. "It is of
course most important to maintain as much as possible the good
impression I was so fortunate as to make last night, and I have had
enough experience of the world to know that it will not be an easy
matter."

"No, indeed--and with Beatrice's character, too!"

"The most charming character I ever met," said San Miniato with
sufficient warmth. "But young, of course, as it should be and subject to
the enchanting little caprices which belong to youth and beauty."

"Yes, which always belong to youth and beauty," assented the Marchesa.

"And I am quite prepared, for instance, to be treated coldly to-day and
warmly to-morrow, if it so pleases the dear young lady. She will always
find me the same."

"How good you are, dearest friend!" exclaimed the Marchesa, thoroughly
understanding what he meant, and grateful to him for his tact, which was
sometimes, indeed, of the highest order.

"It would be strange if I were not happy and satisfied," he answered,
"and ready to accept gratefully the smallest favour with which it may
please Donna Beatrice to honor me."

He was indeed both happy and satisfied, for he saw no reason to suppose
that the Granmichele fortune could now slip from his grasp. Moreover he
had considerable confidence in himself and his powers, and he thought it
quite probable that the scene of the previous evening might before long
be renewed with more lasting effect. Beatrice was young and capricious;
there is nothing one may count on so surely as youth and caprice.
Caprice is sure to change, but who is sure that the faith kept for ten
years will not? In youth love is sure to come some day, but when that
day is past is it ever sure that he will come again? San Miniato knew
these things and many more like them, and was wise in his generation as
well as a man of the world, accustomed to its ways from his childhood
and nourished with the sour milk of its wisdom from his earliest youth
upward.

So he quietly conveyed to the Marchesa the information that he
understood Beatrice's present mood and that he would not attach more
importance to it than it deserved. They talked a little longer together,
both for the present avoiding any reference to the important
arrangements which must soon be discussed in connection with the
marriage contract, but both taking it entirely for granted that the
marriage itself was quite agreed upon and settled.

Then Beatrice returned and sat down silently by the table.

"Have you been for a little walk, my angel?" enquired her mother.

"Yes, mamma, I have been for a little walk."

"You are not tired then, after our excursion, Donna Beatrice?" enquired
San Miniato.

"Not in the least," answered the young girl, taking up a book and
beginning to read.

"Beatrice!" exclaimed her mother in amazement. "My child! What are you
reading! Maupassant! Have you quite forgotten yourself?"

"I am trying to, mamma. And since I am to be married--what difference
does it make?"

She spoke without laying down the volume. San Miniato pretended to pay
no attention to the incident, and slowly rolled a fat cigarette between
his fingers to soften it before smoking. The Marchesa made gestures to
Beatrice with an unusual expenditure of energy, but with no effect.

"It seems very interesting," said the latter. "I had no idea he wrote so
