who had attempted to steal the nugget.

"Good-mornin', squire," he said politely. "You look kind of tired, as if
you was up late last night."

Colson eyed him sharply. "Does he suspect?" thought he. "Yes," he
answered, in an indifferent tone, "I didn't rest very well."

"Where did you pass the night?"

"'Round here," he answered vaguely.

"You look as if you had been taking a long walk."

"You are very observing," said Colson, not over pleased.

"I always was. It pays a man--sometimes."

"I hear you've struck it rich," said Colson, not caring to take notice
of the other's significant tone.

"Found a nugget, they tell me," interpolated Ropes. "How big was it?"

"Weighs about seventy-five pounds!"

"That is luck!" said Colson, with a sickly smile. He could scarcely help
groaning as he thought of his loss.

"Well, yes, it is tolerable hefty. I reckon me and the boys will be able
to take it easy for a few years. But we came near losin' it, after
all."

"How's that?" Colson asked, but he did not venture to meet Obed's
glance.

"Some skunk saw us bringin' back the nugget, and prowled round till he
thought we was all asleep. Then he got into the cabin and carried it
off. That is, he thought he did, but we was a little too sharp for him.
We tied up a big rock in my handkerchief, and I guess he had a sweet
time carryin' it off."

"Ha, ha! A good joke!" said Colson, but his laughter was mirthless.

"I thought you'd enjoy the joke, squire," said Obed. "How I pity the
poor fellow! His arms must ache with luggin' the old rock. The best of
it is we know the fellow that took it."

"You do?" ejaculated Colson, his jaw dropping.

"Yes, Harry woke up just in the nick of time and saw him scootin' out of
the cabin. If I should tell the boys 'round here, I reckon they'd lynch
him!" added Obed quietly.

"Just so," assented Colson, but his face was of a sickly hue, and taking
Ropes by the arm he hurried him away.

"That fellow's well scared," said Obed, turning to his two young
companions. "I reckon he'll make himself scarce till we're out of the
way."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.

Obed and the boys made arrangements to travel with the party sent by the
commissioner as an escort to the nugget and other sums intrusted to it
by different miners. The strong guard gave them a sense of security
which they would not have had under other circumstances.

They were all in high spirits. They were no longer penniless
adventurers, but, though not rich, were possessed of enough gold to make
them feel so. Now that they were well fixed they were all filled with a
strong desire to see their home across the sea.

"I suppose, Obed, you'll be getting married soon after you reach home?"
said Harry.

"The very first thing I shall do will be to pay off the mortgage on
dad's farm," said Mr. Stackpole. "I want to see him a free man, with a
home that can't be taken from him. Then I'll look after the other
matter."

"You are right, Obed. I only wish I had a father to help and care for,"
said Harry soberly.

"I've got a step-father," said Jack, "but I don't feel much like helping
him."

"You have a mother, Jack."

"Yes, but I shall have to be careful about giving her money, for her
husband would get it away from her before long."

"Well, boys, we won't borrow trouble before the time comes. For all I
know Suke Stanwood may have got tired of waitin' for me, and married
some other feller."

"In that case, Obed, I suppose you would die of a broken heart."

"Not much, but I don't mind sayin' that I should feel uncommon blue."

Two days elapsed before Obed and his party started on their return trip.
Meanwhile Colson and Ropes had disappeared. The boys had expected to see
them about the camp, but they had vanished.

"I wonder what has become of them?" said Harry, just as they were
starting.

"I reckon they're hatchin' some new mischief, wherever they are,"
returned Obed composedly. "You maybe sure they're not engaged in any
honest work."

"Perhaps Colson is trying to sell his nugget," suggested Jack with a
smile.

"He's welcome to all he can get for it," said Obed.

Obed was very near the truth in his conjecture. Their greed was excited
by thoughts of the nugget which our three friends had discovered, and
their brains were busied with plans for obtaining possession of it. The
chances didn't seem very encouraging. It was under strong escort, and it
would be sheer madness for the two to attack an armed party. It would
require a much larger force than they could command to make an attack at
all practicable.

With no special plans, but with the hope that something would turn up in
their favor, the two men started for Melbourne in advance of the
government party. They were indebted for the requisite funds to a
successful theft by Colson, who was an expert in his line. It is
unnecessary to chronicle their daily progress. We will look in upon them
on the fourth day.

They were making toilsome progress, over the boggy road, when all at
once they were confronted by three bushrangers headed by Fletcher.

"Surrender, or you are dead men!" exclaimed Fletcher, with a boldness
which will be easily understood when it is considered that his force
outnumbered the travellers two to one.

Neither Colson nor Ropes appeared to be frightened. Indeed, they were
looking for such an encounter.

"All right, gentlemen," said Ropes quietly. "We are quite ready to
surrender."

"Empty your pockets," was the next order.

"All right again!" said Ropes. "I am sorry to say we haven't much to
surrender."

"Is this all you have?" asked Fletcher, frowning when a pound and ten
shillings were delivered to him as their united contributions to the
bushrangers' fund.

"We haven't a penny more."

"Search them!" said Fletcher to his followers.

A search, however, failed to bring to light anything more.

"Why, you poor tramps!" exclaimed Fletcher in disgust. "You are unworthy
the attention of gentlemen."

"Perhaps not, captain," answered Colson. "May I have a word with you in
private?"

Not without suspicion Fletcher granted this unexpected request, and
stepped aside with Colson a few paces, taking care, however, to keep
near enough to his party to insure his safety.

"Well, what have you to say?" he asked abruptly.

"I have no money to give you," replied Colson, "but I have information
that will enable you to obtain a great deal."

"What is your object in telling me this?" demanded Fletcher, still
suspiciously.

"The fact is, my friend and I want to join with you in the enterprise,
and get a fair share of the booty."

"Do you wish to join our band, then?"

"Well, not permanently, but for a little while."

"Out with the information, then!"

"Will you agree to our terms?"

"What are they?"

"We want half of the prize."

"You are very modest," said Fletcher in a sarcastic tone. "How much will
it amount to?"

"Not far from a hundred thousand dollars."

Fletcher pricked up his ears. This was indeed a prize worth trying for.

"Give particulars," he said.

"A big nugget is on the way to Melbourne, or will be in a day or two. It
was found at Bendigo. I don't know how much it will net, but probably
seventy-five thousand dollars. Then there is a considerable amount of
dust besides."

"Who is to carry it? Is it in the hands of a private party?"

"No, it is under government escort."

Fletcher's countenance changed.

"That is a different matter," he said. "There is danger in attacking a
government party."

"Think of the big sum at stake."

"It would require the co-operation of the whole band."

"Suppose it does."

"There will be more to divide it among. The captain would not agree for
a moment to give away half."

"Say a third, then."

"I am not authorized to make any bargain. That will be for the captain
to decide. You had better tell me all you know about it, and I will lay
it before the captain and secure you the best terms I can on
conditions----"

"Well?"

"That you give me quarter of your share."

"That is unreasonable," said Colson, disappointed.

"Then go ahead and rob the government train yourself."

Colson saw that he was helpless, and must submit to any terms proposed.
He accordingly signified his assent.

"Very well, then," said Fletcher, "you may come with us, and I will
introduce you to the captain. By the way, who found the nugget? You have
not told me that."

"A Yankee and two boys."

"What was the Yankee's name?" asked Fletcher eagerly.

"Stackpole--Obed Stackpole."

Fletcher whistled.

"I know the man," he said. "The boys are about sixteen--one a sailor?"

"Yes."

"I know them all, and I owe them all a grudge. There is nothing I should
like better than to take all they have and leave them penniless."

"I don't like them myself," said Colson, thinking this was the way to
curry favor with his new acquaintance.

"You know them also?"

"Yes; they have treated me meanly."

Colson probably referred to their substituting a common rock for the
rich nugget, and so subjecting him to mortification and disappointment.

Fletcher asked him a few more questions, and then with the new
accessions plunged into the woods, and led his party to the headquarters
of the bushrangers.




CHAPTER XXXI.

TAKEN CAPTIVE.

The new recruits, on being introduced to the captain of the bushrangers,
were subjected to a searching examination by the chief, a suspicion
having arisen in his mind that the two were spies sent out by the
government to lure the outlaws into a trap. He was convinced after a
while that they were acting in good faith, and a conference was called
to decide what should be done in the matter. On this point opinions
differed. The nugget, of course, would be a valuable prize, but it would
be impossible to dispose of it in Melbourne, as the fact of its
discovery would have been published, and any person attempting to sell
it would be instantly arrested. This view was held by Captain Ring
himself.

"That objection is easily met," said Fletcher.

"In what way?"

"One of the band could be sent to America to dispose of it. He could
carry it in his trunk as ordinary luggage."

"Perhaps you would like to undertake the commission," said Captain
Ring.

"I should be very willing," said Fletcher eagerly.

"I don't doubt you would," returned the captain, in a sarcastic tone.
"Who would insure your making over the proceeds to us?"

"I hope you don't doubt my integrity," said Fletcher, with an air of
virtuous indignation.

"Perhaps I had better say nothing on that subject, Fletcher. The band
are unwilling to subject you to the temptation--that's all. Many good
men go wrong."

"You might send someone with me," suggested Fletcher, unwilling to give
up the tempting prospect.

"We haven't got the nugget yet," answered the captain dryly.

Colson and Ropes had listened with interest to the discussion. They
began to fear that nothing would be done. They would have been as much
opposed as anyone to trusting Fletcher, as he had not inspired them with
confidence. It takes a rogue to detect a rogue, and they already
suspected his true character. Their hope of revenge on Obed Stackpole
seemed slipping through their fingers.

"The Yankee and the two boys have a good deal of gold about them,"
suggested Colson. "Of course it isn't much, compared with the nugget,
but it is better than nothing."

"How much has the Yankee?" demanded King.

"Three hundred pounds at least."

"That is something, but as he will travel with the government escort, we
should have to attack the whole party."

"Not necessarily. I have a plan that I think will work."

"Detail it."

Colson did so. What it was will appear in due time.

Meanwhile Obed and the two boys had started on their way to Melbourne.
With a strong military escort they gave themselves up to joyful
anticipations of the bright future that opened before them. They no
longer entertained apprehensions of being waylaid, being secure in the
strength of their party.

They travelled by easy stages, and at night camped out. A sentry was
always posted, who stood guard while the rest were asleep, for, unlikely
as an attack might be, it was deemed necessary to provide against it.

Often, however, after supper Obed and the two boys would take a walk
together, in order to talk over their plans without interruption from
others. On the third evening they unwittingly walked a little further
than usual. Harry was the first to notice it.

"Hadn't we better return, Obed?" he said. "We must be a mile from the
camp."

"You are right," said Obed. "It would be rather unlucky to meet with the
bushrangers, just as we are gettin' on so well."

"That's true; we mustn't run any risks."

They started to return, when Jack, stopping suddenly, said, "I thought I
heard a groan."

"So did I," said Harry.

They paused, and the groan was repeated. It appeared to come from a
couple of rods to the left in the recesses of the forest.

"If there's any poor critter in pain we ought to help him," said Obed,
"come along, boys!"

It was not difficult to discover the spot from which the groan
proceeded. A man of middle age lay outstretched beneath a tree, with an
expression of pain on his face.

"What's the matter, my friend?" asked Obed, standing over him.

"The bushrangers have robbed and beaten me," said the prostrate man
feebly.

"You don't say so! How long since?"

"About an hour."

"Then they must be near by," said Harry.

"No; they went away as soon as they got my money."

Meanwhile Jack had been attentively examining the face of the alleged
victim. He quietly beckoned to Harry to move off to a little distance.

"Well, Jack, what is it?" asked Harry, somewhat surprised.

"That man is one of the bushrangers. I remember his face very well. It
is one of the gang that captured us."

Harry was naturally startled.

"Are you sure of this?" he asked.

"Yes, I know him as well as I do Obed."

"Then it is a plot. We must get away if we can. There is danger in
staying here."

"You are right there, Harry."

"I will go up and take Obed's place while you call him away."

Harry advanced to the side of the victim, and said quietly, "Jack wishes
to speak to you a moment, Obed. He thinks we can carry this gentleman
with us, as he has lost all his money."

"Very well," said Obed, and walked to where Jack was standing.

Harry scrutinized the man's face, and he too recognized him as one of
the gang--but his face did not betray his suspicions.

"Were you robbed of much money?" he asked in a sympathizing tone.

"I had the value of a hundred pounds with me," said the other feebly.

"I suppose you came from Bendigo like ourselves?"

"Yes; have you been lucky?"

"We had some luck, but we are tired of mining, and are going back to
Melbourne. Would you like to have us take you along also?"

"Yes, if you would be so kind."

At this moment Obed's voice was heard.

"Come here, Harry; we'll make a litter to carry our friend there if he
is unable to walk."

"All right, Obed."

There might have been something in Obed's voice that betrayed him. At
any rate, the victim, looking up, eyed him keenly, and then, to the
surprise of the boys, gave a sharp whistle. Their suspicions were at
once kindled, and they started to run, but too late. From the underbrush
there sprang out three bushrangers, accompanied by Colson and Ropes, who
covered the boys with their weapons.

"Halt there!" exclaimed Fletcher in a tone of authority.

"Oh, it's you, is it?" said Obed with apparent coolness, though his
heart sank within him.

"Yes, it's I, Mr. Stackpole," returned Fletcher, with a grim smile. "I
hope you're better fixed than when we met last. I hear you've found a
nugget."

"One of those gentlemen with you can give you information about that,"
said Obed, indicating Colson.

Colson frowned and bit his lip.

"He has told us about it."

"Ask him for it, then. He broke into our tent the night we found it and
carried it off."

"Is this true?" demanded Fletcher, eying Colson suspiciously.

"No, it's a lie. The nugget is in charge of a mounted escort on the way
to Melbourne."

"What have you done with your nugget, Colson?" asked Obed.

Colson did not reply.

"There's no time to waste here. Stackpole, you and the boys will have to
go with us. Here, you two men, close behind them. We must not let them
escape."

The party started with the captives in the middle. It was decidedly a
bad outlook for our three friends.




CHAPTER XXXII.

OBED IN A TIGHT PLACE.

It must be confessed that the reflections of Obed and the two boys were
