had to marry. He was an honest gentleman. Then he was killed. That hurt
too, for I was very fond of him--but it did not hurt as the other did.
Nothing could."

Her voice shook, and she turned away her face. At least, he should not
see that her lip trembled.

"I didn't think you cared," said Sir Adam, and his own voice was not
very steady.

She turned upon him almost fiercely, and there was a blue light in her
faded eyes.

"I! You thought I didn't care? You've no right to say that--it's wicked
of you, and it's cruel. Did you think I married you for your money,
Adam? And if I had--should I have given it up to be divorced because you
gave jewels to an actress? I loved you, and I wanted your love, or
nothing. You couldn't be faithful--commonly, decently faithful, for one
year--and I got myself free from you, because I would not be your wife,
nor eat your bread, nor touch your hand, if you couldn't love me. Don't
say that you ever loved me, except my face. We hadn't been divorced a
year when you married again. Don't say that you loved me! You loved your
wife--your second wife--perhaps. I hope so. I hope you love her now--and
I dare say you do, for she looks happy--but don't say that you ever
loved me--just long enough to marry me and betray me!"

"You're hard, Lucy. You're as hard as ever you were twenty years ago,"
said Adam Johnstone.

As he leaned forward, resting an elbow on his knee, he passed his brown
hand across his eyes, and then stared vaguely at the white walls of the
old hotel beyond the platform.

"But you know that I'm right," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Perhaps I'm
hard, too. I'm sorry. You said that you had been mad, I remember--I
don't like to think of all you said, but you said that. And I remember
thinking that I had been much more mad than you, to have married you,
but that I should soon be really mad--raving mad--if I remained your
wife. I couldn't. I should have died. Afterwards I thought it would have
been better if I had died then. But I lived through it. Then, after the
death of my old aunt, I was alone. What was I to do? I was poor and
lonely, and a divorced woman, though the right had been on my side.
Richard Bowring knew all about it, and I married him. I did not love you
any more, then, but I told him the truth when I told him that I could
never love any one again. He was satisfied--so we were married."

"I don't blame you," said Sir Adam.

"Blame me! No--it would hardly be for you to blame me, if I could make
anything of the shreds of my life which I had saved from yours. For that
matter--you were free too. It was soon done, but why should I blame you
for that? You were free--by the law--to go where you pleased, to love
again, and to marry at once. You did. Oh no! I don't blame you for
that!"

Both were silent for some time. But Mrs. Bowring's eyes still had an
indignant light in them, and her fingers twitched nervously from time to
time. Sir Adam stared stolidly at the white wall, without looking at his
former wife.

"I've been talking about myself," she said at last. "I didn't mean to,
for I need no justification. When you said that you wanted to say
something, I brought you here so that we could be alone. What was it? I
should have let you speak first."

"It was this." He paused, as though choosing his words. "Well, I don't
know," he continued presently. "You've been saying a good many things
about me that I would have said myself. I've not denied them, have I?
Well, it's this. I wanted to see you for years, and now we've met. We
may not meet again, Lucy, though I dare say we may live a long time. I
wish we could, though. But of course you don't care to see me. I was
your husband once, and I behaved like a brute to you. You wouldn't want
me for a friend now that I am old."

He waited, but she said nothing.

"Of course you wouldn't," he continued. "I shouldn't, in your place. Oh,
I know! If I were dying or starving, or very unhappy, you would be
capable of doing anything for me, out of sheer goodness. You're only
just to people who aren't suffering. You were always like that in the
old days. It's so much the worse for us. I have nothing about me to
excite your pity. I'm strong, I'm well, I'm very rich, I'm relatively
happy. I don't know how much I cared for my wife when I married her, but
she has been a good wife, and I'm very fond of her now, in my own way.
It wasn't a good action, I admit, to marry her at all. She was the
beauty of her year and the best match of the season, and I was just
divorced, and every one's hand was against me. I thought I would show
them what I could do, winged as I was, and I got her. No; it wasn't a
thing to be proud of. But somehow we hit it off, and she stuck to me,
and I grew fond of her because she did, and here we are as you see us,
and Brook is a fine fellow, and likes me. I like him too. He's honest
and faithful, like his mother. There's no justice and no logic in this
world, Lucy. I was a good-for-nothing in the old days. Circumstances
have made me decently good, and a pretty happy man besides, as men go. I
couldn't ask for any pity if I tried."

"No; you're not to be pitied. I'm glad you're happy. I don't wish you
any harm."

"You might, and I shouldn't blame you. But all that isn't what I wished
to say. I'm getting old, and we may not meet any more after this. If
you wish me to go away, I'll go. We'll leave the place tomorrow."

"No. Why should you? It's a strange situation, as we were to-day at
table. You with your wife beside, and your divorced wife opposite you,
and only you and I knowing it. I suppose you think, somehow--I don't
know--that I might be jealous of your wife. But twenty-seven years make
a difference, Adam. It's half a lifetime. It's so utterly past that I
sha'n't realise it. If you like to stay, then stay. No harm can come of
it, and that was so very long ago. Is that what you want to say?"

"No." He hesitated. "I want you to say that you forgive me," he said, in
a quick, hoarse voice.

His keen dark eyes turned quickly to her face, and he saw how very pale
she was, and how the shadows had deepened under her eyes, and her
fingers twitched nervously as they clasped one another in her lap.

"I suppose you think I'm sentimental," he said, looking at her. "Perhaps
I am; but it would mean a good deal to me if you would just say it."

There was something pathetic in the appeal, and something young too, in
spite of his grey beard and furrowed face. Still Mrs. Bowring said
nothing. It meant almost too much to her, even after twenty-seven
years. This old man had taken her, an innocent young girl, had married
her, had betrayed her while she dearly loved him, and had blasted her
life at the beginning. Even now it was hard to forgive. The suffering
was not old, and the sight of his face had touched the quick again.
Barely ten minutes had passed since the pain had almost wrung the tears
from her.

"You can't," said the old man, suddenly. "I see it. It's too much to
ask, I suppose, and I've never done anything to deserve it."

The pale face grew paler, but the hands were still, and grasped each
other, firm and cold. The lips moved, but no sound came. Then a moment,
and they moved again.

"You're mistaken, Adam. I do forgive you."

He caught the two hands in his, and his face shivered.

"God bless you, dear," he tried to say, and he kissed the hands twice.

When Mrs. Bowring looked up he was sitting beside her, just as before;
but his face was terribly drawn, and strange, and a great tear had
trickled down the furrowed brown cheek into the grey beard.




CHAPTER XI


Lady Johnstone was one of those perfectly frank and honest persons who
take no trouble to conceal their anxieties. From the fact that when she
had met him on the way up to the hotel Brook had been walking alone with
Clare Bowring, she had at once argued that a considerable intimacy
existed between the two. Her meeting with Clare's mother, and her sudden
fancy for the elder woman, had momentarily allayed her fears, but they
revived when it became clear to her that Brook sought every possible
opportunity of being alone with the young girl. She was an eminently
practical woman, as has been said, which perhaps accounted for her
having made a good husband out of such a man as Adam Johnstone had been
in his youth. She had never seen Brook devote himself to a young girl
before now. She saw that Clare was good to look at, and she promptly
concluded that Brook must be in love. The conclusion was perfectly
correct, and Lady Johnstone soon grew very nervous. Brook was too young
to marry, and even if he had been old enough his mother thought that he
might have made a better choice. At all events he should not entangle
himself in an engagement with the girl; and she began systematically to
interfere with his attempts to be alone with her. Brook was as frank as
herself. He charged her with trying to keep him from Clare, and she did
not deny that he was right. This led to a discussion on the third day
after the Johnstones' arrival.

"You mustn't make a fool of yourself, Brook, dear," said Lady Johnstone.
"You are not old enough to marry. Oh, I know, you are five-and-twenty,
and ought to have come to years of discretion. But you haven't, dear
boy. Don't forget that you are Adam Johnstone's son, and that you may be
expected to do all the things that he did before I married him. And he
did a good many things, you know. I'm devoted to your father, and if he
were in the room I should tell you just what I am telling you now.
Before I married him he had about a thousand flirtations, and he had
been married too, and had gone off with an actress--a shocking affair
altogether! And his wife had divorced him. She must have been one of
those horrible women who can't forgive, you know. Now, my dear boy, you
aren't a bit better than your father, and that pretty Clare Bowring
looks as though she would never forgive anybody who did anything she
didn't like. Have you asked her to marry you?"

"Good heavens, no!" cried Brook. "She wouldn't look at me!"

"Wouldn't look at you? That's simply ridiculous, you know! She'd marry
you out of hand--unless she's perfectly idiotic. And she doesn't look
that. Leave her alone, Brook. Talk to the mother. She's one of the most
delightful women I ever met. She has a dear, quiet way with her--like a
very thoroughbred white cat that's been ill and wants to be petted."

"What extraordinary ideas you have, mother!" laughed Brook. "But on
general principles I don't see why I shouldn't marry Miss Bowring, if
she'll have me. Why not? Her father was a gentleman, you like her
mother, and as for herself--"

"Oh, I've nothing against her. It's all against you, Brook dear. You are
such a dreadful flirt, you know! You'll get tired of the poor girl and
make her miserable. I'm sure she isn't practical, as I am. The very
first time you look at some one else she'll get on a tragic horse and
charge the crockery--and there will be a most awful smash! It's not easy
to manage you Johnstones when you think you are in love. I ought to
know!"

"I say, mother," said Brook, "has anybody been telling you stories
about me lately?"

"Lately? Let me see. The last I heard was that Mrs. Crosby--the one you
all call Lady Fan--was going to get a divorce so as to marry you."

"Oh--you heard that, did you?"

"Yes--everybody was talking about it and asking me whether it was true.
It seems that she was with that party that brought you here. She left
them at Naples, and came home at once by land, and they said she was
giving out that she meant to marry you. I laughed, of course. But people
wouldn't talk about you so much, dear boy, if there were not so much to
talk about. I know that you would never do anything so idiotic as that,
and if Mrs. Crosby chooses to flirt with you, that's her affair. She's
older than you, and knows more about it. But this is quite another
thing. This is serious. You sha'n't make love to that nice girl, Brook.
You sha'n't! I'll do something dreadful, if you do. I'll tell her all
about Mrs. Leo Cairngorm or somebody like that. But you sha'n't marry
her and ruin her life."

"You're going in for philanthropy, mother," said Brook, growing red.
"It's something new. You never made a fuss before."

"No, of course not. You never were so foolish before, my dear boy. I'm
not bad myself, I believe. But you are, every one of you, and I love you
all, and the only way to do anything with you is to let you run wild a
little first. It's the only practical, sensible way. And you've only
just begun--how in the world do you dare to think of marrying? Upon my
word, it's too bad. I won't wait. I'll frighten the girl to death with
stories about you, until she refuses to speak to you! But I've taken a
fancy to her mother, and you sha'n't make the child miserable. You
sha'n't, Brook. Oh, I've made up my mind! You sha'n't. I'll tell the
mother too. I'll frighten them all, till they can't bear the sight of
you."

Lady Johnstone was energetic, as well as original, in spite of her
abnormal size, and Brook knew that she was quite capable of carrying out
her threat, and more also.

"I may be like my father in some ways," he answered. "But I'm a good
deal like you too, mother. I'm rather apt to stick to what I like, you
know. Besides, I don't believe you would do anything of the kind. And
she isn't inclined to like me, as it is. I believe she must have heard
some story or other. Don't make things any worse than they are."

"Then don't lose your head and ask her to marry you after a fortnight's
acquaintance, Brook, because she'll accept you, and you will make her
perfectly wretched."

He saw that it was not always possible to argue with his mother, and he
said nothing more. But he reflected upon her point of view, and he saw
that it was not altogether unjust, as she knew him. She could not
possibly understand that what he felt for Clare Bowring bore not the
slightest resemblance to what he had felt for Lady Fan, if, indeed, he
had felt anything at all, which he considered doubtful now that it was
over, though he would have been angry enough at the suggestion a month
earlier. To tell the truth, he felt quite sure of himself at the present
time, though all his sensations were more or less new to him. And his
mother's sudden and rather eccentric opposition unexpectedly
strengthened his determination. He might laugh at what he called her
originality, but he could not afford to jest at the prospect of her
giving Clare an account of his life. She was quite capable of it, and
would probably do it.

These preoccupations, however, were as nothing compared with the main
point--the certainty that Clare would refuse him, if he offered himself
to her, and when he left his mother he was in a very undetermined state
of mind. If he should ask Clare to marry him now, she would refuse him.
But if his mother interfered, it would be much worse a week hence.

At last, as ill-luck would have it, he came upon her unexpectedly in the
corridor, as he came out, and they almost ran against each other.

"Won't you come out for a bit?" he asked quickly and in a low voice.

"Thanks--I have some letters to write," answered the young girl.
"Besides, it's much too hot. There isn't a breath of air."

"Oh, it's not really hot, you know," said Brook, persuasively.

"Then it's making a very good pretence!" laughed Clare.

"It's ever so much cooler out of doors. If you'll only come out for one
minute, you'll see. Really--I'm in earnest."

"But why should I go out if I don't want to?" asked the young girl.

"Because I asked you to--"

"Oh, that isn't a reason, you know," she laughed again.

"Well, then, because you really would, if I hadn't asked you, and you
only refuse out of a spirit of opposition," suggested Brook.

"Oh--do you think so? Do you think I generally do just the contrary of
what I'm asked to do?"

"Of course, everybody knows that, who knows you." Brook seemed amused
at the idea.

"If you think that--well, I'll come, just for a minute, if it's only to
show you that you are quite wrong."

"Thanks, awfully. Sha'n't we go for the little walk that was interrupted
when my people came the other day?"

"No--it's too hot, really. I'll walk as far as the end of the terrace
and back--once. Do you mind telling me why you are so tremendously
anxious to have me come out this very minute?"

"I'll tell you--at least, I don't know that I can--wait till we are
outside. I should like to be out with you all the time, you know--and I
thought you might come, so I asked you."

"You seem rather confused," said Clare gravely.

"Well, you know," Brook answered as they walked along towards the
dazzling green light that filled the door, "to tell the truth, between
one thing and another--" He did not complete the sentence.

"Yes?" said Clare, sweetly. "Between one thing and another--what were
you going to say?"

Brook did not answer as they went out into the hot, blossom-scented air,
under the spreading vines.

"Do you mean to say it's cooler here than indoors?" asked the young
girl in a tone of resignation.

"Oh, it's much cooler! There's a breeze at the end of the walk."

"The sea is like oil," observed Clare. "There isn't the least breath."

"Well," said Brook, "it can't be really hot, because it's only the first
week in June after all."

"This isn't Scotland. It's positively boiling, and I wish I hadn't come
out. Beware of first impulses--they are always right!"

But she glanced sideways at his face, for she knew that something was in
the air. She was not sure what to expect of him just then, but she knew
that there was something to expect. Her instinct told her that he meant
to speak and to say more than he had yet said. It told her that he was
going to ask her to marry him, then and there, in the blazing noon,
under the vines, but her modesty scouted the thought as savouring of
vanity. At all events she would prevent him from doing it if she could.

"Lady Johnstone seems to like this place," she said, with a sudden
effort at conversation. "She says that she means to make all sorts of
expeditions."

"Of course she will," answered Brook, in a half-impatient tone. "But,
please--I don't want to talk about my mother or the landscape. I really
did want to speak to you, because I can't stand this sort of thing any
longer, you know."

"What sort of thing?" asked Clare innocently, raising her eyes to his,
as they reached the end of the walk.

It was very hot and still. Not a breath stirred the young vine-leaves
overhead, and the scent of the last orange-blossoms hung in the
motionless air. The heat rose quivering from the sea to southward, and
the water lay flat as a mirror under the glory of the first summer's
day.

They stood still. Clare felt nervous, and tried to think of something to
say which might keep him from speaking, and destroy the effect of her
last question. But it was too late now. He was pale, for him, and his
eyes were very bright.

"I can't live without you--it comes to that. Can't you see?"

The short plain words shook oddly as they fell from his lips. The two
stood quite still, each looking into the other's face. Brook grew paler
still, but the colour rose in Clare's cheeks. She tried to meet his eyes
steadily, without feeling that he could control her.

"I'm sorry," she said, "I'm very sorry."

"You sha'n't say that," he answered, cutting her words with his, and
sharply. "I'm tired of hearing it. I'm glad I love you, whatever you do
to me; and you must get to like me. You must. I tell you I can't live
without you."

"But if I can't--" Clare tried to say.

"You can--you must--you shall!" broke in Brook, hoarsely, his eyes
growing brighter and fiercer. "I didn't know what it was to love
anybody, and now that I know, I can't live without it, and I won't."

"But if--"

"There is no 'if,'" he cried, in his low strong voice, fixing her eyes
with his. "There's no question of my going mad, or dying, or anything
half so weak, because I won't take no. Oh, you may say it a hundred
times, but it won't help you. I tell you I love you. Do you understand
what that means? I'm in God's own earnest. I'll give you my life, but I
won't give you up. I'll take you somehow, whether you will or not, and
I'll hide you somewhere, but you sha'n't get away from me as long as you
live."

"You must be mad!" exclaimed the young girl, scarcely above her breath,
half-frightened, and unable to loose her eyes from the fascination of
his.

"No, I'm not mad; only you've never seen any one in earnest before, and
you've been condemning me without evidence all along. But it must stop
now. You must tell me what it is, for I have a right to know. Tell me
what it all is. I will know--I will. Look at me; you can't look away
till you tell me."

Clare felt his power, and felt that his eyes were dazzling her, and that
if she did not escape from them she must yield and tell him. She tried,
and her eyelids quivered. Then she raised her hand to cover her own
eyes, in a desperate attempt to keep her secret. He caught it and held
it, and still looked. She turned pale suddenly. Then her words came
mechanically.

"I was out there when you said 'good-bye' to Lady Fan. I heard
everything, from first to last."

He started in surprise, and the colour rose suddenly to his face. He did
not look away yet, but Clare saw the blush of shame in his face, and
felt that his power diminished, while hers grew all at once, to
overmaster him in turn.

"It's scarcely a fortnight since you betrayed her," she said, slowly and
distinctly, "and you expect me to like you and to believe that you are
in earnest."

His shame turned quickly to anger.

"So you listened!" he exclaimed.

"Yes, I listened," she answered, and her words came easily, then, in
self-defence--for she had thought of it all very often. "I didn't know
who you were. My mother and I had been sitting beside the cross in the
shadow of the cave, and she went in to finish a letter, leaving me
there. Then you two came out talking. Before I knew what was happening
you had said too much. I felt that if I had been in Lady Fan's place I
would far rather never know that a stranger was listening. So I sat
still, and I could not help hearing. How was I to know that you meant to
stay here until I heard you say so to her? And I heard everything. You
are ashamed now that you know that I know. Do you wonder that I disliked
you from the first?"

"I don't see why you should," answered Brook stubbornly. "If you do--you
do. That doesn't change matters--"

"You betrayed her!" cried Clare indignantly. "You forgot that I heard
all you said--how you promised to marry her if she could get a divorce.
It was horrible, and I never dreamt of such things, but I heard it. And
then you were tired of her, I suppose, and you changed your mind, and
calmly told her that it was all a mistake. Do you expect any woman, who
has seen another treated in that way, to forget? Oh, I saw her face, and
I heard her sob. You broke her heart for your amusement. And it was only
a fortnight ago!"

She had the upper hand now, and she turned from him with a last
scornful glance, and looked over the low wall at the sea, wondering how
he could have held her with his eyes a moment earlier. Brook stood
motionless beside her, and there was silence. He might have found much
in self-defence, but there was not one word of it which he could tell
her. Perhaps she might find out some day what sort of person Lady Fan
was, but his own lips were closed. That was his view of what honour
meant.

Clare felt that her breath came quickly, and that the colour was deep in
her cheeks as she gazed at the flat, hot sea. For a moment she felt a
woman's enormous satisfaction in being absolutely unanswerable. Then,
all at once, she had a strong sensation of sickness, and a quick pain
shot sharply through her just below the heart. She steadied herself by
the wall with her hands, and shut her lips tightly.

She had refused him as well as accused him. He would go away in a few
moments, and never try to be alone with her again. Perhaps he would
leave Amalfi that very day. It was impossible that she should really
care for him, and yet, if she did not care, she would not ask the next
question. Then he spoke to her. His voice was changed and very quiet
now.

"I'm sorry you heard all that," he said. "I don't wonder that you've
got a bad opinion of me, and I suppose I can't say anything just now to
make you change it. You heard, and you think you have a right to judge.
Perhaps I shouldn't even say this--you heard me then, and you have heard
me now. There's a difference, you'll admit. But all that you heard then,
and all that you have told me now, can't change the truth, and you can't
