

                                 CHAPTER XIV

                     SIR HENRY HAVELOCK AND THE MUTINY


The announcement that land was in sight produced some excitement, and the
speaker good-naturedly paused to enable the company to see whatever was to
be seen. They looked to the eastward, but they could see nothing. They
stood upon the promenade, and strained their eyes to the utmost; but it
required a nautical eye to make land out of the dim haze in the distance,
for that was all there was of it.

"I can readily understand your desire to obtain the first view of India,"
said Lord Tremlyn.

"But they will not obtain it yet a while," added the commander.

Louis and Felix had ascended the fore-rigging, and discovered what might
have been the land or a bank of clouds. There were a great number of boats
and small craft in sight, but none of them were near enough to be seen
distinctly. They observed that the Guardian-Mother had reduced her speed.

"We shall not be where you can see anything for an hour or more," continued
Captain Ringgold. "We have to pass some rather dangerous rocks in this
vicinity, and we shall proceed cautiously till we take a pilot."

"A number of large vessels have been wrecked in this locality," said the
viscount; "and in a little while you will get in among the multitude of
fishing-craft that swarm off the islands."

When the company were satisfied that there was nothing to be seen, they
resumed their seats, and the "live boys" in the fore-rigging returned to
their places. All were greatly interested in the viscount's account of the
mutiny; and he had suspended his narrative just where cunning writers of
exciting stories place the "To be continued."

"I had hardly finished what I had to say, or at least what I intended to
say; for there are still a great many points upon which I have not touched,
leaving them to be brought up as you proceed on your travels through this
interesting country," said Lord Tremlyn.

"Go on! Go on!" said quite a majority of the party.

"I have been here before, and perhaps you will excuse me if I have occasion
to leave before your lordship has finished; and with this understanding, I
think you had better proceed," added the commander.

"I will do so with the greatest pleasure," replied the speaker, as he took
his place on the rostrum again. "I have described the terrible situation to
which the English in India had been reduced, with nearly a hundred thousand
Sepoys in rebellion, and the troops outnumbered a hundred to one, shut up
in camps and forts. The fanatical and blood-thirsty mob, far greater than
the body of native soldiers, were eager to fall upon and slaughter all
Europeans.

"At this time there were 40,000 British troops scattered over the country;
several thousand men on their way from England to China were diverted to
this country. Forty thousand from home were on their voyage of 12,000 miles
around the Cape of Good Hope to relieve the besieged garrisons. But in the
midst of the gloom of this miserable summer there was a gleam of sunshine,
and the sad disasters at Cawnpore and elsewhere were partially retrieved.
This came on the appearance of Henry Havelock, whose noble example of a
true life I commend to my young friends here who are just entering upon
their careers.

"Havelock was born in 1795. His father was a merchant, and he was well
educated. He was at first intended for the law; but he followed the example
of his brother, and entered the army a month after the battle of Waterloo.
In 1823 he was sent to India; and on the voyage he became a Christian in
the truest sense of the word, and this event influenced his life. He was
employed in the Afghan and Sikh wars; but he had learned 'to labor and to
wait,' and he was still a lieutenant after twenty-three years' service.

"He was in command of a division of the army that invaded Persia in 1856.
The news of the Indian mutiny called him hastily to Calcutta. Following the
Ganges to Allahabad," continued the speaker, pointing out the river and the
city on the map, "he organized, at this point, a force of two thousand men,
and pushed on for Cawnpore, driving the enemy before him. At Fatehpur the
rebels made a stand; but they broke before his little band, and he hastened
on to his destination.

"Nana Sahib, the native leader of the mutiny, was the adopted son of the
former peshwa, or ruler, of the Mahrattas, as certain states in the west
and middle of India are called. His foster-father had been deprived of his
dominion, and lived on a pension paid by the British. The son had been
brought up as a nobleman, with expensive habits. When the father died in
1851, the pension was not continued to the son. He was bitterly
disappointed that his income was cut off, and it stirred up all the bad
blood in his nature, and there was a good deal of it. He did his best to
foment discontent, and succeeded too well; for the mutiny was his work.

"As Havelock and his puny force approached Cawnpore, this miscreant incited
the cold-blooded massacre of all the women and children the rebels had
captured on the day before the place was taken. The intrepid general found
the Sepoys strongly intrenched at a village; but he turned their left, and
carried the works by a splendid charge of the 78th Highlanders. Entering
Cawnpore, he saw the results of the atrocious massacre in the mutilated
bodies of the women and children with his own eyes.

"The sight inspired the little band of heroes with renewed courage, and
Havelock began his march upon Lucknow.

"After fighting eight victorious battles, his little force was so reduced
by sickness and fatigue that he was forced to retire to Cawnpore. In
September General Outram arrived there with additional troops, and
operations against Lucknow were renewed. The general in command of this
force outranked Havelock, and the command belonged to him; but with a noble
generosity he waived his claim, and served in the expedition under his
victorious subordinate as a volunteer.

"Havelock's army now numbered 2,500 men, with seventeen guns. He
encountered the enemy, and scattered them several times. They reached the
thickly settled town where each house was a fortress, and with valor equal
to anything on record, fought their way to the Residency, where they were
rapturously received by the beleaguered garrison.

"But with all that could be mustered they were only a handful of men
compared with the hosts that surrounded them, and in turn they were at once
besieged by the rebels. They were not the men to yield to any odds; and
they held their own till November, when Sir Colin Campbell, with 4,700
regulars, forced his way through the enemy, and relieved the place. He was
one of the bravest and most distinguished generals of modern times. He
fought in the United States in 1814, and in many other parts of the world.
He was in the Crimea, and Alma and Balaklava are called his battles; for he
did the most to win them.

"In India he completed the work which Havelock had begun, and the following
year announced to the viceroy that the rebellion was ended. Just before he
had been created Lord Clyde. On his return to England he was made a
field-marshal, and received a pension of £2,000.

"To return to Havelock, great honors were bestowed upon him. He was made a
baronet, created a Knight Commander of the Bath, and a pension of £1,000
was awarded to him. But he did not live to enjoy his rewards and honors, or
even to see the end of the mutiny at which he struck the first heavy blows.
In that very month of November when Sir Colin came to the rescue, Havelock
was taken with dysentery, died on the twenty-second, and was buried in the
Alum-Bagh, the fort containing a palace and a fortress, which he had
carried in his last battle.

"Havelock was very strict in his religious principles, and a rigid
disciplinarian in the army. He was like the grave and fearless Puritan
soldier, somewhat after the type of 'Stonewall Jackson' of your Civil War,
though not as fanatical. In his last moments he said: 'For more than forty
years I have so ruled my life that when death came I might face it without
fear.' This he did; and England will never cease to remember the Christian
hero, Sir Henry Havelock. In Trafalgar Square, in London, you may see the
statue erected to him by the people of his native country.

"Aside from the mischief done by Nana Sahib, which seems to have had only a
limited effect, what were the causes of this mutiny, Lord Tremlyn?" asked
Dr. Hawkes.

"There were many causes that produced independent rebellions, such as the
greased cartridges served out to the Sepoys, though this was only
insignificant. There were too many Bramins in the ranks, and they were
fanatics; and biting off the cartridge brought their lips in contact with
the grease, which was religious pollution to them. A score of provocatives
might be mentioned, but all of them would not explain it. The natives had
been transformed into trained soldiers, and they felt the power that was in
them.

"Before the mutiny, one British soldier to six Sepoys was about the
proportion between them in numbers. The small discontents clustered around
this grand error, and broke out in the mutiny. After its suppression, one
of the first reforms of the government was to change the proportion of the
soldiers; and now they are as one European to two natives. The government
is liberal in the introduction of improvements. Now all the strategetic
points are under the control of our own soldiers; and at present they
constitute nearly the whole of the artillery force of the country. Peace
and order have reigned since 1858, and it is not now believed that a
rebellion is possible. I expect and hope to be with you for some time to
come, and my companions and myself will do our best to inform you in regard
to everything in which you may feel an interest."

The viscount bowed very politely to his audience, and was hailed with all
the enthusiasm which could be gathered up by a baker's dozen Americans. All
of them testified that they had been exceedingly interested in his address,
especially that part relating to the mutiny.

"We shall be exceedingly happy in your company, my Lord, as long as you are
pleased to remain with us," added the commander. "I have done something
towards preparing a route through India; and I should be glad to have the
advice of such counsellors as we were so fortunate as to pick up in the
midst of the rage of the stormy ocean."

"The time of our party is at your disposal for as long a period as we can
be of service to you. We do not wish to force ourselves upon you. We owe
our lives to you, and we believe we may contribute to your pleasure and
instruction; for we are at home here."

"We did only our duty when we found you on the wreck; and anything in the
nature of a recompense for the service which every sailor owes to his
fellow-men, or to those who sail on the seas, would be repugnant to me, as
it would be to my officers," replied Captain Ringgold.

"I beg you will not regard my proposition as anything in the shape of a
recompense; for all our fortunes and all our time for years to come would
not be an adequate return for the immeasurable service you have rendered to
us," protested the viscount. "We have all been delighted with the manner in
which we have been entertained on board of the Guardian-Mother; and without
regard to our rescue from the very jaws of death, I declare, upon my honor
as a gentleman, that you have won our hearts,--you, Mr. Commander, and all
connected with you on board."

"Amen!" shouted Dr. Ferrolan in a burst of enthusiasm.

"So say we all of us!" cried Sir Modava.

"Now permit me to say in all sincerity, that if our acquaintance had begun
when we set foot on the deck of your ship, and the noble conduct of the
ship's company were entirely obliterated from our memories, we should feel
as we do now," said Lord Tremlyn.

"So say we all of us," sang the doctor with Sir Modava.

"I may say that if I had gone on board of the Guardian-Mother for the first
time in the harbor of Bombay, I should have felt the same, and had just as
strong a desire to assist you in seeing India. When gentlemen of education
and character come here from England, the officials give them a warm
welcome, and do their best to enable them to see the country, its manners
and customs, and its institutions, to the best advantage. We should do the
same with Americans; and I account myself fortunate in being the first to
greet you, and welcome you to India."

The other two heartily responded to the sentiments of the speaker, and the
commander could say no more. By this time the steamer was in the midst of
the fishing-boats and other craft. Louis called for three cheers for the
guests, and they were given with vigor and sincerity. The party separated,
and its members gave themselves up to an examination of the surroundings.




                                 CHAPTER XV

                  ARRIVAL OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER AT BOMBAY


The coast of Bombay was in plain sight, the province, or state, whose
capital has the same name. Groves of cocoanut, date, and other palm-trees
bordered it; and far back of it was a range of mountains, the Western
Ghats, a chain extending for hundreds of miles along the shore, though from
twenty to fifty miles from it.

The fishing-boats were Oriental, and nothing new to the tourists; but the
men in them were swarthy-looking fellows, not abundantly provided with
clothing. The greater portion of India has a warm climate, and the dress of
the people is adapted to it. For the most part, the natives are bundled up
in loose white cotton cloth, or what was originally white, which they twist
about their bodies with a skill acquired by practice. But these boatmen
were almost in a primitive condition.

The distinguished guests on board of the Guardian-Mother were perfectly
familiar with Bombay and its surroundings, as they were with all of the
country, and their services were just now in demand. The Woolridges had
attached themselves to Lord Tremlyn; Louis Belgrave was very likely to be
in their company most of the time, and the viscount had manifested no
little interest in the young millionaire. He was pointing out the country,
and describing it, to this group of four.

Dr. Ferrolan was not so much of a ladies' man as his two younger
companions, and was rendering similar service to his professional brother,
Uncle Moses, and Professor Giroud. They formed a quartet of educated men,
and were more in touch with each other than they might otherwise have been.
Sir Modava Rao had attracted to his side Mrs. Belgrave; Mrs. Blossom was
usually her shadow; and of course Captain Ringgold, when not employed in
his duties in the navigation of the steamer, gravitated, not materially but
sentimentally, to this group; for wherever Mrs. Belgrave was, the commander
was not far off.

Felix divided himself up among the three parties; and, as he was a lively
boy, he afforded no little amusement to all of them. The entire company,
including the captain and the third officer, who were to take part in the
business of sight-seeing, consisted of sixteen persons, which was just the
complement for four carriages, if they were large enough to seat four.

The pilot came on board, and was inducted into the pilot-house. He spoke
English, and seemed to be a bright fellow so far as his occupation was
concerned. The pilots are said to "pool their issues," and divide their
fees. They take their own time, therefore, and are very independent. But
this one, when informed that the Guardian-Mother was a yacht conveying a
young millionaire all-over-the-world, was very respectful and deferential.

"I have heard of this vessel before, and they say here that the young rajah
is worth millions of pounds," said he, when he had laid the course of the
steamer.

"I suppose he is as well off as some of your Grand Moguls; but I think you
had better call it dollars instead of pounds," replied Mr. Boulong,
laughing at the absurdity of the story; but the pilot knew nothing about
dollars, and perhaps the reports had been swelled by changing the unit of
American currency into that of the British Empire.

"Now you can see the islands more distinctly," said Lord Tremlyn to his
group.

"I don't see any islands," replied Miss Blanche.

"They are too near together to be distinguished separately. The Bombay to
which we are going is an island eleven and a half miles long. The town has
an abundant territory; but large as it is, portions of it are very densely
peopled, averaging twenty-one inmates to a house," continued the viscount.
"Next to Calcutta it is the largest city in India, and comes within 40,000
of that.

"Bombay has had its vicissitudes. Of course you know that your Civil War
produced a cotton famine in Europe; but it raised this city to the pinnacle
of prosperity. A reign of speculation came here, and it was believed that
Bombay would be the leading cotton mart of the world. Companies were
organized to develop the resources of the country in the textile plant; and
the fever raged as high as it did when the South Sea Bubble was blown up,
or as it has sometimes in New York and other cities of your country.

"New banks were started; merchants plunged recklessly into the vortex of
speculation. Then came the news of the surrender of General Lee, and the
end of the war in America. The bubble burst, even before it was fully
inflated, and the business prosperity of Bombay collapsed. The certificates
of shares in companies and banks were not worth the paper on which they
were written. Even the Bank of Bombay, believed to be as solid as the 'Old
Lady' of Threadneedle Street, had to suspend, and the commercial distress
was frightful.

"But it left its lesson behind it; and since that time Bombay has patiently
and painfully regained its former solid prosperity. It has recovered what
it lost, and is now steadily increasing in population and wealth."

"I never heard of the South Sea Bubble of which you speak," said Louis.

"That is not strange, as it was an affair of one hundred and eighty-one
years ago," replied Lord Tremlyn. "I have not time now to describe it in
full. The floating debt of England at that time was £10,000,000; and the
Earl of Oxford concocted a scheme to pay it off, and formed a company of
merchants for that purpose. The riches of the South Sea Islands, including
South America, were most extravagantly estimated at that time, and the
monopoly of the trade was secured by the company formed. The 'South Sea
Company' was bolstered up by the pledge of the duties on the imports from
these far-off regions, and the shares sold like wild-fire, increasing in
price in the most extraordinary manner. Shares at a par of £100 were quoted
at £550 in May, and £890 in June.

"The failure of the Mississippi Scheme, projected in France by John Law to
develop the resources of the American State of Louisiana, alarmed the
shareholders; but the managers declared that they had avoided the errors of
Law in their finances, and the enterprise still prospered. A mania for
stock-gambling spread over England, and the people seemed to have lost
their wits. The most tremendous excitement prevailed. The crisis came, and
it was realized that the scheme was a fraudulent one. Some of the biggest
operators sold out their stock, and a panic ensued. Consternation came upon
the bubble capitalists, and financial ruin stared them and their dupes full
in the face.

"The country was stirred to its very foundations. Parliament was called
together, and the books of the company were examined. The 'Bubble' had
burst, as it did in Bombay. The private property of the directors was
confiscated. The ruin brought about by this enterprise, rightly called a
'Bubble,' was beyond calculation; but it taught its lesson, as such affairs
always do."

"We are approaching the harbor," said Mrs. Woolridge, who was not much
interested in the South Sea Scheme, though her husband and Louis listened
to the explanation very attentively.

"We are, madam. You see to the northward of us two peninsulas. The one the
more distant has two hills on it. The first is Malabar Hill, and the other
Cumballa Hill. This is the aristocratic quarter of Bombay. The huge
bungalows of the rich merchants and higher government officials are here.
The scenery, natural and artificial, is very fine, and Asiatic magnificence
prevails there. That will be one of our first rides. You observe near the
point of the peninsula some towers, like pagodas, which will give you your
first impression of the temples of India."

Opera-glasses were then in demand, and were brought to bear on the towers.

"They are in the village of Walkeshwar. The peninsula now quite near is
Colaba. Indian names are very much mixed in regard to their spelling. The
c and the k are about interchangeable, and you can use either
one of them. Hence this point is often written Kolaba, and the hill yonder
Kumballa. The southern part of this neck of land is the native quarter. You
will visit all these localities, and it is not worth while to describe them
minutely."

"That looks like a cemetery," said Mr. Woolridge, as the steamer approached
the point. "There is the lighthouse."

The commander had left his party as the steamer approached the entrance to
the harbor, and had gone forward. The ship had slowed down, and the captain
spoke to the pilot about a convenient anchorage. The harbor was large
enough to accommodate all the navies of the world, and there was no
difficulty on this account. Lord Tremlyn had left his party to look at what
was to be seen by themselves, and came forward to the pilot-house. The
anchorage was settled.

"Captain Ringgold, if you please, we will now exchange places," said the
viscount. "Up to the present time we have been your guests; now I will
become the host, and you and your party will be my guests. I beg you will
raise no objections, my dear sir, and I shall feel very much wounded if you
do not accept the hospitality I tender to you. You are at home on the sea
as I am in Bombay."

"You have put it in such a way that I cannot refuse to accept," replied the
commander, laughing at the corner in which he was placed. "For the present
we are your guests, and we place ourselves entirely under your direction."

"I am extremely happy to take you all under my protection; but I cannot
submit to the proviso which you have added to my offer, though I will be
satisfied to have you 'for the present' as my guests, and we will leave the
future to take care of itself. But in whatever capacity we travel over
India, or such portion of it as you may elect, it is rather necessary that
we fix upon a plan for our operations."

"I am quite agreed that we had better draw up a programme, and I shall
depend upon your counsel in the matter," replied the captain. "For the
present, will you excuse me until the ship comes to anchor?"

"Certainly, Captain."

"Here is the custom-house boat, and I suppose I must attend to that."

"Leave that to me, if you please."

In another half-hour the Guardian-Mother was at anchor off the Apollo
Bunder, the wharf, or landing-place. The custom-house officers came on
board; and, as the ship was not one of any regular line, a high official
came off with them. As soon as he reached the deck he discovered his
lordship, and rushed to him, bowed profusely, and addressed him in the most
deferential manner.

"This is a very unexpected visit, my Lord, and in a steamer flying the
American flag," said he, as the viscount gave him his hand, a piece of
condescension he appeared to appreciate very highly. "What has become of
the Travancore?"

"She was wrecked in the Arabian Sea in a collision, and went to the bottom
after holding us up for a few hours. We were rescued from certain death by
this steamer, and we have been treated with the utmost kindness and
consideration," said his lordship quite hurriedly. "Sir Modava Rao and Dr.
Ferrolan are on board. I am entirely devoted to those to whom we owe our
lives, and I am in their service as long as they will stay in India. What
is your business on board, Mr. Windham?"

"It is in connection with the customs, my Lord."

"You will dispense with everything in that connection, for this is a yacht;
and you will oblige me by not subjecting any person on board to any
annoyance, Mr. Windham."

"Certainly not, my Lord; and not a trunk shall be opened. But the
newspapers will want the account of your shipwreck, and a reporter came off
with me," replied the official.

"Refer him to my secretary."

The under-official obtained particulars from the first officer in regard to
the steamer for the custom-house, and Dr. Ferrolan gave the reporter an
account of the disaster to the Travancore which he had written.

"I propose to land and proceed to our hotel as soon as the ladies are
ready," said Lord Tremlyn, when he had retired to the captain's cabin with
the commander. "While they are preparing, we will consider the programme of
the tour."

"Very well, your Lordship; I will have the party notified. Mr. Scott," said
the captain, opening the door into the pilot-house, "inform all the company
that we go on shore in half an hour; and you will go with them. Mr.
Boulong, lower the gangway, and have the barge ready."

"Perhaps you have arranged a programme yourself already," suggested the new
host of the party.

"I have considered the matter. I proposed to see Bombay, and perhaps run
down to Poona. Then go to Surat in the steamer, and visit Baroda, and
proceed by the ship to Kurrachee. From there I thought I should send the
Guardian-Mother round to Calcutta in charge of Mr. Boulong, while we
travelled to Lahore, Delhi, Cawnpore, Lucknow, Allahabad, Benares, and
Calcutta by railway. From there we will go to Madras and Ceylon by the
steamer," said the commander, who seemed to have arranged the whole trip.

"Excellent, Captain Ringgold!" exclaimed the viscount. "I can hardly better
that."

He made some suggestions; but this route was substantially adopted.




                                 CHAPTER XVI

                        A MULTITUDE OF NATIVE SERVANTS


The barge was ready as soon as it was needed, and lay at the platform of
the gangway, with the crew in their white uniforms, quite as smart as
man-of-war's-men. The coolie boatmen who were seeking a job to put the
passengers on shore were disappointed. The clothing of the guests had been
taken in hand by Sparks and Sordy, the cabin stewards, dried, cleaned, and
pressed. They wore them now, and had returned the borrowed garments.

