far more energy than she had yet shown. 'It is bad blood, Giovanni--as
bad as any blood in Italy, and though the girl is charming, those
brothers--well, you saw them.'

'Bad faces, both of them. And rather doubtful manners.'

'Never mind their manners! But their faces! They are nephews of poor
Bianca Corleone's husband, are they not?'

'Yes. They are his brother's children. And they are their grandfather's
grandchildren.'

'What did he do?'

'He was chiefly concerned in the betrayal of Gaeta--and took money for
the deed, too. They have always been traitors. There was a Pagliuca who
received all sorts of offices and honours from Joaquin Murat and then
advised King Ferdinand to have him shot when he was caught at Pizzo in
Calabria. There was a Pagliuca who betrayed his brother to save his own
life in the last century. It is a promising stock.'

'What an inheritance! I have often heard of them, but I have never met
any of them excepting Bianca's husband, whom we all hated for her sake.'

'He was not the worst of them, by any means. But I never blamed her
much, poor child--and Pietro Ghisleri knew how to turn any woman's head
in those days.'

'Why did we ask those people to dinner, after all?' enquired Corona,
thoughtfully.

'Because San Giacinto wished it, I suppose. We shall probably know why
in two or three years. He never does anything without a reason.'

'And he keeps his reasons to himself.'

'It is a strange thing,' said Giovanni. 'That man is the most reticent
human being I ever knew, and one of the deepest. Yet we are all sure
that he is absolutely honest and honourable. We know that he is always
scheming, and yet we feel that he is never plotting. There is a
difference.'

'Of course there is--the difference between strategy and treachery. But
I am sorry that his plans should have involved bringing the Corleone
family into our house. They are not nice people, excepting the girl.'

'My father remarked that the elder of those brothers was like an old
engraving he has of CÃ¦sar Borgia.'

'That is a promising resemblance! Fortunately, the times, at least, are
changed.'

'In Sicily, everything is possible.'

The remark was characteristic of Giovanni, of a Roman, and of modern
times. But there was, and is, some truth in it. Many things are possible
to-day in Sicily which have not been possible anywhere else in Europe
for at least two centuries, and the few foreigners who know the island
well can tell tales of Sicilians which the world at large could hardly
accept even as fiction.




CHAPTER VII


During the ensuing weeks Orsino saw Vittoria d'Oriani repeatedly, at
first by accident, and afterwards because he was attracted by her, and
took pains to learn where she and her mother were going, in order to
meet her.

It was spring. Easter had come very early, and as happens in such cases,
there was a revival of gaiety after Lent. There were garden parties, a
recent importation in Rome, there were great picnics to the hills, and
there were races out at the Capannelle; moreover, there were dances at
which the windows were kept open all night, until the daylight began to
steal in and tell tales of unpleasant truth, so that even fair women
drew lace things over their tired faces as they hurried into their
carriages in the cold dawn, glad to remember that they had still looked
passably well in the candle-light.

At one of these balls, late in the season, Orsino knew that he should
meet Vittoria. It was in a vast old palace, from the back of which two
graceful bridges crossed the street below to a garden beyond, where
there were fountains, and palms, and statues, and walks hedged with box
in the old Italian manner. There were no very magnificent preparations
for the dance, which was rather a small and intimate affair, but there
was the magnificent luxury of well-proportioned space, which belonged to
an older age, there was the gentle light of several hundred wax candles
instead of the cold glare of electricity or the pestilent flame of gas,
and all night long there was April moonlight outside, in the old garden,
whence the smell of the box, and the myrtle, and of violets, was borne
in fitfully through the open windows with each breath of moving air.

There was also, that night, a general feeling of being at home and in a
measure free from the oppression of social tyranny, and from the
disturbing presence of the rich social recruit, who was sown in wealth,
so to say, in the middle of the century, and who is now plentifully
reaped in vulgarity.

'It is more like the old times than anything I remember for years,' said
Corona to Gianforte Campodonico, as they walked slowly through the rooms
together.

'It must be the wax candles and the smell of the flowers from the
garden,' he answered, not exactly comprehending, for he was not a
sensitive man, and was, moreover, considerably younger than Corona.

But Corona was silent, and wished that she were walking with her
husband, or sitting alone with him in some quiet corner, for something
in the air reminded her of a ball in the Frangipani palace, many years
ago, when Giovanni had spoken to her in a conservatory, and many things
had happened in consequence. The wax-candles and the smell of open-air
flowers, and the glimpses of moonlight through vast windows may have had
something to do with it; but surely there are times and hours, when love
is in the air, when every sound is tuneful, and all silence is softly
alive, when young voices seek each the other's tone caressingly, and the
stealing hand steals nearer to the hand that waits.

There was no one to prevent Orsino Saracinesca from persuading Vittoria
to go and sit down in one of the less frequented rooms, if he could do
so. Her mother would be delighted, her brothers were not at the ball,
and Orsino was responsible to no one for his actions. She had learned
many things since she had come to Rome, but she did not understand more
than half of them, and what she understood least of all was the absolute
power which Orsino exerted over her when he was present. He haunted her
thoughts at other times, too, and she had acquired a sort of conviction
that she could not escape from him, which was greatly strengthened by
the fact that she did not wish to be free.

On his part, his mind was less easy, for he was well aware that he was
making love to the girl with her mother's consent, whereas he was not by
any means inclined to think that he wished to marry her. Such a
position might not seem strange to a youth of Anglo-Saxon traditions;
for there is a sort of tacit understanding among the English-speaking
races to the effect that young people are never to count on each other
till each has got the other up the steps of the altar, that there is
nothing disgraceful in breaking an engagement, and that love-making at
large, without any intention of marriage, is a harmless pastime
especially designed for the very young. The Italian view is very
different, however, and Orsino was well aware that unless he meant to
make Vittoria d'Oriani his wife, he was doing wrong in his own eyes, and
in the eyes of the world, in doing his best to be often with her.

One result of his conduct was that he frightened away other men. They
took it for granted that he wished to marry her, dowerless as she was,
and they kept out of his way. The girl was not neglected, however. San
Giacinto had his own reasons for wishing to be on good terms with her
brothers, and he made his wife introduce partners to Vittoria at dances,
and send men to talk to her at parties. But as soon as Orsino came upon
the scene, Vittoria's companion disappeared, whoever he happened to be
at the time.

The Italian, even when very young, has a good deal of social philosophy
when he is not under the influence of an emotion from which he cannot
escape. He will avoid falling in love with the wrong person if he can.

'For what?' he asks. 'In order to be unhappy? Why?'

And he systematically keeps out of the way of temptation, well knowing
his own weakness in love matters.

But Orsino was attracted by the girl and yielded to the attraction,
though his manner of yielding was a domination over her whenever they
met. His only actual experience of real love had been in his affair with
the Countess del Ferice, before her second marriage. She was a mature
woman of strong character and devoted nature, who had resisted him and
had sacrificed herself for him, not to him. He had been accustomed to
find that resistance in her. But Vittoria offered none at all, a fact
which gave his rather despotic nature a sudden development, while the
absence of opposition made him look upon his disinclination to decide
the question of marriage as something he ought to have been ashamed of.
At the same time, there was the fact that he had grown somewhat cynical
and cold of late years, and if not positively selfish, at least
negatively careless of others, when anything pleased him, which was not
often. It is bad to have strength and not to use it, to possess power
and not to exert it, to know that one is a personage without caring much
what sort of a person one may be. That had been Orsino's position for
years, and it had not improved his character.

On this particular evening he was conscious of something much more like
emotion than he had felt for a long time. San Giacinto had lain in wait
for him near the door, and had told him that matters were settled at
last and that they were to leave Rome within the week to take possession
of the Corleone lands. The deeds had been signed and the money had been
paid. There were no further formalities, and it was time to go to work.
Orsino nodded, said he was ready, and went off to find Vittoria in the
ballroom. But there was a little more colour than usual under his dark
skin, and his eyes were restless and hungry.

He was passing his mother without seeing her, when she touched him on
the sleeve, and dropped Campodonico's arm. He started a little
impatiently, and then stood still, waiting for her to speak.

'Has anything happened?' she asked rather anxiously.

'No, mother, nothing--that is--' He hesitated, glancing at Campodonico.
'I am going to Sicily with San Giacinto,' he added in a low voice.

Corona could not have explained what she felt just then, but she might
have described it as a disagreeable chilliness creeping over her strong
frame from head to foot. An hour later she remembered it, and the next
day, and for many days afterwards, and she tried to account for it by
telling herself that the journey was to make a great change in her son's
life, or by arguing that she had half unconsciously supposed him about
to engage himself to Vittoria. But neither explanation was at all
satisfactory. She was not imaginative to that extent, as she well knew,
and she at last made up her mind that it was an idle coincidence of the
kind which some people call a warning, and remember afterwards when
anything especial happens, though if nothing particular follows, they
forget it altogether.

'Why are you going? Has it anything to do with the Corleone?' she asked,
and she was surprised at the unsteadiness of her own voice.

'Yes. I will tell you some other time.'

'Will you?'

'Yes, certainly.'

She looked into his eyes a moment, and then took Campodonico's arm
again. Orsino moved on quickly and disappeared in the ballroom they had
left, wondering inwardly at his mother's manner as much as she was then
wondering herself, and attributing it to her anxiety about his position
with regard to Vittoria. Thinking of that, he stopped short in his walk
just as he caught sight of the young girl in the distance, standing
beside her mother. A man was before her evidently just asking her to
dance. Orsino watched them while he tried to get hold of himself and
decide what he ought to do.

Vittoria came forward and swept out with her partner into the middle of
the room. Orsino slipped back a little behind a group of people, so that
she should not easily see him, but he watched her face keenly. Her eyes
were restless, and she was evidently looking for him, and not thinking
of her partner at all. As they came round to his side, Orsino felt the
blood rise in his throat, and felt that his face was warm; and then, as
they swung off to the other side of the big ballroom, he grew cool
again, and asked himself what he should do, repeating the question
rather helplessly. She came round once more, and just as he felt the
same heat of the blood again, he saw that her eyes had caught his. In a
flash her expression changed, and the colour blushed in her face. A
moment later she stopped, and remained standing with her partner so that
Orsino could see the back of her head. She half turned towards him two
or three times, instinctively; but she would not turn quite round so as
to look at him. She knew that she must finish the dance before he could
come to her.

But he, deeply stirred, and, at the same time, profoundly discontented
with himself, suddenly left the room and went on till he stood all
alone, out on one of the bridges which crossed the street to the garden
at the back of the palace. The bridge was in the shadow, but the white
moonlight fell full upon the fountain and the walks beyond; and
moonlight has an extraordinary effect on people who do not habitually
live in camps, or out of doors, at night. The sun shows us what is, but
the moon makes us see what might be.

Orsino leaned against the stone parapet in the shadow, and made one of
those attempts at self-examination which every honourable man has made
at least once in his life, and which, with nine men out of ten, lead to
no result, because, at such times the mind is in no state to examine
anything, least of all itself. Indeed, no healthy-minded man resorts to
that sort of introspection unless he is in a most complicated situation,
since such a man is normally always perfectly conscious of what is
honourable and right, without any self-analysis, or picking to pieces of
his own conscience.

But Orsino Saracinesca was in great difficulty. He did not question the
fact that he was very much in love with Vittoria, and that this love for
a young girl was something which he had never felt before. That was
plain enough, by this time. The real question was, whether he should
marry her, or whether he should go away to Sicily with San Giacinto and
try to avoid her in future until he should have more or less forgotten
her.

He was old enough and sensible enough to foresee the probable
consequences of marrying into such a family, and they were such as to
check him at the outset. He knew all about the Pagliuca people, as his
father did, and the phrase 'the worst blood in Italy' was familiar to
his thoughts. Vittoria's mother was, indeed, a harmless soul, provincial
and of unusual manners, but not vulgar in the ordinary sense of the
word. Vittoria's father was said to have been a very good kind of man,
who had been outrageously treated by his elder brother. But the strain
was bad. There were hideous stories of treachery, such as Giovanni had
quoted to his wife, which were alone enough to make Orsino hesitate. And
then, there were Vittoria's brothers, for whom he felt the strongest
repulsion and distrust. In many ways it would have been wiser for him to
marry a girl of the people, a child of Trastevere, rather than Vittoria
d'Oriani.

He did not believe that any of the taint was on herself, that in her
character there was the smallest shade of deceit or unfaithfulness. He
found it hard to believe that she was really a Corleone at all. His
arguments began from a premiss which assumed her practically perfect.
Had he been alone in the world, he would not have hesitated long, for he
could have married her and taken her away for ever--he was enough in
love for that.

But such a marriage meant that he should bring her brothers intimately
into his father's house; that he and his own family must accept Tebaldo
and Francesco Pagliuca, and possibly the third brother, whom he did not
know, as near relations, to be called, by himself at least, 'thee' and
'thou,' and by their baptismal names. Lastly, it meant that Vittoria's
mother and his own should come into close terms of intimacy, for Maria
Carolina would make the most of the connection with the Saracinesca.
That thought was the most repugnant of all to the young man, who looked
upon his mother as a being apart from the ordinary world and entitled to
a sort of veneration. Maria Carolina would not venerate anybody, he
thought.

On the other side, there was his honour. He did not care what the young
men might think, but he had certainly led the girl herself to believe
that he meant to marry her. And he was in love. Compared with giving up
Vittoria, and with doing something which seemed dishonourable, the
accumulated wickedness of generations of the Corleone shrank into
insignificance. There was a sort of shock in his mind as he brought up
this side of the question.

Had there been any difficulty to be overcome in winning Vittoria's own
consent, it would have been easier to decide. But he knew that he had
but a word to say, and his future would be sealed irrevocably in a
promise which he never would break. And in a day or two he was to leave
Rome for a long time. It was clear that he ought to decide at once, this
very night.

His nature rejected the idea of taking advice, and, generally, of
confiding in anyone. Otherwise, he might have laid the matter before his
mother, in the certainty that her counsel would be good and honourable.
Or he might have told his favourite brother the whole story, and
Ippolito would assuredly have told him what was right. But Orsino was
not of those who get help from the judgment or the conscience of
another.

It seemed to him that he stayed a long time on the bridge, thinking of
all these things, for the necessity of finally weighing them had come
upon him suddenly, since San Giacinto had given him warning to get ready
for the journey. But presently he was aware that the distant music had
changed, that the waltz during which he had watched Vittoria was over,
and that a square dance had begun. He smiled rather grimly to himself as
he reflected that he might stand there till morning, without getting any
nearer to a conclusion. He turned his back on the moonlight impatiently
and went back into the palace. In the distance, through an open door, he
saw faces familiar to him all his life, moving to and fro rapidly in a
quadrille. He watched them as he walked straight on towards the
ballroom, through the rather dimly lighted chamber with which the bridge
communicated.

He was startled by the sound of Vittoria d'Oriani's voice, close beside
him, calling him softly but rather anxiously.

'Don Orsino! Don Orsino!'

She was all alone, pale, and standing half hidden by the heavy curtain
on one side of the door opening to the ballroom. Orsino stood still a
moment, in great surprise at seeing her thus left to herself in an empty
room. Then he went close to her, holding out his hand.

'What is the matter?' he asked in a low voice, for several men were
standing about on the other side of the open door, watching the dance.

'Nothing--nothing,' she repeated nervously, as he drew her aside.

'Who left you here alone?' asked Orsino, in displeasure at some unknown
person.

'I--I came here--' she faltered. 'I slipped out--it was hot, in there.'

Orsino laughed softly.

'You must not get isolated in this way,' he said. 'It is not done here,
you know. People would think it strange. You are always supposed to be
with someone--your partner, or your mother. But I am glad, since I have
found you.'

'Yes, I have found you,' she said softly, repeating his words. 'I
mean--' she corrected herself hurriedly--'I mean you have found me.'

Orsino looked down to her averted face, and in the dim light he saw the
blush at her mistake--too great a mistake in speech not to have come
from a strong impulse within. Yet he could hardly believe that she had
seen him go out that way alone, and had followed in the hope of finding
him.

They sat down together, not far from the door opening upon the bridge.
The colour had faded again from Vittoria's face, and she was pale.
During some moments neither spoke, and the music of the quadrille
irritated Orsino as he listened to it. Seeing that he was silent,
Vittoria looked up sideways and met his eyes.

'It was really very warm in the ballroom,' she said, to say something.

'Yes,' he answered absently, his eyes fixed on hers. 'Yes--I daresay it
was.'

Again there was a pause.

'What is the matter?' asked Vittoria at last, and her tone sank with
each word.

'I am going away,' said Orsino, slowly, with fixed eyes.

She did not start nor show any surprise, but the colour began to leave
her lips. The irritating quadrille went pounding on in the distance,
through the hackneyed turns of the familiar figures, accompanied by the
sound of many voices talking and of broken laughter now and then.

'You knew it?' asked Orsino. 'How?'

'No one told me; but I knew it--I guessed it.'

Orsino looked away, and then turned to her again, his glance drawn back
to her by something he could not resist.

'Vittoria,' he began in a very low tone.

He had never called her by that name before. The quadrille was very
noisy, and she did not understand. She leaned forward anxiously towards
him when she spoke.

'What did you say? I did not hear. The music makes such a noise!'

The man was more than ever irritated at the sound; and as she bent over
to him, he could almost feel her breath on his cheek. The blood rose in
him, and he sprang to his feet impatiently.

'Come!' he said. 'Come outside! We cannot even hear each other here.'

Vittoria rose, too, without a word, and went with him, walking close
beside him, and glancing at his face. She was excessively pale now; and
all the golden light seemed to have faded at once, even from her hair
and eyes, till she looked delicate and almost fragile beside the big
dark man.

'Out of doors?' she asked timidly, at the threshold.

'Yes--it is very warm,' answered Orsino, in a voice that was a little
hoarse.

Once out on the bridge, in the shadow, over the dark street, he stopped,
and instantly his hand found hers and closed all round it, covering it
altogether.

Vittoria could not have spoken just then, for she was trembling from
head to foot. The air was full of strange sounds, and the trees were
whirling round one another like mad black ghosts in the moonlight. When
she looked up, she could see Orsino's eyes, bright in the shadow. She
turned away, and came back to them more than once; then their glances
did not part any more, and his face came nearer to hers.

'We love each other,' he said; and his voice was warm and alive again.

She felt that she saw his soul in his face, but she could not speak. Her
eyes looking up to his, she slowly bent her little head twice, while her
lips parted like an opening flower, and faintly smiled at the sweetness
of an unspoken word.

He bent nearer still, and she did not draw back. His blood was hot and
singing in his ears. Then, all at once, something in her appealed to
him, her young delicacy, her dawn-like purity, her exquisite fresh
maidenhood. It seemed a crime to touch her lips as though she had been
a mature woman. He dropped her hand, and his long arms brought her
tenderly and softly up to his breast; and as her head fell back, and her
lids drooped, he kissed her eyes with infinite gentleness, first the one
and then the other, again and again, till she smiled in the dark, and
hid her face against his coat, and he found only her silky hair to kiss
again.

'I love you--say it, too,' he whispered in her ear.

'Ah, yes! so much, so dearly!' came her low answer.

Then he took her hand again, and brought it up to his lips close to her
face; and his lips pressed the small fingers passionately, almost
roughly, very longingly.

'Come,' he said. 'We must be alone--come into the garden.'

He led her across the bridge, and suddenly they were in the clear
moonlight; but he went on quickly, lest they should be noticed through
the open door from within. The air was warm and still and dry, as it
often is in spring after the evening chill has passed.

'We could not go back into the ballroom, could we?' he asked, as he drew
her away along a gravel walk between high box hedges.

'No. How could we--now?' Her hand tightened a little on his arm.

They stopped before a statue at the end of the walk, full in the light,
a statue that had perhaps been a Daphne, injured ages ago, and
stone-gray where it was not very white, with flying draperies broken off
short in the folds, and a small, frightened face that seemed between
laughing and crying. One fingerless hand pointed at the moon.

Orsino leaned back against the pedestal, and lovingly held Vittoria
before him, and looked at her, and she smiled, her lips parting again,
and just glistening darkly in the light as a dewy rose does in
moonlight. The music was very far away now, but the plashing of the
fountain was near.

