        “Lake Leman lies by Chillon’s walls.”

Never having heard of Byron, she was unable to enlarge her knowledge at
once with his most celebrated creations; but she liked the looks of
Conrad and Medora, and plunged into their fortunes. She read every line
of the poem, and when she had finished she read it over again. Then she
stared at the breakers booming to the rocks on the opposite horn of the
crescent, her eyes expanded and filled with a wholly new light. She
might be unlettered in woman’s wisdom, but the transcendent passion, the
pounding vitality of the poet, carried straight to intuition. The
insidious elixir drifted into the crystal stream. That incomparable
objectivity sang the song of songs as distinctly into her brain as had
it gathered the sounds of life for twenty years. Her cheeks were
flushed, her eyes were bright. She felt as if she were a musical
instrument upon which some divine unknown music were vibrating; and as
she was wont to feel in the tower—but with a substratum of something
quite different. She was filled with a soft tumult which she did not in
the least comprehend, and happy. She looked almost beautiful.

After a time she read “The Bride of Abydos,” and dreamed over that until
she discovered that she was hungry. She had forgotten to order dinner,
and went to the kitchen to beg a crust.

Lola, large, unwhaleboned, vibrating porcinely with every motion, her
brown coarsely moulded face beaming with good nature, her little black
eyes full of temper and kindness, her black hair in a neat small knot,
an unspotted brown and yellow calico garment secluding her person, stood
at a sink in a kitchen as brilliantly clean as a varnished boot. Even
the corners shone like glass, Patience often observed with a sigh. The
two tables were scrubbed daily. The stove was black, the windows white.
Not a pan nor a dish save those in the sink was in sight.

Patience made a sudden dash, a leap, and alighted on Lola’s back,
encircling the yielding waist with her supple legs. The woman emitted a
hoarse shriek, then laughed and pinched the legs. Patience plunged her
cold hands into the creases of Lola’s neck, gathering a quantity into
the palms. She was unrebuked. There were a few persons that loved
Patience, and Lola was of them.

“Pobrecita!” she exclaimed. “You are cold, no?”

“Mucho frizo,” murmured Patience, sliding the back of her hands down
the mountainous surface of Lola’s. “And hungry, madre de dios.”

“Hungry? You no have the dinner? When you coming?”

“Hours ago, Lola. How cruel of you not to call me to dinner! How mean
and piggish to eat it all yourself!”

“Ay, no call me the names. How I can know you are here si you no tell?
Why you no coming here straight before going to the librario?”

“I forgot, Lola mia; and then I became—interested. But do give me
something to eat.”

“Si.” And with Patience still on her back Lola waddled to the cupboard
and lifted down the remains of a corn cake rolled about olives and
cheese and peppers.

“An enchilada!” said Patience. “Good.”

Lola warmed the compound, and spread a napkin on a corner of one of the
tables; then, suddenly unloosening Patience’s arms and legs, tumbled her
headlong into a chair, laughing sluggishly as she ambled off. Patience
ate the steaming enchilada as heartily as had Byron never been. In a
moment she begged for a cup of chocolate.

“Si,” said Lola, “I have some scrape already;” and she brewed
chocolate in a little earthen pot, then beat it to froth with her
molinillo. Patience kicked her heels together with delight, and sipped
it daintily while Lola stood by with fat hands on fat hips in reflex
enjoyment.

“Like it, niña?”

“You bet.” Then after a moment she asked dreamily: “Lola, were you ever
in love?”

“Que! Sure. Was I not marry? Poor my Pedro! How he lika the
enchilada and the chocolaty; and the lard cakes and the little pig
cooking with onions. And now the worms eating him. Ay, yi!” and Lola sat
herself upon a chair and wept.


                                   VI

As Patience walked home through the woods subsequently to a long
afternoon with Byron, she was hazily sensible that she had stepped from
one phase of girlhood into another. She had an odd consciousness of
gazing through a veil of gauze upon an exquisite but unfamiliar
landscape over which was a dazzle of sunlight. She by no means
understood the mystery of her nature as yet; she was technically too
ignorant; but instinct was awake, and she felt somewhat as when she had
drained the poppy cup for long. She was in that transition state when
for the first and last time passion is poetry.

She arrived home in time to get supper. Mrs. Sparhawk was unexpectedly
sober, and very cross.

“My land, Patience Sparhawk!” she exclaimed, as her daughter opened the
door and untied her sunbonnet, “seems to me you might help cook dinner
in vacation instead of being off all day reading books or playing with
that Spanish girl.”

“Seems to me,” said Patience, restored to her practical self, “that as
you’re twice as big as I am and twice as strong, you’re pretty well able
to get it yourself. And as it’s your fault there ain’t any servant in
this house, I don’t see why I should make one of myself for you. Seems
to me you’re fixed up.”

Mrs. Sparhawk blushed, and smoothed her hair consciously. The hair had
been washed, and was decorated with a red bow. She wore a garment of
turkey red calico with a bit of cheap lace at the throat and wrists. Her
face was plastered with a whitewash much in vogue. She looked handsome,
but evil, and Patience stared at her with an uneasiness she was not able
to analyse. She turned away after a moment.

“I’d put on an apron,” she remarked drily. “You might get spots on that
gorgeous window curtain dress of yours.”

At that moment the man Oscar entered the room. He uttered a note of
admiration which made Patience turn about sharply. He was gazing upon
Mrs. Sparhawk’s enhanced charms with an expression which Patience did
not understand, but which filled her with sudden fury.

“Here!” she exclaimed roughly, “go into the dining room until supper’s
ready. This kitchen ain’t big enough for three.”

The man moved his eyes and regarded her angrily.

“Who’s boss here?” he demanded.

“It’s not your place to ask questions. You’re hired to work outside, and
when you come into this house there’s only one place for you. Now go
into the other room.” Her eyes were flashing, and she had drawn up her
shoulders. The man backed away from her much as dogs do when cats give
warning.

“That girl gives me a chill. I hate her,” he muttered to his mistress.

Mrs. Sparhawk gave a loud laugh which covered her embarrassment, and
slapped him heartily on the shoulder. “Go in, go in,” she said. “What’s
the use of family quarrels?”

The man slunk away, and Patience went about her work with vicious
energy. She fried liver and baked biscuits while her mother stirred the
steaming cherries and brewed tea. When supper was ready she filled
Oscar’s plate first and served him last, not hating herself in the least
for her spite and spleen. After Mrs. Sparhawk had taken her place at the
head of the table even her exuberant beauty could not dispel the frown
on the hired man’s brow, until, to Patience’s disgust, she divined the
cause of his surliness, and deftly exchanged her plate for his.


                                  VII

That night Patience did not go to her tower, but wandered over the dark
fields, a drooping forlorn little figure in the crawling shadows. She
felt dull and tired and disheartened. By nine o’clock she was asleep.
She awoke as fresh as the morning. When Mr. Foord returned from San
Francisco in the afternoon he found her curled in the easy-chair by his
fire. She started guiltily as he entered, then tossed her head
defiantly, let Byron slide to the floor, and went forward to kiss him.

As he was about to take the chair she had occupied he espied the fallen
volume. He lifted it hastily.

“What is this?” he demanded.

Patience blushed furiously, but set her lips with an expression he
understood.

“It’s Byron, and I’m going to read it all. I’ve read a lot.”

He shifted the book from one hand to the other for a moment, his face
much perturbed. Finally he laid it on the table, merely remarking:
“Sooner or later, sooner or later.”

Patience offered him a piece of the candy he had brought her; but he
preferred his pipe, and she perched herself on the arm of his chair and
ate half the contents of her box without pause. She had not yet learned
the subtle delights of the epicure, and to enjoy until capacity was
exhausted was typical of her enthusiastic temperament. When she could no
longer look upon the candy without a shudder she climbed to the old
gentleman’s shoulder and scratched his bald pate with her ragged nails.
It was her emphatic way of expressing gratitude, and beloved by Mr.
Foord above pipe and enchilada.

Patience took Byron home with her that evening, Mr. Foord merely
shrugging his shoulders. After supper she read until dark, then hid the
book under the bed and went over to the tower. She ran up the twisted
stair, and astonished the owl by clasping him in her arms and kissing
him passionately. He manifested his disapproval by biting at her
shoulder fiercely. She shrieked and boxed his ears smartly. He flapped
his large wings wildly. A battle royal was imminent in that sacred tower
where once the silver bells had called the holy men to prayer. But
Patience suddenly broke into a laugh and sank on her knees by the
window, while Solomon retreated to the wall, and regarded her with a
round unwinking stare, brooding over problems which he did not in the
least understand.

Patience brooded also, but her lids drooped, and she barely saw the
beauty of ocean and rock and spray. The moon was not yet up, and the
half revealed intoning sea was full of mystery.

She was conscious that her mood was not quite what it had been during
her last visit. All of that was there—but more. She felt higher above
the earth than ever before, but more conscious of its magnetism.
Something hummed along her nerves and stirred in her veins. Her musings
shaped to definite form, inasmuch as they assumed the semblance of man.
Inevitably Byron was exhumed for duty; and if his restless soul were
prowling space and Carmel Valley, his famous humour, desuetous in
Eternity, must have echoed in the dull ears of roaming shapes.

Beside the white face of the child was the solemn and hebraic visage of
the owl. Some outworn chord of Solomon’s youth may have been stirred by
his friend’s tumultuous greeting, for he had stepped, with the dignity
of his years, to her side, and stood regarding, with introspective
stare, the reflection of the rising moon.

Patience did not see him. She was gazing upon Byron, whose moody
passionate face was distinctly visible among the stars. Alas! her vision
was suddenly obscured by a hideous black object. A bat flew straight at
Carmel tower. Patience sprang to her feet, tossed her skirt over her
head, and fled down the stair. The owl stepped to the stair’s head and
gazed into the winding darkness, his eyes full of unutterable nothing.


                                  VIII

On Monday school re-opened, and Patience was late as usual. She loitered
through the woods, conning her lessons, having been too much occupied
with her poet to give them attention before. As she ascended the steps
of the schoolhouse the drone of the Lord’s Prayer came through the open
window, and she paused for a moment on the landing, swinging her bag in
one hand and her tin lunch-pail in the other.

She was not a picturesque figure. Her sunbonnet was of faded blue calico
dotted with white. The meagre braid projecting beneath the cape was tied
with a shoe string. The calico frock was faded and mended and much too
short, although the hem and tucks had been let out. The copper-toed
boots were of a greyish-green hue, and the coarse stockings wrinkled
above them. The nails of her pretty brown hands looked as if they had
been sawed off. But the eyes under the old sunbonnet were dreamy and
happy. The brain behind was full of new sensations. In the sparkling
atmosphere was an electric thrill. The day was as still as only the days
of Monterey can be. The pines, and the breakers had never intoned more
sweetly.

A voluminous A—men! startled Patience from her reverie. She went
hastily within, hung her bonnet and pail on a peg, and entered the
schoolroom, smiling half deprecatingly half confidently, at Miss Galpin.
The young teacher’s stern nod did not discompose her. As she passed
Rosita she received a friendly pinch, and Manuela looked up and smiled;
but while traversing the width of the room to her desk she became aware
of something unfriendly in the atmosphere. As she took her seat she
glanced about and met the malevolent eyes of a dozen turned heads. One
girl’s lip was curled; another’s brows were raised significantly, as
would their owner query: “What could you expect?”

Patience blushed until her face glowed like one of the Castilian roses
on the garden wall opposite the window. “They’ve found out about Byron,”
she thought. “Horrors, how they’ll tease me!”

School girls have a traditional habit of “willing” each other to “miss”
when in aggressive mood. To-day some twenty of the girls appeared to
have concerted to will that Patience should forget what little lore she
had gathered on her way to school. Patience, always sensitive to
impressions, was as taut as the strings of an Æolian harp from her
experience of the past week. Such natures are responsive to the core to
the psychological power of the environment, and once or twice this
morning Patience felt as if she must jump to her feet and scream. But
even at that early age she divined that the sweetest revenge is success,
and she strove as she had never striven before to acquit herself with
credit.

All morning the silent battle went on. Miss Galpin, who was beloved of
her pupils because she was pretty and dressed well, was a graduate of
the San Francisco High School, and an excellent teacher. Frankly as she
liked Patience she had never shown her any partiality in the schoolroom;
but to-day, noting the antagonism that was brought to bear on the girl,
she exerted all her cleverness to assist her in such subtle fashion that
Patience alone should appreciate her effort. In consequence, when the
morning session closed, Patience wore the doubtful laurels and the bad
blood was black.

As the girls trooped down into the yard Rosita laid her arm about
Patience and endeavoured to lead her away. Manuela conferred in a low
tone with the foe, voice and gestures remonstrant. But there was blood
in the air, and Patience squared her shoulders and awaited the
onslaught. Incidentally she inspected her nails and copper toes.

Several of the girls walked rapidly up to her. They were smiling
disagreeably.

“Can’t you keep her at home?” asked one of them.

“Think she’ll marry him?” demanded another.

Patience, completely taken aback, glanced helplessly from one to the
other.

“What do you mean?” she asked.

“Come, Patita,” murmured Rosita, on the verge of tears.

Manuela exclaimed: “You are fiends, fiends!” and walked away.

“Mean? Do you mean to say she got off without you knowing it?”

“Knowing what?” A horrible presentiment assailed Patience. Her fingers
jerked and her breath came fast.

“Why,” said Panchita McPherson, brutally, “your mother was in here
Saturday night with her young man and regularly turned the town upside
down. They were thrown out of three saloons. Can’t you keep her at
home?”

Patience stared dully at the girls, her dry lips parted. She knew that
they had spoken the truth. She had gone to bed early on Saturday night.
Shortly afterward she had heard the sound of buggy wheels and Billy’s
uncertain gait. Many hours later she had been awakened by the sound of
her mother stumbling upstairs; but she had thought nothing of either
incident at the time.

Panchita continued relentlessly, memories of many class defeats rushing
forward to lash her spleen: “You’ll please understand after this that we
don’t care to have you talk to us, for we don’t think you’re
respectable.” Whereupon the other girls, nodding sarcastically at
Patience, entwined their arms and walked away, led by the haughty Miss
McPherson.

For a few moments Patience hardly realised how she felt. She stood
impassive; but a cyclone raged within. All the blood in her body seemed
to have rushed to her head, to scorch her face and pound in her ears.
She wondered why her hands and feet were cold.

“Come, Patita, don’t mind them,” said Rosita, putting her arm round her
comrade. “The mean hateful nasty—pigs!” Never before had the indolent
little Californian been so vehement; but Patience slipped from her hold,
and running through a gate at the back of the yard crouched down on a
box. Rosita’s words had broken the spell. She was filled with a volcano
of hate. She hated the girls, she hated Monterey, she hated life; but
above all she hated her mother.

After a time all the hate in her concentrated on the woman who had made
her young life so bitter. She had never liked her, but not until the
dreadful moments just past had she realised the full measure of her
inheritance. The innuendoes she had not understood, but it was enough to
know that her mother had disgraced her publicly and insulted her
father’s memory. Her schoolmates she dismissed from her mind with a
scornful jerk of the shoulders. She had beaten them too easily and often
in the schoolroom not to despise them consummately. They could prick but
not stab her.

The bell rang; but she had an account to settle, and bonnetless she
started for home.

Mrs. Sparhawk was sitting on the porch reading a novel when Patience
walked up to her, snatched the book from her hand, and flung it into a
rose-tree. The woman was sober, and quailed as she met her daughter’s
eyes. Patience had walked rapidly under a hot sun. Her face was scarlet,
and she was trembling.

“I hate you!” she sobbed. “I hate you! It doesn’t do any good to tell
you so, but it does me good to say it.”

The girl looked the incarnation of evil passions. She was elemental
Hate, a young Cain.

“I wish you were dead,” she continued. “You’ve ruined every bit of my
life.”

“Why—what—what—” mumbled the woman. But the colour was coming to her
face, and her eyes were beginning to glitter unpleasantly.

“You know well enough what. You were in town drunk on Saturday night,
and were in saloons with a farm hand. To make a brute of yourself was
bad enough—but to go about with a common man! Are you going to marry
him?”

Mrs. Sparhawk laughed. “Well, I guess not.”

Patience drew a quick breath of relief. “Well, that’s what they’re
saying—that you’re going to marry him—a man that can’t read nor write.
Now look here, I want one thing understood—unless you swear to me
you’ll not set foot in that town again I’ll have you put in the Home of
the Inebriates—There! I’ll not be disgraced again; I’ll do it.”

Mrs. Sparhawk sprang to her feet, her face blazing with rage. “You will,
will you?” she cried. She caught the girl by the shoulders, and shaking
her violently, boxed first one ear, then the other, with her strong
rough hands. For an instant Patience was stunned, then the blood boiled
back to her brain. She screamed harshly, and springing at her mother
clutched her about the throat. The lust to kill possessed her. A red
curtain blotted even the hated face from sight. Instinctively she
tripped her mother and went down on top of her. The crash of the body
brought two men to the rescue, and Patience was dragged off and flung
aside.

“My land!” exclaimed one of the men, his face white with horror. “Was
you going to kill your ma?”

“Yes, that she was,” spluttered Mrs. Sparhawk, sitting up and pulling
vaguely at the loose flesh of her throat. “She’d have murdered me in
another minute.”

Patience by this time was white and limp. She crawled upstairs to her
room and locked the door. She sank on the floor and thought on herself
with horror.

“I never knew,” she reiterated, “that I was so bad. Why, I’m fifteen,
and I never wanted to kill even a bird before. I wouldn’t learn to
shoot. I’d never drown a kitten. When the Chinaman stuck a red-hot poker
through the bars of the trap and burnt ridges in the live rat I screamed
and screamed. And now I’ve nearly killed my mother, and wanted to. Who,
who would have thought it?”

When she was wearied with the futile effort to solve the new problem,
she became suddenly conscious that she felt no repentance, no remorse.
She was horrified at the sight of the black veins in her soul; but she
felt a certain satisfaction at having unbottled the wrath that consumed
her, at having given her mother the physical equivalent of her own
mental agony. Over this last cognisance of her capacity for sin she
sighed and shook her head.

“I may as well give myself up,” she thought with young philosophy. “I am
what I am, and I suppose I’ll do what I’m going to do.”

She went downstairs and out of the house. She passed a group of men;
they stared at her in horror. Then another little seed from the vast
garden of human nature shot up to flower in Patience’s puzzled brain.
She lifted her head with an odd feeling of elation: she was the
sensation of the hour.

She went out on Point Lobos and listened to the hungry roar of the
waves, watched the tossing spray. Nature took her to her heart as ever,
and when the day was done she was normal once more. She returned to the
house and helped to get supper, although she refused to speak to her
equally sullen parent.


                                   IX

It was several days before the story reached Monterey. When it did, the
girls treated Patience to invective and contumely, but delivered their
remarks at long range. The mother of Manuela said peremptorily that
Patience Sparhawk should never darken the doors of the Peralta mansion
again, and even Mrs. Thrailkill told the weeping Rosita that the
intimacy must end.

Miss Galpin was horrified. When school was over she took Patience firmly
by the hand and led her up the hill to her boarding-place, the widow
Thrailkill’s ancestral home. The long low adobe house was traversed from
end to end by a pillared corridor. It was whitewashed every year, and
its red tiles were renewed at intervals, but otherwise the march of
civilisation had passed it by. Mrs. Thrailkill, large and brown, with a
wart between her kind black eyes, and a handsome beard, was rocking
herself on the corridor. When she recognised the teacher’s companion she
arose with great dignity and swung herself into the house.

Miss Galpin led Patience down the corridor to a room at the end, and
motioned her to a chair. Several magazines lay on a table, and Patience
reached her hand to them involuntarily; but Miss Galpin took the hand
and drew the girl toward her. The young teacher’s brown eyes wore a very
puzzled expression. Even her carefully regulated bang had been pushed
upward with a sudden dash of the hand. She was only twenty-two, and her
experience of human nature was limited. Her ideas of life were
accumulated largely from the novels of Mr. Howells and Mr. James, whom
she revered; and neither of these gentlemen photographed such characters
as Patience. It had probably never occurred to them that Patiences
existed. She experienced a sudden thrill of superiority, then craved
pardon of her idols.

“Patience, dear,” she said gently, “is this terrible story true?”

“Yes, ma’am,” said Patience, standing passively at Miss Galpin’s knee.

“You actually tried to kill your mother?”

“Yes, ma’am.”

Miss Galpin gasped. She waited a moment for a torrent of excuse and
explanation; but Patience was mute.

“And you are not sorry?” she faltered.

“No, ma’am.”

“Oh, Patience!”

“I’m sorry you feel so badly, ma’am. Please don’t cry,” for the
estimable young woman was in tears, and mentally reviling her
preceptors.

“How can I help feeling terribly, Patience? You break my heart.”

“I’m sorry, dear Miss Galpin.”

“Patience, don’t you love God?”
