in old times. Could the Vestals' house have had an upper story? Is that
possible?"

"The arch√¶ologists are sure that it had," answered Guido, becoming more
interested. "Do you mean to say that you dreamt you saw it with an upper
story?"

"Yes. And the temple was something like the one they used to call
Vesta's, only it was more ornamented, and the columns seemed very near
together. The round wall, just within the columns, was decorated with
curious designs in low relief--something like a wheel, and scallops, and
curved lines. It is hard to describe, but I can see it all now."

Guido rose from his seat quickly.

"I will get the number that has the drawing in it," he said, explaining.

During the few moments that passed while he was out of the room Lamberti
sat staring at his empty place as fixedly as he had stared at the dark
line of the Janiculum a few minutes earlier. The man-servant, who had
been with him at sea, watched him with a sort of grave sympathy that is
peculiarly Italian. Then, as if an idea of great value had struck him,
he changed Lamberti's plate, poured some red wine into the tumbler, and
filled it up with water. Then he retired and watched to see whether his
old master would drink. But Lamberti did not move.

"Here it is," said Guido, entering the room with a large yellow-covered
pamphlet open in his hands. "Was it like this?"

As he asked the question he laid the pamphlet on the clean plate before
his friend. The pages were opened at Baldassare Peruzzi's rough
pen-and-ink sketch of the temple of Vesta; and as Lamberti looked at it,
his lids slowly contracted, and his features took an expression of
mingled curiosity and interest.

"The man who drew that had seen what I saw," he said at last. "Did he
draw it from some description?"

"He drew it on the spot," answered Guido. "The temple was standing then.
But as for your dream, it is quite possible that you may have seen this
same drawing in a shop window at Spithoever's or Loescher's, for
instance, without noticing it, and that the picture seemed quite new to
you when you dreamt it. That is a simple explanation."

"Very," said Lamberti. "But I saw the whole Forum."

"There are big engravings of imaginary reconstructions of the Forum, in
the booksellers' windows."

"With the people walking about? The two young priests standing in the
morning sun on the steps of the temple of Castor and Pollux? The dirty
market woman trudging past the corner of the Vestals' house with a
basket of vegetables on her head? The door slave sweeping the threshold
of the Regia with a green broom?"

"I thought you knew nothing about the Forum," said Guido, curiously.
"How do you come to know of the Regia?"

"Did I say Regia? I daresay--the name came to my lips."

"Somebody has hypnotised you," said Guido. "You are repeating things you
have heard in your sleep."

"No. I am describing things I saw in my sleep. Am I the sort of man who
is easily hypnotised? I have let men try it once or twice. We were all
interested in hypnotism on my last ship, and the surgeon made some
curious experiments with a lad who went to sleep easily. But last night
I was at home, alone, in my own room, in bed, and I dreamt."

Guido shrugged his shoulders a little indifferently.

"There must be some explanation," he said. "What else did you dream?"

Lamberti's lids drooped as if he were concentrating his attention on the
remembered vision.

"I dreamt," he said, "that I saw a veiled woman in white come out of the
temple door straight into the sunlight, and though I could not see the
face, I knew who she was. She went down the steps and then up the others
to the house of the Vestals, and entered in without looking back. I
followed her. The door was open, and there was no one to stop me."

"That is very improbable," observed Guido. "There must have always been
a slave at the door."

"I went in," continued Lamberti without heeding the interruption, "and
she was standing beside one of the pillars, a little way from the door.
She had one hand on the column, and she was facing the sun; her veil was
thrown back and the light shone through her hair. I came nearer, very
softly. She knew that I was there and was not afraid. When I was close
to her she turned her face to mine. Then I took her in my arms and
kissed her, and she did not resist."

Guido smiled gravely.

"And she turned out to be some one you know in real life, I suppose," he
said.

"Yes," answered Lamberti. "Some one I know--slightly."

"Beautiful, of course. Fair or dark?"

"You need not try to guess," Lamberti said. "I shall not tell you. My
head went round, and I woke."

"Very well. But is it this absurd dream that has made you so nervous?"

"No. Something happened to me to-day."

Lamberti ate a few mouthfuls in silence, before he went on.

"I daresay I might have invented some explanation of the dream," he said
at last. "But it only made me want to see the place. I never cared for
those things, you know. I had never gone down into the Forum in my
life--why should I? I went there this morning."

"And you could not find anything of what you had seen, of course."

"I took one of those guides who hang about the entrance waiting for
foreigners. He showed me where the temple had been, and the house, and
the temple of Castor and Pollux. I did not believe him implicitly, but
the ruins were in the right places. Then I walked up a bridge of boards
to the house of the Vestals, and went in."

"But there was no lady."

"On the contrary," said Lamberti, and his eyes glittered oddly, "the
lady was there."

"The same one whom you had seen in your dream?"

"The same. She was standing facing the sun, for it was still early, and
one of her hands was resting against the brick pillar, just as it had
rested against the column."

"That is certainly very extraordinary," said Guido, his tone changing.
Then he seemed about to speak again, but checked himself.

Lamberti rested his elbows on the table and his chin on his folded
hands, and looked into his friend's eyes in silence. His own face had
grown perceptibly paler in the last few minutes.

"Guido," he said, after what seemed a long pause, "you were going to ask
what happened next. I do not know what you thought, nor what stopped
you, for between you and me there is no such thing as indiscretion, and,
besides, you will never know who the lady was."

"I do not wish to guess. Do not say anything that could help me."

"Of course not. Any woman you know might have taken it into her head to
go to the Forum this morning."

"Certainly."

"This is what happened. I stood perfectly still in surprise. She may
have heard my footstep or not; she knew some one was behind her. Then
she slowly turned her head till we could see each other's faces."

He paused again, and passed one hand lightly over his eyes.

"Yes," said Guido, "I suppose I can guess what is coming."

"No!" Lamberti cried, in such a tone that the other started. "You cannot
guess. We looked at each other. It seemed a very long time--two or three
minutes at least--as if we were both paralysed. Though we recognised
each other perfectly well, we could neither of us speak. Then it seemed
to me that something I could not resist was drawing me towards her, but
I am sure I did not really move the hundredth part of a step. I shall
never forget the look in her face."

Another pause, not long, but strangely breathless.

"I have seen men badly frightened in battle," Lamberti went on. "The
cheeks get hollow all at once, the eyes are wide open, with black rings
round them, the face turns a greenish grey, and the sweat runs down the
forehead into the eyebrows. Men totter with fear, too, as if their
joints were unstrung. But I never saw a woman really terrified before.
There was a sort of awful tension of all her features, as though they
were suddenly made brittle, like beautiful glass, and were going to
shiver into fragments. And her eyes had no visible pupils--her lips
turned violet. I remember every detail. Then, without warning, she
shrieked and staggered backwards; and she turned as I moved to catch
her, and she ran like a deer, straight up the court, past those basins
they have excavated, and up two or three steps, to the dark rooms at the
other end."

"And what did you do?" asked Guido, wondering.

"My dear fellow, I turned and went back as fast as I could, without
exactly running, and I found the guide looking for me below the temple,
for he had not seen me go into the Vestals' house. What else was there
to be done?"

"Nothing, I suppose. You could not pursue a lady who shrieked with fear
and ran away from you. What a strange story! You say you only know her
slightly."

"Literally, very slightly," answered Lamberti.

He had become fluent, telling his story almost excitedly. He now
relapsed into his former mood, and stared at the pamphlet before him a
moment, before shutting it and putting it away from him.

"It is like all those things--perfectly unaccountable, except on a
theory of coincidence," said Guido, at last. "Will you have any cheese?"

Lamberti roused himself and saw the servant at his elbow.

"No, thank you. I forgot one thing. Just as I awoke from that dream last
night, I heard the door of my room softly closed."

"What has that to do with the matter?" enquired Guido, carelessly.

"Nothing, except that the door was locked. I always lock my door. I
first fell into the habit when I was travelling, for I sleep so soundly
that in a hotel any one might come in and steal my things. I should
never wake. So I turn the key before going to bed."

"You may have forgotten to do it last night," suggested Guido.

"No. I got up at once, and the key was turned. No one could have come
in."

"A mouse, then," said Guido, rather contemptuously.




                                 CHAPTER V


Cecilia Palladio was very much ashamed of having uttered a cry of terror
at the sight of Lamberti, and still more of having run away from him
like a frightened child. To him it seemed as if she had really shrieked
with fear, whereas she fancied that she had scarcely found voice enough
to utter an incoherent exclamation. The truth lay somewhere between the
two impressions, but Cecilia now felt that she could easily have
accounted for being startled into crying out, but that it would always
be impossible to explain her flight. She had run the whole length of the
Court, which must be fifty yards long, before realising what she was
doing, and had not paused for breath till she was out of his sight and
within the second of the three rooms on the left. There were no gates to
the rooms then, as there are now, and she could not have given any
reason for her entering the second instead of the first, which was the
nearest. The choice was instinctive.

She certainly had not gone there to join the elderly woman servant who
had come to the Forum with her. That excellent and obedient person was
waiting where Cecilia had made her sit down, not far from the entrance
to the Forum, and would not move till her mistress returned. The young
girl hated to be followed about and protected at every step, especially
by a servant, who could have no real understanding of what she saw.

"I shall only be seen by foreigners and Cook's Tourists," she had said,
"and they do not count as human beings at all!"

Therefore the middle-aged Petersen, who was a German, and therefore a
species of foreigner herself, had meekly sat down upon the comparatively
comfortable stone which Cecilia had selected for her, and which was one
of the steps of the Julian Basilica. She was called Frau Petersen, Mrs.
Petersen, or Madame Petersen, according to circumstances, by the
servants of different nationalities who were successively in the
employment of the Countess Fortiguerra, for she was a superior woman and
the widow of a paymaster in the Bavarian army, and so eminently
respectable and well educated that she had more than once been taken for
Cecilia's governess.

Petersen was excessively near-sighted, but her nose was not adapted by
its nature and position for wearing eyeglasses; for it was not only a
flat nose without anything like a prominent bridge to it, but it was
placed uncommonly low in her face, so that a pair of eyeglasses pinched
upon it would have found themselves in the region of Petersen's
cheek-bones. Even when she wore spectacles, they were always slipping
down, which was a great nuisance; so she resigned herself to seeing less
than other people, except when something interested her enough to make
the discomfort of glasses worth enduring.

This sufficiently explains why she noticed nothing unusual in Cecilia's
looks when the latter came back to her, pale and disturbed; and she had
not heard her mistress's faint cry, the distance being too great for
that, not to mention the fact that the huge ruins intercepted the sound.
Cecilia was glad of that, as she drove home with Petersen.

"Signor Lamberti has called," said the Countess Fortiguerra the next day
at luncheon. "I see by his card that he is in the Navy. You know he is
one of the Marchese Lamberti's sons. Shall we ask him to dinner?"

"Did you like him?" enquired Cecilia, evasively.

"He is not very good-looking," observed the Countess, whose judgment of
unknown people always began with their appearance, and often penetrated
no farther. "But he may be intelligent, for all that," she added, as a
concession.

"Yes," said Cecilia, thoughtfully, "perhaps."

"I think we might ask him to dinner, then," answered the Countess, as if
she had given an excellent reason for doing so.

"Is it not rather early, considering that we have only met him once?"
Cecilia ventured to ask.

"I used to know his mother very well, though she was older than I. It is
pleasant to find that he is so intimate with Signor d'Este. We might ask
them together."

"After the garden party," suggested Cecilia. "Of course, as you and the
Marchesa were great friends, that is a reason for asking the other, but
Signor d'Este--really! It would positively be throwing me at his head,
mother!"

"He expects it, my dear," answered the Countess, with more precision
than tact. "I mean," she added hastily, "I mean, that is, I did not
mean----"

Cecilia laughed.

"Oh yes, you did, mother! You meant exactly that, you know. You and that
dreadful old Princess have made up your minds that I am to marry him,
and nothing else matters, does it?"

"Well," said the Countess, without any perceptible hesitation, "I cannot
help hoping that you will consent, for I should like the match very
much."

She knew that it was always better to be quite frank with her daughter;
and even if she had thought otherwise, she could never have succeeded in
being diplomatic with her. While her second husband had been alive, her
position as an ambassadress had obliged her to be tactful in the world,
and even occasionally to say things which she had some difficulty in
believing, being a very simple soul; but with Cecilia she was quite
unable to conceal her thoughts for five minutes. If the girl loved her
mother, and she really did, it was largely because her mother was so
perfectly truthful. Cynical people called her helplessly honest, and
said that her veracity would have amounted to a disease of the mind if
she had possessed any; but that since she did not, it was probably a
form of degeneration, because all perfectly healthy human beings lied
naturally. David had said in his heart that all men were liars, and his
experience of men, and of women, too, was worth considering.

"Yes," Cecilia said, after a thoughtful pause, "I know that you wish me
to marry Signor d'Este, and I have not refused to think of it. But I
have not promised anything, either, and I do not like to feel that he
expects me to be thrust upon him at every turn, till he is obliged to
offer himself as the only way of escaping the persecution."

"I wish you would not express it in that way!"

The Countess sighed and looked at her daughter with a sort of
half-comical and loving hopelessness in her eyes--as a faithful dog
might look at his master who, seeming to be hungry, would refuse to
steal food that was within reach. The dog would try to lead the man to
the bread, the man would gently resist; each would be obeying the
dictation of his own conscience--the man would know that he could never
explain his moral position to the dog, and the dog would feel that he
could never understand the man. Yet the affection between the two would
not be in the least diminished.

On the next evening Cecilia found herself next to Guido d'Este at
dinner. Though she was not supposed to make her formal appearance in
society before the garden party, the Countess's many old friends, some
of whom had more or less impecunious sons, were anxious to welcome her
to Rome, and asked her to small dinners with her mother. Guido had
arrived late, and had not been able to speak to her till he was told by
their host that he was to take her in. It was quite natural that he
should, for, in spite of his birth, he was only plain Signor d'Este, and
was not entitled to any sort of precedence in a society which is, if
anything, overcareful in such matters.

Neither spoke as they walked through the rooms, near the end of the
small procession. Guido glanced at the young girl, who knew that he did,
but paid no attention. He thought her rather pale, and there was no
light in her eyes. Her hand lay like gossamer on his arm, so lightly
that he could not feel it; but he was aware of her perfectly graceful
motion as she walked.

"I suppose this was predestined," he said, as soon as the rest of the
guests were talking.

She glanced at him quickly now, her head bent rather low, her eyebrows
arching higher than usual. He was not sure whether the little
irregularity of her upper lip was accentuated by amusement, or by a
touch of scorn.

"Is it?" she asked. "Do you happen to know that it was arranged?"

It was amusement, then, and not scorn. They understood each other, and
the ice was in no need of being broken again.

"No," Guido answered with a smile. Then his voice grew suddenly low and
earnest. "Will you please believe that if I had been told beforehand
that I was asked in order to sit next to you, I would not have come?"

Cecilia laughed lightly.

"I believe you, and I understand," she answered. "But how it sounds! If
you had known that you were to sit next to me, nothing would have
induced you to come!"

From her place next the master of the house, the Countess Fortiguerra
looked at them, and was pleased to see that they were already on good
terms.

"Thank you," Cecilia added in a quiet voice, and gravely. "Besides," she
continued, "there is no reason, in the world why we should not be good
friends, is there?"

She looked full at him now, without a smile, and he realised for the
first time how very young she was. A married woman with an instinct for
flirtation might have made the speech, but a girl older than Cecilia
would have known that it might be misunderstood. Guido answered her look
with one in which doubt did not keep the upper hand more than a single
second.

"There is no reason whatever why we should not be the best of friends,"
he answered, in a tone as low as her own. "Perhaps I may be of service
to you. I hope so. Besides, I am made for friendship!"

He laughed rather carelessly as he spoke the last words, and glanced
round the table to see whether anybody was watching him. He met the
Countess Fortiguerra's approving glance.

"Why do you laugh at friendship?" asked Cecilia, not quite pleased.

"I do not laugh at friendship at all," Guido answered. "I laugh in order
that people may see me and hear me. This is the first service I can
render you, to be natural and unconcerned, as I generally am. If I
behaved in any unusual way--if I were too grave, or too much
interested--you understand!"

"Yes. You are thoughtful. Thank you."

There was a little pause, during which a luxuriant lady in green, who
sat on Guido's other side, determined to attract his attention, and
spoke to him; but before he could answer, some one opposite asked her a
question about dress, which was intensely interesting to her, because
she dressed abominably. She promptly fell into the snare which had been
set for her with the evil intention of leading her on to talk foolishly.
She followed at once, and Guido was free again.

"Now that we are friends," he said to Cecilia, "may I ask you a friendly
question?"

"Ask me anything you like," she answered, and her innocent eyes promised
him the truth.

"Were you told anything, before we met at my aunt's the other day?"

"Not a word! And you?"

"Nothing," he replied. "I remember that on that very afternoon----" he
stopped short.

"What?"

"You may not like what I was going to say."

"I shall, if it is true, and if you have a good reason for saying it."

"Lamberti and I were together, talking, and I said that nothing would
ever induce me to marry an heiress, unless it were to save my father or
mother from ruin. As that can never happen, all heiresses are perfectly
safe from me! Do you mind my having said that?"

"No. I am sure you were in earnest."

A shadow had crossed her face at the mention of Lamberti's name.

"You do not like my friend," he said, and as he spoke, the shadow came
again and deepened.

"How can I like him or dislike him? I hardly know him."

She felt very uncomfortable, for it would have been quite natural that
Lamberti should have spoken to Guido of her strange behaviour in the
Forum. Guido answered that one often liked or disliked people at first
sight.

"I think that you and I liked each other as soon as we met," he
concluded.

"Yes," Cecilia answered, after a little thought. "I am sure we did. Tell
me, what makes you think that I dislike your friend? I should be very
sorry if he thought I did."

"When I first spoke of him a few moments ago, your expression changed,
and when I referred to him again, you frowned."

"Is that all? Are you sure that is the only reason for your opinion?"

Guido laughed a little.

"What other reason could I have?" he asked. "Do not take it so
seriously!"

"He might have told you that he himself had the impression----"

"He has hardly mentioned your name since we both met you," Guido
answered.

