spoke the more he seemed ironic. But she remained consummately proof.
"Oh I can't go into that with you, and from the moment you don't wash
your hands of me I don't think you ought to ask me. You must act as you
like and as you can."

He thought again. "I'm far--as I sufficiently showed you this
morning--from washing my hands of you."

"Then," said Kate, "it's all right."

"All right?" His eagerness flamed. "You'll come?"

But he had had to see in a moment that it wasn't what she meant.
"You'll have a free hand, a clear field, a chance--well, quite ideal."

"Your descriptions"--her "ideal" was such a touch!--"are prodigious.
And what I don't make out is how, caring for me, you can like it."

"I don't like it, but I'm a person, thank goodness, who can do what I
don't like."

It wasn't till afterwards that, going back to it, he was to read into
this speech a kind of heroic ring, a note of character that belittled
his own incapacity for action. Yet he saw indeed even at the time the
greatness of knowing so well what one wanted. At the time too,
moreover, he next reflected that he after all knew what he did. But
something else on his lips was uppermost. "What I don't make out then
is how you can even bear it."

"Well, when you know me better you'll find out how much I can bear."
And she went on before he could take up, as it were, her too many
implications. That it was left to him to know her, spiritually,
"better" after his long sacrifice to knowledge--this for instance was a
truth he hadn't been ready to receive so full in the face. She had
mystified him enough, heaven knew, but that was rather by his own
generosity than by hers. And what, with it, did she seem to suggest she
might incur at his hands? In spite of these questions she was carrying
him on. "All you'll have to do will be to stay."

"And proceed to my business under your eyes?"

"Oh dear no--we shall go."

"'Go?'" he wondered. "Go when, go where?"

"In a day or two--straight home. Aunt Maud wishes it now."

It gave him all he could take in to think of. "Then what becomes of
Miss Theale?"

"What I tell you. She stays on, and you stay with her."

He stared. "All alone?"

She had a smile that was apparently for his tone. "You're old
enough--with plenty of Mrs. Stringham."

Nothing might have been so odd for him now, could he have measured it,
as his being able to feel, quite while he drew from her these
successive cues, that he was essentially "seeing what she would
say"--an instinct compatible for him therefore with that absence of a
need to know her better to which she had a moment before done
injustice. If it hadn't been appearing to him in gleams that she would
somewhere break down, he probably couldn't have gone on. Still, as she
wasn't breaking down there was nothing for him but to continue. "Is
your going Mrs. Lowder's idea?"

"Very much indeed. Of course again you see what it does for us. And I
don't," she added, "refer only to our going, but to Aunt Maud's view of
the general propriety of it."

"I see again, as you say," Densher said after a moment. "It makes
everything fit."

"Everything."

The word, for a little, held the air, and he might have seemed the
while to be looking, by no means dimly now, at all it stood for. But he
had in fact been looking at something else. "You leave her here then to
die?"

"Ah she believes she won't die. Not if you stay. I mean," Kate
explained, "Aunt Maud believes."

"And that's all that's necessary?"

Still indeed she didn't break down. "Didn't we long ago agree that what
she believes is the principal thing for us?"

He recalled it, under her eyes, but it came as from long ago. "Oh yes.
I can't deny it." Then he added: "So that if I stay--"

"It won't"--she was prompt--"be our fault."

"If Mrs. Lowder still, you mean, suspects us?"

"If she still suspects us. But she won't."

Kate gave it an emphasis that might have appeared to leave him nothing
more; and he might in fact well have found nothing if he hadn't
presently found: "But what if she doesn't accept me?"

It produced in her a look of weariness that made the patience of her
tone the next moment touch him. "You can but try."

"Naturally I can but try. Only, you see, one has to try a little hard
to propose to a dying girl."

"She isn't for you as if she's dying." It had determined in Kate the
flash of justesse he could perhaps most, on consideration, have
admired, since her retort touched the truth. There before him was the
fact of how Milly to-night impressed him, and his companion, with her
eyes in his own and pursuing his impression to the depths of them,
literally now perched on the fact in triumph. She turned her head to
where their friend was again in range, and it made him turn his, so
that they watched a minute in concert. Milly, from the other side,
happened at the moment to notice them, and she sent across toward them
in response all the candour of her smile, the lustre of her pearls, the
value of her life, the essence of her wealth. It brought them together
again with faces made fairly grave by the reality she put into their
plan. Kate herself grew a little pale for it, and they had for a time
only a silence. The music, however, gay and vociferous, had broken out
afresh and protected more than interrupted them. When Densher at last
spoke it was under cover.

"I might stay, you know, without trying."

"Oh to stay is to try."

"To have for herself, you mean, the appearance of it?"

"I don't see how you can have the appearance more."

Densher waited. "You think it then possible she may offer marriage?"

"I can't think--if you really want to know--what she may not offer!"

"In the manner of princesses, who do such things?"

"In any manner you like. So be prepared."

Well, he looked as if he almost were. "It will be for me then to
accept. But that's the way it must come."

Kate's silence, so far, let it pass; but she presently said: "You'll,
on your honour, stay then?"

His answer made her wait, but when it came it was distinct. "Without
you, you mean?"

"Without us."

"And you yourselves go at latest--?"

"Not later than Thursday."

It made three days. "Well," he said, "I'll stay, on my honour, if
you'll come to me. On your honour."

Again, as before, this made her momentarily rigid, with a rigour out of
which, at a loss, she vaguely cast about her. Her rigour was more to
him, nevertheless, than all her readiness; for her readiness was the
woman herself, and this other thing a mask, a stop-gap and a "dodge."
She cast about, however, as happened, and not for the instant in vain.
Her eyes, turned over the room, caught at a pretext. "Lady Wells is
tired of waiting: she's coming--see--to us."

Densher saw in fact, but there was a distance for their visitor to
cross, and he still had time. "If you decline to understand me I wholly
decline to understand you. I'll do nothing."

"Nothing?" It was as if she tried for the minute to plead.

"I'll do nothing. I'll go off before you. I'll go to-morrow."

He was to have afterwards the sense of her having then, as the phrase
was--and for vulgar triumphs too--seen he meant it. She looked again at
Lady Wells, who was nearer, but she quickly came back. "And if I do
understand?"

"I'll do everything."

She found anew a pretext in her approaching friend: he was fairly
playing with her pride. He had never, he then knew, tasted, in all his
relation with her, of anything so sharp--too sharp for mere
sweetness--as the vividness with which he saw himself master in the
conflict. "Well, I understand."

"On your honour?"

"On my honour."

"You'll come?"

"I'll come."




BOOK NINTH



I

It was after they had gone that he truly felt the difference, which was
most to be felt moreover in his faded old rooms. He had recovered from
the first a part of his attachment to this scene of contemplation,
within sight, as it was, of the Rialto bridge, on the hither side of
that arch of associations and the left going up the Canal; he had seen
it in a particular light, to which, more and more, his mind and his
hands adjusted it; but the interest the place now wore for him had
risen at a bound, becoming a force that, on the spot, completely
engaged and absorbed him, and relief from which--if relief was the
name--he could find only by getting away and out of reach. What had
come to pass within his walls lingered there as an obsession
importunate to all his senses; it lived again, as a cluster of pleasant
memories, at every hour and in every object; it made everything but
itself irrelevant and tasteless. It remained, in a word, a conscious
watchful presence, active on its own side, for ever to be reckoned
with, in face of which the effort at detachment was scarcely less
futile than frivolous. Kate had come to him; it was only once--and this
not from any failure of their need, but from such impossibilities, for
bravery alike and for subtlety, as there was at the last no blinking;
yet she had come, that once, to stay, as people called it; and what
survived of her, what reminded and insisted, was something he couldn't
have banished if he had wished. Luckily he didn't wish, even though
there might be for a man almost a shade of the awful in so unqualified
a consequence of his act. It had simply worked, his idea, the idea he
had made her accept; and all erect before him, really covering the
ground as far as he could see, was the fact of the gained success that
this represented. It was, otherwise, but the fact of the idea as
directly applied, as converted from a luminous conception into an
historic truth. He had known it before but as desired and urged, as
convincingly insisted on for the help it would render; so that at
present, with the help rendered, it seemed to acknowledge its office
and to set up, for memory and faith, an insistence of its own. He had
in fine judged his friend's pledge in advance as an inestimable value,
and what he must now know his case for was that of a possession of the
value to the full. Wasn't it perhaps even rather the value that
possessed him, kept him thinking of it and waiting on it, turning
round and round it and making sure of it again from this side and that?

It played for him--certainly in this prime afterglow--the part of a
treasure kept at home in safety and sanctity, something he was sure of
finding in its place when, with each return, he worked his heavy old
key in the lock. The door had but to open for him to be with it again
and for it to be all there; so intensely there that, as we say, no
other act was possible to him than the renewed act, almost the
hallucination, of intimacy. Wherever he looked or sat or stood, to
whatever aspect he gave for the instant the advantage, it was in view
as nothing of the moment, nothing begotten of time or of chance could
be, or ever would; it was in view as, when the curtain has risen, the
play on the stage is in view, night after night, for the fiddlers. He
remained thus, in his own theatre, in his single person, perpetual
orchestra to the ordered drama, the confirmed "run"; playing low and
slow, moreover, in the regular way, for the situations of most
importance. No other visitor was to come to him; he met, he bumped
occasionally, in the Piazza or in his walks, against claimants to
acquaintance, remembered or forgotten, at present mostly effusive,
sometimes even inquisitive; but he gave no address and encouraged no
approach; he couldn't for his life, he felt, have opened his door to a
third person. Such a person would have interrupted him, would have
profaned his secret or perhaps have guessed it; would at any rate have
broken the spell of what he conceived himself--in the absence of
anything "to show"--to be inwardly doing. He was giving himself
up--that was quite enough--to the general feeling of his renewed
engagement to fidelity. The force of the engagement, the quantity of
the article to be supplied, the special solidity of the contract, the
way, above all, as a service for which the price named by him had been
magnificently paid, his equivalent office was to take effect--such
items might well fill his consciousness when there was nothing from
outside to interfere. Never was a consciousness more rounded and
fastened down over what filled it; which is precisely what we have
spoken of as, in its degree, the oppression of success, the somewhat
chilled state--tending to the solitary--of supreme recognition. If it
was slightly awful to feel so justified, this was by the loss of the
warmth of the element of mystery. The lucid reigned instead of it, and
it was into the lucid that he sat and stared. He shook himself out of
it a dozen times a day, tried to break by his own act his constant
still communion. It wasn't still communion she had meant to bequeath
him; it was the very different business of that kind of fidelity of
which the other name was careful action.

Nothing, he perfectly knew, was less like careful action than the
immersion he enjoyed at home. The actual grand queerness was that to be
faithful to Kate he had positively to take his eyes, his arms, his lips
straight off her--he had to let her alone. He had to remember it was
time to go to the palace--which in truth was a mercy, since the check
was not less effectual than imperative. What it came to, fortunately,
as yet, was that when he closed the door behind him for an absence he
always shut her in. Shut her out--it came to that rather, when once he
had got a little away; and before he reached the palace, much more
after hearing at his heels the bang of the greater portone, he felt
free enough not to know his position as oppressively false. As Kate was
all in his poor rooms, and not a ghost of her left for the grander,
it was only on reflexion that the falseness came out; so long as he
left it to the mercy of beneficent chance it offered him no face and
made of him no claim that he couldn't meet without aggravation of his
inward sense. This aggravation had been his original horror; yet
what--in Milly's presence, each day--was horror doing with him but
virtually letting him off? He shouldn't perhaps get off to the end;
there was time enough still for the possibility of shame to pounce.
Still, however, he did constantly a little more what he liked best, and
that kept him for the time more safe. What he liked best was, in any
case, to know why things were as he felt them; and he knew it pretty
well, in this case, ten days after the retreat of his other friends. He
then fairly perceived that--even putting their purity of motive at its
highest--it was neither Kate nor he who made his strange relation to
Milly, who made her own, so far as it might be, innocent; it was
neither of them who practically purged it--if practically purged it
was. Milly herself did everything--so far at least as he was
concerned--Milly herself, and Milly's house, and Milly's hospitality,
and Milly's manner, and Milly's character, and, perhaps still more than
anything else, Milly's imagination, Mrs. Stringham and Sir Luke indeed
a little aiding: whereby he knew the blessing of a fair pretext to ask
himself what more he had to do. Something incalculable wrought for
them--for him and Kate; something outside, beyond, above themselves,
and doubtless ever so much better than they: which wasn't a reason,
however--its being so much better--for them not to profit by it. Not to
profit by it, so far as profit could be reckoned, would have been to go
directly against it; and the spirit of generosity at present engendered
in Densher could have felt no greater pang than by his having to go
directly against Milly.

To go with her was the thing, so far as she could herself go; which,
from the moment her tenure of her loved palace stretched on, was
possible but by his remaining near her. This remaining was of course on
the face of it the most "marked" of demonstrations--which was exactly
why Kate had required it; it was so marked that on the very evening of
the day it had taken effect Milly herself hadn't been able not to reach
out to him, with an exquisite awkwardness, for some account of it. It
was as if she had wanted from him some name that, now they were to be
almost alone together, they could, for their further ease, know it and
call it by--it being, after all, almost rudimentary that his presence,
of which the absence of the others made quite a different thing,
couldn't but have for himself some definite basis. She only wondered
about the basis it would have for himself, and how he would describe
it; that would quite do for her--it even would have done for her, he
could see, had he produced some reason merely trivial, had he said he
was waiting for money or clothes, for letters or for orders from Fleet
Street, without which, as she might have heard, newspaper men never
took a step. He hadn't in the event quite sunk to that; but he had none
the less had there with her, that night, on Mrs. Stringham's leaving
them alone--Mrs. Stringham proved really prodigious--his acquaintance
with a shade of awkwardness darker than any Milly could know. He had
supposed himself beforehand, on the question of what he was doing or
pretending, in possession of some tone that would serve; but there were
three minutes of his feeling incapable of promptness quite in the same
degree in which a gentleman whose pocket has been picked feels
incapable of purchase. It even didn't help him, oddly, that he was sure
Kate would in some way have spoken for him--or rather not so much in
some way as in one very particular way. He hadn't asked her, at the
last, what she might, in the connexion, have said; nothing would have
induced him to put such a question after she had been to see him: his
lips were so sealed by that passage, his spirit in fact so hushed, in
respect to any charge upon her freedom. There was something he could
only therefore read back into the probabilities, and when he left the
palace an hour afterwards it was with a sense of having breathed there,
in the very air, the truth he had been guessing.

Just this perception it was, however, that had made him for the time
ugly to himself in his awkwardness. It was horrible, with this
creature, to be awkward; it was odious to be seeking excuses for the
relation that involved it. Any relation that involved it was by the
very fact as much discredited as a dish would be at dinner if one had
to take medicine as a sauce. What Kate would have said in one of the
young women's last talks was that--if Milly absolutely must have the
truth about it--Mr. Densher was staying because she had really seen no
way but to require it of him. If he stayed he didn't follow her--or
didn't appear to her aunt to be doing so; and when she kept him from
following her Mrs. Lowder couldn't pretend, in scenes, the renewal of
which at this time of day was painful, that she after all didn't snub
him as she might. She did nothing in fact but snub him--wouldn't that
have been part of the story?--only Aunt Maud's suspicions were of the
sort that had repeatedly to be dealt with. He had been, by the same
token, reasonable enough--as he now, for that matter, well might; he
had consented to oblige them, aunt and niece, by giving the plainest
sign possible that he could exist away from London. To exist away from
London was to exist away from Kate Croy--which was a gain, much
appreciated, to the latter's comfort. There was a minute, at this hour,
out of Densher's three, during which he knew the terror of Milly's
uttering some such allusion to their friend's explanation as he must
meet with words that wouldn't destroy it. To destroy it was to destroy
everything, to destroy probably Kate herself, to destroy in particular
by a breach of faith still uglier than anything else the beauty of
their own last passage. He had given her his word of honour that if she
would come to him he would act absolutely in her sense, and he had done
so with a full enough vision of what her sense implied. What it implied
for one thing was that to-night in the great saloon, noble in its
half-lighted beauty, and straight in the white face of his young
hostess, divine in her trust, or at any rate inscrutable in her
mercy--what it implied was that he should lie with his lips. The single
thing, of all things, that could save him from it would be Milly's
letting him off after having thus scared him. What made her mercy
inscrutable was that if she had already more than once saved him it was
yet apparently without knowing how nearly he was lost.

These were transcendent motions, not the less blest for being obscure;
whereby yet once more he was to feel the pressure lighten. He was kept
on his feet in short by the felicity of her not presenting him with
Kate's version as aversion to adopt. He couldn't stand up to lie--he
felt as if he should have to go down on his knees. As it was he just
sat there shaking a little for nervousness the leg he had crossed over
the other. She was sorry for his suffered snub, but he had nothing more
to subscribe to, to perjure himself about, than the three or four
inanities he had, on his own side, feebly prepared for the crisis. He
scrambled a little higher than the reference to money and clothes,
letters and directions from his manager; but he brought out the beauty
of the chance for him--there before him like a temptress painted by
Titian--to do a little quiet writing. He was vivid for a moment on the
difficulty of writing quietly in London; and he was precipitate, almost
explosive, on his idea, long cherished, of a book.

The explosion lighted her face. "You'll do your book here?"

"I hope to begin it."

"It's something you haven't begun?"

"Well, only just."

"And since you came?"

She was so full of interest that he shouldn't perhaps after all be too
easily let off. "I tried to think a few days ago that I had broken
ground."

Scarcely anything, it was indeed clear, could have let him in deeper.
"I'm afraid we've made an awful mess of your time."

"Of course you have. But what I'm hanging on for now is precisely to
repair that ravage."

"Then you mustn't mind me, you know."

"You'll see," he tried to say with ease, "how little I shall mind
anything."

"You'll want"--Milly had thrown herself into it--"the best part of your
days."

He thought a moment: he did what he could to wreathe it in smiles. "Oh
I shall make shift with the worst part. The best will be for you."
And he wished Kate could hear him. It didn't help him moreover that he
visibly, even pathetically, imaged to her by such touches his quest for
comfort against discipline. He was to bury Kate's so signal snub, and
also the hard law she had now laid on him, under a high intellectual
effort. This at least was his crucifixion--that Milly was so
interested. She was so interested that she presently asked him if he
found his rooms propitious, while he felt that in just decently
answering her he put on a brazen mask. He should need it quite
particularly were she to express again her imagination of coming to tea
with him--an extremity that he saw he was not to be spared. "We depend
on you, Susie and I, you know, not to forget we're coming"--the
extremity was but to face that remainder, yet it demanded all his tact.
Facing their visit itself--to that, no matter what he might have to do,
he would never consent, as we know, to be pushed; and this even though
it might be exactly such a demonstration as would figure for him at the
top of Kate's list of his proprieties. He could wonder freely enough,
deep within, if Kate's view of that especial propriety had not been
modified by a subsequent occurrence; but his deciding that it was quite
likely not to have been had no effect on his own preference for tact.
It pleased him to think of "tact" as his present prop in doubt; that
glossed his predicament over, for it was of application among the
sensitive and the kind. He wasn't inhuman, in fine, so long as it would
serve. It had to serve now, accordingly, to help him not to sweeten
Milly's hopes. He didn't want to be rude to them, but he still less
wanted them to flower again in the particular connexion; so that,
casting about him in his anxiety for a middle way to meet her, he put
his foot, with unhappy effect, just in the wrong place. "Will it be
safe for you to break into your custom of not leaving the house?"

"'Safe'--?" She had for twenty seconds an exquisite pale glare. Oh but
he didn't need it, by that time, to wince; he had winced for himself as
soon as he had made his mistake. He had done what, so unforgettably,
she had asked him in London not to do; he had touched, all alone with
her here, the supersensitive nerve of which she had warned him. He had
not, since the occasion in London, touched it again till now; but he
saw himself freshly warned that it was able to bear still less. So for
the moment he knew as little what to do as he had ever known it in his
life. He couldn't emphasise that he thought of her as dying, yet he
couldn't pretend he thought of her as indifferent to precautions.
Meanwhile too she had narrowed his choice. "You suppose me so awfully
bad?"

He turned, in his pain, within himself; but by the time the colour had
mounted to the roots of his hair he had found what he wanted. "I'll
believe whatever you tell me."

"Well then, I'm splendid."

"Oh I don't need you to tell me that."

"I mean I'm capable of life."

"I've never doubted it."

"I mean," she went on, "that I want so to live--!"

