"You are Sister Benie?" he said at once, narrowing his eyes.  "Faith,"
he thought, "if all nuns were like this woman, Christianity were easy
to embrace."

"Yes, Monsieur," replied the nun.  "Brother Jacques has sent me to you.
What may I do for you?"

"You were young once?"

This unusual question apparently had no effect upon her serenity.  "I
am still young.  Those who give their hearts unreservedly to God never
grow old."

The marquis's hand moved, restlessly.  "How long have you been in
Quebec?"

"Fifteen years, Monsieur.  Shall I read to you?"

"No.  You came from France?" with a sick man's persistence.

"Yes, Monsieur.  Is there something besides reading I can do?"

"Do I look ill?" querulously.

"You are burning with fever."  She drew the cool palm of her hand
across his heated forehead.

"Jehan!" called the marquis.  The touch of that hand had caused him an
indescribable sensation.

"I am here, Monsieur," replied Jehan.

Sister Benie leaned back out of the sunlight.

"A pitcher of water; I am thirsty."

Jehan took the pitcher fumblingly.  He was yellow with fear and wonder.

"You have seen my son?" asked the marquis, when the door closed.

"You ought to be proud of such a son, Monsieur."

The marquis was a bit disconcerted.  "I know him well.  Do you think he
will become great and respected?"

"He has already become respected."  She was vaguely distressed and
puzzled.

"But will he become great?"

"That is for God to decide."

"Of what consists greatness?"

"It is greatness to forgive."

The marquis turned his head away.  He was chagrined.  "Monsieur le
Comte will never become great then.  He will never forgive me for being
his father."

"Ah, Monsieur, I do not like that tone of yours.  There have been words
between you, and you are not forgiving.  Do you not love your son?"

"The love of children is the woman's part; man plays it but ill.
Perhaps there were some things which I failed to learn."  Love his son?
A grim smile played over his purple lips.  Why, he had ceased even to
love himself!

To her eyes the smile resembled a spasm of pain.  "Does your head
ache?" she asked.  She put her arm under his head and placed it more
comfortably on the pillow.

"Yes, my head is always aching.  I have not lived well, and nature is
claiming her tithes."  He closed his eyes, surrendering to the restful
touch of the cool palm.  By and by he slept; and she sat there watching
till morning merged into drowsy noon.  The agony was begun.  And while
he slept the mask of calm left her face, revealing the soul.  From time
to time she raised her eyes toward heaven, and continually her lips
moved in prayer.


"Monsieur Paul," said Breton gaily, "do we return to France on the
Henri IV?"

"No, lad; nor on many a ship to come and go."

Breton's heart contracted.  "But Monsieur le Marquis . . . ?"

"Will return alone.  Go with him, lad; you are homesick.  Go and marry
old Martin's daughter, and be happy.  It would be wrong for me to rob
you of your youth's right."

"But you, Monsieur?"

"I shall remain here.  I have my time to serve.  After that, France,
maybe . . . or become a grand seigneur."

The Chevalier put on his hat.  He had an idle hour.

Breton choked back the sob.  "I will remain with you, Monsieur, for the
present.  I was wondering where in the world that copy of Rabelais had
gone.  I had not seen it since we left the ship Saint Laurent."  The
lad patted the book with a fictitious show of affection.

"Possibly in the hurry of bringing it here you dropped it, and some
one, seeing my name in it, has returned it."

"Never to see France again?" murmured Breton, alone.  "Ah, if only I
loved her less, or Monsieur Paul not so well!"  Even Breton had his
tragedy.

The Chevalier perched himself upon one of the citadel's parapets.  The
southwest wind was tumbling the waters of the river and the deep blues
of the forests seemed continually changing in hues.  Forces within him
were at war.  He was uneasy.  That his father had fought D'Hérouville
on his account there could be no doubt.  What a sorry world it was,
with its cross-purposes, its snarled labyrinths!  The last meeting with
his father came back vividly; and yet, despite all the cutting, biting
dialogue of that interview, Monsieur le Marquis had taken up his cause
unasked and had gone about it with all the valor of his race.  He was
chagrined, angered.  Had the old days been lived rightly and with
reason; had there been no ravelings, no tangles, no misunderstandings,
life would have run smoothly enough.  Had this strange old man, whom
fate had made his father, come with repentance, but without mode of
expression, without tact?   Three thousand miles; 'twas a long way when
a letter would have been sufficient.  But the cruelty of that lie, and
the bitterness of all these weeks!  If his thrusts that night had been
cruel, he knew that, were it all to be done over again, he should not
moderate a single word.  The lie, the abominable lie!  One does not
forgive such a lie, at least not easily.  And yet that duel!  He would
have given a year of his life to see that fight as Brother Jacques
described it.  It was his blood; and whatever pits and chasms yawned
between, the spirit of this blood was common.  Perhaps some day he
could forgive.

And Diane, she had mocked him, not knowing; she had laughed in his
face, unconscious of the double edge; she had accused him and he had
been without answer.  Heaven on earth! to win her, to call her his, to
feel her breath upon his cheek, the perfume of her hair in his
nostrils!  Hedged in, whichever way he turned, whether toward hate or
love!  He clutched the handle of his rapier and knotted the muscles of
his arms.  He would fight his way toward her; no longer would he
supplicate, he would demand.  He would follow her wherever she went,
aye, even back to France!  For what had he to lose?  Nothing.  And all
the world to gain.

Man needs obstacles to overcome to be great either in courage or
magnanimity; he needs the sense of injustice, of wrong, of unmerited
contempt; he needs the wrath against these things without which man
becomes passive like non-carnivorous animals.  And had not he
obstacles?--unrequited love, escutcheon to make bright and whole?

From a short distance Brother Jacques contemplated the Chevalier,
gloomily and morosely.  Envy, said the marquis, gibing.  Yes, envy;
envy of the large life, envy of riches, of worldly pleasures, of the
love of women.  Cursed be this drop of acid which seared his heart:
envy.  How he envied yon handsome fellow, with his lordly airs, the
life he had led and the gold he had spent!  And yet . . .  Brother
Jacques was a hero for all his robes.  He cast out envy in the thought,
and made his way toward the Chevalier, whose face showed that at this
moment he was not very glad to see Brother Jacques.

"My brother, your father is very ill."

"That is possible," said the Chevalier, swinging to the ground.  He did
not propose to confide any of his thoughts to the priest.  "He is old,
and is wasteful of his energies."

"Yes, he has wasted his energies; in your cause, Monsieur, remember
that.  Your father had nothing in common with D'Hérouville.  Their
paths had never crossed . . . and never will cross again."

The Chevalier kicked the stones impatiently.  So Brother Jacques
understood why the marquis had fought the Comte d'Hérouville?

"May I be so bold as to ask what took place between you and Monsieur le
Marquis on the night of his arrival in Quebec?"

"I must leave you in ignorance," said the Chevalier decisively.

"He may never leave his bed."

The Chevalier bit the ends of his mustache, and remained silent.

"He came a long way to do you a service," continued the priest.

"Who can say as to that?  And I do not see that all this particularly
concerns you."

"But you will admit that he fought the man who . . . who laughed."

The Chevalier let slip a stirring oath, and the grip he put on the hilt
of his sword would have crushed the hand of an average strong man.

"Monsieur, it is true that your father has wronged you, but can you not
forgive him?"

The Chevalier stared scowlingly into the Jesuit's eyes.  "Would you
forgive a father who, as a pastime, had temporarily made you . . . a
bastard?"

The priest's shudder did not escape the searching eyes of the
Chevalier.  "Ha!  I thought not.  Do not expect me, a worldly man, to
do what you, a priest, shrink from."

"Do not put me in your place.  Monsieur.  I would forgive him had he
done to me what he has done to you."

The Chevalier saw no ambiguity.  "That is easily said.  You are a
priest, I am a worldling; what to you would mean but little, to me
would be the rending of the core of life.  My father can not undo what
he has done; he can not piece together and make whole the wreck he has
made of my life."

"Have you no charity?" persuasively.

The Chevalier spread his hands in negation.  He was growing restive.

"Will you let me teach you?" Brother Jacques was expiating the sin of
envy.

"You may teach, but you will find me somewhat dull in learning."

"Do you know what charity is?"

"It is a fine word, covered with fine clothes, and goes about in pomp
and glitter.  It builds in the abstract: telescopes for the blind,
lutes for the deaf, flowers for the starved.  Bah! charity has had
little bearing on my life."

"Listen," said Brother Jacques; "of all God's gifts to men, charity is
the largest.  To recognize a sin in oneself and to forgive it in
another because we possess it, that is charity.  Charity has no
balances like justice; it weighs neither this nor that.  Its heart has
no secret chambers; every door will open for the knocking.  Mercy is
justice modified.  Charity forgives where justice punishes and mercy
condones.  Your bitter words were directed against philanthropy, not
charity.  Shall an old man's repentance knock at the heart of his son
and find not charity there?"

"Repentance?"  So this thought was not alone his?

"You will forgive him, Monsieur . . . my brother."

The Chevalier shook his head.  "Not to-day nor to-morrow."

"You will not let him of your blood go down to the grave unforgiven;
not when he offered this blood to avenge an insult given to you.  The
reparation he has made is the best he knows.  Only forgive him and let
him die in peace.  He is proud, but he is ill.  To this hour he
believes that terrible struggle to be but a dream; but even the dream
brings him comfort.  He is seventy; he is old.  You take the first
step; come with me.  Through all your life you will look back upon this
hour with happiness.  Whatever the parent's fault may be, there is
always the duty of the child toward that parent.  You will forgive him."

"But if I go to him without forgiveness in my heart; if only my lips
speak?"

"It is in your heart; you have only to look for it."

"Ah well, I will go with you.  It is a cup of gall to drink, but I will
drink it.  If he is dying . . .  Well, I will play the part; but God is
witness that there is no charity in my heart, nor forgiveness, for he
has wilfully spoiled my life."

So the two men moved off toward the marquis's bed-chamber.

"You remain in the hall, Monsieur," said the priest, "till I call you."
But as he entered the chamber he purposely left open the door so that
the Chevalier might hear what passed.

"Ah! it is you," said the marquis.  "Let me thank you for bringing that
nurse."

"Sister Benie?"

"Yes.  You do not know, then, from what family she originated?"

"No, Monsieur."

"Who knows?"

"The Mother Superior.  Monsieur, I have news for you.  I bring you
peace."

"Peace?"

"Yes.  Monsieur, your son is willing to testify that he forgives you
the wrong you have done him."

The marquis shook as with ague and drew the coverlet to his chin.  A
minute went by, and another.  The Chevalier listened, waiting for his
father's voice to break the silence.  After all, he could forgive.

"Have you anything to say, Monsieur ?" asked Brother Jacques.

The marquis stirred and drew his hand across his lips.  "Where is
Monsieur le Comte?"

"He is waiting in the hall.  Shall I call . . . ?"

"Wait!" interrupted the marquis.  Presently he cleared his throat and
said in a thin, dry voice: "Tell Monsieur le Comte for me that I am
sleeping and may not be disturbed."

"Monsieur," said Jehan that night, "pardon, but do you ever . . . do
you ever think of Margot Bourdaloue?"

The marquis raised himself as though to hurl a curse at his luckless
servant.  But all he said was; "Sometimes, Jehan, sometimes!"




CHAPTER XXV

OF ORIOLES AND WOMAN'S PREROGATIVES

"Tell Monsieur le Comte for me that I am sleeping and may not be
disturbed!"

All through the long night the marquis's thin, piercing voice rang in
the Chevalier's ears, and rang with sinister tone.  He could find no
ease upon his pillow, and he stole quietly forth into the night.  He
wandered about the upper town, round the cathedral, past the Ursulines,
under the frowning walls of the citadel, followed his shadow in the
moonlight and went before it.  Those grim words had severed the last
delicate thread which bound father and son.  To have humiliated
himself!  To have left open in his armor a place for such a thrust!  He
had gone with charity and forgiveness, to be repulsed!  He had held
forth his hand, to find the other's withdrawn!

"Tell Monsieur le Comte for me that I am sleeping and may not be
disturbed!"

Mockery!  And yet this same father had taken up the sword to drive it
through a man who had laughed.  Only God knew; for neither the son
understood the father nor the father the son.  Well, so be it.  He was
now without weight upon his shoulders; he was conscience free; he had
paid his obligations, obligations far beyond his allotted part.  It was
inevitable that their paths should separate.  There had been too many
words; there was still too much pride.

"Tell Monsieur le Comte for me that I am sleeping and may not be
disturbed!"

He had stood there in the corridor and writhed as this blade entered
his soul and turned and turned.  Rage and chagrin had choked him,
leaving him utterly speechless.  So be it.  Forevermore it was to be
the house divided. . . .  It was after two o'clock when the Chevalier
went back to his bed.  The poet was in slumber, and his face looked
careworn in repose.

"Poor lad!  He is not happy, either.  Only the clod knows content as a
recompense for his poverty.  Good night, Madame; to-morrow, to-morrow,
and we shall see!"

And the morrow came, the rarest gem in all the diadem of days.  There
was a ripple on the water; a cloudless sky; fields of corn waving their
tasseled heads and the broad leaf of the tobacco plant trembling,
trembling.

"What!" cried Victor in surprise; "you have a new feather in your hat?"

"Faith, lad," said the Chevalier, "the old plume was a shabby one.  But
I have not destroyed it; too many fond remembrances cling to it.  How
often have I doffed that plume at court, in the gardens, on the
balconies and on the king's highways!  And who would suspect, to look
at it now, that it had ever dusted the mosaics at the Vatican?  And
there have been times when I flung it on the green behind the
Luxembourg, my doublet beside it."

"Ah, yes; we used to have an occasional affair."  And Victor nodded as
one who knew the phrase.  "But a new feather here?  Who will notice it?
Pray, glance at this suit of mine!  I give it one month's service, and
then the Indian's clout.  I can't wear those skins.  Pah!"

"Examine this feather," the Chevalier requested.

"White heron, as I live!  You are, then, about to seek the war-path?"
laughing.

"Or the path which leads to it.  I am going a-courting."

"Ah!"

"Yes.  Heigho!  How would you like a pheasant, my poet, and a bottle of
Mignon's bin of '39?"

"Paris!"  Victor smacked his lips drolly.

"Or a night at Voisin's, with dice and the green board?"

"Paris!"

"Or a romp with the girls along the quays?"

"Horns of Panurge!  I like this mood."

"It's a man's mood.  I am thinking of the château of oak and maple I
shall some day build along some river height.  What a fireplace I shall
have, and what cellars!  Somehow, Paris no longer calls to me."

"To me," said the poet, "it is ever calling, calling.  Shall I see my
beloved Paris again?  Who can say?"

"Mazarin will not live forever."

"But here it is so lonesome; a desert.  And you will make a fine
seigneur, you with your fastidious tastes, love of fine clothes and
music.  Look at yourself now!  A silk shirt in tatters, tawdry
buckskin, a new hero's feather, and a dingy pair of moccasins.  And you
are going a-courting.  What, fortune?"

"'Tis all the same."

"So you love her?" quietly.

"Yes, lad, I love her; and I am determined to learn this day the worth
of loving."

"Take care," warned the poet.

"Victor, some day you will be going back to Paris.  Tell them at court
how, of a summer's morn, Monsieur le Chevalier du Cévennes went forth
to conquest."

"Hark!" said Victor.  "I hear a blackbird."  He sorted his papers, for
he was writing.  "I will write an ode on your venture.  What shall I
call it?"

"Call it 'Hazards,' comrade; for this day I put my all in the leather
cup and make but a single throw.  Who is madame?"

"Ask her," rather sharply.

"She is worthy of a man's love?"

"Worthy!"  Victor half rose from his chair.  "Worthy of being loved?
Yes, Paul, she is worthy.  But are you sure that you love her?"

"I have loved her for two years."

"Two years," repeated the poet.  "She is a strange woman."

"But you know her!"

"Yes, I know her; as we know a name and the name of a history."

"She comes from a good family?"

Victor laughed mirthlessly.  "Oh, yes!"

"Do you know why she is here?"

"I thought I did, but I have found that I am as ignorant as yourself."

"There is a mad humor in me to-day.  Wish me good luck and bid me be
gone."

"Good luck to you, Paul; good luck to you, comrade."  And Victor's
smile, if forced, was none the less affectionate.

"And luck to your ode, my good poet.  I go to find me a nosegay."

And when he was gone, Victor remained motionless in his chair.  Two
years!  Ah, Gabrielle, Gabrielle, was that quite fair?  He thought of
all the old days, and a great wave of bitterness rushed over him.  He
no longer heard the blackbird.  The quill fell from his fingers, and he
laid his head upon his arms.

"I am tired," was all he said.

The Chevalier wended his way toward the Ursulines.  His heart beat
furiously.  Sometimes his feet dragged, or again they flew, according
to the fall or rise of his courage.  The sight of a petticoat sent him
into a cold chill.  He tramped here and there, in all places where he
thought possibly she might be found.  Half the time he caught himself
walking on tiptoe, for no reason whatever.  Dared he inquire for her,
send a fictitious note enticing her forth from her room?  No, he dared
do neither; he must prowl around, waiting and watching for his
opportunity.  Would she laugh, be indignant, storm or weep?  Heaven
only knew!  To attack her suddenly, without giving her time to rally
her forces,--formidable forces of wit and sarcasm!--therein lay his
hope.

"What a coward a woman can make of a man!  I have known this woman two
years; I have danced and dined with her, made love, and here I can
scarce breathe!  I am lost if she sees me in this condition, or finds a
weak spot.  How I love her, love her!  I have kissed the air she leaves
in passing by.  Oh!  I will solve this enchanting mystery.  I have the
right now; I am rich, and young."

It will be seen that the gods favor those who go forward.

By the wall of the Ursulines stood a rustic bench, and upon this bench
sat madame.  She was waiting for Anne, who was paying her usual morning
devotions under the guidance of the Mother Superior.  Madame was not
very busy with her eyes, and the jeweled miniature which she held in
