of the swimmers came into view.

"There's Billy Williams!" was the cry. "And that's Texas, way over
there. Here's Parson Stanard! And Jones!"

And so on it went, but no Mallory. Those on the shore could not see him
and those in the river had no better luck. Most of them had begun to
give up in despair, when the long-expected cry did come. For Mark was
not dead by a long shot.

A shout came from a solitary straggler far down the stream, and the
straggler was seen to plunge into the water. Those on the shore made a
wild dash for the spot and those in the water struck out for the shore
so as to join them. And louder at last swelled the glad cry.

"Here he is! Hooray!"

The plebe was about a hundred yards from the shore, and swimming weakly;
the girl, still unconscious, was floating upon her back--and her
rescuer, holding her by the arms--was slowly towing her toward the
shore.

A dozen swam out to aid him as soon as he was seen; strong arms lifted
the girl and bore her high upon the bank, others supporting the
half-fainting plebe to a seat.

"Is she dead?" was Mark's first thought, as soon as he could speak at
all.

"I don't know," said Fischer, chafing the girl's hands and watching for
the least sign of life. "Somebody hustle up for the doctor there!
Quick!"

Several of the cadets set out for the hospital at a run; and the rest
gathered about the two and offered what help they could.

"It's Judge Fuller's daughter," said Fischer, who was busily dosing the
unconscious figure with a flask of reddish liquid surreptitiously
produced by one of the cadets.

"Do you know her?" inquired Mark, in surprise.

"Know her!" echoed half the bystanders at once. "Why, she lives just
across the river!"

"That's an ugly looking wound on the head there," continued Fischer,
bending over the prostrate form. "Gosh! but that boom must have struck
her. And here, Mallory," he added, "you'd best take a taste of this
brandy. You look about dead yourself."

"No, I thank you," responded Mark, smiling weakly. "I'm all right. Only
I'm glad it's all over and----"

Mark got no farther; as if to mock his words came a cry that made the
crowd whirl about and look toward the river in alarm.

"Help! Help!"

"By George!" cried Fischer, "it's one of the fellows!"

"It's Alan!" shouted Mark. "Alan Dewey!"

And before any one could divine his intention he sprang up and made a
dash for the river. For Mark knew how Dewey had come there; he had swum
out, cripple though he was, to hunt for him; and with his one well arm,
poor gallant Dewey was finding trouble in getting back.

Mark had been quick, but Fischer was a bit too quick for him and seized
him by the arm.

"Come back here!" he commanded, sternly. "And don't be a fool. You're
near dead. Some of you fellows swim out and tow that plebe in."

Half a dozen had started without being asked; and Mark's overzealous
friend was grabbed by the hair and arms and feet and rushed in in great
style. He came up smiling as usual.

"Got out too far, b'gee!" he began. "Very foolish of me! Reminds me of a
story I once heard---- Oh, say!"

This last explanation came as the speaker caught sight of the figure of
the young girl; and his face lost its smile on the instant.

"She's alive, isn't she?" he cried.

"Don't know," said Fischer. "Here comes the doctor now."

"Well, she certainly is a beautiful girl!" responded Dewey, shaking his
head. "B'gee, we don't want that kind to die!"

The doctor was coming on a run; and a minute later he was kneeling
beside the young girl's body.

"Jove!" he muttered. "Almost a fractured skull! No, she's alive! See
here, who got her out?"

"Mr. Mallory," responded the captain, turning toward where Mark had sat.
And then he gave vent to a startled exclamation.

"Good heavens! He's fainted! What's the matter?"

"Fainted?" echoed the surgeon, as he noticed the young man's white lips
and bloodless cheek. "Fainted! I should say so! Why, he's almost as near
dead as she! We must take him to the hospital."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

MARK MEETS THE SUPERINTENDENT.


"Yes, colonel, the lad is a hero, and I want to tell him so, too!"

The speaker was a tall, gray-haired gentleman, and he whacked his cane
on the floor for emphasis as he spoke.

"It was a splendid act, sir, splendid!" he continued. "And I want to
thank Mark Mallory for it right here in your office."

The man he addressed wore the uniform of the United States army; he was
Colonel Harvey, the superintendent of the West Point Academy.

"I shall be most happy to have you do so," he replied, smiling at this
visitor's enthusiasm. "You have certainly," he added, "much to thank the
young man for."

"Much!" echoed the other. "Much! Why, my dear sir, if that daughter of
mine had been drowned I believe it would have killed me. She is my only
child, and, if I do say it myself, sir, the sweetest girl that ever
lived."

"Wasn't it rather reckless, judge," inquired the other, "for you to
allow her to go sailing alone?"

"She is used to the boat," responded Judge Fuller, "but no one on earth
could have handled it in such a gale. I do not remember to have seen
such a one in all the time I have lived up here."

"Nor I, either," said the superintendent. "It was so dark that I could
scarcely see across the parade ground. It is almost miraculous that
Mallory should have succeeded in finding the boat as he did."

"Tell me about it," put in the other. "I have not been able to get a
consistent account yet."

"Cadet Captain Fischer told me," responded the colonel. "It seems that
he and Mallory were just at the finish of a swimming race when the storm
broke. They caught sight of the boat with your daughter in it coming
down stream. The plebe turned, exhausted though he was, and headed for
it. It got so dark then that those on shore could scarcely see; but the
lad managed to catch the boat as it passed and climbed aboard. Just then
the boom swung round and flung the girl into the water. Mallory dived
again at once----"

"Splendid!" interrupted the other.

"And swam ashore with her."

"And then fainted, they say," the judge added.

"Yes," said Colonel Harvey. "Dr. Grimes told me that it was one of the
worst cases of exhaustion he had ever seen. But the lad is doing well
now; he appears to be a very vigorous youngster--and I've an idea
several of the yearlings found that out to their discomfort. The doctor
told me that he thought he would be out this morning; the accident was
only two days ago."

"That is fortunate," responded the other. "The boy is too good to lose."

"He appears to be a remarkable lad generally," continued the
superintendent. "I have heard several tales about him. Some of the
stories came to me 'unofficially,' as we call it, and I don't believe
Mallory would rest easily if he thought I knew of them. Young Fischer,
who's a splendid man himself, I'll tell you, informed me yesterday that
the plebe had earned his admission fee by bringing help to a wrecked
train and telegraphing the account to a New York paper."

"I heard he had been in some trouble about demerits," put in Judge
Fuller.

"In very serious trouble. I had to take a very radical step to get him
out of it. Every once in a while I find that some new cadet is being
'skinned,' as the cadets call it, demerited unfairly. I always punish
severely when I find that out. In this case, though, I had no proof;
Mallory would say nothing, though he was within five demerits of
expulsion. So I decided to end the whole matter by declaring a new rule
I've been contemplating for some time. I've found that new cadets get
too many demerits during the first few weeks, before they learn the
rules thoroughly. So I've decided that in future no demerits shall be
given for the first three weeks, and that delinquencies shall be
punished by extra hours and other penalties. That let Mallory out of his
trouble, you see."

"A very clever scheme!" laughed the other. "Very clever!"

It may be of interest to notice that Colonel Harvey's rule has been in
effect ever since.

There was silence of a few moments after that, during which Judge Fuller
tapped the floor with his cane reflectively.

"You promised to let me see this Mallory," he said, suddenly. "I'm ready
now."

By way of answer, the superintendent rang a bell upon his desk.

"Go over to the hospital," he said to the orderly who appeared in the
doorway, "and find out if Cadet Mallory is able to be about. If he is,
bring him here at once."

The boy disappeared and the colonel turned to his visitor and smiled.

"Is that satisfactory?" he inquired.

"Very!" responded the other. "And I only wish that you could send for my
daughter to come over, too. I hope those surgeons are taking care of
her."

"As much as if she were their own," answered the colonel. "I cannot tell
you how glad I was to learn that she is beyond danger."

"It is God's mercy," said the other, with feeling. "She could not have
had a much narrower escape."

And after that neither said anything until a knock at the door signaled
the arrival of the orderly.

"Come in," called the superintendent, and two figures stepped into the
room. One was the messenger, and the other was Mark.

"This," said the superintendent after a moment's pause, "is Cadet
Mallory."

And Cadet Mallory it was. The same old Mark, only paler and more weak
just then.

Judge Fuller rose and bowed gravely.

"Sit down," said he, "you are not strong enough to stand."

And after that no one said anything for fully a minute; the last speaker
resumed his seat and fell to studying Mark's face in silence. And Mark
waited respectfully for him to begin.

"My name," said he at last, "is Fuller."

"Judge Fuller?" inquired Mark.

"Yes. And Grace Fuller is my daughter."

After that there was silence again, broken suddenly by the excitable old
gentleman dropping his cane, springing up from his chair, and striding
over toward the lad.

"I want to shake hands with you, sir! I want to shake hands with you!"
he cried.

Mark was somewhat taken aback; but he arose and did as he was asked.

"And now," said the judge, "I guess that's all--sit down, sir, sit down;
you've little strength left, I can see. I want to thank you, sir, for
being the finest lad I've met for a long time. And when my daughter gets
well--which she will, thank the Lord--I'll be very glad to have you
call on us, or else to let us call on you--seeing that we live beyond
cadet limits. And if ever you get into trouble, here or anywhere, just
come and see me about it, and I'll be much obliged to you. And that's
all."

Having said which, the old gentleman stalked across the room once more,
picked up his hat and cane, and made for the door.

"Good-day, sir," he said. "I'm going around now to see my daughter.
Good-day, and God bless you."

After which the door was shut.

It was several minutes after that before Colonel Harvey said anything.

"You have made a powerful friend, my boy," he remarked, smiling at the
recollection of the old gentleman's strange speech. "And you have
brought honor upon the academy. I am proud of you--proud to have you
here."

"Thank you, sir," said Mark, simply.

"All I have to say besides that," added the officer, "is to watch out
that you stay. Don't get any more demerits."

"I'll try not, sir."

"Do. And I guess you had best go and join your company now if the doctor
thinks you're able. Something is happening to-day which always interests
new cadets. I bid you good-morning, Mr. Mallory."

And Mark went out of that office and crossed the street to barracks
feeling as if he were walking on air.




CHAPTER XXIX.

THE SEVEN IN SESSION.


It is fun indeed to be a hero, to know that every one you pass is gazing
at you with admiration. Or if one cannot do anything heroic, let him
even do something that will bring him notoriety, and then--

    "As he walks along the Boulevard,
    With an independent air."

he may be able to appreciate the afore-mentioned sensation.

There was no boulevard at West Point, but the area in barracks served
the purpose, and Mark could not help noticing that as he went the
yearlings were gazing enviously at him, and the plebes with undisguised
admiration. He hurried upstairs to avoid that, and found that he had
leaped, as the phrase has it, from the frying pan to the fire. For there
were the other six of the "Seven Devils" ready to welcome him with a
rush.

"Wow!" cried Texas. "Back again! Whoop!"

"Bless my soul, but I'm glad!" piped in the little round bubbly voice of
"Indian." "Bless my soul!"

"Sit down. Sit down," cried "Parson" Stanard, reverently offering his
beloved volume of "Dana's Geology" for a cushion.

"Sit down and let us look at you."

"Yes, b'gee!" chimed in Alan Dewey. "Yes, b'gee, let's look at you.
Reminds me of a story I once heard, b'gee--pshaw, what's the use of
trying to tell a good story with everybody trying to shout at once."

The excitement subsided after some five minutes more, and Mark was glad
of it. With the true modesty natural to all high minds he felt that he
would a great deal rather rescue a girl than be praised and made
generally uncomfortable for it. So he shut his followers up as quickly
as he could, which was not very quickly, for they had lots to say.

"How is the girl?" inquired Dewey, perceiving at last that Mark really
meant what he said, and so, hastening to turn the conversation.

"She's doing very well now," said Mark.

"Always your luck!" growled Texas. "She's beautiful, and her father's a
judge and got lots of money. Bet he runs off and marries her in a week.
Oh, say, Mark, but you're lucky! You just ought to hear the plebes talk
about you. I can't tell you how proud I am, man! Why----"

"Right back at it again!" interrupted Mark, laughing. "Right back again!
Didn't I tell you to drop it? I know what I'll do----"

Here Mark arose from his seat.

"I hereby declare this a business meeting of the Seven Devils, and as
chairman I call the meeting to order."

"What for?" cried the crowd.

"To consider plans for hazing," answered Mark. "I----"

"Wow!" roared Texas, wildly excited in an instant. "Goin' to haze
somebody? Whoop!"

And Mark laughed silently to himself.

"I knew I'd make you drop that rescue business," he said. "And Mr.
Powers, you will have the goodness to come to order and not to address
the meeting until you are granted the floor. It is my purpose, if you
will allow me to say a few words to the society--ahem!"

Mark said this with stern and pompous dignity and Texas subsided so
suddenly that the rest could scarcely keep from laughing.

"But, seriously now, fellows," he said, after a moment's silence. "Let's
leave all the past behind and consider what's before us. I really have
something to say."

Having been thus enjoined, the meeting did come to order. The members
settled themselves comfortably about the room as if expecting a long
oration, and Mark continued, after a moment's thought.

"We really ought to make up our mind beforehand as to just exactly what
we're going to do. I suppose you all know what's going to happen
to-day."

"No!" cried the impulsive Texas. "I don't. What is it, anyhow?"

"We're to move to camp this afternoon," responded Mark.

"I know; but what's that got to do with it?"

"Lots. Several of the cadets have told me that there's always more
hazing done on that one day than on all the rest put together. You see,
we leave barracks and go up to live with the whole corps at the summer
camp. And that night the yearlings always raise Cain with the plebes."

"Bully, b'gee!" chimed in Dewey, no less pleased with the prospect.

"So to-night is the decisive night," continued Mark. "And I leave it for
the majority to decide just what we'll do about it. What do you say?"

Mark relapsed into silence, and there was a moment's pause, ended by the
grave and classic Parson slowly rising to his feet. The Parson first
laid his inevitable "Dana" upon the floor, then glanced about him with a
pompous air and folded his long, bony arms. "Ahem!" he said, and then
began:

"Gentlemen! I rise--ahem!--to put the case to you as I see it; I rise to
emulate the example of the immortal Patrick Henry--to declare for
liberty or death! Yea, by Zeus, or death!"

"Bully, b'gee!" chimed in Dewey, slapping his knee in approval and
winking merrily at the crowd from behind the Parson's back.

"Gentlemen!" continued the Parson. "Once before we met in this same room
and we did then make known our declaration of independence to the world.
But there is one thing we have not yet done, and that we must do! Yea,
by Zeus! I am a Bostonian--I may have told you that before--and I am
proud of the deeds of my forefathers. They fought at Bunker Hill; and,
gentlemen, we have that yet to do."

"Betcher life, b'gee!" cried Dewey, as the Parson gravely took his seat.
Then the former arose and continued the discussion. "Not much of a hand
for making a speech," he said, "as the deaf-mute remarked when he lost
three fingers; but I've got something to say, and, b'gee, I'm going to
say it. To-night is the critical night, and if we are meek and mild now,
we'll be it for the whole summer. And I say we don't, b'gee, and that's
all!"

With which brief, but pointed and characteristic summary of the
situation, Alan sat down and Texas clapped his heels together and gave
vent to a "Wow!" of approval.

"Anybody else got anything to say?" inquired Mark.

"Yes, bah Jove! I have, don't ye know."

This came from Mr. Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall. Chauncey wore
a high collar and a London accent; he was by this time playfully known
as "the man with a tutor and a hyphen," both of which luxuries it had
been found he possessed. But Chauncey was no fool for all his
mannerisms.

"Aw--yes," said he, "I have something to say, ye know. Those deuced
yearlings will haze us more than any other plebes in the place. Beastly
word, that, by the way. I hate to be called a plebe, ye know. There is
blue blood in our family, bah Jove, and I'll guarantee there isn't one
yearling in the place can show better. Why, my grandfather----"

"I call the gentleman to order," laughed Mark. "Hazing's the business on
hand. Hazing, and not hancestors."

"I know," expostulated Chauncey, "but I hate to be called a plebe, ye
know. As I was going to say, however, they'll haze us most. Mark
has--aw--fooled them a dozen times, bah Jove! Texas chastised four of
them. Parson, I'm told, chased half a dozen once. My friend Indian here
got so deuced mad the other day that he nearly killed one, don't ye
know. Dewey's worse, and as for me and my friend Sleepy here--aw--bah
Jove!----"

"You did better than all of us!" put in Mark.

Chauncey paused a moment to make a remark about "those deuced drills, ye
know, which kept a fellah from ever having a clean collah, bah Jove!"
And then he continued.

"I just wanted to say, ye know, that we were selected for the hazing
to-night, and that we might as well do something desperate at once, bah
Jove! that's what I think, and so does my friend Sleepy. Don't you,
Sleepy?"

"I ain't a-thinkin' abaout it 't all," came a voice from the bed where
Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers, the farmer, lay stretched out.

"Sleepy's too tired," laughed Mark. "It seems to be the unanimous
opinion of the crowd," he continued, after a moment's pause, "that we
might just as well be bold. In other words, that we have no hazing."

"B'gee!" cried Dewey, springing to his feet, excitedly. "B'gee, I didn't
say that! No, sir!"

"What did you say, then?" inquired Mark.

"I said that we shouldn't let them haze us, b'gee, and I meant it, too.
I never said no hazing! Bet cher life, b'gee! I was just this moment
going to make the motion that we carry the war into the enemy's country,
that we upset West Point traditions for once and forever, and with a
bang, too. In other words"--here the excitable youngster paused, so that
his momentous idea might have due weight--"in other words, b'gee, that
we haze the yearlings!"

There was an awed silence for a few moments to give that terrifically
original proposition a chance to settle in the minds of the amazed
"devils."
