The Southern woman looked up at the girl in the saddle, so dramatically
revealed for what she was under the superb accusation of her hair.

"You?"

"Yes--God help us both!"

The silence was terrible.

"It scarcely surprises me," murmured Miss Carryl with a steady smile. "I
saw only your eyes before, but they seemed too beautiful for a boy's."

Then she bent her delicately-molded head and studied the passport. The
Messenger, still blushing, drew her hat firmly over her forehead and
fastened a loosened braid. Presently she took up her bridle.

"I will ask Colonel Gay's protection for Waycross House," she said in a
low voice. "I am so dreadfully sorry that this has happened."

"You need not be; I have only tried to do for my people what you are
doing for yours--but I should be glad of a guard for Waycross. His
grave is in the orchard there." And with a quiet inclination of the head
she turned away into the oak-bordered avenue, walking slowly toward the
house which, in a few moments, she must leave forever.

In the late sunshine her bees flashed by, seeking the fragrant
home-hives; long, ruddy bars of sunlight lay across grass and tree
trunk; on the lawn the old servant still chopped at the unkempt grass,
and the music of his sickle sounded pleasantly under the trees.

On these things the fair-haired Southern woman looked, and if her eye
dimmed and her pale lip quivered there was nobody to see. And after a
little while she went into the house, slowly, head held high, black
skirt lifted, just clearing the threshold of her ancestors.

Then the Special Messenger, head hanging, wheeled her horse and rode
slowly back to Osage Court House.

She passed the Colonel, who was dismounting just outside his tent, and
saluted him without enthusiasm:

"The leak is stopped, sir. Miss Carryl is going to Sandy River; John
Deal is on his way. They won't come back--and, Colonel, won't you give
special orders that her house is not to be disturbed? She is an old
school friend."

The Colonel stared at her incredulously.

"I'm afraid you still have your doubts about that leak, sir."

"Yes, I have."

She dismounted wearily; an orderly took her horse, and without a word
she and the Colonel entered the tent.

"They used bees for messengers," she said; "that was the leak."

"Bees?"

"Honey bees, Colonel."

For a whole minute he was silent, then burst out:

"Good God! Bees! And if such a--an extraordinary performance were
possible how did you guess it?"

"Oh," she said patiently, "I used them that way when I was a little
girl. Bees, like pigeons, go back to their homes. Look, sir! Here, in
order, are the dispatches, each traced in cipher on a tiny roll of
tissue. They were tied to the bees' thighs."

[Transcriber's Note: in the following cyphers, subscripted numerals
and special symbols are contained in curly brackets, like this: {3}]

And she spread them out in order under his amazed eyes; and this is what
he saw when she pieced them together for him:

    EIO{2}W{2} x I{8}W{3} {triangle} NI{7}W{3} x
      OII{6}I{5}W{3} x ENI{7}I{7}I{4}I{8}I{5}O{2}
    N x I{7}IE x I{4}O{2}I{2} x
    N x HI{5} x IO{2}E x
    N x O x E x WNW{3} x
    W x I{8}E{3}XHN {crescent} x
    L x I{3} O{2}XW{3}I{5}W{3}NW{2} x

    I{4}I{2} x I{8}W{3}I{7}I{4}LI x NW{3}x
    I{5}O{2}HI x O{2}I{4}EI{3}W{3} x
    HNI{7}I{7} {circle+} W{2}

"That's all very well," he said, "but how about this hieroglyphic? Do
you think anybody on earth is capable of reading such a thing?"

"Why not?"

"Can you?"

"All such ciphers are solved by the same method.... Yes, Colonel, I can
read it very easily."

"Well, would you mind doing so?"

"Not in the slightest, sir. The key is extremely simple. I will show
you." And she picked up pencil and paper and wrote:

    One
    Two
    Three
    Four
    Five
    Six
    Seven
    Eight
    Nine
    Ten
    Eleven
    Twelve
    Thirteen
    Fourteen
    Fifteen
    Sixteen
    Seventeen
    Eighteen
    Nineteen
    Twenty

"Now," she said, "taking the second letter in each word, we can parallel
that column thus:

    N equals the letter A
    W equals the letter B
    H equals the letter C
    O equals the letter D
    I equals the letter E

"Then, in the word six we have the letter I again as the second
letter, so we call it I{2}. And, continuing, we have:

    I{2} equals the letter F
    E equals the letter G
    I{3} equals the letter H
    I{4} equals the letter I
    E{2} equals the letter J
    L equals the letter K
    W{2} equals the letter L
    H{2} equals the letter M
    O{2} equals the letter N
    I{5} equals the letter O
    I{6} equals the letter P
    E{3} equals the letter Q
    I{7} equals the letter R
    I{8} equals the letter S
    W{3} equals the letter T

"Now, using these letters for the symbols in the cipher:

    EIO{2}W{2} x I{8}W{3} {triangle} NI{7}W{3} x
      OII{6}I{5}W{3} x ENI{7}I{7}I{4}I{8}I{5}O{2}
    N x I{7}IE x I{4}O{2}I{2} x
    N x HI{5} x IO{2}E x
    N x O x E x WNW{3} x
    W x I{8}E{3}XHN {crescent} x
    L x I{3} O{2}XW{3}I{5}W{3}NW{2} x

    I{4}I{2} x I{8}W{3}I{7}I{4}LI x NW{3}x
    I{5}O{2}HI x O{2}I{4}EI{3}W{3} x
    HNI{7}I{7} {circle+} W{2}

"We translate it freely thus, and I'll underline only the words in the
cipher:

    Gen'l Stuart (Sandy River?)

    (The present) Depot Garrison (of Osage Court House is)
    One Reg(iment) (of) Inf(antry)
    One Co(mpany of) Eng(ineers)
    One Four G(un) Bat(tery)
    Two Sq(uadrons) (of) Cav(alry)
    Eleven Hun(dred men) Total
    If (you) strike (strike) at once (and at) night!

    (Signed) Carryl.

"Do you see, Colonel, how very simple it is, after all?"

The Colonel, red and astounded, hung over the paper, laboriously
verifying the cipher and checking off each symbol with its alphabetical
equivalent.

"What's that mark?" he demanded; "this symbol----"

"It stands for the letter U, sir."

"How do you know?"

The Messenger, seated sideways on the camp table, one small foot
swinging, looked down and bit her lip.

"Must I tell you?"

"As you please. And I'll say now that your solving this intricate and
devilish cipher is, to me, a more utterly amazing performance than the
rebel use of bees as messengers."

She shook her head slowly.

"It need not amaze you.... I was born in Sandy River.... And in happier
times--when my parents were living--I spent the school vacations
there.... We had always kept bees.... There was--in those days--a boy.
We were very young and--romantic. We exchanged vows--and bees--and
messages in cipher.... I knew this cipher as soon as I saw it. I
invented it--long ago--for him and me."

"W-well," stammered the bewildered Colonel, "I don't see how----"

"I do, sir. Our girl and boy romance was a summer dream. One day he
dreamed truer. So did the beautiful Miss Carryl.... And the pretty game
I invented for him he taught in turn to his fiancée.... Well, he died in
The Valley.... And I have just given his fiancée her passport. It would
be very kind of you to station a guard at the Carryl place for its
protection. Would you mind giving the order, sir?... He is buried
there."

The Colonel, hands clasped behind him, walked to the tent door.

"Yes," he said, "I'll give the order."

A few moments later the drums of the Bucktails began beating the
assembly.




VII

THE PASS


Her map, which at headquarters was supposed to be reliable, had grossly
misled her; the road bore east instead of north, dwindling, as she
advanced, to a rocky path among the foothills. She had taken the wrong
turn at the forks; there was nothing to direct her any farther--no
landmarks except the general trend of the watercourse, and the dull
cinders of sunset fading to ashes in the west.

It was impossible now to turn back; Carrick's flying column must be
very close on her heels by this time--somewhere yonder in the dusk,
paralleling her own course, with only a dark curtain of forest
intervening.

So all that evening, and far into the starlit night, she struggled
doggedly forward, leading her lamed horse over the mountain, dragging
him through laurel thickets, tangles of azalea and rhododendron,
thrashing across the swift mountain streams that tumbled out of starry,
pine-clad heights, foaming athwart her trail with the rushing sound of
forest winds.

For a while the clear radiance of the stars lighted the looming
mountains; but when wastes of naked rock gave place to ragged woods,
lakes and pits of darkness spread suddenly before her; every gully,
every ravine brimmed level with treacherous shadows, masking the sheer
fall of rock plunging downward into fathomless depths.

Again and again, as she skirted the unseen edges of destruction, chill
winds from unsuspected deeps halted her; she dared not light the
lantern, dared not halt, dared not even hesitate. And so, fighting down
terror, she toiled on, dragging her disabled horse, until, just before
dawn, the exhausted creature refused to stir another foot.

Desperate, breathless, trembling on the verge of exhaustion, with the
last remnants of nervous strength she stripped saddle and bridle from
the animal; then her nerves gave way and she buried her face against her
horse's reeking, heaving shoulders.

"I've got to go on, dear," she whispered; "I'll try to come back to
you.... See what a pretty stream this is," she added, half hysterically,
"and such lots of fresh, sweet grass.... Oh, my little horse--my little
horse! I'm so tired--so tired!"

The horse turned his gentle head, mumbling her shoulder with soft, dusty
lips; she stifled a sob, lifted saddle, saddlebags, and bridle and
carried them up the rocky bank of the stream to a little hollow. Here
she dropped them, unstrapped her revolver and placed it with them, then
drew from the saddlebags a homespun gown, sunbonnet, and a pair of
coarse shoes, and laid them out on the moss.

Fatigue rendered her limbs unsteady; her fingers twitched as she fumbled
with button and buckle, but at last spurred boots, stockings, jacket,
and dusty riding skirt fell from her; undergarments dropped in a circle
around her bare feet; she stepped out of them, paused to twist up her
dark hair tightly, then, crossing the moss to the stream's edge, picked
her way out among the boulders to the brimming rim of a pool.

In the exquisite shock of the water the blood whipped her skin; fatigue
vanished through the crystal magic; shoulder-deep she waded,
crimson-cheeked, then let herself drift, afloat, stretching out in
ecstasy until every aching muscle thrilled with the delicious reaction.

Overhead, tree swallows darted through a sky of pink and saffron,
pulsating with the promise of the sun; the tinted peak of a mountain,
jaggedly mirrored in the unquiet pool, suddenly glowed crimson, and the
reflections ran crisscross through the rocking water, lacing it with
fiery needles.

She looked like some delicate dawn-sprite as she waded ashore--a
slender, unreal shape in the rosy glow, while behind her, from the dim
ravine, ghosts of the mountain mist floated, rising like a company of
slim, white angels drifting to the sky.

All around her now the sweet, bewildered murmur of purple martins grew
into sustained melody; thrush and mocking bird, thrasher and cardinal,
sang from every leafy slope; and through the rushing music of bird and
pouring waterfall the fairy drumming of the cock-o'-the-pines rang out
in endless, elfin reveille.

While she was managing to dry herself and dress, her horse limped off
into the grassy swale below to drink in the stream and feed among the
tender grasses.

Before she drew on the homespun gown she tucked her linen map into an
inner skirt pocket, flat against her right thigh; then, fastening on the
shabby skirt, she rolled up her riding habit, laid it with lantern,
revolver, saddle, bridle, boots, and bags, in the hollow and covered all
over with heaps of fragrant dead leaves and branches. It was the best
she could do, and the time was short.

Her horse raised his wise, gentle head, and looked across the stream at
her as she hastened past, then limped stiffly toward her.

"Oh, I can't stand it if you hobble after me!" she wailed under her
breath. "Dearest--dearest--I will surely come back to you.
Good-by--good-by!"

On the crest of the ridge she cast one swift, tearful glance behind.
The horse, evidently feeling better, was rolling in the grass, all four
hoofs waving at the sky. And she laughed through the tears, and drew
from her pockets a morsel of dry bread which she had saved from the
saddlebags. This she nibbled as she walked, taking her bearings from the
sun and the sweep of the southern mountain slopes; and listening, always
listening, for the jingle and clank of the Confederate flying battery
that was surely following along somewhere on that parallel road which
she had missed, hidden from her view only by a curtain of forest, the
width of which she had no time to investigate. Nor did she know for
certain that she had outstripped the Confederate column in the race for
the pass--a desperate race, although the men of that flying column,
which was hastening to turn the pass into a pitfall for the North, had
not the faintest suspicion that the famous Special Messenger was racing
with them to forestall them, or even that their secret was no longer a
secret.

In hot haste from the south hills she had come to warn Benton's division
of the ambuscade preparing for it, riding by highway and byway, her
heart in her mouth, taking every perilous chance. And now, at the last
moment, here in the West Virginian Mountains, almost within sight of the
pass itself, disaster threatened--the human machine was giving out.

There were just two chances that Benton might yet be saved--that his
leisurely advance had, by some miracle, already occupied the pass, or,
if not, that she could get through and meet Benton in time to stop him.

She had been told that there was a cabin at the pass, and that the
mountaineer who lived there was a Union man.

Thinking of these things as she crossed the ridge, she came suddenly
into full view of the pass. It lay there just below her; there could be
no mistake. A stony road wound along the stream, flanked by forest-clad
heights; she recognized the timber bridge over the ravine, which had
been described to her, the corduroy way across the swamp, the single,
squat cabin crowning a half-cleared hillock. She realized at a glance
the awful trap that this silent, deadly place could be turned into; for
one rushing moment her widening eyes could almost see blue masses of men
in disorder, crushed into that horrible defile; her ears seemed to ring
with their death cries, the rippling roar of rifle fire. Then, with a
sharp, indrawn breath, she hastened forward, taking the descent at a
run. And at the same moment three gray-jacketed cavalrymen cantered into
the road below, crossed the timber bridge at a gallop, and disappeared
in the pass, carbines poised.

She had arrived a minute too late; the pass was closed!

Toiling breathlessly up the bushy hillock, crouching, bending, creeping
across the stony open where scant grass grew in a meager garden, she
reached the cabin. It was empty; a fire smoldered under a kettle in
which potatoes were boiling; ash cakes crisped on the hearth, bacon
sizzled in a frying pan set close to the embers.

But where was the tenant?

A shout from the road below brought her to the door; then she dropped
flat on her stomach, crawled forward, and looked over the slope.

A red-haired old man, in his shirt sleeves, carrying a fishing pole, was
running down the road, chased by two gray-jacketed troopers. He ran
well, throwing away his pole and the string of slimy fish he had been
carrying; but, half way across the stream, they rode him down and caught
him, driving their horses straight into the shallow flood; and a few
moments later a fresh squad of cavalry trotted up, forced the prisoner
to mount a led horse, and, surrounding him, galloped rapidly away
southward.

The Special Messenger lay perfectly still and flat, watching, listening,
waiting, coolly alert for a shadow of a chance to slip out and through
the pass; but there was to be no such chance now, for a dozen troopers
came into view, running their lean horses at top speed, and wheeled
straight into the pass. A full squadron followed, their solid galloping
waking clattering echoes among the rocks. Then her delicate ears caught
a distant, ominous sound--nearer, louder, ringing, thudding, jarring,
pounding--the racket of field artillery arriving at full speed.

And into sight dashed a flying battery, guns and limbers bouncing and
thumping, whips cracking, chains crashing, the six-horse teams on a dead
run.

An officer drew bridle and threw his horse on its haunches; the first
team rushed on to the pass with a clash and clank of wheels and chains,
swung wide in a demi-tour, dropped a dully glistening gun, and then came
trampling back. The second, third, and fourth teams, guns and caissons,
swerved to the right of the hillock and came plunging up the bushy
slope, horses straining and scrambling, trampling through the wretched
garden to the level grass above.

One by one the gun teams swung in a half circle, each dropped its
mud-spattered gun, the cannoneers sprang to unhook the trails, the
frantic, half-maddened horses were lashed to the rear.

The Special Messenger rose quietly to her feet, and at the same instant
a passing cannoneer turned and saw her in the doorway.

"Hey!" he exclaimed; "what you doin' thar?"

A very young major, spurring up the slope, caught sight of her, too.

"This won't do!" he began excitedly, pushing his sweating horse up to
the door. "I'm sorry, but it won't do--" He hesitated, perplexed, eyeing
this slim, dark-eyed girl, who stood as though dazed there in her ragged
homespun and naked feet.

Colonel Carrick, passing at a canter, turned in his saddle, calling out:

"Major Kent! Keep that woman here! It's too late to send her back."

The boy-major saluted, then turned to the girl again:

"Who are you?" he asked, vexed.

She seemed unable to reply.

A cannoneer said respectfully:

"Reckon the li'l gal's jes' natch'ally skeered o' we-uns, Major, seein'
how the caval'y ketched her paw down thar in the crick."

The Major said briefly:

"Your father is a Union man, but nobody is going to hurt him. I'd send
you to the rear, too, but there's no time now. Please go in and shut
that door. I'll see that nobody disturbs you."

As she was closing the door the young Major called after her:

"Where's the well?"

As she did not know she only stared at him as though terrified.

"All right," he said, more gently. "Don't be frightened. I'll come back
and talk to you in a little while."

As she shut the door she saw the cannon at the pass limber up, wheel,
and go bumping up the hill to rejoin its bespattered fellows on the
knoll.

An artilleryman came along and dropped a bundle of picks and shovels
which he was carrying to the gunners, who had begun the emplacements;
the boyish Major dismounted, subduing his excitement with a dignified
frown; and for a while he was very fussy and very busy, aiding the
battery captain in placing the guns and verifying the depression.

The position of the masked battery was simply devilish; every gun,
hidden completely in the oak-scrub, was now trained on the pass.

Opposite, across the stream, long files of gray infantry were moving to
cover among the trees; behind, a battalion arrived to support the guns;
below, the cavalry had begun to leave the pass; troopers, dismounted,
were carefully removing from the road all traces of their arrival.

Leaning there by the window, the Special Messenger counted the returning
fours as troop after troop retired southward and disappeared around the
bend of the road.

For a while the picks and shovels of the gunners sounded noisily;
concealed riflemen, across the creek, were also busy intrenching. But
by noon all sound had ceased in the sunny ravine; there was nothing to
be seen from below; not a human voice echoed; not a pick-stroke; only
the sweet, rushing sound of the stream filled the silence; only the
shadows of the branches moved.

Warned again by the sentinels to close the battered window and keep the
door shut, she still watched the gunners, through the dirty window
panes, where they now lay under the bushes beside their guns. There was
no conversation among them; some of the artillerymen seemed to be
asleep; some sprawled belly-deep in the ferns, chewing twigs or idly
