"You are hungry?  Well, we'll fix that when we get to Moriarty's.  I'll
find a way of waking him up, in case he's asleep, which I doubt.  There
will be cold chicken and ham and hot coffee."

"Lovely!"

"And we shall dine with the gods.  And now it is all over and done, it
was funny, wasn't it?"

"Terribly funny!"--with a shade of irony.  "It would have been funnier
still if the real Haggerty hadn't turned up.  The patrol had arrived."

"But it didn't happen.  I shall never forget this night,"--romantically.

"I should be inordinately glad to forget it completely,"--decidedly.

"Where's your romance?" I asked.

"I'd rather have it served to me between book-covers.  As I grow older
my love of repose increases."

"Do you know," I began boldly, "it seems that I have known you all my
life."

"Indeed!"

"Yes.  Why, I might really have known you all my life, and still not
have known you as well as I do this very minute,--and less than a dozen
hours between this and our first meeting.  You are as brave as a
paladin, wise as a serpent, cool, witty--and beautiful!"

"Shall I ask the driver to let me out?"  Then she laughed, a
rollicking, joyous laugh.

"What is so funny?"

"I was thinking of that coal-bin."

"Well, I didn't permit a lonely potato to frighten me," I retorted.

"No, you were brave enough--among the potatoes."

"You are beautiful!"

"I am hungry."

"You are the most beautiful girl--"

"I want something to eat."

"--I ever saw!  Do you think it possible for a man to fall in love at
first sight?"

"Oh, nothing is impossible on Tom Fool's night.  Positive, fool;
comparative, fooler; superlative, foolest.  You are marching on with
your degrees, Mr. Comstalk."

"You might call me Dicky," I said in an aggrieved tone.

"Dicky?  Never!  I should always be thinking of paper collars."

"I wish I were witty like that!"

She snuggled down beneath the robes.

An artist's model, thought I.  Never in this world.  I now understood
the drift of her uncle's remark about her earning capacity.  The Alice
Hawthorne miniatures brought fabulous prices.  And here I was, sitting
so close to her that our shoulders touched: and she a girl who knew
intimately emperors and princesses and dukes, not to mention the
worldly-rich.  I admit that for a moment I was touched with awe.  And
it was beginning to get serious.  This girl interested me marvelously.
I summoned up all my courage.

"Are--are you married?"

"No-o."

"Nor engaged to be married?"

"No-o.  But you mustn't ask all these questions."

"How would you like to ride around in a first-class motor-car the rest
of your days?"

She laughed merrily.  Possibly it was funny.

"Are you always amusing like this?"

"Supposing I were serious?"

"In that case I should say you had not yet slipped off your fool's
motley."

This directness was discouraging.

"I wonder if the ten of hearts is lucky, after all," I mused.

"We are not in jail.  I consider that the best of good fortune."

"Give me your card," said I.

She gave me the card, and I put it with mine.

"Why do you do that?"

"Perhaps I want to bring about an enchantment,"--soberly.

"As Signor Fantoccini, or as Mr. Comstalk?"

"I have long since resigned my position in the museum; it was too
exciting."

She made no rejoinder; and for some time there was no sound but the
music of the bells.

Finally we drew up under the colonial port√®-cochere of Hollywood Inn
and were welcomed by the genial Moriarty himself, his Celtic
countenance a mirror of smiles.

"Anything in the house to eat?" I cried, shaking the robes from me.

"Anything ye like, if you like cowld things.  I can hate ye a pot of
coffee on the gasolene-burner, and there's manny a vintage in the
cillars."

"That will be plenty!"--joyfully, helping Miss Hawthorne to alight.

"Sure, and ye are from the Hunt Club!"--noting our costumes.  "Well,
well!  They niver have anny too much grub.  Now, I'll putt ye in a
little room all be yersilves, with a windy and a log-fire; cozy as ye
plaze.  Ye'll have nearly two hours to wait for the car-r from the
village."

We entered the general assembly-room.  It was roomy and quaint, and
somewhere above us was the inevitable room in which George Washington
had slept.  The great hooded fireplace was merry with crackling logs.
Casually I observed that we were not alone.  Over yonder, in a shadowed
corner, sat two men, very well bundled up, and, to all appearances,
fast asleep.  Moriarty lighted a four-branched candelabrum and showed
us the way to the little private dining-room, took our orders, and left
us.

"This is romance," said I.  "They used to do these things hundreds of
years ago, and everybody had a good time."

"It is now all very wicked and improper," murmured the girl, laying
aside her domino for the first time; "but delightful!  I now find I
haven't the least bit of remorse for what I have done."

In that dark evening gown she was very beautiful.  Her arms and
shoulders were tinted like Carrara marble; and I knew instantly that I
was never going to recover.  I drew two chairs close to the grate.  I
sat down in one and she in the other.  With a contented sigh she rested
her blue-slippered feet on the brass fender.

[Illustration: With a contented sigh she rested her blue-slippered feet
on the brass fender.]

"My one regret is that I haven't any shoes.  What an adventure!"

"It's fine!"  Two hours in the society of this enchanting creature!  It
was almost too good to be true.  Ah, if it might always be like
this--to return home from the day's work, to be greeted warmly by a
woman as beautiful as this one!  I sighed loudly.

Moriarty came with the chicken and ham and coffee.

"If ye would like, it won't be a bit of trouble to show ye George
Washington's room; or"--with inimitable Irish drollery--"I can tell ye
that he dined in this very room."

"That will serve," smiled the girl; and Moriarty bowed himself out.

His departure was followed by the clatter of silver upon porcelain.  Of
a truth, both of us were hungry.

"I was simply ravenous," the girl confessed.

"And as for me, I never dreamt I could be so unromantic.  Now," said I,
pushing aside my plate, and dropping sugar into my coffee, and vainly
hunting in my pockets for a cigar, "there remains only one mystery to
be cleared up."

"And what might this mystery be?" she asked.  "The whereabouts of the
bogus Haggerty?"

"The bogus Haggerty will never cross our paths again.  He has skipped
by the light of the moon.  No, that's not the mystery.  Why did you
tell me you were an impostor; why did you go to the cellars with me,
when all the while you were at the ball on Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds'
invitation?"

She leaned on her elbows and smiled at me humorously.

"Would you really like to know, Signor?  Well, I was an impostor."  She
sat with her back to the fire, and a weird halo of light seemed to
surround her and frame her.  "Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds accidentally dropped
that invitation in my studio, a few days before she sailed for Europe.
I simply could not resist the temptation.  That is all the mystery
there is."

"And they still think you were there rightfully!"

"You are no longer mystified?"

"Yes; there is yet another mystery to solve: myself."  I knew it.
Without rhyme or reason, I was in love; and without rhyme or reason, I
was glad of it.

"Shall you ever be able to solve such a mystery?"--quizzically.

"It all depends upon you."

"Mr. Comstalk, you will not mar the exquisite humor of our adventure by
causing me any annoyance.  I am sure that some day we shall be very
good friends.  But one does not talk of love on eight hours'
acquaintance.  Besides, you would be taking advantage of my
helplessness; for I really depend upon you to see me safe back to New
York.  It is only the romance, the adventure; and such moonlight nights
often superinduce sentimentality.  What do you know of me?  Nothing.
What do I know of you?  Nothing, save that there is a kindred spirit
which is always likely to lead us into trouble.  Down in your heart you
know you are only temporarily affected by moonshine.  Come, make me a
toast!"--lifting her cup.

"You are right," said I.  "I am a gentleman.  But it was only
consistent that, having been the fool, I should now play the ass.
Here's!"--and I held up my cup.

But neither of us drank; there wasn't time.

For the door opened quietly, and in walked the two men we had seen upon
entering the Inn.  One of them gently closed the door and locked it.
One was in soiled every-day clothes, the other in immaculate evening
dress.  The latter doffed his opera hat with the most engaging smile
imaginable.  The girl and I looked up at him in blank bewilderment, and
set our cups down so mechanically that the warm amber liquid spattered
on the table-cloth.

Galloping Dick and the affable inspector of the cellars stood before us!




VIII

"The unexpected always happens," began the pseudo-detective, closing
his hat, drawing off his gloves and stuffing them into a pocket.  "As a
friend of mine used to say, it is the unexpected that always surprises
us.  We never expected to see these charming masqueraders again, did
we, William?"

"No, sir," said William, grinning affably, "we didn't.  The gentleman
was very nice and obliging to me, sir, when I was in the cellars."

"So I understand.  Now," continued the late Mr. Haggerty, with the
deadly affability of a Macaire, "I beg of you, Mr. Comstalk, I beg of
you not to move or to become unduly excited.  Physicians tell us that
excitement wastes the red corpuscles, that is to say, the life of the
blood."

"Your blood, sir, must be very thin," I returned coolly.  But I cursed
him soundly in my mind.  William's bulging side-pocket convinced me
that any undue excitement on my part would be exceedingly dangerous.

"William, you can always tell a gentleman," said the chief rogue
admiringly.  "A gentleman always recognizes his opportunities, and
never loses his sense of the balance of things."

"And he is usually witty, too, sir," William assented.

The girl sat pale and rigid in her chair.

"What do you want?" I demanded savagely.

"For one thing, I should like to question the propriety of a
gentleman's sitting down to dine with a lady without having washed his
face.  The coal-dust does not add to your manly beauty.  You haven't a
cake of soap about you, William, have you?"

"No, sir."  William's face expressed indescribable enjoyment of the
scene.

The girl's mouth stiffened.  She was struggling to repress the almost
irresistible smile that tickled her lips.

"In times like these," said I, determined not to be outdone, "we are
often thoughtless in regard to our personal appearances.  I apologize
to the lady."

"Fine, fine!  I sincerely admire you, Mr. Comstalk.  You have the true
spirit of adventure.  Hasn't he, William?"

"He certainly has, sir."

"Comes to a private ball without an invitation, and has a merry time of
it indeed.  To have the perfect sense of humor--that is what makes the
world go round."

"Aren't you taking extra risk in offering me these pleasantries?" I
asked.

"Risks?  In what manner?"

"The man you so cleverly impersonated is at the club."  I do not know
what prompted me to put him on his guard.

The rogue laughed lightly.  "I know Mr. Haggerty's habits.  He is
hustling back to New York as fast as he can.  He passed here ten
minutes ago in the patrol, lickety-clip!  He wishes to warn all
pawnbrokers and jewelers to be on the lookout for me to-morrow.  Ten
thousand in a night!"--jovially.

"A very tidy sum, sir," said William.

"A fourth of which goes to you, my good and faithful friend."

"Thank you, sir," replied William.

Two cooler rogues I never wish to meet!

"But wouldn't it be well, sir, to hasten?" asked William.

"We have plenty of time now, my son."

"You have not entered this room," said the girl, her terror slipping
from her, "simply to offer these banalities.  What do you wish?"

"What perspicacity, William!" cried the rogue, taking out a cigarette
case.

"I don't know what that word means, sir, but as you do, it seems to fit
the occasion proper enough."

"It means, William, that this charming young lady scents our visit from
afar."

"I had a suspicion, sir, that it might mean that."  William leaned
against the wall, his beady eyes twinkling merrily.

The master rogue lighted a cigarette at one of the candles.

"Pardon me," he said, "but will you join me?"--proffering the handsome
gold case.

I took a cigarette and fired it.  (I really wanted it.)  I would show
up well before this girl if I died for it.  I blew a cloud of smoke at
the candle-flame.  There was a sparkle of admiration in the girl's
eyes.

"Mr. Comstalk, my respect for you increases each moment."  The rogue
sat down.

"And to whom might this handsome case belong?" I asked, examining it
closely.

"Oh, that has always been mine.  There was a time,"--blowing rings at
the candelabrum,--"when I was respected like yourself, rich, sought
after.  A woman and a trusted friend: how these often tumble down our
beautiful edifices!  Yes, I am a scamp, a thief, a rogue; but not
because I need the money.  No,"--with retrospective eyes--"I need
excitement, tremendous and continuous,--excitement to keep my vigilance
and invention active day and night, excitement to obliterate memory.

"But we can't do it, my friend, we can't do it.  Memory is always with
us.  She is an impartial Nemesis; she dogs the steps of the righteous
and the unrighteous.  To obliterate memory, that is it!  And where
might I find this obliteration, save in this life?  Drugs?  Pah!  Oh, I
have given Haggerty a royal chase.  It has been meat and drink to me to
fool the cleverest policeman in New York.  Till yesterday my face, as a
criminal, was unknown to any man or woman, save William here, who was
my valet in the old days.  I have gone to my clubs, dined, played
billiards; a fine comedy, a fine comedy!  To-morrow William and I sail
for Europe.  Miss Hawthorne, you wear one of the most exquisite rubies
I have ever seen.  Permit me to examine it."

The girl tore the ring from her finger and flung it on the table.  I
made a move as though to push back my chair.

"I wouldn't do it, sir," warned William quietly.

My muscles relaxed.

"Do not commit any rash action, Mr. Comstalk," said the girl, smiling
bravely into my eyes.  "This gentleman would not appreciate it."

The master rogue picked up the ring and rolled it lovingly about his
palms.

"Beautiful, beautiful!" he murmured.  "Finest pigeon-blood, too.  It is
easily worth a thousand.  Shall I give you my note of exchange for
it?"--humorously.  The girl scorned to reply.  He took out a little
chamois bag and emptied its contents on the table.  How they sparkled,
scintillated, glowed; thousands in the whitest of stones!  How he ever
had got his fingers on them is something I shall never learn.  "Aren't
they just beautiful?" he asked na√Øvely.  "Can you blame me for coveting
them?"  He set the ruby on top of the glittering heap.  It lay there
like a drop of blood.  Presently he caught it up and--presented it to
the girl, who eyed him in astonishment.  "I only wanted to look at it,"
he said courteously.  "I like your grit as much as I admire your
beauty.  Keep the ring."

She slipped it mechanically over her finger.

"But you, my dear Mr. Comstalk!" he cried, turning his shining eyes
upon me, while his fingers deftly replaced the gems in the bag.

"I have no jewelry," I replied, tossing aside the cigarette.

"But you have something infinitely better.  I am rather observant.  In
Friard's curio-shop you carelessly exhibited a wallet that was simply
choking to death with long yellow-boys.  You have it still.  Will you
do me the honor?"--stretching out his slim white hand.

I looked at William; he nodded.  There wasn't the slightest chance for
me to argue.  So I drew out my wallet.  I extracted the gold-bills and
made a neat little packet of them.  It hurt, hurt like the deuce, to
part with them.  But--!

"Game, William, isn't he?  Most men would have flung the wallet at my
head."

"Oh, he is game, sir; never you doubt it, sir," said the amiable
William.

"I have some silver in change," I suggested with some bitterness.

"Far be it that I should touch silver," he said generously, did this
rogue.  "Besides, you will need something to pay for this little supper
and the fare back to New York."  My bills disappeared into his pocket.
"You will observe that I trust you implicitly.  I haven't even counted
the money."

William sniggered.

"And is there anything further?" I inquired.  The comedy was beginning
to weary me, it was so one-sided.

"I am in no particular hurry," the rogue answered, his sardonic smile
returning.  "It is so long since I have chatted with people of my kind."

I scowled.

"Pardon me, I meant from a social point of view only.  I admit we would
not be equals in the eye of the Presbyter."

And then followed a scene that reminds me to this day of some broken,
fantastic dream, a fragment from some bewildering nightmare.




IX

For suddenly I saw his eyes widen and flash with anger and
apprehension.  Quick as a passing sunshadow, his hand swept the
candelabrum from the table.  He made a swift backward spring toward the
door, but he was a little too late.  The darkness he had created was
not intense enough, for there was still the ruddy glow from the logs;
and the bosom of his dress-shirt made a fine target.  Besides, the eyes
that had peered into the window were accustomed to the night.

Blang!  The glass of the window shivered and jingled to the floor, and
a sharp report followed.  The rogue cried out in fierce anguish, and
reeled against the wall.  William whipped out his revolver, but, even
from his favorable angle, he was not quick enough.  The hand that had
directed the first bullet was ready to direct the second.

All this took place within the count of ten.  The girl and I sat
stiffly in our chairs, as if petrified, it was all so swiftly
accomplished.

"Drop it!" said a cold, authoritative voice, and I saw the vague
outlines of Haggerty's face beyond the broken window-pane.

William knew better than to hesitate.  His revolver struck the floor
dully, and a curse rolled from his lips.  Immediately a heavy body
precipitated itself against the door, which crashed inward, and an
officer fearlessly entered, a revolver in each hand.  This tableau,
which lasted fully a minute, was finally disturbed by the entrance of
Haggerty himself.

"Don't be alarmed, Miss," he said heartily; "it's all over, I'm sorry
for the bullet, but it had to be done.  The rascal has nothing more
serious than a splintered bone, I am a dead shot.  A fine
night!"--triumphantly.  "It's been a long chase, and I never was sure
of the finish.  You're the cleverest rogue it has been my good fortune
to meet this many a day.  I don't even know who you are yet.  Well,
well! we'll round that up in time."

Not till the candles again sputtered with light, and William was
securely handcuffed and disarmed, did I recollect that I possessed the
sense of motion.  The smoke of powder drifted across the flickering
candles, and there was a salty taste on my tongue.

"Horrible!" cried the girl, covering her eyes.

The master rogue and his valet were led out into the assembly-room, and
we reluctantly followed.  I saw it all now.  When Haggerty called up
