had been put out, though it was only a small opalescent one, placed
under the awning abaft the wheel-house and bridge.

'We must be going very fast,' said Lady Maud, 'for the sea is flat as
a millpond, and yet there's a gale as soon as one gets out of the lee
of things.'

'She's doing twenty-two, I believe,' replied Van Torp, 'and she can do
twenty-three if pressed. She will, by and by, when she gets warmed
up.'

'Where are we going?' Margaret asked. 'At this rate we are sure to get
somewhere!'

'I don't know where we're going, I'm sure.' The millionaire smiled in
the gloom. 'But as you say, it doesn't take more than five minutes to
get somewhere in a ship like this.'

'You must have told the captain what you wanted him to do! You must
have given some orders!'

'Why, certainly. I told him to look around and see if he could find
another yacht anything like this, anywhere in the Mediterranean. So
he's just looking around, like that, I suppose. And if he finds
another yacht anything like this, we'll see which of us can go
fastest. You see I don't know anything about ships, or where to go, so
I just thought of that way of passing the time, and when you're tired
of rushing about and want to go anywhere in particular, why, I'll take
you there. If the weather cuts up we'll go in somewhere and wait, and
see things on shore. Will that do?'

Margaret laughed at the vagueness of such a roving commission, but
Lady Maud looked towards her friend in the starlight and tried to see
his expression, for she was sure that he had a settled plan in his
mind, which he would probably put into execution.

'I've figured it out,' he continued presently. 'This thing will go
over five hundred and twenty miles a day for eight days without
stopping for coal, and that makes more than four thousand miles, and I
call that a pretty nice trip, don't you? Time to cool off before going
to Paris. Of course if I chose to take you to New York you couldn't
get out and walk. You'd have to go.'

'I've no idea of offering any resistance, I assure you!' said
Margaret. 'I'm too perfectly, completely, and unutterably comfortable
on your yacht; and I don't suppose it will be any rougher than it was
last March when we crossed in the Leofric together.'

'Seems a long time, doesn't it?' Van Torp's tone was thoughtful, but
expressed anything rather than regret. 'I prefer this trip, myself.'

'Oh, so do I, infinitely! You're so much nicer than you used to be, or
than I thought you were. Isn't he, Maud?'

'Far!' answered Lady Maud. 'I always told you so. Do you mind very
much if I go to bed? I'm rather sleepy after the journey.' She rose.
'Oh, I mustn't forget to tell you,' she added, speaking to Margaret,
'I always lock my door at night, so don't be surprised! If you want
to come in and talk when you come down just call, or knock, and I'll
let you in directly.'

'All right,' Margaret answered.

Lady Maud disappeared below, leaving the two together, for Mrs.
Rushmore and Kralinsky had found a pleasant sheltered place to sit,
further aft, and the Count was explaining to the good American lady
the delicious Russian mysteries of 'Borshtsh,' 'Shtshi,' 'Kasha,' and
'Smyetany,' after extolling the unapproachable flavour of fresh
sturgeon's roe, and explaining that 'caviare' is not at all the
Russian name for it and is not even a Russian word; and Mrs. Rushmore
listened with intense interest and stood up for her country, on a
basis of Blue Point oysters, planked shad, canvas-backs, and terrapin
done in the Philadelphian manner, which she maintained to be vastly
superior to the Baltimorian; and each listened to the other with real
interest.

Van Torp and Margaret had not been alone together for five minutes
since they had left Bayreuth on the previous day, but instead of
talking, after Lady Maud was gone, the Primadonna began to sing very
softly and beautifully, and not quite for herself only, for she well
knew what pleasure her voice gave her companion, and she was the more
ready to sing because he had never asked her to do so. Moreover, it
cost her nothing, in the warm evening air under the awning, and like
all great singers she loved the sound of her own voice. To be able to
do almost anything supremely well, one must do it with real delight,
and without the smallest effort which it is not a real pleasure to
make.

So Margaret leaned back comfortably in her cushioned chair, with her
head inclined a little forward, and the magic notes floated from her
lips through the soft moving night; for as the yacht ran on through
the calm sea at her great speed, it was as if she lay still and the
night itself were flying over her with muffled wings.

Margaret sang nothing grand nor very difficult; not the waltz-song
that had made her famous, nor the 'Good Friday' music which she could
never sing to the world, but sweet old melodious songs she had learned
when a girl; Schubert's 'Serenade' and 'Ave Maria,' and Tosti's
'Malia,' and then Beethoven's 'Adelaide'; and Van Torp was silent and
perfectly happy, as well he might be. Moreover, Margaret was happy
too, which was really more surprising, considering how very angry she
had been with Logotheti for a whole week, and that she was quite aware
of the manner in which he was passing his time in spite of her urgent
message. But before the magnificent possibilities which the 'business
agreement' had suddenly opened to her, the probability of her again
sending him any word, within a reasonable time, had diminished
greatly, and the prospect of flying into a rage and telling him her
mind when she saw him was not attractive. She had always felt his
influence over her more strongly when they had been together; and it
had always lost its power when he was away, till she asked herself why
she should even think of marrying him. She would not be the first
woman who had thought better of an engagement and had broken it for
the greater good of herself and her betrothed. In all probability she
had never been really and truly in love, though she had been very
sincerely fond of Edmund Lushington the English writer, who had
discovered rather late that the magnificent and successful Margarita
da Cordova was not at all the same person as the 'nice English girl,'
Margaret Donne, whom he had worshipped before she had gone upon the
stage. So far as he was concerned, she had received his change of mind
as a slight; as for Logotheti, she would never forgive him for not
having remained faithful even during the few weeks since they had
called themselves engaged; but Van Torp's position as a suitor was
different. At all events, she said to herself, he was a man; and he
did not offer her romantic affection, but power, and a future which
should soon give her the first position in the musical world, if she
knew how to use it. She was accustomed to the idea of great wealth and
of the ordinary things it could give; mere money impressed her no more
than it does most very successful artists, unless they are miserly and
fond of it for its own sake, which is comparatively unusual. She
wasted most of what she earned, in a sort of half-secret luxury and
extravagance which made little show but cost a great deal and gave her
infinite satisfaction. Even Lady Maud did not dream of the waste that
was a pleasure to the Primadonna, and the meek Potts was as reticent
as the fierce Justine was garrulous. It was a secret joy to Potts,
besides being a large source of revenue, to live with a mistress who
flatly refused ever to wear a pair of silk stockings more than once,
much less a pair of gloves. Mrs. Rushmore would have held up her
elderly hands at such reckless doings. Margaret herself, trusting to
her private fortune for her old age in case she never married, did as
she pleased with her money, and never thought of investing it; but now
and then, in moments of depression, it had occurred to her that when
she left the stage, as she must some day, she would not be able to
live as she did now, and the thought vaguely disturbed her for a few
minutes, but that was all, and she had always within reach the easy
remedy of marrying a millionaire, to whom such a sum as five hundred
pounds a year for silk stockings would be an insignificant trifle; and
while her voice lasted she could make more than that by giving one
concert in Chicago, for instance, or by singing two nights in opera.

This is not a digression. The Diva cared nothing for money in itself,
but she could use a vast amount of it with great satisfaction and
quite without show or noise. Mr. Van Torp's income was probably twenty
or thirty times as large as the most she could possibly use, and that
was a considerable asset in his favour.

He was not a cultivated man, like Logotheti; he had never known a word
of Latin or Greek in his life, his acquaintance with history was
lacunous--to borrow a convenient Latin word--and he knew very little
about the lives of interesting people long dead. He had once read part
of a translation of the Iliad and had declared it to be nonsense.
There never were such people, he had said, and if there had been,
there was no reason for writing about them, which was a practical
view of the case, if not an Ã¦sthetic one. On the other hand, he was
oddly gifted in many ways and without realising it in the least. For
instance, he possessed a remarkable musical ear and musical memory,
which surprised and pleased even the Diva, whenever they showed
themselves. He could whistle her parts almost without a fault, and
much more difficult music, too.

For everyday life he spoke like a Western farmer, and at first this
had been intensely disagreeable to the daughter of the scholarly
Oxford classic; but she had grown used to it quickly since she had
begun to like him, till his way of putting things even amused her; and
moreover, on that night by the gate of the field outside Bayreuth, she
had found out that he could speak well enough, when he chose, in
grave, strong words that few women could hear quite indifferently.
Never, in all her acquaintance with Logotheti, had she heard from the
Greek one phrase that carried such conviction of his purpose with it,
as Van Torp's few simple words had done then.

Big natures are usually most drawn to those that are even bigger than
themselves, either to love them, or to strive with them. It is the
Second-Rates who take kindly to the little people, and are happy in
the adulation of the small-fry.

So Margaret was drawn away from Logotheti, the clever spoilt child of
fortune, the loving, unproductive worshipper of his own Greek Muses,
by the Crown-Grasper, the ruthless, uncultured hard-hitter, who had
cared first for power, and had got it unhelped, but who now desired
one woman, to the exclusion of all others, for his mate.

Vaguely, the Diva remembered how, when Van Torp had asked her to walk
with him on the deck of the Leofric and she had at first refused and
then consented, Paul Griggs, looking on with a smile, had quoted an
old French proverb: 'A fortress that parleys, and a woman who listens,
will soon surrender.'

When she was silent after singing 'Adelaide,' association brought back
the saying of the veteran man of letters, for Van Torp asked her if
she cared to walk a little on the quiet deck, where there was a lee;
and the sea air and even the chairs recalled the rest, with a little
wonder, but no displeasure, nor self-contempt. Was she not her own
mistress? What had any one to say, if she chose to change her mind and
take the stronger man, supposing that she took either? Had Logotheti
established any claim on her but that of constancy? Since that was
gone, here was a man who seemed to be as much more enduring than his
rival, as he was stronger in every other way. What were small
refinements of speech and culture, compared with wide-reaching power?
What availed it to possess in memory the passionate love-roses of
Sappho's heart, if you would not follow her to the Leucadian cliff? Or
to quote torrents of Pindar's deep-mouthed song, if you had not the
constancy to run one little race to the end without swerving aside?
Logotheti's own words and epithets came back to Margaret, from many a
pleasant talk in the past, and she cared for them no longer. Full of
life himself, he lived half among the dead, and his waking was only a
dream of pleasure; but this rough-hewn American was more alive than
he, and his dreams were of the living and came true.

When Margaret bid Van Torp good-night she pressed his hand, frankly,
as she had never done before, but he took no sudden advantage of what
he felt in her touch, and he returned the pressure so discreetly that
she was almost disappointed, though not quite, for there was just a
little something more than usual there.

She did not disturb Lady Maud, either, when she went to her cabin,
though if she had known that her beautiful neighbour was wide awake
and restless, she would at least have said good-night, and asked her
if she was still so very tired.

But Lady Maud slept, too, at last, though not very long, and was the
only one who appeared at breakfast to keep Van Torp company, for
Margaret slept the sleep of a singer, which is deep and long as that
of the healthy dormouse, and Mrs. Rushmore had her first tea and toast
happily in her cheerful surroundings of pink and gilding. As for
Kralinsky, his man informed Stemp and the chief steward that the Count
never thought of getting up till between nine and ten o'clock, when he
took a cup of chocolate and a slice or two of sponge cake in his own
room before dressing. So Lady Maud and Van Torp had the yacht to
themselves for some time that morning.

'I fancy from what you said last night that your plan is to catch
Logotheti and the Tartar girl at sea,' said Lady Maud, when they were
alone.

'I supposed you'd understand,' answered Van Torp. 'Do you see any harm
in that? It occurred to me that it might be quite a drastic form of
demonstration. How does it strike you? At all low-down?'

'No, frankly not!' Lady Maud was still incensed at Logotheti's
conduct. 'A man who does such things deserves anything that his rival
can do to him. I hope you may overhaul the yacht, run alongside of her
and show Margaret the two, making love to each other in Tartar on
deck! That's the least that ought to happen to him!'

'Thank you. I like to hear you talk like that. Captain Brown will do
his level best, I think. And now, tell me,' he lowered his voice a
little more, 'is that man Leven, or not?'

'I am sure he is,' Lady Maud answered, 'and yet I feel as if there
ought to be a little doubt still. I don't know how to express it, for
it's rather an odd sensation.'

'I should think it might be! Is there anything I can say or do? I'll
ask the man any question you suggest. I'm certain he's not old Levi
Longlegs, and if he's not Leven, who on earth is he? That's what I
should like to know.'

'I shall find out, never fear! I know I shall, because I must, if I am
ever to have any peace again. I'm not a very nervous person, you know,
am I? But it's more than I can bear long, to sit opposite a man at
table, again and again, as I shall have to, and not be sure whether
he's my husband, come back from the dead, or some one else!' She
paused, and her nostrils dilated a little, but Van Torp only nodded
slowly and sympathetically. 'I mean to know before I go to bed
to-night,' she said, with a little desperation in her voice. 'I shall
talk to him till I am sure of one thing or the other. At table, I
cannot tell, but if we are alone together I know I can settle the
question. If you see that we are talking at the other end of the deck,
try to keep Mrs. Rushmore and Margaret from coming near us. Will you?'

To Mrs. Rushmore's amazement and Margaret's surprise, Lady Maud made a
dead set at Kralinsky all that day, an attention which he seemed to
appreciate as it deserved. Before breakfast was over, Van Torp had
repeated to her what Kralinsky had said about having formerly been
intimate with Leven, and Lady Maud took this statement as a basis of
operations for finding out just how much he knew of her own life; she
judged that if he were not Leven himself, he must soon betray the fact
by his ignorance.

That was the strangest day she had ever passed. She found it very easy
to talk with Kralinsky, as it always is when there has been long
familiarity, even if it has been only the familiar intercourse of
domestic discord. He knew many details of her life in London. That was
clear after half an hour's conversation. She alluded to the idle talk
there had been about her and Van Torp; Kralinsky knew all about that
and had heard, as he said, some silly story about Leven having found
her with the American in certain rooms in the Temple, and about an
envelope which was said to have contained over four thousand and one
hundred pounds in bank-notes. He politely scouted the story as
nonsense, but he had heard it, and Lady Maud knew that every word of
it was true. He knew of Leven's unsuccessful attempt to divorce her on
that ground, too, and he knew the number of her house in Charles
Street, Berkeley Square.

On the other hand, there were many things of which he knew nothing, or
pretended to be ignorant, such as the names of her brothers and
sisters, her father's favourite pursuits and the like. But she
understood very well that if he thought she suspected his identity
under the disguise of his beard, and if he wished to avoid
recognition, he was just the man to pretend blank ignorance of some
vital matters, after admitting his acquaintance with many others. He
had been very intimate with Leven, to the last, he said; Leven had
always written to him very fully about his life, very wittily
sometimes, but always without balance! That was it; he had no
'balance.' Yes, he himself had been in Petersburg when Leven was
killed and had seen him on the previous day. Within a week he had made
a rapid trip to New York, whence he had now just returned. He had
crossed on five-day boats both going and coming, and he named them.

'I am naturally interested in meeting any one who knew my husband so
well,' Lady Maud said, making a bold dash at a possibility. 'We had
many differences, as you seem to know, but I daresay that if he could
come back to life and know the real truth, we should forgive each
other.'

She looked up to him with a gentle smile as she said this, for she had
often felt it; and in that instant a flash of light came into his
usually rather uncertain eyes. Her heart stood still; she looked at
the sea again directly, for she was leaning against the rail; then she
drew breath, as if from an effort. She had seen a look that could only
mean recognition. Leven was alive and was standing beside her. But she
had the courage to go on talking, after a moment, and she tried to
change the subject, though not very adroitly.

During the afternoon Mr. Van Torp had a revelation, sudden and clear,
for he had watched Lady Maud and Kralinsky all day and had thought
about them a good deal, considering how his mind was occupied with
other matters even nearer to his heart than his best friend's welfare.
As soon as the revelation came upon him he rang for his own man.

Stemp, see here!' he began. 'You've valeted around with all sorts of
different-looking men. How long does it take to grow a beard like
Count Kralinsky's?'

'A year, sir. Not a day less, and longer with most gentlemen. If you
were thinking of it, sir----'

'You don't believe it could be managed in three months, by taking an
expert around with you to work on your face?'

'That's out of the question, sir. Gentlemen's beards that have shaved
all their lives, as I suppose you have, sir, do grow faster, but I
should consider a year a short time for such a fine one as the
Count's. Indeed I should, sir.'

'Do you suppose you could stick it on fresh every day, the way they do
for the stage?'

'Not so that it wouldn't show in broad daylight, sir.'

'Well, that's all. I wasn't exactly thinking of trying a beard. I was
only thinking--just like that. What I rang for was a cap. Got any more
like this? You see I've managed to get a spot of ink on this one. Had
it on the table when I was writing, I suppose. That's the worst of
white caps, they spot so.'

A little later, Mr. Van Torp was looking out for a chance to speak
alone with Lady Maud, and as soon as he found his opportunity, he told
her what Stemp had said. Strangely enough, it had never occurred to
him that such a remarkable beard as Kralinsky's must have taken a long
time to grow, and that Leven, who had none, had not left London more
than three months ago. He watched the effect of this statement on his
friend's face, but to his surprise she remained grave and sad.

'I cannot help it,' she said in a tone of conviction. 'He must be
Leven, whatever Stemp tells you about his beard.'

'Well, then it's a false beard, and will come off,' observed Mr. Van
Torp, with at least equal gravity. 'Stemp says that's impossible, but
he must be wrong, unless you are.'

'It's real,' Lady Maud said, 'and he is my husband. I've talked to him
all day, and he knows things about my life that no one else could,
and if there are others about which he is vague, that must be because
he is pretending, and does not want to show that he knows everything.'

Van Torp shook his head, but remained unconvinced; Lady Maud did not
change her mind either, and was already debating with herself as to
whether it would not be really wiser to speak out and tell Kralinsky
that she had recognised him under his transparent disguise. She felt
that she must know the worst, if she was ever to rest again.

Neither Margaret nor Mrs. Rushmore had ever seen Leven, and they had
not the least idea of what was really going on under their eyes. They
only saw that Lady Maud was making a dead set at the Count, and if
Margaret wondered whether she had misjudged her friend's character,
the elder lady had no doubt as to what was happening.

'My dear child,' she said to Margaret, 'your friend is going to
console herself. Widows of that age generally do, my dear. I myself
could never understand how one could marry again. I should always feel
that dear Mr. Rushmore was in the room. It quite makes me blush to
think of it! Yet it is an undeniable fact that many young widows marry
again. Mark my words, Margaret, your friend is going to console
herself before long. If it is not this one, it will be another. My
dear, I am quite positive about it.'

When the sun went down that evening the yacht had passed Otranto and
the Cape, and her course had been changed, to head her for Cape
Spartivento and the Straits of Messina, having done in twenty-four
hours as much as the little Italian mail-steamers do in forty-eight,
and nearly half as much again as the Erinna could have done at her
highest speed. As Mr. Van Torp had predicted, his engines had 'warmed
up,' and were beating their own record. The gale made by the vessel's
way was stronger than a woman could stand in with any regard to her
appearance, but as the weather continued to be calm it was from
dead-ahead, and there was plenty of shelter on the promenade deck
abaft the wheel-house, on condition of not going too near the rail.

After dinner Kralinsky and Mrs. Rushmore walked a little, as on the
previous evening, and Lady Maud sat with Margaret and Van Torp. But
before the two walkers went off to sit down in the quiet corner they
had found yesterday, Lady Maud rose, went half-way aft, and
deliberately placed herself where they were obliged to pass close to
her at each turn, standing and leaning against the bright white side
of the engine skylight, which was as high as the wheel-house itself,
and broke in aft, where the big ventilating fans were situated, making
a square corner inward.

She stood there, and as it was not very dark in the clear starlight,
Kralinsky saw in passing that she followed his face with her eyes,
turning her head to look at him when he was coming towards her, and
turning it very slowly back again as he came near and went by. It was
impossible to convey more clearly an invitation to get rid of his
companion and join her, and he was the last man in the world to
misunderstand it.

But Mrs. Rushmore saw it too, and as she considered him a lion, and
therefore entitled to have his own way, she made it easy for him.

'My dear Count,' she said blandly, after passing Lady Maud twice, 'I
have really had enough now, and if you will promise to finish your
walk alone, I think I will go and sit with the others.'

He left her with Margaret and Van Torp and went back to Lady Maud, who
moved as he came up to her, made two steps beside him, and then
suddenly slipped into the recess where the fan-house joined the engine
skylight. She stood still, and he instantly ranged himself beside her.
They were quite out of sight of the others, and of the bridge, and
even if it had been daylight they could not have been seen except by
some one coming from aft.

'I want to speak to you,' she said, in a low, steady voice. 'Please
listen quite quietly, for some of them may begin to walk again.'

Kralinsky bent his head twice, and then inclined it towards her, to
hear better what she was going to say.

'It has pleased you to keep up this comedy for twenty-four hours,' she
began.

He made a slight movement, which was natural under the circumstances.

'I do not understand,' he said, in his oily voice. 'What comedy? I
really have no----'

'Don't go on,' she answered, interrupting him sharply. 'Listen to
what I am going to tell you, and then decide what you will do. I don't
think your decision will make very much difference to me, but it will
make a difference to the world and to yourself. I saw you from a
window when you brought Mr. Van Torp to the hotel in Bayreuth, and I
recognised you at once. Since this afternoon I have no doubt left.'

'I never saw you till last night,' said Kralinsky, with some little
surprise in his tone, and with perfect assurance.

'Do you really think you can deceive me any longer?' she asked. 'I
told you this afternoon that if you could come back from the dead, and
know the whole truth, we should probably forgive each other, though we
had many differences. Shall we?' She paused a moment, and by his quick
change of position she saw that he was much moved. 'I don't mean that
we should ever go back to the old life, for we were not suited to each
other from the first, you and I. You wanted to marry me because I was
pretty and smart, and I married you because I wanted to be married,
and you were better-looking than most men, and seemed to have what I
thought was necessary--fortune and a decent position. No, don't
interrupt me. We soon found out that we did not care for each other.
You went your way, and I went mine. I don't mean to reproach you, for
when I saw you were beginning to be tired of me I did nothing to keep
you. I myself was tired of it already. But whatever you may have
thought, I was a faithful wife. Mr. Van Torp had given me a great deal
of money for my charity, and does still. I can account for it. I
never used a penny of it for myself, and never shall; and he never
was, and never will be, any more than a trusted friend. I don't know
why you chose to disappear when the man who had your pocket-book was
killed and you were said to be dead. It's not my business, and if you
choose to go on living under another name, now that you are rich
again, I shall not betray you, and few people will recognise you, at
least in England, so long as you wear that beard. But you had it when
we were married, and I knew you at once, and when I heard you were to
