flippant, old and new, but nothing by her host. She rightly assumed that
his works would be disposed for posterity in the family library, and
found them on a shelf above one of the large orderly tables. As a matter
of fact she had read but two of his books, and she selected another at
random and carried it to a comfortable chair by the window. The work was
an exposition of conditions in one of the South African colonies,
containing much criticism that had been defined by the Conservative
press as youthful impertinence, but surprisingly sound to the
unprejudiced. What had impressed Isabel in his other books and claimed
her admiration anew was his maturity of thought and style; she saw that
this volume had been published when he was twenty-four, written,
doubtless, when he was a year or two younger. She felt a vague pity for
a man that seemed to have had no youth. Since his graduation from
Balliol in a blaze of glory he had worked unceasingly, for he appeared
to have found little of ordinary recreation in travel. She wondered if
he would take his youth in his bald-headed season, like the self-made
American millionaire.

His style, pure, lucid, virile, distinguished, might have been the
outcome of midnight travail, or, like his eloquence on the platform, a
direct flight from the quickened brain. It certainly bore no resemblance
to his amputated table talk. But in a moment she dismissed her
speculations, for she had discovered a quality, overlooked before, but
arresting in the recent light of his cold arrogance and haughty
self-confidence. Behind his strict regard for facts and the keen insight
and large grasp of his subject, which, without his evident care for the
graces, would have distinguished his work from the dry report of equally
conscientious but less gifted men, was the lonely play of a really lofty
imagination, and a noble human sympathy. As she read on, this warm
full-blooded quality, tempered always by reason, grew more and more
visible to her alert sense; and when the fires in his mind blazed forth
into a revelation of a passionate love of beauty, both in nature and in
human character, Isabel realized what such a man's power over his
audience must be; when this second self, so effectually concealed,
suddenly burst into being.

"It is too bad a woman would have to live with the other!" she thought,
as she raised her eyes and saw Gwynne emerge from the woods with Mrs.
Kaye. "I cannot say that I envy her."

"By Jove, they have an engaged look!"

Isabel turned with a start, but greeted Lord Hexam with a smile. He was
as yet her one satisfactory experience of the young English nobleman,
whom, like most American girls, she had unconsciously foreshadowed in
doublet and hose. Hexam was quite six feet, with a fine military
carriage; he had been in the Guards and had not left the army until
after two years of active service; his blue eyes were both honest and
intelligent, and he was generally clean cut and highly bred.

He drew up a chair beside Isabel and reflected that she was even
handsomer than he had thought, with the sunlight warming the ivory
whiteness of her skin, although it contracted the mobile pupils of her
eyes; and that little black moles when rightly placed were more
attractive than he had thought possible. They gave a sort of daring
unconscious eighteenth-century coquetry to what was otherwise a somewhat
severe style of beauty. But he was a man for whom a woman's hair had a
peculiar fascination, and while they were uttering commonplaces at
random his eyes wandered to the soft yet massive coils encircling
Isabel's shapely head, and lingered there.

"Pardon me!" he said, boyishly. "But I always thought--don't you
know?--that hair like that was only in novels and poems and that sort of
thing. Is it all your own?" he asked, with sudden suspicion.

"You would think so if you had to carry it for a day. I should have had
it cut off long ago if it had happened to be coarse hair. It is an
inherited evil of which I am too vain to rid myself. The early Spanish
women of my family all had hair that touched the ground when they stood
up. I have an old sketch of a back view of three of them taken side by
side; you see nothing but billows of fine silky hair. But I have put it
out of sight, as it looks rather like an advertisement for a famous hair
restorer."

"I'd give a lot to see yours down. It's wonderful--wonderful!"

"Well, I have promised a private view to some of the women. If Lady
Victoria thinks it quite proper perhaps I'll admit you."

"I'll ask her for a card directly she comes home. Let it be this
afternoon just after tea."

"I wonder if they really are engaged," said Isabel, who had been told
that Englishmen never paid compliments, and was growing embarrassed
under the round-eyed scrutiny. Gwynne and Mrs. Kaye had paused by a
sundial.

"Who? Oh yes, I should think so, although there was some talk that poor
Bratty--but no doubt that was mere rumor, or Mrs. Kaye wouldn't be on
with Jack like that. By Jove, he is engaged. I never saw him look
so--so--well, I hardly know what."

"Do you approve of the match?"

"If my consent is asked I shall give them my blessing. He is the salt of
the earth, although a bit lumpy now and then; and she is such a jolly
little thing, full of genuine affection--just the wife for Jack."

"You believe in her, then?" Isabel wondered, as many another has done,
at the miasma that seems to rise and dim a man's perceptive faculties
when he is called upon to estimate the worth of a fascinating woman.

"Rather! Don't you?"

"She struck me as being one of the few people without a redeeming
virtue. To be sure that has a distinction of its own."

"Oh!" He wondered if so handsome a girl shared the common rancor of her
age and sex against charming young widows.

"And the worst mannered," continued Isabel, who knew exactly what he
thought. "And plebeian in her marrow. I wish my cousin had chosen Miss
Thangue or any one else."

"But he couldn't marry Flora," said the literal young nobleman. "She
hasn't a penny, and is the friend of all our mothers. But I'm sorry
you've such a bad opinion of Mrs. Kaye. She's tremendously popular with
us. I'm not one of her circle--retinue would be more like it; but I've
always thought her the brightest little thing going, and I'm sure she
wouldn't harm a fly."

"I'm sure she would do nothing so little worth her while. Well, there is
no need for your eyes to be opened; but I wish that my cousin's might
be. I suppose that you have the same faith in him that so many
others--himself included--seem to have."

"Rather!--You are a most critical person. Haven't you?"

"I think I have. In fact I am sure of it. That is the reason I have been
wishing he were an American."

He laughed boyishly. "That is a good one! But we need him over here. You
haven't the slightest idea how much. We get into a blue funk every time
Zeal takes a cold on his chest. To quote Mrs. Kaye, 'A Liberal peer is
as useful as a fifth wheel to a coach, and as ornamental as whitewash.'
Clever, ain't it?"

"I think people are touchingly easy to satisfy! I have been treated to
several of Mrs. Kaye's epigrams and heard as many more quoted. It seems
to me that nothing could be easier than the manufacture of that popular
superfluity."

"Perhaps--with time to think them out beforehand. Anyhow, it's rather
jolly to hear things you can remember."

"I should be the last to deny her cleverness," said Isabel, dryly. But
being by no means desirous that he should find her too acid, she dropped
her eyes for a moment, then raised two dazzling wells of innocence. "I
am tired of the subject of my cousin and Mrs. Kaye," she murmured. "Are
you as ambitious as Jack?"

"No use." He stared helplessly down into the blue flood. "There is no
escape from the 'Peers' for me, although my father, I am happy to say,
is as healthy as I am. But after the brain cells become brittle--one
never knows. I too am a Liberal, and am getting in all the good work of
which I am capable while there is yet time. I don't go as far as
Jack--don't want to see the 'Peers' chucked. I have a strong reverence
for traditions, and no taste whatever for democracy--that would be too
long a step. And I think a man should be content to be useful, do the
best he can, in his own class; and be loyal to that class whatever
happens. Of course I understand Jack's point of view, because I
understand him so well, and know that he would be the most maimed and
wretched man on earth in the Upper House; but personally, I think one
should be prepared to accept inherited responsibilities."

And then, as they were both young, and mutually attracted, they found
many subjects of common interest to keep them in the library until the
gong summoned them to luncheon.




XI


Flora Thangue, after luncheon, took Isabel out in a pony cart, and
although too loyal to gossip intimately about her patrons, incidentally
directed a search-light into certain of their recesses; a light that was
to prove useful to Isabel in her future intercourse with them, although
it did not in the least prepare her for an experience that awaited her
later in the day. Miss Thangue's mind was occupied at first with the
obvious engagement of Gwynne and Mrs. Kaye.

"That woman was born to upset calculations!" she exclaimed. "Yonder is
the castle of the dukes of Arcot. We are going over to a party to-morrow
night. It really looks like a castle with all those gray battlements and
towers, doesn't it? We don't call every tuppeny-hapenny villa inhabited
by a nobleman a 'castle' as they do in Germany and Austria. Well--that
clever little panther! I'd like to pack her into one of her own epigrams
and bury her alive. I know she was as good as engaged to Brathland.
Now, having decided that, all things considered, Jack is the best match
going--for everybody believes Lord Zeal to be worse than he is--well!
there is something appalling in a woman who can adjust herself as
quickly as that; whose caprices, sentiments, passions, all natural
impulses, are completely controlled by her reason. I wish Vicky saw
through her; she has so much influence over Jack, and such deadly
powers of ridicule. But Vicky, like all spoiled women of the world, is
as much the victim of the subtle flatterer as any man, and Julia Kaye
has managed her beautifully. She considered Jack for a bit before she
was sure of Brathland. Vicky's real reason for indorsing Julia
Kaye--between us--is because she believes her to be one of that small
and select band that can hold a man on all his various sides, and she
wants to avoid the probability of an absorbing and possibly tragic
liaison--like Parnell's, for instance--which might interfere with,
perhaps ruin, Jack's career. That is all very well, as far as it goes,
but I believe Julia Kaye to be so entirely selfish that when Jack finds
her out he will sicken of life. I have had the best of opportunities to
study women, and I have brought Jack up--I had the honor to be the
highly idealized heroine of his calf-love, and have been more or less in
his confidence ever since. In certain ways I understand him better than
his mother does, for she has seen too much of the worst side of men, and
is at heart too blasée to have much respect for or knowledge of their
spiritual side; and if I have ever had any maternal spasms in my
virtuous spinsterhood they have been over Jack. Can't you help us out?"
she asked, turning suddenly to the stranger, to whom she was powerfully
attracted. "Are you as indifferent as you look?"

"I have no idea! But although I should not in the least object to be
cast for a part in this domestic drama, I don't care for it at the price
of too much 'Jack.' To attempt to cut out Mrs. Kaye I should need a
little genuine enthusiasm; and frankly, your beloved prodigy does not
inspire it. I like Lord Hexam far better."

"Oh, Jimmy! He's a fine fellow, but only a type."

"He hasn't a rampant ego, if that is what you mean. And for every-day
purposes--" She shrugged her shoulders. "I could endure and even be
deeply interested in Elton Gwynne if he happened to be my brother and I
could hook my finger in his destiny; but in any other capacity--no,
thank you!"

"Are you going to marry Jimmy?"

"I did not even know he was not already married. Do you see nothing in a
man but a husband over here? If I ever do marry it will not be before I
am forty."

"That is rather long--if you see much of the world meanwhile! And Jimmy,
although there is not much money in the family--about twenty thousand a
year--would be a very good match. He will be Earl of Hembolt--a fine old
title."

"You assume that such a plum may be pulled by the first comer."

"Rather not! But you Americans have such a way with you! What is more to
the point, I never saw him so bowled over."

"Well," said Isabel, imperturbably, "I will think of it. This English
country and these wonderful old houses, with their inimitable
atmosphere, appeal to me very strongly. I have more the feeling of being
at home here than I had even in Spain, where I have roots. And socially
and picturesquely, there is nothing to compare with the position of an
English noblewoman."

Flora turned her eyes frankly to the classic profile beside her. Isabel
had removed her hat, and, framed in the heavy coils of her hair, her
features impressed the anxious observer as even more Roman than early
American; although had she but reflected she would have remembered that
the type of the Cæsars had its last stronghold in the United States of
the eighteenth century. Isabel looked like a very young Roman matron,
but her resemblance to the stately effigies in the galleries of Florence
and Rome, strong in virtue or vice, was so striking that once more Flora
longed for her support. A woman with such capabilities would be wasted
in the rôle of a mere countess--but as the wife of an aspiring Liberal
statesman! She devoutly wished that the American had arrived six months
earlier, or that Brathland still lived.

But she was a very tactful person and was about to drop the subject,
when Isabel slowly turned her eyes. They looked so much like steel that
for the moment they seemed to have lost their blue.

"I have made up my mind to do something to prevent this marriage," she
announced. "I do not know what, as yet. I shall be guided by events."

And Flora devoutly kissed her, then gossipped pleasantly about the other
guests and the people in the neighborhood. Isabel was curious to know
something of the duchess she was to meet on the morrow.

"Does she really look like a duchess?" she asked, so innocently that
Flora laughed and forgot the Roman-American profile, and the fateful
eyes that had given her an uncomfortable sensation a moment before.

"Well--yes--she does--rather. It is the fashion in these days not to--to
be smart above all things, excessively democratic, animated, unaffected,
clever. But our duchess here is rather old-fashioned, very lofty of head
and expression. She has a look of floating from peak to peak, and
although passée is still a beauty. To be honest, she is hideously dull,
but as good a creature as ever lived, and all that the ideal duchess
should be--so high-minded that she has never suspected the larkiest of
her friends."

"Well, I am glad she looks the rôle. I have artistic cravings."

They drove for an hour through the beautiful quiet green country, past
many old stone villages that might have been the direct sequence of the
cave era. An automobile skimmed past and the pony sat down on its
haunches. Isabel had a glimpse of a delicate high-bred face set like a
panel in a parted curtain.

"That is the duchess," said Miss Thangue. "She wouldn't wear goggles for
the world, and only gets into an automobile occasionally to please the
duke. There is nothing old-fashioned about him."

"She looks as if her name ought to be Lucy," said Isabel, to whom the
pure empty face had appeared like a vision from some former dull
existence, and left behind it an echo of insupportable ennui.




XII


Isabel had looked forward all day to the promised talk with the somewhat
formidable relative for whom, however, she had conceived one of those
enthusiasms peculiar to her age and sex. Her wardrobe was barren of the
costly afternoon gowns smart women affect, but she put on an organdie,
billowy with many ruffles, that consorted with the season, at least.
Blue cornflowers were scattered over the white transparent surface, and
she possessed no more becoming frock. Had she been on her way to a tryst
with Lord Hexam she would have thrust a rose in her hair, accentuated
the smallness of her waist with a blue ribbon, the whiteness of her
throat with a line of black velvet; but she had the instinct of dress,
which teaches, among many things, that self-consciousness in external
adornment provokes amusement in other women.

She had not the least idea where to find Lady Victoria's boudoir,
although a casual reference by Flora Thangue suggested that it was on
the bedroom floor. She lost herself in the interminable corridors and
finally ran into Elton Gwynne.

"Your mother expects me--where is her boudoir?" she asked.

He was at peace with the world, and answered, good-naturedly: "I'll
pilot you. Her rooms are over on the other side."

"You look as if you should be congratulated about something," she said,
demurely. "There are all sorts of rumors flying about."

She had half-expected to be snubbed, but he was not in the humor to snub
anybody. "You can congratulate me!" he said, emphatically. "The most
wonderful woman in the world has promised to marry me."

"I hope you will be happy," said Isabel, conventionally. She resented
his sudden drop from his pedestal, for he looked sentimental and
somewhat sheepish. Still, her youth warmed to his in spite of herself,
and again he noticed with a passing surprise that her eyes were both
lovely and intellectual. He was hardly aware that coincidentally his
Julia's eyes met his mental vision with a glance somewhat too hard and
brilliant, but he caught Isabel's hand and gave it a little shake.

"Thank you!" he exclaimed. "That was said as if you jolly well meant it.
There are my mother's rooms."

He went off whistling, and Isabel raised her hand and looked at it
meditatively; his own had been unexpectedly warm and magnetic. She had
imagined that his grasp would be cold and loose.

He had indicated a private corridor, and she entered it and approached a
door ajar. There was no response to her knock, but as she was expected,
and Lady Victoria no doubt was still dressing, she pushed open the door
and entered. The room was empty, but Isabel was instantly impressed with
its reflection of an individuality, although of a side that had
attracted her least. Here was none of the old-time stiffness of
Capheaton, and there was a conspicuous absence of dead masters and their
pupils. It was not a large room. The walls were covered with a Japanese
gold paper to within four feet of the floor where it was met by a
tapestry of Indian cashmeres, and from it was separated by a narrow
shelf set thick with photographs in silver frames, and with odd and
exquisite bibelots. On the walls were artists' sketches, and two or
three canvases of the Impressionist and Secessionist schools, expressive
of the ardent temperaments of their creators. In the place of honor was
a painting of Salambô in the folds of her python.

There were several deep chairs and a mighty divan covered with
gold-colored cushions and a tiger-skin, whose mate was on the floor. The
gloom of the afternoon was excluded by heavy gold-colored curtains, and
the only, but quite sufficient light, filtered through an opalescent
globe upheld by a twisted bronze female of the modern Munich school,
that looked like nothing so much as Alice elongating in Wonderland.

Isabel suddenly felt herself and her organdie absurdly out of place in
this room with its enchantress atmosphere. She wished that Lady Victoria
had made the appointment for the library, which was equally in tune with
another side of her.

She was even meditating a retreat, inexplicably embarrassed, when an
inner door opened and Lady Victoria entered. She wore a tea-gown of a
sort, black and yellow, open over the soft lace of a chemisette,
although a dog-collar of tiny golden sequins clasped her throat. In her
hair a golden butterfly trembled, and in that light she would have
looked little older than her guest had it not been for the expression of
her face. It was this expression that arrested Isabel even more than the
toilette, as she moved towards the divan without a word of greeting. It
looked as if it had been put on with the costume, both intended to
express a mood of the wearer: which might have been that of a tigress
whose ferocity was slowly awakening with the approach of the victim. The
black eyes were heavy with the lust of conquest, the points of the mouth
turned up more sharply than usual; there was an insatiable vanity in the
commanding poise of her head. She was as little like the woman of the
morning as the sun is like the midnight, and Isabel experienced a
positive terror of her.

Feeling sixteen and very foolish, she sank to the edge of a chair and
muttered something about the charm of the room. Then, as Lady Victoria,
who had arranged herself among the shining pillows, continued to stare
at her with absolutely no change of expression, it dawned upon her that
she had not been expected but that some one else was. With too little
presence of mind left to retire gracefully and too much pride to appear
to have ventured into the cave of Venus unasked, she managed to
articulate her gratitude for the invitation of the morning.

"Oh!" Lady Victoria's eyebrows expressed a flicker of intelligence. "I
hope you have managed not to bore yourself."

Isabel plunged into an account of her drive, to which Lady Victoria, who
had lit a long Russian cigarette, paid no attention whatever. Her
expression was still petrified, except that she might have had the scent
of blood in her slightly dilating nostrils.

Suddenly the slow flame in her eyes burned upward, and Isabel, her head
fairly jerking about, saw that a man had entered and was advancing
rapidly across the room, his heavy eyes wide with admiration. It was the
Frenchman whom Lady Victoria had honored with so much of her attention
the evening before.

He raised to his lips the pointed fingers negligently extended, and
murmured something to which Lady Victoria replied in French as pure and
fluent as his own; and in a low rich voice, with not an echo in it of
her habitual abruptness or haughty languor.

The Frenchman accepted a cigarette and a low chair opposite the divan,
whose golden cushions seemed subtly to embrace the yielding flexible
figure against them. Neither took the slightest notice of the third
person beyond a muttered introduction and acknowledgment, and as the man
embarked on a soft torrent of speech, bearing the burden of his
beatitude in at last meeting the only Englishwoman whose fame in Paris
was as great as among her native fogs, Isabel rose and retreated with
what dignity she could summon. Then Lady Victoria, seeing that she was
rid of her, and courteous under all her idiosyncrasies, rose with a long
motion of repressed energy and accompanied her to the door, her hand
resting lightly against the crisp organdie belt.

"Will you pour out the tea for me?" she asked, sweetly. "I doubt if I go
down."

No small part of her dangerous fascination lay in her sincerity. She
really liked Isabel, although it was characteristic of her that she did
not in the least care at what conclusions that puzzled young woman might
arrive in a more solitary meditation.

When Isabel found herself in the long cool corridor, set thick with
gentle landscapes, and hunting squires, and dames haughty and humble,
she drew a long breath of relief, as if she had escaped from a jungle.
But she felt oddly wounded in her self-love, young and silly. She had
thought herself old in the last three years, tremendously modern. What
did she know? The easy morals of students in France and Germany had
repelled her at first, but she had ended by accepting them as a matter
of course, and had rather plumed herself upon her accumulating grains
and blends of human nature. She felt a rush of contempt for their
crudity. What children they were with their simple unmorality of
artists, as ignorant of the real world as babes in a wood!

When she reached her own room she astonished herself by bursting into a
passion of tears. It was some time before she understood what had
induced it. It was not that the illusions of youth had received a hard
blow, for many of them had disappeared long since in Paris, when she had
supported an American girl of decent family but too much liberty through
the most desperate experience that a young woman, alone and friendless
in a foreign city, well could have. The girl had died cursing all men
and the folly of women, and after Isabel had buried her and the leading
cause of her repentance, she returned to her lonely flat in a state of
disillusion and disgust which seemed to encase her by no means
susceptible heart in a triple panoply. This state of mind had lasted for
at least three months. And there was little of which she had not
abstract knowledge, nor had she lived a quarter of a century to learn
for the first time of the license which the world permits to women so
highly placed that they have come to believe themselves above all laws.

But all her experience and abstract knowledge counted for nothing, and
she had for the first time a sudden and complete appreciation of the
evil of the world and of its odd association with even the higher
virtues; of the fact that in the upper walks of life the balance was
more nearly even than on planes where there existed scantier
opportunities for development. There was no question that Victoria
Gwynne was made on a magnificent plan, as capable of heroism, no doubt,
as any of the salient women of history. She was an ornament in her
world, useful, sympathetic, the author of much good, a devoted and
inspiring mother. And yet there was no more question that this Frenchman
was the last of a long line of favored adorers than that Victoria, for
all her individualities, was but a type of her kind: a kind that was
sufficiently distinct from the hundreds of wholly estimable women that
were proud to know her, or accepted her as a matter of course.

And even these good women? Had they not the same passions, the same
inclinations in the secrecies of their souls? What was the determining
cause of their indisputable virtue? A happy marriage? Too many children?
Timidity? Absence of temptation? Or were they merely orthodox through a
more uneven balancing of their qualities, the animal in abeyance? For
this very reason were they not frequently narrow, unsympathetic,
