
They worked rapidly, happily there together, exchanging views and
opinions; and after a while the brilliant spoils of the evening were all
stretched and ready to dry, ultimately to be placed in plaster-of-Paris
mounts and hermetically sealed under glass covers.

Kathleen went away to cleanse her hands of any taint of cyanide; Scott,
returning from his own ablutions, met her in the hall, and so
miraculously youthful, so fresh and sweet and dainty did she appear
that, in some inexplicable manner, his awkward, self-conscious fear of
touching her suddenly vanished, and the next instant she was in his arms
and he had kissed her.

"Scott!" she faltered, pushing him from her, too limp and dazed to use
the strength she possessed.

Surprised at what he had done, amazed that he was not afraid of her, he
held her tightly, thrilled dumb at the exquisite trembling contact.

"Oh, what are you doing," she stammered, in dire consternation; "what
have you done? We--you cannot--you must let me go, Scott----"

"You're only a girl, after all--you darling!" he said, inspecting her in
an ecstacy of curiosity. "I wonder why I've been afraid of you for so
long?--just because I love you!"

"You don't--you can't care for me that way----"

"I care for you in every kind of a way that anybody can care about
anybody." She turned her shoulder, desperately striving to release
herself, but she had not realised how tall and strong he was. "How small
you are," he repeated wonderingly; "just a soft, slender girl, Kathleen.
I can't see how I ever came to let you make me study when I didn't want
to."

"Scott, dear," she pleaded breathlessly, "you must let me go. This--this
is utterly impossible----"

"What is?"

"That you and I can--could care--this way----"

"Don't you?"

"I--no!"

"Is that the truth, Kathleen?"

She looked up; the divine distress in her violet eyes sobered him, awed
him for a moment.

"Kathleen," he said, "there are only a few years' difference between our
ages. I feel older than you; you look younger than I--and you are all in
the world I care for--or ever have cared for. Last spring--that night----"

"Hush, Scott," she begged, blushing scarlet.

"I know you remember. That is when I began to love you. You must have
known it."

She said nothing; the strain of her resisting arms against his breast
had relaxed imperceptibly.

"What can a fellow say?" he went on a little wildly, checked at moments
by the dryness of his throat and the rapid heartbeats that almost took
his breath away when he looked at her. "I love you so dearly, Kathleen;
there's no use in trying to live without loving you, for I couldn't do
it!... I'm not really young; it makes me furious to think you consider
me in that light. I'm a man, strong enough and old enough to love
you--and make you love me! I will make you!" His arms tightened.

She uttered a little cry, which was half a sob; his boyish roughness
sent a glow rushing through her. She fought against the peril of it, the
bewildering happiness that welled up--fought against her heart that was
betraying her senses, against the deep, sweet passion that awoke as his
face touched hers.

"Will you love me?" he said fiercely.

"No!"

"Will you?"

"Yes.... Let me go!" she gasped.

"Will you love me in the way I mean? Can you?"

"Yes. I do. I--have, long since.... Let me go!"

"Then--kiss me."

She looked up at him a moment, slowly put both arms around his neck:
"Now," she breathed faintly, "release me."

And at the same instant he saw Geraldine descending the stairs.

Kathleen saw her, too; saw her turn abruptly, re-mount and disappear.
There was a moment's painful silence, then, without a word, she picked
up her lace skirts, ran up the stairway, and continued swiftly on to
Geraldine's room.

"May I come in?" She spoke and opened the door of the bedroom at the
same time, and Geraldine turned on her, exasperated, hands clenched,
dark eyes harbouring lightning:

"Have I gone quite mad, Kathleen, or have you?" she demanded.

"I think I have," whispered Kathleen, turning white and halting.
"Geraldine, you will have to listen. Scott has told me that he loves
me----"

"Is this the first time?"

"No.... It is the first time I have listened. I can't think clearly; I
scarcely know yet what I've said and done. What must you think?... But
won't you be a little gentle with me--a little forbearing--in memory of
what I have been to you--to him--so long?"

"What do you wish me to think?" asked the girl in a hard voice. "My
brother is of age; he will do what he pleases, I suppose. I--I don't
know what to think; this has astounded me. I never dreamed such a thing
possible----"

"Nor I--until this spring. I know it is all wrong; this is making me
more fearfully unhappy every minute I live. There is nothing but peril
in it; the discrepancy in our ages makes it hazardous--his youth, his
overwhelming fortune, my position and means--the world will surely,
surely misinterpret, misunderstand--I think even you, his sister, may be
led to credit--what, in your own heart, you must know to be utterly and
cruelly untrue."

"I don't know what to say or think," repeated Geraldine in a dull voice.
"I can't realise it; I thought that our affection for you was so--so
utterly different."

She stared curiously at Kathleen, trying to reconcile what she had
always known of her with what she now had to reckon with--strove to
find some alteration in the familiar features, something that she had
never before noticed, some new, unsuspected splendour of beauty and
charm, some undetected and subtle allure. She saw only a wholesome,
young, and lovely woman, fresh-skinned, slender, sweet, and
graceful--the same companion she had always known and, as she
remembered, unchanged in any way since the years of childhood, when
Kathleen was twenty and she and her brother were ten.

"I suppose," she said, "that if Scott is in love with you, there is only
one thing to do."

"There are several," said Kathleen in a low voice.

"Will you not marry him?"

"I don't know; I think not."

"Are you not in love with him?"

"Does that matter?" asked Kathleen steadily. "Scott's happiness is what
is important."

"But his happiness, apparently, depends on you."

Kathleen flushed and looked at her curiously.

"Dear, if I knew that was so, I would give myself to him. Neither you
nor he have ever asked anything of me in vain. Even if I did not love
him--as I do--and he needed me, I would give myself to him. You and he
have been all there was in life for me. But I am afraid that I may not
always be all that life holds for him. He is young; he has had no chance
yet; he has had little experience with women. I think he ought to have
his chance."

She might have said the same thing of herself. A bride at her husband's
death-bed, widowed before she had ever been a wife, what experience had
she? All her life so far had been devoted to the girl who stood there
confronting her, and to the brother. What did she know of men?--of
whether she might be capable of loving some man more suitable? She had
not given herself the chance. She never would, now.

There was no selfishness in Kathleen Severn. But there was much in the
Seagrave twins. The very method of their bringing up inculcated it; they
had never had any chance to be otherwise. The "cultiwation of the
indiwidool" had driven it into them, taught them the deification of
self, forced them to consider their own importance above anything else
in the world.

And it was of that importance that Geraldine was now thinking as she sat
on the edge of her bed, darkly considering these new problems that
chance was laying before her one by one.

If Scott was going to be unhappy without Kathleen, it followed, as a
matter of course, that he must have Kathleen. The chances Kathleen might
take, what she might have to endure of the world's malice and gossip and
criticism, never entered Geraldine's mind at all.

"If he is in love with you," she repeated, "it settles it, I think. What
else is there to do but marry him?"

Kathleen shook her head. "I shall do what is best for him--whatever that
may be."

"You won't make him unhappy, I suppose?" inquired Geraldine, astonished.

"Dear, a woman may be truer to the man she loves--and kinder--by
refusing him. Is not that what you have done--for Duane's sake?"

Geraldine sprang to her feet, face white, mouth distorted with anger:

"I made a god of Duane!" she broke out breathlessly. "Everything that
was in me--everything that was decent and unselfish and pure-minded
dominated me when I found I loved him. So I would not listen to my own
desire for him, I would not let him risk a terrible unhappiness until I
could go to him as clean and well and straight and unafraid as he could
wish!" She laughed bitterly, and laid her hands on her breast. "Look at
me, Kathleen! I am quite as decent as this god of mine. Why should I
worry over the chances he takes when I have chances enough to take in
marrying him? I was stupid to be so conscientious--I behaved like a
hysterical schoolgirl--or a silly communicant--making him my confessor!
A girl is a perfect fool to make a god out of a man. I made one out of
Duane; and he acted like one. It nearly ended me, but, after all, he is
no worse than I. Whoever it was who said that decency is only depravity
afraid, is right. I am depraved; I am afraid. I'm afraid that I
cannot control myself, for one thing; and I'm afraid of being unhappy
for life if I don't marry Duane. And I'm going to, and let him take his
chances!"

Kathleen, very pale, said: "That is selfishness--if you do it."

"Are not men selfish? He will not tell me as much of his life as I have
told him of mine. I have told him everything. How do I know what risk I
run? Yes--I do know; I take the risk of marrying a man notorious for his
facility with women. And he lets me take that risk. Why should I not let
him risk something?"

The girl seemed strangely excited; her quick breathing and bright,
unsteady eyes betrayed the nervous tension of the last few days. She
said feverishly:

"There is a lot of nonsense talked about self-sacrifice and love; about
the beauties of abnegation and martyrdom, but, Kathleen, if I shall ever
need him at all, I need him now. I'm afraid to be alone any longer; I'm
frightened at the chances against me. Do you know what these days of
horror have been to me, locked in here--all alone--in the depths of
degradation for what--what I did that night--in distress and shame
unutterable----"

"My darling----"

"Wait! I had more to endure--I had to endure the results of my education
in the study of man! I had to realise that I loved one of them who has
done enough to annihilate in me anything except love. I had to learn
that he couldn't kill that--that I want him in spite of it, that I need
him, that my heart is sick with dread; that he can have me when he
will--Oh, Kathleen, I have learned to care less for him than when I
denied him for his own sake--more for him than I did before he held me
in his arms! And that is not a high type of love--I know it--but oh, if
I could only have his arms around me--if I could rest there for a
while--and not feel so frightened, so utterly alone!--I might win out; I
might kill what is menacing me, with God's help--and his!"

She lay shivering on Kathleen's breast now, dry-eyed, twisting her
ringless fingers in dumb anguish.

"Darling, darling," murmured Kathleen, "you cannot do this thing. You
cannot let him assume a burden that is yours alone."

"Why not? What is one's lover for?"

"Not to use; not to hazard; not to be made responsible for a sick mind
and a will already demoralised. Is it fair to ask him--to let him begin
life with such a burden--such a handicap? Is it not braver, fairer, to
fight it out alone, eradicate what threatens you--oh, my own darling! my
little Geraldine!--is it not fairer to the man you love? Is he not worth
striving for, suffering for? Have you no courage to endure if he is to
be the reward? Is a little selfish weakness, a miserable self-indulgence
to stand between you and life-long happiness?"

Geraldine looked up; her face was very white:

"Have you ever been tempted?"

"Have I not been to-night?"

"I mean by--something ignoble?"

"No."

"Do you know how it hurts?"

"To--to deny yourself?"

"Yes.... It is so--difficult--it makes me wretchedly weak.... I only
thought he might help me.... You are right, Kathleen.... I must be
terribly demoralised to have wished it. I--I will not marry him, now. I
don't think I ever will.... You are right. I have got to be fair to him,
no matter what he has been to me.... He has been fearfully unfair. After
all, he is only a man.... I couldn't really love a god."




CHAPTER XIII

AMBITIONS AND LETTERS


Rosalie had departed; Grandcourt followed suit next day; Sylvia's
brother, Stuyvesant, had at last found a sober moment at his disposal
and had appeared at Roya-Neh and taken his sister away. Duane was all
ready to go to New York to find out whether his father was worrying over
anything, as the tone of his letters indicated.

The day he left, Kathleen and Geraldine started on a round of August
house parties, ranging from Lenox to Long Island, including tiresome
week ends and duty visits to some very unpretentious but highly
intellectual relatives of Mrs. Severn. So Scott remained in solitary
possession of Roya-Neh, with its forests, gardens, pastures, lakes and
streams, and a staggering payroll and all the multiplicity of problems
that such responsibility entails. Which pleased him immensely, except
for the departure of Kathleen.

To play the intellectual country squire had been all he desired on earth
except Kathleen. From the beginning White's "Selborne" had remained his
model for all books, Kathleen for all women. He was satisfied with these
two components of perfect happiness, and with himself, as he was, for
the third ingredient in a contented and symmetrical existence.

He had accepted his answer from her with more philosophy than she quite
expected or was prepared for, saying that if she made a particular
point of it he would go about next winter and give himself a chance to
meet as many desirable young girls as she thought best; that it was
merely wasting time, but if it made her any happier, he'd wait and
endeavour to return to their relations of unsentimental comradeship
until she was satisfied he knew his mind.

Kathleen was, at first, a little dismayed at his complacency. It was
only certainty of himself. At twenty-two there is time for anything, and
the vista of life ahead is endless. And there was one thing more which
Kathleen did not know. Under the covering of this Seagrave complacency
and self-centred sufficiency, all alone by itself was developing the
sprouting germ of consideration for others.

How it started he himself did not know--nor was he even aware that it
had started. But long, solitary rambles and the quiet contemplation of
other things besides himself had awakened first curiosity, then a
dawning suspicion of the rights of others.

In the silence of forests it is difficult to preserve complacency; under
the stars modesty is born.

It began to occur to him, by degrees, that his own personal importance
among his kind might be due, in part, to his fortune. And from the
first invasion of that shocking idea matters progressed rather rapidly
with the last of the Seagraves.

He said uneasily to Duane, once: "Are you going in seriously for
painting?"

"I am in," observed Duane drily.

"Professionally?"

"Sure thing. God hates an amateur."

"What are you after?" persisted Scott. "Fame?"

"Yes; I need it in my business."

"Are you contemplating a velvet coat and bow tie, and a bunch of the
elect at your heels?--ratty men, and pop-eyed young women whose coiffure
needs weeding?"

Duane laughed. "Are they any more deadly than our own sort? Why endure
either? Because you are developing into a country squire, you don't have
to marry Maud Muller." And he quoted Bret Harte:

    "For there be women fair as she,
    Whose verbs and nouns do more agree."

"You don't have to wallow in a profession, you know."

"But why the mischief do you want to paint professionally?" inquired
Scott, with unsatisfied curiosity. "It isn't avarice, is it?"

"I expect to hold out for what my pictures are worth, if that's what you
mean by avarice. What I'm trying to do," added Duane, striking his palm
with his fist as emphasis, "is not to die the son of a wealthy man. If I
can't be anything more, I'm not worth a damn. But I'm going to be. I can
do it, Scott; I'm lazy, I'm undecided, I've a weak streak. And yet, do
you know, with all my blemishes, all my misgivings, all my
discouragements, panics, despondent moments, I am, way down inside,
serenely and unaccountably certain that I can paint like the devil, and
that I am going to do it. That sounds cheeky, doesn't it?"

"It sounds all right to me," said Scott. And he walked away
thoughtfully, fists dug deep in his pockets.

And one still, sunny afternoon, standing alone on the dry granite crags
of the Golden Dome, he looked up and saw, a quarter of a million miles
above him, the moon's ghost swimming in azure splendour. Then he looked
down and saw the map of the earth below him, where his forests spread
out like moss, and his lakes mirrored the clouds, and a river belonging
to him traced its course across the valley in a single silver thread.
And a slight blush stung his face at the thought that, without any merit
or endeavour of his own, his money had bought it all--his money, that
had always acted as his deputy, fought for him, conquered for him,
spoken for him, vouched for him--perhaps pleaded for him!--he shivered,
and suddenly he realised that this golden voice was, in fact, all there
was to him.

What had he to identify him on earth among mankind? Only his money.
Wherein did he differ from other men? He had more money. What had he to
offer as excuse for living at all? Money. What had he done? Lived on it,
by it. Why, then, it was the money that was entitled to distinction, and
he figured only as its parasite! Then he was nothing--even a little
less. In the world there was man and there was money. It seemed that he
was a little lower in the scale than either; a parasite--scarcely a
thing of distinction to offer Kathleen Severn.

Very seriously he looked up at the moon.

It was the day following his somewhat disordered and impassioned
declaration. He expected to receive his answer that evening; and he
descended the mountain in a curiously uncertain and perplexed state of
mind which at times bordered on a modesty painfully akin to humbleness.

Meanwhile, Duane was preparing to depart on the morrow. And that evening
he also was to have his definite answer to the letter which Kathleen had
taken to Geraldine Seagrave that morning.

    "Dear," he had written, "I once told you that my weakness needed
    the aid of all that is best in you; that yours required the best of
    courage and devotion that lies in me. It is surely so. Together we
    conquer the world--which is ourselves.

    "For the little things that seem to threaten our separation do not
    really alarm me. Even if I actually committed the inconsequential
    and casual thing that so abruptly and so deeply offended you, there
    remains enough soundness in me at the core to warrant your charity
    and repay, in a measure, your forgiveness and a renewal of your
    interest in my behalf.

    "Search your heart, Geraldine; question your intelligence; both will
    tell you that I am enough of a man to dare love you. And it takes
    something of a man to dare do it.

    "There is a thing that I might say which would convince you, even
    against the testimony of your own eyes, that never in deed or in
    thought have I been really disloyal to you since you gave me your
    heart.... Yet I must not say it.... Can you summon sufficient faith
    in me to accept that statement--against the evidence of those two
    divine witnesses which condemn me--your eyes? Circumstantial
    evidence is no good in this case, dear. I can say no more than that.

    "Dearest, what can compare to the disaster of losing each other?

    "I ask you to let me have the right to stand by you in your present
    distress and despondency. What am I for if not for such moments?

    "That night you were closer to the danger mark than you have ever
    been. I know that my conduct--at least your interpretation of
    it--threw you, for the moment off your guarded balance; but that
    your attitude toward such a crisis--your solution of such a
    situation--should be a leap forward toward self-destruction--a
    reckless surrender to anger and blind impulse, only makes me the
    more certain that we need each other now if ever.

    "The silent, lonely, forlorn battle that has been going on behind
    the door of your room and the doors of your heart during these last
    few days, is more than I can well endure. Open both doors to me;
    leagued we can win through!

    "Give me the right to be with you by night as well as by daylight,
    and we two shall stand together and see 'the day break and the
    shadows flee away.'"

That same evening his reply came:

    "My darling, Kathleen will give you this. I don't care what my eyes
    saw if you tell me it isn't true. I have loved you, anyway, all the
    while--even with my throat full of tears and my mouth bitter with
    anger, and my heart torn into several thousand tatters--oh, it is
    not very difficult to love you, Duane; the only trouble is to love
    you in the right way; which is hard, dear, because I want you so
    much; and it's so new to me to be unselfish. I began to learn by
    loving you.

    "Which means, that I will not let you take the risk you ask for.
    Give me time; I've fought it off since that miserable night. Heaven
    alone knows why I surrendered--turning to my deadly enemy for
    countenance and comfort to support my childish and contemptible
    anger against you.

    "Duane, there is an evil streak in me, and we both must reckon with
    it. Long, long before I knew I loved you, things you said and did
    often wounded me; and within me a perfectly unreasoning desire to
    hurt you--to make you suffer--always flamed up and raged.

    "I think that was partly what made me do what you know I did that
    night. It would hurt you; that was my ignoble instinct. God knows
    whether it was also a hideous sort of excuse for my weakness--for I
