
So the winter went on, and in February there came a great thaw. Oh,
how the river swelled, and rushed on to the Ohio. It was very warm.
And one day Daffodil sat on the great stone doorstep, holding the
cat, and munching a piece of cake. Judy ate a few crumbs, but she did
not care much for it.

"There's a peddler," said Dilly to Judy. "He has a big pack on his
back, and he walks with a cane, as if he was tired. And there's
something hanging to his waist, and a queer cap. He seems
looking--why, he's coming here. Gran'mere wants some thread, but he
isn't our----Mother," she called.

He was thin, and pale, and travel-stained, and had not the brisk,
jaunty air of the peddlar.

But he came up the little path, and looked at her so sharply she
jumped up, hugging Judy tightly. "Some one, mother," she said, half
frightened.

Mrs. Carrick stepped to the door, and glanced. Then, with a cry, she
went to her husband's arms.

They both almost fell on the doorstep.

"Oh," she cried, "you are tired to death! And----"

"Never mind; I'm home. And I have all my limbs, and have never been
ill. It has been a desperate struggle, but it's ending grandly. And
everybody----"

"They are all alive and well. Oh, we've been watching, and hoping--it
doesn't matter now, you are here;" and she leaned down on his shoulder
and cried.

"Three years and four months. I couldn't get word very well, and
thought I'd rather come on. You see, my horse gave out, and I've had
a ten-mile walk. And--the baby?"

"Oh, she's a big girl. She was sitting here----"

"Not that child!" in surprise.

"Daffodil," called her mother.

The child came shyly, hesitatingly.

"Dilly, it's father. We've talked of him so much, you know. And you
have watched out for him many a time."

Somehow he didn't seem the father of her imagination. He took her in
his arms, and dragged her over in his lap.

"Oh, I forgot you could grow," in a tone broken with emotion. "But her
blue eyes, and her yellow hair. Oh, my little darling! We shall have
to get acquainted over again;" and he kissed the reluctant lips. "Oh,
it is all like a dream! Many and many a time I thought I should never
see you again;" and he wiped the tears from his eyes.

"If you are glad, what makes you cry?" asked the child, in a curious
sort of way.

Barbe put her arms around Dilly. Of course, no child could understand.

"And the others," began Bernard Carrick.

"Oh, let us go in." There was a tremble of joy in her voice. "Mother,
grandfather, he has come!"

Mrs. Bradin greeted her son-in-law with fond affection, and a great
thanksgiving that he had been spared to return to them. They talked
and cried, and Daffodil looked on wonderingly. Great-grandfather
Duvernay, who had been taking his afternoon rest, came out of his
room, and laid his hand tremblingly in the younger one, that had not
lost its strength. Yes, he was here again, in the old home, amid them
all, after many hardships.

"Oh, sit down," said Mother Bradin. "You look fit to drop. And you
must have something to eat, and a cup of tea. Or, will it be a man's
tipple? There's some good home-brewed beer--or a sup of whiskey."

"I'll take the tea. It's long since I've had any. And if I could wash
some of the dust off--it must be an inch thick."

Ah, that was something like the old smile, only there was a hollow in
the cheek, that used to be so round and so pink. She took him into her
room, and, filling a basin with warm water, set it on the cedar chest,
spreading a cloth over it, that he might splash in comfort.

"It's been a long journey," he said. "But the poor horse gave out
first. Boyle, and Truart, and Lowy were with me, but not to come quite
so far. Some of the young fellows remained, though the feeling is that
there won't be much more fighting. The impression is that England's
about as tired of the war as we."

"But you wouldn't have to go back again?" Barbe protested, in a sort
of terror.

"Well--no;" yet the tone was not altogether reassuring.

She took his coat out by the door and brushed it, but it was very
shabby. Still, he looked much improved when he re-entered the room,
where Mrs. Bradin had set a tempting lunch at the corner of the table.
But he could hardly eat for talking. Barbe sat beside him--she could
scarce believe he was there in the flesh.

Daffodil went out in the sunshine again. She started to run over to
grandad's. Norry would be so glad. Well, grandad too, she supposed.
Had he really believed father would never come home? Somehow, it was
different. In Norry's stories the soldiers were strong, and handsome,
and glittering with gold lace, and full of laughter. She couldn't
recall whether they had any little girls or not. And there was her
mother hanging over the strange man--yes, he was strange to her. And
her mother would care for him, and stay beside him, and she somehow
would be left out. Her little heart swelled. She did not understand
about jealousy, she had had all the attention, and it was not pleasant
to be pushed one side. Oh, how long he was eating, and drinking, and
talking, and--yes, they laughed. Grandad was coming up to the house
with a great two-handled basket--she knew it was full of ears of
corn, and she did so like to see him shell it, and hear the rattle as
it fell down in the tub. He sat on a board across the tub, and had a
queer sort of affair, made by two blades, and as he drew the ears of
corn through it, scraped off both sides.

No, she wouldn't even go and see grandad, for he would say, "Well,
yellow-top, your father hasna come home yet;" and, she--well, she
could not tell a wrong story, and she would not tell the true one.
Grandad wouldn't go back on her, but he could wait.

"Oh, Dilly, here you are!" said her mother, coming out of the door,
with her husband's arm around her. "We're going over to grandad's;
come;" and she held out her hand.

The soldier looked more attractive. His faded cap had been thrown
aside, and his short dark hair was a mass of curls. He looked sharply
at the little girl, and she turned away her face. Still, she took her
mother's hand.

Norry had been sitting by the window. Now she rushed out with a shriek
of joy.

"Oh, Barney! Barney! Sure, I've been afraid we'd never set eyes on you
again! The saints be praised! Sandy!"

Sandy Carrick came and put his arms around his son. Both were rather
tall men. For some moments neither spoke. Then the father said,
"Cross the threshold, Barney. An' here's a silver shilling--kiss it
for good luck an' a long stay."

Bernard did as his father bade him, and the two crossed the threshold
together.

"Now, you must have something to eat and drink," began hospitable
Norah. "Deed an' true, the crows would hardly make a meal of you."

"But I've been stuffed already," he protested.

"No matter. There's always room intil you're laid on your back for the
last time. An' you're that thin, 't would take two of you to make a
shadow."

She set out cold chicken, and boiled bacon, and bread that would tempt
one on a fast day, with a great loaf of cake, and Bernard and Barbe
sat down. Sandy brought out the whiskey bottle. No one thought of
objecting in those days.

"Oh, where's the colleen?" and Norah stepped to the door.

"Has she gone back home? She takes it a little strange," said Barbe.
"She can't remember well. But she'll come to it presently." Then Barbe
raised her eyes and met her husband's, that were so full of adoration;
she blushed like a girl.

"And the war is over," declared Norah. "Did they all have leave to go
home?"

"Oh, no. We can't say it's over, though the thought is there'll be no
more hard fighting. And we've some good friends on the other side to
argue the case for us."

"No, no," snorted Sandy. "It's not over by a long shot. An' then
they'll get to fightin' atween theirselves, and split here an' there.
Weel, Mr. Captain, are we to have a King or a great Emperor, like him
of France, with a court an' all that?"

Bernard laughed. "We'll have neither. We've gotten rid of kings for
all time."

"Don't do your skreeking until you're well out o' the woods. But I
hope you'll be wise enough next time to let t'other fellow take his
chance. An' it beats me to think a great Lord an' a great soldier,
too, should be put about, and captured by a crowd of ignoramuses
without training."

"Oh, you learn a good deal in five or six years," said the son
good-naturedly. "There have been the Indians and the French."

"And I can't abide turn-coats. First we fight for th' old country,
then turn around and fight forninst it. We lick the French, an' then
ask their aid. A fine country we'll have, when no one knows his own
mind!"

"You'll see the sort of country we'll make when we get about it. And
we have no end of brave fine men who'll plan it out for us. Here's to
your health and luck. And now tell me what Pittsburg has been doing."

He raised his glass and barely touched it to his lips. Sandy drained
his.

"There's not much doin'--how could there be, with no money?" he
answered shortly.

"But you've the place for a fine town. New York and Philadelphia may
have the start, but it's up to us to come out fair in the race. You
have the key to the great West. Some day we'll clear the French out of
that."

"Oh, don't talk war," interposed Norah. "Tell us if you're glad to get
home. And should you have known Dilly? She'll be the one to set hearts
aching with those eyes of hers, when she gets a bit grown up."

"We must go back," said Barbe. "And, Bernard, you must be stiff with
your long tramp. They rode mostly all night, and when the horses gave
out, walked. You must go to bed with the chickens."

Sandy gave a snort.

"I'll be over in the morn, ready for a talk or a fight," laughed
Bernard. "God be praised that He has cared for us all these years, and
let us meet again."

Sandy looked after his son, who had the fine air of a trained soldier.

"An' when we get him fatted up," said Norah, "he will be main
good-looking."

Daffodil had sauntered slowly homeward. She looked for some one to
call after her, but there was no sound. Oh, her mother did not care
for her now, and Norry had not so much as coaxed her in and offered
her a piece of cake. She entered the house rather sadly. Gran'mere was
concocting some treat for supper. She just turned and said, "Were they
glad to see your father?"

"I don't know. I didn't go in." Then she crept up alongside of
grandfather, and leaned her face down on his breast and cried softly.

"Dear, what has hurt my little girl?" pushing aside the mop of hair.

"Mother won't want me any more. Nor grandad, nor Norry, nor--nor any
one;" and Daffodil seemed very lonesome in a great cold world, colder
than any winter day.

"Yes, I want you. Oh, they'll all want you after a day or two. And
it's a great thing for your father to come home safe."

"I don't believe I am going to like him. He isn't like what I
thought."

Grandfather smiled. "Wait and see what he is like to-morrow. It's
almost night now, and things look different, cloudy-like. There, dear,
don't cry when we are all full of joy."




CHAPTER III

WELCOME


Neighbors kept dropping in, and the table was crowded at supper time.
Hospitality was ungrudging in those days. Grandfather had the little
girl close under his wing, but she had a curiously strange feeling, as
if she was outside of it all. Then her mother said:

"Wouldn't you rather go to bed, dear? The men will want to talk about
battles, and things, not best for little girls to hear. When you are
older they will interest you more."

"Yes," she replied, and kissed grandfather. Then her mother undressed
her and tucked her in her little pallet.

"Oh, you will always love me?" she cried, in a tremulous tone.

"Always, always. And father, too." Even if other children should come,
the years when Daffodil had been her all could never be dimmed.

The mother shut the door softly. They were kindly enough, this
conglomerate population, but rough, and the French strain in the
Bradins had tended to refinement, as well as living somewhat to
themselves.

Daffodil cried a little, it seemed a comfort. But she was tired and
soon fell asleep, never hearing a sound, and the company was rather
noisy. When she woke, the door to the living room was partly open, and
the yellow candlelight was shining through. Mornings were dark, for
they had come to the shortest days. There was a curious rustling
sound, and Dilly ran out in her little bare feet, though the carpet
was thick and warm. Gran'mere was cooking, Barbe was washing dishes,
Judy sat by the fire in a grave upright fashion. How white the windows
were!

"Oh, it's snow!" cried the little girl. "Are we snowed up, as grandad
tells about? Why, we can't see out!"

"Yes, it's a tremendous snow. Bring out your clothes, and let me dress
you. Don't be noisy."

The child seldom was noisy. She wondered at the request. And what had
happened? She had a confused sense of something unusual in her mind.

"Father is asleep. It was late when he went to bed last night, and he
is so tired out that we shall let him sleep as long as he will. Get
your clothes, and shut the door softly."

She did as she was bidden, with a furtive glance at the mound under
the blankets. Her mother soon had her dressed in a sort of brownish
red flannel frock, and a blue and white checked apron. Then she
brushed out her silky hair, and made three or four thick curls.

"Oh, isn't it funny! Why, we can't see anything, not a house, or a
tree, nor grandad's."

They could see that in almost any storm.

She went and patted Judy. Gran'mere was frying bacon, and when that
was brown and crisp, she slipped some eggs in the pan. Grandfather
kept his bed late winter mornings, and only wanted a bit of toast and
a cup of coffee. That was generally made by roasting wheat grains,
with a tiny bit of corn, and made very fair coffee. But it was
necessity then, not any question of nerves or health.

So they ate their breakfast and everything seemed quite as usual
except the snow. So far there had been none to speak of. Gran'mere put
out the candle, and the room was in a sort of whitey-gray light.

There was queer, muffled banging outside, that came nearer, and
finally touched the door, and a voice said "Hello! hello!"

Barbe opened it. There was grandad, in his frieze coat and fur cap, a
veritable Santa Claus.

"Well, was there ever the beat of this! Stars out at twelve? The old
woman's geese are gettin' plucked close to the skin. Why, it's
furious! Dilly, come out and let me tumble you in the snow bank."

She shrank back, laughing.

"I'd have to dig you out again. How is the lad? Did we upset
grandfather with the racket?"

"Oh, no. He always sleeps late. Have a cup of hot coffee."

"An' that's just what I will. Well, the lad's lucky that he was no' a
day later, he'd been stumped for good. By the nose of St. Andrew, I
never saw so much snow fall in a little time. An' it's dark as the
chimney back."

"The snow is white," interposed Daffodil.

"Ah, ye're a cunnin' bairn. But put a lot of it together, and it turns
the air. The coffee's fine, it warm the cockles of one's heart."

"What are they?"

"Oh, the little fellys that get hot, an' cold, an' keep the blood
racin' round. And have delight bottled up to give out now and then
when one is well treated."

Daffodil nodded. She was not going to say she did not understand.

"An' the b'y? He wants fat, sure. The country's made a poor shoat out
of him. Well, I must go back, shovelin' for the path's about grown up.
The boss out to the barn?"

"Yes."

"Well, I'll kem over agin, an' give him a hand."

"Grandad has a good heart," said Mrs. Bradin.

Mr. Bradin came in presently with a pail of milk. "This beats all for
a storm," he said. "Now, I'll take a second breakfast. Dilly, come
and sit here beside me, and take a taste of things. Not a livin' hen
is up yet, just balls of feathers on the perch."

"Couldn't you take me out to see them?"

"If you get snowed under, we'll have to send for grandad. Well, they
did have a roarin' time last night. He was plucky to take that long
walk, though the poor fellows have had many a wearisome march."

He wrapped Dilly in a blanket, and carried her out to the barn. There
was Mooley munchin' her hay, there was the pen of sheep that was
always safe-guarded at night, and the hens, funny balls of feathers,
sure enough. But the head of the flock stretched up his long neck and
crowed. The pigs grunted and squealed a request for breakfast. Mr.
Bradin threw them a lot of corn.

"Oh, let me walk back," she exclaimed. But the snow drifted in her
eyes, and she tumbled over in the snow bank. He picked her up, and
they both laughed.

Grandfather was up now, looking as neat and trim as possible. He
always read a chapter in his French Bible, and Daffodil sat on the
broad arm of the chair and liked to listen. Then he had his breakfast
on the little stand, and Dilly ate the crust of his toast. She liked
so to crunch it in her teeth. Then she always wanted a story about
France, that seemed heroic to her, though she hardly knew the meaning
of the word. But Norah's stories were generally amusing, and
grandfather did not believe in the "little people."

It was noon when the soldier made his appearance. He really looked
much refreshed, though his clothes were worn and shabby. And he kissed
his little girl very fondly. Why, his blue eyes were very much like
hers, and his smile won one to smile in return.

And then the sun suddenly broke through the gray clouds, and a gust of
wind began tearing them to tatters, and letting the blue through.
Gran'mere opened the door, and the very air was warm. She drew long,
reviving breaths. Grandad was coming over again, with a great dish of
roasted apples Norah had sent.

"I should be ungrateful if I didn't get fat by the minute," Bernard
Carrick said. "But such a snow!"

"I never saw so much business done in the same time, but it'll run off
like a river. And the sun is fairly hot. But there's plenty of time
for winter yet. How does it seem to be out of barracks, or tents, or
whatever you had, or didn't have?"

"There was a good deal of not having. But no one hardly knows all
the hardships, and the danger. The wonder to me is that so many come
out of it alive. And home is a better thing for all a man has passed
through. I'm anxious to see how the town has gone on."

"H-u-g," with a sort of disdain. "It hasn't gone on. How could it,
with the likeliest men thrashin' round the country worse than wild
Indians. For we counted on their having a little more sense."

Bernard laughed. His father had been very angry about his going, and
it was funny to see him try to be a little ungracious over his return,
as he had been so sure he would never come back alive.

"Suppose we go out and take a look at it?"

"In all the snow!" so amazed he reverted to the ancient tongue. With
the variety of people, and the admixture of English, the rugged points
of dialect were being rubbed off.

"I've seen some snow, and travelled through it. But this is rather
queer. Such a glorious air, and fairly a May day sun.

"Who dances barefoot in Janiveer will greet in March."

"But they wouldn't go barefooted in the snow," exclaimed Daffodil, in
surprise.

"They wouldn't do it for choice, though I've seen them dance with
their feet tied up in rags. Dance to keep themselves warm," said her
father.

"Yes. Let us go to the Fort. You'll be wanting to see the b'y's grown
up now. An' the old folk."

"You haven't grown much older;" looking his father over
affectionately.

"Bedad! It's not much beyant three years, and does a man get bowed
over, an' knock-kneed, an' half-blind, an' bald-headed, an' walk with
a stick in that little time. Havers! Did you expect to see me
bed-ridden!"

Bernard laughed. The same old contrarity that was not so much temper
after all.

"I can't say the same of you, more's the pity. You've given the
country, a pack of men who'll never give you a thankee, your good
looks, an' your flesh, an' at least ten years. Ye're a middle-aged
man, Bernard Carrick!"

Bernard laughed again. It was like old times, and, oh, how glad he was
to be home again.

"Come, then; and, Dilly, run down an' see Norah, an' have a good
time."

Sandy took his son's arm, and they went off together. Daffodil looked
after them with long breaths that almost brought tears to her eyes.
Grandad hadn't been glad when the news came; she could see just how he
had turned with his nose in the air, and now he was claiming his son
as if he had all the right.

Gran'mere was concocting some mystery on the kitchen table, Barbe sat
at the little wheel, spinning. And she was singing, too. A faint pink
had come back to her cheek, and her eyes almost laughed with delight.

     "What's a' the steer, kimmer.
     What's a' the steer,
     Jamie has landed, and soon he will be here."
