from the bed. "Come on, you tea-cup-rattling, macaroon-crunching,
caste-smitten, fashion-bitten Arbiter Elegantiarum!"

They fought for a moment, then Lacy staggered back under repeated
wallops from one of his own pillows, and presently retired to his
bath-room to brush his thick red hair. This hair was his pride and
sorrow: it defied him in a brilliant cowlick until plastered flat with
water. However, well soaked, his hair darkened to what he considered a
chestnut colour. And that made him very proud.

When he had soaked and subdued his ruddy locks he came out to where
Westguard still stood.

"Are you coming, Rix?" demanded the latter again.

"Not unless you particularly want me," returned Quarren, yawning
amiably. "I could take a nap if that red-headed Mick would get out of
here."

Westguard said: "Suit yourself," and followed Lacy and O'Hara down the
stairs.

The two latter young fellows turned aside into O'Hara's apartments to
further remake a killing and deadly toilet. Westguard continued on to
the first floor which he inhabited, and where he found a Japanese
servant already preparing the tea paraphernalia. A few minutes later
Mrs. Wycherly arrived with Mrs. Leeds.

All women, experienced or otherwise, never quite lose their curiosity
concerning a bachelor's quarters. The haunts of men interest woman,
fascinating the married as well as the unwedded. Deep in their gentle
souls they know that the most luxurious masculine abode could easily be
made twice as comfortable by the kindly advice of any woman. Toleration,
curiosity, sympathy are the emotions which stir feminine hearts when
inspecting the solitary lair of the human male.

"So these are the new rooms," said Molly Wycherly, patronisingly, after
O'Hara and Lacy had appeared and everybody had been presented to
everybody else. "Strelsa, do look at those early Edwards prints! It's
utterly impossible to find any of them now for sale anywhere."

Strelsa Leeds looked up at the Botticelli Madonna and at Madame Royale;
and the three men looked at her as though hypnotised.

So this was Reginald Leeds's wife--this distractingly pretty woman--even
yet scarcely more than a girl--with her delicate colour and vivid lips
and unspoiled eyes--dark eyes--a kind of purplish gray, very purely and
exquisitely shaped. But in their grayish-violet depths there was murder.
And the assassination of Lacy and O'Hara had already been accomplished.

Her hat, gown, gloves, furs were black--as though the tragic shadow of
two years ago still fell across her slender body.

She looked around at the room; Molly Wycherly, pouring tea, nodded to
Westguard, and he handed the cup to Mrs. Leeds.

She said, smilingly: "And--do you three unprotected men live in this big
house all by yourselves?"

"There are four of us in the Legation," said Lacy, "and several servants
to beat off the suffragettes who become enamoured of us."

"The--legation?" she repeated, amused at the term.

"Our friends call this house the Irish Legation," he explained. "We're
all Irish by descent except Westguard who's a Sassenach--and Dick
Quarren, who is only half Irish.'

"And who is Dick Quarren?" she asked innocently.

"Oh, Strelsa!" cautioned Molly Wycherly--"you really mustn't argue
yourself unknown."

"But I am unknown," insisted the girl, laughing and looking at the men
in turn with an engaging candour that bowled them over again, one by
one. "I don't know who Mr. Quarren is, so why not admit it? Is he
such a very wonderful personage, Mr. Lacy?"

"Not at all, Mrs. Leeds. He and I share the top floor of the Legation.
We are, as a matter of record, the two financial wrecks of this
establishment, so naturally we go to the garret. Poverty is my only
distinction; Mr. Quarren, however, also leads the grand march at Lyric
Hall now and then I believe----"

"What is Lyric Hall? Ought I to know?"

Everybody was laughing, and Molly Wycherly said:

"Richard Quarren, known variously as Rix, Ricky, and Dick Quarren, is an
exceedingly popular and indispensable young man in this town. You'll
meet him, Strelsa, and probably adore him. We all do."

"Must I wait very long?" asked Strelsa, laughing. "I'd like to have the
adoration begin."

Lacy said to O'Hara: "Go up and pull that pitiable dub off the bed,
Roger. The lady wishes to inspect him."

"That's not very civil of Rix," said Mrs. Wycherly; "but I fancy I know
why he requires slumber." She added, glancing around mischievously at
the three men who were all looking languishingly at Mrs. Leeds: "He'll
be sorry when you three gentlemen describe Strelsa to him. I can
prophesy that much."

"Certainly," said Lacy, airily; "we're all at Mrs. Leeds's feet! Even
the blind bat of Drumgool could see that! So why deny it?"

"You're not denying it, Mr. Lacy," said Strelsa, laughing. "But I
realise perfectly that I am in the Irish Legation. So I shall carefully
salt everything you say to me."

"If you think I've kissed the blessed pebble you ought to listen to
that other bankrupt upstairs," said Lacy.

"As far as pretty speeches are concerned you seem to be perfectly
solvent," said Strelsa gaily, looking around her at the various
adornments of this masculine abode. "I wonder where you dine," she added
with curiosity unabashed.

"We've a fine dining-room below," he said proudly, "haven't we, Roger?
And as soon as Dick Quarren and I are sufficiently solvent to warrant
it, the Legation is going to give a series of brilliant banquets; will
you come, Mrs. Leeds?"

"When you are solvent, perhaps," said Strelsa, smiling.

"Westguard and I will give you a banquet at an hour's notice," said
O'Hara, eagerly. "Will you accept?"

"Such overwhelming offers of hospitality!" she protested. "I had
believed the contrary about New Yorkers. You see I've just emerged from
the West, and I don't really know what to think of such bewildering
cordiality."

"Karl," said Mrs. Wycherly, "are you going to show us over the house? If
you are we must hurry, as Strelsa and I are to decorate the Calderas'
box this evening, and it takes me an hour to paint my face." She turned
a fresh, winsome countenance to Westguard, who laughed, rose, and took
his pretty cousin by the hand.

Under triple escort Mrs. Wycherly and Mrs. Leeds examined the Legation
from kitchen to garret--and Strelsa, inadvertently glancing in at a room
just as Westguard started to close the door, caught sight of a recumbent
shape on a bed--just a glimpse of a blond, symmetrical head and a
well-coupled figure, graceful even in the careless relaxation of sleep.

Westguard asked her pardon: "That's Quarren. He was probably up till
daylight."

"He was," said Molly Wycherly; "and by the same token so was I. Thank
you so much, Karl.... Thank you, Mr. O'Hara--and you, too,
Jack!"--offering her hand--"We've had a splendid party.... Strelsa, we
really ought to go at once----"

"Will you come again?"

"We will come again if you ask us," said Strelsa; "we're perfectly
fascinated by the Legation."

"And its personnel?" hinted Lacy. "Do you like us, Mrs. Leeds?"

"I've only seen three of you," parried Strelsa, much amused.

"We refuse to commit ourselves," said Molly. "Good-bye. I suppose you
all are coming to my house-warming."

They all looked at Mrs. Leeds and said that they were coming--said so
fervently.

Molly laughed: she had no envy in her make-up, perhaps because she was
too pretty herself.

"Oh, yes," she said, replying to their unasked questions, "Mrs. Leeds
will be there--and I plainly see my miserable fate. But what can a
wretched woman expect from the Irish? Not constancy. Strelsa, take
warning. They loved me once!"

       *       *       *       *       *

After Westguard had put them in their limousine, he came back to find
Quarren in his sitting-room, wearing a dressing-gown, and Lacy madly
detailing to him the charms of Strelsa Leeds:

"Take it from me, Dicky, she's some queen! You didn't miss a thing but
the prettiest woman in town! And there's a something about her--a kind
of a sort of a something----"

"You appear to be in love, dear friend," observed Quarren kindly.

"I am. So's every man here who met her. We don't deny it! We glory in
our fall! What was that costume of hers, Karl? Mourning?"

"Fancy a glorious creature like her wearin' black for that nasty little
cad," observed O'Hara disgustedly.

"It's probably fashion, not grief," remarked Westguard.

"I guess it's nix for the weeps," said O'Hara--"after all she probably
went through with Reggie Leeds, I fancy she had no tears left over."

"I want to talk," cried Lacy; "I want to tell Rix what he missed. I'd
got as far as her gown, I think----"

"Go on," smiled Quarren.

"Anyway," said Lacy, "she wore a sort of mourning as far as her veil
went, and her furs and gown and gloves were black, and her purse was
gun-metal and black opals--rather brisk? Yes?--And all the dingles on
her were gun-metal--everything black and sober--and that ruddy gold
head--and--those eyes!--a kind of a purple-gray, Ricky, slanting a
little, with long black lashes--I noticed 'em--and her lips were very
vivid--not paint, but a kind of noticeably healthy scarlet--and that
straight nose--and the fresh fragrant youth of her----"

"For Heaven's sake, Jack----"

"Sure. I'm through with 'em all. I'm wise to the sex. That was merely a
word picture. I'm talking like a writer, that's all. That's how you
boobs talk, isn't it, Karl?"

"Always," said Westguard gravely.

"Me for Mrs. Leeds," remarked O'Hara frankly. "I'd ask her to marry me
on the drop of a hat."

"Well, I'll drop no hat for you!" said Lacy. "And there'll be plenty
of lunatics in this town who'll go madder than you or me before they
forget Mrs. Leeds. Wait! Town is going to sit up and take notice when
this new planet swims into its social ken. How's that epigram, Karl?"

Westguard said thoughtfully: "There'll be notoriety, too, I'm afraid. If
nobody knows her everybody knows about that wretched boy she married."

Quarren added: "I have always understood that the girl did not want to
marry him. It was her mother's doings."

O'Hara scowled. "I also have heard that the mother engineered it....
What was Mrs. Leeds's name? I forget----"

"Strelsa Lanark," said Quarren who never forgot anything.

"Ugh," grunted Westguard. "Fancy a mother throwing her daughter at the
head of a boy like Reggie Leeds!--as vicious and unclean a little whelp
as ever--Oh, what's the use?--and de mortius nihil--et cetera,
cock-a-doodle-do!"

"That poor girl had two entire years of him," observed Lacy. "She
doesn't look more than twenty now--and he's been in--been dead two
years. Good Heavens! What a child she must have been when she married
him!"

Westguard nodded: "She had two years of him--and I suppose he seldom
drew a perfectly sober breath.... He dragged her all over the world with
him--she standing for his rotten behaviour, trying to play the game with
the cards hopelessly stacked against her. Vincent Wier met them in
Naples; Mallison ran across them in Egypt; so did Lydon in Vienna.
They said it was heartbreaking to see her trying to keep up
appearances--trying to smile under his nagging or his drunken insults
in public places. Lydon told me that she behaved like a brick--stuck to
Reggie, tried to shield him, excuse him, make something out of the
miserable pup who was doing his best to drag her to his own level and
deprave her. But I guess she was too young or too unhappy or something,
because there's no depravity in the girl who was here a few minutes ago.
I'll swear to that."

After a moment Lacy said: "Well, he got his at last!"

"What was comin' to him," added O'Hara, with satisfaction.

Lacy added, curiously: "How can a man misbehave when he has such a
woman for a wife?"

"I wonder," observed Quarren, "how many solid citizens read the account
in the papers and remained scared longer than six weeks?"

"Lord help the wives of men," growled Westguard.... "If any of you
fellows are dressing for dinner you'd better be about it.... Wait a
moment, Rix!"--as Quarren, the last to leave, was already passing the
threshold.

The young fellow turned, smiling: the others went on; Westguard stood
silent for a moment, then:

"You're about the only man I care for very much," he said bluntly. "If I
am continually giving you the Bible and the Sword it's the best I have
to give."

Quarren replied laughingly.

"Don't worry, old fellow. I take what you say all right. And I really
mean to cut out a lot of fussing and begin to hustle.... Only, isn't it
a wise thing to keep next to possible clients?"

"The people you train with don't buy lots in Tappan-Zee Park."

"But I may induce them to go into more fashionable enterprises----"

"Not they! The eagle yells on every dollar they finger. If there's any
bleeding to be done they'll do it, my son."

"Lester Caldera has already asked me about acreage in Westchester."

"Did he do more than ask?"

"No."

"Did you charge him for the consultation?"

"Of course not."

"Then he got your professional opinion for nothing."

"But he, or others, may try to assemble several farms----"

"Why don't they then?--instead of dragging you about at their heels from
house to house, from card-room to ball-room, from café to opera, from
one week-end to the next!--robbing you of time, of leisure, of
opportunity, of ambition--spoiling you--making a bally monkey of you!
You're always in some fat woman's opera box or on some fat man's yacht
or coach, or doing some damn thing--with your name figuring in
everything from Newport to Hot Springs--and--and how can you ever turn
into anything except a tame cat!"

Quarren's face reddened slightly.

"I'd be perfectly willing to sit in an office all day and all night if
anybody would give me any business. But what's the use of chewing
pencils and watching traffic on Forty-second Street?"

"Then go into another business!"

"I haven't any money."

"I'll lend it to you!"

"I can't risk your money, Karl. I'm too uncertain of myself. If
anybody else offered to stake me I'd try the gamble." ... He looked up
at Westguard, ashamed, troubled, and showing it like a boy. "I'm afraid
I don't amount to anything, Karl. I'm afraid I'm no good except in the
kind of thing I seem to have a talent for."

"Fetching and carrying for the fashionable and wealthy," sneered
Westguard.

Quarren's face flushed again: "I suppose that's it."

Westguard glared at him: "I wish I could shake it out of you!"

"I guess the poison's there," said Quarren in a low voice. "The worst of
it is I like it--except when I understand your contempt."

"You like to fetch and carry and go about with your pocket full of
boudoir keys!"

"People give me as much as I give them."

"They don't!" said the other angrily. "They've taken a decent fellow and
put him in livery!"

Quarren bit his lip as the blood leaped to his face.

"Don't talk that way, Karl," he said quietly. "Even you have no business
to take that tone with me."

There was a silence. After a few moments Westguard came over and held
out his hand. Quarren took it, looked at him.

"I tell you," he said, "there's nothing to me. It's your kindness, Karl,
that sees in me possibilities that never were."

"They're there. I'll do my duty almost to the point of breaking our
friendship. But--I'll have to stop short of that point."

A quick smile came over Quarren's face, gay, affectionate:

"You couldn't do that, Karl.... And don't worry. I'll cut out a lot of
frills and try to do things that are worth while. I mean it, really.
Don't worry, old fellow."

"All right," said Westguard, smiling.




CHAPTER II


A masked dance, which for so long has been out of fashion in the world
that pretends to it, was the experiment selected by Molly Wycherly for
the warming up of her new house on Park Avenue.

The snowy avenue for blocks was a mass of motors and carriages; a
platoon of police took charge of the vehicular mess. Outside of the
storm-coated lines the penniless world of shreds and patches craned a
thousand necks as the glittering costumes passed from brougham and
limousine under the awnings into the great house.

Already in the new ball-room, along the edges of the whirl, masqueraders
in tumultuous throngs were crowding forward to watch the dancers or
drifting into the eddies and set-backs where ranks of overloaded gilt
chairs creaked under jewelled dowagers, and where rickety old beaux
impersonated tinselled courtiers on wavering but devoted legs.

Aloft in their rococo sky gallery a popular orchestra fiddled
frenziedly; the great curtains of living green set with thousands of
gardenias swayed in the air currents like Chinese tapestries; a
harmonious tumult swept the big new ball-room from end to end--a
composite uproar in which were mingled the rushing noise of silk,
clatter of sole and heel, laughter and cries of capering maskers
gathered from the four quarters of fashionable Gath to grace the
opening of the House of Wycherly. They were all there, dowager, matron,
débutante, old beaux, young gallant, dancing, laughing, coquetting,
flirting. Young eyes mocked the masked eyes that wooed them; adolescence
tormented maturity; the toothless ogled the toothsome. Unmasking alone
could set right this topsy-turvy world of carnival.

A sinuous Harlequin, his skin-tight lozenge-patterned dress shimmering
like the red and gold skin of a Malay snake, came weaving his way
through the edges of the maelstrom, his eyes under the black half-mask
glittering maliciously at the victims of his lathe-sword. With it he
recklessly slapped whatever tempted him, patting gently the rounded arms
and shoulders of nymph and shepherdess, using more vigour on the plump
contours of fat and elderly courtiers, spinning on the points of his
pump-toes, his limber lathe-sword curved in both hands above his head,
leaping lithely over a chair here and there, and landing always as
lightly as a cat on silent feet--a wiry, symmetrical figure under the
rakish bi-corne, instinct with mischief and grace infernal.

Encountering a burly masker dressed like one of Cromwell's ponderous
Ironsides, he hit him a resounding whack over his aluminum cuirass, and
whispered:

"That Ironside rig doesn't conceal you: it reveals you, Karl! Out with
your Bible and your Sword and preach the wrath to come!"

"It will come all right," said Westguard. "Do you know how many hundred
thousand dollars are wasted here to-night?... And yesterday a woman died
of hunger in Carmine Street. Don't worry about the wrath of God as long
as people die of cold and hunger in the streets of Ascalon."

"That's not as bad as dying of inanition--which would happen to the
majority here if they didn't have things like this to amuse 'em. For
decency's sake, Karl, pity the perplexities of the rich for a change!"

Westguard grunted something under his casque; then, adjusting his
aluminum mask:

"Are you having a good time, Dicky? I suppose you are."

"Oh, I'm gay enough," returned the Harlequin airily--"but there's
never much genuine gaiety among the overfed." And he slapped a passing
gallant with his wooden sword, spun around on his toes, bent over
gracefully and stood on his hands, legs twinkling above him in the air.
Then, with a bound he was on his nimble feet again, and, linking his arm
in the arm of the Cromwellian trooper, strolled along the ranks of
fanning dowagers, glancing amiably into their masked faces.

"Same old battle-line," he observed to his companion--"their jewels give
them away. Same old tiaras, same old ladies--all fat, all fifty, all
fanning away like the damned. Your aunt has on about a ton of emeralds.
I think she does it for the purpose of banting, don't you, Karl----"

The uproar drowned his voice: Westguard, colossal in his armour, gazed
gloomily around at the gorgeous spectacle for which his cousin Molly
Wycherly was responsible.

"It's monkey-shines like this that breed anarchists," he growled. "Did
you notice that rubbering crowd outside the police lines in the snow?
Molly and Jim ought to see it."

[Illustration: "Westguard, colossal in his armour, gazed gloomily around
at the gorgeous spectacle."]

"Oh, cut it out, Karl," retorted the Harlequin gaily; "there'll be rich
and poor in the world as long as the bally old show runs--there'll be
reserved seats and gallery seats and standing room only, and ninety-nine
percent of the world cooling its shabby heels outside."

"I don't care to discuss the problem with you," observed Westguard.
After a moment he added: "I'm going to dance once or twice and get
out.... I suppose you'll flit about doing the agreeable and fashionable
until daylight."

"I suppose so," said the Harlequin, tranquilly. "Why not? Also you
ought to find material here for one of your novels."

"A man doesn't have to hunt for material. It's in his bedroom when he
wakes; it's all around him all day long. There's no more here than there
is outside in the snow; and no less.... But dancing all night isn't
going to help your business, Ricky."

"It won't hurt any business I'm likely to do."

"Isn't your Tappan-Zee Park panning out?"

"Fizzling out. Nobody's bought any building sites."

"Why not?"

"How the deuce do I know, Karl! I don't want to talk business, here----"
