it did not last long, but while it lasted it was suffering which must
make me forever tender of those who overwork, especially the children
who overwork. The suffering was such that when my brother, who had not
gone to bed till much later, woke me after my five or six hours' sleep,
I do not now know how I got myself together for going to the
printing-office for the papers and making my rounds in the keen morning
air. When Sunday came, and I could sleep as late as I liked, it was
bliss such as I cannot tell to lie and rest, and rest, and rest! We were
duteous children and willing; my brother knew of the heavy trouble
hanging over us and I was aware of the hopeless burden of debt which our
father was staggering under and my mother was carrying on her heart; and
when I think of it, and of the wide-spread, never-ending struggle for
life which it was and is the type of, I cannot but abhor the economic
conditions which we still suppose an essential of civilization.

Lest these facts should make too vivid a call upon the reader's
compassion, I find it advisable to remember here an instance of
hard-heartedness in me which was worthier the adamantine conscience of
some full-grown moralist than a boy of my age. There was a poor girl,
whose misfortune was known to a number of families where she was
employed as a seamstress, and the more carefully treated because of her
misfortune. Among others my mother was glad to give her work; and she
lived with us like one of ourselves, of course sitting at table with us
and sharing in such family pleasures as we knew. She was the more to be
pitied because her betrayer was a prominent man who bore none of the
blame for their sin; but when her shame became known to me I began a
persecution of the poor creature in the cause of social purity. I would
not take a dish from her at table, or hand her one; I would not speak to
her, if I could help it, or look at her; I left the room when she came
into it; and I expressed by every cruelty short of words my righteous
condemnation. I was, in fact, society incarnate in the attitude society
takes toward such as she. Heaven knows how I came by such a devilish
ideal of propriety, and I cannot remember how the matter quite ended,
but I seem to remember a crisis, in which she begged my mother with
tears to tell her why I treated her so; and I was put to bitter shame
for it. It could not be explained to me how tragical her case was; I
must have been thought too young for the explanation; but I doubt if any
boy of twelve is too young for the right knowledge of such things; he
already has the wrong.

My wish at times to learn some other business was indulged by a family
council, and my uncle made a place for me in his drug-store, where, as
long as the novelty lasted, I was happy in the experiments with
chemicals permitted to me and a fellow-apprentice. Mainly we were busied
in putting up essence of peppermint and paregoric and certain favorite
medicinal herbs; and when the first Saturday evening came, my companion
received his weekly wage over the counter, and I expected mine, but the
bookkeeper smiled and said he would have to see my uncle about that; in
the end, it appeared that by the convention with my father I was somehow
not to draw any salary. Both my uncle and he treated the matter with
something of the bookkeeper's smiling slight, and after an interval, now
no longer appreciable, I found myself in the printing-office again. I
was not sorry, and yet I had liked the drug business so far as I had
gone in it, and I liked that old bookkeeper, though he paid me no money.
How, after a life of varied experiences, he had lodged at last in the
comfortable place he held I no longer know, if I ever knew. He had been
at one time what would once have been called a merchant adventurer in
various seas; and he had been wrecked on the Galapagos Islands, where he
had feasted on the famous native turtle, now extinct, with a relish
which he still smacked his lips in remembering.

This episode, which I cannot date, much antedated the period of my
father's business failure, though his struggles against it must have
already begun; they began, in fact, from the moment of his arrival in
Dayton, and the freest and happiest hours we knew there were when the
long strain ended in the inevitable break. Then there was an interval, I
do not know how great, but perhaps of months, when there was a casting
about for some means of living, and to this interval belongs somehow the
employment of my brother and myself in a German printing-office, such as
used to be found in every considerable Ohio town. I do not know what we
did there, but I remember the kindly German printer-folk, and the merry
times we had with them, in the smoke of their pipes and the warmth of
their stove heated red against the autumnal cold. I explore my memory
in vain for proof that my father had some job-printing interest in this
German office, but I remember my interest in the German type and its
difference from the English. I was yet far from any interest in the
German poetry which afterward became one of my passions, and there is no
one now left alive whom I can ask whether the whole incident was fact,
or not, rather, the sort of dream which all the past becomes when we try
to question it.

What I am distinctly aware of, through a sense of rather sullen autumnal
weather, is that a plan for our going into the country evolved itself in
full detail between my father and uncle. My uncle was to supply the
capital for the venture, and was finally, with two other uncles, to join
my father on a milling privilege which they had bought at a point on the
Little Miami River, where all the families were to be settled. In the
mean time my father was to have charge of a grist-mill and sawmill on
the property till they could be turned into a paper-mill and a sort of
communal settlement of suitable people could be gathered. He had never
run a sawmill or a grist-mill, much less evoked a paper-mill from them;
but neither had he ever gathered a community of choice spirits for the
enjoyment of a social form which enthusiasts like Robert Owen had
dreamed into being, and then non-being, in the Middle West in those or
somewhat earlier days. What was definite and palpable in the matter was
that he must do something, and that he had the heart and hope for the
experiment.


VIII

I have told the story of this venture in a little book called My Year
in a Log Cabin, printed twenty-odd years ago, and I cannot do better
now than let it rehearse

[Illustration: The Little Miami River at Eureka Mills, twelve miles
east of Dayton. Here the ruin of the dam, which served the mills run by
Mr. Howells's father, makes a rapid in the stream.]

itself here from those pages, with such slight change or none as
insists. For my father, whose boyhood had been passed in the new
country, where pioneer customs and traditions were still rife, it was
like renewing the wild romance of those days to take up once more the
life in a log cabin interrupted by many years sojourn in matter-of-fact
dwellings of frame and brick. It was the fond dream of his boys to
realize the trials and privations which he had painted for them in rosy
hues, and even if the only clapboarded dwelling at the mills had not
been occupied by the miller, we should have disdained it for the log
cabin which we made our home till we could build a new house.

Our cabin stood close upon the road, but behind it broadened a
corn-field of eighty acres. They still built log cabins for dwellings in
that region at the time, but ours must have been nearly half a century
old when we went into it. It had been recently vacated by an old
poor-white Virginian couple, who had long occupied it, and we decided
that it needed some repairs to make it habitable even for a family
inured to hardship by dauntless imaginations, and accustomed to
retrospective discomforts of every kind.

So before the family all came out to it a deputation of adventurers put
it in what rude order they could. They glazed the narrow windows, they
relaid the rotten floor, they touched (too sketchily, as it afterward
appeared) the broken roof, and they papered the walls of the
ground-floor rooms. Perhaps it was my father's love of literature which
inspired him to choose newspapers for this purpose; at any rate, he did
so, and the effect, as I remember, had its decorative qualities. He had
used a barrel of papers from the nearest post-office, where they had
been refused by people to whom they had been experimentally sent by the
publishers, and the whole first page was taken up by a story, which
broke off in the middle of a sentence at the foot of the last column,
and tantalized us forever with fruitless conjecture as to the fate of
the hero and heroine.

The cabin, rude as it was, was not without its sophistications, its
concessions to the spirit of modern luxury. The logs it was built of had
not been left rounded, as they grew, but had been squared in a sawmill,
and the crevices between them had not been chinked with moss and daubed
with clay in true backwoods fashion, but plastered with mortar, and the
chimney, instead of being a structure of clay-covered sticks, was laid
in courses of stone. Within, however, it was all that could be desired
by the most romantic of pioneer families. It was six feet wide and a
yard deep, its cavernous maw would easily swallow a back-log eighteen
inches through, and we piled in front the sticks of hickory cord-wood as
high as we liked. We made a perfect trial of it when we came out to put
the cabin in readiness for the family, and when the hickory had dropped
into a mass of tinkling, snapping, bristling embers we laid our rashers
of bacon and our slices of steak upon them, and tasted the flavors of
the wildwood in the captured juices. At night we laid our mattresses on
the sweet new oak plank of the floor, and slept hard--in every sense.

In due time the whole family took up its abode in the cabin. The
household furniture had been brought out and bestowed in its scanty
space, the bookcase had been set up, and the unbound books left easily
accessible in barrels. There remained some of our possessions to follow,
chief of which was the cow; for in those simple days people kept cows in
town, and it fell to me to help my father drive ours out to her future
home. We got on famously, talking of the wayside things so beautiful in
the autumnal day, panoplied in the savage splendor of its painted
leaves, and of the books and authors so dear to the boy who limped
barefooted by his father's side, with his eye on the cow and his mind
on Cervantes and Shakespeare. But the cow was very slow--far slower than
the boy's thoughts--and it had fallen night and was already thick dark
when we had made the twelve miles and stood under the white-limbed
phantasmal sycamores beside the tail-race of the grist-mill, and
questioned how we should get across with our charge. We did not know how
deep the water was, but we knew it was very cold, and we would rather
not wade it. The only thing to do seemed to be for one of us to run up
to the sawmill, cross the head-race there, and come back to receive the
cow on the other side of the tail-race. But the boy could not bring
himself either to go or to stay.

The kind-hearted father urged, but he would not compel; you cannot well
use force with a boy when you have been talking literature and
philosophy for half a day with him. We could see the lights in the cabin
cheerfully twinkling, and we shouted to those within, but no one heard
us. We called and called in vain. Nothing but the cold rush of the
tail-race, the dry rustle of the sycamore-leaves, and the homesick
lowing of the cow replied. We determined to drive her across, and pursue
her with sticks and stones through the darkness beyond, and then run at
the top of our speed to the sawmill, and get back to take her in custody
again. We carried out our part of the plan perfectly, but the cow had
not entered into it with intelligence or sympathy. When we reached the
other side of the tail-race again she was nowhere to be found, and no
appeals of "Boss" or "Suky" or "Suboss" availed. She must have instantly
turned, and retraced, in the darkness which seemed to have swallowed her
up, the weary steps of the day, for she was found in her old home in
town the next morning. At any rate, she had abandoned the father to the
conversation of his son, for the time being, and the son had nothing to
say.

I do not remember now just how it was that we came by the different
"animals of the horse kind," as my father called them, which we housed
in an old log stable not far from our cabin. They must have been a
temporary supply until a team worthy our new sky-blue wagon could be
found. One of them was a colossal sorrel, inexorably hide-bound, whose
barrel, as horsemen call the body, showed every hoop upon it. He had a
feeble, foolish whimper of a voice, and we nicknamed him "Baby." His
companion was a dun mare, who had what my father at once called an
italic foot, in recognition of the emphatic slant at which she carried
it when upon her unwilling travels. Then there was a small,
self-opinionated gray pony, which was of no service conjecturable after
this lapse of time. We boys rode him barebacked, and he used to draw a
buggy, which he finally ran away with. I suppose we found him useful in
the representation of some of the Indian fights which we were always
dramatizing, and I dare say he may have served our turn as an Arab
charger, when the Moors of Granada made one of their sallies upon the
camp of the Spaniards, and discharged their javelins into it; their
javelins were the long, admirably straight and slender ironweeds that
grew by the river. This menagerie was constantly breaking bounds and
wandering off; and was chiefly employed in hunting itself up, its
different members taking turns in remaining in the pasture or stable, to
be ridden after those that had strayed into the woods.

The origin of a large and eloquent flock of geese is lost in an equal
obscurity. I recall their possession simply as an accomplished fact, and
I associate their desolate cries with the windy dark of rainy November
nights, so that they must at least have come into our hands after the
horses. They were fenced into a clayey area next the cabin for
safe-keeping, where, perpetually waddling about in a majestic
disoccupation, they patted the damp ground down to the hardness and
smoothness of a brick-yard. Throughout the day they conversed tranquilly
together, but by night they woke, goose after goose, to send forth a
long clarion alarum, blending in a general concert at last, to assure
one another of their safety. We must have intended to pluck them in the
spring, but they stole their nests early in March, and entered upon the
nurture of their young before we could prevent it; and it would then
have been barbarous to pluck these mothers of families.

We had got some pigs from our old Virginian predecessors, and these
kept, as far as they could, the domestic habits in which that
affectionate couple had indulged them. They would willingly have shared
our fireside with us, humble as it was, but, being repelled, they took
up their quarters on cold nights at the warm base of the chimney
without, where we could hear them, as long as we kept awake, disputing
the places next to the stones. All this was horrible to my mother, whose
housewifely instincts were perpetually offended by the rude conditions
of our life, and who justly regarded it as a return to a state which, if
poetic, was also not far from barbaric. But boys take every natural
thing as naturally as savages, and we never thought our pigs were other
than amusing. In that country pigs were called to their feed with long
cries of "Pig, pig, pooee, poe-e-e!" but ours were taught to come at a
whistle, and, on hearing it, would single themselves out from the
neighbors' pigs, and come rushing from all quarters to the scattered
corn with an intelligence we were proud of.


IX

As long as the fall weather lasted, and well through the mild winter of
that latitude, our chief recreation, where all our novel duties were
delightful, was hunting with the long, smooth-bore shot-gun which had
descended laterally from one of our uncles, and supplied the needs of
the whole family of boys in the chase. Never less than two of us went
out with it at once, and generally there were three. This enabled us to
beat up the game over a wide extent of country, and while the eldest did
the shooting, left the others to rush upon him as soon as he fired, with
tumultuous cries of, "Did you hit it? Did you hit it?" We fell upon the
wounded squirrels which we brought down on rare occasions, and put them
to death with what I must now call a sickening ferocity. If sometimes
the fool dog, the weak-minded Newfoundland pup we were rearing, rushed
upon the game first, and the squirrel avenged his death upon the dog's
nose, that was pure gain, and the squirrel had the applause of his other
enemies. Yet we were none of us cruel; we never wantonly killed things
that could not be eaten; we should have thought it sacrilege to shoot a
robin or a turtledove, but we were willing to be amused, and these were
the chances of war.

The woods were full of squirrels, which especially abounded in the
woods-pastures, as we called the lovely dells where the greater part of
the timber was thinned out to let the cattle range and graze. They were
of all sorts--gray, and black, and even big red fox squirrels, a variety
I now suppose extinct. When the spring opened we hunted them in the
poplar woods, whither they resorted in countless numbers for the
sweetness in the cups of the tulip-tree blossoms. I recall with a thrill
one memorable morning in such woods--early, after an overnight rain,
when the vistas hung full of a delicate mist that the sun pierced to
kindle a million fires in the drops still pendulous from leaf and twig.
I can smell the tulip-blossoms and the odor of the tree-bark yet, and
the fresh, strong fragrance of the leafy mold under my bare feet; and I
can hear the rush of the squirrels on the bark of the trunks, or the
swish of their long, plunging leaps from bough to bough in the air-tops.

In a region where the corn-fields and wheat-fields were often fifty and
sixty acres in extent there was a plenty of quail, but I remember only
one victim to my gun. We set figure-four traps to catch them; but they
were shrewder arithmeticians than we, and solved these problems without
harm to themselves. When they began to mate, and the air was full of
their soft, amorous whistling, we searched for their nests, and had
better luck, though we were forbidden to rob the nests when we found
them; and in June, when a pretty little mother strutted across the lanes
at the head of her tiny brood, we had to content ourselves with the near
spectacle of her cunning counterfeit of disability at sight of us,
fluttering and tumbling in the dust till her chicks could hide
themselves. We had read of that trick, and were not deceived; but we
were charmed the same.

It is a trick that all birds know, and I had it played upon me by the
mother snipe and mother wild duck that haunted our dam, as well as by
the quail. With the snipe, once, I had a fancy to see how far the mother
would carry the ruse, and so ran after her; but in doing this I trod on
one of her young--a soft, gray mite, not distinguishable from the gray
pebbles where it ran. I took it tenderly up in my hand, and it is a pang
to me yet to think how it gasped once and died. A boy is a strange
mixture--as the man who comes after him is. I should not have minded
knocking over that whole brood of snipes with my gun, if I could; but
this poor little death was somehow very personal in its appeal.

I had no such regrets concerning the young wild ducks, which, indeed, I
had no such grievous accident with. I left their mother to flounder and
flutter away as she would, and took to the swamp where her young sought
refuge from me. There I spent half a day wading about in waters that
were often up to my waist and full of ugly possibilities of mud-turtles
and water-snakes, trying to put my hand on one of the ducklings. They
rose everywhere else, and dived again after a breath of air; but at last
one of them came up in my very grasp. It did not struggle, but how its
wild heart bounded against my hand! I carried it home to show it and
boast of my capture, and then I took it back to its native swamp. It
dived instantly, and I hope it found its bereaved family somewhere under
the water.

The center of our life in the cabin was, of course, the fireplace, whose
hugeness and whose mighty fires remained a wonder with us. There was a
crane in the chimney and dangling pothooks, and until the cooking stove
could be set up in an adjoining shed the cooking had to be done on the
hearth, and the bread baked in a Dutch oven in the hot ashes. We had
always heard of this operation, which was a necessity of early days; and
nothing else, perhaps, realized them so vividly for us as the loaf laid
in the iron-lidded skillet, which was then covered with ashes and heaped
with coals.

I am not certain that the bread tasted any better for the historical
romance of its experience, or that the corn-meal, mixed warm from the
mill and baked on an oak plank set up before the fire, had merits beyond
the hoecake of art; but I think there can be no doubt that new corn
grated from the cob while still in the milk, and then molded and put in
like manner to brown in the glow of such embers, would still have the
sweetness that was incomparable then. When the maple sap started in
February, we tried the scheme we had cherished all winter of making with
it tea which should be in a manner self-sugared. But the scheme was a
failure--we spoiled the sap without sweetening the tea.

We sat up late before the big fire at night, our faces burning in the
glow, and our backs and feet freezing in the draught that swept in from
the imperfectly closing door, and then we boys climbed to our bed in the
loft. We reached it by a ladder, which we should have been glad to pull
up after us as a protection against Indians in the pioneer fashion; but,
with the advancement of modern luxury, the ladder had been nailed to the
floor. When we were once aloft, however, we were in a domain sacred to
the past. The rude floor rattled and wavered loosely under our tread,
and the window in the gable stood open or shut at its own will. There
were cracks in the shingles, through which we could see the stars, when
there were stars, and which, when the first snow came, let the flakes
sift in upon the floor.

Our barrels of paper-covered books were stowed away in that loft, and,
overhauling them one day, I found a paper copy of the poems of a certain
Henry W. Longfellow, then wholly unknown to me; and while the old
grist-mill, whistling and wheezing to itself, made a vague music in my
ears, my soul was filled with this new, strange sweetness. I read the
"Spanish Student" there, and the "Coplas de Manrique," and the solemn
and ever-beautiful "Voices of the Night." There were other books in
those barrels, but these spirited me again to Spain, where I had already
been with Irving, and led me to attack fitfully the old Spanish grammar
which had been knocking about our house ever since my father bought it
from a soldier of the Mexican War.

But neither these nor any other books made me discontented with the
boy's world about me. They made it a little more populous with visionary
shapes, but that was well, and there was room for them all. It was not
darkened with cares, and the duties of it were not many. By this time we
older boys had our axes, and believed ourselves to be clearing a piece
of woods which covered a hill belonging to the milling property. The
timber was black-walnut and oak and hickory, and I cannot think we made
much inroad in it; but we must have felled some of the trees, for I
remember helping to cut them into saw-logs with the cross-cut saw, and
the rapture we had in starting our logs from the brow of the hill and
watching their whirling rush to the bottom. We experimented, as boys
will, and we felled one large hickory with the saw instead of the axe,
and scarcely escaped with our lives when it suddenly split near the
bark, and the butt shot out between us. I preferred buckeye and sycamore
trees for my own axe; they were of no use when felled, but they chopped
so easily.

They grew abundantly on the island which formed another feature of our
oddly distributed property. This island was by far its most fascinating
feature, and for us boys it had the charm and mystery which have in
every land and age endeared islands to the heart of man. It was not
naturally an island, but had been made so by the mill-races bringing the
water from the dam, and emptying into the river again below the mills.
It was flat, and half under water in every spring freshet, but it had
precious areas grown up to tall ironweeds, which, withering and
hardening in the frost, supplied us with the darts for our Indian
fights. The island was always our battle-ground, and it resounded in the
long afternoons with the war-cries of the encountering tribes. We had a
book in those days called Western Adventure, which was made up of
tales of pioneer and frontier life, and we were constantly reading
ourselves back into that life. This book, and Howe's Collections for
the History of Ohio, were full of stories of the backwoodsmen and
warriors who had made

[Illustration: Overlooking the island which the Howells family
cultivated]

our state a battle-ground for nearly fifty years, and our life in the
log cabin gave new zest to the tales of "Simon Kenton, the Pioneer," and
"Simon Girty, the Renegade"; of the captivity of Crawford, and his death
at the stake; of the massacre of the Moravian Indians at Gnadenhütten;
of the defeat of St. Clair and the victory of Wayne; of a hundred other
wild and bloody incidents of our annals. We read of them at night till
we were afraid to go up the ladder to the ambuscade of savages in our
loft, but we fought them over by day with undaunted spirit. With our
native romance I sometimes mingled from my own reading a strain of Old
World poetry, and "Hamet el Zegri" and the "Unknown Spanish Knight,"
encountered in the Vega before Granada on our island, while Adam Poe and
the Indian chief Bigfoot were taking breath from their deadly struggle
in the waters of the Ohio.


X

When the spring opened we broke up the sod on a more fertile part of the
island, and planted a garden there beside our field of corn. We planted
long rows of sweet-potatoes, and a splendid profusion of melons, which
duly came up with their empty seed-shells fitted like helmets over their
heads, and were mostly laid low the next day by the cutworms which
swarmed in the upturned sod. But the sweet-potatoes had better luck.
Better luck I did not think it then; their rows seemed interminable to a
boy set to clear them of purslane with his hoe; though I do not now
imagine they were necessarily a day's journey in length. Neither could
the corn-field beside them have been very vast; but again reluctant
boyhood has a different scale for the measurement of such things, and
perhaps if I were now set to hill it up I might think differently about
its size.

I dare say it was not well cared for, but an inexhaustible wealth of
ears came into the milk just at the right moment for our enjoyment. We
had then begun to build our new house, and for this we were now
kiln-drying the green oak flooring-boards. We had built a long skeleton
hut, and had set the boards upright all around it and roofed it with
them, and in the middle of it we had set a huge old cast-iron stove, in
which we kept a roaring fire. The fire had to be watched night and day,
and it often took all the boys of the neighborhood to watch it, and to
turn the boards. It must have been cruelly hot in that kiln; but I
remember nothing of that; I remember only the luxury of the green corn,
spitted on the points of long sticks and roasted in the red-hot stove;
we must almost have roasted our own heads at the same time. But I
suppose that if the heat within the kiln or without ever became
intolerable, we escaped from it and from our light summer clothing,
reduced to a Greek simplicity, in a delicious plunge in the river. We
had our choice of the shallows, where the long ripple was warmed through
and through by the sun in which it sparkled, or the swimming-hole, whose
depths were almost as tepid, but were here and there interwoven with
mysterious cool under-currents.

We believed that there were snapping-turtles and water-snakes in our
swimming-holes, though we never saw any. There were some fish in the
river, chiefly suckers and catfish in the spring, when the water was
high and turbid, and in summer the bream that we call sunfish in the
West, and there was a superstition, never verified by us, of bass. We
did not care much for fishing, though of course that had its turn in the
pleasures of our rolling year. There were crawfish, both hard-shell and
soft, to be had at small risk, and mussels in plenty. Their shells
furnished us the material for many rings zealously begun and never
finished; we did not see why they did not produce pearls; but perhaps
they were all eaten up, before the pearl disease could attack them, by
the muskrats, before whose holes their shells were heaped.

Of skating on the river I think we had none. The winter often passed in
our latitude without making ice enough for that sport, and there could
not have been much sledding, either. We read, enviously enough, in Peter
Parley's First Book of History, of the coasting on Boston Common, and
we made some weak-kneed sleds (whose imbecile runners flattened
helplessly under them) when the light snows began to come; but we never
had any real coasting, as our elders never had any real sleighing in the
jumpers they made by splitting a hickory sapling for runners, and
mounting any sort of rude box upon them. They might have used sleighs in
the mud, however; that was a foot deep on most of the roads, and lasted
all winter. For a little while some of us went two miles away through
the woods to school; but there was not much to be taught a reading
family like ours in that log hut, and I suppose it was not thought worth
while to keep us at it. No impression of it remains to me, except the
wild, lonesome cooing of the turtle-doves when they began to nest in the
neighboring oaks.

Our new house got on slowly. The log cabin had not become pleasanter
with the advance of the summer, and we looked forward to our occupation
of the new house with an eagerness which even in us boys must have had
some sense of present discomfort at the bottom of it. The frame was of
oak, and my father decided to have the house weather-boarded and
shingled with black-walnut, which was so much cheaper than pine, and
