
"But it does not reach as far as China. Besides, I have an asset back in
the States. It is my word. I have never broken it to any man or woman, and
I expect I never shall. You have, or have had, what I consider my
property. You have hedged the question; you haven't been frank."

The son listened intently.

"I bought that string of glass beads in good faith of a Chinaman--Ling
Foo. I consider them mine--that is, if they are still in my possession.
Between the hour I met you last night and the moment of Captain Dennison's
entrance to my room considerable time had elapsed."

"Sufficient for a rogue like Cunningham to make good use of," supplemented
the prisoner in Cabin Two. "There's a way of finding out the facts."

"Indeed?"

"Yes. You used to carry a planchette that once belonged to the actress
Rachel. Why not give it a whirl? Everybody's doing it."

Cleigh eyed Cabin Four, then Cabin Two, and shook his head slightly,
dubiously. He was not getting on well. To come into contact with a strong
will was always acceptable; and a strong will in a woman was a novelty.
All at once it struck him forcibly that he stood on the edge of boredom;
that the lure which had brought him fully sixteen thousand miles was
losing its bite. Was he growing old, drying up?

"Will you tell me what it is about these beads that makes you offer ten
thousand for them? Glass--anybody could see that. What makes them as
valuable as pearls?"

"They are love beads," answered Cleigh, mockingly. "They are far more
potent than powdered pearls. You have worn them about your throat, Miss
Norman, and the sequence is inevitable."

"Nonsense!" cried Jane.

Dennison added his mite to the confusion:

"I thought that scoundrel Cunningham was lying. He said the string was a
code key belonging to the British Intelligence Office."

"Rot!" Cleigh exploded.

"So I thought."

"But hurry, Miss Norman. The sooner I have that written order on the
consulate the sooner you'll have your belongings."

"Very well."

Five minutes later she announced that the order was completed, and Cleigh
opened the door slightly.

"The key will be given you the moment we weigh anchor."

"I say," called the son, "you might drop into the Palace and get my truck,
too. I'm particular about my toothbrushes." A pause. "I'd like a drink,
too--if you've got the time."

Cleigh did not answer, but he presently entered Cabin Two, filled a glass
with water, raised his son's head to a proper angle, and gave him drink.

"Thanks. This business strikes me as the funniest thing I ever heard of!
You would have done that for a dog."

Cleigh replaced the water carafe in the rack above the wash bowl and went
out, locking the door. In the salon he called for Dodge:

"I am going into town. I'll be back round five. Don't stir from this
cabin."

"Yes, sir."

"You remember that fellow who was here night before last?"

"The good-looking chap that limped?"

"Yes."

"And I'm to crease him if he pokes his noodle down the stairs?"

"Exactly! No talk, no palaver! If he starts talking he'll talk you out of
your boots. Shoot!"

"In the leg? All right."

His employer having gone, Dodge sat in a corner from which he could see
the companionway and all the passages. He lit a long black cigar, laid his
formidable revolver on a knee, and began his vigil. A queer job for an old
cow-punch, for a fact.

To guard an old carpet that didn't have "welcome" on it anywhere--he
couldn't get that, none whatever. But there was a hundred a week, the best
grub pile in the world, and the old man's Havanas as often as he pleased.
Pretty soft!

And he had learned a new trick--shooting target in a rolling sea. He had
wasted a hundred rounds before getting the hang of it. Maybe these sailors
hadn't gone pop-eyed when they saw him pumping lead into the bull's-eye
six times running? Tin cans and raw potatoes in the water, too. Something
to brag about if he ever got back home.

He broke the gun and inspected the cylinder. There wasn't as much grease
on the cartridges as he would have liked.

                   *       *       *       *       *

"Miss Norman?" called Dennison.

"What is it?"

"Are you comfortable?"

"Oh, I'm all right. I'm only furious with rage, that's all. You are still
tied?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"I really don't understand your father."

"I have never understood him. Yet he was very kind to me when I was
little. I don't suppose there is anything in heaven or on earth that he's
afraid of."

"He is afraid of me."

"Do you believe that?"

"I know it. He would give anything to be rid of me. But go on."

"With what?"

"Your past."

"Well, I'm something like him physically. We are both so strong that we
generally burst through rather than take the trouble to go round. I'm
honestly sorry for him. Not a human being to love or be loved by. He never
had a dog. I don't recollect my mother; she died when I was three; and
that death had something to do with the iron in his soul. Our old butler
used to tell me that Father cursed horribly, I mean blasphemously, when
they took the mother out of the house. There are some men like that, who
love terribly, away and beyond the average human ability. After the mother
died he plunged into the money game. He was always making it, piling it up
ruthlessly but honestly. Then that craving petered out, and he took a hand
in the collecting game. What will come next I don't know. As a boy I was
always afraid of him. He was kind to me, but in the abstract. I was like
an extra on the grocer's bill. He put me into the hands of a tutor--a
lovable old dreamer--and paid no more attention to me. He never put his
arms round me and told me fairy stories."

"Poor little boy! No fairy stories!"

"Nary a one until I began to have playmates."

"Do the ropes hurt?"

"They might if I were alone."

"What do you make of the beads?"

"Only that they have some strange value, or father wouldn't be after them.
Love beads! Doesn't sound half so plausible as Cunningham's version."

"That handsome man who limped?"

"Yes."

"A real adventurer--the sort one reads about!"

"And the queer thing about him, he keeps his word, too, for all his
business is a shady one. I don't suppose there is a painting or a jewel or
a book of the priceless sort that he doesn't know about, where it is and
if it can be got at. Some of his deals are aboveboard, but many of them
aren't. I'll wager these beads have a story of loot."

"What he steals doesn't hurt the poor."

"So long as the tigers fight among themselves and leave the goats alone,
it doesn't stir you. Is that it?"

"Possibly."

"And besides, he's a handsome beggar, if there ever was one."

"He has the face of an angel!"

"And the soul of a vandal!"--with a touch of irritability.

"Now you aren't fair. A vandal destroys things; this man only
transfers----"

"For a handsome monetary consideration----"

"Only transfers a picture from one gallery to another."

"Well, we've seen the last of him for a while, anyhow."

"I wonder."

"Will you answer me a question?"

"Perhaps."

"Do you know where those beads are?"

"A little while gone I smelt tobacco smoke," she answered, dryly.

"I see. We'll talk of something else then. Have you ever been in love?"

"Have you?"

"Violently--so I believed."

"But you got over it?"

"Absolutely! And you?"

"Oh, I haven't had the time. I've been too busy earning bread and butter.
What was she like?"

"A beautiful mirage--the lie in the desert, you might say. Has it ever
occurred to you that the mirage is the one lie Nature utters?"

"I hadn't thought. She deceived you?"

"Yes."

A short duration of silence.

"Doesn't hurt to talk about her?"

"Lord, no! Because I wasn't given fairy stories when I was little, I took
them seriously when I was twenty-three."

"Puppy love."

"It went a little deeper than that."

"But you don't hate women?"

"No. I never hated the woman who deceived me. I was terribly sorry for
her."

"For having lost so nice a husband?"--with a bit of malice.

He greeted this with laughter.

"It is written," she observed, "that we must play the fool sometime or
other."

"Have you ever played it?"

"Not yet, but you never can tell."

"Jane, you're a brick!"

"Jane!" she repeated. "Well, I don't suppose there's any harm in your
calling me that, with partitions in between."

"They used to call me Denny."

"And you want me to call you that?"

"Will you?"

"I'll think it over--Denny!"

They laughed. Both recognized the basic fact in this running patter. Each
was trying to buck up the other. Jane was honestly worried. She could not
say what it was that worried her, but there was a strong leaven in her of
old-wives' prescience. It wasn't due to this high-handed adventure of
Cleigh, senior; it was something leaning down darkly from the future that
worried her. That hand mirror!

"Better not talk any more," she advised. "You'll be getting thirsty."

"I'm already that."

"You're a brave man, captain," she said, her tone altering from gayety to
seriousness. "Don't worry about me. I've always been able to take care of
myself, though I've never been confronted with this kind of a situation
before. Frankly, I don't like it. But I suspect that your father will have
more respect for us if we laugh at him. Has he a sense of humour?"

"My word for it, he has! What could be more humorous than tying me up in
this fashion and putting me in the cabin that used to be mine? Ten
thousand for a string of glass beads! I say, Jane!"

"What?"

"When he comes back tell him you might consider twenty thousand, just to
get an idea what the thing is worth."

"I'll promise that."

"All right. Then I'll try to snooze a bit. Getting stuffy lying on my
back."

"The brute! If I could only help you!"

"You have--you are--you will!"

He turned on his side, his face toward the door. His arms and legs began
to sting with the sensation known as sleep. He was glad his father had
overheard the initial conversation. A wave of terror ran over him at the
thought of being set ashore while Jane went on. Still he could have sent a
British water terrier in hot pursuit.

Jane sat down and took inventory. She knew but little about antiques--rugs
and furniture--but she was full of inherent love of the beautiful. The
little secretary upon which she had written the order on the consulate was
an exquisite lowboy of old mahogany of dull finish. On the floor were
camel saddle-bays, Persian in pattern. On the panel over the lowboy was a
small painting, a foot broad and a foot and a half long. It was old--she
could tell that much. It was a portrait, tender and quaint. She would have
gasped had she known that it was worth a cover of solid gold. It was a
Holbein, The Younger, for which Cleigh some years gone had paid Cunningham
sixteen thousand dollars. Where and how Cunningham had acquired it was not
open history.

An hour passed. By and by she rose and tiptoed to the partition. She held
her ear against the panel, and as she heard nothing she concluded that
Denny--why not?--was asleep. Next she gazed out of the port. It was
growing dark outside, overcast. It would rain again probably. A drab sky,
a drab shore. She saw a boat filled with those luscious vegetables which
wrote typhus for any white person who ate them. A barge went by piled high
with paddy bags--rice in the husk--with Chinamen at the forward and stern
sweeps. She wondered if these poor yellow people had ever known what it
was to play?

Suddenly she fell back, shocked beyond measure. From the direction of the
salon--a pistol shot! This was followed by the tramp of hurrying feet.
Voices, now sharp, now rumbling--this grew nearer. A struggle of some
dimensions was going on in the passage. The racket reached her door, but
did not pause there. She sank into the chair, a-tremble.

Dennison struggled to a sitting posture.

"Jane?"

"Yes!"

"Are you all right?"

"Yes, what has happened?"

"A bit of mutiny, I take it; but it seems to be over."

"But the shot!"

"I heard no cry of pain, only a lot of scuffling and some high words.
Don't worry."

"I won't. Can't you break a piece of glass and saw your way out?"

"Lord love you, that's movie stuff! If I had a razor, I couldn't manage it
without hacking off my hands. You are worried!"

"I'm a woman, Denny. I'm not afraid of your father; but if there is
mutiny, with all these treasures on board--and over here----"

"All right. I'll make a real effort."

She could hear him stumbling about. She heard the crash of the water
carafe on the floor. Several minutes dragged by.

"Can't be done!" said Dennison. "Can't make the broken glass stay put.
Can't reach my ankles, either, or I could get my feet free. There's a
double latch on your door. See to it! Lord!"

"What is it?"

"Nothing. Just hunting round for some cuss words. Put the chair up against
the door knob and sit tight for a while."

The hours dragged by in stifling silence.

Meanwhile, Cleigh, having attended to errands, lunched, had gone to the
American consulate and presented the order. His name and reputation
cleared away the official red tape. He explained that all the fuss of the
night before had been without cause. Miss Norman had come aboard the
yacht, and now decided to go to Hong-Kong with the family. This suggested
the presence of other women on board. In the end, Jane's worldly goods
were consigned to Cleigh, who signed the receipt and made off for the
launch.

It was growing dark. On the way down the river Cleigh made no attempt to
search for the beads.

The salon lights snapped up as the launch drew alongside. Once below,
Cleigh dumped Jane's possessions into the nearest chair and turned to
give Dodge an order--only to find the accustomed corner vacant!

"Dodge!" he shouted. He ran to the passage. "Dodge, where the devil are
you?"

"Did you call, sir?"

Cleigh spun about. In the doorway to the dining salon stood Cunningham, on
his amazingly handsome face an expression of anxious solicitude!




CHAPTER X


Cleigh was not only a big and powerful man--he was also courageous, but
the absence of Dodge and the presence of Cunningham offered such sinister
omen that temporarily he was bereft of his natural wit and initiative.

"Where's Dodge?" he asked, stupidly.

"Dodge is resting quietly," answered Cunningham, gravely. "He'll be on his
feet in a day or two."

That seemed to wake up Cleigh a bit. He drew his automatic.

"Face to the wall, or I'll send a bullet into you!"

Cunningham shook his head.

"Did you examine the clip this morning? When you carry weapons like that
for protection never put it in your pocket without a look-see. Dodge
wouldn't have made your mistake. Shoot! Try it on the floor, or up through
the lights--or at me if you'd like that better. The clip is empty."

Mechanically Cleigh took aim and bore against the trigger. There was no
explosion. A depressing sense of unreality rolled over the Wanderer's
owner.

"So you went into town for her luggage? Did you find the beads?"

Cleigh made a negative sign. It was less an answer to Cunningham than an
acknowledgment that he could not understand why the bullet clip should be
empty.

"It was an easy risk," explained Cunningham. "You carried the gun, but I
doubt you ever looked it over. Having loaded it once upon a time, you
believed that was sufficient, eh? Know what I think? The girl has hidden
the beads in her hair. Did you search her?"

Again Cleigh shook his head, as much over the situation as over the
question.

"What, you ran all this risk and hadn't the nerve to search her? Well,
that's rich! Unless you've read her from my book. She would probably have
scratched out your eyes. There's an Amazon locked up in that graceful
body. I'd like to see her head against a bit of clear blue sky--a touch of
Henner blues and reds. What a whale of a joke! Abduct a young woman, risk
prison, and then afraid to lay hands on her! You poor old piker!"
Cunningham laughed.

"Cunningham----"

"All right, I'll be merciful. To make a long story short, it means that
for the present I am in command of this yacht. I warned you. Will you be
sensible, or shall I have to lock you up like your two-gun man from
Texas?"

"Piracy!" cried Cleigh, coming out of his maze.

"Maritime law calls it that, but it isn't really. No pannikins of rum, no
fifteen men on a dead man's chest. Parlour stuff, you might call it. The
whole affair--the parlour side of it--depends upon whether you purpose to
act philosophically under stress or kick up a hullabaloo. In the latter
event you may reasonably expect some rough stuff. Truth is, I'm only
borrowing the yacht as far as latitude ten degrees and longitude one
hundred and ten degrees, off Catwick Island. You carry a boson's whistle
at the end of your watch chain. Blow it!" was the challenge.

"You bid me blow it?"

"Only to convince you how absolutely helpless you are," said Cunningham,
amiably. "Yesterday this day's madness did prepare, as our old friend Omar
used to say. Vedder did great work on that, didn't he? Toot the whistle,
for shortly we shall weigh anchor."

Like a man in a dream, Cleigh got out his whistle. The first blast was
feeble and windy. Cunningham grinned.

"Blow it, man, blow it!"

Cleigh set the whistle between his lips and blew a blast that must have
been heard half a mile away.

"That's something like! Now we'll have results!"

Above, on deck, came the scuffle of hurrying feet, and immediately--as if
they had been prepared against this moment--three fourths of the crew came
tumbling down the companionway.

"Seize this man!" shouted Cleigh, thunderously, as he indicated
Cunningham.

The men, however, fell into line and came to attention. Most of them were
grinning.

