removed to his house, and then, taking a horse, rode off two miles for
a physician. In the mean time, the driver of Mr. Bolton's carriage was
despatched to the city for some of his family and his own physician.
The country doctor and the one from the city arrived about the same
time. On making a careful examination as to the nature of Mr. Bolton's
injuries, it was found that his right leg, above the knee, was broken,
and that one of his ankles was dislocated. He was suffering great pain,
and was much exhausted. As quickly as it could be done, the bone was
set, and the dislocation reduced. By this time it was nightfall, and
too late to think seriously of returning home before morning. The
moment Mr. Gray, the farmer, saw the thoughts of the injured man and
his friends directed towards the city, he promptly invited them to
remain in his house all night, and as much longer as the nature of Mr.
Bolton's injuries might require. This invitation was thankfully
accepted.

During the night, Mr. Bolton suffered a great deal of pain, and in the
morning, when the physicians arrived, it was found that his injured
limb was much inflamed. Of course, a removal to the city was out of the
question. The doctors declared that the attempt would be made at the
risk of his life. Farmer Gray said that such a thing must not be
thought of until the patient was fully able to bear the journey; and
the farmer's wife as earnestly remonstrated against any attempt at
having the injured man disturbed until it could be perfectly safe to do
so. Both tendered the hospitalities of their humble home with so much
sincerity, that Mr. Bolton felt that he could accept of them with
perfect freedom.

It was a whole month ere the old gentleman was in a condition to bear
the journey to town; and not once in the whole of that time had Mr. and
Mrs. Gray seemed weary of his presence, nor once relaxed in their
efforts to make him comfortable. As Mr. Bolton was about leaving, he
tendered the farmer, with many expressions of gratitude for the
kindness he had received, a hundred-dollar bill, as some small
compensation for the trouble and expense he had occasioned him and his
family. But Mr. Gray declined the offer, saying, as he did so:

"I have only done what common humanity required, Mr. Bolton; and were I
to receive money, all the pleasure I now experience would be gone."

It was in vain that Mr. Bolton urged the farmer's acceptance of some
remuneration. Mr. Gray was firm in declining to the last. All that
could be done was to send Mrs. Gray a handsome present from the city;
but this did not entirely relieve the mind of Mr. Bolton from the sense
of obligation under which the disinterested kindness of the farmer had
laid him; and thoughts of this tended to soften his feelings, and to
awaken, in a small measure, the human sympathies which had so long
slumbered in his bosom.

Several months passed before Mr. Bolton was able to go out, and then he
resumed his old employment of looking after his rents, and seeking for
new and safe investments that promised some better returns than he was
yet receiving.

One day, a broker, who was in the habit of doing business for Mr.
Bolton, said to him:

"If you want to buy a small, well-cultivated farm, at about half what
it is worth, I think I know where you can get one."

"Do you?"

"Yes. Three years ago it was bought for three thousand dollars, and
seven hundred paid down in cash. Only eight hundred dollars have since
been paid on it; and as the time for which the mortgage was to remain
has now expired, a foreclosure is about to take place. By a little
management, I am satisfied that I can get you the farm for the balance
due on the mortgage."

"That is, for fifteen hundred dollars?"

"Yes."

"Is the farm worth that? Will it be a good investment?"

"It is in the highest state of cultivation. The owner has spent too
much money upon it. This, with the loss of his entire crop of wheat,
rye, corn, oats, and hay, last year, has crippled him, and made it
impossible to pay off the mortgage."

"How came he to meet with this loss?"

"His barn was struck by lightning."

"That was unfortunate."

"The farm will command, at the lowest, two hundred and fifty dollars
rent; and by forcing a sale just at this time, it can be had for
fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars--half its real value."

"It would be a good investment at that."

"Capital. I would advise you to secure it."

After making some brief inquiries as to its location, the quality of
the land, the improvements, etc., Mr. Bolton told the broker, in whom
he had great confidence, that he might buy the property for him, if he
could obtain it for any thing below two thousand dollars. This the
broker said he could easily do, as the business of foreclosure was in
his own hands.

In due time, Mr. Bolton was informed by his agent in the matter, that a
sale under the mortgage had taken place, and that, by means of the
little management proposed, he had succeeded in keeping away all
competition in bidding. The land, stock, farming implements, and all,
had been knocked down at a price that just covered the encumbrance on
the estate, and were the property of Mr. Bolton, at half their real
value.

"That was a good speculation," said the gray-headed money-lover, when
his agent informed him of what he had been doing.

"First-rate," replied the broker. "The farm is worth every cent of
three thousand dollars. Poor Gray! I can't help feeling sorry for him.
But it's his luck. He valued his farm at three thousand five hundred
dollars. A week ago he counted himself worth two thousand dollars,
clean. Now he isn't worth a copper. Fifteen hundred dollars and three
or four years' labour thrown away into the bargain. But it's his luck!
So the world goes. He must try again. It will all go in his lifetime."

