a neighbouring city.

"I shall not be home to dinner, Emma," he said, on leaving in the
morning.

"Why not, James?" she asked.

"I am going to dine at four, with a select party of gentlemen."

Mrs. Martin did not reply, but a cloud passed over her face, in
spite of an effort not to seem concerned.

"Don't be uneasy, Emma," her husband said, noting this change. "I
shall touch nothing but wine. I know my weakness, and shall be on my
guard."

"Do be watchful over yourself, for my sake, and for the sake of our
own dear child," Mrs. Martin replied, laying her arm tenderly upon
his shoulder.

"Have no fear, Emma," he said, and kissing the yet fair and
beautiful cheek of his wife, Mr. Martin left the house.

How long, how very long did the day seem to Mrs. Martin! The usual
hour for his return came and went, the dinner hardly tasted; and
then his wife counted the hours as they passed lingeringly away,
until the dim, grey twilight fell with a saddening influence around
her.

"He will be home soon, now," she thought. But the minutes glided
into hours, and still he did not come. The tea-table stood in the
floor until nearly nine o'clock, before Mrs. Martin sat down with
little Emma. But no food passed the mother's lips. She could not
eat. There was a strange fear about her heart--a dread of coming
evil, that chilled her feelings, and threw a dark cloud over her
spirits.

In the meantime, Martin had gone to the dinner-party, firm in his
resolution not to touch a drop of ardent spirits. But the taste of
wine had inflamed his appetite, and he drank more and more freely,
until he ceased to feel the power of his resolution, and again put
brandy to his lips, and drank with the eagerness of a worn and
thirsty traveller at a cooling brook. It was nine o'clock when the
company arose, or rather attempted to arise from the table. Not all
of them could accomplish that feat. Three, Martin among the rest,
were carried off to bed, in a state of helpless intoxication.

Hour after hour passed away, the anxiety of Mrs. Martin increasing
every moment, until the clock struck twelve.

"Why does he stay so late?" she said, rising and pacing the room
backwards and forwards. This she continued to do, pausing every now
and then to listen, for nearly an hour. Then she went to the door
and looked long and anxiously in the direction from which she
expected her husband to come. But his well-known form met not her
eager eyes, that peered so intently into the darkness and gloom of
the night. With another long-drawn sigh, she closed the door, and
re-entered the silent and lonely room. That silence was broken by
the loud and clear ringing of the clock. The hour was one! Mrs.
Martin's feelings now became too much excited for her to control
them. She sank into a chair, and wept in silent anguish of spirit.
For nearly a quarter of an hour her tears continued to flow, and
then a deep calm succeeded--a kind of mental stupor, that remained
until she was startled again into distinct consciousness by the
sound of the clock striking two.

All hope now faded from her bosom. Up to this time she had
entertained a feeble expectation that her husband might be kept away
from some other cause than the one she so dreaded; but now that prop
became only as a broken reed, to pierce her with a keener anguish.

"It is all over!" she murmured bitterly, as she again arose, and
commenced, walking to and fro with slow and measured steps.

It was fully three o'clock before that lonely, and almost
heart-broken wife and mother retired to her chamber. How cruelly had
the hope which had grown bright and buoyant in the last few months,
gaining more strength and confidence every day, been again crushed
to the earth!

For an hour longer did Mrs. Martin sit, listening in her chamber,
everything around her so hushed into oppressive silence, that the
troubled beating of her own heart, was distinctly audible. But she
waited and listened in vain. The sound of passing footsteps that now
came only at long, very long intervals, served but to arouse a
momentary gleam in her mind, to fade away again, and leave it in
deeper darkness.

Without disrobing, she now laid herself down, still listening, with
an anxiety that grew more and more intense every moment. At last,
over-wearied nature could bear up no longer, and she sunk into a
troubled sleep. When she awoke from this, it was daylight. Oh, how
weary and worn and wretched she felt! The consciousness of why she
thus lay, with her clothes unremoved, the sad remembrance of her
hours of waiting and watching through nearly the whole night, all
came up before her with painful distinctness. Who but she who has
suffered, can imagine her feelings at that bitter moment?

On descending to the parlour, she found her husband lying in a
half-stupid condition on the sofa, the close air of the room
impregnated with his breath--the sickening, disgusting breath of a
drunken man! Bruised, crushed, paralyzed affection had now to lift
itself up--the wife just ready to sink to the earth, powerless,
under the weight of an overburdening affliction, had now to nerve
herself under the impulse of duty.

"James! James!" she said, in a voice of assumed calmness--laying her
hand upon him and endeavouring to arouse him to consciousness. But
it was a long time before she could get him so fully awake as to
make him understand that it was necessary for him to go up stairs
and retire to bed. At length she succeeded in getting him into his
chamber before the servants had come down; and then into bed. Once
there, he fell off again into a profound sleep.

"Is pa sick?" asked little Emma, coming into her mother's chamber,
about an hour after, and seeing her father in bed.

"Yes, dear, your father is quite unwell!" Mrs. Martin said, in a
calm voice.

