falsehood in his hearing. She did hope that he would interfere,
and with the inimitable self-possession which distinguished him,
open an avenue of escape by implying, if not asserting his right of
priority; but he was silent, and she yielded an ungracious assent. Mr.
Pemberton was a boasted adept in the art of "cutting out"--a system of
counter-plotting, too well understood to need explanation here; and as
he bustled around, officious and fussy, he circulated, as the latest
and best joke, an account of his cunning in "heading off that chap,
Lacy."

"Are you fond of this amusement?" inquired the latter of Josephine.

"Passionately!" said she, brightening up at this, as she thought,
prefatory remark. The next was still more promising.

"You will not stop at a single set then?"

"Oh, no! I often keep the floor for hours. It is a healthful and
innocent exercise. I had rather dance than spend the evening in
gossiping after the fashion of the strait-laced sort, who are
conscientiously opposed to 'wordly follies.'"

Mr. Lacy smiled, a little queerly. It was evident that he agreed with
her, in her estimate of these over-scrupulous worthies. Still, the
coveted request did not arrive, and she tossed out a desperate feeler.

"You do not think it undignified to dance, do you?"

"Perhaps if I were to state why I never participate in the pastime you
laud so warmly, you would accuse me of an unmanly fondness for a dish
of scandal."

What did he say? What did it mean? His amusement increased with her
bewilderment, and before an explanation could be asked or given, Mr.
Pemberton took her hand.

Ida had, thus far, passed the dullest of dull evenings. Lynn and
Charley, who never let her suffer for attention when they were by,
had a business engagement which would detain them until late; it was
even doubtful if they could come at all. She talked at a moustached,
be-whiskered, and be-imperialed youth who solicited an introduction,
because he had heard that she was "smart," and hoped she could
appreciate him; his conversational talents compensating in quality for
their deficiency in quantity; anybody could talk, but who could dress,
and stand, and look as he did? She tried to draw him out by encouraging
smiles, and well put queries--he tugged at his waistcoat--she rallied
him upon his abstraction--he stroked his left whisker--she pretended
offence at one of his milk-and-water responses--he performed the like
kindly office to the right--and she gave up in despair.

Mr. De Langue was next. He was "smart" himself, and therefore could
appreciate her, and to prove this, he rolled forth volume after
volume of French compliments, unanswerable, because so highly polished
that one could not, as it were, take hold of them;--edified her by
disquisitions upon subjects of which she was profoundly ignorant, and
information respecting others, of which she knew more than himself.
After much manoeuvring she sought refuge in a corner, fatigued,
disgusted and misanthropical. "I have thought that I might shine in
general company, where feeling never enters, and flaring flippancy
passes for wit; it seemed easy to manufacture small-talk, but I was
mistaken. This is 'rational recreation!' the pleasure of mingling in
'the best society,' as Josephine says. I envy St. Simon in his twenty
years' solitude upon his stone pillar."

"Compton, my dear fellow, can you make room for me to pass?" said a
voice near her. "If I were a lady, I would faint, and let you extricate
me, as I am not, I must fight my way out."

The gentleman addressed exerted his powers of compression, and Mr.
Lacy edged by him. His course was towards the door, but he stopped as
he espied Ida "Miss Ross, have you a welcome in your 'Retreat' for a
storm-tossed wanderer? Your quiet nook is most inviting."

Ida looked up mischievously. "I will not hinder your flight, Mr. Lacy.
Your envy of my corner is wasted upon one who heard you singing a
moment since, like the melancholy starling, 'I can't get out! I can't
get out!'"

"I plead guilty--but if a mightier temptation has mastered my desire
for liberty? There are birds that will not fly after the cage door is
unfastened."

"They do not merit freedom," said she.

"Be it so--this is my prison," rejoined the gentleman, seating himself
upon an ottoman which Josephine, to get out of the way, had wedged
behind the door, thinking as she did so, that it might prevent the
pressure of the crowd from breaking the hinges, with not a presentiment
that she was furnishing a hiding-place for the last one of all the
world whom she would have concealed.

"Now," continued he, "as I can see but one, I recognise but one jailor,
and you will be merciful, remembering my voluntary incarceration. And
as a starting-point to the conversation, why are you not in the other
room?"

"For the simple reason that no one has invited me to dance."

He looked surprised, yet pleased at her frankness. "You would go, if
you received an invitation?"

"That would depend upon circumstances. I should assuredly decline one
from you."

"And why?"

"I would not accept of anything offered in obedience to what the one
who tendered it considered a hint. How I might act if I were a devotee
of Terpsichore, I do not know, but a conversazione is more attractive
to me than a ball."

"We shall not quarrel there, and it is well that we agree in
disagreeing with the general sentiment. Taught by the experience gained
in our short acquaintance, I should prefer a petition with a quaking
heart."

"You need not apprehend a refusal, provided your demand is reasonable
and properly timed," answered Ida.

"Which of these provisoes was wanting to ensure the success of the suit
