forever calling on my husband to settle some bill or other for me.
And yet I never pay the exorbitant prices asked by everybody for
every thing. I am strictly economical in my family. While other
people pay their domestics a dollar and a half and two dollars a
week, I give but a dollar and a quarter each to my cook and
chambermaid, and require the chamber maid to help the washer-woman
on Mondays. Nothing is wasted in my kitchen, for I take care in
marketing, not to allow room for waste. I don't know how it is that
you save money on thirty-five dollars with your system, while I find
fifty dollars inadequate with my system."

The exact difference in the two systems will be clearly understood
by the reader, when he is informed that although Mrs. Mier never
paid any body as much as was at first asked for an article, and was
always talking about economy, and trying to practice it, by
withholding from others what was justly their due, as in the case of
the strawberry-woman, yet she was a very extravagant person, and
spared no money in gratifying her own pride. Mrs. Gilman, her
visitor, was, on the contrary, really economical, because she was
moderate in all her desires, and was usually as well satisfied with
an article of dress or furniture that cost ten or twenty dollars, as
Mrs. Mier was with one that cost forty or fifty dollars. In little
things, the former was not so particular as to infringe the rights
of others, while in larger matters, she was careful not to run into
extravagance in order to gratify her own or children's pride and
vanity, while the latter pursued a course directly opposite.

Mrs. Gilman was not as much dissatisfied, on reflection, about the
price she had paid for her strawberries, as she had felt at first.

"I would rather pay these poor creatures two cents a box too much
than too little," she said to herself--"dear knows, they earn their
money hard enough, and get but a scanty portion after all."

Although the tray of the poor strawberry-woman, when she passed from
the presence of Mrs. Mier, was lighter by five boxes, her heart was
heavier, and that made her steps more weary than before. The next
place at which she stopped, she found the same disposition to beat
her down in her price.

"I'll give you nine cents, and take four boxes," said the lady.

"Indeed, madam, that is too little," replied the woman; "ten cents
is the lowest at which I can sell them and make even a reasonable
profit."

"Well, say thirty-seven and a half for four boxes, and I will take
them. It is only two cents and a half less than you ask for them."

"Give me a fip, ma!--there comes the candy-man!" exclaimed a little
fellow, pressing up to the side of the lady. "Quick, ma! Here,
candy-man!" calling after an old man with a tin cylinder under his
arm, that looked something like an ice cream freezer. The lady drew
out her purse, and searched among its contents for the small coin
her child wanted.

"I havn't any thing less than a levy," she at length said.

"Oh, well, he can change it. Candy-man, you can change a levy?"

By this time the "candy-man" stood smiling beside the
strawberry-woman. As he was counting out the fip's worth of candy,
the child spoke up in an earnest voice, and said:

"Get a levy's worth, mother, do, wont you? Cousin Lu's coming to see
us to-morrow."

"Let him have a levy's worth, candy-man. He's such a rogue I can't
resist him," responded the mother. The candy was counted out, and
the levy paid, when the man retired in his usual good humor.

"Shall I take these strawberries for thirty-seven and a half cents?"
said the lady, the smile fading from her face. "It is all I am
willing to give."

"If you wont pay any more, I musn't stand for two cents and a half,"
replied the woman, "although they would nearly buy a loaf of bread
for the children," she mentally added.

The four boxes were sold for the sum offered, and the woman lifted
the tray upon her head, and moved on again. The sun shone out still
hotter and hotter as the day advanced. Large beads of perspiration
rolled from the throbbing temples of the strawberry-woman, as she
passed wearily up one street and down another, crying her fruit at
the top of her voice. At length all were sold but five boxes, and
now it was past one o'clock. Long before this she ought to have been
at home. Faint from over-exertion, she lifted her tray from her
head, and placing it upon a door-step, sat down to rest. As she sat
thus, a lady came up, and paused at the door of the house, as if
about to enter.

"You look tired, my good woman," she said kindly. "This is a very
hot day for such hard work as yours. How do you sell your
strawberries?"

"I ought to have ten cents for them, but nobody seems willing to
give ten cents to-day, although they are very fine, and cost me as
much as some I have got twelve and a half for."

"How many boxes have you?"

"Five, ma'am."

"They are very fine, sure enough," said the lady, stooping down and
examining them; "and well worth ten cents. I'll take them."

"Thanky, ma'am. I was afraid I should have to take them home," said
the woman, her heart bounding up lightly.

The lady rung the bell, for it was at her door that the tired
strawberry-woman had stopped to rest herself. While she was waiting
for the door to be opened, the lady took from her purse the money
for the strawberries, and handing it to the woman, said:

"Here is your money. Shall I tell the servant to bring you out a
glass of cool water? You are hot and tired."

"If you please, ma'am," said the woman, with a grateful look.

The water was sent out by the servant who was to receive the
