you, Phil--and it aint often anybody does that, so you'd better make
the most of the chance." With which pleasing sentiment, Sam released
Phil, and taking a sharp run after Robbie. Waters enticed him into a
long confidential conversation about his new Sunday school teacher. In
the midst of which Phil's voice came again.

"'Twon't hurt you Sam--jest listen once. They say, Sam Stoutenburgh
would have been a Lady apple, if he hadn't grown to be such a Swar, and
all the while he thinks he's a Seek-no-further. That's what folks
says. How d'ye like it?"

"Firstrate!" said Sam--"glad I missed the Lady apples, anyhow,--and as
for 'tother, never thought myself one yet--don't like 'em well enough.
When you get through paying me compliments, Phil Davids, you'd better
go and see Mr. Linden."

"Guess I will!" said Phil swaggering off,--"when I want to see him; and
that aint to-day, by a long jump."

"He said you were to come--" Sam called after him. "If I wasn't a
Stoutenburgh sweeting, Phil Davids, I'd teach you to talk of him so! If
I only was!--" Sam added sotto voce, "wouldn't I pack myself up in a
basket! Robbie, what sort of flowers did Miss Faith have in her
bonnet?" At which interesting point the two turned a corner out of
Phil's sight.

But Phil pursued his way; decently regardless of threats or
invitations, and having a wholesome opinion of his own that in holiday
time Mr. Linden had nothing to say to him. In no possible time had he
anything to say to Mr. Linden that he could help. So it happened, that
coming in soon after Mr. Linden had dismissed his breakfast, Faith
found Mr. Linden alone. She brought to his side a basket of very
fine-looking pears.

"Mr. Davids has sent you these, Mr. Linden."

"He is very kind," said Mr. Linden. "That is more than I asked for. He
hasn't sent Phil in the basket too, has he?--as the easiest way of
getting him here."

Faith rather startled, and passing over that asked Mr. Linden how he
did. Which point, having learned all he wanted upon the other, Mr.
Linden was also ready for. Faith then leaving the basket by the couch
side, went to the fire and hearth, and put them more thoroughly to
rights than Cindy's delicacy of touch, or of eye, had enabled her to
do; and going on round the room, care fully performed the same service
for everything in it generally. This work however was suddenly stopped
in the midst, and coming to the head of the couch, rather behind Mr.
Linden, Faith spoke in a low and ill-assured tone.

"Mr. Linden--will you let me be by this morning when Dr. Harrison
dresses your arm?"

There was a moment's silence, and then raising himself up and turning a
little so as to see her, Mr. Linden answered, gravely though smiling,

"No, Miss Faith!"

She coloured very much and drew back.

"I asked--" she said presently, speaking with a good deal of
difficulty,--"because he spoke of being away--and then there would be
no one to do it--and mother is afraid--"

And there Faith stopped, more abashed than anybody had ever seen her in
her life before. He held out his hand, and took hers, and held it fast.

"I know--" he said,--"you need not tell me. When is the doctor going
away?"

"I don't know," she said almost under breath--"he said perhaps--or I
thought--I understood him to mean in a few days."

"Miss Faith!"--and the tone was half expostulating, half scolding, half
caressing. "Come here and sit down by me," he said, gently drawing her
round to the low chair at his side, "I want to talk to you. Do you need
to be told why I said no?"

She sat down, but sunk her head a little and put up her other hand to
shield the side of her face which was next him. The answer did not come
at once--when it did, it was a low spoken "no." Her hand was held
closer, but except that and the moved change of his voice, Mr. Linden
took no notice of her fear.

"I would not let Pet do it--" he said gently, "if I could help it. My
child, do you know what a disagreeable business it is? I could trust
you for not fainting at the time, but I should ill like to hear of your
fainting afterwards. And then if you chanced to hurt me--which the
doctor often does--you would be unhappy for the rest of the day,--which
the doctor by no means is. That is all--I would a great deal rather
have your hands about me than his, but a thing that would give you pain
would give me very doubtful relief. I had rather go with my arm
undressed."

He had gone on talking--partly to give her time to recover; but the
silent look that was bent upon that shielded face was a little anxious.

She dropped the hand that shielded it presently, and shewed it flushed
and wistful, yet with a tiny bit of smile beginning to work at the
corners of the mouth.

"Then Mr. Linden," she said almost in the same tone and without turning
her face,--"if you have no other objection--please let me come!"

"But that one is strong enough. You may send Cinderella up to take a
lesson."

"You said that was all?" she repeated.

"That is the only real objection--I would not raise even that in a case
of greater need. But I suppose unskilful hands could hardly do me much
mischief now. So if you will send Cinderella," he added with a smile,
"she may enlarge her world of ideas a little."

"Mr. Linden,"--said Faith looking at him now fearlessly--"I am going to
come myself."

"You are!" he said, looking at her--and then his eyes went from her to
the fire, and back again to her face. "Then if you faint away, Miss
Faith, and I jump up to take care of you (which I shall certainly do) I
