with the feelings which the prayer had raised, sat with downcast eyes.
And Faith was motionless with a deep and manifold sense of happiness,
the labyrinth of which herself could not soon have threaded out. The
silence and stillness of his two companions drew the farmer's eyes up;
he read first, with an eager eye that nobody saw, the sweet gravity on
one half hidden face, and the deep pure joy written in all the lines of
the other; and secret and strong, though half unknown to himself, the
whole tide of his heart turned that way. If not before, then at least,
something like Ruth's resolution came up within him;--"thy people shall
be my people, and thy God my God!" Mr. Linden was the first one that
moved.

"Are you ready, dear child?"

The farmer's eyes were on her too, even while he wrung Mr. Linden's
hand. But he only said before he let it go,--"Give a glass of wine to
her when she gets home."

Out in the sweet afternoon air, and driving through the gate which
opened on the highway, with Jem Waters on hand to shut it, Mr. Linden
brought Faith's face round towards him and scanned it earnestly.

"My child, how tired you are! I wish I knew whether it would do you
most good to go straight home, or to breathe this air a little longer."

"I hope you won't conclude to take me home," said Faith. "I have been
looking for this all day."

"Do you think you deserve to have it?" said Mr. Linden, turning Jerry's
head however the way that was not straight home. "Why didn't you
sleep, and wait for me to bring you down here?"

"One reason was, Endy, that I half guessed Mr. Simlins wanted to talk
to me and that it might be better for him to see one than two.

"I could have left you there for a while."

"No you couldn't!" she said. "And I couldn't have driven off Jerry and
left you--though that would have been better."

"You could have driven me off. What was the other reason?"

"The other reason isn't really worth your hearing. Don't you think this
afternoon is too pretty to spoil with bad reasons?"--she said with
gentle eyes, half fun, half confession.

"Entirely. Faith--I think you would bear the ride better if you had a
sort of afternoon lunch,--shall we stop at Miss Bezac's for a glass of
milk?"

"Oh no!"--she said hastily. "Oh no, Endecott! I don't want anything but
to ride."

"And to hide--" said Mr. Linden laughingly. "Another bad reason, Faith?"

She gave him a little blushing look, very frank and happy, that also
bore homage to his penetration.

"Stop anywhere you please, Endy," she said honestly. "I was very glad
you came to Mr. Simlins'."

"Would you rather get it from Mrs. Davids?" he inquired demurely.

"No, not rather. Whichever you like, Endecott," Faith said, hiding the
start which the question in this real form gave her. The afternoon sun
through which they were riding was very bright; the washed leaves were
brilliantly green; sweet scents of trees and buds filled the air, and
opening apple blossoms were scattering beauty all over the land.
Nothing could spoil that afternoon. Faith had a secret consciousness
besides that the very thing from which she shrank was by no means
disagreeable to Mr. Linden. She did not care what he did! And he,--in
the joy of being with her, of seeing her grow stronger every hour, Mr.
Linden was in a 'holiday humour'--in the mood for work or play or
mischief; and took the road to Miss Bezac's for more than a glass of
milk.

"Mignonette," he said, "what varieties of pride do you consider lawful
and becoming?"

"I know only a few innocent sorts," said Faith,--"that I keep for
myself."

"Luxurious child! 'A few innocent sorts of pride that you keep for
yourself'! You must divide with me."

How Faith laughed.

"You wouldn't thank me for one of them all, Endecott. And yet--" She
stopped, and coloured brilliantly on the sudden.

"Explain and finish," said Mr. Linden laconically.

"If I told you what they are you would laugh at me."

"That would not hurt me. What are they, Mignonette?"

She spoke gravely, though smiling sometimes; answering to the matter of
fact, as she had been asked. "I am proud, a little, of very fine rolls
of butter, or a particularly good cheese. I think I am proud of my
carnations, and perhaps--" she went on colouring--"of being so good a
baker as I am. And perhaps--I think I am--of such things as sewing and
dressmaking;--but I don't think there is much harm in all that. I know
myself sometimes proud of other things, where I know it is wrong."

"How do you know but I am proud of your rolls of butter too?" said Mr.
Linden looking amused. "But Mignonette, what called forth such a
display of the carnations you are not proud of? What was the force of
that 'And yet'?"

It brought the colour again, and Faith hesitated and looked puzzled,
Then she tried a new way of escape.

"Don't you mean to let me have any of my thoughts to myself?" she said
playfully.

"Don't you mean to let me have any of them for myself?"

"You?--Haven't you them almost all?"

"My dear I beg pardon!--one for every carnation,--but I did not know
