dirtied your floor," he said, as he brushed down his pantaloons, which
were covered with bits of grizzly moss, and looked on the surrounding
desolations; "give me a broom, I can sweep up now as well as any woman."

"Oh, never mind," said Mrs. Pennel, laughing, "I'll sweep up."

"Well, now, Mis' Pennel, you're one of the women that don't get put out
easy; ain't ye?" said the Captain, still contemplating his fire with a
proud and watchful eye.

"Law me!" he exclaimed, glancing through the window, "there's the Cap'n
a-comin'. I'm jist goin' to give a look at what he's brought in. Come,
chil'en," and the Captain disappeared with all three of the children at
his heels, to go down to examine the treasures of the fishing-smack.

Mr. Sewell seated himself cozily in the chimney corner and sank into a
state of half-dreamy reverie; his eyes fixed on the fairest sight one
can see of a frosty autumn twilight--a crackling wood-fire.

Mrs. Pennel moved soft-footed to and fro, arraying her tea-table in her
own finest and pure damask, and bringing from hidden stores her best
china and newest silver, her choicest sweetmeats and cake--whatever was
fairest and nicest in her house--to honor her unexpected guest.

Mr. Sewell's eyes followed her occasionally about the room, with an
expression of pleased and curious satisfaction. He was taking it all in
as an artistic picture--that simple, kindly hearth, with its mossy logs,
yet steaming with the moisture of the wild woods; the table so neat, so
cheery with its many little delicacies, and refinements of appointment,
and its ample varieties to tempt the appetite; and then the Captain
coming in, yet fresh and hungry from his afternoon's toil, with the
children trotting before him.

"And this is the inheritance he comes into," he murmured;
"healthy--wholesome--cheerful--secure: how much better than hot,
stifling luxury!"

Here the minister's meditations were interrupted by the entrance of all
the children, joyful and loquacious. Little Moses held up a string of
mackerel, with their graceful bodies and elegantly cut fins.

"Just a specimen of the best, Mary," said Captain Pennel. "I thought I'd
bring 'em for Miss Emily."

"Miss Emily will be a thousand times obliged to you," said Mr. Sewell,
rising up.

As to Mara and Sally, they were reveling in apronfuls of shells and
seaweed, which they bustled into the other room to bestow in their
spacious baby-house.

And now, after due time for Zephaniah to assume a land toilet, all sat
down to the evening meal.

After supper was over, the Captain was besieged by the children. Little
Mara mounted first into his lap, and nestled herself quietly under his
coat--Moses and Sally stood at each knee.

"Come, now," said Moses, "you said you would tell us about the mermen
to-night."

"Yes, and the mermaids," said Sally. "Tell them all you told me the
other night in the trundle-bed."

Sally valued herself no little on the score of the Captain's talent as a
romancer.

"You see, Moses," she said, volubly, "father saw mermen and mermaids a
plenty of them in the West Indies."

"Oh, never mind about 'em now," said Captain Kittridge, looking at Mr.
Sewell's corner.

"Why not, father? mother isn't here," said Sally, innocently.

A smile passed round the faces of the company, and Mr. Sewell said,
"Come, Captain, no modesty; we all know you have as good a faculty for
telling a story as for making a fire."

"Do tell me what mermen are," said Moses.

"Wal'," said the Captain, sinking his voice confidentially, and hitching
his chair a little around, "mermen and maids is a kind o' people that
have their world jist like our'n, only it's down in the bottom of the
sea, 'cause the bottom of the sea has its mountains and its valleys, and
its trees and its bushes, and it stands to reason there should be people
there too."

Moses opened his broad black eyes wider than usual, and looked absorbed
attention.

"Tell 'em about how you saw 'em," said Sally.

"Wal', yes," said Captain Kittridge; "once when I was to the
Bahamas,--it was one Sunday morning in June, the first Sunday in the
month,--we cast anchor pretty nigh a reef of coral, and I was jist
a-sittin' down to read my Bible, when up comes a merman over the side of
the ship, all dressed as fine as any old beau that ever ye see, with
cocked hat and silk stockings, and shoe-buckles, and his clothes were
sea-green, and his shoe-buckles shone like diamonds."

"Do you suppose they were diamonds, really?" said Sally.

"Wal', child, I didn't ask him, but I shouldn't be surprised, from all I
know of their ways, if they was," said the Captain, who had now got so
wholly into the spirit of his fiction that he no longer felt
embarrassed by the minister's presence, nor saw the look of amusement
with which he was listening to him in his chimney-corner. "But, as I was
sayin', he came up to me, and made the politest bow that ever ye see,
and says he, 'Cap'n Kittridge, I presume,' and says I, 'Yes, sir.' 'I'm
sorry to interrupt your reading,' says he; and says I, 'Oh, no matter,
sir.' 'But,' says he, 'if you would only be so good as to move your
anchor. You've cast anchor right before my front-door, and my wife and
family can't get out to go to meetin'.'"

"Why, do they go to meeting in the bottom of the sea?" said Moses.

"Law, bless you sonny, yes. Why, Sunday morning, when the sea was all
still, I used to hear the bass-viol a-soundin' down under the waters,
jist as plain as could be,--and psalms and preachin'. I've reason to
