Bailey."

"I won't speak another word, Grant," said Bailey. "I only wish I had as
much confidence as you have."

"Bear a hand lively, my lads," added Richard, as he seized the painter
of the boat; "I want to get her out of the water."

The boys took hold with a will, and the Emma was soon placed high and
dry upon the beach. She was then turned over.

"There, fellows," said Richard, as he pointed to the foul bottom of the
boat, "do you expect to win a race with the craft in that condition? In
fifteen minutes we will have her in the water again, as clean as a
lady's parlor."

By direction of the coxswain, the crew fell to scrubbing the bottom of
the boat with an earnestness and zeal which soon removed every trace of
moss and grass. She was then permitted to dry for a short time, and the
bright October sun soon completed their work. The bottom was then
covered over with black lead, and rubbed with the brushes till it shone
like a newly-polished stove. The boys used their muscle upon the
brushes, being relieved every minute by fresh hands.

"Now, my lads, we are in condition to win the race. Shove her off,"
said Richard, whose energy inspired the whole party with resolution and
confidence.

The Emma was afloat again; the boys took their places, though not till
Richard had rearranged them by their weight, so that the boat was in
perfect trim when she started. For an hour and a half Richard trained
them in rowing, till the stroke exactly suited him, and they fully
understood all his signs and signals.

"Now, fellows, mind your eyes, and we are sure to win," said the
wide-awake coxswain, as the gun fired that was to call them to the
stake boat. "I never saw a better set of rowers in my life, and I am as
well satisfied with you as though we had been pulling together for a
year."

"Bully for you, Grant," said one of the boys at the bow.

The Emma pulled leisurely up to the large sail boat, on board of which
were the colonel, the assistant teachers, and as many of the boys as
she would comfortably accommodate.

"Are you all ready?" shouted the colonel, as the Alice and the Emma
took their stations.

"All ready, sir," replied Richard, cheerfully.

"All ready, sir," added Nevers, confidently.

Both parties were impatient for the contest to begin, and both were
almost certain of winning the victory. Even the boats seemed to share
in the spirit of their crews, and anxious to have the fetters removed
that they might bound away upon the errand of conquest. Each had
appropriate flags at the bow and stern, and one with a taste for boats
would have been delighted by the appearance of the trim craft.

"Ready for the signal!" shouted the colonel again.

"Down with that flag in the bow, Carter," said Richard to the bowman,
as he took down the color in the stern.

"What's that for?" asked one of the crew of the Emma.

"They hold the wind, and keep us back a little. We will be on the safe
side. Now, ready, fellows, and mind what I have said to you. Don't look
at the other boat till you can see her over our stern."

Nevers disdained to follow the example of his rival in removing his
flags, saying that he could beat him with his colors flying. Nevers
prided himself upon his skill in handling a boat, and he felt that the
opportunity had come which would enable him to triumph over the hated
usurper, as he considered Richard. He knew how much glory and honor
would be awarded to the conqueror in this race, and that if he could
beat his rival, scores of those fair-weather friends, who always attach
themselves to a rising man, would leave him.

The signal gun was on shore, and at a gesture from the colonel, it was
discharged. The report seemed to unloose the bonds which chained the
boats to their stations, and they bounded away. The crew of the Alice
bent to their oars with the most tremendous energy, while that of the
Emma seemed to be inspired by the cool and steady nerve of her
coxswain. They had been fully and thoroughly instructed in their duty.

The crowd of boys on the shore were silent and breathless with the
interest they felt in the exciting race; and when, before the boats had
gone a quarter of a mile, they discovered the Alice more than half a
length ahead of her companion, the jaws of Richard's friends dropped,
and their faces were as long as though a ten pound weight had been
fastened to the chin of each, while a smile of triumphant satisfaction
lighted up the faces of Nevers's well-wishers.

"Nevers has it!" exclaimed one of his intimates, as, when she rounded
Green Island, the Alice was found to be more than a length ahead of the
Emma.

"Not yet," said one of the other clique. "Let Dick Grant alone. He
knows what he is about. He don't half try yet."

The crew of the Emma could not yet see the Alice over the stern of the
boat, and we doubt not they shared the anxiety and despondency of their
friends on shore. But no sooner had the boats rounded the island, and
commenced on the home stretch, than Richard's vibrating body began
gradually to move more rapidly, and just in proportion as he increased
the movement, the Emma lessened the distance between herself and the
Alice.

"Steady, fellows; don't get excited. Dip a little deeper," said
Richard, in a quiet, cool tone. "We are doing splendidly, and you shall
see the Alice over the stern in about three minutes."

Nevers, as in the fight with his rival, began to be very much excited
when he saw that he was losing ground. He spoke quick and earnest words
to the crew of his boat, who had been doing their utmost from the
beginning, urging them to increase their exertions. Richard had not
permitted his crew to do their best at first, but had kept in their
muscles a reserve of strength for the final emergency. The party in the
