"What do you want, my boy?" demanded the head man, who was quite
confident that he had mistaken the applicant's meaning, for it was
hardly possible that a youth like him could be a circus performer.

"I want a place to perform, sir," repeated Noddy, who was entirely
ignorant of the technical terms belonging to the profession.

"To perform!" laughed the manager, measuring him from head to foot with
his eye.

"Yes, sir."

"What kind of business can you do, my boy?"

"Almost anything, sir."

"Do you ride?"

"No, sir; I'm not much used to standing up on a horse, but I think I
could go it, after doing it a little while."

"Do you, indeed!" sneered the man. "Well, we don't want anybody that can
do almost any kind of business."

"I'm used to this thing, sir," pleaded Noddy.

"Used to it! I suppose you want a place as a bill-sticker, or to take
care of the horses."

"No, sir; I want to perform. If you will give me a chance to show what I
can do, I think you'll have me," persisted Noddy, not at all pleased
with the decided refusal he had received.

"Well, come in here," laughed the head man, who had no doubt that the
applicant would soon be brought to grief.

It was almost time for the doors to be opened for the afternoon
performance, and the man conducted Noddy to the ring, where he saw a
number of the riders and gymnasts, all dressed in their silks and
spangles to appear before the public.

"Here, Whippleby, is a young man that wants an engagement," said the
manager to the man who had acted as ring-master when Noddy was present.

"What can he do?"

"Almost everything; but he isn't much used to riding."

Whippleby laughed, and the manager laughed; and it was quite evident,
even to the aspirant for circus honors, that all present intended to
amuse themselves at his expense. But Noddy felt able to outdo most of
the circus people at their own profession, and he confidently expected
to turn the laugh upon them before the game was ended.

"A versatile genius," said Whippleby.

"Just try him, and see what he can do," added the manager,
significantly.

"Well, my little man, what do you say to a little ground and lofty
tumbling," said Whippleby, winking at the performers, who stood in a
circle around them.

"I'm at home in that," replied Noddy, throwing off his jacket.

"Good! You have got pluck enough, at any rate. Here, Nesmond, do
something," said the ring-master to a wiry young man of the group.

Nesmond did what Noddy had seen him do the day before; he whirled over
and over across the ring, like a hoop, striking his hands and feet
alternately on the ground.

"There, youngster, do you see that?" said Whippleby.

"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, unabashed by the work which was
expected of him.

"Now, let us see you do it."

Noddy did it, and if anything, more rapidly and gracefully than the
professional man. The men applauded, and Nesmond--"the great American
vaulter and tumbler"--looked exceedingly disconcerted when he saw his
wonderful act so easily imitated.

"Try it again, Nesmond," said Whippleby.

The distinguished athlete went on for half an hour, performing his
antics; and Noddy repeated them, though he had never before attempted
some of them. Nesmond gave it up.

"Well, young man, you can do almost everything, but you are as clumsy
and ungraceful as a bear about it. You need a little training on your
positions, and you will make a first-class tumbler," said the manager.

The men had ceased to laugh, and even looked admiringly on the prodigy
who had so suddenly developed himself. Noddy felt that his fortune was
already made, and he was almost ready to snap his fingers at the
court-house. Here was a chance for him to "work and win," and it was
entirely to his taste.

The manager then questioned him in regard to his family connections; but
as Noddy had none, his answers were very brief. He had no father nor
mother, and he had no home; he was no runaway, for there was no one
living who had any claim upon him. These answers were entirely
satisfactory to the head man.

"What salary do you expect?" asked the manager, when he had assured
himself there was no one to interfere with any arrangement he might
make.

"What do you give?" asked Noddy.

"Well, we give different salaries, depending on the men."

"You have seen what I can do--what will you give me? Talk right up, or I
shall have nothing to do with it," added Noddy, borrowing an expression
from a highly respectable horse jockey, who had a language of his own.

"I'll give you your board and clothes, and your dresses for the first
season."
