"I think it's just so, anyway," she said. "I wouldn't be seen playing
stick-knife for a good deal."

"And I wouldn't be seen telling lies!" retorted Gypsy, sorry for it the
minute she had said it. Then there followed a highly interesting
dialogue of about five minutes' length, and of such a character that Tom
speedily took his departure.

Now it came about that Gypsy, as usual, was the first ready to "make
up," and she turned over plan after plan in her mind, to find something
pleasant she could do for Joy. At last, as the greatest treat she could
think of to offer her, she said:

"I'll tell you what! Let's go down to Peace Maythorne's. I do believe I
haven't taken you there since you've been in Yorkbury."

"Who's Peace Maythorne?" asked Joy, sulkily.

"Well, she's the person I love just about best of anybody."

"Best of anybody!"

"Oh, mother, of course, and Tom, and Winnie, and father, and all those.
Relations don't count. But I do love her as well as anybody but
mother—and Tom, and—well, anyway, I love her dreadfully."

"What is she, a woman, or a girl, or what?"

"She's an angel," said Gypsy.

"What a goose you are!"

"Very likely; but whether I'm a goose or not, she's an angel. I look for
the wings every time I see her. She has the sweetest little way of
keeping 'em folded up, and you're always on the jump, thinking you see
'em."

"How you talk! I've a good mind to go and see her."

"All right."

So away they went, as pleasant as a summer's day, merrily chatting.

"But I don't think angels are very nice, generally," said Joy,
doubtingly. "They preach. Does Peace Maythorne preach? I shan't like her
if she does."

"Peace preach! Not like her! You'd better know what you're talking
about, if you're going to talk," said Gypsy, with heightened color.

"Dear me, you take a body's head off. Well, if she should preach, I
shall come right home."

They had come now to the village, where were the stores and the
post-office, the bank, and some handsome dwelling-houses. Also the one
paved sidewalk of Yorkbury, whereon the young people did their
promenading after school in the afternoon. Joy always fancied coming
here, gay in her white chenille and white ribbons, and dainty parasol
lined with white silk. There is nothing so showy as showy mourning, and
Joy made the most of it.

"Why, where are you going?" she exclaimed at last. Gypsy had turned away
from the fashionable street, and the handsome houses, and the paved
sidewalk.

"To Peace Maythorne's."

"This way?"

"This way."

The street into which Gypsy had turned was narrow and not over clean;
the houses unpainted and low. As they walked on it grew narrower and
dirtier, and the houses became tenement houses only.

"Do, for pity's sake, hurry and get out of here," said Joy, daintily
holding up her dress. Gypsy walked on and said nothing. Red-faced women
in ragged dresses began to cluster on the steps; muddy-faced children
screamed and quarreled in the road. At the door of a large tenement
building, somewhat neater than the rest, but miserable enough, Gypsy
stopped.

"What are you stopping for?" said Joy.

"This is where she lives."

"Here?"

"I just guess she does," put in a voice from behind; it was Winnie, who
had followed them on tiptoe, unknown to them, all the way. "She's got a
funny quirk in her back, 'n' she lies down pretty much. That's her room
up there to the top of the house. It's a real nice place, I tell you.
They have onions mos' every day. Besides, I saw a little boy here one
time when I was comin' 'long with mother, 'n' he was smokin' some
tobaccer. He said he'd give it to me for two napples, and mother just
wouldn't let me."

"Here—a cripple!" exclaimed Joy.

"Here, and a cripple," said Gypsy, in a queer tone, looking very
straight at Joy.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself!" broke out Joy, "playing such a
trick on me. Do you suppose I'm going into such a place as this, to
see an old beggar—a hunch-backed beggar?"

Gypsy turned perfectly white. When she was very angry, too angry to
speak, she always turned white. It was some seconds before she could
find her voice.

"A hunch-backed beggar! Peace? How dare you say such things of Peace
Maythorne? Joy Breynton, I'll never forgive you for this as long as I
live—never!"

The two girls looked at each other. Just at that moment I am afraid
there was something in their hearts answering to that forbidden word,
that terrible word—hate. Ah, we feel so safe from it in our gentle,
happy, untempted lives, just as safe as they felt once. Remember this,
girls: when Love goes out, Hate comes in. In your heart there stands
an angel, watching, silent, on whose lips are kindly words, in whose
