
"There aint no great doings, Miss Daisy. The people gets four
days, most of 'em."

"Four days  for what? "

"For what they likes; they don't do no work, those days."

"And is that all?"

"No, Miss Daisy, 'taint just all; the women comes up to the
house  it's to the overseer's house now  and every one gets
a bowl o' flour, more or less, 'cordin' to size of family 
and a quart of molasses, and a piece o' pork."

"And what do they do to make the time pleasant?" I asked.

"Some on 'em's raised eggs and chickens; and they brings 'em
to the house and sells 'em; and they has the best dinner. Most
times they gets leave to have a meetin'."

"A prayer-meeting?" I said.

"Laws, no, Miss Daisy! not 'cept it were uncle Darry and his
set. The others don't make no count of a prayer-meetin'. They
likes to have a white-folks' meetin' and 'joy theirselves."

I thought very much over these statements; and for the next
two weeks, bowls of flour and quarts of molasses, as Christmas
doings, were mixed up in my mind with the question, how I was
to shine? or rather, alternated with it; and plans began to
turn themselves over and take shape in my thoughts.

"Margaret," said I, a day or two before Christmas, "can't the
people have those meetings you spoke of, without getting leave
of Mr. Edwards?"

"Can't have meetin's no how!" Margaret replied decidedly.

"But, if I wanted to see them, couldn't they, some of them,
come together to see me?"

"To see Miss Daisy! Reckon Miss Daisy do what she like. 'Spect
Mass' Ed'ards let Miss Daisy 'lone!"

I was silent, pondering.

"Maria cook wants to see Miss Daisy bad. She bid me tell Miss
Daisy won't she come down in de kitchen, and see all the works
she's a-doin' for Christmas, and de glorifications?"

"I? I'll come if I can," I answered.

I asked my aunt and got easy leave; and Christmas eve I went
down to the kitchen. That was the chosen time when Maria
wished to see me. There was an assembly of servants gathered
in the room, some from out of the house. Darry was there; and
one or two other fine-looking men who were his prayer-meeting
friends. I supposed they were gathered to make merry for
Christmas eve; but, at any rate, they were all eager to see
we, and looked at me with smiles as gentle as have ever fallen
to my share. I felt it and enjoyed it. The effect was of
entering a warm, genial atmosphere, where grace and good will
were on every side; a change very noticeable from the cold and
careless habit of things up stairs. And grace is not a
misapplied epithet; for these children of a luxurious and
beauty-loving race, even in their bondage had not forgotten
all traces of their origin. As I went in, I could not help
giving my hand to Darry; and then, in my childish feeling
towards them and in the tenderness of the Christmas-tide, I
could not help doing the same by all the others who were
present. And I remember now the dignity of mien in some, the
frank ease in others, both graceful and gracious, with which
my civility was met. If a few were a little shy, the rest more
than made it up by their welcome of me and a sort of
politeness which had almost something courtly in it. Darry and
Maria together gave me a seat, in the very centre and glow of
the kitchen light and warmth; and the rest made a half circle
around, leaving Maria's end of the room free for her
operations.

The kitchen was all aglow with the most splendid of fire of
pine knots it was ever my lot to see. The illumination was
such as threw all gaslights into shade. We were in a great,
stone-flagged room, low-roofed, with dark cupboard doors; not
cheerful, I fancy, in the mere light of day; but nothing could
resist the influence of those pine-knot flames. Maria herself
was a portly fat woman, as far as possible from handsome; but
she looked at me with a whole world of kindness in her dark
face. Indeed, I saw the same kindness more or less shining out
upon me in all the faces there. I cannot tell the mixed joy
and pain that it, and they, gave me. I suppose I showed little
of either, or of anything.

Maria entertained me with all she had. She brought out for my
view her various rich and immense stores of cakes and pies and
delicacies for the coming festival; told me what was good and
what I must be sure and eat; and what would be good for me.
And then, when that display was over, she began to be very
busy with beating of eggs in a huge wooden bowl; and bade
Darry see to the boiling of the kettle at the fire; and sent
Jem the waiter, for things he was to get up stairs; and all
the while talked to me. She and Darry and one or two more
talked, but especially she and Theresa and Jem; while all the
rest listened and laughed and exclaimed, and seemed to find me
as entertaining as a play. Maria was asking me about my own
little life and experiences before I came to Magnolia; what
sort of a place Melbourne was, and how things there differed
from the things she and the rest knew and were accustomed to
at the South; and about my old June, who had once been an
acquaintance of hers. Smiling at me the while, between the
thrusts of her curiosity, and over my answers, as if for sheer
pleasure she could not keep grave. The other faces were as
interested and as gracious. There was Pete, tall and very
black, and very grave, as Darry was also. There was Jem, full
of life and waggishness, and bright for any exercise of his
wits; and grave shadows used to come over his changeable face
often enough too. There was Margaret, with her sombre beauty;
and old Theresa with her worn old face. I think there was a
certain indescribable reserve of gravity upon them all, but
