There he was, in the shop of Cutts & Stropmore, and there he was likely
to be--a journeyman barber to the end of his mortal pilgrimage. The
highest wages were paid him; but André had no ambition to gratify, and
when one week's wages were due, every cent of the earnings of the
preceding one was invariably used up. If there was a ten-cent piece
left in his pocket on Saturday morning, he took care to spend it for
something to gratify Maggie or Leo before he went to the shop. For this
boy and girl--though they were not his own children, or even of any
blood relation to him--he lived and labored as lovingly and patiently
as though God had blessed him in the paternal tie.

Half an hour after Maggie left the shop there was a brief lull in the
business, and André seized his kettle, and bore it to a kind of closet,
where hair oils, hair washes, and the "Celebrated Capillary Compound"
were concocted. With a sausage in one hand and a penny roll in the
other, he ate as a hungry man eats when the time is short. André's
appetite was good, and thus pleasantly was he employed when Leo, the
barber's adopted son, entered the laboratory of odoriferous compounds.

"Maggie says you want to see me," said Leo.

The boy was dressed as neatly as the barber himself, but in other
respects he was totally unlike him. He had a sharp, bright eye, and his
voice was heavy, and rather guttural, being in the process of changing,
for he was fifteen years old. On the books of the grammar school, where
he was a candidate for the highest honors of the institution, his name
was recorded as Leopold Maggimore. If Leo was his pet name, it was not
because he bore any resemblance to the lion, though he was a bold
fellow, with no little dignity in his expression.

"I sent for you, Leo," replied André, when he had waited long enough
after the entrance of the boy to enable us to describe the youth, and
himself to dispose of the overplus of fried sausage in his mouth, so
that he could utter the words; "Mr. Checkynshaw spoke to me about you.
He wishes to see you at half past two o'clock."

"Mr. Checkynshaw!" exclaimed Leo, wondering what the head of the
well-known banking house could want with an individual so insignificant
as himself.

"He wants a boy."

"Does he want me?"

"I suppose he does."

"But, father, I shall lose my medal if I leave school now," added Leo.

"You must not leave now; but you can see Mr. Checkynshaw, and explain
the matter to him. He is a great man, and when you want a place, he may
be able to help you."

"The cat may look at the king, and I will go and see him; but I don't
see what good it will do. Fitz Wittleworth is there."

"He is to be discharged," quietly added André, as he deposited half a
sausage in his mouth.

"Fitz discharged!" exclaimed Leo, opening his eyes.

"Yes; he has been, or will be to-day."

"But what will the firm of Checkynshaw, Hart, & Co. do without him?
Fitz tells me that he carries on the concern himself."

"Fitz is conceited; and I think the concern will be able to get along
without him."

"But he is some relation to Mr. Checkynshaw."

"I think not; the banker says he took him into his office to keep him
from starving."

"Fitz says Mr. Checkynshaw's first wife was his mother's sister."

"That is not a very near relation, and the banker will not tolerate his
impudence on that account. No matter about that; Mr. Checkynshaw wishes
to see you at half past two. You can tell him about your medal, and
tell him, very respectfully and politely, that you can't leave school.
He may like the looks of you, and help you to a place when you do want
one."

André did not think it would be possible for any one to see Leo without
liking the looks of him; and he was quite sure that he would make a
favorable impression upon even the cold, stern banker. A call-bell on
the case of Mr. Cutts sounded, and André hastened back to the shop,
having only half satisfied the cravings of his hunger. A customer was
already seated in his chair, and he went to work upon him, with his
thoughts still following Leo to the banker's private office. He had
high hopes for that boy. Mr. Cutts had proposed to take him as an
apprentice to the barber's business; but, while André had no ambition
for himself, he had for Leo, and he would not think of such a thing as
permitting him to follow his trade, which, however honorable and useful
did not open to the youth the avenues of fame and fortune.

On this important subject Leo had some views of his own. He certainly
did not wish to be a barber, and he was almost as much opposed to being
a banker or a merchant. He wished to be a carpenter or a machinist. He
was born to be a mechanic, and all his thoughts were in this direction,
though he had not yet decided whether he preferred to work in wood or
in iron. But his foster-father had higher aspirations for him, and Leo
had not the heart to disappoint him, though he continued to hope that,
before the time came for him to commence in earnest the business of
life, he should be able to convince him that the path to fame and
fortune lay in the mechanic arts as well as in commerce and finance.
Leo walked out into State Street, and, by the clock on the old State
House, saw that it was too early to call upon the banker.

Mr. Fitzherbert Wittleworth did not go to the banker's office when
ordered to do so. He went to his mother's house, to tell her that Mr.
Checkynshaw had threatened to discharge him. He had a long talk with
her. She was a sensible woman, and reproved his self-conceit, and
insisted that he should make peace with the powerful man by a humble
apology.

"Mother, you may eat humble pie at the feet of Mr. Checkynshaw, if you
like; I shall not," replied Fitz, as he was familiarly called, though
the brief appellative always galled him, and the way to reach his heart
was to call him Mr. Wittleworth.

