he thought that they might be led to believe him guilty. He had never
felt so down-hearted as when he walked in company with the policeman to
the station-house, to be locked up for examination the next morning.

"You wasn't sharp enough this time, young fellow," said the policeman.

"Do you think I stole the pocket-book?" asked Dick, looking up in the
officer's face.

"Oh, no, of course not! You wouldn't do anything of that kind," said the
policeman, ironically.

"No, I wouldn't," said Dick, emphatically. "I've been poor enough and
hungry enough sometimes, but I never stole. It's mean."

"What is your name?" said the officer. "I think I have seen you before."

"I used to black boots. Then my name was Ragged Dick. I know you. Your
name is Jones."

"Ragged Dick! Yes, yes, I remember. You used to be pretty well out at
elbows, if I remember rightly."

"My clothes used to be pretty well ventilated," said Dick, smiling
faintly. "That was what made me so healthy, I expect. But did you ever
know me to steal?"

"No," said the officer, "I can't say I have."

"I lived about the streets for more then eight years," said Dick, "and
this is the first time I was ever arrested."

"What do you do now?"

"I'm in a store on Pearl Street."

"What wages do you get?"

"Ten dollars a week."

"Do you expect me to believe that story?"

"It's true."

"I don't believe there's a boy of your age in the city that gets such
wages. You can't earn that amount."

"I jumped into the water, and saved the life of Mr. Rockwell's little
boy. That's why he pays me so much."

"Where did you get that watch and chain? Are they gold?"

"Yes, Mrs. Rockwell gave them to me."

"It seems to me you're in luck."

"I wasn't very lucky to fall in with you," said Dick. "Don't you see
what a fool I should be to begin to pick pockets now when I am so well
off?"

"That's true," said the officer, who began to be shaken in his previous
conviction of Dick's guilt.

"If I'd been going into that business, I would have tried it when I was
poor and ragged. I should not have waited till now."

"If you didn't take the pocket-book, then how came it in your pocket?"

"I was looking in at a shop window, when I felt it thrust into my
pocket. I suppose it was the thief who did it, to get out of the scrape
himself."

"That might be. At any rate, I've known of such cases. If so, you are
unlucky, and I am sorry for you. I can't let you go, because appearances
are against you, but if there is anything I can do to help you I will."

"Thank you, Mr. Jones," said Dick, gratefully. "I did not want you to
think me guilty. Where is the man that lost the pocket-book?"

"Just behind us."

"I should like to speak to him a moment."

The red-faced man, who was a little behind, came up, and Dick asked,
quietly, "What makes you think I took your pocket-book, sir?"

"Wasn't it found in your pocket, you young rascal?" said the other,
irritably.

"Yes," said Dick.

"And isn't that enough?"

"Not if somebody else put it there," said Dick.

"That's a likely story."

"It's a true story."

"Can you identify this as the boy who robbed you, and whom you saw
running?"

"No," said the red-faced man, rather unwillingly. "My eyesight is not
very good, but I've no doubt this is the young rascal."

"Well, that must be decided. You must appear to-morrow morning to prefer
your complaint."

"Mind you don't let the rascal escape," said the other.

"I shall carry him to the station-house, where he will be safe."

"That's right, I'll make an example of him. He won't pick my pocket
again in a hurry."

"I hope the judge won't be so sure that I am guilty," said Dick. "If he
is, it'll go hard with me."

"Why don't you call your employer to testify to your good character?"

