paddled the tender to the shore, and we landed. Mr. Waterford was
evidently a thorough strategist, for he went through all the forms of
doing what he had proposed. We hauled the boat out of the water,
removed everything movable, and then turned her over.

"Now, Phil, those swamp flowers grow about ten rods from here, on the
bank of a little brook. Follow that path, and you will come to the
place," said he, pointing into the swamp. "While you are getting them,
I will wash out the boat. But don't be gone long, for I can't put the
boat into the water without your help."

I thought he could put it into the water without my help, and that he
would do it as soon as I was out of sight. I went into a clump of
bushes near the spot where he stood, intending to watch his movements,
for I wished to be entirely satisfied that he meditated treachery. I
wished to be able to justify myself for any step I might be compelled
to take.

I did not think Mr. Ben Waterford would have undertaken his present
desperate scheme if he had not received some encouragement from Miss
Collingsby. She confessed to me that she had listened to him once
before, when he suggested an elopement; but she was now, as she began
to reap the fruits of complaisance, convinced of her own imprudence. It
was necessary for the bold schemer to get rid of me; and he was
prepared to part company with me in the most summary manner. If he
could do so, it was possible that he might win or drive his fair
passenger into compliance with his proposition. She would be rich at
some time in the future; but more than this, she was beautiful and
accomplished. Her father would not consent to her union with such a
character as Waterford. He could only win her by such a bold movement
as that upon which he had already entered.

I had not been in the bushes three minutes before Mr. Ben Waterford
suddenly changed his tactics. The boat seemed to be no longer unfit for
the reception of a lady, and he shoved it down the bank into the water,
as though he had suddenly been endowed with a new strength. Of course I
expected him to do this; and before he could pick up the oars, I
stepped out of my covert, and was prepared to leap into the boat with
him; for, though the day was warm and pleasant, I had no fancy for
swimming off to the Marian.

"Where are the flowers?" demanded he, with some wrath, which he could
not wholly conceal, and apparently taken all aback by my sudden
reappearance.

"I didn't find them," I replied, with a good-natured smile, for I was
not a little pleased at the checkmate I had put upon my fellow-voyager.

"Did you look?"

"Not much."

"Why didn't you? We don't want to stay here all day," said he, unable
to hide his chagrin.

"I am ready to go when you are."

"Why didn't you get the flowers?" growled he.

"To tell the whole truth, I was afraid you would forget that I was on
shore, and go on board without me," I answered, laughing.

"You blockhead! What do you mean by that?"

"I'm compelled to believe you have a bad memory; and I fear you forgot
to invite the rest of the ladies included in your programme. You might
forget me, in the same manner, and this wouldn't be a good place to
stay."

"You are growing impudent, Phil."

"No; only prudent."

"Come with me, you lunkhead, and I will show you where the flowers
are," said he, rushing towards the path, as though he meant to obtain
the flowers or die in the attempt.

"If you know where they are, you can get them alone," I added.

"I do know where they are. You seem to think I am playing a trick upon
you; and I want to show you that I am not."

"I don't think you will be able to show me that if I go; so I may as
well stay here."

"Come along!"

"I don't think you washed the boat out very nicely. You didn't have
time to do it, and you didn't give me three minutes to find and pick
the beautiful flowers."

"What is the matter with you, Phil? You seem to have changed your face
all of a sudden. What ails you?"

"Nothing at all; never was in better health in my life, thank you."

"Why didn't you get the flowers, then, as you said you would?"

"I didn't say so; you said it. I should have got them, if I hadn't been
afraid you would forget I was on shore, and go on board without me."

"What put that into your silly head?"

"You did."

"No, I didn't."

"I don't like to contradict a gentleman; but I had not gone three rods
before you shoved the boat into the water, without troubling yourself
to wash it out."

"What were you watching me for?" demanded he.

"Because I was afraid you would forget me, as I said."

"What do you mean? What makes you so suspicious?"

"Your conduct; nothing else."

"What have I done?"
