"Robert did not give me that bill," protested she.

"I don't believe he did, nuther," said Ezekiel. "She's got money hid
away somewhere."

"If it had been hid away long, it could not have been the bill which was
sent in the letter."

"It wasn't hid away," added Mrs. Taylor. "I might injure somebody by
telling where I got the bill; and for that reason I can't say a single
word, even if I go to prison for it."

"But your son will be sent to prison, certainly, if you don't tell,"
said the lawyer.

"O, dear! What shall I do?"

She positively refused to tell even Squire Simonton, who explained that,
as counsel, he could not be obliged to reveal the secrets of his
clients. It was finally arranged that a postponement of the examination
should be obtained, if possible; and Mr. Walker and half a dozen others
had promised to give bail for Bobtail.




CHAPTER XII.

CAPTAIN CHINKS IS INDIFFERENT.


"I don't know that we can do any better under the circumstances," said
Squire Simonton, after the arrangement of the legal business had been
agreed upon. "But we are making a strange case of it."

The squire bestowed one of his pleasant smiles upon the case, for he was
one of those sweet-tempered men who never frown, even when they are
vexed. He was perplexed, and very properly claimed the right, as
counsel, to know all the facts. But it was evident that Mrs. Taylor had,
or supposed she had, a good reason for concealing the source from which
came the five hundred dollar bill.

"Squire Gilfilian purposes to make Mrs. Taylor a party to the theft,"
said Mr. Brooks. "Probably he will get out a warrant for her arrest in
the morning."

"I never thought it would come to this, that I should be taken up for
stealing," added the poor woman, bursting into tears.

"You can hardly wonder at being arrested," suggested the squire. "The
stolen property was in your possession, and you refuse even to explain
where you got it."

"I could tell a lie about it, but I won't do that," sobbed Mrs. Taylor.
"If you can only get the case put off for a few days, or a week, I
hope--I may be able--that is, I may be able to explain how I came by
that bill."

"We must give some reason for desiring a postponement," replied the
lawyer. "Can you really say, Mrs. Taylor, that you expect to obtain more
testimony?"

"I hope to obtain it."

"Very well. Then I think we can have the case put off till, say, next
Tuesday."

"I will try to have matters explained by that time; but I am to be taken
up and sent to jail."

"O, no," laughed the squire. "You may be arrested; but that will amount
to nothing. Your husband can give bail for you, for it appears that this
house belongs to him now, since the mortgage is cancelled."

"I won't go bail for her," said Ezekiel, sourly; and this was the first
time he appeared to be of the slightest consequence.

"Won't you?"

"No, I won't. She has kept money hid away from me."

"Never mind, mother. We shall get bail enough to keep a coaster afloat,"
interposed Bobtail. "If we can't do any better, I'll send for Colonel
Montague. He told me, if I ever wanted a friend, to send for him."

"Certainly he will help you, after what you have done to-day," smiled
the lawyer.

"But I don't want to have you to go away up to Belfast for him," said
Mrs. Taylor, who appeared now to be more troubled than ever.

"I don't think we need to do so, mother. Mr. Walker and two or three
other gentlemen said they would bail me out; and so I don't believe we
shall sink," laughed Little Bobtail.

"Now, Mr. Brooks, I don't think you need take the boy away from his
friends. I am sure he won't run away," added the squire.

"I am satisfied. Though this is the oddest case I have had anything to
do with for a long time. I am inclined to think Bobtail will come out
right, though for the life of me I can't see how," added the deputy
sheriff.

"I'll trust Bobtail anywhere. He goes to our Sunday school, and I know
he is an honest boy, however bad his case may look just now," continued
Mr. Simonton.

Mr. Brooks was entirely willing to trust the lion of the day out of his
custody; and he left the cottage with the lawyer.

"I s'pose I ain't o' no account here," said Ezekiel, as the door closed
behind the departing gentlemen.

"What do you mean by that?" asked Mrs. Taylor.

"I wan't to know sunthin' about this business. I s'pose I ain't the head
of this family."

"I don't think you are," replied the wife. "You haven't done much for it
the last seven years."
