Matilda hesitated, and then added doubtfully, "Don't you think they
want clean dresses?"

Mr. Wharncliffe smiled now.

"Where shall we stop?" said he.

"But they are very--uncomfortable," said Matilda, after waiting to
choose a word. Her teacher thought for a minute of Sarah's well-worn,
faded, lank, best dress, and how little evidently there was under it to
keep the child warm, and his brow grew very sober indeed, and his blue
eye misty.

"I'll not check you, Matilda," he said, "unless I see you going to some
great extravagance. Go on, and I'll help, and we'll try to make one bad
spot at least a little better. Good-bye!"

With a smile and a nod he parted from her at her own door, and Matilda
ran up the steps and ran in with a whole little gale of pleasure
freshening through her heart.

There was a gale of another sort blowing through the house that
evening, and making the household lively. Pleasure was not wanting to
it, though it was pleasure of another sort and largely mixed with
excitement. The three other young ones were full of plans for the
holiday week, reminiscences of the last evening, comparison and
discussion of presents, and of people. Matilda in the midst of them
listened and was amused, and thought of her gold watch and of Sarah
with great secret throbs of delight in her heart.

"So you were the witch, grandmother," said Norton. "I knew it. I was
sure of it. What did you do it for?"

"Do what, boy?"

"Take up a witch's trade?"

"I have not laid it down yet."

"No, ma'am; but what put it in your head?"

"I wanted my share of the fun," said the old lady.

"Did you get it, grandmamma?" asked David.

"Yes. A very good share."

"Did you ask everybody such questions as you asked us?" Norton inquired.

"I did not want to know the same thing about all of you."

"No, ma'am. Did you find out a good deal, grandmother?"

But Mrs. Lloyd laughed and declined to answer.

"There is something more I want to find out," she said. "I want to know
what makes this little girl look so happy. She doesn't say a word, but
her smiles speak for her!"

"Who, Matilda?" said Norton.

"It's easy enough to be smiling," said Judy with slight scorn.

"You might practise it then a little, and do no hurt," remarked Norton.

"Nobody ought to be always smiling," returned Judy. "It's vulgar. And
it doesn't mean anything, either."

"Hush, Judy," said her mother.

"What were you smiling about, Matilda?" Mrs. Lloyd asked.

"A great many things I was thinking of, ma'am."

But the little girl's face was so gleeful as she answered, and the
smile and the sparkle were so pleasant, that the old lady's curiosity
was raised.

"A great many things?" she repeated, "A great many things to be glad
of? I should like to know what they are. Come, I will make a bargain
with you. I will give you a silver penny for your thoughts; and my
silver penny shall be a golden half-eagle."

"For my thoughts, ma'am?" said Matilda, half bewildered; while the
other young ones burst out like a pack of hounds after their leader.

"A half-eagle," Mrs. Lloyd repeated, "for all your thoughts; if you
will give me them all. I want to know all the things you are feeling so
glad about."

"Grandmamma, you'll do as much for me?" cried Judy. "Only, mine will
take an eagle to bring them down. They fly high. You might have bought
hers, I am confident, for a duck or a pigeon."

"I should like to make a bargain too, grandmother," said Norton; "if
you are in that mood."

"Do you think your thoughts are worth anything?" said his
grandmother;--"to anybody but yourself?"

"Whose are?" said David.

"Mine are not," said Matilda. She had flushed high, for she saw that
the old lady was in earnest; and five dollars was a good deal to her
just now.

"Everything is worth what it will fetch, though," said David. "I advise
you to close with the offer, Matilda. Five dollars is five dollars, you
know."

Matilda's eyes went doubtfully to Mrs. Lloyd.

"Yes," said the old lady smiling. "I will stand to my part of the
bargain, if you will stand to yours. But mind, I want all."

"There were so many things," Matilda began; "it would take me a good
while to tell them."

"Never mind; we have nothing better to do," said Mrs. Lloyd. "We are at
leisure."
