"O, how spiteful you are! I didn't say any had. But if there should?"

"Then it'll be time to think about it. You've married Kitty right and
left to everybody who's looked at her since we left Niagara, and I've
worried myself to death investigating the character of her husbands. Now
I'm not going to do it any longer,--till she has an offer."

"Very well. You can depreciate your own cousin, if you like. But I
know what I shall do. I shall let her wear all my best things. How
fortunate it is, Richard, that we're exactly of a size! O, I am so glad
we brought Kitty along! If she should marry and settle down in
Boston--no, I hope she could get her husband to live in New York--"

"Go on, go on, my dear!" cried Colonel Ellison, with a groan of despair.
"Kitty has talked twenty-five minutes with this young man about the
hotels and steamboats, and of course he'll be round to-morrow morning
asking my consent to marry her as soon as we can get to a justice of the
peace. My hair is gradually turning gray, and I shall be bald before my
time; but I don't mind that if you find any pleasure in these little
hallucinations of yours. Go on!"




II.

MRS. ELLISON'S LITTLE MANEUVRE.


The next morning our tourists found themselves at rest in Ha-Ha Bay, at
the head of navigation for the larger steamers. The long line of sullen
hills had fallen away, and the morning sun shone warm on what in a
friendlier climate would have been a very lovely landscape. The bay was
an irregular oval, with shores that rose in bold but not lofty heights
on one side, while on the other lay a narrow plain with two villages
clinging about the road that followed the crescent beach, and lifting
each the slender tin-clad spire of its church to sparkle in the sun.

At the head of the bay was a mountainous top, and along its waters were
masses of rocks, gayly painted with lichens and stained with metallic
tints of orange and scarlet. The unchanging growth of stunted pines was
the only forest in sight, though Ha-Ha Bay is a famous lumbering port,
and some schooners now lay there receiving cargoes of odorous pine
plank. The steamboat-wharf was all astir with the liveliest toil and
leisure. The boat was taking on wood, which was brought in wheelbarrows
to the top of the steep, smooth gangway-planking, where the habitant
in charge planted his broad feet for the downward slide, and was hurled
aboard more or less en masse by the fierce velocity of his heavy-laden
wheelbarrow. Amidst the confusion and hazard of this feat a procession
of other habitans marched aboard, each one bearing under his arm a
coffin-shaped wooden box. The rising fear of Colonel Ellison, that these
boxes represented the loss of the whole infant population of Ha-Ha Bay,
was checked by the reflection that the region could not have produced so
many children, and calmed altogether by the purser, who said that they
were full of huckleberries, and that Colonel Ellison could have as many
as he liked for fifteen cents a bushel. This gave him a keen sense of
the poverty of the land, and he bought of the boys who came aboard such
abundance of wild red raspberries, in all manner of birch-bark canoes
and goblets and cornucopias, that he was obliged to make presents of
them to the very dealers whose stock he had exhausted, and he was in
treaty with the local half-wit--very fine, with a hunchback, and a
massive wen on one side of his head--to take charity in the wild fruits
of his native province, when the crowd about him was gently opened by a
person who advanced with a flourishing bow and a sprightly "Good
morning, good morning, sir!" "How do you do?" asked Colonel Ellison; but
the other, intent on business, answered, "I am the only person at Ha-Ha
Bay who speaks English, and I have come to ask if you would not like to
make a promenade in my horse and buggy upon the mountain before
breakfast. You shall be gone as long as you will for one shilling and
sixpence. I will show you all that there is to be seen about the place,
and the beautiful view of the bay from the top of the mountain. But it
is elegant, you know, I can assure you."

The speaker was so fluent of his English, he had such an audacious,
wide-branching mustache, such a twinkle in his left eye,--which wore its
lid in a careless, slouching fashion,--that the heart of man naturally
clove to him; and Colonel Ellison agreed on the spot to make the
proposed promenade, for himself and both his ladies, of whom he went
joyfully in search. He found them at the stern of the boat, admiring the
wild scenery, and looking

    "Fresh as the morn and as the season fair."

He was not a close observer, and of his wife's wardrobe he had the
ignorance of a good husband, who, as soon as the pang of paying for her
dresses is past, forgets whatever she has; but he could not help seeing
that some gayeties of costume which he had dimly associated with his
wife now enhanced the charms of his cousin's nice little face and
figure. A scarf of lively hue carelessly tied about the throat to keep
off the morning chill, a prettier ribbon, a more stylish jacket than
Miss Ellison owned,--what do I know?--an air of preparation for battle,
caught the colonel's eye, and a conscious red stole responsive into
Kitty's cheek.

"Kitty," said he, "don't you let yourself be made a goose of."

"I hope she won't--by you!" retorted his wife, "and I'll thank you,
Colonel Ellison, not to be a Betty, whatever you are. I don't think it's
manly to be always noticing ladies' clothes."

"Who said anything about clothes?" demanded the colonel, taking his
stand upon the letter.

"Well, don't you, at any rate. Yes, I'd like to ride, of all things;
and we've time enough, for breakfast isn't ready till half past eight.
Where's the carriage?"

The only English scholar at Ha-Ha Bay had taken the light wraps of the
ladies and was moving off with them. "This way, this way," he said,
waving his hand towards a larger number of vehicles on the shore than
could have been reasonably attributed to Ha-Ha Bay. "I hope you won't
object to having another passenger with you? There's plenty of room for
all. He seems a very nice, gentlemanly person," said he, with a queer,
patronizing graciousness which he had no doubt caught from his English
patrons.

"The more the merrier," answered Colonel Ellison, and "Not in the
least!" said his wife, not meaning the proverb. Her eye had swept the
whole array of vehicles and had found them all empty, save one, in which
she detected the blamelessly coated back of Mr. Arbuton. But I ought
