
The boy he had been beating in his drunken fury, and who did not seem to
be much hurt, came forward from the crowd, and taking him by the hand,
led him away.

“Who is this blind man? I have seen him before,” said Mr. Dinneford.

“You may see him any day standing at the street corners, begging, a
miserable-looking object, exciting the pity of the humane, and gathering
in money to spend in drunken debauchery at night. He has been known to
bring in some days as high as ten and some fifteen dollars, all of which
is wasted in riot before the next morning. He lives just over the way,
and night after night I can hear his howls and curses and laughter
mingled with those of the vile women with whom he herds.”

“Surely this cannot be?” said Mr. Dinneford.

“Surely it is,” was replied. “I know of what I speak. There is hardly a
viler wretch in all our city than this man, who draws hundreds--I
might say, without exaggeration, thousands--of dollars from weak and
tender-hearted people every year to be spent as I have said; and he
is not the only one. Out of this district go hundreds of thieves and
beggars every day, spreading themselves over the city and gathering in
their harvests from our people. I see them at the street corners, coming
out of yards and alley-gates, skulking near unguarded premises and
studying shop-windows. They are all impostors or thieves. Not one of
them is deserving of charity. He who gives to them wastes his money and
encourages thieving and vagrancy. One half of the successful burglaries
committed on dwelling-houses are in consequence of information gained by
beggars. Servant-girls are lured away by old women who come in the guise
of alms-seekers, and by well-feigned poverty and a seeming spirit
of humble thankfulness--often of pious trust in God--win upon their
sympathy and confidence. Many a poor weak girl has thus been led to
visit one of these poor women in the hope of doing her some good,
and many a one has thus been drawn into evil ways. If the people only
understood this matter as I understand it, they would shut hearts and
hands against all beggars. I add beggary as a vice to drinking and
policy-buying as the next most active agency in the work of making
paupers and criminals.”

“But there are deserving poor,” said Dinneford. “We cannot shut our
hearts against all who seek for help.”

“The deserving poor,” replied Mr. Paulding, “are never common
beggars--never those who solicit in the street or importune from house
to house. They try always to help themselves, and ask for aid only when
in great extremity. They rarely force themselves on your attention; they
suffer and die often in dumb despair. We find them in these dreary and
desolate cellars and garrets, sick and starving and silent, often dying,
and minister to them as best we can. If the money given daily to idle
and vicious beggars could be gathered into a fund and dispensed with a
wise Christian charity, it would do a vast amount of good; now it does
only evil.”

“You are doubtless right in this,” returned Mr. Dinneford. “Some one has
said that to help the evil is to hurt the good, and I guess his saying
is near the truth.”

“If you help the vicious and the idle,” was answered, “you simply
encourage vice and idleness, and these never exist without doing a hurt
to society. Withhold aid, and they will be forced to work, and so not
only do something for the common good, but be kept out of the evil ways
into which idleness always leads.

“So you see, sir, how wrong it is to give alms to the vast crew of
beggars that infest our cities, and especially to the children who are
sent out daily to beg or steal as opportunity offers.

“But there is another view of the case,” continued Mr. Paulding, “that
few consider, and which would, I am sure, arouse the people to immediate
action if they understood it as I do. We compare the nation to a great
man. We call it a ‘body politic.’ We speak of its head, its brain, its
hands, its feet, its arteries and vital forces. We know that no part
of the nation can be hurt without all the other parts feeling in some
degree the shock and sharing the loss or suffering. What is true of the
great man of the nation is true of our smaller communities, our States
and cities and towns. Each is an aggregate man, and the health and
well-being of this man depend on the individual men and the groups
and societies of men by which it is constituted. There cannot be an
unhealthy organ in the human system without a communication of disease
to the whole body. A diseased liver or heart or lung, a useless hand
or foot, an ulcer or local obstruction, cannot exist without injury and
impediment to the whole. In the case of a malignant ulcer, how soon the
blood gets poisoned!

“Now, here is a malignant ulcer in the body politic of our city. Is it
possible, do you think, for it to exist, and in the virulent condition
we find it, and not poison the blood of our whole community? Moral and
spiritual laws are as unvarying in their action, out of natural sight
though they be, as physical laws. Evil and good are as positive entities
as fire, and destroy or consume as surely. As certainly as an ulcer
poisons with its malignant ichor this blood that visits every part of
the body, so surely is this ulcer poisoning every part of our community.
Any one who reflects for a moment will see that it cannot be otherwise.
From this moral ulcer there flows out daily and nightly an ichor as
destructive as that from a cancer. Here theft and robbery and murder
have birth, nurture and growth until full formed and organized, and then
go forth to plunder and destroy. The life and property of no citizen is
safe so long as this community exists. It has its schools of instruction
for thieves and housebreakers, where even little children are educated
to the business of stealing and robbery. Out from it go daily hundreds
of men and women, boys and girls, on their business of beggary, theft
and the enticement of the weak and unwary into crime. In it congregate
human vultures and harpies who absorb most of the plunder that is gained
outside, and render more brutal and desperate the wretches they rob in
comparative safety.

“Let me show you how this is done. A man or a woman thirsting for liquor
will steal anything to get money for whisky. The article stolen may be
a coat, a pair of boots or a dress--something worth from five to twenty
dollars. It is taken to one of these harpies, and sold for fifty cents
or a dollar--anything to get enough for a drunken spree. I am speaking
only of what I know. Then, again, a man or a woman gets stupidly drunk
in one of the whisky-shops. Before he or she is thrown out upon the
street, the thrifty liquor-seller ‘goes through’ the pockets of the
insensible wretch, and confiscates all he finds. Again, a vile woman has
robbed one of her visitors, and with the money in her pocket goes to a
dram-shop. The sum may be ten dollars or it may be two hundred. A glass
or so unlooses her tongue; she boasts of her exploit, and perhaps shows
her booty. Not once in a dozen times will she take this booty away.
