effect as if it were the best red-top.

There are several fine residences in and around Pilatka,--mostly
winter-seats of Northern settlers. The town has eight stores, which do a
business for all the surrounding country for miles. It has two large
hotels, several boarding-houses, two churches, two steam saw-mills, and
is the headquarters for the steamboats of the Upper St. John's and its
tributaries. Four or five steamers from different quarters are often
stopping at its wharf at a time. "The Dictator" and "City Point," from
Charleston, run to this place outside by the ocean passage, and,
entering the mouth of the St. John's, stop at Jacksonville by the way.
The "Nick King" and "Lizzie Baker," in like manner, make what is called
the inside trip, skimming through the network of islands that line the
coast, and bringing up at the same points. Then there are the
river-lines continually plying between Jacksonville and this place, and
the small boats that run weekly to the Ocklawaha: all these make Pilatka
a busy, lively, and important place.

With Pilatka the interest of our return-voyage finished. With Green-Cove
Springs, Magnolia, Hibernia, at all of which we touched on our way back,
we were already familiar; and the best sight of all was the cottage
under the oaks, to which we gladly returned.




  [Illustration]

OLD CUDJO AND THE ANGEL.


The little wharf at Mandarin is a tiny abutment into the great blue sea
of the St. John's waters, five miles in width. The opposite shores gleam
out blue in the vanishing distance; and the small wharf is built so far
out, that one feels there as in a boat at sea. Here, trundled down on
the truck along a descending tram-way, come the goods which at this
point await shipment on some of the many steamboats which ply back and
forth upon the river; and here are landed by almost every steamer goods
and chattels for the many families which are hidden in the shadows of
the forests that clothe the river's shore. In sight are scarce a dozen
houses, all told; but far back, for a radius of ten or fifteen miles,
are scattered farmhouses whence come tributes of produce to this point.
Hundreds of barrels of oranges, boxes of tomatoes and early vegetables,
grapes, peaches, and pomegranates, here pause on their way to the
Jacksonville market.

One morning, as the Professor and I were enjoying our morning stroll on
the little wharf, an unusual sight met our eye,--a bale of cotton, long
and large, pressed hard and solid as iron, and done up and sewed in a
wholly workmanlike manner, that excited our surprise. It was the first
time since we had been in Mandarin--a space of some four or five
years--that we had ever seen a bale of cotton on that wharf. Yet the
whole soil of East Florida is especially adapted not only to the raising
of cotton, but of the peculiar, long staple cotton which commands the
very highest market-price. But for two or three years past the annual
ravages of the cotton-worm had been so discouraging, that the culture of
cotton had been abandoned in despair.

Whence, then, had come that most artistic bale of cotton, so well
pressed, so trim and tidy, and got up altogether in so superior a style?

Standing by it on the wharf was an aged negro, misshapen, and almost
deformed. He was thin and bony, and his head and beard were grizzled
with age. He was black as night itself; and but for a glittering,
intellectual eye, he might have been taken for a big baboon,--the
missing link of Darwin. To him spoke the Professor, giving a punch with
his cane upon the well-packed, solid bale:--

"Why, this is splendid cotton! Where did it come from? Who raised it?"

"We raise it, sah,--me 'n' dis yer boy," pointing to a middle-aged
black man beside him: "we raise it."

"Where?"

"Oh! out he'yr a piece."

A lounging white man, never wanting on a wharf, here interposed:--

"Oh! this is old Cudjo. He lives up Julington. He's an honest old
fellow."

Now, we had heard of this settlement up Julington some two or three
years before. A party of negroes from South Carolina and Georgia had
been induced to come into Florida, and take up a tract of government
land. Some white man in whom they all put confidence had undertaken for
them the task of getting their respective allotments surveyed and
entered for them, so that they should have a solid basis of land to work
upon. Here, then, they settled down; and finding, accidentally, that a
small central lot was not enclosed in any of the allotments, they took
it as an indication that there was to be their church, and accordingly
erected there a prayer-booth, where they could hold those weekly
prayer-meetings which often seem with the negroes to take the place of
all other recreations. The neighboring farmers were not particularly
well disposed towards the little colony. The native Floridian farmer is
a quiet, peaceable being, not at all disposed to infringe the rights of
others, and mainly anxious for peace and quietness. But they supposed
that a stampede of negroes from Georgia and Carolina meant trouble for
them, meant depredations upon their cattle and poultry, and regarded it
with no friendly eye; yet, nevertheless, they made no demonstration
against it. Under these circumstances, the new colony had gone to work
with untiring industry. They had built log-cabins and barns; they had
split rails, and fenced in their land; they had planted orange-trees;
they had cleared acres of the scrub-palmetto: and any one that ever has
seen what it is to clear up an acre of scrub-palmetto will best
appreciate the meaning of that toil. Only those black men, with sinews
of steel and nerves of wire,--men who grow stronger and more vigorous
under those burning suns that wither the white men,--are competent to
the task.

But old Cudjo had at last brought his land from the wild embrace of the
snaky scrub-palmetto to the point of bearing a bale of cotton like the
one on the wharf. He had subdued the savage earth, brought her under,
and made her tributary to his will, and demonstrated what the soil of
East Florida might, could, and would do, the cotton-worm to the contrary
notwithstanding.

And yet this morning he stood by his cotton, drooping and dispossessed.
The white man that had engaged to take up land for these colonists had
done his work in such a slovenly, imperfect manner, that another
