

“It must require no small amount of skill to cut any thing out of this
crumbling shell-rock,” I said, as, after purchasing a charming little
alligator, and conversing some time with the dusky artist, we turned
homeward.

“It does,” replied John. “Ignorant as he is, that man is not without his
ideas of beauty and symmetry--another witness to the capability for
education which I have every where noticed among the freedmen of the
South.”

“I too have been impressed with this capability,” said Sara--“strongly
impressed. Last Sunday I went to the Methodist colored Sunday-school on
St. George Street. The teachers are Northerners; some resident here,
some winter visitors; and the classes were filled up with full-grown men
and women, some of them aged and gray-haired, old uncles and aunties,
eager to learn, although they could scarcely see with their old eyes.
They repeated Bible texts in chorus, and then they began to read. It was
a pathetic sight to see the old men slowly following the simple words
with intense eagerness, keeping the place under each one with careful
finger. The younger men and girls read fluently, and showed quick
understanding in the answers given to the teachers’ questions. Then the
little children filed in from another room, and they all began to sing.
Oh, how they sang! The tenor voice of a young jet-black negro who sat
near me haunts me still with its sweet cadences. Singularly enough, the
favorite hymn seemed to be one whose chorus, repeated again and again,
ended in the words,

    “‘Shall wash me white as snow--
     White as snow.’”

“The negroes of St. Augustine were formerly almost all Romanists,” said
John, “and many of them still attend the old cathedral on the Plaza,
where there is a gallery especially for them. But of late the number of
Methodists and Baptists has largely increased, while the old cathedral
and its bishop, who once ruled supreme over the consciences of the whole
population of la siempre fiel Ciudad de San Augustin, find themselves in
danger of being left stranded high and dry as the tide of progress and
education sweeps by without a glance. The Peabody Educational Fund
supports almost entirely two excellent free schools here, one for white
and one for colored children; and in spite of opposition, gradually,
year by year, even Roman Catholic parents yield to the superior
advantages offered to their children, and the church schools hold fewer
and fewer scholars, especially among the boys. The Presbyterian church,
with its pastor and earnest working congregation, has made a strong
battle against the old-time influences, and it now looks as though the
autocratic sway of the religion of Spain were forever broken in this
ancient little Spanish city.”

“At least, however, the swarthy priests look picturesque and
appropriate as they come and go between their convent and the old
cathedral through that latticed gate in their odd dress,” said Sara. “Do
you remember, in Baddeck, the pleasing historical Jesuit, slender too
corpulent a word to describe his thinness, his stature primeval? Warner
goes on to say that the traveler is grateful for such figures, and is
not disposed to quarrel with the faith that preserves so much of the
ugly picturesque.”

“The principal interest I have in the old cathedral is the lost
under-ground passage which, according to tradition, once extended from
its high altar to Fort San Marco,” I remarked. “I am perpetually haunted
by the possibility of its being under my feet somewhere, and go about
stamping on the ground to catch hollow echoes down below. We moderns
have discovered at San Marco a subterranean dungeon and bones: then why
not an under-ground passage?”

“And bones?” asked Sara.

“No; Spanish jewels, plate, and all kinds of mediæval treasures. I
consider the possibility far more promising than Captain Kidd’s chest. I
have half a mind to begin digging.”

“You would be obliged to take the shovel yourself, then, Miss Martha,”
said John. “Do you suppose you could hire the St. Augustiners to dig,
really dig, day after day, Northern fashion? Why, they would laugh in
your face at the mere idea. I am inclined to think there would never be
another house built here if regular foundations and cellars were
required; as it is, they set up the timbers as the children set up their
houses of blocks. How clearly that sail-boat is outlined against the
gray water, like a sketch in India ink! Is not that Miss Carew on
board?”

“Yes, with Mr. Mokes,” said Sara.

“And Aunt Diana,” I added. “I remember now; Mr. Mokes gives a chowder
dinner to-day over on the North Beach.”

“I would not give much for chowder made by a Mokes,” said John, with the
scorn of an old camper-out in his voice.

“Oh, Mokes does not make it, Mr. Hoffman. What are you thinking of?
Mokes make chowder! By no means. He has his servant and the boatmen to
do all the work, and sends over his wines and ice beforehand. It will be
an elegant dinner, I assure you.”

“On the beach?”

“Yes, on the beach. Unfortunately, tables can not be transported,
unless, indeed, Dundreary should arrive with his ‘waft.’ But the
table-cloth will be damask, with a monogram worked in gold thread, and
the conversation will be strictly Fifth Avenueish, I will answer for
that.”

“Great is the power of youthful beauty,” I said, when we had reached our
room again. “Here is Mokes with his money and wines, the Professor with
his learning and bones, the Captain with his beauty and buttons, all
three apparently revolving around that giddy little cousin of mine. And
now comes John Hoffman!”

“With all his ancestors behind him! Has he taken her to the demi-lune
yet?” said Sara, opening the Princess of Thule, which she read after a
dose of Florida history, like sugar after a pill. “Do you know, Martha,
I think poor Lavender is rather unfairly treated by the author of this
book. He is ordered about by Ingram, and most unmercifully snubbed by
Sheila, who, after all, manages to have her own way, ‘whatever.’”

Now I had thrown John Hoffman purposely into my list of Iris’s admirers
in order to provoke something like a denial from Sara--these two seemed
to feel such a singular kind of interested dislike toward each other;
