contortions.

"It's very sudden," said Mrs. Hopkins, suspiciously.

"So 'tis," said Sam. "I'm afraid I'm going to be very sick. Can I lay
down?"

"What do you think it is, Martha?" asked the deacon, looking
disturbed.

"I know what it is," said his wife, calmly. "I've treated such attacks
before. Yes, you may lay down in your room, and I'll bring you some
tea, as soon as I can make it."

"All right," said Sam, elated at the success of his little trick. It
was very much pleasanter to lie down than to hoe potatoes on a hot
day.

"How easy I took in the old woman!" he thought.

It was not long before he changed his mind, as we shall see in The
next chapter.




CHAPTER VII.

SAM MEETS HIS MATCH.

Sam went upstairs with alacrity, and lay down on the bed,--not that he
was particularly tired, but because he found it more agreeable to lie
down than to work in the field.

"I wish I had something to read," he thought,--"some nice dime novel
like 'The Demon of the Danube.' That was splendid. I like it a good
deal better than Dickens. It's more excitin'."

But there was no library in Sam's room, and it was very doubtful
whether there were any dime novels in the house. The deacon belonged
to the old school of moralists, and looked with suspicion upon all
works of fiction, with a very few exceptions, such as Pilgrim's
Progress, and Robinson Crusoe, which, however, he supposed to be true
stories.

Soon Sam heard the step of Mrs. Hopkins on the stairs. He immediately
began to twist his features in such a way as to express pain.

Mrs. Hopkins entered the room with a cup of hot liquid in her hand.

"How do you feel?" she asked.

"I feel bad," said Sam.

"Are you in pain?"

"Yes, I've got a good deal of pain."

"Whereabouts?"

Sam placed his hand on his stomach, and looked sad.

"Yes, I know exactly what is the matter with you," said the deacon's
wife.

"Then you know a good deal," thought Sam, "for I don't know of
anything at all myself."

This was what he thought, but he said, "Do you?"

"Oh, yes; I've had a good deal of experience. I know what is good for
you."

Sam looked curiously at the cup.

"What is it?" he asked.

"It's hot tea; it's very healin'."

Sam supposed it to be ordinary tea, and he had no objection to take
it. But when he put it to his lips there was something about the odor
that did not please him.

"It doesn't smell good," he said, looking up in the face of Mrs.
Hopkins.

"Medicine generally doesn't," she said, quietly.

"I thought it was tea," said Sam.

"So it is; it is wormwood-tea."

"I don't think I shall like it," hesitated Sam.

"No matter if you don't, it will do you good," said Mrs. Hopkins.

Sam tasted it, and his face assumed an expression of disgust.

"I can't drink it," he said.

"You must," said Mrs. Hopkins, firmly.

"I guess I'll get well without," said our hero, feeling that he was in
a scrape.

"No, you won't. You're quite unwell. I can see it by your face."

"Can you?" said Sam, beginning to be alarmed about his health.

"You must take this tea," said the lady, firmly.

"I'd rather not."

"That's neither here nor there. The deacon needs you well, so you can
go to work, and this will cure you as quick as anything."

"Suppose it doesn't?" said Sam.

"Then I shall bring you up some castor-oil in two hours."

