"How did you know I was here?"

"I will tell you some time, Charlie; but not now. Is my sister at home?"

"Yes. I will call her. She will be very much surprised. We all thought
you--"

"Dead, I suppose."

"Yes; but I always hoped you would come back again."

"Don't tell Mary who it is. See if she recognizes me."

Summoned by Charles, Mrs. Abercrombie came down to the parlor. She was
merely told that a gentleman desired to see her.

When she entered the parlor, Ben rose from his seat.

She looked at him for a moment, and her face lighted up.

"It's Ben," she said. "O Ben, how could you stay away so long?"

"What, do you remember me, Mary?" asked our hero, in surprise.

"Yes. I knew you by your resemblance to Charles. We always remarked it
when you were young boys together."

As the two boys were standing side by side, the resemblance of which she
spoke was quite striking. Ben was the larger of the two; but their
features were similar, as well as the color of the hair and eyes, and
the similarity of their dress completed the illusion. Mrs. Abercrombie
surveyed her brother with satisfaction. She had been afraid he would be
coarse and vulgar after so many years of neglect, if he should ever
return; but here he was, to all appearance, a young gentleman of whom
she need not feel ashamed.

"Ben must share my room, Cousin Mary," said Charles. "We've got so much
to say to each other."

"I didn't know I was to stay," said Ben, smiling.

"You mustn't leave us again, Ben," said his sister. "Monday you must
start for home. Poor mother has mourned for you so long. She will be
overjoyed to see you again."

When Mr. Abercrombie came home, his new brother-in-law was introduced to
him. He received Ben cordially, and in a way to make him feel at home.
In the course of the morning Mr. Sampson called, and Ben was introduced
to him.

"There's something in your brother's voice that sounds familiar," he
said to Mrs. Abercrombie. "I think I must have met him before."

"He has not been with us for some years," said Mrs. Abercrombie, who did
not care to reveal that Ben was a returned prodigal.

"Probably I am deceived," said Mr. Sampson.

Ben, however, knew that Mr. Sampson had good cause to remember him. He
was afraid the servant who had brought him his breakfast some months
before in the basement might remember him; but there was no danger of
that. She never dreamed of associating the young gentleman, her
mistress's brother, with the ragged and dirty boy who had brought the
valise for Master Charles.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN.


On Sunday evening, Ben, in company with his sister, her husband, and
Charles, attended a sacred concert in Steinway Hall. As he stepped
within the vestibule, he saw two street boys outside, whom he knew well.
Their attire was very similar to that which he had himself worn until
the day before. They looked at Ben, but never thought of identifying him
with the baggage-smasher with whom they had often bunked together.

"See what it is," thought Ben, "to be well dressed and have fashionable
friends."

As he sat in a reserved seat but a little distance from the platform,
surrounded by well-dressed people, he was sometimes tempted to doubt
whether he was the same boy who a few days before was wandering about
the streets, a friendless outcast. The change was so complete and
wonderful that he seemed to himself a new boy. But he enjoyed the
change. It seemed a good deal pleasanter resting in the luxurious
bedchamber, which he shared with Charles at his sister's house, than the
chance accommodations to which he had been accustomed.

On Monday he started for Philadelphia, on his journey home.

We will precede him.

Mrs. Brandon sat in an arm-chair before the fire, knitting. She was not
old, but care and sorrow had threaded her dark hair with silver, and on
her brow there were traces of a sorrow patiently borne, but none the
less deeply felt. She had never recovered from the loss of her son. Her
daughter Mary had inherited something of her father's self-contained,
undemonstrative manner; but Ben had been impulsive and affectionate, and
had always been very near his mother's heart. To feel that he had passed
from her sight was a great sorrow; but it was a greater still not to
know where he was. He might be suffering pain or privation; he might
have fallen into bad and vicious habits for aught she knew. It would
have been a relief, though a sad one, to know that he was dead. But
nothing whatever had been heard of him since the letter of which the
reader is already aware.

Since Mary's marriage Mrs. Brandon had been very much alone. Her husband
was so taciturn and reserved that he was not much company for her; so
she was left very much to her own thoughts, and these dwelt often upon
Ben, though six years had elapsed since he left home.

"If I could see him once more," she often said to herself, "I could die
in peace."

So Mrs. Brandon was busily thinking of Ben on that Monday afternoon, as
she sat knitting before the fire; little thinking that God had heard her
