whose very childishness should have pleaded for her, and fixed his eyes
upon the face before him, untouched by its helpless innocence, its
unnatural expression. The half-open eyes were heavy as dew-drunken
violets, the sweet red mouth was set, the agitated bosom still rose and
fell, like a troubled sea subsiding after storm.

So sitting, stern and silent as the fate he believed in, Helwyze
concentrated every power upon the accomplishment of the purpose to which
he bent his will. He called it psychological curiosity; for not even to
himself did he dare confess the true meaning of the impulse which drove
him to this act, and dearly did he pay for it.

Soon the passive palms thrilled in his own, the breath came faint and
slow, color died, and life seemed to recede from the countenance,
leaving a pale effigy of the woman; lately so full of vitality. “It
works! it works!” muttered Helwyze, lifting his head at length to wipe
the dampness from his brow, and send a piercing glance about the shadowy
room. Then, kneeling down beside the couch, he put his lips to her ear,
whispering in a tone of still command,—

“Gladys, do you hear me?”

Like the echo of a voice, so low, expressionless, and distant was it,
the answer came,—

“I hear.”

“Will you answer me?”

“I must.”

“You have a sorrow,—tell it.”

“All is so false. I am unhappy without confidence,” sighed the voice.

“Can you trust no one?”

“No one here, but Felix.”

“Yet he deceives, he does not love you.”

“He will.”

“Is this the hope which sustains you?”

“Yes.”

“And you forgive, you love him still?”

“Always.”

“If the hope fails?”

“It will not: I shall have help.”

“What help?”

No answer now, but the shadow of a smile seemed to float across the
silent lips as if reflected from a joy too deep and tender for speech to
tell.

“Speak! what is this happiness? The hope of freedom?”

“It will come.”

“How?”

“When you die.”

He caught his breath, and for an instant seemed daunted by the truth he
had evoked; for it was terrible, so told, so heard.

“You hate me, then?” he whispered, almost fiercely, in the ear that
never shrank from his hot lips.

“I doubt and dread you.”

“Why, Gladys, why? To you I am not cruel.”

“Too kind, alas, too kind!”

“And yet you fear me?”

“God help us. Yes.”

“What is your fear?”

“No, no, I will not tell it!”

Some inward throe of shame or anguish turned the pale face paler,
knotted the brow, and locked the lips, as if both soul and body revolted
from the thought thus ruthlessly dragged to light. Instinct, the first,
last, strongest impulse of human nature, struggled blindly to save the
woman from betraying the dread which haunted her heart like a spectre,
and burned her lips in the utterance of its name. But Helwyze was
pitiless, his will indomitable; his eye held, his hand controlled, his
voice commanded; and the answer came, so reluctantly, so inaudibly, that
he seemed to divine, not hear it.

“What fear?”

“Your love.”

“You see, you know it, then?”

“I do not see, I vaguely feel; I pray God I may never know.”

With the involuntary recoil of a guilty joy, a shame as great, Helwyze
dropped the nerveless hands, turned from the mutely accusing face, let
the troubled spirit rest, and asked no more. But his punishment began as
he stood there, finding the stolen truth a heavier burden than baffled
doubt or desire had been; since forbidden knowledge was bitter to the
taste, forbidden love possessed no sweetness, and the hidden hope,
putting off its well-worn disguise, confronted him in all its ugliness.

An awesome silence filled the room, until he lifted up his eyes, and
looked at Gladys with a look which would have wrung her heart could she
have seen it. She did not see; for she lay there so still, so white, so
dead, he seemed to have scared away the soul he had vexed with his
impious questioning.
