the Sylph if I can help myself," replied Dory stoutly.

"There he is again!" exclaimed Pearl, as he glanced at the boat that
contained Captain Gildrock. "He is a mule, a sulky dog. If you want him,
I will pitch him into your boat for you, and make an end of this
business."

Pearl leaped upon the forward deck, intent upon putting his threat into
execution. But, as he went up on the starboard side, Dory leaped down
into the standing-room on the port side. Pearl followed him, and seemed
to have a hope, that, if he could drive Dory into the boat, he might get
rid of his troublesome visitors.

"Don't you meddle with the boy, officer," said Peppers through the hole
in the door; "and don't you let that man meddle with him."

"What does all this mean? Why are you in there? Why don't you come out?"

Before Peppers could explain, the port boat came alongside, and Captain
Gildrock stepped on board the Goldwing.




CHAPTER XXIV.

THROUGH VARIED STRIFE AND STRUGGLES.


Captain Royal Gildrock was not over forty-five years of age. He was
dressed in the uniform of his yacht. He was a good-looking man, of
middling height, and rather stout. A single glance at his face would
have assured any one skilled in reading expressions that he was a person
of great force of character.

"What's going on here, Mr. Jepson?" said he, as he glanced curiously
about the Goldwing.

"That is what I was trying to find out when you came on board, sir,"
replied Mr. Jepson. "Theodore and the man in charge of the boat appear
to be at sword's points, and there are two men in the cuddy who seem to
be fastened in there."

"What does all this mean?" asked Captain Gildrock. And it was apparent
now that he was the owner of the gruff voice.

"I will tell you all about it, sir," replied Peppers, taking this duty
upon himself.

"I shall be glad to know, for the skipper of the boat has behaved in the
most unaccountable manner."

Dory had retreated to the forward deck again when his uncle came on
board, though the captain did not seem to be such a terrible man as one
might have supposed from the conduct of his nephew. He desired to keep
as far as possible from his uncle.

"I wish you would let me out of this place before I tell the story,"
suggested the detective.

"Why don't you come out if you wish to do so?" asked Captain Gildrock.

"We are locked in. Hawlinshed took the key away from Dory Dornwood by
force, and has kept us prisoners ever since. It isn't a bad place; but
it is rather confined for a long stay," added Peppers.

"But I didn't lock them in there," added Pearl. "That was done by Dory."

"Have you the key?" asked the captain, turning to Pearl.

"If you want your nephew, there he is, Captain Gildrock," replied
Pearl, pointing to the forward deck. "I don't think you have any right
to interfere with my affairs. I will put Dory Dornwood into one of your
boats, and you can take him away with you."

"All I want is my nephew; and I don't intend to meddle with what don't
concern me," said Captain Gildrock.

"That's the sort of man you are; and I always knew you were as
straightforward as a gun," added Pearl, delighted with this statement of
the owner of the steamer. "Which boat shall I put the boy into?"

Pearl sprang upon the forward deck, and rushed towards Dory. The boy did
not take kindly to this proceeding. He dodged around the foremast, and
leaped down into the standing-room.

"Captain Gildrock, this boat belongs to Dory, and Hawlinshed has taken
her from him by force," interposed the detective.

"My nephew stole the money with which he bought her," added Captain
Gildrock. "I don't think he owns her any more than I do."

"You are mistaken, sir. I don't know where your nephew got the money
with which he bought this boat, but the charge made against him in
Plattsburgh is not a true bill. I came over here to arrest Hawlinshed,
and that is the reason why I am a prisoner in this coop at this moment."

"You have no right to arrest me in the State of Vermont," protested
Pearl, standing on the forward deck. "Captain Gildrock, this is a
conspiracy. I had a little difficulty with my father, and this is a
trumped-up charge to get me back to Plattsburgh."

This was an entirely new presentation of the case, and Captain Gildrock
was confused by the differing statements.

"I am not disposed to interfere in this business. I came for my nephew,
and I was astonished and surprised to hear that he was accused of
robbery. All I want is my nephew."

"If you are willing to assist a robber to escape into Canada, Captain
Gildrock, I have nothing further to say," said Peppers. "If you take
your nephew away and leave things as you find them, that will be just
what you will do."

"Of course, I don't mean to render assistance to any fugitive from
justice," replied the captain, more perplexed than ever.

"If you will let us out of this place, I will prove to your satisfaction
that Hawlinshed is a robber," added the detective.

