
“There is reason in all things.”

“You draw the line after the high-school, and I before: that is the
only difference. It would be as just to support the colleges at the
public expense as the high-schools. The education that preserves the
State is not French and German, Latin and Greek, chemistry and
physics; but it is the education that distinguishes the immigrant who
cannot read and write from the farmers and mechanics of this country.
It does not include a high-school training.”

“Then, if a poor man’s son or daughter, with a taste for learning,
wants an education, he shall not have it because his father cannot
pay for it,” added Mr. Darlingby warmly and indignantly.

“You have struck the weak point of my argument, sir,” replied the
principal. “I would have scholarships provided by the State for such
pupils.”

Dinner was over, and the company left the table.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE CHAMPLAIN MECHANICS IN THE SHOP.


The boys had listened with interest to the discussion at the
dinner-table; and, when they gathered in front of the shop, they were
talking about the subject themselves. But they were hardly ready to
settle their opinions in the matter. The principal’s views sounded
very much like heresy to some of them, who had been taught that it was
the most praiseworthy thing in the world to attend the high-school.
They were in doubt; and, in this respect, they were like thousands of
full-grown women and men.

When Mr. Jepson unlocked the doors of the shop, there was a general
rush for the inside of it. High-school education was forgotten, and
everybody’s curiosity was excited to know what the mechanical school
was to be.

The master-carpenter and the engineer, assisted by Bates and other men
who worked on the estate, had placed all the boxes of carpenter’s
tools in the shop; but not one of them had yet been opened. The
benches were all that looked like furniture. Of these there were half
a dozen for wood-work, and a dozen for iron. Overhead were the shafts,
drums, and pulleys by which various machines were to be operated.

“Here we are again, my lads,” said Captain Gildrock, standing upon one
of the boxes. “The first thing to be done is to put the shop in order.
Your instructors are here; and you must heed what they say, and obey
their orders. Like the session of the forenoon, the afternoon will
last three hours. At four o’clock you will be dismissed for the rest
of the day. The time will be your own then, but you must learn the
lessons which have been assigned. Now, Mr. Brookbine and Mr. Jepson, I
turn the pupils over to you. They have already been divided into
classes. Mr. Jepson will take the first, and Mr. Brookbine the
second.”

Captain Gildrock stepped down from the box, and seated himself on one
of the benches to witness the proceedings. He was quite as much
interested as any of the pupils.

“I am to teach you the use of carpenter’s tools,” said Mr. Brookbine.
“It will be an easy and pleasant job if you give attention and try to
do the best you can. The tools we have here are of the latest fashion,
and some of them are quite different from those with which I learned
my trade.

“Let me say, that every one of them must be handled with the utmost
care, and be kept in good order. You will be shown how to grind upon
the grindstone, and sharpen on the oil-stone, the chisels and
plane-irons. None but a bad workman ever uses dull tools. It is easier
to avoid running your tools against a nail than it is to grind out the
gaps the nail will make.”

“But where are the tools? I don’t see any,” asked Tom Ridley.

“They are in these boxes, and we will now open them. I will put two of
you to each box, for there are just six of these large boxes. Dory and
Thad Glovering may begin with the first one: the others will look on,
and see how it is done. You may learn how to do it, or how not to do
it.”

The carpenter handed Dory and Thad a wooden mallet, a chisel, and a
hatchet. Thad was full of enthusiasm. He thought he knew just how to
do it. He had the hatchet and chisel in his hands. Inserting the
latter under the lid of the box at one end, he struck the handle of
the chisel with the hatchet.

“Stop there, if you please,” interposed Mr. Brookbine.

Thad looked at the carpenter with astonishment, for he had no
suspicion that there was any thing wrong in what he had done.

“What I say to Thad I say to the whole class,” continued the
carpenter. “He has done just what most of you would if you had been in
his place. What is that mallet for, Thad?”

“To hit with, just as your fist is,” replied the amateur workman,
laughing.

“To strike with, and that is just what your fist is not for. You are
never to strike a wooden tool, or the wooden handle of a tool, with a
hammer or a hatchet. Can you all remember that, my lads?”

“Yes, sir!” shouted all the boys.

“Don’t do it, then. A mallet is used in striking a chisel.”

Thad took the mallet, and hit the chisel a tremendous crack with it.
The tool happened to be in a rather loose place in the opening, and it
went in to the handle. Thad tried to draw it out. He pulled and tugged
and wrenched at the chisel, but it was in firm enough to resist all
his efforts. He was so much in earnest, that his attempts amused the
rest of the boys; and they were soon laughing with all their might.
The machinists at the other end of the shop were interested, and some
of them went over to see what the excitement was. But they were called
