
"With the exception of the peroration to that speech," said John, who was
very much amused, "I am afraid I must agree with you. A man certainly
ought not to do any of those things."

"Then why do you defend him?" asked Joe, with flashing eyes.

"Because, on general principles, I do not think a man is so much worse
than his fellows because he does things they would very likely do in his
place. There are things done every day, all over the world, quite as bad
as that, and no one takes much notice of them. Almost every businessman is
trying to get the better of some other business man by fair means or
foul."

"You do not seem to have a very exalted idea of humanity," said Joe.

"A large part of humanity is sick," said John, "and it is as well to be
prepared for the worst in any illness."

"I wish you were not so tremendously calm, you know," said Joe, looking
thoughtfully into John's face. "I am afraid it will injure you."

"Why in the world should it injure me?" asked John, much astonished at the
remark.

"I have a presentiment"--she checked herself suddenly. "I do not like to
tell you," she added.

"I would like to hear what you think, if you will tell me," said John,
gravely.

"Well, do not be angry. I have a presentiment that you will not be made
senator. Are you angry?"

"No indeed. But why?"

"Just for that very reason; you are too calm. You are not enough of a
partisan. Every one is a partisan here."

John was silent, and his face was grave and thoughtful. The remark was
profound in its way, and showed a far deeper insight into political
matters than he imagined Joe possessed. He had long regarded Mrs. Wyndham
as a woman of fine sense and judgment, and had often asked her opinion on
important questions. But in all his experience she had never said anything
that seemed to strike so deeply at the root of things as this simple
remark of Josephine's.

"I am afraid you are angry," said Joe, seeing that he was grave and
silent.

"You have set me thinking, Miss Thorn," he answered.

"You think I may be right?" she said.

"The idea is quite new to me, I think it is perhaps the best definition of
the fact that I ever heard. But it is not what ought to be."

"Of course not," Joe answered. "Nothing is just what it ought to be. But
one has to take things as they are."

"And make them what they should be," added John, and the look of strong
determination came into his face.

"Ah, yes," said Joe, softly. "Make things what they should be. That is the
best thing a man can live for."

"Perhaps we might go home, Joe," said Miss Schenectady, who had been
conversing for a couple of hours with another old lady of literary tastes.

"Yes, Aunt ZoÃ«," said Joe, rousing herself, "I think we might."

"Shall I see you to-morrow night at Mrs. Wyndham's dinner?" asked John, as
they parted.

"No, I refused. Good-night."

As Joe sat by her aunt's side in the deep dark carriage on the way home,
her hands were cold and she trembled from head to foot. And when at last
she laid her head upon her pillow there were tears in her eyes and on her
cheeks.

"Is it possible that I can be so heartless?" she murmured to herself.




CHAPTER XI.



Ronald went to see Sybil Brandon at five o'clock, and as it chanced he
found her alone. Mrs. Wyndham, she said, had gone out, or rather she had
not yet come home; but if Ronald would wait, she would certainly be in.

Ronald waited, and talked to Miss Brandon in the mean while. He had a
bereaved air when he arrived, which was calculated to excite sympathy, and
his conversation was subdued in tone, and grave in subject. But Sybil did
her best to cheer him, and in the fullness of her sympathy did perhaps
more than was absolutely necessary. Ronald's wound was not deep, but he
had a firm conviction that it ought to be.

Any man would have thought the same in his place. Certainly, few people
would have understood what they felt in such a position. He had grown up
believing he was to marry a young and charming woman of whom he was really
exceedingly fond, and now he was suddenly told that the whole thing was a
mistake. It was enough to break a man's heart, and yet Ronald's heart was
not broken, and to his great surprise beat nearly as regularly the day
after his disaster as it had done during the whole two-and-twenty years of
his life. He could not understand his own calmness, and he was sure that
he ought to be profoundly grieved over the whole affair, so that his face
was drawn into an expression of solemnity somewhat out of keeping with its
singular youthful freshness of color and outline.

The idea of devoting himself to the infernal gods as a sacrifice to the
blighted passion had passed away in the course of the drive on the
previous afternoon. He had felt no inclination to drown his cares in drink
during the evening, but on the contrary he had gone for a brisk walk in
Beacon Street, and had ascertained by actual observation, and the
assistance of a box of matches, the precise position of No. 936. This had
occupied some time, as it is a peculiarity of Boston to put the number of
