
    Five cups of flour.

    One heaping teaspoonful of ground ginger, and the same
      quantity of allspice.

Stir molasses, sugar and butter together in a bowl set in hot water,
until very light. Mix in spices and flour, and roll out as directed
in last receipt, but in a thinner sheet. Cut into small cakes and bake
quickly.

All cakes in the composition of which molasses is used, are more apt to
burn than others. Watch your ginger snaps well, but opening the oven as
little as may be.

These spicy and toothsome cakes are better the second day than the
first, and keep well for a week or more.




14

JELLIES, CREAMS AND OTHER FANCY DISHES FOR TEA AND LUNCHEON OR
SUPPER-PARTIES.


THE pleasing custom in many families is to make the daughters
responsible for “fancy cookery.” Mamma turns naturally, when company
is expected, to her young allies for the manufacture of cake, jellies,
blanc-mange, etc., and for the arrangement of fruit and flowers, and
seldom cavils at the manner in which they do the work.

The difference in the appointment of feasts in houses where there are
girls growing up and grown, and in those where there are none, is so
marked that I need not call attention to it.


Lemon or Orange Jelly.

    One package of gelatine soaked in two cups of cold
      water.

    Two and a half cups of sugar.

    Juice of four lemons and grated peel of two (same of
      oranges).

    Three cups of boiling water.

    A quarter-teaspoonful powdered cinnamon.

Soak the gelatine two hours; add lemon juice, grated peel, sugar and
spice, and leave for one hour. Pour on the boiling water, stir until
dissolved, and strain through double flannel. Do not shake or squeeze,
but let the jelly filter clearly through it into a bowl or pitcher set
beneath. Wet moulds in cold water and set aside to cool and harden.


Ribbon Jelly.

Take one third currant jelly, one third lemon jelly, and as much plain
blanc-mange. (See Desserts.)

When all are cold and begin to form, wet a mould, pour in about a
fourth of the red jelly and set on the ice to harden; keep the rest
in a warm room, or near the fire. So soon as the jelly is firm in the
bottom of the mould, add carefully some of the white blanc-mange, and
return the mould to the ice. When this will bear the weight of more
jelly, add a little of the lemon, and when this forms, another line of
white.

Proceed in this order, dividing the red from the yellow by white, until
the jellies are used up. Leave the mould on ice until you are ready to
turn the jelly out.

A pretty dish, and easily managed if one will have patience to wait
after putting in each layer until it is firm enough not to be disturbed
or muddied by the next supply.


Buttercup Jelly.

    One half package of gelatine soaked in half a cup of
      cold water for two hours.

    Three eggs.

    One pint of milk.

    One heaping cup of sugar.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

    Bit of soda the size of a pea stirred into the milk.

Heat the milk to scalding in a farina-kettle and stir in the soaked
gelatine until the latter is dissolved, and strain through a coarse
cloth. Beat the yolks of the eggs light, add the sugar and pour the
boiling mixture gradually upon it, stirring all the time.

Return to the farina-kettle and stir three minutes, or until it begins
to thicken. Let it cool before you flavor it. Whip the white of one egg
stiff, and when the yellow jelly coagulates around the edges, set the
bowl containing the frothed white in cracked ice or in ice-water and
beat the jelly into it, spoonful by spoonful, with the egg-whip, until
it is all in and your sponge thick and smooth. Wet a mould and set it
on the ice to form. Lay about the base when you dish it.


Whipped Cream.

I have been assured by those who have made the experiment, that
excellent whipped cream can be produced, and very quickly, by the use
of our incomparable Dover Egg-beater. I have never tried this, but my
pupils may, if they have not a syllabub-churn.

Put a pint of rich, sweet cream in a pail or other wide-mouthed vessel
with straight sides, and set in ice while you whip or churn it.

