"Captain Gildrock must see all the barges, and I am sure he will run
over here as soon as he makes them out," added Paul.

The words were hardly out of his mouth before the head of the steamer
was turned in the direction of the Beech Hill barges, which were not
half a mile astern of the Silver Moon. The skipper decided to come
about, and stand back to the fleet. Before he could reach the boats, the
Sylph had stopped her screw, and was hailing the Gildrock. Oscar Chester
informed him that Paul Bristol had been taken a prisoner by six of the
Chesterfields, and that the skipper of the sloop was conveying him to
Sandy Point. This was all the commodore knew about the matter, but it
was enough for the captain. He started the screw again, and in a few
moments he had overhauled the Silver Moon.

From the pilot-house the principal could see the condition of things in
the standing-room of the sloop. Again Captain Gildrock rang one bell,
and then two. As the steamer lost her headway the Silver Moon rounded to
under her lee side, where she had still water.




CHAPTER XXII.

AN INVITATION TO SANDY POINT.


"I should like to hand these fellows over to you, Captain Gildrock,"
said Bissell, hailing the principal. "We have tied their hands behind
them, and they won't set the lake on fire just yet."

"I should like to know something more about the case. Will you send
Bristol on board to report to me?" replied Captain Gildrock. "Mr.
Wolfenden, of Westport, is on board, and will join you in the boat."

"Wolfenden! Why, he is the deputy sheriff!" exclaimed Bissell. "I guess
he is the very man we want."

"Mr. Bulfington is also on board," added the principal.

"Perhaps both of us had better go on board of the Silver Moon," said Mr.
Wolfenden, for both he and Bulfington, who was a constable, were in the
pilot-house.

"I should like to have one of you remain and hear the statement of
Bristol, upon whom this outrage has been perpetrated," added Captain
Gildrock. "As Bulfington is the constable, perhaps he had better
remain."

The deputy sheriff was satisfied to let it be so, and he went on board
of the sloop. The two officers had been down to Port Henry on official
business, and, manifesting quite an interest in the Sylph, the principal
had invited them to take passage to Westport in her. As the officer went
on board of the sloop, Paul left her, and hastened to the pilot-house.

"Well, Bristol, it seems that you did not see the last of the trouble at
Sandy Point yesterday," said the principal, bestowing a look of kindness
and sympathy upon the new pupil. "Your face looks as though you had had
a hard time of it to-day."

"The toughest time I have had yet, but not so tough as it would have
been if Mr. Bissell had not stood by me, and got me out of the scrape.
We did him a good turn this forenoon, and he did not forget it," replied
Paul.

"I am glad to see you, Paul," added Mr. Bulfington, taking him by the
hand. "It is about time the pranks of those students should come to an
end; and I think the people of Westport have had about enough of them."

"What service did you render to Mr. Bissell?" asked Captain Gildrock.

"It is rather a long story, sir;" but Paul proceeded to relate it in
full, and he soon found that both of his auditors were deeply interested
in it.

"My daughter was one of the six girls," said Mr. Bulfington, when the
spare hand had finished his narrative. "I am sure I owe the boys a debt
of gratitude which I shall never expect to discharge."

Paul then gave the particulars of the assault upon him very minutely,
and described the events which had followed his capture up to the
present moment.

"It would have gone terribly hard with you, Paul, if Major Billcord had
got you over to the point, for there is no more reason or mercy in him
than there is in a fighting bulldog," added the constable. "He has got
money enough to pay all damages, and he would not mind a thousand or two
if he got his revenge in full."

"These boys must have been employed to capture Bristol," said the
principal, whose face was flashed with indignation. "Mrs. Bristol this
morning gave her son into my charge, and he shall not be abused while he
is in my care."

"What do you intend to do about it, Captain Gildrock?" asked Mr.
Bulfington.

"I shall prosecute the ruffians first; and if I can prove that Major
Billcord employed them to assault my pupil, I will prosecute him,"
replied the captain.

The principal went to the side and had a brief talk with Bissell. It was
arranged that the skipper should convey the boys to Westport, the
constable going with him. Mr. Wolfenden returned to the steamer, and
instructed the captain in the proper method of procedure in the court.

Bissell lost no time in getting under way. The ruffians were utterly
crestfallen when they understood that they were to be prosecuted for the
outrage upon Paul. Very likely Colonel Buckmill and the magnate would
choose to regard it as a mere lark, a little wildness, on the part of
the students, which ought to be passed over without any appeal to the
courts.

Before this time the Beech Hill barges had come to the side of the
Sylph. The Chesterfield barges had given the steamer a wide berth. They
were close up to the shore, and were pulling in the direction of Sandy
Point. Major Billcord could not help seeing his minions on board of the
sailboat, and to suspect that they had come to grief; but he could not
prevail on the coxswains to go near any of the craft from the other side
of the lake.
