eyebrows, was partly assumed. “Ah, you want to marry another woman!” she
exclaimed, slowly, thoughtfully. He said nothing, and she went on: “Why
don’t you do as I have done?”

“Because I don’t want my children to be--”

Before he could say the words she sprang up, checking him with a cry.
“Don’t say it; it isn't necessary! Of course I know what you mean; but
they won’t be if no one knows it.”

“I should object to knowing it myself; it’s enough for me to know it of
yours.”

“Of course I have been prepared for your saying that”

“I should hope so!” Benyon exclaimed. “You may be a bigamist if it
suits you, but to me the idea is not attractive. I wish to marry--” and,
hesitating a moment, with his slight stammer, he repeated, “I wish to
marry--”

“Marry, then, and have done with it!” cried Mrs. Roy.

He could already see that he should be able to extract no consent from
her; he felt rather sick. “It’s extraordinary to me that you should n’t
be more afraid of being found out,” he said after a moment’s reflection.
“There are two or three possible accidents.”

“How do you know how much afraid I am? I have thought of every accident,
in dreadful nights. How do you know what my life is, or what it has been
all these miserable years?”

“You look wasted and worn, certainly.”

“Ah, don’t compliment me!” Georgina exclaimed. “If I had never known
you--if I had not been through all this--I believe I should have been
handsome. When did you hear of my marriage? Where were you at the time?”

“At Naples, more than six months ago, by a mere chance.”

“How strange that it should have taken you so long! Is the lady a
Neapolitan? They don’t mind what they do over there.”

“I have no information to give you beyond what I just said,” Benyon
rejoined. “My life doesn't in the least regard you.”

“Ah, but it does from the moment I refuse to let you divorce me.”

“You refuse?” Benyon said softly.

“Don’t look at me that way! You haven't advanced so rapidly as I used
to think you would; you haven’t distinguished yourself so much,” she
went on, irrelevantly.

“I shall be promoted commodore one of these days,” Benyon answered.
“You don’t know much about it, for my advancement has already been very
exceptionally rapid.” He blushed as soon as the words were out of his
mouth. She gave a light laugh on seeing it; but he took up his hat and
added: “Think over a day or two what I have proposed to you. Think of
the temper in which I ask it.”

“The temper?” she stared. “Pray, what have you to do with temper?” And
as he made no reply, smoothing his hat with his glove, she went on:
“Years ago, as much as you please I you had a good right, I don’t deny,
and you raved, in your letters, to your heart’s content That’s why
I wouldn't see you; I didn't wish to take it full in the face. But
that’s all over now, time is a healer, you have cooled off, and by your
own admission you have consoled yourself. Why do you talk to me about
temper! What in the world have I done to you, but let you alone?”

“What do you call this business?” Benyon asked, with his eye flashing
all over the room.

“Ah, excuse me, that doesn’t touch you,--it’s my affair. I leave you
your liberty, and I can live as I like. If I choose to live in this way,
it may be queer (I admit it is, awfully), but you have nothing to say
to it. If I am willing to take the risk, you may be. If I am willing to
play such an infernal trick upon a confiding gentleman (I will put it as
strongly as you possibly could), I don’t see what you have to say to it
except that you are tremendously glad such a woman as that isn't known
to be your wife!” She had been cool and deliberate up to this time; but
with these words her latent agitation broke out “Do you think I have
been happy? Do you think I have enjoyed existence? Do you see me
freezing up into a stark old maid?”

“I wonder you stood out so long!” said Benyon.

“I wonder I did. They were bad years.”

“I have no doubt they were!”

“You could do as you pleased,” Georgina went on. “You roamed about the
world; you formed charming relations. I am delighted to hear it from
your own lips. Think of my going back to my father’s house--that family
vault--and living there, year after year, as Miss Gressie! If you
remember my father and mother--they are round in Twelfth Street, just
the same--you must admit that I paid for my folly!”

“I have never understood you; I don’t understand you now,” said Benyon.

She looked at him a moment. “I adored you.”

“I could damn you with a word!” he went on.

The moment he had spoken she grasped his arm and held up her other hand,
as if she were listening to a sound outside the room. She had evidently
had an inspiration, and she carried it into instant effect She swept
away to the door, flung it open, and passed into the hall, whence her
voice came back to Benyon as she addressed a person who was apparently
her husband. She had heard him enter the house at his habitual hour,
after his long morning at business; the closing of the door of the
vestibule had struck her ear. The parlor was on a level with the hall,
and she greeted him without impediment. She asked him to come in and be
introduced to Captain Benyon, and he responded with due solemnity. She
returned in advance of him, her eyes fixed upon Benyon and lighted
with defiance, her whole face saying to him, vividly: “Here is your
opportunity; I give it to you with my own hands. Break your promise and
betray me if you dare! You say you can damn me with a word: speak the
word and let us see!”

Benyon’s heart beat faster, as he felt that it was indeed a chance; but
