senses which represent them to us, while objects exist for us merely
through the medium of the intelligence. Indeed, as Schopenhauer has
said, no other truth is more certain and less in need of proof than
this,--that the whole world is simply the perception of a perceiver; in
a word, idea.

Emerson says that the frivolous make themselves merry with this theory;
and it must be admitted that at first it does not seem quite
satisfactory to be told that the world in which we live is nothing more
nor less than a cerebral phenomenon, which man carries with him to the
tomb, and which, in the absence of a perceiver, would not exist at all.
To arrive, however, at a clear understanding of the purely phenomenal
existence of the exterior world, it will suffice to represent to one's
self the world as it was when entirely uninhabited. At that time it was
necessarily without perception. Later, there sprang up a great quantity
of plants, upon which the different forces of light, air, humidity, and
electricity acted according to their nature. If, now, it be remembered
how impressionable plants are to these agents, and how thought leads by
degrees to sensation and thence to perception, immediately then the
world appears representing itself in time and space. Or, reverse the
argument and imagine that the dream of the poet is realized, that
nations have disappeared, and that every living thing has ceased to be,
while beneath the sun's unchanging stare, and enveloped in the sky's
bland, pervasive blue, the earth with her continents and archipelagoes
continues to revolve in space. Under such circumstances it would
naturally seem as though the universe subsisted still. But if the
question is examined more closely, it will perhaps be admitted that
these things remain as they are only on condition of being seen and
felt. For supposing one spectator present, but of a different mental
organization from our own, then the entire scene is changed; suppress
him, and the whole spectacle tumbles into chaos.

This doctrine, as it will be readily understood, does not in any sense
deny the reality of the world in the ordinary acceptation of the term;
it maintains merely that every object is conditioned by its subject;
or, to explain the theory less technically, it will be sufficient to
reflect that for the world, or for anything else, to be an object,
there must be some one as subject to think it; for instance, the
dreamless sleep proves that the earth exists only to the thinking mind,
and should all Nature be rocked in an eternal slumber, there could then
be no question of an exterior world.

If it be asked in what this perception consists, which represents the
exterior world, we find that it is limited to three fundamental
concepts, that of time, space, and their concomitant causality; but
inasmuch as time and space are the receptacle of every phenomenon,
once their ideality is established, the ideality of the world is proven
at the same moment, and with it the truth of the formula, "The world is
my idea."

Now the ideality of time is established, according to Schopenhauer, by
what is known in mechanics as the law of inertia. "For what," he asks
in the "Parerga," "does this law teach? Simply, that time alone cannot
produce any physical action, that alone and in itself it alters nothing
either in the repose or movement of a body. Were it either accidentally
or otherwise inherent in things themselves, it would follow that its
duration or brevity would affect them in a certain measure. But it does
nothing of the sort; time passes over all things without leaving the
slightest trace, for they are acted upon only by the causes that unroll
themselves in time, but in no sense by time itself. When, therefore,
a body is withdrawn from chemical action, as the mammoth in the ice
fields, the fly in amber, and the Egyptian antiquities in their closed
necropoli, thousands of years may pass and leave them unaffected.
Indeed," he adds elsewhere, "the living toads found in limestone lead
to the conclusion that even animal life may be suspended for thousands
of years, provided this suspension is begun in the dormant period and
maintained by special circumstances."

The "London Times," 21st September, 1840, contains a notice to the
effect that, at a lecture delivered by Mr. Pettigrew, at the Literary
and Scientific Institute, the lecturer showed some grains of wheat
which Sir G. Wilkenson had found in a grave at Thebes, where they must
have lain for three thousand years. They were found in an hermetically
sealed vase. Mr. Pettigrew had sowed twelve grains, and obtained a
plant which grew five feet high, and the seeds of which were then quite
ripe.

Many other instances are given of this absolute inactivity; for
example, let a body once be put in motion, that motion is never
arrested or diminished by any lapse of time; it would be never ending
were it not for the reaction of physical causes. In the same manner a
body in repose would remain so eternally did not physical causes put it
in motion. It follows, therefore, that time is not a real existence,
but only a condition of thought, or purely ideal.

In regard to the ideality of space, Schopenhauer says, "The clearest
and most simple proof of the ideality of space is that we can never get
it out of our thoughts, as we might anything else. We can fancy space
as having no longer anything to fill it, we can imagine that everything
within it has disappeared, we can represent it as being, between the
fixed stars, an absolute void, but space itself we can never get rid
of; whatever we do, however we turn, there it is in endless expansion.
This fact certainly proves that space is a part of our intellect; or,
in other words, that it is the woof of the tissue upon which the
different objects of the exterior world apply themselves. As soon as I
think of an object, space appears with it and accompanies every
movement, every turn and détour of my thought, as faithfully as the
spectacles on my nose accompany every movement, every turn and détour
of my person, or just in the same manner as the shadow accompanies the
body. If I notice that a thing accompanies me everywhere, and under all
circumstances, I naturally conclude that it is in some way connected
with me; as if, for instance, wherever I went I noticed a particular
odor from which I could not escape. Space is precisely the same;
whatever I think of, what ever I imagine, space comes first and yields
its place to nothing. It must, therefore, be an integral part of my
understanding, and its ideality in consequence must extend to
everything that is thinkable."

Space and time being but the empty framework of phenomenal existence,
something must fill them, and that something is causality, which,
according to Schopenhauer, is synonymous with action and matter. Into
these abstract regions, however, it is unnecessary to follow him any
further. Suffice it to say that having shown in this way that one of
the two zones of which the world is formed is but an effect of the
perceptions, he passes therefrom to the world as it is.

Now there were many paths which might or might not have led him to the
unravelment of the great secret which Kant gave up in despair, there
were many ways which seemed to tend to a direct solution of the
Sphinx's riddle, but the course which he chose, and which brought him
