had looked at it, and in the corner he had found the Weldon crest. As to
how it had come in his possession, he had at the time given no thought.
Weldon, in one of his visits, might have left it at Waverley Place, or
he himself might have borrowed it when dining at Weldon's house. He was
absent-minded, he knew, and apt to be forgetful, and so at the time he
had given the matter no further thought. After all, what incident could
be more trivial? But now the handkerchief, like a magician's rug,
carried him back to Narragansett. As well as he could remember, the last
occasion on which he wore that coat was the day on which the butler's
telegram had summoned him to town. Then, on learning of his father's
death, he had put on other things, of sombrer hue. Harris, without
rummaging in the pockets, had folded the coat and put it away. And it
had remained folded ever since till the other day at Bologna--no, at
Bergamo.

That morning at Narragansett, when he was hurrying into the cottage, the
man who had aided Viola home the preceding evening drove up with her
hat, with this very handkerchief, and the story of a dream. Aye, and his
own dream. So this was Truth. She had pursued him, indeed. He could feel
her knees on his arms, her fetid breath in his face. But this time it
was not a nightmare. It was the real.

Yes, it was that. One by one he recalled the incidents of the
past--incidents on which his mind loathed to dwell, rebelling against
its own testimony until he coerced the shuddering memories to his will.
There were the numberless times in which he had encountered Weldon
coming in or leaving her house, almost haunting it with his presence.
There was that wanton lie, and the unexplained and interrupted scene
between them. It was then, perhaps, that he had first shown the demon
that was in him. And then, afterward, was that meeting on the cars--he
with a bruise on his cheek and a gash on his neck. Why was Viola's whip
broken, if it were not that she had broken it on his face? Why did the
nails of her ungloved hand look as though they had been stained with the
juice of berries? Why, indeed, if it were not that she had sunk them in
his flesh. Why had he heard her calling "Coward" to the night? It was
for this, then, that the engagement had been broken; it was for this
that she had hidden herself abroad.

For the first time since his boyhood, he threw himself on the bed and
sobbed aloud. To stifle his grief he buried his face in the pillow, and
bit it with his teeth. It was more than grief, it was anguish, and it
refused to be choked. But presently it did leave him. It left him
quivering from head to foot, and in its place came another visitor. An
obsession, from which he shrank, surged suddenly, and claimed him for
its own. In a combat, of which his heart was the one dumb witness, he
battled with it. He struggled with it in a conflict that out-lasted
hours; but presumably he coped in vain. The next morning his face was
set as a captive's. In a fortnight he was in New York.




XV.


The return journey was unmarked by incident or adventure. Nothing less
than a smash-up on the railway or the wrecking of the ship would have
had the power to distract his thoughts. It may even be that his mind was
unoccupied, empty as is a vacant bier, and yet haunted by an
overmastering obsession. The ordinary functions of the traveller he
performed mechanically, with the air and manner of a subject acting
under hypnotic suggestion. One who crossed the ocean with him has since
said that the better part of the time the expression of his face was
that of utter vacuity. He would remain crouched for hours, in the same
position, a finger just separating the lips, and then he would start
with the tremor of one awakening from a debauch.

Mrs. Manhattan, who was returning with spoils from the Rue de la Paix,
asked him one afternoon, as he happened to descend the cabin-stair in
her company, where he had passed the winter.

"Yes, indeed," Tristrem answered, and went his way unconcernedly.

Mrs. Manhattan complained of this conduct to Nicholas, her husband,
alleging that the young man was fatuous in his impertinence.

"My dear," returned that wise habitué of the Athenæum, "when a man gives
away seven million, it is because he has forgotten how to be
conventional."

It was on a Sunday that the ship reached New York, and it was late in
the afternoon before the passengers were able to disembark. Tristrem had
his luggage passed, and expressed to his grandfather's house, and then,
despite the aggressive solicitations of a crew of bandits, started
up-town on foot. In the breast-pocket of his coat he carried a purchase
which he had made in Naples, a fantastic article which he had bought,
not because he wanted it, but because the peddler who pestered him with
wares and offers happened to be the best-looking and most unrebuffably
good-natured scoundrel that he had ever encountered. And now, at
intervals, as he walked along, he put his hand to the pocket to assure
himself that it was still in place. Presently he reached Broadway. That
thoroughfare, which on earlier Sundays was wont to be one of the
sedatest avenues of the city, was starred with globes of azure light,
and its quiet was broken by the passing of orange-colored cars. On the
corner he stopped and looked at his watch. It was after seven. Then,
instead of continuing his way up-town, he turned down in the direction
of the Battery. His head was slightly bent, and as he walked he had the
appearance of one perplexed. It was a delightful evening. The sky was as
blue as the eyes of a girl beloved. The air was warm, and had the street
been less noisy, less garish, and a trifle cleaner it might have been an
agreeable promenade. But to Tristrem the noise, the dirt, the glare, the
sky itself were part and parcel of the non-existent. He neither saw nor
heeded, and, though the air was warm, now and then he shivered.

It seemed to him impossible that he should do this thing. And yet, since
that night at Riva, his mind had been as a stage in which it was in
uninterrupted rehearsal. If it were unsuccessful, then come what sorrow
could. But even though its success were assured, might not the success
be worse than failure, and viler to him than the most ignoble defeat?
Meditatively he looked at his hand; it was slight as a girl's.

"I cannot," he said, and even as he said it he knew that he would. Had
he not said it ten thousand times of times before? It was not what he
willed, it was what he must. He was in the lap of a necessity from
which, struggle as he might, he could not set himself free. He might
make what resolutions he chose, but the force which acted on him and in
him snuffed them out like candles. And yet, what had he done to fate
that it should impel him to this? Why had he been used as he had? What
wrong had he committed? For the past twelvemonth his life had been a
continuous torture. Truly, he could have said, "no one save myself, in
