face betrayed the hunger that possessed her, for it looked as a starving
girl’s would look when offered a generous meal.

"I will come.  Thank you so much!  I don’t know anything, but just
blunder along and do the best I can.  I got so discouraged I was real
desperate, and thought I ’d have one try, and see if I could n’t earn
enough to get books to study this winter.  Folks buy berries at the
cottages; so I just added flowers and shells, and I ’m going to bring my
boxes of butterflies, birds’ eggs, and seaweeds.  I ’ve got lots of such
things; and people seem to like spending money down here.  I often wish
I had a little of what they throw away."

Tilly paused with a sigh, then laughed as an impatient movement caused a
silver clink; and slapping her pocket, she added gayly,--

"I won’t blame ’em if they ’ll only throw their money in here."

Sophie’s hand went involuntarily toward her own pocket, where lay a
plump purse, for papa was generous, and simple Sophie had few wants. But
something in the intelligent face opposite made her hesitate to offer as
a gift what she felt sure Tilly would refuse, preferring to earn her
education if she could.

"Come often, then, and let me exchange these stupid bills for the lovely
things you bring.  We will come this afternoon to see you if we may, and
I shall like the butterflies.  I try to catch them; but people tell me I
am too old to run, so I have not many."

Proposed in this way, Tilly fell into the little trap, and presently
rowed away with all her might to set her possessions in order, and put
her precious earnings in a safe place.  The mermaids clung about the
boat as long as they dared, making a pretty tableau for the artists on
the rocks, then swam to shore, more than ever eager for the picnic on
Light-house Island.

They went, and had a merry time; while Tilly did the honors and showed
them a room full of treasures gathered from earth, air, and water, for
she led a lonely life, and found friends among the fishes, made
playmates of the birds, and studied rocks and flowers, clouds and waves,
when books were wanting.

The girls bought gulls’ wings for their hats, queer and lovely shells,
eggs and insects, seaweeds and carved wood, and for their small
brothers, birch baskets and toy ships, made by Uncle Hiram, who had been
a sailor.

When Tilly had sold nearly everything she possessed (for Fanny and
Sophie bought whatever the others declined), she made a fire of
drift-wood on the rocks, cooked fish for supper, and kept them till
moonrise, telling sea stories or singing old songs, as if she could not
do enough for these good fairies who had come to her when life looked
hardest and the future very dark.  Then she rowed them home, and
promising to bring loads of fruit and flowers every day, went back along
a shining road, to find a great bundle of books in her dismantled room,
and to fall asleep with wet eyelashes and a happy heart.



,, class:: center medium

    II.


For a month Tilly went daily to the Point with a cargo of pretty
merchandise, for her patrons increased; and soon the ladies engaged her
berries, the boys ordered boats enough to supply a navy, the children
clamored for shells, and the girls depended on her for bouquets and
garlands for the dances that ended every summer day.  Uncle Hiram’s fish
was in demand when such a comely saleswoman offered it; so he let Tilly
have her way, glad to see the old tobacco-pouch in which she kept her
cash fill fast with well-earned money.

She really began to feel that her dream was coming true, and she would
be able to go to the town and study in some great school, eking out her
little fund with light work.  The other girls soon lost their interest
in her, but Sophie never did; and many a book went to the island in the
empty baskets, many a helpful word was said over the lilies or wild
honeysuckle Sophie loved to wear, and many a lesson was given in the
bare room in the light-house tower which no one knew about but the gulls
and the sea-winds sweeping by the little window where the two heads
leaned together over one page.

"You will do it, Tilly, I am very sure.  Such a will and such a memory
will make a way for you; and one day I shall see you teaching as you
wish.  Keep the brave heart, and all will be well with you," said
Sophie, when the grand breaking-up came in September, and the girls were
parting down behind the deserted bathhouses.

"Oh, Miss Sophie, what should I have done without you?  Don’t think I
have n’t seen and known all the kind things you have said and done for
me.  I ’ll never forget ’em; and I do hope I ’ll be able to thank you
some day," cried grateful Tilly, with tears in her clear eyes that
seldom wept over her own troubles.

"I am thanked if you do well.  Adieu; write to me, and remember always
that I am your friend."

Then they kissed with girlish warmth, and Tilly rowed away to the lonely
island; while Sophie lingered on the shore, her handkerchief fluttering
in the wind, till the boat vanished and the waves had washed away their
footprints on the sand.



,, class:: center medium

    III.


December snow was falling fast, and the wintry wind whistled through the
streets; but it was warm and cosey in the luxurious parlor where Di and
Do were sitting making Christmas presents, and planning what they would
wear at the party Fanny was to give on Christmas Eve.

"If I can get mamma to buy me a new dress, I shall have something
yellow.  It is always becoming to brunettes, and I ’m so tired of red,"
said Di, giving a last touch to the lace that trimmed a blue satin
sachet for Fanny.

"That will be lovely.  I shall have pink, with roses of the same color.
