
"No, please go. And take Eve."

"Uncly Paul, not old Eve. I want old Eve," announced Jack, reasonably.

"You don't seem to mind his calling you that," said Paul, laughing.

"Why should I?" Eve answered. "I don't care for a walk, thanks."

"Make her go," continued Cicely; "march her off."

"Will you march?" asked Paul.

"Not without a drum and fife."

Jack was now cooing without cessation, and in his most insinuating
tones, "Sing to Jacky--poor, poor Jacky. Sing to Jacky--poor, poor
Jacky!"

She took him in her arms and walked down the beach with him, going on
with her song in a low tone:

    "'He knocks at the door and he pulls up the pin,
    And he says, "Mrs. Wingfield, is Polly within?"
    "Oh, Polly's up-stairs a-sewing her silk."
    Down comes Miss Polly as white as milk.'"

"Eve never does what you ask, Paul," remarked Cicely.

"Do I ask so often?"

"I wish you would ask her oftener."

"To be refused oftener?"

"To gain your point--to conquer her. She is too self-willed--for a
woman." She looked at Paul with a smile.

The tie between them had become very close, and it was really her
dislike to see him rebuffed, even in the smallest thing, that made her
say, alluding to Eve, "Conquer her; she is too self-willed--for a
woman."

Paul smiled. "I shall never conquer her."

"Try, begin now; make her think that you want her to walk with you."

"But I don't."

"Can't you pretend?"

"Why should I?"

"Well, to please me."

"You're an immoral little woman," said Paul, laughing. "I'll go;
remember, however, that you sent me." He went up the beach to meet Eve,
who was still walking to and fro, singing to Jack, Hollis accompanying
them after his fashion; that is, following behind, and stopping to skip
a stone carelessly when they stopped. Paul went straight to Eve. "I wish
you would go with me for a walk," he said. He looked at her, his glance,
holding hers, slowly became entreating. The silence between them lasted
an appreciable instant.

"I will go," said Eve.

Jack seemed to understand that his supremacy was in danger. "No, old
Eve--no. I want old Eve, Uncly Paul," he said, in his most persuasive
voice. Then, to make himself irresistible, he began singing Eve's song:

    "'Who pums idder, all booted an' spurred?
    Little Jacky Bruce wiz his han' on his sword.'"

Hollis came up. "Were you wanting to go off somewhere? I'll take Jack."

"Old man, you get out," suggested Jack, calmly.

"Oh, where does he learn such things?" said Eve. She thought she was
distressed--she meant to be; but there was an undertide of joyousness,
which Hollis saw.

"On the contrary, Jackum, I'll get in," he answered. "If it's singing
you want, I can sing very beautifully. And I can dance too; looker
here." And skipping across the beach in a Fisher's Horn-pipe step, he
ended with a pigeon's wing.

Jack, in an ecstasy of delight, sprang up and down in Eve's arms.
"'Gain! 'gain!" he cried, imperiously, his dimpled forefinger pointed at
the dancer.

Again Hollis executed his high leap. "Now you'll come to me, I guess,"
he said. And Jack went readily. "You are going for a walk, I suppose?"
Hollis went on. "There's nothing very much in these woods to make it
lively." He had noted the glow of anticipation in her face, and was glad
that he had contributed to it. But when he turned to Paul, expecting as
usual to see indifference, he did not see it; and instantly his feelings
changed, he felt befooled.

Jack made prodding motions with his knees. "Dant! dant!"

"I'll dance in a few minutes, my boy," said Hollis.

Paul and Eve went up the beach and turned into the wood. It was a
magnificent evergreen forest without underbrush; above, the sunlight was
shut out, they walked in a gray-green twilight. The stillness was so
intense that it was oppressive.




XIX.


They walked for some distance without speaking. "I have just been
writing to Ferdie," Paul said at last.

The gray-green wood had seemed to Eve like another world, an enchanted
land. Now she was forced back to real life again. "Oh, if he would only
say nothing--just go on without speaking; it's all I ask," she thought.

