truth.

But Zehowah wearied of the contest at last, being by no means sure that
the woman had really done any evil, and having no intention of using any
violent means such as she had suggested. For she was as just as she was
wise and would have no one suffer wrongly. Khaled, indeed, cared little
for the pain of others, having seen much blood shed in war, and would
have caused Almasta to be tortured if Zehowah had desired it. But she
did not, preferring to wait and see whether she could not entrap the
slave into a confession.

Khaled now came out of his hiding-place into the room and advanced
towards Zehowah, who remained sitting upon the carpet, while Almasta
rose and made a respectful salutation. But neither of the women knew
that he had been hidden in the niche. Zehowah did not seem surprised,
but Almasta's face was white and her eyes were cast down, though indeed
Khaled wished that it had been otherwise. He was encouraged, however, by
what he had seen, for Zehowah had certainly been angry with Almasta on
his account, and he dismissed the latter that he might be alone with his
wife.

'You are wise, Zehowah,' he said, 'and gifted with much insight, but you
will learn nothing from this woman, though you talk with her a whole
year. For she suspects you and is guarded in her speech and manner. I
was standing by the doorway a long time. You did not see me, but I heard
all that you said.'

'Why did you hide yourself?' Zehowah asked, looking at him curiously.

'In order to listen,' he answered. 'And I heard something and saw
something which pleased me. For when she said that you did not love me,
you were angry.'

'Did that please you? You are more easily pleased than I had thought.
Shall I bear such things from a slave? How is it her business whether I
love or not?'

'But you were angry,' Khaled repeated, vainly hoping that she would say
more, yet not wishing to press her too far, lest she should say again
that she did not love him.

She, however, said nothing in reply, but busied herself in taking his
kefiyeh from his head and his sword from his side that he might be at
ease. He rested against the cushions and drank of the cool drink she
offered him.

'This woman, Almasta, is exceedingly beautiful,' he said at last. 'It
would indeed be a pity that a slave of such value should go into the
possession of another so that we could see her no more. It is best that
you should keep her with you.'

Zehowah laughed a little, as she sat down beside him and began to play
with her beads.

'This is what I have always said,' she answered. 'I will keep her with
me.'

'It is better so,' said Khaled.

Then he remained silent in deep thought, having devised a new plan for
gaining what he most desired. It seemed to him possible that Zehowah
might be moved by jealousy, if by nothing else; for although he had
sworn to her, and angrily, that he would never take Almasta for his
wife, and though nothing could really have prevailed upon him to make
him do so, yet it would be easy for him to talk to the woman and speak
to her of her beauty, and appear to take delight in her singing, which
was more melodious than that of a Persian nightingale. Since she would
be now permanently established in his harem, nothing would be easier
than for him to spend many hours in the woman's society. Being a
simple-minded man the plan seemed to him subtle, and he determined to
put it into execution without delay. He knew also that Almasta had loved
him since the first day when she had been brought before him in the
palace at Ha√Øl, and this would make it still more easy to rouse
Zehowah's jealousy.

Though she had herself advised him to marry Almasta, he did not believe
that she was greatly in earnest, and he felt assured that if the
possibility were presented before her, in such a way as to appear
imminent, she would be deceived by the appearance.

'It is better that she should remain here,' he said after a long time.
'For we cannot put her to death without evidence of her guilt, and if we
are obstinate in wishing to give her a husband, we do not know how many
husbands she may destroy before she is satisfied. She is beautiful, and
will be an ornament in your kahwah. Indeed I do not know why I sent her
away just now, when I came in. Let us call her back, that she may sing
to us some of her own songs.'

Zehowah clapped her hands and Almasta immediately returned, for she had
indeed been waiting outside the door, endeavouring to hear what was
said, since she suspected that Khaled would speak of her and ask
questions. She understood well enough, and often much better than she
was willing to show, though she could as yet speak but few words of the
Arabic language.

'Sit at my feet,' said Khaled, 'and sing to me the songs of your own
people.'

Almasta took a musical instrument from the wall and sat down to sing.
Her voice, indeed, was of enchanting sweetness, but as for the words of
her songs, the seven wise men themselves could not have understood a
syllable of them, seeing that they were neither Arabic nor Persian, nor
even Greek. Nevertheless, Khaled made a pretence of being much pleased,
resting his head against the cushions and closing his eyes as though the
sound soothed him. As for Zehowah, she watched the woman with great
curiosity, wondering whether it were possible that a creature so fair as
Almasta could have done the evil deeds of which she was suspected, and
planning how she might surprise her into a confession of guilt.




CHAPTER VII


Not many days passed after this, before the women of the harem began to
whisper among themselves in the passages and outer chambers.

'See,' they said, 'how our master favours this foreign woman, who is in
all probability a devil from the Persian mountains. Every day he will
