
"Of course I can," said the policeman, who felt the more flattered by
this tribute because he was really a novice. "As this gentleman says, I
knew you to be a crook the moment I set eyes on you."

They turned the corner of Thirtieth Street on their way to the station
house. Poor Joshua felt keenly the humiliation and disgrace of his
position. It would be in all the papers, he had no doubt, for all such
items got into the home papers, and he would not dare show his face in
Barton again.

"Am I going to jail?" he asked with keen anguish.

"You'll land there shortly," said Morris.

"But I hain't done a thing."

"Is it necessary for me to go in?" asked Ferdinand Morris, with
considerable uneasiness, for he feared to be recognized by some older
member of the force.

"Certainly." replied the policeman, "you must enter a complaint against
this man."

Morris peered into the station house, but saw no officer likely to
remember him, so he summoned up all his audacity and followed the
policeman and his prisoner inside. There happened to be no other case
ahead, so Joshua was brought forward.

"What has this man done?" asked the sergeant.

"Stolen a ring from this gentleman here," answered the policeman.

"Was the ring found on his person?"

"No, sergeant. He has not been searched."

"Search me if you want to. You won't find anything," said Joshua.

"He has probably thrown it away," said Ferdinand Morris, sotto voce.

"No, I hain't."

"What is your name, sir?" asked the sergeant, addressing Morris.

"My name is Clarence Hale," answered Morris, boldly, taking the name of
a young man of respectable family whom he had met casually.

"Where do you live?"

"On Fourth Avenue, sir, near Eleventh Street."

"Do you swear that this man stole your ring?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where?"

"In front of the Standard Theater."

"How could he do it?" continued the sergeant. "He could not take it
from your hand?"

"It was in my pocket. I found him with his hand in my pocket," answered
Morris, glibly.

"By gracious!" ejaculated Joshua, his eyes distended with amazement, "I
never heard a fellow lie so slick before, in all my life."

"Silence!" said the sergeant. "Mr. Hale, will you appear to-morrow
morning at Jefferson Market, and testify against this man?"

"Yes, sir."

"Officer, have you ever arrested this man before?" went on the
sergeant.

"I'm not quite sure, sir. You see he's in disguise now. I think he's
wan of the gang."

Things began to look bad for poor Joshua, who was in a fair way to be
railroaded to the penitentiary, as no doubt more than one innocent man
has been before now, through an unfortunate complication.

"I wish I had some friend to speak up for me," he said, almost sobbing.
"This is awful!"

"So you have!" said an unexpected voice.

Joshua turned, and to his inexpressible relief saw Fred standing on the
threshold.

"It's the train boy!" he exclaimed joyfully.

Fred had set out to call upon Joshua that evening, and had chanced to
see him going into the station house with the confidence man. He had
followed to find out what it meant.

There was one who was not so well pleased to see him. Ferdinand Morris
turned pale, and tried to make his escape.

"Excuse me," he said. "I am faint, and must get out into the air."

But Fred stood in his way.

"Not so fast, Mr. Ferdinand Morris," he said. "What trick are you up to
now?"

"Do you know this man, Fred?" asked the sergeant, who had known the
train boy for three years, for he lived only one block away on the same
street.

"Yes, sir, he stole the wallet of this young man on my train on the
Erie less than a week since."

"But he said the prisoner stole his ring."

"He left the ring in Mr. Bascom's pocket, when he was feeling for the
wallet."

