
"Just coming by the island, sir."

In a few minutes more the third cutter of the Bellevite came alongside.
Mr. Walbrook, the third lieutenant of the ship, came on board of the
Reindeer, and touched his cap to his superior officer.

"Captain Breaker requests you to report on board of the ship, and I am
directed to take charge of the prize you have captured, Mr. Passford."

"I will go on board at once, Mr. Walbrook," replied Christy. "It is
necessary for me to inform you before I leave that this steamer has
changed hands twice to-day, and her ship's company have given me a great
deal of trouble. The prisoners are in the cabin under guard, and I must
caution you to be vigilant. Calwood will inform you in regard to the
particulars."

"I am sorry to inform you that Mr. Blowitt was severely, if not
dangerously wounded in the action with the battery up the bay, where we
had some sharp work," added Mr. Walbrook.

"That is very bad news to me," replied Christy, who had known the
wounded man as second officer of the Bellevite when she was his father's
yacht, and had served under him when she became a man-of-war, and as his
first lieutenant in the Bronx.

The intelligence filled him with anxiety and sorrow; but while he was
fighting for the right, as he had been for three years, he could not
give way to his feelings. Without asking for the result of the action up
the bay, he went over the side into the cutter, and ordered the crew to
pull for the ship. Mr. Blowitt had been more than his superior officer,
he had been his friend, and the young lieutenant was very sad while he
thought of the wounded officer.

He found Captain Breaker on the quarter-deck; and he could see from his
expression that he was greatly affected by the condition of his
executive officer. Mr. Dashington, his first officer in the yacht, had
been killed in action the year before, and now another of his intimate
associates might soon be registered in the Valhalla of the nation's dead
who had perished while fighting for the right.

"We have sad news for you, Mr. Passford," said the commander, who seemed
to be struggling with his emotions.

"But I hope there is a chance for Mr. Blowitt's recovery, Captain
Breaker," added Christy.

"I am afraid there is not. Dr. Linscott has very little hope that he
will live. But we have no time to mourn even for our best friends. You
have captured a steamer and brought her out; but I saw that you were
coming up from the southward when I first discovered the steamer. What
does that mean, Mr. Passford?"

"I hardly know, Captain, whether I brought her out, or she brought me
out," replied Christy, who felt very tender over the Southern Yankee
trick which had been played upon him. "The steamer is the Reindeer,
Captain Stopfoot. My boat's crew were overpowered by her ship's company,
and we were all made prisoners; but we rebelled against the humiliating
circumstances, and recaptured the steamer."

"Then you have redeemed yourself," added the captain.

Christy gave a detailed report of all the events that had occurred
during his absence from the ship. The commander listened to him with the
deepest interest; for the young officer was in some sense his protégé,
and had sometimes been his instructor in navigation and seamanship. In
spite of the sadness of the hour, there was a smile on his face when he
comprehended the scheme of the captain of the Reindeer to get his vessel
out of the bay in the face of two men-of-war.

While Christy was still on the quarter-deck, Mr. Lobscott came on board,
and reported the capture of the schooner Sylphide, full of cotton. Her
ship's company, consisting of six men, were on board of the Bronx.
Captain Breaker planked the deck for some time, evidently making up his
mind what to do with the prizes and with their crews, for he did not
regard these men as prisoners of war. He asked the second lieutenant
some questions in regard to the character of the Reindeer. She was an
old-fashioned craft, but a good vessel.

"We are rather overburdened with prisoners, and I desire only to get rid
of them," said the captain.

"Captain Stopfoot was considerate enough to announce his intention to
put me and my men on shore at Gasparilla Pass; and I promised to
reciprocate the favor by suggesting that he and his ship's company be
landed at the same place."

"That will be a good way to get rid of them, and I will adopt the
suggestion," replied the commander.

All the rest of the day and a part of the night were used up in making
the preparations for disposing of the prizes. A large number of hands
were sent on board of the Reindeer, and her cotton was nearly all placed
in the hold by good stowage. The prisoners from both prizes, except the
engineers and firemen, who were willing to work for wages, were
transferred to the Bronx. Mr. Lobscott was appointed prize-master of the
steamer, which was to tow the schooner to Key West, where both were to
be disposed of as circumstances might require.

The Bronx was to convoy the two vessels as far as the Pass, where she
was to land her prisoners, and then return to her consort. At midnight
this fleet sailed. A protest against being landed at the place indicated
came from Captain Stopfoot before it departed; but the commander paid no
attention to it, declaring that if the Pass was good enough for one of
his officers, it was good enough for the captain of a blockade-runner.

"Mr. Passford, by the lamentable accident to Mr. Blowitt, you become the
ranking lieutenant in condition for service," said Captain Breaker, soon
after the young officer had reported the capture of the Reindeer. "You
therefore become the acting executive officer of the Bellevite."

"Of course I shall do my duty faithfully, Captain Breaker, in whatever
position is assigned to me," replied Christy, his bosom swelling with
emotion. "I regret more than anything else the occasion that makes it
necessary to put me in this place; and I am very sorry to be called upon
to occupy a position of so much responsibility."

"You are competent to discharge the duties of executive officer, Mr.
Passford, though I appreciate your modesty in not desiring such an
important position; but there is no alternative at present."
