
"Chile! What you hit a body so sudden for, like dat? What's be'n en gone
en happen'?"

"Well, there's one thing I didn't tell you. When I wouldn't fight, he
tore up the will again, and--"

Roxana's face turned a dead white, and she said--

"Now you's done!--done forever! Dat's de end. Bofe un us is gwyne to
starve to--"

"Wait and hear me through, can't you! I reckon that when he resolved to
fight, himself, he thought he might get killed and not have a chance to
forgive me any more in this life, so he made the will again, and I've
seen it, and it's all right. But--"

"Oh, thank goodness, den we's safe ag'in!--safe! en so what did you want
to come here en talk sich dreadful--"

"Hold on, I tell you, and let me finish. The swag I gathered won't half
square me up, and the first thing we know, my creditors--well, you know
what'll happen."

Roxana dropped her chin, and told her son to leave her alone--she must
think this matter out. Presently she said impressively:

"You got to go mighty keerful now, I tell you! En here's what you got to
do. He didn't git killed, en if you gives him de least reason, he'll
bust de will ag'in, en dat's de las' time, now you hear me! So--you's
got to show him what you kin do in de nex' few days. You's got to be
pison good, en let him see it; you got to do everything dat'll make him
b'lieve in you, en you got to sweeten aroun' ole Aunt Pratt, too,--she's
pow'ful strong wid de Jedge, en de bes' frien' you got. Nex', you'll go
'long away to Sent Louis, en dat'll keep him in yo' favor. Den you go en
make a bargain wid dem people. You tell 'em he ain't gwyne to live
long--en dat's de fac', too,--en tell 'em you'll pay 'em intrust, en big
intrust, too,--ten per--what you call it?"

"Ten per cent. a month?"

"Dat's it. Den you take and sell yo' truck aroun', a little at a time,
en pay de intrust. How long will it las'?"

"I think there's enough to pay the interest five or six months."

"Den you's all right. If he don't die in six months, dat don't make no
diff'rence--Providence'll provide. You's gwyne to be safe--if you
behaves." She bent an austere eye on him and added, "En you is gwyne to
behave--does you know dat?"

He laughed and said he was going to try, anyway. She did not unbend. She
said gravely:

"Tryin' ain't de thing. You's gwyne to do it. You ain't gwyne to steal a
pin--'ca'se it ain't safe no mo'; en you ain't gwyne into no bad
comp'ny--not even once, you understand; en you ain't gwyne to drink a
drop--nary single drop; en you ain't gwyne to gamble one single
gamble--not one! Dis ain't what you's gwyne to try to do, it's what
you's gwyne to do. En I'll tell you how I knows it. Dis is how. I's
gwyne to foller along to Sent Louis my own self; en you's gwyne to come
to me every day o' yo' life, en I'll look you over; en if you fails in
one single one o' dem things--jist one--I take my oath I'll come
straight down to dis town en tell de Jedge you's a nigger en a slave--en
prove it!" She paused to let her words sink home. Then she added,
"Chambers, does you b'lieve me when I says dat?"

Tom was sober enough now. There was no levity in his voice when he
answered:

"Yes, mother, I know, now, that I am reformed--and permanently.
Permanently--and beyond the reach of any human temptation."

"Den g' long home en begin!"




CHAPTER XV.

The Robber Robbed.

Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

Behold, the fool saith, "Put not all thine eggs in the one
basket"--which is but a manner of saying, "Scatter your money and your
attention;" but the wise man saith, "Put all your eggs in the one basket
and--watch that basket"--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

What a time of it Dawson's Landing was having! All its life it had been
asleep, but now it hardly got a chance for a nod, so swiftly did big
events and crashing surprises come along in one another's wake: Friday
morning, first glimpse of Real Nobility, also grand reception at Aunt
Patsy Cooper's, also great robber-raid; Friday evening, dramatic kicking
of the heir of the chief citizen in presence of four hundred people;
Saturday morning, emergence as practising lawyer of the long-submerged
Pudd'nhead Wilson; Saturday night, duel between chief citizen and titled
stranger.

The people took more pride in the duel than in all the other events put
together, perhaps. It was a glory to their town to have such a thing
happen there. In their eyes the principals had reached the summit of
human honor. Everybody paid homage to their names; their praises were in
all mouths. Even the duelists' subordinates came in for a handsome share
of the public approbation: wherefore Pudd'nhead Wilson was suddenly
become a man of consequence. When asked to run for the mayoralty
Saturday night he was risking defeat, but Sunday morning found him a
made man and his success assured.

The twins were prodigiously great, now; the town took them to its bosom
with enthusiasm. Day after day, and night after night, they went dining
and visiting from house to house, making friends, enlarging and
solidifying their popularity, and charming and surprising all with their
musical prodigies, and now and then heightening the effects with samples
of what they could do in other directions, out of their stock of rare
and curious accomplishments. They were so pleased that they gave the
regulation thirty days' notice, the required preparation for
citizenship, and resolved to finish their days in this pleasant place.
That was the climax. The delighted community rose as one man and
