order that she might give a hint of it to the others.

"Captain Ringgold will tell you all about it; it would take me six hours
to do so, and I have not the time," replied Felix as he bolted through
the door.

"Six hours!" exclaimed the amiable lady. "Then we shall have to sit up
about all night to hear the story. I wonder what the boys have been
doing in this lonely place."

She was no wiser than the rest of the party. The two sons tore
themselves away from their mothers, and Louis was permitted to take the
hand of Miss Blanche in bidding her adieu. The commander had sent four
of the old sailors on board of the little steamer to stand the watches
during the trip; for the "Big Four" were believed to be thoroughly
exhausted after a night in the gale and the most exciting day of all
their lives. This was certainly true of Captain Scott, for he had hardly
slept a wink in the last thirty-six hours, and the others were tired
enough.

The chief engineer had been notified of the immediate departure of the
Maud, and the fasts were cast off as soon as the ship's company went on
board. Stevens, the carpenter of the ship, had repaired the damage done
in the galley, and a supply of provisions had been put on board.

Captain Scott had submitted the question as to whether anything was to
be done in regard to the ship's company of the Fatimé. The matter had
been decided at once. Captain Mazagan had declared war against the
Maud, and had proceeded to enforce his preposterous demand. He had made
a failure of it, and outside of the call of ordinary humanity, the
commander believed that it was not his duty to look out for the comfort
of the marauders. A sufficient supply of provisions had been sent to
those on shore, and the pirate himself was under treatment on board of
the ship. What was to be done with him was a question for the future.

Captain Scott remained in the pilot-house of the Maud till the steamer
was well off the cape, and then gave out the course, south and a half
west. It was Morris's watch, and he insisted on remaining on the
forecastle, as he had obtained a portion of his sleep the night before.
The ship soon followed her consort; and as soon as the commander had
given out the course he hastened to the boudoir, where the party were
awaiting his appearance.

"It is hardly necessary for me to give the nautical points involved in
'The Battle of Khrysoko,'" said Captain Ringgold, as he laid the diagram
of the captain of the Maud on the table.

"I beg your pardon, Captain--involved in what?" interrupted Mr.
Woolridge, who seemed to be bothered by the proper name.

"'The Battle of Khrysoko,'" repeated the commander with a smile. "That
is the name the boys gave to the affair, calling it after the bay in
which it occurred, though it is rather a high-sounding designation for
it."

"Are we to understand that a battle has been fought here, Captain
Ringgold?" inquired the magnate of the Fifth Avenue, as Louis had called
him.

"It did not rise to the dignity of a regular naval engagement, though it
took place on the waters of the bay," replied the captain. "Perhaps if
we call it a contest for superiority, it would cover the idea better.
But this party are not prepared to understand what has taken place in
Khrysoko Bay; and I must admit that I have concealed from you for the
last three months certain features of our voyage, a knowledge of which
would have rendered some of you very nervous and unhappy.

"I did not consult Dr. Hawkes in relation to the effect upon one of his
patients, but I am confident he would have advised me to do as I have
done. I am equally confident that another of your number would very soon
have become one of his patients if I had been imprudent enough to put
her in possession of all the facts in the situation. If I had done so at
Athens, Zante, or Alexandria, I am almost certain that the
Guardian-Mother would have been speeding her way across the Atlantic to
New York; for some of the party would have insisted upon abandoning the
voyage as projected.

"My only confidants in the inside history of this voyage for the last
six months, or since we visited Mogadore, were the four young men who
have just left you. Now I will relate this inside history, and give all
the facts without any reservation whatever. I must begin back at
Mogadore; and as I mention the incidents of our cruise so far, you will
remember all of them. 'The Battle of Khrysoko' is the last chapter of
the story, and for the present at least, and I hope forever, has removed
all danger from our path."

By this time the entire party were all attention. The captain began his
review of the incidents of the voyage at Mogadore. He used the time
judiciously, but it took him a full hour to bring the history down to
the final event. Whatever had been dark and mysterious in the past was
made plain. The discovery of the plot made by Louis in the café at
Gallipoli made a tremendous impression, and Dr. Hawkes had to attend to
Mrs. Belgrave, she became so excited and nervous.

The stirring events in the bay were given very cautiously by the
speaker, though he told the whole truth. He stated enough of the
nautical situation to enable the party to understand the affair; and he
warmly commended Captain Scott for the decisive act by which he had
finished the encounter, after he had used every effort to escape a
conflict.

"And did that wicked pirate actually fire cannon-balls into the Maud
while Louis was on board of her?" asked Mrs. Belgrave, very much
excited.

"He put one shot through her, though Louis was on the upper deck, firing
his rifle into the enemy, and he was in no danger," replied the
commander.

It was midnight when the narrative and the comments upon it were
finished. The doctor attended to his patient in the cabin, and then to
the other in the hospital. Mazagan felt better, and wanted to talk; but
Dr. Hawkes would not permit him to do so. The party retired with enough
to think about.

At the time stated by the commander, the Guardian-Mother and the Maud
were off the red light on the end of the breakwater at the entrance to
the Suez Canal.


