her table, and taking the planchette from its box, she arranged the
paper under it.

"I don't like it! I don't like it!" protested Mrs. Franklin.

"His Grand, if you don't like it, beat it," said Ruth, jumping up. "Give
it a question too hard to answer. Go to the dining-room and do
something--anything you like. Then planchette shall tell us what it
is--aha!"

"A good idea," said Mrs. Franklin, significantly. And with her light
step she left the room. The mother was as active as a girl; no one was
ever deterred, therefore, from asking her to rise, or to move about, by
any idea of age. She was tall, with aquiline features, bright dark eyes,
and thick silvery hair. As she was thin, her face showed the lines and
fine wrinkles which at middle age offset a slender waist. But, when she
was animated, these lines disappeared, for at such moments her color
rose, the same beautiful color which Ruth had inherited.

Dolly sat with her hands on the little heart-shaped board, pondering
what she should say; for her familiar spirit was simply her own quick
invention. But while it would have been easy to mystify Miss Billy, it
was not easy to imagine what her mother, a distinctly hostile element,
might do for the especial purpose of perplexing the medium; for although
Mrs. Franklin knew perfectly well that her daughter invented all of
planchette's replies, she remained nevertheless strongly opposed to even
this pretended occultism. Dolly therefore pondered. But, as she did so,
she was saying to herself that it was useless to ponder, and that she
might as well select something at random, when suddenly there sprang
into her mind a word, a word apropos of nothing at all, and, obeying an
impulse, she wrote it; that is, planchette wrote it under the unseen
propelling power of her long fingers. Then Ruth pushed the board aside,
and they all read the word; it was "grinning."

"Grinning?" repeated Ruth. "How absurd! Imagine mother grinning!"

She opened the door, and called, "What did you do, His Grand?"

"Wishing to expose that very skilful pretender, Miss Dora Franklin, I
did the most unlikely thing I could think of," answered Mrs. Franklin's
voice. "I went to the mirror, and standing in front of it, I grinned at
my own image; grinned like a Cheshire cat."

Miss Billy looked at Dolly with frightened eyes. Dolly herself was
startled; she crumpled the paper and threw it hastily into the
waste-basket.

Mrs. Franklin, returning through the hall, was met by Anthony Etheridge,
who had entered without ringing, merely giving a preliminary tap on the
outer door with his walking-stick. Dolly began to talk as soon as they
came in, selecting a subject which had nothing to do with planchette.
For the unconscious knowledge which, of late years, she seemed to
possess, regarding the thoughts in her mother's mind, troubled them
both.

"Commodore, I have something to tell you. It is for you especially, for
I have long known your secret attachment! From my window, I can see that
field behind the Mackintosh house. Imagine my beholding Maud Muriel
opening the gate this afternoon, crossing to the big bush in the centre,
seating herself behind it, taking a long clay pipe from her pocket,
filling it, lighting it, and smoking it!"

"No!" exclaimed Etheridge, breaking into a resounding laugh. "Could she
make it go?"

"Not very well, I think; I took my opera-glass and watched her. Her
face, as she puffed away, was exactly as solemn as it is when she models
her deadly busts."

"Ho, ho, ho!" roared Etheridge again. "Ladies, excuse me. I have always
thought that girl might be a genius if she could only get drunk!
Perhaps the pipe is a beginning."

While he was saying this, Horace Chase was ushered in. A moment later
there came another ring, and the Rev. Mr. Hill appeared, followed by
Achilles Larue.

"Why, I have a party!" said Mrs. Franklin, smiling, as she welcomed the
last comer.

"Yes, His Grand, it is a party," said Ruth. "Now you may know, since
they are here, and you cannot stop it. I invited them all myself, late
this afternoon; and it is a molasses-candy-pulling; Dolly and I have
arranged it. We did not tell you beforehand, because we knew you would
say it was sticky."

"Sticky it is," replied Mrs. Franklin.

"Vilely sticky!" added Etheridge, emphatically.

"And then we knew, also, that you would say that you could not get up a
supper in so short a time," Ruth went on. "But Zoe has had her sister to
help her, and ever so many nice things are all ready; chicken salad, for
instance; and--listen, His Grand--a long row of macaroon custards, each
cup with three macaroons dissolved in madeira!" And then she intoned
the family chant, Dolly joining in from her easy-chair:

    "Mother Franklin thinks,
     That General Jackson,
     Jared the Sixth,
     Macaroon custards,
     And Bishop Carew,
     Are per-fec-tion!"

"What does she mean by that?" said Chase to Miss Billy.

"Oh, it is only one of their jokes; they have so many! Dear Mrs.
Franklin was brought up by her father to admire General Jackson, and
Dolly and Ruth pretend that she thinks he is still at the White House.
And Jared the Sixth means her son, you know. And they say she is fond of
macaroon custards; that is, fondish," added Miss Billy, getting in the
"ish" with inward satisfaction. "And she is much attached to Bishop
Carew. But, for that matter, so are we all."

"A Roman Catholic?" inquired Chase.

"He is our bishop--the Episcopal Bishop of North Carolina," answered
Miss Breeze, surprised.

"Oh! I didn't know. I'm a Baptist myself. Or at least my parents were,"
