that day. She’s here, ’n’ all the children are jes’ crazy ’bout her. An’
she told me ’bout the picture you put me in. She said you’d be sure to
come.”

“She? Who?” John Travis was momentarily bewildered.

“Miss Deerin’, Miss Virginia Deerin’. Ain’t it a pretty name? An’ she
knows all ’bout that beautiful place of roses. I was hankerin’ so for
some, an’ she went out to see ’f she could find any. I couldn’t know
you’d bring me such a lovely lot. Don’t you know how Bess alwers
b’l’eved you’d come, an’ she b’l’eves jes’ that way. An’ she likes you
so.”

“Virginia Deering!” John Travis said under his breath, his whole frame
athrill with subtle emotion, “what makes you think she likes me?” he
asked softly.

“Oh, can’t you tell it in any one’s voice? An’ their eyes get soft an’
strange, ’s if they were lookin’ ’way off, an’ saw the other one comin’,
jes’ ’s Bess come to me that day.”

Then Dil raised a little and glanced out of the window, listened
smilingly.

“She’s come back. That’s her voice. An’ oh, won’t she be glad to see you
an’ the heaps an’ heaps of wild roses!”




XVI—ACROSS THE RIVER


Virginia Deering put by the children’s clinging hands. Her mission had
not been very successful. In one shady depth she had found a cluster of
belated roses, their mates having blossomed and gone. But the children
had enjoyed a rare pleasure.

She came up with a sort of reverent hesitation. She had been thinking of
the journey “betwixt this and dawn,” and trying with weak hands to push
it farther and farther off, as we always do. Miss Mary had gone to the
infirmary. The room was so still; then a soft, glad cry trembled on the
air,—

“He’s come, Miss Deerin’! An’ oh, you won’t mind, but he’s been to that
wild rose place, an’ I think he’s brought them all to me. Look, look!”
and she stretched out her little hands.

Virginia paused, hesitated, her sweet face flushing and paling, as John
Travis turned. He was not sure he had made up his mind to any certain
step; but, having found her here, he was certain he should never let her
go again in this mortal life.

Did it make any difference here in this sacred hour who had sinned?
Could not even suffering love fold about another the garment of
forgiveness? He took a step forward; she seemed to draw near by some
inward volition, and stretched out her hands beseechingly. The sorrow
and pain were ended. Was not love too sacred a thing to be bruised and
wounded by trifles that should have been forgiven and forgotten as soon
as uttered?

“Virginia,” in a breathless sort of whisper. He stooped and kissed the
quivering lips, and caught the tenderness of tear-blinded eyes.

“Little Dil, may I have Miss Deering’s roses?” and he took them in his
hand.

“I only found a few,” in a faltering voice.

“But he’s brought me hundreds. I’m most buried in roses. An’, Miss
Virginia, I told him you’d be so glad. An’ it’s all as you said, only I
couldn’t feel quite sure till he come. The Lord Jesus did take Bess to
heaven that night; but he left me ’cause there was somethin’ for me to
do. It’s all gettin’ plain to me, only I ain’t bright to see into things
quick. But you can’t both be mistook. An’ now I’m all bright an’ happy.”

Did Virginia Deering say a year ago that she should always hate wild
roses? She buried her face in them now, so that no one should see her
tears. God had led this little human wild rose in the pathway of both.
It had grown in the world’s wilderness, and learned how to bloom out of
its own generous heart. To her it was the lesson of her whole life.

Dilsey Quinn smiled. She knew nothing about love and lovers; but the
atmosphere was sweet and cordial, and she felt that.

Virginia began to arrange some of the roses in a bowl, with the nervous
desire of occupation.

“Please put thim here on the sill,” pleaded Dilsey. “That’s the way Bess
had thim. An’ I told him how you gev thim to Patsey.”

John Travis gave a soft, quaint smile, and took a small case from an
inside pocket. There were some poor little withered buds between the
leaves. All the color had gone out of them, all the fragrance.

“You gave them to me,” he said. “Do you remember? Bess had them in her
hand.”

Dilsey’s eyes filled with tears. Virginia leaned over and looked at
them, strangely moved. Then he laid the few she had gathered beside
them.

“I’m jes’ happy all through,” Dil said with shining eyes.

Miss Mary came up with some broth.

“’Pears like I don’t never want anythin’ to eat again; but you’re all so
good. An’ now I’m goin’ to get well, though sometimes I want to see Bess
so. An’ I’d be sorry to go ’way from Patsey. Owen’s gettin’ to be such a
nice boy. Patsey keeps him straight. I d’know who’d look after thim.”

John Travis turned and gave her a rare, comforting smile. He owed her so
much earthly and heavenly happiness; and he realized with a pang of
anguish that she could never be repaid in this world. Had God noted the
labor and love of this poor, unknown life, and written it in his
Book,—the heroism so simply worked out, with no thought of self to mar
any of it?

Miss Mary sent them down to supper.

