an' turned, complete."

"I'll tell you," Said Lucindy, leaning nearer, and speaking as if she
feared the very corners might hear. "You know I never was allowed to
wear bright colors. And to this day, I see the hats the other girls
had, blue on 'em, and pink. And if I could stand by and let a little
girl pick out a hat for herself, without a word said to stop her,
'twould be real agreeable to me." Lucindy was shrewd enough to express
herself somewhat moderately. She knew by experience how plainly Jane
considered it a duty to discourage any overmastering emotion. But Jane
Wilson was, at the same instant, feeling very keenly that Lucindy,
faded and old as she was, needed to be indulged in all her riotous
fancies. She repressed the temptation, however, at its birth.

"Why, I dunno's there's anything in the way of it," she said, soberly.

"Then, if you must go, I'll walk right along now. Claribel and I'll go
down to Miss West's, and see what she's got. Nothin''s to be gained by
waitin'!"

When they walked out through the hall together, Lucindy cast a quick
and eager glance into the parlor. She almost hoped Claribel had
unhooked the glass prisms from the lamp, and left them scattered on the
floor, or that she had broken the precious shells, more than half a
century old. She wanted to put her arms round her, and say fondly,
"Never mind!" But the room was in perfect order, and little Claribel
waited for them, conscious of a propriety unstained by guilt.

"Lucindy," said Mrs. Wilson, who also had used her eyes, "where's your
father's canes? They al'ays stood right here in this corner."

Lucindy flushed.

"Jane," she whispered, "don't you tell, but I--I buried 'em! I felt
somehow as if I couldn't--do the things I wanted to, if they set there
just the same."

Jane could only look at her in silence.

"Well," she said, at length, "it takes all kinds o' people to make a
world!"

That, at least, was non-committal.

She left the shoppers at her own gate, and they walked on together.
Lucindy was the more excited of the two.

"Now, Claribel," she was saying, "you remember you can choose any hat
you see, and have it trimmed just the way you like. What color do you
set by most?"

"I don't know," said Claribel. "Blue, I guess."

"Well, there's a hat there all trimmed with it. I see it this mornin'.
Real bright, pretty blue! I believe there was some little noddin'
yellow flowers on it, too. But mind you don't take it unless you like
it."

Miss West's shop occupied the front room of her house, a small yellow
one on a side street. The upper part of the door was of glass, and it
rang a bell as it opened. Lucindy had had very few occasions for going
there, and she entered with some importance. The bell clanged; and Miss
West, a portly woman, came in from the back room, whisking off her
apron in haste.

"Oh, that you, Miss Lucindy?" she called. "I've just been fryin' some
riz doughnuts. Well, how'd the flowers suit?"

"I haven't quite made up my mind," said Lucindy, trying to speak with
the dignity befitting her quest. "I just come in with little Claribel
here. She's goin' to have a new hat, and her grandma said she might
come down with me to pick it out. You've got some all trimmed, I
believe?"

Miss West opened a drawer in an old-fashioned bureau.

"Yes," she said, "I've got two my niece trimmed for me before she went
to make her visit to Sudleigh. One's blue. I guess you've seen that.
Then there's a nice white one. The 'Weekly' says white's all the go,
this year."

She took out two little hats, and balanced them on either hand. The
blue one was strongly accented. The ribbon was very broad and very
bright, and its nodding cowslips gleamed in cheerful yellow.

"Ain't that a beauty?" whispered Lucindy close to the little girl's
ear. "But there! Don't you have it unless you'd rather. There's lots of
other colors, you know; pink, and all sorts.".

Claribel put out one little brown hand, and timidly touched the other
hat.

"This one," she said.

It was very plain, and very pretty; yet there were no flowers, and the
modest white ribbon lay smoothly about the crown. Miss Lucindy gave a
little cry, as if some one had hurt her.

"O!" she exclaimed, "O Claribel! you sure?" Claribel was sure.

"She's got real good taste," put in Miss West. "Shall I wrop it up?"

"Yes," answered Lucindy, drearily. "We'll take it. But I suppose if she
should change, her mind before she wore it--" she added, with some
slight accession of hope.

"Oh, yes, bring it right back. I'll give her another choice."

But Claribel was not likely to change her mind. On the way home, she
walked sedately, and carried her hat with the utmost care. At her
grandmother's gate, she looked up shyly, and spoke of her own accord,--

"Thank you, ever so much!"

Then she fled up the path, her bundle waving before her. That, at
least, looked like spontaneous joy, and the sight of it soothed Lucindy
into a temporary resignation; yet she was very much disappointed.

The next afternoon, Tiverton saw a strange and wondrous sight. The
Crane boy led Old Buckskin, under an ancient saddle, into Miss
