He stared at her a moment and then broke into a laugh, and Clare, very
much to her own surprise and annoyance, laughed too, in spite of
herself. That broke the ice. When two people have laughed together over
something one of them has said, there is no denying the acquaintance.

"It was really awfully kind of you!" he exclaimed, his eyes still
laughing. "It was horridly rude of me to say anything at all, but I
really couldn't help it. If I could get anybody to introduce me, so that
I could apologise properly, I would, you know, but in this place--"

He looked towards the German family and the English old maids, in a
helpless sort of way, and then laughed again.

"I don't think it's necessary," said Clare rather coldly.

"No--I suppose not," he answered, growing graver at once. "And I think
it is allowed--isn't it?--to speak to one's neighbour at a table d'h√¥te,
you know. Not but what it was awfully rude of me, all the same," he
added hastily.

"Oh no. Not at all."

Clare stared at the wall opposite and leaned back in her chair.

"Oh! thanks awfully! I was afraid you might think so, you know."

Mrs. Bowring leaned forward as her daughter leaned back. Seeing that the
latter had fallen into conversation with the stranger, she was too much
a woman of the world not to speak to him at once in order to avoid any
awkwardness when they next met, for he could not possibly have spoken
first to her across the young girl.

"Is it your first visit to Amalfi?" she inquired, with as much
originality as is common in such cases.

Brook leaned forward too, and looked over at the elder woman.

"Yes," he answered, "I was with a party, and they dropped me here last
night. I was to meet my people here, but they haven't turned up yet, so
I'm seeing the sights. I went up to Ravello this morning--you know, that
place on the hill. There's an awfully good view from there, isn't
there?"

Clare thought his fluency developed very quickly when he spoke to her
mother. As he leaned forward she could not help seeing his face, and she
looked at him closely, for the first time, and with some curiosity. He
was handsome, and had a wonderfully frank and good-humoured expression.
He was not in the least a "beauty" man--she thought he might be a
soldier or a sailor, and a very good specimen of either. Furthermore, he
was undoubtedly a gentleman, so far as a man is to be judged by his
outward manner and appearance. In her heart she had already set him down
as little short of a villain. The discrepancy between his looks and what
she thought of him disturbed her. It was unpleasant to feel that a man
who had acted as he had acted last night could look as fresh, and
innocent, and unconcerned as he looked to-day. It was disagreeable to
have him at her elbow. Either he had never cared a straw for poor Lady
Fan, and in that case he had almost broken her heart out of sheer
mischief and love of selfish amusement, or else, if he had cared for her
at all, he was a pitiably fickle and faithless creature--something much
more despicable in the eyes of most women than the most heartless cynic.
One or the other he must be, thought Clare. In either case he was bad,
because Lady Fan was married, and it was wicked to make love to married
women. There was a directness about Clare's view which would either have
made the man laugh or would have hurt him rather badly. She wondered
what sort of expression would come over his handsome face if she were
suddenly to tell him what she knew. The idea took her by surprise, and
she smiled to herself as she thought of it.

Yet she could not help glancing at him again and again, as he talked
across her with her mother, making very commonplace remarks about the
beauty of the place. Very much in spite of herself, she wished to know
him better, though she already hated him. His face attracted her
strangely, and his voice was pleasant, close to her ear. He had not in
the least the look of the traditional lady-killer, of whom the tradition
seems to survive as a moral scarecrow for the education of the young,
though the creature is extinct among Anglo-Saxons. He was, on the
contrary, a manly man, who looked as though he would prefer tennis to
tea and polo to poetry--and men to women for company, as a rule. She
felt that if she had not heard him talking with the lady in white she
should have liked him very much. As it was, she said to herself that she
wished she might never see him again--and all the time her eyes returned
again and again to his sunburnt face and profile, till in a few minutes
she knew his features by heart.




CHAPTER IV


A chance acquaintance may, under favourable circumstances, develop
faster than one brought about by formal introduction, because neither
party has been previously led to expect anything of the other. There is
no surer way of making friendship impossible than telling two people
that they are sure to be such good friends, and are just suited to each
other. The law of natural selection applies to almost everything we want
in the world, from food and climate to a wife.

When Clare and her mother had established themselves as usual on the
terrace under the vines that afternoon, Brook came and sat beside them
for a while. Mrs. Bowring liked him and talked easily with him, but
Clare was silent and seemed absent-minded. The young man looked at her
from time to time with curiosity, for he was not used to being treated
with such perfect indifference as she showed to him. He was not spoilt,
as the phrase goes, but he had always been accustomed to a certain
amount of attention, when he met new people, and, without being in the
least annoyed, he thought it strange that this particular young lady
should seem not even to listen to what he said.

Mrs. Bowring, on the other hand, scarcely took her eyes from his face
after the first ten minutes, and not a word he spoke escaped her. By
contrast with her daughter's behaviour, her earnest attention was very
noticeable. By degrees she began to ask him questions about himself.

"Do you expect your people to-morrow?" she inquired.

Clare looked up quickly. It was very unlike her mother to show even that
small amount of curiosity about a stranger. It was clear that Mrs.
Bowring had conceived a sudden liking for the young man.

