"I am so glad I have thought of this delightful idea before settling
down again in that deadly Casa Corti for the winter." (But the idea had
a human shape. Violet Roscoe's ideas were often personified; they took
the form of agreeable men.)

"Evil news? Tell me not so!" said the cobbler's wife, who had noticed
the boy's face as he read.

"Pooh! no," answered Maso, stoutly. He put the letter into his pocket
and went up to his room. As he unlocked his door, there was not the
usual joyful rush of Mr. Tiber against his legs; the silence was
undisturbed. He struck a match on the wall and lighted his candle-end.
There, in the corner, on his little red coverlid, lay Mr. Tiber asleep.
Then, as the candle burned more brightly, it could be seen that it was
not sleep. There was food on the tin plate and water in the bowl; he had
not needed anything. There was no sign of suffering in the attitude, or
on the little black face with its closed eyes (to Maso that face had
always been as clearly intelligible as a human countenance); the
appearance was as if the dog had sought his own corner and his coverlid,
and had laid himself down to die very peacefully without a pain or a
struggle.

The candle-end had long burned itself out, and the boy still lay on the
floor with his arm round his pet. It seemed to him that his heart would
break. "Mr. Tiber, dear little Tiber, my own little doggie--dying here
all alone!--kinnin little chellow!" Thus he sobbed and sobbed until he
was worn out. Towards dawn came the thought of what must follow. But no;
Mr. Tiber should not be taken away and thrown into some horrible place!
If he wished to prevent it, however, he must be very quick. He had one
of the large colored handkerchiefs which Italians use instead of
baskets; as the dawn grew brighter he spread it out, laid his pet
carefully in the centre, and knotted the corners together tightly;
then, after bathing his face to conceal as much as possible the traces
of his tears, he stole down the stairs, and, passing through the town,
carrying his burden in the native fashion, he took a road which led
towards the hills.

It was a long walk. The little body which had been so light in life
weighed now like lead; but it might have been twice as heavy, he would
not have been conscious of it. He reached the place at last, the house
where Giulio's wife lived, with her five children, near one of the
hill-side villages which, as seen from Pisa, shine like white spots on
the verdure. Paola came out from her dark dwelling, and listened to his
brief explanation with wonder. To take so much trouble for a dog! But
she was a mild creature, her ample form cowlike, her eyes cowlike also,
and therefore beautiful; she accompanied him, and she kept the curious
crowding children in some kind of order while the boy, with her spade,
dug a grave in the corner of a field which she pointed out. Maso dug and
dug in the heat. He was so afraid of the peasant cupidity that he did
not dare to leave the dog wrapped in the cotton handkerchief, lest the
poor little tomb should be rifled to obtain it; he gave it, therefore,
to one of the children, and, gathering fresh leaves, he made a bed of
them at the bottom of the hole; then leaning down, he laid his pet
tenderly on the green, and covered him thickly with more foliage, the
softest he could find. When the last trace of the little black head had
disappeared he took up the spade, and with eyes freshly wet again in
spite of his efforts to prevent it, he filled up the grave as quickly as
he could, levelling the ground smoothly above it. He had made his
excavation very deep, in order that no one should meddle with the place
later: it would be too much trouble.

It was now nearly noon. He gave Paola three francs, which was half of
all he possessed. Then, with one quick glance towards the corner of the
field, he started on his long walk back to Pisa.


VI

"Do you know where you'll end, Roberta! You'll end with us," said Mrs.
Harrowby.

"With you?"

"Yes; in the Church. You've tried everything, beginning with geology and
ending with music (I can't help laughing at the last; you never had any
ear), and you have found no satisfaction. You are the very kind to come
to us; they always do."

The speaker, an American who lived in Naples, had entered the Roman
Catholic Church ten years before; in Boston she had been a Unitarian. It
was the 10th of September, and she was staying for a day in Pisa on her
way southward; she had encountered Miss Spring by chance in the piazza
of Santa Caterina at sunset, and the two had had a long talk with the
familiarity which an acquaintance in childhood carries with it, though
years of total separation may have intervened.

"There is one other alternative," answered Miss Spring; "it was
suggested by a pretty little woman who used to be here. She advised me
to try crystal scent-bottles and dissipation." This being a joke, Miss
Spring had intended to smile; but at this instant her attention was
attracted by something on the other side of the street, and her face
remained serious.

"Crystal scent-bottles? Dissipation? Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Harrowby.
"What do you mean?"

But her companion had gone; she was hurrying across the street. "It
isn't possible, Maso, that this is you!" She spoke to a ragged,
sick-looking boy.

Two hours after her question Maso was in bed in the Palazzo Rondinelli.
Madame Corti never came back till October, and the pension was not
open, but servants were there. The house-keeper went through the form of
making protest: "The signora has always such great alarm about fever."

"You will refer Madame Corti to me; I will pay for her alarm," answered
Roberta, marching past her to direct the driver of the carriage, who was
assisting Maso up the stairs. "It's not infectious fever. Only
malarial." Roberta was something of a doctor herself. She superintended
in person the opening of a large, cool room on the second floor, the
making of the bed, and then the installation of Maso between linen
sheets. The servants were all fond of the boy; in addition, Madame Corti
was in Sorrento, and Miss Spring's francs were here. Her francs were
few, but she spent them for Maso as generously as though they had been
many.

The boy, as soon as he was in bed, whispered to Giulio, "Pencil--paper."
Then when Miss Spring had left the room, he scrawled on the page, Giulio
holding a book under it, "My dog is ded," and signed his name. He told
Giulio to give this to her when she came in; then, as he heard her step,
