Opera-glasses were then in demand, and were brought to bear on the towers.

"They are in the village of Walkeshwar. The peninsula now quite near is
Colaba. Indian names are very much mixed in regard to their spelling. The
c and the k are about interchangeable, and you can use either
one of them. Hence this point is often written Kolaba, and the hill yonder
Kumballa. The southern part of this neck of land is the native quarter. You
will visit all these localities, and it is not worth while to describe them
minutely."

"That looks like a cemetery," said Mr. Woolridge, as the steamer approached
the point. "There is the lighthouse."

The commander had left his party as the steamer approached the entrance to
the harbor, and had gone forward. The ship had slowed down, and the captain
spoke to the pilot about a convenient anchorage. The harbor was large
enough to accommodate all the navies of the world, and there was no
difficulty on this account. Lord Tremlyn had left his party to look at what
was to be seen by themselves, and came forward to the pilot-house. The
anchorage was settled.

"Captain Ringgold, if you please, we will now exchange places," said the
viscount. "Up to the present time we have been your guests; now I will
become the host, and you and your party will be my guests. I beg you will
raise no objections, my dear sir, and I shall feel very much wounded if you
do not accept the hospitality I tender to you. You are at home on the sea
as I am in Bombay."

"You have put it in such a way that I cannot refuse to accept," replied the
commander, laughing at the corner in which he was placed. "For the present
we are your guests, and we place ourselves entirely under your direction."

"I am extremely happy to take you all under my protection; but I cannot
submit to the proviso which you have added to my offer, though I will be
satisfied to have you 'for the present' as my guests, and we will leave the
future to take care of itself. But in whatever capacity we travel over
India, or such portion of it as you may elect, it is rather necessary that
we fix upon a plan for our operations."

"I am quite agreed that we had better draw up a programme, and I shall
depend upon your counsel in the matter," replied the captain. "For the
present, will you excuse me until the ship comes to anchor?"

"Certainly, Captain."

"Here is the custom-house boat, and I suppose I must attend to that."

"Leave that to me, if you please."

In another half-hour the Guardian-Mother was at anchor off the Apollo
Bunder, the wharf, or landing-place. The custom-house officers came on
board; and, as the ship was not one of any regular line, a high official
came off with them. As soon as he reached the deck he discovered his
lordship, and rushed to him, bowed profusely, and addressed him in the most
deferential manner.

"This is a very unexpected visit, my Lord, and in a steamer flying the
American flag," said he, as the viscount gave him his hand, a piece of
condescension he appeared to appreciate very highly. "What has become of
the Travancore?"

"She was wrecked in the Arabian Sea in a collision, and went to the bottom
after holding us up for a few hours. We were rescued from certain death by
this steamer, and we have been treated with the utmost kindness and
consideration," said his lordship quite hurriedly. "Sir Modava Rao and Dr.
Ferrolan are on board. I am entirely devoted to those to whom we owe our
lives, and I am in their service as long as they will stay in India. What
is your business on board, Mr. Windham?"

"It is in connection with the customs, my Lord."

"You will dispense with everything in that connection, for this is a yacht;
and you will oblige me by not subjecting any person on board to any
annoyance, Mr. Windham."

"Certainly not, my Lord; and not a trunk shall be opened. But the
newspapers will want the account of your shipwreck, and a reporter came off
with me," replied the official.

"Refer him to my secretary."

The under-official obtained particulars from the first officer in regard to
the steamer for the custom-house, and Dr. Ferrolan gave the reporter an
account of the disaster to the Travancore which he had written.

"I propose to land and proceed to our hotel as soon as the ladies are
ready," said Lord Tremlyn, when he had retired to the captain's cabin with
the commander. "While they are preparing, we will consider the programme of
the tour."

"Very well, your Lordship; I will have the party notified. Mr. Scott," said
the captain, opening the door into the pilot-house, "inform all the company
that we go on shore in half an hour; and you will go with them. Mr.
Boulong, lower the gangway, and have the barge ready."

"Perhaps you have arranged a programme yourself already," suggested the new
host of the party.

"I have considered the matter. I proposed to see Bombay, and perhaps run
down to Poona. Then go to Surat in the steamer, and visit Baroda, and
proceed by the ship to Kurrachee. From there I thought I should send the
Guardian-Mother round to Calcutta in charge of Mr. Boulong, while we
travelled to Lahore, Delhi, Cawnpore, Lucknow, Allahabad, Benares, and
Calcutta by railway. From there we will go to Madras and Ceylon by the
steamer," said the commander, who seemed to have arranged the whole trip.

"Excellent, Captain Ringgold!" exclaimed the viscount. "I can hardly better
that."

He made some suggestions; but this route was substantially adopted.




                                 CHAPTER XVI

                        A MULTITUDE OF NATIVE SERVANTS


The barge was ready as soon as it was needed, and lay at the platform of
