wid de army."

"Why didn't he come down to Newberry along with the army?" asked Life,
who knew precisely where he was when Monticello was mentioned.

"De army don't come dis way, dey foller de road by de Souf Forks."

"Where do they go then?"

"Dunno, Mars'r; dey don't tell whar de go," replied the mulatto,
shaking his head.

This man seemed to be intelligent, and know more about the region than
most of the negroes. Deck bade them good-by, and resumed his march.

"I dunno's we need go any furder," said Life, after they had gone a few
rods.

"I hope we shall be able to obtain more reliable information than from
the reports of these darkeys," replied Deck, who was in favor of doing
the work thoroughly.

"Jest as you say, Lieutenant; but if they had come down this way we'd
'a' seen some stragglers," answered the Kentuckian. "I reckon I know
just whar they are gwine, 'cause I've been over the road myself.
They'll foller the South Fork, and strike Jamestown, Fentress County,
and from there make for Gainsborough, where they can git steamboats to
tote them to Nashville."

"There is a village ahead," said Deck.

"That is Newberry" (as it was then called).

They went into the place, and found a grocery store and post-office.
They halted near it, and spent some time in a consultation. At
Jamestown they could determine with certainty where the army was going.
It was a little over twenty miles, while the road the army had taken
was quite thirty, though the roads were better by the latter route.
Deck promptly decided to proceed to Jamestown. They deemed it
advisable to avoid the towns, especially Albany, the capital of the
county; and it seemed to be necessary to provide themselves with a
quantity of food, for they might not be able to procure a dinner or a
supper as readily as they had a breakfast.

They dismounted, and entered the store. They found the postmaster half
asleep behind his counter; and when Deck inquired if he had anything to
eat, he replied in a very sulky manner that he had nothing. He had been
robbed of about everything he had that was eatable by runaway soldiers
like themselves, who had deserted from the army.

"Haven't you got anything?" persisted Deck.

"Not a thing; a dozen of you runaways came here last night, and took
everything I had, and never paid me a cent for what they carried off,
and threatened to shoot me if I made a row about it. I can't afford to
keep store for sech fellers," protested the man, with intense disgust.

"But I have a little money, and I am willing to pay for whatever we
obtain," added the lieutenant.

The storekeeper raised his head sharply, and appeared to be wide awake
at these words.

"Don't you think you could raise something for us?" asked Deck.

"Provisions is mighty skeece down here, for the army has picked up
everything they could find; and we are as poor as starved turkeys."

"Well, if you hain't got nothin', of course we can't git nothin',"
added Life.

"If you're gwine to pay for what you have, I might raise somethin' for
you," said the storekeeper. "I bought two mighty handsome chickens
yesterday, and had to give a dollar apiece for 'em. My wife roasted 'em
last night, and hid 'em away for our own use. If you don't mind payin'
two dollars apiece for 'em, you shall have 'em."

"All right; bring them along," answered Deck.

The man left the store, and was absent about ten minutes, when he
returned with the chickens. They were quite large, and were a toothsome
morsel for hungry men. Deck then called for a dollar's worth of
crackers, which the storekeeper had to bring from their hiding-place
outside the building. General Woodbine had provided him with five gold
half-eagles, which the lieutenant had concealed in as many different
places about his own and Life's person, and a few dollars' worth of
silver.

Deck paid in gold for the provisions. The postmaster, who looked like a
happy man since he saw the precious coin, wrapped the chickens in
papers, putting a little package of salt with each; and the wanderers
stuffed them into their capacious pockets, finding also space enough
for the crackers.

"We are all right now," said Deck, as they left the shop, and hastened
to the tree where they had left their horses.

"We sha'n't starve, nohow," replied Life.

When they came in sight of the horses, they discovered with surprise
and chagrin four men, evidently deserters from the Confederate army,
two of whom were untying the bridles of the animals. One of them had
succeeded in doing so, and was about to mount the steed.

"What are you about thar?" demanded Life, as he stalked towards the man
who had a foot in the stirrup.

The deserter stopped for an instant, and then leaped on the horse.

"I reckon we need those hosses more'n you uns do," replied the fellow
coolly and impudently.

"I reckon you won't have 'em," replied Life. Reaching up his long right
arm, and grasping the man by the throat, he dragged him from the animal
in the twinkling of an eye, pitching him on the ground as though he had
been a piece of carrion; and he lay there looking at the stalwart form
of the Kentuckian, not much inclined to close with him.

The sergeant held the horse recaptured, which he had ridden so far, and
Deck advanced upon the other. But the other two went to his aid, and
