acquainted. The lady asked her father's name and she told it.

"There are some old ladies of that name living half a mile or so from
here," she said. Then remembering they were very poor, and that poor
relations were not always cordially accepted, she hesitated.

"Father spoke of some cousins," cried the little girl eagerly. "He said
sometime we would hunt them up. We only came to New York to live two
weeks ago."

"Then you have hardly had time to look up any one. They would be glad to
see your father, I know. He looks so wholesome and good-natured."

The little girl was not an effusive child, but she and the lady fell
into a delightful talk. Then her hostess brought in a plate of seed
cookies, and she was eating them very delicately when her father
entered.

"We have had such a nice time," she said, "that I'd like you to bring
your little girl up again. Indeed, I have half a mind to keep her."

"We couldn't spare her," said her father, with a fond smile, which Hanny
returned.

"I suppose not. But it will soon be beautiful around here, and when she
longs for a breath of the country you must bring her up."

"Thank you, madam."

"And oh, father, the cousins really are here. Two old, old ladies----"

Mr. Underhill inquired about them, and learned their circumstances were
quite straitened. He promised to come up soon and see them.

Mrs. Brockner kissed Hanny, quite charmed with her simplicity and pretty
manner. And she had never once thought about the length of her old
brown skirt.

It was supper time when they reached home. Steve and Joe and John were
there. The three younger boys had been left at Yonkers. Indeed, George
had declared his intention of being a farmer. Mrs. Underhill said she
didn't want any more boys until she had a place to put them.

Afterward Joe coaxed the little girl to come and sit on his knee. They
were talking about schools.

"Seems to me, Margaret better be studying housekeeping and learning how
to make her clothes instead of going to school," said Mrs. Underhill
shortly. "She can write a nice letter and she's good at figures, and,
really, I don't see----"

"She wants to be finished," returned Steve, with a laugh. "She's a city
girl now. I've been looking schools over. There are several
establishments where they burnish up young ladies. There's Madame
Chegary's----"

"I won't have her going to any French school and reading wretched French
novels!"

Steve threw back his head and laughed. He had such splendid, strong,
white teeth.

"My choice would be Rutgers Institute. It's going to be the school of
the day," declared Joe.

"Exactly. I was coming to that. There would be one term before
vacation."

"I call it all foolishness. And she'll be eighteen on her next
birthday," said her mother. "If she wasn't a good scholar already--and
what more do you expect her to learn?"

They all laughed at their mother's little ebullition of temper.

"The world grows wiser every day," said Joe sententiously.

"And what are you going to do, Pussy?"

Steve reached over and gave the little girl's ear a soft pinch.

"I am going to look up a nice school for her myself. Don't begin to
worry about a child not yet eight years old," said their mother sharply.

"Eight years. She'll soon be that," remarked her father with a soft
sigh. And he wished he could keep her a little girl always.

They went on discussing Rutgers Institute, that was one of the most
highly esteemed schools of the day for young ladies. Steve looked over
at his fair sister--she was almost as pretty as Dolly Beekman. Dolly
had some dainty, attractive ways, played on the piano and sang, and
Peggy had a voice blithe as a bird. Steve was beginning to be quite a
judge of young ladies and social life, and there was no reason why they
should not all aim at something. They had good family names to back
them. Family counted, but so did education and accomplishments.

Mrs. Underhill gave in. Steve would have his way. But then he was such a
good, upright, affectionate son. So when he announced that he had
registered his sister, Margaret's pulses gave a great thrill of delight.

There was so much to do. True, Martha was a good cook and capable, and
there was no milk to look after, no churning, no poultry, and the
countless things of country life. Miss Cynthia Blackfan came the next
week and remodeled the feminine part of the household. She was a tall,
slim, airy-looking person, with large dark eyes and dark hair that she
wore in long ringlets on either side of her face. She always looped them
up when she was sewing. She had all the latest quips of fashion at her
tongue's end--what Margaret must have for school dresses, what for
Sunday best, what lawns and ginghams and prints for summer.

But when she went at the little girl she quite metamorphosed her.

"You must begin to plait the child's hair and tie it with ribbons
[people generally used the word instead of 'braid']. And her frocks must
be made ever so much shorter. And, Cousin Underhill, do put white
stockings on the child. Nobody wears colored ones. Unbleached do wear
stronger and answer for real every day."

"They'll be forever in the wash-tub," said the mother grimly.

"Well, when you're in Rome you must do as the Romans do," with emphasis.
