
“I’ve got to be getting home right away now,” he said finally, clicking
his knife-blade half shut and open with his thumb.

“It’s about time for our evergreen trade, and I don’t want the trees to
stay a minute in the ground after the middle of the month.”

“Won’t the ladies find it hard to tear themselves away from the gaieties
of Saratoga?” I asked with apparent vagueness.

“Well, that’s it,” said Mr. Deering; and he shut his knife and slipped it
into his pocket, in order to take his knee between his clasped hands and
lift his leg from the ground.  I have noticed that this is a
philosophical attitude with some people, and I was prepared by it for
some thoughtful generalising from my companion.  “Women would be willing
to stay on in a place for a year to see if something wouldn’t happen; and
if you take ’em away before anything happens, they’ll always think that
if they’d stayed something would have happened the next day, or maybe the
day they left.”

He stared upward into the pine boughs, and I said: “Yes, that’s so.  I
suppose we should be like them if we had the same conditions.  Their
whole life is an expectation of something to happen.  Men have the
privilege of making things happen—or trying to.”

“Oh, I don’t know as I want to criticise ’em.  As you say, I guess we
should be just so.”  He dropped his leg, and bent over as if to examine
the grass; he ended by taking a blade of it between his teeth before he
spoke again, with his head still down.  “I don’t want to hurry ’em; I
want to give ’em a fair show now we’re here, and I’ll let the stock go as
long as I can.  But I don’t see very much gaiety around.”

I laughed.  “Why, it’s all gaiety, in one way.  Saratoga is a perpetual
Fourth of July, we think.”

“Oh yes; there’s enough going on, and my wife and me we could enjoy it
first rate.”

“If the young lady could?” I ventured, with a smile of sympathetic
intelligence.

“Well, yes.  You see, we don’t know anybody, and I suppose we didn’t take
that into account.  Well, I suppose it’s like this: they thought it would
be easy to get acquainted in the hotel, and commence having a good time
right away.  I don’t know; my wife had the idea when they cooked it up
amongst ’em that she was to come with us.  But I swear I don’t know how
to go about it.  I can’t seem to make up my mouth to speak to folks
first; and then you can’t tell whether a man ain’t a gambler, or on for
the horse-races anyway.  So we’ve been here a week now, and you’re the
first ones we’ve spoken to besides the waiters since we came.”

I couldn’t help laughing, their experience was so exactly as I had
imagined it when I first saw this disconsolate party.  In my triumph at
my own penetration, I would not have had their suffering in the past one
pang the less; but the simple frankness of his confession fixed me in the
wish that the future might be brighter for them.  I thought myself
warranted by my wife’s imprudence in taking a step toward their further
intimacy on my own account, and I said:

“Well, perhaps I ought to tell you that I haven’t been inside the
Saratoga Club or bet on the races since I’ve been here.  That’s my name
in full,”—and I gave him my card,—“and I’m in the literary line; that is,
I’m the editor of a magazine in New York—the Every Other Week.”

“Oh yes; I know who you are,” said my companion, with my card in his
hand.  “Fact is, I was round at your place this morning trying to get
rooms, and the clerk told me all about you from my description.  I felt
as mean as pu’sley goin’; seemed to be takin’ kind of an advantage of
you.”

“Not at all; it’s a public house,” I interrupted; but I thought I should
be stronger with Mrs. March if I did not give the fact away to her, and I
resolved to keep it.

“But they couldn’t rest easy till I tried, and I was more than half glad
there wasn’t any rooms.”

“Oh, I’m very sorry,” I said; and I indulged a real regret from the
vantage I had.  “It would have been very pleasant to have you there.
Perhaps later—we shall be giving up our rooms at the end of the month.”

“No,” he said, with a long breath.  “If I’ve got to leave ’em, I guess
it’ll be just as well to leave ’em where they’re acquainted with the
house anyway.”  His remark betrayed a point in his thinking which had not
perhaps been reached in his talk with the ladies.  “It’s a quiet place,
and they’re used to it; and I guess they wouldn’t want to stay through
the rest of the month, quite.  I don’t believe my wife would, anyway.”

He did not say this very confidently, but hopefully rather, and I thought
it afforded me an opening to find out something yet more definite about
the ladies.

“Miss Gage is remarkably fine-looking,” I began.

“Think so?” he answered.  “Well, so does my wife.  I don’t know as I like
her style exactly,” he said, with a kind of latent grudge.

“Her style is magnificent,” I insisted.

“Well, maybe so.  I guess she’s good enough looking, if that’s what you
mean.  But I think it’s always a kind of a mistake for three persons to
come off together, I don’t care who they are.  Then there’s three
opinions.  She’s a nice girl, and a good girl, and she don’t put herself
forward.  But when you’ve got a young lady on your hands, you’ve got
her, and you feel bound to keep doin’ something for her all the time; and
if you don’t know what to do yourself, and your wife can’t tell—”

I added intelligently, “Yes.”

“Well, that’s just where it is.  Sometimes I wish the whole dumb town
would burn up.”  I laughed and laughed; and my friend, having begun to
unpack his heart, went on to ease it of the rest of its load.  I had not
waited for this before making some reflections concerning him, but I now
formulated them to myself.  He really had none of that reserve I had
attributed to him the night before; it was merely caution and this is the
case with most country people.  They are cautious, but not reserved; if
they think they can trust you, they keep back none of their affairs; and
this is the American character, for we are nearly all country people.  I
understood him perfectly when he said, “I ruther break stone than go
through what I have been through the last week!  You understand how it
