"Four dollars and a half."

"Where are they?"

"In a pawnshop on the Bowery."

"Come with me and I will get them out for you if you will promise to go
to work."

"I will," answered Graham earnestly. "I'll give you my word I will."

"Come back on the next boat, then, and I will go with you to the
pawnshop."

"It will take up your time. You don't mean to give me in charge when we
reach New York?" said Graham apprehensively.

"No; I am willing to give you a fresh chance. I hope you will improve
it."

Jed took out his watch to note the time.

"Is that watch yours? It's a beauty," said Graham.

"Yes; it came from Tiffany's."

"Did you have it when I met you?"

"No; if I had, that would have gone the same way as the money."

"You must be awfully lucky!"

"I suppose I have been. At any rate I have been honest."

"Honesty seems to pay. I must try it."

"I advise you to," said Jed, smiling.

When Jed parted from Graham it occurred to him that he would call on
Mrs. Gately. She had provided him with a breakfast when he needed one,
and seemed kindly disposed towards him.

When he rang the bell of the small house on Twenty-Seventh Street, Mrs.
Gately herself came to the door.

"Did you wish to see me, sir?"

"You don't remember me, Mrs. Gately?"

The old lady peered through her glasses.

"Why bless me!" she said, "if it isn't the young man from the country.
But you're dressed so fine I hardly knew you. I hope you're prosperin'."

"Yes, thank you, Mrs. Gately. I have been quite lucky, but I was pretty
low in spirits as well as in pockets when I left you."

"Why, you're lookin' fine. Won't you stay for supper? Luella Dickinson
will be home soon--she that tends at Macy's. I've often spoken to her
about you. Luella's very romantic."

"I am not, Mrs. Gately, and I'm afraid I can't stop. I must be on board
my yacht in an hour."

"Your yacht! Bless me, you don't mean to say you've got a yacht?"

"Well, it belongs to a friend, but we enjoy it together."

"Have you seen the bad young man who robbed you?"

"Yes; I saw him this afternoon."

"You don't say! Did you have him arrested?"

"No; I helped him get some things out of pawn."

"That's a real Christian act, but I don't think I'd have done it. You
deserve to prosper. I wish you could stay and meet Luella."

"Some other time, Mrs. Gately."

At supper the landlady told Miss Dickinson of Jed's call. Luella
expressed great regret that she had not seen him.

"I should fall in love with Mr. Gilman, I know I would," she said. "Why
didn't you ask him to call at Macy's?"

"I will when I see him again."




CHAPTER XXXII.

AT BAR HARBOR.


About eleven o'clock one forenoon the yacht Juno came to anchor in the
harbor of Mount Desert.

Jed gazed admiringly at the rugged shores, the picturesque village, the
background of hills, the smaller islands surrounding the main island,
like the satellites of a larger planet.

"It is beautiful!" he said. "I never dreamed of such a place."

"Yes," said Roper, "it is by far the most attractive island on the
American coast. I think we shall find it pleasant to stay here for a
time."

"I shall enjoy it at any rate," said Jed. "Where shall we stay?"

"I generally go to the Newport. It is one of the smaller hotels, but its
location is excellent, being very near the water. Besides, I am
expecting my aunt, Mrs. Frost, to arrive in a few days. She always goes
to the Newport, and has the same room every year. There is the hotel
yonder."

Mr. Roper pointed out a pleasant but unpretentious hostelry on the left
of the pier.
