something unpleasant was coming.




Chapter XXX.
Florence Is Followed Home.


"I am listening, madam," said Florence, inclining her head.

"I wish to speak to you about last evening, Miss Linden."

"I hope my playing was satisfactory, Mrs. Leighton. I did my best."

"I have no fault to find with your music. It came up to my
expectations."

"I am glad of that, madam."

"I referred, rather, to your behavior, Miss Linden."

"I don't understand you, Mrs. Leighton," Florence responded, in
unaffected surprise. "Please explain."

"You danced several times with my nephew, Mr. Percy de Brabazon."

"Twice, madam."

"I understood it was oftener. However, that is immaterial. You hardly
seemed conscious of your position."

"What was my position, Mrs. Leighton?" asked Florence, quietly,
looking her employer in the face. "Well--ahem!" answered Mrs.
Leighton, a little ill at ease, "you were a hired musician."

"Well?"

"And you acted as if you were an invited guest."

"I am sorry you did not give me instructions as to my conduct," said
the governess, coldly. "I should not have danced if I had been aware
that it was prohibited."

"I am sorry, Miss Linden, that you persist in misunderstanding me. Mr.
de Brabazon, being in a different social position from yourself, it
looked hardly proper that he should have devoted himself to you more
than to any other lady."

"Did he? I was not aware of it. Don't you think, under the
circumstances, that he is the one whom you should take to task? I
didn't invite his attentions."

"You seemed glad to receive them."

"I was. He is undoubtedly a gentleman."

"Certainly he is. He is my nephew."

"It was not my part to instruct him as to what was proper, surely."

"You are very plausible. Miss Linden, I think it right to tell you
that your conduct was commented upon by one of my lady guests as
unbecoming. However, I will remember, in extenuation, that you are
unaccustomed to society, and doubtless erred ignorantly."

Florence bowed, but forbore to make any remark.

"Do you wish to speak further to me, Mrs. Leighton?"

"No, I think not."

"Then I will bid you good-morning."

When the governess had left the house, Mrs. Leighton asked herself
whether in her encounter with her governess the victory rested with
her, and she was forced to acknowledge that it was at least a matter
of doubt.

"Miss Linden is a faithful teacher, but she does not appear to
appreciate the difference that exists between her and my guests. I
think, however, that upon reflection, she will see that I am right in
my stricture upon her conduct."

Florence left the house indignant and mortified. It was something new
to her to be regarded as a social inferior, and she felt sure that
there were many in Mrs. Leighton's position who would have seen no
harm in her behavior on the previous evening.

Four days afterward, when Florence entered the Madison Avenue car to
ride downtown, she had scarcely reached her seat when an eager voice
addressed her:

"Miss Linden, how fortunate I am in meeting you!"

Florence looked up and saw Mr. de Brabazon sitting nearly opposite
her.

Though she felt an esteem for him, she was sorry to see him, for, with
Mrs. Leighton's rebuke fresh in her mind, it could only be a source of
embarrassment, and, if discovered, subject her in all probability to a
fresh reprimand.

"You are kind to say so, Mr. de Brabazon."

"Not at all. I hoped I might meet you again soon. What a pleasant time
we had at the party."

"I thought so at the time, but the next day I changed my mind."

"Why, may I ask?"

"Because your aunt, Mrs. Leighton, took me to task for dancing with
you twice."

"Was she so absurd?" ejaculated Percy.

"It is not necessarily absurd. She said our social positions were so
different that it was unbecoming for me to receive attention from
you."
