
When she was dressed, Nella called the gondolier from her own window,
and met him in the passage when he came up. He at once promised to make
inquiries about Zorzi and went off to the palace to find his friend and
crony, the Governor's head boatman. The latter, it is needless to say,
knew every detail of the supernatural rescue from the archers, who could
talk of nothing else in spite of the Governor's prohibition. They sat in
a row on the stone bench within the main entrance, a rueful crew, their
heads bound up with a pleasing variety of bandages. In an hour the
gondolier returned, laden with the wonderful story which Nella was the
first, but not the last, to hear from him. Her brown eyes seemed to be
starting from her head when she came back to tell it to her mistress.

Marietta listened with a beating heart, though Nella began at once by
saying that Zorzi had mysteriously disappeared, and was certainly not in
prison. When all was told, she drew a long breath, and wished that she
could be alone to think over what she had heard; but Nella's imagination
was roused, and she was prepared to discuss the affair all the morning.
The details of it had become more and more numerous and circumstantial,
as the men with the bandaged heads recalled what they had seen and
heard. The devils that had delivered Zorzi all had blue noses, brass
teeth and fiery tails. A peculiarity of theirs was that they had six
fingers with six iron claws on each hand, and that all their hoofs were
red-hot. As to their numbers, they might be roughly estimated at a
thousand or so, and their roaring was like the howling of the south wind
and the breaking of the sea on the Lido in a winter storm. It was
horrible to hear, and would alone have put all the armies of the
Republic to ignominious flight. Nella thought these things very
interesting. She wished that she might talk with one of the men who had
seen a real devil.

"I do not believe a word of all that nonsense," said Marietta. "The most
important thing is that Zorzi got away from them and is not in prison."

"If he escaped by selling his soul to the fiends," said Nella, shaking
her head, "it is a very evil thing."

Her mistress's disbelief in the blue noses and fiery tails was
disconcerting, and had a chilling effect on Nella's talkative mood. The
gondolier had crossed the bridge, to tell his story to Pasquale, whose
view of the case seemed to differ from Nella's. He listened with
approving interest, but without comment, until the gondolier had
finished.

"I could tell you many such stories," he said. "Things of this kind
often happen at sea."

"Really!" exclaimed the gondolier, who was only a boatman and regarded
real sailors with a sort of professional reverence.

"Yes," answered Pasquale. "Especially on Sundays. You must know that
when the priests are all saying mass, and the people are all praying,
the devils cannot bear it, and are driven out to sea for the day. Very
strange things happen then, I assure you. Some day I will tell you how
the boatswain of a ship I once sailed in rove the end of the devil's
tail through a link of the chain, made a Flemish knot at the end to stop
it, and let go the anchor. So the devil went to the bottom by the run.
We unshackled the chain and wore the ship to the wind, and after that we
had fair weather to the end of the voyage. It happened on a Sunday."

"Marvellous!" cried the gondolier. "I should like to hear the whole
story! But if you will allow me, I will go in and tell the Signor
Giovanni what has happened, for he does not know yet."

Pasquale grinned as he stood in the doorway.

"He has given strict orders that no one is to be admitted this morning,
as he is very busy."

"But this is a very important matter," argued the gondolier, who wished
to have the pleasure of telling the tale.

"I cannot help it," answered Pasquale. "Those are his orders, and I must
obey them. You know what his temper is, when he is not pleased."

Just then a skiff came up the canal at a great rate, so that the quick
strokes of the oar attracted the men's attention. They saw that the boat
was one of those that could be hired everywhere in Venice. The oarsman
backed water with a strong stroke and brought to at the steps before the
glass-house.

"Are you not Messer Angelo Beroviero's gondolier?" he inquired civilly.

"Yes," answered the man addressed, "I am the head gondolier, at your
service."

"Thank you," replied the boatman. "I am to tell you that Messer Angelo
has just arrived in Venice by sea, from Rimini, on board the Santa
Lucia, a Neapolitan galliot now at anchor in the Giudecca. He desires
you to bring his gondola at once to fetch him, and I am to bring over
his baggage in my skiff."

The gondolier uttered an exclamation of surprise, and then turned to
Pasquale.

"I go," he said. "Will you tell the Signor Giovanni that his father is
coming home?"

Pasquale grinned again. He was rarely in such a pleasant humour.

"Certainly not," he answered. "The Signor Giovanni is very busy, and has
given strict orders that he is not to be disturbed on any account."

"That is your affair," said the gondolier, hurrying away.




CHAPTER XIX


A little more than an hour later, the gondola came back and stopped
alongside the steps of the house. The gondolier had made such haste to
obey the summons that he had not thought of going into the house to give
the servants warning, and as most of the shutters were already drawn
together against the heat, no one had been looking out when he went
away. He had asked Pasquale to tell the young master, and that was all
that could be expected of him. There was therefore great surprise in the
household when Angelo Beroviero went up the steps of his house, and his
own astonishment that no one should be there to receive him was almost
