buried his own in his hands.

The doctor rose, and stood frowning.  He seemed to hesitate for the
first time since he had been in the room.

"Is there no heart-beat yet?  Can't you detect anything?" asked Avery
again.  He could not help it.  Dr. Thorne looked at him; the physician
seemed to treat the question as he would an insult.

"When I have anything to say, I 'll say it," he answered roughly.  He
stood pondering.

"A glass!" he called peremptorily.  Molly handed him a tumbler.  He
pushed it away.

"I said a glass!  A mirror!"

Some one handed him Jean's little silver toilet hand-glass.  The
physician held it to her lips, and laid it down.  After a moment's
irresolution he took it up, and bending over the body put it to the
woman's lips again, and studied it intently for some moments.  Avery
asked no questions this time, nor did he dare glance at the glass.

"How long," demanded Dr. Thorne suddenly, "has she been like this?"

"I found her so when I came in.  It was then eleven o'clock."

"How long had she been alone?"

"I went out at twenty minutes past ten.  I went to have a tooth
extracted.  That was forty minutes."

"Did she speak to you when you went out?"

"Yes--she spoke to me."

"What did she say?"

Marshall Avery made no reply.

"Were there any symptoms of this heart-failure then?  Out with it!--No.
Never mind.  It's evident enough."

The clock on the mantel struck the quarter before twelve.

"She has been as she is an hour and a quarter," said Dr. Thorne.  His
voice and manner were disheartened.  He stood a moment pondering, with
a dark face.

"Do you call her dead?" entreated Avery.  It seemed to him that he had
reached the limit of endurance.  He would pull the worst down on his
head at one toppling blow.

"No!" cried the physician, in a deep, reverberating tone.

"But is it death?" persisted Avery wildly.

"I do not know," said Dr. Thorne.

"Do you give her up?"

"No!" thundered Dr. Thorne again.  "The drowned have been
resuscitated after six hours," he added between his teeth.  "That's the
latest contention."

At this moment a messenger summoned by telephone from the corner
pharmacy arrived, running, and pealed and thundered at the door.  Some
one laid upon the bed within the doctor's reach a small pasteboard box.
He opened it in silence, and took from it a tiny crystal or shell of
thin glass.  This he broke upon a handkerchief, and held the linen
cautiously to Jean's face.  A powerful, pungent odor filled the room.
Avery felt his head whirl as he breathed it.  The doctor removed the
handkerchief and scrutinized Jean's face.  Neither hope nor despair
could be detected on his own.  Without a word he went to work again.

Not discarding, but not now depending altogether on the aid of warmth,
stimulants, and the remedies upon which he had been trained to rely in
his duels with death, the physician turned the force of his will and
his skill in the direction of another class of experiments.

So far as he could, and at such disadvantage as he must, he put certain
of the modern processes of artificial respiration to the proof.  He did
not allow himself to be hampered in this desperate expedient by an
element of danger involved in lifting the patient's arms above her
head; for Jean had passed far beyond all ordinary perils.  Obstacles
seemed to serve only to whip his audacity.  His countenance grew dogged
and grim.  He worked with an ineffable gentleness, and with an
indomitable determination that gave a definite grandeur to his bearing.

Avery looked on with dull, blind eyes; he felt that he was witnessing
an unsuccessful attempt at miracle.  He began to resent it as an
interference with the sanctity of death.  He began to wish that the
doctor would let his wife alone.  The clock on the mantel struck
twelve.  Pink had fallen asleep, and somebody had carried her back to
her own bed.  The two women huddled together by the door.  The
physician had ceased to speak to any person.  His square jaws came
together like steel machinery that had been locked.  In his eyes
immeasurable pity gathered; but no one could see his eyes.  The clock
timed the quarter past midnight.

Avery had now moved round to the other side of the bed; he buried his
face in his wife's pillow, and, unobserved, put out his hand to touch
her.  He reached and clasped her thin left hand on which her
wedding-ring hung loosely.  Her fingers were not very cold,--he had
often known them colder when she was ill,--and as his hand closed over
them it seemed to him for a wild instant that hers melted within it;
that it relaxed, or warmed beneath his touch.

"I am going mad," he thought.  He raised his head.  The clock called
half-past twelve.  Dr. Thorne was holding the little mirror at Jean's
lips again.  A silvery film--as delicate as mist, as mysterious as
life, as mighty as joy--clouded it from end to end.

"Jean Avery!" cried the physician, in a ringing tone.

Afterwards Avery thought of that other Healer who summoned his dearest
friend from the retreat of death "in a loud voice."  But at the moment
he thought not at all.  For Jean sighed gently and turned her face, and
her husband's eyes were the first she saw when the light of her own
high soul returned to hers.
