face and wrists.

For the first time since I had entered the wilderness I made no fire,
but munched a cold breast of partridge and drove it into my stomach
with bits of ash-cake, drinking a mouthful between bites to moisten
the dry cheer. I ate very slowly, my eyes making their mechanical
circuit of the silent trees, my ears ever flattened for a noise behind
me.

Silence breeds silence; man's movements in the woods are soft and
cat-like where caution is an instinct. I speak of true woodsmen--those
who know the solitary life--not of loud and careless men who swagger
into God's woodland mysteries as to a tavern tap-room.

Now, as I sat there, crumbs on my knees yet unbrushed, a sudden
instinct arose in me that I had been followed; nay, not so sudden,
either, for the vague idea had been slowly taking shape since I had
seen that sign in the river-bed among the willows.

I had absolutely no reason for believing this; the foot-print was
three days old and it pointed north. Yet, at the mere thought, the
skin on my neck began to roughen and my nose gave little twitches.
Unconsciously I had already risen, priming my rifle, and for a moment,
I stood there, ankle deep in moss. Then, moved by no impulse of my
own, I swear, I lifted my pack and passed swiftly along the little
brook towards the main trail. Presently, through the willows to the
right, I caught a glimpse of a shallow stream rushing noiselessly over
a sand bottom, and on the other side of the stream I saw a notched
tree, the Fort Pitt trail!

Now I deliberately made a string of plain foot-tracks along the sandy
stream, pointing towards the shallowest spot. Here I forded, and made
more tracks in the mud, entering the Fort Pitt trail. I ran down this
trail till I came to a brier, and on the thorns of a spray which
crossed the broad, hard trail, I left a few strings from my fringed
hunting-shirt. Then I began to walk backward till I reached the spot
where I had entered the trail from the sandy stream. I backed down
this bank, forded the shallows, then, instead of coming out on the
sand, I waded up stream to my little thread of a brook, and up that
brook till I found a great log choking it. And behind this log I
squatted, panting, and astonished at my own performance.

Yet, even now, I could not find reason to blush at my timid
precautions, for that feeling of being followed still haunted me. It
was neither a coward's panic nor a cool man's alarm; it was something
that drove me to cover my tracks. The white hare does it when
unpursued by hounds; the grouse do it when no pointer follows--why? I
know no more than the white hare or the grouse.

From my form among the ferns, rabbit-like I huddled with palpitating
flanks and nose atwitch in the wind. Nothing stirred save those sad,
deformed leaves that drift earthward, dead ere spring is fled. Bubble!
bubble! dripped the stream, its tiny waterfall full of voices, now
clear, now indistinct, but always calling sweetly, "Michael! Michael!
Michael!" And if your name be not Michael, nevertheless it will call
you by your name. And the voice is ever the voice of the best beloved.

Alert, sniffing the air, I still could hear the voice of Silver Heels,
down under the waterfall, and sometimes she called through laughter,
"Michael!" and sometimes far away like a wind-blown cry, and sometimes
like a whisper close to my face.

So rang her voice as an old song in my ears, the while my eyes scanned
the dappled tree-trunks of a silvery beechwood, east and west, and
through a long vista where, across a sunny streak of water, the Fort
Pitt trail ran southwest.

The sun had spanned an hour's length on the blue dial of the sky, yet
nothing moved in the woods. Still, strangely, I felt no impatience, no
desire to chide myself for good time lost in groundless watchfulness.
One by one the tall trees shed young leaves too early dead; the voices
in the waterfall made low melody; the white sun-spots waned and
glowed, mottling the silvered tree-trunks, lacing the water with a
paler fretwork.

I sat now with my cheek on the cool, moist log, my rifle in my lap,
watching the trees along the Fort Pitt trail. And, as I watched, I saw
a man come out on the sandy bank of the stream and kneel down where my
tracks crossed to the water's edge.

I was not astonished, but all over me my flesh moved, and without a
sound I sank down behind my log into a soft ball of buckskin.

The man was Walter Butler. I knew him, though God alone knows how I
could, for he wore the shirt of a Mohawk and beaded leggings to the
hips, and at that distance might have been an Indian. He bore a rifle,
and there was a hatchet in his beaded belt, and on his head he wore a
round cap of moleskin under which his black, coarse hair, freed from
the queue, fell to his chin.

He crouched there, examining my tracks with closest attention for full
a minute, then rose gracefully and followed, tracing them up to the
Fort Pitt trail.

Here I saw two other men come swiftly through the trees to meet him,
but, though they gesticulated violently and pointed down the stream,
they spoke too low for me to hear a single whisper.

Suddenly, to my horror, a canoe shot across my line of sight and
stopped as suddenly, held by the setting-pole in midstream. It
contained a white man, who leaned on the setting-pole, silently
awaiting the result of the conference on the bank above.

The conference ended abruptly; I saw two of the men start south
towards Fort Pitt, while Butler came hastily down to the water's edge
and waded out to the canoe.

He boarded the frail craft from the bow, straddling it skilfully and
working his way to his place. Then the two setting-poles flashed in
the sunshine and the canoe shot out of sight.

My mind was working rapidly now, but, at first, anger succeeded blank
perplexity. What did Captain Butler mean by following me through the
forests? The answer came ere the question had been fully formed, and I
knew he hated me and meant to kill me.

How he had learned of my mission, whether he had actually learned of
it, or only suspected it from my disappearance, concerned me little.
These things were certain: he was Lord Dunmore's emissary as I was the
emissary of Sir William; he was bound for Cresap's camp as was I; and
