"Well, that's what I think, too."

"Why, Pony," said his mother, "is there anybody who thinks such a thing
can be right?"

"Well, the boys say it's not stealing. Stealing is hooking a thing out of
a wagon or a store; but if you can knock a thing off a tree, or get it
through a fence, when it's on the ground already, then it's just like
gathering nuts in the woods. That's what the boys say. Do you think it
is?"

"I think it's the worst kind of stealing. I hope my boy doesn't do such
things."

"Not very often," answered Pony, thoughtfully. "When there's a lot of
fellows together, you don't want them to laugh at you."

"O Pony, dear!" said his mother, almost crying.

"Well, anyway, mother," Pony said, to cheer her up, "I didn't take any of
the watermelons to-day, for all Jim said Bunty had got done with them."

"I'm so glad to think you didn't! And you must promise, won't you, never
to touch any fruit that doesn't belong to you?"

"But supposing an apple was to drop over the fence onto the sidewalk, what
would you do then?"

"I should throw it right back over the fence again," said Pony's mother.

Pony promised his mother never to touch other people's fruit, but he was
glad she did not ask him to throw it back over the fence if it fell
outside, for he knew the fellows would laugh.

His father came back from going down-stairs with the doctor, and she told
him all that Pony had told her, and it seemed to Pony that his father
could hardly keep from laughing. But his mother did not even smile.

"How could Jim Leonard tell them that a man would give up his watermelon
patch, and how could they believe such a lie, poor, foolish boys?"

"They wished to believe it," said Pony's father, "and so did Jim, I dare
say."

"He might have got some of them killed, if Bunty Williams had fired his
gun at them," said Pony's mother; and he could see that she was not
half-satisfied with what his father said.

"Perhaps it was a hoe, after all. You can't shoot anybody with a
hoe-handle, and there is nothing to prove that it was a gun but Jim's
word."

"Yes, and here poor Pony has been so sick from it all, and Jim Leonard
gets off without anything."

"You are always wanting the tower to fall on the wicked," said Pony's
father, laughing. "When it came to the worst, Jim didn't take the melons
any more than Pony did. And he seems to have wanted to back out of the
whole affair at one time."

"Oh! And do you think that excuses him?"

"No, I don't. But I think he's had a worse time, if that's any comfort,
than Pony has. He has suffered the fate of all liars. Sooner or later
their lies outwit them and overmaster them, for whenever people believe a
liar he is forced to act as if he had spoken the truth. That's worse than
having a tower fall on you, or pains in the stomach."

Pony's mother was silent for a moment as if she could not answer, and then
she said, "Well, all I know is, I wish there was no such boy in this town
as Jim Leonard."




V

ABOUT RUNNING AWAY TO THE INDIAN
RESERVATION ON A CANAL-BOAT, AND
HOW THE PLAN FAILED


Now, anybody can see the kind of a boy that Jim Leonard was, pretty well;
and the strange thing of it was that he could have such a boy as Pony
Baker under him so. But, anyway, Pony liked Jim, as much as his mother
hated him, and he believed everything Jim said in spite of all that had
happened.

After Jim promised to find out whether there was any Indian reservation
that you could walk to, he pretended to study out in the geography that
the only reservation there was in the State was away up close to Lake
Erie, but it was not far from the same canal that ran through the Boy's
Town to the lake, and Jim said, "I'll tell you what, Pony! The way to do
will be to get into a canal-boat, somehow, and that will take you to the
reservation without your hardly having to walk a step; and you can have
fun on the boat, too."

Pony agreed that this would be the best way, but he did not really like
the notion of living so long among the Indians that he would not remember
his father and mother when he saw them; he would like to stay till he was
pretty nearly grown up, and then come back in a chief's dress, with eagle
plumes all down his back and a bow in his hand, and scare them a little
when he first came in the house and then protect them from the tribe and
tell them who he was, and enjoy their surprise. But he hated to say this
to Jim Leonard, because he would think he was afraid to live with the
Indians always. He hardly dared to ask him what the Indians would do to
him if they did not adopt him, but he thought he had better, and Jim said:

"Oh, burn you, maybe. But it ain't likely but what they'll adopt you; and
if they do they'll take you down to the river, and wash you and scrub
you, so's to get all the white man off, and then pull out your hair, a
hair at a time, till there's nothing but the scalp-lock left, so that your
enemies can scalp you handy; and then you're just as good an Indian as
anybody, and nobody can pick on you, or anything. The thing is how to find
the canal-boat."

The next morning at school it began to be known that Pony Baker was going
to run off on a canal-boat to see the Indians, and all the fellows said
how he ought to do it. One of the fellows said that he ought to get to
drive the boat horses, and another that he ought to hide on board in the
