
Then, she did not know how, it grew less, as if a sort of crisis were
past, and she drew a long breath of relief as her arm relaxed, and she
replaced the lid on the box. She turned from the table and took the big
chair away from its usual place. It was a heavy thing for a woman to
carry, but she did not notice the weight till she had set it against the
wall at the further end of the room.

She slept little that night, but she slept naturally, and when she awoke
there was no sound of the door being softly closed. But she missed
something, and felt a dull, inexplicable want all the next day.

A habit is not broken by a single interruption. It is hard for a man
whose nerves are accustomed to a stimulant or a narcotic to go without
it for one day, but that is as nothing compared with giving it up
altogether. Specialists can decide whether there is any resemblance
between the condition of a person under the influence of morphia or
alcohol, and the state of a person hypnotised, whether by himself or by
another, when that state is regularly accompanied by the illusion of
some strong and agreeable emotion. Probably all means which produce an
unnatural condition of the nerves at more or less regular hours may be
classed together, and there is not much difference between the kind of
craving they produce in those who use them. Moreover it is often said
that it is harder for a woman to break a habit of that sort, than for a
man.

Cecilia was young, fairly strong and very elastic, but she suffered
intensely when night came and she had to face the struggle. Bodily pain
would have been a relief then, and she knew it, but there was none to
bear. The chair looked at her from its distant place against the wall,
and seemed to draw her to it, till she had it taken away, pretending
that it did not suit the room. But when it was gone, she knew perfectly
well that it really made no difference, and that she could dream in any
other chair as easily.

And then came a wild desire to see the man's face again, and to be sure
that it had not changed. She was certain that she only wished to see it;
she would have been overwhelmed with shame, all alone in her room, if
she had acknowledged that it was the kiss that she craved and the one
moment of indescribable intoxication that came with it.

Are there not hundreds of men who earn their living by risking their
lives every night in feats of danger, and who miss that recurring moment
when they cannot have it? They will never admit that what they crave is
really the chance of a painful death, yet it is perfectly true.

Cecilia could not have been induced to think that she desired no longer
the lovely vision of a perfect life; that she could have parted with
that easily enough, though with much calm regret; and that, instead, she
had a nervous, material, most earthly longing for the single moment in
that life which was the contrary of perfect, which she despised, or
tried to despise, and which she believed she feared.

She struggled hard, and succeeded, and at last she could go to bed
quietly, without even glancing at the place where the chair had stood,
or at the candles on the table.

Then, when it all seemed over, a terrible thing happened. She dreamed of
the real Lamberti in her natural sleep, in a dream about real life.




                               CHAPTER XV


Cecilia knelt in the church of Santa Croce, near one of the ancient
pillars. At a little distance behind her, Petersen sat in a chair
reading a queer little German book that told her the stories of the
principal Roman churches with the legends of the saints to which they
are dedicated. A thin, smooth-shaven lay brother in black and white
frock was slowly sweeping the choir behind the high altar. There was no
one else in the church.

Cecilia was kneeling on the marble floor, resting her folded hands upon
the back of a rough chair, and there was no sound in the dim building,
but the regular, soft brushing of the monk's broom. The girl's face was
still and pale, her eyes were half closed, and her lips did not move;
she did not hear the broom.

That was the first time she had ever tried to spend an hour in
meditation in a church, for her religion had never seemed very real to
her. It was compounded of habit and the natural respect of a girl for
what her mother practises and has taught her to practise, and it had
continued to hold a place in her life because she had quietly exempted
it from her own criticism; perhaps, too, because her reading had not
really tended to disturb it, since by nature she was strongly inclined
to believe in something much higher than the visible world.

The Countess Fortiguerra believed with the simplicity of a child. Her
first husband, freethinker, Garibaldian, Mazzinian, had at first tried
to laugh her out of all belief, and had said that he would baptize her
in the name of reason, as Garibaldi is said to have once baptized a
new-born infant. But to his surprise his jests had not the slightest
effect on the rather foolish, very pretty, perfectly frank young woman
with whom he had fallen in love in his older years, and who, in all
other matters, thought him a great man. She laughed at his atheism much
more good-naturedly than he at her beliefs, and she went to church
regularly in spite of anything he could say; so that at last he shrugged
his shoulders and said in his heart that all women were half-witted
creatures, where priests were concerned, but that fortunately the
weakness did not detract from their charm. On her side, she prayed for
his conversion every day, with clock-like regularity, but without the
slightest result.

Fortiguerra had been a man of remarkable gifts, extremely tolerant of
other people's opinions. He never laughed at any sort of belief, though
his wife never succeeded in finding out what he really thought about
spiritual matters. He evidently believed in something, so she did not
pray for his conversion, but interceded steadily for his enlightenment.
Before he died he made no objection to seeing a priest, but his wife
never knew whether he consented because it would have given her pain if
he had refused, or whether he really desired spiritual comfort in his
last moments. He was always most considerate of others and especially of
her; but he was very reticent. So she mourned him and prayed that
everything might be well with both her departed husbands, though she
doubted whether they were in the same place. She supposed that
Fortiguerra had sometimes discussed religion with his step-daughter, but
he always seemed to take it for granted that the latter should do what
her mother desired of her.
