Helen was up at five the next morning. They were early risers in the
summer time at the Mulfords', except Fan and little Tom. Mrs. Mulford
didn't want young ones about bothering, when they could be no sort of
use. Mr. Mulford had quoted the advantage of good habits, and that you
never could begin too soon.

"When I have need of their habits I'll see that they have 'em," she
replied with a confident nod. "Plenty of sleep is good for 'em."

Helen and 'Reely had reached the period of "habits." Mrs. Mulford always
called out sharply at five o'clock.

Oh, what a beautiful world it was! Over east was a chain of high hills,
blue in the morning light, except where the sun struck them. They seemed
part of another world. Between were bits of woodland, meadows, orchards
and the creek that was laid down on the State map as a river, but no
one called it that. Nearer was a cluster of houses, two or three
factories stretching out to South Hope and the railroad station. Oh, why
were beautiful things always so far off?

She hurried on her gown and twisted up her hair in a knot. It was a
faded cambric of last summer, rather short in the skirt for such a large
girl, but then it was pretty well worn out. She helped with the
breakfast, she laid out the dainties for Jenny's lunch, she ran to do
things for Uncle Jason, the world was just full of odds and ends jumbled
together. She wondered why people had to eat so much. Why hadn't they
been made so one meal a day would suffice?

Jenny took her little lunch satchel and trudged on with a cheerful
good-morning. Nearly a mile to walk, and then to work all day in the hot
stuffy place full of unfragrant smells, and the gossip about beaus and
what was going to be the fashion, and perhaps unfriendly comments or
common teasing jokes. That was what they talked about when they came to
see Jenny. They were no great readers, these girls. And was her lot to
be cast with them? Oh, had school days really come to an end? She had
known their worth such a little while, only during the last year, the
last three months she might say. School was a period everyone went
through, but now, to her it had unfolded its magical labyrinth, and she
wanted to roam there forever. Yet though she had shed bitter tears last
night, she did not feel at all like crying now. An exultant life seemed
throbbing within her.

"Now, Helen, you just go upstairs and sweep, and look out for the
corners when you wipe up, and shake the mats out good and hard. See how
quick you can get through."

Aunt Jane always said this Saturday morning. "Just as if I couldn't
remember when I've done it for two years," Helen thought, but she made
no reply. She worked away with her mind on a dozen other things, and her
work was well done, too.

The great oven was heated on Saturday, an old-fashioned brick oven. Pies
and cake and bread, and a big jar full of beans went in it to come out
done to perfection. And the towels and handkerchiefs and stockings were
washed on that day, it saved so much from Monday's work. Nathan and
'Reely weeded in the garden, then peeled apples for sauce, and picked
raspberries to can, making what Aunt Jane called a clean sweep of them.
Dinner again for a hungry host.

"I'm going over to Hope this afternoon," said Uncle Jason, "I s'pose
there's some butter ready to take. Now what do you want?"

"Oh, my! What I don't want would be less. Some of that green and white
gingham, spools of thread, shirting muslin good and stout, and Jenny
said if anyone went over there was a list of things she wanted. It's in
her machine drawer."

"Oh, I never can look after so much. Come mother, go along yourself."

"On Sat'day afternoon! Jason Mulford!"

"Well you can't go on Sunday," and he laughed.

"Yes, I could go over to church on Sunday," she retorted sharply. "Thank
the Lord there's one day you don't have to cook from morning to night,
though like the old Israelites you have to do a double portion on
Sat'day. Dear me, I sometimes wished we lived on manna."

"What is manna?" inquired 'Reely.

"Bread and honey," said her father.

"No, twan't bread and honey either. Jason, why do you say such things!
It's what the children of Israel had to live on forty years in the
wilderness, and they got mighty tired of it too. It's my opinion, 'Reely
Mulford, you'd rather have bread and cake and potpie and baked beans and
berries and such."

'Reely stared with her big brown eyes.

"And--didn't they have any----"

"You're big enough to read the Bible, 'Reely. When I was twelve I had
read it all through, except the chapters with the names which mother
said didn't count. But we didn't have Sunday school books then, and that
was all there was to read on Sunday."

Helen thought everything that happened to Aunt Jane happened before she
was twelve. She had made her father some shirts, she had pieced several
quilts, made bread and cake and spun on the little wheel and could do a
week's washing.

"Well, about Hope?" They seldom said North Hope, or tacked Hope on to
the Center.

"Oh, I couldn't go."

"Well, I can't get all those things. See here, let Helen go."

Aunt Jane looked at her. Helen knew by experience that to want a thing
very much was a sure way of being denied, so she merely went to the
machine drawer and brought the list Jenny had written out, in which were
several mispelled words.

"O Lordy!" ejaculated Uncle Jason.

"Before all these children too! No one would think you were a church
member, Jason," said his wife severely.

"Well, if you want all them things you'll have to send Helen along to
