“I will obey, ma’m’selle, with great delight.”

“And—André, who will be the prettiest girl there?”

“Merci! Little one, how can I make a choice?”

“I will tell you: Lucie Aubry, and she will dance with the Secretary the
first thing.”

“Lucie Aubry has not all the beauty of St. Louis.”

“Oh, if she had, what would be left for us?” and Renée made a mirthfully
despairing face.

“You need not feel alarmed.”

“Oh, I don’t,” with enchanting gayety. “In the first place, I am not
tall enough, not grand enough. Then my hair should be raven black, and
it is such a funny no-color.”

“It is very handsome,” he replied decidedly. “Sometimes in the sun it
looks as if it had gold dust sprinkled over it. And then I’ve seen it
look as if the top of every wave was touched with silver.”

“That is very beautiful, André. I will try to recall the compliment when
it looks to me like a gray-brown. And my nose, see——”

“Ma’m’selle, you wrinkle it up and it makes you look piquant, saucy. You
couldn’t make it bad if you tried.”

“Oh, yes! Look!” She put her finger to the tip of it and gave it a tiny
hitch and then laughed.

“That shows your curved lips and your lovely teeth. Even that wouldn’t
make you a fright.”

“Oh, André, how good and comforting you are! But Wawataysee, with her
little Indian blood, is a hundred times handsomer. Only—I am very glad I
suit you and Uncle Gaspard. He thinks I grow like my mother.”

She had been half-dancing round the room in the blaze of the logs.
Families often kept no other light. Now she came and sat down opposite
him, demure as a nun. She had so many fascinating, changeful ways. He
had always considered her a child, but now she was a charming young
girl. This was one of the places where Valbonais felt entirely at home,
because there was no danger of being misinterpreted by any watchful
mamma. He was not quite ready to marry.

Denys came in and pushed his seat near Renée, who leaned her head on his
shoulder. Now the golden lights shone in her hair—not yellow-gold, but
the richer, deeper color—and a soft rose tint played over her cheek,
while her mouth dimpled at the corners as if she was amused at
something. There would not be many prettier girls at the ball, Valbonais
thought.

Wawataysee looked over the “treasures” that one way and another had come
into the possession of Gaspard Denys. True, it was a kind of idyllic
time in the history of the town, so far as regarded society. Some of the
families had a gown or a mantilla of lace and fringe that had been
handed down, voyaged from Canada, or more directly from France and New
Orleans. Such articles were only taken out on great occasions, a few
times in the year. But the woman in plain attire had just as delightful
a time if she was vivacious and sparkling and a good dancer.

For this was the chief amusement of the women. The men had their
shooting matches, not only as a pastime but a good practice, where to be
an excellent marksman was often a protection against Indians; but the
hunts served to provide much of the family living. Many of these people
had come of the better class peasant stock, who from time immemorial had
danced on the greensward on fête days, and not infrequently on Sunday
afternoon, their only holidays.

There were no theatres, few books, and many of the elder people read
with so much difficulty that they lost interest in it. Oftener legends
and family stories were told over on summer evenings when old and young
sat out in the moonlight, ate little spiced cakes and drank birch beer.




CHAPTER XIV

AT THE BALL


Wawataysee fashioned a frock for Renée out of some silvery threaded
stuff that had soft blue disks here and there, looking almost like bits
of fur. Round the shoulders was a band of blue feathers from jay and
marten and bluebird, skilfully arranged on a strip of cloth. Her full,
girlish throat and arms were bare except for some bracelets and a string
of pearls. Her hair was gathered up in a great knot on top of her head
and fastened with a silver comb set with jewels. When she entered the
ballroom leaning on her uncle’s arm half the assemblage turned to look
at her.

The largest space in the Government House had been cleared for dancing.
There were smaller connecting rooms, and all had been trimmed with
evergreens. The warmth brought out their pungent fragrance. Here a
cluster of scarlet berries, there a branch of brown-red oak, a handful
of yellow hickory leaves bunched like a sunflower. Here was the
Commandant, M. Cruzat, and his staff, with their military accoutrements
much tarnished by wear, and the soldiers at the fort who had worn out
those kept some little shred, perhaps the old buttons, to indicate their
standing. But the young men were in noticeably fresh array.

Madame Cruzat and the elegant Madame Chouteau were on the other side
with several ladies, bowing and smiling and making a place for some of
the elders. Around the room were ranged seats of rough boards covered
with blankets. In one of the smaller apartments was the band, though it
was composed mostly of violins.

The elders were to have the upper end of the room in the Court minuet,
the younger people next and in the adjoining rooms. M. Laflamme, a
distinguished-looking young man with an air of what we should call
society, spoke to a lady standing near, who brought him over to
Mademoiselle de Longueville. And at that instant Valbonais approached
smiling and extending his hand.

She listened to the request with the most dainty modesty. “I regret,
monsieur,” she said in a low tone, “but it is a previous engagement.”
