place.”

“I hope so, but I fear your being an American will interfere with you.
The English have an idea that American boys have too much license, and
they would hesitate to take one into their employment.”

“It seems queer to see boys even younger than I am with silk hats on.”

“Yes; but it is the English style. You can’t pass for an English boy--of
the better class--without following their example.”

“I wouldn’t do that. They look like guys. Just let one of them appear in
New York rigged out in that way. Why, the other boys would mob him.”

“That is true. Still I don’t know, but it is well when you are in Rome
to do as the Romans do.”

“Does that mean that you recommend me to put on one of those tiles?”

“Well, not at present,” said Mr. Sturgis. “If it would procure you a
position I should advise you to do so.”

Presently the two separated, and Bernard strolled on alone, his
companion having a business call to make near the bank.

“Have a shine?”

The boy who asked the question was a typical London street urchin, with
ragged clothes, and face and hands bearing evidence of his occupation.

Bernard looked at his shoes. They certainly stood in need of polishing,
but he knew that his means were small and daily diminishing, and was
cautious enough to ask the price.

“A penny,” answered the street boy.

Bernard signed to the boy to begin.

The boy understood his business, and went to work like an expert.

“Do you earn much?” asked Bernard.

“That’s as it happens. When I’m lucky I make one and eight pence or two
shillin’s. Yesterday a gent--he was an American--give me sixpence for a
shine. Americans are rich.”

“Not all of them. I am an American.”

“Have you got a bowie knife?”

“No,” answered Bernard, with a laugh. “What makes you ask?”

“I was readin’ a story in a paper that said all the American boys
carried bowie knives.”

“That’s a mistake.”

Bernard was feeling for a penny to pay the young bootblack when he heard
a snort of triumph, and looking up, he saw Professor Puffer bearing down
upon him.




CHAPTER XXII.  DICK THE BOOTBLACK.

|What’s the matter?” asked the bootblack, noting the swift change in
Bernard’s face.

“That man--he is after me!” ejaculated Bernard, preparing to move on.

He knew that it would be disagreeable to have an encounter with
Professor Puffer and he thought it better to get out of his way.

Whether he could do so was doubtful, as the professor was close at hand.

“I’ll help you,” said the bootblack, “if you’ll give me a shilling. You
be here in an hour.”

“All right,” said Bernard, and he started to run.

But by this time Professor Puffer was only ten feet away. He felt that
Bernard was within his grasp.

But he did not reckon for the bootblack. The latter advanced to meet the
professor, and managed to stumble in front of him so that Puffer, whose
legs were short, fell over him, striking forcibly on his face. Meanwhile
Bernard was hurrying away.

Professor Puffer got up in a furious rage.

“What are you running over me for?” he demanded, shaking his fist at the
bootblack.

The latter began to rub his knees vigorously.

“What are you runnin’ over me for?” he demanded in an injured tone.

Professor Puffer eyed him suspiciously. He hardly knew whether the
encounter was premeditated or not, “Did you see a boy rather taller than
you dressed in a dark suit? I think you have been blacking his shoes.”

“Yes, I did, and he run away without payin’ me. Is he your boy?”

“Yes. Where did he go?”

“I dunno. You ran over me so that I couldn’t see. Will you pay for the
shine?”

“No; he must pay for it himself. But I’ll give you a sixpence if you’ll
find him for me.”

“All right! Give me the money.”

“Not now. I’ll wait till you find him for me.”

“I don’t do business in that way, mister.”

“I believe you’re in league with him,” said the professor suspiciously.

