dressing-room, a little shaken and in a very bad temper with the men
who had carried her.

'I knew they would be clumsy!' she said.

'So did I,' answered her friend. 'That is why I came round to meet
you.'

They entered the dim corridor together, and an instant later they both
heard the sharp click of a door hastily closed at the other end. It was
not the door of Margaret's dressing-room, for that was wide open and
the light from within fell across the dark paved floor, nor was it the
door of the contralto's room, for that was ajar when they passed it.
She had not come in to dress yet.

'That door does not shut well,' Margaret said, indifferently.

'No,' answered Madame Bonanni, in a rather preoccupied tone. 'Where is
your maid?'

The cadaverous maid came up very quickly from behind, overtaking them
with Margaret's grey linen duster.

'They did not carry Mademoiselle out at the usual fly,' she said. 'I
was waiting there.'

'They were abominably clumsy,' Margaret said, still very much annoyed.
'They almost hurt me, and somebody had the impertinence to double-knot
the handkerchief after I had arranged it! I'll send for Schreiermeyer
at once, I think! If I hadn't solid nerves a thing like that might ruin
my début!'

The maid smiled discreetly. The dress rehearsal for Margaret's début
was not half over yet, but she had already the dominating tone of the
successful prima donna, and talked of sending at once for the
redoubtable manager, as if she were talking about scolding the
call-boy. And the maid knew very well that if sent for Schreiermeyer
would come and behave with relative meekness, because he had a
prospective share in the fortune which was in the Cordova's throat.

But Madame Bonanni was in favour of temporising.

'Don't send for him, my dear,' she said. 'Getting angry is very bad for
the voice, and your duet with Rigoletto in the next act is always
trying.

They were in the dressing-room now, all three women, and the door was
shut.

'Is it all right?' Margaret asked, sitting down and looking into the
glass. 'Am I doing well?'

'You don't need me to tell you that! You are magnificent! Divine! No
one ever began so well as you, not even I, my dear, not even I myself!'

This was said with great emphasis. Nothing, perhaps, could have
surprised Madame Bonanni more than that any one should sing better at
the beginning than she had sung herself; but having once admitted the
fact she was quite willing that Margaret should know it, and be made
happy.

'You're the best friend that ever was!' cried Margaret, springing up;
and for the first time in their acquaintance she threw her arms round
the elder woman's neck and kissed her--hitherto the attack, if I may
call it so, had always come from Madame Bonanni, and had been sustained
by Margaret.

'Yes,' said Madame Bonanni, 'I'm your best friend now, but in a couple
of days you will have your choice of the whole world! Now dress, for
I'm going away, and though it's only a rehearsal, it's of no use to
keep people waiting.'

Margaret looked at her and for the first time realised the change in
her appearance, the quiet colours of her dress, the absence of paint on
her cheeks, the moderation of the hat. Yet on that very morning
Margaret had seen her still in all her glory when she had arrived from
Paris.

One woman always knows when another notices her dress. Women have a
sixth sense for clothes.

'Yes, my dear,' Madame Bonanni said, as soon as she was aware that
Margaret had seen the change, 'I did not wish to come to your
début looking like an advertisement of my former greatness, so I
put on this. Tom likes it. He thinks that I look almost like a human
being in it!'

'That's complimentary of him!' laughed Margaret.

'Oh, he wouldn't say such a thing, but I see it is just what he thinks.
Perhaps I'll send him to you with a message, by and by, before you get
into your sack, while the storm is going on. If I do, it will be
because it's very important, and whatever he says comes directly from
me.'

'Very well,' Margaret said quietly. 'I shall always take your advice,
though I hate that last scene.'

'I'm beginning to think that it may be more effective than we thought,'
answered Madame Bonanni, with a little laugh. 'Good-bye, my dear.'

'Won't you come and dine with me afterwards?' asked Margaret, who had
begun to change her dress. 'There will only be Madame De Rosa. You know
she could not get here in time for the rehearsal, but she is coming
before nine o'clock.'

'No, dear. I cannot dine with you to-night. I've made an engagement I
can't break. But do you mean to say that anything could keep De Rosa in
Paris this afternoon?' Madame Bonanni was very much surprised, for she
knew that the excellent teacher almost worshipped her pupil.

'Yes,' said Margaret. 'She wrote me that Monsieur Logotheti had some
papers for her to sign to-day before a notary, and that somehow if she
did not stay and sign them she would lose most of what she has.'

'That's ingenious!' exclaimed Madame Bonanni, with a laugh.

'Ingenious?' Margaret did not understand. 'Do you mean that Madame De
Rosa has invented the story?'

