"It was brutal to tell you this to-night! I can't imagine why I did,
particularly as I have never told even my mother--who, like everybody
else not necessarily in the secret, thinks that Zeal killed himself in
despair over his failing health. But--yes, I remember that dress now--I
rarely notice the details of women's clothes--but I remember admiring
those blue lilies on that airy white stuff--I suppose you suddenly
brought the whole thing back as vividly as if we were at Capheaton
instead of out here on the edge of creation. You must forgive me and
forget it."

"Yes I will! I'll forget everything for a week." She wheeled about and
rubbed her cheeks. Gwynne stooped suddenly and kissed the little black
mole on her shoulder.

"This is all I ask in return for the baubles," he murmured; and then as
he met a blazing eye: "Could I do less than restore your lovely color?
But I must fly and get into my togs."




XXXIII


The old-fashioned interior of the Polk House, with, on the lower floor,
its double parlors connected by sliding doors, its narrow central hall,
and its many shapeless rooms of varying size, had been entirely
remodelled by the essentially modern Mrs. Hofer. Her husband had wished
to build an imposing mass of shingles and stones, but Mrs. Hofer was far
too impatient to wait a year--perhaps two, if there were strikes--to
take up her abode on Nob Hill, and the Polk House was in the market.
Perhaps something in the stolid uncompromising exterior of the old
barrack appealed to her irresistibly, mausoleum that it was of an
aristocratic past. But upon the interior she wasted no sentiment, and
some half a million of her husband's dollars. There were now three great
rooms on the lower floor and four small ones, besides a circular hall
with a spiral marble stair. The drawing-room, which ran from east to
west, was one of the most notable rooms in the country, had been the
subject of violent controversy, newspaper and verbal, and was a
perpetual delight to the dramatic soul of its mistress. The most
original artist the State had produced had painted a deep frieze which
was a series of the strange moonlight scenes that had made his fame: the
deep sulphurous blue of the California night sky, the long black
shadows, the wind-driven trees, the low desolate adobe houses abandoned
in the towns settled by Spain. Now and again a cluster of lights
indicated a window-pane and a belated tenant, but the garden walls were
in ruins, the tiled roofs sagging, the ancient whitewash was peeling;
all blended and lifted into a harmony of color and pathos by the genius
of the artist. The expanse of dull green-blue walls of rough plaster
below the frieze was unbroken; on the marble floor there were blue
velvet rugs. The furniture was of ebony and dull-blue brocade. There was
not even a picture on an easel, but there were several Rodins and
Meuniers. At the lower or west end of the room the wall had been removed
and replaced by a single immense pane of plate glass. From this window,
always curtainless, there was a startling view of the steep drop of the
hill, beetling with houses and steeples, Telegraph Hill beyond and a
little to the north; then the bay, and the towns on its opposite rim. At
night the scene, with its blue above and black below, picked out with a
thousand lights--massed into a diadem beyond the bay--looked like a
sublimation of the painter's work. Within, the cunningly arranged lights
saved the room at all times from being too sombre, and were set to
reveal every detail of paintings far too precious to have been
recklessly lavished upon a wooden house in the most recklessly built of
all great cities.

The dining-room--which had the proportions of a banqueting-hall, with an
alcove for family use--was hung with tapestries and furnished with
chairs lifted bodily from a castle in Spain; and it was a room in which
no one would remember to look for ancestors. The library also commanded
a view of the bay and had been decorated by native artists with
imitations of the Giorgione frescoes, charmingly pink and smudgy. The
hangings and furniture were of royal crimson brocade, and the walls were
covered with books. Mr. Toole, who was a scholar of the old-fashioned
sort, of which California still holds so many, had selected the books;
and the contents were as noteworthy as the bindings. In a special alcove
was a large number of priceless Fourteenth and Sixteenth Century
editions. From this sumptuous room curved an iron balcony, where the old
gentleman might be seen sunning himself any fine day, his steel
spectacles half-way down his nose, and a volume propped on the shelf of
an easy-chair furnished with all the modern improvements.

On the white satin panels of the large round hall were a few of the most
valuable old masters as yet brought to the country, but Mrs. Hofer, who
was a patriot or nothing, did not hesitate to mix them with the best
efforts of her fellow-citizens, nor to proclaim her preference for the
native product. It was all very well to have old masters, and modern
Europeans, if it was the thing, but she never felt quite at home with
them, and liked her California inside as well as out.

The four little reception-rooms, or boudoirs, were so many cabinets for
treasures, and on the night of the ball, like the rest of the rooms on
this floor, were entirely without further adornment; only the white
marble of the spiral stair was festooned with crimson roses; and the
narrow hall that led from the rotunda to the new ballroom was dressed in
imitation of a long arbor of grape-vines, and hung with clusters of
hot-house grapes and Chinese lanterns. The ballroom had been built out
from the back of the house upon the steep drop of the hill, and as even
its graduated foundation did not lift it to the level of the first
floor, it was reached by a short flight of steps. For three months Mrs.
Hofer's judicious hints had excited the curiosity of the town, and all
that were not bedridden had presented themselves at as early an hour as
self-respect would permit. Mrs. Hofer, to use her own phrase, had
"turned herself loose," on this room, and even her husband, who had
gasped at the sum total, indulgent as he was, admitted to-night that
"she knew what she was about." The immense room was built to simulate a
patio in Spain. The domed roof, in the blaze of light below, looked to
be the dim blue vault of the night sky. The gallery that encircled the
room was divided into balconies, and from them depended Gobelin
tapestries, Eastern rugs, silken shawls--yellow embroidered with red,
blue embroidered with white--after the manner of Spain on festa days.
The background of the gallery was a mass of tropical plants alternating
with latticed windows and long glass doors. Sitting with an arm or elbow
on the railing, was every California woman of Mrs. Hofer's acquaintance
that had the inherited right to wear a mantilla, a rose over her ear,
and wield a large black fan; that is to say, those that were too old or
too indifferent to dance. How Ada Hofer induced them to form a part of
her decorations nobody ever knew, themselves least of all; but there, to
the amazement and delight of the hundreds below, they were, and it was
many years since the majority of them had looked so handsome. Beneath
the balcony was an arcade where many seats were disposed among palms and
