
'And welcome!' cried the sergeant on duty, who had lost money at play on
the previous evening.

'At your service! Pray sit down! Bring out a chair!'

The men all spoke together, and gathered closely round Cucurullo to
touch his hump, so that he almost disappeared amongst them. Then they
got a chair from the guard-room and made him sit down at his ease, and
some remained standing beside him while others sat on the end of the
stone seat that ran along the wall. He thanked them warmly, and at once
entered into conversation, asking for news of Stradella, and explaining
the strange mistake that had led to his arrest. In a few minutes he had
learned that his master was in all likelihood at that very moment before
the Legate.

'And what sort of person is his worship, the Governor?' asked Cucurullo,
anxious for information, and lowering his voice.

The sergeant was a jolly, red-faced, merry-eyed man from the March of
Ancona, and he laughed before he answered.

'We used to call him Pontius Pilate, because he does not know what truth
is,' he said, 'but we gave that up because he never washes his hands!'

Cucurullo smiled at the rough jest, but he looked curiously at the
speaker.

'I see that you are familiar with the Scriptures, sir,' observed the
hunchback.

'I come by the knowledge honestly,' answered the soldier. 'I did not
steal it! My father, bless his soul, was killed in battle, and so my
mother tried to make a priest of me. Eh? You see me as I am! This is the
kind of priest my mother made! Neither more nor less than a poor
sergeant of halberdiers. But a little of the Latin stuck to me, for
indeed it is sticky stuff enough, and the priests laid it on with a
stick!'

The men roared with delight at their superior's elegant wit, and
Cucurullo laughed a little too, more out of politeness than because he
was amused.

'You may yet die a saint, sir,' he said with a grave smile when the
general mirth had subsided. 'Many of the saints were soldiers, you know.
There was the blessed Saint Eustace, and there was Saint Martin, and
Saint Sebastian, and Saint George----'

'But there never was a Saint Hector, and that is my name, at your
service.'

At this retort the men again showed their delight, laughing in chorus.

'Do you think you have no chance of being the first Saint Hector in the
calendar?' asked Cucurullo pleasantly. 'Why not? You have a good heart,
sir. I see it in your face, if you will pardon me for saying so.
Gentlemen'--he smilingly appealed to the other men--'has not Sergeant
Hector a good heart?'

'A heart of gold!' cried one of the soldiers.

'A heart as big as a pumpkin!' another chimed in.

'A lion's heart!'

'There is not another like him in all the Pope's army!'

'And God bless him!'

The sergeant stood back, pretending to put on a terrible frown, and
cutting the air in carte and tierce with his handsome tasselled stick.

'You ruffians!' he roared. 'You know well enough that I would beat you
all black and blue if you did not praise me seventeen times a day, four
times for each watch and once more for good luck! Eh?' He glared
ferociously about him, and his stick flew round in his hand like
lightning, through a whole series of cuts, feints, and round parries.
'Have I trained my men well or not?' he asked, desisting at last, and
turning to Cucurullo.

'You have trained them to tell the truth about you, sir, I have no
doubt,' answered the hunchback.

'And we will make a bad day of it for any man who says a word against
him,' said the biggest of the halberdiers with a grin.

The rest confirmed his statement with a variety of asseverations,
according to their several tastes, calling to witness indifferently both
heathen deities and Christian saints.

'Very well,' said Cucurullo. 'It is proved that you have a very good
heart, sir, and that is the chief thing needed to make a saint. For to
say that a man is kind-hearted is only another way of saying that he is
charitable, and Charity is the greatest of the three Theological
Virtues, as you must have learned at the seminary.'

'Good friend,' answered the sergeant, 'if you are going to open the
"Process" concerning my Beatification this morning, the Devil's Advocate
must be appointed to argue against you and try to prove me the worst of
sinners, for that is the rule in Rome.'

'Very well, sir,' laughed the hunchback. 'Appoint him yourself, sir!'

'He is upstairs just now,' retorted the other, 'sitting in judgment on
your master! But I will promise that if you argue with him about me, he
will prove that my soul is rotting in original and acquired sin, and
that nothing can save me but cutting my pay!'

Again the gloomy archway rang with the soldiers' hoarse laughter, which
was by no means the expression of obsequious flattery. The sergeant was
more than popular with the whole company of halberdiers that garrisoned
the castle; he was beloved for his inexhaustible good-nature and
respected for his undoubted courage. Cucurullo had guessed this in a few
moments, and in view of possible complications he was resolved to make
an ally of the sergeant and friends of the men.

He felt amongst the loose silver in his pocket and jingled it in a
manner agreeable for poor soldiers to hear.

'It is still early,' he said, 'but talking always makes me thirsty. If
