visiting physician. It was her business to inspect everything
connected with the hospital, from the laundry, the sterilising
apparatus, and the kitchen, to the dispensary, where she was expected
to know from day to day what supplies were on hand and what was
needed. She was ultimately answerable for the smallest irregularity or
accident, and had to report everything to the Mother Superior every
evening after Vespers and before supper. During her week, every one in
the establishment came to her for all matters that concerned the
hospital and the nurses on duty by day or night; but she had nothing
to do with those who were sent out to private cases. They reported
themselves and gave an account of their work to the Mother Superior,
whenever they returned to the Convent.

The supervising nurse for the week did not sleep in her cell, but lay
down on a pallet bed behind a curtain, in her office on the first
floor, close to the dispensary, where she could be called at a
moment's notice, though it rarely happened that she was disturbed
between ten o'clock at night and five in the morning.

The Mother Superior had introduced the system soon after she had taken
charge of the Convent hospital, of which the management now differed
from that of most similar institutions in this respect, for the most
competent Sisters took turns in the arduous task of supervision, from
week to week. At other times they went to private cases when required,
or acted as ordinary nurses. Any one who has any knowledge of
hospitals managed by religious orders is aware that no two of them
work by precisely the same rules, and that the rules themselves are
largely the result of the Mother Superior's own experience, modified
by the personal theories and practice of the operating surgeon and the
principal visiting physician. The scale of everything relating to the
administration is, of course, very small compared with that of any
public hospital, and all responsibility therefore weighs more directly
on the doctors and nurses in charge at any given moment than on a
board of management; in other words, on the right individuals rather
than on a body.

Princess Chiaromonte rose early and drove to the Convent in a cab,
intending to come home in the motor which was to bring Ugo and the
doctor. She rang, was admitted, and asked for the supervising nurse.
The portress, who knew her by sight, at once led her to the large hall
already mentioned, and rang the bell which gave warning that some one
was waiting who had business in the hospital. She drew one of the
chairs forward for the Princess and went back to the lodge. A moment
later a novice opened the door that led to the wards, and the visitor
repeated her request, without mentioning her name.

The novice bowed and disappeared, and several minutes passed before
Sister Giovanna came. She had last seen her aunt ill in bed and
flushed with fever, but the Princess had changed too little in five
years not to be instantly recognised by any one who had known her so
recently.

Both women made a movement of surprise, and the nun stood still an
instant, still holding the handle of the door. Of the two, however,
she was the first to regain her composure. Her aunt rose with alacrity
indeed, and held out her hand, but she coloured a little and laughed
with perceptible awkwardness. She had long wished to see her niece,
but the meeting had come too unexpectedly to be pleasant.

'I hope you have felt no ill effects from your illness?' Sister
Giovanna spoke calmly, in a tone of civil inquiry.

'Oh, none at all!' answered the Princess. 'Thanks to your wonderful
nursing,' she added, with rather too much eagerness. 'I had hoped to
tell you before now how grateful I am; but though I have been here
more than once, you were never here when I came.'

Sister Giovanna bent her head slightly.

'There is really nothing to thank me for,' she said. 'The novice said
you wished to see me; can I be of any service to you?'

The elder woman inwardly resented the tone of superior calm. She was
now convinced that Sister Giovanna was no other than her niece Angela,
though she had not yet given any direct sign of recognition. She was
not quite sure of being able to meet the young eyes steadily, and when
she answered she fixed her own on the line where the veil was drawn
tightly across the nun's forehead. In this way she could not fail to
see any quick change in the other's features.

'It is about Captain Severi,' she said very distinctly, 'Ugo, as we
call him--the brother of that poor Giovanni who was murdered by savages
in Africa.'

She saw what she had hoped to see and felt that she had already got
the upper hand, for the nun's face turned the colour of smouldering
wood ashes when they are a greyish white, though the faint, hot glow
still rises in them with every passing breath of air and then fades
fitfully away.

'Captain Severi's room is ready,' said Sister Giovanna steadily.

'Yes, of course!' The Princess nodded as she spoke. 'It is not that,
Sister. He is a great friend of mine and I was quite devoted to his
unfortunate brother, so I have come to beg that he may have the very
best care while he is here.'

'You need not have any anxiety.'

Sister Giovanna sat bolt upright in her straight chair, with her hands
folded on her knees. The Princess rested one elbow on the table, in an
easy attitude, and glanced at her once or twice during the silence
that followed. Each was wondering whether the other was going to admit
that she recognised her, and each was weighing the relative advantages
of remaining on the present footing, which was one of uncertainty for
Sister Giovanna and of armed quiescence on the Princess's part.

'Thank you,' said the latter, after a long time, with a bright smile,
as if she had quite understood the nun's answer. 'It will be such a
comfort to know that he is being well cared for, poor fellow. I
believe he will be here in a few minutes.'

'We are expecting him,' answered the nun, not stirring.

Another long silence followed, and she sat so perfectly still that the
Princess began to fidget, looked at the tall old clock in the corner
and then compared her pretty watch with it, laid her olive-green
parasol across the table, but took it off again almost immediately and
dropped the tip to the floor. The Sister's impassive stillness seemed
meant for a reproach and made her nervous. The certainty that the
