
“Take these New England towns,” said Bates; “and look at the people
in them. The ones who had any energy got up and went West years ago;
and those who are left haven’t any jaw-bones. Did you ever notice
it? And it’s just the same, wherever this pleasure crowd comes; it
turns the men into boarding-house keepers and lackeys, and the girls
into waitresses and prostitutes.”

“They learn to take tips!” put in the Lieutenant.

“Everything they’ve got is for sale to city people,” said Bates.
“Politically, there isn’t a rottener little corner in the whole
United States of America than this same Rhode Island--and how much
that’s saying, you can imagine. You can buy votes on election day as
you’d buy herrings, and there’s not the remotest effort at reform,
nor any hope of it.”

“You speak bitterly,” said Montague.

“I am bitter,” said Bates. “But it doesn’t often break out. I hold
my tongue, and stew in my own juice. We newspaper men see the game,
you know. We are behind the scenes, and we see the sawdust put into
the dolls. We have to work in this rottenness all the time, and some
of us don’t like it, I can tell you. But what can we do?”

He shrugged his shoulders. “I spend my time getting facts together,
and nine times out of ten my newspaper won’t print them.”

“I should think you’d quit,” said the other, in a low voice.

“What better can I do?” asked the reporter. “I have the facts; and
once in a while there comes an explosion, and I get my chance. So I
stick at the job. I can’t but believe that if you keep putting these
things before the people, sometime, sooner or later, they will do
something. Sometime there will come a man who has a conscience and a
voice, and who won’t sell out. Don’t you think so, Mr. Montague?”

“Yes,” said Montague, “I think so.”




CHAPTER XVII


The summer wore on. At the end of August Alice returned from Newport
for a couple of days, having some shopping to do before she joined
the Prentices at their camp in the Adirondacks.

Society had here a new way of enjoying itself. People built
themselves elaborate palaces in the wilderness, and lived in a
fantastic kind of rusticity, with every luxury of civilisation
included. For this life one needed an entirely separate wardrobe,
with doeskin hunting-boots and mountain-climbing skirts--all very
picturesque and expensive. It reminded Montague of a jest that he
had heard about Mrs. Vivie Patton, whose husband had complained of
the expensiveness of her costumes, and requested her to wear simpler
dresses. “Very well,” she said, “I will get a lot of simple dresses
immediately.”

Alice spent one evening at home, and she took her cousin into her
confidence. “I’ve an idea, Allan, that Harry Curtiss is going to ask
me to marry him. I thought it was right to tell you about it.”

“I’ve had a suspicion of it,” said Montague, smiling.

“Harry has a feeling you don’t like him,” said the girl. “Is that
true?”

“No,” replied Montague, “not precisely that.” He hesitated.

“I don’t understand about it,” she continued. “Do you think I ought
not to marry him?”

Montague studied her face. “Tell me,” he said, “have you made up
your mind to marry him?”

“No,” she answered, “I cannot say that I have.”

“If you have,” he added, “of course there is no use in my talking
about it.”

“I wish you would tell me just what happened between you and him,”
 exclaimed the girl.

“It was simply,” said Montague, “that I found that Curtiss was
doing, in a business way, something which I considered improper.
Other people are doing it, of course--he has that excuse.”

“Well, he has to earn a living,” said Alice.

“I know,” said the other; “and if he marries, he will have to earn
still more of a living. He will only place himself still tighter in
the grip of these forces of corruption.”

“But what did he do?” asked Alice, anxiously. Montague told her the
story.

“But, Allan,” she said, “I don’t see what there is so very bad about
that. Don’t Ryder and Price own the railroad?”

“They own some of it,” said Montague. “Other people own some.”

“But the other people have to take their chances,” protested the
girl; “if they choose to have anything to do with men like that.”

“You are not familiar with business,” said the other, “and you don’t
appreciate the situation. Curtiss was elected a director--he
accepted a position of trust.”

“He simply did it as a favour to Price,” said she. “If he hadn’t
done it, Price would only have got somebody else. As you say, Allan,
I don’t understand much about it, but it seems to me it isn’t fair
to blame a young man who has to make his way in the world, and who
simply does what he finds everybody else doing. Of course, you know
best about your own affairs; but it always did seem to me that you
go out of your way to look for scruples.”

Montague smiled sadly. “That sounds very much like what he said,
Alice. I guess you have made up your mind to marry him, after all.”
