
Villefranche stands above Nice, between that white city and Monte Carlo.
It is quiet and lovely. For this reason the great army of tourists pass
it by; there is no casino, no band, no streets full of tantalizing
shops. On the very western limit of Villefranche, on the winding white
road which rises out of Nice, a road so frequently passed over by
automobiles that a haze of dust always hangs over it, is a modest little
villa, so modest that a ballerina would scorn it and a duchess ignore
it. It is, in truth, a  pensione , where only those who come well
recommended are accepted as guests. It is on the left of the road as you
ride east, and its verandas and window balconies look straight out to
sea, the eternally blue Mediterranean. A fine grove of shade trees
protects it from the full glare of the sun.



In the balcony La Signorina reposed in a steamer chair, gazing seaward.
The awning cast a warm glow as of gold upon her face and hair, a
transparent shadow. She was at this moment the most precious thing upon
which the eye may look--a wholly beautiful woman. Kitty Killigrew,
standing in the casement window, stared at her silently, not without
some envy, not without some awe. What was going on behind those dreamy
eyes? Only once did the woman in the chair move, but this movement was
tense with passion: she clenched her hands and struck them roughly on
the arms of the chair. Immediately she relaxed, as if realizing how
futile such emotion was. Kitty stirred and came out. She sat in the
neighboring chair.

"Hilda?" said Kitty.

"Yes, Kitty."

"Who and what are you?" Kitty asked bravely.

La Signorina's eyes wandered till they met Kitty's. There was neither
anger nor surprise in the glance, only deliberation.

"And what good would it do you to know? Would it change our positions
any? Would it bring money from home any sooner? You already know,
without my telling you, that I am unhappy. The adventuress always is."

"Adventuress?" Kitty laughed scornfully. "The proprietor pretends he
does not know you, but I am certain he does. He forgets himself
sometimes in the way he bows to you. He has even called you  altezza ,
which you tell me is Italian for highness."

"He is in hope of a liberal tip."

"The proprietor? One does not tip him."

"That is true. I can not understand his motive, then."

"If he also applied the title to me, it would be different. He rarely
notices me. Won't you tell me what the secret is?"

"How beautiful that white sail looks!"

"You know all about me," went on Kitty stubbornly.

"Because you told me. I never asked you a single question."

"And you have told me nothing."

"Why should I? Come, Kitty, be reasonable. Tell me what you think of
that sail. Is it not beautiful in the sunset?"

"Is it--love?"

"Love?" La Signorina shrugged. "Poor Kitty, you are trying in vain to
make a romance out of my life. What should I know of love? It is a myth,
a fable, only to be found in story-books. You should not read so much."

"It is not curiosity," declared Kitty. "It is because I love you, and
because it makes me sad when I hear you laugh, when I see you beat your
hands against the chair as you did just now." There was a tremble in
Kitty's voice that suggested the nearness of tears.

La Signorina turned again, in a passion which was as fierce as it was
sudden.

"There  is  a man," she whispered rather than spoke, the pupils in her
eyes dilating so that the blue irises nearly disappeared. "But I loathe
him, I hate him, I abhor him! And were it not wicked to kill, he would
have been dead long ago. Enough! If you ever ask another question, I
will leave you. I like you, but I insist that my secrets shall be my
own, since they concern you in no manner."

"I am sorry," said Kitty with contrition. "But I suspected there was a
man. I understand. He was false to you and broke your heart,"
romantically.

"No, Kitty; only my pride."

"It is a strange world," mused Kitty.

"It would be otherwise were it not that the heart and the mind are
always at war. But let us turn to our affairs. I received a letter
to-day."

"From home?" eagerly.

"I have no home, Kitty. The letter is from a friend in Naples. Mr.
Hillard and Mr. Merrihew, friends of yours, are in Italy."

Kitty could scarce believe her ears. "Where are they? Where are they
stopping?"

"That I do not know. But listen. They have started out to find us. When
I tell you that Mr. Hillard is the gentleman I dined with that night
before we sailed, you will understand my reasons for wishing to avoid
him. From this time on we must never appear on the streets without our
veils. If by chance we meet them, we must give no sign. It will be only
for a little while. Your letter will come soon, and you may renew your
acquaintance with these two gentlemen when you return home. It may be
hard for you; but if you wish to stay with me, my will must be a law
unto you."

"Not to speak to them if we meet them?" urged Kitty in dismay.

"No."
