against her cheek would never be the same hand.  Where was the
tranquillity of that morning?

Fitzgerald found himself alone with Ferraud again.  There was going to
be no dissembling; he was going to speak frankly.

"You have evidently discovered it.  Yes, I love Miss Killigrew, well
enough to die for her."

"Zut!  She will be as safe as in her own house.  Had Breitmann not
gone to-night, had any of us stopped him, I could not say.  Unless you
tell her, she will never know that she stood in danger.  Don't you
understand?  If I marred one move these men intend to make, if I showed
a single card, they would defeat me for the time; for they would make
new plans of which I should not have the least idea.  You comprehend?"

Fitzgerald nodded.

"It all lies in the hollow of my hand.  Breitmann made one mistake; he
should have pushed me off the boat, into the dark.  He knows that I
know.  And there he confuses me.  But, I repeat, he is not vicious,
only mad."

"Where will it be?"

"It will not be;" and M. Ferraud smiled as he livened up the burnt
wick of his candle.

"Treachery on the part of the drivers?  Oh, don't you see that you can
trust me wholly?"

"Well, it will be like this;" and reluctantly the secret agent outlined
his plan.  "Now, go to bed and sleep, for you and I shall need some to
draw upon during the next three or four days.  Hunting for buried
treasures was never a junketing.  The admiral will tell you that.  At
dawn!"  Then he added whimsically: "I trust we haven't disturbed the
royal family below."

"Hang the royal family!"

"Their own parliament, or Reichstag, will arrange for that!" and the
little man laughed.

Dawn came soon enough, yellow and airless.

"My dear," said Mrs. Coldfield, "I really wish you wouldn't go."

"But Laura and Miss von Mitter insist on going.  I can't back out now,"
protested Coldfield.  "What are you worried about?  Brigands,
gun-shots, and all that?"

"He will be a desperate man."

"To steal a chest full of money is one thing; to shoot a man is
another.  Besides, the admiral will go if he has to go alone; and I
can't desert him."

"Very well.  You will have to take me to Baden for nervous prostration."

"Humph!  Baden; that'll mean about two-thousand in fresh gowns from
Vienna or Paris.  All right; I'm game.  But, no nerves, no Baden."

"Go, if you will; but do take care of yourself; and let the admiral
go first, when there's any sign of danger."

Coldfield chuckled.  "I'll get behind him every time I think of it."

"Kiss me.  They are waiting for you.  And be careful."

It was only a little brave comedy.  She knew this husband and partner
of hers, hard-headed at times, but full of loyalty and courage; and she
was confident that if danger arose the chances were he would be getting
in front instead of behind the admiral.  A pang touched her heart as
she saw him spring into the carriage.

The admiral had argued himself hoarse about Laura's going; but he had
to give in when she threatened to hire a carriage on her own account
and follow.  Thus, Coldfield went because he was loyal to his friends;
Laura, because she would not leave her father; Hildegarde, because to
remain without knowing what was happening would have driven her mad; M.
Ferraud, because it was a trick in the game; and Cathewe and
Fitzgerald, because they loved hazard, because they were going with the
women they loved.  The admiral alone went for the motive apparent to
all: to lay hands on the scoundrel who had betrayed his confidence.

So the journey into the mountains began.  In none of the admiral's
documents was it explained why the old Frenchman had hidden the
treasure so far inland, when at any moment a call might have been made
on it.  Ferraud put forward the supposition that they had been watched.
As for hiding it in Corsica at all, every one understood that it was a
matter of sentiment.

Fitzgerald keenly inspected the drivers, but found them of the ordinary
breed, in velveteens, red-sashes, and soft felt hats.  As they made the
noon stop, one thing struck him as peculiar.  The driver of the
provision carriage had little or nothing to do with his companions.
"That is because he is mine," explained M. Ferraud in a whisper.
They were all capable horsemen, and on this journey spared their horses
only when absolutely necessary.  The great American signori were in a
hurry.  They arrived at Carghese at five in the afternoon.  The admiral
was for pushing on, driving all night.  He stormed, but the drivers
were obdurate.  At Carghese they would remain till sunrise; that was
final.  Besides, it was not safe at night, without moonshine, for many
a mile of the road lipping tremendous precipices was without curb or
parapet.  Not a foot till dawn.

In the little auberge, dignified but not improved by the name of
HÃ´tel de France, there was room only for the two women and the older
men.  Fitzgerald and Cathewe had to bunk the best they could in a
tenement at the upper end of the town; two cots in a single room,
carpetless and ovenlike for the heat.

Cathewe opened his rug-bag and spread out a rug in front of his cot,
for he wasn't fond at any time of dirty, bare boards under his feet.
He began to undress, silently, puffing his pipe as one unconscious of
the deed.  Cathewe looked old.  Fitzgerald hadn't noticed the change
before; but it certainly was a fact that his face was thinner than when
they put out to sea.  Cathewe, his pipe still between his teeth,
absently drew his shirt over his head.  The pipe fell to the rug and he
stamped out the coals, grumbling.
