“And now his time’s up?” the girl eagerly asked.

“It must be--and we shall see.” But Hugh postponed that question to a
matter of more moment still. “The thing is that at last I’m able to tell
you how I feel the trouble I’ve brought you.”

It made her, quickly colouring, rest grave eyes on him. “What do you
know--when I haven’t told you--about my ‘trouble’?”

“Can’t I have guessed, with a ray of intelligence?”--he had his answer
ready. “You’ve sought asylum with this good friend from the effects of
your father’s resentment.”

“‘Sought asylum’ is perhaps excessive,” Lady Grace returned--“though
it wasn’t pleasant with him after that hour, no,” she allowed. “And I
couldn’t go, you see, to Kitty.”

“No indeed, you couldn’t go to Kitty.” He smiled at her hard as he
added: “I should have liked to see you go to Kitty! Therefore exactly is
it that I’ve set you adrift--that I’ve darkened and poisoned your days.
You’re paying with your comfort, with your peace, for having joined so
gallantly in my grand remonstrance.”

She shook her head, turning from him, but then turned back again--as if
accepting, as if even relieved by, this version of the prime cause of
her state. “Why do you talk of it as ‘paying’--if it’s all to come back
to my being paid? I mean by your blest success--if you really do what
you want.”

“I have your word for it,” he searchingly said, “that our really pulling
it off together will make up to you----?”

“I should be ashamed if it didn’t, for everything!”--she took the
question from his mouth. “I believe in such a cause exactly as you
do--and found a lesson, at Dedborough, in your frankness and your
faith.”

“Then you’ll help me no end,” he said all simply and sincerely.

“You’ve helped me already”--that she gave him straight back. And on it
they stayed a moment, their strenuous faces more intensely communing.

“You’re very wonderful--for a girl!” Hugh brought out.

“One has to be a girl, naturally, to be a daughter of one’s house,”
 she laughed; “and that’s all I am of ours--but a true and a right and a
straight one.”

He glowed with his admiration. “You’re splendid!”

That might be or not, her light shrug intimated; she gave it, at any
rate, the go-by and more exactly stated her case. “I see our situation.”

“So do I, Lady Grace!” he cried with the strongest emphasis. “And your
father only doesn’t.”

“Yes,” she said for intelligent correction--“he sees it, there’s nothing
in life he sees so much. But unfortunately he sees it all wrong.”

Hugh seized her point of view as if there had been nothing of her that
he wouldn’t have seized. “He sees it all wrong then! My appeal the other
day he took as a rude protest. And any protest----”

“Any protest,” she quickly and fully agreed, “he takes as an offence,
yes. It’s his theory that he still has rights,” she smiled, “though he
is a miserable peer.”

“How should he not have rights,” said Hugh, “when he has really
everything on earth?”

“Ah, he doesn’t even know that--he takes it so much for granted.” And
she sought, though as rather sadly and despairingly, to explain. “He
lives all in his own world.”

“He lives all in his own, yes; but he does business all in ours--quite
as much as the people who come up to the city in the Tube.” With which
Hugh had a still sharper recall of the stiff actual. “And he must be
here to do business to-day.”

“You know,” Lady Grace asked, “that he’s to meet Mr. Bender?”

“Lady Sandgate kindly warned me, and,” her companion saw as he glanced
at the clock on the chimney, “I’ve only ten minutes, at best. The
‘Journal’ won’t have been good for him,” he added--“you doubtless have
seen the ‘Journal’?”

“No”--she was vague. “We live by the ‘Morning Post.’”

“That’s why our friend here didn’t speak then,” Hugh said with a better
light--“which, out of a dim consideration for her, I didn’t do, either.
But they’ve a leader this morning about Lady Lappington and her Longhi,
and on Bender and his hauls, and on the certainty--if we don’t do
something energetic--of more and more Benders to come: such a conquering
horde as invaded the old civilisation, only armed now with huge
cheque-books instead of with spears and battle-axes. They refer to the
rumour current--as too horrific to believe--of Lord Theign’s putting up
his Moretto; with the question of how properly to qualify any such
sad purpose in him should the further report prove true of a new and
momentous opinion about the picture entertained by several eminent
authorities.”

“Of whom,” said the girl, intensely attached to this recital, “you’re of
course seen as not the least.”

“Of whom, of course, Lady Grace, I’m as yet--however I’m ‘seen’--the
whole collection. But we’ve time”--he rested on that “The fat, if you’ll
allow me the expression, is on the fire--which, as I see the matter, is
where this particular fat should be.”

“Is the article, then,” his companion appealed, “very severe?”

“I prefer to call it very enlightened and very intelligent--and the
great thing is that it immensely ‘marks,’ as they say. It will have made
a big public difference--from this day; though it’s of course aimed not
so much at persons as at conditions; which it calls upon us all somehow
to tackle.”

“Exactly”--she was full of the saving vision; “but as the conditions are
directly embodied in persons----”

