"I don't give up to him," said Jacqueline in a colourless voice.

Cynthia looked at her gravely:

"It's hard to know what to do, dear. When a girl gives up to a man she
spoils him sometimes; when she doesn't she sometimes spoils him. It's
hard to know what to do--very hard."

Jacqueline's gaze grew troubled and remote.

"How to love a man wisely--that's a very hard thing for a girl to
learn," murmured Cynthia. "But--the main thing--the important thing, is
to love him, I think. And I suppose we have to take our chances of
spoiling him."

"The main thing," said Jacqueline slowly, "is that he should know you
do love him; isn't it?"

"Yes. But the problem is, how best to show it. And that requires wisdom,
dear. And where is a girl to acquire that kind of wisdom? What
experience has she? What does she know? Ah, we don't know. There lies
the trouble. By instinct, disposition, natural reticence, and training,
we are disposed to offer too little, perhaps; But often, in fear that
our reticence may not be understood, we offer too much."

"I--am afraid of that."

"Of offering too much?"

"Yes."

They stood, thoughtful a moment, not looking at each other.

Cynthia said in a low voice: "Be careful of him, ducky. His is not the
stronger character. Perhaps he needs more than you give."

"What!"

"I--I think that perhaps he is not the kind of man to be spoiled by
giving. And--it is possible to starve some men by the well-meant
kindness of reserve."

"All women--modest women--are reserved."

"Is a mother's reserve praiseworthy when her child comes to her for
intimate companionship--for tenderness perhaps--and puts its little arms
around her neck?"

Jacqueline stared, then blushed furiously.

"Why do you suppose that I am likely to be lacking in sympathy,
Cynthia?"

"You are not. I know you too well, ducky. But you might easily be
exquisitely undemonstrative."

"All women--are--undemonstrative."

"Not always."

"An honest, chaste----"

"No."

Jacqueline, deeply flushed, began in a low voice:

"To discourage the lesser emotions----"

"No! To separate them, class them as lesser, makes them so. They are
merely atoms in the molecule--a tiny fragment of perfection. To be too
conscious of them makes them too important; to accept them with the
rest as part of the ensemble is the only way."

"Cynthia!"

"Yes, dear."

"Who has been educating you to talk this way?"

"Necessity. There is no real room for ignorance in my profession. So I
don't go to parties any more; I try to educate myself. There are
cultivated people in the company. They have been very kind to me. And my
carelessness in English--my lack of polish--these were not inherited. My
father was an educated man, if he was nothing else. You know that. Your
father knew it. All I needed was to be awakened. And I am awake."

She looked honestly into the honest eyes that met hers, and shook her
head.

"No self-deception can aid us to lie down to pleasant dreams,
Jacqueline. And the most terrible of all deceptions is
self-righteousness. Let me know myself, and I can help myself. And I
know now how it would be with me if the happiness of marriage ever came
to me. I would give--give everything good in me, everything
needed--strip myself of my best! Because, dear, we always have more to
give than they; and they need it all--all we can give them--every one."

After a silence they kissed each other; and, when Cynthia had departed,
Jacqueline closed the door and returned to her chair. Seated there in
deep and unhappy thought, while the slow minutes passed without him,
little by little her uneasiness returned.

Eight o'clock rang from her little mantel clock. She started up and went
to the window. The street lamps were shining over pavements and
sidewalks deserted. Very far in the west she could catch the low roar
of Broadway, endless, accentless, monotonous, interrupted only by the
whiz of motors on Fifth Avenue. Now and then a wayfarer passed through
the silent street below; rarely a taxicab; but neither wayfarer nor
vehicle stopped at her door.

She did not realise how long she had been standing there, when from
behind the mantel clock startled her again, ringing out nine. She came
back into the centre of the room, and, hands clasped, stared at the
dial.

She had not eaten since morning; there had been no opportunity in the
press of accumulated business. She felt a trifle faint, mostly from a
vague anxiety. She did not wish to call up the club; instinct forbade
it; but at a quarter to ten she went to the telephone, and learned that
Desboro had gone out between eight and nine. Then she asked for Cairns,
