over; I would rather go back to my home 
at once, and have only the five hundred 
francs." 

Madame Dupont stared at her in con- 
sternation. "What is that you are saying? 
You want to return to your home?" 



 

''Yes, ma'am.' was the answer. 

''But.' cried George, ''only ten minutes 
ago you were not thinking of it." 

''What has happened since then?" de- 
manded Madame Dupont. 

"I have thought it over." 

"Thought what over?" 

"Well, I am getting lonesome for my 
little one and for my husband." 

"In the last ten minutes?" exclaimed 
George. 

"There must be something else," his 
mother added. "Evidently there must be 
something else." 

"No!" insisted the nurse. 

"But I say yes!" 

"Well, I'm afraid the air of Paris might 
not be good for me." 

"You had better wait and try it." ;. 

"I would rather go back at once to my 
home." 

"Come, now," cried Madame Dupont, 
"tell us why?" 

"I have told you. I have thought it 
over." 

"Thought what over?" 



 

''Well, I have thought." 

''Oh.' cried the mother, "what a stupid 
reply! 'I have thought it over! I have 
thought it over!' Thought what over, I 
want to know?" 

''Well, everything." 

"Don't you know how to tell us what?" 

"I tell you, everything." 

"Why," exclaimed Madame Dupont, 
"you are an imbecile!" 

George stepped between his mother and 
the nurse. "Let me talk to her," he said. 

The woman came back to her old formula: 
"I know that we're only poor country 
people." 

"Listen to me, nurse," said the young 
man. "Only a little while ago you were 
afraid that we would send you away. You 
were satisfied with the wages which my 
mother had fixed. In addition to those 
wages we had promised you a good sum 
when you returned to your home. Now 
you tell us that you want to go away. 
You see? All at once. There must be 
some reason; let us understand it. There 
must certainly be a reason. Has anybody 
done anything to you?" 



 

"No, sir," said the woman, dropping her 
eyes. 

"Well, then?" 

"I have thought it over." 

George burst out, "Don't go on repeating 
always the same thing — 'I have thought 
it over!' That's not telling us anything." 
Controlling himself, he added, gently, 
"Come, tell me why you want to go away?" 

There was a silence. ''Well?" he 
demanded. 

"I tell you," said the woman, 'I have 
thought—" 

George exclaimed in despair, 'It's as if 
one were talking to a block of wood!" 

