hands and knees until he reached the chair-rail, which he clutched
desperately, drawing himself up.  The pitiless stream never swerved.
It smacked against the flat of his back like the impact of a hand.

"For God's sake stop it!" cried Craig, half strangled.

"Will you go below?"

"Yes, yes!  Turn it away!" sober enough by now.

Warrington switched off the key, his face humorless, though there was a
sparkle of grim humor in his sleep-hungry eyes.  Craig leaned against
the deck-house, shaking and panting.

"I would I could get at your soul as easily."  Warrington threw aside
the hose, and the Lascars sprang upon it, not knowing what the big
blond Sahib might do next.

Craig turned, venom on his tongue.  He spoke a phrase.  In an instant,
cold with fury, Warrington had him by the throat.

"You low base cur!" he said, shaking the man until he resembled a
manikin on wires.  "Had you been sober last night, I'd have thrown you
into the sea.  Honorless dog!  You wrote to Miss Chetwood.  You
insulted her, too.  If you wish to die, speak to her again."

Craig struggled fiercely to free himself.  He wasn't sure, by the look
of the other man's eyes, that he wasn't going to be killed then and
there.  There was something cave-mannish and cruel in the way
Warrington worried the man, shaking him from side to side and forcing
him along the deck.  Suddenly he released his hold, adding a buffet on
the side of the head that sent Craig reeling and sobbing into the
companionway.

"Here, I say, what's the row?"

Warrington looked over his shoulder.  The call had come from the first
officer.

"A case of drunkenness," coolly.

"But I say, we can't have brawling on deck, sir.  You ought to know
that.  If the man's conduct was out of order, you should have brought
your complaint before the captain or me.  We really can't have any
rowing, sir."

Warrington replied gravely: "Expediency was quite necessary."

"What's this?"  The officer espied the soaked bedding.  "Who turned the
hose here?"

"I did," answered Warrington.

"I shall have to report that to the captain, sir.  It's against the
rules aboard this steamship for passengers to touch anything of that
sort."  The officer turned and began violently to abuse the bewildered
Lascars.

"I shouldn't bullyrag them, sir," interposed Warrington.  "They
protested.  I helped myself.  After all, perhaps it was none of my
affair; but the poor devils didn't know what to do."

The officer ordered the Lascars to take the mattress and throw it on
the boat-deck, where it would dry quickly when the sun rose.  Already
the world was pale with light, and a slash of crimson lay low on the
rim of the east.

"I shouldn't like to be disagreeable, sir," said the officer.  "I dare
say the man made himself obnoxious; but I'm obliged to report anything
of this order."

"Don't be alarmed on my account.  My name is Warrington, cabin 78.
Good morning."

Warrington entered the companionway; and a moment later he heard the
water hiss along the deck.  He was not in the least sorry for what he
had done; still, he regretted the act.  Craig was a beast, and there
was no knowing what he might do or say.  But the hose had been simply
irresistible.  He chuckled audibly on the way down to his cabin.  There
was one thing of which he was assured; Craig would keep out of his way
in the future.  The exhilaration of the struggle suddenly left him, and
he realized that he was dreadfully tired and heart-achy.  Still
dressed, he flung himself in his bunk, and immediately fell into a
heavy dreamless sleep that endured until luncheon.

Shortly after luncheon something happened down in the engine-room; and
the chief engineer said that they would have to travel at half speed to
Penang.  In other words, they would not make the port to-day, Sunday,
but to-morrow.  Another day with this mysterious tantalizing woman,
thought Warrington.  He went in search of her, but before he found her,
he was summoned to the captain's cabin.  Warrington presented himself,
mildly curious.  The captain nodded to a stool.

"Sit down, Mr. Warrington.  Will you have a cheroot?"

"Yes, thanks."

A crackle of matches followed.

"This fellow Craig has complained about his treatment by you this
morning.  I fancy you were rather rough with him."

"Perhaps.  He was very drunk and abusive, and he needed cold water more
than anything else.  I once knew the man."

"Ah!  But it never pays to manhandle that particular brand of tippler.
They always retaliate in some way."

"I suppose he has given you an excerpt from my history?"

"He says you can not return to the States."

"I am returning on the very first boats I can find."

"Then he was lying?"

"Not entirely.  I do not know what he has told you, and I really do not
care.  The fact is, Craig is a professional gambler, and I warned him
not to try any of his tricks on board.  It soured him."

