Verplank, his hands clenched, the look of an executioner about him,
threw at her:

“For six months I have been looking for you. I am come to have you tell
me why I have had to look at all.”

“Dies irae, dies illa,” admirably, in a clear contralto, a woman’s
voice rang out.

Neither heard it. At the menace of the man, Leilah shrank, and in an
effort at defense cried pitiably:

“Gulian! I left a letter for you.”

Angrily he tossed his head.

“I received none, nor did I need any to tell me that there are women on
the street, others in jail, that are less vile than you.”

“Teste David cum Sibylla,” clearly and beautifully the voice resumed.

“Gulian!” Leilah cried again.

With whips in his words, he added:

“No harlot could have acted more infamously than you.”

At the lash of the outrage, Leilah, joining her hands, held them to
him. “Gulian! You are killing me!”

“It is what you deserve. There are no penalties now for such turpitudes
as yours. But, when there were, women like you were beaten with rods,
they were lapidated, stoned to death, and death was too good for them;
they should have been made to go about, as they afterward were, as you
should be, in a yellow wig, in a yellow gown, that even children might
point and cry: ‘Shame!’”

The words, which he tore from his mouth, he hurled at her. She cowered
before them. On a chair near by she had put her bag. Her wrap had
fallen from her. In the church now the hymn had ceased. The ringing of
the Elevation was beginning.

“Gulian! As if shame had not cried at me! Gulian, I have been scourged,
I have been stoned. If I live, it is to implore of you mercy.”

Her hands, still joined, were still extended, and in her face was an
expression of absolute despair. But this martyr attitude seemed to him
the most abominable of hypocrisies, and it was with anger refreshed
that he lashed her again.

“Mercy? Yes, you want mercy, you, who were merciless in your treachery
to me. A sweep would have had more decency, a scullion more heart. I
put in your hands my trust, my love, my honour, and you who want mercy
dragged them in dirt.”

“Gulian!” Within her now was that invincible need of justice which
impels the weakest to protest against the savagery of wrong. “Gulian!
When you know!”

“I do know. I know you and your lies, and the infamy of them too well.
At Coronado----”

“Gulian! You are not killing me merely, you torture my very soul.”

He sneered.

“Do I? Do I, indeed! No, you compliment yourself. It is what I want to
do, but you cheat me even there. No woman with a soul could have done
this soulless thing.”

The brutality of the arraignment shook her. She leaned against the
chair for support. She felt hopeless, helpless, defenseless, and it was
because the need for justice still impelled her, that she protested
anew.

“Gulian, if only you knew! If only you had had that letter! Had it
reached you, you would know that there was no deceit, that I left you
for your sake as well as my own. Gulian, if I had not gone you would
have seen and made me tell you, and then it may be you would have taken
me and thrown me with you from the yacht.”

There were tears in her words. With one hand she held to the chair,
the other she raised to her head. It pained her. She felt bruised and
looked it.

    “Ecce panis Angelorum
     Factus cibus viatorum----”

Beyond, sustained by the arpeggios of the organ, the voice of a singer
mounted sheerly like a thread of gold. It lowered and heightened.
Presently, on a note, as if abruptly snapped, it ceased. The organ
continued. It renewed the canticle. It projected a scale that ascended
slowly, as though upward and onward, over the limitless steps of
eternity, it were lifting the soul of the dead.

Leilah wished it were her own. Sadly she added:

“God knows it would have been better. Anything would be better than
that you should speak to me as you do.”

There is an innocence that appeals, a sincerity that disarms, a
candour that outfaces every proof, and Verplank, who had been bent on
overwhelming this woman with a contempt which he felt wholly deserved,
was impressed, in spite of himself, by the evident ingenuousness, by
the evident wretchedness, too, of her words.

He moved back.

“You say I would have made you tell me?”

“Yes. Yes. You would have.”

“But made you tell me what?”

Leilah, still holding one hand to her head, raised the other from the
chair, and with it made a gesture slight, yet desolate.

“What was it?” he asked.

Before replying, she looked away.
