and wide!  Well, she was alive; praise Allah for that; and where there
was life there was hope.

Later Kathlyn was standing under the cell window gazing at the yellow
sunset.  Two hours had gone, and no sign of Umballa yet.  She
shuddered.  Had she been alone she would have hunted for something
sharp and deadly.  But her father; not before him.  She must wait.  One
thing was positive and absolute: Umballa should never embrace her; she
was too strong and desperate.

"Kit!"

"Yes, father."

"I have a sharp piece of metal in my pocket.  Could you . . .  My God,
by my hand! . . . when he comes?"

"Yes, father; I am not afraid to die, and death seems all that remains.
I should bless you.  He will be a tiger now."

"My child, God was good to give me a daughter like you."

She turned to him this time and pressed him to her heart.

"It grows dark suddenly," he said.

Kathlyn glanced toward the window.

"Why, it's a baboon!" she exclaimed.

"Jock, Jock!" cried her father excitedly.

The baboon chattered.

"Kit, it's Jock I used to tell you about.  He is tame and follows me
about like a dog.  Jock, poor Jock!"

"Father, have you a pencil?"

"A pencil?" blankly.

"Yes, yes!  I can write a note and attach it to Jock.  It's a chance."

"Good lord! and you're cool enough to think like that."  The colonel
went through his pockets feverishly.  "Thank God, here's an old stub!
But paper?"

Kathlyn tore off a broad blade of grass from her dress and wrote
carefully upon it.  If it fell into the hands of the natives they would
not understand, If the baboon returned to camp . . .  It made her weak
to realize how slender the chance was.  She took the tabouret and
placed it beneath the window and stood upon it.

"Jock, here, Jock!"

The baboon gave her his paws.  Deftly she tied the blade of grass round
his neck.  Then she struck her hands together violently.  The baboon
vanished, frightened at this unexpected treatment.

"He is gone."

The colonel did not reply, but began to examine his chains minutely.

"Kit, there's no getting me out of here without files.  If there is any
rescue you go and return.  Promise."

"I promise."

Then they sat down to wait.

And Ahmed in his search came to the river.  Some natives were swimming
and sporting in the water.  Ahmed put a question.  Oh, yes, they had
seen the strange-looking ape (for baboons did not habitate this part of
the world); he had gone up one of the trees near by.  Colonel Hare had
always used a peculiar whistle to bring Jock, and Ahmed resorted to
this device.  Half an hour's perseverance rewarded him; and then he
found the blade of grass.

"Dungeon window by tree.  Kathlyn."

That was sufficient for Ahmed.  He turned the baboon over to the care
of one of his subordinates and hurried away to Bruce's camp, only to
find that he had gone to the colonel's.  Away went Ahmed again,
tireless.  He found Bruce pacing the bungalow frontage.

"Ahmed."

"Yes, Sahib.  Listen."  He told his tale quickly.

"The guards at all the gates have orders to shoot me if they catch me
within the walls of the city.  I must disguise myself in some way."

"I'll find you an Arab burnoose, hooded, Sahib, and that will hide you.
It will be dark by the time we reach the city, and we'll enter by one
of the other gates.  That will allay suspicion.  First we must seek the
house of Ramabai.  I need money for bribery."

Bruce searched his wallet.  It was empty.  He had given all he had to
the Brahmin.

"You lead, Ahmed.  I'm dazed."

In the city few knew anything about Ahmed, not even the keenest of
Umballa's spies.  Umballa had his suspicions, but as yet he could prove
nothing.  To the populace he was a harmless animal trainer who was only
too glad not in any way to be implicated with his master.  So they let
him alone.  Day by day he waited for the report from Lal Singh, but so
far he had heard nothing except that the British Raj was very busy
killing the followers of the Mahdi in the Soudan.  It was a subtle
inference that for the present all aliens in Allaha must look out for
themselves.

"Sahib," he whispered, "I have learned something.  Day after day I have
been waiting, hoping.  Colonel Sahib lives, but where I know not."

"Lives!"

"Ai!  In yonder prison where later we go.  He lives.  That is enough
for his servant.  He is my father and my mother, and I would die for
him and his.  Ah!  Here is the north gate.  Bend your head, Sahib, when
