Christmas time, too."

"Will you go down with me tomorrow and have a look at the stores? This
has upset our plans. I wanted you and your mother to come and take
Christmas dinner with us."

"Mother doesn't seem at all well. I doubt if she could go out, and I
couldn't leave her for pleasure."

"Well, some other time; and how are you getting along? I suppose you
have vacation as well?"

"Oh yes. Madame thinks I shall acquire French easily. She reads French
verses so splendidly, and I am doing well in Latin, but oh, there are
such stores of reading! It is a hardship to tear myself away, and poetry
just enchants me--well, when it is high and fine. I have begun 'The
Idylls of the King.' Oh it must be just glorious to write such poetry!"

"It is a rare gift, and it is something to be able to read and
appreciate."

"I sometimes envy the girls who have so much leisure, yet they seem not
to improve it. But then--oh, you don't know how lovely it is here, how
much there is to interest and satisfy. Of course I'm not quite
satisfied at present," and Lilian gave a light laugh, "but the town is
so truly beautiful and the house--I wonder if it is silly but I walk
about at times and do enjoy the soft rugs, the handsome furniture, the
pictures, the beautiful bits of art scattered around, and oh, the books!
There never was anything like it in my life before, and if I go back to
comparative poverty, which I suppose I shall some day, for I never can
earn any thing like this, it will linger in my mind as a journey to some
enchanting place. There is so much to learn all the time. Not merely out
of books but the sweet and gracious things one can do; Mrs. Barrington
is so lovely. Am I tiring you with these visionary things?"

"No, my dear girl, I am glad you can enjoy them and treasure them up
without a feeling of envy. We cannot all of us abound in this world's
goods, but we can be glad someone has them and is willing to share them
with us, at least, allow us to look on."

"I'm going to study every day and get on as fast as possible. I'm
longing for the time when I can earn money and have a little home of our
own. I wish"--then she paused and recovering herself after a moment,
resumed--"I wish to make some nice friends in my own walk in life, among
those who really love to work and bring about results."

"And I am sure you will do it. And loving whatever is fine and true and
gracious shapes one's character. God has given us the sense of enjoyment
and he means us to make the best use of it that we can. Oh, we must turn
about. See how far we have walked, and there is a baby crescent moon."

The dun white of the sky was thinning into blue and here and there a
star pricked through. It was clear and crisp yet the air had a fragrance
of the cedars and spruces. They hurried along, and Lilian promised to
meet her friend tomorrow for another walk. She had never been an
effusive girl, but she could talk so easily to Edith and in the
interchange she could throw off the things that annoyed or depressed
her.

So they said good-night and she entered the pretty vestibule where she
had first seen Mrs. Barrington. Her heart gave a quick bound as she
thought of that lady's confidence in her truth. Mrs. Dane must sometime
be convinced of her injustice.

She ran lightly up the stairs, wondering a little that her mother's room
should be in darkness. Crossing over to the match safe she stumbled over
something on the floor and struck a light in half terror.

"Oh mother! mother!" she cried to the prostrate figure. Then in sudden
fear she called in the hall--"Oh, will some one come! I cannot tell what
has happened to mother."

Miss Arran answered. The face was deadly white and cold, the eyes half
open, staring.

"Oh, she is dead! I went out to walk and staid too long." Lilian's voice
was full of remorseful pathos.

"No," said Miss Arran. "I think she has only fainted. Her heart beats a
little; Let us lay her on the bed and I'll get some restoratives. Is she
accustomed to fainting?"

"Not like this. Oh poor mother!"

They laid her on the bed, chafed her hands and bathed her face, using
the lavender salts. After a little there was a faint respiration. Then
she opened her eyes and murmured something.

"Mother, dear, what happened? And I was away." "It will be better
when--when I'm gone." The vague glance seemed to study the girl with
poignant anguish. "Oh, yes!--better--"

"You must not say that. You must live to let me repay you for all you
have done for me, and we will be happy--"

She moved her head from side to side in dissent. "Oh, you do not know,
but I did it for love's sake. I could not live without my child."

"Suppose we get her undressed, she will feel more comfortable. She has
not looked well for the last week or two. Mrs. Barrington was speaking
about it, but she is such a quiet body."

Lilian opened the bed. She was girlishly glad her mother's night dress
was neat and lace trimmed, fit to go to her new home. So they soon had
her easier and restful.

"I should like a cup of tea," she said, weakly.

"I'll get it," and Miss Arran left the room.

"Dear mother," and Lilian patted the hands that were thin and cold.

"Oh, love me a little to the end, I've loved you so much. Whatever comes
you will know I did it for love's sake, and you must forgive."

"There can be nothing to forgive. You have worked for me early and late.
You must live and let me repay you, make you happy. If I have failed in
the past I will try with all my soul and strength in the future. Think,
every year brings us nearer the home I shall make for you. Oh, do not
talk of dying!"
