"Janet!"

"Sorr?"

"Has she had her breakfast?"

"Two, sorr."

"What?"

"Cereal and cream, omelet and toast, three oranges and a pear, and a
pint of milk——"

"Good heavens!  Do you want to kill the child?"

"Arrah, sorr, she’ll never be kilt with feedin’!  It’s natural to the
young, sorr—and she leppin’ and skippin’ and turnin’ over and over like
a young kid!—and how I’m to dress her in her clothes God only knows——"

"Janet!  Stop your incessant chatter!  Go upstairs and tell Miss
Stephanie that I want her to dress immediately."

"I will, sorr."

Cleland looked at Meacham and the little faded old man looked back out
of wise, tragic eyes which had seen hell—would see it again more than
once before he finished with the world.

"What do you think of my little ward, Meacham?"

"It is better not to think, sir; it is better to just believe."

"What do you mean?"

"Just that, sir.  If we really think we can’t believe. It’s pleasanter
to hope.  The young lady is very pretty, sir."

Cleland Senior always wore a fresh white waistcoat, winter and summer,
and a white carnation in his button-hole.  He put on and buttoned the
one while Meacham adjusted the other.

They had been together many years, these two men.  Every two or three
months Meacham locked himself in his room and drank himself stupid.
Sometimes he remained invisible for a week, sometimes for two weeks.
Years ago Cleland had given up hope of helping him.  Once, assisted by
hirelings, he had taken Meacham by a combination of strategy and force
to a famous institute where the periodical dipsomaniac is cured if he
chooses to be.

And Meacham emerged, cured to that extent; and immediately proceeded to
lock himself in his room and lie there drunk for eighteen days.

Always when he emerged, ashy grey, blinking, neat, and his little,
burnt-out eyes tragic with the hell they had looked upon, John Cleland
spoke to him as though nothing had happened to interrupt the routine of
service.  The threads were picked up and knotted where they had been
broken; life continued in its accustomed order under the Cleland roof.
The master would not abandon the man; the man continued to fight a
losing fight until beaten, then locked himself away until the enemy gave
his broken body and broken mind a few weeks’ respite.  Otherwise, the
master’s faith and trust in this old-time servant was infinite.

"Meacham?"

"Sir."

"I think—Mrs. Cleland—would have approved. Janet thinks so."

"Yes, sir."

"You think so, too?"

"Certainly, sir.  Whatever you wished was madame’s wish also."

"Master James is so much away these days....  I suppose I am getting
old, and——"

He suffered Meacham to invest him with his coat, lifted the lapel and
sniffed at the blossom there, squared his broad shoulders, twisted his
white moustache.

There was no more attractive figure on Fifth Avenue than Cleland Senior
with the bright colour in his cheeks, his vigorous stride and his
attire, so suitable to his fresh skin, sturdy years and bearing.

Meacham’s eyes were lifted to his master, now.  They were of the same
age.

"Will you wear a black overcoat or a grey, sir?"

"I don’t care.  I’m going up to the nursery first. The nursery," he
repeated, with a secret thrill at the word, which made him tingle all
over in sheerest happiness.

"The car, sir?"

"First," said Cleland, "I must find out what Miss Stephanie wishes—or
rather, I must decide what I wish her to do.  Telephone the garage,
anyway."

There was a silence; Cleland had walked a step or two toward the door.
Now, he came back.

"Meacham, I hope I have done what was best.  On her father’s side there
was good blood; on her mother’s, physical health....  I know what the
risk is. But character is born in the cradle and lowered into the grave.
The world merely develops, modifies, or cripples it.  But it is the same
character....  I’ve taken the chance—the tremendous responsibility....
It isn’t a sudden fancy—an idle caprice;—it isn’t for the amusement of
making a fine lady out of a Cinderella. I want—a—baby, Meacham.  I’ve
been in love with an imaginary child for a long, long time.  Now, she’s
become real.  That’s all."

"I understand, sir."

"Yes, you do understand.  So I ask you to tell me; have I been fair to
Mr. James?"

"I think so, sir."

