teaspoonful of medicine.

Then, in the other glass, he dissolved a powder, gave her three
teaspoonfuls of that, and placed the two glasses on the night table
beside her bed.

"If you happen to awake," he said gently, "take a teaspoonful of each.
But I think you’ll sleep, madame.  And in the morning you’ll be all
right."

He turned on King Constantine and the Tsar so suddenly that they both
took impulsive steps backward as though apprehensive of being kicked.

"The Princess needs quiet and rest, gentlemen," said Smith.  "Kindly
retire."

"Perhaps I’d better sit beside her for a while," began Constantine, but
Smith interrupted him:

"I’ll call you into consultation if I want you, Monsieur Xenos."  His
voice had a very slight ring to it; the ex-King of Greece looked at him
for a moment, then winced and backed out of the room, followed by King
Ferdinand who seemed to be in a hurry and crowded on his heels like an
agitated pachyderm.

Clelia, who had remained mute and motionless, looking at Smith all the
while, now came toward him. And in the girl’s altered face I saw,
reflected, deeper emotions than I had supposed her youthful heart could
harbor.

"Do you need me?" she asked.  "I am at your service."

"Thank you, there is nothing more," said Smith pleasantly.  He turned to
include Thusis in kindly but unmistakable dismissal.

Clelia gave him a long, slow look of exquisite submission; Thusis sent
an odd, irresolute glance at me.  As she passed me, following her
sister, her lips formed the message: "I wish to see you to-night."

When they had gone Smith shut and locked the door, and with a slight
motion to me to accompany him, walked over to the bed, seated himself
beside it, and took the fat hand of the Princess Pudelstoff in his as
though to test her pulse.

The lady rolled her eyes at us but lay still, her mottled cheeks still
glistening with partly dried tears.

"What’s on your mind, Princess?" inquired Smith in a soft, caressing
voice.

"Hey?" she exclaimed in visible alarm, and evidently preparing to scream
again.

"Hush.  Don’t excite yourself, madame," he said in his pleasant,
reassuring way.  "There is no occasion for alarm at all."

"Am I a sick woman?" she demanded anxiously. "Is that what you’re
a-goin’ to hand me?  Is it?"

"No, you’re not physically ill.  You have no temperature except as much
as might be due to sudden shock."

"I got the scare of my young life all right," she muttered.  "Say, Doc,
was it a dream?  On the level now, was it?"

"Probably——"

"Honest to God?" she insisted.

"Why do you think it was not a dream, Princess?" he asked gently.

"Why?  Well, I’ve run with Rooshians enough to know a infernal machine
when I see one.  And I never dream plain, that way.  I can see that darn
thing yet—and hear it!  And I can see them men in there all a settin’
onto chairs in a circle like, and a-watching that there bomb sizzling.
It made a blue light but no smoke and no smell.  How could I have drempt
all that so plain, Doc?"

"Princess!  You’re not afraid of me, are you?"

She looked up into his clean-cut, pleasant American face.

"No, I ain’t," she said.  "You come from God’s country"—she suddenly
began to beat her pudgy fists on the sheets—"and whyinhell I ever was
crazy enough to leave little old Noo York I don’t know excep’ I was
damfoolenough to do it!"

Smith smiled at her: "You sure were some peach," he said, dropping
gracefully into the vernacular, "when you played with Nazimova in that
Eastside theater."

The Princess flushed all over, and the radiance of her smile
transfigured her amazingly.

"Did you see me in them days, Doc?"

"You betcha!"

"Well-f’r-God’s-sake!" she gasped in wonder and delight.  "Say, you had
me fooled, Doc.  I understood you was a Norsky—a sort of tree-peddlin’
guy.  But, thinks I to myself, he looks like a Yank. I says so to my
brother, Leo Puppsky——"

"Don’t say it to him again, Princess.  Or to anybody."

At that the Princess fixed her shrewd little eyes on Smith, shifted them
for an instant to me, then resumed her scrutiny of his serene and
smiling features.

"What’s the idea?" she asked at last.

"I’m going to lay all my cards down for you, Princess,—faces up.  I am
an American serving in the Italian army."

"The-hell-you-say!"  There was a silence that lasted a full minute.
Then, suddenly, the Princess began to laugh.  Soft, fat chuckles
agitated her tremendous bosom; a seismic disturbance seemed to shake her
ample bulk beneath the bed-clothes.

"Tabs!" she exclaimed.  "You’re keepin’ tabs on these here
