ramshackle wharf and boat-house. But already a boat had put off from
the larger craft and was being rowed parallel with the shore toward
the mouth of a marshy creek.

Two men were rowing; a third steered.

But what had suddenly upset Renoux was the sight of a line of green
jackets threading the marsh to the north, led by Skeel, who was
already exchanging handkerchief signals with the men in the boat.

Renoux glanced at his prey escaping by an avenue of which he had no
previous knowledge. It was death to go out into the open with pistols
and face the fire of half a dozen rifles. No man there had any
delusions concerning that.

Souchez had field-glasses slung around his neck. Renoux took them,
gazed at the receding boat, set his teeth hard.

"Ferez!" he growled.

"What!" exclaimed Westmore, turning a violent red.

"The man steering is Ferez Bey." Renoux handed the binoculars to
Westmore with a shrug.

Barres, bending double, had gone out into the swale. A thicket of
cat-tails screened him and he advanced very carefully, keeping his
eyes on the green-jacketed men whose heads, shoulders and rifles were
visible above the swampy growth beyond.

Suddenly Renoux, who was watching him in bitter silence, saw him turn
and beckon violently.

"Quick!" he said in a low, eager voice. "He may have found a ditch to
shelter us!"

Renoux was correct in his surmise: Barres stood with drawn pistol,
awaiting them in a muddy ditch which ran through the reeds diagonally
across the marsh. It was shin-deep in water.

"We could make a pretty good stand in a ditch like this, couldn't we?"
he demanded excitedly.

"You bet we can!" replied Renoux, jumping down beside him, followed by
Westmore, Alost and Souchez in turn.

Barres, leading, ran down the ditch as fast as he could, spattering
himself and the others with mud and water at every step.

"Here!" panted Renoux, clambering nimbly out of the ditch and peering
ahead through the reeds. Then he suddenly stood upright:

"Halt!" he shouted. "It's all up with you, Skeel! Keep away from that
boat, or I order my men to fire!"

There was a dead silence for a moment; then Skeel's voice:

"Better not bother us, my good man. We know our business and you'd
better learn yours."

"Skeel," retorted Renoux, "my business is other people's business,
sometimes. It's yours just now. I warn you to keep away from that
boat!" He turned and hailed the boat in the next breath: "Boat ahoy!
Keep off or we open fire!"

The metallic bang of a rifle cut him short and his straw hat was
jerked from his head. Then came Skeel's voice, calmly dangerous:

"I know you, Renoux! You have no standing here. Keep away or I'll kill
you!"

"What lawful standing have you--leading an armed expedition from the
United States into Canada!" retorted Renoux, red with anger and
looking about for his hat.

"If you don't get back I shall surely kill you!" replied Skeel. "I
count three, Renoux:--one--two--three." Bang! went another rifle, and
Renoux shrugged and dropped reluctantly back into the ditch.

"They're crazy," he said. "Barres, fire across that boat out yonder."

Westmore also fired, aiming carefully at Ferez. It was too far; they
both knew it. But the ricochetting bullets seemed to sting the rowers
to frantic exertion, and Ferez, at the rudder, ducked and squatted
flat, the tip of his hat alone showing over the gunwale.

"We can't stop them," said Renoux desperately. "They're certain to
reach that boat."

Now, suddenly, Skeel's six rifles cracked viciously and the bullets
came screaming over the ditch.

Renoux fairly gnashed his teeth:

"If a bluff won't stop them, then I'm through," he said bitterly. "I
haven't any authority. I haven't the audacity to fire on them--to so
insult your Government. And yet, by God!--there's the canal to
remember!"

Another volley from the Green Jackets, and again the whizzing scream
of bullets through the cat-tails above their heads.

"Look!" cried Barres. "They're embarking already! There isn't a chance
of holding them."

It was true. Pell-mell through the shallow water and into the boat
leaped the Green Jackets, holding their rifles high in the early
sunshine; Skeel sprang in last of all; the oars flashed.

Pistols hanging helplessly, Renoux and his men stood there foolishly
on the edge of their ditch and watched the boat pull back to the big
power-craft.

Nobody said anything. The Green Jackets climbed aboard with a derisive
cheer. So near was the power-boat that Skeel, Ferez, and Soane were
easily distinguishable there in the brilliant sunshine, on deck.

"Anyway," burst out Renoux, "they'll not dare lie there at anchor and
wait for dark, now."

