and twitching, and Tressa ripped strips from the shroud to truss up the
writhing thing.

Then Cleves switched on the light.

"Why--why--you rat!" he exclaimed in hysterical relief at seeing a
living man whom he recognised there at his feet. "What are you doing
here?"

The hunchback's red eyes blazed up at him from the floor.

"Who--who is he?" faltered the girl.

"He's a German tailor named Albert Feke--one of the Chicago
Bolsheviki--the most dangerous sort we harbour--one of their vile
leaders who preaches that might is right and tells his disciples to go
ahead and take what they want."

He looked down at the malignant cripple.

"You're wanted for the I. W. W. bomb murder, Albert. Did you know it?"

The hunchback licked his bloody lips. Then he kicked himself to a
sitting position, squatted there like a toad and looked steadily at
Tressa Norne out of small red-rimmed eyes. Blood dripped on his beard;
his huge hairy fists, tied and crossed behind his back, made odd,
spasmodic movements.

Cleves went to the telephone. Presently Tressa heard his voice, calm and
distinct as usual:

"We've caught Albert Feke. He's here at my rooms. I'd like to have you
come over, Recklow.... Oh, yes, he kicked and scuffled and scratched
like a cat.... What?... No, I hadn't heard that he'd been in China....
Who?... Albert Feke? You say he was one of the Germans who escaped from
Shantung four years ago?... You think he's a Yezidee! You mean one of
the Eight Assassins?"

The hunchback, staring at Tressa out of red-rimmed eyes, suddenly
snarled and lurched his misshapen body at her.

"Teufelstuck!" he screamed, "ain't I tell efferybody in Yian
already it iss safer if we cut your throat! Devil-slut of
Erlik--snow-leopardess!--cat of the Yezidees who has made of Sanang a
fool!--it iss I who haf said always, always, that you know too damn
much!... Kai!... I hear my soul bidding me farewell. Gif me my shroud!"

Cleves came back from the telephone. With the toe of his left foot he
lifted the shroud and kicked it across the hunchback's knees.

"So you were one of the huns who instigated the massacre in Yian," he
said, curiously. At that Tressa turned very white and a cry escaped her.

But the hunchback's features were all twisted into ferocious laughter,
and he beat on the carpet with the heels of his great splay feet.

"Ja! Ja!" he shrieked, "in Yian it vas a goot hunting! English and
Yankee men und vimmens ve haff dropped into dose deep wells down. Py
Gott in Himmel, how dey schream up out of dose deep wells in Yian!" He
began to cackle and shriek in his frenzy. "Ach Gott ja! It iss not you
either--you there, Keuke Mongol, who shall escape from the
Sheiks-el-Djebel! It iss dot Old Man of the Mountain who shall tell your
soul it iss time to say farewell! Ja! Ja! Ach Gott!--it iss my only
regret that I shall not see the world when it is all afire! Ja! Ja!--all
on fire like hell! But you shall see it, slut-leopard of the snows! You
shall see it und you shall burn! Kai! Kai! My soul it iss bidding my
body farewell. Kai! May Erlik curse you, Keuke Mongol--Heavenly
Azure--Sorceress of the temple!--"

He spat at her and rolled over in his shroud.

The girl looking down on him closed her eyes for a moment, and Cleves
saw her bloodless lips move, and bent nearer, listening. And he heard
her whispering to herself:

"Preserve us all, O God, from the wrath of Satan who was stoned."




CHAPTER VII

THE BRIDAL


Over the United States stretched an unseen network of secret
intrigue woven tirelessly night and day by the busy enemies of
civilisation--Reds, parlour-socialists, enemy-aliens, terrorists,
Bolsheviki, pseudo-intellectuals, I. W. W.'s, social faddists, and
amateur meddlers of every nuance--all the various varieties of the
vicious, witless, and mentally unhinged--brought together through the
"cohesive power of plunder" and the degeneration of cranial tissue.

All over the United States the various departmental divisions of the
Secret Service were busily following up these threads of intrigue
leading everywhere through the obscurity of this vast and secret maze.

To meet the constantly increasing danger of physical violence and to
uncover secret plots threatening sabotage and revolution, there were
capable agents in every branch of the Secret Service, both Federal and
State.

But in the first months of 1919 something more terrifying than physical
violence suddenly threatened civilised America,--a wild, grotesque,
incredible threat of a war on human minds!

And, little by little, the United States Government became convinced
that this ghastly menace was no dream of a disordered imagination, but
that it was real: that among the enemies of civilisation there actually
existed a few powerful but perverted minds capable of wielding psychic
forces as terrific weapons: that by the sinister use of psychic
knowledge controlling these mighty forces the very minds of mankind
could be stealthily approached, seized, controlled and turned upon
civilisation to aid in the world's destruction.

In terrible alarm the Government turned to England for advice. But Sir
William Crookes was dead.

However, in England, Sir Conan Doyle immediately took up the matter, and
in America Professor Hyslop was called into consultation.
