however tenuously. It was what he had been driving at. Accustomed to
easy successes, Cassy's atmosphere, with its flavour of standoffishness
and indifference, appealed to this man, who had supped on the facile and
who wanted the difficult. Cassy, he could have sworn, would supply it
and, if he had, he would have sworn very truly.

Meanwhile the muskrat had gone. Dishes less false but equally fair had
followed. Now, with the air of a conjurer, the waiter just showed them
an entremets which he hastened to serve. It was a soufflée.

At it, Cassy, just showing the point of her strawberry tongue, exclaimed
without rancour: "Ma Tamby has thrown us over."

Paliser lit a cigarette. "She may be singing in the private room."

Cassy laughed again. "Yes. 'Una voce poco fa!' That would be just the
thing--wouldn't it?--to sing privately in private."

Paliser answered, though what, she did not hear. The orchestra drowned
it and for a moment she considered him, conscious that he was less
objectionable than he had seemed, yet entirely unconscious that such
objection as she had experienced was due to his extreme good-looks,
which in a man are always objectionable to a woman when she herself is
handsome, for they make him resemble her and, in so doing, constitute an
encroachment on her prerogatives, which, in itself, is an affront.

Cassy, ignorant of the psychology of it, equally unaware that
familiarity which may breed contempt can also dissolve dislike, and
feeling merely a lessening of her instinctive hostility, told herself
that he was perhaps not as cocky as he looked and drank of the glass
before her.

The Clos de Vougeot which, to the educated palate, is art, literature
and song combined, meant nothing more to her than if it had been Médoc.
She drank it because it was there at her hand, as she would have drunk
water, without savouring it, without any realisation of the enormity of
the crime. Yet though it meant nothing, nothing at least of which she
was aware, the royal crû was affecting her. It modified and mollified,
admonishing her that this man was an inoffensive insect who,
circumstances favouring, might, as Ma Tamby when inserting the flea had
told her, put her father on his feet.

In just what the favouring circumstances could consist, the fallen star
had not bothered to indicate, and she had not bothered because they were
too obvious and also because she was sure that Cassy was not insane.

Paliser abandoned his cigarette. "If you like, we might look in at the
Metropolitan. I believe I have a box."

Apart from down-stage and the centre of it, apart, too, from the flys
and the dressing-rooms, Cassy's imagination had not as yet conceived
anything more beckoning than a box at the opera, even though, as on this
occasion, the opera happened to be a concert. "Why, yes. Only----"
Pausing, she looked about. The imperial lady had gone.

"Only what?" Paliser very needlessly asked for he knew.

"I fear I am a bit overdressed."

"Not for Sunday. The house will be full and nobody in it. Besides, what
do you care?"

Cassy shrugged. "Personally, not a rap. It was of you I was thinking."

Paliser, who had been signing the check and feeing the waiter, looked at
her. "I did not know that you were so considerate."

Cassy, in surprise not at him, but at herself, laughed. "Nor did I."

Paliser stood up and drew back her chair. "Be careful. You might become
cynical. It is in thinking of others that cynicism begins."

The platitude slipped from him absently. He had no wish for the concert,
no wish to hear Berlinese trulls and bubonic bassi bleat. But, for the
tolerably delicate enterprise that he had in hand, there were the
preliminary steps which could only be hastened slowly and anything
slower than the Metropolitan on a Sunday night, it was beyond him to
conjecture.

But though on that evening a basso did bleat, it may be that he was not
bubonic. Moreover he was followed by a soprano who, whether trullish or
not, at any rate was not Berlinese and whose voice had the lusciousness
of a Hawaiian pineapple. But the selections, which were derived from old
Italian cupboards, displeased Paliser, who called them painted mush.

But not twice! Cassy turned her back on him. The painted mush shook
stars in her ears, opened vistas on the beyond. Save for him she would
have been quite happy. But his remark annoyed her. It caused her to
revise her opinion. Instead of an inoffensive insect he was an offensive
fool. None the less, as the concert progressed, she revised it again. On
entering the box she had seen his name on the door. The memory of that,
filtering through the tinted polenta from the ancient cupboards,
softened her. A man so gifted could express all the imbecilities he
liked. Elle s'enfichait.

As a result, before it was over, in lieu of her back, she gave him the
seduction of her smile, and, later when, in his car, on the way to the
walk-up, he spoke of future dinners, fresher songs, she had so far
forgotten the painted mush insult, that momentarily she foresaw but one
objection. She had nothing to wear and frankly, with entire unconcern,
she out with it.

For that he had a solution which he kept to himself. The promptly
obliterating stare with which she would have reduced him to
non-existence, he dodged in advance.

Apparently changing the subject, he said: "You know--or know of--Mrs.
Beamish, don't you?"

"Never heard of her," said Cassy, entirely unaware that no one else ever
had either.

"She was at the Bazaar the other night and admired your singing."

"Very good of her I am sure," replied Cassy, who, a born anarchist and
by the same token a born autocrat, loathed condescension.

Paliser corrected it. "No, not good--appreciative. She wants you to sing
at her house. If you are willing, could she arrange about it through
Madame Tamburini?"
