
I stood peering down at it where it seemed to stop short against the
green and tangled barrier of the woods which blocked it like a living
abattis----

God! It was an abattis!--a mask!

As I realized this I saw a man in a strange, outlandish uniform run out
from the green and living barrier, look up at me where I stood in the
juniper, shout out something in German, and stand pointing up at me
while a score of soldiers, all in this same outlandish uniform, swarmed
out upon the road and started running toward where I stood.

Then I came to my senses, clapped my rifle to my cheek and fired,
stopping one of these strange soldiers and curing him of his running
habits forever.

To me arrived swiftly my Oneidas, and dropped in the juniper, kneeling
and firing upon the soldiers below. Two among them fell down flat on the
road, and then the others turned and fled straight into their green
barrier of branches. From there they fired at us wildly, keeping up a
strange, hoarse shouting.

"Hessian chasseurs!" I exclaimed. "These troops can be no other than the
filthy Germans hired by King George to come here and cut our throats!"

"Those men wear the uniform I saw in my vision of this place!"
whispered Thiohero, quietly reloading her rifle. "I think that this is
truly your battle, my Captain."

Then, as her prophecy of cannon came into my mind, there was a blinding
flash from that green barrier below; a vast cloud blotted it from view;
the pine beside which I stood shivered as though thunder-smitten; and
the entire top of it crashed down upon us, burying us all in lashing,
writhing branches.

So stunned and stupefied was I that I lay for an instant without motion,
my ears still deafened by that clap of thunder.

But now I floundered to my feet amid the pine-top's débris; around me
rose my terrified Oneidas, nearly paralyzed with fright.

"Come," said I, "we should pull foot ere they blow us into pieces with
their damned artillery. Thiohero, where are you?"

"I come, Royaneh!"

"Tahioni! Kwiyeh! Hanatoh!" I called anxiously.

Then I saw them all creeping like weasels from under the green débris.

"Hasten," I muttered, "for we shall have all the Iroquois in North
America on our backs in another moment."

As we started to retreat, the Germans emptied their muskets after us;
but I did not think anybody had been hit.

We now were running in single file, our rifles a-trail, Tahioni leading,
and I some distance in the rear, turning my head over my shoulder from
moment to moment to see if we were followed.

And now, as I ran on, I understood that this accursed road had been made
expressly to transport their siege artillery; that their guns were still
in transit; that they had masked a cannon and manned it with Hessian
chasseurs to keep their gun-road safe against surprise from any party
scouting out of Oriska.

Lord, what an ambuscade! And what an escape for us!

As I jogged on at the heels of my Indians, still dazed and shaken by the
deadly surprise of it all, I saw Thiohero, who was some little distance
in front of me, reel sideways as though out o' breath, and stand still
near a beech tree, holding her scarlet blanket against her body.

When I came up to her she was leaning against the tree, clutching her
blanket to her face and breast with both hands. But she heard me and
lifted her head from the gaily coloured folds.

"Hahyion--Royaneh!" she panted, "this was your battle.... And now--it
is over ... and you shall live!..."

My Oneidas had halted and were looking back at us. And now they returned
rapidly and clustered around us.

"Are you exhausted, little sister?" I demanded, drawing nearer. "Are you
hurt----"

"Listen--my brother and--my Captain!" she burst out breathlessly.
"This was the battle of my vision!--the strange uniforms--the
cannon-cloud--the white shape!... I saw it near you where--where you
stood in the cannon smoke!--a shape like mist at sunrise.... Haihee! It
was the face and shape of the Caughnawaga girl!... It was Yellow Hair
who floated there beside you in the cannon smoke!--covered to her eyes
in white and flowers----"

The Little Maid of Askalege clutched her gay blanket closer to her
breast and began to sway gently on her feet as though the thumping of a
distant partridge were a witch-drum.

"Haihya Hahyion!" she whispered--"Thiohero Oyaneh salutes--her
Captain.... I speak--as one dying.... Haiee! Haie--e! Yellow Hair is--is
quite--a witch!----"

Her voice failed; down on her knees she sank. And, as I snatched her
from the ground and lifted her, she looked up into my face and smiled.
Then, in a long-drawn sigh, her soul escaped between my arms that could
not stay its flight to Tharon.

Her face became as wax; her head fell forward on my breast; her eyes
rolled upward. And, as I pressed her in my arms, all my body grew warm
and wet with bright blood pouring from her softly parted lips.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE WOOD OF BRAKABEEN


