takes the rest of my life. You understand?' 'Sure,' says I, me tongue in
me cheek. 'Bong! Allez vous en!' says he.

"'How the hell,' sez I, 'do I get out of here?' 'You're a Yankee
soldier. The Flics don't know you were in here. You go and kick on that
door and make a holler.'

"So I done it good; and a cop opens and swears at me, but when he sees a
Yankee soldier was locked in the wash-room by mistake, he lets me out,
you bet."

Clinch smiled a thin smile, poured out three fingers of hooch.

"What else?" asked Smith quietly.

"Nothing much. I didn't go to no roo Quinze Octobre. But I don't never
want to see that fella Quintana. I've been waiting till it's safe to
sell--what was in that packet."

"Sell what?"

"What was in that packet," replied Clinch thickly.

"What was in it?"

"Sparklers--since you're so nosey."

"Diamonds?"

"And then some. I dunno what they're called. All I know is I'll croak
Quintana if he even turns up askin' for 'em. He frisked somebody. I
frisked him. I'll kill anybody who tries to frisk me."

"Where do you keep them?" enquired Smith na√Øvely.

Clinch looked at him, very drunk: "None o' your dinged business," he
said very softly.

The dancing had become boisterous but not unseemly, although all the men
had been drinking too freely.

Smith closed the pantry bar at midnight, by direction of Eve. Now he
came out into the ballroom and mixed affably with the company, even
dancing with Harvey Chase's sister once--a slender hoyden, all flushed
and dishevelled, with a tireless mania for dancing which seemed to
intoxicate her.

She danced, danced, danced, accepting any partner offered. But Smith's
skill enraptured her and she refused to let him go when her beau, a late
arrival, one Charlie Berry, slouched up to claim her.

Smith, always trying to keep Clinch and Quintana's men in view, took no
part in the discussion; but Berry thought he was detaining Lily Chase
and pushed him aside.

"Hold on, young man!" exclaimed Smith sharply. "Keep your hands to
yourself. If your girl don't want to dance with you she doesn't have
to."

Some of Quintana's gang came up to listen. Berry glared at Smith.

"Say," he said, "I seen you before somewhere. Wasn't you in Russia?"

"What are you talking about?"

"Yes, you was. You was an officer! What you doing at Clinch's?"

"What's that?" growled Clinch, shoving his way forward and shouldering
the crowd aside.

"Who's this man, Mike?" demanded Berry.

"Well, who do you think he is?" asked Clinch thickly.

"I think he's gettin' the goods on you, that's what I think," yelled
Berry.

"G'wan home, Charlie," returned Clinch. "G'wan, all o' you. The dance is
over. Go peaceable, every one. Stop that fiddle!"

The music ceased. The dance was ended; they all understood that; but
there was grumbling and demands for drinks.

Clinch, drunk but impassive, herded them through the door out into the
starlight. There was scuffling, horse-play, but no fighting.

The big Englishman, Harry Beck, asked for accommodations for his party
over night.

"Naw," said Clinch, "g'wan back to the Inn. I can't bother with you
folks to-night." And as the others, Salzar, Georgiades, Picquet and
Sanchez gathered about to insist, Clinch pushed them all out of doors in
a mass.

"Get the hell out o' here!" he growled; and slammed the door.

He stood for a moment with head lowered, drunk, but apparently capable
of reflection. Eve came from the melodeon and laid one slim hand on his
arm.

"Go to bed, girlie," he said, not looking at her.

"You also, dad."

"No.... I got business with Hal Smith."

Passing Smith, the girl whispered: "You look out for him and undress
him."

Smith nodded, gravely preoccupied with coming events, and nerving
himself to meet them.

He had no gun. Clinch's big automatic bulged under his armpit.

When the girl had ascended the creaking stairs and her door, above,
closed, Clinch walked unsteadily to the door, opened it, fished out his
pistol.

"Come on out," he said without turning.

