"Uneducated!" exclaimed Mrs. Carleton.

"Don't mistake me, mother,  I do not mean that it shows any
want of reading or writing, but it does indicate an untrained
character  a mind unprepared for the exigencies of life."

"She met those exigencies indifferently well, too," observed
Mr. Thorn.

"Ay  but pride, and the dignity of rank, and undoubtedly some
of the finer qualities of a woman's nature, might suffice for
that, and yet leave her utterly unfitted to play wisely and
gracefully a part in ordinary life."

"Well, she had no such part to play," said Mrs. Carleton.

"Certainly, mother  but I am comparing faces."

"Well  the other face?"

"It has the same style of refined beauty of feature, but  to
compare them in a word, Marie Antoinette looks to me like a
superb exotic that has come to its brilliant perfection of
bloom in a hothouse  it would lose its beauty in the strong
free air  it would change and droop if it lacked careful
waiting upon and constant artificial excitement;  the other,"
said Mr. Carleton, musingly,  "is a flower of the woods,
raising its head above frost and snow and the rugged soil
where fortune has placed it, with an air of quiet patient
endurance; a storm wind may bring it to the ground, easily, 
but if its gentle nature be not broken, it will look up again,
unchanged, and bide its time in unrequited beauty and
sweetness to the end."

"The exotic for me!" cried Rossitur,  "if I only had a place
for her. I don't like pale elegancies."

"I'd make a piece of poetry of that if I was you, Carleton,"
said Mr. Thorn.

"Mr. Carleton has done that already," said Mrs. Evelyn,
smoothly.

"I never heard you talk so before, Guy," said his mother,
looking at him. His eyes had grown dark with intensity of
expression while he was speaking, gazing at visionary flowers
or beauties through the dinner-table mahogany. He looked up
and laughed as she addressed him, and rising, turned off
lightly with his usual air.

"I congratulate you, Mrs. Carleton," Mrs. Evelyn whispered as
they went from the table, "that this little beauty is not a
few years older."

"Why?" said Mrs. Carleton, "If she is all that Guy says, I
would give anything in the world to see him married."

"Time enough," said Mrs. Evelyn, with a knowing smile.

"I don't know," said Mrs. Carleton,  "I think he would be
happier. He is a restless spirit  nothing satisfies him. 
nothing fixes him. He cannot rest at home  he abhors politics
 he flits away from country to country and doesn't remain
long anywhere."

"And you with him."

"And I with him. I should like to see if a wife could not
persuade him to stay at home."

"I guess you have petted him too much," said Mrs. Evelyn,
slyly.

"I cannot have petted him too much, for he has never
disappointed me."

"No, of course not; but it seems you find it difficult to lead
him."

"No one ever succeeded in doing that," said Mrs. Carleton,
with a smile, that was anything but an ungratified one. "He
never wanted driving, and to lead him is impossible. You may
try it; and while you think you are going to gain your end, if
he thinks it worth while, you will suddenly find that he is
leading you. It is so with everybody  in some inexplicable
way."

Mrs. Evelyn thought the mystery was very easily explicable, as
far as the mother was concerned; and changed the conversation.




CHAPTER VI.


To them life was a simple art
Of duties to be done,
A game where each man took his part,
A race where all must run;
A battle whose great scheme and scope
They little cared to know,
Content, as men-at-arms, to cope
Each with his fronting foe.
MILNES.


On so great and uncommon an occasion as Mr. Ringgan's giving a
dinner-party, the disused front parlour was opened and set in
order; the women-folks, as he called them, wanting the whole
back part of the house for their operations. So when the
visitors arrived, in good time, they were ushered into a large
square, bare-looking room  a strong contrast even to their
dining-room at the Pool  which gave them nothing of the
welcome of the pleasant farm-house kitchen, and where nothing
of the comfort of the kitchen found its way but a very strong
smell of roast pig. There was the cheerless air of a place
where nobody lives, or thinks of living. The very chairs
looked as if they had made up their minds to be forsaken for a
term of months; it was impossible to imagine that a cheerful
supper had ever been laid upon the stiff, cold-looking table,
that stood with its leaves down so primly against the wall.
All that a blazing fire could do to make amends for
deficiencies, it did; but the wintry wind that swept round the
house shook the paper window-shades in a remorseless way; and
the utmost efforts of said fire could not prevent it from
coming in, and giving disagreeable, impertinent whispers at
the ears of everybody.

Mr. Ringgan's welcome, however, was, and would have been the
same thing anywhere  genial, frank, and dignified; neither he
nor it could be changed by circumstances. Mr. Carleton admired
anew, as he came forward, the fine presence and noble look of
his old host; a look that it was plain had never needed to
seek the ground; a brow that in large or small things had
never been crossed by a shadow of shame. And to a discerning
eye the face was not a surer index of a lofty than of a
peaceful and pure mind; too peace-loving and pure, perhaps,
for the best good of his affairs in the conflict with a
selfish and unscrupulous world. At least, now, in the time of
his old age and infirmity; in former days, his straightforward
wisdom, backed by an indomitable courage and strength, had
made Mr. Ringgan no safe subject for either braving or over-
reaching.

Fleda's keen-sighted affection was heartily gratified by the
manner in which her grandfather was greeted by at least one of
his guests, and that the one about whose opinion she cared the
most. Mr. Carleton seemed as little sensible of the cold room
as Mr. Ringgan himself. Fleda felt sure that her grandfather
was appreciated; and she would have sat delightedly listening
to what the one and the other were presently saying, if she
had not taken notice that her cousin looked astray. He was
eyeing the fire with a profound air, and she fancied he
thought it poor amusement. Little as Fleda in secret really
cared about that, with an instant sacrifice of her own
pleasure, she quietly changed her position for one from which
she could more readily bring to bear upon Mr. Rossitur's
distraction the very light artillery of her conversation; and
attacked him on the subject of the game he had brought home.
Her motive and her manner both must have been lost upon the
young gentleman. He forthwith set about amusing himself in a
way his little entertainer had not counted upon, namely, with
giving a chase to her wits; partly to pass away the time, and
partly to gratify his curiosity, as he said, "to see what
Fleda was made of." By a curious system of involved,
startling, or absurd questions, he endeavoured to puzzle, or
confound, or entrap her. Fleda, however, steadily presented a
grave front to the enemy, and would every now and then
surprise him with an unexpected turn or clever doubling, and
sometimes when he thought he had her in a corner, jump over
the fence and laugh at him from the other side. Mr. Rossitur's
respect for his little adversary gradually increased, and
finding that she had rather the best of the game, he at last
gave it up, just as Mr. Ringgan was asking Mr. Carleton if he
was a judge of stock? Mr. Carleton saying with a smile, "No,
but he hoped Mr. Ringgan would give him his first lesson," 
the old gentleman immediately arose with that alacrity of
manner he always wore when he had a visitor that pleased him,
and taking his hat and cane led the way out; choosing, with a
man's true carelessness of housewifery etiquette, the kitchen
route, of all others. Not even admonished by the sight of the
bright Dutch oven before the fire, that he was introducing his
visitors somewhat too early to the pig, he led the whole party
through, Cynthia scuttling away in haste across the kitchen
with something that must not be seen, while aunt Miriam looked
out at the company through the crack of the pantry door, at
which Fleda ventured a sly glance of intelligence.

It was a fine though a windy and cold afternoon; the lights
and shadows were driving across the broad upland and meadows.

"This is a fine arable country," remarked Mr. Carleton.

"Capital, Sir, capital, for many miles round, if we were not
so far from a market. I was one of the first that broke ground
in this township,  one of the very first settlers  I've seen
the rough and the smooth of it, and I never had but one mind
about it from the first. All this  as far as you can see  I
cleared myself; most of it with my own hand."

"That recollection must attach you strongly to the place, I
should think, Sir."

"Hum, perhaps I cared too much for it," he replied, "for it is
taken away from me. Well, it don't matter now."

"It is not yours?"

"No, Sir! it was mine a great many years; but I was obliged to
part with it, two years ago, to a scoundrel of a fellow 
McGowan, up here  he got an advantage over me. I can't take
care of myself any more as I used to do, and I don't find that
other people deal by me just as I could wish "

He was silent for a moment and then went on 

"Yes, Sir! when I first set myself down here, or a little
further that way, my first house was,  a pretty rough house,
too,  there wa'n't two settlers beside within something like
ten miles round.  I've seen the whole of it cleared, from the
cutting of the first forest trees till this day."

"You have seen the nation itself spring up within that time,"
remarked his guest.

"Not exactly  that question of our nationality was settled a
little before I came here. I was born rather too late to see
the whole of that play  I saw the best of it, though  boys
were men in those days. My father was in the thick of it from
beginning to end."

"In the army, was he?"

"Ho, yes, Sir! he and every child he had that wasn't a girl 
there wasn't a man of the name that wa'n't on the right side.
I was in the army myself when I was fifteen. I was nothing but
a fifer  but I tell you, Sir! there wasn't a general officer
in the country that played his part with a prouder heart than
I did mine!"

"And was that the general spirit of the ranks?"

"Not altogether," replied the old gentleman, passing his hand
several times abstractedly over his white hair, a favourite
gesture with him,  "not exactly that  there was a good deal
of mixture of different materials, especially in this state;
and where the feeling wasn't pretty strong, it was no wonder
if it got tired out; but the real stuff, the true Yankee
blood, was pretty firm! Ay, and some of the rest! There was a
good deal to try men in those days. Sir, I have seen many a
time when I had nothing to dine upon but my fife, and it was
more than that could do to keep me from feeling very empty!"

"But was this a common case? did this happen often?" said Mr.
Carleton.

"Pretty often  pretty often, sometimes," answered the old
gentleman. "Things were very much out of order, you see, and
in some parts of the country it was almost impossible to get
the supplies the men needed. Nothing would have kept them
together,  nothing under heaven  but the love and confidence
they had in one name. Their love of right and independence
wouldn't have been strong enough, and besides a good many of
them got disheartened. A hungry stomach is a pretty stout
arguer against abstract questions. I have seen my father
crying like a child for the wants and sufferings he was
obliged to see, and couldn't relieve."

"And then you used to relieve yourselves, grandpa," said
Fleda.

"How was that, Fairy?"

Fleda looked at her grandfather, who gave a little preparatory
laugh, and passed his hand over his head again.

"Why, yes," said he,  "we used to think the tories, King
George's men, you know, were fair game; and when we happened
to be in the neighbourhood of some of them that we knew were
giving all the help they could to the enemy, we used to let
them cook our dinners for us once in a while."

"How did you manage that, Sir?"

"Why, they used to have little bake-ovens to cook their meats
and so on, standing some way out from the house,  did you
never see one of them?  raised on four little heaps of stone;
the bottom of the oven is one large flat stone, and the arch
built over it;  they look like a great beehive. Well  we
used to watch till we saw the good woman of the house get her
oven cleverly heated, and put in her batch of bread, or her
meat-pie, or her pumpkin and apple pies!  whichever it was 
there didn't any of 'em come much amiss  and when we guessed
they were pretty nigh done, three or four of us would creep in
and whip off the whole  oven and all!  to a safe place. I
tell you," said he, with a knowing nod of his head at the
laughing Fleda,  "those were first-rate pies!"

"And then did you put the oven back again afterwards,
