life-work. She had had too much pleasant company, and enjoyed
too much conversation she said. It had unfitted her for home
duties.

Mrs. Plumfield, she knew, was no better. But her eye found no
change for the worse. The old lady was very glad to see her,
and very cheerful and kind as usual.

"Well, are you glad to be home again?" said aunt Miriam, after
a pause in the conversation.

"Everybody asks me that question," said Fleda, smiling.

"Perhaps for the same reason I did  because they thought you
didn't look very glad."

"I am glad," said Fleda, "but I believe not so glad as I was
last year."

"Why not?"

"I suppose I had a pleasanter time. I have got a little
spoiled, I believe, aunt Miriam," Fleda said, with glistening
eyes and an altering voice  "I don't take up my old cares and
duties kindly at first  I shall be myself again in a few
days."

Aunt Miriam looked at her with that fond, wistful, benevolent
look which made Fleda turn away.

"What has spoiled you, love?"

"Oh!  easy living and pleasure, I suppose," Fleda said, but
said with difficulty.

"Pleasure?" said aunt Miriam, putting one arm gently round
her. Fleda struggled with herself.

"It is so pleasant, aunt Miriam, to forget these money cares!
 to lift one's eyes from the ground, and feel free to stretch
out one's hand  not to be obliged to think about spending
sixpences, and to have one's mind at liberty for a great many
things that I haven't time for here. And Hugh  and aunt Lucy
 somehow things seem sad to me." 

Nothing could be more sympathizingly kind than the way in
which aunt Miriam brought Fleda closer to her side, and
wrapped her in her arms.

"I am very foolish," Fleda whispered. "I am very wrong  I
shall get over it."

"I am afraid, dear Fleda," Mrs. Plumfield said, after a pause,
"it isn't best for us always to be without sad things  though
I cannot bear to see your dear little face look sad  but it
wouldn't fit us for the work we have to do  it wouldn't fit
us to stand where I stand now, and look forward happily."

"Where you stand?" said Fleda, raising her head.

"Yes, and I would not be without a sorrow I have ever known.
They are bitter now, when they are present  but the sweet
fruit comes after."

"But what do you mean by 'where you stand?' "

"On the edge of life."

"You do not think so, aunt Miriam!" Fleda said, with a
terrified look. "You are not worse?"

"I don't expect ever to be better," said Mrs. Plumfield, with
a smile. "Nay, my love," she said, as Fleda's head went down
on her bosom again  "not so! I do not wish it either, Fleda.
I do not expect to leave you soon, but I would not prolong the
time by a day. I would not have spoken of it now if I had
recollected myself; but I am so accustomed to think and speak
of it, that it came out before I knew it. My darling child, it
is nothing to cry for."

"I know it, aunt Miriam."

"Then don't cry," whispered aunt Miriam, when she had stroked
Fleda's head for five minutes.

"I am crying for myself, aunt Miriam," said Fleda. "I shall be
left alone."

"Alone, my dear child?"

"Yes  there is nobody but you that I feel I can talk to."

She would have added that she dared not say a word to Hugh,
for fear of troubling him. But that pain at her heart stopped
her, and pressing her hands together, she burst into bitter
weeping.

"Nobody to talk to but me?" said Mrs. Plumfield, after again
soothing her for some time  "what do you mean, dear?"

"Oh, I can't say anything to them at home," said Fleda, with a
forced effort after voice; "and you are the only one I can
look to for help  Hugh never says anything  almost never 
anything of that kind; he would rather others should counsel
him."

"There is One friend to whom you may always tell everything,
with no fear of wearying Him  of whom you may at all times
ask counsel, without any danger of being denied  more dear,
more precious, more rejoiced in, the more he is sought unto.
Thou mayest lose friend after friend, and gain more than thou
losest  in that one."

"I know it," said Fleda; "but dear aunt Miriam, don't you
think human nature longs for some human sympathy and help
too?"

"My sweet blossom! yes," said Mrs. Plumfield, caressingly,
stroking her bowed head; "but let Him do what he will; he hath
said, 'I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.' "

"I know that too," said Fleda, weeping. "How do people bear
life that do not know it?"

"Or that cannot take the comfort of it. Thou art not poor nor
alone while thou hast him to go to, little Fleda. And you are
not losing me yet, my child; you will have time, I think, to
grow as well satisfied as I with the prospect."

"Is that possible, for others?" said Fleda.

The mother sighed as her son entered the room.

He looked uncommonly grave, Fleda thought. That did not
surprise her, but it seemed that it did his mother, for she
asked an explanation, which, however, he did not give.

"So you've got back from New York," said he.

"Just got back yesterday," said Fleda.

"Why didn't you stay longer?"

"I thought my friends at home would be glad to see me," said
Fleda. "Was I mistaken?"

He made no answer for a minute, and then said 

"Is your uncle at home?"

"No," said Fleda; "he went away this morning on business, and
we do not expect him home before nightfall. Do you want to see
him?"

"No," said Seth, very decidedly. "I wish he had staid in
Michigan, or gone further west  anywhere that Queechy'd never
have heard of him."

"Why, what has he done?" said Fleda, looking up, half
laughing, and half amazed at her cousin. But his face was
disagreeably dark, though she could not make out that the
expression was one of displeasure. It did not encourage her to
talk.

"Do you know a man in New York by the name of Thorn?" he said,
after standing still a minute or two.

"I know two men of that name," said Fleda, colouring and
wondering.

"Is either on 'em a friend of your'n?"

"No"

"He aint?" said Mr. Plumfield, giving the forestick on the
fire an energetic kick, which Fleda could not help thinking
was mentally aimed at the said New Yorker.

"No, certainly, what makes you ask?"

"Oh," said Seth, drily, "folks' tongues will find work to do;
I heerd say something like that; I thought you must take to
him more than I do."

"Why what do you know of him?"

"He's been here a spell lately," said Seth, "poking round;
more for ill than for good, I reckon."

He turned, and quitted the room abruptly; and Fleda bethought
her that she must go home while she had light enough.


CHAPTER XII.


"Nothing could be more obliging and respectful than the lion's
letter was, in appearance; but there was death in the true
intent."
L'ESTRANGE.


The landscape had grown more dark since Fleda came up the
hill, or else the eyes that looked at it. Both, probably. It
was just after sundown, and that is a very sober time of day
in winter, especially in some states of the weather. The sun
had left no largesses behind him; the scenery was deserted to
all the coming poverty of night, and looked grim and
threadbare already. Not one of the colours of prosperity left.
The land was in mourning dress; all the ground, and even the
ice on the little mill-ponds, a uniform spread of white, while
the hills were draperied with black stems, here just veiling
the snow, and there on a side view making a thick fold of
black. Every little unpainted workshop or mill showed
uncompromisingly all its forbidding sharpness of angle and
outline darkening against the twilight. In better days,
perhaps, some friendly tree had hung over it, shielding part
of its faults, and redeeming the rest. Now nothing but the
gaunt skeleton of a friend stood there  doubtless to bud
forth again as fairly as ever, should the season smile. Still
and quiet, all was, as Fleda's spirit, and in too good harmony
with it; she resolved to choose the morning to go out in
future. There was as little of the light of spring or summer
in her own mind as on the hills, and it was desirable to catch
at least a cheering reflection. She could rouse herself to no
bright thoughts, try as she would; the happy voices of nature
that used to speak to her were all hushed, or her ear was
deaf; and her eye met nothing that did not immediately fall in
with the train of sad images that were passing through her
mind, and swell the procession. She was fain to fall back and
stay herself upon these words, the only stand-by she could lay
hold of: 


"TO THEM WHO, BY PATIENT CONTINUANCE IN WELL-DOING SEEK FOR
GLORY, AND HONOUR, AND IMMORTALITY, ETERNAL LIFE!"


They toned with the scene and with her spirit exactly; they
suited the darkening sky and the coming night; for "glory,
honour, and immortality" are not now. They filled Fleda's mind
after they had once entered, and then nature's sympathy was
again as readily given; each barren, stern-looking hill in its
guise of present desolation and calm expectancy seemed to echo
softly, "patient continuance in well-doing." And the tears
trembled then in Fleda's eyes; she had set her face, as the
old Scotchman says, "in the right airth."* [* Quarter,
direction.] "How sweet is the wind that bloweth out of the
airth where Christ is!"

"Well," said Hugh, who entered the kitchen with her, "you have
been late enough. Did you have a pleasant walk? You are pale,
Fleda."

"Yes, it was pleasant," said Fleda, with one of her winning
smiles  "a kind of pleasant. But have you looked at the
hills? They are exactly as if they had put on mourning 
nothing but white and black  a crape-like dressing of black
tree-stems upon the snowy face of the ground, and on every
slope and edge of the hills the crape lies in folds. Do look
at it when you go out! It has a most curious effect."

"Not pleasant, I should think?" said Hugh.

"You'll see it is just as I have described it. No; not
pleasant, exactly; the landscape wants the sun to light it up
just now  it is cold and wilderness-looking. I think I'll
take the morning in future. Whither are you bound?"

"I must go over to Queechy Run for a minute, on business 
I'll be home before supper  I should have been back by this
time, but Philetus has gone to bed with a headache, and I had
to take care of the cows."

"Three times and out," said Barby. "I wont try again. [ didn't
know as anything would be too powerful for his head; but I
find, as sure as he has apple dumplin' for dinner, he goes to
bed for his supper, and leaves the cows without none. And then
Hugh has to take it. It has saved so many Elephants  that's
one thing."

Hugh went out by one door, and Fleda by another entered the
breakfast-room, the one generally used in winter for all
purposes. Mrs. Rossitur sat there alone in an easy-chair; and
Fleda no sooner caught the outline of her figure than her
heart sank at once to an unknown depth  unknown before and
unfathomable now. She was cowering over the fire  her head
sunk in her hands, so crouching, that the line of neck and
shoulders instantly conveyed to Fleda the idea of fancied or
felt degradation  there was no escaping it  how, whence,
what, was all wild confusion. But the language of mere
attitude was so unmistakable  the expression of crushing pain
was so strong, that, after Fleda had fearfully made her way up
beside her, she could do no more. She stood there tongue-tied,
spell-bound, present to nothing but a nameless chill of fear
and heart-sinking. She was afraid to speak  afraid to touch
her aunt, and abode motionless in the grasp of that dread for
minutes. But Mrs. Rossitur did not stir a hair, and the terror
of that stillness grew to be less endurable than any other.

