observing and speculating. The house was surrounded with pleasant
grounds, spreading on two sides in open smooth lawns of considerable
extent, and behind the house and the lawns stretching back in a half
open shrubbery. On one of the lawns long tables already shewed their
note of preparation; on the other there was a somewhat ominous array of
benches and chairs; and among them all, round and about everything,
scattered the people.

Mrs. Derrick and Faith went upstairs to the unrobing room, where the
latter was immediately taken into consultation by Miss Harrison on some
matters which promised to keep them both busy for some time. Mr. Linden
meanwhile received a very cordial welcome from Judge Harrison, who was
cordiality itself.

"Well, Mr. Linden! we've got a good day! Good for the boys and good for
us. We've ventured to depart a little from your--instructions! but--I
hope--in such a way as not to compromise you. My son and daughter have
managed it. I'll introduce him to you"--said the old gentleman looking
about,--"but he's somewhere just now."

"I should like to know first, Judge Harrison, what my instructions
were," said Mr. Linden, as his eyes likewise made search for the
missing doctor.

"O," said the Judge, "all right! I understood your feelings exactly. I
used that word because the right one didn't come. I have to do that
often. I've heard of the 'pen of a ready writer'--I'm sure I'd rather
have the tongue of a ready speaker; but it don't matter for me now. My
friends take me as they find me, and so will you, I have little fear.
Julius!--Here's my son, Dr. Harrison, Mr. Linden."

Dr. Harrison must have a word of introduction to the reader, though he
was one of those who need very little in actual life. He was a handsome
man, young but not very young, and came up at his father's call and
honoured the introduction to his father's guest, with that easy grace
and address which besides being more or less born with a man, tell that
much attrition with the world has been at work to take away all his
outward roughnesses of nature. He was handsomely dressed too, though
not at all in a way to challenge observation. His coat would have
startled nobody in Pattaquasset, though it might have told another that
its wearer had probably seen France, had probably seen England, and had
in short lived much in that kind of society which recognizes the fact
of many kinds of coats in the world. His greeting of Mr. Linden was
both simple and graceful.

"I am very happy to see you," he said as he shook hands. "I should
certainly have come to see you before, but I am more a stranger in
Pattaquasset than anybody. I have hardly been at home since I returned;
business has drawn me to other quarters--and I am only fortunate enough
to be in time for this occasion. It's a good time for me," said he
looking round,--"I can renew my old acquaintance with everybody at
once--I think all Pattaquasset is here."

"Not grown out of your remembrance, has it?" said Mr. Linden. "How long
have you been away?"

"Well--it's had time to grow out of everything! especially out of my
memory. I have not been here for five years--and then only for a few
days--and before that at College; so I may say I have hardly been here
since my boyhood. I don't know anybody but the old ones. I shall apply
to you, if you will allow me," said he, drawing himself and Mr. Linden
a little more apart from the centre of reception. "Who, for instance,
is that very--well-dressed--young lady just entering the
hall?--good-looking too."

The doctor's face was very quiet--so were his words; but his eye was
upon Miss Cecilia Deacon, who in a low-necked blue silk, with an amber
necklace and jet bracelets, was paying her respects to the Judge and
his daughter. With equal quietness Mr. Linden made answer.

"By the way," said the doctor suddenly, "I believe we owe this pleasant
occasion--very pleasant I think it is going to be--to you."

"Accidentally and innocently, I assure you."

"Yes--of course,"--said Dr. Harrison, with the air of one who needed no
information as to Mr. Linden's view of the subject, nor explanation as
to its grounds. "But," said he speaking somewhat low,--"my father has
the interests of the school--and indeed of all Pattaquasset--truly at
heart, and my sister has entered into all his feelings. I am a kind of
alien. I hope not to be so.--But, as I was saying, my father and sister
putting their heads together, have thought it would have a good effect
upon the boys and upon certain interests of the community through them
and their parents too, to give some little honours to the best students
among them--or to the cleverest boys--which, as you and I know, are not
precisely synonymous terms. Would you think well of such an expedient?
My father is very anxious to do nothing which shall not quite meet your
judgment and wish in the matter."

"I shall leave it in Judge Harrison's hands," said Mr. Linden after a
moment's silence: "I should be very sorry to gainsay his wishes in any
respect. And some of the boys deserve any honours that can be given
them."

"Do they?" said the doctor. "Can you indicate them to me?"

"No," said Mr. Linden smiling. "I shall leave you to find out."

"Leave me"--said the other. "How did you know what office they had
charged upon me? Well--I am making as long a speech as if I were a
member of Congress. By the way, Mr. Linden, can you imagine what could
induce a man to be that particular member of the body politic? it
occupies the place of the feet, I think; such members do little but run
to and fro--though I remember I just seemed to give them the place of
the tongue--unjustly. They don't do the real talk of the world."

"The real talk?" said Mr. Linden. "Indeed I think they do their
share."

"Of talk?" said the doctor with an acute look at his neighbour.
"Well--as I was saying--my sister has provided I believe some red and
blue, or red and something, favours of ribband--to be given to the boys
who shall merit them. Now to find out that, which you won't tell me, I
am to do, under your pleasure, some more talking--to them in public--to
see in short how well they can talk to me. Do you like that?"

"Better than they will, perhaps--as merit is sometimes modest."

"I assure you I would happily yield the duty into your hands--who would
do it so much better--but I suppose you would say as somebody
else--'Let my friend tell my tale.'--Who is that?" said the doctor
slowly and softly,--"like the riding pole of a fence--as little to
spare--and as rigid--isn't he?--and as long! Don't I remember him?"

"You ought--that is Mr. Simlins."

"Yes"--said the doctor musingly--"I remember him! I incurred his
displeasure once, in some boyish way, and if I recollect he is a man
that pays his debts. And that unfortunate--next--looks like the
perspective of a woman."

But this lady Mr. Linden did not know. She was little, in form and
feature, and had besides a certain pinched-in look of
diminutiveness--that seemed to belong to mind as well as body, temper,
and life--and had procured her the doctor's peculiar term of
description.

"The next thing is," said Dr. Harrison, as his eye slowly roved over
the assembled and assembling people--"who is to give the favours? My
sister of course does not wish to be forward in the business and I
don't--and you don't. I say, the prettiest girl here."

"I think the hands that prepared the favours should dispense them,"
said Mr. Linden.

"But she won't do it--and ladies have sometimes the power of saying
no--they're generally persuadable!--Who's that?" said the doctor with a
change of tone, touching Mr. Linden's arm,--"the one in white with a
red bouquet de corsage--she's charming! She's the one!"

"That is Miss Derrick."

"She'll do,"--said the doctor softly to his companion, as Faith paused
for a quick greeting of the Judge and then passed on out of
sight;--"she's charming--Do you suppose she knew what she was about
when she put those red leaves and roses together? I didn't know there
was that kind of thing in Pattaquasset."

"Yes, they look very well," said Mr. Linden coolly.

"Julius!" said Mrs. Somers, laying hold of the elbow of the suggestive
coat, "what do you mean by keeping Mr. Linden and yourself back here.
That's the way with you young men--stand off and gaze at a safe
distance, and then make believe you're fire proof."

"Don't make believe anything, aunt Ellen," said the young man lightly.
"Prove me. You can take me up to the cannon's mouth--or any other!--and
see if I am afraid of it."

"I shall prove you before I take you anywhere," said Mrs. Somers. "You
needn't talk to me in that style. But it's a little hard upon the boys
to keep Mr. Linden here out of sight,--half of them don't know whether
they're on their head or their heels till they see him, I can tell from
their faces."

"Mr. Linden," said the doctor with a gesture of invitation to his
companion,--"shall we go? Does it depend upon your face which of the
positions mentioned is to be assumed?"

The two gentlemen accordingly threaded their way to the scene of
action; passing, among others, Squire Deacon and Mr. Simlins whom Mr.
Linden greeted together. Mr. Simlins' answer was a mighty grasp of the
hand. Squire Deacon's deserved little attention, and got it.

The party were now on the lawn, at one side of which the boys had
clustered and were standing in expectation.

"I think, Mr. Linden," said the doctor, "if you will explain to the
boys what is to become of them in the next hour, I will go and see
about the fair distributor of the favours--and then I suppose we shall
be ready."

It was well Dr. Harrison chose such a messenger,--no one else could
have brought quietness out of those few dismayed minutes when the boys
first learned what was 'to become of them'; and the Judge would have
felt remorseful about his secret, had he seen the swift wings on which
Pleasure took her departure from the little group. It took all Mr.
Linden's skill, not to enforce submission, but to bring pleasure back;
perhaps nothing less than his half laughing half serious face and
words, could have kept some of the boys from running away altogether.
And while some tried to beg off, and some made manful efforts not to
feel afraid, others made desperate efforts to remember; and some of the
little ones could be reassured by nothing but the actual holding of Mr.
Linden's hand in theirs. So they stood, grouped in and out the trees at
the further edge of the lawn, till their teacher disengaged himself and
came back to the house, leaving the parting directions--to say what
they knew, and not try to say what they knew not.

Meanwhile Dr. Harrison had found his sister, and after a little
consulting the two had pressed their father into the service; and then
the three sought Faith. She was discovered at last on the other lawn,
by one of the tables, Miss Harrison having dismayfully recollected that
she had asked Faith to help her dress them, and then had left her all
alone to do it. But Faith was not all alone; for Mr Simlins stood there
like a good-natured ogre, watching her handling and disposing of the
green leaves and late flowers with which she was surrounded, and now
and then giving a most extraordinary suggestion as to the same.

"Faith," said Miss Harrison after she had introduced her brother,--"I
want you to give these favours to the boys. Somebody must do it, and I
can't--and you must!"

"You see, my dear," said Judge Harrison, "Sophy and Julius want their
fête to go off as prettily as possible; and so they want you to do this
for them because you're the prettiest girl here."

"Then I can't do it, sir," said Faith. She blushed very prettily, to be
sure, but she spoke very quietly.

"Faith! you will do it for me?" said Miss Harrison.

"I can't, Sophy."

"Nobody would do it so well as you--half!"

"But I can't do it at all." And Faith went on leafing her dishes.

"I dare put in no petition of my own," said the doctor then; "but I
will venture to ask on the part of Mr. Linden, that you will do him and
the school such a service."

Faith's dark eyes opened slightly. "Did he ask you, sir?"

"I cannot answer that," said the doctor, a little taken aback. "I have
presumed on what I am sure are his wishes."

He did not know what to make of her smile, nor of the simplicity with
which Faith answered, in spite of her varying colour,

"You have been mistaken, sir."

The doctor gave it up and said he was very sorry.

"Then who shall do it?" said Miss Harrison. "Miss Essie de Staff?"

"She'll do," said the Judge. And the doctor, raising his eyebrows a
little, and dropping his concern, offered his arm to Faith to go to the
scene of action. So it happened that as Mr. Linden entered the hall
from one side door, he met the whole party coming in from the other,
the doctor carrying the basket of blue and red favours which he had
taken to present to Faith. But he stood still to let them pass, taking
the full effect of the favours, the doctor, the red leaves and their
white-robed wearer; and then followed in his turn.

All the inhabitants of the house and grounds were now fast gathering on
the other lawn. Miss Sophy and her father separated different ways, the
former taking the basket to commit it to Miss de Staff; and the doctor
being obliged to go to his place in the performance, left his charge
where he might. But nobody minded his neighbour now; Faith did not; the
boys were drawn up in a large semicircle, and the doctor taking his
place in front of them, all in full view of the assembled townsmen of
Pattaquasset, proceeded to his duty of examiner.

He did it well. He was evidently, to those who could see it, thoroughly
at home himself in all the subjects upon which he touched and made the
boys touch; so thoroughly, that he knew skilfully where to touch, and
what to expect of them. He shewed himself a generous examiner too; he
keenly enough caught the weak and strong points in the various minds he
was dealing with, and gracefully enough brought the good to light, and
only shewed the other so much as was needful for his purposes. He did
not catch, nor entrap, nor press hardly; the boys had fair play but
they had favour too.

The boys, on their part, were not slow to discover his good qualities;
and it was certainly a comfort to them to know that they were acquitted
or condemned on right grounds. Beyond that, there were curious traits
of character brought to light, for those who had eyes to read them.

The two head boys--Reuben Taylor and Sam Stoutenburgh, though but
little apart in their scholarship were widely different in the
manifestation thereof. Sam Stoutenburgh's rather off-hand, dashing
replies, generally hit the mark; but the steady, quiet clearheadedness
of Reuben not only placed him in advance, but gave indications which no
one could read who had not the key to his character. He coloured
sometimes, but it was from modesty; while part of Sam Stoutenburgh's
blushes came from his curls. Little Johnny Fax, by dint of fixing his
eyes upon Mr. Linden's far-off form (he had been petitioned to stand in
sight) went bravely through his short part of the performance; and
proved that he knew what he knew, if he didn't know much; and of the
rest there need nothing be said.
