
He stepped on shore, and secured the boat to a bush which grew on the
bank. Mollie followed him in silence, and selected a place for the
grave. It was at the foot of a cocoa palm. The spot was as beautiful as
the heart could desire for such a holy purpose; and Noddy commenced his
work. The soil was light and loose, and after much severe labor, he made
a grave about three feet deep. It would be impossible for him to lower
the box into the grave; and, from one end, he dug out an inclined plane,
down which he could roll the corpse to its final resting-place.

It required all his skill, strength, and ingenuity to disembark the box;
but this was finally accomplished, with such assistance as the weeping
daughter could render. The rude coffin was then moved on rollers to the
foot of the tree, and deposited in the grave. Mollie opened the book to
the funeral prayer, and handed it to her companion. Severe as the labor
he had performed had been, he regarded this as far more trying. He could
not refuse, when he saw the poor girl, weeping as though her heart would
break, kneel down at the head of the grave. Fortunately he had read this
prayer many times since it had been used at the obsequies of Mr. Watts,
and it was familiar to him. Awed and impressed by the solemn task
imposed upon him, he read the prayer in trembling, husky tones. But he
was more earnest and sincere than many who read the same service in
Christian lands. It touched his own heart, and again the good Father
seemed to be very near to him.

The reading was finished, and the loving girl, not content with what had
been done, gathered wild flowers, rich and luxuriant in that sunny
clime, and showered them, as a tribute of affection, on the rough
coffin. Noddy filled up the trench first, and then, amid the sobs of the
poor child, covered all that remained of her father. With what art he
possessed he arranged the green sods, as he had seen them in the
graveyard at Whitestone. Mollie covered the spot with flowers, and then
seemed loath to leave the grave.

From the beginning, Noddy had trembled lest she should ask to look once
more on the face of the departed. He had been horrified at the sight
himself, and he knew that the distorted visage would haunt her dreams if
she was permitted to gaze upon it; but she did not ask to take that last
look. Though she said nothing about it, she seemed to feel,
instinctively, that the face was not that she had loved, which had
smiled upon her, and which was still present in her remembrance.

"Come, Mollie, it is almost dark, and we must go now," said he,
tenderly, when he had waited some time for her.

"I am ready, Noddy; and you cannot tell how much better I feel now that
my poor father sleeps in a grave on the land--on the beautiful island!"
replied she, as she followed him to the boat. "You have been very kind
to do what you have. It has cost you a whole day's labor."

"It is the best day's work I have done, Mollie, if it makes you feel
better," replied Noddy, as he hoisted the sail.

They did not reach the wreck till it was quite dark, for the wind was
light. Mollie was more cheerful than she had been since the vessel
struck. She had performed a religious duty, which was very consoling to
her feelings in her affliction; and Noddy hoped that even her sadness
would wear away amid the active employments which would be required of
her.

In the morning, Noddy loaded the boat with provisions, and such useful
articles as they would need most on the island, and in the middle of the
forenoon they again sailed for the land. They entered the little inlet,
and moored the boat in a convenient place, for it was decided that they
should explore the island before the goods were landed.

"We are real Robinson Crusoes now, Noddy," said Mollie, as they stepped
on shore.

"Who's he?"

She told him who Crusoe was, and some of the main features of his
residence on the lonely island. She was surprised to learn that he had
never read the story.

"But we have everything we can possibly need, while Crusoe had scarcely
anything. We have provisions enough in the vessel to last us a year,"
added she.

"We shall do very well. I don't think we shall have to stay here long.
There are whale ships in all parts of the South Seas, and if they don't
come to us, we can go to them, for we have a first-rate boat."

They walked up the hill which rose from the little plain by the
sea-side, where they found a small table-land. But it did not take them
long to explore the island, for it was hardly a mile in diameter.
Portions of it were covered with trees, whose shape and foliage were new
and strange to the visitors. No inhabitants dwelt in this little
paradise; but the reason was soon apparent to Noddy; for, when Mollie
was thirsty, their search for water was unavailing. There was none on
the island.

This was an appalling discovery, and Noddy began to consider the
situation of the water casks on board the wreck. They returned to the
boat, and having selected a suitable spot, the goods were landed, and
carefully secured under a sail-cloth brought off for the purpose. For
two weeks Noddy labored diligently in bringing off the most serviceable
goods from the wreck. He had constructed a tent on shore, and they made
their home on the island. For the present there was nothing but hard
work, for a storm might come and break up the schooner.

Noddy rigged a series of pulleys, which enabled him to handle the water
casks with ease. Other heavy articles were managed in the same way.
Farther up the inlet than his first landing-place he found a tree near
the shore, to which he attached his ropes and blocks, to hoist the
barrels out of the boat. We are sorry that our space does not permit a
minute description of these contrivances, for many of them were very
ingenious. The labor was hard, and the progress often very slow; but
Noddy enjoyed the fruit of his expedients, and was happy in each new
triumph he achieved. He had found a joy in work which did not exist in
play.

"Now, Mollie, we must build a house," said he, when he had brought off
sufficient supplies from the wreck.

"Do you think you can make a house, Noddy?"

"I know I can."

"Well, I suppose you can. I think you can do anything you try to do."

"I have brought off all the boards I could get out of the wreck, and I
am sure I can build a very nice house."

The work was immediately commenced. Near the spot selected for the
mansion of the exiles there was a grove of small trees. The wood was
light and soft, and Noddy found that he could fell the trees with his
sharp hatchet quickly and easily. Four posts, with a crotch in the top
of each, were set in the ground, forming the corners of the house. The
frame was secured with nails and with ropes. The sides and the roof were
then covered with the hibiscus from the grove. Noddy worked like a hero
at his task, and Mollie watched him with the most intense interest; for
he would not permit her to perform any of the hard labor.

The frame was up, and covered, but the house was like a sieve. It was
the intention of the master builder to cover the roof with tough sods,
and plaster up the crevices in the sides with mud. But Mollie thought
the fore-topsail of the schooner would be better than sods and mud,
though it was not half so romantic. They had whole casks of nails, small
and large, and the sail was finally chosen, and securely nailed upon the
roof and sides. A floor was made of the boards, and the house banked up
so as to turn the water away from it when it rained. Two rooms, one for
each of the exiles, were partitioned off with sail-cloth. A bunk was
made in each, which was supplied with a berth-sack and bed-clothes from
the schooner. Besides these two rooms, there was one apartment for
general purposes.

This important work occupied three weeks; but it was perfectly luxurious
when completed.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE VISITORS.


The house was finished, and the satisfaction which it afforded to the
young exiles cannot be expressed in words. Noddy had exercised his
ingenuity in the construction of a fireplace, a chimney, and a table.
The stern-lights of the Roebuck furnished the windows of the principal
apartment; while single panes of glass, obtained from the assorted cargo
of the vessel, admitted the light to the sleeping-rooms. They had
knives, forks, spoons, dishes, and cooking utensils in abundance.
Everything they wanted was at hand; and in this respect they differed
from all the Crusoes of ancient and modern times.

The miscellaneous cargo of the schooner supplied the house with all the
comforts and many of the luxuries of civilization; and if Noddy had been
familiar with the refinements of social life, he would probably have
added the "modern improvements" to the mansion. If the house had been an
elegant residence on Fifth Avenue or Blackstone Square, the occupants
could not have enjoyed it more. Day after day Noddy added some new
feature of comfort, until he was as proud of the dwelling as though he
had been the architect of St. Peter's.

The work was done, and they had nothing to do but sit down under their
"own vine and fig-tree," and enjoy themselves. They had provisions and
water enough to last them six months. But Noddy had discovered that
idleness was the sum of all miseries; and after he had thoroughly
explored the island, and amused himself for a few days among the
novelties of the place, he realized that work was a positive luxury.
Even patient, plodding labor, without any excitement, was better than
doing nothing.

Though there had been a storm, the Roebuck still held together; and the
most profitable employment that presented itself was bringing off the
rest of the cargo from the wreck; and everything which it was possible
for him to move was transferred to the shore. He built a storehouse of
sail-cloth, in which all the merchandise and provisions were carefully
secured, though it was not probable that any considerable portion of it
would ever be of any value to the islanders.

Noddy had built a fence around the grave of Captain McClintock, and on a
smooth board had cut the name and age of the deceased. Every day Mollie
visited the spot, and placed fresh flowers on the green sod. The sharp
pangs of her great affliction had passed away, and she was cheerful, and
even hopeful of the future, while she fondly cherished the memory of
her father.

The islands which were just visible in the distance were a source of
interest and anxiety to the sailor-boy and his gentle companion. Noddy
had carefully examined them through the spy-glass a great many times;
and once he had seen a large canoe, under sail, with a ponderous
"out-rigger" to keep it from upsetting; but it did not come near the
home of the exiles. This proved that the other islands were inhabited,
and he was in constant dread of a visit from the savages. He put all the
pistols he had found in the cabin in readiness for use, and practised
firing at a mark, that he might be able to defend himself and his fair
charge if occasion required. They did not come, and there were no signs
on the island that they ever visited it, and he hoped to avoid the
necessity of fighting them.

There were plenty of fish in the waters which surrounded the island, and
Noddy had no difficulty in catching as many of them as he wanted. There
were no animals to be seen, except a few sea-fowl. He killed one of
these, and roasted him for dinner one day; but the flesh was so strong
and so fishy that salt pork and corned beef were considered better.

A two months' residence on the island had accustomed both the boy and
the girl to the novelties of the situation; and though, as might be
reasonably expected, they were anxious to return to the great world
from which they had been banished, they were tolerably contented with
the life they led. Noddy was continually planning some new thing to add
to the comfort of their daily life, and to provide supplies for the
future. As in many large cities, a supply of pure water was a question,
of momentous importance to him, and he early turned his attention to the
subject. He made spouts of canvas for the "mansion" and the storehouse,
by which the water, when it rained, was conducted to barrels set in the
ground, so as to keep it cool. This expedient promised a plentiful
supply, for the rains were heavy and frequent, and the quality was much
better than that of the water casks.

When all the necessary work had been accomplished, and when the time at
last hung heavily on his hands, Noddy began to consider the
practicability of a garden, to keep up the supply of peas, beans, and
potatoes, of which a considerable quantity had been obtained from the
wreck. Mollie was delighted with the idea of a "farm," as she called it,
and the ground was at once marked off. Noddy went to work; but the labor
of digging up the soil, and preparing it for the seed, was very hard.
There was no excitement about this occupation, and the laborer
"punished" himself very severely in performing it; but work had become a
principle with him, and he persevered until an incident occurred which
suspended further operations on the garden, and gave him all the
excitement his nature craved.

"What's that, Noddy?" said Mollie, one day, when he was industriously
striving to overcome his dislike to plodding labor.

"Where?" asked he, dropping his shovel, for the manner of his companion
betrayed no little alarm.

"On the water," replied she, pointing in the direction of the islands
which had given them so much anxiety.

"It is a native canoe loaded with savages," said Noddy, hastening to the
house for his spy-glass and pistols.

He examined the canoe long and attentively. It was only four or five
miles distant, and looked like quite a large boat.

"They are coming here," said Noddy.

"O, what shall we do?" exclaimed the timid maiden, recalling all she
knew about cannibals and fierce savages found on the South Sea Islands.

"Perhaps they will not come here," added Noddy; but it was more to cheer
up his friend, than from any hope he cherished of avoiding the issue.

"I hope they will not. What do you think they will do to us, if they
do?"

"I think I can manage them, Mollie. Don't be alarmed."

"How many are there in the canoe?"

"A dozen or fifteen, I should think," replied he, after he had again
examined the object with the glass.

"What can you do with so many as that?" asked she, in despair.

"They are savages, you know; and they are afraid of powder. If I should
shoot one of them, the rest would run away."

"Can't we hide?"

"That will do no good. They would certainly find us. The best way is to
face the music."

"And they will steal all our things, Noddy."

"I won't let them steal anything," said he, examining his pistol.

"I hope you won't have to shoot any of them. It would be awful to kill
the poor creatures."

"I won't fire if I can help it. They are all looking this way, and I'm
sure they can see the house and the tent."

