    How beautiful, beyond compare,
      Will Paradise be found!"

"How beautiful!" murmured Jenny, her eyes still fixed upon the flowers.
"Will you take out that moss-rose, Fanny, and let me hold it in my
hand?"

Fanny gave her the flower, and then sang another hymn. For an hour she
continued to sing, and Jenny listened to the sweet melodies, entranced
and enraptured by the visions of heaven which filled her soul. Then she
asked Fanny to read to her from the Bible, indicating the book and
chapter, which was the eighth chapter of Romans.

"'For we are saved by hope,'" Fanny read.

"Now, stop a moment: 'For we are saved by hope,'" said the sufferer.
"Do you know what the emblem of Hope is, Fanny?"

"An anchor."

"Will you hand me that little box on the table?"

Fanny passed the box to her, and she took from it a little gold
breastpin, in the form of an anchor.

"This was given to me by my father when I was a little girl. My
Sunday-school teacher told me years ago what an anchor was the emblem
of, and told me at the same time to remember the verse you have just
read--'For we are saved by hope.' That anchor has often reminded me
what was to save me from sin. Fanny, I will give you this breastpin to
remember me by."

"I shall never forget you, Jenny, as long as I live!" said Fanny,
earnestly.

"But when you remember me, I want you to think what the anchor means.
You say you are not good, but I know you are. You mean to be good, you
hope to be good; and that will make you good. Do you know we can always
have what we hope for, if it is right that we should have it? What we
desire most we labor the hardest for. If you really and truly wish to
be good, you will be good."

Fanny took the breastpin. If it had been worth thousands of dollars, it
would not have been more precious to her. It was the gift of the loving
and gentle being who was soon to be transplanted from earth to heaven;
of the beautiful girl who had influenced her as she had never been
influenced before; who had lifted her soul into a new atmosphere. She
placed it upon her bosom, and resolved never to part with it as long as
she lived.

"Hope and have, Fanny," said Jenny, when she had rested for a time.
"Hope for what is good and true, and you shall have it; for if you
really desire it, you will be sure to labor and to struggle for it."

"Hope and have," repeated Fanny. "Your anchor shall mean this to me.
Jenny, I feel happier already, for I really and truly mean to be good.
But I think I ought to tell you how wicked I am."

"No, don't tell me; tell your mother."

"I have no mother."

"Then you are poorer than I am."

"And no father."

"Poor Fanny! Then you have had no one to tell you how to be good."

"Yes, I have the kindest and best of friends; but I have been very
ungrateful."

"They will forgive you, for you are truly sorry."

"Perhaps they will."

"I know they will."

Jenny was weary again, and Fanny sang in her softest and sweetest tones
once more. It was now the twilight of a long summer day, and Mrs. Kent,
having finished her household duties, came into the room. Soon after,
the sufferer was seized with a violent fit of coughing, which seemed to
weaken and reduce her beyond the possibility of recovery. When it left
her, she could not speak aloud.

"I am going, mother," said she, a little later. "Fanny!"

"I am here," replied Fanny, almost choked with emotion.

"We shall meet in heaven," said the dying one. "Have you been very
naughty?"

"I have," sobbed Fanny.

Jenny asked for paper and pencil, and when her mother had raised her on
the bed, she wrote, with trembling hand, these words:--

    "Please to forgive Fanny, for the sake of her dying friend,
    Jenny Kent."

"Take this, Fanny: God will forgive you."

It was evident to the experienced eye of Mrs. Kent that Jenny was going
from earth. The sufferer lay with her gaze fixed upon the ceiling, and
her hands clasped, as in silent prayer. She seemed to be communing with
the angels. She struggled for breath, and her mother watched her in the
most painful anxiety.

"Good by, mother," said she, at last. "Good by, Eddy: I'm going home."

Mrs. Kent took her offered hand, and kissed her, struggling all the
time to be calm. Little Eddy was raised up to the bed, and kissed his
departing sister.

"Fanny," gasped she, extending her trembling hand.

Fanny took the hand.

"Good by."

"Good by, Jenny," she answered, awed and trembling with agitation at
the impressive scene.

The dying girl closed her eyes. But a moment after she pressed the hand
of Fanny, and murmured,--

"HOPE AND HAVE."

She was silent then; her bosom soon ceased to heave; the ransomed
spirit rose from the pain-encumbered body, and soared away to its
angel-home!




CHAPTER X.

GOOD OUT OF EVIL.


Peacefully, on what had been her couch of pain, lay the silent form of
Jenny. The room resounded with the sobs of the mother and the brother,
and hardly less with the wailings of the stranger, who, in a few brief
hours had found and lost the truest and best of earthly friends. The
darkness gathered, and still they wept--the darkness from which Jenny
had fled to the brightness of the eternal world, where there is no
night or sorrow. There was woe in that humble abode, while heaven's
high arches rang with p√¶ans of rejoicing that a ransomed soul had
joined the happy bands above.

There were no kind and sympathizing friends to go into that hovel and
deck the marble form in the vestments of the grave. Fanny was the first
to realize that there was something to be done: she was a stranger to
such a scene; she knew not what to do; but she told Mrs. Kent that she
would go out and obtain assistance. With hurried step she walked down
to the residence of the physician who had so gently and feelingly
ministered to the sufferer. She found the doctor at home, and informed
him of the sad event. Since his return he had told his wife and
daughter of the beautiful girl who was dying in the cottage up the
street. He called them into his library, and Fanny, with tearful eyes
and broken voice, repeated her narrative of the passing away of poor
Jenny.

The ladies promptly expressed their intention to visit the bereaved
mother, and discharge the duties the occasion required. A carriage was
called, in which the benevolent physician, his wife and daughter, and
Fanny, proceeded to the house of Mrs. Kent. They were the kindest and
tenderest of friends, and the sorrowing mother, grateful to them for
their good offices, and grateful to God for sending them to her, was
relieved of a great load of pain and anxiety. At a late hour they
departed, with the promise to come again on the following day.

Hour after hour Mrs. Kent and Fanny sat in the chamber of death,
talking about the gentle one who had passed away, and was at rest. It
was nearly morning before Fanny, worn out by excitement and fatigue,
could be prevailed upon to take the rest she needed. Mrs. Kent made a
bed for her on the kitchen floor, and she slept for a few hours. When
she awoke, her first thought was of Jenny; and all the events of the
previous day and evening passed in review before her. Her soul had been
sanctified by communion with the sainted spirit of her departed friend.
On the day before, her current of being seemed suddenly to have stopped
in its course, and then to have taken a new direction. Her thoughts,
her hopes, her aspirations had all been changed. She had resolved to be
good--so solemnly and truly resolved to be good, that she felt like a
new creature.

She prayed to the good Father, who had been revealed to her by the
dying girl; and from her prayers came a strength which was a new life
to her soul. From her strong desire to be good--to be what Jenny had
been--had grown up a new faith.

In the forenoon came the wife and daughter of the good physician again
upon the mission of mercy. They had requested the attendance of an
undertaker, and assumed the whole charge of the funeral of Jenny, which
was to take place on the third day after her death.

Fanny had hardly thought of herself since the angel of death entered
the house, though she had been weighed down by a burden of guilt that
did not embody itself in particular thoughts. In her sincere penitence,
and in her firm and sacred resolve to be good and true, she had found
only a partial peace of mind. She had not a doubt in regard to her
future course: she must return to Woodville, and submit to any
punishment which her kind friends might impose upon her. She was
willing to suffer for what she had done; she was even willing to be
sent to her uncle's in Minnesota; and this feeling of submission was
the best evidence to herself of the reality of her repentance.

She was not willing to return to Woodville till she had seen the mortal
part of Jenny laid away in its final resting-place. But Mr. Grant, who
was at Hudson with his daughters, might already have been informed of
her wicked conduct; and Mr. Long was probably still engaged in the
search for her. There was a duty she owed to her friends which her
awakened conscience would not permit her to neglect. The family would
be very anxious about her, for wayward and wilful as she had been, she
felt that they still loved her. Procuring pen and paper, she wrote a
letter to Mrs. Green, informing her that she should return home on
Friday; that she would submit to any punishment, and endeavor to be
good in the future. She sealed the note, and put it in the post-office,
with a feeling that it was all she could do at present as an atonement
for her faults. If it was not all she could do, it was an error of
judgment, not of the heart.

On Thursday the form of Jenny was placed in the coffin. It was not a
pauper's coffin; it was a black-walnut casket--plain, but
rich--selected by Mrs. Porter, the physician's lady, who could not
permit the form of one so beautiful to be enclosed in a less
appropriate receptacle. The choicest flowers lay upon her breast, and a
beautiful wreath and cross were placed upon the casket before the
funeral services commenced.

The clergyman was a friend of Dr. Porter, and he was worthy to be the
friend of so true a man. The service was solemn and touching; no word
of hope and consolation was omitted because they stood in the humble
abode of poverty and want. He spoke of the beautiful life and the happy
death of Jenny, and prayed that her parents might be comforted; that
the little brother might be blessed by her short life, and that "the
devoted young friend, who had so tenderly watched over the last hours
of the departed," might be sanctified by her holy ministrations. The
father, living or dead, wherever suffering, or wherever battling
against the foes of his country, was remembered.

Fanny wept, as all in the house wept, when the good man feelingly
delineated the lovely character of her who was still so beautiful in
her marble silence; when he recalled those tender scenes on the evening
of her death, which had been faithfully described to him by Fanny. The
casket was placed in the funeral car, and followed by two carriages,--one
of which contained Mrs. Kent, Eddy, and Fanny, and the other the family
of Dr. Porter,--to Greenwood Cemetery. Sadly the poor mother turned
away from the resting-place of her earthly treasure, and the little
cort√®ge returned to the house from which the light had gone out. The
last solemn, sacred duty had been performed; Jenny had gone, but her
pure influence was still to live on, and bless those who had never even
known her.

When the little party reached the house, Dr. Porter, after some remarks
about the solemn scenes through which they had just passed, inquired
more particularly than he had been permitted to do before into the
circumstances of the family. He promised to procure for her the money
due to her as a soldier's wife, and to obtain some light employment for
her. Mrs. Kent was very grateful to him for his kind interest in
herself, and in her lost one, assuring him that she did not ask for
charity, and was willing to work hard for a support.

"You have been a blessing to me, Fanny," said Mrs. Kent, when the
physician and his family had departed. "I am sure that God sent you
here to save me from misery and despair. What should I have done if you
had not come?"

"I think I was sent for my own sake, rather than for yours, for I know
that it has been a greater blessing to me than to you," replied Fanny.

"That can't be."

"It is so. When I told Jenny that I had been a very wicked girl, I
meant so."

"I'm sure that one who has been so kind can't be very bad," added Mrs.
Kent, rather bewildered by the confession of her benefactor. "Where did
you say you lived, Fanny?"

The wanderer had been obliged to invent a story in the beginning to
account for her absence from home, and the poor woman's heart had been
too full of gratitude to permit any doubt to enter there.

"I have deceived you, Mrs. Kent," replied Fanny, bursting into tears.
"I do not live in the city; my home is twenty-five miles up the river.
But I did not mean to deceive poor Jenny. I wanted to tell her what a
wicked deed I had done, but she would not let me."

"She was too good to think evil of any one, and especially of you, who
have been so generous to us."

"You know the paper she wrote and gave to me?"

"Yes."

"I know from that she believed I had done something very bad."

"Perhaps she did."

"She told me how to be good. The very sight of her made me feel how
