"salt."

The boatswain was Somers's only real friend on board, and the distance
between a ward-room officer and a forward officer was so great that he
was not likely to realize any especial satisfaction from the friendship;
but it was pleasant to know that there was even one in the ship who was
devoted to him, heart and soul.

"All hands, up anchor!" piped the boatswain; and it was a pleasant sound
to the fourth lieutenant of the Chatauqua, as doubtless it was to all
hands, for "lying in the stream" is stupid work to an expectant crew.

The ship got under way with all the order and regularity which prevail
on board a man-of-war, and in a short time was standing down the
Delaware River. Her great guns pealed the customary salute, and as the
wind was fair, her top-sails and top-gallant-sails were shaken out as
soon as she had passed from the narrow river into the broad bay. Off the
capes the sealed orders were opened; and it proved, as the knowing ones
had anticipated, that the Chatauqua was bound to the blockading station
off Mobile Bay.

At eight o'clock in the evening the ship was out of sight of land.
Everything on board was in regular sea trim. Mr. Garboard, the third
lieutenant, had the deck, and the other officers were in the ward-room,
or in their state-rooms. They were discussing the merits of the ship, or
the probable work before them at Mobile; for a great naval attack in
that quarter was confidently predicted. The "Old Salamander," "Brave
Old Salt," as Admiral Farragut was familiarly called, was understood to
be making preparations for one of his tremendous onslaughts.

Somers was occupied in his state-room, putting his books, papers, and
clothing in order, which he had not had time to do before to his
satisfaction. He placed his Testament on the bureau, where it could be
taken up for a moment without delay, and where it would constantly
remind him of his duty, and of the loved ones at home, with whom the
precious volume seemed to be inseparably associated.

Among his papers were the rebel commission, the written orders, and the
statement he had made of the interview between Coles and Langdon, which
had been extended so as to contain a full account of his conference with
"Mr. Wynkoop," and his inquiries into the character of the Ben Nevis, in
Boston and New York. These documents brought forcibly to his mind his
relations with Lieutenant Pillgrim, who was still a mystery to him.
Since Somers had come on board of the Chatauqua, not a syllable had been
breathed about the dinner with the "officer of the royal navy." As Mr.
Pillgrim doubtless believed he had changed the letters, and thus
corrected his confederate's mistake, before the letter intended for him
had fallen into Somers's hand, the lieutenant had no reason to suppose
his treasonable position was even suspected.

Somers felt that he had a battle to fight with Mr. Pillgrim, and the
suspense was intolerable, not to mention the hypocrisy and deceit which
this double character required of him. Now, more than before, he
regretted the absence of Mr. Waldron, who would have been a rock of
safety and strength to him in the trials that beset him. While he was
moodily overhauling his papers, and thinking of his difficult situation,
Mr. Pillgrim knocked at the door of his room, and was invited to enter.

"Ah, making stowage, are you, Somers?" said the lieutenant, pleasantly.

"Yes, sir; putting things to rights a little."

"It's a good plan to have everything in its place," added Pillgrim, as
he took up the little Testament which lay on the bureau. "You are a good
boy, I see, and read the book."

"That was given me by my mother, and I value it very highly."

"Then I shouldn't think you would want to wear it out."

"She gave it to me to use, and I am afraid, if she saw it was not soiled
by handling, she would think it had not been well used."

"I am glad you use it. I don't fail to read mine morning and evening."

Somers could not believe him, and he could not see that a traitor to his
country should have any use for the New Testament.

"By the way, Somers, did you see your friend Wynkoop again before we
sailed?" added Mr. Pillgrim.

"I did not; I have not seen him since we dined together. I judge that
you were better acquainted with him than I was."

"My acquaintance with him was very slight. By the papers I saw on the
table before you, when you were at dinner, I think you made good use of
the short time you knew each other."

"To what do you allude?" asked Somers, now assured that Mr. Pillgrim
knew the nature of the papers.

"To your commission as a commander in the Confederate navy. Mr. Somers,
I could not believe my eyes."

"Were you very much astonished?"

"If I had been told that President Lincoln had gone over to the rebels,
I should not have been more astonished. Your conduct has severely
embarrassed me. It was my duty to denounce you as a traitor, in the
service of the enemy, but--"

At that instant the rattle of the drum, beating to quarters, caused both
of them to hurry on deck.




CHAPTER IX.

IN THE STATE-ROOM.


Somers took his station on the quarter deck, near the mizzen-mast, while
Mr. Pillgrim went forward to the forecastle. The guns were cast loose,
and the crew exercised at quarters for a few moments, just as though
there were an enemy's ship near. This manoeuvre was executed for the
purpose of perfecting the officers and crew in discipline; and it is not
an uncommon thing to turn up all hands in the dead of the night for this
object, for it is easier to correct mistakes at such times than when in
the presence of the enemy. As there was no Confederate ship in sight,
all hands were presently piped below, and Somers returned to his
state-room, where he was soon joined by Mr. Pillgrim, who evidently
wished to prolong the conversation which had been commenced before the
ship beat to quarters.

"Mr. Somers you and I have been friends for some little time," the
lieutenant began, "and I confess that I have been deeply interested in
you, not only on your own account, but for the sake of our friends at
Newport."

"Thank you, Mr. Pillgrim," said Somers, as the gentleman paused. "I am
greatly obliged to you, and I hope I shall always merit your good
opinion."

"I'm afraid not, my young friend; at least, you have not commenced this
cruise very well, having first sold yourself to the enemy."

"Do you think I have done that, Mr. Pillgrim?" demanded Somers, not a
little excited by the charge, from such a source.

"I know you have. I saw your commission on the table."

"I took the commission, I grant, but I have no intention of using it."

"Why did you take it then?"

"For the purpose of gaining information."

"Have you gained it?" demanded Mr. Pillgrim, with a hardly perceptible
sneer.

"I have."

"You received written orders, also."

"I did; and if I had obtained a foothold on the deck of the vessel to
which I was ordered, you would have seen how quick I should have passed
her over to my government."

"That is a very plausible explanation, Mr. Somers," added the
lieutenant. "But why did you sign the oath of allegiance to the Southern
Confederacy?"

"I did not."

"I beg your pardon, but I saw the document with your signature affixed
to it."

"You are mistaken, Mr. Pillgrim."

"Can I refuse to believe the evidence of my own eyes?"

"Nevertheless, I must persist in saying that I did not sign the oath."

"After what you have done, Mr. Somers, I could hardly expect you to
acknowledge it to a loyal officer. Are you aware that any court martial
would convict you, on the evidence against you, of treason, and sentence
you to death?"

"I think not, when it was made to appear that all I did was in the
service of my country."

Somers shuddered when he thought of a traitor's doom, and for the first
time realized that he had accumulated more evidence against himself than
against the conspirators. The commander's commission and the written
orders were almost, if not quite, enough to hang him.

"You don't believe what you say, Mr. Somers, and of course you cannot
expect me to believe it," said Pillgrim, when he saw his brother officer
musing, and looking rather anxious.

"I speak the truth, Mr. Pillgrim," replied Somers, unable to turn his
attention entirely away from the consequences which might follow some of
these appearances against him.

"Somers, I have felt a deep interest in you. I have all along desired to
be your friend. This is the only reason why I did not prefer charges
against you before the ship sailed. Now, I advise you not to deny what
is as plain as truth can make it. I am your friend. Own up to me, and I
promise never to betray you."

"Would your friend Langdon, alias Lieutenant Wynkoop, R. N., be
equally considerate?" asked Somers, provoked into making this unguarded
remark by the hypocrisy of Pillgrim.

If the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua had received the bolt from a
thunder cloud he could not have been more astonished. He started back,
turned pale, and quivered with emotion.

"Who?" demanded he, with a tremendous effort to recover his
self-possession.

"Do you think, Mr. Pillgrim, that I am a little lamb, that can be led
round with a silken string?" replied Somers, with energy. "You are my
superior officer, and as such I will respect and obey you
until--until--"

"Until what?"

"Until the day of reckoning comes. When you stand up in my presence and
charge me with being a traitor to my country, you had better remember
that such charges, like chickens, will go home to roost."

"I was not brought up in a barn yard, Mr. Somers, and such comparisons
are beyond my comprehension."

"Wherever you were brought up, I think my language is plain enough to be
understood by a person of your intelligence."

Perhaps it was fortunate for both parties that a knock at the state-room
door disturbed the conference at this exciting moment. Somers opened the
door.

"Mr. Hackleford desires to see Mr. Somers on deck," said a midshipman.

"Excuse me for a few moments, Mr. Pillgrim," said Somers, as he closed
his desk and locked it.

"Certainly, sir; but I should be happy to see you when you are
disengaged. I will remain here if you please."

"I will join you as soon as I can."

It was warm below, and both Pillgrim and Somers had thrown off their
coats, and laid them on the bed. Somers slipped on his own, as he
supposed, and hastened on deck to meet the first lieutenant. The garment
seemed rather large for him, and there were several papers in the breast
pocket which did not belong to him. Then he was aware that he had taken
the second lieutenant's coat instead of his own.

Mr. Hackleford wished to obtain some information from him in regard to
one of the petty officers, and when Somers had answered the questions he
went below again. The papers in the pocket of Pillgrim's coat seemed to
burn his fingers when he touched them. The owner was a traitor, and
perhaps these documents might contain valuable intelligence. Under
ordinary circumstances it would have been the height of perfidy to look
at one of them; but, in the present instance, he felt justified in
glancing at them. The state-room of the second assistant engineers was
open and lighted, but neither of these officers was there. Stepping into
the room, he opened the papers and glanced at their contents. Only one
of them contained anything of importance. This was a note from a person
who signed himself simply "Irvine," but it was in the handwriting of
Langdon. The only clause in the epistle that was intelligible to Somers
was this: "Have just heard from B----. The Ben Nevis, he says, will make
Wilmington after leaving St. John. Plenty of guns there. She will sail
July 4."

Whether "B----" meant Boston or some person's name, Somers could not
determine; but the fact in regard to the Ben Nevis was of the utmost
consequence. Hastily folding up the note, he returned the package of
papers to the pocket where he had found them. Taking off the coat as he
entered the ward-room, he went into the state-room, where Mr. Pillgrim
was still waiting for him, with the garment on his arm. He threw it upon
the bed as he entered, and his companion was not even aware of the
mistake which had been made.

"Mr. Somers, you were making some grave charges against me when you were
called away," said the lieutenant.

"Not half so grave as those you made against me," replied Somers.

"Those can be proved."

"I made no charges. I only mentioned the name of your friend Langdon."

"I don't know him," added Pillgrim, doggedly.

"I beg your pardon, as you did mine, just now."

"Which means that you doubt my word."

"As you did mine."

"Somers, I am not to be trifled with," said Pillgrim, sternly.

"Neither am I."

"Be cautious, or I will denounce you to the captain at once," added the
lieutenant, in low and threatening tones.

