wish to visit the town, and remained on board as ship-keeper.

Mr. Ebénier was so polite and attentive to the wants of the passengers,
and, above all, used such choice language, that he had become quite a
favorite. Bessie, who had made considerable progress in her French, was
delighted with him, as well because he was an original character, as
because he anticipated all her wants. She talked French with him;
indeed, all except Levi used the "polite language" at the table to a
great extent. The steward was treated with a great deal of
consideration by all the occupants of the cabin. This was what he most
desired, and after the party had been on board two or three days, he
ceased to think of leaving the yacht before the close of the season.
Such a friend as Mr. Watson was worth more than the contents of the
three bags concealed in the vessel's run.

But ever since he had placed the treasure in its hiding-place, the
gospel malediction, "lose his own soul," had been thundering in his
ears. The temptation was a strong one; but the steward had thus far
been an honest man, and the present seemed to be the crisis of his
lifetime. The kindness and consideration of the captain and his
passengers won his heart, and he had determined that Levi, in the words
with which he clothed the idea, should be triumphantly vindicated.

Mr. Ebénier reasoned that his captain could not be vindicated by simply
returning the gold to the old man, his uncle. The two men whom he had
failed to identify in the Hotel de Poisson must be discovered; and he
determined to find them, if it were possible. On this subject he had
some views of his own, and he concluded to let the gold remain where it
was until he could institute an investigation: we use the gentleman's
own words, subsequently uttered.

The steward dared not leave the yacht when the others went on shore. If
he had not recognized the two men, they had probably recognized him.
They must suppose he had taken possession of the money, and they would
expect to find it if an opportunity to search the yacht was afforded to
them. Mr. Ebénier did not intend to give them any such opportunity;
therefore he remained on board. He went farther than this. The robbers
might come on board while he was there alone, overpower him, and thus
regain their plunder. The steward kept a revolver in his carpet-bag;
for, being a man of varying fortunes, he was liable at any time to be
in a situation to need such a weapon. He took the pistol from the bag,
loaded it, and put it into his pocket. It was his duty, as ship-keeper,
to defend the vessel in the absence of the captain; and the weapon gave
him a strong assurance of safety.

From his house Dock Vincent watched the movements of the crew of the
yacht. Levi and five men had landed; consequently the steward must be
on board alone. But he had decided to pay him a visit, whether alone or
not. In Dock's classic speech, he was "going to fix that nigger," and
he was watching for the opportunity to do the "fixing." One of the
Caribbee's boats was at the landing, and as soon as the crew of the
yacht had landed, he pulled off to her. His coming was not unexpected,
and Mr. Ebénier, in spite of the injuries he had received at the hands
of the visitor, was as smooth and polite as though his temper had never
been ruffled.

"Steward, I want to talk with you a little while," said Dock, as,
without an invitation, he stepped upon the deck of the yacht.

"Though I have no particular inducements to condescension, so far as
you are concerned, I am willing, in this instance, to gratify you,"
replied Mr. Ebénier, graciously.

"If you don't object, we will go down into the cabin, where we shall
not be interrupted," added Dock.

"Though it is not customary to admit any but gentlemen into the cabin,
I shall be happy to waive the rule in this instance, as all our people
are on shore," answered Mr. Ebénier, as he led the way to the cabin.

Dock Vincent paid no attention to the polished insults of the steward,
but seated himself on a stool, at the side of the table. Mr. Ebénier
took his place opposite the guest.

"Now, Captain Dock Vincent, I am entirely at your service," said the
steward.

"It won't take a great while to get off what I want to say," Dock
began, putting a very uncompromising look upon his ugly face. "I
suppose you know the old man that lost the money."

"I have not the honor to be personally acquainted with him, but I am
informed that he is the paternal uncle of Captain Levi Fairfield."

"That's so; and Levi has treated him in the most shabby manner."

"Permit me to interrupt you, Captain Vincent," interposed the steward.
"It would not be possible for Captain Fairfield to treat any person in
a shabby manner, certainly not his own uncle."

"On that point we differ, steward; but let me say what I was going to
say."

"Proceed, Captain Vincent. I simply refuse to indorse your statement,
and I protest against it."

"All this is neither here nor there. To come right down to the p'int,
the old man lost four thousand dollars in gold. I'm trying to help him
find it. I know just as well as I know anything, that Levi stole that
money. All the circumstances go to show that he did, letting alone the
fact that one of the bags was found in his state-room."

"Not without an earnest protest can I permit my worthy captain to be
maligned in this unjustifiable manner. On my own responsibility I
declare that your statement is utterly false."

"I am satisfied it's just as I say," persisted Dock. "Now, we'll go a
p'int closer to the wind. I'm almost certain that the gold Levi stole
is hid aboard this vessel."

"And you wish to search the yacht for it?" added the steward.

"That's just my idea," replied Dock, promptly.

"Permitting such a search would be an acknowledgment, on my part, of
the possibility of my worthy captain's guilt; therefore I cannot suffer
such an investigation to be instituted."

"Well, steward, whether you are going to suffer it or not, it's going
to be done," said Dock, savagely. "I didn't come off here, this time,
to be fooled with. I know the gold's on board, and I'm going to have
it."

"You know it," repeated the steward, calmly.

"Yes, I know it."

"So do I," added Augustus, quietly.

"You do!" exclaimed Dock. "I knew you did! I've been satisfied all
along that you knew all about it, and that you was helping Levi cover
up his guilt. I suppose he was going to give you something for it."

"One of your statements, namely, that the money is on board of this
yacht, is assuredly correct; but your theory, your logic, your
premises, and your conclusions are undoubtedly false and absurd," said
the steward, a cheerful smile playing beneath his huge mustache.

"Isn't the gold here?" demanded Dock, impatiently.

"It is."

"Then quit your flabbergast, and talk in plain English. Of course Levi
stole it."

"Not he!"

"Who did, then?"

"You and another person. Excuse me, Captain Vincent, if my remarks seem
too personal; but I have a theory of my own, which, with your
permission, I will unfold to you. Have a glass of cold water, sir?"

The steward filled a tumbler from the ice pitcher, and politely
tendered it to the guest.

"No; I don't want any; go on with your yarn," growled Dock, sourly, for
he desired to ascertain what the steward knew.

"We need use no undue haste in our deliberations," replied Augustus, as
he drank the glass of water.

"Go on, and don't talk any flabbergast."

"The money was stolen by you and another person."

"Humph! What other person?"

"To be entirely candid with you, I do not yet know who the other person
is; but a certain contingent event will expose him." He referred to the
return of the fishing vessel, with Ben Seaver, who had handed him the
bag. "You and the other person--to me at present unknown--stole the
money, and concealed it in the Hotel de Poisson."

"In the what?"

"I refer to the fish-house, which was consumed in the conflagration of
ten days ago. After you had knocked me down by hurling a stone at me in
the basest and most unchivalrous manner, on my recovery from the
effects of the blow, I went to the fish-house to sleep, being too late
to return on board. I was in the loft when you and the other person
were below. The floor broke, and I had the misfortune to be
precipitated upon you and your companion in infamy. You ran away; but I
found the gold, and brought it on board. This is my theory, Captain
Dock Vincent."

"This is all a lie!" gasped Dock, putting his hand into his side
pocket.

"On the contrary, it is all the sacred truth."

"See here, steward; you can't fool me. I want that money."

"Allow me to inform you that you cannot have it. In due time it shall
be restored to the rightful owner."

"I can and will have it," said Dock, fiercely, as he took a revolver
from his pocket, and pointed it at the head of the steward.

"I think not," replied Mr. Ebénier, producing his revolver; and,
straightening out his legs under the table, he threw himself into an
attitude as impudent as the human form could assume, while upon his
face played an expression of smiling assurance, which took the ruffian
all aback.

Dock's hand trembled, and the pistol vibrated in his grasp, as he
looked in dismay at the steward's weapon, all capped and cocked, as his
own was not--a circumstance which probably helped Mr. Ebénier in
keeping so cool and self-possessed.

"Why don't you fire, Captain Dock Vincent?" taunted the steward. "If
you move you are a dead man!"



At this moment a boat touched the side of the vessel; and while the two
men were confronting each other as described, Levi entered the cabin.
He was startled by the array of deadly weapons presented to him as he
descended the steps; but neither Dock nor the steward appeared to
notice him, for each was afraid the other would fire if his attention
was for an instant diverted.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE GOLD RESTORED.


Levi could see no good reason why Dock Vincent and the steward of the
yacht should be such deadly enemies as to draw pistols on each other.
He had come on board for a travelling bag, which Bessie had left in her
state-room, and he was not prepared for the scene that met his view in
the cabin.

"What are you about, Augustus?" demanded he.

But the steward was obliged to attend to the ugly customer opposite him
at the table, and he made no reply--a piece of rudeness, however, which
he regretted as an absolute necessity.

"Captain Dock Vincent, I will trouble you to lay your weapon on the
table," said the steward. "If you don't do it, I will fire."

Dock did it.

"Pardon me, Captain Fairfield, for my rudeness in not replying to your
question," continued Augustus.

"I asked you what you were about," repeated Levi.

"I was about to shoot this ruffian, and I should have done so if I had
not happened to observe, in good time, that his weapon was not in
condition to go off."

Dock Vincent rose from his seat, leaving his revolver on the table.
Probably he had not expected to use it, believing the sight of it would
be sufficient to intimidate the steward, and induce him to give up the
three bags of gold. He looked at the colored man, then at Levi. The
former had dropped his revolver, seeing which the ruffian walked
towards the cabin door. As the movement was not opposed, he ran up the
steps, jumped into his boat, and pulled for the Caribbee.

Levi again impatiently demanded an explanation of the scene he had
witnessed. The steward, commencing back at the day of the examination,
related, in his prolix and grandiloquent speech, all the events in
which he had been the chief actor, up to the current incident of the
day. He did not confess that he had been tempted to steal the money,
for he regarded the overcoming of the temptation as a sufficient
virtue, without the humiliation of exposing his own weakness.

"Then the gold is on board now!" exclaimed the astonished Levi.

"Yes, sir; it is concealed in the run," replied Augustus.

"Why didn't you tell me of all this before?"

"Because I wished to find the men that stole the money. I thought I
could do it better alone than I could with the constables, or anybody
else," answered Augustus; but he hung his head as he thought of the
dishonest purpose he had cherished.

He had resisted the temptation, but his conscience was sensitive enough
to make him regret that he had even been tempted to steal.

Levi was thoughtful and troubled. The triumphant vindication of his
captain which the steward had promised himself to bring about was not
likely to be realized. The gold was on board of the yacht, and could be
restored to Mr. Fairfield; but the vessel had been searched for it, and
restoring it looked more like confirming the vile charge against him
than like disproving it. Perhaps it would be better for his reputation
to keep the money until the return of Ben Seaver; but Levi could not
believe it was right to retain the gold even a single day. He was
honest and true, and he determined to do his duty before God and man,
letting his reputation take care of itself.

He directed the steward to bring out the bags from their hiding-place.
The name on the tow-cloth, in his uncle's cramped writing, assured him
there could be no mistake in regard to the ownership. The steward told
