mother had taught her to be scrupulously honest about such matters, and
she wanted the gift to be altogether hers.

It was getting quite dusky now. Uncle Robert had brought Mrs. Alston
over in the pony-carriage, and was to take Kathie back, "to smooth her
ruffled plumes," the child said; for the knot of girls around Emma
Lauriston had been discussing what they would wear.

"There'll be a great jam here to-night," said one. "Everybody will turn
out, and I want to look as pretty as possible."

Kathie had begun to have some rather troublesome thoughts on the subject
of dress. The larger girls at school talked considerably of the
fashions. She realized her own position much better than she had a year
ago, and knew that a certain style was expected of her. She hated to be
considered mean or shabby, or, worst of all, deficient in taste; yet how
much of it was right? Need it occupy all one's time and one's desires?

She felt very strongly inclined to make herself "gorgeous" to-night, as
Rob would have phrased it; yet the only ornament she indulged in was a
little cluster of flowers at her throat.

A jam it was, sure enough. Everybody had to look half a dozen ways at
once. The hum of the laughing and talking almost drowned the music. By
nine o'clock some of the tables began to wear a rather forlorn aspect,
and two or three "shut up shop," having been entirely sold out.

Miss Weston's luck appeared less brilliant than that of many others.

"I wish you could take some one there who would buy ever so many
things," Kathie said to Uncle Robert; "I am afraid she is feeling a good
deal discouraged."

He smiled at the thoughtfulness, but made no immediate reply. Only
Kathie noticed his standing there a considerable length of time.

When he came back to her he said, softly, "Kathie, will you not come and
keep her table for a little while? I want to take her to the supper-room
for some refreshments."

Kathie gave him a rather beseeching look.

"I'll be sure and not let her spend more than fifteen minutes. After
that we will have a gay promenade."

Was it selfish not to want to stay here? Yet Kathie put on her most
attractive smiles and actually sold several articles while Miss Weston
was gone.

Then, hunting up Emma Lauriston, they set out on a tour, Uncle Robert
said. They went to the Dutch kitchen, where Miss Jessie was one of the
"young ladies" to-night; and very pretty she looked, though Uncle Robert
insisted that she could not talk a word of Dutch. They had cream
afterward, candy, nuts, and fruit, until it appeared to Kathie that she
had eaten enough to last a week.

There had been a discussion at first about continuing the Fair on
Thanksgiving day, but, as the articles were so nearly sold out, it was
decided to have an auction. That made great fun indeed. By eleven
o'clock the tables were emptied, and the refreshments reduced to a
rather fragmentary state. The crowd, too, began to thin out.

Such a hunting for baskets and hampers and boxes of every description,
such a hurrying and scurrying and confusion of voices, was seldom
witnessed in quiet Brookside. In the crowd Kathie ran over Lottie.

"O dear!" the latter exclaimed, fretfully, "aren't you half tired to
death, Kathie Alston? I've ruined my dress too,--this lovely blue silk!
I am sure I don't know what ma will say. Some one trod on it, as I was
sitting down, and tore off the trimming, and that clumsy Harry Cox
spilled lemonade on me. Children ought not to be allowed in such places,
especially boys who do not know how to behave!" and she uttered this
with a great deal of emphasis. "And I've lost one of my new kid gloves.
They were such a lovely shade. There is nothing in Brookside like them!

"She ought to have known better than to dress in such state, as if she
was going to a party," whispered Emma Lauriston. "I am cream and pie and
cake-crumbs, and goodness only knows what, and devoutly thankful that I
shall not have to go to school to-morrow. But it has been a success.
Mrs. Wilder made one hundred and forty dollars at her table,--our
table," with a laugh.

"And mamma has made nearly two hundred."

"I long to hear the aggregate."

"It will not be less than two thousand," exclaimed Uncle Robert, trying
to open a path for the girls.

Kathie was very tired when she reached home, and with a good-night kiss
ran off to her own room, where she fell asleep with a strange jumble of
ideas in her head.

Two thousand three hundred and twenty dollars for the widows and orphans
when all expenses were paid. Everybody felt very well satisfied, and,
after a good Thanksgiving dinner, affairs at Brookside rolled on as
calmly as before.

Except, perhaps, that there were more anxious hearts. General Sherman
was sweeping on to the sea, and brave Sheridan was carrying
consternation to the heart of the enemy by his daring raids. Grant was
drawing nearer and nearer to Richmond, but there would be some pretty
hard work at the last, every one thought.

Some days afterward Kathie finished a letter to Mr. Meredith, giving him
a glowing account of their labors at home.

"If he could come back to keep Christmas with us!" Kathie said,
longingly. "And dear Rob--and O, the hundreds more who are away from
pleasant firesides!"

Uncle Robert decided to pay Rob a Christmas visit, and they concluded to
pack a small box to send. He was so fond of "goodies" that Kathie tried
her hand at some of the Fair recipes and had excellent success. A few
new articles were needed for every-day use, but these comprised only a
very small share.

"He will have quite a feast," Kathie said, delightedly. "And there is
not much fear of Rob being like Harry in the story."

Uncle Robert would be back by Christmas. They had planned to have a tree
again, but Kathie declared that she could not think of a single thing
she needed. She was quite busy with various other little matters,
however, that required strict seclusion in her own room.

How different it was from last year! She and Aunt Ruth talked it
over,--the waiting, the disappointment, and the sacrifice that after all
had ended so happily.

"It seemed as if everything must have happened then, and that there
would be nothing left for this year," she said.

Uncle Robert brought most satisfactory accounts from his nephew. Rob was
well, contented and happy, and growing tall in an astonishing manner. He
sent oceans of love and thanks to everybody, and wished that he could
come home and see them.

"And here is a letter for you," said Kathie, taking it from the rack on
his desk. "It is from Mr. Meredith. See if he is not going to surprise
us. The ninety days will soon be ended."

Uncle Robert sat before the grate fire, sunning himself in the cheerful
glow, but Kathie remarked that his face grew very grave.

"What is it?" she asked, anxiously. "He is not sick, or--"

"He is well. You may read this."

He folded down a little slip at the top and handed the letter to the
child, who read:--

"Tell Kathie that I have seen General Mackenzie, her hero of last
winter, and that he was delighted to have some tidings of her. And that
during the last fortnight my ideas and sphere of duty seem to have
enlarged. I think she will approve of my decision,--my brave little
Captain who stood by her colors so nobly last winter, and preferred to
minister to her suffering aunt rather than share the most tempting
pleasures. So I shall give up my own comfort and idleness awhile longer,
and stand by the dear country that needs every man in this last great
struggle."

"Oh!" with a tender little cry. "He is not coming home!"

"No. He has resolved to stay and see the war through," was the grave
reply.

Kathie looked into the glowing fire. It was very brave and noble in him
for he did not like military life under the auspices in which he was
seeing it.

"There is a little more," Uncle Robert said.

The "little more" brought the tears to her eyes. She stooped and laid
her head on Uncle Robert's shoulder, nestling her face in the corner by
his curly beard.

"He thinks--it will be--all right with him," she whispered, tremulously,
a little sob quivering in her voice.

"Living or dying," returned Uncle Robert, solemnly. "My darling, I am
very grateful for your share in the work. It seems to me that Mr.
Meredith is capable of something really grand if he can once be roused
to a sense of the responsibility and preciousness of life. There is so
much for every one to do."

"But it doesn't seem as if I did anything."

"No act is without some result, my dear child, when we think that it
must all bear fruit, and that we shall see the result in the other
country, whether it be brambles or leaves or fruit; and we cannot bear
fruit except we abide in the Master."

It seemed to Kathie, child as she was, that she had a blessed glimpse of
the light and the work, the interest and sympathy, the prayers and
earnest endeavor, which were to go side by side with the Master's. A
warm, vivifying glow sped through every pulse. Was this the love of
God,--the grace which was promised to well-doing? She hardly dared
believe, it was so solemnly sweet and comforting,--too good for her, she
almost thought.

"You see, little one, that He puts work for us everywhere, that his
love and presence is beside it always. We may wait a long while for the
result, yet it is sure. And we need not be sparing of our seed; the
heavenly storehouse is forever open to us. He is always more ready to
give than we to receive."

"O Uncle Robert! I am so glad for--for Mr. Meredith. It seems as if I
couldn't take it all in at once!" and both of Kathie's arms were around
his neck, her soft, rosy cheek, wet with tears, pressed against his.

"It is something to think of for all time, my darling."

"Uncle Robert," she said, after a long, thoughtful pause, in which she
appeared to have glimpses of the life stretching out before her, and
leading to the gate of the other country, "I used to wish that I could
have--religion--myself, like mamma and Aunt Ruth--"

"My little Kathie, the 'kingdom of heaven' is within you. We have only
to do His will, and we shall know of the doctrine. That is the grand
secret of it all."




CHAPTER VI.

GIVING AND RECEIVING.


KATHIE had begged, instead of having anything grand herself, that she
might be allowed to play Santa Claus. To be sure, there were gifts to
the Morrisons, to Lucy and Annie Gardiner, and several of her olden
schoolmates, but that was not quite it.

"I mean the highways and byways," she said to her mother; "some of the
poor people who really have no Christmas."

They made out quite a list,--three or four widows with little children,
some old women, and several homes in which there was sickness. Aunt Ruth
fashioned some garments,--Kathie buying the material out of her
Fortunatus's purse; two or three good warm shawls had been provided, and
different packages of provisions, some positive luxuries. They stood in
a great pile at the lower end of the hall, all ready for distribution.

"If you were not too tired--" Kathie said, after supper.

"I am not utterly worn out," and Uncle Robert smiled a little. "What is
it?"

"I wish you and I could go out with the gifts, instead of Mr. Morrison."

"Why not, to be sure?" reading the wistful glance in the soft eyes.

"It would be so delightful. And as we are not to have our Christmas
until to-morrow--"

"Bundle up then, for it is pretty sharp out. I will go and order the
horses."

It was so easy to ride around and dispense benefits that Kathie almost
wondered if there was any real merit in it.

"My little girl," Uncle Robert said, "you must not begin to think that
there can be no religion without sacrifice. God gives us all things
richly to enjoy, and it would be ungrateful if we did not accept the
good, the joy."

All things. As they hurried softly on, the roads being covered with a
light fall of snow, she drank in the beauty around her,--a glimmer of
silvery moonlight flooding the open spaces, the shadowy thickets of
evergreens, whose crisp clustering spines were stirred dreamily with the
slow wind, making a dim and heavenly music, as if even now it might lead
kings and shepherds to the place where the Christ Child had been born,
the myriad of stars overhead in that blue, spacious vault, and the
heaven above it all. And thinking of the distant plains of Judæa brought
her to the plains nearer home,--the broad fields of Virginia dotted with
its camps and tents, and bristling with forts. Thousands of men were
there, keeping Christmas eve, and among them Mr. Meredith. How many
beside him saw the star and came to worship the Saviour!

She felt the living Presence in the awe of this hush and beauty. Her
child's soul was hovering on the point of girlhood, to open into
something rare and precious, perhaps, having greater opportunities than
many others. She was not so fearful or doubting as she had been an hour
ago, for it seemed to her now that she had only to go forward.

They paused first at a little tumble-down cottage. There were seven
people housed in it,--the old folks, Mrs. Maybin, whose husband had gone
to the war, and four children. Mrs. Maybin went out washing and
house-cleaning. Jane, the eldest daughter, thirteen, worked in the
paper-mill.

Uncle Robert looked at the label by moonlight. "I'll just put it down on
the door-step and knock," he said. "You hold the ponies."

The knock made Kathie's own heart beat. Uncle Robert ran back to the
carriage, which stood in the shade of a great black-walnut tree.

Kathie leaned over. Jane Maybin came to the door, lamp in hand, and
looked around wonderingly. Then, spying the great bundle, she cried,
