
"Gentleman and lady from America, sir," replied the man; "an uncommon
handsome young woman, sir."

Before the waiter could further express his opinion of the guests in
No. 31, Paul Kendall came out of the room, and, seeing the servant,
ordered a carriage to be ready in half an hour.

"Is there much to see in this place, sir?" asked Clyde, politely.

"Not much, I think," replied Paul.

"I dare say you are going into the interior, sir."

"Not far."

"There is fine fishing there," persisted Clyde.

"So I am told; but I haven't much time to spend in such sport, and I
am afraid my wife would not enjoy it as well as I should. Do you go to
the interior?"

"Yes, sir; I intend to do so when my mother and sister arrive. My
mother goes a-fishing with me."

"Does she, indeed? You are from England, I suppose," added Paul, who
suspected that the young man was one of those lonesome travellers
eager to make a friend, and actually suffering from the want of one.

"Yes; Mockhill Manor, New Forest, Hampshire."

"Are you travelling alone?" asked Paul, who was full of sympathy for
the apparent loneliness of the young man.

"I am alone just now, but I expect my mother and sister from
Christiansand to-night," replied Clyde.

"Can I do anything for you?" inquired Paul, who, after this
explanation, did not regard the young gentleman's situation as so
hopeless.

In his own travels he had himself experienced that sense of loneliness
which is a decided misery, and had met others afflicted with it. From
the manner of Clyde, he concluded he had an attack of it, and he
desired to alleviate his sufferings; but if the young man's friends
were coming that night, his case could not be desperate.

"No, sir; I don't know that you can. I thought, as your room is next
to mine, we might make it jolly for each other. You are an American,
sir, the waiter says."

"Yes, I am," laughed Paul.

"But you don't talk through the nose."

"Don't I? Well, I don't perceive that you do, either."

"I'm not a Jonathan," protested Clyde. "I dare say you are a fine
gentleman, but I can't say that of all the Americans."

"Can't you? Well, I'm sorry for them. Can you say it of all the
Englishmen?"

"Yes, sir; I think I can of all we meet travelling. The Americans are
big bullies. I settled accounts with one of them this very day,"
chuckled Clyde.

"Ah! did you, indeed?"

"I think some of them know what it is to bully and insult an
Englishman by this time," added Clyde, rubbing his hands, as he
thought of poor Peaks, floundering in the waters of the Fjord.
"Perhaps you've heard of that American Academy ship that came into
Christiania to-day."

"Yes, I have heard of her," answered Paul, curiously.

"I saw her first at Christiansand, and went on board of her with my
mother and sister. I liked the looks of her, and fancied the young
chaps on board of her were having a nice time. I wanted to ship in
her, and I did so; but I was never among such a set of tyrants in the
whole course of my life."

"Then you joined the ship," replied Paul, who had heard of the new
addition to the Young America's crew, but had not seen him.

"I'm blamed if I didn't; but before my mother left the ship, a big
bully of a boatswain insulted me, and I changed my mind. Yet the head
master persuaded my mother to let him keep me in the ship, and I'm
blamed if she didn't leave me there."

"Left you there," added Paul, when Clyde paused, apparently to give
his auditor the opportunity to express his sympathy for his
unfortunate situation.

"Yes, sir; she left me there, and she won't hear the last of it for
one year," replied Clyde, shaking his head. "It was a mean trick, and
I'll pay her for it."

"Probably she did it for the best," suggested Paul, disgusted with the
assurance, and especially with the want of respect for his mother
which the youth manifested, though he was anxious to hear the
conclusion of his story.

"I don't care what she did it for; it was a scurvy trick. I told her
I wouldn't stay in the ship, any how, and she permitted the big
boatswain to hold me while she went ashore in a boat. But I knew
myself, if my mother didn't know me, and I determined not to stay in
her three days; and I didn't," chuckled Clyde, as he thought of what
he called his own cleverness.

"What did you do?" asked Paul, deeply interested.

"I was willing to bide my time, and so I hauled sheets, and luffed,
and tacked, and all that sort of thing, till we got to Christiania.
When I was pulling the main boom, or something of that kind,--I don't
just know what it was now,--one of the fellows in gold bands insulted
me."

"What did he say to you?"

"He ordered me to be silent, and another nob did the same thing. I
offered to fight them both, and I would have liked to show them what
an English boy's fist is made of; but the cowards set the boatswain on
me again. I would have licked him if he had fought fair; but he caught
me foul, and I could do nothing. I meant to be even with that big
boatswain, and I think I am," said Clyde, rubbing his hands again with
delight, and laughing heartily when he thought of his brilliant
achievement.

"Well, what did you do?"

"I just waited till the ship got to Christiania; and then, when all
the students were at dinner, I found the big boatswain sitting on a
beam that runs out over the water--I forget what they call the beam,
but it's at the bow of the ship."

"The bowsprit," suggested Paul.

"No; I know the bowsprit. It wasn't that. There was another beam like
it on the other side."

"O, the cat-head!"

"That's just it. Well, I went up to the big boatswain, and asked him
to look at a ship,--or a 'mofferdite brig, he called it. He looked,
and I just gave him a push, which dropped him off the cat's head into
the bay," continued Clyde, who told his story with many a chuckle and
many a laugh, seeming to enjoy it hugely himself, in spite of the want
of sympathy on the part of his listener.

"You pushed him overboard!" exclaimed Paul.

"That I did, and did it handsomely, too. He never knew what hurt him
till he struck the water. He swam for the bow, and I dropped into a
boat, and came ashore. I saw him climb up to the deck, but I was out
of his way then. Wasn't that cleverly done?"

"Rather," replied Paul, concealing his indignation.

"I think it was very cleverly done," added Clyde, annoyed at the
coolness of his companion. "You couldn't have done it better yourself,
sir."

"I don't think I could," replied Paul, dryly. "And you expect your
mother this evening."

"Yes; and she shall take my name off the books of the ship."

"Perhaps she will not."

"O, but she will. Then the two nobs that insulted me on the ship shall
hear from me."

"What do you intend to do with them?"

"I'll whip them both; if I don't my name isn't Clyde Blacklock!"

"But they will take you back to the ship before your mother arrives."

"I dare say they will, if they see me; but I don't intend to go out of
the hotel till my mother comes. I shall stay in my room, or near it,
the rest of the day."

The conversation was interrupted by the appearance of Mrs. Kendall,
who had been preparing for a ride about the city. Paul conducted her
to the carriage, satisfied that the new scholar could be found when
wanted. During their excursion he told his wife the adventures of
Clyde.

"But what a simpleton he was to tell you these things!" added Grace.

"He did not suspect me of knowing anything about the ship. He is one
of those fellows, who, having done what he regards as a good thing,
cannot help boasting of it. He considers himself a first-class hero."

When Paul returned from the ride, he found Clyde still walking about
the hall, as uneasy as a fish out of water.

"Did you see anything of the Academy ship, sir?" asked he, after Mrs.
Kendall had gone to her room.

"I saw her at anchor in the harbor, and all her people are walking
about the town," replied Paul.

"I've kept clear of them so far; but I want to catch the two fellows
with the gold bands."

"Perhaps some of them will catch you."

"Not they! I'm too cunning for clumsy fellows like them."

"I see you are," laughed Paul, amused at the assurance of the young
Briton.

"If I see them, I'll settle the Alabama claims with them on my own
account. But you ought to have seen the big boatswain floundering in
the water, sir."

"No doubt it was very funny."

"It was, indeed," added Clyde, as the waiter appeared, and handed a
card to Captain Kendall.

"In the court yard, sir," said the servant; and Paul followed the man
to the place where the visitors were waiting.

Peaks, as dry, clean, and good-natured as ever, was talking to Mr.
Lowington. Paul could not help laughing as he thought of the
confidence which Clyde had reposed in him, and that the fugitive had
voluntarily, and without any precautions, told his adventures to one
who really belonged to the fleet.

"He has told me all about it," said Paul.

"Told you?" exclaimed Mr. Lowington.

"Yes, sir; how he pushed Peaks overboard, and then ran away," laughed
Paul. "I don't often wear my uniform on shore, for my wife thinks it
attracts too much attention; so that he did not suspect me of any
connection with the fleet."

"But where is he now?" asked the principal.

"I left him in the hall only a moment since."

"Show me his room, my hearty," said Peaks to the waiter.

"Call a carriage," added Mr. Lowington. "He will make a disturbance in
the streets."

The servant led the way to the room of Clyde, followed by the rest of
the party. All were rather anxious to see the clever Briton, who had
done such wonders of valor and cunning, captured.

But Clyde had a pair of eyes, and, withal, a pair of ears. From
the hall where he promenaded were several doors opening into the
court-yard. Perhaps the youth had a Yankee's curiosity to see who
called upon his new acquaintance, and he went to one of these doors.
He saw Paul walk up to the principal, and shake hands with him. There
was the big boatswain too, and there were two of the nobs with the
gold bands. It was evident enough to Clyde, then, that he had made a
blunder in relating his exploits to a stranger. But the battle was not
lost yet. His chamber was on the ground floor, and had a window which
opened into Dronningensgaden. Without losing another instant, he
opened the window, and dropped out into the street. He did not even
wait to take the bundle which contained his ship's uniform.

When Peaks entered the chamber, the bird had flown, and the open
window indicated the means by which he had escaped; but Clyde had
several minutes the start of his pursuers, and had made good use of
his time. The boatswain dropped out of the window, followed by Norwood
and Lincoln, while the principal and the doctor went round by the
doors as the more dignified means of egress. Peaks went one way, and
the two lieutenants the other way.

Clyde, fearful that haste might look suspicious, walked a short
distance, till he came to a building on which was a sign, Hôtel du
Nord, and which appeared to be under repairs. He stepped in at the
open door, and went up stairs. Men were at work in some of the rooms;
but he avoided them, and appeared to be looking over the building. At
last he came to an open window on the street from which he had
entered. He looked out, and in the distance saw his pursuers running
rapidly in opposite directions. After he had remained in the hotel
about an hour, he ventured to leave, and walked very cautiously up the
street. Feeling the need of an overcoat, he entered a store, and
purchased one, which still further disguised him, so that if he met
any of his late shipmates, they would be still less likely to
recognize him. He walked till he came to a carriage stand; where,
entering a vehicle, he pointed in the direction he wished to go, which
was towards the king's palace. When the driver stopped at the gate, he
pointed towards the hills in the rear of the city. The Norwegian
looked astonished, and could not understand him.

"I want to go out of town."

The driver drove his horse to the other side of the street, and hailed
a short, stout man, who was passing at the time.

"Do you want a guide, sir?" asked the stranger.
