
"That's far enough," replied Rodman, holding on, to keep his seat in the
standing-room.

The Maud passed under the stern of the judges' yacht, and anchored in
the line indicated by the captain of the fleet. The Skylark soon
arrived, and took her place next to the Penobscot. In these two yachts
all the interest of the occasion centred. The Phantom and the Sea Foam
soon came into line; and then it was found that the Christabel had
withdrawn, for it blew too hard for her. Mr. Norwood and his son came on
board, with Dick Adams, who was to be mate of the Maud, and Kennedy, who
was well skilled in sailing a boat. Donald had just the crew he wanted,
and he stationed them for the exciting race. Mr. Norwood was to tend the
jib-sheets in the standing-room, Kennedy the main sheet, while Dick
Adams, Frank Norwood, and Sam Rodman were to cast off the cable and
hoist the jib forward.

"Are you all ready, there?" called Donald, raising his voice above the
noise made by the banging of the mainsail in the fresh breeze.

"All ready," replied Dick Adams, who was holding the rode with a turn
around the bitts.

"Don't let her go till I give the word," added Donald. "I want to fill
on the port tack."

"Ay, ay!" shouted Dick; "on the port tack."

This was a very important matter, for the course from the judges'
station to Turtle Head would give the yachts the wind on the port
quarter; and if any of them came about the wrong way, they would be
compelled to gybe, which was not a pleasant operation in so stiff a
breeze. Donald kept hold of the main-sheet, and by managing the sail a
little, contrived to have the tendency of the Maud in the right
direction, so that her sail would fill on the port tack. He saw that
Dick Adams had the tender on the port bow, so that the yacht would not
run it down when she went off.

"There goes the gun!" shouted Rodman, very much excited as the decisive
moment came.

But Dick Adams held on, as he had been instructed to do, and pulled with
all his might, in order to throw the head of the Maud in the right
direction.

"Hoist the jib!" shouted Donald, when he saw that the yacht was sure to
cast on her port tack.

Rodman and Norwood worked lively; and in an instant the jib was up, and
Mr. Norwood had gathered up the lee sheet.

"Let go!" added Donald, when he felt that the Maud was in condition to
go off lively.

She did go off with a bound and a spring. Donald crowded the helm hard
up, so that the Maud wore short around.

"Let off the sheet, lively, Kennedy!" said the skipper. "Ease off the
jib-sheet, Mr. Norwood!"

"We shall be afoul of the Phantom!" cried Dick Adams, as he began to run
out on the foot-ropes by the bowsprit.

"Lay in, Dick!" shouted Donald. "Don't go out there!"

Dick retraced his steps, and came on deck. The Phantom had not cast in
the right direction, and was coming around on the starboard tack, which
had very nearly produced a collision with the Maud, the two bowsprits
coming within a few inches of each other.

"I was going out to fend off," said Dick, as he came aft, in obedience
to orders.

"I was afraid you would be knocked off the bowsprit, which is a bad
place to be, when two vessels put their noses together. It was a close
shave, but we are all right now," replied the skipper.

"The Sea Foam takes the lead," added Mr. Norwood.

"She had the head end of the line. The Skylark made a good start."

"First rate," said Kennedy. "She couldn't be handled any better than she
is."

"We lead her a little," continued Mr. Norwood.

"We had the advantage of her about half a length; as the Sea Foam has a
length the best of us."

The yachts were to form the line head to the wind, and this line was
diagonal with the course to Turtle Head, so that the Sea Foam, which was
farthest from the Penobscot, had really two length's less distance to go
in getting to Stubb's Point Ledge than the Skylark; but this difference
was not worth considering in such a breeze, though, if the commodore was
beaten by only half a length by the Maud, he intended to claim the race
on account of this disparity. The two yachts in which all the interest
centred, both obtained a fair start, the Maud a little ahead of her
great rival. The Phantom had to come about, and get on the right tack,
for Guilford was too careful to gybe in that wind. The Sea Foam got off
very well; and Vice Commodore Patterdale was doing his best to make a
good show for his yacht, but she held her position only for a moment.
The tremendous gusts were too much for Edward's nerves, and he luffed
up, in order to escape one. The Maud went tearing by her, with the
Skylark over lapping her half a length.

"Haul up the centre-board a little more, Dick," said Donald, who did not
bestow a single glance upon his dreaded rival, for all his attention was
given to the sailing of the Maud. "A small pull on the jib-sheet, Mr.
Norwood, if you please."

"You gained an inch then," said Kennedy, striving to encourage the
struggling skipper.

But Donald would not look at the Skylark. He knew that the shortest
distance between two points was by a straight line; and having taken a
tree on the main land near Castine as his objective point, he kept it in
range with the tompion in the stove-pipe, and did not permit the Maud to
wabble about. Occasionally the heavy gusts buried the rail in the brine;
but Donald did not permit her to dodge it, or to deviate from his
inflexible straight line. She went down just so far, and would go no
farther; and at these times it was rather difficult to keep on the seat
at the weather side of the standing-room. Dick Adams, Norwood, and
Rodman were placed on deck above the trunk, and had a comfortable
position. The skipper kept his feet braced against the cleats on the
floor, holding on with both hands at the tiller; for in such a blow, it
was no child's play to steer such a yacht.

"You are gaining on her, Don John," said Mr. Norwood.

"Do you think so, sir?"

"I know it."

"The end of her bowsprit is about even with the tip of our main boom,"
added Kennedy.

"How much fin have we down, Dick?" asked the skipper.

The mate of the Maud rushed to the cabin, where the line attached to the
centre-board was made fast, and reported on its condition.

"Haul up a little more," continued Donald. "Steady! Not the whole of it,
but nearly all."

"It is down about six inches now."

"That will do."

For a few moments all hands were still, watching with intense interest
the progress of the race. The commodore, in the Skylark, was evidently
doing his level best, for he was running away from the Sea Foam and the
Phantom.

"Bravo, Don John!" exclaimed the excited Mr. Norwood. "You are a full
length ahead! I am willing to sign the contract with Ramsay & Son to
build the yacht for me."

"Don't be too fast, sir. We are not out of the woods yet, and shall not
be for some time."

"I am satisfied we are going to beat the Skylark."

"Beat her all to pieces!" added Frank Norwood. "She is doing it as
easily as though she were used to it."

"I give you the order to build the yacht," said Mr. Norwood.

"Thank you, sir; but I would rather wait till this race is finished
before I take the job. We may be beaten yet--badly beaten, too. There
are a dozen things that may use us up. The tide is not up, so that I
can't play off the dodge I did in the Sea Foam; and if I could, Bob
Montague is up to it."

"There is no need of any dodge of any sort," replied Mr. Norwood. "We
are beating the Skylark without manoeuvring; and that is the fairest way
in the world to do it."

"This is plain sailing, sir; and the Skylark's best point is on the
wind. For aught I know, the Maud may do the best with a free wind," said
Donald; and he had well nigh shuddered when he thought of the difference
in yachts in this respect.

"It may be so; but we are at least two lengths ahead of her now."

"Over three," said Kennedy.

"So much the better," laughed Mr. Norwood. "The more we gain with the
wind free, the less we shall have to make on the wind."

"But really, sir, this running down here almost before the wind is
nothing," protested Donald, who felt that his passenger was indulging in
strong expectations, which might not be realized. "The tug of war will
come when we go about. We have to beat almost dead to windward; and it
may be the Maud has given us her best point off the wind."

"You don't expect her to fail on the wind--do you, Don John."

"No, sir; I don't expect her to fail, for she did first rate yesterday,
when we tried her. She looked the breeze almost square in the face: but
I can't tell how she will do in comparison with the Skylark. Of course I
don't expect the Maud to be beaten; but I don't want you to get your
hopes up so high, that you can't bear a disappointment."

"We will try to bear it; but Frank don't want a yacht that is sure to be
beaten," added Mr. Norwood.

"Then perhaps it is fortunate I didn't take the job, when you offered to
give it to me."

"But I think the Maud will win the race," persisted the confident
gentleman.

"So do I; but it is always best to have an anchor out to windward."

"Bully for you, Don John!" shouted Kennedy, after the yacht had crossed
the channel where the sea was very rough and choppy. "You made a good
bit in the last quarter of an hour, and we are a dozen lengths ahead of
her."

"Surely she can never gain that distance upon us!" exclaimed Mr.
Norwood.

"It is quite possible, sir. I have known a boat to get a full mile ahead
of another before the wind, and then be beaten by losing it all, and
more too, going to windward. I expect better things than that of the
Maud; but she may disappoint me. She is only making her reputation now."

Donald watched his "sight" ahead all the time, and had not seen the
Skylark for half an hour. The party was silent again for a while, but
the Maud dashed furiously on her course, now and then burying her rail,
while the water shot up through the lee scupper-holes into the
standing-room. But Dick Adams, who was a natural mechanic, was making a
pair of plugs to abate this nuisance.

"Turtle Head!" exclaimed Rodman, who, though he had said but little,
watched the movements of the yacht with the most intense delight and
excitement.

"We are a square quarter of a mile ahead of the Skylark," said Kennedy.
"Business will be good with us, Don John, after this."

"Give her a little more main-sheet, Kennedy," was the skipper's reply,
as the yacht passed the Head, and he kept her away a little.

"Eleven thirty," mused Mr. Norwood, who had taken out his gold watch,
and noted the moment when the Maud passed the headland.

"Now, mind your eye, all hands!" shouted Donald, as the Maud approached
the north-east point of Long Island, where he had to change her course
from south-east to south, which involved the necessity, with the wind
north-west, of gybing, or coming about head to the wind.

It would take a small fraction of a minute to execute the latter
manoeuvre; and as the sails were now partially sheltered under the lee
of the land, the bold skipper determined to gybe. Kennedy had early
notice of his intention, and had laid the spare sheet where it would not
foul anybody's legs. He hauled in all he could with the help of the mate
and others.

"Now, over with it," said Donald, as he put the helm down.

The huge mainsail fluttered and thrashed for an instant, and then flew
over. Kennedy, who had been careful to catch a turn in the rope, held
fast when the sail "fetched up" on the other tack, and then the yacht
rolled her rail under on the port side.

"Let off the sheet, lively!" cried Donald.

"That's what I'm doing," replied the stout ship carpenter, paying off
the sheet very rapidly, so as to break the shock.

"Steady! belay! Now draw jib there."

As Dick Adams cast off the weather sheet in the new position, Mr.
Norwood hauled in the lee. For a short distance the Maud had the wind on
her starboard quarter; then the sheets were hauled in, and she took it
on the beam, till she was up with the buoy on Stubbs Point Ledge, which
she was to round, leaving it on the port. The ledge was not far from the
land, on which was a considerable bluff, so that the wind had not more
than half its force. In rounding the buoy, it was necessary to gybe
again; and it was done without shaking up the yacht half so much as at
the north-east point.

"Now comes the pull," said Donald, as the Maud rounded the buoy. "Stand
by your sheets! Now brace her up! Give her the whole of the board,
Dick."

Donald put the helm down; the jib and mainsail were trimmed as flat as
it was judicious to have them; and the Maud was close-hauled, standing
up to the northward. The skipper was careful not to cramp her by laying
too close to the wind. He was an experienced boatman, and he governed
himself more by the feeling of the craft under him than by his sight. He
could shut his eyes, and tell by the pressure of the tiller in his hand
whether she was cramped, or was going along through the water.

"Did you get the time when the Skylark passed the Head, Mr. Norwood?"
asked Donald.

"No; you made things so lively, I hadn't time to look," replied the
gentleman. "I should like to know just how many minutes we are ahead of
