            Without a penny in our puss,
                    Poor old maids,'"

sang Joe pathetically, cutting short the purse on account of the
rhyme.

"O Joe, you are too bad! I won't tell any more."

"Yes, do!" entreated Hal. "And so he liked you on account of the
resemblance, and wanted to adopt you."

"Exactly! Hal, how could you guess it?" returned Florence, much
mollified. "And so he would take me to a beautiful house, where there
were plenty of servants, and get me lovely clothes to wear; and there
would be lots of china and silver and elegant furniture and a piano.
I'd go to school, and study music and drawing, and never have to sew or
do any kind of work. Then I'd send you nice presents home; and, when
you were fixed up a little, you should come and see me. And maybe, Hal,
as you grew older, he would help you about getting a hot-house. I think
when I became a woman, I would take Dot to educate."

"I've heard of fairy godmothers before, but this seems to be a
godfather. Here's luck to your old covey, Florrie, drunk in imaginary
champagne."

"Joe, I wish you wouldn't use slang phrases, nor be so disrespectful."

"I'm afraid I'll have to keep clear of the palace."

"Oh, if it only could be!" sighed Hal. "I think Flo was meant for a
lady."

Florence smiled inwardly at hearing this. It was her opinion also.

"Here, Kit, are you asleep?" And Joe pulled him out of the pile by one
leg. "Wake up, and give us your heart's desire."

Kit indulged in a vigorous kick, which Joe dodged.

"It'll be splendid," began Kit, "especially the piano. I've had my
hands over my eyes, making stars; and I was thinking"--

"That's just what we want, Chief of the Mohawk Valley. Don't keep us in
suspense."

"I'm going to save up my money, like some one Hal was reading about the
other day, and buy a fiddle."

A shout of laughter greeted this announcement, it sounded so comical.

Kit rubbed his eyes in amazement, and failed to see any thing amusing.
Then he said indignantly,--

"You needn't make such a row!"

"But what will you do with a fiddle? You might tie a string to Charlie,
and take her along for a monkey; or you might both go round singing in
a squeaky voice,--

    'Two orphan boys of Switzerland.'"

"You're real mean, Joe," said Kit, with his voice full of tears.

"Kit, I'll give you the violin myself when I get rich," Florence
exclaimed in a comforting tone, her soft hand smoothing down the
refractory scalp-lock; "but I would say violin, it sounds so much
nicer. And then you'll play."

"Play!" enunciated Kit in a tone that I cannot describe, as if that
were a weak word for the anticipated performance. "I'd make her talk!
They'd sit there and listen,--a whole houseful of people it would
be, you know; and when I first came out with my fiddle,--violin.
I mean,--they would look at me as if they thought I couldn't do
much. I'd begin with a slow sound, like the wind wailing on a winter
night,--I guess I'd have it a storm, and a little lost child, for
you can make almost any thing with a violin; and the cries should
grow fainter and fainter, for she would be chilled and worn out;
and presently it should drop down into the snow, and there'd be the
softest, strangest music you ever heard. The crowd would listen and
listen, and hold their breath; and when the storm cleared away, and the
angels came down for the child, it would be so, so sad"--and there was
an ominous falter in Kit's voice, "they couldn't help crying. There'd
be an angel's song up in heaven; and in the sweetest part of it all,
I'd go quietly away, for I wouldn't want any applause."

"But you'd have it," said Hal softly, reaching out for the small
fingers that were to evoke such wonderful melody. "It almost makes me
cry myself to think of it! and the poor little girl lost in the snow,
not bigger than Dot here!"

"Children!" called Granny from the foot of the stairs, "ain't you going
to come down and have any supper? I've made a great pot full of mush."

There was a general scrambling. Hal carried Dot in his arms, for she
was fast asleep. Two or three times in the short journey he stopped to
kiss the soft face, thinking of Kit's vision.

"Oh, we've been having such a splendid time!" announced Charlie. "All
of us telling what we'd like to do; and, Granny, Joe's going to build
you an elegant house!" with a great emphasis on the word, as Charlie
was not much given to style, greatly to the sorrow and chagrin of
Florence.

Granny gave a cheerful but cracked treble laugh, and asked,--

"What'll he build it of, my dear,--corn-cobs?"

"Oh, a real house! He's going to make lots of money, Joe is, and get
shipwrecked."

Granny shook her head, which made the little white curls bob around
oddly enough.

"How you do mix up things, Charlie," said Joe, giving her a poke with
his elbow. "You're a perfect harum-scarum! I don't wonder you want to
live in the woods. Go look at your head: it stands out nine ways for
Sunday!"

Charlie ran her fingers through her hair, her usual manner of arranging
it.

"Granny, here's this little lamb fast asleep. She's grown to be one of
the best babies in the world;" and Hal kissed her again.

He had such a tender, girlish heart, that any thing weak or helpless
always appealed to him. Their sleek, shining Tabby had been a poor,
forlorn, broken-legged kitten when he found her; and there was no end
to the birds and chickens that he nursed through accidents.

But for a fortnight Dot had been improving, it must be confessed,
being exempt from disease and broken bones.

"Poor childie! Just lay her in the bed, Hal."

There was a huge steaming dish of mush in the middle of the table; and
the hungry children went at it in a vigorous manner. Some had milk,
and some had molasses; and they improvised a dessert by using a little
butter, sugar, and nutmeg. They spiced their meal by recounting their
imaginary adventures; but Granny was observed to wipe away a few tears
over the shipwreck.

"It was all make believe," said Joe sturdily. "Lots of people go to
sea, and don't get wrecked."

"But I don't want you to go," Granny returned in a broken tone of voice.

"Pooh!" exclaimed Joe, with immense disdain. "Don't people meet with
accidents on the land? Wasn't Steve Holder killed in the mill. And if I
was on the cars in a smash-up, I couldn't swim out of that!"

Joe took a long breath, fancying that he had established his point
beyond a cavil.

"But sailors never make fortunes," went on Granny hesitatingly.

"Captains do, though; and it's a jolly life. Besides, we couldn't all
stay in this little shanty, unless we made nests in the chimney like
the swallows; and I don't know which would tumble down first,--we or
the chimney."

Charlie laughed at the idea.

"I shall stay with you always, Granny," said Hal tenderly. "And Dot,
you know, will be growing into a big girl and be company for us. We'll
get along nicely, never fear."

Some tears dropped unwittingly into Granny's plate, and she didn't want
any more supper. It was foolish, of course. She ought to be thankful to
have them all out of the way and doing for themselves. Here she was,
over fifty, and had worked hard from girlhood. Some day she would be
worn out.

But, in spite of all their poverty and hardship, she had been very
happy with them; and theirs were by no means a forlorn-looking set of
faces. Each one had a little beauty of its own; and, though they were
far from being pattern children, she loved them dearly in spite of
their faults and roughnesses. And in their way they loved her, though
sometimes they were great torments.

And so at bed-time they all crowded round to kiss the wrinkled face,
unconsciously softened by the thought of the parting that was to come
somewhere along their lives. But no one guessed how Granny held little
Dot in her arms that night, and prayed in her quaint, fervent fashion
that she might live to see them all grown up and happy, good and
prosperous men and women, and none of them straying far from the old
home-nest.

I think God listened with watchful love. No one else would have made
crooked paths so straight.




CHAPTER III.

  A CHANCE FOR FLOSSY.


The vacation had come to an end, and next week the children were to go
to school again. Florence counted up her small hoard; for though she
did not like to sweep, or wash dishes, she was industrious in other
ways. She crocheted edgings and tidies, made lamp-mats, toilet-sets,
and collars, and had earned sixteen dollars. Granny would not have
touched a penny of it for the world.

So Florence bought herself two pretty delaine dresses for winter wear,
and begged Granny to let Miss Brown cut and fit them. Florence had a
pretty, slender figure; and she was rather vain of it. Her two dresses
had cost seven dollars, a pair of tolerably nice boots three and a
half, a plaid shawl four, and then she had indulged in the great luxury
of a pair of kid gloves.

It had come about in this wise. Mrs. Day had purchased them in New
York, but they proved too small for her daughter Julia. She was owing
Florence a dollar; so she said,--

"Now, if you have a mind to take these gloves, Florence, I'd let you
have them for seventy-five cents. I bought them very cheap: they ask
a dollar and a quarter in some stores;" and she held them up in their
most tempting light.

Florence looked at them longingly.

"They are lovely kid, and such a beautiful color! Green is all the
fashion, and you have a new green dress."

There was a pair of nice woollen gloves at the store for fifty cents;
and although they were rather clumsy, still Florence felt they would be
warmer and more useful.

"I don't know as I can spare you the dollar now," continued Mrs. Day,
giving the dainty little gloves a most aggravating stretch.

"I'd like to have them," said Florence hesitatingly.

"I suppose your grandmother won't mind? Your money is your own."

Now, Mrs. Day knew that it was wrong to tempt Florence; but the gloves
were useless to her, and she felt anxious to dispose of them.

"Grandmother said I might spend all my money for clothes," was the
rather proud reply.

"Kid gloves always look so genteel, and are so durable. You have such a
pretty hand too."

"I guess I will take them," Florence said faintly.

So Mrs. Day gave her the gloves and twenty-five cents. Florence
carried them home in secret triumph, and put them in her drawer in
Granny's big bureau. She had not told about them yet; and sometimes
they were a heavier burden than you would imagine so small a pair of
gloves could possibly be.

Joe had earned a little odd change from the farmers round, and bought
himself a pair of new trousers and a new pair of boots; while Hal had
been maid-of-all-work in doors, and head gardener out of doors.

"Just look at these potatoes!" he said in triumph to Granny. "There's
a splendid binful, and it'll last all winter. And there'll be cabbage
and pumpkins and marrow-squash and Lima beans, and lots of corn for the
chickens. The garden has been a success this summer."

"And you've worked early and late," returned Granny in tender triumph.
"There isn't such another boy in the State, I'll be bound!" And she
gave him the fondest of smiles.

"But the best of all is Dot. She's actually getting fat, Granny; and
she has a dimple in her cheek. Why, she'll be almost as pretty as
Flossy!"

Granny gave the little one a kiss.

"She's as good as a kitten when she is well," was the rejoinder, in a
loving tone.

Kit and Charlie still romped like wild deers. They had made a cave in
the wood, and spent whole days there; but Charlie burned her fingers
roasting a bird, and went back to potatoes and corn, that could be put
in the ashes without so much risk.

The old plaid cloak had been made over for a school-dress, and Charlie
thought it quite grand. Kit and Hal had to do the best they could about
clothes.

"Never mind me, Granny," Hal said cheerfully; though he couldn't help
thinking of his patched Sunday jacket, which was growing short in the
sleeves for him.

So on Saturday the children scrubbed and scoured and swept, and made
the place quite shine again. Hal arranged the flowers, and then they
all drew a restful breath before the supper preparations began.

"There's Mrs. Van Wyck coming!" and Charlie flew up the lane, dashing
headlong into the house, to the imminent peril of her best dress, which
she had been allowed to put on for an hour or two.

"Mrs. Van Wyck!"

Granny brushed back her bobbing flaxen curls, washed Dot's face over
