Mrs. Brandon was sitting at the window with her work in her hand; but it
had fallen listlessly in her lap, and on her face was a look of painful
preoccupation. Opposite her sat her daughter Mary, Ben's only sister,
already referred to.

"Don't worry so, mother," said Mary; "you will make yourself sick."

"I cannot help it, Mary," said Mrs. Brandon. "I can't help worrying
about Ben. He has been gone a week now, and Heaven knows what he has
suffered. He may be dead."

"No, mother," said Mary, who had more of her father's strength than her
mother's gentleness. "He is not dead, you may depend upon that."

"But he had no money, that I know of. How could he live?"

"Ben can take care of himself better than most boys of his age."

"But think of a boy of ten going out in the world by himself!"

"There are many boys of ten who have to do it, mother."

"What could the poor boy do?"

"He might suffer a little; but if he does, he will the sooner come
home."

"I wish he might," said Mrs. Brandon, with a sigh. "I think your father
does very wrong not to go after him."

"He wouldn't know where to go. Besides, he has advertised."

"I hope Ben will not see the advertisement. Poor boy! he would feel hurt
to think that we cared so little for him as to offer only one dollar for
his return."

"He will know you had nothing to do with the advertisement, mother; you
may be sure of that."

"Yes, he knows me too well for that. I would give all I have to have him
back."

"I want him back too," said Mary. "He is my only brother, and of course
I love him; but I don't think it will do him any harm to suffer a little
as a punishment for going away."

"You were always hard upon the poor boy, Mary," said Mrs. Brandon.

"No, I am not hard; but I see his faults, and I want him to correct
them. It is you who have been too indulgent."

"If I have been, it is because you and your father have been too much
the other way."

There was a brief pause, then Mrs. Brandon said, "Can you think of any
place, Mary, where Ben would be likely to go?"

"Yes, I suppose he went to Philadelphia. When a boy runs away from home,
he naturally goes to the nearest city."

"I have a great mind to go up to-morrow."

"What good would it do, mother?"

"I might meet him in the street."

"There is not much chance of that. I shouldn't wonder if by this time he
had gone to sea."

"Gone to sea!" repeated Mrs. Brandon, turning pale. "What makes you
think so? Did he ever speak of such a thing to you?"

"Yes, he once threatened to run away to sea, when I did something that
did not suit him."

"Oh, I hope not. I have heard that boys are treated very badly on board
ship. Besides, he might get drowned."

"I am not sure whether a good sea-voyage might not be the best thing for
him," said strong-minded Mary.

"But suppose he should be ill-treated?"

"It might take the pride out of him, and make him a better boy."

"I never get much satisfaction from you, Mary. I don't see how you can
be so harsh."

"I see we are not likely to agree, mother. But there is a boy coming up
the walk with a letter in his hand."

"It may be from Ben," said his mother, rising hastily, and going to the
door.

The boy was William Gordon, a school-mate of Ben's, whose disappearance,
long before this time, had been reported throughout the village.

"I was passing the post-office, Mrs. Brandon," he said, "when the
postmaster called from the window, and asked me to bring you this
letter. I think it is from Ben. The handwriting looks like his."

"Oh, thank you, William," said Mrs. Brandon, joyfully. "Give it to me
quick."

She tore it open and read the letter, which is given at length in the
last chapter.

"Is it from Ben?" asked William.

"Yes."

"Is he in Philadelphia? I noticed it was mailed there."

"Yes--no--he says he cannot tell us where he is."

"I think he must be in Philadelphia, or the letter would not be mailed
there."

"Come in, William. I must go and tell Mary."

"No, thank you, Mrs. Brandon. I am on an errand for my mother. I hope
Ben is well?"

"Yes, he says so."

Mrs. Brandon went in, and showed the letter to her daughter.

"There, I told you, mother, you need not be alarmed. He says he is
earning his living."

"But it seems so hard for a boy of ten to have to work for his living.
What can he do?"

"Oh, there are various things he can do. He might sell papers, for
instance."

"I think I shall go to Philadelphia to-morrow, Mary."

"It won't be of any use, you may depend, mother. He is not in
Philadelphia."

"But this letter is posted there."

"That is a proof to me that he is not there. He says he don't want to
come back."

Shortly after, Mr. Brandon entered the house.

"We have had a letter from Ben, father," said Mary.

"Show it to me," he said, briefly.

He read the letter, and handed it back without a word.

"What are you going to do about it, Mr. Brandon?" asked his wife.

"What is there to be done?" he asked.

"I think I had better go up to Philadelphia to-morrow."

"What for?"

"I might see him."

"You would be going on a wild-goose chase."

"Then why won't you go?"

"It isn't worth while. If the boy doesn't want to come home, he may
take care of himself if he likes it so well. I shan't run round after
him."

"He says he did not do what you punished him for," said Mrs. Brandon,
rather deprecatingly, for she was somewhat in awe of her husband.

"Of course he would say that. I have heard that before."

"But I don't think he really did."

"I know you have always been foolishly indulgent to him."

"At any rate that cannot be said of you," said his wife, with some
spirit.

"No," he answered, rather surprised at such an unusual manifestation
from his usually acquiescent wife; "you are right there, and you might
add that I don't mean to be, if he should return."

"I think he would have come home but for that advertisement. You see
what he says about it in his letter."

"If I were to write it again, I should write it in the same manner,
though perhaps I might not offer so large a sum."

Mrs. Brandon sighed, and ceased speaking. She knew her husband well
enough to see that there was little chance of changing his
determination, or softening his anger towards Ben.

The next day, when Mr. Brandon returned home to dinner from his
coal-wharf, he found Mary seated at the head of the table.

"Where is your mother?" he asked.

"She went to Philadelphia by the middle train," was the answer.

"She has gone on a fool's errand."

"I advised her not to go; but she thought she might meet Ben, and I
could not dissuade her."

"Well, she will be better satisfied after she has been up--and failed to
find him."

"Do you think he will ever come back, father?"

"Yes; he will turn up again some day, like a bad penny. He will find
that earning his own living is not quite so agreeable as being taken
care of at home."

"Suppose he shouldn't come back?"

"So much the worse for him," said Mr. Brandon.

Mr. Brandon spoke after his way of speaking, for he was not an
affectionate man, nor given to the softer emotions. He had never given
Ben any reason to think he loved him, at least since he was a baby, but
appearances are sometimes deceptive, and he thought more of his son's
absence than any one would have supposed. He thought, too, of that
sentence in Ben's letter, in which he spoke of being punished for what
he did not do, and he admitted to himself, though he would not have done
so to his wife, that perhaps he had been unjust to the boy after all.
Every day when he turned from his office to go home, it was with the
unacknowledged hope that he might find the prodigal returned. But in
this hope they were all doomed to be disappointed. Year after year
passed away, and still no tidings from Ben beyond that single letter
which we have mentioned.

Mrs. Brandon returned from Philadelphia, as might have been anticipated,
disappointed and despondent. She was very tired, for she had wandered
about the streets, looking everywhere, during the four or five hours she
was in the city. Once or twice her heart beat high, as she saw in front
of her a boy of Ben's size, and dressed as he had been dressed when he
left home. But when, with hurrying steps she came up with him, she was
doomed, in every case, to disappointment.

"I told you it would be no use, mother," said Mary.

"I couldn't stay at home contented, if I did nothing to find him, Mary."

"He'll turn up yet some day, mother,--return in rags most likely."

"Come when he may, or how he may, Mary, my arms shall be open to receive
him."

But the years passed, and Ben did not come.




CHAPTER XIII.

THE FIRST CIGAR.


It was a week or more after Ben started in business as a
baggage-smasher, that, in returning from carrying a carpet-bag to
Lovejoy's Hotel, on Broadway, he fell in with his first city
acquaintance, Jerry Collins. Jerry had just "polished up" a gentleman's
boots, and, having been unusually lucky this morning in securing shines,
felt disposed to be lavish.

"How are you, Ben?" asked Jerry. "What are you up to now?"

"I'm a baggage-smasher," answered Ben, who was beginning to adopt the
language of the streets.

"How does it pay?"

"Well," said Ben, "sometimes it pays first rate, when I'm lucky. Other
days I don't get much to do. I didn't make but fifteen cents this
morning. I carried a bag up to Lovejoy's, and that's all the man would
pay me."

"I've made fifty cents this mornin'. Look here, Johnny."

The Johnny addressed was a boy who sold cigars, four for ten cents.

"I'll take two," said Jerry, producing five cents.

"Six cents for two," said the cigar boy.

"All right, I'll owe you the other cent," said Jerry, coolly.

"Do you smoke?" inquired Ben.

"In course I do. Don't you?"

"No."

"Why don't you?"
