been arranged. She turned white when she looked at him, and white she
remained till her wedding-day. The evening before the ceremony she
swooned away, and she spent the whole night in sobs. My mother sat
holding her two hands, and my brother walked up and down the room. I
declared it was revolting and told my sister publicly that if she would
refuse, downright, I would stand by her. I was told to go about my
business, and she became Comtesse de Cintré.”

“Your brother,” said Newman, reflectively, “must be a very nice young
man.”

“He is very nice, though he is not young. He is upward of fifty, fifteen
years my senior. He has been a father to my sister and me. He is a
very remarkable man; he has the best manners in France. He is extremely
clever; indeed he is very learned. He is writing a history of The
Princesses of France Who Never Married.” This was said by Bellegarde
with extreme gravity, looking straight at Newman, and with an eye that
betokened no mental reservation; or that, at least, almost betokened
none.

Newman perhaps discovered there what little there was, for he presently
said, “You don’t love your brother.”

“I beg your pardon,” said Bellegarde, ceremoniously; “well-bred people
always love their brothers.”

“Well, I don’t love him, then!” Newman answered.

“Wait till you know him!” rejoined Bellegarde, and this time he smiled.

“Is your mother also very remarkable?” Newman asked, after a pause.

“For my mother,” said Bellegarde, now with intense gravity, “I have
the highest admiration. She is a very extraordinary woman. You cannot
approach her without perceiving it.”

“She is the daughter, I believe, of an English nobleman.”

“Of the Earl of St. Dunstan’s.”

“Is the Earl of St. Dunstan’s a very old family?”

“So-so; the sixteenth century. It is on my father’s side that we go
back--back, back, back. The family antiquaries themselves lose breath.
At last they stop, panting and fanning themselves, somewhere in the
ninth century, under Charlemagne. That is where we begin.”

“There is no mistake about it?” said Newman.

“I’m sure I hope not. We have been mistaken at least for several
centuries.”

“And you have always married into old families?”

“As a rule; though in so long a stretch of time there have been some
exceptions. Three or four Bellegardes, in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries, took wives out of the bourgeoisie--married lawyers’
daughters.”

“A lawyer’s daughter; that’s very bad, is it?” asked Newman.

“Horrible! one of us, in the Middle Ages, did better: he married a
beggar-maid, like King Cophetua. That was really better; it was like
marrying a bird or a monkey; one didn’t have to think about her family
at all. Our women have always done well; they have never even gone into
the petite noblesse. There is, I believe, not a case on record of a
misalliance among the women.”

Newman turned this over for a while, and, then at last he said, “You
offered, the first time you came to see me to render me any service you
could. I told you that some time I would mention something you might do.
Do you remember?”

“Remember? I have been counting the hours.”

“Very well; here’s your chance. Do what you can to make your sister
think well of me.”

Bellegarde stared, with a smile. “Why, I’m sure she thinks as well of
you as possible, already.”

“An opinion founded on seeing me three or four times? That is putting me
off with very little. I want something more. I have been thinking of it
a good deal, and at last I have decided to tell you. I should like very
much to marry Madame de Cintré.”

Bellegarde had been looking at him with quickened expectancy, and with
the smile with which he had greeted Newman’s allusion to his promised
request. At this last announcement he continued to gaze; but his
smile went through two or three curious phases. It felt, apparently, a
momentary impulse to broaden; but this it immediately checked. Then it
remained for some instants taking counsel with itself, at the end of
which it decreed a retreat. It slowly effaced itself and left a look of
seriousness modified by the desire not to be rude. Extreme surprise had
come into the Count Valentin’s face; but he had reflected that it would
be uncivil to leave it there. And yet, what the deuce was he to do with
it? He got up, in his agitation, and stood before the chimney-piece,
still looking at Newman. He was a longer time thinking what to say than
one would have expected.

“If you can’t render me the service I ask,” said Newman, “say it out!”

“Let me hear it again, distinctly,” said Bellegarde. “It’s very
important, you know. I shall plead your cause with my sister, because
you want--you want to marry her? That’s it, eh?”

“Oh, I don’t say plead my cause, exactly; I shall try and do that
myself. But say a good word for me, now and then--let her know that you
think well of me.”

At this, Bellegarde gave a little light laugh.

“What I want chiefly, after all,” Newman went on, “is just to let you
know what I have in mind. I suppose that is what you expect, isn’t it? I
want to do what is customary over here. If there is anything particular
to be done, let me know and I will do it. I wouldn’t for the world
approach Madame de Cintré without all the proper forms. If I ought to
go and tell your mother, why I will go and tell her. I will go and tell
your brother, even. I will go and tell anyone you please. As I don’t
know anyone else, I begin by telling you. But that, if it is a social
obligation, is a pleasure as well.”

“Yes, I see--I see,” said Bellegarde, lightly stroking his chin. “You
have a very right feeling about it, but I’m glad you have begun with
me.” He paused, hesitated, and then turned away and walked slowly
the length of the room. Newman got up and stood leaning against the
mantel-shelf, with his hands in his pockets, watching Bellegarde’s
promenade. The young Frenchman came back and stopped in front of him.
“I give it up,” he said; “I will not pretend I am not surprised. I
am--hugely! Ouf! It’s a relief.”

“That sort of news is always a surprise,” said Newman. “No matter what
you have done, people are never prepared. But if you are so surprised, I
hope at least you are pleased.”

“Come!” said Bellegarde. “I am going to be tremendously frank. I don’t
know whether I am pleased or horrified.”

“If you are pleased, I shall be glad,” said Newman, “and I shall
be--encouraged. If you are horrified, I shall be sorry, but I shall not
be discouraged. You must make the best of it.”

“That is quite right--that is your only possible attitude. You are
perfectly serious?”

“Am I a Frenchman, that I should not be?” asked Newman. “But why is it,
by the bye, that you should be horrified?”

Bellegarde raised his hand to the back of his head and rubbed his hair
quickly up and down, thrusting out the tip of his tongue as he did so.
“Why, you are not noble, for instance,” he said.

“The devil I am not!” exclaimed Newman.

“Oh,” said Bellegarde a little more seriously, “I did not know you had a
title.”

“A title? What do you mean by a title?” asked Newman. “A count, a duke,
a marquis? I don’t know anything about that, I don’t know who is and who
is not. But I say I am noble. I don’t exactly know what you mean by it,
but it’s a fine word and a fine idea; I put in a claim to it.”

“But what have you to show, my dear fellow, what proofs?”

“Anything you please! But you don’t suppose I am going to undertake to
prove that I am noble. It is for you to prove the contrary.”

“That’s easily done. You have manufactured wash-tubs.”

Newman stared a moment. “Therefore I am not noble? I don’t see it. Tell
me something I have not done--something I cannot do.”

“You cannot marry a woman like Madame de Cintré for the asking.”

“I believe you mean,” said Newman slowly, “that I am not good enough.”

“Brutally speaking--yes!”

Bellegarde had hesitated a moment, and while he hesitated Newman’s
attentive glance had grown somewhat eager. In answer to these last words
he for a moment said nothing. He simply blushed a little. Then he raised
his eyes to the ceiling and stood looking at one of the rosy cherubs
that was painted upon it. “Of course I don’t expect to marry any
woman for the asking,” he said at last; “I expect first to make myself
acceptable to her. She must like me, to begin with. But that I am not
good enough to make a trial is rather a surprise.”

Bellegarde wore a look of mingled perplexity, sympathy, and amusement.
“You should not hesitate, then, to go up to-morrow and ask a duchess to
marry you?”

“Not if I thought she would suit me. But I am very fastidious; she might
not at all.”

Bellegarde’s amusement began to prevail. “And you should be surprised if
she refused you?”

Newman hesitated a moment. “It sounds conceited to say yes, but
nevertheless I think I should. For I should make a very handsome offer.”

“What would it be?”

“Everything she wishes. If I get hold of a woman that comes up to my
standard, I shall think nothing too good for her. I have been a long
time looking, and I find such women are rare. To combine the qualities I
require seems to be difficult, but when the difficulty is vanquished
it deserves a reward. My wife shall have a good position, and I’m not
afraid to say that I shall be a good husband.”

“And these qualities that you require--what are they?”

“Goodness, beauty, intelligence, a fine education, personal
elegance--everything, in a word, that makes a splendid woman.”

“And noble birth, evidently,” said Bellegarde.

“Oh, throw that in, by all means, if it’s there. The more the better!”

“And my sister seems to you to have all these things?”

“She is exactly what I have been looking for. She is my dream realized.”

“And you would make her a very good husband?”

“That is what I wanted you to tell her.”

Bellegarde laid his hand on his companion’s arm a moment, looked at
him with his head on one side, from head to foot, and then, with a loud
laugh, and shaking the other hand in the air, turned away. He walked
again the length of the room, and again he came back and stationed
himself in front of Newman. “All this is very interesting--it is very
curious. In what I said just now I was speaking, not for myself, but
for my tradition, my superstitions. For myself, really, your proposal
tickles me. It startled me at first, but the more I think of it the
more I see in it. It’s no use attempting to explain anything; you won’t
understand me. After all, I don’t see why you need; it’s no great loss.”

“Oh, if there is anything more to explain, try it! I want to proceed
with my eyes open. I will do my best to understand.”

“No,” said Bellegarde, “it’s disagreeable to me; I give it up. I liked
you the first time I saw you, and I will abide by that. It would be
quite odious for me to come talking to you as if I could patronize you.
I have told you before that I envy you; vous m’imposez, as we say. I
didn’t know you much until within five minutes. So we will let things
go, and I will say nothing to you that, if our positions were reversed,
you would not say to me.”

I do not know whether in renouncing the mysterious opportunity to which
he alluded, Bellegarde felt that he was doing something very generous.
If so, he was not rewarded; his generosity was not appreciated. Newman
quite failed to recognize the young Frenchman’s power to wound his
feelings, and he had now no sense of escaping or coming off easily.
He did not thank his companion even with a glance. “My eyes are open,
though,” he said, “so far as that you have practically told me that your
family and your friends will turn up their noses at me. I have never
thought much about the reasons that make it proper for people to turn up
their noses, and so I can only decide the question off-hand. Looking at
it in that way I can’t see anything in it. I simply think, if you want
to know, that I’m as good as the best. Who the best are, I don’t pretend
to say. I have never thought much about that either. To tell the
truth, I have always had rather a good opinion of myself; a man who is
successful can’t help it. But I will admit that I was conceited. What
I don’t say yes to is that I don’t stand high--as high as anyone else.
This is a line of speculation I should not have chosen, but you must
remember you began it yourself. I should never have dreamed that I was
on the defensive, or that I had to justify myself; but if your people
will have it so, I will do my best.”

“But you offered, a while ago, to make your court as we say, to my
mother and my brother.”

“Damn it!” cried Newman, “I want to be polite.”

“Good!” rejoined Bellegarde; “this will go far, it will be very
entertaining. Excuse my speaking of it in that cold-blooded fashion, but
the matter must, of necessity, be for me something of a spectacle. It’s
positively exciting. But apart from that I sympathize with you, and I
shall be actor, so far as I can, as well as spectator. You are a capital
fellow; I believe in you and I back you. The simple fact that you
appreciate my sister will serve as the proof I was asking for. All men
are equal--especially men of taste!”

“Do you think,” asked Newman presently, “that Madame de Cintré is
determined not to marry?”

“That is my impression. But that is not against you; it’s for you to
make her change her mind.”

“I am afraid it will be hard,” said Newman, gravely.

“I don’t think it will be easy. In a general way I don’t see why a
widow should ever marry again. She has gained the benefits of
matrimony--freedom and consideration--and she has got rid of the
drawbacks. Why should she put her head into the noose again? Her usual
motive is ambition: if a man can offer her a great position, make her a
princess or an ambassadress she may think the compensation sufficient.”

“And--in that way--is Madame de Cintré ambitious?”

