upon them, mixing in well. Fill buttered stone-china cups with this
custard; set in a dripping-pan of hot water, and bake until “set.”
Then pile upon them roughly a méringue made of the reserved whites,
whipped stiff with the rest of the powdered sugar and the lemon-juice.
Shut the oven until these begin to be tinged. Eat cold from the cups.



  Fourth Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Corn Soup.
  Mayonnaise of Lobster.      Beefsteak au Maître d’Hôtel.
  Stewed Lima Beans.      Fried Cucumbers.
  Boiled Potatoes.
  ——
  Blackberry Pie.
  Iced Tea.
  ——


CORN SOUP.

1 pint of grated corn just from the cob; 3 pints of boiling water; 1
pint of hot milk; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1 heaping tablespoonful
of flour; pepper; salt; yolks of 2 eggs.

Put on the cobs, after you have grated off the corn, in the boiling
water, and cook half an hour. Take them out and put in the corn. Boil
one hour or until very soft. Pulp through the colander back into the
water. Season, and set over the fire to simmer. Put the butter into a
saucepan, and, when hot, stir in the flour. Cook ten minutes, stirring
all the while. Add a little of the soup to thin it, and empty the
saucepan into the soup-pot, stirring the contents until smooth. Heat
the milk in another saucepan, pour upon the beaten yolks, cook one
minute, and pour into the tureen. Season with pepper and salt, and stir
the soup into it. This is a remarkably nice soup.


MAYONNAISE OF LOBSTER.

Meat of one large boiled lobster, cold and cut into dice. Lay aside the
coral for the dressing. Make this of these ingredients: 4 hard boiled
eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls best salad-oil; 1 teaspoonful, each, of made
mustard, salt, white sugar, and anchovy sauce; vinegar and cayenne to
taste.

Pound the yolks perfectly smooth, and rub in the coral and other
ingredients with great care, moistening with vinegar as they stiffen,
until a smooth cream is the result. Pour this over the minced lobster,
and toss up well with a silver fork. Heap in the centre of your
salad-bowl, and lay cool, white lettuce-hearts around it, helping out
these with the lobster. Inside of the lettuce lay a chain of the sliced
boiled whites.


BEEFSTEAK AU MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL.

Broil your beefsteak in the usual manner. Lay upon the chafing-dish
and pour upon it a sauce made of 1 great spoonful of butter; 1
teaspoonful very finely minced parsley; pepper, salt and the juice of a
lemon—heated almost to boiling in a clean saucepan. Put a hot cover
over the steak, and let it stand five minutes before serving.


STEWED LIMA BEANS.

Boil in hot salted water fifteen minutes. Drain half of this off and
stir in—for a quart of beans—a tablespoonful of very finely chopped
sweet salt pork—the whitest fat slice you can get—a teaspoonful of
minced onion, a little chopped parsley; pepper and a cupful of hot
milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in to prevent curdling. Stew slowly
fifteen minutes more; stir in a scant tablespoonful of butter rolled in
flour; cook ten minutes and pour out.


FRIED CUCUMBERS.

See Wednesday, First Week in July.


BOILED POTATOES.

See Monday of this week.


BLACKBERRY PIE.

Line a pie-dish with good crust, and fill with ripe berries, sweetening
plentifully. Cover with another crust and bake in a moderate oven. Eat
cold with white sugar sifted over it.


ICED TEA.

See Sunday, Third Week in July.



  Fourth Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Kilkenny Soup.
  Mutton Chops.      Ragoût of Vegetables.
  Stewed Tomatoes.
  ——
  Indian Pudding.
  ——


KILKENNY SOUP.

3 lbs. of lean beef; 2 lbs. scrag of mutton, cut up small; 1 lb. lean
ham; 3 sliced onions; 3 carrots; 2 turnips; bunch of sweet herbs; ⅔ of
a cup of Irish oatmeal, previously soaked four hours in a little tepid
water; 6 quarts of cold water; pepper and salt; 6 parboiled potatoes,
sliced.

Crack the bones, and cut the meat into strips. Cover with the water,
and bring slowly to the boil. When this has lasted one hour, skim off
the top of the pot, and put in the onions fried brown in dripping, the
other vegetables sliced, and the herbs; cook three hours longer, and
strain the soup. Season the meat pretty highly and pour upon it—in a
jar or bowl—half the clear stock. Set upon the ice for Sunday, when
cold. Rub the vegetables through the colander into the rest of the
stock; cool, take off the fat, season, add the sliced potatoes and the
oatmeal, and cook one hour more. Strain into the tureen.


MUTTON CHOPS.

Trim, leaving a bit of bare bone at the end of each. Pepper, and broil
over a clear fire. Lay upon a hot dish; salt and butter both sides of
each chop, and lay outside of your stewed tomatoes.


RAGOÛT OF VEGETABLES.

Parboil 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 potatoes, 2 ears of corn, 1 cup of Lima
beans, and the same of peas, 1 onion, and with them ¼ lb. of fat salt
pork. Drain off the water, and lay aside the pork. Slice carrots,
turnips, potatoes and onion. Put into a saucepan with a cup of your
soup taken out before thickening; season well; cut the corn from the
cob and add with the peas, beans, and a sliced tomato as soon as the
rest are hot. Stew all together half an hour. Stir in a great lump of
butter rolled in flour; stew five minutes and pour into a deep dish.


STEWED TOMATOES.

Loosen the skins with hot water, peel and slice. Stew until broken to
pieces. Pulp through a coarse sieve, rubbing out all that will pass.
Return to the fire with a little sugar, pepper and salt, and boil
briskly fifteen minutes. Stir in, then, enough fine crumbs to make it
like a tolerably thick batter; add a great spoonful of butter; stew,
stirring well, five minutes; pour in the middle of a flat dish, and
arrange the chops around it.


INDIAN PUDDING.

1 quart of milk; 4 cups white Indian meal; 3 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls of
sugar; 1 teaspoonful of salt; ¼ lb. powdered suet; 1 teaspoonful of
cinnamon; ¼ teaspoonful of soda in the milk.

Scald the milk, and, while hot, stir in meal, suet, and salt. When
cold, beat in the yolks and sugar, the spice—at last the whites.
Beat long and hard; pour into a buttered mould, leaving room for
swelling—and plenty of it—put into a pot of boiling water almost up to
the top, and boil four hours. Turn out, and eat hot with sauce.




AUGUST.



  First Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Macaroni Soup.
  Stewed Ducks.      Green Peas.
  Boiled Corn.      Fried Egg-plant.
  Potato Salad.
  ——
  Almond Custard with Cocoanut Frost.
  ——


MACARONI SOUP.

Take the fat from your cold soup; pour the latter carefully from the
meat, and heat to a slow boil. Having removed all the scum that will
rise, add a quarter pound of macaroni, broken into short pieces, boiled
twenty minutes in hot salted water, and left to get cold. Simmer
fifteen minutes, and serve.


STEWED DUCKS.

Clean, wash, and truss neatly, but do not stuff the ducks. Put into a
broad saucepan, such as is generally known as a braising-pan. Strew
with a little onion; pour over them a cupful of weak broth made by
boiling the giblets in a pint of water and reducing one-half. Season
this well, and when you have poured it upon the ducks, cover the
saucepan and cook gently an hour and a half or until the ducks are
tender. Turn them when half done. Take up when ready; keep hot while
you strain and thicken the gravy with browned flour. Pour a little over
the ducks, the rest into a boat.


GREEN PEAS.

See Monday, Fourth Week in July.


BOILED CORN.

Strip off all except the inner thin husk. Turn this down, and pick off
the silk. Put back the husk, tie with a bit of thread, and cook in
boiling water from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Break off the stalks
and husks, and send to table wrapped in a napkin.


FRIED EGG-PLANT.

Cut in slices half an inch thick; pare each carefully, and lay for one
hour in salt and water, to remove the bitter taste. Then slightly salt
and pepper each piece, and dip in a batter made of two eggs, half a cup
of milk, and about a cup of flour, or enough for thin batter. Fry in
hot lard or dripping to a fine brown; drain well, and serve hot.


POTATO SALAD.

Slice six or eight cold boiled potatoes; put them into a salad-dish,
and season as follows: To two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil add one
teaspoonful of sugar, half as much, each, of made mustard, salt, and
pepper, and nearly as much essence of celery. Rub to a smooth paste,
and whip in, a teaspoonful at a time, five tablespoonfuls of vinegar.
When well mixed, pour upon the salad.


ALMOND CUSTARD, WITH COCOANUT FROST.

2 cups fresh milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in; ½ lb. almonds,
blanched, dried, and pounded; 3 beaten eggs; ½ cup powdered sugar;
rose-water; 1 cocoanut, pared, thrown into cold water, and grated.

Scald the milk; stir in the almond-paste, which should have been mixed
with rose-water, to prevent oiling. Boil one minute, and pour upon the
beaten eggs and sugar. Return to the fire, and stir until the mixture
begins to thicken. Take off, and pour into a bowl. When cold, put on
ice until Sunday. Then turn the custard into a glass dish, and heap
high with the grated cocoanut. Strew powdered sugar over all.


  First Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Clam Soup.
  Ragoût of Duck and Green Peas.      Onions.
  Potatoes, with Cheese Sauce.      Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Blackberries, Huckleberries, and Cream.
  Sliced Cake.
  ——


CLAM SOUP.

50 clams; 1 quart of hot water; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1
tablespoonful of flour; 1 teaspoonful chopped onion, and same of mixed
thyme and parsley; 2 cups of hot milk; salt and cayenne; 2 blades of
mace.

Cut the hard parts off from the clams, putting the soft halves on ice.
Strain off all the liquor, and put with the hard bits over the fire,
with a quart of hot water, the onion, herbs, and mace. Simmer forty
minutes. Heat the milk in another vessel—not forgetting the pinch of
soda; stir in the butter, cut up in the flour, and set in hot water
until the soup is ready. At the end of the forty minutes, strain the
clam broth, leaving out the hard parts. Put in the soft, season with
salt and cayenne, and let them just boil. Pour into the tureen, add
the milk and butter, and set the tureen in hot water five minutes
before serving.


RAGOÛT OF DUCK AND GREEN PEAS.

Cut the meat from the carcasses left since yesterday, making the slices
as neat as you can. If you have not a large cupful of gravy left,
make it by stewing down the bones and stuffing in a quart of water,
cooling, skimming, and seasoning it. Put this in a saucepan with the
pieces of duck, and set where it will get very hot, but not boil.
Cook a quart of tender green peas in boiling water twenty minutes;
drain, and season them with pepper, salt, and butter. Take out the
duck and pile in the centre of a dish; put the peas around it like a
green hedge. Boil up the gravy once when you have stirred in a little
browned flour, wet with cold water, and pour upon the meat.


ONIONS.
