
But the ball grew and grew by handling. There were union-meetings and
violent harangues, much of them truth, too, but badly and unwisely
used. And the result was that the men demanded the old wages, were
peremptorily refused, and struck. The great engine subsided, and a
Sunday stillness reigned. Down at Hull's Iron Works the same proceedings
were going on, but the saloons seemed to profit by it.

Jack hung around the mill for a while, then went down stairs. The
chilliness in the air made him draw his coat together by one button, and
slip his hands into his pockets. He sauntered through several streets,
nodding to one and another, or exchanging a few words. Once again his
advice was asked.

"I think you had better come to work to-morrow," he said. "Don't muddle
your brains with beer or bad whiskey: that will not make the way any
clearer."

"A good enough lad!" was the surly comment, "but why grudge a man a sup
of beer when he can't have wine like the big folks?"

Jack had hardly planned for the enforced idleness. He did not want to go
home and read, he could not call on Sylvie thus early in the morning,
neither did he feel in the humor for argument with any of the men. So he
stopped at the door of a small office, and turned the knob rather
hesitatingly.

"Hillo, Darcy, is that you? Come in, come in! Sullen gray day, isn't it?
Off on a strike, eh?"

Jack laughed,--the sound with no real music in it, the sort of
lip-service merely.

"Come in, old fellow; don't be afraid. I've neither pistol nor bludgeon,
and I'll promise to treat you civilly."

The man's accents were clear and curt, with a certain ring of out-door
freshness,--a capital voice to travel with up mountain-sides and through
forests. The face, too, indicated a kind of joyous strength; for the
blue eyes were merry and baffling, the laughing lips a brilliant
scarlet, the nose neither Grecian nor aquiline, but slightly
retrouss√©; a bronze moustache with long curling ends that were
undeniably red, and hair a little darker, slightly curling as well. A
broad-shouldered man with the deep breathing of intense vitality;
healthy nerves that could enjoy laziness to the full, as well as a brisk
walk across the country.

A glance at the interior showed the place to be a doctor's office. On
one side a long case with glass doors above and drawers underneath,
filled with bottles and books and papers, perhaps in not the most
systematic order; at the farther end a fire in an open-front stove; a
luxurious Turkish lounge covered with russet leather, and a bright wool
blanket thrown carelessly over it; several capacious armchairs; and in
one, with his legs stretched out on another, sat Dr. Philip Maverick,
eight and twenty or thirty years old, perhaps.

"How nice and cosey you are! I really did not know what to do with
myself. Yes, we are all on a strike, I am sorry to say."

"Bad time," and Maverick shook his head. "What's the prospect? Have a
cigar."

"The prospect is that the weakest goes to the wall, of course," answered
Jack. "Maverick, I am dreadfully muddled on this point. I have thought
of it all the week. It is hard on the men. I know the general advice
is to economize more closely, but how can you do it just at the
beginning of winter? One cannot move to a cheaper tenement, fire and
lights cost more, and provision is a little dearer. Low living in winter
does not conduce to a healthy state in the spring. Then, on the other
hand, if they are going to make such sales as they did last month, they
cannot pay the wages, and realize what they consider a fair profit. But
why shouldn't the Lawrences and the Eastmans and many others give up
something, as well?"

Jack turned an anxious face to his listener.

"All you manufacturers have been crazy the last few years," he said,
delicately shaking the ashes from his cigar. "The country was such an
extensive purchaser through the war, that your dreams became Utopian.
Then everybody came home with some money and no clothes, and the people
were large consumers. Now everybody has been clothed, and the stores are
full, and here is a glutted market. Over-production, my dear fellow."

"Then I do believe it would be better to leave off for a while. Still
that would not suit as well. Half a loaf is better than no bread, to a
hungry man. But, after all," said Jack, knitting his brows, "I don't
altogether believe in the cry of over-production. The boys of war times
are men now. They are pushing in everywhere for work. They want food,
shelter, raiment. There are a great many more people in this town than
there were five years ago. Even if we only depended on the natural
increase of population"--

"But, you see, people are forever crowding into cities," interposed Dr.
Maverick.

"I have a fancy they do not come much faster than they are called,"
returned Jack dryly. "See what we have been doing around here. The small
outlying farms have been bought up by speculators, cut up, destroyed for
farming purposes. Their owners with families of children had to go
somewhere. 'Come to the mills and factories,' was shouted in their ears,
and they came. Now they are here, depending on their labor for bread,
and Eastman will bring fifty or a hundred more from Coldbridge; and in
the spring, if there is any difficulty, some more will come. The old
ones cannot go back to their farms if they would. Their fertile gardens
lie cut up into waste squares, their fruit-trees have been despoiled:
they must starve here, or tramp to some other crowded town, and perhaps
starve there. Will your farmer take in half a dozen hands at a moment's
notice? Can they put themselves down in any country place, and go to
work?"

Maverick studied Jack intently, and then gave a low whistle.

"Upon my word, Darcy, you have been going over the subject. Take the
stump. And of course you go against capital?"

"No, I don't," returned Jack shortly. "Only it does seem to me that
there ought to be some place where capital and labor could strike hands.
It appears to me, both have been to blame. We cannot condemn men for
crowding into cities, when there has been a steady call for them. We do
blame them for not laying up a little money against a rainy day; but
many of them have. Look at the cottages that have been sold to
workingmen. Look at the bank savings. To-day, perhaps, as many poor men
could pay their whole indebtedness, according to the ratio, as the rich.
But we fly at the laboring classes, when it is only human nature
cropping out. Your millionnaire puts his money into whatever he thinks
will bring him the greatest return; your poor man puts his capital, his
capacity, health, and strength, where it will earn him the most money."

"Well, I don't see but they are both right enough," said Maverick. "And
unless you are running over into communistic ideas"--

"I am not," was the decisive reply. "Some one much wiser than I said,
ages ago, 'He among you that will not work, let him not eat:' yet," with
a humorous laugh, "if the rule were strictly enforced, there would more
than one go hungry, I'm thinking. The great consolation would be that
the right man would suffer, not the innocent and guiltless."

"I really do not see what you are driving at, Darcy," and the other
studied him curiously.

"Well, I told you in the beginning I was muddled. I don't pretend to see
my way clear, only I think we have just begun the fight. It is as much
of an irrepressible conflict as that other, for which so many brave men
gave their lives. And one point in it no one seems to take note of. We
are proud of the increase of population in our country. Every city,
town, and hamlet boasts of it, and the depopulated places run to slow
decay. We welcome these people; and yet they must eat to live, and the
majority of them must work, or they will have nothing to eat. I think
the most of them labor cheerfully, and my experience is that idleness is
the worst foe of man. But, on the other hand, every year invention so
protects and fortifies capital, that one must do a larger business or
employ fewer men. In five years the condition of labor has greatly
changed at Hope Mills, and in five years more it will change again. This
is the inexorable law of nature, or, I ought to say, growing
intelligence."

"Then I should say we wanted wider markets and a better classification
of labor."

A quick light came into Jack's eyes.

"I think you have hit it, Maverick," he answered. "But what is
everybody's business is nobody's; and we are so apt to forget that the
world does move, and the condition of things changes all the time," and
Jack's eyes dropped thoughtfully.

"See here, Darcy, take Brock's Hall, and talk to the men to-morrow
night," began the doctor eagerly. "They will listen to you because to a
certain extent you are in sympathy with them, one of their number; and
you do seem to have some clear ideas on the subject. No: we'll say
Wednesday night, and I will get out some posters."

Jack laughed. "What shall I tell them? I can't see how to get about the
remedy clearly myself. The trade-unions have not hit it either. When
they say to a man, 'Because I will not work for a certain sum, you shall
not,' they lean on a reed that will surely break, and pierce themselves.
Hunger is stronger than theory. No: I shall have to give the point a
more thorough study before I become a blatant apostle."

Philip Maverick blew out a curling whiff of smoke, and looked at his
visitor through it. Darcy gave him a curious feeling, as if a good deal
of excellent material were running to waste, that if shaped and trained,
and brought up to higher purposes, might be of much good service to the
world. Did he realize it himself? He was twenty-four, and had a good
position as things went; and Dr. Maverick had heard the women of the
house were prudent and thrifty, and had a nice home. Was Darcy bounded
in by conservatism, or afraid of losing? or was he honest when he said
he did not know just what to do? Yet he did not look like the kind of
man to go plodding all his days.

"Darcy, you puzzle me!" he began abruptly. "With that great body of
yours, those strong arms and hands that look as if they could wrest
Nature's secrets from her mighty soul, with that brow, and the resolute
mouth, it seems as if you ought to be in better business than making
cloth: pardon me. You don't use up half your energy. You ought to be
planning a ship-canal across Darien, or tunnelling mountains. You're the
square man; and how upon earth did you ever get fitted so smoothly to a
round hole?"

Jack laughed, and told his story very simply. To him there was neither
romance nor heroism in it, just a plain every-day sort of compulsion.
The tunnelling would have been much more to his mind.

"Go on with the problem," said Dr. Maverick abruptly. "In the next five
years I think we will all have use for our wits. We are going to see
another change in matters, that will require more wisdom than is needed
in mere money-making. See here, I'm interested in the thing. Let us go
out, and hear what the men say about it."

Maverick rose, and put on his great-coat, and lighted another cigar.
Then the two started together.

Maverick had been in the town just six months. He had studied medicine
in Philadelphia and Paris, taken a three-years ramble over Europe, when
a college friend begged him to come to Yerbury, and step into a vacant
place. And he had what he fancied an excellent reason for it.




CHAPTER VIII.


THE men were, for the most part, in sullen earnest. From their narrower
outlook they could not see that capital was on the eve of a great
revulsion; that credit had been stretched to its utmost. They had their
own pet plans, their own indolences and careless habits; and, as was
natural, their own desires were the sweetest to them.

There were labor-meetings and harangues. There was a good deal of talk
about the rights of labor and the tyranny of capital; of the rich mill
and factory owners living in palaces, and the men in hovels; of what
England had done, and of what we surely were coming to,--the rich
growing richer, and the poor poorer. But Jack remarked that of the
speakers there was not one who owned a little plot of ground, or had a
bank-account. Two of them were disaffected English weavers, a third an
Irishman, and the only Yerbury man was a quick-tongued, but shiftless
fellow who had started in business for himself, and failed; a kind of
handy Jack-at-all-trades, and correspondingly good for nothing.

Before the close of the week the men in Watkins's shoe-shop had struck.
There was quite an army of them now. The saloons were filled daily and
nightly. Jack thought, with a little grimness, that they might better
save their money for next week's bread.

Several of the men in his room dropped in to see what he thought; and
the result was, that on the following Monday morning ten of them
presented themselves with a tolerably cheerful demeanor, and accepted
the situation. By Tuesday night every vacant place was filled with
hungry, haggard-looking men from Coldbridge. They were jeered at, and
annoyed in various ways: the Yerbury men were called rats and turncoats
and cowards. The mills were driven. There was another great and
successful sale; in fact, amid the failures and difficulties about, Hope
Mills loomed up like a star of the first magnitude.

In the spring Mrs. Eastman and Miss Lawrence went to Europe; and Fred
joined a party of young men on a pleasure-tour through California. Even
Mrs. Lawrence was persuaded to try Saratoga in the summer. The great
house was muffled, and left in the charge of servants; but greenhouses,
graperies, and all the elegant adjuncts were cared for as assiduously as
ever. David Lawrence used to think it over. Sometimes he was tempted to
sell out his palatial residence, but who was there to buy? Other men had
been caught with just such elephants on their hands. The papers were
full of offers "at an immense sacrifice."

Business grew duller and duller. There was a very great overplus of
every thing, it seemed, in the world. Harvests were so abundant, and
prices so low, they were not worth the moving. Fruit lay and rotted on
the ground: you could get nothing for it. And yet there were wan-eyed
and hungry women and children who would have feasted regally on this
waste. Mothers of families turned and patched and darned, and said there
could be no new garments this winter, while store-shelves groaned under
the accumulation of goods. Men were failing on this side and that; the
Alton & West Line Railway stock came down with a crash, and banks were
shaky. Hope Mills were closed for a month to make some repairs, as
business was rather slow just now.

There was a great quaking in real estate as well. The large
property-owners held on stiffly: times would improve; land was worth
more to-day than ever, because every year there were more people, and
they required more houses, and the thing would somehow right itself.

Jack had taken his two feminines off to a great roomy farmhouse, where
they had a horse at their command. Sylvie and Miss Barry were summering
at the White Mountains. Dr. Maverick found a good deal of sickness among
the poorer classes, low fevers and various troubles, that he knew well
enough came from insufficient diet. But what was to be done? There was
so little work, so much lost time, the inexorable rent, and the
importunate grocer's bill. Up on Hope Terrace the luscious grapes fell
to the ground, and were swept up as so much litter; the fresh, lovely
vegetables passed their prime unheeded, and were tossed in the
garbage-pit.

September came in hot and sultry. Hope Mills started, but many another
place did not open. There was a strange, deathly-quiet undercurrent,
like the awful calm before a thunder-shower. Wages took another tumble,
and now no one had the courage to make much of a fight.

The second week in October there came an appalling crash. Yerbury Bank
closed its doors one morning,--the old bank that had weathered many a
