"I do not know--" 

"If you got frightened, all you'd have to do would be to take your little 
feet in your hand and run down to we; that's all you could do." 

Rotha looked somewhat dismayed. 

"I could ha' told you, it wasn't a very pleasant place you was a comin' 
to," Mrs. Purcell went on. "Sick o' your bargain, aint ye?" 

"What bargain?" 

"I don' know! Which o' these here rooms will you take? You've seen the 
whole now." 

Rotha was very unwilling to make choice at all up there. Yet a thought of 
one of those great echoing drawing rooms was dismissed as soon as it 
came. At last she fixed upon a room near the head of the stairs; a corner 
room, with outlook in two directions; flung open the windows to let the 
air and the light come, in; and locked up her bag in a closet. 

"There aint nobody to meddle with your things," observed Mrs. Purcell, 
noticing this action,--"without it's me; and I've got enough to do down 
stairs. There's nothin' worse than rats in the house." 

"Have you some sheets and towels for me?" said Rotha. "And can you give 
me some water by and by?" 

"I've got no sheets and towels but them as us uses," replied Mrs. 
Purcell. "Mrs Busby haint said nothin' about no sheets and towels. Those 
us has belongs to we. They aint like what rich folks has." 

"I have brought none with me, of course. Mrs. Busby will pay you for the 
use of them, I have no doubt." 

"Mrs. Busby don't pay for nothin'," said the woman. 

"Will you bring me some water?" 

"I'll give you a pail, and you can fetch some for your own self. I can't 
go up and down them stairs. It gives me a pain in my back. I'll let you 
have some o' us's sheets, if you like." 

"If you please," said Rotha. 

"But I can't come up with 'em. I'd break in two if I went up and down 
there a few times. I'll let you have 'em whenever you like to come after 
'em." 

And therewith Mrs. Purcell vanished, and her feet could be heard 
descending the long stair. I think in all her life Rotha had never felt 
much more desolate than she felt just then. She let herself drop on a 
chair and buried her face in her hands. Things were worse, a hundred 
fold, than ever she could have imagined them. She was of rather a nervous 
temperament; and the idea of being lodged up there at the top of that 
great, empty, echoing house, with nobody within call, and neither help 
nor sympathy to be had if she wanted either, absolutely appalled her. 
True, no danger was to be apprehended; not real danger; but that 
consideration did not quiet fancy nor banish fear; and if fear possessed 
her, what sort of consolation was it that there was no cause? The fear 
was there, all the same; and Rotha thought of the yet distant shades of 
night with absolute terror. After giving way to this feeling for a little 
while, she began to fight against it. She raised her head from her hands, 
and went and sat down by the open window. Soft, sweet, balmy air was 
coming in gently, changing the inner condition of the room by degrees; 
Rotha put her head half out, to get it unmixed. It was May, May in the 
country; and the air was bringing May tokens with it, of unseen 
sweetness. There were lilies of the valley blooming somewhere, and 
daffodils; and there was the smell of box, and spice from the fir trees, 
and fragrance from the young leaf of oaks and maples and birches and 
beeches. There was a wild scent from not distant woods, given out from 
mosses and wild flowers and turf, and the freshness of the upturned soil 
from ploughed fields. It was May, and May whispering that June was near. 
The whisper was so unspeakably sweet that it stole into Rotha's heart and 
breathed upon its disturbance, almost breathing it away. For June means 
life and love and happiness. 

   "Everything is happy now; 
   Everything is upward striving; 
   'Tis as easy now for the heart to be true, 
   As for grass to be green or skies to be blue; 
   'Tis the natural way of living!" 


June was coming, and May was here; more placid and more pensive, but 
hardly less fair; that is, in her good moods; and Rotha insensibly grew 
comforted. This delight would remain, whatever she had or had not 
within the house; there was all out of doors, and the Spring! and Rotha's 
heart made a great bound to meet it. She could live out of doors a great 
deal; and in the house--well, she would make the best of things. 

She drew in her head to take a survey. Yes, it was a snug room enough, 
once in nice order; and the first thing to do, she decided, was to put it 
in nice order. She must do it herself. O for one of those calicos, lying 
at present cut and basted in her trunk. She must make them up as fast as 
possible. With the feeling of a good deal of business on hand, Rotha's 
spirits rose. She went down to the kitchen again, and begged the loan of 
a big apron. Mrs. Purcell silently gave it. Then Rotha desired brushes 
and a broom and dusters, and soap and water and towels. One after another 
Mrs. Purcell placed these articles, such as she had, at her disposal. 

"My trunk is in the road by the front steps," she remarked. "Can you get 
it taken up for me?" 

"A trunk?" said Mrs. Purcell, knitting her brows again into the scowl 
which had greeted Rotha at the first. A very black scowl the latter 
thought it. 

"Yes, my trunk. It's a little one. Not much for anybody to carry." 

"Whatever did you want of a trunk?" 

"Why, to hold my things," said Rotha quietly. 

"Are you goin' to stay all summer?" 

"I hope not; but I do not know how long. My aunt is going on a journey; I 
must stay till she comes back." 

"Why didn't she let you go along?" 

"I suppose it was not convenient." 

A grunt from Mrs. Purcell. "Rich folks only thinks what's convenient for 
their own selves!" 

"But she will pay you for your trouble." 

"She'll pay Mr. Purcell, if she pays anybody. It don't come into my 
pocket, and the trouble don't go into his'n." 

"I shall not be much trouble." 

"Where is you goin' to eat? You won't want to eat along o' we?" 

No, certainly, that was what Rotha did not want. She made no reply. 

"Mis' Busby had ought to send folks to take care o' her company, when she 
sends company. I haint got no time. And us hasn't got no place. There's 
no place but us's kitchen--will you like to eat here? I can't go and tote 
things up to one o' them big parlours." 

"Do the best you can for me," said Rotha. "I will try and be content." 
And staying no further parley, which she felt just then unable to bear, 
she gathered together her brushes and dusters and climbed up the long 
stairs again. But it was sweet when she got to her room under the roof. 
The May air had filled the room by this time; the May sunshine was 
streaming in; the scents and sounds of the spring were all around; and 
they brought with them inevitably a little bit of hope and cheer into 
Rotha's heart. Without stopping to let herself think, she set about 
putting the place in order; brushed and dusted everything; washed up the 
furniture of the washstand; made up the bed, and hung towels on the rack. 
Then she drew an old easy chair to a convenient place by one of the 
windows; put a small table before it; got out and arranged in order her 
writing materials, her Bible and Scripture Treasury; put her bonnet and 
wrappings away in a closet; and at last sat down to consider the 
situation. 

She had got a corner of comfort up there, private to herself. The room 
was large and bright; one window looked out into the top of a great tulip 
tree, the other commanded a bit of meadow near the house, and through the 
branches and over the summits of firs and larches near at hand and apple 
trees further off, looked along a distant stretch of level country. No 
extended view, and nothing remarkable; but sweet, peaceful nature, green 
turf, and leafy tree growths; with the smell of fresh vegetation and the 
spiciness of the resiny evergreens, and the delicious song and chipper 
and warble of insects and birds. It all breathed a breath of content into 
Rotha's heart. But then, she was up here alone at the top of the house; 
there was all that wilderness of empty rooms between her and the rest of 
the social world; and at the end of it, what? Mrs. Purcell and her 
kitchen; and doubtless, Mr. Purcell. And what was Rotha to do, in the 
midst of such surroundings? The girl grew almost desperate by the time 
she had followed this train of thought a little way. It seemed to her 
that her pleasant room was a prison and Mr. and Mrs. Purcell her jailers; 
and her term of confinement one of unknown duration. If she had only a 
little money, then she would not be so utterly helpless and dependent; 
even money to buy Mrs. Purcell's civility and good-will; or if she had a 
little more than that, she might get away. Without any money, she was 
simply a prisoner, and at the mercy of her jailers. O what had become of 
her friends! Where was Mr. Southwode, and how could he have forgotten 
her? and how was it that Mrs. Mowbray had been taken from her just now, 
just at this point when she was needed so dreadfully? Rotha could have 
made all right with a few minutes' talk to Mrs. Mowbray; to write and 
state her grievances, she justly felt, was a different thing, not so easy 
nor so manifestly proper. She did not like to do what would be in effect 
asking Mrs. Mowbray to send for her and keep her during her aunt's 
absence. No, it was impossible to do that. Rotha could not Better bear 
anything. But then,--here she was with no help! 

It all ended in some bitter weeping. Rotha was too young yet not to find 
tears a relief. She cried herself tired; and then found she was very much 
in need of sleep. She gave herself up to it, and to forgetfulness. 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


THE PURCELLS. 


Rotha's sleep had not lasted two hours when it was interrupted. There 
came a pounding at her door. She jumped up and unlocked it. 

"Joseph said, he guessed you'd want some dinner. I told him, I didn't 
know as you'd care for the victuals us has; but it's ready, if you like 
to come and try." 

The extreme rudeness of the woman acted by way of a counter irritant on 
Rotha, and gave her self-command and composure. She answered civilly; 
waited to put her hair and dress in order, wisely resolving to lose no 
means of influence and self-assertion that were within her reach; and 
went down. 

A small table was set in the kitchen, coarsely but neatly, as Rotha saw 
at a glance. It was set for three; and the third at the table was the 
hitherto unseen Mr. Purcell. He was a white man; not so good-looking as 
his wife, but with a certain aspect of sense and shrewdness that was at 
least not unkindly. He nodded, did not trouble himself to rise as Rotha 
came in; indeed he was busily occupied in supplying himself with such 
strength and refreshment as viands can give; and to judge by his manner 
he needed a great deal of such strength and was in a hurry to get it. He 
nodded, and indicated with a second nod the place at table which Rotha 
was expected to take. 

"It's an unexpected pleasure," he said. "Prissy and me doesn't often have 
company. Hope you left Mis' Busby well?" 

Rotha had an instant's hesitation, whether she should accept the place in 
the household thus offered her, or claim a different one. It was an 
instant only; her sense and her sense of self-respect equally counselled 
her not to try for what she could not accomplish; and she quietly took 
the indicated seat, and answered that Mrs. Busby was well. 

"Now, what'll you eat?" Mr. Purcell went on. "We're plain folks--plainer 
'n you're accustomed to, I guess; and we eat what we've got; sometimes 
it's one thing and sometimes it's another. Prissy, she gen'lly fixes it 
up somehow so's it'll do, for me, anyhow; but I don' know how it'll be 
with you. Now to-day, you see, we've got pork and greens; it's sweet 
pork, for I fed it myself and I know all about it; and the greens is 
first-rate. I don' know what they be; Prissy picked 'em; but now, will 
you try 'em? If you're hungry, they'll go pretty good."

"They's dandelions--" said Mrs. Purcell. 

Pork and dandelions! Rotha was at first dumb with a sort of perplexed 
dismay; then she reflected, that to carry out her propitiating policy it 
would be best not to shew either scorn or disgust. She accepted some of 
the greens and the pork; found the potatoes good, and the bread of 
capital quality, and the butter sweet; and next made the discovery that 
Mr. Purcell had not overrated his wife's abilities in the cooking line; 
the dinner was really, of its kind, excellent. She eat bread and butter, 
then conscious that two pair of eyes were covertly watching her, nibbled 
at her greens and pork; found them very passable, and ended by making a 
good meal. 

"You was never in these parts before?" Mr. Purcell asked meanwhile. 

"No," said Rotha. "Never." 

"Mis' Busby comin' along, some o' these days?" 

"No, I think not. I have not heard anything about her coming here." 

"'Spect she likes grand doings. Does she live very fine, down to New 
York?" 

"How do you mean?" 

"All the folks does, in the City o' Pride," remarked Mrs. Purcell. 

"Do Mis' Busby?" persisted her husband. "Be they all highflyers, to her 
house?" 

"I do not know what you mean by 'highflyers.'" 

"Folks that wears heels to their shoes," put in Mrs. Purcell. "They can't 
set foot to the ground, like common folks. And they puts their hair up in 
a bunch on the top." 

"Anybody can do that," said Mr. Purcell, sticking his knife in the butter 
to detach a portion of it. 

"Anybody can't, Joe! that's where you're out. It takes one o' them 
highflyers. And then they thinks, when their heels and their heads is all 
right, they've got up above the rest of we." 

"You can put your hair any way you've a mind to," returned her husband. 
"There can't none of  'em get ahead o' you there." 

Both parties glanced at Rotha. Her long hair was twisted up in a loose 
knot on the top of her head; very becoming and very graceful; for without 
being in the least disorderly it was careless, and without being in the 
least complicated or artificial it was inimitable, by one not initiated. 
Husband and wife looked at her, looked at each other, and laughed. 

"Mis' Busby writ me about you," said Joe, slightly changing the subject. 
"She said, you was one o' her family." 

"She is my aunt." 

