quarrelling politely over nothing. She devoutly wished that Diana would
go away, instead of spoiling her afternoon. But Diana leaned back
against the rock and crossed her feet and prepared to be comfortable.
She was evidently not going. Batiscombe stood motionless, with the easy
stolidity of a very strong man who does not wish to move, and Leonora
could see his bold profile against the grey haze of the sky. There was a
short silence after his last remark, during which Leonora felt uneasy:
something was in the atmosphere that made her anxious, and she did not
like the way Diana looked at Batiscombe, with an air of absolute
superiority, as though she could do anything she pleased with him.

"How dreadfully solemn we are," said Leonora, rather awkwardly. Julius
turned quickly with a laugh.

"Let us be gay," he said. "I hate solemnity, unless there is enough of
it to make me laugh. I remember being at a ball once that produced that
effect."

"Allons!" said Diana, "give us some of your reminiscences, Monsieur
Batiscombe. They ought to be interesting."

"Not so much as you think. But the ball was very funny. It was in
Guatemala, three years ago. I was invited to a huge thing by the
president--an entirely new president, too, who had just cut the throats
of the old president and of all his relations. I believe there was some
sort of revolution at the time, and when it was over the victorious
individual gave a ball. The refreshments were simple--brandy for the men
and rosolio for the ladies; there was no compromise in the shape of a
biscuit or a glass of water."

Leonora laughed, being willing to laugh at anything so as to encourage
Julius to talk.

"En vérité, that was very amusing," remarked Diana coldly. Batiscombe
took no notice.

"The women sat round the room in a double row," he continued, "like a
court ball, excepting that they all smoked large cigars, and
industriously passed the liqueur. The men stood behind and gave their
undivided attention to the brandy. Not a soul spoke, and they all
scowled fiercely at the brandy, the rosolio, and each other. A ghastly
and tuneless quartette of instruments doled out a melancholy dirge,
slower than anything you ever heard at a funeral; and now and then some
enterprising and funereal man led out a less enterprising but equally
melancholy female in a strange step, like the tormented ghost of a waltz
in chains. It was so hideous that I went out and laughed till I almost
had a fit. I have never thought anything seemed very solemn since
then--it destroyed the proportion in my brain. A pauper's burial on a
rainy day in London is a wildly gay entertainment compared with that
ball."

Leonora laughed, and even Diana smiled; whereupon Julius was satisfied,
and relapsed into silence. But Leonora wanted conversation.

"What in the world took you to Guatemala, Mr. Batiscombe?" she asked.

"That is a question which I cannot answer, Marchesa," he replied. "I
believe I went there for some reason or other--chiefly because I could
go for nothing, and wanted to see something new."

"Can you always go to Guatemala for nothing?" asked Leonora. "It must be
very amusing."

"A steamer company offered me a free passage to any port in their
service," said Batiscombe; "and as the next ship went to Guatemala, I
sailed with her. It happened to be first on the list."

"What a queer idea!" exclaimed Leonora.

"You are too modest, Mr. Batiscombe," said Diana. "You ought to tell the
whole story--it is very interesting." Her voice was less cold than when
she had spoken last.

"Oh, do tell the story!" cried Leonora. "I adore autobiographies!"

"Mon Dieu!" said Julius, "there is very little to tell. I did a service
to a ship belonging to the company, and in acknowledgment they presented
me with a piece of plate and the free passage in question. Voilà tout!
madame is too good when she says it was interesting."

"If Monsieur Batiscombe will not be so obliging as to relate the
experience, I will," said Diana. "He shall correct me if I make a
mistake."

Batiscombe looked annoyed. He was not fond of telling his own
adventures, and he hated to hear them told by other people. He could not
imagine why Diana wanted to hear the story. He was irritated already,
and her conduct seemed more and more inexplicable. Leonora looked at him
expectantly.

Who can understand a woman? It may be that Diana, who was really fond of
him in a strange fashion, was sorry for the position she had taken that
afternoon, and was willing to atone by giving him the credit before
Leonora of some fine action he had done.

"It was three years ago or more, in the winter," began Diana. "Monsieur
Batiscombe was travelling in a ship on the coast of America. There were
a hundred passengers on board, or more, and a crew of thirty-five. Is
that exact?"

Julius bent his head and turned away.

"Eh bien, there was a great storm--such as there are in the ocean. It is
horrible, you may imagine. The ship was driven on the rocks, a long
distance from the shore. A reef, you call it, n'est-ce-pas?"

"Yes," said Batiscombe. "Fifty or sixty yards from the shore."

"Good. What do they do? Six brave sailors volunteer to throw themselves
into the sea in a chaloupe--a miserable boat"--

"And monsieur was one of the volunteers"--exclaimed Leonora,
enthusiastically.

"Not at all, my dear friend. The boat overturns; the sailors are
immediately drowned; every one is in consternation. Then Monsieur
Batiscombe arrives; he says he will save everybody; he ties a thin
line--a mere string--to his waist; he throws himself to the sea. The
passengers scream as they cling to the ropes and the side, while the
vessel is beaten horribly on the reef. He struggles in the waves,
swimming; he is thrown down again and again in the breakers; he rises
and rushes on to the shore. Then he pulls the string, and after the
string a rope. A sailor ventures down and he also reaches the land. They
fasten the rope, and every one is saved--passengers, crew, captain, tout
le monde. Ah, Batiscombe, why are you not always doing such
things,--you, who can do them so well?"

Madame de Charleroi's grey eyes were wide and bright, and a very faint
colour rose to her cheeks as she told the story. The calm, regal woman
took a genuine delight in great actions, and as she turned to Julius at
the end there was a ring of real sympathy and friendship and regret in
her voice that it gave Leonora a strange sensation to hear.

"It was magnificently brave!" exclaimed Leonora in English, and she
looked at Julius as though she admired him with all her heart and soul.

She had always had a feeling that he had probably made himself
remarkable in such ways, but he always had told her that his life had
been uneventful. To think that this calm, smooth, well-dressed, fine
gentleman should have saved a whole shipload of lives by sheer strength
and courage! Ah, he was a man, indeed!

But Batiscombe never moved. He stood looking seaward, his eyelids half
closed, and a thoughtful look on his brown face. Indeed, he was thinking
deeply, but not so much of the old story Diana had been telling as of
herself. The strange appeal in her last words had touched the good chord
in his wayward heart, and he was thinking how fair his life might have
been with her,--and how dark it had been without her. And the old true
love rose up for one moment, hiding Leonora and the rest, and all the
intervening years, and sending hot words to his ready lips. He turned in
the act to speak, forgetting where he was,--then checked himself. Both
Leonora and Diana had seen that he was going to say something, for they
were watching him. He hesitated.

"I ought to thank you, madame," he said to Diana, "for gilding my
adventure so richly. But as for the thing itself, and the doing of such
things, the opportunity seldom offers, and the faculty for doing them is
the result of an excellent digestion and quiet nerves. Meanwhile it is
grown cooler, and the boats are below. Shall we go down, and sail a
little before dinner?"

The two ladies consented readily enough, and they all descended to the
landing and got into one of the boats and pushed away.

"I shall have quite a new sensation in future when I sail with you, Mr.
Batiscombe," said Leonora. "It would be impossible to be drowned with
you on board."

But Diana was pale again, and settled herself among the cushions in
silence.

Far up above, Marcantonio was interviewing the coachman on the terrace.
He looked down and saw the boat shoot out with the three members of his
household. He rubbed his hands smoothly together.

"Ha," he said to himself, "it is superb! What good friends they are all
growing to be! En vérité, Batiscombe is a most amiable man, full of
tact."




CHAPTER XIII.


Late that evening Julius was sitting in a corner of the broad terrace
over the sea. The clouds had cleared away before the light easterly
breeze that springs up at night, and the stars shone brightly. Down in
the west the young moon had set, and the air was fresh and cool after
the long, hot day. Julius had drawn an arm-chair away from the house and
was smoking solemnly, in enjoyment of the night. He found that he had
much to think of. The rest of the household had gone to bed, or at all
events had retired to their rooms.

It had been a day of emotions with him, and that was unusual, to begin
with. His feeling for Leonora was growing to great proportions. He knew
that very well; and in spite of the momentary burst of passion, which,
if he had been alone with Madame de Charleroi, would have found
expression in words which he would have regretted and she would have
resented, he now felt that he was irritated against her and could not
forgive her inopportune interruption. All his opposition was roused; and
as if in despite of his old love he dwelt on the thoughts of the
present, and delighted in recalling the details of the fair Marchesa's
conversation, the quickly changing expression of her face, the tones of
her voice, the grace of her movements. She was so strong and living that
he felt his whole being permeated with the atmosphere and essence of her
life.

As he leaned back in his chair, he experienced a sensation by no means
new to him, of intense delight in existence, and he breathed in the soft
fresh air, and tasted that it was the breath of love.

A small, short step sounded on the tiles of the terrace, coming toward
his corner. He looked round quickly, and was aware of the tall and
graceful figure of Diana de Charleroi, muffled in something dark, but
unmistakable in its outline and stately presence. In a moment she was
beside him; he rose and threw away his cigarette, somewhat astonished.

"Get another chair," said she, in a low voice. "It is pleasant here."

He obeyed quickly and noiselessly, as he did everything. She had taken
his chair, and he sat down beside her, waiting for her to speak.

"I thought I should find you here, Julius," she said, calling him by his
Christian name without the smallest hesitation. "I wanted to speak to
you alone."

"You have the faculty of finding me," said Julius with a short, low
laugh.

"Since when is it so disagreeable to you?" asked Diana.

Julius was silent, for there was nothing he could say. He wished he had
said nothing at first,--it would have been much better. Diana
continued.

"You and I know each other well enough to talk freely," she said. "We
need not beat about the bush and say pretty things to each other, and I
forgive you for being rude, because I know you very well, and am willing
to sacrifice something. But I will not forgive you again if you are rude
in public. There are certain things one does not permit one's self, when
one is a gentleman."

"You are very good, Diana," said Batiscombe, humbly. "I am very sorry. I
lost my temper."

"Naturally," she answered coolly. "You always lose your temper,--you
always did,--and yet you fancy continually that you hide it. Let that
go. I have forgiven you for this time, because I am the best friend you
have."

"The only one," said Julius.

"Perhaps. You are well hated, I can tell you. Then treat me as a friend
in future, if you please, and not as an inquisitive acquaintance who
makes a point of annoying you for her own ends."

She spoke calmly, in a quiet, determined voice, without the slightest
hesitation or affectation. Julius bent his head.

"I always mean to," he said.

"Now listen to me," she continued. "I came upon you this afternoon by
pure accident. I do not owe you any apology for that, and you know very
well that I am the last person in the world to do things in that way, by
stealth. That is the reason I come to you here, at night, to tell you my
mind frankly."

"Yes," said Batiscombe, in a muffled voice, "I know."

"I came upon you by accident," said she, "and I made a discovery. You
pass your afternoons in the society of my sister-in-law, and you lose
your temper with me when I find you together,--though you always wish me
to understand that you prefer my society to that of any woman in the
world."

"Ah--how you express it!" exclaimed Julius.

"I express it as plainly as I can. I cannot help it if you do not like
it. It is all true. And the inference is perfectly clear. Do you see?"

"No," said Batiscombe.

"You do not? Very well, I will draw it for you."

She leaned back in the chair and looked at him; her eyes were accustomed
by this time to the gloom, and she could see him quite clearly in the
starlight. He moved uneasily.

"Pray go on," he said.

"The inference is this. You are making love to Leonora Carantoni."

"You shall not say that," said Batiscombe, between his teeth, still
looking fiercely at her.

"You might forbid a man to say it," answered Diana, in low, calm tones.
"And for anything I care you may forbid any other woman in the world to
say it. But you cannot forbid me. I have the right."

