"Do I strike you in that way?"

"Yes; but of course you cannot help it, it is probably a part of your
nature--this coldness," said the girl, excusingly. "It was that which
made me say that you could never have felt the feeling I was trying to
describe, you know--intoxication; it needs a certain sort of
temperament; I have it, but you haven't."

"I see you are an observer," said her companion, inwardly smiling, but
preserving a grave face.

"Yes," responded Garda, serenely, "I observe a great deal; it helps to
pass the time."

"You have opportunities for exercising the talent?"

"Plenty."

"The four persons about here?"

Garda's laugh rippled forth again. "My poor four--how you make sport of
them! But I should have said five, because there is the crane, and he is
the wisest of all; he is wiser than any one I know, and more systematic,
he is more systematic even than you are, which is saying a great deal.
His name is Carlos Mateo, and you must be careful not to laugh at him
when he dances, for a laugh hurts his feelings dreadfully. His feelings
are very deep; you might not think so from a first glance, but that will
be because you have not looked deep into his eyes--taken him round the
neck and peered in. He has a great deal of expression; you have none at
all--what has become of it? Did you never have any, or have you worn it
all out? Perhaps you keep it for great occasions. But there will be no
great occasions here."

"No, great occasions are at the North, where they are engaged in
climbing mountains, walking on frozen lakes, wearing diamonds, and
attending the halls of Congress," Winthrop answered.

Dr. Kirby was waiting for them on the bank, he had not stained his
brightly polished little boots with the damp earth of the lower level.
He had surveyed with inward disfavor the thick-soled walking shoes of
the northerner, and the rough material of his gray clothes. The
northerner's gloves were carelessly rolled together in his pocket, but
the Doctor's old pair were on.

Garda led the way westward along the bank. After they had proceeded some
distance, in single file owing to the narrowness of the path, she
suddenly left her place, and, passing the Doctor, took Winthrop's hand
in hers. "Close your eyes," she commanded; "I am going to lead you to a
heavenly wall."

Winthrop obeyed; but retarded his steps.

"How slow you are!" she said, giving his hand a little pull.

"It's a wild country for a blind man," Winthrop answered, continuing to
advance with caution. "Please take both hands."

"Let me lead him, Garda," said the Doctor, preferring to join in this
child's play rather than have her continue it alone.

But the child's play was over, the bend in the path had been but a short
one, and they were now before her "heavenly wall." Winthrop, upon being
told to open his eyes--he had perhaps kept them closed longer than was
absolutely necessary--found himself standing before a wall of verdure,
fifteen feet high, composed of a mass of shining little leaves set
closely together in an almost even expanse; this lustrous green was
spangled with white flowers widely open, the five petals laid flatly
back like a star.

"The Cherokee rose," said Dr. Kirby. He had been greatly vexed by
Garda's freak of taking Winthrop's hands and pulling him along, and as
he added, explanatorily, "the wild white rose of the South," he glanced
at him to see how he, as a northerner and stranger, regarded it.

But the stranger and northerner was gazing at the southern flowers with
an interest which did not appear to depend at all upon the southern girl
who had brought him thither.

Garda remained but a moment; while they were looking at the roses she
walked slowly on, following her heavenly wall.

"She is but a child," said the Doctor, looking after her. "We have
perhaps kept her one too long."

"On the contrary, that is her charm," replied Winthrop. "How old is
she?"

"Barely sixteen. If her father had lived, it would perhaps have been
better for her; she would have had in that case, probably, more
seriousness--a little more. Mistress Thorne's ideas concerning the
training of children are admirable, most admirable; but they presuppose
a certain kind of child, and Garda wasn't that kind at all; I may say,
indeed, the contrary. Mistress Thorne has therefore found herself at
fault now and then, her precedents have failed her; she has been met by
perplexities, sometimes I have even thought her submerged in them and
floundering--if I may use such an expression of the attitude of a
cultured lady. The truth is, her perceptions have been to blame."

"Yet I have thought her perceptions unusually keen," said Winthrop.

"So they are, so they are; but they all advance between certain lines,
they are narrow. Understand me, however--I would not have them wider; I
was not wishing that, I was only wishing that poor Edgar, the father,
could have lived ten years longer. Too wide a perception, sir, in a
woman, a perception of things in general--general views in short--I
regard as an open door to immorality; women so endowed are sure to go
wrong--as witness Aspasia. It was a beautiful provision of nature that
made the feminine perceptions, as a general rule, so limited, so
confined to details, to the opinions and beliefs of their own families
and neighborhoods; in this restricted view lies all their safety."

"And ours?" suggested Winthrop.

"Ah, you belong to the new school of thought, I perceive," observed the
Doctor, stroking his smoothly shaven chin with his plump gloved hand.

The two men had begun to walk onward again, following their guide who
was now at the end of the rose wall. Here she disappeared; when they
reached the spot they found that she had taken a path which turned
northward along a little ridge--a path bordered on each side by stiff
Spanish-bayonets.

"Garda's education, however, has been, on the whole, good," said the
Doctor, as they too turned into this aisle. "Mistress Thorne, who was
herself an instructress of youth before her marriage, has been her
teacher in English branches; Spanish, of course, she learned from the
Old Madam; my sister Pamela (whom I had the great misfortune to lose a
little over a year ago) gave her lessons in embroidery, general
deportment, and the rudiments of French. As regards any knowledge of the
world, however, the child has lived in complete ignorance; we have
thought it better so, while things remain as they are. My own advice has
decidedly been that until she could enter the right society, the society
of the city of Charleston, for instance--it was better that she should
see none at all; she has therefore lived, and still continues to live,
the life, as I may well call it, of a novice or nun."

"The young gentleman who has just joined her is then, possibly, a monk?"
observed Winthrop.

The Doctor was near-sighted, and not at all fond of his spectacles; with
his bright eyes and quickly turning glance, it humiliated him to be
obliged to take out and put on these cumbrous aids to vision. On this
occasion, however, he did it with more alacrity than was usual with him.
"Ah," he said, when he had made out the two figures in front, "it is
only young Torres, a boy from the next plantation."

"A well-grown boy," commented the northerner.

"A mere stripling--a mere stripling of nineteen. He has but lately come
out from Spain (a Cuban by birth, but was sent over there to be
educated), and he cannot speak one word of English, sir--not one word."

"I believe Miss Thorne speaks Spanish, doesn't she?" remarked Winthrop.




CHAPTER II.


The Doctor admitted that Garda could converse in Spanish. He suggested
that they should walk on and join her; joining her, of course, meant
joining Torres. The Cuban proved to be a dark-skinned youth, with dull
black eyes, a thin face, and black hair, closely cut, that stood up in
straight thickness all over his head, defying parting. He was tall,
gaunt, with a great want of breadth in the long expanse of his person;
he was deliberate in all his motions; ungainly. Yet he could not have
been described as insignificant exactly; a certain deep reticent
consciousness of his own importance, which was visible in every one of
his slow, stiff movements, in every glance of his dull, reserved eyes,
saved him from that. He bowed profoundly when introduced to the
northerner, but said nothing. He did not speak after the others came up.
When Garda addressed him, he contented himself with another bow.

They all walked on together, and after some minutes the little ridge,
winding with its sentinel bayonets across old fields, brought them to
the main avenue of the place. This old road, broad as it was, was
completely overarched by the great live-oaks which bordered it on each
side; the boughs rose high in the air, met, interlaced, and passed on,
each stretching completely over the centre of the roadway and curving
downward on the opposite side; looking east and looking west was like
looking through a Gothic aisle, vaulted in gray-green. The little party
entered this avenue; Garda, after a few moments, again separated herself
from Winthrop and Dr. Kirby, and walked on in advance with Torres. The
Doctor looked after them, discomfited.

"We should have spoken Spanish," said Winthrop, smiling.

"I do not know a word of the language!" declared the Doctor, with
something of the exasperation of fatigue in his voice.

For the Doctor was not in the habit of walking, and he did not like to
walk; the plump convexes of his comfortable person formed, indeed,
rather too heavy a weight for his small feet in their little boots. But
he was far too devoted a family friend to be turned back from obvious
duty by the mere trifle of physical fatigue; he therefore waved his hand
towards the live-oaks, and (keeping one eye well upon Garda and her
companion in front) resumed with grace his descriptive discourse. "These
majestic old trees, Mr. Winthrop, were set out to adorn the main avenue
of the place, leading from the river landing up to the mansion-house.
You will find a few of these old avenues in this neighborhood; but far
finer ones--the finest in the world--at the old places on the Ashley
and Cooper rivers, near the city of Charleston."

"But there are no trees near the house," said Winthrop; "I noticed that
particularly."

"The road goes to the door, the trees stop at the edge of the open
space; that space was left, as you have probably divined, as a
protection against surprises by Indians."

The younger man laughed. "I confess I was thinking more of the
traditional Spanish jealousy than of Indians. You are right, of course;
I must not allow my fancies, which are, after all, rather operatic in
their origin, to lead me astray down here."

"You will find, I think, very little that is operatic among us," said
Kirby, a trace of sombreness making itself felt for the first time
through the courteous optimism of his tone. Truly there had been little
that was operatic in their life at the South for some years past.

"I don't know," said Winthrop. "Isn't that rather an operatic personage
who has just stopped Miss Thorne? The Tenor himself, I should say."

The spectacles were safely in their case, and back in the Doctor's
pocket. But he now made haste to take them out a second time, he knew of
no Tenors in Gracias. When he had adjusted them, "It's only Manuel
Ruiz," he said, with both relief and vexation in his tone. He was
relieved that it was only Manuel, but vexed that he should have been
led, even for a moment, to suppose that it might be some one else, some
one who was objectionable (as though objectionable persons could
penetrate into their society!); and he asked himself inwardly what the
deuce this northerner meant by calling their arrangement of their land
"operatic," and their young gentlemen "Tenors." "Manuel Ruiz is the son
of an old friend of ours; their place is on Patricio, opposite," he
said, frigidly. "The Ruiz family were almost as well known here in the
old Spanish days as the Dueros."

He had no time for more, for, as Garda had stopped, they now came up
with the little party in front.

Manuel Ruiz was older than Torres. Manuel was twenty-one. He was a tall,
graceful youth, with a mobile face, eloquent dark eyes, and a manner
adorned with much gesture and animation. He undoubtedly cherished an
excellent opinion of Manuel Ruiz; but undoubtedly also there was good
ground for that opinion, Manuel Ruiz being a remarkably handsome young
man. That Winthrop should have called him operatic was perhaps
inevitable. He wore a short black cloak, an end of which was tossed over
one shoulder after the approved manner of the operatic young gentleman
when about to begin, under the balcony of his lady-love, a serenade; on
his head was a picturesque sombrero, and he carried, or rather
flourished, a slender cane, which might have been a rapier; these
properties, together with his meridional eyes, his gestures, and the
slight tendency to attitude visible in his graceful movements, made him
much like the ideal young Tenor of the Italian stage, as he comes down
to the foot-lights to sing in deepest confidence, to the sympathetic
audience, of his loves and his woes.

That the ideal young Tenor has often encountered wide-spreading
admiration, no one would venture to deny. Still, there have been, now
and then, those among his audiences who have not altogether shared this
feeling. They have generally been men; not infrequently they have been
men of a somewhat lighter complexion, with visual orbs paler, perhaps,
and not so expressive; a grace in attitude less evident. Evert Winthrop
cared nothing for Tenors, real or imitative. But he was a man made with
more pretensions to strength than to sinuousness; he had no gestures;
his complexion, where not bronzed by exposure, was fair; his eyes were
light. They were gray eyes, with, for the most part, a calm expression.
But they easily became keen, and they could, upon occasion, become
stern. He opposed a short, thick, brown beard to Manuel's pointed
mustache, and thick, straight hair, closely cut, of the true American
brown, to the little luxuriant rings, blue-black in color, short also,
but curling in spite of shortness, which the breeze stirred slightly on
the head of the handsome young Floridian as he stood, sombrero in hand,
beside Garda Thorne.

Manuel was not another Torres; he was an American, and spoke English
perfectly. Upon this occasion, after his introduction, he offered to
the northerner with courtesy several well-turned sentences as the
beginning of an acquaintance, and then they all walked on together up
the old road.

"I believe we have now finished our little tour, Miss Garda, have we
not?" said the Doctor, in a cheerful voice. Though very tired, he was
walking onward with his usual trim step, his toes well turned out, his
shoulders thrown back, his head erect, but having no perception of the
fact (plump men never have) that, as seen from behind, his round person
appeared to be projected forward into space as he walked with something
of an overweight in front, and his little legs and feet to have been set
on rather too far back to balance this weight properly, so that there
seemed to be always some slight danger of an overthrow.

"Oh no," answered Garda; "I have promised to take Mr. Winthrop over the
entire place, and we have still the orange walk, the rose garden, the
edge of the swamp, the wild cattle, and the crane."

"I doubt whether Mr. Wintup will find much to amuse him in the wild
cattle," remarked Manuel, laughing.

It was certainly a slight offence: Manuel had never been north, and did
