to be mistress and keep Jane Bassett in her place, though she did
know three languages and sketched much better than Miss Amory.

Jenny, as we who are going to be her bosom friends will call her,
nodded cheerfully, and looked about for the stairway; for, never
having been on a steamer before, she was rather bewildered.

“I’ll show you the way, my dear. I always get my things settled at
once, as one never knows when one may have to turn in. The Professor
will go with you, Ethel; it is not proper for you to roam about
alone;” and with that hint Mrs. Homer led the way below, privately
wondering how these young persons were going to get on together.

Jane swallowed her “heimweh” in silence, and bestirred herself so
well that soon the stateroom looked very cosy with the wrappers laid
ready, the hanging bags tacked up, and all made ship-shape for the
ten days’ trip.

“But where are YOUR comforts? You have given Ethel all the room, the
lower berth, and the best of everything,” said Mrs. Homer, popping
in her head to see how her quiet neighbor got on.

“Oh, I live in my trunk; I didn’t bring half as many little luxuries
as Ethel did, so I don’t need as much room. I’m used to living in
corners like a mouse, and I get on very well,” answered Jane,
looking very like a mouse just then, as she peeped out of the upper
berth, with her gray gown, bright eyes, and quick nod of
contentment.

“Well, my dear, I’ve just one word of advice to give you. Don’t let
that child tyrannize over you. She means well, but is wilful and
thoughtless, and it is NOT your duty to be made a slave of. Assert
yourself and she will obey and respect you, and you will help her a
great deal. I know all about it; I was a companion in my youth, and
had a hard time of it till I revolted and took my proper place. Now
let us go up and enjoy the fine air while we can.”

“Thank you, I will remember;” and Jane offered the good lady her
arm, with a feeling of gratitude for such friendliness, all being
new and strange to her, and many doubts of her own fitness for the
position lying heavy at her heart.

But soon all was forgotten as she sat on deck watching the islands,
lighthouses, ships, and shores glide by as she went swiftly out to
sea that bright June day. Here was the long-cherished desire of her
life come to pass at last, and now the parting with mother and
sisters was over, nothing but pleasure remained, and a very earnest
purpose to improve this unexpected opportunity to the uttermost.
The cares of life had begun early for little Jane, she being the
eldest of the three girls, and her mother a widow. First came hard
study, then a timid beginning as nursery governess; and as year by
year the teaching of others taught her, she ventured on till here
she was companion to a fine young lady “going abroad,” where every
facility for acquiring languages, studying history, seeing the best
pictures, and enjoying good society would all be hers. No wonder the
quiet face under the modest gray hat beamed, as it turned wistfully
toward the unknown world before her, and that her thoughts were so
far away, she was quite unconscious of the kind eyes watching her,
as Mrs. Homer sat placidly knitting beside her.

“I shall like the Mouse, I’m quite sure. Hope Lemuel will be as well
satisfied. Ethel is charming when she chooses, but will need looking
after, that’s plain,” thought the lady as she glanced down the deck
to where her husband stood talking with several gentlemen, while his
charge was already making friends with the gay girls who were to be
her fellow-passengers.

“Daisy Millers, I fear,” went on Mrs. Homer, who had a keen eye for
character, and was as fond of studying the people about her as the
Professor was of looking up dead statesmen, kings, and warriors. The
young ladies certainly bore some resemblance to the type of American
girl which one never fails to meet in travelling. They were dressed
in the height of the fashion, pretty with the delicate evanescent
beauty of too many of our girls, and all gifted with the loud
voices, shrill laughter, and free-and-easy manners which so astonish
decorous English matrons and maids. Ethel was evidently impressed
with their style, as they had a man and maid at their beck and call,
and every sign of ostentatious wealth about them. A stout papa, a
thin mamma, evidently worn out with the cares of the past winter,
three half-grown girls, and a lad of sixteen made up the party; and
a very lively one it was, as the Professor soon found, for he
presently bowed himself away, and left Ethel to her new friends,
since she smilingly refused to leave them.

“Ought I to go to her?” asked Jenny, waking from her happy reverie
to a sudden sense of duty as the gentleman sat down beside her.

“Oh dear, no, she is all right. Those are the Sibleys of New York.
Her father knows them, and she will find them a congenial refuge
when she tires of us quiet folk; and you too, perhaps?” added the
Professor as he glanced at the girl.

“I think not. I should not be welcome to them, nor are they the sort
of people I like. I shall be very happy with the ‘quiet folk,’ if
they won’t let me be in the way,” answered Jenny, in the cheerful
voice that reminded one of the chirp of a robin.

“We won’t; we’ll toss you overboard as soon as you begin to scream
and bounce in that style,” he answered, laughing at the idea of this
demure young person’s ever dreaming of such a thing. Jenny laughed
also, and ran to pick up Mrs. Homer’s ball, as it set out for a roll
into the lee-scuppers. As she brought it back she found the
Professor examining the book she left behind her.

“Like all young travellers you cling to your ‘Baedeker,’ I see, even
in the first excitement of the start. He is a useful fellow, but I
know my Europe so well now, I don’t need him.”

“I thought it would be wise to read up our route a little, then I
needn’t ask questions. They must be very tiresome to people who know
all about it,” said Jenny, regarding him with an expression of deep
respect for she considered him a sort of walking encyclopaedia of
universal knowledge.

It pleased the learned man, who was kindly as well as wise, and
loved to let his knowledge overflow into any thirsty mind, however
small the cup might be. He liked the intelligent face before him,
and a timid question or two set him off on his favorite hobby at a
pleasant amble, with Jenny on the pillion behind, as it were. She
enjoyed it immensely, and was deep in French history, when the lunch
gong recalled her from Francis I. and his sister Margaret to chops
and English ale.

Ethel came prancing back to her own party, full of praises of the
Sibleys, and the fun they meant to have together.

“They are going to the Langham; so we shall be able to go about with
them, and they know all the best shops, and some lords and ladies,
and expect to be in Paris when we are, and that will be a great help
with our dresses and things.”

“But we are not going to shop and have new dresses till we are on
our way home, you know. Now we haven’t time for such things, and
can’t trouble the Homers with more trunks,” answered Jenny, as they
followed their elders to the table.

“I shall buy what I like, and have ten trunks if it suits me. I’m
not going to poke round over old books and ruins, and live in a
travelling-dress all the time. You can do as you like; it’s
different with me, and I know what is proper.”

With which naughty speech Ethel took her seat first at the table,
and began to nod and smile at the Sibleys opposite. Jenny set her
lips and made no answer, but ate her lunch with what appetite she
could, trying to forget her troubles in listening to the chat going
on around her.

All that afternoon Ethel left her to herself, and enjoyed the more
congenial society of the new acquaintances. Jenny was tired, and
glad to read and dream in the comfortable seat Mrs. Homer left her
when she went for her nap.

By sunset the sea grew rough and people began to vanish below. There
were many empty places at dinner-time, and those who appeared seemed
to have lost their appetites suddenly. The Homers were good
sailors, but Jenny looked pale, and Ethel said her head ached,
though both kept up bravely till nine o’clock, when the Sibleys
precipitately retired after supper, and Ethel thought she might as
well go to bed early to be ready for another pleasant day to-morrow.

Jenny had a bad night, but disturbed no one. Ethel slept soundly,
and sprang up in the morning, eager to be the first on deck. But a
sudden lurch sent her and her hair-brush into a corner: and when she
rose, everything in the stateroom seemed to be turning somersaults,
while a deathly faintness crept over her.

“Oh, wake up, Jane! We are sinking! What is it? Help me, help me!”
 and with a dismal wail Ethel tumbled into her berth in the first
anguish of seasickness.

We will draw the curtain for three days, during which rough weather
and general despair reigned. Mrs. Homer took care of the girls till
Jenny was able to sit up and amuse Ethel; but the latter had a hard
time of it, for a series of farewell lunches had left her in a bad
state for a sea-voyage, and the poor girl could not lift her head
for days. The new-made friends did not trouble themselves about her
after a call of condolence, but faithful Jenny sat by her hour after
hour, reading and talking by day, singing her to sleep at night, and
often creeping from her bed on the sofa to light her little candle
and see that her charge was warmly covered and quite comfortable.
Ethel was used to being petted, so she was not very grateful; but
she felt the watchful care about her, and thought Jane almost as
handy a person as a maid, and told her so.

Jenny thanked her and said nothing of her own discomforts; but Mrs.
Homer saw them, and wrote to Mrs. Amory that so far the companion
was doing admirably and all that could be desired. A few days later
she added more commendations to the journal-letters she kept for the
anxious mothers at home, and this serio-comical event was the cause
of her fresh praises.

The occupants of the deck staterooms were wakened in the middle of
the night by a crash and a cry, and starting up found that the
engines were still, and something was evidently the matter
somewhere. A momentary panic took place; ladies screamed, children
cried, and gentlemen in queer costumes burst out of their rooms,
excitedly demanding, “What is the matter?”

As no lamps are allowed in the rooms at night, darkness added to the
alarm, and it was some time before the real state of the case was
known. Mrs. Homer went at once to the frightened girls, and found
Ethel clinging to Jenny, who was trying to find the life-preservers
lashed to the wall.

“We’ve struck! Don’t leave me! Let us die together! Oh, why did I
come? why did I come?” she wailed; while the other girl answered
with a brave attempt at cheerfulness, as she put over Ethel’s head
the only life-preserver she could find,--.

“I will! I will! Be calm, dear! I guess there is no immediate
danger. Hold fast to this while I try to find something warm for you
to put on.”

In a moment Jenny’s candle shone like a star of hope in the gloom,
and by the time the three had got into wrappers and shawls, a peal
of laughter from the Professor assured them that the danger could
not be great. Other sounds of merriment, as well as Mrs. Sibley’s
voice scolding violently, was heard; and presently Mr. Homer came to
tell them to be calm, for the stoppage was only to cool the engines,
and the noise was occasioned by Joe Sibley’s tumbling out of his
berth in a fit of nightmare caused by Welsh rarebits and poached
eggs at eleven at night.

Much relieved, and a little ashamed now of their fright, every one
subsided; but Ethel could not sleep, and clung to Jenny in an
hysterical state till a soft voice began to sing “Abide with me” so
sweetly that more than one agitated listener blessed the singer and
fell asleep before the comforting hymn ended.

Ethel was up next day, and lay on the Professor’s bearskin rug on
deck, looking pale and interesting, while the Sibleys sat by her
talking over the exciting event of the night, to poor Joe’s great
disgust. Jenny crept to her usual corner and sat with a book on her
lap, quietly reviving in the fresh air till she was able to enjoy
the pleasant chat of the Homers, who established themselves near by
and took care of her, learning each day to love and respect the
faithful little soul who kept her worries to herself, and looked
brightly forward no matter how black the sky might be.

Only one other incident of the voyage need be told; but as that
marked a change in the relations between the two girls it is worth
recording.

As she prepared for bed late one evening, Mrs. Homer heard Jenny say
in a tone never used before,--

“My dear, I must say something to you or I shall not feel as if I
were doing my duty. I promised your mother that you should keep
early hours, as you are not very strong and excitement is bad for
you. Now, you WON’T come to bed at ten, as I ask you to every night,
but stay up playing cards or sitting on deck till nearly every one
but the Sibleys is gone. Mrs. Homer waits for us, and is tired, and
it is very rude to keep her up. Will you PLEASE do as you ought, and
not oblige me to say you must?”

Ethel was sleepy and cross, and answered pettishly, as she held out
her foot to have her boot unbuttoned,--for Jenny, anxious to please,
refused no service asked of her,--

“I shall do as I like, and you and Mrs. Homer needn’t trouble
yourselves about me. Mamma wished me to have a good time, and I
shall! There is no harm in staying up to enjoy the moonlight, and
sing and tell stories. Mrs. Sibley knows what is proper better than
you do.”

“I don’t think she does, for she goes to bed and leaves the girls to
flirt with those officers in a way that I know is NOT proper,”
 answered Jenny, firmly. “I should be very sorry to hear them say of
you as they did of the Sibley girls, ‘They are a wild lot, but great
fun.’”

“Did they say that? How impertinent!” and Ethel bridled up like a
ruffled chicken, for she was not out yet, and had not lost the
modest instincts that so soon get blunted when a frivolous
fashionable life begins.

“I heard them, and I know that the well-bred people on board do not
like the Sibleys’ noisy ways and bad manners. Now, you, my dear, are
young and unused to this sort of life; so you cannot be too careful
what you say and do, and with whom you go.”

“Good gracious! any one would think YOU were as wise as Solomon and
as old as the hills. YOU are young, and YOU haven’t travelled, and
don’t know any more of the world than I do,--not so much of some
things; so you needn’t preach.”

“I’m not wise nor old, but I DO know more of the world than you, for
I began to take care of myself and earn my living at sixteen, and
four years of hard work have taught me a great deal. I am to watch
over you, and I intend to do it faithfully, no matter what you say,
nor how hard you make it for me; because I promised, and I shall
keep my word. We are not to trouble Mrs. Homer with our little
worries, but try to help each other and have a really good time. I
will do anything for you that I can, but I shall NOT let you do
things which I wouldn’t allow my own sisters to do, and if you
refuse to mind me, I shall write to your mother and ask to go home.
My conscience won’t let me take money and pleasure unless I earn
them and do my duty.”

“Well, upon my word!” cried Ethel, much impressed by such a decided
