"I am sorry," Mrs. Raritan replied; "the bankers are so negligent. There
were many letters that must have gone astray. Were you--you had a
pleasant winter, of course. And how is your grandfather?"

"I have not seen him. I am just off the ship."

At this announcement Mrs. Weldon looked perplexed.

"Is it possible that you only arrived this evening?" she asked.

"Yes, I wanted to see Viola. You know it is almost a year
since--since--I tried to find you both in Europe, but----"

"Mr. Varick, did I hear you say that you arrived from Europe to-day?" It
was the gentleman who devoted himself to the interests of society that
was speaking.

"Yes, I came on the Bourgogne."

"Was Mrs. Manhattan on board?"

Tristrem answered that she was, and then the gentleman in question
entered into an elaborate discourse on the subject of Mrs. Manhattan's
summer plans. While he was still speaking a servant informed the
vaporous maiden that her maid and carriage had arrived, and presently
that young lady left the room. Soon after the society agent disappeared,
and a little later the youth that had been conversing with Miss Raritan
took his splendor away.

As yet Tristrem had had no opportunity of exchanging a word with Viola.
To his hostess he had talked with feverish animation on the subject of
nothing at all; but as the adolescent who had been engaging Viola's
attention came to Mrs. Raritan to bid that lady good-night, Tristrem
left the upholstered S and crossed the room to where the girl was
seated.

"Viola," he began, but she stayed his speech with a gesture.

The young man was leaving the room, and it was evident from Mrs.
Raritan's attitude that it was her intention to leave it also.

"I am tired," that lady said, as the front door closed; "you won't
mind?" And Tristrem, who had arisen when he saw her standing, went
forward and bowed over her hand, and then preceded her to the portière,
which he drew aside that she might pass.

"Good-night, Mrs. Raritan," he said; "good-night, and pleasant dreams."

Then he turned to the girl. She, too, looked older, or, perhaps, it
would be more exact to say she looked more mature. Something of the
early fragrance had left her face, but she was as beautiful as before.

Her gold eyes were brilliant as high noon, and her cheeks bore an
unwonted color. She was dressed in white, her girdle was red with roses,
and her arms and neck were bare.

As Mrs. Raritan passed from the room, Tristrem let the portière fall
again, and stood a moment feasting his famished eyes in hers. At last he
spoke.

"He is dead, Viola."

The words came from him very gravely, and when he had uttered them he
looked down at the rug.

"Dead! Who is dead? What do you mean?"

"He is dead," he repeated, but still he kept his eyes lowered.

"He! What he? What are you talking about?" She had left her seat and
fronted him.

"Royal Weldon," he made answer, and as he did so he looked up at her.

Her hands fluttered like falling leaves. An increased color mounted to
her cheeks, and disappearing, left them white. Her lips trembled.

"I do not understand," she gasped. And then, as her dilated eyes stared
into his own, he saw that she understood at last. Her fluttering hands
had gone to her throat, as though to tear away some invisible clutch.
Her lips had grown gray. She was livid.

"It is better so, is it not?" he asked, and searched her face for some
trace of the symptoms of joy. As he gazed at her, she retreated. Her
hands had left her throat, her forehead was pinioned in their grasp, and
in her eyes the expression of terrified wonder was seamed and obscured
by another that resembled hate.

"And it was you," she stammered, "it was you?"

"Yes," he answered, with an air of wonder that equalled her own;
"yes----"

"You tell me that Royal Weldon is dead, and that you--that you----"

"It was this way," he began, impelled, in his own surprise, to some form
of explanation. "It was this way--you see--well, I went to Riva. That
man that brought back your hat----Good God, Viola, are you not glad?"

She had fallen into a chair, and he was at her feet.

"Are you not glad?" he insisted. "Now, it will be----" But whatever he
intended to say, the speech remained uncompleted. The girl had drawn
from him as from an adder unfanged.

"Assassin!" she hissed. "Assassin!" she hissed again. "What curse----"

"Viola, it was for your sake."

She clinched her hand as though she sought the strength wherewith to
strike. And then the fingers loosened again. She moved still farther
away. The hatred left her eyes, as the wonder had done before. With the
majesty which Mary Stuart must have shown when she bade farewell to
England, to the sceptre, and to life, Viola Raritan turned to him again:

"I loved him," she muttered, yet so faintly that she had left the room
before Tristrem, who still crouched by the chair which she had vacated,
fully caught the import of her words.

"Viola!" he called. But she had gone. "Viola! No, no; it is impossible.
It is impossible," he repeated, as he rose up again; "it is impossible."

He staggered to the door and let himself out. And then, as the night-air
affects one who has loitered over the wine, he reeled.

In a vision such as is said to visit the ultimate consciousness of they
that drown, a riot of long-forgotten incidents surged to his mind. He
battled with them in vain; they were trivial, indeed, but in their
onslaught he saw that the impossible was truth.

With the aimlessness of a somnambulist, and reasoning with himself the
while, he walked down through Madison Avenue until he reached the
square. There, turning into Lexington, he entered Gramercy Park.
Presently he found himself standing at Weldon's door. "But what am I
doing here?" he mused. For a little time, he leaned against the rail,
endeavoring to collect his thoughts. Then, as an individual, coated in
blue and glistening as to his buttons, sauntered by, he seemed to
understand. He left the railing at which he had stood, and, circling the
park, set out in the direction of the river. As he reached Second
Avenue, a train of the elevated railway flamed about an adjacent corner,
and swept like a dragon in mid-air, on, beyond, and out of sight. To the
right was a great factory, and as Tristrem continued his way through the
unfamiliar street he wondered what the people in the train, what the
factory-hands, and the dwellers in the neighborhood would say if they
could surmise his errand. The river was yet some distance away. It was
such a pity, he told himself, such a pity, that he had not accepted the
invitation of the sea. That would have been so much better, so much
surer, and so much more discreet. And then he fell to wondering about
his grandfather, and his heart was filled with anguish. He would have
done anything to save that old man from pain. But it was too late now. A
gas-jet that lighted a wide and open door attracted his attention; he
looked in, the building seemed empty as a lecture-hall. After all, he
decided, perhaps that would be best.

Half an hour later, Tristrem Varick was the occupant of a room that was
not as large as one of the closets in his grandfather's house. The
furniture consisted of a wooden bench. The sole fixture was an apparatus
for drawing water. The floor was tiled and the upper part of the walls
was white; the lower, red. The room itself was very clean. There was no
window, and the door, which was of grated iron, had been locked from
without. From an adjoining cell, a drunken harlot rent the night with
the strain of a maudlin ditty.




XVII.


It was some little time before the powers that are could be convinced
that Tristrem Varick was guilty of the self-accused murder. It was not
that murders are rare, but a murder such as that was tolerably uncommon.
The sergeant who presided over the police-station in which Tristrem had
delivered himself up was a mild-mannered man, gentle of voice, and
sceptical as a rag-picker. He received Tristrem's statement without
turning a hair.

"What did you do it for?" he asked, and when Tristrem declined to enter
into any explanation, he smiled with affable incredulity. "I can, if you
insist," he said, "accommodate you with a night's lodging." And he was
as good as his word; but the cell which Tristrem subsequently occupied
was not opened for him until the sergeant was convinced that death had
really visited the precinct.

Concerning the form in which that death had come, there was at first no
doubt. Weldon had been found stretched lifeless on a sofa. The physician
who was then summoned made a cursory examination, and declared that
death was due to disease of the heart. Had Tristrem held his tongue,
that verdict, in all probability, would never have been questioned;
indeed, it was not until the minuter autopsy which Tristrem's statement
instigated that the real cause was discovered.

It was then that it began to be admitted that violence had been used,
but as to whether that violence was accidental or intentional, and if
intentional, whether or not it was premeditated, was a matter which,
according to our archaic law, twelve men in a pen could alone decide.
The case was further complicated by a question of sanity. Granting that
some form of manslaughter had been committed, was it the act of one in
full possession of his faculties, or was it the act of one bereft of his
senses?

Generally speaking, public opinion inclined to the latter solution.
Indeed, there seemed to be but one other in any way tenable, and that
was, that the blow was self-inflicted. This theory had many partisans.
The records, if not choked, are well filled with the trials of
individuals who have confessed to crimes of which they were utterly
guiltless. It was discovered that a recent slump in Wall Street had
seriously affected Weldon's credit. It was known that his manner of
living had compelled his wife to return to her father's house, and it
was shown that she had begun an action for divorce. It seemed,
therefore, possible that he had taken his own life in Tristrem's
presence, and that Tristrem, in the horror of the spectacle, had become
mentally unhinged.

In addition to this, there was against Tristrem--aside, of course, from
the confession--barely a scintilla of evidence. The very instrument
which was found on his person, and with which he declared the murder had
been committed, was said not to belong to him. A servant of Weldon's
thought she had once seen it in the possession of her late master. And
it was argued that Tristrem had caught it up when it fell from the hand
of the dead, and, in the consternation of the moment, had thrust it in
his own pocket. Moreover, as suicides go, there was in Weldon's case a
tangible excuse. He was on the edge of bankruptcy, and his matrimonial
venture was evidently infelicitous. His life was an apparent failure.
Many other men have taken their own lives for causes much minor.

The theory of suicide was therefore not untenable, and those who
preferred to believe that a murder had been really committed were at a
loss for a motive. Tristrem and Weldon were known to have been on terms
of intimacy. Tristrem had been absent from the country a number of
months, while Weldon had steadfastly remained in New York. During the
intervening period it was impossible to conjecture the slightest cause
of disagreement. And yet, no sooner did the two men have the opportunity
of meeting, than one fell dead, and the other gave himself up as his
murderer. And if that murder had been really committed, then what was
the motive?

This was the point that particularly perplexed the District Attorney. It
could not have been money. Tristrem had never speculated, and his
financial relations with Weldon were confined to certain loans made to
the latter, and long since repaid. Nor, through the whole affair, could
the sharpest ear detect so much as the rustle of a petticoat. Inasmuch,
then, as neither of the two great motor forces, woman and gold, was
discernible, it is small wonder that the District Attorney was
perplexed. To that gentleman the case was one of peculiar importance.
His term of office had nearly expired, and he ardently desired
re-election. Two wealthy misdemeanants had recently slipped through his
fingers--not through any fault of his own, but they had slipped, none
the less--and some rhetoric had been employed to show that there was a
law for the poor and a more elastic one for the rich. Now Tristrem's
conviction would be the finest plume he could stick in his hat. The
possessor of an historic name, a member of what is known as the best
society, an habitué of exclusive clubs--a representative, in fact, of
everything that is most hateful to the mob--and yet a murderer. No, such
a prize as that must not be allowed to escape. The District Attorney
felt that, did such a thing occur, he might bid an eternal farewell to
greatness and the bench.

But what was the motive of the crime? Long before that question, which
eventually assumed the proportions of a pyramid, was seriously examined,
it had been demonstrated that the wound from which Weldon had died was
not one that could have been self-inflicted. The theory of suicide was
thereupon and at once abandoned. And those who had been most vehement in
its favor now asserted that Tristrem was insane. What better evidence of
insanity could there be than the giving away of seven millions? But
apart from that, there were a number of people willing to testify that
on shipboard Tristrem's demeanor was that of a lunatic--moreover, did he
not insist that he was perfectly sane, and where was the lunatic that
ever admitted himself to be demented? Of course he was insane.

A committee, however, composed of a lawyer, a layman, and a physician,
visited Tristrem, and announced exactly the contrary. According to their
report, he was as sane as the law allows, and, although that honorable
committee did not seem to suspect it, it may be that he was even a
trifle saner. One of the committee--the layman--started out on his visit
with no inconsiderable trepidation. In after-conversation, he said that
it had never been his privilege to exchange speech with one gentler and
more courteous than that self-accused murderer.

Yet still the motive was elusive. In this particular, Tristrem hindered
everybody to the best of his ability. He was resolutely mute.

The attorney who was retained for the defence--not, however, through any
wish of Tristrem's--could make nothing of his client. "It is pathetic,"
he said; "he keeps telling me that he is guilty, that he is sane, that
he is infinitely indebted for my kindness and sympathy, but that he
does not wish to be defended. Sane? He is no more sane than the King of
Bavaria. Who ever heard of an inmate of the Tombs that did not want to
be defended? Isn't that evidence enough?"

It was possible, of course, to impugn the testimony of the committee,
but the attorney in this instance deemed it wiser to let it go for what
it was worth, while showing that Tristrem, if sane at the time of the
committee's examination, was insane at the time the crime, if crime
there were, was committed. It was his settled conviction that if
Tristrem would only explain the motive, it would be of such a nature
that the chances of acquittal would be in his favor. In this,
presumably, he was correct. But, in default of any explanation, he
determined that the only adoptable line of defence was the one already
formulated; to wit, that in slaying Weldon his client was temporarily
