that I, her slave, should strive with my poor skill to while away the
time till she could join thee.

Con. Thou, a slave? By the gods! methought it was some highborn
lady,--nay, even the Princess Irene herself, seeking the queen, my
mother.

Ione. She was my mistress, and bestowed me as a gift upon the queen.
This scroll is from her hand. May it please thee, read it [kneels and
presents letter].

Con. Rise, fair maiden! I would rather listen to thy voice. May I ask
thee to touch yon harp? I am weary, and a gentle strain will sooth my
troubled spirit. Stay! let me place it for thee.

    [Prince moves the harp and gazes upon Ione as she sings and
        plays.

    The wild birds sing in the orange groves,
      And brightly bloom the flowers;
    The fair earth smiles 'neath a summer sky
      Through the joyous fleeting hours.
    But oh! in the slave girl's lonely heart,
      Sad thoughts and memories dwell,
    And tears fall fast as she mournfully sings,
      Home, dear home, farewell!

    Though the chains they bind be all of flowers,
      Where no hidden thorn may be,
    Still the free heart sighs 'neath its fragrant bonds,
      And pines for its liberty.
    And sweet, sad thoughts of the joy now gone,
      In the slave girl's heart shall dwell,
    As she mournfully sings to her sighing harp,
      Native land, native land, farewell!

Con. 'Tis a plaintive song. Is it thine own lot thou art mourning? If
so, thou art a slave no longer.

Ione. Nay, my lord. It was one my Lady Irene loved, and thus I thought
would please thee.

Con. Then never sing it more,--speak not her name! Nay, forgive me if I
pain thee. She was thy mistress, and thou didst love her. Was she kind
to thee? By what name shall I call thee?

Ione. Ione, your Highness. Ah, yes; she was too kind. She never spake a
cruel word, nor chid me for my many faults. Never can I love another as
I loved my gentle mistress.

Con. And is she very fair? Has she no pride, no passion or disdain to
mar her loveliness? She is a princess; is she a true and tender woman
too?

Ione. Though a princess, 'neath her royal robes there beats a warm, true
heart, faithful and fond, longing to be beloved and seeking to be worthy
such great joy when it shall come. Thou ask'st me of her beauty.
Painters place her face among their fairest works, and sculptors carve
her form in marble. Yes, she is beautiful; but 'tis not that thou
wouldst most care for. Couldst thou only know her!--pardon, but I think
thou couldst not bear so cold a heart within thy breast as now.

Con. Ah, do not cease! say on! There is that in the music of thy voice
that soothes and comforts me. Come, sit beside me, fair Ione, and I will
tell thee why I do not love thy princess.

Ione. You do forget, my lord, I am a slave; I will kneel here.

    [Prince reclines upon a couch. Ione kneels beside him.

Con. Listen! From a boy I have been alone; no loving sister had I, no
gentle friend,--only cold councillors or humble slaves. My mother was a
queen, and 'mid the cares of State, tho' fondly loving me, her only son,
could find no time to win me from my lonely life.

Thus, tho' dwelling 'neath a palace roof with every wish supplied, I
longed most fondly for a friend. And now, ere long, a crown will rest
upon my head, a nation bend before me as their king. And now more
earnestly than ever do I seek one who can share with me the joys and
cares of my high lot,--a woman true and noble, to bless me with her
love.

Ione. And could not the Princess Irene be to thee all thou hast dreamed?

Con. I fear I cannot love her. They told me she was beautiful and
highborn; and when I sought to learn yet more, 'twas but to find she
was a cold, proud woman, fit to be a queen, but not a loving wife. Thus
I learned to dread the hour when I must wed. Yet 'tis my mother's will;
my country's welfare calls for the sacrifice, and I must yield myself.

Ione. They who told thee she was proud and cold do all speak falsely.
Proud she is to those who bow before her but to gain some honor for
themselves, and cold to such as love her for her royalty alone. But if a
fond and faithful heart, and a soul that finds its happiness in noble
deeds can make a queen, Irene is worthy of the crown she will wear. And
now, if it please thee, I will seek the garden; for thy mother bid me
gather flowers for the feast. Adieu, my lord! [She bows, her veil
falls; Constantine hands it to her.] Nay, kings should not bend to
serve a slave, my lord.

Con. I do forget myself most strangely. There, take thy veil, and leave
me [turns aside]. Nay, forgive me if I seem unkind, but I cannot
treat thee as a slave. Come, I will go with thee to the garden; thou art
too fair to wander unprotected and alone. Come, Ione [leads her out].

                                CURTAIN.


                             SCENE FOURTH.

                      [The gardens of the palace.
                       Ione weaving a garland.]

Ione. The rose is Love's own flower, and I will place it in the wreath I
weave for thee, O Constantine! Would I could bring it to thy heart as
easily! And yet, methinks, if all goes on as now, the slave Ione will
ere long win a prince's love. He smiles when I approach, and sighs when
I would leave him; listens to my songs, and saves the withered flowers I
gave him days ago. How gentle and how kind! Ah, noble Constantine, thou
little thinkest the slave thou art smiling on is the "proud, cold"
Princess Irene, who will one day show thee what a fond, true wife she
will be to thee [sings].

                                       [Enter Helon; kneels to Ione.

Ione. Helon, my father's friend! thou here! Ah, hush! Betray me not! I
am no princess now. Rise, I do beseech thee! Kneel not to me.

Helon. Dear lady, why this secrecy? What dost thou here, disguised, in
the palace where thou art soon to reign a queen?

Ione. Hark! is all still? Yes; none are nigh! Speak low. I'll tell thee
all. Thou knowest the young prince loves me not,--nay, do not sigh; I
mean the princess, not the slave Ione, as I now call myself. Well, I
learned this, and vowed to win the heart he could not give; and so in
this slave's dress I journeyed hither with Rienzi, the ambassador, as a
gift unto the queen.

Thus, as a poor and nameless slave, I seek to win the noble Constantine
to life and love. Dost understand my plot, and wilt thou aid me, Father
Helon?

Helon. 'Tis a strange thought! None but a woman would have planned it.
Yes, my child, I will aid thee, and thou yet shall gain the happiness
thy true heart well deserves. We will talk of this yet more anon. I
came hither to see the prince. They told me he was pale and ill, in
sorrow for his hated lot. Say, is this so?

Ione. Ah, yes, most true; and I am cause of all this sorrow. Father,
tell me, cannot I by some great deed give back his health, and never
have the grief of knowing that he suffered because I was his bride? How
can I avert this fate? I will do all, bear all, if he may be saved.

Helon. Grieve not, my child; he will live, and learn to love thee
fondly. The cares of a kingdom are too much for one so young; but he
would have happiness throughout his native land, and toiling for the
good of others he hath hidden his sorrow in his own heart, and pined for
tenderness and love. Thou hast asked if thou couldst save him. There is
one hope, if thou canst find a brave friend that fears no danger when a
good work leads him on. Listen, my daughter! In a deep and lonely glen,
far beyond the palace gates, there grows an herb whose magic power 'tis
said brings new life and strength to those who wreathe it round their
head in slumber. Yet none dare seek the spot, for spirits are said to
haunt the glen, and not a slave in all the palace but grows pale at
mention of the place. I am old and feeble, or I had been there long ere
this. And now, my child, who canst thou send?

Ione. I will send one who fears not spirit or demon; one who will gladly
risk e'en life itself for the brave young prince.

Helon. Blessed be the hand that gathers, thrice blessed be he who dares
the dangers of the way. Bring hither him thou speakest of. I would see
him.

Ione. She stands before thee. Nay, start not, Father. I will seek the
dreaded glen and gather there the magic flowers that may bring health to
Constantine and happiness to me. I will away; bless, and let me go.

Helon. Thou, a woman delicate and fair! Nay, nay, it must not be, my
child! Better he should die than thou shouldst come to harm. I cannot
let thee go.

Ione. Thou canst not keep me now. Thou hast forgot I am a slave, and
none may guess beneath this veil a princess is concealed. I will take my
water-urn, and with the other slaves pass to the spring beyond the city
gates; then glide unseen into the haunted glen. Now, tell me how looks
the herb, that I may know it.

Helon. 'Tis a small, green plant that blossoms only by the broad, dark
stream, dashing among the rocks that fill the glen. But let me once
again implore thee not to go. Ah, fatal hour when first I told thee!
'Tis sending thee to thy death! Stay, stay, my child, or let me go with
thee.

Ione. It cannot be; do thou remain, and if I come not back ere set of
sun, do thou come forth to seek me. Tell Constantine I loved him, and so
farewell. I return successful, or I return no more.

                                                     [Ione rushes out.

Helon. Thou brave and noble one to dare so much for one who loves thee
not! I'll go and pray the gods to watch above thee, and bring thee
safely back.

                                                          [Exit Helon.

                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE FIFTH.

                     [A terrace beside the palace.
                          Enter Constantine.]

Con. Why comes she not? I watched her slender form when with the other
slaves she went forth to the fountain yonder. I knew her by the rosy
veil and snow-white arm that bore the water-urn. The morning sun shone
brightly on the golden hair, and seemed more beautiful for resting
there; and now 'tis nearly set, and yet she comes not. Why should I
grieve because my mother's slave forgets me? Shame on thee, Constantine!
How weak and childish have I grown! This fever gives no rest when Ione
is not here to sing sweet songs, and cheer the weary hours. Ah, she
comes! [Enter Ione with basket of flowers.] Where hast thou been,
Ione? The long day passed so slowly, and I missed thee sadly from my
side. But thou art pale; thy locks are damp! What has chanced to thee?
Speak, I beseech thee!

Ione. 'Tis nothing; calm thyself, my lord. I am well, and bring thee
from the haunted glen the magic flowers whose power I trust will win
thee health and happiness. May it please thee to accept them [kneels,
and gives the flowers].

Con. Thou, thou, Ione? Hast thou been to that fearful spot, where mortal
foot hath feared to tread? The gods be blessed, thou art safe again! How
can I thank thee? Ah, why didst thou risk so much for my poor life? It
were not worth the saving if thine were lost.

Ione. My lord, a loving nation looks to thee for safety and protection.
I am but a feeble woman, and none would grieve if I were gone; none weep
for the friendless slave, Ione.

Con. Oh, say not thus! Tears would be shed for thee, and one heart
would grieve for her who risked so much for him. Speak not of death or
separation, for I cannot let thee go.

Ione. I will not leave thee yet, till I have won thy lost health back.
The old priest, Helon, bid me seek the herbs, and bind them in a garland
for thy brow. If thou wilt place it there, and rest awhile, I am repaid.

Con. If thy hand gave it, were it deadly poison I would place it there.
Now sing, Ione; thy low sweet voice will bring me pleasant dreams, and
the healing sleep will be the deeper with thy music sounding in mine
ears.

    [The prince reclines upon the terrace. Ione weaves a garland
        and sings.

    Flowers, sweet flowers, I charge thee well,
    O'er the brow where ye bloom cast a healing spell;
    From the shadowy glen where spirits dwell,
    I have borne thee here, thy power to tell.
    Flowers, pale flowers, o'er the brow where ye lie,
    Cast thy sweetest breath ere ye fade and die.

    [Ione places the garland on the head of the prince, who falls
        asleep. She sits beside him softly singing.

                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE SIXTH.

                       [The Queen's apartment.
                          The Queen alone.]

Queen. 'Tis strange what power this slave hath gained o'er Constantine.
She hath won him back to health again, and never have I seen so gay a
smile upon his lips as when she stood beside him in the moonlight
singing to her harp. And yet, tho' well and strong again, he takes no
interest in his native land. He comes no more to council hall or feast,
but wanders 'mong his flowers with Ione. How can I rouse him to the
danger that is near! The Turkish sultan and his troops are on their way
to conquer Greece, and he, my Constantine, who should be arming for the
fight, sits weaving garlands with the lovely slave girl! Ah, a thought
hath seized me! Why cannot she who hath such power o'er him rouse up
with noble words the brave heart slumbering in his breast? I hear her
light step in the hall. Ione, Ione,--come hither! I would speak with
thee.

                                                          [Enter Ione.

Ione. Your pleasure, dearest lady.

Queen. Ione, thou knowest how I love thee for the brave deeds thou hast
done. Thou hast given health unto my son, hath won him back to
happiness. Thou hast conquered his aversion to the princess, and he will
gladly wed her when the hour shall come. Is it not so?

Ione. Dear lady, that I cannot tell thee. He never breathes her name,
and if I speak of her as thou hast bid me, he but sighs, and grows more
