where--Annunziata's own precious little nephew--taken by the
pirates--yam! Sold as a slave--yam! Killed in the war! Oh, Pippo! poor
Pippo! poor little Pipp, Pipp, Pipp!"

"And so I thought I'd try to go to the shop by the day," Prudence went
on, when this yell had ceased; "they want me to come and cut out. I
shouldn't go until after your breakfast, of course; and I could leave
cold things out, and Nounce would cook you something hot at noon; then I
should be home myself every night in time to get your supper."

"And so that's the plan--I'm to be left alone here with an idiot while
you go flouncing your heels round Assisi! Flounce, cat! It's a wonder
the dead don't rise in their graves to hear it. But we buried my
Annunziata too deep for that--yam!--otherwise she'd 'a been here to tear
your eyes out. An old woman left to starve alone, her own precious
grandmother, growing weaker and weaker, and pining and pining. Blessed
stomach, do you hear--do you hear, my holy, blessed stomach, always
asking for so little, and now not even to get that? It's turned all a
mumble of cold just thinking of it--yam! I, poor sufferer, who have had
to stand your ugly face so long--I so fond of beauty! You haven't got
but twenty-four hairs now; you know you haven't--yam! I've got more than
you twenty times over--hey! that I have." And Granmar, tearing off her
cap, pulled loose her coarse white hair, and grasping the ends of the
long locks with her crooked fingers, threw them aloft with a series of
shrill halloos.

"I won't go to the shop," said Prudence. "Mercy on us, what a noise! I
say I won't go to the shop. There! do you hear?"

"Will you be here every day of your life at twelve o'clock to cook me
something that won't poison me?" demanded Granmar, still hallooing.

"Yes, yes, I promise you."

Even Granmar believed Prudence's yes; her yea was yea and her nay nay to
all the family. "You cook me something this very minute," she said,
sullenly, putting on her cap askew.

"Why, you've only just got through your supper!" exclaimed Prudence,
astonished, used though she was to Granmar's abdominal capacities, by
this sudden demand.

"You won't? Then I'll yell again," said Granmar. And yell she did.

"Hold up--do; I believe you now," said Prudence. She fanned the dying
coals with a straw fan, made up the fire, and prepared some
griddle-cakes. Granmar demanded fig syrup to eat with them; and devoured
six. Filled to repletion, she then suffered Prudence to change her day
cap for a nightcap, falling asleep almost before her head touched the
pillow.

During this scene Nounce had sat quietly in her corner. Prudence now
went to her to see if she was frightened, for the girl was sometimes
much terrified by Granmar's outcries; she stroked her soft hair. She was
always looking for signs of intelligence in Nounce, and fancying that
she discovered them. Taking the girl's hand, she went with her to the
next room, where were their two narrow pallet beds. "You were very smart
to save the eggs for me to-day when Granmar wanted that omerlet," she
whispered, as she helped her to undress.

Memory came back to Nounce; she smiled comprehendingly.

Prudence waited until she was in bed; then she kissed her good-night,
and put out the candle.

Her two charges asleep, Mrs. Guadagni the second opened the back door
softly and went out. It was not yet nine o'clock, a warm dark night;
though still September, the odors of autumn were already in the air,
coming from the September flowers, which have a pungency mingled with
their perfume, from the rank ripeness of the vegetables, from the aroma
of the ground after the first rains.

"I could have made thirty cents a week more at the shop," she said to
herself, regretfully (she always translated the Italian money into
American or French). "In a month that would have been a dollar and
twenty cents! Well, there's no use thinking about it sence I can't go."
She bent over her vegetables, feeling of their leaves, and estimating
anew how many she could afford to sell, now that the family was so much
reduced in size. Then she paid a visit to her fig-trees. She had planted
these trees herself, and watched over their infancy with anxious care;
at the present moment they were loaded with fruit, and it seemed as if
she knew the position of each fig, so many times had she stood under the
boughs looking up at the slowly swelling bulbs. She had never before
been able to sell the fruit. But now she should be able, and the sale
would add a good many cents to the store of savings kept in her
work-box. This work-box, a possession of her youth, was lined with vivid
green paper, and had a colored lithograph of the Honorable Mrs. Norton
(taken as a Muse) on the inside of the cover; it held already three
francs and a half, that is seventy cents--an excellent sum when one
considered that only three weeks had passed since the happy day when she
had at last beheld the way open to saving regularly, laying by
regularly; many times had she begun to save, but she had never been able
to continue it. Now, with this small household, she should be able to
continue. The sale of the figs would probably double the savings already
in the work-box; she might even get eighty cents for them; and that
would make a dollar and fifty cents in all! A fig fell to the ground.
"They're ripe," she thought; "they must be picked to-morrow." She felt
for the fallen fig in the darkness, and carrying it to the garden wall,
placed it in a dry niche where it would keep its freshness until she
could send it to town with the rest. Then she went to the hen-house.
"Smart of Nounce to save the eggs for me," she thought, laughing
delightedly to herself over this proof of the girl's intelligence.
"Granmar didn't need that omerlet one bit; I left out two tremenjous
lunches for her." She peered in; but could not see the hens in the
darkness. "If Granmar'd only eat the things we do!" her thoughts went
on. "But she's always possessed after everything that takes eggs. And
then she wants the very best coffee, and white sugar, and the best wine,
and fine flour and meal and oil--my! how much oil! But I wonder if I
couldn't stop eating something or other, steader pestering myself about
her? Let's see. I don't take wine nor coffee, so I can't stop them; but
I could stop soup meat, just for myself; and I will." Thus meditating,
she went slowly round to the open space before the house.

To call it a space was a misnomer. The house stood at the apex of the
hill, and its garden by right extended as far down the descent in front
as it extended down the opposite descent behind, where Prudence had
planted her long rows of vegetables. But in this front space, not ten
feet distant from the house door, planted directly across the paved path
which came up from below, was the cow-shed, the intruding offensive
neighbor whose odors, gruntings (for it was now a pig-sty), and refuse
were constantly making themselves perceptible to one sense and another
through the open windows of the dwelling behind. For the house had no
back windows; the small apertures which passed for windows were all in
front; in that climate it was impossible that they should be always
closed. How those odors choked Prudence Wilkin! It seemed as if she
could not respect herself while obliged to breathe them, as if she had
not respected herself (in the true Ledham way) since the pig-sty became
her neighbor.

For fifty francs the owners would take it away; for another twenty or
thirty she could have "a front yard." But though she had made many
beginnings, she had never been able to save a tenth of the sum. None of
the family shared her feelings in the least; to spend precious money for
such a whim as that--only an American could be capable of it; but then,
as everybody knew, most Americans were mad. And why should Denza object
to pigs?

Prudence therefore had been obliged to keep her longings to herself. But
this had only intensified them. And now when at last, after thinking of
it for sixteen years, she was free to begin to save daily and regularly,
she saw as in a vision her front yard completed as she would like to
have it: the cow-shed gone; "a nice straight path going down to the
front gate, set in a new paling fence; along the sides currant bushes;
and in the open spaces to the right and left a big flowerin'
shrub--snowballs, or Missouri currant; near the house a clump of
matrimony, perhaps; and in the flower beds on each side of the path
bachelor's-buttons, Chiny-asters, lady's-slippers, and pinks; the edges
bordered with box." She heaved a sigh of deep satisfaction as she
finished her mental review. But it was hardly mental after all; she saw
the gate, she saw the straight path, she saw the currant bushes and the
box-bordered flower beds as distinctly as though they had really been
there.

Cheered, almost joyous, she went within, locking the door behind her;
then, after softly placing the usual store of provisions beside
Granmar's bed (for Granmar had a habit of waking in the night to eat),
she sought her own couch. It was hard, but she stretched herself upon it
luxuriously. "The figs'll double the money," she thought, "and by this
time to-morrow I shall have a dollar and forty cents; mebby a dollar
fifty!" She fell asleep happily.

Her contentment made her sleep soundly. Still it was not long after dawn
when she hurried down the hill to the town to get her supply of work
from the shop. Hastening back with it, she found Granmar clamoring for
her coffee, and Nounce, neatly dressed and clean (for so much Prudence
had succeeded in teaching her), sitting patiently in her corner.
Prudence's mind was full of a sale she had made; but she prepared the
coffee and Nounce's broth with her usual care; she washed her dishes,
and made Granmar tidy for the day; finally she arranged all her sewing
implements on the table by the window beside her pile of work. Now she
could give herself the luxury of one last look, one last estimate; for
she had made a miracle of a bargain for her figs. By ten o'clock the men
would be up to gather them.

It was a hazy morning; butterflies danced before her as she hastened
towards the loaded trees. Reaching them, she looked up. The boughs were
bare. All the figs had been gathered in the night, or at earliest dawn.

"Pipper!" she murmured to herself.

The ground under the trees was trampled.

Seven weeks later, on the 16th of November, this same Prudence was
adding to her secreted store the fifteen cents needed to make the sum
ten francs exactly--that is, two dollars. "Ten francs, a fifth of the
whole! It seems 'most too lucky that I've got on so well, spite of
Pipper's taking the figs. If I can keep along this way, it'll all be
done by the Fourth of July; not just the cow-shed taken away, but the
front yard done too. My!" She sat down on a fagot to think it over. The
thought was rapture; she laughed to herself and at herself for being so
happy.

Some one called, "Mamma." She came out, and found Jo Vanny looking for
her. Nounce and Jo Vanny were the only ones among the children who had
ever called her mother.

"Oh, you're up there in the shed, are you?" said Jo Vanny. "Somehow,
mamma, you look very gay."

"Yes, I'm gay," answered Prudence. "Perhaps some of these days I'll tell
you why." In her heart she thought: "Jo Vanny, now, he'd understand;
he'd feel as I do if I should explain it to him. A nice front yard he
has never seen in all his life, for they don't have 'em here. But once
he knew what it was, he'd care about it as much as I do; I know he
would. He's sort of American, anyhow." It was the highest praise she
could give. The boy had his cap off; she smoothed his hair. "'Pears to
me you must have lost your comb," she said.

"I'm going to have it all cut off as short as can be," announced Jo
Vanny, with a resolute air.

"Oh no."

"Yes, I am. Some of the other fellows have had theirs cut that way, and
I'm going to, too," pursued the young stoic.

He was eighteen, rather undersized and slender, handsome as to his face,
with large dark long-lashed eyes, well-cut features, white teeth, and
the curly hair which Prudence had smoothed. Though he had vowed them to
destruction, these love-locks were for the present arranged in the style
most approved in Assisi, one thick glossy flake being brought down low
over the forehead, so that it showed under his cap in a sentimental
wave. He did not look much like a hard-working carpenter as he stood
there dressed in dark clothes made in that singular exaggeration of the
fashions which one sees only in Italy. His trousers, small at the knee,
were large and wing-like at the ankle, half covering the tight shabby
shoes run down at the heel and absurdly short, which, however, as they
were made of patent-leather and sharply pointed at the toes, Jo Vanny
considered shoes of gala aspect. His low flaring collar was surrounded
by a red-satin cravat ornamented by a gilt horseshoe. He wore a ring on
the little finger of each hand. In his own eyes his attire was splendid.

In the eyes of some one else also. To Prudence, as he stood there, he
looked absolutely beautiful; she felt all a mother's pride rise in her
heart as she surveyed him. But she must not let him see it, and she must
scold him for wearing his best clothes every day.

"I didn't know it was a festa," she began.

"'Tain't. But one of the fellows has had a sister married, and they've
invited us all to a big supper to-night."

"To-night isn't to-day, that I know of."

"Do you wish me to go all covered with sawdust?" said the little dandy,
with a disdainful air. "Besides, I wanted to come up here."

"It is a good while sence we've seen you," Prudence admitted. In her
heart she was delighted that he had wished to come. "Have you had your
dinner, Jo Vanny?"

"All I want. I'll take a bit of bread and some wine by-and-by. But you
needn't go to cooking for me, mamma. I say, tell me what it was that
made you look so glad?" said the boy, curiously.

"Never you mind now," said Prudence, the gleam of content coming again
into her eyes, and lighting up her brown, wrinkled face. She was glad
that she had the ten francs; she was glad to see the boy; she was
touched by his unselfishness in declining her offer of a second dinner.
No other member of the family would have declined or waited to decline;
the others would have demanded some freshly cooked dish immediately upon
entering; Uncle Patro would have demanded three or four.

"I've brought my mandolin," Jo Vanny went on. "I've got to take it to
the supper, of course, because they always want me to sing--I never can
get rid of 'em! And so you can hear me, if you like. I know the new
songs, and one of them I composed myself. Well, it's rather heavenly."

All Tonio's children sang like birds. Poor Prudence, who had no ear for
music, had never been able to comprehend either the pleasure or the
profit of the hours they gave to their carollings. But when, in his
turn, her little Jo Vanny began his pipings, then she listened, or tried
to listen. "Real purty, Jo Vanny," she would say, when the silence of a
moment or two had assured her that his song was ended; it was her only
way of knowing--the silence.

So now she brought her work out to the garden, and sewed busily while Jo
Vanny sang and thrummed. Nounce, too, came out, and sat on the wall near
by, listening.

At length the little singer took himself off--took himself off with his
red-satin cravat, his horseshoe pin, and his mandolin under his arm.
Nounce went back to the house, but Prudence sat awhile longer, using, as
she always did, the very last rays of the sunset light for her sewing.

After a while she heard a step, and looked up. "Why, Gooster!--anything
the matter?" she said, in surprise.

Unlike the slender little Jo Vanny, Gooster was a large, stoutly built
young man, as slow in his motions as Jo Vanny was quick. He was a
lethargic fellow with sombre eyes, eyes which sometimes had a gleam in
them.

"There's nothing especial the matter," he answered, dully. "I think I'll
go for a soldier, Denza."

"Go for a soldier? And the per-dairy?"

"I can't never go back to the podere. She's there, and she has taken
up with Matteo. I've had my heart trampled upon, and so I've got a big
