am in the grasp of my old enemy."

"We will try to rout him," I said, cheerfully.

"That sounds well, and encourages me. Do you know, Dr. Fenwick, that
without any special reason I feel great confidence in you. You are a
young man, probably not more than half as old as my regular physician,
but he has not been able to do me any good."

"And I hope to be able to do so."

"I suppose you have had experience in such cases?"

"Yes, I have an old aunt who had suffered untold tortures from
rheumatism. She put herself under my charge, and for her sake I made an
extensive study of rheumatic cases and remedies."

"Well?" he asked, eagerly.

"I finally cured her. It is now three years since she has had a twinge."

"Good! My instinct was correct. That gives me hopes of success under
your charge. Don't be afraid to lose your patient by effecting a speedy
cure. I will make you a promise. When you have so far cured me that I am
free from rheumatic pains for three months, I will hand you a check for
a thousand dollars."

"A thousand dollars!" I repeated with sparkling eyes. "That will indeed
be an inducement."

"Of course I shall pay you your regular fees besides."

I could hardly credit my good fortune. I was like one who had just
received intelligence that I had drawn a large sum in the lottery. I
determined to win the promised check if there was any chance.

I began to question Mr. Vincent as to his trouble. I found that it was a
case of rheumatic gout. A difficult case, but very similar to that of
my aunt. I resolved to try the same treatment with him.

I wished to ask some questions, but he forestalled them.

"I have no wife," he said. "I was left a widower many years ago. My
niece and myself constitute our whole family."

"Don't you feel lonely at times?" I asked.

"Yes. My niece has her friends, suited to one of her age, but little
company for me. If I had a nephew now--like yourself--it would cheer me
up and give me a new interest in life."

"I wish you were my uncle," I said to myself.

"I am an old man, but I have great interest in young company. I think it
was that that drew me toward you at Patti's concert. When I learned that
you were a physician I saw that I could make it worth your while to call
on an old man. I hope you are not a very busy man."

"Not yet," I answered, guardedly. I felt that it would be unwise to let
him know how far from a busy man I was.

"Then you will be able to call upon me every day."

"I will do so gladly, but it will not be necessary--from a medical point
of view."

"No matter! I shall be glad to have you come, and of course I pay for
your time. It will be an advantage, no doubt, to have your patient under
constant observation."

"That is true."

"Now I won't put you to the trouble of keeping an account of your
visits. I will agree to pay you twenty-five dollars a week if that will
be satisfactory."

Twenty-five dollars a week! Why I scarcely made that sum in fees in a
month.

"It is more than I should think of charging," I said, frankly.

"Then it is satisfactory. Your money will be paid you at the end of
every week."

When I left the house I felt as if I had suddenly come into a fortune.
Now I could see my way clear. The little stock of money which still
remained to me would suffer no further diminution. On the contrary, I
should be able to add to it.

It is said that there comes to every man once in his life a chance to
succeed. Apparently mine had come to me, and this chance had come to me
through the Disagreeable Woman.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE PROFESSOR'S BOOK.


For some weeks matters went on quietly at our boarding-house. Prof.
Poppendorf, in spite of the failure of his matrimonial schemes, ate,
smoked, and drank as tranquilly as ever. Ruth was grateful to him that
he had accepted her refusal as final, and disturbed her no more. They
still sat near each other at the table, but there was never anything in
his manner to indicate that there had been any romantic passages between
them.

The Disagreeable Woman remained as great a mystery as ever. Sometimes
she was absent for three or four days together. Then she would suddenly
reappear. No one ever asked where she had been. It would have taken rare
courage to do that. Nor did she ever volunteer any explanation.

Whether she possessed large means or not no one could conjecture. She
always paid her board bill, and with unfailing regularity, at the end of
every week. Her dress was always plain, but oftentimes of costly
material. She seldom indulged in conversation, though she was always
ready with an answer when spoken to. Perhaps I may mention as exceptions
to her general rule of reticence the young woman from Macy's and myself.
She seemed to feel more kindly toward us than toward any of the others.

There had been various attempts to find out where she lived. None had
succeeded. One day Mrs. Wyman asked the question directly.

"Where do you live, Miss Blagden, if you will allow me to ask?"

"I will allow you to ask," returned the Disagreeable Woman, coolly. "Do
you propose to call on me?"

"If you will permit me."

"It is hardly necessary. We meet at the table every day. I am a hermit,"
she added after a pause, "I do not care to receive visitors."

"I once heard of a hermit who lived in one of the cottages on the rocks
near Central Park," said the widow, rather impertinently.

"I don't live there!" said the Disagreeable Woman, composedly.

"Of course not. I did not suppose you did."

"Thank you. You are right as usual."

If Miss Blagden meant to be sarcastic, nothing in her tone revealed it.
She had warded off the attack dictated by curiosity.

Whether Miss Blagden was rich or not, she was always ready to contribute
to any public or private cause. When Prof. Poppendorf announced that he
was about to publish a book, enlarged from his lecture on "The Material
and The Immaterial." Miss Blagden subscribed for two copies.

"One is for you, Dr. Fenwick!" she said, in a low tone.

"Thank you, Miss Blagden. You are very kind. Am I expected to read it?"

"If you can," she responded with a grim smile.

The other boarders were asked, but each had some excuse.

"I have just bought a new hat," said Mrs. Wyman.

"I no understand English," said the Count.

"Do you think I ought to subscribe, Miss Blagden?" asked Ruth.

"No, child. Why should you? You have a use for your money. Besides, you
would not understand it. If you wish, I will buy one for you?"

"No, thank you, Miss Blagden. It would be of no use to me, but I
thought the Professor would think it friendly."

She could not explain that she wished to make amends for refusing his
suit, for she had with rare delicacy abstained from mentioning the
learned German's uncouth courtship. Perhaps Miss Blagden, who was very
observing, penetrated her motive, for she said: "There is something in
that. Subscribe, and I will pay for the book."

Upon this Ruth gently told the Professor that she would take a copy.

He was surprised and delighted.

"By all means Mees Ruth, but perhaps I should give you one."

"No, no, Prof. Poppendorf. I want to show my interest in you--and your
book."

"You are so good. I will give you the first copy."

"Thank you," said Ruth, shyly.

"What do you want of the old fossil's book?" asked Mrs. Wyman later,
when the Professor was out of hearing. "I suspect that you are in love
with the Professor."

"No, you don't suspect that," said Ruth, composedly.

"At any rate he seems struck with you."

"I suppose I am either material or immaterial," returned Ruth, laughing.

"You went to walk with him one evening."

"I am afraid you are jealous, Mrs. Wyman."

The widow laughed and the conversation ended.




CHAPTER XIX.

A SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.


It was some time since Mrs. Gray had made any communication to the
boarders.

But one evening she seemed laboring under suppressed excitement.

"Something is up," said Mr. Blake, the young reporter who sat on my
left, the Disagreeable Woman being on my right.

"We shall have it after supper," I answered.

Mrs. Gray always waited till the last boarder had finished his meal. It
was one of the unwritten laws of the boarding-house.

The last boarder on this occasion was Professor Poppendorf. He was the
heartiest eater, and we usually had to wait for him. When he had taken
the last sip of beer, for in consideration of his national tastes he was
always supplied with a schooner of that liquid which is dear to the
Teutonic heart, Mrs. Gray opened her mouth.

"My friends," she said, "I have a letter to read to you."

She opened a perfumed billet, adjusted her spectacles, and read.

"It is from Mrs. Wyman," she said, "and it is at her request that I read
it."

We had already noticed that neither Mrs. Wyman nor the Count was
present.

Mrs. Gray began:


"MY DEAR MRS. GRAY:--For three years I have been an inmate of your happy
home. I have come to feel an interest in it and in all whose
acquaintance I have made here. I had no thought of leaving you, but
circumstances make it necessary. Let me say at once that I have
consented to marry Count di Penelli. You who are familiar with his fine
traits and aristocratic bearing will hardly be surprised that I have
been unable to resist his ardent entreaties. I had indeed intended never
to marry again, but it was because I never expected to find one who
could take the place of my dear departed first husband. The Count and I
leave by an early train for Philadelphia where the ceremony will be
performed. We may remain there for a few days. Beyond that our plans are
not arranged. We would have had a public wedding and invited our
friends, but as the Count's family are in Italy and cannot be present,
we thought it best to have a simple private ceremony. When we go to
Italy next summer there may be another ceremony at the Penelli Castle in
Southern Italy.

"I cannot tell when I shall return to New York. Probably I shall never
again be an inmate of your happy home. The Count and I may take a flat
up-town--a whole house would be too large for us. But I shall--we shall
certainly call on our old friends, and I trust that the ties that bind
us together in friendship may never weaken.

"I shall soon be the Countess di Penelli. But once more and for the last
time, I subscribe myself

"Your faithful and devoted
"LETITIA WYMAN."


We listened to the reading of the letter in silent excitement. Then
there was a chorus of exclamations.

"Did you ever?" ejaculated the young woman from Macy's.

"I am not surprised," said the Disagreeable woman, calmly. "Mrs. Wyman
has been courting the Count ever since he came here."

"You mean that he has been paying his attentions to her," suggested Mr.
Blake, the reporter.

"No, I mean what I say."

"She says she had no thought of marrying again."

"Mr. Blake, you are a young man. You don't understand women, and
particularly widows. Probably there is not a gentleman at the table whom
Mrs. Wyman has not thought of as a matrimonial subject, yourself not
excepted."

Mr. Blake was a very young man, and he blushed.

"She would not have married me," growled the Professor.
