
“No, but I may do so. If so I will try to get him to go home, and at
any rate I will communicate with you.”

Mr. Wentworth seemed to be somewhat softened by Gerald’s sympathy, but
he was not an emotional man, and business considerations succeeded his
gentler mood.

“Have you got with you the papers I spoke of when we parted?” he asked
with abruptness.

“They are safe,” returned Gerald.

“Do you carry them around with you?”

“I must decline to answer that question,” answered Gerald.

“You are an impertinent boy!”

“How do you make that out?”

“In refusing to answer me.”

“If it were a question which you had a right to expect an answer to, I
would tell you.”

“I have a right to an answer.”

“I don’t think so.”

“Well, let that go. I will give you a thousand dollars for the papers,
not that they are worth it, but because your father was an early friend
of mine, and it will give me an excuse for helping his son.”

“If your intention is kind I thank you, but for the present I prefer to
keep the papers.”

“Is the man you are traveling with rich?”

“I have reason to think he is.”

“Humph!”

Bradley Wentworth walked away, but kept Gerald under his eye. Soon he
saw him promenading with Mr. Brooke, and apparently on very cordial and
intimate terms with him.

“The man seems to be a gentleman,” reflected Wentworth, “but he can’t
be very sharp to let an uneducated country boy worm himself into his
confidence. It doesn’t suit my plans at all. I may get a chance to
injure Gerald in his estimation.”

Later in the day he met Noel Brooke promenading the deck.

“A pleasant day, sir,” said Wentworth politely.

“Yes, sir,” answered the English tourist courteously.

“You are an Englishman, I judge?”

“Yes, sir. I presume I show my nationality in my appearance.”

“Well, yes. However, I was told you were English.”

“Indeed!”

“Yes, by the boy who seems to be in your company.”

“Gerald Lane? Yes, he is in my company.”

“I know the boy.”

“Indeed?”

“Yes, and I knew his father before him. He and I were young men
together.”

“He must have been glad to meet you. He is an excellent boy.”

“I am glad you like him,” said Wentworth, but there was something
unpleasant in his tone, that did not escape the attention of Noel
Brooke.

“Don’t you feel friendly to him?” he asked keenly.

“Yes, but the boy is headstrong and repels my advances.”

“That is singular. He seems to be a very open, frank boy, and I have
discovered nothing objectionable in him in the ten weeks we have been
together.”

“I am pleased to hear it, but the boy’s ancestry is against him.”

“What do you mean? I thought you said his father was a friend of yours.”

“Yes; we were associated together in early life, but something
unpleasant occurred. However, perhaps I had better not speak of it.”

“You have gone too far to recede. I insist upon your continuing.”

“Well, if you insist upon it I will do so. Mr. Lane was in the employ
of my uncle and lost his position in consequence of getting money upon
a forged check which was traced to him.”

Noel Brooke looked disturbed.

“I am sorry to hear it,” he said gravely.

“I presume Gerald has not mentioned the matter to you.”

“No.”

“Well, he could hardly be expected to do so.”

“Still the boy is no worse for his father’s crime.”

“Unless he inherits the same tendency,” said Wentworth significantly.

“I am sure he does not,” said Noel Brooke warmly.

“You can’t tell. I claim to be a sharp business man, but I have more
than once been deceived in a man that I thought I knew well. Warren
Lane seemed to my uncle and myself a thoroughly upright man, but——”
here he paused suggestively.

“What induced him to commit forgery?”

“Extravagant living,” answered Wentworth promptly. “His salary was only
moderate and did not come up to his desires.”

“You surprise me very much,” said Noel Brooke after a brief pause.

“I thought I should, but I felt it to be my duty to warn you against
Gerald. He is probably in confidential relations with you, and he might
play some dishonest trick on you. I advise you, as soon as practicable,
to discharge him and secure some one in his place on whom you can rely.
I need only call your attention to the individual he is talking with at
this moment. He looks like a confidence man.”

Samuel Standish had again joined Gerald, and to the boy’s disgust had
almost forced his company upon him.

“That is a man whom we met at a hotel in Davenport, and he appears
inclined to thrust himself upon us.”

Bradley Wentworth shrugged his shoulders and smiled in evident
incredulity.

“At any rate,” he said, “I have warned you, and have done my duty.”

Noel Brooke bowed slightly, but did not feel called upon to make any
other acknowledgment of Mr. Wentworth’s warning.

When Brooke had an opportunity he said to Gerald, “I have been talking
to a man who claims to know you.”

“A tall, well-built man?”

“Yes.”

“He recently paid us a visit in Colorado.”

“Do you consider him a friend?”

“No.”

“He says he knew your father in early days.”

“That is true.”

“And he charges your father with having committed forgery and thus lost
his position.”

“Was he really so base as that?” asked Gerald indignantly.

“Then it isn’t true?”

“No; a thousand times no!”

“I believe you, Gerald,” said the Englishman promptly.




CHAPTER XXIII.

MR. STANDISH RECEIVES A COMMISSION.


“THANK you for your confidence, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, “but I prefer
that you should have proofs of what I say.”

“It is not necessary, Gerald.”

“But I prefer that you should look over some papers that I have with
me, and for which, by the way, Mr. Wentworth is ready at any time to
pay me a thousand dollars.”

“But why should he be willing to pay so much?” asked the Englishman in
surprise.

“Because they prove that he, and not my father, committed the forgery.
My father agreed to have it charged upon him at Mr. Wentworth’s urgent
request, in order that Wentworth might not be disinherited by his
uncle.”

“But your father ought not to have made such a sacrifice. Why did he do
so?”

“Because Bradley Wentworth promised him twenty thousand dollars when he
came into his fortune.”

“Was the fortune so large, then?”

“Over three hundred thousand dollars.”

“And he came into his fortune?”

“Yes.”

“And refused to carry out his agreement?”

“Yes; he said it was absurd to expect such a liberal reward, though it
brought disgrace and loss to my poor father, and finally, as I think,
shortened his life.”

“It should have been considered a debt of honor.”

“So my father thought, but Mr. Wentworth only offered him a thousand
dollars, which, poor as he was, he indignantly refused. I don’t think
he would have offered anything, if he had not known that my father had
letters proving that he was innocent, and Wentworth himself the forger.”

“Who has these papers now?”

“I have.”

“And you say Mr. Wentworth has offered a thousand dollars for them?”

“He made me that offer this very morning.”

“And you declined to accept it?”

“Yes.”

“Gerald, the man seems to be unscrupulous. If he finds he cannot obtain
the papers in any other way he may plot to have them stolen from you.”

“I don’t know but you are right, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald thoughtfully.

“Shall I advise you?”

“I wish you would.”

“When you get to St. Louis, deposit them with some safe deposit
company, and carry about with you merely copies of them. Then, if they
are stolen, there will be no harm done.”

“Your advice is good, Mr. Brooke, and I shall follow it.”

This conversation took place in their stateroom. Meanwhile, Bradley
Wentworth was engaged in reflection.

“That boy means mischief, I fully believe,” he said to himself. “He is
of a different nature from his father. He is firm and resolute, and
if I read him aright, he will never forego his purpose of demanding
from me the sum which I so foolishly promised his father. The worst of
it is, the papers he carries will, if shown, injure my reputation and
throw upon me the crime of which during all these years his father has
been held guilty. Those papers I must have! My security requires it.”

It was easy to come to this conclusion but not so easy to decide how
the papers could be obtained. He would gladly have paid a thousand
dollars, but that offer had more than once been made, and always
decidedly refused.

As Bradley Wentworth paced the deck with thoughtful brow, Samuel
Standish, who was always drawn towards men whom he suspected to be
wealthy, stepped up, and asked deferentially: “General, may I ask you
for a light?” for Wentworth chanced to be smoking.

Bradley Wentworth paused and scanned the man who accosted him closely.

“Why do you call me General?” he asked.

“I beg your pardon, but I took you for General Borden, member of
Congress from Kentucky.”

“I am not the man.”

“I really beg your pardon. Perhaps, however, you will oblige me with a
light all the same.”

“I will. What is your name?”

“Samuel Standish.”

“Humph! I suppose you are not a member of Congress?”

“No, indeed!” laughed Standish. “I wish I were.”
