arguments we could have hoped to detain him with. As he opened the door
to go out into the night, "But, Tedham!" I called to him, "if anything
happens, where are we to find you, hear of you?"

He hesitated. "I will let you know. Well, good-night."

"I suppose this isn't the end, Isabel," I said, after we had turned from
looking blankly at the closed door, and listening to Tedham's steps,
fainter and fainter on the board-walk to the gate.

"There never is an end to a thing like this!" she returned, with a
passionate sigh of pity. "Oh, what a terrible thing an evil deed is! It
can't end. It has to go on and on forever. Poor wretch! He thought he
had got to the end of his misdeed, when he had suffered the punishment
for it, but it was only just beginning then! Now, you see, it has a
perfectly new lease of life. It's as if it had just happened, as far as
the worst consequences are concerned."

"Yes," I assented. "By the way, that was a great idea of yours about the
office of innocence in the world, Isabel!"

"Why, Basil!" she cried, "you don't suppose I believed in such a
monstrous thing as that, do you?"

"You made me believe in it."

"Well, then, I can tell you that I merely said it so as to convince him
that he ought to let his daughter decide whether she would see him or
not, and it had nothing whatever to do with the matter. Do you think you
could find me anything to eat, dear? I'm perfectly famishing, and it
doesn't seem as if I could stir a step till I've had a bite of
something."

She sank down on the sofa in the hall in proof of her statement, and I
went out into the culinary regions (deserted of their dwellers after our
early tea) and made her up a sandwich along with the one I had the
Sunday-night habit of myself. I found some half-bottles of ale on the
ice, and I brought one of them, too. Before we had emptied it we
resigned ourselves to what we could not help in Tedham's case; perhaps
we even saw it in a more hopeful light.


VII.

The next day was one of those lax Mondays which come before the Tuesdays
and Wednesdays when business has girded itself up for the week, and I
got home from the office rather earlier than usual. My wife met me with,
"Why, what has happened?"

"Nothing," I said; "I had a sort of presentiment that something had
happened here."

"Well, nothing at all has happened, and you have had your presentiment
for your pains, if that's what you hurried home for."

I justified myself as well as I could, and I added, "That wretched
Tedham has been in my mind all day. I think he has made a ridiculous
mistake. As if he could stop the harm by taking himself off! The harm
goes on independently of him; it is hardly his harm any more."

"That is the way it has seemed to me, too, all day," said my wife. "You
don't suppose he has been out of my mind either? I wish we had never had
anything to do with him."

A husband likes to abuse his victory, when he has his wife quite at his
mercy, but the case was so entirely in my favor that for once I forbore.
I could see that she was suffering for having put into Tedham's head the
notion which had resulted in this error, and I considered that she was
probably suffering enough. Besides, I was afraid that if I said anything
it would bring out the fact that I had myself intimated the question
again which his course had answered so mistakenly. I could well imagine
that she was grateful for my forbearance, and I left her to this
admirable state of mind while I went off to put myself a little in shape
after my day's work and my journey out of town. I kept thinking how
perfectly right in the affair Tedham's simple, selfish instinct had
been, and how our several consciences had darkened counsel; that quaint
Tuscan proverb came into ray mind: Lascia fare Iddio, ch' Ã¨ un buon
vecchio. We had not been willing to let God alone, or to trust his
leading; we had thought to improve on his management of the case, and to
invent a principle for poor Tedham that should be better for him to act
upon than the love of his child, which God had put into the man's heart,
and which was probably the best thing that had ever been there. Well, we
had got our come-uppings, as the country people say, and however we
might reason it away we had made ourselves responsible for the event.

There came a ring at the door that made my own heart jump into my mouth.
I knew it was Tedham come back again, and I was still in the throes of
buttoning on my collar when my wife burst into my room. I smiled round
at her as gayly as I could with the collar-buttoning grimace on my face.
"All right, I'll be down in a minute. You just go and talk to him
till--"

"Him?" she gasped back; and I have never been quite sure of her syntax
to this day. "Them! It's Mr. and Mrs. Hasketh, and some young lady! I
saw them through the window coming up the walk."

"Good Lord! You don't suppose it's Tedham's daughter?"

"How do I know? Oh, how could you be dressing at a time like this!"

It did seem to me rather heinous, and I did not try to defend myself,
even when she added, from her access of nervousness, in something like a
whimper, "It seems to me you're always dressing, Basil!"

"I'll be right with you, my dear," I answered, penitently; and, in fact,
by the time the maid brought up the Haskeths' cards I was ready to go
down. We certainly needed each other's support, and I do not know but we
descended the stairs hand in hand, and entered the parlor leaning upon
each other's shoulders. The Haskeths, who were much more deeply
concerned, were not apparently so much moved. We shook hands with them,
and then Mrs. Hasketh said to us in succession, "My niece, Mrs. March;
Mr. March, my niece."

The young girl had risen, and stood veiled before us, and a sort of
heart-breaking appeal expressed itself in the gentle droop of her
figure, which did the whole office of her hidden face. The Haskeths were
dressed, as became their years, in a composite fashion of no particular
period; but I noticed at once, with the fondness I have for what is
pretty in the modes, that Miss Tedham wore one of the latest costumes,
and that she was not only a young girl, but a young lady, with all that
belongs to the outward seeming of one of the gentlest of the kind. It
struck me as the more monstrous, therefore, that she should be involved
in the coil of her father's inexpiable offence, which entangled her
whether he stayed or whether he went. It was well enough that the
Haskeths should still be made miserable through him; it belonged to
their years and experience; they would soon end, at any rate, and it did
not matter whether their remnant of life was dark or bright. But this
child had a right to a long stretch of unbroken sunshine. As I stood and
looked at her I felt the heart-burning, the indefinable indignation that
we feel in the presence of death when it is the young and fair who have
died. Here is a miscalculation, a mistake. It ought not to have been.

I thought that my wife, in the effusion of sympathy, would have perhaps
taken the girl in her arms; but probably she knew that the dropped veil
was a sign that there was to be no embracing. She put out her hand, and
the girl took it with her gloved hand; but though the outward forms of
their greeting were so cold, I fancied an instant understanding and
kindness between them.

"My niece," Mrs. Hasketh explained, when we were all seated, "came home
this afternoon, instead of this morning, when we expected her."

My wife said, "Oh, yes," and after a moment, a very painful moment, in
which I think we all tried to imagine something that would delay the
real business, Mrs. Hasketh began again.

"Mrs. March," she said, in a low voice, and with a curious, apologetic
kind of embarrassment, "we have come--Fay wanted we should come and ask
if you knew about her father--"

"Why, didn't he come to you last night?" my wife began.

"Yes, he did," said Mrs. Hasketh, in a crest-fallen sort, "But we
thought--we thought--you might know where he was. And Fay--Did he tell
you what he was going to do?"

"Yes," my wife gasped back.

The young girl put aside her veil in turning to my wife, and showed a
face which had all the ill-starred beauty of poor Tedham, with something
more in it that she never got from that handsome reprobate--conscience,
soul--whatever we choose to call a certain effluence of heaven which
blesses us with rest and faith whenever we behold it in any human
countenance. She was very young-looking, and her voice had a wistful
innocence.

"Do you think my father will be here again to-night? Oh, I must see him!"

I perceived that my wife could not speak, and I said, to gain time,
"Why, I've been expecting him to come in at any moment;" and this was
true enough.

"I guess he's not very far off," said old Hasketh. "I don't believe but
what he'll turn up." Within the comfort these words were outwardly
intended to convey to the anxious child, I felt an inner contempt of
Tedham, a tacit doubt of the man's nature, which was more to me than the
explicit faith in his return. For some reason Hasketh had not trusted
Tedham's decision, and he might very well have done this without
impugning anything but the weakness of his will.

My wife now joined our side, apparently because it was the only theory
of the case that could be openly urged. "Oh, yes, I am sure. In fact he
promised my husband to let him know later where he was. Didn't you
understand him so, my dear?"

I had not understood him precisely to this effect, but I answered, "Yes,
certainly," and we began to reassure one another more and more. We
talked on and on to one another, but all the time we talked at the young
girl, or for her encouragement; but I suppose the rest felt as I did,
that we were talking provisionally, or without any stable ground of
conviction. For my part, though I indulged that contempt of Tedham, I
still had a lurking fear that the wretch had finally and forever
disappeared, and I had a vision, very disagreeable and definite, of
Tedham lying face downward in the pool of the old cockpit and shone on
by the stars in the hushed circle of the woods. Simultaneously I heard
his daughter saying, "I can't understand why he shouldn't have come to
us, or should have put it off. He couldn't think I didn't wish to see
him." And now I looked at my wife aghast, for I perceived that the
Haskeths must have lacked the courage to tell her that her father had
decided himself not to see her again, and that they had brought her to
us that we might stay her with some hopes, false or true, of meeting him
soon. "I don't know what they mean," she went on, appealing from them to
us, "by saying that it might be better if I never saw him again!"

"I don't say that any more, child," said Mrs. Hasketh, with affecting
humility. "I'm sure there isn't any one in the whole world that I would
bless the sight of half as much."

"I could have come before, if I'd known where he was; or, if I had only
known, I might have been here Saturday!" She broke into a piteous
lamentation, with tears and sobs that wrung my heart and made me feel
like one of a conspiracy of monsters. "But he couldn't--he
couldn't--have thought I didn't want to see him!"

It was a very trying moment for us all, and I think that if we had, any
of us, had our choice, we should have preferred to be in her place
rather than our own. We miserably did what we could to comfort her, and
we at last silenced her with I do not know what pretences. The affair
was quite too much for me, and I made a feint of having heard the
children calling me, and I went out into the hall. I felt that there was
a sort of indecency in my witnessing that poor young thing's emotion;
women might see it, but a man ought not. Perhaps old Hasketh felt the
same; he followed me out, and when we were beyond hearing, even if he
had spoken aloud, he dropped his voice to a thick murmur and said, "This
has all been a mistake. We have had to get out of it with the girl the
best we could; and we don't dare to let her know that Tedham isn't
coming back any more. You noticed from what she said that my wife tried
to make believe it might be well if he didn't; but she had to drop
that; it set the girl wild. She hasn't got anything but the one idea:
that she and her father belong to each other, and that they must be
together for the rest of their lives. A curious thing about it is," and
Hasketh sank his voice still lower to say this, "that she thinks that if
he's taken the punishment that was put upon him he has atoned for what
he did; and if any one tries to make him suffer more he does worse than
Tedham did, and he's flying in the face of Providence. Perhaps it's so.
I'm afraid," Hasketh continued, with the satisfaction men take in
blaming their wives under the cover of sympathy, "that Mrs. Hasketh is
going to feel it more and more, as time goes on, unless Tedham turns up.
I was never in favor of trying to have the child forget him, or be
separated from him in any way. That kind of thing can't be made to work,
and I don't suppose, when you come to boil it down, that it's
essentially right. This universe, I take it, isn't an accident in any
particular, and if she's his daughter it's because she was meant to be,
and to bear and share with him. You see it was a great mistake not to
prepare the child for it sooner, and tell her just when Tedham would be
out, so that if she wanted to see him she could. She thinks she ought to
have been there at the prison waiting to speak to him the first one. I
thought it was a mistake to have her away, and I guess that's the way
Mrs. Hasketh looks at it herself, now."

A stir of garments made itself heard from the parlor at last, and we
knew the ladies had risen. In a loud voice Hasketh began to say that
they had a carriage down at the gate, and I said they had better let me
show them the way down; and as my wife followed the others into the
hall, I pulled open the outer door for them. On the threshold stood a
man about to ring, who let his hand drop from the bell-pull. "Why,
Tedham!" I shouted, joyfully.

The light from the hall-lamp struck full on his face; we all
involuntarily shrank back, except the girl, who looked, not at the man
before her, but first at her aunt and then at her uncle, timorously, and
murmured some inaudible question. They did not answer, and now Tedham
and his daughter looked at each other, with what feeling no one can ever
fully say.


VIII.

It always seemed to me as if we had witnessed something like the return
of one from the dead, in this meeting. We were talking it over one
evening some weeks later, and "It would be all very well," I
philosophized, "if the dead came back at once, but if one came back
after ten years, it would be difficult."

"It was worse than coming back from the dead," said my wife. "But I hope
that is the end of it so far as we are concerned. I am sure I am glad to
be out of it, and I don't wish to see any of them ever again."

"Why, I don't know about that," I returned, and I began to laugh. "You
know Hubbell, our inspector of agencies?"

"What has he got to do with it?"

"Hubbell has had a romantic moment. He thinks that in view of the
restitution Tedham made as far as he could, and his excellent
record--elsewhere--it would be a fine thing for the Reciprocity to
employ him again in our office, and he wanted to suggest it to the
actuary."

"Basil! You didn't allow him to do such a cruel thing as that?"

"No, my dear, I am happy to say that I sat upon that dramatic climax."

This measurably consoled my wife, but she did not cease to denounce the
idea for some moments. When she ended, I asked her if she would allow
the company to employ Tedham in a subordinate place in another city, and
when she signified that this might be suffered, I said that this was
what would probably be done. Then I added, seriously, that I thoroughly
liked the notion of it, and that I took it for a testimony that poor old
Tedham was right, and that he had at last fully expiated his offence
