Utterly overwhelmed by the catastrophe, I wandered aimlessly into the
forest and sat down. Hour after hour I sat there, and my shocked
senses strove only to find some way to avert the consequences of the
deed wrought by Greathouse. But the awful work had been done; the
Gordian knot cut; my Lord Dunmore's war had begun at last, in
deference to my Lord Dunmore's desires, and in accordance with his
plans. Now, Cresap must fight; now, the Six Nations would rise to
avenge the Cayugas on the colonies; now, the King of England would
have the savage allies he desired so ardently, and the foul pact would
be sealed with the blood of Logan's children!

"Never, by God's grace!" I cried out, in my agony; and I stumbled to
my feet, my head burning and throbbing as though it would burst. The
woods had grown dim; the day was already near its end--this bloody
day! this sad day which had dawned so hopefully for all! Suddenly I
began running through the forest, gnashing my teeth and cursing the
King whom such servants as Dunmore served.

"Faster, oh, faster," I muttered, as I ran; "faster to slay this
devil, Butler, who has counselled Greathouse to this deed!"

Again and again I stumbled and fell, but rose, not feeling the
bruises, crazed to do vengeance on the wicked men who outraged God by
living. But truly, vengeance is the Lord's, and He alone may repay,
nor was I the instrument He chose for His wrath. Swiftly I ran,
swifter ran His purpose; for, behold! a man rose up in my path and
held me fast, a soldier, who shook me and shouted at me until my
senses, which had sped before me with my vengeance, halted and
returned. Presently I began to understand his words, and listened.

"Are ye mad?" he repeated. "Can't ye see the savages across the river
following? The Cayugas are loose on the Ohio! It is war!"

Other men crept up and dropped into cover behind the trees around me;
some were colonial soldiers, some farmers from the camp, some hunters
in wool shirts and caps. All at once I saw Colonel Cresap come out
into the trail close by, and, when he perceived me, he cried: "Logan's
children have been murdered by Greathouse! The Cayugas are swarming on
the Ohio!"

I hastened to his side and begged him to let me carry his promise to
the Cayugas that Greathouse should be punished, and that his colonists
would retire. He shook his head.

"Greathouse has fled to Pittsburg," he said. "I cannot retire with my
people because they would not follow me. It is too late, Mr. Cardigan;
Dunmore has sprung his trap. Ha! Look at that!" And he turned and
shouted out an order to the soldiers around.

A dozen savages, naked to the waist, were fording the Ohio between us
and the settlement. Already the soldiers were running through the
woods along the river to head them off, and Cresap started after them,
calling back for those who remained to guard the trail in the rear.
Then a rifle went bang! among the trees; another report rang out,
followed instantly by twenty more in a volley.

Down a low oak ridge, close by, I saw an Indian tumbling like a stone
till he fell with a splash into a mossy hollow full of rain-water and
dead leaves. After him bounded a hunter in buckskins, long knife
flashing.

"Cresap!" I panted, "don't let him take that scalp! Have your men gone
mad? You can stop this war! It is not too late yet, but a scalp taken
means war--God in heaven! a scalp means war to the death!"

"Don't touch that scalp!" roared Cresap, hurrying towards the ranger,
who was kneeling on one knee beside the dead Cayuga. "Nathan Giles! Do
you hear me? Let that scalp alone, you bloody fool!"

It was too late; the ranger squatted, wrenching the scalp free with a
ripping sound, just as Cresap ran up in a towering rage.

"They take ours," remonstrated the ranger, tying the ghastly trophy to
his belt by its braided lock of hair; "I guess I have a right to scalp
my own game!" he added, sullenly.

Cresap turned to me with a gesture of despair.

"You see," he said; and walked slowly away towards the river, where
the rifles were ringing out shot on shot across the shoals below the
shallow camp-ford on the edge of the roaring riffles.

So now, at last, Lord Dunmore's war had begun without hope of
mediation. Too late now for embassy of peace, too late for truce or
promises or the arbitration of fair speech. There is nothing on earth
to compensate for a scalp taken, save a scalp taken in return. I had
failed--failed totally, and without hope of retrieving failure. The
first attempt must be the last. A scalp had been taken. My mission was
at an end.

Ay, ended irrevocably now, for all around me firelocks and rifles were
banging; the woods swam in smoke; the war-yelp sounded nearer and
nearer; the white cross-belts of the soldiers glimmered through the
trees.

Too miserable to shun danger, I sat down on a stone in the trail, my
head in my hands, rifle across my knees. Presently a soldier who had
been standing near me, firing across the river, fell down with a grunt
and lay there flat on his back.

I stared at him stupidly, not realizing that the man was dead, though
out of his head crawled a sluggish, dark red stream, dropping steadily
onto the withered leaves. It was only when a swift, dusky shape came
creeping out of the brush towards the dead man that I came to my
senses and dropped behind the stone I had been resting on, barely in
time, too, for a bullet came smack! against my rock, and after it,
bounding and yelping, flew an Indian. He was on me ere I could fire,
one sinewy fist twisted in my hair, but his knife snapped off short on
my rifle-stock, and together, over and over we rolled, down a ravine
among the willows, clawing, clutching, strangling each other, till of
a sudden my head struck a tree, crack! And I knew nothing after that
until the cool rain beating in my face awoke me. I lay very still,
listening.

Somebody near by was trying to light a fire; I smelled the flint and
the glowing tinder. Another odour hung heavily in the moist night air,
the wild, rank scent of savage men, strong and unmistakable as the
odour of a dog-fox in March.

I began to move noiselessly, working my head around so that I might
see. My head was aching heavily; I could scarce stir it. At length I
raised myself on my hands, and saw the spark from a flint fly into a
ball of dry moss and hang there like a fire-fly until the tiny circle
of light spread slowly into a glow, ringed with little flames that ate
their way through the tinder-moss.

A tufted head bobbed down beside the flame; unseen lips blew the fire
into a sudden blaze which brightened and flashed up, throwing ruddy
shadows over bush and earth.

Then I saw that I lay on a hill-top in the rain, with dark, shaggy
bushes hedging me. And under every bush crouched an Indian, whose
dusky, half-naked body glistened with paint, over which rain-drops
stood in brilliant beads.

Leggings, clouts, sporrans, and moccasins were soaked; the slippery,
wet buckskins glistened like the hides of serpents; fringes, beaded
belts, and sheaths shone as tinted frost sparkles at sunrise.

In the luminous shadow of the bushes I saw brilliant eyes watching me
as I dragged myself nearer the fire. The red embers' glow fell on
steel blades of hatchets, bathing them with blood-colour to the hilts.

Once, when I attempted to sit up, an arm shot out of the shadow,
making the sign for silence; and mechanically I repeated the signal
and laid my head down again on the cool, wet ground.

All night I lay, perfectly conscious, beside the Cayuga fire, yet not
alarmed, although a prisoner.

The Cayugas knew me as a belt-bearer from Sir William; they could not
ill-treat me. Tamarack, Yellow Hand, and Sowanowane would vouch for me
to this party of young men who had taken me. I had harmed none of
them; I had barely defended my life when attacked.

As I lay there on the windy hill-top, through the rain across the dim
valley I could see the battle-lanthorns hanging on Cresap's fort, and
I could hear the preparations for a siege, the hammering and chopping
and cries of teamsters, the rumble of wagons over the drawbridge, the
distant challenge of guards, the murmur and dulled tumult of many
people hastening urgent business.

Beside me, on their haunches, crouched my captors, alert and curious,
dressing their ears to the distant noises. There were eleven of them,
young men with all their lives before them in which to win the eagle's
plume; eleven lithe, muscular young savages, stripped to the belt,
well oiled, crowns shaved save for the lock, and every man freshly
painted for war. All wore the Wolf.

He who had taken me, now carried my pouch and powder-horn and bore my
rifle. A scalp hung at his yellow girdle, doubtless the scalp of the
soldier who had been shot beside me in the trail. I could smell the
pomatum on the queue.

I spoke to them calmly, and at first they seemed inclined to listen,
appearing surprised at my knowledge of their tongue. But they would
reply to none of my questions, and finally they silenced me with
sullen threats, which, however, did not disturb me, as I knew their
sachems must set me free.

My head ached a great deal from the blow I had suffered; I was
willing enough to lie quietly and watch the lights in the fort through
the slow veil of falling rain; and presently I fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hot glare of a torch awoke me. All around me crowded masses of
savages, young and old, women and youths and children. The woods
vomited barbarians; they came in packs, moving swiftly, muttering to
each other, and hastening as though on some pressing affair.

Women near me were digging a hole, and presently came a strong young
girl, bearing a post of buckeye, and set it heavily in the hole,
fitting it while the others stamped in the mud around it with naked
feet.

The main crowd, however, had surged down into a hollow to the left,
and, as I lay on the ground, watching the shadowy, retreating throng,
of a sudden came three Indians driving before them a white man, arms
tied, bloodless face stamped with horror indescribable.

As he passed the fire where I lay, I thought his starting eyes met
mine, but he staggered on without speaking, down into the darkness of
the hollow. I knew him. He was Nathan Giles, who had taken the first
scalp in Lord Dunmore's war.

Shuddering, I sat up, turning my head towards the gloom below. There
was not a sound. I waited, straining eyes and ears. My heart drummed
on my ribs. I caught my breath and clinched my hands.

Without the slightest warning, the black pit below burst out in a
sheet of light, shining on a thousand motionless savages; and in the
centre of the glare I saw a naked figure, bound to a tree, twisting
through smoke-shot flames.

For a second only the scene wavered before me; then I gripped my
temples and pressed my face down into the cool, wet grass. Awful cries
rang in my ears; the garrison at the fort heard them, too, for they
fired a cannon, and I heard distant drums beating to arms.

"Thus you are to die," repeated the Indians beside me. "Thus you will
die here on this hill at dawn. Thus you will suffer in plain view of
the fort! This for the death of Logan's children!"

And one to another they said: "He is weeping. He is a woman. He will
weep thus when he burns."

I heard them, but what they said left my mind numbed and cold. For me
there was no meaning in their words; none at all. My ears shrank from
the awful cries, now piercing the very clouds above me, hell's own
solo accompanied by the ceaseless, solemn murmur of the rain.

Into my nostrils crept the stench of burnt flesh; it grew stronger and
stronger. Silence fell, soothed by the whispering rain; then out of
the night came the dull noise of many people stirring. They were
coming!

As I rose, a Cayuga youth seized me and threw me heavily against the
post I had seen the woman embed in the mud. I fought and strained and
writhed, but they tied me, bracing me up stiff against the wet stake,
trussed like a fowl for basting.

Around me the crowd was thickening; hundreds of tongues loaded me with
insults; thrice a young girl reached out and struck me in the face.

They had begun piling wood around my feet, and stuffing the spaces
full of dry moss, but before the heap reached my knees they decided to
face me towards the fort, so the work accomplished had to be undone,
my bonds loosened and retied, and my body shifted to breast the south.

Through the falling rain I saw morning lurking behind the eastern
hills, and I cursed it, for the shock and terror had driven me out of
my senses. I remember hearing a voice calling on God, but for a long
time I did not know the voice was mine. It was only when the same
young girl who had struck me lighted a splinter of yellow pine and
thrust it through my arm that my senses returned. I opened my eyes as
from a swoon, seeing clearly the faces around me, red under the
torches. And foremost among those in front stood Tamarack in his
scarlet robes, just as I had seen him at dawn through the smoke of the
sacred fire. Now my voice came back, seeking my lips; my parched
tongue moved, and I called on Tamarack to hear me, but he shook his
head, though I adjured him by the belts I had borne and received, by
the sanctuary of the council-fire whose smoke I had sweetened, and by
the three tribes I had raised up.

"Lies," he said; "you come not from Johnstown! Your belts are lies;
your words lie; your tongue is forked! You come from Cresap! Cresap
shall see how you can die for him!"

"I speak the truth!" I cried out, in my agony. "I am a belt-bearer! I
have laid the ghosts of your slain ones! Who dares send my spirit to
teach your dead that you betray their ashes?"

There was a dead silence. Presently somebody in the throng said,
distinctly: "If he speaks the truth, let him go. We honour our dead."
And other voices repeated:

"We honour our dead."

"He lies," said Tamarack.

"I speak truth!" I groaned. "If you honour your dead, if you honour
those whom I have raised up in their places, free me, brothers of the
Cayugas!"

"Free him!" cried many.

For a space the throng was quiet, then a distant movement to my left
made me turn hopefully. The throng wavered, parted, opened, and a
white man came elbowing his way to the stake.

He whispered to Tamarack; the aged sachem stretched out his arm,
making a mystic sign.

Eagerly the white man turned and looked at me, and I cried out with
rage and horror, for I was face to face with Walter Butler.

He spoke, but I scarcely heard him urging my death.

Terror, which had gripped me, gave place to fury, and that in turn
