                   *       *       *       *       *

The clock in the hall chimed the quarter hour after eleven. Cavenaugh
was in his den. His desk was littered with sheets of paper, upon which
were formidable columns of figures and dollar signs. He sat back in his
chair and listened. He thought he heard a door or window close; he
wasn't certain. It was probably one of the servants. He bit off the end
of a fresh cigar and resumed his work. Let the young people play golf,
if they wanted to, and dance and frivol away the precious hours; they
would never know the joy of seeing one become two, two become four, and
so on, till the adding grew into the ransoms of many kings. Ay, this was
to live. Oh, the beautiful numerals! Brigade after brigade, corps after
corps, they marched at a sign from him; an army greater than that of
kings. To sit in a little room, as in a puppet-booth, and juggle the
policies of the nations! Yes, Kate should have a duke and Norah a
prince; he would show them all some day. Recollecting Carrington, he
frowned. Did the fellow know anything, that he felt the power to refuse
an offer such as he had made at the dinner-table? Bah! It would be like
crushing some insect. He determined that this should be Carrington's
last visit. His pen moved once more, and presently he became lost in his
dreams of calculation.

But Cavenaugh's ears had not deceived him, however, for he had heard the
sound of a closing window. A window had been closed, but none of the
servants had been at hand.

At precisely eleven a man came swiftly but cautiously across the lawn.
When he reached the long windows of the dining-room he paused, but not
irresolutely. There was a sharp rasping sound, followed by the uncertain
glare that makes the light of a dark-lantern separate and individual,
and a window swung noiselessly inward. The room was in total darkness.
The man wore a short mask, a soft felt hat well down over his eyes. He
cupped his hand to his ear and strained to catch any sound. Silence.
Then he dropped behind the screen, consulted a slip of paper by the
light of his lantern, and with a few quick turns of the combination-knob
opened the door of the safe. He extracted the envelope and thrust it
into his pocket, without so much as a glance at its contents. In making
his exit, the window stuck on the sill. In pressing it the lock snapped
loudly. This was the sound Cavenaugh heard. The burglar ran lightly
across the lawn and disappeared beyond the hedges. And none too soon.

The Cavenaugh drag rolled over the hill and went clattering up to the
porte-coch√®re.

On the way home Carrington, his mind still wavering between this
expedient and that, decided that, after all, he would take charge of the
papers himself. It didn't seem quite fair that Cavenaugh's safe should
protect his ultimate disgrace. So, upon entering the house, he confided
his desire to Kate, who threw aside her wraps and led him into the
dining-room. She had her own reasons for wishing the papers out of the
safe. She turned on the lights and swirled the combination-knob. At this
moment Norah came in.

"What are you doing?" she asked.

"Mr. Carrington left some valuable papers in the safe, and he wants
them."

Carrington wondered why Norah gazed from him to her sister with so wild
an expression.

"Papers?" she murmured.

Kate opened the door. She sprang to her feet in terror and dismay.

"What is it?" cried Carrington, who saw by her expression that something
extraordinary had happened.

"They ... it is not there!"

Norah sat down and hid her face on her arms.

Carrington rushed over to the safe, stooped and made a hasty
examination. It had been opened by some one who knew the combination! He
stood up, a cold chill wrinkling his spine. He saw it all distinctly.
Cavenaugh knew. He had known all along. Cavenaugh had overheard him
speak to Kate, and had opened the safe after their departure for the
club. It was all very cleverly done. He knew that Kate was utterly
blameless. Then it dawned upon him that, they appeared as though they
accepted the catastrophe as not wholly unexpected! To what did this
labyrinth lead?

                             [Illustration]

A rattle of the curtain-rings wheeled them about. They beheld Cavenaugh
himself standing in the doorway.

"What's the trouble?" he asked, eying Carrington suspiciously.

Carrington answered him icily. "I left some legal documents of great
value in this safe; they are no longer there."

Cavenaugh's jaw dropped. He stared at Kate, then at Norah. If ever there
was written on a face unfeigned dismay and astonishment, it was on the
millionaire's. A moment before Carrington would have sworn that he was
guilty; now he knew not what to believe. He grew bewildered. There had
certainly been a burglar; but who was he?

"Mr. Carrington," said Cavenaugh, pulling himself together with an
effort, "you need have no worry whatever. I will undertake to restore
your documents. I offer you no explanations." He left them abruptly.

The young lawyer concluded to grope no longer. Somebody else would have
to lead him out of this labyrinthine maze. All at once there came to him
a sense of infinite relief. Providence had kindly taken the matter out
of his hands.

"Never mind, Kate," he said. "For my part, I should be entirely
satisfied if I never saw the miserable thing again."

"Father will find it for you." Her eyes were dim with tears of shame.

"What is it, girl?"

"Nothing that I can explain to you, John. Good night."

When he had gone to his room, Norah turned to her sister and sobbed on
her breast.

"Oh, Kate!"

"What is the matter, child?"

"I told grandpa the combination!"




                                  III


CARRINGTON tumbled out of bed at six and threw out the old-fashioned
green blinds. A warm, golden summer morning greeted his eyes, and the
peaceful calm of Sunday lay upon the land. A robin piped in an
apple-tree, an oriole flashed across the flower-beds, and a bee buzzed
just outside the sill. A brave day! He stepped into his tub, bathed, and
dressed in his riding-clothes, for there was to be a canter down to the
sea and return before breakfast. From the window he could see the groom
walking the beautiful thoroughbreds up and down the driveway. There were
only two this morning; evidently Norah was not going.

The Cavenaugh girls had created almost a scandal and a revolution when
they first appeared at Glenwood. People had read and talked about women
riding like men, they had even seen pictures of them, but to find them
close at hand was something of a shock. Yet, when they saw with what
ease the Cavenaugh girls took the hedges, ditches and fences, how their
mounts never suffered from saddle-galls, and, above all, how the two
always kept even pace with the best men riders, opinion veered; and
several ladies changed their habits.

Norah, who saw the droll side of things, once said that the accepted
riding habit for women reminded her of a kimono for a harp.

Carrington stole gently down to the horses. He had great affection for
the sleek thoroughbreds. Their ears went forward when they saw him, and
they whinnied softly. He rubbed their velvet noses and in turn they
nozzled him for sugar-loaves. Had it not been for the night and the
attendant mysteries, his happiness would have been complete. People
waste many precious moments in useless retrospection; so Carrington
resolutely forced the subject from his mind. One thing was certain, the
Cavenaughs knew who the burglar was; and there was something strange in
the idea of an empty safe in a millionaire's home. Pshaw! He took out
the expected sugar-loaves and extended them on both palms. The pair
lipped his hand and crunched the sweets with evident relish.

"How are they to-day, James?"

"Fit for twenty miles, straight away or 'cross-lots, sir. Your mount is
feeling his oats this morning; he hasn't been out for a run since
Thursday, sir. I've put the curb on him in case he takes it into his
head to cut up shines. Here comes Miss Kate, sir."

Carrington's pulse rose. Kate was approaching them. She was pale but
serene. She smiled a good morning, which took in the gentleman and the
groom.

"I hope I haven't kept you waiting."

"Not a moment; I only just got down myself," said Carrington.

She mounted without assistance and adjusted her skirts. The filly began
to waltz, impatient to be off.

"To the beach?" Carrington asked, swinging into his saddle.

She nodded, and they started off toward the highway at a smart trot.
Once there, the animals broke into an easy canter, which they maintained
for a mile or more. Then Kate drew down to a walk.

"What a day!" said he, waving his hand toward the sea-line.

There was color a-plenty on her cheeks now, and her eyes shone like
precious stones. There is no exhilaration quite like it. She flicked the
elders with her crop, and once or twice reached up for a ripening apple.
In the air there was the strange sea-smell, mingled with the warm scent
of clover.

"I'll race you to the beach!" she cried suddenly.

"Done! I'll give you to the sixth tree." He laughed. There was really
nothing at all in the world but this beautiful girl, the horses, and the
white road that wound in and out to the sea.

She trotted her mount to the sixth tree, turned, and then gave the
signal. Away they went, the horses every bit as eager as their riders.
With their ears laid back, their nostrils wide, their feet drumming,
they thundered down the road. Carrington gained, but slowly, and he had
to hold his right arm as a shield for his eyes, as the filly's heels
threw back a steady rain of sand and gravel. Faster and faster; a
milk-wagon veered out just in time; foolish chickens scampered to the
wrong side of the road, and the stray pigs in the orchards squealed and
bolted inland. It was all very fine. And when they struck deep tawny
sand the animals were neck and neck. It was now no easy task to bring
them to a stop. Carrington's hunter had made up his mind to win, and the
lithe filly was equally determined. As an expedient, they finally guided
the animals toward the hull of an ancient wreck; nothing else would have
stopped them.

"How I love it!" said Kate breathlessly, as she slid from the saddle.
"Beauty, you beat him, didn't you!" patting the dripping neck of her
favorite.

They tethered the horses presently, and sat down in the shade of the
hull.

"Nothing like it, is there, girl?"

"I hate automobiles," she answered irrelevantly.

The old, old sea quarreled murmurously at their feet, and the white
gulls sailed hither and thither, sometimes breasting the rollers just as
they were about to topple over into running creamy foam. The man and the
girl seemed perfectly content to remain voiceless. There was no sound
but the song of the sea: the girl dreamed, and the man wondered what her
dream was. Presently he glanced at his watch. He stood up, brushing the
sand from his clothes.

"Half an hour between us and breakfast, Kate. All aboard!"

The night before might have been only an idle dream.

So they took the road back. Only the sea and the gulls saw the tender
kiss.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The pariah sauntered in at two o'clock that afternoon, just as the
family were sitting down to luncheon. He was a revelation. There was
nothing shabby about him now. He wore a new suit, spats, a new straw
hat, and twirled a light bamboo. There was something jaunty and
confident in his air, a bubbling in his eyes; altogether, he was in fine
fettle about something. He cast aside his hat and cane with a flourish.

"Aha! just in time," he said. "Another chair, William."

The butler sent a dubious glance at his master; there was the usual curt
nod and the frown. So grandpa sat down beside Norah, whose usual
effervescence had strangely subsided; he pinched her cheek, and
deliberated between the cold ham and chicken.

"A fine day! A beautiful day! A day of days!" he cried, surrendering to
the appetitious lure of both meats.

Nobody replied to this outburst of exuberance; nobody had the power to.
A strange calm settled over every one. This was altogether a new kind of
grandpa. There was nothing timid or hesitant here, nothing meek and
humble; neither was there that insufferable self-assurance and arrogance
of a disagreeable man. Grandpa's attitude was simply that of an equal,
of a man of the world, of one who is confident of the power he holds in
reserve; that was all. But for all that, he was a sensation of some
magnitude. Carrington was seized with a wild desire to laugh. The truth
came to him like an illumination; but he wisely held his peace.

"There is something in the air to-day that renews youth in old age; eh,
my son?" with a sly wink at Cavenaugh.

Cavenaugh's expression of wonder began to freeze and remained frozen to
the end of the meal. So all the honors of conversation fell to grandpa,
who seemed to relish this new privilege.

"Father," said Cavenaugh, holding back his accumulated wrath, "I want to
see you in my study."

"Immediately, my son. I was just about to make that same request."
Grandpa looked at Kate, then at Carrington. "I suppose you young persons
will invite poor old grandpa to the wedding?"

"Father!" This was altogether too much for patrician blood. Cavenaugh's
face reddened and his fists closed ominously. "You will do me the honor,
father, not to meddle with my private affairs. Kate is my daughter, and
she shall marry the man it pleases me to accept."

Carrington felt this cut dart over grandpa's shoulder. He stirred
uneasily.

"Oh, if that's the way you look at it!" with a comical deprecatory
shrug. Grandpa touched Carrington on the arm. "Young man, do you love
this girl? No false modesty, now; the truth, and nothing but the truth.
Do you love her?"

