certain, but as he met the steady eyes of Hillard he no longer doubted.
It was true. He turned and spoke to his brother officer. Merrihew's
throat grew full, but not from fear. The man with the scar stepped over
to the table and leaned with his hands upon it. There was a savage humor
in his dark eyes.

"Did I not tell you that we should meet again?" he said to Hillard.
"This is a pleasant moment." He stood back again.

"Are you speaking to me?" asked Hillard, not the least perturbed. He had
not stirred in his chair, though every muscle in his body was alert and
ready at a moment's call.

"Certainly I am speaking to you. You understand Italian sufficiently
well. This is the fellow," speaking to his companion, at the same time
drawing off his gloves, "this is the fellow I spoke to you about."

"I object to the word fellow," said Hillard, smiling grimly. "Besides, I
do not know you."

"Ah, discreet!" sneered the man with the scar.

"Be careful, Enrico," warned the brother officer. "There are many about,
and a scene is not wise. Ask the American to take a walk. You could
arrange with more ease."

"Thank you," said Hillard, "but I am perfectly comfortable where I am.
If this gentleman has anything to say, he must say it here and now."

"Colonel!" cried the subaltern, as his senior smoothed the gloves and
placed them carefully in his left hand, closing his fingers over them.

"Oh, I am calm. But I have been dreaming of this moment. Now!" The
colonel readdressed Hillard. "You meddled with an affair that night in
which you had no concern," he began truculently.

"Are you quite sure?"

Merrihew eyed Hillard nervously. He did not understand the words, worse
luck, but the tone conveyed volumes. It was crisp and angry. Hillard
possessed a temper which was backed by considerable strength, and only
on rare occasions did this temper slip from his control. Thoroughly
angry, Hillard was not a happy man to antagonize.

"Yes, I am sure. And yet, as I think it over, as I recollect the
woman," went on the colonel, with a smile which was evil and
insinuating.... "Well, I shall not question you. The main thing is, you
annoyed me. In Monte Carlo I was practically alone. Here the scene is
different; it is Florence. Doubtless you will understand." He struck out
with the gloves.

But they never touched Hillard's face. His hand, expectant of this very
movement, caught the assailant's wrist, and, with a quick jerk, brought
him half-way across the table. He bore down on the wrist so fiercely
that the Italian cried faintly. Hillard, with his face but a span from
the other's, spoke tensely, but in an undertone.

"Listen carefully to what I have to say, signore. I understand
perfectly, but I shall fight no duel. It is an obsolete fashion, and
proves nothing but mechanical skill. I do not know what kind of
blackguard you are, but blackguard I know you to be. If you ever address
me again I promise on the word of a gentleman to give you a whipping
which will have a more lasting effect upon your future actions than a
dozen sermons. If that will not serve, I shall appeal to the police."

"Poltroon!"

"As often as you please!" Hillard flung him off roughly.

A small but interested crowd had gathered by now, and Merrihew saw
visions of Italian jails. Through the crowd the ever-present
 carabinieri  shouldered their way.

"It is nothing," said the colonel, motioning them to stand back, which
they did with a sign of respect. This sign gave Hillard some food for
thought. His antagonist was evidently a personage of some importance.

"Figure of an American pig!"

Hillard laughed. "I might have broken your wrist, but did not. You are
not grateful."

The  carabinieri  moved forward again.

"The affair is over," said Hillard amiably. "This officer has mistaken
me for some one he knows."

The scar was livid on the Italian's cheek. He stood undecided for a
space. His companion laid a restraining hand on his arm. He nodded, and
the two made off. What might in former days have been a tragedy was
nothing more than a farce. But it spoiled the night for Merrihew, and he
was for going back to the hotel. Hillard agreed.

"At first I wanted you to give him a good stiff punch," said Merrihew,
"but I am glad you didn't."

"We should have slept in the lockup over night if I had. The
 carabinieri  would not have understood my excuses. If our friend is
left-handed, he'll be inconvenienced for a day or two. I put some force
into that grip. You see, Dan, the Italian still fights his duels.
Dueling is not extinct in the army here. An officer who refuses to
accept a challenge for a good or bad cause is practically hounded out of
the service. It would have been a fine joke if I had been fool enough to
accept his challenge. He would have put daylight through me at the first
stroke."

"I don't know about that," replied Merrihew loyally. "You are the crack
fencer in New York."

"But New York isn't Florence, my boy. I'll show you some fencing
to-morrow. If my old fencing master, Foresti Paoli, is yet in Florence,
I'll have him arrange some matches. New York affairs will look tame to
you then."

"But what has he to do with your vanishing lady?"

"I should like to know."

"I wish I had thought to ask a waiter who the duffer is. Did you notice
how respectful the  carabinieri  were?"

"It set me thinking. Oh, I've a premonition that we haven't seen the
last of this distinguished gentleman. Perhaps we'll find out who he is
sooner than we care to."

"When the time comes," said Merrihew with a laugh, "be sure you soak it
to him, and an extra one for me."

Early on the morrow they rode out to the Cascine, formerly a dairy-farm,
but now a splendid park. The bridle-paths are the finest in the world,
not excepting those in the Bois de Bologne in Paris. They are not so
long, perhaps, but they are infinitely more beautiful. Take, for
instance, the long path under a tunnel of enormous trees, a bridle-path
where ten men may ride abreast with room to spare, and nearly half a
mile in length; there is nothing like it.

"I tell you what it is, Jack; Italy may put a tax on salt and sea-water,
but always gives something in return; she puts up a picture-gallery or a
museum, or a park like this. What do we get back in America?  Niente! "

For two hours they romped through the park, running races, hurdling, and
playing rough pranks upon each other, such as only expert riders dare
attempt. They were both hardened by the long ride down to Florence, a
pair of animals as healthy as their mounts. They had determined not to
sell the horses till the last moment. A riding-master in the Via Lorenzo
ii Magnifico agreed to board them against the time of sale.

In the three days in Florence they had been through the galleries and
the museums; and Merrihew, to his great delight, began to find that he
could tell a Botticelli from a Lippi at first glance. He was beginning
to understand why people raved over this style or that. There was
something so gentle, so peaceful in a Botticelli that he really
preferred it to some of the famed colorists, always excepting Veronese,
to whom he had given his first admiration.

For luncheon this day Hillard took him to Paoli's in the Via dei
Tavolini--the way of the little tables. Here Merrihew saw a tavern such
as he had often conjured up while reading his Dumas; sausages and hams
and bacons and garlic and cheeses and dried vegetables hanging from the
ceiling, abrupt passages, rough tables and common chairs and strange
dishes; oil, oil, oil, even on the top of his coffee-cup, and magnums of
red and white Chianti. Hillard informed him that this was the most
famous Bohemian place in the city, the rendezvous of artists, sculptors,
writers, physicians, and civil authorities. The military seldom
patronized it, because it was not showy enough. Merrihew enjoyed the
scene, with its jabber-jabber and its clatter-clatter. And he was still
hungry when he left, but he would not admit it to Hillard, who adapted
himself to the over-abundance of oil with all the zest of an expatriated
Tuscan.

At three o'clock they went to the fencing academy of Foresti Paoli, near
the post-office. Foresti was a fine example of the military Italian of
former days. He was past sixty, but was as agile as any of his
celebrated pupils. As Hillard had written him the night before, he was
expected. He had been a pupil of Foresti's, and the veteran was glad to
see him. Merrihew saw some interesting bouts, and at length Foresti
prevailed upon Hillard to don the mask against an old pupil, a physician
who had formerly been amateur champion of Italy. Hillard, having been in
the saddle and the open air for two weeks, was in prime condition; and
he gave the ex-champion a pretty handful. But constant practice told in
the end, and Hillard was beaten. It was fine sport to Merrihew; the
quick pad-pad of the feet on the mat, the short triumphant cries as the
foil bent almost double, and the flash of the whites of their eyes
behind the mask. Merrihew knew that he should love Florence all the rest
of his days.

They were entering the Via Tornabuoni, toward the Havana cigar-store,
when a young woman came out of the little millinery shop a few doors
from the tobacconist's. Immediately Hillard stepped to one side of her
and Merrihew to the other.

"You can not run away this time, Kitty Killigrew!" cried Merrihew
joyously.

Kitty closed her eyes for a second, and the neat little bandbox slipped
to the sidewalk.




CHAPTER XXI

AN INVITATION TO A BALL


In the Villa Ariadne the wonderful fountain by Donatello was encircled
by a deep basin in which many generations of goldfish swam about. Only
the old gardener knew the secret of how these fish lived through the
chill Florentine winters. Yet, every spring, about the time when the
tourists began to prowl round, the little goldfish were to be seen
again, ready for bread-crumbs and bugs of suicidal tendencies. Forming a
kind of triangle about the basin were three ancient marble benches, such
as the amiable old Roman senators were wont to lounge upon during the
heat of the afternoon, or such as Catullus reclined upon while reading
his latest lyric to his latest affinity. At any rate, they were very
old, earth-stained and time-stained and full of unutterable history, and
with the eternal cold touch of stone which never wholly warms even under
warmest sun. The kind of bench which Alma-Tadema usually fills with
diaphanous maidens.

At this particular time a maiden, not at all diaphanous, but mentally
and physically material, sat on one of these benches, her arms thrown
out on either side of the crumbling back, her chin lowered, and her eyes
thoughtfully directed toward the little circle of disturbed water where
the goldfish were urging for the next crumb. Now, as Phoebus was
somewhere near four in the afternoon, he was growing ruddy with effort
in the final spurt for the western horizon. So the marbles and the
fountain and the water and the maiden all melted into a harmonious
golden tone.

Merrihew was not so poetical as to permit this picture to go on
indefinitely; so he stole up from behind with all the care of a
practised hunter till he stood directly behind the maiden. She still
dreamed. Then he put his hands over her eyes. She struggled for a brief
moment, then desisted.

"It is no puzzle at all," she declared. "I can smell horse, horse, and
again horse. Mr. Merrihew--"

"Yes, I know all about it. I should have fetched along a sachet-powder.
I never remember anything but one thing, Kitty, and that's you." He came
round and sat down beside her. "There's no doubt that I reek of the
animal. But the real question is," bluntly, "how much longer are you
going to keep me dangling on the string? I've been coming up here for
ten days, now, every afternoon."

"Ten days," Kitty murmured. She was more than pretty to-day, and there
was malice aforethought in all the little ribbons and trinkets and
furbelows. She had dressed expressly for this moment, but Merrihew was
not going to be told so. "Ten days," she repeated; and mentally she
recounted the pleasant little journeys into the hills and the
cherry-pickings.

"And dangling, dangling. I've been hanging in mid-air for nearly a year
now. When are you going to put me out of my misery?" His tone was
chiding and moody.

"But am I to be blamed if, after having refused twice to marry you, you
still persist?" Kitty assumed a judicial air.

"All you have to do," sadly, "is to tell me to clear out."

"That's just it," cried Kitty wrathfully. "If I tell you to go it will
be for good; and I don't want you to go that way. I like you; you are
cheerful and amusing, and I find pleasure in your company. But every day
in the year, breakfast and dinner!" She appealed to the god in the
fountain. What unreasonable beings men were!

"But you haven't refused me this time."

"Because I wish to make it as easy as possible for you." Which of the
two meanings she offered him was lost upon Merrihew; he saw but one, nor
the covert glance, roguish and mischievous withal. "Come, let us be
sensible for ten minutes."

Merrihew laid his watch on the bench beside him. Kitty dimpled.

"Don't you love it in Florence?" she asked.

"Oh, yes," scraping the gravel with his crop. "Hillard says I'm
finishing my bally education at a canter. I can tell a saint from a
gentleman in a night-gown, a halo from a barrel-hoop, and I can drink
Chianti without making a face."

Kitty laughed rollickingly. For beneath her furbelows and ribbons and
trinkets she was inordinately happy and light of heart. Her letter had
come; she was only waiting for the day of sailing; and she was to take
back with her the memory of the rarest adventure which ever befell a
person, always excepting those of the peripatetic sailor from Bagdad.

"I want to go home," said Merrihew, when her laughter died away in a
soft mutter.

"What! leave this beautiful world for the sordid one yonder?"

"Sordid it may be, but it's home. I can speak to and understand every
man I meet on the streets there; there are the theaters and the club and
the hunting and fishing and all that. Here it's nothing but pictures and
concierges and lying cabbies. If I could collect all my friends and
plant 'em over here, why, I could stand it. But I'm lonesome. Did you
