powerful frame.

"Have you finished?" asked the latter.

"In a moment, Langly. I am merely reminding you of what has happened.
Concerning myself I have nothing to say. Look at me. You know what I
was; you see what I am. I'm not whining; it's all in a lifetime. And the
man who is not fitted to take care of what is his, loses. That's all."

Sprowl's head was averted after an involuntary glance at the man before
him. His face was red--or it may have been the ruddy evening sun
striking flat across it.

Ledwith said: "You will marry her, of course. But I merely wish to hear
you say so."

Sprowl swung on him, his thick lips receding:

"I'll marry whom I choose! Do you understand that?"

"Of course. But you will choose to marry her."

"Do you think so?"

"Yes. Or--I'll kill you," he said seriously.

Langly stared at him, every vein suddenly dark and swollen; then his
bark of a laugh broke loose.

"I suppose you've got it in your pocket," he said.

Ledwith fumbled in his coat pocket and produced a dully blued weapon of
heavy calibre; and Sprowl walked slowly up to him, slapped his face,
took the revolver from him, and flung it into the woods.

"Now go home and punch yourself full of dope," he said; swung on his
heel, and sauntered off.

Ledwith looked after him, one bloodless hand resting on the cheek which
Sprowl had struck--watched him out of sight. Then, patiently, he started
to search for the weapon, dropping on all-fours, crawling, peering,
parting the ferns and bushes. But the sun was low and the woods dusky,
and he could not find what he was looking for. So he sat up on the
ground among the dead leaves of other years, drew from his pocket what
he needed, and slowly bared his scarred arm to the shoulder.

As for Sprowl, his vigorous tread lengthened to a swinging stride as he
shouldered his way through a thicket and out again into the open.

Already he scarcely remembered Ledwith at all, or his menace, or the
blow; scarcely even recollected that Mary Ledwith had returned or that
his aunt was within driving distance of his own quarters.

A dull hot anguish, partly rage, possessed him, tormenting brain and
heart incessantly and giving him no rest. His own clumsy madness in
destroying what he believed had been a certainty--his stupidity, his
loss of self-control, not only in betraying passion prematurely but in
his subsequent violence and brutality, almost drove him insane.

Never before in any affair with women had he forgotten caution in any
crisis; his had been a patience unshakable when necessary, a dogged,
driving persistence when the time came, the subtlety of absolute
inertness when required. But above all and everything else he has been a
master of patience, and so a master of himself; and so he had usually
won.

And now--now in this crisis--a crisis involving the loss of what he
cared for enough to marry--if he must marry to have his way with
her--what was to be done?

He tried to think coolly, but the cinders of rage and passion seemed to
stir and move with every breath he drew awaking the wild fire within.

He would try to reason and think clearly--try to retrace matters to the
beginning and find out why he had blundered when everything was in his
own hands.

It was his aunt's sudden policy that betrayed him into a premature
move--Mary Ledwith's return, and his aunt's visit. Mary Ledwith was
there to marry him; his aunt to make mischief unless he did what was
expected of him.

Leisurely but thoroughly he cursed them both as he walked back across
his lawn. But he was already thinking of Strelsa again when, as he
entered the wide hall, his aunt waddled across the rugs of the
drawing-room, pronouncing his name with unmistakable decision. And,
before the servants, he swallowed the greeting he had hoped to give her,
and led her into the library.

"Mercy on us, Langly!" she exclaimed, eyeing his reeking boots and
riding-breeches; "do you live like a pig up here?"

"I've been out," he said briefly. "What do you want?"

Her little green eyes lighted up, and her smile, which was fading, she
forced into a kind of fixed grin.

"Your polished and thoughtful inquiry is characteristic of you," she
said. "Mary is here, and I want you to come over to dinner."

"I'm not up to it," he said.

"I want you to come."

"I tell you I'm not up to it," he said bluntly.

"And I tell you that you'd better come."

"Better come?" he repeated.

"Yes, better come. More than that, Langly, you'd better behave
yourself, or I'll make New York too hot to hold you."

His prominent eyes were expressionless.

"Ah?" he remarked.

"Exactly, my friend. Your race is run. You've done one thing too
publicly to squirm out of the consequences. The town has stood for a
good deal from you. When that girl at the Frivolity Theatre shot
herself, leaving a letter directed to you, the limit of public patience
was nearly reached. You had to go abroad, didn't you? Well, you can't go
abroad this time. Neither London nor Paris nor Vienna nor Budapest--no,
nor St. Petersburg nor even Constantinople would stand you! Your course
is finished. If you've an ounce of brains remaining you know that you're
done for this time. So go and dress and come over to dinner.... And
don't worry; I'll keep away from you after you're married."

"You'll keep your distance before that," he said slowly.

"You're mistaken. Many people are afraid of you, but I never was and
never could be. You're no good; you never were. If you didn't lug my
name about with you I'd let you go to hell. You'll go there anyway, but
you'll go married first."

"I expect to."

"Married to Mary Ledwith," she said looking at him.

He picked up a cigar, examined it, yawned, then glanced at her:

"As I had--recently--occasion to tell Chester Ledwith, I'll marry whom I
please. Now suppose you clear out."

"Are you dining with us?"

"No."

"What time may we expect you to-morrow?"

"At no time."

"Do you intend to marry Mary Ledwith?"

"No."

"Is that final?"

"Yes!"

"Do you expect to marry anybody else?"

"Yes!" he shouted, partly rising from his chair, his narrow face
distorted. "Yes, I do! Now you know, don't you! Is the matter settled at
last? Do you understand clearly?--you fat-headed, meddlesome old fool!"

He sprang to his feet in an access of fury and began loping up and down
the room, gesticulating, almost mouthing out his hatred and
abuse--rendered more furious still by the knowledge of his own weakness
and disintegration--his downfall from that silent citadel of
self-control which had served him so many years as a stronghold for
defiance or refuge.

"You impertinent old woman!" he shouted, "if you don't keep your fat
nose out of my affairs I'll set a thousand men tampering with the
foundations of your investments! Keep your distance and mind your
business--I warn you now and for the last time, or else--" He swung
around on her, and the jaw muscles began to work--"or else I'll supply
the Yellows with a few facts concerning that Englishman's late father
and yourself!"

Mrs. Sprowl's face went pasty-white; in the fat, colourless expanse only
the deathless fury of her eyes seemed alive.

"So that fetched you," he observed, coolly. "I don't want to give you
apoplexy; I don't want you messing up my house. I merely want you to
understand that it's dangerous to come sniffing and nosing around my
threshold. You do understand, I guess."

He continued his promenade but presently came back to her:

"You know well enough who I want to marry. If you say or do one thing to
interfere I'll see that you figure in the Yellows."

He thought a moment; the colour slowly returned to her face. After a fit
of coughing she struggled to rise from her chair. He let her pant and
scuffle and kick for a while, then opened the door and summoned her
footman.

"I'm sorry I cannot drive with you this evening," he said quietly, as
the footman supported Mrs. Sprowl to her feet, "but I've promised the
Wycherlys. Pray offer my compliments and friendly wishes to Mrs.
Ledwith."

When she had gone he walked back into the library, picked up the
telephone and finally got Molly Wycherly on the wire.

"Won't you ask me to dinner?" he said. "I've an explanation to make to
Mrs. Leeds and I'd be awfully obliged to you."

There was a silence, then Molly said, deliberately:

"You must be a very absent-minded young man. I saw your aunt for a
moment this afternoon and she said that you are dining with her at Mrs.
Ledwith's."

"She was mistaken--" began Sprowl quietly, but Molly cut him short with
a laughing "good-bye," and hung up the receiver.

"That was Langly," she remarked, turning to Strelsa who was already
dressed for dinner and who had come into Molly's boudoir to observe the
hair-dressing and comprehensive embellishment of that young matron's
person by a new maid on probation.

Strelsa's upper lip curled faintly, then the happy expression returned,
and she watched the decorating of Molly until the maid turned her out in
the perfection of grooming from crown to toe.

There was nobody in the music-room. Molly turned again to Strelsa as
they entered:

"What a brute he is!--asking me to invite him here for dinner when Mary
Ledwith has just arrived."

"Did he do that?"

"Yes. And his excuse was that he had an explanation to make you. What a
sneaking way of doing it!"

Strelsa looked out of the dark window in silence.

Molly said: "I wish he'd go away, I never can look at him without
thinking of Chester Ledwith--and all that wretched affair.... Not that I
am sniffy about Mary--the poor little fool.... Anyway," she added
na√Øvely, "old lady Sprowl has fixed her status and now we all know how
to behave toward her."

Strelsa, arms clasped behind her back, came slowly forward from the
window:

"What a sorry civilisation," she said thoughtfully, "and what sorry
codes we frame to govern it."

"What?" sharply.

Strelsa looked at her, absently.

"Nobody seems to be ashamed of anything any more," she said, half to
herself. "The only thing that embarrasses us is what the outside world
may think of us. We don't seem to care what we think of each other."

Molly, a trifle red, asked her warmly what she meant.

"Oh, I was just realising what are the motives that govern us--the
majority of us--and how primitive they are. So many among us seem to be
moral throwbacks--types reappearing out of the mists of an ancient and
unmoral past.... Echoes of primitive ages when nobody knew any
better--when life was new, and was merely life and nothing
else--fighting, treacherous, cringing life which knew of nothing else to
do except to eat, sleep, and reproduce itself--bully the weaker, fawn on
the stronger, lie, steal, and watch out that death should not interfere
with the main chance."

Molly, redder than ever, asked her again what she meant.

"I don't know, dear.... How clean the woods and fields seem after a day
indoors with many people."

"You mean we all need moral baths?"

"I do."

Molly smiled: "For a moment I thought you meant that I do."

Strelsa smiled, too:

"You're a good wife, Molly; and a good friend.... I wish you had a
baby."

"I'm--going to."

They looked at each other a moment; then Strelsa caught her in her arms.

"Really?"

Molly nodded:

"That's why I worry about Jim taking chances in his aeroplane."

"He mustn't! He's got to stop! What can he be thinking of!" cried
