
Halkett said:

"It happens to be the last day of July.  I have an idea that several
billion other people are destined to remember these last few days of
July, 1914, as long as they live."

"Why?" inquired the American curiously.

"Because, within these last few days, Austria has declared war on
Servia, Russia has already ordered partial mobilization, Germany has
sent her an ultimatum, and will back it up tomorrow."

"What!  How do you know?"

"You don’t mean to ask me that, do you?" said Halkett pleasantly.

"No, of course not——"  Warner gazed straight ahead of him as he drove;
his altered features had become gravely expressionless.  After a moment
he said:

"I can’t comprehend it.  Servia had agreed to everything demanded—except
that one item which she offered to arbitrate.  I can’t understand it."

Halkett said calmly:

"It is not difficult to understand.  A telegram has been suppressed—the
only telegram which could now prevent war."  He removed his straw hat,
took from the lining a strip of semi-transparent paper, and read aloud
the minute handwriting:


"The German government has published several telegrams which the Emperor
of Russia exchanged with Emperor William.  Among these telegrams,
nevertheless, is one which was not published—a dispatch from His Russian
Majesty, dated July 29, 1914, containing a proposition to submit the
Austro-Servian conflict to The Hague Tribunal.

"This has an appearance of a desire in Germany to pass over in silence
the attempt to prevent the approaching collision.  In view of this, the
Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized to publish the telegram
mentioned, of which this is the text:

"’Thanks for your conciliatory and friendly telegram. Inasmuch as the
official message presented today by your ambassador to my minister was
conveyed in a very different tone, I beg you to explain this divergency.
It would be right to give over the Austro-Servian problem to The Hague
Conference.  I trust in your wisdom and friendship.’"


"Where did you get that?" asked Warner bluntly.

"This morning at the Boule d’Argent.  A friend was kind enough to leave
it for me in a note," he added blandly.

"Do you believe it to be authentic?"

"Unfortunately, I can not question its truth."

"You think that the German government——"

"Without any doubt at all, Warner.  For her The Day is about to dawn at
last.  Her Joshua has halted the course of the sun long enough to suit
himself.  It is scheduled to rise tomorrow."

"Do you mean war?"

"I do."

"Where?"

"Well, here, in France—to mention one place."

"In France!"

"Surely, surely!"

"Invasion?"

"Exactly."

"From which way?"

Halkett shrugged:

"Does anybody now believe it will come by way of the Barrier Forts?  The
human race never has been partial to cross-country traveling; only ants
prefer it."

"You think it will come by the flank—through Belgium?"

"Ask yourself, Warner.  Is there an easier way for it to come?"

"But the treaties?"

"Nulla salus bello; necessitas no habet legem."

"Nothing dishonorable is ever necessary."

"Ah!  If nations could only agree upon the definition of that word
’honor’!  There’d be fewer wars, my friend."

"You think, if France follows Russia’s example and mobilizes, that
Germany will strike through Belgium?"

"I’m sure of it."

"What about England, then?" asked Warner bluntly.

But Halkett remained silent; and he did not repeat the question.

"After all," he said, presently, "this entire business is incredible.
Diplomacy will find a way out of it."  And, after a moment’s silence:
"You don’t think so?"

"No."

Presently Halkett turned and looked back through the gathering dusk.

"I wonder," he said, "whether they’ll get their car out tonight?"

"They’ll have to go back to Ausone for aid," said Warner.

"Do you still mean to put me up at Saïs?"

"Certainly.  You don’t expect your friends back there to assault the
inn, do you?"

"No," said Halkett, laughing.  "They don’t do things that way just yet."

Warner snapped his whip, caught the curling lash, let it free, twirled
it, and, snapped it again, whistling cheerfully a gay air from his
student days—a tune he had not thought of before in years.

"I believe," he said, frankly hopeful, "that you and I are going to have
another little party with those fellows before this matter is ended."

"I’m sure of it," said Halkett quietly.

A few moments later Warner, still whistling his joyous air, pointed
toward a cluster of tiny lights far ahead in the dark valley.

"Saïs," he said; and resumed his song blithely:

    "Gai, gai, mariez-vous!
      C’est un usage
      Fort sage.
    Gai, gai, mariez-vous,
    Le mariage est si doux!—"


"Like a bird it is!" he added ironically.

"By the way, you’re not married, are you?" inquired Halkett uneasily.

"Oh, Lord!  No!  Why the unmerited suspicion?"

"Nothing much.  I just thought that after getting you into this scrape I
shouldn’t dare face your wife."

Then they both laughed heartily.  They were already on excellent terms.
Already acquaintance was becoming an unembarrassed friendship.

Warner flourished his whip and continued to laugh:

"I have no serious use for women.  To me the normal and healthy woman is
as naïve as the domestic and blameless cat, whose first ambition is for
a mate, whose second is to be permanently and agreeably protected, and
whose ultimate aim is to acquire a warm basket by the fireside and fill
it full of kittens! ... No; I’m not married.  Don’t worry, Halkett."

He whistled another bar of his lively song:

"Women?  Ha!  By the way, I’ve a bunch of them here in Saïs, all
painting away like the devil and all, no doubt laying plans for that
fireside basket.  It’s the only thing a woman ever really thinks about,
no matter what else she pretends to be busy with.  I suppose it’s
natural; also, it’s natural for some men to shy wide of such things.
I’m one of those men.  So, Halkett, as long as you live, you need never
be afraid of offending any wife of mine!"

"Your sentiments," said Halkett, mockingly serious, "merely reveal
another bond between us.  I thank God frequently that I am a bachelor."

"Good," said Warner with emphasis.  And he chanted gayly, as he drove,
"Gai, gai, marions-nous—" in a very agreeable baritone voice, while the
lights of Saïs grew nearer and brighter among the trees below.

"I never saw a girl worth the loss of my liberty," he remarked.  "Did
you, Halkett?  And," he continued, "to be tied up to a mentally
deficient appendage with only inferior intellectual resources, and no
business or professional occupation—to be tied fast to something that
sits about to be entertained, and that does nothing except nourish
itself and clothe itself, and have babies!—It’s unthinkable, isn’t it?"

"It’s pretty awful....  Of course if a woman came along who combined
looks and intellect and professional self-sufficiency——"

"You don’t find them combined.  Take a slant at my class.  That’s the
only sort who even pretend to anything except vacuous idleness.  There
are no Portias, Halkett.  There never were.  If there were, I’d take a
chance myself, I think.  But a man who marries the young girl of today
has on his hands an utterly useless incubus.  No wonder he sometimes
makes experiments elsewhere.  No wonder he becomes a rainbow chaser. But
he’s like a caged squirrel in a wheel; the more he runs around looking
for consolation the less progress he makes.

"No, Halkett, this whole marriage business is a pitiable fizzle.  Until
both parties to a marriage contract are financially independent,
intellectually self-sufficient, and properly equipped to earn their own
livings by a business or a trade or a profession—and until, if a mistake
has been made, escape from an ignoble partnership is made legally
easy—marriage will remain the sickly, sentimental, pious fraud which a
combination of ignorance, superstition, custom, and orthodoxy have made
it.

"I’m rather eloquent on marriage, don’t you think so?"

"Superbly!" said Halkett, laughing.  "But, do you know, Warner, your
very eloquence betrays the fact that you have thought as much about it
as the unfortunate sex you have so eloquently indicted."

"What’s that?" demanded Warner wrathfully.

"I’m sorry to say it, but you are exactly the sort of man to fall with a
tremendous flop."

"If ever I fall——"

"You fell temporarily this afternoon."

"With that painted, grey-eyed——"

"Certainly, with the girl Philippa.  Come, old chap, you were out with
her a long while!  What did you two talk about?  Love?"

"No, you idiot——"

"You didn’t even mention the word ’love’?  Be honest, old chap!"

Warner began to speak, checked himself.

"Didn’t you or she even mention the subject?" persisted Halkett with
malicious delight.

But Warner was too angry to speak, and the Englishman’s laughter rang
out boyishly under the stars. To look at them one would scarcely believe
they had been a target for bullets within the hour.

"You don’t suppose," began Warner, "that——"

"No, no!" cried Halkett.  "—Not with that girl. I’m merely proving my
point.  You’re too eloquent concerning women not to have spent a good
deal of time in speculating about them.  You even speculated concerning
Philippa.  The man who mourns the scarcity of Portias wouldn’t be likely
to care for one if he met her.  You’re just the man to fall in love with
everything you denounce in a girl.  And I have no doubt I shall live to
witness that sorrowful spectacle."

Warner had to laugh.

"You are rather a terrifying psychologist," he said. "You almost make me
believe I have a streak of romance in me."

"Oh, we all have that, Warner.  We call it by other names—cleverness,
logic, astuteness, intelligence—but we all have it in us, and it is
revealed in every man who marries a woman for love....  Believe me, no
normal man ever lived who was not, at some brief moment in his life, in
love with some woman.  Maybe he ignored it and it never came again;
maybe he strangled it and went on about more serious business; maybe it
died a natural but early death.  But once, before he died, he must have
had a faint, brief glimpse of it.  And that was the naissance of the
latent germ of romance in him—ephemeral, perhaps, but inevitably to be
born before it died."

Warner waved his whip and snapped it maliciously:

"So you have been in love, have you?"

"Why?  Because I, also, am suspiciously eloquent?"

"That’s the reason—according to you."

Halkett smiled slightly.

"Perhaps I have been," he said....  "Hello!  Is this your inn?" as they
drew up before the lighted windows of a two-story building standing
close to the left-hand edge of the highway, under the stars.

"Here we are at the Golden Peach," nodded Warner, as the door opened and
a smiling peasant lad came out with a: "Bon soir, Monsieur Warner!  Bon
soir, messieurs!"  And he took the horse’s head while they descended.


That night, lying awake on his bed in the Inn of the Golden Peach,
Halkett heard the heavy rush of a southbound automobile passing under
his window with the speed of an express train.

And he wondered whether the spongy morass by the little brook still held
the long, grey touring car imprisoned.
