thought that kindness might please a woman more easily than sighs and
vapours.... Or so it seems to me.... And that impatient ardour only
perplexes.... And passion often chills the natural pity that a woman
entertains for any man who vows he is unhappy and must presently perish
of her indifference....

"Yet I am not indifferent to men.... And have used men gently.... And
forgiven them.... Being not hard but pitiful by disposition."

She made a movement of unconscious grace and drew from her bosom the
little picture of Steve Watts.

"You see," said she, "I guard it tenderly. But he went off in a passion
and rebuked me bitterly for my coquetry and because I refused to flee
with him to Canada.... He, being an enemy to liberty, I would not
consent.... I love my country.... And better than I love any man."

"He begged an elopement that night?"

"Yes."

"With marriage promised, doubtless."

"Lord," says she, "I had not thought so far."

"Did he not promise it?"

"No, sir."

"What? Nor mention it?"

"I did not hear him."

"But in his courtship of a year surely he conducted honestly!" I
insisted angrily.

"Should a man ask marriage when he asks love, Mr. Drogue?"

"If he means honestly he must speak of it."

"Oh.... I did not understand.... I thought that love, offered, meant
marriage also.... I thought they all meant that--save only Sir John."

We both fell silent. After a little while: "I shall some day ask Captain
Watts what he means," said she, thoughtfully. "Surely he must know I am
a maiden."

"Do you suppose such young men care!" I said sullenly.

But she seemed so white and distressed at the thought that the sneer
died on my lips and I made a great effort to do generously by my old
school-mate, Stevie Watts.

"Surely," said I, "he meant no disrespect and no harm. Stephen Watts is
not of the corrupt breed of Walter Butler nor debauched like Sir
John.... However, if he is to be your lover--perhaps it were convenient
to ask him something concerning his respectful designs upon you."

"Yes, sir, I shall do so--if he comes hither again."

So hope, which had fallen a-flickering, expired like a tiny flame. She
loved Steve Watts!

I turned and limped up the stairway.

And, at the stair-head, met Nick.

"Well," said I savagely, "you may not have her. For she loves Steve
Watts and dotes on his picture in her bosom. And as for you, you may go
to the devil!"

"Why, you sorry ass," says he, "have you thought I desired her?"

"Do you not?"

"Good God!" cried he, "because this poor and moon-smitten gentleman hath
rolled sheep's eyes upon a yellow-haired maid, then, in his mind, all
the world's aflame to woo her too and take her from his honest arms!
What the plague do I want of your sweetheart, Jack Drogue, when I've one
at Pigeon Wood and my eye on another, too!"

Then he fell a-laughing and smote his thighs with a loud slapping.

"Aha!" he cried, "did I not warn you? Did I not foresee, foretell, and
prophesy that you would one day sicken of a passion for this
yellow-haired girl from Caughnawaga!"

"Idiot," said I in a rage, "I do not love her!"

"Then you bear all the earmarks!" said he, and went off stamping his
moccasins and roaring with laughter.

And I went on watch to walk my post all a-tremble with fury, and fair
sick of jealousy and my first boyish passion.

       

Now, it is a strange thing how love undid me; but it is still stranger
how, of a sudden, my malady passed. And it came about in this way, that
toward sunset one day, when I came from walking my post on the veranda
roof to find why Nick had not relieved me, I descended the stairs and
looked into the kitchen, where was a pleasant smell of cinnamon crullers
fresh made and of johnnycake and of meat a-stewing.

And there I did see Nick push Penelope into a corner to kiss her, and
saw her fetch him a clout with her open hand.

Then again, and broad on his surprised and silly face, fell her little
hand like the clear crack of a drover's whip.

And, "There!" she falters, out o' breath, "there's for you, friend
Nicholas!"

"My God!" says he, in foolish amaze, "why do you that, Penelope!"

"I kiss whom I please and none other!" says she, fast breathing, and her
dark eyes wide and bright.

"Whom you please," quoth Nick, abashed but putting a bold face on
it--"well then, you please me, and therefore ought to kiss me----"

"No, I will not! John Drogue hath shown me what is my privilege in this
idle game of bussing which men seem so ready to play with me, whether I
will or no!... Have I hurt you, Nick?"

She came up to him, still flushed and her childish bosom still rising
and falling fast.

"You love Jack Drogue," said he, sulkily, "and therefore belabour me who
dote on you."

"I love you both," said she, "but I am enamoured of neither. Also, I
desire no kisses of you or of Mr. Drogue, but only kindness and good
will."

"You entertain a passion for Steve Watts!" he muttered sullenly, "and
there's the riddle read for you!"

But she laughed in his face and took up her pan of crullers and set them
on the shelf.

"I am châtelaine of Summer House," said she, "and need render no account
of my inclinations to you or to any man. Who would learn for himself
what is in my mind must court me civilly and in good order.... Do you
desire leave to court me, Nick?"

"Not I!--to be beaten by a besom and flouted and mocked to boot! Nenni,
my pretty lass! I have had my mouthful of blows."

"Oh. And your comrade? Is he, do you think, inclined to court me?"

"Jack Drogue?"

"The same."

"You have bedeviled him," said Nick sulkily, "as you have witched all
men who encounter you. He hath a fever and is sick of it."

She was slicing hot johnnycake with a knife in the pan; and now looked
up at him with eyes full of curiosity.

"Bewitched him? I?"

"Surely. Who else, then?"

"You are jesting, Nick."

"No. Like others he has taken the Caughnawaga fever. The very air you
breathe is full of it. But, with a man like my comrade, it is no more
than a fever. And it passes, pretty maid!--it passes."

"Does it so?"

"It does. It burns out folly and leaves him the healthier."

"Oh, then--with a gentleman like your comrade, Mr. Drogue--l'amour n'est
qu'une maladie légère qui se guérira sans médecin, n'est-ce pas?"

"Say that in Canada and doubtless the very dicky-birds will answer
wee-wee-wee!" he retorted. "But if you mean, does John Drogue mate below
his proper caste, then there's no wee-wee-wee about it; for that the
Laird of Northesk will never do!"

"I know that," said she coolly. And opened the pot to fork the steaming
stew, then set on the cover and passed her hand over her brow where a
slight dew glistened and where her hair curled paler gold and tighter,
like a child's.

"Friend Nick?"

"I hear thee, breeder of heart-troubles."

"Listen, then. No thought of me should trouble any man as yet. My heart
is not awake--not troublesome,--not engaged,--no, not even to poor
Stephen Watts. For the sentiment I entertain for him is only pity for a
boy, Nick, who is impetuous and rash and has been too much flattered by
the world.... Poor lad--in his play-hour regimentals!--and no beard on
his smooth cheek.... Just a fretful, idle, and self-indulgent boy!...
Who protests that he loves me.... Oh, no, Nick! Men sometimes bewilder
me; but I think it is our own passion that destroys us women--not
theirs.... And there is none in me,--only pity, and a great friendliness
to men.... And these only have ever moved me."

He was sitting on a pine table and munching of a cruller. "Penelope,"
says he, "your honesty and wholesome spirit should physic men of their
meaner passions. If you are servant to Douw Fonda, nevertheless you
think like a great lady. And I for one," he added, munching away, "shall
quarrel with any man who makes little of the mistress of Summer House
Point!"

And then--oh, Lord!--she turns from her oven, takes his silly head
between both hands, and gives him a smack on the lips!

"There," says she, "you have had of your sister what you never should
have had of the Scottish lass of Caughnawaga!"

He got off the table at that, looking mighty pleased but sheepish, and
muttered something concerning relieving me on post.

And so, lest I should be disgraced by my eavesdropping, and feeling mean
and degraded, yet oddly contented that Penelope loved no man with secret
passion, I slunk away, my moccasins making no sound.

So when Nick came to relieve me he discovered me still on post; and said
he pettishly: "Penelope Grant hath clouted me, mind and body; and I am
the better man by it, though somewhat sore; and I shall knock the head
of any popinjay who fails in the respect all owe this girl. And I wish
to God I had a hickory stick here, and Sir John Johnson across my knee!"

I went into my chamber and laid me down on my trundle bed.

I was contented. I no longer seemed to burn for the girl. Also, I knew
she burned for no man. A vast sense of relief spread over me like a soft
garment, warming and soothing me.

And so, pleasantly passed my sick passion for the Scottish girl; and
pleasantly I fell asleep.




CHAPTER XXIII

WINTER AND SPRING


Snow came as it comes to us in the Northland--a blinding fall, heavy and
monotonous--and in forty-eight hours the Johnstown Road was blocked.

Followed a day of dazzling sunshine and intense cold, which set our
timbers cracking; and the snow, like finest flour, creaked under our
snow-shoes.

All the universe had turned to blue and silver; and the Vlaie Water ran
fathomless purple between its unstained snows. But that night the clouds
returned and winds grew warmer, and soon the skies opened with feathery
white volleys, and the big, thick flakes stormed down again,
obliterating alike the work of nature and of man.

Summer House was covered to the veranda eaves. We made shovels and
cleared the roofs and broke paths to stable and well.

Here, between dazzling ramparts, we lived and moved and had our being,
week after week; and every new snow-storm piled higher our palisades and
buried the whole land under one vast white pall.

Vlaie Water froze three feet solid; fierce winds piled the ice with
gigantic drifts so that no man could mark the course of the creeks any
more; and a vast white desolation stretched away to the mountains,
broken only by naked hard-wood forests or by the interminable ocean of
the pines weighted deep with snow.

Only when a crust came were we at any pains to set a watch against a war
party from the Canadas. But none arrived; no signal smoke stained the
peaks; nothing living stirred on that dead white waste save those little
grey and whining birds which creep all day up and down tree-trunks, or a
sudden gusty flight of snow-birds, which suddenly arrive from nowhere
and are gone as suddenly.

Once a white owl with yellow eyes sat upon the ridge-pole of our barn;
but our pullets were safe within, and Penelope drove him away with
snowballs.

The deer yarded on Maxon; lynx-tracks circled our house and barn, and
we sometimes heard old tassel-ears a-miauling on the Stacking Ridge.

And, toward the end of February, there were two panthers that left huge
cat-prints across the drifts on the Johnstown Road; but they took no
toll of our sheep, which were safe in a stone fold, though the oaken
door to it bore marks of teeth and claws, where the pumas had striven
hard to break in and do murder.

Save when a crust formed and we took our turns on guard, my Indian
rolled himself in bear-furs by the kitchen oven, and like a bear he
slept there until hunger awoke him long enough to gorge for another
stretch of sleep.

Nick and I took axes to the woods and drew logs on a sledge to split for
fire use. Our tasks, too, kept us busy feeding our live creatures,
fetching water, keeping paths open, and fishing through the ice.
