
"Hearty!--and how are you, Freeman?"

"Oh, gay as a lark. I have come to ask a favour of you."

"Name it."

"I want fifty dollars."

Peyton shrugged his shoulders.

"I must have it, my boy! I never yet knew you to desert a friend, and I
don't believe you will do so now."

"Suppose I haven't fifty dollars?"

"You can borrow it for me. I only want it for a few days. You shall
have it back on next Monday. Try for me--there's a generous fellow!"

"There's a generous fellow," was irresistible. It came home to Peyton
in the right place. He forgot poor Mrs. Lee, his unpaid tailor's bill,
and sundry other troublesome accounts.

"If I can get an advance of fifty dollars on my salary to-morrow, you
shall have it."

"Thank you! thank you! I knew I shouldn't have to ask twice when I
called upon Henry Peyton. It always does me good to grasp the hand of
such a man as you are."

On the next day, an advance of fifty dollars was asked and obtained.
This sum was loaned as promised. In two weeks, the individual who
borrowed it was in New Orleans, from whence he had the best of reasons
for not wishing to return to the north. Of course, the generous Henry
Peyton lost his money.

An increase of salary to a thousand dollars only made him less careful
of his money. Before, he lived as freely as if his income had been
one-third above what it was; now, he increased his expenses in a like
ratio. It was a pleasure to him to spend his money--not for himself
alone, but among his friends.

It is no cause of wonder, that in being so generous to some, he was
forced to be unjust to others. He was still behindhand with his poor
old washer-woman--owed for boarding, clothes, hats, boots, and a dozen
other matters--and was, in consequence, a good deal harassed with duns.
Still, he was called by some of his old cronies, "a fine, generous
fellow." A few were rather colder in their expressions. He had borrowed
money from them, and did not offer to return it; and he was such a
generous-minded young man, that they felt a delicacy about calling his
attention to it.

"Can you raise a couple of thousand dollars?" was asked of him by a
friend, when he was twenty-seven years old. "If you can, I know a
first-rate chance to get into business."

"Indeed! What is the nature of it?"

The friend told him all he knew, and he was satisfied that a better
offering might never present itself. But two thousand dollars were
indispensable.

"Can't you borrow it?" suggested the friend.

"I will try."

"Try your best. You will never again have such an opportunity."

Peyton did try, but in vain. Those who could lend it to him considered
him "too good-hearted a fellow" to trust with money; and he was forced
to see that tide, which if he could have taken it at the flood, would
have led him on to fortune, slowly and steadily recede.

To Merwin the same offer was made. He had fifteen hundred dollars laid
by, and easily procured the balance. No one was afraid to trust him
with money.

"What a fool I have been!" was the mental exclamation of Peyton, when
he learned that his fellow-clerk had been able, with his own earnings,
on a salary no larger than his own, to save enough to embrace the
golden opportunity which he was forced to pass by. "They call Merwin
mean and selfish--and I am called a generous fellow. That means,
he has acted like a wise man, and I like a fool, I suppose. I know him
better than they do. He is neither mean nor selfish, but careful and
prudent, as I ought to have been. His mother is poor, and so is mine.
Ah, me!" and the thought of his mother caused him to clasp both hands
against his forehead. "I believe two dollars of his salary have been
sent weekly to his poor mother. But I have never helped mine a single
cent. There is the mean man, and here is the generous one. Fool! fool!
wretch! He has fifteen hundred dollars ahead, after having sent his
mother one hundred dollars a year for five or six years, and I am over
five hundred dollars in debt. A fine, generous fellow, truly!"

The mind of Peyton was, as it should be, disturbed to its very centre.
His eyes were fairly opened, and he saw just where he stood, and what
he was worth as a generous man.

"They have flattered my weakness," said he, bitterly, "to eat and drink
and ride at my expense. It was easy to say, 'how free-hearted he is,'
so that I could hear them. A cheap way of enjoying the good things of
life, verily! But the end has come to all this. I am just twenty-seven
years old to-day; in five years more I shall be thirty-two. My salary
is one thousand dollars. I pay one hundred and fifty dollars a year for
boarding; one hundred and fifty more shall clothe me and furnish all my
spending-money, which shall be precious little. One year from to-day,
if I live, I will owe no man a dollar. My kind old mother, whom I have
so long neglected, shall hear from me at once--ten dollars every month
I dedicate to her. Come what will, nothing shall touch that. After I am
clear of debt, I will save all above my necessary expenses, until I get
one or two thousand dollars ahead, which shall be in five years. Then I
will look out for a golden opportunity, such as Mervin has found. This
agreement with myself I solemnly enter into in the sight of heaven, and
nothing shall tempt me to violate it."

"Are you going to ride out this afternoon, Peyton?" inquired a young
friend, breaking in upon him at this moment.

"Yes, if you'll hire the buggy," was promptly returned.

"I can't afford that."

"Nor I either. How much is your salary?"

"Only a thousand."

"Just what mine is. If you can't, I am sure I cannot."

"Of course, you ought to be the best judge. I knew you rode out almost
every afternoon, and liked company."

"Yes, I have done so; but that's past. I have been a 'fine, generous
fellow,' long enough to get in debt and mar my prospects for life,
perhaps; but I am going to assume a new character. No doubt the very
ones who have had so many rides, oyster suppers, and theatre tickets at
my expense, will all at once discover that I am as mean and selfish as
Mervin; but it's no great odds. I only wish I had been as truly noble
and generous in the right quarters as he has been."

"You are in a strange humour to-day."

"I am in a changed humour. That it is so very strange, I do not
see--unless for me to think wisely is strange, and perhaps it is."

"Well, all I have to say is, that I, for one, do not blame you, even if
I do lose a fine ride into the country now and then," was the frank
response.

Peyton went to work in the matter of reform in right good earnest, but
he found it hard work; old habits and inclinations were very strong.
Still he had some strength of mind, and he brought this into as
vigorous exercise as it was possible for him to do, mainly with
success, but sometimes with gentle lapses into self-indulgence.

His mother lived in a neighbouring town, and was in humble
circumstances. She supported herself by keeping a shop for the sale of
various little articles. The old lady sat behind her counter, one
afternoon, sewing, and thinking of her only son.

"Ah, me!" she sighed, letting her hands fall wearily in her lap, "I
thought Henry would have done something for himself long before this;
but he is a wild, free-hearted boy, and I suppose spends every thing as
he goes along, just as his father did. I'm afraid he will never do any
thing for himself. It is a long time since he wrote home. Ah, me!"

And the mother lifted her work again, and strained her dimmed eyes over
it.

"Here's a letter for you at last, Mother Peyton," said the well-known
voice of the postman, breaking in upon her just at this moment. "That
boy of yours don't write home as often as he used to."

"A letter from Henry! Oh, that is pleasant! Dear boy! he doesn't forget
his mother."

"No, one would think not," muttered the postman, as he walked away,
"considering how often he writes to her."

With trembling hands, Mrs. Peyton broke the seal; a bank-bill crumpled
in her fingers as she opened the letter. A portion of its contents was:


"DEAR MOTHER--I have had some very serious thoughts of late about my
way of living. You know I never liked to be considered mean; this led
me to be, what seemed to everybody, very generous. Everybody was
pleased to eat, and drink, and ride at my expense; but no one seemed
inclined to let me do the same at his expense. I have been getting a
good salary for six or seven years, and, for a part of that time, as
much as a thousand dollars. I am ashamed to say that I have not a
farthing laid by; nay, what is worse, I owe a good many little bills.
But, dear mother, I think I have come fairly to my senses. I have come
to a resolution not to spend a dollar foolishly; thus far I have been
able to keep my promise to myself, and, by the help of heaven, I mean
to keep it to the end. My first thought, on seeing my folly, was of my
shameful disregard to my mother's condition. In this letter are ten
dollars. Every month you will receive from me a like sum--more, if you
need it. As soon as I can lay by a couple of thousand dollars, I will
look around for some means of entering into business, and, as soon
after as possible, make provision for you, that your last days may be
spent in ease and comfort."


"God bless the dear boy!" exclaimed Mrs. Peyton, dropping the letter,
while the tears gushed from her eyes. The happy mother wept long for
joy. With her trembling hand she wrote a reply, and urged him, by the
tenderest and most sacred considerations, to keep to his good
resolutions.

At the end of a year Peyton examined his affairs, and found himself
freed from debt; but there were nearly one hundred dollars for which he
could not account. He puzzled over it for one or two evenings, and made
out over fifty dollars spent foolishly.

"No doubt the rest of it will have to be passed to that account," said
he, at last, half angry with himself. "I'll have to watch closer than
this. At the end of the next year, I'll not be in doubt about where a
hundred dollars have gone."

It was but rarely, now, that you would hear the name of Peyton
mentioned. Before, everybody said he was a "fine, generous fellow;"
everybody praised him. Now he seemed to be forgotten, or esteemed of no
consideration. He felt this; but he had started to accomplish a certain
end, and he had sufficient strength of mind not to be driven from his
course.

"Have you seen Peyton of late?" I asked, some two years after this
change in his habits. I spoke to one of his old intimate associates.

"No, not for a month of Sundays," was his lightly-spoken reply. "What a
remarkable change has passed over him! Once, he used to be a fine,
generous fellow--his heart was in his hand; but now he is as penurious
as a miser, and even more selfish: he will neither give nor take. If
you happen to be walking with him, and, after waiting as long as
decency will permit to be asked to step in somewhere for refreshments,
you propose something, he meets you with--'No, I thank you, I am not
dry,' or hungry, as the case may be. It's downright savage, it is!"

"This is a specimen of the way in which the world estimates men," said
I to myself, after separating from the individual who complained thus
of Peyton. "The world is wonderfully impartial in its judgment of men's
conduct!"

At the end of five years from the time Peyton reformed his loose
habits, he had saved up and placed out at interest the sum of two
thousand dollars; and this, after having sent to his mother, regularly,
ten dollars every month during the whole period. The fact that he had
saved so much was not suspected by any. It was supposed that he had
laid up some money, but no one thought he had over four or five hundred
dollars.

"I wish you had about three thousand dollars," said Merwin to him, one
day. Merwin's business had turned out well. In five years, he had
cleared over twenty thousand dollars.

"Why?" asked Peyton.

"I know a first-rate chance for you."

"Indeed. Where?"

"There is a very good business that has been fairly established, and is
now languishing for want of a little capital. The man who has made it
will take a partner if he can bring in three thousand dollars, which
would make the whole concern easy, perfectly safe, and sure of success."

"It's more than I have," returned Peyton, in a voice that was slightly
sad.

"So I supposed," Merwin said.

"Although such needn't have been the case, if I had acted as wisely as
you through life."

"It's never too late to mend our ways, you know."

"True. But a year mis-spent, is a whole year lost. No matter how hard
we strive, we can never make it up. To the day of our death, there will
be one year deficient in the sum of life's account."

"A just remark, no doubt. How much would every man save, if he would
take good care not only of his years, but of his weeks and days! The
sum of life is made up of small aggregations."

"And so the sum of a man's fortune. A dollar mis-spent is a dollar
lost, and never can be regained. You say that it will require three
thousand dollars to admit a partner into the business of which you just
spoke?"

"Yes. Nothing less will do."

"I have but two thousand."

"Have you so much, Peyton?" said Merwin, with a brightening face.

"I have."

"Right glad am I to hear it. I only wish that I could furnish you with
a thousand more. But it is out of my power entirely. Our business
requires the use of every dollar we have; and it would not be just to
my partner to draw out so large a sum for the purpose of assisting a
friend in whom he can feel no interest."

"No, of course not. I neither ask nor expect it. I will wait a little
longer. Something else will offer."

"But nothing so really advantageous as this. Let me see. I think I
might get you five hundred dollars, if you could borrow as much more."

"That I cannot do. I never asked a favour of any one in my life."

"Though you have dispensed thousands."

"Foolishly perhaps. But no matter. I will wait."

A week afterward, Peyton, who dismissed all thought of embracing the
proposed offer of going in business, paid a visit to his mother. He had
not seen her for a year. She was still cheerful, active, and retained
her usual good health.

"I think it time you gave up this shop, mother," said he to her. "You
are too old now to be working so closely. I've got something saved up
for a rainy day, in case any thing should go wrong with me for a time.
You will give up this shop, won't you?"

"No, Henry; not yet. I am still able to help myself, and so long as I
am able, I wish to do it. If you have saved any thing, you had better
keep it until an opportunity for going into business offers."

"Such a chance has just presented itself. But I hadn't capital enough."

"How much have you saved?"

"Two thousand dollars."

"So much? How much is required?"

"Three thousand dollars."

"And you have but two?"

"That is all--though a friend did offer to get me five hundred more.
But twenty-five hundred is not sufficient. There must be three
thousand."

Mrs. Peyton made no reply. She sat a few minutes, and then arose and
went up-stairs. In about ten minutes she came down, and approaching her
son, with a warm glow of pleasure upon her face, placed a small roll in
his hands, saying as she did so--

"There is all you need, my son. The money you sent me so regularly for
the last five years, I have kept untouched for some such moment as
this. I did not feel that I needed it. Take it back, and start fairly
in the world. In a few more years I may need rest, as life draws nearer
to a close. Then I trust you will be in circumstances so good that I
needn't feel myself a burden to you."

"A burden? Dear mother! Do not speak of ever being a burden to me,"
said the young man, embracing his parent with tearful emotion.
"No--no," and he pushed back her hand; "I cannot take that money. It is
yours. I will not risk in business the little treasure you have saved
up so carefully. I may not succeed. No--no!" and he still pushed back
his mother's hand--"it is of no use--I cannot--I will not take it!"

The roll of money fell to the floor.

"It is yours, Henry, not mine," urged the mother. "I did not stand in
need of it."

"Your son owed you much more than that. He was wrong that he did not
double the amount to you, in order to make up for former years of
neglect. No--no--I tell you, mother, I cannot take your money. Nothing
would tempt me to do it. I will wait a little longer. Other
opportunities will soon offer."

It was in vain that Mrs. Peyton urged her son, until her distress of
mind became so great that he was almost forced to receive the money she
pushed upon him--although, in doing so, it was with the intention of
leaving it behind him when he returned to the city. But the deep
satisfaction evinced by his mother, on his consenting to take it, was
of a kind that he did not feel it would be right for him to do violence
to. When he did return to the city, he could not find it in his heart
to leave the money, just six hundred dollars, on the table in the
little room where he slept, as he had at first resolved to do. He took
it with him; but with the intention of investing it for her in some
safe security.

When he again met Merwin, he was urged so strongly to make an effort to
raise the capital requisite to become a partner in the business that
had been named to him, that after some severe struggles with himself,
he at last consented to use the money he had brought home with him. His
friend loaned him four hundred dollars to make up the required sum.

The business succeeded beyond his expectations. In a few years he was
able to marry, and live in a very comfortable style. He would hear none
of the objections urged by his mother against living with him, but shut
up her shop in spite of her remonstrances, and brought her to the city.
No one who saw her during the remaining ten years of her life would
have called her unhappy.

I know Peyton still. He is not now, by general reputation, "a fine,
generous fellow." But he is a good citizen, a good husband, and a good
father; and was a good son while his mother lived with him. He has won
the means of really benefiting others, and few are more willing than he
is to do it, when it can be done in the right way. He is "generous"
still--but wisely so.




TAKING IT FOR GRANTED.


MR. EVERTON was the editor and publisher of the ---- Journal, and, like
too many occupying his position, was not on the best terms in the world
with certain of his contemporaries of the same city. One morning, on
opening the paper from a rival office, he found an article therein,
which appeared as a communication, that pointed to him so directly as
to leave no room for mistake as to the allusions that were made.

Of course, Mr. Everton was considerably disturbed by the occurrence,
and thoughts of retaliation arose in his mind. The style was not that
of the editor, and so, though he felt incensed at that personage for
admitting the article, he went beyond him, and cast about in his mind
for some clue that would enable him to identify the writer. In this he
did not long find himself at a loss. He had a man in his employment who
possessed all the ability necessary to write the article, and upon
whom, for certain reasons, he soon fixed the origin of the attack.

"Have you seen that article in the Gazette?" asked an acquaintance, who
came into Everton's office while he sat with the paper referred to
still in his hand.

"I have," replied Everton, compressing his lips.

"Well, what do you think of it?"

"It'll do no harm, of course; but that doesn't touch the malice of the
writer."

"No."

"Nor make him any the less base at heart."

"Do you know the author?"

"I believe so."

"Who is he?"

"My impression is, that Ayres wrote it."

"Ayres?"

"Yes."

"Why, he is indebted to you for his bread!"

"I know he is, and that makes his act one of deeper baseness."

"What could have induced him to be guilty of such a thing?"

"That's just what I've been trying to study out, and I believe I
understand it all fully. Some six months ago, he asked me to sign a
recommendation for his appointment to a vacant clerkship in one of our
banks. I told him that I would do so with pleasure, only that my nephew
was an applicant, and I had already given him my name. He didn't appear
to like this, which I thought very unreasonable, to say the least of
it."

"Why, the man must be insane! How could he expect you to sign the
application of two men for the same place? Especially, how could he
expect you to give him a preference over your own nephew?"

"Some men are strangely unreasonable."

"We don't live long in this world ere becoming cognisant of that fact."

"And for this he has held a grudge against you, and now takes occasion
to revenge himself."

"So it would seem. I know of nothing else that he can have against me.
I have uniformly treated him with kindness and consideration."

"There must be something radically base in his character."

"I'm afraid there is."

"I wouldn't have such a man in my employment."

Everton shrugged his shoulders and elevated his eyebrows, but said
nothing.

"A man who attempts thus to injure you in your business by false
representations, will not hesitate to wrong you in other ways," said
the acquaintance.

"A very natural inference," replied Everton. "I'm sorry to have to
think so badly of Ayres; but, as you say, a man who would, in so base a
manner, attack another, would not hesitate to do him an injury if a
good opportunity offered."

"And it's well for you to think of that."

"True. However, I do not see that he has much chance to do me an
ill-turn where he is. So far, I must do him the justice to say that he
is faithful in the discharge of all his duties."

"He knows that his situation depends upon this."

"Of course. His own interest prompts him to do right here; but when an
opportunity to stab me in the dark offers, he embraces it. He did not,
probably, imagine that I would see the hand that held the dagger."

"No."

"But I am not so blind as he imagined. Well, such work must not be
permitted to go unpunished."

"It ought not to be. When a man indulges his ill-nature towards one
individual with entire impunity, he soon gains courage for extended
attacks, and others become sharers in the result of his vindictiveness.
It is a duty that a man owes the community to let all who maliciously
wrong him feel the consequences due to their acts."

"No doubt you are right; and, if I keep my present mind, I shall let my
particular friend Mr. Ayres feel that it is not always safe to stab
even in the dark."

The more Mr. Everton thought over the matter, the more fully satisfied
was he that Ayres had made the attack upon him. This person was engaged
as reporter and assistant editor of his newspaper, at a salary of ten
dollars a week. He had a family, consisting of a wife and four
children, the expense of whose maintenance rather exceeded than came
within his income, and small accumulations of debt were a natural
result.

Everton had felt some interest in this man, who possessed considerable
ability as a writer; he saw that he had a heavy weight upon him, and
often noticed that he looked anxious and dejected. On the very day
previous to the appearance of the article above referred to, he had
been thinking of him with more than usual interest, and had actually
meditated an increase of salary as a compensation for more extended
services. But that was out of the question now. The wanton and
injurious attack which had just appeared shut up all his bowels of
compassion, and so far from meditating the conferring of a benefit upon
Ayres, he rather inclined to a dismissal of the young man from his
establishment. The longer he dwelt upon it, the more inclined was he to
pursue this course, and, finally, he made up his mind to take some one
else in his place. One day, after some struggles with himself, he said,
"Mr. Ayres, if you can suit yourself in a place, I wish you would do so
in the course of the next week or two."

The young man looked surprised, and the blood instantly suffused his
face.

"Have I not given you satisfaction?" inquired Ayres.

"Yes--yes--I have no fault to find with you," replied Mr. Everton, with
some embarrassment in his air. "But I wish to bring in another person
who has some claims on me."

In this, Mr. Everton rather exceeded the truth. His equivocation was
not manly, and Ayres was deceived by it into the inference of a reason
for his dismissal foreign to the true one.

"Oh, very well," he replied, coldly. "If you wish another to take my
place, I will give it up immediately."

Mr. Everton bowed with a formal air, and the young man, who felt hurt
at his manner, and partly stunned by the unexpected announcement that
he must give up his situation, retired at once.

On the next day, the Gazette contained another article, in which there
was even a plainer reference to Mr. Everton than before, and it
exhibited a bitterness of spirit that was vindictive. He was no longer
in doubt as to the origin of these attacks, if he had been previously.
In various parts of this last article, he could detect the particular
style of Ayres.

"I see that fellow is at work on you again," said the person with whom
he had before conversed on the subject.

"Yes; but, like the viper, I think he is by this time aware that he is
biting on a file."

"Ah! Have you dismissed him from your service?"

"Yes, sir."

"You have served him right. No man who attempted to injure me should
eat my bread. What did he say?"

"Nothing. What could he say? When I told him to find himself another
place as quickly as possible, his guilt wrote itself in his
countenance."

"Has he obtained a situation?"

"I don't know; and, what is more, don't care."

"I hope he has, for the sake of his family. It's a pity that they
should suffer for his evil deeds."

"I didn't think of them, or I might not have dismissed him; but it is
done now, and there the matter rests."

And there Mr. Everton let it rest, so far as Ayres was concerned. The
individual obtained in his place had been, for some years, connected
with the press as news collector and paragraph writer. His name was
Tompkins. He was not a general favourite, and had never been very
highly regarded by Mr. Everton; but he must have some one to fill the
place made vacant by the removal of Ayres, and Tompkins was the most
available person to be had. There was a difference in the Journal after
Tompkins took the place of assistant editor, and a very perceptible
difference; it was not for the better.

About three months after Mr. Everton had dismissed Ayres from his
establishment, a gentleman said to him,

"I am told that the young man who formerly assisted in your paper is in
very destitute circumstances."

"Ayres?"

"Yes. That is his name."

"I am sorry to hear it. I wish him no ill; though he tried to do me all
the harm he could."

"I am sorry to hear that. I always had a good opinion of him; and come,
now, to see if I can't interest you in his favour."

Everton shook his head.

"I don't wish to have any thing to do with him."

"It pains me to hear you speak so. What has he done to cause you to
feel so unkindly towards him?"

"He attacked me in another newspaper, wantonly, at the very time he was
employed in my office."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, and in a way to do me a serious injury."

"That is bad. Where did the attack appear?"

"In the Gazette."

"Did you trace it to him?"

"Yes; or, rather, it bore internal evidence that enabled me to fix it
upon him unequivocally."

"Did you charge it upon him?"

"No. I wished to have no quarrel with him, although he evidently tried
to get up one with me. I settled the matter by notifying him to leave
my employment."

"You are certain that he wrote the article?"

"Oh, yes; positive."

And yet the very pertinence of the question threw a doubt into the mind
of Mr. Everton.

The gentleman with whom he was conversing on retiring went to the
office of the Gazette, with the editor of which he was well acquainted.

"Do you remember," said he, "an attack on Mr. Everton, which, some time
ago, appeared in your paper?"

The editor reflected a few moments, and then replied:

"A few months since, two or three articles were published in the
Gazette that did refer to Everton in not a very kind manner."

"Do you know the author?"

"Yes."

"Have you any reasons for wishing to conceal his name?"

"None at all. They were written by a young man who was then in my
office, named Tompkins."

"You are certain of this?"

"I am certain that he brought them to me in his own manuscript."

"Everton suspected a man named Ayres to be the author."

"His assistant editor at the time?"

"Yes; and what is more, discharged him from his employment on the
strength of this suspicion."

"What injustice! Ayres is as innocent as you are."

"I am glad to hear it. The consequences to the poor man have been very
sad. He has had no regular employment since, and his family are now
suffering for even the common necessaries of life."

"That is very bad. Why didn't he deny the charge when it was made
against him?"

"He was never accused. Everton took it for granted that he was guilty,
and acted from this erroneous conclusion."

"What a commentary upon hasty judgments! Has he no employment now?"

"None."

"Then I will give him a situation. I know him to be competent for the
place I wish filled; and I believe he will be faithful."

Here the interview ceased, and the gentleman who had taken the pains to
sift out the truth returned to Everton's office.

"Well," said he, on entering, "I believe I have got to the bottom of
this matter."

"What matter?" asked Everton, looking slightly surprised.

"The matter of Ayres's supposed attack upon you."

"Why do you say supposed?"

"Because it was only supposed. Ayres didn't write the article of which
you complain."

"How do you know?"

"I've seen the editor of the Gazette."

"Did he say that Ayres was not the author?"

"He did."

"Who wrote it then?"

"A man named Tompkins, who was at the time employed in his office."

Everton sprang from his chair as if he had been stung.

"Tompkins!" he exclaimed.

"So he says."

"Can it be possible! And I have the viper in my employment."

"You have?"

"Yes; he has filled the place of Ayres nearly ever since the latter was
dismissed from my office."

"Then you have punished the innocent and rewarded the guilty."

"So much for taking a thing for granted," said Everton, as he moved,
restlessly, about the floor of his office.

So soon as the editor of the ---- Journal was alone, he sent for
Tompkins, who was in another part of the building. As the young man
entered his office, he said to him, in a sharp, abrupt manner,--

"Do you remember certain articles against me that appeared in the
Gazette a few months ago?"

The young man, whose face became instantly red as scarlet, stammered
out that he did remember them.

"And you wrote them?"

"Ye--ye--yes; bu--but I have regretted it since, very much."

"You can put on your hat and leave my employment as quickly as you
please," said Mr. Everton, angrily. He had little control of himself,
and generally acted from the spur of the occasion.

Tompkins, thus severely punished for going out of the way to attack a
man against whom he entertained a private grudge, beat a hasty retreat,
and left Mr. Everton in no very comfortable frame of mind.

On being so unceremoniously dismissed from employment, Mr. Ayres, who
was by nature morbidly sensitive, shrank into himself, and experienced
a most painful feeling of helplessness. He was not of a cheerful,
confident, hopeful disposition. He could not face the world, and battle
for his place in it, like many other men. A little thing discouraged
him. To be thrust out of his place so unceremoniously--to be turned off
for another, stung him deeply. But the worst of all was, the supply of
bread for his family was cut off, and no other resource was before him.

From that time, for three months, his earnings never went above the
weekly average of five dollars; and he hardly knew on one day where he
was to obtain employment for the next. His wife, though in poor health,
was obliged to dispense with all assistance, and perform, with her own
hands, the entire work of the family. This wore her down daily, and
Ayres saw her face growing thinner, and her step becoming more feeble,
without the power to lighten her burdens.

Thus it went on from week to week. Sometimes, the unhappy man would
grow desperate, and, under this feeling, force himself to make
applications--to him humiliating--for employment at a fair
compensation. But he was always unsuccessful.

Sickness at last smote the frame of his wife. She had borne up as long
as strength remained, but the weight was too heavy, and she sank under
it.

Sickness and utter destitution came together. Ayres had not been able
to get any thing at all to do for several days, and money and food were
both exhausted. A neighbour, hearing of this, had sent in a basket of
provisions. But Ayres could not touch it. His sensitive pride of
independence was not wholly extinguished. The children ate, and he
blessed the hand of the giver for their sakes; yet, even while he did
so, a feeling of weakness and humiliation brought tears to his eyes.
His spirits were broken, and he folded his arms in impotent despair.
While sitting wrapt in the gloomiest feelings, there came a knock at
his door. One of the children opened it, and a lad came in with a note
in his hand. On breaking the seal, he found it to be from the publisher
of the Gazette, who offered him a permanent situation at twelve dollars
a week. So overcome was he by such unexpected good fortune, that he
with difficulty controlled his feelings before the messenger. Handing
the note to his wife, who was lying on the bed, he turned to a table
and wrote a hasty answer, accepting the place, and stating that he
would be down in the course of an hour. As the boy departed, he looked
towards his wife. She had turned her face to the wall, and was weeping
violently.

"It was very dark, Jane," said Ayres, as he took her hand, bending over
her at the same time and kissing her forehead, "very dark; but the
light is breaking."

Scarcely had the boy departed, when a heavy rap at the door disturbed
the inmates of that humble dwelling.

"Mr. Everton!" exclaimed Ayres in surprise, as he opened the door.

"I want you to come back to my office," said the visitor, speaking in a
slightly agitated voice. "I never ought to have parted with you. But to
make some amends, your wages shall be twelve dollars a week. And here,"
handing out some money as he spoke, "is your pay for a month in
advance."

"I thank you for the offer, Mr. Everton," replied the young man, "but
the publisher of the Gazette has already tendered me a situation, and I
have accepted it."

The countenance of Mr. Everton fell.

"When did this occur?" he inquired.

"His messenger has been gone only a moment."

Mr. Everton stood for a few seconds irresolute, while his eyes took in
the images of distress and destitution apparent on every hand. His
feelings no one need envy. If his thoughts had been uttered at the
time, his words would have been, "This is the work of my hands!" He
still held out the money, but Ayres did not touch it.

"What does he offer you?" he at length asked.

"Twelve dollars a week," was replied.

"I will make it fifteen."

"I thank you," said Ayres, in answer to this, "but my word is passed,
and I cannot recall it."

"Then take this as a loan, and repay me when you can."

Saying this, Everton tossed a small roll of bank bills upon the floor,
at the feet of the young man, adding as he did so--"And if you are ever
in want of a situation, come to me."

He then hurriedly retired, with what feelings the reader may imagine.

The reason for this suddenly awakened interest on the part of Mr.
Everton, Ayres did not know until he entered the service of his new
employer. He had the magnanimity to forgive him, notwithstanding all he
had suffered; and he is now back again in his service on a more liberal
salary than he ever before enjoyed.

Mr. Everton is now exceedingly careful how he takes any thing for
granted.




LOVE AND LAW.


LLOYD TOMLINSON was a Virginia gentleman of the old school, and held
high notions on the kindred subjects of social rank and family
distinctions. His ancestors were connected with English families of
some renown, and had figured in history as Cavaliers, during the
troublesome times of Charles I. Portraits of the most noted of these
were hung upon the walls in Mr. Tomlinson's fine old mansion, and it
was with pride that he often referred to them and related the story of
each. But such stories were generally wound up by an expression of
regret for the sad deteriorations that were going on in this country.

"A man like that," he would sometimes say, pointing to the picture of a
stern old Cavalier, "is rarely, if ever, met with, and in a little
while there will be no living representative of such--at least not in
America, where all social distinctions are rapidly disappearing. In
fact, we have scarcely any thing left, even now, but the shadow of a
true aristocracy, and that is only to be found in Virginia. At the
North, mere wealth makes a man a gentleman; and this new invention of
these degenerate times is fast being adopted even here in the 'Old
Dominion.' But it won't do--unless a man is born and bred a gentleman,
he never can become one."

It was no use to argue with the rigid old Virginian about the
aristocracy of virtue, or the aristocracy of mind; he scouted at the
idea, and reiterated, with added emphasis, that only he who was born of
gentle blood could be a gentleman.

The family of Mr. Tomlinson, which had consisted of his wife, two sons,
and two daughters, was, at the time our story opens, composed of only
two members, himself and his youngest child, Edith, now in her
nineteenth year. Death had taken all but one.

Edith, though born and bred a lady, her father observed, with pain, did
not set a high value upon the distinction, and at last actually refused
to receive the addresses of a young man who came of pure old English
blood, and was a thorough gentleman in the eyes of Mr. Tomlinson,
because she liked neither his principles, habits, nor general
character, while she looked with favour upon the advances of a young
attorney, named Denton, whose father, a small farmer in Essex county,
had nothing higher than honesty and manly independence of which to
boast.

The young gentleman of pure blood was named Allison. He was the last
representative of an old family, and had come into possession, on
attaining his majority, of a large landed estate immediately adjoining
that owned by Mr. Tomlinson. The refusal of Edith to receive his
addresses aroused in him an unhappy spirit, which he cherished until it
inspired him with thoughts of retaliation. The means were in his hands.
There existed an old, but not legally adjusted question, about the
title to a thousand acres of land lying between the estates of Mr.
Tomlinson and Mr. Allison, which had, more than fifty years before,
been settled by the principal parties thereto on the basis of a fair
division, without the delay, vexation, expense, and bitterness of a
prolonged lawsuit. By this division, the father of Mr. Tomlinson
retained possession of five hundred acres, and the grandfather of Mr.
Allison of the other five hundred. The former had greatly improved the
portion into the full possession of which he had come, as it was by far
the most beautiful and fertile part of his estate. His old residence
was torn down, and a splendid mansion erected on a commanding eminence
within the limits of this old disputed land, at a cost of nearly eighty
thousand dollars, and the whole of the five hundred acres gradually
brought into a high state of cultivation. To meet the heavy outlay for
all this, other and less desirable portions of the estate were sold,
until, finally, only about three hundred acres of the original
Tomlinson property remained.

Mr. Lloyd Tomlinson, as he advanced in years, and felt the paralyzing
effects of the severe afflictions he had suffered, lost much of the
energy he had possessed in his younger days. There was a gradual
diminution in the number of hogsheads of tobacco and bushels of corn
and wheat that went into Richmond from his plantation annually; and
there was also a steady decrease in the slave population with which he
was immediately surrounded. From a hundred and fifty, his slaves had
decreased, until he only owned thirty, and with them did little more
than make his yearly expenses. Field after field had been abandoned,
and left to a fertile undergrowth of pines or scrubby oaks, until there
were few signs of cultivation, except within the limits of two or three
hundred acres of the rich lands contiguous to his dwelling.

Henry Denton, the young attorney to whom allusion has been made, had
become deeply enamoured with Edith Tomlinson, who was often met by him
in her unaristocratic intercourse with several excellent and highly
intelligent families in the neighbourhood. To see her, was for him to
love her; but the pride of her father was too well known by him to
leave much room for hope that the issue of his passion would be
successful, even if so fortunate as to win the heart of the maiden. He
was inspired with courage, however, by the evident favour with which
she regarded him, and even tempted to address her in language that no
woman's ear could mistake--the language of love. Edith listened with a
heart full of hope and fear. She had great respect for the character of
Denton, which she saw was based upon virtuous principles; and this
respect easily changed into love that was true and fervent; but she
knew too well her father's deeply-rooted prejudices in favour of rank
and family, to hope that the current of her love would run smooth. This
proved to be no idle fear. When Henry Denton ventured to approach Mr.
Tomlinson on the subject of his love for Edith, the old gentleman
received him with great discourtesy.

"Who are you, sir?" he asked, drawing himself proudly up.

"I hardly think you need ask that question," the young man replied. "I
am not an entire stranger to you, nor unknown in your neighbourhood."

"But who are you, sir? That is what I ask to know. Who is your father?"

"An honest man, sir." The young man spoke with firmness and dignity.

"Humph! there are plenty of them about. I could marry my daughter to an
