  home and friends as much as possible; for, when indulged in, they
  only increase my melancholy feelings. And what wounds my feelings
  most is the reflection of what you all suffer of grief and anxiety
  for me. Cease to grieve for me, for I am unworthy of it; and it only
  causes pain for you, without availing aught for me.... As ever,
  thine in the bonds of affection,

                                                                 R. D.

He had been in prison little more than a year when the cholera invaded
Nashville, and broke out among the inmates; Richard was up day and night
in attendance on the sick, his disinterested and sympathetic nature
leading him to labors to which his delicate constitution, impaired by
confinement, was altogether inadequate.

           “Beside the bed where parting life was laid,
           And sorrow, grief and pain, by turns dismayed,
           The youthful champion stood: at his control
           Despair and anguish fled the trembling soul,
           Comfort came down the dying wretch to raise,
           And his last faltering accents whispered praise.”

Worn with these labors, the gentle, patient lover of God and of his
brother, sank at last overwearied, and passed peacefully away to a world
where all are lovely and loving.

Though his correspondence with her he most loved was interrupted, from
his unwillingness to subject his letters to the surveillance of the
warden, yet a note reached her, conveyed through the hands of a prisoner
whose time was out. In this letter, the last which any earthly friend
ever received, he says:

  I ofttimes, yea, all times, think of thee;—if I did not, I should
  cease to exist.

What must that system be which makes it necessary to imprison with
convicted felons a man like this, because he loves his brother man “not
wisely but too well”?

On his death Whittier wrote the following:

       “Si crucem libenter portes, te portabit.”—Imit. Christ.

             “The Cross, if freely borne, shall be
             No burthen, but support, to thee.”
             So, moved of old time for our sake,
             The holy man of Kempen spake.

             Thou brave and true one, upon whom
             Was laid the Cross of Martyrdom,
             How didst thou, in thy faithful youth,
             Bear witness to this blessed truth!

             Thy cross of suffering and of shame
             A staff within thy hands became;—
             In paths, where Faith alone could see
             The Master’s steps, upholding thee.

             Thine was the seed-time: God alone
             Beholds the end of what is sown;
             Beyond our vision, weak and dim,
             The harvest-time is hid with Him.

             Yet, unforgotten where it lies,
             That seed of generous sacrifice,
             Though teeming on the desert cast,
             Shall rise with bloom and fruit at last.

                                           J. G. WHITTIER.

  Amesbury, Second. mo. 18th, 1852.

-----

Footnote 2:

  R. D.’s father survived him only a few months.




                              CHAPTER XIV.
                        THE SPIRIT OF ST. CLARE.


The general tone of the press and of the community in the slave states,
so far as it has been made known at the North, has been loudly
condemnatory of the representations of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” Still, it
would be unjust to the character of the South to refuse to acknowledge
that she has many sons with candor enough to perceive, and courage
enough to avow, the evils of her “peculiar institutions.” The manly
independence exhibited by these men, in communities where popular
sentiment rules despotically, either by law or in spite of law, should
be duly honored. The sympathy of such minds as these is a high
encouragement to philanthropic effort.

The author inserts a few testimonials from Southern men, not without
some pride in being thus kindly judged by those who might have been
naturally expected to read her book with prejudice against it.

The Jefferson Inquirer, published at Jefferson City, Missouri, Oct.
23, 1852, contains the following communication:

                           UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.

  I have lately read this celebrated book, which, perhaps, has gone
  through more editions, and been sold in greater numbers, than any
  work from the American press, in the same length of time. It is a
  work of high literary finish, and its several characters are drawn
  with great power and truthfulness, although, like the characters in
  most novels and works of fiction, in some instances too highly
  colored. There is no attack on slave-holders as such, but, on the
  contrary, many of them are represented as highly noble, generous,
  humane and benevolent. Nor is there any attack upon them as a class.
  It sets forth many of the evils of slavery, as an institution
  established by law, but without charging these evils on those who
  hold the slaves, and seems fully to appreciate the difficulties in
  finding a remedy. Its effect upon the slave-holder is to make him a
  kinder and better master; to which none can object. This is said
  without any intention to endorse everything contained in the book,
  or, indeed, in any novel, or work of fiction. But, if I mistake not,
  there are few, excepting those who are greatly prejudiced, that will
  rise from a perusal of the book without being a truer and better
  Christian, and a more humane and benevolent man. As a slave-holder,
  I do not feel the least aggrieved. How Mrs. Stowe, the authoress,
  has obtained her extremely accurate knowledge of the negroes, their
  character, dialect, habits, &c., is beyond my comprehension, as she
  never resided—as appears from the preface—in a slave state, or among
  slaves or negroes. But they are certainly admirably delineated. The
  book is highly interesting and amusing, and will afford a rich treat
  to its reader.

                                                     THOMAS JEFFERSON.

The opinion of the editor himself is given in these words:

                           UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.

  Well, like a good portion of “the world and the rest of mankind,” we
  have read the book of Mrs. Stowe bearing the above title.

  From numerous statements, newspaper paragraphs and rumors, we
  supposed the book was all that fanaticism and heresy could invent,
  and were therefore greatly prejudiced against it. But, on reading
  it, we cannot refrain from saying that it is a work of more than
  ordinary moral worth, and is entitled to consideration. We do not
  regard it as “a corruption of moral sentiment,” and a gross “libel
  on a portion of our people.” The authoress seems disposed to treat
  the subject fairly, though, in some particulars, the scenes are too
  highly colored, and too strongly drawn from the imagination. The
  book, however, may lead its readers at a distance to misapprehend
  some of the general and better features of “Southern life as it is”
  (which, by the way, we, as an individual, prefer to Northern life);
  yet it is a perfect mirror of several classes of people “we have in
  our mind’s eye, who are not free from all the ills flesh is heir
  to.” It has been feared that the book would result in injury to the
  slave-holding interests of the country; but we apprehend no such
  thing, and hesitate not to recommend it to the perusal of our
  friends and the public generally.

  Mrs. Stowe has exhibited a knowledge of many peculiarities of
  Southern society which is really wonderful, when we consider that
  she is a Northern lady by birth and residence.

  We hope, then, before our friends form any harsh opinions of the
  merits of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and make up any judgment against us
  for pronouncing in its favor (barring some objections to it), that
  they will give it a careful perusal; and, in so speaking, we may say
  that we yield to no man in his devotion to Southern rights and
  interests.

The editor of the St. Louis (Missouri) Battery pronounces the
following judgment:

  We took up this work, a few evenings since, with just such
  prejudices against it as we presume many others have commenced
  reading it. We have been so much in contact with ultra
  abolitionists,—have had so much evidence that their benevolence was
  much more hatred for the master than love for the slave, accompanied
  with a profound ignorance of the circumstances surrounding both, and
  a most consummate, supreme disgust for the whole negro race,—that we
  had about concluded that anything but rant and nonsense was out of
  the question from a Northern writer upon the subject of slavery.

  Mrs. Stowe, in these delineations of life among the lowly, has
  convinced us to the contrary.

  She brings to the discussion of her subject a perfectly cool,
  calculating judgment, a wide, all-comprehending intellectual vision,
  and a deep, warm, sea-like woman’s soul, over all of which is flung
  a perfect iris-like imagination, which makes the light of her
  pictures stronger and more beautiful, as their shades are darker and
  terror-striking.

  We do not wonder that the copy before us is of the seventieth
  thousand. And seventy thousand more will not supply the demand, or
  we mistake the appreciation of the American people of the real
  merits of literary productions. Mrs. Stowe has, in “Uncle Tom’s
  Cabin,” set up for herself a monument more enduring than marble. It
  will stand amid the wastes of slavery as the Memnon stands amid the
  sands of the African desert, telling both the white man and the
  negro of the approach of morning. The book is not an abolitionist
  work, in the offensive sense of the word. It is, as we have
  intimated, free from everything like fanaticism, no matter what
  amount of enthusiasm vivifies every page, and runs like electricity
  along every thread of the story. It presents at one view the
  excellences and the evils of the system of slavery, and breathes the
  true spirit of Christian benevolence for the slave, and charity for
  the master.

The next witness gives his testimony in a letter to the New York
Evening Post:

                          LIGHT IN THE SOUTH.

  The subjoined communication comes to us postmarked New Orleans, June
  19, 1852:

  “I have just been reading ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin, or, Scenes in Lowly
  Life,’ by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe. It found its way to me through
  the channel of a young student, who purchased it at the North, to
  read on his homeward passage to New Orleans. He was entirely
  unacquainted with its character; he was attracted by its title,
  supposing it might amuse him while travelling. Through his family it
  was shown to me, as something that I would probably like. I looked
  at the author’s name, and said, ‘O, yes; anything from that lady I
  will read;’ otherwise I should have disregarded a work of fiction
  without such a title.

  “The remarks from persons present were, that it was a most amusing
  work, and the scenes most admirably drawn to life. I accepted the
  offer of a perusal of it, and brought it home with me. Although I
  have not read every sentence, I have looked over the whole of it,
  and I now wish to bear my testimony to its just delineation of the
  position that the slave occupies. Colorings in the work there are,
  but no colorings of the actual and real position of the slave worse
  than really exist. Whippings to death do occur; I know it to be so.
  Painful separations of master and slave, under circumstances
  creditable to the master’s feelings of humanity, do also occur. I
  know that, too. Many families, after having brought up their
  children in entire dependence on slaves to do everything for them,
  and after having been indulged in elegances and luxuries, have
  exhausted all their means; and the black people only being left,
  whom they must sell, for further support. Running away, everybody
  knows, is the worst crime a slave can commit, in the eyes of his
  master, except it be a humane master; and from such few slaves care
  to run away.

  “I am a slave-holder myself. I have long been dissatisfied with the
  system; particularly since I have made the Bible my criterion for
  judging of it. I am convinced, from what I read there, slavery is
  not in accordance with what God delights to honor in his creatures.
  I am altogether opposed to the system; and I intend always to use
  whatever influence I may have against it. I feel very bold in
  speaking against it, though living in the midst of it, because I am
  backed by a powerful arm, that can overturn and overrule the
  strongest efforts that the determined friends of slavery are now
  making for its continuance.

  “I sincerely hope that more of Mrs. Stowes may be found, to show up
  the reality of slavery. It needs master minds to show it as it is,
  that it may rest upon its own merits.

  “Like Mrs. Stowe, I feel that, since so many and good people, too,
  at the North, have quietly consented to leave the slave to his fate,
  by acquiescing in and approving the late measures of government,
  those who do feel differently should bestir themselves. Christian
  effort must do the work; and soon it would be done, if Christians
  would unite, not to destroy the Union states, but honestly to speak
  out, and speak freely, against that they know is wrong. They are not
  aware what countenance they give to slave-holders to hold on to
  their prey. Troubled consciences can be easily quieted by the
  sympathies of pious people, particularly when interest and
  inclination come in as aids.

  “I am told there is to be a reply made to ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin,’
  entitled ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin as It Is.’ I am glad of it.
  Investigation is what is wanted.

  “You will wonder why this communication is made to you by an
  unknown. It is simply made to encourage your heart, and strengthen
  your determination to persevere, and do all you can to put the
  emancipation of the slave in progress. Who I am you will never know;
  nor do I wish you to know, nor any one else. I am a

                                                         “REPUBLICAN.”

The following facts make the fiction of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” appear tame
in the comparison. They are from the New York Evangelist.

                           UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.

  MR. EDITOR: I see in your paper that some persons deny the
  statements of Mrs. Stowe. I have read her book, every word of it.
  I was born in East Tennessee, near Knoxville, and, we thought, in
  an enlightened part of the Union, much favored in our social,
  political and religious privileges, &c. &c. Well, I think about the
  year 1829, or, perhaps, ‘28, a good old German Methodist owned a
  black man named Robin, a Methodist preacher, and the manager of
  farm, distillery, &c., salesman and financier. This good old German
  Methodist had a son named Willey, a schoolmate of mine, and, as
  times were, a first-rate fellow. The old man also owned a keen,
  bright-eyed mulatto girl; and Willey—the naughty boy!—became
  enamored of the poor girl. The result was soon discovered; and our
  good German Methodist told his brother Robin to flog the girl for
  her wickedness. Brother Robin said he could not and would not
  perform such an act of cruelty as to flog the girl for what she
  could not help; and for that act of disobedience old Robin was
  flogged by the good old German brother, until he could not stand. He
  was carried to bed; and, some three weeks thereafter, when my father
  left the state, he was still confined to his bed from the effects of
  that flogging.

  Again: in the fall of 1836 I went South, for my health, stopped at a
  village in Mississippi, and obtained employment in the largest house
  in the county, as a book-keeper, with a firm from Louisville, Ky. A
  man residing near the village—a bachelor, thirty years of age—became
  embarrassed, and executed a mortgage to my employer on a fine,
  likely boy, weighing about two hundred pounds,—quick-witted, active,
  obedient, and remarkably faithful, trusty and honest; so much so,
  that he was held up as an example. He had a wife that he loved. His
  owner cast his eyes upon her, and she became his paramour. His boy
  remonstrated with his master; told him that he tried faithfully to
  perform his every duly; that he was a good and faithful “nigger” to
  him; and it was hard, after he had toiled hard all day, and till ten
  o’clock at night, for him to have his domestic relations broken up
  and interfered with. The white man denied the charge, and the wife
  also denied it. One night, about the first of September, the boy
  came home earlier than usual, say about nine o’clock. It was a wet,
  dismal night; he made a fire in his cabin, went to get his supper,
  and found ocular demonstration of the guilt of his master. He became
  enraged, as I suppose any man would, seized a butcher-knife, and cut
  his master’s throat, stabbed his wife in twenty-seven places, came
  to the village, and knocked at the office-door. I told him to come
  in. He did so, and asked for my employer. I called him. The boy then
  told him that he had killed his master and his wife, and what for.
  My employer locked him up, and he, a doctor and myself, went out to
  the house of the old bachelor, and found him dead, and the boy’s
  wife nearly so. She, however, lived. We (my employer and myself)
  returned to the village, watched the boy until about sunrise, left
  him locked up, and went to get our breakfasts, intending to take the
  boy to jail (as it was my employer’s interest, if possible, to save
  the boy, having one thousand dollars at stake in him). But, whilst
  we were eating, some persons who had heard of the murder broke open
  the door, took the poor fellow, put a log chain round his neck, and
  started him for the woods, at the point of the bayonet, marching by
  where we were eating, with a great deal of noise. My employer,
  hearing it, ran out, and rescued the boy. The mob again broke in and
  took the boy, and marched him, as before stated, out of town.

  My employer then begged them not to disgrace their town in such a
  manner; but to appoint a jury of twelve sober men, to decide what
  should be done. And twelve as sober men as could be found (I was
  not sober) said he must be hanged. They then tied a rope round his
  neck, and set him on an old horse. He made a speech to the mob,
  which I, at the time, thought if it had come from some senator,
  would have been received with rounds of applause; and, withal, he
  was more calm than I am now, in writing this. And, after he had told
  all about the deed, and its cause, he then kicked the horse out from
  under him, and was launched into eternity. My employer has often
  remarked that he never saw anything more noble, in his whole life,
  than the conduct of that boy.

  Now, Mr. Editor, I have given you facts, and can give you names and
  dates. You can do what you think is best for the cause of humanity.
  I hope I have seen the evil of my former practices, and will
  endeavor to reform.

                                                Very respectfully,
                                                        JAMES L. HILL.

  Springfield, Ill., Sept. 17th, 1852.

“The Opinion of a Southerner,” given below, appeared in the National
Era, published at Washington. This is an anti-slavery journal, but by
its generous tone and eminent ability it commands the respect and
patronage of many readers in the slave states:

  The following communication comes enclosed in an envelope from
  Louisiana.—Ed. Era.

                      THE OPINION OF A SOUTHERNER.

  To the Editor of the National Era:

  I have just been reading, in the New York Observer of the 12th of
  August, an article from the Southern Free Press, headed by an
  editorial one from the Observer, that has for its caption,
  “Progress in the Right Quarter.”

  The editor of the New York Observer says that the Southern Free
  Press has been an able and earnest defender of Southern
  institutions; but that he now advocates the passage of a law to
  prohibit the separation of families, and recommends instruction to a
  portion of slaves that are most honest and faithful. The Observer
  further adds: “It was such language as this that was becoming
  common, before Northern fanaticism ruined the prospects of
  emancipation.” It is not so! Northern fanaticism, as he calls it,
  has done everything that has been done for bettering the condition
  of the slave. Every one who knows anything of slavery for the last
  thirty years will recollect that about that time since, the
  condition of the slave in Louisiana—for about Louisiana only do I
  speak, because about Louisiana only do I know—was as depressed and
  miserable as any of the accounts of the abolitionists that ever I
  have seen have made it. I say abolitionists; I mean friends and
  advocates of freedom, in a fair and honorable way. If any doubt my
  assertion, let them seek for information. Let them get the black
  laws of Louisiana, and read them. Let them get facts from
  individuals of veracity, on whose statements they would rely.

  This wretched condition of slaves roused the friends of humanity,
  who, like men, and Christian men, came fearlessly forward, and told
  truths, indignantly expressing their abhorrence of their oppressors.
  Such measures, of course, brought forth strife, which caused the
  cries of humanity to sound louder and louder throughout the land.
  The friends of freedom gained the ascendency in the hearts of the
  people, and the slave-holders were brought to a stand. Some, through
  fear of consequences, lessened their cruelties, while others were
  made to think, that, perhaps, were not unwilling to do so when it
  was urged upon them. Cruelties were not only refrained from, but the
  slave’s comforts were increased. A retrograde treatment now was not
  practicable. Fears of rebellion kept them to it. The slave had found
  friends, and they were watchful. It was, however, soon discovered
  that too many privileges, too much leniency, and giving knowledge,
  would destroy the power to keep down the slave, and tend to weaken,
  if not destroy, the system. Accordingly, stringent laws had to be
  passed, and a penalty attached to them. No one must teach, or cause
  to be taught, a slave, without incurring the penalty. The law is now
  in force. These necessary laws, as they are called, are all put down
  to the account of the friends of freedom—to their interference. I do
  suppose that they do justly belong to their interference; for who
  that studies the history of the world’s transactions does not know
  that in all contests with power the weak, until successful, will be
  dealt with more rigorously? Lose not sight, however, of their former
  condition. Law after law has since been passed to draw the cord
  tighter around the poor slave, and all attributed to the
  abolitionists. Well, anyhow, progress is being made. Here comes out
  the Southern Press, and makes some honorable concessions. He says:
  “The assaults upon slavery, made for the last twenty years by the
  North, have increased the evils of it. The treatment of slaves has
  undoubtedly become a delicate and difficult question. The South has
  a great and moral conflict to wage; and it is for her to put on the
  most invulnerable moral panoply.” He then thinks the availability
  of slave property would not be injured by passing a law to prohibit
  the separation of slave families; for he says, “Although cases
  sometimes occur which we observe are seized by these Northern
  fanatics as characteristic of the system,” &c. Nonsense! there are
  no “cases sometimes” occurring—no such thing! They are every day’s
  occurrences, though there are families that form the exception, and
  many, I would hope, that would not do it. While I am writing I can
  call before me three men that were brought here by negro traders
  from Virginia, each having left six or seven children, with their
  wives, from whom they have never heard. One other died here, a short
  time since, who left the same number in Carolina, from whom he had
  never heard.

  I spent the summer of 1845 in Nashville. During the month of
  September, six hundred slaves passed through that place, in four
  different gangs, for New Orleans—final destination, probably, Texas.
  A goodly proportion were women; young women, of course; many mothers
  must have left not only their children, but their babies. One gang
  only had a few children. I made some excursions to the different
  watering places around Nashville; and while at Robinson, or Tyree
  Springs, twenty miles from Nashville, on the borders of Kentucky and
  Tennessee, my hostess said to me, one day, “Yonder comes a gang of
  slaves, chained.” I went to the road-side, and viewed them. For the
  better answering my purpose of observation, I stopped the white man
  in front, who was at his ease in a one-horse wagon, and asked him if
  those slaves were for sale. I counted them and observed their
  position. They were divided by three one-horse wagons, each
  containing a man-merchant, so arranged as to command the whole gang.
  Some were unchained; sixty were chained, in two companies, thirty in
  each, the right hand of one to the left hand of the other opposite
  one, making fifteen each side of a large ox-chain, to which every
  hand was fastened, and necessarily compelled to hold up,—men and
  women promiscuously, and about in equal proportions,—all young
  people. No children here, except a few in a wagon behind, which were
  the only children in the four gangs. I said to a respectable mulatto
  woman in the house, “Is it true that the negro traders take mothers
  from their babies?” “Missis, it is true; for here, last week, such a
  girl [naming her], who lives about a mile off, was taken after
  dinner,—knew nothing of it in the morning,—sold, put into the gang,
  and her baby was given away to a neighbor. She was a stout young
  woman, and brought a good price.”

  The annexation of Texas induced the spirited traffic that summer.
  Coming down home in a small boat, water low, a negro trader on board
  had forty-five men and women crammed into a little spot, some
  handcuffed. One respectable-looking man had left a wife and seven
  children in Nashville. Near Memphis the boat stopped at a plantation
  by previous arrangement, to take in thirty more. An hour’s delay was
  the stipulated time with the captain of the boat. Thirty young men
  and women came down the bank of the Mississippi, looking
  wretchedness personified—just from the field; in appearance dirty,
  disconsolate and oppressed; some with an old shawl under their arm,
  a few had blankets; some had nothing at all—looked as though they
  cared for nothing. I calculated, while looking at them coming down
  the bank, that I could hold in a bundle all that the whole of them
  had. The short notice that was given them, when about to leave, was
  in consequence of the fears entertained that they would slip one
  side. They all looked distressed,—leaving all that was dear to them
  behind, to be put under the hammer, for the property of the highest
  bidder. No children here! The whole seventy-five were crammed into a
  little space on the boat, men and women all together.

  I am happy to see that morality is rearing its head with advocates
  for slavery, and that a “most invulnerable moral panoply” is thought
  to be necessary. I hope it may not prove to be like Mr. Clay’s
  compromises. The Southern Press says: “As for caricatures of
  slavery in ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ and the ‘White Slave,’ all founded in
  imaginary circumstances, &c., we consider them highly incendiary. He
  who undertakes to stir up strife between two individual neighbors,
  by detraction, is justly regarded, by all men and all moral codes,
  as a criminal.” Then he quotes the ninth commandment, and adds: “But
  to bear false witness against whole states, and millions of people,
  &c., would seem to be a crime as much deeper in turpitude as the
  mischief is greater and the provocation less.” In the first place, I
  will put the Southern Press upon proof that Mrs. Harriet Beecher
  Stowe has told one falsehood. If she has told truth, it is, indeed,
  a powerful engine of “assault on slavery,” such as these Northern
  fanatics have made for the “last twenty years.” The number against
  whom she offends, in the editor’s opinion, seems to increase the
  turpitude of her crime. That is good reasoning! I hope the editor
  will be brought to feel that wholesale wickedness is worse than
  single-handed, and is infinitely harder to reach, particularly if of
  long standing. It gathers boldness and strength when it is
  sanctioned by the authority of time, and aided by numbers that are
  interested in supporting it. Such is slavery; and Mrs. Harriet
  Beecher Stowe deserves the gratitude of “states and millions of
  people” for her talented work, in showing it up in its true light.
  She has advocated truth, justice and humanity, and they will back
  her efforts. Her work will be read by “states and millions of
  people;” and when the Southern Press attempts to malign her, by
  bringing forward her own avowal, “that the subject of slavery had
  been so painful to her, that she had abstained from conversing on it
  for several years,” and that, in his opinion, “it accounts for the
  intensity of the venom of her book,” his really envenomed shafts
  will fall harmless at her feet; for readers will judge for
  themselves, and be very apt to conclude that more venom comes from
  the Southern Press than from her. She advocates what is right, and
  has a straight road, which “few get lost on;” he advocates what is
  wrong, and has, consequently, to tack, concede, deny, slander, and
  all sorts of things.

  With all due deference to whatever of just principles the Southern
  Press may have advanced in favor of the slave, I am a poor judge of
  human nature if I mistake in saying that Mrs. Stowe has done much to
  draw from him those concessions; and the putting forth of this
  “most invulnerable moral panoply,” that has just come into his
  head as a bulwark of safety for slavery, owes its impetus to her,
  and other like efforts. I hope the Southern Press will not imitate
  the spoiled child, who refused to eat his pie for spite.

  The “White Slave” I have not seen. I guess its character, for I made
  a passage to New York, some fourteen or fifteen years since, in a
  packet-ship, with a young woman whose face was enveloped in a
  profusion of light brown curls, and who sat at the table with the
  passengers all the way as a white woman. When at the quarantine,
  Staten Island, the captain received a letter, sent by express mail,
  from a person in New Orleans, claiming her as his slave, and
  threatening the captain with the penalty of the existing law if she
  was not immediately returned. The streaming eyes of the poor,
  unfortunate girl told the truth, when the captain reluctantly broke
  it to her. She unhesitatingly confessed that she had run away, and
  that a friend had paid her passage. Proper measures were taken, and
  she was conveyed to a packet-ship that was at Sandy Hook, bound for
  New Orleans.

  “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” I think, is a just delineation of slavery. The
  incidents are colored, but the position that the slave is made to
  hold is just. I did not read every page of it, my object being to
  ascertain what position the slave occupied. I could state a case of
  whipping to death that would equal Uncle Tom’s; still, such cases
  are not very frequent.

  The stirring up of strife between neighbors, that the Southern
  Press complains of, deserves notice. Who are neighbors? The most
  explicit answer to this question will be found in the reply Christ
  made to the lawyer, when he asked it of him. Another question will
  arise, Whether, in Christ’s judgment, Mrs. Stowe would be considered
  a neighbor or an incendiary? As the Almighty Ruler of the universe
  and the Maker of man has said that He has made all the nations of
  the earth of one blood, and man in His own image, the black man,
  irrespective of his color, would seem to be a neighbor who has
  fallen among his enemies, that have deprived him of the fruits of
  his labor, his liberty, his right to his wife and children, his
  right to obtain the knowledge to read, or to anything that earth
  holds dear, except such portions of food and raiment as will fit him
  for his despoiler’s purposes. Let not the apologists for slavery
  bring up the isolated cases of leniency, giving instruction, and
  affectionate attachment, that are found among some masters, as
  specimens of slavery! It is unfair! They form exceptions, and much
  do I respect them; but they are not the rules of slavery. The strife
  that is being stirred up is not to take away anything that belongs
  to another,—neither their silver or gold, their fine linen or
  purple, their houses or land, their horses or cattle, or anything
  that is their property; but to rescue a neighbor from their unmanly
  cupidity.

                                                         A REPUBLICAN.

No introduction is necessary to explain the following correspondence,
and no commendation will be required to secure for it a respectful
attention from thinking readers:

                                      { Washington City, D. C.,
                                      {                Dec. 6, 1852.

  D. R. GOODLOE, ESQ.

  DEAR SIR: I understand that you are a North Carolinian, and have
  always resided in the South, you must, consequently, be acquainted
  with the workings of the institution of slavery. You have doubtless
  also read that world-renowned book, “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” by Mrs.
  Stowe. The apologists for slavery deny that this book is a truthful
  picture of slavery. They say that its representations are
  exaggerated, its scenes and incidents unfounded, and, in a word,
  that the whole book is a caricature. They also deny that families
  are separated,—that children are sold from their parents, wives from
  their husbands, &c. Under these circumstances, I am induced to ask
  your opinion of Mrs. Stowe’s book, and whether or not, in your
  opinion, her statements are entitled to credit.

                                           I have the honor to be,
                                                   Yours, truly,
                                                       A. M. GANGEWER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                           Washington, Dec. 8, 1852.

  DEAR SIR: Your letter of the 6th inst., asking my opinion of “Uncle
  Tom’s Cabin,” has been received; and there being no reason why I
  should withhold it, unless it be the fear of public opinion (your
  object being, as I understand, the publication of my reply), I
  proceed to give it in some detail.

  A book of fiction, to be worth reading, must necessarily be filled
  with rare and striking incidents, and the leading characters must be
  remarkable, some for great virtues, others, perhaps, for great vices
  or follies. A narrative of the ordinary events in the lives of
  commonplace people would be insufferably dull and insipid; and a
  book made up of such materials would be, to the elegant and graphic
  pictures of life and manners which we have in the writings of Sir
  Walter Scott and Dickens, what a surveyor’s plot of a ten-acre field
  is to a painted landscape, in which the eye is charmed by a thousand
  varieties of hill and dale, of green shrubbery and transparent
  water, of light and shade, at a glance. In order to determine
  whether a novel is a fair picture of society, it is not necessary to
  ask if its chief personages are to be met with every day; but
  whether they are characteristic of the times and country,—whether
  they embody the prevalent sentiments, virtues, vices, follies, and
  peculiarities,—and whether the events, tragic or otherwise, are such
  as may and do occasionally occur.

  Judging “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” by these principles, I have no
  hesitation in saying that it is a faithful portraiture of Southern
  life and institutions. There is nothing in the book inconsistent
  with the laws and usages of the slave-holding states; the virtues,
  vices, and peculiar hues of character and manners, are all Southern,
  and must be recognized at once by every one who reads the book. I
  may never have seen such depravity in one man as that exhibited in
  the character of Legree, though I have ten thousand times witnessed
  the various shades of it in different individuals. On the other
  hand, I have never seen so many perfections concentrated in one
  human being as Mrs. Stowe has conferred upon the daughter of a
  slave-holder. Evangeline is an image of beauty and goodness which
  can never be effaced from the mind, whatever may be its prejudices.
  Yet her whole character is fragrant of the South; her generous
  sympathy, her beauty and delicacy, her sensibility are all Southern.
  They are “to the manor born,” and embodying as they do the Southern
  ideal of beauty and loveliness, cannot be ostracized from Southern
  hearts, even by the power of the vigilance committees.

  The character of St. Clare cannot fail to inspire love
  and admiration. He is the beau idéal of a Southern
  gentleman,—honorable, generous and humane, of accomplished manners,
  liberal education, and easy fortune. In his treatment of his slaves,
  he errs on the side of lenity, rather than vigor; and is always
  their kind protector, from a natural impulse of goodness, without
  much reflection upon what may befall them when death or misfortune
  shall deprive them of his friendship.

  Mr. Shelby, the original owner of Uncle Tom, and who sells him to a
  trader, from the pressure of a sort of pecuniary necessity, is by no
  means a bad character; his wife and son are whatever honor and
  humanity could wish; and, in a word, the only white persons who make
  any considerable figure in the book to a disadvantage are the
  villain Legree, who is a Vermonter by birth, and the oily-tongued
  slave-trader Haley, who has the accent of a Northerner. It is,
  therefore, evident that Mrs. Stowe’s object in writing “Uncle Tom’s
  Cabin” has not been to disparage Southern character. A careful
  analysis of the book would authorize the opposite inference,—that
  she has studied to shield the Southern people from opprobrium, and
  even to convey an elevated idea of Southern society, at the moment
  of exposing the evils of the system of slavery. She directs her
  batteries against the institution, not against individuals; and
  generously makes a renegade Vermonter stand for her most hideous
  picture of a brutal tyrant.

  Invidious as the duty may be, I cannot withhold my testimony to the
  fact that families of slaves are often separated. I know not how any
  man can have the hardihood to deny it. The thing is notorious, and
  is often the subject of painful remark in the Southern States. I
  have often heard the practice of separating husband and wife, parent
  and child, defended, apologized for, palliated in a thousand ways,
  but have never heard it denied. How could it be denied, in fact,
  when probably the very circumstance which elicited the conversation
  was a case of cruel separation then transpiring? No, sir! the denial
  of this fact by mercenary scribblers may deceive persons at a
  distance, but it can impose upon no one at the South.

  In all the slave-holding states the relation of matrimony between
  slaves, or between a slave and free person, is merely voluntary.
  There is no law sanctioning it, or recognizing it in any shape,
  directly or indirectly. In a word, it is illicit, and binds no
  one,—neither the slaves themselves nor their masters. In separating
  husband and wife, or parent and child, the trader or owner violates
  no law of the state—neither statute nor common law. He buys or sells
  at auction or privately that which the majesty of the law has
  declared to be property. The victims may writhe in agony, and the
  tender-hearted spectator may look on with gloomy sorrow and
  indignation, but it is to no purpose. The promptings of mercy and
  justice in the heart are only in rebellion against the law of the
  land.

  The law itself not unfrequently performs the most cruel separations
  of families, almost without the intervention of individual agency.
  This happens in the case of persons who die insolvent, or who become
  so during lifetime. The estate, real and personal, must be disposed
  of at auction to the highest bidder, and the executor,
  administrator, sheriff, trustee, or other person whose duty it is to
  dispose of the property, although he may possess the most humane
  intentions in the world, cannot prevent the final severance of the
  most endearing ties of kindred. The illustration given by Mrs.
  Stowe, in the sale of Uncle Tom by Mr. Shelby, is a very common
  case. Pecuniary embarrassment is a most fruitful source of
  misfortune to the slave as well as the master; and instances of
  family ties broken from this cause are of daily occurrence.

  It often happens that great abuses exist in violation of law, and in
  spite of the efforts of the authorities to suppress them; such is
  the case with drunkenness, gambling, and other vices. But here is a
  law common to all the slave-holding states, which upholds and gives
  countenance to the wrong-doer, while its blackest terrors are
  reserved for those who would interpose to protect the innocent.
  Statesmen of elevated and honorable characters, from a vague notion
  of state necessity, have defended this law in the abstract, while
  they would, without hesitation, condemn every instance of its
  application as unjust.

  In one respect I am glad to see it publicly denied that the families
  of slaves are separated; for while it argues a disreputable want of
  candor, it at the same time evinces a commendable sense of shame,
  and induces the hope that the public opinion at the South will not
  much longer tolerate this most odious, though not essential, part of
  the system of slavery.

  In this connection I will call to your recollection a remark of the
  editor of the Southern Press, in one of the last numbers of that
  paper, which acknowledges the existence of the abuse in question,
  and recommends its correction. He says:

  “The South has a great moral conflict to wage; and it is for her to
  put on the most invulnerable moral panoply. Hence it is her duty, as
  well as interest, to mitigate or remove whatever of evil that
  results incidentally from the institution. The separation of husband
  and wife, parent and child, is one of these evils, which we know is
  generally avoided and repudiated there—although cases sometimes
  occur which we observe are seized by these Northern fanatics as
  characteristic illustrations of the system. Now we can see no great
  evil or inconvenience, but much good, in the prohibition by law of
  such occurrences. Let the husband and wife be sold together, and the
  parents and minor children. Such a law would affect but slightly the
  general value or availability of slave property, and would prevent
  in some cases the violence done to the feelings of such connections
  by sales either compulsory or voluntary. We are satisfied that it
  would be beneficial to the master and slave to promote marriage, and
  the observance of all its duties and relations.”

  Much as I have differed with the editor of the Southern Press in
  his general views of public policy, I am disposed to forgive him
  past errors in consideration of his public acknowledgment of this
  “incidental evil,” and his frank recommendation of its removal. A
  Southern newspaper less devoted than the Southern Press to the
  maintenance of slavery would be seriously compromised by such a
  suggestion, and its advice would be far less likely to be heeded. I
  think, therefore, that Mr. Fisher deserves the thanks of every good
  man, North and South, for thus boldly pointing out the necessity of
  reform.

  The picture which Mrs. Stowe has drawn of slavery as an institution
  is anything but favorable. She has illustrated the frightful cruelty
  and oppression that must result from a law which gives to one class
  of society almost absolute and irresponsible power over another. Yet
  the very machinery she has employed for this purpose shows that all
  who are parties to the system are not necessarily culpable. It is a
  high virtue in St. Clare to purchase Uncle Tom. He is actuated by no
  selfish or improper motive. Moved by a desire to gratify his
  daughter, and prompted by his own humane feelings, he purchases a
  slave, in order to rescue him from a hard fate on the plantations.
  If he had not been a slave-holder before, it was now his duty to
  become one. This, I think, is the moral to be drawn from the story
  of St. Clare, and the South have a right to claim the authority of
  Mrs. Stowe in defence of slave-holding, to this extent.

  It may be said that it was the duty of St. Clare to emancipate Uncle
  Tom; but the wealth of the Rothschilds would not enable a man to act
  out his benevolent instincts at such a price. And if such was his
  duty, is it not equally the duty of every monied man in the free
  states to attend the New Orleans slave-mart with the same benevolent
  purpose in view? It seems to me that to purchase a slave with the
  purpose of saving him from a hard and cruel fate, and without any
  view to emancipation, is itself a good action. If the slave should
  subsequently become able to redeem himself, it would doubtless be
  the duty of the owner to emancipate him; and it would be but
  even-handed justice to set down every dollar of the slave’s
  earnings, above the expense of his maintenance, to his credit, until
  the price paid for him should be fully restored. This is all that
  justice could exact of the slave-holder.

  Those who have railed against “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” as an incendiary
  publication have singularly (supposing that they have read the book)
  overlooked the moral of the hero’s life. Uncle Tom is the most
  faithful of servants. He literally “obeyed in all things” his
  “masters according to the flesh; not with eye-service, as
  men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.” If his
  conduct exhibits the slightest departure from a literal fulfilment
  of this injunction of Scripture, it is in a case which must command
  the approbation of the most rigid casuist; for the injunction of
  obedience extends, of course, only to lawful commands. It is only
  when the monster Legree commands him to inflict undeserved
  chastisement upon his fellow-servants, that Uncle Tom refuses
  obedience. He would not listen to a proposition of escaping into
  Ohio with the young woman Eliza, on the night after they were sold
  by Mr. Shelby to the trader Haley. He thought it would be bad faith
  to his late master, whom he had nursed in his arms, and might be the
  means of bringing him into difficulty. He offered no resistance to
  Haley, and obeyed even Legree in every legitimate command. But when
  he was required to be the instrument of his master’s cruelty, he
  chose rather to die, with the courage and resolution of a Christian
  martyr, than to save his life by a guilty compliance. Such was Uncle
  Tom—not a bad example for the imitation of man or master.

                                         I am, sir, very respectfully,
                                             Your ob’t serv’t,
                                                 DANIEL R. GOODLOE.

  A. M. GANGEWER, Esq.,
    Washington, D. C.

The writer has received permission to publish the following extract from
a letter received by a lady at the North from the editor of a Southern
paper. The mind and character of the author will speak for themselves,
in the reading of it:

                                Charleston, Sunday, 25th July, 1852.

  * * * The books, I infer, are Mrs. Beecher Stowe’s “Uncle Tom’s
  Cabin.” The book was furnished me by —— ——, about a fortnight ago,
  and you may be assured I read it with an attentive interest. “Now,
  what is your opinion of it?” you will ask; and, knowing my
  preconceived opinions upon the question of slavery, and the
  embodiment of my principles, which I have so long supported, in
  regard to that peculiar institution, you may be prepared to meet
  an indirect answer. This my own consciousness of truth would not
  allow, in the present instance. The book is a truthful picture of
  life, with the dark outlines beautifully portrayed. The life—the
  characteristics, incidents, and the dialogues—is life itself reduced
  to paper. In her appendix she rather evades the question whether it
  was taken from actual scones, but says there are many counterparts.
  In this she is correct, beyond doubt. Had she changed the picture of
  Legree, on Red river, for —— ——, on —— Island, South Carolina, she
  could not have drawn a more admirable portrait. I am led to question
  whether she had not some knowledge of this beast, as he is known to
  be, and made the transposition for effect.

  My position in connection with the extreme party, both in Georgia
  and South Carolina, would constitute a restraint to the full
  expression of my feelings upon several of the governing principles
  of the institution. I have studied slavery, in all its different
  phases,—have been thrown in contact with the negro in different
  parts of the world, and made it my aim to study his nature, so far
  as my limited abilities would give me light,—and, whatever my
  opinions have been, they were based upon what I supposed to be
  honest convictions.

  During the last three years you well know what my opportunities have
  been to examine all the sectional bearings of an institution which
  now holds the great and most momentous question of our federal
  well-being. These opportunities I have not let pass, but have given
  myself, body and soul, to a knowledge of its vast intricacies,—to
  its constitutional compact, and its individual hardships. Its wrongs
  are in the constituted rights of the master, and the blank letter
  of those laws which pretend to govern the bondman’s rights. What
  legislative act, based upon the construction of self-protection for
  the very men who contemplate the laws,—even though their intention
  was amelioration,—could be enforced, when the legislated object is
  held as the bond property of the legislator? The very fact of
  constituting a law for the amelioration of property becomes an
  absurdity, so far as carrying it out is concerned. A law which is
  intended to govern, and gives the governed no means of seeking its
  protection, is like the clustering together of so many useless words
  for vain show. But why talk of law? That which is considered the
  popular rights of a people, and every tenacious prejudice set forth
  to protect its property interest, creates its own power, against
  every weaker vessel. Laws which interfere with this become
  unpopular,—repugnant to a forceable will, and a dead letter in
  effect. So long as the voice of the governed cannot be heard, and
  his wrongs are felt beyond the jurisdiction or domain of the law, as
  nine-tenths are, where is the hope of redress? The master is the
  powerful vessel; the negro feels his dependence, and, fearing the
  consequences of an appeal for his rights, submits to the cruelty of
  his master, in preference to the dread of something more cruel. It
  is in those disputed cases of cruelty we find the wrongs of slavery,
  and in those governing laws which give power to bad Northern men to
  become the most cruel taskmasters. Do not judge, from my
  observations, that I am seeking consolation for the abolitionists.
  Such is not my intention; but truth to a course which calls loudly
  for reformation constrains me to say that humanity calls for some
  law to govern the force and absolute will of the master, and to
  reform no part is more requisite than that which regards the slave’s
  food and raiment. A person must live years at the South before he
  can become fully acquainted with the many workings of slavery. A
  Northern man not prominently interested in the political and social
  weal of the South may live for years in it, and pass from town to
  town in his every-day pursuits, and yet see but the polished side of
  slavery. With me it has been different. Its effect upon the negro
  himself, and its effect upon the social and commercial well-being of
  Southern society, has been laid broadly open to me, and I have seen
  more of its workings within the past year than was disclosed to me
  all the time before. It is with these feelings that I am constrained
  to do credit to Mrs. Stowe’s book, which I consider must have been
  written by one who derived the materials from a thorough
  acquaintance with the subject. The character of the slave-dealer,
  the bankrupt owner in Kentucky, and the New Orleans merchant, are
  simple every-day occurrences in these parts. Editors may speak of
  the dramatic effect as they please; the tale is not told them, and
  the occurrences of common reality would form a picture more glaring.
  I could write a work, with date and incontrovertible facts, of
  abuses which stand recorded in the knowledge of the community in
  which they were transacted, that would need no dramatic effect, and
  would stand out ten-fold more horrible than anything Mrs. Stowe has
  described.

  I have read two columns in the Southern Press of Mrs. Eastman’s
  “Aunt Phillis’ Cabin, or Southern Life as It Is,” with the remarks
  of the editor. I have no comments to make upon it, that being done
  by itself. The editor might have saved himself being writ down an
  ass by the public, if he had withheld his nonsense. If the two
  columns are a specimen of Mrs. Eastman’s book, I pity her attempt
  and her name as an author.




                                PART II.




                               CHAPTER I.


The New York Courier and Enquirer of November 5th contained an article
which has been quite valuable to the author, as summing up, in a clear,
concise and intelligible form, the principal objections which may be
urged to Uncle Tom’s Cabin. It is here quoted in full, as the
foundation of the remarks in the following pages.

The author of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” that writer states, has committed
false-witness against thousands and millions of her fellow-men.

  She has done it [he says] by attaching to them as slaveholders, in
  the eyes of the world, the guilt of the abuses of an institution of
  which they are absolutely guiltless. Her story is so devised as to
  present slavery in three dark aspects: first, the cruel treatment
  of the slaves; second, the separation of families; and, third,
  their want of religious instruction.

  To show the first, she causes a reward to be offered for the
  recovery of a runaway slave, “dead or alive,” when no reward with
  such an alternative was ever heard of, or dreamed of, south of Mason
  and Dixon’s line, and it has been decided over and over again in
  Southern courts that “a slave who is merely flying away cannot be
  killed.” She puts such language as this into the mouth of one of her
  speakers:—“The master who goes furthest and does the worst only uses
  within limits the power that the law gives him;” when, in fact, the
  civil code of the very state where it is represented the language
  was uttered—Louisiana—declares that

  “The slave is entirely subject to the will of his master, who may
  correct and chastise him, though not with unusual rigor, nor so as
  to maim or mutilate him, or to expose him to the danger of loss of
  life, or to cause his death.”

  And provides for a compulsory sale

  “When the master shall be convicted of cruel treatment of his
  slaves, and the judge shall deem proper to pronounce, besides the
