similar fault, but a threat which Mr. Grant would not have permitted to
be carried out. This terrible punishment appalled Fanny, but she did
not entirely lose her self-possession. She had done a very great wrong;
she had staked everything upon the success of the present venture. She
was entirely satisfied that Mr. Grant, on his return, would send her to
her uncle in Minnesota, and she had prepared herself for the worst. Her
object, therefore, was to escape present defeat, and she hoped,
cornered as she was by the constable, that some means of getting out of
the dilemma might be presented to her.

"We are caught," said Kate, as Mr. Long moved down the pier.

"Not yet," replied Fanny, with more confidence than she actually felt.

The consciousness of being the leader in the enterprise led her to put
on a bold face in order to inspire her friend with confidence, if for
no other purpose.

"What shall we do?" demanded Kate, nervously.

"Keep still; don't you say a word."

"What are you doing here, Fanny, at this time of day?" asked Mr. Long,
as he approached the girls.

"I'm not doing anything," replied Fanny, boldly.

"Why are you not at school?"

"The teacher sent us down to get some green branches to put over the
clock. We are going to have some visitors in school this afternoon,"
replied Fanny, promptly.

"Did she send the other girl, too?"

"Yes; she sent both of us."

"I want to see you, Fanny; come with me," continued the terrible
constable, beckoning her to follow him up the pier.

"What do you want of me?"

"I wish to speak with you a moment."

"I can't stop long, for we must hurry back with the boughs," added
Fanny, who had no relish for a confidential conversation with such a
man, for she at once surmised its topic.

"Are you looking for green boughs out on the end of that pier?" said
he.

"We only went out there for a moment," pleaded Fanny, as she followed
Mr. Long, but it was with the intention of darting away from him at a
favorable moment.

But the constable stopped before he reached the head of the pier, which
effectually prevented her retreat unless she jumped into the water.

"What do you want of me, Mr. Long?" she asked, with increasing
boldness.

"Fanny, you have been very bad again," began the tormentor.

"No, I haven't."

"Yes, you have; and you needn't attempt to deny it."

"What have I done?"

"You know what you have done."

"I haven't done anything," protested she, speaking for the sake of
speaking, rather than because she had any confidence in the impression
her words would produce upon the mind of her tormentor, and all the
while thinking how she could break away from the constable.

"'Thou shalt not steal,'" said Mr. Long, impressively.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Fanny. "Do you mean to say that I
steal? If you do, you are very much mistaken."

"Fanny, if you didn't steal anything, it was only because you did not
find anything to steal."

What could he mean by that? She was perplexed, but she began to hope
that he did not know what she had done.

"I do not want to steal," said she; and now she spoke for the purpose
of drawing out her accuser, to ascertain how much he did know.

"You have been guilty of stealing several times," continued the
constable, assuming a very stern and virtuous aspect.

"I never meant to steal anything."

"But you meant to steal this time: the cat is out of the bag."

The constable's stern features relaxed a little, and there was
something like a smile playing upon his face, as if in faint
appreciation of a joke.

"The cat is out of the drawer, if that is what you mean," said Fanny,
laughing, and now greatly encouraged by the new aspect of the case.

"That is what I mean."

"But I didn't let the cat out," protested Fanny.

"Who did?"

"Mrs. Green."

"Fanny, you are lying to me, and you know you are," added Mr. Long,
sternly.

"I hope to die if it isn't just as I say!" persisted the wicked girl,
earnestly. "Mrs. Green let the cat out of the drawer, and I had a good
laugh over it."

Fanny began to laugh very heartily. The constable was staggered, and it
was evident that he was not smart enough to deal with one so shrewd and
clever as the wayward girl.

"What are you laughing at?" asked Mr. Long.

"I was laughing to think of the poor cat as she jumped out of the
drawer and ran away. What did you put her in there for? Were you afraid
she would steal the meat or the milk? Could that cat read, Mr. Long?
Were you trying to teach her one of the ten commandments?"

"Do you mean to tell me, Fanny, that Mrs. Green let the cat out of the
drawer?"

"Yes, she did. Poor pussy mewed awfully in the drawer, where you put
her. Perhaps she was saying over the commandment you gave her to learn;
but Mrs. Green didn't understand her lingo, and let her out."

"Fanny, I am going up to see Mrs. Green, and if you have told me a lie,
it will be all the worse for you," said Mr. Long.

"You can ask Mrs. Green herself."

"I will ask her. You meant to steal: you were seen watching Mr. Grant
when he had the key of the drawer."

"And you set a trap to catch me; but you caught Mrs. Green!" laughed
Fanny.

"I don't believe a word of your story; but I am willing to be sure
before I do anything."

"What are you going to do?"

"I shall take care of you; you will know what I mean when I have proved
the case."

"You ought to have told Mrs. Green where you put the cat, for the poor
creature would have starved to death before I let her out."

"We shall see. Mr. Grant told me to take care of you if you did not
behave yourself while the family were away. I will go up and ask Mrs.
Green about this matter, and if I find you have not told me the
truth,--and I don't believe you have,--I shall take care of you."

"When shall I see you again?" asked Fanny, with the most brazen
impudence.

"You will see me sooner than you will want to see me, if you have been
doing wrong."

"But I shall not be here when you come back. We are going right up to
school now."

"I can find you, wherever you are," replied the constable, confidently,
as he walked away towards the mansion.

Fanny was entirely relieved of all her fears; she was even jubilant
over her success in cheating her persecutor. Her conscience did not
trouble her now. She readily comprehended the details of the plan by
which she was to be detected, if she attempted to steal from the
library. Of course, the constable would soon find out that she had not
told the truth, and that Mrs. Green knew nothing about the cat in the
drawer.

After the announcement that the family were to be absent a week, had
been made, it was observed that Fanny was in unusually good spirits.
Miss Fanny had detected her in the act of looking through one of the
library windows, while her father was paying a bill in the room. Mr.
Grant, wealthy as he was, had always been very methodical in his
business affairs. He kept a sum of money in a drawer for household
expenses, to which Mrs. Green and his daughters had access. When
anything was paid out by any member of the family, the amount was put
down on a paper in the drawer. After the advent of Fanny Jane, and
after she had been detected in some small pilfering, the key of this
drawer was concealed as we have described.

Miss Fanny at once suspected the motive of her wayward charge, and told
her father of the fact, on the day before the departure of the family
for Hudson. Mr. Grant, more desirous of reforming the wicked girl than
of anything else, consulted Mr. Long. Mrs. Green was told where she
might find money for the payment of the household bills, and admonished
to be very careful in concealing the keys; but nothing was said to her
about the cat and the commandment. If Fanny did attempt to steal, the
case was to be managed by the constable, who had been instructed to
take her to his own house, and keep her in close subjection until the
return of the family.

The cat belonged to Mr. Long, who was confident that the animal, when
released by the act of the thief, would run home, when her presence
would inform him of the culprit's deed. The cat--true to her domestic
instinct--had run home; but the constable had not immediately seen her.
As soon as he discovered the tell-tale pussy, he hastened over to
Woodville, expecting to find Fanny penitently studying the commandment,
which was the moral of Mr. Grant's stratagem; but before he reached the
house he saw two girls on the pier, and recognized Fanny as one of
them.

Willing to be entirely fair, and deeming it possible that Mr. Grant's
plan had failed, he went up to the house to consult Mrs. Green, while
Fanny rushed down the pier to join her companion in mischief.




CHAPTER IV.

FANNY THE SKIPPER.


"What did he want of you, Fan?" asked Kate Magner, with a curiosity not
unmixed with anxiety, as her leader in mischief joined her at the foot
of the pier.

"O, never mind that," exclaimed Fanny, in reply. "We have no time to
talk about it now."

"But what did he say?" demanded Kate, who thought her present action
ought to be governed in some measure by the words of the constable.

"He didn't say much; it is all right now. Come, jump into the boat. We
haven't a moment to lose."

"I want to know what he said before I get any deeper into the mud,"
persisted Kate; but we are compelled to acknowledge that her scruples
were mere worldly prudence, and were not called forth by the
upbraidings of an awakened conscience.

"You can't back out now, Kate. I made it all right with Mr. Long,"
replied Fanny, with energy, as she drew the skiff up to the steps,
ready for her more timid companion to embark. "Now, get in, and don't
waste another instant in talking about nothing."

"You are keeping everything to yourself. If you don't tell me what Mr.
Long wanted of you, I won't get into the boat. Was it about the money
you found?" asked Kate.

"No; he didn't say a word about that. He only asked me why I was not at
school."

"What did you tell him?"

"I told him the teacher sent us down to get some green branches to put
over the clock, for we were to have visitors at school this afternoon."

"Did he believe you?"

Kate laughed; she appreciated what she regarded as the joke of a clever
deception; the wickedness of the act did not disturb her.

"Of course he believed me--why shouldn't he? He has gone up to ask Mrs.
Green if I went to school."

"But he will find out all about it."

"No, he won't; besides, if he does, we shall be a mile off when he gets
back here again."

"Didn't he say a word about the money you found?"

"Not a word, Kate. Now, jump in, or we shall certainly get caught. We
shall have time enough to talk about these things when we get away from
the pier."

Kate was satisfied, and stepped into the skiff. All her fears related
to the money in the possession of her friend, which, she was almost
certain, had been stolen. She was moralist enough to understand that
even if the money had been found on the floor, as Fanny represented, it
was just as much stolen as though it had been taken from Mr. Grant's
pocket-book. Kate had not engaged in this theft, and she was not
willing to bear any of the blame on account of it. If the crime had
already been discovered, she did not wish to expose herself to the
peril of helping to spend the money. According to Fanny's statement,
nothing had been found out, and she got into the skiff.

Fanny had been among the boats a great deal during her residence at
Woodville, and rowing and sailing were suited to her masculine taste.
She was a girl of quick parts; her faculty of imitation was highly
developed, and generally what she had seen done she could do herself.
She could row cross-handed very well, and she had no difficulty in
pulling the skiff out to the Greyhound's moorings. Kate stepped on
board of the sail-boat, and Fanny, fastening the painter of the skiff
at the stern, began to bustle around with as much confidence as though
she had been a skipper ever since she left her cradle.

She had often sailed in the Greyhound with Ben and others, and she knew
precisely what was to be done in order to get the boat under way. She
understood how to move the tiller in order to make the craft go in a
given direction, and had an indistinct idea of beating and tacking; but
she was very far from being competent to manage a sailboat.

The stops were removed from the sails, under the direction of the
adventurous Fanny, and the foresail hoisted. It was a more difficult
matter to cast off the moorings, but their united strength accomplished
the feat, and the Greyhound, released from the bonds which held her,
immediately drifted to the shore, for her unskilful skipper had not
trimmed the foresail so that it would draw.

"I thought you knew how to manage a boat," said Kate, contemptuously.

"So I do," replied Fanny, as she gathered up the fore-sheet, and
trimmed the sail.

"What are you doing in here, then?"

"I only came in here to get a fair start," added the skipper, not at
all disconcerted by the mishap.

"Folks don't generally run the boat ashore before they start," sneered
Kate, who certainly had no confidence in the seamanship of the feminine
skipper.

"That's the way they do it!" exclaimed Fanny, triumphantly, as the sail
began to draw, and the boat moved off from the shore. "Now, we are all
right. That's just the way I meant to make her go."

The wind came from the Woodville side of the river, but it was very
light, and the Greyhound moved but slowly. Fanny was entirely satisfied
with herself now, and was confident that she could manage any boat that
ever floated. It was a very easy thing, she thought, and she did not
see why folks made such a "fuss" about sailing a boat; anybody could do
it, if they only thought they could. But the Greyhound did not move
fast enough for her impatient temperament, and, against the
remonstrances of her more prudent companion, she insisted upon setting
the mainsail.

"Mr. Long may be after us soon, and we must get along as fast as we
can," said she, as she took the throat halliard, and gave the peak to
Kate. "Now, hoist away. We are as good sailors as any one need be."

The mainsail was set, and the Greyhound began to travel through the
water pretty rapidly, much to the delight of Fanny. She had been
deceived in regard to the force of the wind; under the lee of the
shore, where it was obstructed by the bank, by the trees, and by the
buildings, the breeze was very light: out in the middle of the river
the wind was quite strong; but the boat had not yet begun to feel its
full force.

"Now she goes beautifully!" exclaimed Fanny, as she observed the effect
by the added sail.

"She goes very well; but don't you see how rough the water is out in
the middle of the river?" replied Kate, rather anxiously, though she
was not willing to acknowledge the full extent of her fears.

"That's nothing."

"But why don't you go down the river more, and keep out of that rough
place?"

"I like the waves! It's splendid to hear them beating against the
boat."

"It may be when you have a man in the boat with you," answered Kate,
sceptically.

"What are you afraid of?"

"I'm not afraid; but I think folks ought to be very careful when they
don't know anything about boats."

"But I know all about boats. Don't you see how beautifully she goes? I
wish she would go a little faster."

"She goes fast enough," said Kate, as she listened to the ripple of the
waves against the bow.

"She might go a little faster; besides, we are in a hurry."

"We are going fast enough, Fan."

"The faster the better! I suppose, when Mr. Long goes over to the
school and finds we are not there, he will come down to the pier after
us. We want to be out of sight when he gets there."

"Why should he come after us? I thought you said it was all right,"
demanded Kate, nervously.

"He will go over to the school to find out whether the teacher sent us
after the boughs."

"I wish I had not come," continued Kate, gloomily.

If she had known the whole truth, and understood the full extent of her
bold companion's plans, she would have been still more dissatisfied
with the situation.

"Here, Kate, you take the tiller a moment," said Fanny, as she rose
from her seat in the stern-sheets.

"What are you going to do now?" asked Kate, nervously.

"I'm going to hoist the other sail."

"We don't want it hoisted. We are going fast enough."

"We can just as well go faster; and I want to get out of sight before
Mr. Long sees us," replied Fanny, persuasively, though her bright eyes
snapped with increasing lustre under the excitement of the moment.

"I won't touch the tiller; I say we go fast enough. You want to drown
me--don't you?"

"If I drown you, I must drown myself--mustn't I?"

"I won't touch the tiller; I don't want the other sail hoisted,"
persisted Kate.

"What are you afraid of? I didn't think you were a coward. If I had, I
shouldn't have asked you to come with me."

"I'm not a coward, any more than you are. I don't see what you want to
hoist the other sail for; we are going like fury through the water
now."

"We need more head sail," answered Fanny, using an expression she had
borrowed from the nautical speeches of Ben, the boatman.

"No, we don't need more head sail," replied Kate, who, however, had not
the most remote idea of the meaning of her friend's language.

"Take the tiller, Kate, and don't bother me."

"I will not."

"Then I will hoist the sail, and let the boat take care of herself
while I do it. If she is upset, it will be your fault,--not mine."

Fanny was resolute; she had a will, as well as a way, of her own. She
did not want any advice, and she was not willing to take any. She
looked upon her companion as a weak-minded, poor-spirited girl, and she
treated her opinions and her wishes with the utmost contempt, now that
she had her completely in her power. It was useless for Kate to attempt
to oppose her.

"I don't know anything about the tiller, as you call it. I don't even
know what it is, and I'm sure I couldn't tell what to do with it,"
continued Kate.

"That's a good girl!" replied Fanny, in patronizing tones, when she saw
that her companion was disposed to yield.

"I don't want to touch it."

"But you must."

"Must! Who says I must?"

"I say so; if you don't, we may be upset."

"I have gone far enough, Fan Grant; I don't want to go any farther: I
want to go on shore again!" exclaimed Kate, now completely disgusted
with the venture, for in addition to the perils of wrong doing, she
found she must submit to the impudence and the arrogance of her friend.

"Well, why don't you go on shore?" replied Fanny, with the utmost
coolness and self-possession.

"You know I can't. Turn the boat round, and let me go back to the
land."

"I think not."

"I have had enough of this thing."

"Will you take the tiller, or will you let the boat upset?" added
Fanny, with firmness and decision. "You can't go on shore again till I
get ready to let you. I command this vessel, and if you ever want to
put your foot on the dry land again, you must mind what I say."

"Please to let me go back," pleaded Kate.

"I won't please to do anything of the kind. Take the tiller, I say."

"What shall I do with it?" asked the poor girl, cowed down and subdued
by the force and decision of her companion.

"Sit here," replied Fanny, pointing to the corner of the stern-sheets,
where the helmsman usually sits. "This is the tiller," she added,
indicating the serpent-shaped stick attached to the rudder, by which
the boat is steered. "Keep it just as it is, until I tell you to move
it."

"I don't know how to move it."

"When I say right, move it this way;" and Fanny pointed to the
starboard side. "When I say left, move it the other way."

Fanny watched her a moment to see that her instructions were obeyed.

"We don't want this any longer," said she, unfastening the painter of
the skiff and throwing it into the water, thus permitting the boat to
go adrift.

"What did you do that for?" demanded Kate, as the Greyhound dashed on,
leaving the skiff behind to be borne down the river by the tide.

"We don't want the skiff, and dragging it behind keeps us back some."

"What did you bring it for, then?"

"To keep Mr. Long from chasing us in it. All the rest of the boats are
hauled up, and he will have to find one before he can come after us."

Fanny went forward, and having fearlessly removed the stops from the
jib, which required her to crawl out a little way on the bowsprit, she
hoisted the sail, and carried the sheet aft to the standing-room, as
she had often seen the boatmen do. The effect of this additional canvas
was immediately seen, for the Greyhound had now reached the middle of
the river, where she felt the full force of the wind, which was fresh
from the north-west, and came in puffs and flaws.

When the Greyhound went out from the shore, her sails were over on the
right hand side; that is, she took the wind abaft the port beam. The
boat was now careened over nearly to her rail, and was darting through
the water like a rocket. Kate trembled, but Fanny was delighted.

"Now we will go down the river," said Fanny, as she took the tiller.

Suiting the action to the word, she put the helm up just as a flaw of
wind came sweeping over the waves. The boat came round; the three
sails, caught by the flaw, suddenly flew over, filled on the other
side, and the Greyhound careened till she was half full of water.




CHAPTER V.

DOWN THE RIVER.


Putting a boat about, as Fanny had turned the Greyhound, is nautically
termed gybing her. It is a dangerous manoeuvre when the wind is
fresh, and should never be attempted by young or inexperienced boatmen.
By putting the boat about in the opposite direction, hauling in the
sheet as the sail flutters, the danger may be wholly avoided. The
boat's head should always be turned in the direction from which the
wind comes. But a person who does not understand the management of a
boat should no more attempt to handle one than an unskilful person
should attempt to run a steam engine.

Fanny Grant knew but little about a boat, and it was fortunate for her
and her companion in mischief that the wind was not strong enough to
carry the Greyhound wholly over. If she had careened only a little
more, she would have filled with water and sunk, for she was heavily
ballasted. As it was, she was half full of water, and the situation of
the young ladies, if not perilous, was very uncomfortable.

"O, Fanny!" screamed Kate, in mortal terror, as the Greyhound heeled
over, and the water rushed in over the washboard.

"Don't be scared," replied Fanny, with wonderful self-possession. "It's
all right, and there is no harm done."

"We shall be drowned!" gasped Kate.

"No, we shall not be drowned. Don't you see the boat stands up like a
major? Don't be frightened. I understand it all."

"No; you don't know anything about it. The boat is almost full of
water, and we shall sink to the bottom."

"I tell you she is doing very well. Pooh! that wasn't anything! She
often takes in the water like that."

"What shall we do?" moaned Kate.

This was a question which appealed even to Fanny's prudence. Without
answering in words, she let go the halliards, and hauled down the
foresail. After the boat came about, she had not righted the helm, and
the Greyhound had been thrown up into the wind as she heeled over and
took in the flood of water. She now lay with her sails flapping, and
Fanny cast off the main-sheet, rather to stop the fluttering than to
avoid further peril. Fortunately, this was the proper course to pursue.

"What shall we do?" repeated Kate, expecting every moment that the
treacherous sails would carry them over again, and that they would soon
find their way to the bottom of the river.

"Bale out the water," replied Fanny, taking a pail and a dipper from
the cuddy forward. "Now go to work, and we shall soon be ready to sail
again."

"I don't want to sail any more," whined Kate.

"Dip away as fast as ever you can. Don't stop to talk about it now."

Fanny took the pail herself, and gave the dipper to Kate, and both of
them went to work with a zeal which promised soon to free the Greyhound
from the burden under which she was laboring. There was a large
quantity of water in the boat, and the process of dipping it out was
very slow. Fanny was afraid that this accident would throw her into the
power of her great enemy, the constable; and this was the only fear
which troubled her. The perils of the mighty river had no terrors to
her while she had a plank under her feet.

Kate was utterly disconsolate and hopeless, and Fanny was obliged to
use all her ingenuity to keep her in working condition. To show her
confidence, she sang like a nightingale, as she dipped out the water;
and Fanny was an excellent singer. She labored hard to prove to her
desponding companion that there was no danger, and at last she
succeeded in restoring Kate to a tolerable degree of self-possession.

When about half the water had been dipped out, Fanny trimmed the sails,
and headed the boat down the river, to the utter consternation of her
timid associate, who was heartily sick of the adventure, and longed to
put her feet on the dry land again.

"Now, Kate, you take the pail, and I will use the dipper; I can work
and steer the boat at the same time," said Fanny, when the Greyhound
was under headway again.

"The boat is going down the river, Fanny!" exclaimed Kate, as she took
the pail.

"Of course she is," replied the bold skipper. "Where did you expect her
to go?"

"But you are not going any farther--are you?"

"To be sure I am. Do you think I am going to back out now?"

"We shall certainly be drowned!"

"Nonsense!"

"I don't want to go any farther," moaned Kate, who felt like one going
to execution.

"I can't help it if you don't. I'm going down to Pennville," answered
Fanny, still dipping up the water from the bottom of the boat.

"I won't bale out any more then," ejaculated Kate, as she dropped the
pail, and looked as though she actually meant what she said.

"Very well; then I won't," added Fanny, throwing down the dipper.

"If you will go back, I will bale out the water as hard as ever I can."

"But I will not go back," replied Fanny, firmly. "Do you think I am
going home to be shut up for a week, or sent back to my uncle, without
having any fun at all? If you won't bale, I won't. I guess I can stand
it as long as you can."

"Do go back, Fanny," begged Kate.

"I tell you I will not. You don't know what I am going to do yet."

"What?"

"I can't stop to talk about it now. If you don't take the pail and bale
out the boat, I will hoist the other sail."

"Don't, Fanny!"

"If you will keep still, and mind what I say, I won't hoist the sail.
We go along with only these two sails just as easy as anything can be,
and there isn't a bit of danger."

Kate, to avoid the greater evil, submitted to the less; and, as the
Greyhound, now going very steadily under her jib and mainsail,
continued on her course, she was soon freed from the water within her.
The boat went along so well that Kate gathered a little courage, and
ventured to hope that they might not be drowned, after all.

"You mustn't turn her round again, Fan," said she.

"What shall we do? We shall run ashore if I don't turn her."

"Can't we lower the sails when you turn her?"

"There is no need of that," replied Fanny, cheerfully. "I made a little
mistake before, but I understand all about it now."

"What was the mistake, Fan?"

"I didn't turn her the right way," replied the confident skipper, who
had been studying up the cause of the mishap and had reasoned out the
correct solution. "I shall know just how to do it next time, Kate, and
you needn't be the least grain scared. See here," said she, putting the
helm down, and bringing the boat round till her head was thrown up into
the wind.

"Don't, Fanny!"

"That's the way it is done," continued Fanny, proudly. "Don't you see
how easily she does it? There isn't a bit of danger now;" and she
brought the boat round to her course again.

Kate was terrified at the very mention of turning the boat; but when
she saw that the feat was accomplished without upsetting or even taking
in any more water, her confidence was in a great measure restored.
Fanny's exhibition of her skill produced the intended effect upon her
companion, and the feminine skipper's easy and self-reliant way
confirmed the impression. Fanny had learned more about the management
of a boat in that brief half hour than she had ever known before, for
the consciousness that her own life and that of her passenger depended
upon her skill, sharpened her perceptions and quickened her judgment to
such an extent that those moments of thrilling experience became
equivalent to months of plodding study when the mind is comparatively
dull and heavy.

Mr. Long, the constable, evidently did not hurry himself in the
investigation of Fanny's case; for when he had satisfied himself that
the wicked girl had deceived him, and had reached the Woodville pier,
having first visited the school, as the shrewd girl had intended he
should, the boat was not in sight; or, at least, nothing could be seen
of her but the white sails, which he could not identify, and the
fugitives were in no present danger on account of his movements. He did
not know whether the Greyhound had gone up or down the river; and he
had no boat in which to follow her.

Fanny felt that she had won a victory, for she did not realize that
success in a wicked cause is failure and defeat. She congratulated
herself on the feat she had accomplished, and she was vain enough to
boast to her associate of what she had done; of her skill in managing
the boat, and her shrewdness in planning the enterprise; and it is
quite certain that if she had been less resolute and courageous, the
expedition would have ended in failure almost at the beginning.

"But you haven't told me what you are going to do yet," said Kate, when
she had sponged out the bottom of the well, dried the seats in the
standing-room, and taken her place by the side of Fanny.

"I will tell you now," replied Fanny. "What do you suppose your father
will do to you when he finds out that you played truant, and went on
the river with me?" she added, apparently, but not really, avoiding the
subject.

"He'll kill me!" answered Kate, with emphasis.

"No, he won't."

"I don't know what he will do, then."

"He will punish you in some way--won't he?"

"Yes. I don't know what he will do."

"Well, Kate, we must bring him to terms," added Fanny, with the most
impudent assurance. "If you will mind what I say, he will not punish
you at all. Will you do it?"

"I don't know."

"You don't know! Do you want to go back and be whipped like a baby, be
shut up for a week, or something of that kind?"

"Of course I don't."

"And I will tell you how to get rid of all these things, and make your
father as glad to see you as though you had been a good little girl all
your life, and had been away on a long journey."

"How?"

"That's telling!"

"You said you would tell me."

"And so I will, if you are strong enough to bear it."

"Well, I am."

"Don't go home for a week or ten days. Your folks won't know where you
are. When they find out you went with me in a boat, they will think you
are drowned; and when you go back, they will be so glad to see you that
they won't say a word."

It would have been impossible for a girl who had been brought up by a
loving mother to conceive of such a cold-blooded and diabolical
proposition. Fanny had no mother, no father. Even the remembrance of
the former had passed from her mind; and her father, while he was
living, had been away from her so much that she hardly knew him as a
parent. Her antecedents, therefore, did not qualify her to comprehend
the loathsome enormity of the course she proposed to her companion.

"I can't stay away from home a week, let alone ten days," replied Kate,
who, bad as she was, was shocked at the proposition.

"Yes, you can."

"Where shall I stay?"

"Stay with me."

"Where will you stay?"

"We will go down to New York city."

"To New York city!"

"That's where I intend to go," replied Fanny, coolly.

"You don't mean so, Fan?"

"Yes, I do; and I have meant it all the time."

"But you said we were going to Pennville."

"We are; and when we get there we will take the cars for New York city.
We shall be there before twelve o'clock."

"But what shall we do when we get there?" demanded Kate, who was
absolutely appalled at the magnitude of Fanny's scheme.

"We will have a good time, in the first place. There are plenty of
shops where we can get cakes, and candy, and ice-cream; we can go to
the museum, the theatre, and the circus; we can go to Central Park, and
all the fine places in the city."

"But where should we live?"

"There are hotels enough."

"What should we do at a hotel? Besides, it would take lots of money."

"I've got money enough."

"Five dollars wouldn't pay for our living a week. They ask three or
four dollars a day for living at a hotel."

"I've got more than five dollars," answered Fanny, rather cautiously.

"Have you? How much have you got?"

"I don't know exactly."

"You don't know!" repeated Kate, very confident now in regard to the
means by which the money had been obtained, which, with this added
revelation regarding the amount, she did not believe had been found on
the floor. "You don't know!"

"I haven't counted it."

"Fan, you didn't find that money on the floor!" exclaimed she.

"I found it, anyhow," said Fanny, turning her head away from her
companion.

"Where did you find it?"

"In the drawer, if you must know," replied Fanny, desperately.




CHAPTER VI.

KATE'S DEFECTION.


"Fanny Grant, you stole that money!" said Kate, as though she had made
a great discovery.

It was no discovery at all. She had been reasonably confident that the
five dollars, which Fanny acknowledged to be in her possession, had
been stolen, or, if not actually stolen, that it had been obtained in
a manner entirely at variance even with a very low ideal of common
honesty. She was willing to enjoy the good things which might be
bought with the five dollars, but she was not disposed to bear the
responsibility of the theft, either as principal or accessory. If, when
the day of reckoning came, she could make it appear that she did not
know the money had been stolen, she would escape the penalty and the
odium of being a thief, or a receiver of stolen goods.

Like many others, she could hold up her hands in holy horror at the
crime made public, while she was willing to wink at or compromise the
crime for her own benefit in the secret chambers of her own heart. If
she had been taught in ancient Lacedæmonia that it is not a crime to
steal, but a crime to be found out, she could not have been more
faithful to its base policy.

Fanny heard the charge, but made no reply, pretending to be occupied in
watching the course of the boat.

"You stole that money, Fanny Grant!" repeated Kate, with even more
emphasis, and more holy horror than before.

"Well, what if I did?" answered Fanny, who was disposed to have her
associate as deep in the mud as she herself was in the mire; and she
knew that it would be impossible to deny the fact when she exhibited
the great roll of bills in her pocket.

"I didn't think you would steal money, Fanny."

"You would yourself, if you got a chance."

"No, I wouldn't; I'm bad enough, I know, but I wouldn't steal."

"Yes, you would! You needn't pretend to be so good. You will never be
hung for your honesty. I know you."

"Do you mean to say I would steal?" demanded Kate, not a little
mortified to be thought so meanly of.

"I know you would. Who stole the strawberries the other day?"

"That wasn't money," pleaded Kate.

"It was all the same."

"I wouldn't take money. I'm not a thief."

"You flatter yourself."

"I wouldn't. But, Fanny," she added, willing to change the subject, "I
shouldn't dare to go to New York city."

"Why not?"

"Something might happen to us."

"What can happen to us?"

"I don't know; but I'm afraid to go. What should we do with ourselves
for a whole week?"

"Have a good time; that's what we are going for?"

"I can't go, Fan."

"Yes, you can; and you must. You have got into the scrape so far, and
you are not going to leave me alone now. You promised to go with me."

"But you did not tell me what you were going to do."

"I have told you now; and if you attempt to back out, you shall bear
half the blame."

"I didn't steal."

"I don't care if you didn't; you shall bear your share of the blame.
You shall go with me."

"What will my mother say?"

"She will say you are a naughty girl, and punish you for what you have
done. If you go with me, she will be so glad to see you when you get
back, that she won't say a word. She will find out what you are made of
then; if you go back now, she will see that you are nothing but a
chicken at heart, and she will punish you, as you deserve to be for
deserting your friend."

"My mother would feel awfully if I did not come back to-night,"
continued Kate, thoughtfully, even sadly; and she was sincere now.

"She will get over it."

"She would feel dreadfully."

"So much the better; the worse she feels the more glad she will be to
see you when you do go back."

Kate saw that it was useless to reason with her companion on this
point; besides, there was a certain sacred feeling in her heart which
Fanny could neither understand nor appreciate, and she was unwilling to
expose it to the rude reproaches of one who seemed to have no heart.
She was too timid, rather than too conscientious, to engage in such a
gigantic scheme of wickedness as that which Fanny had indicated; and we
must do her the justice to add, that the blessed influence of a
mother's love, stronger and deeper in her heart than principle,
asserted its sway, and to give her mother a week of pain and anxiety
was revolting to her.

She was fully determined not to go to New York city, and to get home as
soon as she could. But Fanny had so much to say about "backing out,"
and "deserting her friend," that she deemed it prudent not to mention
anything about her resolution. She knew her companion well enough to
believe that it would be useless to attempt to persuade her to abandon
her brilliant scheme; and Fanny was so resolute and self-willed that
she might find a way to compel her to go with her, whether she was
willing or not.

"Do you want to know how much money I have got?" asked Fanny, after a
silence of some minutes, during which Kate had been thinking what she
should do.

"I should like to know," replied Kate, who, however, was really
indifferent after she had decided not to partake of the good things
