She looked very sad and despondent. The length of time which must elapse
before she could at best release her father’s treasured machine, and
furnish him the wonted occupation which had so long engrossed his time
and thoughts, and upon which he founded such high hopes of fame and
fortune, naturally weighed upon her mind. She had come to acquaint Mr.
Sharp with what had happened, rather because such was her father’s
desire than because she entertained any great hopes of his assistance.

“Miss Ford,” exclaimed Mr. Sharp, jumping from his seat and, with a wave
of the hand, politely tendering it to Helen, “This is a most unexpected
pleasure. I am delighted to see you, my dear young lady; pray, sit down,
if you will do such an honor to my humble apartment.”

“I couldn’t stop, sir, thank you,” said Helen. “I came to let you know,
sir, at my father’s desire, that his,—I mean the work he was engaged
upon,—has been seized for debt.”

“Bless my soul!” ejaculated Mr. Sharp, in the greatest apparent
amazement; “how did it happen?”

“What!” exclaimed the lawyer in a tone of virtuous indignation, “is it
possible that Blunt has had the unparalleled effrontery to disturb my
esteemed friend, your father, against my express stipulation? That man
little knows that he has aimed a blow at science and the world’s
progress, and endangered the successful prosecution of the greatest
discovery of modern times. And all for the sake of a little paltry
money!” ejaculated Mr. Sharp, with disdain. “And shall this be
permitted? No, it shall not be! It must not be!”

Here Mr. Sharp brought down his fist energetically upon the table.

“My dear young lady, rest assured that your father shall be righted,
even though—yes, even though it strip me of my entire property.”

It may be remarked that the lawyer’s entire property, which he was ready
to sacrifice so heroically in the service of his friend, made but a
small show on the tax-gatherer’s book.

Nevertheless Helen, who gave him credit for perfect sincerity, began to
think she had judged very harshly of Mr. Sharp, and the delightful hope
that through his means would once more be restored to her father the
employment so necessary to his happiness, filled her with the liveliest
emotions of gratitude.

“O sir,” said she, earnestly, “we will both pray for and bless you.”

“My dear Miss Ford,” said the lawyer, in his emotion brushing away an
imaginary tear, “say no more. Although you will, I know, acquit me of
having had anything to do directly in bringing about your father’s
misfortune, it was, I am painfully conscious, the result of my
entrusting the note to that villain Blunt, who has acted in a manner
unworthy of a gentleman,—in a manner which will compel me to break off
all business relations with him in future; I feel that it is my duty to
do what I can to repair the results of my indiscretion.”

Mr. Sharp rose rapidly in Helen’s estimation. The respect with which he
spoke of her father, and the warmth with which he espoused his
interests, impressed the unsuspecting child most favorably. She began to
wonder how she could ever have thought of him otherwise than as a
friend. She even felt a degree of compunction and self-reproach for
having harbored suspicions of so excellent a man.

“You can return home quite at ease, my dear Miss Ford,” resumed Mr.
Sharp. “Within two hours at most I will take care that your father’s
property shall be restored to him.”

“Will you, sir?” said Helen, her eyes lighting up with gratitude. “Oh, I
shall feel so relieved. We shall be very much indebted to you.”

“Do not thank me, my dear Miss Ford. I feel that I am, in some respects,
unsuited to my profession. A lawyer should be made of sterner stuff. I
rejoice that your father should have sent to me immediately. It is a
proof of his confidence, which I value. He will always find in me a true
friend, and I trust he will not fail to call upon me for assistance
whenever any trouble shall befall him. Your father, my dear Miss Ford,
is a man of genius; but, as you perhaps have observed, is not so well
versed in the ways of the world as those who possess not a tithe of his
inventive talent and intellectual ability.”

Helen was quite ready to acknowledge a deficiency which no one knew
better than herself.

“Mind, my dear young lady,” continued Mr. Sharp, “I do not speak of this
as in any way derogatory to your father or at all detracting from his
scientific eminence. I would not have him other than he is. No one can
be great in all things, as Cicero so eloquently observes. What if your
father is a little deficient in worldly sagacity? Was not this the case
with all who have distinguished themselves in the higher departments of
science and literature? Why, the great Sir Isaac Newton himself was
noted for his absence of mind, and some very curious stories are told of
this trait. Milton, too, knew so little how to drive a bargain, that he
actually sold his great poem for five pounds. So I consider your
father’s want of practical talent one of the most convincing proofs of
his superior mental endowments.”

Whatever may be thought of Mr. Sharp’s reasoning, it was enough for
Helen that he spoke in praise of her father, whom she revered. No praise
of herself could so effectually have won her entire confidence. With
light heart she left the lawyer’s office, and hastened home to impart to
her father the glad tidings.

“I have crossed the Rubicon,” said Mr. Sharp, thoughtfully. “I must now
arrange the details of my coup d’etat.”




                             CHAPTER XXVI.
                            A SHORT CHAPTER.


Mr. Sharp had now taken the first step towards betraying his client, and
was determined not to turn back. Having so far committed himself, he
felt that policy dictated expedition. Should Mr. Rand suddenly die
before he could bring about an interview between him and Mr. Ford, all
would be lost. That interview must take place with the least possible
delay.

Mr. Sharp, accordingly, set out at once for Mr. Ford’s dwelling.

A moderate walk brought him to the modest lodging of the inventor.

He paused a moment to compose his face to the proper expression of
sympathetic regret, and then entering, grasped the hand of Mr. Ford.

“I sympathize with you sincerely in your misfortune,” he remarked, in a
feeling tone, “and it is to me a poignant reflection that it has
occurred partly through my means; but I trust your kindness will absolve
me from any suspicion of complicity.”

“I do, and have,” said Mr. Ford, frankly, extending his hand. “From the
first, I could not even imagine, Mr. Sharp, that you had anything to do
with it.”

“You only do me justice,” said Mr. Sharp, wringing the offered hand with
affectionate energy; “you only do me justice, sir, and yet I have been
culpable; I have been guilty of an indiscretion; I should not have
intrusted a note which affected your interests, to so unscrupulous a man
as Blunt. Mild as is my temperament,” he continued, with a sudden burst
of ferocity, “I do not hesitate to pronounce that man an unmitigated
villain.”

He paused a moment to recover himself, and resumed in a different tone,
with a look of respectful admiration directed towards Helen.

“As soon as I heard the details of this affair from the lips of your
charming daughter, whose filial devotion is, I may observe, the most
beautiful trait of her character, I hastened here to assure you of my
sympathy and assistance. I think I may promise, that your invaluable
machinery will be restored to you before night. I can only express my
extreme regret that you have been compelled to suspend your labors, even
for the space of a few hours.”

“Thank you for your kindness,” said Mr. Ford, gratefully. “I shall
always feel that I am deeply indebted to you for your disinterested
friendship.”

“Sir,” said Mr. Sharp, visibly affected, “I would, if it were possible,
express how much I am gratified by your words; but there are feelings
which must be hidden in the heart, and to which no language can do
justice. Let me say, briefly, that such are my feelings on the present
occasion. You have been pleased to refer to the little service which it
has been in my power to render you. But, sir, you have no cause for
gratitude. It is the interest I feel in the advancement of science, to
which you have consecrated your life energies. It is my earnest desire
to help forward, in my way, the important discovery which is to hand
down your name to future generations.”

“If you will excuse me,” said Helen, putting on her bonnet, “I am going
out to get something for dinner; and if,” she added, hesitatingly, “Mr.
Sharp would do us the favor to sit down with us, papa, I am sure we
should be very glad to have him.”

“That is well thought of, Helen,” said her father, approvingly. “I shall
be very glad to have Mr. Sharp do so, if he can find sufficient
inducement.”

“Sufficient inducement!” echoed the lawyer, with the air of a man who
had received an invitation to a royal banquet; “I shall be most proud,
most happy, to accept your invitation, and that of your charming
daughter. Unworthy as I feel myself of this distinction, I will yet
accept it.”

“Unworthy! you, who have to-day shown yourself so truly my friend? It is
but a faint expression of our gratitude.”

“You are very kind to say so,” said Mr. Sharp, with an effusion of
feeling. “Yet I cannot help feeling that you judge me too favorably.
Indeed, were it not that I have a revelation of some importance to make
to you, I should scarcely venture to accept your invitation.”

“Be seated, Mr. Sharp,” said Mr. Ford, somewhat surprised at the
lawyer’s words; “I shall, of course, feel interested in anything you may
have to impart. Helen, my dear, you will not be gone long?”

“No, papa.”

She closed the door, and descended the stairs, with her market-basket on
her arm.




                             CHAPTER XXVII.
                            HELEN’S BANQUET.


When Helen had departed on her errand, Mr. Sharp commenced,—

“You will pardon me,” he said, “if, in the preliminary inquiries I may
have to make, there may be anything of a nature to harrow up your
feelings, or recall painful scenes.”

Mr. Ford looked surprised.

“May I inquire if you have a father living?”

A painful shadow flitted over the face of Mr. Ford. He answered,
presently,—

“You may be surprised when I answer, that I do not know.”

“I am not surprised,” said Mr. Sharp, inclining his head gently. “This
was the answer I anticipated.”

Once more Mr. Ford regarded his visitor with a look of surprise.

“Is it possible,” he said, not without hesitation, “that you should know
anything of my unhappy history?”

“Of that you shall judge. What if I should say, for example, that the
name by which you are known is not your real one?”

“I cannot conjecture where you obtained your information, but it is
correct. My real name is not Ford.”

“And is—Rand.”

“You are right; but how——”

“A moment, if you please. I have more to tell you. You were born to
wealth, and being an only son, were sole heir to your father’s
possessions. You were not, however, without a companion,—a cousin, whom
your father generously took under his charge.”

“Lewis?”

“Yes, Lewis Rand; he shared your studies and your sports, and was, in
all respects, treated like yourself. The only difference was in your
prospects. You were to inherit a large fortune, while he——”

“My father would have provided for him.”

“No doubt, but not equally. That would not have been expected, of
course. When Lewis grew old enough to understand this, it filled him
with envy and jealousy.”

“Can this be true?” asked Robert Ford—to call him by the name to which
we are accustomed,—“can this be true? yet he was always cordial and
friendly. His manner never afforded any ground for suspecting that he
cherished such feelings.”

“He knew his own interests too well for that. Inferior as his prospects
were, they all depended upon your father’s good-will. It would,
therefore, have been in the highest degree unwise, to disclose a feeling
sure to alienate it.”

“Perhaps you are right,” said Mr. Ford, thoughtfully.

“Therefore, he only nursed this feeling in secret. Yet he none the less
watched for an opportunity to injure you. His patience was at length
rewarded. That time arrived.”

Robert Ford, as if half surmising what was to follow, rose in some
agitation, and began to pace the room.

“I trust,” said Mr. Sharp, “you will excuse me for introducing a
delicate subject. There is a time when the susceptible heart of a young
man first yields to the tender passion.”

“I understand you,” said Mr. Ford, in a low voice.

“Am I right in saying, that however nobly adorned in other respects, the
object of your attachment was not wealthy?”

Mr. Ford bowed his head.

“Unfortunately for your happiness, your father wished you to wed a
wealthy wife, and withheld his approbation from your choice. You, my
dear sir, with a magnanimity, which, I am sure, does you infinite
credit, clung to your chosen bride, portionless though she was, and, in
spite of your father’s disapprobation, married her.”

“I did,” said Robert Ford, with emotion; “and however grieved I may have
been, and still am, at my father’s continued resentment, that step I
never regretted. You have seen Helen. It may have been a parent’s
partiality, but I have always regarded her as uncommonly sweet and
attractive.”

Mr. Sharp, in a very high-flown eulogium, intimated that such was his
own estimate.

“When I tell you,” pursued Mr. Ford, “that Helen bears a very striking
resemblance to her mother, not in person only, but in sweetness and
amiability, your heart will suggest an excuse for my perhaps unfilial
conduct.”

“Sir,” said Mr. Sharp, warmly, “had you done otherwise than you did, had
you abandoned, at the bidding of a paltry self-interest, the heart that
had learned to love and trust you, I should not have felt one half the
respect for you which I now entertain. But, to resume my story. The
first difficulty between your father and yourself was hailed with
delight by your cousin. It was an occasion for which he had long been
watching. It is needless to say, that he used every means to widen the
breach, so artfully, however, as not to allow either your father or
yourself to suspect his purpose. Possibly you can recall some
circumstances which will confirm what I have said.”

“I remember,” said Robert, thoughtfully, “that my cousin professed to
sympathize with me most warmly, and counselled me, by all means, to
carry out my purpose, in opposition to my father’s will. He assured me
that my father would finally yield, when he learned that my heart was
unalterably fixed, and that opposition would prove unavailing.”

“At the same time,” said the lawyer, “he was giving similar assurances
to your father. He told him, that when you were satisfied that his
consent could not be obtained, you would yield the point, and conform to
his wishes.”

“Was my cousin indeed so wicked?” asked Robert, with more pain than
anger in his tone.

“That was not all. In order to add to your father’s indignation, he took
care to describe your betrothed in the most odious colors. He not only
charged her with poverty, but represented her as an artful and designing
country girl, uneducated and unrefined, whose only object in marrying
you was to gratify a vulgar taste for finery and ostentation. In fact,
he taxed his imagination to the utmost, in the endeavor to portray her
in a manner which he knew would render her most unacceptable to the
family pride of your father. I should add that he even denied her the
charm of personal beauty, and pictured her to your father as equally
unattractive in mind and person.”

A red spot glowed in the pale cheek of Robert Ford, who, mild as he was,
could not hear unmoved this vile slander upon one he loved. To do Mr.
Sharp justice, what he said was not exaggerated, but strictly in
accordance with truth.

“Are you sure of this?” he asked, pacing the room in a perturbed manner.

“I am. You shall know my authority soon, but not now.”

“Now, I am not surprised at my father’s continued resentment. To traduce
my Helen so cruelly!”

“You will not wonder that all this should have had the effect
intended,—that of confirming your father in his opposition. You married,
and left this part of the country.”

“Yes; I went to the West.”

“And did you hear nothing from your father afterwards?”

“Never, directly.”

“Yet you had not been married six months before he began to relent, and
feel that he might have exercised undue severity.”

“Is it, indeed, so?” asked Robert, his face lighting up.

“It is. I need scarcely say that your cousin observed, with
apprehension, your father’s returning mildness. Lest it might lead to a
complete reconciliation, he resolved to get your father out of the
country. He accordingly proposed a European tour, to which he procured
your father’s assent. Preparations were hurriedly made. They sailed for
Liverpool, and several years were spent in visiting the principal cities
of Europe.”

Robert Ford, to whom this was new, listened intently.

“At length they returned. Then, in order that you might more effectually
lose all trace of your father, he persuaded him to sell the estate upon
which he had hitherto resided, and remove——”

“Whither?” demanded Mr. Ford, eagerly.

“I will tell you presently.”

“I had written to my father. Were none of my letters received?”

“They were,—by Lewis. Of course, he took care to suppress them.
Nevertheless, your father still felt a strong desire to see you once
more, and tell you that he had forgiven you. Lewis again became alarmed,
and, as a last resort, caused your death to be inserted in a western
paper, and shown to your father. This was sufficient for that time.
Within a brief period, however, his apprehensions and your father’s
desire to see you have again become excited. Your father one day caught
a glimpse of you in the street.”

“What do you say?” exclaimed Robert Ford, in agitation. “My father saw
me? Where does he live?”

“In this city,—in New York. He recognized you in spite of the long
separation, and so did Lewis; but the latter took the greatest care to
assure your father that he was mistaken; that you had long been dead.
Nevertheless, he was not wholly convinced. Though not in the least
doubting your cousin’s good faith, he answered that there might be some
mistake; that it was possible you were still living.”

“My dear father!”

“The uncertainty, and the anxious longing to see you, to which it has
given rise, has, together with his age, made him severely ill. His life
is even in danger.”

“He is not dead!” exclaimed Robert, in an agitated tone.

“No, or I should have been informed. He directed your cousin to
advertise for you in the public papers, such was his desire to hear from
you, if still living.”

“I have not looked into a paper for months.”

“If you had, you would not have seen the advertisement. Your cousin has
been much too careful for that. Though he appeared to acquiesce in your
father’s desire, and made him believe that he had complied with his
request, he never did so.”

“And is my father still sick?”

“He is, and his greatest desire is to see you before he dies.”

Robert Ford rose hastily, and, going to the table, took his hat.

“What would you do, sir?”

“I must go and see my father. Did you not say he wished it?”

“Stay,” said Mr. Sharp; “whatever is to be done must be done cautiously,
or your cousin’s suspicions will be aroused, and your purpose
frustrated. I will arrange matters, if you will authorize me.”

“Surely; but let not the delay be too long. Perhaps my father will die
before I can see him.”

“I will take care to expedite matters.”

“I leave all in your hands; but tell me at least where you have obtained
the information you have communicated.”

“From your cousin himself.”

“Did he confess it, then?” asked Mr. Ford, surprised.

“He consulted me professionally. But, sir,” continued Mr. Sharp, in a
tone of lofty consciousness, “as soon as I became aware of the iniquity
in which he desired my assistance, I at once determined to do all that
might be in my power to defeat his nefarious designs.”

Nothing could exceed the moral dignity with which Mr. Sharp uttered
these words.

“I will not tell you,” he continued, with commendable self-denial, “how
many thousands your cousin offered, if I would assist him. But for the
hope of aiding in his discomfiture, I should have rejected his offers
with indignation. Money is no temptation to me where right is concerned.
But to the point. In the present case, I temporized. Your cousin even
now thinks I am devoted to his interests, and it is best that he should
not be undeceived.”

“Do you know where my father lives?” inquired Robert, anxiously.

“It is in Fifth Avenue. After dinner I will give you the direction so
that you cannot miss it. You must be cautious in your approach, and when
the door is opened, proceed at once to your father’s room. It is very
probable that the servant will oppose your progress, but if you yield,
Lewis will take good care that you never have another opportunity. May I
request on the score of prudence, that you will not compromise me, or
drop the slightest intimation that I have had any agency in sending you
thither?”

“My dear friend,” said Robert Ford, fervently, “you may rest assured
that I will respect your wishes, of whose wisdom I entertain not a
doubt.”

He shook hands with Mr. Sharp, cordially. The lawyer, with an appearance
of profound emotion, put his handkerchief to his eyes, and returned the
pressure.

At this moment Helen entered, followed by a waiter from a restaurant,
from which, on this day of rejoicing, she had been extravagant enough to
order a dinner.

The little table was quickly set out in the middle of the room, and
spread with a white cloth, and upon it the savory food was placed. This
was, indeed, an extraordinary occasion.

“Why, you are setting forth quite a banquet, my dear Miss Ford,” said
Mr. Sharp, rubbing his hands gently, for he was by no means insensible
to the pleasures of the palate.

At this moment Martha Grey, the seamstress, unaware of the lawyer’s
visit, knocked at the door.

“Just in time, Martha,” said Helen, gayly. “We want you to sit on this
side the table.”

“I couldn’t think of it,” said Martha, glancing at Mr. Sharp.

“I hope you will accept my daughter’s invitation,” said Mr. Ford,
courteously. “Permit me, Mr. Sharp, to introduce our excellent neighbor,
Miss Grey.”

“I am proud to make your acquaintance, Miss Grey,” said the lawyer,
bowing profoundly. “Any friend of my esteemed friends, Mr. and Miss
Ford, needs no other recommendation in my eyes. May I express the hope
that you are well?”

“Quite so, thank you, sir,” said Martha, a little overpowered by the
lawyer’s elaborate civility.

She was at length persuaded to make a fourth at Helen’s banquet.

How much it was enjoyed by all present, not one of whom was accustomed
to such good fare every day; how proudly and gracefully Helen did the
honors of the occasion; how merrily they all laughed at the bungling
attempts of Mr. Ford to carve the fowls, and how, finally, he was
compelled to call in the lawyer’s assistance; how genial and affable Mr.
Sharp was, and how he insisted on proposing the health of Martha Grey,
much to that young lady’s modest confusion; how his deference for her
father raised him every moment in Helen’s estimation,—all this I must
leave to the imagination of the reader, while I prepare in the next
chapter to invite him to a different scene.




                            CHAPTER XXVIII.
                            THE BELL RINGS.


Two persons who are nearly concerned in the revelation made by Mr. Sharp
to Robert Ford, now demand our attention.

First, Mr. Rand, who, upon a sick-bed, worn-out by anxiety and bodily
weakness, is fast drifting towards that unseen world, where all that is
dark and mysterious here will be disclosed, and we shall know even as we
are known. The second, is Lewis Rand, his unworthy nephew, whose whole
soul is absorbed by the eager desire to secure to himself his uncle’s
large fortune. Why this thirst for gold should so have possessed him, is
not so clear. It was not that his habits were extravagant, for such was
not the case. He was no voluptuary, at least not in the lowest sense of
the word. It was not for the mere love of money that he craved it. He
was elevated above the mere miser; but money was valuable to him for the
power which it conferred, and the consequence which it gave. Lewis
Rand’s ambition had taken this form. He desired to be known everywhere
as the possessor of a princely fortune. He wished others to fawn upon
him as he had fawned upon his uncle. As his dependence had compelled him
to remain in a subordinate position, he wished others to become
subordinates to him. Money he must have, somehow. So for years he had
labored to establish and strengthen his position as his uncle’s heir.
The inheritance which he craved, would make him at once a millionnaire.

As a general who has fortified a city, so as to make it, as he
considers, impregnable, and at the last discovers a weak place which
endangers the whole, exerts all his energy and all the resources which
he can command to counteract the danger, so Lewis had, as we have seen,
set in motion certain agencies, through which he hoped to avert the
peril which menaced him in his cousin’s presence.

“Have you received no letters in answer to the advertisement, Lewis?”
asked Mr. Rand, feebly.

“No, uncle, none whatever.”

Mr. Rand sighed, and fell back upon his pillow.

The crimson bed-curtains were drawn apart, revealing the thin and wasted
form of the old man. Thinner and more attenuated he grew day by day.
Each day the result of the struggle for life became less doubtful. A
strong desire for life might have given the needed stimulus to the vital
functions, and turned the scale against death, but the sick man had
ceased to desire it.

None saw this more clearly than Lewis. With his cold, searching eye he
had followed the slow advances of the destroyer. Not a word, however,
had escaped him. How he trembled when the lamp of life burned for a
time with a steadier radiance, lest, perchance, it might prove a
harbinger of ultimate recovery; and when the momentary glow had
departed, and the lamp burned so low that it seemed near its final
extinction, he breathed more freely, and a glow of triumph lighted up
his dark features,—features that might the next moment wear a look of
the deepest sympathy. For Lewis had schooled them to obey the dictates
of his will, and had not fear that they would betray him. He was a
gamester who had staked his all upon a single venture, and was
watching the chances with intense eagerness.

Morning after morning as he stole to his uncle’s bedside, it was with a
secret hope veiled under an appearance of the greatest solicitude, that
he might find the struggle ended. Each day he hoped might prove the
last,—that from his heart the burden of anxiety and the weariness of
waiting might at once and forever be lifted.

Fortunate was it for the old man’s peace, that he could not read this
wicked wish in the eyes that were bent upon him. There was little fear.
Could he conceive it possible that one whom he had long regarded with an
affection second only to that which he bore his own son, who all his
life long had never ceased to receive his bounty; could he dream that
Lewis was capable of cherishing in his heart a hope so unnatural? So far
from this, the faintest shadow of distrust had never entered his uncle’s
thoughts. In his face he read nothing but sympathy and compassion. Mr.
Lewis Rand, could you but sound the depth of wickedness in your own
heart, could you drag it forth to the light and survey it in all its
deformity, how would even your hardened nature shrink aghast and
horror-stricken? Heaven only knows with what a web of sophistry you
excuse this treachery of the heart. Could this be rent away, you could
hardly stand as calmly as you do by the bedside of that old man, belying
in your heart the filial words that fall so glibly from your tongue. Can
you who have the power to bring happiness and peace to that bedside, and
its unhappy occupant, who can bring the light of joy to those eyes soon
to close forever, and repair a great injustice, still refuse to do it?
There may come a time, whether near or remote, Heaven alone knows, when
you would give all the wealth for which you are scheming if you had only
done it.

On receiving a negative answer to his question, Mr. Rand remained for
some time silent, with his face turned to the wall.

“It would be a great relief,” he sighed, wearily, “if I could but see my
son once before I die.”

“When will he be done harping on his son?” muttered Lewis to himself.
“He seems determined to torment me with it.”

He said aloud, with a proper display of emotion, “Do not speak of dying,
uncle. You will yet recover.”

“Never, Lewis, never. There is something that tells me this sickness
will be my last. My feet will soon enter the dark valley of the shadow
of death. I have reached the age set by the Psalmist as the limit of
human life. Even your kind solicitude cannot call me back from the grave
that awaits me.”

“I should be very sorry if it did,” was the unspoken thought of Lewis,
as he replied, covering his face with his handkerchief, as if to conceal
his emotion, “you are—you must be deceived; you are looking brighter
to-day.”

“Lewis, your hopes deceive you. On the contrary, I never felt weaker
than I do to-day. I have never felt more entirely satisfied of the
hopelessness of my situation. Yet why do I say ‘hopelessness?’ I do not
fear death. Rather I welcome it as a friend. I feel no vain longing for
a continuance of that life which is gliding from my grasp. For the last
few years I have enjoyed too little happiness to make it seem very
attractive. Wealth can do little. Even your kind attentions have failed.
The consciousness of wrong done and unatoned for has followed me all
these years. One wrong act has imbittered all my earthly existence.”

“My dear uncle, I regret that you should dwell upon such painful
thoughts. Even if you were in fault, which I do not believe, you are
agitating yourself now to no purpose.”

“Let me speak now, Lewis. The thought is always with me, and I am
relieved by speaking. Never, Lewis, suffer yourself to be led hastily
into a wrong act—never, as you value your soul’s peace. The thought will
come back to you in after years, and never leave you; you may surround
yourself with all that wealth can give, even as I have done, and your
heart will still be an aching void into which no thought of joy or
happiness shall enter. When you are on your death-bed, as I am now, you
will feel how inestimable above all things else is that peace of mind
which comes from a clear conscience and an unblemished life.”

Standing thus at his uncle’s bedside, with more than one sin unexpiated
upon his soul, could Lewis listen unmoved to words which gained so deep
a significance from this utterance by a dying man? Even he felt vaguely
uncomfortable as he listened, mingled with an angry impatience which,
however, he dared not betray.

“I feel a deep conviction,” continued Mr. Rand, “that Robert is still
living. I cannot tell whence it comes, but of nothing am I more
thoroughly persuaded. I had hoped that the advertisement would prove
effectual in finding him out. You are sure that you caused its insertion
in papers of the largest circulation?”

“I have followed your directions, uncle,” said Lewis, unblushingly,
“notwithstanding my fear that it would lead to nothing.”

“You did right, Lewis. After I am gone, I wish you to continue the
advertisement. Your cousin will see it sooner or later. I am quite sure
of that. And when after a time he comes back to you, I wish you to see
that the provisions of my will are carried out. I will not claim your
promise. I know that you will do so.”

Lewis bowed, but forebore to speak.

“That is not all. You must tell him, Lewis, how I have sought for him,
and how with a sorrowful heart I deplored my own injustice, from which
he cannot have suffered more than I. You may tell him that I forgive him
if he feels that there is anything to forgive, in the hope that he will
forgive me who need it so much more. You will tell him all this, Lewis?”

“Can you doubt it, uncle?” asked Lewis, evasively.

“No, Lewis, I have perfect confidence in you. You never have deceived
me, and you will not begin now; and, Lewis, you must try to atone to
Robert, in my stead, for the wrong he has suffered. Never let your
affection for me persuade you that it was not a wrong. I would far
rather have you think harshly of me, than unjustly of your cousin.”

“I will endeavor to obey you even in that, hard though it be,” said
Lewis.

At that moment the quiet of the sick-chamber was broken in by a sharp
peal of the door-bell. It was so unusual an occurrence in that solitary
household, that it startled both.




                             CHAPTER XXIX.
                          THE UNBIDDEN GUEST.


I cannot explain why it was, that the unexpected ringing of the bell led
to the same thought in the minds of the sick man and his nephew. Sudden
fear blanched the face of Lewis; a hopeful look stole over the old man’s
face.

“Go, Lewis,” he said. “Perhaps it is Robert.”

“Heaven forbid!” muttered Lewis, as he hastened from the room.

The sound of contending voices struck upon the ear of Lewis Rand, as he
hurriedly descended the staircase to the hall. The outer door had been
opened, and the servant was endeavoring to impress upon the visitor, in
obedience to directions he had received, that there was sickness in the
house, and that he could not be admitted.

“Lead me to his chamber,” said Robert Ford, pale with excitement, “I
must see him. He is my father.”

The servant looked in his agitated face, and moved aside that he might
pass.

Lewis encountered him at the foot of the stairs. They looked at each
other—those long-estranged cousins—a moment in silence. Lewis was as
pale as death. His lips were compressed and bloodless. The shadow of
failure darkened his way. Dismay and anger and strong disappointment
struggled with him for the mastery. Robert was calmer. He would not have
been human if the sight of his cousin had not awakened within him a
feeling of resentment. But this was swallowed up by a feeling yet
stronger—the desire to see his father.

“Where is my father, Lewis?” he demanded. “Tell me quickly.”

He was about to pass, when his cousin stepped before him.

“Hold!” he exclaimed, in a quick, hoarse voice. “Would you endanger your
father’s life? He is in a most critical condition. The least excitement
may kill him.”

Robert hesitated for a moment. After a separation of eighteen years he
stood within a few feet of his father, and was forbidden to enter his
presence. Nothing short of the urgent reason adduced by Lewis, would
have stopped him for a moment.

“Is my father, then, so ill?” he asked, with emotion. “Why, oh why did
you not send for me before?”

“Do you think I would not if I had known where to find you?” said Lewis,
ignorant how far Robert had been apprised of his machinations.

“I cannot tell,” said Robert, shaking his head. “There was a time,
Lewis, when I could not have deemed you capable of it.”

“And why should you now?”

“I cannot tell you at present; but I must see my father.”

“I tell you again,” said Lewis, vehemently, “that if you see him, it
will be at the peril of his life. It hangs upon a thread.”

Meanwhile Mr. Rand had listened with feverish anxiety to the voices
which he could indistinctly hear. A wild hope had sprung up in his
heart. Oh, for the power to rise from his bed and satisfy himself at
once. Alas, this could not be! At length, as the speakers raised their
voices, he thought he could distinguish the word “father.” His agitation
reached a fearful pitch. He raised his voice as high as his feeble
strength would permit, and called “Robert!”

That word reached the ears of Robert Ford. Nothing could stop him now.
He pushed Lewis aside, scarcely conscious what he did, and a moment
after found him kneeling at his father’s bedside.

“Father, forgive me!”

The old man, with an effort, stretched out his thin and wasted hand, and
placed it tremulous with weakness upon the head of his kneeling son.

“God, I thank thee,” he uttered, reverently, “for this hour. This my son
was dead and is alive again, he was lost and is found. Robert, I have
forgiven you long ago. Can you forgive me?”

“Do you then ask my forgiveness, O my father?”

“Yes, Robert. My heart has long since confessed the wrong it did you.
Can you forgive me?”

“Freely, freely, my father.”

“Now can I die content,” said Mr. Rand, with a deep sigh of relief. “For
many, many years I have waited and looked forward to this hour. I could
not believe that God would suffer me to die till I had seen you.”

“Die!” repeated Robert, in a sorrowful tone.

“Yes, Robert, you have come at the eleventh hour.”

“And for months I have lived within two miles of you, and never guessed
your nearness.”

“Did you not see my advertisement?”

“Never.”

“How is this?” said Mr. Rand, puzzled. “In what papers was it inserted,
Lewis?”

Lewis stood at the door, an apprehensive listener. For obvious reasons
he did not choose to obey this call.

“It may be because I seldom look at the papers,” said Robert, not
wishing to agitate his father with the intelligence of his cousin’s
treachery.

“But others must have seen it,” persisted Mr. Rand. “Why did they not
tell you?”

“I passed by a different name,” explained Robert. “None that knew me—and
these were but few—could guess my identity with Robert Rand.”

At his father’s request Robert gave a brief account of the eighteen
years of separation. He sat with his father’s hand resting in his. As he
concluded, a convulsion passed over the old man’s features. He clasped
Robert’s hand convulsively. The son leaned forward, hoping to catch the
words that seemed struggling for utterance. He could only distinguish
“my will—reparation.”

These were the last words that passed the lips of the dying man.

He breathed his life out in the effort, and fell back—dead!

Robert had, indeed, come at the eleventh hour. Yet had he not come too
late to make his father’s death-bed happy. A peaceful smile rested upon
the worn face. His life had closed happily.

Meanwhile what had become of Lewis?

It was difficult for him at first to collect his thoughts at this most
unexpected occurrence.

At first he thought, “All is lost. My hopes are blasted!”

His second thought, when he had recovered from the momentary shock of
his cousin’s appearance, was, “It may not be as bad as I fear. The old
man cannot live long. This very excitement will probably prove too much
for him in his present weak state. During the short time he has to live,
it is not probable that anything will happen to disarrange my plans. In
the first place, he thinks that his will provides for his son. And so
his true will does! But I have taken care that this shall not be
brought forward. My uncle and cousin will probably spend the time in
sentimentalizing. It will be well for me not to intrude upon this
interview, or I may be asked some awkward questions. Lewis Rand, this is
the turning-point of your fortunes. Be discreet for a short time, and
all may yet be well.”

There was one point that Lewis did not understand. How his cousin could
have learned of his father’s presence in the city. He did not suspect
Mr. Sharp’s fidelity, but thought it possible that he might, by some
blunder, have revealed to Robert that of which he should have been kept
ignorant. At all events the lawyer was the only one likely to yield him
any satisfaction upon this point. Accordingly, willing to be out of the
way for the present, he seized his hat, and hastened to the office of
his confidential agent.

Mr. Sharp was, it must be confessed, awaiting with no little anxiety and
curiosity, the result of Mr. Ford’s visit, which might so materially
effect his own interests.

There was a sharp knock at the door. He rose and opened it.

Lewis entered in great evident perturbation.

“Bless me, what’s the matter?” exclaimed Mr. Sharp, in affected
surprise.

“You may well ask me what’s the matter.”

“You don’t mean to say——”

“I do mean to say that all my plans are menaced with defeat.”

“But, how?”

“My cousin Robert is at this moment with his father.”

“Good heavens!” ejaculated the lawyer, in admirably counterfeited
consternation. “How did this come about?”

“That is more than I can pretend to say. I came to you for the sake of
obtaining information.”

“Which I am wholly unable to afford.”

Lewis threw himself upon a chair.

“To think,” he exclaimed, bitterly, “that this should happen when I am
just within reach of success. Twenty-four hours more, and it would
probably have been too late!”

“How?”

“I mean that my uncle probably has not twenty-four hours lease of life,
unless this meeting revives him. The probability is, that it will have a
contrary effect.”

“Do you consider that you have lost all?”

“Fortunately, no. I am in hopes that this interview will, after all,
prove of no advantage to my cousin.”

“Ah!” said Mr. Sharp, rubbing his hands with apparent delight, but
secret anxiety, beginning for the first time to feel that he would not
be recompensed for his treachery.

“Yes. It is not likely that my uncle will be able to make a new will,
and the present one I shall be very well contented with.”

“Confusion!” thought the lawyer. “I wish I could only see the old
gentleman, and whisper a few words in his ear.”

If Lewis had not been too much absorbed in calculating his own chance,
he might have noticed that Mr. Sharp’s wonted affability had deserted
him, and that he, too, seemed preoccupied.




                              CHAPTER XXX.
                             PALLIDA MORS.


After his interview with the lawyer, Lewis took his way home; his heart
alternately cheered with hope, or disturbed by apprehension. On the
whole, however, hope predominated. It was based on the knowledge that
neither his uncle nor his cousin were men of business, and at this
moment both would have too many other things to think of to recur to
that which he dreaded.

As he opened the outer door, he met a servant in the hall.

“How is my uncle, now, Jane?” he asked.

“I don’t know, sir; I haven’t been up stairs since you went away.”

“Is my—is the gentleman that came in a little while ago still here?” he
inquired, anxiously.

“Yes, sir, I think so; I haven’t seen him go out.”

“Have you heard any talking? I am afraid my uncle will be too much
excited by a visitor at this time.”

“I heard a faint murmur like as if they were talking awhile ago, but I
haven’t heard anything for a few minutes. May I be so bold as to ask if
the gentleman is a relation, sir?”

“Yes,” said Lewis, shortly. “You say you have heard no sound proceeding
from the room for a few minutes?”

“No, sir.”

“Perhaps he is dead,” thought Lewis, hopefully. “At any rate, I will go
up and see.”

“That will do,” he said to the servant, who was still in waiting. “I am
going up into my uncle’s room, and if I should want you I will ring.”

“I wonder who the gentleman is,” said the servant, to herself. “He said
Mr. Rand was his father. I never heard that he had a son, for my part.
If he is, I suppose he will inherit the property. I wonder how Mr. Lewis
will like that. Well, I don’t much care if he is disappointed, for I
don’t like him, and never did.”

The dictatorial manner of Lewis had not gained him friends among the
servants, and none of them could be expected to feel a very profound
sorrow for any reverses which fate might have in store for him.

Lewis Rand softly ascended the stairs, and entered his uncle’s
bed-chamber.
