
"Young gentlemen, the books will be opened to-day; and a student who
forgets his number again will lose a mark," said Mr. Lowington. "Are
they all in their places, Mr. Fluxion?"

"They are, sir," replied the instructor, who had just counted them.

"Young gentlemen, you are thus divided into two equal parts--the
starboard and the port watches. Now form a straight line, toe the crack,
and call your numbers in order, beginning with the starboard watch."

The boys eagerly followed this direction, though some assistance was
required from the instructors in repressing their superfluous
enthusiasm.

"Very well," continued Mr. Lowington, when the students were formed in
two lines. "Every boy in the starboard watch whose number is divisible
by four, step forward one pace. Number three in the port watch, do the
same. Mr. Mapps, oblige me by seeing that every alternate boy in the
line steps forward."

"The line is formed, sir," replied the instructor, when he had carried
out the direction of the principal.

"Each watch is now divided into two parts--the first and second parts,
as they will be called. Now, young gentlemen, the clothing will be
distributed, and each student will put on his uniform at once."

The four lines were then marched down into the steerage, each under the
charge of an instructor, to a particular locality, where the head
steward and his assistants had deposited the clothing for each watch and
quarter watch. The uniform consisted of blue seaman's pants and a heavy
flannel shirt or frock, such as is worn in the United States navy. To
each student the following articles were served out:--

1 pea-jacket.
1 blue cloth jacket.
1 pair blue cloth pants.
1 pair blue satinet pants.
1 blue cap.
1 straw hat, of coarse, sewed straw.
1 Panama hat, bound.
2 knit woollen shirts.
2 pair knit woollen drawers.
2 white frocks.
2 pair white duck pants.
4 pair socks.
2 pair shoes.
2 black silk neck-handkerchiefs.

These articles were given to the boys, and they were required to put on
the every-day uniform; after which they were directed to arrange the
rest of the clothing in the lockers belonging to them. The contractor
who had furnished the goods was present with four tailors, to attend to
the fitting of the clothes, which were all numbered according to the
size. In a short time the students began to come out of their rooms,
clothed in their new rig. They looked intensely "salt," and there was no
end to the jokes and smart things that were said on this interesting
occasion. Even Shuffles hardly knew himself in his new dress.

The frock had a broad rolling collar, in each corner of which was worked
an anchor in white. The black silk neck-handkerchief was worn under the
collar, and not many of the boys had acquired the art of tying the
regular sailor's knot. Boatswain Peaks not only stood up as a model for
them, but he adjusted the "neck gear" for many of them. Bitts, the
carpenter, and Leech, the sailmaker, who were also old sailors,
cheerfully rendered a valet's assistance to such as needed help.

Agreeably to the directions of Mr. Lowington, the shore suits of the
students were done up in bundles, each marked with the owner's name, and
the head steward took them to Mr. Lowington's house for storage.

Rigged out in their "sea togs," the students began to feel salt, as well
as to look salt. Some of them tried to imitate the rolling gait of the
boatswain when they walked, and some of them began to exhibit an
alarming tendency to indulge in sea slang.

"There, my hearty, you look like a sailor now," said Peaks, when he had
rolled over the collar and tied the square knot in the handkerchief of
Wilton.

"Shiver my timbers, but I feel like one," laughed the embryo seaman.

"What's that, young gentleman?" demanded Mr. Lowington, who happened to
be within hearing; "what did you say?"

"I said I felt like a sailor, sir."

"What was the expression you used?"

"I only said shiver my timbers, sir."

"You stole that expression from a yellow-covered novel. Did you ever
hear Mr. Peaks, who has been a sailor all his lifetime, use such
language?"

"I'll be bound he never did," added Peaks.

"No, sir. I don't know that I ever did."

"Some sailors do use such expressions; but it is gross affectation for
these young gentlemen, who never saw a blue wave, to indulge in them. If
you please, Wilton, you will not use such language. It is simply
ridiculous. Mr. Peaks, you will pipe all hands to muster again."

The shrill whistle of the boatswain sounded through the ship, and the
boys tumbled up the ladders, eager to learn what was to be done next. As
they formed in lines, they presented a novel and picturesque appearance
in their jaunty uniform. Most of them had already learned to wear their
caps canted over on one side, and not a few of them, perhaps as much
from necessity as because it was a sailor's habit, hitched up their
trousers, and thrust their hands deep down into the side pockets.

The students were again formed in watches and quarter watches, each of
which classes and sub-classes was indicated on the uniforms. All the
starboard watch wore a small silver star on the right arm, above the
elbow, and the port watch the same emblem on the left arm. The first
part of each watch had a figure 1, under the star, and the second part a
figure 2 in the same position.

The rest of the day was spent in the organization for ship's duty, which
was far from completed when the sun went down. The next day every boy
was kept so busy that he had no time to grumble. The instructors
attended to the lessons in the steerage with one watch, while the other
was on deck acquiring seamanship. In the course of the month, as the
boys learned their duties, and the capabilities of each were
ascertained, they were assigned to their stations in the various
evolutions required in working the vessel.

Boatswain Peaks had taught the boys, a few at a time, how to set a
sail, reef and furl it. They had been gradually accustomed to going
aloft, until the giddy height of the main royal did not appall them, and
they could lay out on the yards without thinking of the empty space
beneath them. By the first of June, all the petty officers had been
appointed, and every student had his station billet. When the order was
given to unmoor ship, to make sail, or to furl the sails, every one knew
where to go and what to do. The station billets were cards on which the
various evolutions of the ship had been printed in a column on the left,
while the particular duty of the owner of the card was written against
it. The card was kept by the student, and he was expected to learn its
contents so that he could take his place without stopping to consult it,
when an order was given. Here is a specimen of the cards:--

+---------------------------------------------------------+
|PORT WATCH, NO 21,              WILLIAM FOSTER,          |
|Second Part.            Captain of the Forecastle.     |
+----------------------+----------------------------------+
|REEFING.              |Head Bowlines.                    |
|TACKING OR WEARING.   |Forecastle. Let go head bowlines. |
|                      |  Let go and shorten in foretack  |
|                      |  and belay it.                   |
|GETTING UNDER WAY.    |Head Bowlines. Downhauls and      |
|                      |  head-sheets.                    |
|ANCHORING.            |Head Bowlines, Sheets and Tacks.  |
|                      |  Downhauls.                      |
|LOOSING SAILS.        |Foretopmast Staysail.             |
|FURLING.              |Head Bowlines and Downhauls,      |
|                      |  Staysail.                       |
|MOORING AND UNMOORING.|Forecastle.                       |
|BOAT.                 |Professor's Barge, stroke-oar.    |
|MESS.                 |No. 11.                           |
+----------------------+----------------------------------+

The crew had been in training a month before an attempt was made to set
more than one sail at once; but by this time the officers knew the
orders, having practised every day since the organization. The petty
officers had been appointed, and had, to some extent, become familiar
with their duties.

The boys still continued to wonder when the Young America would go on a
cruise, for they were very anxious to see the blue water, and to roll on
the great waves of the Atlantic; but they were so constantly occupied
with ship's duty and their studies, that the time did not hang heavily
on their hands. Two months of constant practice had made tolerable
seamen of them, and the discipline of the ship went on regularly. The
young officers, as Mr. Lowington had promised, began to conduct the
evolutions and give the orders.

On the 1st day of June, after breakfast, the students were thrown into a
fever of excitement by an unusual order, and they ventured to hope that
the ship was to leave her moorings.

"Mr. Gordon, you will pipe all hands to muster," said Captain Carnes to
the first lieutenant.

"Pass the word for the boatswain," added Gordon to one of the
midshipmen, who stood near him.

This call was answered, not by Peaks, who no longer performed the duties
of boatswain, but by one of the students, who had been appointed to this
position.

"Pipe all hands to muster, boatswain," said the first lieutenant, as the
petty officer touched his cap to him.

"All hands on deck, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, as he piped the call.

This was an unusual order for that time of day, the forenoon being
appropriated to study for each watch in turn; and those who were below
hastened on deck to ascertain what was to be done.

"All hands, stations for loosing sail!" piped the boatswain, when
ordered to do so by Gordon.

The first lieutenant was in charge of the ship, under the direction of
the captain. The second lieutenant stood on the forecastle, where he was
attended by the boatswain. The third lieutenant was in the waist, and
the fourth on the quarter deck, near the mizzenmast. These were the
stations of the officers whenever all hands were called. Mr. Lowington
and the instructors stood near the companion-way, watching with interest
this first attempt to make sail all over the ship.

"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" shouted Gordon; and his order was repeated by
the officers at their several stations.

The little tars who belonged on the topsail and top-gallant yards sprang
up the rigging like so many cats, excited beyond measure by the scene of
activity around them.

"Lower yardmen in the chains!" continued Gordon and his order was
passed, along by the officers. "Aloft, lower yardmen!"

In a moment the crew were in their places; the studding-sail booms were
triced up with the usual system, so that the sails could be reached.

"Lay out!" continued the first lieutenant; and the boys walked out on
the foot-ropes to their stations on the yards. "Loose!"

The ropes by which the sails were secured to the yards were removed at
this order, and the topmen held the sails in their places.

"All ready on the forecastle, sir," reported Foster, who was captain of
that part of the ship.

"All ready in the foretop."

"All ready in the maintop."

"All ready in the mizzentop," reported the several captains of the tops,
in their proper order.

These reports were passed to the first lieutenant in charge of the deck,
by his subordinates.

"Let fall!" shouted Gordon, highly excited; and the sails dropped from
the yard. "Overhaul your rigging aloft! Man sheets and halyards! Sheets
home, and hoist away!"

These orders were passed from mouth to mouth among the officers, and
return reports made, according to the strict discipline of the navy.
They were promptly executed by the crew, though of course not without
some blunders; and the Young America was covered with her cloud of
canvas. Mr. Lowington commended the officers and crew for the promptness
and skill they had displayed in their first concerted attempt at making
sail. He then directed Captain Carnes to furl. Both evolutions were then
repeated, until a proficiency satisfactory for one day was attained.

"Not going to sea, after all," said Shuffles, when the crew were
dismissed from muster.

"No," replied Wilton. "I'm tired of lying here, and if we don't go to
sea soon, I shall take myself off."

"I'm with you."

"I thought we were going to have some fun on board, but we don't do
anything but study and shake out topsails."

"Do you know how you stand on marks, Wilton?" asked Shuffles.

"No; not very high, though."

"Don't you think you shall get into the cabin next term?"

"I know I shall not. I haven't tried for anything."

"On the first of next month, you know, new officers will be appointed,
and I suppose the crew will be messed over again."

"I don't care, I'm getting tired of this thing, I had a better time at
the Academy before we came on board."

"There isn't much chance for any sport. Hardly a fellow has been allowed
to go on shore since we joined the ship."

"Well get up a mutiny, if things don't improve."

"I was thinking of that very thing myself," said Shuffles, in a low
tone.

"A mutiny!" exclaimed Wilton, who had used the word in jest.

"Just for fum, you know," laughed Shuffles.

"You don't mean any such thing?"

"Not yet, of course."

"Do you at any time?"

"We want something more exciting than this kind of a life. Here we are,
kept down and treated like common sailors. We have to touch our caps and
make our manners to Dick Carnes and the rest of the flunkies in the
after cabin. My father pays as much for me as Dick Carnes' father does
for him, and I don't think it is fair that he should live in the cabin
and I in the steerage."

"If you get marks enough, you can have a berth in the cabin," replied
Wilton.

"Marks! Confound the marks! I'm not a baby. Do you think a fellow
seventeen years old is going to be put up or put down by marks?" said
Shuffles.

"I thought you had been working for a place in the cabin."

"So I have, but I don't expect to get it. I never studied so hard in my
life, and I believe I haven't had a bad mark since I came on board,
Lowington thinks I have reformed," laughed Shuffles. "And so I have."

"What do you want to get up a mutiny for, then?"

"I shall not, if I get a decent position; if I don't, I'm going in for
some fun."

"But do you really think of getting up a mutiny?" asked Wilton,
curiously.

"I was thinking the other day what a fine thing it would be if our
fellows had the ship all to themselves."

"What could we do with her?"

"Go on a cruise in her."

"We couldn't handle her; there is hardly a fellow on board that knows
anything about navigation."

"Of course, I don't mean to do anything yet a while; not this year,
perhaps. One of these days, if we stay on board, we shall know all about
a ship. Fifteen or twenty of the fellows are studying navigation. We are
going to Europe some time or other. When we do, we can take the ship,
and go it on our own hook."

"I don't believe you mean anything of the kind, Bob Shuffles."

"I've been thinking about it, anyhow. We can lock Lowington and the rest
of the old folks into their cabin while they are at dinner; and there
are enough of us to handle Peaks and Bitts."

"I think you are crazy, Shuffles."

"We should have a high old time if we could get possession of the ship.
We wont say a word about it yet."

"I think you had better not."

"We might go round Cape Horn into the Pacific, and have a splendid time
among the beautiful islands of the South Sea."

"Of course all the fellows wouldn't join you."

"We could put those ashore somewhere who did not agree with us."

"You know the penalty of mutiny on the high seas."

"Bah!" said Shuffles, contemptuously. "It would be nothing but it lark.
No one would think of hanging us, or even sending us to prison for it.
My father is rich enough to get me out of any scrape."

"So is mine; but I don't think it would be quite safe to go into a
mutiny."

"Not yet, my dear fellow. You can think it over."

"But I'm tired of this kind of a life. I liked it first rate in the
beginning. Do you think Lowington really intends to go to sea with the
ship?"

"I know he does."

"If he don't go pretty soon, I shall run away, and go to sea in
earnest."

"Don't say a word about the mutiny at present, Wilton. By and by, if
things go right, or if they don't go right, we may want to take some
stock in such an enterprise."

"I don't see it yet, but of course I shall keep still."

It is doubtful whether even so daring a young man as Shuffles, who had
the temerity to do almost anything, seriously contemplated getting up a
mutiny. Very likely his untamed and vicious imagination had revelled in
such an enterprise; had pictured the delights of the rover's life at
sea; but a boy of ordinary common sense could hardly think of engaging
in such a mad scheme.

The last week of June, with which month ended the first school term on
board of the Young America, was devoted to examinations and reviews in
all the studies for which extra marks were given. On the last day the
instructors made up the merit lists, and on the morning of the 1st of
July all hands were mustered, and the result declared. Most of the
officers, all of whom had studied with unremitting diligence in order to
retain their positions, were reinstated in their offices. The third
lieutenant, however, fell out, having failed in his reviews, and to the
astonishment of all, Robert Shuffles was found to be entitled to the
place. The first and second lieutenants exchanged ranks, and Paul
Kendall fell to the position of second master. Three of the tenants of
the after cabin were compelled to move into the steerage, and three of
the crew were transferred to the officers' quarters.

Many were disappointed, and perhaps some were disheartened, for the
competition had been a severe struggle; and as much depended upon
natural ability as upon energy and perseverance. But the Young America
was a world by herself. She had all the elements of society within her
wooden walls, and success and failure there followed the same rules as
in the great world of which she was an epitome.

After the officers had been duly installed in their positions, the petty
offices were given to those having the highest number of marks among the
crew. It was certainly democratic for the late third lieutenant to
become captain of the foretop, and for a second master to become
coxswain of the professors' barge; but these young gentlemen, though
disappointed, submitted with a good grace to their misfortune.

The student having the highest number of marks among the crew was
allowed to have the first choice of berths in the steerage; the one
having the next highest number had the second choice, and so on, until
all the numbers had been appropriated. At the conclusion of the
reorganization, Mr. Lowington made a speech, "comforting the mourners,"
and reminding all the students that, on the 1st of October, there would
be another distribution of the places of honor. He hoped those who had
failed to attain what they aspired to reach would not be discouraged,
for, after all, they had been gaining knowledge, and thus the real end
of the school had been reached.

"How about the mutiny?" said Wilton to the new third lieutenant, when
both were off duty in the evening.

"It won't pay just now," replied Shuffles, with great good humor.

"I suppose not," sneered Wilton, who had not even won a petty office.
"What would Lowington say if he knew the third lieutenant talked of
getting up a mutiny on board?"

"What would he say?" repeated Shuffles, who was as much surprised at the
high rank he had gained as his companion had been.

"Yes; what would he say if I should tell him of it?"

"He would say you were a mean pup for telling tales out of school; at
least, he ought to say so, and I think he would. Lowington is a pretty
good fellow, after all."

"No doubt he is, now you are third lieutenant."

"You needn't snuff at it, Wilton. If you want a place, why don't you
sail in, and get one. Just look out for your marks; that's all you have
to do."

"Marks! I thought a fellow seventeen years old was not to be put up or
put down by marks," said Wilton, bitterly.

"That depends somewhat upon whether you get in or out," laughed
Shuffles.

"I suppose you and Paul Kendall will be fast friends now," added the
discontented student.

"Kendall behaves very well, and has treated me first rate since I went
into the cabin."

"I suppose if I want to run away, you will stop me now."

"If you are going to do that, you musn't tell me of it, now I'm an
officer," replied Shuffles, as he turned on his heel, and walked aft.

Wilton was disgusted, and felt that he had lost his best friend, now
that Shuffles had worked his way into the cabin.




CHAPTER V.

OUR FELLOWS.


"I would like leave of absence for to-morrow, Mr. Pelham," said Wilton,
as he touched his cap to the first lieutenant of the Young America, on
the day before the Fourth of July.

"I am sorry to inform you, Wilton, that no leave of absence will be
granted to-morrow," replied Pelham in accordance with the instructions
given him by the captain, who, in turn, had received his orders from the
principal.

"No leave!" exclaimed Wilton, his jaw dropping down.

"Such are the orders."

"I have always been in the habit of celebrating the Fourth of July,"
replied Wilton. "Are we to stay on board the ship, and mope all day?"

"I presume the day will be celebrated on board in a proper manner,"
added the first lieutenant.

"On board! What can a fellow do here? We might as well go to bed, and
sleep off the day."

"No words are necessary, Wilton," replied Pelham as he turned and walked
away.

"That's a good one!" added Wilton, to the group of boys who had come
with him to the mainmast, to request the same favor, if the spokesman
was permitted to go on shore and celebrate the day.

"Not to celebrate!" exclaimed Monroe, with something like horror in his
tones and looks.

"Work on the Fourth of July!" chimed in Adler.

"I won't stand it, for one!" said Wilton.

"Nor I, for another," added Monroe.

So said half a dozen others.

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" demanded Adler. "Here we are,
and we can't get ashore."

"Perhaps we can," said Wilton, as he led the way to a retired part of
the deck, where they could talk without being overheard. "Did any one
ever hear of such a thing as keeping the fellows on board on the Fourth
of July? Why, every little Greek in the city yonder has his liberty on
that day; and we are to be cooped up here like a parcel of sick
chickens! I suppose we shall have to recite history and French, and
shake out topsails, as usual."

"It's outrageous. I don't believe the fellows will stand it," added
Adler, who did not know how bad the case was, until it had been
rehearsed by Wilton, who, in the absence of Shuffles, had become the
leader of a certain clique on board, given to taking opposite views.

"But I don't see what we can do," said Monroe.

"We will do something. I won't stand it. If I stay on board the ship
to-morrow, it will be as a prisoner," answered Wilton.

"It's a hard case; but what can we do about it?" asked Sanborn.

"Suppose we go to Lowington, and state the case to him," suggested
Adler.

"What's the use of that? Of course the first lieutenant spoke by the
card. He had his orders to say what he did, and I'm sure they came from
Lowington."

"There can be no doubt of that; but it would be better to have it from
him."

"I'm willing to ask Lowington for the day, if the fellows want me to do
so; but it won't do any more good than it would to bark at the
mainmast," continued Wilton. "I have an idea in my head, if the fellows
will stand by me," he added, in a lower tone, as he looked over the rail
at the swinging boom, to which the boats in constant use were made fast.

"What is it?" asked Monroe, eagerly.

"Keep shady, for a while. How many fellows can we muster?"

"I don't know."

"Well, don't stir the matter yet. Here comes Lowington and we will talk
to him first. Come, fellows, let's make a dive at him."

Wilton, attended by his companions, walked up to the principal, as he
was going forward. Touching his cap respectfully, as the discipline of
the ship required, he opened the case.

"Mr. Lowington, some of the students would like to go on shore
to-morrow, to celebrate the Fourth. Can't we have liberty?"

"You know the rule; you should apply to the first lieutenant for leave
of absence," replied Mr. Lowington.

"We have, sir, and been refused."

"Then there is nothing more to be said. The first lieutenant speaks with
authority."

"I beg your pardon, sir, but are we to stay on board all day to-morrow?"

"That is certainly the arrangement, Wilton."

"Some of us would like to celebrate the day, sir, and we think it is
rather hard to be obliged to do duty on the Fourth of July."

"I intend to have the day celebrated in a proper manner. I have made
preparations for a gala day on board."

"If you please, sir, we would rather go on shore."

"I am very sorry, for your sake, that I shall be unable to reverse the
answer of the first lieutenant. If I permit one or a dozen to go ashore,
I cannot refuse any, and all must go. I think the boys will be satisfied
with the arrangements I have made for the day."

"I never was kept in school on the Fourth of July before, sir," growled
Wilton.

"Then this will be a new event in your experience," answered Mr.
Lowington, coldly, as he turned from the petitioners, and went forward.

There were a great many wild boys on board of the Young America, and it
was morally impossible for the whole crew to attend the celebration in
the city, without more or less of them getting into a scrape. They had
been kept on board for two months, and not allowed to go on shore,
except under the supervision of one of the instructors; and to let any
considerable number of them loose on such a day as the Fourth of July,
would only be courting trouble, for they would be all the more
disorderly after the long period of restraint.

Mr. Lowington did not willingly deprive the boys of any innocent
gratification. He had faithfully considered the matter of celebrating
the day, and taken the advice of the instructors on the subject. It had
been proposed to procure a band of music, and visit the city in a body,
under the usual discipline; but there were many difficulties attending
such a plan. The boys were all the sons of rich men, and most of them
were abundantly supplied with pocket money. As it would be impossible to
prevent the escape of some of them from the procession, in the crowded
streets, it was feared that their money would prove to be "the root of
all evil." The project had finally been abandoned; and, as a substitute,
a programme for a celebration on board had been arranged, for there the
students would be entirely under the control of the instructors, who
would check all excesses. It was anticipated that a few discontented
spirits would grumble, but no rebellion was expected.

Wilton and his companions were dissatisfied, and disposed to be rash.
They felt that they had been harshly and cruelly denied a reasonable
privilege. The subject of celebrating the Fourth had been under
consideration for a long time among the boys, and it had been generally
believed that all hands would be permitted to go on shore, with perfect
liberty, on that day; and many of them had already arranged their plans
for the occasion.

"Well, what do you think now?" said Wilton, as Mr. Lowington walked
forward.

"I think it's too bad," replied Adler. "It is meaner than dirt to make
us stay on board on the Fourth of July."

"But I don't see how we are going to help ourselves," added Monroe,
looking at Wilton for a solution of this difficult problem.

"I do."

"How?"

"Keep still; don't say a word here," continued Wilton. "Scatter, now,
and I will be on the top-gallant forecastle in a few minutes."

Wilton strolled about the deck a short time, and then went to the place
of meeting, where he was soon joined by the rest of the discontented
pupils.

"How many fellows can we muster?" asked he, when his associates in
mischief had again gathered around him.

"I know at least a dozen, who are up to anything," replied Monroe; "but
some of them are in the other watch. What are you going to do?"

"I'll tell you: There are the professors' barge and the third cutter at
the swinging boom. We will drop into them when the instructors go down
to supper, and make for the shore. All the rest of the boats are at the
davits; and before they can get them into the water, we shall be out of
their reach. What do you think of that for a plan!"

"I think it is a first-rate one. But hadn't we better wait till the
instructors turn in?" suggested Adler.

"No; the boats will all be hoisted up to the davits at sunset. We must
do it while the professors are at supper, or not at all. We want eight
oars for the barge, and six for the third cutter; that makes fourteen
fellows. Can we raise as many as that?"

"Yes, I think we can; we will try, at any rate."

"But you must look out, or some fellow will blow the whole thing," added
Wilton. "Mind whom you speak to."

The trustworthiness of the various students was canvassed, and it was
decided what ones should be invited to join the enterprise. The
discontented boys separated, and went to work with great caution to
obtain the needed recruits. Unfortunately, in such a crowd of young men,
there are always enough to engage in any mischievous plot, and it is
quite likely that twice as many as were wanted could have been obtained
to man the boats in the runaway expedition.

Wilton missed Shuffles very much in arranging the details of the present
enterprise. While at the Brockway Academy, they had plotted mischief so
often that each seemed to be necessary to the other. But Shuffles had
reformed; he was now third lieutenant of the ship, and it was not safe
to suggest a conspiracy to him, for he would attempt to gain favor with
the principal by exposing or defeating it.

Yet Shuffles was so bold in thought, and so daring in execution, that
Wilton could hardly abandon the hope of obtaining his assistance;
besides, the third lieutenant would be officer of the deck when the
professors went to supper, and might wink at their departure in the
boats, if he did not actually help them off.

"Would you say anything to Shuffles?" asked Wilton, still in doubt, of
Monroe, as they happened to meet again in the waist.

"To Shuffles!" exclaimed Monroe, in an energetic whisper.

"I mean so."

"Certainly not. I should as soon think of speaking to Lowington
himself."

"But Shuffles may join us. He is always in for a good time."

"Why, you ninny, he is third lieutenant of the ship."

"No matter if he is. I think Shuffles would like to join us."

"Nonsense! He has been in office only three days, and it would break
him. He would be degraded to the steerage," replied Monroe, who could
not help thinking that Wilton was beside himself in proposing such a
thing, and that the enterprise was doomed to failure in such incompetent
hands.

"If he won't join us, perhaps he will help us off. He is officer of the
deck, you know, in the second dog watch."

"I know he is; but don't you open your mouth to him. If you do, I'll
back out at once."

"Back out?"

"Yes, back out. I believe you are crazy. Why don't you go to Captain
Carnes, and done with it?" said Monroe, with energy.

"I haven't any hold on Carnes, and I have on Shuffles."

"What do you mean?" asked the prudent conspirator, curiously.

"If Shuffles won't join us, he won't blow on us, you may depend upon
that. He wouldn't dare to do it. I could break him before sundown, if I
chose," said Wilton, with conscious power.

"That alters the case."

"Of course, I shouldn't think of saying anything to him, if I did not
know what I was talking about. I have him where the hair is short, and
he knows it, as well as I do."

"What is it, Wilton?"

"No matter what it is. When a thing is told me in confidence, I keep it
to myself; but if he turns traitor to his cronies, he must look out for
breakers. He knows what it is."

"Well, if you can get him, he will be a first-rate fellow to have."

"I think I can get him. Here he comes; you keep out of the way, and I
will see how deep the water is."

Monroe went forward to find a student to whom he had been deputed to
speak in the interest of the enterprise leaving Wilton to grapple with
the old lion of mischief, whose teeth, however, seemed to have been worn
out in the cause.

"What's up, Wilton?" demanded the third lieutenant who was now off duty,
and therefore allowed to speak to the crew, though it was a privilege of
which the officers seldom availed themselves.

"Who said anything was up?" asked Wilton.

"You look as though you meant something. What were you and Ike Monroe
talking about just now?" continued Shuffles. "About me, I'll be bound,
for you kept looking at me, as though you meant something."

"What makes you think so? Have you heard anything?" asked Wilton,
fearful that the plot had leaked out.

"Not a word? I only judged by your looks."

"I suppose if anything was up, you wouldn't have anything to do with it
now."

"Most decidedly, I should not. I like my present position too well to
fall out of it. I'm going to be captain next term, if I can fetch it any
way in the world."

"You mean to be a flunky, just like the rest of them. You are not the
same fellow you used to be."

"Yes, I am."

"You are getting too big for your boots."

"You wrong me, Wilton. I'm just as good a fellow as I ever was. I think
I'm the best fellow in the ship, and for that reason I want to be
captain. I'm ahead of Carnes so far on marks this month."

"Well, if you want to be the head flunky, I hope you'll get it. We are
not going ashore to-morrow, they say," added Wilton, changing the topic
to get nearer to the business of the hour.

"So Pelham told me."

"Are you willing to stay on board and study, and do ship's duty, on the
Fourth of July?"

"We are going to celebrate."

"How?"

"I'm sure I don't know."

"We shall celebrate to-morrow just as we do every day--as close
prisoners on board the ship. I, for one, don't like it, and I won't
stand it."

"Won't you?" laughed Shuffles.

"When I say I won't, I mean so."

"O, you do--do you?"

"You better believe I do," added Wilton, shaking his head resolutely.

"What are you going to do?"

"I'm going ashore, by hook or by crook."

"Better not get into any scrape."

"You say that as one of the flunkies."

"Well, you had better not say anything to me, for I shall have to do my
duty as an officer. Don't say anything to me, and then I shall not know
anything about it."

"Humph!" sneered Wilton, not pleased with this non-committal policy.

"I don't want to do anything mean with any of our fellows; so don't say
a word to me. I shall do my duty as an officer, as I promised to do when
I was made third lieutenant."

"Do you mean to say you will stop me, Shuffles, if you see me going?"
demanded Wilton.

"I do mean so; I promised faithfully to do my duty as an officer, and I
shall do it."

"See here, Bob Shuffles; you needn't talk to me in that manner. I knew
the ship's cable from a pint of milk, and you can't come the flunky over
me."

"I'm going to do just as you would do if you were in my place. I won't
hear a word about any of your plans."

"But will you interfere with them?"

"If it is my duty to do so, I shall. I intend to obey orders; and if I
have the deck, I shall keep things straight, whatever happens."

"Lowington don't know you as well as I do."

"No matter if he don't; he shall have no fault to find with me this
term, if I can help it."

"It's no use for me to mince the matter with you, Bob Shuffles. We
understand each other too well for that. Something's up."

Shuffles turned on his heel, and was about to walk away.

"Hold on a minute, Shuffles," continued Wilton. "I won't tell you what's
up, but I'll tell you this; if you interfere with what I do, or with
what the fellows with me do, I'll tell Lowington about the mutiny--I
will, as sure as your name is Bob Shuffles. Do you understand me?"

"Well, I do; and it seems to me that sounds very much like a threat."

"Call it what you like. If you turn traitor to our fellows, you must
stand the racket of it. You are not a saint just yet, and those that
live in glass houses musn't throw stones."

"I believe I haven't played false to any of our fellows. If I don't
choose to get into any scrape with them, I have a right to keep out.
That's all I've got to say."

"But what are you going to do, Shuffles? Our fellows will want to know."

"I'm going to do my duty," replied the third lieutenant as he walked
away, regardless of the efforts of his companion to detain him.

Shuffles was experiencing the truth of the old maxim, that honesty is
the best policy. It is to be regretted that his present devotion to duty
had no higher incentive than mere policy; but it may be hoped of those
who do their duty from low motives, that they may gather inspiration
even from their politic fidelity to obey its behests from higher
motives. The third lieutenant of the Young America intended to keep the
promise he had made in accepting his office, simply because it would pay
best.

Wilton and his confederates had no difficulty in making up the required
number of discontents and malcontents before six o'clock, which was the
time fixed for carrying out the enterprise they had planned. Some of the
recruits joined because they anticipated a good time in the city in
celebrating the Fourth, and others from a mere love of mischief and
excitement. The details of the scheme had been carefully elaborated by
Monroe and Wilton, after the ranks of the conspirators were full. Having
learned a valuable lesson from the daily discipline of the ship, the
mischief was certainly well planned. Each boy was assigned to a
particular position in the boats, and knew on what thwart he was to sit,
and which oar he was to pull.

Wilton and Monroe, as the master spirits of the enterprise were to run
out first on the swinging boom, and slide down the painters, each into
the boat he was to command. The others were to follow in the same way,
descending from the boom, for it was not considered prudent to run the
boats up to the gangway, where some enthusiastic officer might easily
interfere with the plan, which was to depend for its success upon the
celerity of its execution.

When four bells struck, the professors went down to their evening meal,
as usual, and the boatswain piped the port watch to supper, the
starboard watch having taken theirs at three bells, or half past five.
Wilton gave a low whistle, when Shuffles, officer of the deck, was abaft
the mizzenmast, with his back to the runaways who had gathered in the
waist, and were waiting for the signal.

"Be lively, fellows," said the leader of the enterprise, as he sprang
over the rail, and ran out on the boom, followed by Monroe.

The others, in the order in which they had been instructed, did the
same. About half of them were on the boom, when the movement was
reported to the officer of the deck by the midshipman on duty in the
waist. Shuffles rushed forward, now understanding, for the first time,
the intentions of Wilton; and true to the inspiration of fidelity, he
set about defeating the object of "our fellows."

The studding-sail boom, to which the boats were fastened, was supported
by a topping-lift from above, and kept in position, at right angles with
the side of the ship, by guys extending forward and aft.

"Stand by that fore guy!" shouted Shuffles, as he sprang upon the rail.
"Cast off!"

"Lively, fellows!" said Wilton, when he saw that the third lieutenant
intended to swing in the boom to the ship's side.

"Stand by the after guy of the studding-sail boom!" continued Shuffles,
with becoming energy.

Both his orders were promptly obeyed; but seeing that his movement would
be too late, he rushed to the topping-lift, and cast it off, causing the
swinging boom to drop into the water, just as the last boy was about to
slide down into the professors' boat. Of course the luckless fellow went
into the water; but he was promptly picked up by his companions in
mischief.

"If I'm caught, Bob Shuffles, you look out for breakers!" cried Wilton,
as the third lieutenant appeared at the gangway again.

The tide was coming in, and the boats swung so far abaft the boom that
it had fallen clear of them when it dropped into the water. Wilton and
Monroe were prompt to avail themselves of their present success, and the
boys sat in the boats, with their oars up, ready to pull as soon as the
order was given.

"Let fall!" said Wilton; and the eight oars of the professors' barge
dropped into the water, and the rowers placed them in readiness for the
first stroke.

Monroe, in the third cutter, followed the example of his principal, and
was hardly a second behind him.

"Give way!" added Wilton.

"Give way!" repeated Monroe; and the two boats gathered way and darted
off towards the nearest point of the shore.

Thus far the enterprise of "our fellows" was entirely successful, and
Shuffles stood on the gangway, chagrined at the defeat which had
attended his efforts to prevent the escape of the runaways.

"Stand by to clear away the first cutter!" shouted he, suddenly and with
energy, as he made his way to the davits, where the boat indicated was
suspended.

"Cast off the gripes, and man the falls!" he continued when the watch
were collected at the scene of action. "Mr. Kendall, you will inform
the captain what has happened."

