Gloucester, and take the first train for Boston. No one would know what
had become of him; or, if they did, he would not be suspected of having
the gold. But he would be missed, and his absence might cause a
commotion. It would be better not to leave at present. The money could
be concealed on board of the yacht, and when he was disposed to abandon
the vessel it would be within his reach.

After more reflection on this important matter, the steward became
convinced that it would be safer and better to hide the gold on board.
At the stern of the vessel, under the standing-room, there was a space
not available for cabin use, which formed a kind of store-room for
extra supplies. It was reached by removing the cabin steps. The tempted
man entered this contracted and low apartment with the lamp in his
hand. He found a narrow aperture, which led to the space under the
cabin floor, where the ballast was deposited, and over which a board
had been nailed to prevent the odor of bilge water from penetrating the
apartment of the passengers. He removed this board, and reaching down
into the hold, placed the bags in a position where they were not likely
to be discovered, even by a person searching for them. Nailing on the
board again, he covered it with various articles, and returned to the
cabin.

On the table lay a Bible, which the steward occasionally read. Though
it was now two o'clock in the morning, he was not sleepy; he was too
much excited to think of slumber. He opened the good book mechanically,
turned its leaves, and read a verse here and there; but he was thinking
all the time of the luxurious gayety of the French capital, and the
pleasures which thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars would purchase.

"For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose
his own soul?"

This was the last verse he read, and he closed the book, as though this
appeal of Holy Writ grated harshly on his feelings.

"Lose his own soul," repeated he, almost in spite of himself.

He tried to think of the Boulevards and the gardens of the Tuileries
again; but "lose his own soul" came up to his lips still, as though
some invisible power compelled him to whisper the impressive sentence.
He attempted to whistle, and then to sing an air; but "lose his own
soul" came up to his lips, and he could not help whispering the
sentence again.

"This money don't belong to me," said he, in audible words. "I am not
the happy owner of this princely sum. Unto but few is it appointed to
be both rich and good-looking, and I am not of the number. I must be
contented with my good looks."

It was no use to say it; he did not mean it, and the idea of Paris and
its luxuries still haunted his imagination. He turned in, but it was
only to think what thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars would
purchase; and "lose his own soul" not only came to his lips, but the
solemn sentence seemed to be printed, in sombre-hued capitals, all over
the cabin. He went to sleep at last; but "lose his own soul" followed
him into his dreams, yelled in the distance and muttered in his ears by
grinning demons, such as those with which his fancy peopled the realms
of the lost. But he slumbered uneasily till the sun was far up on his
day-journey. When he went on deck, he saw The Starry Flag, Jr. almost
alongside. Captain Fairfield and the four seamen came on board.

The young skipper announced that the trip to the eastward, which had
been postponed from the day before, would be commenced at once, and the
party would be on board at eight o'clock. The steward had enough to do
to keep his hands, if not his mind, engaged in making preparations for
the occupants of the cabin. At the time appointed the party came on
board, and the yacht sailed on her cruise.

Our story need not follow them during the ten days to which the trip
was prolonged. It is enough to say that the party enjoyed every moment
of the time. Even Mrs. Watson, who had no taste for the sea, was
delighted; for Levi, at her request, was careful to bring the yacht to
anchor in smooth water every night, and to stay in port when the sea
was very rough.

During those ten days Mr. Eb√©nier considered and reconsidered, and then
considered again, what he should do with the money that had so
strangely come into his possession. He was disposed to use it; but the
gospel sentence thundered in his ears, and trembled upon his lips, and
rolled like the chariot of an avenger through his mind. Once or twice
he was on the point of telling the captain all about the gold, but the
vision of Parisian luxury checked him.

When the yacht entered Sandy Bay, the Caribbee lay anchored off the
Point, and The Starry Flag moored a couple of cables' length from her.




CHAPTER XV.

ANOTHER LITTLE PLAN.


When The Starry Flag returned from her pleasant excursion to the
eastward, Mr. Fairfield had so far recovered from the effects of his
fall as to be out, and to be making his preparations again to catch
dog-fish. It seemed to him to be absolutely necessary that he should
make some more money. He felt like a poor man, and his stocks and
bonds, notes and mortgages, afforded him but little comfort. His heart
seemed to have been lost with the four thousand in gold.

When the yacht made her moorings, the old man was at the landing-place,
getting ready to go dog-fishing the next day. His bones still ached,
and nothing but bitter necessity could have induced one so feeble as he
was to think of going off in a dory, miles from the shore, braving the
perils of ocean and storm. He believed that poverty and want stared him
in the face, and that he must go to the poorhouse if he did not make an
effort to retrieve his great misfortune.

Dock Vincent was never far off when a vessel came into port; and,
though he was very busy in making the preparations for his departure,
he hastened down to the Point when The Starry Flag hove in sight.

"That's Levi's vessel, Squire Fairfield," said he.

"I s'pose 'tis," replied the old man, casting an indifferent glance to
seaward.

"I sold my house to-day, Squire Fairfield," continued Dock, seating
himself by the shore.

"Did ye? What d'ye git for 't?"

"Fifteen hundred dollars. It was worth two thousand; but, as I'm going
to Australia right off, I couldn't afford to hold it for a better
price."

"You'll have a good deal of money to kerry off with you."

"Not much. I paid six thousand for that vessel, and she's dog-cheap at
that; but I shall make my fortune in her, carrying passengers."

"I hope you will, for you've done well by me, though you didn't find my
money;" and the old man sighed heavily. "I reckon I shall never see
nothin' more on't."

"I'm afraid you never will, Squire Fairfield. That nigger lied so like
all possessed that Levi got clear, and then we couldn't do anything.
I'm afraid it's too late to do anything more. I calculate that nigger
and Levi understand one another pretty well. They fixed things between
them, and I'm just as sure as I can be that your money went off in that
vessel."

"In the yack?"

"Yes, in the yacht," replied Dock, warmly. "It was stowed away
somewhere in her; but I suppose they have got rid of it by this time."

"You think I shan't never see it again," groaned the old man, with a
piteous expression on his thin face.

"I'm sorry to say I don't think you ever will, Squire Fairfield."

"Then I'm a ruined man! I can't afford to lose four thousand dollars.
It was e'enamost all I had, and I don't see but I must go to the
poorhouse."

Dock Vincent took off his hat, rubbed his head, gazed upon the ground,
and seemed to be in deep thought for several minutes. So was the miser
in deep thought--brooding over his lost treasure.

"Squire Fairfield, when I begin to do a thing I always do it, sooner or
later," said Dock, glancing doubtfully at the old man.

"You didn't find my money," added Mr. Fairfield.

"No; but I'm going to find it, or some more just like it. Squire
Fairfield, I can put you in the way of making twenty thousand dollars
just as easy as you lost that four thousand."

"You don't say!" exclaimed the old man, his sunken eyes glowing at the
suggestion.

"I can; there isn't any doubt about it."

"You don't mean to steal it--do you?"

"Steal it! You don't think I'd steal--do you? If you do, I won't say
anything more about my little plan."

Another little plan!

"Well, no; I never knowed you to steal nothin'."

"Twenty thousand dollars is a good deal of money, Squire Fairfield."

"So 'tis--more 'n I ever expect to see."

"But you shall see it, and have it, if you will take hold of my little
plan."

"What is't?" asked the old man, curiously and eagerly.

"It's something we must keep still about. I'm going to make my fortune
out of it, and yours too."

"What do you want to keep still for, ef you ain't go'n' to steal it?"

"I see it's no use to talk with you," said Dock, petulantly. "If you
think I'd steal, I can't depend upon you, or you upon me. So there's an
end of it."

Dock rose from his seat, looked at The Starry Flag, which was just
coming to anchor, and then began to walk up the Point; but he expected
to be called back, and he was not disappointed.

"Why don't you tell me on't, so I can know what you're go'n' to do?"
demanded the miser.

"I shall not say anything to you. I don't think I can trust you. The
business isn't all regular; but it isn't stealing," protested Dock.

"You can trust me, Cap'n Vincent, jest as long as you can trust
anybody. You know I never says nothin' to nobody about business. I
allers keeps things to myself," whined Mr. Fairfield.

"Will you keep this to yourself?"

"Sartin, I will."

"'Pon honor?" added Dock, earnestly.

"Yes; 'pon honor. Nobody ever knowed me to say nothin' about business.
I never trust nobody, not even my wife, with business matters."

"Sit down, squire, and we'll talk it over between us," replied Dock,
apparently satisfied with the old man's promise.

Mr. Fairfield, with some difficulty, seated himself on the rock, and
with glaring eyes--so interested was he in a project which was to put
twenty thousand dollars in his pocket--he listened to the rather prolix
explanations of his companion. For twenty thousand dollars he would
have sold his soul; but he was timid.

"I never fail in doing a thing without wanting to try it over again,"
Dock began. "I always put things through when I begin upon them."

The old man was not quite sure of this, but he did not interrupt the
speaker.

"Three years ago twenty thousand dollars slipped through my fingers
just as easy as though the money had been greased," continued Dock.

"I didn't know on't."

"Yes, you did. Watson had his money all ready to pay over to me when I
had the girl before, and if Levi Fairfield hadn't come between me and
him, I should have had the money. Now, Squire Fairfield, I'm going to
try that over again; and I'm not going to fail this time. I've got
things fixed so that I can't fail."

"I donno about that," said the old man.

"I know, and I'm just as certain about it as though the thing was done
already. But I'm not going to tell you anything more about it than I'm
obliged to, and then you won't know anything about it, and can't be
held responsible for it."

"I don't see how I'm go'n' to make any money by it," interposed the
miser, who was more interested in this part of the plan than any other.

"Don't you, squire? How much money do you suppose Watson's worth?"

"I donno."

"More than a million! I know that to be a fact; and I shouldn't wonder
if he was worth two millions: folks in Boston think he is."

"He's spendin' on't all on yacks and sech things."

"What that yacht cost to him is no more than a copper to you and me. He
don't mind a hundred thousand dollars any more than you would half a
cent."

"Not so much!"

"But he don't believe in throwin' on't away."

"I'm going to bleed him just seventy thousand dollars--fifty thousand
for myself, and twenty thousand for you."

"I don't see how it's go'n' to be done."

"He shall pay the money over to you; that's what I want you for."

"Then they'll ketch me, and put me in jail," suggested the old man,
timorously.

"Nonsense! They won't do it. The whole matter will be between you and
Watson. You won't know anything about the business--not a thing. All
you've got to do is to take the money and keep it till I call for it.
After the girl has been gone a month or two, he will be glad to give
you twice as much as I ask. I shall get her aboard the Caribbee."

"How you go'n' to do it? She won't go with you, any more'n she'll go
with the evil sperit."

"I'll take care of that. You are to know nothing about it. I shall
leave things so that Mr. Watson will go to you, and offer to pay the
money without your saying a word about it beforehand. All you have to
do is to keep what he gives you till I call for it."

"I donno about it."

"It's all right. We shan't hurt the girl. She shall have a good
state-room, and my wife will be on board to see to her. I tell you I'm
going to have this thing done over again."

"Where's Levi go'n' to be all this time? He sticks to the gal all the
time, and if you git her off, he'll follow you way round the world."

"He won't know anything about it; besides, I calculate he'll be in jail
for stealing your money before that time."

"You don't think so!"

"Yes, I do; I'm going to fix that nigger, and I'll bet Levi won't have
his wool to hold on to much longer."

"But I don't understand nothin' about this business, Cap'n Vincent,"
said the old man, doubtfully.

"I don't want you to understand anything about it. It's all right as it
is. When the money comes, you hold on to it."

"Ain't you go'n' off to Australia?"

"Of course I am."

"Then how you go'n' to git the money?"

"Leave all that to me," replied Dock, impatiently. "If you don't know
anything, you'll keep out of trouble. You will make your twenty
thousand dollars out of it, and that ought to satisfy you. Now, Squire
Fairfield, there's only just one thing more to be done."

"What's that?"

"I'll give you a chance to make another ten thousand, if you like."

The old man's eyes brightened again, as he asked how it was to be done.

"I find I'm going to be a little short fitting out. I'm going to take
out some notions to sell that will pay me five dollars for one; but I
haven't got the money to do it," continued Dock.

The old man's chin dropped, and he looked sad and sorrowful.

"I want ten thousand dollars more than I've got. I shall make forty
thousand out of the venture, and I can afford to pay a heavy interest.
I will give you ten thousand for the use of ten thousand."

"I hain't got no sech money," protested the miser.

"But you can raise it."

"I ain't sure of ever gittin' on't back."

"Yes, you are. You will lend me ten thousand dollars, and then take
twenty thousand out of my fifty when Watson pays it over to you."

"Perhaps he never'll pay it over to me."

"You may be sure he will. If he don't, he never will see his daughter
again. He will be glad of the chance to pay it. But if he don't, you
know, you shall have my note, and I will pay it as soon as I've turned
my notions."

Mr. Fairfield, eager as he was to make the ten thousand dollars, had no
more idea then of letting the sum asked for pass out of his hands than
he had of giving away that amount. It was not his style to let money go
from him without the best of security. The approach of a boat
interrupted Dock's argument, and the old man promised to think of the
proposition.

"I shall not want that dory any more, and I'll give it to you, Squire
Fairfield," said Dock, hoping his munificence would touch the
money-lender's heart, as he walked away.

"I'm much obleeged to you; it will sarve me a good turn," replied Mr.
Fairfield.

"Think over my offer, and I'll see you again soon," added Dock, as he
passed out of hearing.




CHAPTER XVI.

PISTOLS FOR TWO.


It was about three o'clock in the afternoon when The Starry Flag
arrived from her cruise. Her passengers were immediately landed; and,
after the vessel had been put in order, the four young men who lived in
Rockport were permitted to go on shore; and the cook went with them,
intending to return in the evening with the boat. The steward did not
wish to visit the town, and remained on board as ship-keeper.

Mr. Eb√©nier was so polite and attentive to the wants of the passengers,
and, above all, used such choice language, that he had become quite a
favorite. Bessie, who had made considerable progress in her French, was
delighted with him, as well because he was an original character, as
because he anticipated all her wants. She talked French with him;
indeed, all except Levi used the "polite language" at the table to a
great extent. The steward was treated with a great deal of
consideration by all the occupants of the cabin. This was what he most
desired, and after the party had been on board two or three days, he
ceased to think of leaving the yacht before the close of the season.
Such a friend as Mr. Watson was worth more than the contents of the
three bags concealed in the vessel's run.

But ever since he had placed the treasure in its hiding-place, the
gospel malediction, "lose his own soul," had been thundering in his
ears. The temptation was a strong one; but the steward had thus far
been an honest man, and the present seemed to be the crisis of his
lifetime. The kindness and consideration of the captain and his
passengers won his heart, and he had determined that Levi, in the words
with which he clothed the idea, should be triumphantly vindicated.

Mr. Eb√©nier reasoned that his captain could not be vindicated by simply
returning the gold to the old man, his uncle. The two men whom he had
failed to identify in the Hotel de Poisson must be discovered; and he
determined to find them, if it were possible. On this subject he had
some views of his own, and he concluded to let the gold remain where it
was until he could institute an investigation: we use the gentleman's
own words, subsequently uttered.

The steward dared not leave the yacht when the others went on shore. If
he had not recognized the two men, they had probably recognized him.
They must suppose he had taken possession of the money, and they would
expect to find it if an opportunity to search the yacht was afforded to
them. Mr. Eb√©nier did not intend to give them any such opportunity;
therefore he remained on board. He went farther than this. The robbers
might come on board while he was there alone, overpower him, and thus
regain their plunder. The steward kept a revolver in his carpet-bag;
for, being a man of varying fortunes, he was liable at any time to be
in a situation to need such a weapon. He took the pistol from the bag,
loaded it, and put it into his pocket. It was his duty, as ship-keeper,
to defend the vessel in the absence of the captain; and the weapon gave
him a strong assurance of safety.

From his house Dock Vincent watched the movements of the crew of the
yacht. Levi and five men had landed; consequently the steward must be
on board alone. But he had decided to pay him a visit, whether alone or
not. In Dock's classic speech, he was "going to fix that nigger," and
he was watching for the opportunity to do the "fixing." One of the
Caribbee's boats was at the landing, and as soon as the crew of the
yacht had landed, he pulled off to her. His coming was not unexpected,
and Mr. Eb√©nier, in spite of the injuries he had received at the hands
of the visitor, was as smooth and polite as though his temper had never
been ruffled.

"Steward, I want to talk with you a little while," said Dock, as,
without an invitation, he stepped upon the deck of the yacht.

"Though I have no particular inducements to condescension, so far as
you are concerned, I am willing, in this instance, to gratify you,"
replied Mr. Eb√©nier, graciously.

"If you don't object, we will go down into the cabin, where we shall
not be interrupted," added Dock.

"Though it is not customary to admit any but gentlemen into the cabin,
I shall be happy to waive the rule in this instance, as all our people
are on shore," answered Mr. Eb√©nier, as he led the way to the cabin.

Dock Vincent paid no attention to the polished insults of the steward,
but seated himself on a stool, at the side of the table. Mr. Eb√©nier
took his place opposite the guest.

"Now, Captain Dock Vincent, I am entirely at your service," said the
steward.

"It won't take a great while to get off what I want to say," Dock
began, putting a very uncompromising look upon his ugly face. "I
suppose you know the old man that lost the money."

"I have not the honor to be personally acquainted with him, but I am
informed that he is the paternal uncle of Captain Levi Fairfield."

"That's so; and Levi has treated him in the most shabby manner."

"Permit me to interrupt you, Captain Vincent," interposed the steward.
"It would not be possible for Captain Fairfield to treat any person in
a shabby manner, certainly not his own uncle."

"On that point we differ, steward; but let me say what I was going to
say."

"Proceed, Captain Vincent. I simply refuse to indorse your statement,
and I protest against it."

"All this is neither here nor there. To come right down to the p'int,
the old man lost four thousand dollars in gold. I'm trying to help him
find it. I know just as well as I know anything, that Levi stole that
money. All the circumstances go to show that he did, letting alone the
fact that one of the bags was found in his state-room."

"Not without an earnest protest can I permit my worthy captain to be
maligned in this unjustifiable manner. On my own responsibility I
declare that your statement is utterly false."

"I am satisfied it's just as I say," persisted Dock. "Now, we'll go a
p'int closer to the wind. I'm almost certain that the gold Levi stole
is hid aboard this vessel."

"And you wish to search the yacht for it?" added the steward.

"That's just my idea," replied Dock, promptly.

"Permitting such a search would be an acknowledgment, on my part, of
the possibility of my worthy captain's guilt; therefore I cannot suffer
such an investigation to be instituted."

"Well, steward, whether you are going to suffer it or not, it's going
to be done," said Dock, savagely. "I didn't come off here, this time,
to be fooled with. I know the gold's on board, and I'm going to have
it."

"You know it," repeated the steward, calmly.

"Yes, I know it."

"So do I," added Augustus, quietly.

"You do!" exclaimed Dock. "I knew you did! I've been satisfied all
along that you knew all about it, and that you was helping Levi cover
up his guilt. I suppose he was going to give you something for it."

"One of your statements, namely, that the money is on board of this
yacht, is assuredly correct; but your theory, your logic, your
premises, and your conclusions are undoubtedly false and absurd," said
the steward, a cheerful smile playing beneath his huge mustache.

"Isn't the gold here?" demanded Dock, impatiently.

"It is."

"Then quit your flabbergast, and talk in plain English. Of course Levi
stole it."

"Not he!"

"Who did, then?"

"You and another person. Excuse me, Captain Vincent, if my remarks seem
too personal; but I have a theory of my own, which, with your
permission, I will unfold to you. Have a glass of cold water, sir?"

The steward filled a tumbler from the ice pitcher, and politely
tendered it to the guest.

"No; I don't want any; go on with your yarn," growled Dock, sourly, for
he desired to ascertain what the steward knew.

"We need use no undue haste in our deliberations," replied Augustus, as
he drank the glass of water.

"Go on, and don't talk any flabbergast."

"The money was stolen by you and another person."

"Humph! What other person?"

"To be entirely candid with you, I do not yet know who the other person
is; but a certain contingent event will expose him." He referred to the
return of the fishing vessel, with Ben Seaver, who had handed him the
bag. "You and the other person--to me at present unknown--stole the
money, and concealed it in the Hotel de Poisson."

"In the what?"

"I refer to the fish-house, which was consumed in the conflagration of
ten days ago. After you had knocked me down by hurling a stone at me in
the basest and most unchivalrous manner, on my recovery from the
effects of the blow, I went to the fish-house to sleep, being too late
to return on board. I was in the loft when you and the other person
were below. The floor broke, and I had the misfortune to be
precipitated upon you and your companion in infamy. You ran away; but I
found the gold, and brought it on board. This is my theory, Captain
Dock Vincent."

"This is all a lie!" gasped Dock, putting his hand into his side
pocket.

"On the contrary, it is all the sacred truth."

"See here, steward; you can't fool me. I want that money."

"Allow me to inform you that you cannot have it. In due time it shall
be restored to the rightful owner."

"I can and will have it," said Dock, fiercely, as he took a revolver
from his pocket, and pointed it at the head of the steward.

"I think not," replied Mr. Eb√©nier, producing his revolver; and,
straightening out his legs under the table, he threw himself into an
attitude as impudent as the human form could assume, while upon his
face played an expression of smiling assurance, which took the ruffian
all aback.

Dock's hand trembled, and the pistol vibrated in his grasp, as he
looked in dismay at the steward's weapon, all capped and cocked, as his
own was not--a circumstance which probably helped Mr. Eb√©nier in
keeping so cool and self-possessed.

"Why don't you fire, Captain Dock Vincent?" taunted the steward. "If
you move you are a dead man!"



At this moment a boat touched the side of the vessel; and while the two
men were confronting each other as described, Levi entered the cabin.
He was startled by the array of deadly weapons presented to him as he
descended the steps; but neither Dock nor the steward appeared to
notice him, for each was afraid the other would fire if his attention
was for an instant diverted.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE GOLD RESTORED.


Levi could see no good reason why Dock Vincent and the steward of the
yacht should be such deadly enemies as to draw pistols on each other.
He had come on board for a travelling bag, which Bessie had left in her
state-room, and he was not prepared for the scene that met his view in
the cabin.

"What are you about, Augustus?" demanded he.

But the steward was obliged to attend to the ugly customer opposite him
at the table, and he made no reply--a piece of rudeness, however, which
he regretted as an absolute necessity.

"Captain Dock Vincent, I will trouble you to lay your weapon on the
table," said the steward. "If you don't do it, I will fire."

Dock did it.

"Pardon me, Captain Fairfield, for my rudeness in not replying to your
question," continued Augustus.

"I asked you what you were about," repeated Levi.

"I was about to shoot this ruffian, and I should have done so if I had
not happened to observe, in good time, that his weapon was not in
condition to go off."

Dock Vincent rose from his seat, leaving his revolver on the table.
Probably he had not expected to use it, believing the sight of it would
be sufficient to intimidate the steward, and induce him to give up the
three bags of gold. He looked at the colored man, then at Levi. The
former had dropped his revolver, seeing which the ruffian walked
towards the cabin door. As the movement was not opposed, he ran up the
steps, jumped into his boat, and pulled for the Caribbee.

Levi again impatiently demanded an explanation of the scene he had
witnessed. The steward, commencing back at the day of the examination,
related, in his prolix and grandiloquent speech, all the events in
which he had been the chief actor, up to the current incident of the
day. He did not confess that he had been tempted to steal the money,
for he regarded the overcoming of the temptation as a sufficient
virtue, without the humiliation of exposing his own weakness.

"Then the gold is on board now!" exclaimed the astonished Levi.

"Yes, sir; it is concealed in the run," replied Augustus.

"Why didn't you tell me of all this before?"

"Because I wished to find the men that stole the money. I thought I
could do it better alone than I could with the constables, or anybody
else," answered Augustus; but he hung his head as he thought of the
dishonest purpose he had cherished.

He had resisted the temptation, but his conscience was sensitive enough
to make him regret that he had even been tempted to steal.

Levi was thoughtful and troubled. The triumphant vindication of his
captain which the steward had promised himself to bring about was not
likely to be realized. The gold was on board of the yacht, and could be
restored to Mr. Fairfield; but the vessel had been searched for it, and
restoring it looked more like confirming the vile charge against him
than like disproving it. Perhaps it would be better for his reputation
to keep the money until the return of Ben Seaver; but Levi could not
believe it was right to retain the gold even a single day. He was
honest and true, and he determined to do his duty before God and man,
letting his reputation take care of itself.

He directed the steward to bring out the bags from their hiding-place.
The name on the tow-cloth, in his uncle's cramped writing, assured him
there could be no mistake in regard to the ownership. The steward told
him there was thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars in the bags--one
hundred and fifty dollars less than the sum lost. The robbers had
probably taken out one hundred dollars for present use, and fifty for
the snare which was to intrap the captain of the yacht. One of the bags
had been emptied, and its contents distributed among the other three.

The gold was transferred to the boat, the cabin doors and forward
scuttles were locked, and Levi, accompanied by the steward, pulled
ashore, and landed at Mr. Watson's house.

The exciting story of the recovery of the money was repeated, and the
young skipper declared his intention to restore the bags to Mr.
Fairfield. Mr. Watson volunteered to go with him on this interesting
errand. With the bags in his hands, Levi entered the kitchen, where his
uncle was seated, followed by his constant friend.

"There is your money, uncle Nathan," said he, as he placed the bags on
the table.

"What! the gold?" demanded the miser, with breathless eagerness.

"Yes, sir, the gold," replied Levi.

"All of it?" gasped the old man, rising from his chair, while his frame
trembled under the excitement of the moment.

"All but one hundred and fifty dollars."

"I think you ought to give me back the whole on't, Levi."

"Fifty dollars more of it is in the hands of Squire Saunders."

"But then there's a hund'ed gone," added the old man, as he clutched
the bags, and raised them to test their weight.

"I suppose the thieves took a hundred dollars of the money," said Levi.

"Who's the thieves?"

"I don't know who they are; but I think they will be discovered in due
time. The steward of the yacht found these bags in the old fish-house
that was burned."

Mr. Watson and Levi had agreed that the ends of justice would best be
answered by saying no more than this at present. Both of them were
satisfied that Dock Vincent was one of the robbers, but unfortunately
there was no evidence that connected him with the crime. Though he had
gone on board the yacht, and demanded the gold of the steward, he had
done so in the name of the owner; and the act was consistent with his
position as the agent of Mr. Fairfield.

The old man asked a great many questions, but he obtained only the
facts; all theories and suspicions were suppressed. Mr. Watson had sent
the steward for Mr. Gayles, and before they left the miser's house he
arrived; and the party proposed to visit the fish-house, and examine
the premises, in search of any evidence that might be obtained.

Though Mr. Fairfield was overjoyed to find his gold, his satisfaction
did not prevent him from growling sorely at the loss of the hundred
dollars. He insisted that Levi ought to make it up to him. He followed
the party out of the house, and would have gone to the ruins of the
Hotel de Poisson with them, if Dock Vincent, who had just landed, had
not joined him.

The steward told his story over again; and the metallic parts of the
lantern, which still remained there, were a partial confirmation of the
truth of it. Mr. Gayles took possession of these pieces, hoping to be
able to prove something by them. While they were still discussing the
matter, Dock Vincent and Mr. Fairfield joined them.

"If you make up that hund'ed dollars, Levi, I won't say nothin' more
about it," whined the old man.

"I shall not do so, uncle Nathan," replied Levi.

"Certainly not," added Mr. Watson.

"He ought to do it," interposed Dock. "He stole the money, and the
least he can do is to give it all back."

"I do not wish to hold any conversation with you on the subject,"
answered the merchant, coldly.

"I suppose you don't," sneered Dock. "It has all turned out just as I
said it would. Levi stole the money, and got that black steward to help
him when he was like to be found out. I knew, all the time, that money
was on board the yacht; and Squire Fairfield may thank me for getting
it for him. I made the steward own up that the gold was on board; and
after that Levi didn't dare to keep it any longer. I suppose you don't
want to say anything more about it after that."

"Not to you," added Mr. Watson, as he walked away, followed by his
companions.

"There, Squire Fairfield, you can see them sneaking off like
sheep-stealers," said Dock. "It's just as I tell you, you may depend
upon it; and if Levi don't make up that hundred, I should put him
through a course of sprouts."

"He ought to gim me the whole of the money," replied Mr. Fairfield, who
accepted Dock's explanation in regard to the recovery of the gold.

"I reckon you'll get it yet. But, Squire Fairfield, I expect I shall
get off in two or three days now, and I want that money I spoke to you
about," added Dock, as they walked towards the road. "I am going to
sail for New York first, buy the goods there, and then go to Australia.
You are going to make thirty thousand dollars out of me, and you can
afford to accommodate me a little. I expect you will get the whole
thirty thousand before I sail from New York; I know you will."

Dock talked half of that night to the old man, and finally persuaded
him to raise the sum he required. The gold which had been restored to
him made up a large portion of it, and the next day he obtained the
rest. The emigrant had sold his house, and disposed of his furniture to
the buyer, who was to have possession as soon as Dock sailed.

While Mr. Fairfield and his villanous companion were discussing the
loan, Mr. Gayles called at Dock's house, after dark, to borrow a
lantern, having ascertained that he had recently purchased one at a
store in town.

"We haven't any lantern now," replied Mrs. Vincent.

"I thought you had one. Captain Vincent bought one not long ago," added
the constable.

"Well, he hasn't any now. I'm sure I don't know what's become of it. It
may be he left it on board of the vessel. He never said what had become
of it."

Without having proved the fact, Mr. Gayles was satisfied that Dock's
lantern was the one broken by the steward when he fell from the loft of
the fish-house. The parts he had taken from the ruins corresponded, in
size and form, with one which the shopkeeper declared was like that he
had sold Dock. The constable worked hard to obtain evidence enough to
warrant the arrest of Dock before he sailed for Australia; but Squire
Cleaves declared that the lantern was not sufficient.

On the day after Dock obtained the money from Mr. Fairfield, he moved
his family on board of the Caribbee, which had already cleared at the
custom-house. Mr. Gayles was alarmed lest he should escape, and
hastened to Squire Cleaves for advice.

"We must not let him go," said the lawyer. "Where is that colored man,
Mr. Eb√©nier?"

"I saw him at Mr. Watson's house ten minutes ago."

"Bring him to me."

The steward was brought to him, and he was induced to make a charge
against Dock of assault and battery. A warrant was obtained, and Mr.
Gayles, with a sufficient posse, went to the Caribbee to arrest him.
His wife, and a man whose name was not known, but who was said to be a
passenger in the schooner, declared that he had gone to New York on
business, and the vessel would not sail till his return. Certainly Dock
was not on board, and it was ascertained at the depot that he had taken
the train for Boston.




CHAPTER XVIII.

MAT MOGMORE.


Mr. Gayles watched the Caribbee night and day; but he saw nothing of
Dock Vincent. Mr. Fairfield said his neighbor and friend had informed
him, several days before, of his intention to go to New York. The
constable was forced to believe that the people on board his vessel had
told the truth, and he could only wait for his return. Of course the
Caribbee would not sail on her long voyage without him, and there
seemed to be but little danger of losing his man.

The only strange circumstance was, that Dock had sent his family on
board of the vessel; but he had not much consideration for his wife and
children, and would not scruple to add a week of confinement to the
three or four months' duration of the proposed voyage. The man on
board, who was said to be a passenger, and was a stranger in Rockport,
appeared to take a lively interest in the affairs of the vessel and her
owner. It was surmised that, as Dock was not a skilful navigator, he
had been employed to furnish the science for the vessel. Neither he nor
any one on board professed to know when Dock would return, or when the
Caribbee would sail.

On Monday evening, when Dock had been gone three days, Levi had taken
tea at Mr. Watson's, and was reading the daily paper, which the
merchant had brought from Boston.

"That's too bad!" suddenly exclaimed the young skipper, dropping the
paper, and looking at Bessie.

"What's too bad, Levi?" she asked.

"There's to be a yacht race in Portland harbor to-morrow, at eleven
o'clock, to sail for a silver pitcher."

"I do not see anything wicked in that," laughed Bessie.

"Nor I; but it is wicked that I did not know of it before. I am sure
The Starry Flag will beat anything of her size this side of New York;
and I am provoked to think I did not know of this race sooner, for a
silver pitcher would be a very handsome ornament for our cabin."

"Is it too late now?" asked Mr. Watson.

"The race comes off at eleven, to-morrow forenoon, and five yachts have
already entered," answered Levi, glancing at the paper again.

"Well, haven't you time to sail down there before the race?"

"If we sail to-night we have time enough. We can get there in ten hours
with a good breeze; with a stiff one, in six," replied Levi, beginning
to be excited.

"How is the wind now?"

"About west--a six-knot breeze."

"Let us start at once, then. I had as lief sleep on board the yacht as
on shore," said Mr. Watson.

"O, do go!" exclaimed Bessie.

"Do go!" repeated Mr. Watson, laughing. "Do you expect to sail in a
regatta, Bessie?"

"To be sure I do! I must go, father! I have been longing, ever since we
had the yacht, to sail in a real live race."

"But, Bessie, we must make a night run to Portland."

"So much the better! I shall enjoy it above all things. My state-room
on board is just as good as my chamber up stairs, and I like it
better."

"Your aunt Mary is sick, and cannot go with you," suggested her father,
alluding to Mrs. McGilvery.

"But you are going, father," persisted Bessie.

"True, I am; but----"

"Do let me go, father."

"I suppose you must go if you insist upon it."

"I do insist with all my might!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted with the
prospect.

"It will take us a couple of hours to get ready," said Levi, as he
looked at his watch; "but we can get off by ten o'clock. The only
difficulty I can see is, that yachts must be entered on the day before
the race;" and he picked up the newspaper again.

"We must get over that somehow," replied Mr. Watson, who seemed to be
quite as much interested as Levi and his daughter.

"How? With the best breeze we can expect, we can hardly reach Portland
before six in the morning."

"While you are getting the yacht ready, I will ride over to Gloucester,
and telegraph to a friend of mine in Portland, who will have The Starry
Flag entered to-night."

"That will do it splendidly!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted to have the
obstacle removed.

"The cook and steward are on board, but the hands are all at home,"
said Levi. "I will go and find them."

Mr. Watson rang the bell, and ordered the horse and buggy. Bessie went
to her room to prepare for the cruise, and Levi hastened over to Mr.
Mogmore's house, where he found Mat, whom he sent to look up the other
three hands. The young skipper pulled off to the yacht. The water tanks
were examined, and found to contain a week's supply at least. The
steward was sent on shore, with directions to bring off the men, and a
stock of ice and fresh provisions, after he had put the two state-rooms
in order.

By the time Augustus had procured his steak, chops, butter, milk, and
ice, the four hands had assembled at the landing-place, in readiness to
go on board.

"Hurry up, now!" said the steward. "Captain Fairfield is waiting for
us."

"There!" exclaimed Mat Mogmore, "I have forgotten one thing. The
captain told me to see Mr. Gayles, and tell him the yacht was going to
Portland; and I did not think of it till this minute."

"We can't wait for you," replied the steward, impatiently.

"You needn't wait. I will get some one to put me on board. Go ahead!"
And Mat ran up the rocks, and hastened towards Mr. Gayles's house.

But he hurried only a moment, till the darkness concealed his form from
his shipmates. Instead of going up to the town, he returned to the
landing-place as soon as the boat had left. While he stood on the
rocks, the clock struck nine. A few moments later, a boat, containing
