"You are a stout fellow; possibly you could," laughed he. "If you will
go, I will tell you where to find the flowers."

"If you know, it would be better for you to go, and I will clear away
the dinner things while you are gone."

"We must pull the tender out of the water when we land, and I don't
think I can do it alone. I want to turn it over, and get the dirty
water out of it, for it really is not fit for a lady to get into. Miss
Collingsby says she is not afraid to stay alone for a few moments."

"Very well; if you will stay on board and put away the dishes, I will
go on shore alone," I replied, moved to give this answer by a whispered
suggestion from Miss Marian.

"All right; but can you turn the boat over alone?"

"Certainly I can; that boat don't weigh more than seventy-five pounds."

Miss Collingsby immediately came on deck, and went to the side where
the tender was lying.

"I think I will go with you, Mr. Phil," said she. "I should like to see
where the flowers grow."

"But that boat is not fit for a lady to get into in its present
condition," interposed Mr. Waterford, annoyed by this new phase of our
lady passenger's will.

"It will answer very well for me," she replied.

"Indeed, I cannot permit you to get into that boat; but if you wish to
land, we will take it ashore first, and empty out the dirty water."

"O, no! I won't give you all that trouble," added she, retreating to
the cabin again.

"I will go down and put out my fire, and then I shall be ready," I
continued, following her below.

"Don't leave me, Phil," said Marian, earnestly, but in a low tone.

"If you will trust the matter to me, I will manage it right," I
replied. "But I wish to let him have his own way for the present."

"But you see now that he wants to leave you on shore."

"I have no doubt of that; still I wish to go on shore with him. You may
be assured that no accident shall happen to you," I answered, as I
rattled the stove to convince the skipper that I was busy at the work I
had come below to do.

"I am terribly alarmed. All Mr. Waterford's looks and, actions convince
me that he means mischief."

"I know he does; he has fully satisfied me on that point. But will you
leave the whole matter to me?"

"Yes; but do be very cautious."

"I shall go on shore with him."

"Then he may leave you there."

"No; he cannot do that. I will watch him; and I can swim off to the
boat before he can hoist the jib and get under way. Trust me, Miss
Collingsby."

"I do trust you; but he may deceive you."

"He will if he can. I cannot afford to be left here, for I have
business with Mr. Whippleton for your father's sake, as well as my
own."

"You seem to understand yourself very well; but Mr. Waterford is very
sharp."

"Perhaps I am; at any rate, he will not leave me on shore."

"Are you ready, Phil?" shouted the skipper, at the companion-way; and I
began to think he was a little suspicious of my movements.

"All ready," I replied, and hastened on deck.

I pulled off my coat, and left it in the yacht, so that, in case I had
to swim, I should be the less encumbered.

"Throw a bucket into the boat, so that you can wash out the tender,"
said the skipper.

"I don't know that I can haul the boat up that bank alone, after all,"
I added, looking at the shore.

"I don't think you can; my plan is the most sensible one. We will both
go."

He jumped into the boat, and I followed him. Taking one of the oars, he
paddled the tender to the shore, and we landed. Mr. Waterford was
evidently a thorough strategist, for he went through all the forms of
doing what he had proposed. We hauled the boat out of the water,
removed everything movable, and then turned her over.

"Now, Phil, those swamp flowers grow about ten rods from here, on the
bank of a little brook. Follow that path, and you will come to the
place," said he, pointing into the swamp. "While you are getting them,
I will wash out the boat. But don't be gone long, for I can't put the
boat into the water without your help."

I thought he could put it into the water without my help, and that he
would do it as soon as I was out of sight. I went into a clump of
bushes near the spot where he stood, intending to watch his movements,
for I wished to be entirely satisfied that he meditated treachery. I
wished to be able to justify myself for any step I might be compelled
to take.

I did not think Mr. Ben Waterford would have undertaken his present
desperate scheme if he had not received some encouragement from Miss
Collingsby. She confessed to me that she had listened to him once
before, when he suggested an elopement; but she was now, as she began
to reap the fruits of complaisance, convinced of her own imprudence. It
was necessary for the bold schemer to get rid of me; and he was
prepared to part company with me in the most summary manner. If he
could do so, it was possible that he might win or drive his fair
passenger into compliance with his proposition. She would be rich at
some time in the future; but more than this, she was beautiful and
accomplished. Her father would not consent to her union with such a
character as Waterford. He could only win her by such a bold movement
as that upon which he had already entered.

I had not been in the bushes three minutes before Mr. Ben Waterford
suddenly changed his tactics. The boat seemed to be no longer unfit for
the reception of a lady, and he shoved it down the bank into the water,
as though he had suddenly been endowed with a new strength. Of course I
expected him to do this; and before he could pick up the oars, I
stepped out of my covert, and was prepared to leap into the boat with
him; for, though the day was warm and pleasant, I had no fancy for
swimming off to the Marian.

"Where are the flowers?" demanded he, with some wrath, which he could
not wholly conceal, and apparently taken all aback by my sudden
reappearance.

"I didn't find them," I replied, with a good-natured smile, for I was
not a little pleased at the checkmate I had put upon my fellow-voyager.

"Did you look?"

"Not much."

"Why didn't you? We don't want to stay here all day," said he, unable
to hide his chagrin.

"I am ready to go when you are."

"Why didn't you get the flowers?" growled he.

"To tell the whole truth, I was afraid you would forget that I was on
shore, and go on board without me," I answered, laughing.

"You blockhead! What do you mean by that?"

"I'm compelled to believe you have a bad memory; and I fear you forgot
to invite the rest of the ladies included in your programme. You might
forget me, in the same manner, and this wouldn't be a good place to
stay."

"You are growing impudent, Phil."

"No; only prudent."

"Come with me, you lunkhead, and I will show you where the flowers
are," said he, rushing towards the path, as though he meant to obtain
the flowers or die in the attempt.

"If you know where they are, you can get them alone," I added.

"I do know where they are. You seem to think I am playing a trick upon
you; and I want to show you that I am not."

"I don't think you will be able to show me that if I go; so I may as
well stay here."

"Come along!"

"I don't think you washed the boat out very nicely. You didn't have
time to do it, and you didn't give me three minutes to find and pick
the beautiful flowers."

"What is the matter with you, Phil? You seem to have changed your face
all of a sudden. What ails you?"

"Nothing at all; never was in better health in my life, thank you."

"Why didn't you get the flowers, then, as you said you would?"

"I didn't say so; you said it. I should have got them, if I hadn't been
afraid you would forget I was on shore, and go on board without me."

"What put that into your silly head?"

"You did."

"No, I didn't."

"I don't like to contradict a gentleman; but I had not gone three rods
before you shoved the boat into the water, without troubling yourself
to wash it out."

"What were you watching me for?" demanded he.

"Because I was afraid you would forget me, as I said."

"What do you mean? What makes you so suspicious?"

"Your conduct; nothing else."

"What have I done?"

"You tried to get rid of me, and intended to leave me here in this
inhospitable swamp, away from any human habitation, and with nothing in
sight but the railroad and the lake."

"What put such a notion as that into your head, Phil?"

"I have come to the conclusion that you think there is one too many for
the present cruise in the Marian. I should not have come, if you had
not been so kind as to invite me; and now I don't intend to be left in
this swamp."

"Nobody thought of leaving you in the swamp."

"Then you are nobody--which it is not polite to say."

"Come, Phil, we have been good friends, and we won't quarrel now."

"I won't, if I can help it."

"Let us walk up to the place where the flowers grow," said he, leading
the way.

I followed him; but I deemed it advisable to keep at a respectful
distance from him. His only purpose was to get rid of me, and I did not
believe that he would be very scrupulous about the means of doing so. I
did not think he would attempt to murder me, or anything of that sort;
but Miss Collingsby, and Miss Collingsby's expectations, were the prize
for which he was playing. I followed him about twenty rods from the
boat, but without seeing anything which looked like flowers. Indeed, I
had landed here before; and I should as soon have thought of looking
for flowers in the Desert of Sahara as in this region.

Mr. Ben Waterford seated himself on a little hummock, and looked as
though he had something more to say. He did not seem to be in any
hurry, though Miss Collingsby was alone on board of the yacht; and, as
the Florina was also in the lagoon, I could afford to wait as long as
he could; so I seated myself on another hummock near him.




CHAPTER XVIII.

IN WHICH PHIL PROTESTS WITH THE BOAT-HOOK, BUT IS PROTESTED.


"Phil, you are aware, I suppose, that I am engaged to Miss Collingsby,"
Mr. Ben Waterford began.

"I must acknowledge my own ignorance. I was not aware of it," I
replied.

"It is so."

"Was that what made her scream while I was getting dinner?"

"Scream! She didn't scream!"

"I'm not deaf."

"She only uttered an exclamation."

"You said she was singing; but I always suppose something is the matter
when ladies utter exclamations in just that way."

"You are saucy and impudent."

"Very likely it is impudent for me to see and hear what I ought not to
see and hear."

"But haven't you any gumption?"

"Just now you accused me of having too much gumption. Somehow I don't
think this is half so pleasant a party on the lake as you represented
that it would be."

"Will you hear me?"

"Certainly I will; go on."

"I told you I was engaged to Miss Collingsby. One does not like to talk
about these things, I know--but--"

"Then the less said the better," I interposed, laughing.

"You said you would hear me."

"I will; go on."

"I want you to understand, in the first place, that I am engaged to
Miss Collingsby," he continued, with a pause, to note the effect upon
me.

"You have said that three times; but I don't believe I shall be able to
understand it if you say it three times more."

"Do you doubt my word?"

"I only say that my understanding is defective on that point."

"I think I ought to know."

"So ought Miss Collingsby; but she don't. I'm afraid she is as stupid
as I am."

"Do you mean to say that she has denied it?"

"Not exactly. I don't know that I ever had anything to do with parties
that were engaged; but I don't believe the lady screams, or utters
exclamations, if you please, and then rushes into the cabin to get out
of the way of the gentleman to whom she is engaged. As I said, I don't
understand these things; but I don't believe that's the way they are
done."

"You are a blockhead, Phil."

"I know it. My head is so hard you can't get any of that sort of
nonsense into it."

"I see that you are disposed to quarrel with me."

"Not at all, Mr. Waterford," I protested. "If you consider this cruise
a failure, I am willing to go on board of the yacht and return to
Chicago."

"Do you know who owns that yacht?" said he, sternly.

"Of course I do. I wish I did, but I don't."

"I judged from your talk that you thought she belonged to you."

"That happiness is not mine. I wish it was. But her gentlemanly owner
was kind enough to invite me to sail with him; and I don't intend to
deprive him of the pleasure of my company until we return to Chicago. I
think it would be mean to do so."

"I wish to remind you that I claim the right to choose my own company."

"To be sure; and you exercised it when you invited Miss Collingsby and
myself to sail with you."

"But having changed my mind after your strange conduct, I may decline
your company any longer."

"It would be very proper to decline it after we return to the city."

"I may find it necessary to refuse to take you on board again."

"You would not leave me in this desolate place?"

"If you don't behave yourself, I may."

"If you do, I shall protest."

"Protest!" sneered he.

"Perhaps I might even protest with the boat-hook," I added; "for such a
step on your part would be an outrage."

"You are smart for a boy."

"I did not exactly force myself into your boat, though I was very glad
to go in her, for I expected by this time to meet Mr. Whippleton."

"I wanted to tell you what my purpose was," said he, making another
effort to approach the subject which he had tried to introduce before.

"I think I know what your purpose was."

"Do you, indeed?"

"I do, indeed."

"Perhaps you would be willing to state it."

"To save you the trouble of doing so in your roundabout way, I will.
You intended to run away with Miss Collingsby. You deceived her, lied
to her, and thus induced her to come on board of your yacht. You asked
me only because she would not go alone with you."

"Did she tell you that?" demanded he, biting his lip, and trying to
subdue his rising wrath.

"No matter what she told me; I am not blind. You told her you would
join Mr. Whippleton's party, and that the two Miss Lords were on board
of his boat. I saw her when she came in here, and he was alone."

"The ladies were in the cabin, I suppose."

"Mr. Whippleton is alone: he does not wish for any company to-day."

"What do you mean by that?" he asked, evidently suspecting that I was
wiser than I ought to be.

"Miss Collingsby is alone on board of the Marian. I am afraid she will
be uneasy if you remain here any longer. If you are engaged to her, she
must be very anxious about you."

"Don't be ugly and disagreeable, Phil. You are a good fellow. No one
knows it better than I do. Now let us fix this thing up."

"I'm too thick to understand you."

"You are a good fellow, and I know you will help me out of this
scrape," he continued, suddenly looking cheerful and pleasant, as
though the whole difficulty had been solved.

"If you will do the right thing, I will help you out of it."

"I knew you would. You understand the matter. I do love Miss
Collingsby, and she will tell you herself that she is not indifferent
to me. She consented some time ago to elope with me, in my boat. We can
run over to Lansing, St. Joseph, or some other town on the east side of
the lake, be married, and return a happy couple. Since we are both
agreed on this step, you are not hard-hearted enough to step between
us. Her mother is willing, but her father, you know, is a stiff and
unreasonable man. It will be all right with him when we return."

"Has Miss Collingsby consented to this step?" I asked.

"She consented to it once before, and if the way is open she will not
object. Of course girls are coy about these things."

"I have been told they are," I replied, indifferently.

"Now you will help me out, Phil--won't you?"

"I will," I added, rising from my seat.

"That's a good fellow; and you shall never want for a friend. By the
way, a smart book-keeper, like yourself, ought to have double the
salary you are receiving now: and I will see that you have a better
place as soon as we return. Whippleton says you are worth a thousand
dollars a year."

"Thank you."

"And I will make it my whole business to see that you have such a
situation. Now I think of it, our bank wants a book-keeper, and will
pay twelve hundred a year. I can almost promise you the place."

"You are very kind, and I am much obliged to you."

"I will make it all right within three days after we come back. We can
run over to St. Joseph, as the wind is now, before night. Then the knot
can be tied, and we shall be back to-morrow night, or the next day; or,
if you don't wish to be absent from your business so long, all you have
to do is to wait here till Whippleton comes down in the Florina, and go
on board of her. He will take you right back to Chicago before dark.
What do you think of my plan?" he asked, nervously.

"The plan is good enough, but it won't work."

"What's the reason it won't?"

"Well, I object, for one reason."

"You object! Permit me to say, it is none of your business."

"Isn't it? Well, I thought it was, after your elaborate argument to
convince me. Miss Collingsby objects also."

"No, she does not. Don't I tell you that she consented to elope with
me?"

"I know you do; but I don't believe it--to be as frank as the occasion
requires."

"Do you doubt my word?"

"We won't quarrel about anybody's word. If Miss Collingsby will tell me
herself that she consents to your plan, I will stay on shore here, or
go to St. Joseph with you, just as you desire."

"Of course she is not going to talk with you about such a matter. Girls
are timid. You said you would help me out of this scrape, Phil."

"And so I will, with the greatest pleasure."

"What do you mean, then, by saying that you object?"

"I want to help you out of the scrape, and not into it. That's what I
mean. Let us return to Chicago, and that will get you out of the
scrape."

"Do you think I am to be made a fool of by a boy like you?" said he,
rising and stepping towards me.

"I hope not; I assure you I have no such wicked intention."

"You have said enough, Phil."

"That's just my opinion; and I would like to amend it by adding that
you also have said enough."

"Whether you help me or not, I want you to understand that I intend to
carry out my plan."

"Not if I can help it. I want to be understood, too."

"The Marian belongs to me, and I can dispense with your company."

"Send Miss Collingsby on shore, and you may do so. I claim to be her
protector, and I intend to stand by her to the end."

"Protector! You blockhead!" sneered he. "Pray, who made you her
protector?"

"She did, for one; and I happen to be a relative of hers, which is an
additional reason why I should not permit any one to mislead her."

"How long have you been a relative?"

"Ever since I was born, of course."

"Of course you are lying."

"I am not recognized as a relative; but no matter for that. I feel just
as much interest in her as though she was my own sister."

"I am going on board of the boat now," said Mr. Waterford, gathering
himself up.

"So am I."

"No, you are not--on board of my boat. There comes the Florina," he
added, pointing to Mr. Whippleton's yacht, which was coming down the
lagoon before the wind. "You had better hail her."

"I shall not. My present business is to take care of Miss Collingsby.
When she is safe, I have business with Mr. Whippleton."

"I tell you once for all, that you shall not put your foot on board the
Marian again."

Mr. Waterford walked towards the place where we had landed, and I
followed him closely enough to prevent him from stealing a march upon
me. As the matter now stood, he would attempt to prevent me from
getting into the boat. I intended to insist, and a battle seemed to be
imminent. The Florina stood over towards the opposite side of the
creek, apparently for the purpose of giving the Marian a wider berth. I
could see that Mr. Whippleton was alone in the standing-room, and I was
confident that, if he had any ladies on board, they would not stay in
the cabin.

Mr. Ben Waterford stepped into the tender, after he had pushed it down
the bank so that it would float. I picked up the boat-hook, which lay
on the ground, because I thought it was not a proper place to leave it.
With this implement in my hand, I stepped lightly into the boat.

"I told you not to come on board of my boat," said Mr. Waterford,
angrily.

"I know you did. I am sorry to intrude, but I must. If you will land
Miss Collingsby, I will relieve you of my company."

"I will not land Miss Collingsby. Now get out of this boat!" he added,
taking up one of the oars.

"You must excuse me."

"I'll excuse you," cried he, rushing upon me with the oar.



I defended myself with the boat-hook, and being the cooler of the two,
I did so with tolerable success. He struck and thrust furiously with
his weapon, till he was out of breath; and I was also, besides having
had two or three hard raps on the head and arms with his weapon. A
desperate lunge knocked me over backwards, and I fell over the bow of
the boat upon the beach. I felt that I was defeated, and that I had
promised Miss Collingsby more than I had thus far been able to perform.
With this advantage over me, Mr. Waterford pushed me back with the oar,
and then endeavored to shove off the tender.

My catastrophe seemed to have defeated all my good intentions; and as I
went over, I heard Miss Collingsby utter a shrill scream, as though she
were the sufferer, instead of myself, as, indeed, she was likely to be.




CHAPTER XIX.

IN WHICH PHIL PROFITS BY CIRCUMSTANCES, AND WEIGHS ANCHOR IN THE
MARIAN.


More than once in my eventful career I have realized that neither
success nor defeat is what it appears to be. While Mr. Ben Waterford
was congratulating himself upon the victory he had apparently achieved,
and I was mourning over the defeat involved in my catastrophe, neither
of us had foreseen the end. Miss Collingsby appeared to be the greatest
sufferer; and the scream with which she announced my defeat was only
the echo of my own feelings. As the battle was really her own, rather
than mine, of course my misfortune was the greater catastrophe to her.

I lay upon my back on the ground, just as I had tumbled over the bow of
the tender. But I did not lie there any great length of time--perhaps
not the hundredth part of a second. But there are times when one can
think of a great deal in the hundredth part of a second; and I am sure
my thoughts were very busy during that infinitesimal period. My
reflections were not selfish, and it did not occur to me that Mr.
Whippleton was escaping from me and from the wrath to come--only that
my fair cousin would be at the mercy of my conqueror.

This was the pungent regret of the moment; and it seemed to me that I
ought not to stay conquered. I had left my coat on board of the yacht
in order to be able to swim if occasion should require; and I voted
unanimously that the occasion did require that I should take a muddy
bath in the service of the young lady. My first care was to get up. In
doing so, I felt the painter of the boat under me. It seemed to have
been left there when the tender was pushed into the water to suggest my
next step. It did suggest it, and I hastened to profit by the
advantage.

As I began to get up, Mr. Ben Waterford began to push off the boat; and
I had just time to seize the rope before it was dragged into the water.
I picked it up, and promptly checked the operations of the angry
skipper. I checked them rather suddenly. Mr. Waterford was at the stern
of the boat; and as he raised his oar to give it another push, I
gathered up all my strength, and made a desperate twitch at the rope.

As every one knows who has had anything to do with them, boats are
wretchedly unsteady to a person in a standing position. Even an old
sailor may find it impossible to maintain his perpendicularity when the
boat is unexpectedly moved. Philosophically, the inertia of the man
should be gradually overcome, and suddenly overcoming the inertia of
the boat, as practice and the formula have both demonstrated, does not
overcome that of the man. If he be not prepared for the change from
rest to motion, he is in very great danger of being thrown down, and if
near the water, of being thrown into it.



The body of Mr. Ben Waterford was not proof against the law of nature.
It followed the rule deduced by practical men from the phenomena of
every-day experience, and the formula laid down by those learned in
physics. When I twitched the rope, I suddenly and violently overcame
the inertia of the tender. Though without any malice on my part, the
inertia of Mr. Ben Waterford was not overcome at the same time. His
tendency was to remain at rest, and the consequence was, that I pulled
the boat out from under him. Furthermore, as there was water where the
boat had been when I pulled, because two bodies cannot occupy the same
space at the same time, the body of Mr. Waterford went into the
water--the muddy, dirty water of the lagoon--stirred up by the oar with
which he had pushed off the tender.

Divested of the language of science, the fact was, that Mr. Ben
Waterford had tumbled over backward into the creek. In substance, he
had repeated the experiment at the stern of the boat which I had tried
at the bow, only he had fallen into the water, and I had fallen upon
the land. In spite of preferences for the water, I must acknowledge
that the land is a pleasanter element to fall upon than the water,
especially if the water is dirty, for a gentleman instinctively abhors
filth.

I protest that I had not intended to pitch Mr. Ben Waterford into the
lagoon. Although I was familiar with the law of physics applicable to
his case, I could not foresee what measure of resistance he would offer
to the action of the formula, or what degree of caution he would use.
Without any premeditation on my part,--for I solemnly declare that I
only intended to prevent him from pushing off the tender,--it was an
accomplished fact that Mr. Ben Waterford was floundering in the muddy
water of the lagoon, while the tender was absolutely in my possession.

I could not quarrel with fate, destiny, good fortune, or whatever it
was that had turned the tide in my favor at the very moment of defeat;
and I made haste to profit by the circumstances as I found them. I ran
along the bank of the creek, dragging the boat after me; and by the
time the unhappy skipper had elevated his head above the surface of the
foul pool, now rendered doubly foul by his own movements upon the soft
bottom, I had the tender a couple of rods from him. He was in no danger
of drowning; for while I should say that he was sunk half way up to his
knees in the mud, the tiny wavelets rippled against the gold vest chain
to which his watch was attached. In other words, the water was not
quite up to his armpits. I do not know whether Mr. Waterford was able
to swim or not: I never saw him swim, and he did not swim on this
momentous occasion. He simply stood up in the water, rubbing the muddy
fluid out of his eyes. He had not yet sufficiently recovered from the
shock of his fall, and the muddy blindness which surrounded him, to
realize the nature of the situation.

At a safe distance from his convulsive clutch, I jumped into the
tender, and paddled rapidly to the yacht. I gave Mr. Waterford a wide
berth, and left him trying to obtain a better vision of the
surroundings. I leaped upon the deck of the Marian, and fastened the
painter of the tender at the taffrail. Miss Collingsby spoke to me, but
I heeded not what she said, and sprang forward as fast as I could move
my steps. I hauled up the anchor, but without waiting to wash off the
mud, or stow the cable, I hastened to the helm. Letting out the sheet,
I "wore ship," and in half a minute the Marian was standing out of the
lagoon.

"Stop! What are you about!" shouted Mr. Ben Waterford, who was paddling
through the mud towards the shore.

I made no reply to him, for I had nothing to say. Between running away
from him and permitting him to run away with Miss Collingsby, I was
compelled to choose the less of the two evils. My mission was to save
the young lady, and I intended to do so. I had made a faithful use of
the opportunity presented to me; and after attempting to leave me in
that desolate place, I thought it was not unreasonable for Mr.
Waterford to "try it on" himself, even if the yacht did belong to him.
I was not disposed to weigh all the nice questions which the situation
presented. It was clearly my duty to assist Miss Collingsby, and I was
disposed to do it without consulting the comfort and convenience of Mr.
Waterford, who meditated the mischief against her.

The defeated skipper continued to shout at me in the most furious
manner, threatening me with all the terrors of the law and his own
wrath. I was willing to refer the whole subject to Mr. Collingsby after
we returned to Chicago; and I regarded him as an all-sufficient
defender against both the law and the wrath of Mr. Waterford. I saw him
make his way to the shore, shake the mud and water from his garments,
and then hasten to a point of land which projected out into the lake at
the mouth of the creek. But he might as well have hastened towards the
other end of the lake, for long before he could reach it, I had passed
the point, and was out in the open lake.

I was out of hailing distance of the unhappy skipper when he reached
the point, though I could still see his violent gestures. Miss
Collingsby sat in the standing-room, watching her late persecutor with
anxious interest. Perhaps she feared he might, by some foul mischance,
undo what I had done; that he might annihilate the waste of waters
before him, and step between her and me. I had no such fears. There
were no boats or vessels near us, and I was satisfied that Mr.
Waterford would be obliged to walk several miles to a station on the
railroad which passed through the swamp and over the lagoon.

I was so well satisfied with the good fortune that grew out of my
catastrophe, that I soon neglected to think of Mr. Ben Waterford. I
left him to enjoy his own reflections; and I hoped one of them would
be, that villany could not long prosper even in this world. I wished
that he might recall, if he had ever heard of it, the Scotch poet's
proverb, that

    "The best laid schemes o' mice an' men
                    Gang aft a-gley,
    An' lea'e us nought but grief and pain
                    For promised joy."

This bit of romance was not likely to end in a marriage, thanks to the
returning or awaked sense of Miss Collingsby.

I ceased to think of my discomfited skipper, and turned my thoughts to
Mr. Charles Whippleton, to whom I devoted my whole attention. The
Florina had passed out of the creek in the midst of the encounter
between Waterford and myself; and the junior partner of our firm must
have seen me when I was pitched over the bow of the tender. Whether he
had been able to see the issue of the battle or not, I did not know,
for his yacht passed beyond the point before it was terminated. The
Florina was headed to the eastward, and I judged that she was about a
mile ahead of me when I tripped the anchor of the Marian. I intended to
chase him even into the adjoining lakes, if he led me so far. I meant
to recover Mrs. Whippleton's treasure, if it took me all summer, and
used up all the money I had in the world.

Marian Collingsby looked very sad and anxious. Her chest heaved with
emotion as she realized how serious was the movement upon which we had
entered. I was confident that, if she ever reached the shelter of her
father's roof, she would never be imprudent again; that she would have
more regard for her father's solid judgment than for her own fanciful
preferences.

"You don't know how frightened I was, Philip," said she, when I took my
place at the helm.

"I don't wonder. I was frightened myself; but it was more for you than
for me," I replied, as I let out the main sheet.

"But what a terrible fight you had with him!" exclaimed she, with
something like a shudder.

"O, that was nothing!" I replied, laughing, in order to encourage her.

"Nothing! Why, he struck at you with the oar!"

"And I struck at him with the boat-hook. I have been in a worse fight
than that."

"You have!"

"Yes; I have been where the bullets flew thick and fast."

"You!"

"I was in a battle with the Indians; and I once had the happiness to
rescue a young lady from the savages; so I think this is a very mild
kind of fighting."

"What a hero you have been!"

"Not much of a hero; but I don't like to see anything go wrong with a
young lady. I never saw a young lady till I was twelve years old, and I
find myself very kindly disposed towards all of them--strange as it may
seem."

Miss Collingsby tried to smile, but she did not feel able to do so.




CHAPTER XX.

IN WHICH PHIL SAILS THE MARIAN ACROSS LAKE MICHIGAN.


"Where are you going now, Philip?" asked Miss Collingsby.

"I am obliged to chase Mr. Whippleton. I told you what he had been
doing. He has swindled your father out of a large sum of money, and he
has also robbed me of a valuable package, which was put in my care for
safe keeping. I must catch him if I follow him all night."

"You are very faithful to my father's interests. I didn't think Mr.
Whippleton was such a bad man."

"Your father did not think so, either," I continued; and I explained to
her in full the financial operations of the junior partner.

"Do you expect to catch him, Philip?"

"I mean to do so."

"What can you do with him? He is a man, and you are but a boy--excuse
me, a young man."

"I don't object to being called a boy, for I am one; but I think I am a
match for Mr. Whippleton, physically."

"I think you are, after your battle with Mr. Waterford, who is larger
than Mr. Whippleton. But what am I to do?"

"I don't know. I must not lose sight of the Florina."

"I don't want to stay all night in this boat," said she, timidly.

"If I run over to the city and land you, I may as well give up all
thought of ever seeing Mr. Whippleton again," I replied, annoyed at the
situation.

"My mother will be very anxious about me."

"I know she will; but what can I do?"

"I really don't know."

"If Mr. Whippleton leads me any where near a railroad station, I will
see that you are put in the way of returning to your home. I am sure if
your father was here, he would insist upon my chasing the villain. If
he escapes me, your father will lose a large sum of money--not less
than forty thousand dollars, and perhaps more."

"How terrible! You must do as you think best, Philip, without regard to
me. I don't like to stay in this boat all night."

"It isn't a bad place to stay," I replied, glancing down into the
handsome and comfortable cabin.

"Perhaps not; but I had rather be at home. My father and mother will
both worry about me."

"They will ascertain before night where you are; and perhaps Mr.
Waterford will return to the city and inform them that you are safe."

"He will not be likely to say anything about me."

"Your father sent me to follow Mr. Whippleton, and I am now literally
obeying his orders."

I saw that my fair companion was uneasy in a direction she did not care
to explain; and I am sure I respected her all the more for the delicacy
of feeling she exhibited. If she and her mother objected to her being
alone in the yacht with Mr. Waterford, they might also object to me. I
deemed it necessary to say and do all I could to assure her of her own
safety.

"Can you steer a boat, Miss Collingsby?" I asked.

"I have steered this boat," she replied.

"Would you like to take the tiller for a while?"

"I can't steer unless some one tells me which way to go."

"You can follow the Florina--can you not?"

"Why do you ask, Philip?"

"I wish to secure the anchor, and put the cook-room and cabin in order.
If it should come on to blow, all our dishes would be smashed."

"I will try to steer."

I gave her the helm, and told her to keep the foremast in range with
the Florina. The tiller was long, so that it was not very hard to
steer, though we were going before the wind. I soon found that she
understood the business very well. I told her how to keep the boat
steady, and in a short time she was able to do it to her own and to my
satisfaction. I had on some good clothes, and I did not care to injure
them at the dirty work of cleaning and stowing the anchor. I went below
and drew on a pair of old overalls I found in the cook-room, which I
had used while getting dinner. In the cabin I took a coat and an old
hat, belonging to the owner of the Marian, from a locker, and these
completed my outfit. Thus rigged I went on deck again.

"Dear me! How you startled me!" exclaimed Marian, as I stepped into the
standing-room.

"Why, what's the matter?"

"I thought it was Mr. Waterford. You looked just like him when you came
up those stairs. You have on the clothes he wore the last time I sailed
with him."

"He is larger than I am."

"I know he is; but that hat and coat made you look just like him when
you were coming up. No matter; I know you are not Mr. Waterford, and I
am thankful you are not."

"So am I. If I were Mr. Waterford, I would sell out, and be somebody
else the first thing I did," I replied, as I went forward.

I washed off the anchor, and the end of the cable, and stowed them in
their proper places. I cleaned off the deck, and was only satisfied
when I had everything neat enough to take dinner upon. I was sure the
fair helms-lady could steer better now that this mud and confusion were
removed, for they lay in her line of vision as she sighted the Florina.
I then went below, cleared off the table, washed the dishes, and put
them in the lockers, swept out the cabin and cook-room, and put
everything in good order. The interior of the yacht was a model of
comfort and elegance, and it was unpleasant to see anything out of
place there.

As it was probable that Miss Collingsby would be compelled to sleep on
board, I satisfied myself that everything in and about the berths was
in good order. I took a pair of rifles from one of them, where Mr.
Waterford kept them for his hunting trips, and set them up near the
companion-way. While I was about it, I explored the cabin in order to
ascertain its resources. I found almost everything there which could
make the voyagers on the lake happy and comfortable. There was plenty
of whiskey and wine, as well as other liquors, which could possibly
make the owner happy; but they had no allurements to me.

Having finished my examination, I went on deck, and relieved Marian at
the helm, though she declared that she was not tired. I thought it best
for her to save her strength, for I did not know what she might be
called upon to endure before we returned to Chicago.

"I have put the cabin in order for you, Miss Collingsby," said I, as I
seated myself.

"For me? I am very grateful to you, but I don't think I shall have any
use for it."

"We may have to sail all night."

"If we do, I will stay here with you. I could not sleep in such a place
as that."

"I think it is a very nice place."

"So do I; and under other circumstances I should be very happy there.
Do you suppose Julia or Florina Lord is with Mr. Whippleton?"

"I am satisfied that neither of them is with him."

"Mr. Waterford said they were; but that was a part of his deception."

"He does not scruple to lie."

"If Julia were only here, I should be satisfied," added she, looking
out upon the lake.

"I am sorry she is not; but you may be satisfied as it is. You shall
have the cabin all to yourself."

"I'm not afraid of anything," said she, with some confusion on her
pretty face.

