
"It won't be of any use, you may depend, mother. He is not in
Philadelphia."

"But this letter is posted there."

"That is a proof to me that he is not there. He says he don't want to
come back."

Shortly after, Mr. Brandon entered the house.

"We have had a letter from Ben, father," said Mary.

"Show it to me," he said, briefly.

He read the letter, and handed it back without a word.

"What are you going to do about it, Mr. Brandon?" asked his wife.

"What is there to be done?" he asked.

"I think I had better go up to Philadelphia to-morrow."

"What for?"

"I might see him."

"You would be going on a wild-goose chase."

"Then why won't you go?"

"It isn't worth while. If the boy doesn't want to come home, he may
take care of himself if he likes it so well. I shan't run round after
him."

"He says he did not do what you punished him for," said Mrs. Brandon,
rather deprecatingly, for she was somewhat in awe of her husband.

"Of course he would say that. I have heard that before."

"But I don't think he really did."

"I know you have always been foolishly indulgent to him."

"At any rate that cannot be said of you," said his wife, with some
spirit.

"No," he answered, rather surprised at such an unusual manifestation
from his usually acquiescent wife; "you are right there, and you might
add that I don't mean to be, if he should return."

"I think he would have come home but for that advertisement. You see
what he says about it in his letter."

"If I were to write it again, I should write it in the same manner,
though perhaps I might not offer so large a sum."

Mrs. Brandon sighed, and ceased speaking. She knew her husband well
enough to see that there was little chance of changing his
determination, or softening his anger towards Ben.

The next day, when Mr. Brandon returned home to dinner from his
coal-wharf, he found Mary seated at the head of the table.

"Where is your mother?" he asked.

"She went to Philadelphia by the middle train," was the answer.

"She has gone on a fool's errand."

"I advised her not to go; but she thought she might meet Ben, and I
could not dissuade her."

"Well, she will be better satisfied after she has been up--and failed to
find him."

"Do you think he will ever come back, father?"

"Yes; he will turn up again some day, like a bad penny. He will find
that earning his own living is not quite so agreeable as being taken
care of at home."

"Suppose he shouldn't come back?"

"So much the worse for him," said Mr. Brandon.

Mr. Brandon spoke after his way of speaking, for he was not an
affectionate man, nor given to the softer emotions. He had never given
Ben any reason to think he loved him, at least since he was a baby, but
appearances are sometimes deceptive, and he thought more of his son's
absence than any one would have supposed. He thought, too, of that
sentence in Ben's letter, in which he spoke of being punished for what
he did not do, and he admitted to himself, though he would not have done
so to his wife, that perhaps he had been unjust to the boy after all.
Every day when he turned from his office to go home, it was with the
unacknowledged hope that he might find the prodigal returned. But in
this hope they were all doomed to be disappointed. Year after year
passed away, and still no tidings from Ben beyond that single letter
which we have mentioned.

Mrs. Brandon returned from Philadelphia, as might have been anticipated,
disappointed and despondent. She was very tired, for she had wandered
about the streets, looking everywhere, during the four or five hours she
was in the city. Once or twice her heart beat high, as she saw in front
of her a boy of Ben's size, and dressed as he had been dressed when he
left home. But when, with hurrying steps she came up with him, she was
doomed, in every case, to disappointment.

"I told you it would be no use, mother," said Mary.

"I couldn't stay at home contented, if I did nothing to find him, Mary."

"He'll turn up yet some day, mother,--return in rags most likely."

"Come when he may, or how he may, Mary, my arms shall be open to receive
him."

But the years passed, and Ben did not come.




CHAPTER XIII.

THE FIRST CIGAR.


It was a week or more after Ben started in business as a
baggage-smasher, that, in returning from carrying a carpet-bag to
Lovejoy's Hotel, on Broadway, he fell in with his first city
acquaintance, Jerry Collins. Jerry had just "polished up" a gentleman's
boots, and, having been unusually lucky this morning in securing shines,
felt disposed to be lavish.

"How are you, Ben?" asked Jerry. "What are you up to now?"

"I'm a baggage-smasher," answered Ben, who was beginning to adopt the
language of the streets.

"How does it pay?"

"Well," said Ben, "sometimes it pays first rate, when I'm lucky. Other
days I don't get much to do. I didn't make but fifteen cents this
morning. I carried a bag up to Lovejoy's, and that's all the man would
pay me."

"I've made fifty cents this mornin'. Look here, Johnny."

The Johnny addressed was a boy who sold cigars, four for ten cents.

"I'll take two," said Jerry, producing five cents.

"Six cents for two," said the cigar boy.

"All right, I'll owe you the other cent," said Jerry, coolly.

"Do you smoke?" inquired Ben.

"In course I do. Don't you?"

"No."

"Why don't you?"

"I don't know," said Ben. "Do you like it?"

"It's bully. Here, take this cigar. I bought it for you."

Ben hesitated; but finally, induced mainly by a curiosity to see how it
seemed, accepted the cigar, and lighted it by Jerry's. The two boys sat
down on an empty box, and Jerry instructed Ben how to puff. Ben did not
particularly enjoy it; but thought he might as well learn now as any
other time. His companion puffed away like a veteran smoker; but after
a while Ben's head began to swim, and he felt sick at his stomach.

"I don't feel well," he said. "I guess I'll stop smoking."

"Oh, go ahead," said Jerry. "It's only because it's the first time.
You'll like it after a while."

Thus encouraged, Ben continued to smoke, though his head and his stomach
got continually worse.

"I don't like it," gasped Ben, throwing down the cigar. "I'm going to
stop."

"You've got a healthy color," said Jerry, slyly.

"I'm afraid I'm going to be awful sick," said Ben, whose sensations were
very far from comfortable. Just at this moment, ignorant of the brief
character of his present feelings, he heartily wished himself at home,
for the first time since his arrival in the city.

"You do look rather green," said Jerry. "Maybe you're going to have the
cholera. I've heard that there's some cases round."

This suggestion alarmed Ben, who laid his head down between his knees,
and began to feel worse than ever.

"Don't be scared," said Jerry, thinking it time to relieve Ben's mind.
"It's only the cigar. You'll feel all right in a jiffy."

While Ben was experiencing the disagreeable effects of his first cigar,
he resolved never to smoke another. But, as might have been expected, he
felt differently on recovering. It was not long before he could puff
away with as much enjoyment and unconcern as any of his street
companions, and a part of his earnings were consumed in this way. It may
be remarked here that the street boy does not always indulge in the
luxury of a whole cigar. Sometimes he picks up a fragment which has been
discarded by the original smoker. There are some small dealers, who make
it a business to collect these "stubs," or employ others to do so, and
then sell them to the street boys, at a penny apiece, or less, according
to size. Sometimes these stubs are bought in preference to a cheap
cigar, because they are apt to be of a superior quality. Ben, however,
never smoked "stubs." In course of time he became very much like other
street boys; but in some respects his taste was more fastidious, and he
preferred to indulge himself in a cheap cigar, which was not
second-hand.

We must now pass rapidly over the six years which elapsed from the date
of Ben's first being set adrift in the streets to the period at which
our story properly begins. These years have been fruitful of change to
our young adventurer. They have changed him from a country boy of ten,
to a self-reliant and independent street boy of sixteen. The impressions
left by his early and careful home-training have been mostly effaced.
Nothing in his garb now distinguishes him from the class of which he is
a type. He has long since ceased to care for neat or whole attire, or
carefully brushed hair. His straggling locks, usually long, protrude
from an aperture in his hat. His shoes would make a very poor
advertisement for the shoemaker by whom they were originally
manufactured. His face is not always free from stains, and his street
companions have long since ceased to charge him with putting on airs, on
account of the superior neatness of his personal appearance. Indeed, he
has become rather a favorite among them, in consequence of his
frankness, and his willingness at all times to lend a helping hand to a
comrade temporarily "hard up." He has adopted to a great extent the
tastes and habits of the class to which he belongs, and bears with
acquired philosophy the hardships and privations which fall to their
lot. Like "Ragged Dick," he has a sense of humor, which is apt to reveal
itself in grotesque phrases, or amusing exaggerations.

Of course his education, so far as education is obtained from books, has
not advanced at all. He has not forgotten how to read, having occasion
to read the daily papers. Occasionally, too, he indulges himself in a
dime novel, the more sensational the better, and is sometimes induced to
read therefrom to a group of companions whose attainments are even less
than his own.

It may be asked whether he ever thinks of his Pennsylvania home, of his
parents and his sister. At first he thought of them frequently; but by
degrees he became so accustomed to the freedom and independence of his
street life, with its constant variety, that he would have been
unwilling to return, even if the original cause of his leaving home were
removed. Life in a Pennsylvania village seemed "slow" compared with the
excitement of his present life.

In the winter, when the weather was inclement, and the lodging
accommodations afforded by the street were not particularly
satisfactory, Ben found it convenient to avail himself of the cheap
lodgings furnished by the Newsboys' Lodging House; but at other times,
particularly in the warm summer nights, he saved his six cents, and
found a lodging for himself among the wharves, or in some lane or alley.
Of the future he did not think much. Like street boys in general, his
horizon was limited by the present. Sometimes, indeed, it did occur to
him that he could not be a luggage boy all his lifetime. Some time or
other he must take up something else. However, Ben carelessly concluded
that he could make a living somehow or other, and as to old age that was
too far ahead to disquiet himself about.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE PASSENGER FROM ALBANY.


Ben did not confine himself to any particular pier or railway depot, but
stationed himself now at one, now at another, according as the whim
seized him, or as the prospect of profit appeared more or less
promising. One afternoon he made his way to the pier at which the Albany
boats landed. He knew the hour of arrival, not only for the river-boats,
but for most of the inward trains, for this was required by his
business.

He had just finished smoking a cheap cigar when the boat arrived. The
passengers poured out, and the usual bustle ensued. Now was the time for
Ben to be on the alert. He scanned the outcoming passengers with an
attentive eye, fixing his attention upon those who were encumbered with
carpet-bags, valises, or bundles. These he marked out as his possible
patrons, and accosted them professionally.

"Smash yer baggage, sir?" he said to a gentleman carrying a valise.

The latter stared hard at Ben, evidently misunderstanding him, and
answered irascibly, "Confound your impudence, boy; what do you mean?"

"Smash yer baggage, sir?"

"If you smash my baggage, I'll smash your head."

"Thank you, sir, for your kind offer; but my head aint insured," said
Ben, who saw the joke, and enjoyed it.

"Look here, boy," said the puzzled traveller, "what possible good would
it do you to smash my baggage?"

"That's the way I make a livin'," said Ben.

"Do you mean to say any persons are foolish enough to pay you for
destroying their baggage? You must be crazy, or else you must think I
am."

"Not destroying it, smashin' it."

"What's the difference?"

Here a person who had listened to the conversation with some amusement
interposed.

"If you will allow me to explain, sir, the boy only proposes to carry
your valise. He is what we call a 'baggage-smasher,' and carrying it is
called 'smashing.'"

"Indeed, that's a very singular expression to use. Well, my lad, I think
I understand you now. You have no hostile intentions, then?"

"Nary a one," answered Ben.

"Then I may see fit to employ you. Of course you know the way
everywhere?"

"Yes, sir."

"You may take my valise as far as Broadway. There I shall take a stage."

Ben took the valise, and raising it to his shoulders was about to
precede his patron.

"You can walk along by my side," said the gentleman; "I want to talk to
you."

"All right, governor," said Ben. "I'm ready for an interview."

"How do you like 'baggage-smashing,' as you call it?"

"I like it pretty well when I'm workin' for a liberal gentleman like
you," said Ben, shrewdly.

"What makes you think I am liberal?" asked the gentleman, smiling.

"I can tell by your face," answered our hero.

"But you get disappointed sometimes, don't you?"

"Yes, sometimes," Ben admitted.

"Tell me some of your experiences that way."

"Last week," said Ben, "I carried a bag, and a thunderin' heavy one,
from the Norwich boat to French's Hotel,--a mile and a half I guess it
was,--and how much do you think the man paid me?"

"Twenty-five cents."

"Yes, he did, but he didn't want to. All he offered me first was ten
cents."

"That's rather poor pay. I don't think I should want to work for that
myself."

"You couldn't live very high on such pay," said Ben.

"I have worked as cheap, though."

"You have!" said Ben, surprised.

"Yes, my lad, I was a poor boy once,--as poor as you are."

"Where did you live?" asked Ben, interested.

"In a country town in New England. My father died early, and I was left
alone in the world. So I hired myself out to a farmer for a dollar a
week and board. I had to be up at five every morning, and work all day.
My wages, you see, amounted to only about sixteen cents a day and board
for twelve hours' work."

"Why didn't you run away?" inquired Ben.

"I didn't know where to run to."

"I s'pose you aint workin' for that now?" said our hero.

"No, I've been promoted," said the gentleman, smiling. "Of course I got
higher pay, as I grew older. Still, at twenty-one I found myself with
only two hundred dollars. I worked a year longer till it became three
hundred, and then I went out West,--to Ohio,--where I took up a
quarter-section of land, and became a farmer on my own account. Since
then I've dipped into several things, have bought more land, which has
increased in value on my hands, till now I am probably worth fifty
thousand dollars."

"I'm glad of it," said Ben.

"Why?"

"Because you can afford to pay me liberal for smashin' your baggage."

"What do you call liberal?" inquired his patron, smiling.

"Fifty cents," answered Ben, promptly.

"Then I will be liberal. Now, suppose you tell me something about
yourself. How long have you been a 'baggage-smasher,' as you call it?"

"Six years," said Ben.

"You must have begun young. How old are you now?"

"Sixteen."

"You'll soon be a man. What do you intend to do then?"

"I haven't thought much about it," said Ben, with truth.

"You don't mean to carry baggage all your life, do you?"

"I guess not," answered Ben. "When I get to be old and infirm, I'm goin'
into some light, genteel employment, such as keepin' a street stand."

"So that is your highest ambition, is it?" asked the stranger.

"I don't think I've got any ambition," said Ben. "As long as I make a
livin', I don't mind."

"When you see well-dressed gentlemen walking down Broadway, or riding in
their carriages, don't you sometimes think it would be agreeable if you
could be in their place?"

"I should like to have a lot of money," said Ben. "I wouldn't mind bein'
the president of a bank, or a railway-director, or somethin' of that
kind."

"I am afraid you have never thought seriously upon the subject of your
future," said Ben's companion, "or you wouldn't be satisfied with your
present business."

"What else can I do? I'd rather smash baggage than sell papers or black
boots."

"I would not advise either. I'll tell you what you ought to do, my young
friend. You should leave the city, and come out West. I'll give you
something to do on one of my farms, and promote you as you are fit for
it."

"You're very kind," said Ben, more seriously; "but I shouldn't like it."

"Why not?"

"I don't want to leave the city. Here there's somethin' goin' on. I'd
miss the streets and the crowds. I'd get awful lonesome in the country."

"Isn't it better to have a good home in the country than to live as you
do in the city?"

"I like it well enough," said Ben. "We're a jolly crowd, and we do as we
please. There aint nobody to order us round 'cept the copps, and they
let us alone unless we steal, or something of that kind."

"So you are wedded to your city life?"

"Yes, I guess so; though I don't remember when the weddin' took place."

"And you prefer to live on in your old way?"

"Yes, sir; thank you all the same."

"You may change your mind some time, my lad. If you ever do, and will
write to me at B----, Ohio, I will send for you to come out. Here is my
card."

"Thank you, sir," said Ben. "I'll keep the card, and if ever I change my
mind, I'll let you know."

They had been walking slowly, or they would have reached Broadway
sooner. They had now arrived there, and the stranger bade Ben good-by,
handing him at the same time the fifty cents agreed upon.

"He's a brick," Ben soliloquized, "even if he did say he'd smash my
head. I hope I'll meet some more like him."

Ben's objection to leaving the city is felt in an equal degree by many
boys who are situated like himself. Street life has its privations and
actual sufferings; but for all that there is a wild independence and
freedom from restraint about it, which suits those who follow it. To be
at the beck and call of no one; to be responsible only to themselves,
provided they keep from violating the law, has a charm to these young
outcasts. Then, again, they become accustomed to the street and its
varied scenes, and the daily excitement of life in a large city becomes
such a matter of necessity to them, that they find the country lonesome.
Yet, under the auspices of the Children's Aid Society, companies of boys
are continually being sent out to the great West with the happiest
results. After a while the first loneliness wears away, and they become
interested in the new scenes and labors to which they are introduced,
and a large number have already grown up to hold respectable, and, in
some cases, prominent places, in the communities which they have
joined. Others have pined for the city, until they could no longer
resist their yearning for it, and have found their way back to the old,
familiar scenes, to resume the former life of suffering and privation.
Such is the strange fascination which their lawless and irresponsible
mode of life oftentimes exerts upon the minds of these young Arabs of
the street.

When Ben parted from the passenger by the Albany boat, he did not
immediately seek another job. Accustomed as he was to live from "hand to
mouth," he had never troubled himself much about accumulating more than
would answer his immediate needs. Some boys in the Lodging House made
deposits in the bank of that institution; but frugality was not one of
Ben's virtues. As long as he came out even at the end of the day, he
felt very well satisfied. Generally he went penniless to bed; his
business not being one that required him to reserve money for capital to
carry it on. In the case of a newsboy it was different. He must keep
enough on hand to buy a supply of papers in the morning, even if he were
compelled to go to bed supperless.

With fifty cents in his pocket, Ben felt rich. It would buy him a good
supper, besides paying for his lodging at the Newsboys' Home, and a
ticket for the Old Bowery besides,--that is, a fifteen-cent ticket,
which, according to the arrangement of that day, would admit him to one
of the best-located seats in the house, that is, in the pit,
corresponding to what is known as the parquette in other theatres. This
arrangement has now been changed, so that the street boys find
themselves banished to the upper gallery of their favorite theatre. But
in the days of which I am speaking they made themselves conspicuous in
the front rows, and were by no means bashful in indicating their
approbation or disapprobation of the different actors who appeared on
the boards before them.

Ben had not gone far when he fell in with an acquaintance,--Barney
Flynn.

"Where you goin', Ben?" inquired Barney.

"Goin' to get some grub," answered Ben.

"I'm with you, then. I haven't eat anything since mornin', and I'm awful
hungry."

"Have you got any stamps?"

"I've got a fifty."

"So have I."

"Where are you goin' for supper?"

"To Pat's, I guess."

"All right; I'll go with you."

The establishment known as "Pat's" is located in a basement in Nassau
Street, as the reader of "Mark, the Match Boy," will remember. It is, of
coarse, a cheap restaurant, and is considerably frequented by the street
boys, who here find themselves more welcome guests than at some of the
more pretentious eating-houses.

Ben and Barney entered, and gave their orders for a substantial repast.
The style in which the meal was served differed considerably from the
service at Delmonico's; but it is doubtful whether any of the guests at
the famous up-town restaurant enjoyed their meal any better than the two
street boys, each of whom was blest with a "healthy" appetite. Barney
had eaten nothing since morning, and Ben's fast had only been broken by
the eating of a two-cent apple, which had not been sufficient to satisfy
his hunger.

Notwithstanding the liberality of their orders, however, each of the
boys found himself, at the end of the meal, the possessor of twenty-five
cents. This was not a very large sum to sleep on, but it was long since
either had waked up in the morning with so large a capital to commence
operations upon.

"What shall we do?" asked Ben.

"Suppose we go to the Old Bowery," suggested Barney.

"Or Tony Pastor's," amended Ben.

"I like the Bowery best. There's a great fight, and a feller gets killed
on the stage. It's a stunnin' old play."

"Then let us go," said Ben, who, as well as his companion, liked the
idea of witnessing a stage fight, which was all the more attractive on
account of having a fatal termination.

As the theatre tickets would cost but fifteen cents each, the boys felt
justified in purchasing each a cheap cigar, which they smoked as they
walked leisurely up Chatham Street.




CHAPTER XV.

THE ROOM UNDER THE WHARF.


It was at a late hour when the boys left the theatre. The play had been
of a highly sensational character, and had been greeted with
enthusiastic applause on the part of the audience, particularly the
occupants of the "pit." Now, as they emerged from the portals of the
theatre, various characteristic remarks of a commendatory character were
interchanged.

"How'd you like it, Ben?" asked Barney.

"Bully," said Ben.

"I liked the fight best," said Barney. "Jones give it to him just about
right."

"Yes, that was good," said Ben; "but I liked it best where Alphonso says
to Montmorency, 'Caitiff, beware, or, by the heavens above, my trusty
sword shall drink thy foul heart's blood!'"

Ben gave this with the stage emphasis, so far as he could imitate it.
Barney listened admiringly.

"I say, Ben," he replied, "you did that bully. You'd make a tip-top
actor."

"Would I?" said Ben, complacently. "I think I'd like to try it if I knew
enough. How much money have you got, Barney?"

"Nary a red. I spent the last on peanuts."

"Just my case. We'll have to find some place to turn in for the night."

"I know a place," said Barney, "if they'll let us in."

"Whereabouts is it?"

"Down to Dover Street wharf."

"What sort of a place is it? There aint any boxes or old wagons, are
there?"

"No, it's under the wharf,--a bully place."

"Under the wharf! It's wet, isn't it?"

"No, you just come along. I'll show you."

Having no other place to suggest, Ben accepted his companion's guidance,
and the two made their way by the shortest route to the wharf named. It
is situated not far from Fulton Ferry on the east side. It may be called
a double wharf. As originally built, it was found too low for the class
of vessels that used it, and another flooring was built over the first,
leaving a considerable space between the two. Its capabilities for a
private rendezvous occurred to a few boys, who forthwith proceeded to
avail themselves of it. It was necessary to carry on their proceedings
secretly; otherwise there was danger of interference from the city
police. What steps they took to make their quarters comfortable will
shortly be described.

When they reached the wharf, Barney looked about him with an air of
caution, which Ben observed.

"What are you scared of?" asked Ben.

"We mustn't let the 'copp' see us," said Barney, "Don't make no noise."

Thus admonished, Ben followed his companion with as little noise as
possible.

"How do you get down there?" he asked.

"I'll show you," said Barney.

He went to the end of the wharf, and, motioning Ben to look over, showed
him a kind of ladder formed by nailing strips of wood, at regular
intervals, from the outer edge down to the water's edge. This was not
an arrangement of the boys, but was for the accommodation of river-boats
landing at the wharf.

"I'll go down first," whispered Barney. "If the 'copp' comes along, move
off, so he won't notice nothin'."

"All right!" said Ben.

Barney got part way down the ladder, when a head was protruded from
below, and a voice demanded, "Who's there?"

"It's I,--Barney Flynn."

"Come along, then."

"I've got a fellow with me," continued Barney.

"Who is it?"

"It's Ben, the baggage-smasher. He wants to stop here to-night."

"All right; we can trust him."

"Come along, Ben," Barney called up the ladder.

Ben quickly commenced the descent. Barney was waiting for him, and held
out his hand to help him off. Our hero stepped from the ladder upon the
lower flooring of the wharf, and looked about him with some curiosity.
It was certainly a singular spectacle that met his view. About a dozen
boys were congregated in the room under the wharf, and had evidently
taken some pains to make themselves comfortable. A carpet of good size
was spread over a portion of the flooring. Upon this three beds were
spread, each occupied by three boys. Those who could not be accommodated
in this way laid on the carpet. Some of the boys were already asleep;
two were smoking, and conversing in a low voice. Looking about him Ben
recognized acquaintances in several of them.[A]

"Is that you, Mike Sweeny?" he asked of a boy stretched out on the
nearest bed.

"Yes," said Mike; "come and lay alongside of me."

There was no room on the bed, but Ben found space beside it on the
carpet, and accordingly stretched himself out.

[A] The description of the room under the wharf, and the circumstances
of its occupation by a company of street boys, are not imaginary. It was
finally discovered, and broken up by the police, the details being
given, at the time, in the daily papers, as some of my New York readers
will remember. Discovery did not take place, however, until it had been
occupied some time.

"How do you like it?" asked Mike.

"Tip-top," said Ben. "How'd you get the carpet and beds? Did you buy
'em?"

"Yes," said Mike, with a wink; "but the man wasn't in, and we didn't pay
for 'em."

"You stole them, then?"

"We took 'em," said Mike, who had an objection to the word stole.

"How did you get them down here without the copp seein' you?"

"We hid 'em away in the daytime, and didn't bring 'em here till night.
We came near gettin' caught."

"How long have you been down here?"

"Most a month."

"It's a good place."

"Yes," said Mike, "and the rent is very reasonable. We don't have to pay
nothin' for lodgin'. It's cheaper'n the Lodge."

"That's so," said Ben. "I'm sleepy," he said, gaping. "I've been to the
Old Bowery to-night. Good-night!"

"Good-night!"

In five minutes Ben was fast asleep. Half an hour later, and not a sound
was heard in the room under the wharf except the occasional deep
breathing of some of the boys. The policeman who trod his beat near by
little suspected that just at hand, and almost under his feet, was a
rendezvous of street vagrants and juvenile thieves, for such I am sorry
to say was the character of some of the boys who frequented these cheap
lodgings.

In addition to the articles already described there were two or three
chairs, which had been contributed by different members of the
organization.

Ben slept soundly through the night. When he woke up, the gray morning
light entering from the open front towards the sea had already lighted
up indistinctly the space between the floors. Two or three of the boys
were already sitting up, yawning and stretching themselves after their
night's slumber. Among these was Mike Sweeny.

"Are you awake, Ben?" he asked.

"Yes," said Ben; "I didn't hardly know where I was at first."

"It's a bully place, isn't it?"

"That's so. How'd you come across it?"

"Oh, some of us boys found it out. We've been sleepin' here a month."

"Won't you let a feller in?"

"We might let you in. I'll speak to the boys."

"I'd like to sleep here," said Ben. "It's a good deal better than
sleepin' out round. Who runs the hotel?"

"Well, I'm one of 'em."

"You might call it Sweeny's Hotel," suggested Ben, laughing.

"I aint the boss; Jim Bagley's got most to do with it."

"Which is he?"

"That's he, over on the next bed."

"What does he do?"

"He's a travellin' match merchant."

"That sounds big."

"Jim's smart,--he is. He makes more money'n any of us."

"Where does he travel?"

"Once he went to Californy in the steamer. He got a steerage ticket for
seventy-five dollars; but he made more'n that blackin' boots for the
other passengers afore they got there. He stayed there three months, and
then came home."

"Does he travel now?"

"Yes, he buys a lot of matches, and goes up the river or down into
Jersey, and is gone a week. A little while ago he went to Buffalo."

"Oh, yes; I know where that is."

"Blest if I do."

"It's in the western part of York State, just across from Canada."

"Who told you?"

"I learned it in school."

"I didn't know you was a scholar, Ben."

"I aint now. I've forgot most all I ever knew. I haven't been to school
since I was ten years old."

"Where was that?"

"In the country."

"Well, I never went to school more'n a few weeks. I can read a little,
but not much."

"It costs a good deal to go to Buffalo. How did Jim make it while he was
gone?"

"Oh, he came home with ten dollars in his pocket besides payin' his
expenses."

"What does Jim do with all his money?"

"He's got a mother and sister up in Bleecker Street, or somewheres round
there. He pays his mother five dollars a week, besides takin' care of
himself."

"Why don't he live with his mother?"

"He'd rather be round with the boys."

I may remark here that Jim Bagley is a real character, and all that has
been said about him is derived from information given by himself, in a
conversation held with him at the Newsboys' Lodging House. He figures
here, however, under an assumed name, partly because the record in which
his real name is preserved has been mislaid. The impression made upon
the mind of the writer was, that Jim had unusual business ability and
self-reliance, and might possibly develop into a successful and
prosperous man of business.

Jim by this time was awake.

"Jim Bagley," said Mike, "here's a feller would like to put up at our
hotel."

"Who is he?" asked Jim.

The travelling match merchant, as Mike had described him, was a boy of
fifteen, rather small of his age, with a keen black eye, and a quick,
decided, business-like way.

"It's this feller,--he's a baggage-smasher," explained Mike.

"All right," said Jim; "he can come if he'll pay his share."

"How much is it?" asked Ben.

Mike explained that it was expected of each guest to bring something
that would add to the comforts of the rendezvous. Two boys had
contributed the carpet, for which probably they had paid nothing; Jim
had supplied a bed, for which he did pay, as "taking things without
leave" was not in his line. Three boys had each contributed a chair.
Thus all the articles which had been accumulated were individual
contributions. Ben promised to pay his admission fee in the same way,
but expressed a doubt whether he might not have to wait a few days, in
order to save money enough to make a purchase. He never stole himself,
though his association with street boys, whose principles are not
always very strict on this point, had accustomed him to regard theft as
a venial fault, provided it was not found out. For his own part,
however, he did not care to run the risk of detection. Though he had cut
himself off from his old home, he still felt that he should not like to
have the report reach home that he had been convicted of dishonesty.

At an early hour the boys shook off their slumbers, and one by one left
the wharf to enter upon their daily work. The newsboys were the first to
go, as they must be on hand at the newspaper offices early to get their
supply of papers, and fold them in readiness for early customers. The
boot-blacks soon followed, as most of them were under the necessity of
earning their breakfast before they ate it. Ben also got up early, and
made his way to the pier of the Stonington line of steamers from Boston.
These usually arrived at an early hour, and there was a good chance of a
job in Ben's line when the passengers landed.




CHAPTER XVI.

BEN MEETS AN OLD FRIEND.


Ben had about half an hour to wait for the arrival of the steamer. Among
the passengers who crossed the plank from the steamer to the pier was a
gentleman of middle age, and a boy about a year younger than Ben. The
boy had a carpet-bag in his hand; the father, for such appeared to be
the relationship, carried a heavy valise, besides a small bundle.

"Want your baggage carried?" asked Ben, varying his usual address.

The gentleman hesitated a moment.

"You'd better let him take it, father," said the boy.

"Very well, you may take this;" and the valise was passed over to Ben.

"Give me the bag too," said Ben, addressing the boy.

"No, I'll take that. You'll have all you want to do, in carrying the
valise."

They crossed the street, and here the gentleman stood still, evidently
undecided about something.

"What are you thinking about, father?"

"I was thinking," the gentleman said, after a slight pause, "what I had
better do."

"About what?"

"I have two or three errands in the lower part of the city, which, as my
time is limited, I should like to attend to at once."

"You had better do it, then."

"What I was thinking was, that it would not be worth while for you to go
round with me, carrying the baggage."

"Couldn't I go right up to Cousin Mary's?" asked his son.

"I am afraid you might lose the way."

"This boy will go with me. I suppose he knows the way all about the
city. Don't you?" he asked, turning to Ben.

"Where do you want to go?" asked Ben.

"To No.--Madison Avenue."

"Yes, I can show you the way there well enough, but it's a good way
off."

"You can both take the cars or stage when you get up to the Astor
House."

"How will that do?" asked Charles, for this was his name.

"I think that will be the best plan. This boy can go with you, and you
can settle with him for his services. Have you got money enough?"

"Yes, plenty."

"I will leave you here, then."

Left to themselves, it was natural that the two boys should grow social.
So far as clothing went, there was certainly a wide difference between
them. Ben was attired as described in the first chapter. Charles, on the
other hand, wore a short sack of dark cloth, a white vest, and gray
pants. A gold chain, depending from his watch-pocket, showed that he was
the possessor of a watch. His whole appearance was marked by neatness
and good taste. But, leaving out this difference, a keen observer might
detect a considerable resemblance in the features of the two boys. Both
had dark hair, black eyes, and the contour of the face was the same. I
regret to add, however, that Ben's face was not so clean as it ought to
