brevity.

“That is impossible;” then added, with the sudden softening of tone
which made his voice irresistibly seductive, “I have given one reason
for my whim: there are others, which affect you more nearly and
pleasantly, perhaps. Little more than a year ago, your first book came
out, making you famous for a time. You have enjoyed your laurels for a
twelvemonth, and begin to sigh for more. The world has petted you, as it
does any novelty, and expects to be paid for its petting, else it will
soon forget you.”

“No fear of that!” exclaimed the other, with the artless arrogance of
youth.

“If I thought you would survive the experiment, I would leave you to
discover what a fickle mistress you serve. But frost would soon blight
your budding talent, so we will keep on the world’s sunny side, and
tempt the Muse, not terrify her.”

Nothing could be smoother than the voice in which these words were said;
but a keen ear would have detected an accent of delicate irony in it,
and a quick eye have seen that Canaris winced, as if a sore spot had
been touched.

“I should think marriage would do that last, most effectually,” he
answered, with a scornful shrug, and an air of great distaste.

“Not always: some geniuses are the better for such bondage. I fancy you
are one of them, and wish to try the experiment. If it fails, you can
play Byron, to your heart’s content.”

“A costly experiment for some one.” Canaris paused in his impatient
march, to look down with a glance of pity at the dead lily still knotted
in his button-hole.

Helwyze laughed at the touch of sentiment,—a low, quiet laugh; but it
made the young man flush, and hastily fling away the faded flower, whose
pure loveliness had been a joy to him an hour ago. With a half docile,
half defiant look, he asked coldly,—

“What next, sir?”

“Only this: you have done well. Now, you must do better, and let the
second book be free from the chief fault which critics found,—that,
though the poet wrote of love, it was evident he had never felt it.”

“Who shall say that?” with sudden warmth.

“I, for one. You know nothing of love, though you may flatter yourself
you do. So far, it has been pretty play enough, but I will not have you
waste yourself, or your time. You need inspiration, this will give it
you. At your age, it is easy to love the first sweet woman brought near
you, and almost impossible for any such to resist your wooing. An early
marriage will not only give heart and brain a fillip, but add the new
touch of romance needed to keep up the world’s interest in the rising
star, whose mysterious advent piques curiosity as strongly as his work
excites wonder and delight.”

Composure and content had been gradually creeping back into the
listener’s mien, as a skilful hand touched the various chords that
vibrated most tunefully in a young, imaginative, ardent nature. Vivid
fancy painted the “sweet woman” in a breath, quick wit saw at once the
worldly wisdom of the advice, and ambition found no obstacle impassable.

“You are right, sir, I submit; but I claim the privilege of choosing my
inspirer,” he said, warily.

“You have already chosen, if I am not much mistaken. A short wooing, but
a sure one; for little Gladys has no coquetry, and will not keep you
waiting for her answer.”

“Gladys is a child,” began Canaris, still hesitating to avow the truth.

“The fitter mate for you.”

“But, sir, you are mistaken: I do not love her.”

“Then, why teach her to love you?”

“I have not: I was only kind. Surely I cannot be expected to marry every
young girl who blushes when I look at her,” he said, with sullen
petulance, for women had spoilt the handsome youth, and he was as
ungrateful as such idols usually are.

“Then, who?—ah! I perceive; I had forgotten that a boy’s first
tendresse is too often for a woman twice his age. May I trouble you?”
and Helwyze held up the empty glass with which he had been toying while
he talked.

Among the strew of books upon the table at his elbow stood an antique
silver flagon, coolly frosted over by the iced wine it held. This
Canaris obediently lifted; and, as he stooped to fill the rosy bowl of
the Venetian goblet, Helwyze leaned forward, till the two faces were so
close that eye looked into eye, as he said, in one swift sentence, “It
was to win Olivia for yourself, then, that you wooed Gladys for me,
three hours ago?”

The flagon was not heavy, but it shook in the young man’s grasp, and the
wine overflowed the delicate glass, dyeing red the hand that held it.
One face glowed with shame and anger; the other remained unmoved, except
a baffling smile upon the lips, that added, in mild reproach,—

“My Ganymede has lost his skill; it is time I filled his place with a
neat-handed Hebe. Make haste, and bring her to me soon.”

Mutely Canaris removed all traces of the treacherous mishap, inwardly
cursing his imprudent confidences, wondering what malignant chance
brought within ear-shot one who rarely left his own apartments at the
other end of the villa; and conscious of an almost superstitious fear of
this man, who read so surely, and dragged to light so ruthlessly, hidden
hopes and half-formed designs.

Vouchsafing no enlightenment, Helwyze sipped the cool draught with an
air of satisfaction, continuing the conversation in a tone of
exasperating calmness.

“Among other amusing fables with which you beguiled poor Gladys, I think
you promised counsel and comfort. Keep your word, and marry her. It is
the least you can do, after destroying her faith in the one friend she
possessed. A pleasant, but a dangerous pastime, and not in the best
taste; let me advise you to beware of it in future.”

There was a covert menace in the tone, a warning in the significant grip
of the pale fingers round the glass, as if about to snap its slender
stem. Canaris was white now with impotent wrath, and a thrill went
through his vigorous young frame, as if the wild creature was about to
break loose, and defy its captor.

But the powerful eye was on him, with a spark of fire in its depths, and
controlled till words, both sweet and bitter, soothed and won him.

“I know that any breath of tenderness would pass by Olivia as idly as
the wind. You doubt this, and a word will prove it. I am not a tyrant,
though I seem such; therefore you are free to try your fate before you
gratify my whim and make Gladys happy.”

“You think the answer will be ‘No?’” and Canaris forgot every thing but
the hope which tempted, even while reason told him it was vain.

“It always has been; it always will be, if I know her.”

“Will be till you ask.”

“Rest easy; I am done with love.”

“But if she answers ‘Yes’?”

“Then bid good-bye to peace,—and me.”

The answer startled the young lover, and made him shrink from what he
ardently desired; for the new passion was but an enthralment of the
senses, and he knew it by the fine instinct which permits such men to
see and condemn their lower nature, even while yielding to its sway.

But pride silenced doubt, and native courage made it impossible to shun
the trial or accept the warning. His eye lit, his head rose, and he
spoke out manfully, though unconsciously he wore the look of one who
goes to lead a forlorn hope,—

“I shall try my fate to-night, and, if I fail, you may do what you like
with me.”

“Not a coward, thank Heaven!” mused Helwyze, as he looked after the
retreating figure with the contemptuous admiration one gives to any
foolhardy enterprise bravely undertaken. “He must have his lesson, and
will be the tamer for it, unless Olivia takes me at my word, and humors
the boy, for vengeance’ sake. That would be a most dramatic
complication, and endanger my winter’s comfort seriously. Come, suspense
is a new emotion; I will enjoy it, and meantime make sure of Gladys, or
I may be left in the lurch. A reckless boy and a disappointed woman are
capable of any folly.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   V.


Helwyze folded black velvet paletôt about him, stroked the damp hair
off his forehead, and, with hands loosely clasped behind his back, went
walking slowly through the quiet house, to find the bright drawing-room
and breezy balcony already deserted.

No sound of voice or step gave him the clew he sought; and, pausing in
the hall, he stood a moment, his finger on his lip, wondering whither
Gladys had betaken herself.

“Not with them, assuredly. Dreaming in the moonshine somewhere. I must
look again.”

Retracing his noiseless steps, he glanced here and there with eyes which
nothing could escape, for trifles were significant to his quick wit; and
he found answers to unspoken queries in the relics the vanished trio
left behind them. Olivia’s fan, flung down upon a couch, made him smile,
as if he saw her toss it there when yielding half-impatiently to the
entreaties of Canaris. An ottoman, pushed hastily aside, told where the
young lover sat, till he beguiled her out to listen to the pleading
which would wax eloquent and bold under cover of the summer night. The
instrument stood open, a favorite song upon the rack, but the glimmering
keys were mute; and the wind alone was singing fitfully. A little hat
lay in the window, as if ready to be caught up in glad haste when the
summons came; but the dew had dimmed the freshness of its azure ribbons,
and there was a forlorn look about the girlish thing, which told the
story of a timid hope, a silent disappointment.

“Where the deuce is the child?” and Helwyze cast an ireful look about
the empty room; for motion wearied him, and any thwarting of his will
was dangerous. Suddenly his eye brightened, and he nodded, as if well
pleased; for below the dark drapery that hung before an arch, a fold of
softest white betrayed the wearer.

“Now I have her!” he whispered, as if to some familiar; and, parting the
curtains, looked down upon the little figure sitting there alone, bathed
in moonlight as purely placid as the face turned on him when he spoke.

“Might one come in? The house seems quite deserted, and I want some
charitable soul to say a friendly word to me.”

“Oh, yes! What can I do, sir?” With the look of a suddenly awakened
child, Gladys rose up, and involuntarily put out her hand as if to heap
yet more commodiously the pillows of the couch which filled the alcove;
then paused, remembering what Canaris had told her of the invalid’s
rejection of all sympathy, and stood regarding him with a shy, yet
wistful glance, which plainly showed the impulse of her tender heart.

Conscious that the surest way to win this simple creature was by
submitting to be comforted,—for in her, womanly compassion was stronger
than womanly ambition, vanity, or interest,—Helwyze shed a reassuring
smile upon her, as he threw himself down, exclaiming, with a sigh of
satisfaction, doubly effective from one who so seldom owned the
weariness that oppressed him,—

“Yes: you shall make me comfortable, if you kindly will; the heat
exhausts me, and I cannot sleep. Ah, this is pleasant! You have the gift
of piling pillows for weary heads, Gladys. Now, let the moonlight make a
picture of you, as it did before I spoilt it; then I shall envy no man.”

Pleased, yet abashed, the girl sank back into her place on the wide
window ledge, and bent her face over the blooming linden spray that lay
upon her lap, unconsciously making of herself a prettier picture than
before.

“Musing here alone? Not sorrowfully, I hope?”

“I never feel alone, sir, and seldom sorrowful.”

“‘They never are alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts;’ yet it
would not be unnatural if you felt both sad and solitary, so young, so
isolated, in this big, bad world of ours.”

“A beautiful and happy world to me, sir. Even loneliness is pleasant,
because with it comes—liberty.”

The last word fell from her lips involuntarily; and, with a wonderfully
expressive gesture, she lifted her arms as if some heavy fetter had
newly dropped away.

Ardent emphasis and forceful action both surprised and interested
Helwyze, confirming his suspicion that this girlish bosom hid a spirit
as strong as pure, capable of deep suffering, exquisite happiness,
heroic effort. His eye shone, and he gave a satisfied nod; for his first
careless words had struck fire from the girl, making his task easier and
more attractive.

“And how will you use this freedom? A precious, yet a perilous, gift for
such as you.”

“Can any thing so infinitely sweet and sacred be dangerous? He who
planted the longing for it here, and gave it me when most needed, will
surely teach me how to use it. I have no fear.”

The bent head was erect now; the earnest face turned full on Helwyze
with such serene faith shining in it, that the sneer died off his lips,
and something like genuine compassion touched him, at the sight of such
brave innocence tranquilly confronting the unknown future.

“May nothing molest, or make afraid. While here, you are quite safe;—you
do, then, think of going?” he added, as a quick change arrested him.

“I do, sir, and soon. I only wait to see how, and where.”

It was difficult to believe that so resolute a tone could come into a
voice so gentle, or that lips whose shape was a smile could curl with
such soft scorn. But both were there; for the memory of that other
woman’s story embittered even gratitude, since in the girl’s simple
creed disloyalty to love was next to disloyalty to God.

Helwyze watched her closely, while his fingers fell to tapping idly on
the sofa scroll; and the spark brightened under the lids that contracted
with the intent expression of concentrated sight.

“Perhaps I can show you how and when. May I?” he asked, assuming a
paternal air, which inwardly amused him much.

Gladys looked, hesitated, and a shade of perplexity dimmed the clear
brightness of her glance, as if vaguely conscious of distrust, and
troubled by its seeming causelessness.

Helwyze saw it, and quickly added the magical word which lulled
suspicion, roused interest, and irresistibly allured her fancy.

“Pardon me; I should not have ventured to speak, if Felix had not hinted
that you began to weary of dependence, as all free spirits must; your
own words confirm the hint; and I desired to share my cousin’s pleasure
in befriending, if I might, one who can so richly repay all obligation.
Believe me, Gladys, your voice is a treasure, which, having discovered,
we want to share between us.”

If the moonlight had been daybreak, the girl’s cheek could not have
shown a rosier glow, as she half-averted it to hide the joy she felt at
knowing Canaris had taken thought for her so soon. Her heart fluttered
with tender hopes and fears, like a nestful of eager birds; and,
forgetting doubt in delight, she yielded to the lure held out to her.

“You are most kind: I shall be truly grateful if you will advise me,
sir. Mrs. Surry has done so much, I can ask no more, but rather hasten
to relieve her of all further care of me.”

“She will be loth to lose you; but the friend of whom I am about to
speak needs you much, and can give you what you love better even than
kindness,—independence.”

“Yes: that is what I long for! I will do any thing for daily bread, if I
may earn it honestly, and eat it in freedom,” leaning nearer, with
clasped hands and eager look.

“Could you be happy to spend some hours of each day in reading, singing
to, and amusing a poor soul, who sorely needs such pleasant comforting?”

“I could. It would be very sweet to do it; and I know how, excellently
well, for I have had good training. My father was an invalid, and I his
only nurse for years.”

“Fortunate for me in all ways,” thought Helwyze, finding another reason
for his purpose; while Gladys, bee-like, getting sweetness out of
bitter-herbs, said to herself, “Those weary years had their use, and are
not wasted, as I feared.”

“I think these duties will not be difficult nor distasteful,” continued
Helwyze, marking the effect of each attraction, as he mentioned it with
modest brevity. “It is a quiet place; plenty of rare books to read, fine
pictures to study, and music to enjoy; a little clever society, to keep
wits bright and enliven solitude; hours of leisure, and entire liberty
to use them as you will. Would this satisfy you, Gladys, till something
better can be found?”

“Better!” echoed the girl, with the expression of one who, having asked
for a crust, is bidden to a feast. “Ah, sir, it sounds too pleasant for
belief. I long for all these lovely things, but never hoped to have
them. Can I earn so much happiness? Am I a fit companion for this poor
lady, who must need the gentlest nursing, if she suffers in the midst of
so much to enjoy?”

“You will suit exactly; have no fear of that, my good child. Just be
your own happy, helpful self, and you can make sunshine anywhere. We
will talk more of this when you have turned it over in that wise young
head of yours. Olivia may have some more attractive plan to offer.”

But Gladys shook “the wise young head” with a decided air, as piquante
as the sudden resolution in her artless voice.

“I shall choose for myself; your plan pleases me better than any Mrs.
Surry is likely to propose. She says I must not work, but rest and enjoy
myself. I will work; I love it; ease steals away my strength, and
pleasure seems to dazzle me. I must be strong, for I have only myself to
lean upon; I must see clearly, for my only guide is my own conscience. I
will think of your most kind offer, and be ready to accept it whenever
you like to try me, sir.”

“Thanks; I like to try you now, then; sit here and croon some drowsy
song, to show how well you can lull wakeful senses into that blessed
oblivion called sleep.”

As he spoke, Helwyze drew a low seat beside the couch, and beckoned her
to come and take it; for she had risen as if to go, and he had no mind
to be left alone yet.

“I am so pleased you asked me to do this, for it is my special gift.
Papa was very stubborn, but he always had to yield, and often called me
his ‘sleep compeller.’ Let me drop the curtain first, light is so
exciting, and draws the insects. I shall keep them off with this pretty
fan, and you will find the faint perfume soothing.”

Full of the sweetest good-will, Gladys leaned across the couch to darken
the recess before the lullaby began. But Helwyze, feeling in a mood for
investigation and experiment, arrested the outstretched hand, and,
holding it in his, turned the full brilliance of his fine eyes on hers,
asking with most seductive candor,—

“Gladys, if I were the friend of whom we spoke, would you come to me?
You compel truth as well as sleep, and I cannot deceive you, while you
so willingly serve me.”

A moment she stood looking down into the singular countenance before her
with a curious intentness in her own. A slight quickening of the breath
was all the sign she gave of a consciousness of the penetrative glance
fixed upon her, the close grasp of his hand; otherwise unembarrassed as
a child, she regarded him with an expression maidenly modest, but quite
composed. Helwyze keenly enjoyed these glimpses of the new character
with which he chose to meddle, yet was both piqued and amused by her
present composure, when the mere name of Felix filled her with the
delicious shamefacedness of a first love.

It was a little curious that during the instant the two surveyed each
other, that, while the girl’s color faded, a light red tinged the man’s
pale cheek, her eye grew clear and cold as his softened, and the small
hand seemed to hold the larger by the mere contact of its passive
fingers.

Slow to arrive, the answer was both comprehensive and significant, but
very brief, for three words held it.

“Could I come?”

Helwyze laughed with real enjoyment.

“You certainly have the gift of surprises, if no other, and it makes you
charming, Gladys. I fancied you as unsophisticated as if you were eight,
instead of eighteen, and here I find you as discreet as any woman of the
world,—more so than many. Where did you learn it, child?”

“From myself; I have no other teacher.”

“Ah! ‘instinct is a fine thing, my masters.’ You could not have a
better guide. Rest easy, little friend, the proprieties shall be
preserved, and you can come, if you decide to do me the honor. My old
housekeeper is a most decorous and maternal creature, and into her
keeping you will pass. Felix pleased me well, but his time is too
valuable now; and, selfish as I am, I hesitate to keep for my own
comfort the man who can charm so many. Will you come, and take his
place?”

Helwyze could not deny himself the pleasure of calling back the
tell-tale color, for the blushes of a chaste woman are as beautiful as
the blooming of a flower. Quickly the red tide rose, even to the brow,
the eyes fell, the hand thrilled, and the steady voice faltered
traitorously, “I could not fill it, sir.”

Still detaining her, that he might catch the sweet aroma of an opening
heart, Helwyze added, as the last temptation to this young Eve, whom he
was beguiling out of the safe garden of her tranquil girlhood into the
unknown world of pain and passion, waiting for womankind beyond,—

“Not for my own sake alone do I want you, but for his. Life is full of
perils for him, and he needs a home. I cannot make one for him, except
in this way, for my house is my prison, and he wearies of it naturally.
But I can give it a new charm, add a never-failing attraction, and
make it homelike by a woman’s presence. Will you help me in this?”

“I am not wise enough; Mrs. Surry is often with you: surely she could
make it homelike far better than I,” stammered Gladys, chilled by a
sudden fear, as she remembered Canaris’ face as he departed with Olivia
an hour ago.

“Pardon; that is precisely what she cannot do. Such women weary while
they dazzle, the gentler sort win while they soothe. We shall see less
of her in future; it is not well for Felix. Take pity on me, at least,
and answer ‘Yes.’”

“I do, sir.”

“How shall I thank you?” and Helwyze kissed the hand as he released it,
leaving a little thorn of jealousy behind to hoodwink prudence,
stimulate desire, and fret the inward peace that was her best
possession.

Glad to take refuge in music, the girl assumed her seat, and began to
sing dreamily to the slow waving of the green spray. Helwyze feigned to
be courting slumber, but from the ambush of downcast lids he stole
sidelong glances at the countenance so near his own, that he could mark
the gradual subsiding of emotion, the slow return of the repose which
made its greatest charm for him. And so well did he feign, that
presently, as if glad to see her task successfully ended, Gladys stole
away to the seclusion of her own happy thoughts.

Busied with his new plans and purposes, Helwyze waited till his patience
was rewarded by seeing the face of Canaris appear at the window, glance
in, and vanish as silently as it came. But one look was enough, and in
that flash of time the other read how the rash wooing had sped, or
thought he did, till Olivia came sweeping through the room, flung wide
the curtains, and looked in with eyes as brilliant as if, they had
borrowed light of the fire-flies dancing there without.

“A fan, a cigarette, a scarlet flower behind the ear, and the Spanish
donna would be quite perfect,” he said, surveying with lazy admiration
the richly colored face, which looked out from the black lace, wrapped
mantilla-wise over the dark hair and whitely gleaming arms.

“Is the snowdrop gone? Then I will come in, and hear how the new
handmaid suits. I saw her at her pleasing task.”

“So well that I should like to keep her at it long and often. Where is
Felix?”

His words, his look, angered Olivia, and she answered with smiling
ambiguity,—

“Out of his misery, at last.”

“Cruel as ever. I told him it would be so.”

“On the contrary, I have been kind, as I promised to be.”

“Then his face belied him.”

“Would it please you, if I had ventured to forestall your promised gift,
and accepted all Felix has to offer me, himself. I have my whims, like
you, and follow them as recklessly.”

Helwyze knit his brows, but answered negligently, “Folly never pleases
me. It will be amusing to see which tires first. I shall miss him; but
his place is already filled, and Gladys has the charm of novelty.”

“You have spoken, then?”

“Forewarned, forearmed; I have her promise, and Felix can go when he
likes.”

Olivia paled, dropped her mask, and exclaimed in undisguised alarm,—

“There is no need: I have no thought of such folly! My kindness to Felix
was the sparing him an avowal, which was simply absurd. A word, a laugh,
did it, for ridicule cures more quickly and surely than compassion.”

“I thought so. Why try to fence with me, Madama? you always get the
worst of it,” and Helwyze made the green twig whistle through the air
with a sharp turn of the wrist, as he rose to go; for these two, bound
together by a mutual wrong, seldom met without bitter words, the dregs
of a love which might have blest them both.

He found Felix waiting for him, in a somewhat haughty mood; Olivia
having judged wisely that ridicule, though a harsh, was a speedy cure
for the youthful delusion, which had been fostered by the isolation in
which they lived, and the ardent imagination of a poet.

“You were right, sir. What are your commands?” he asked, controlling
disappointment, pique, and unwillingness with a spirit that won respect
and forbearance even from Helwyze, who answered with a cordial warmth,
as rare as charming,—

“I have none: the completion of my wish I leave to you. Consult your own
time and pleasure, and, when it is happily accomplished, be assured I
shall not forget that you have shown me the obedience of a son.”

Quick as a child to be touched, and won by kindness, Canaris flushed
with grateful feeling and put out his hand impulsively, as he had done
when selling his liberty, for now he was selling his love.

“Forgive my waywardness. I will be guided by you, for I owe you my
life, and all the happiness I have known in it. Gladys shall be a
daughter to you; but give me time—I must teach myself to forget.”

His voice broke as he stumbled over the last words, for pride was sore,
and submission hard. But Helwyze soothed the one and softened the other
by one of the sympathetic touches which occasionally broke from him,
proving that the man’s heart, was not yet quite dead. Laying his hand
upon the young man’s shoulder, he said in a tone which stirred the
hearer deeply,—

“I feared this pain was in store for you, but could not save you from
it. Accept the gentle comforter I bring you, for I have known the same
pain, and I had no Gladys.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  VI.


So the days went by, fast and fair in outward seeming, while an
undercurrent of unquiet emotion rolled below. Helwyze made no sign of
impatience, but silently forwarded his wish, by devoting himself to
Olivia; thereby making a green oasis in the desert of her life, and
leaving the young pair to themselves.

At first, Canaris shunned every one as much as possible; but sympathy,
not solitude, was the balm he wanted, and who could give it him so
freely as Gladys? Her mute surprise and doubt and grief at this
capricious coldness, after such winning warmth, showed him that the
guileless heart was already his, and added a soothing sense of power to
the reluctance and regret which by turns tormented him.

Irresistibly drawn by the best instincts of a faulty but aspiring nature
to that which was lovely, true, and pure, he soon returned to Gladys,
finding in her sweet society a refreshment and repose Olivia’s could
never give him. Love he did not feel, but affection, the more helpful
for its calmness; confidence, which was given again fourfold; and
reverence, daily deepening as time showed him the gentle strength and
crystal clarity of the spirit he was linking to his own by ties which
death itself could not sever. But the very virtues which won, also made
him hesitate, though rash enough when yielding to an attraction far less
noble. A sense of unworthiness restrained him, even when reluctance had
passed from resignation to something like desire, and he paused, as one
might, who longed to break a delicate plant, yet delayed, lest it should
wither too quickly in his hand.

Helwyze and Olivia watched this brief wooing with peculiar interest.
She, being happy herself, was full of good hope for Gladys, and let her
step, unwarned, into the magic circle drawn around her. He sat as if at
a play, enjoying the pretty pastoral enacted before him, content to let
“summer and seclusion” bring the young pair together as naturally and
easily as spring-time mates the birds. Suspense gave zest to the new
combination, surprise added to its flavor, and a dash of danger made it
unusually attractive to him.

Canaris came to him one day, with a resolute expression on his face,
which rendered it noble, as well as beautiful.

“Sir, I will not do this thing; I dare not.”

“Dare not! Is cowardice to be added to disobedience and falsehood?” and
Helwyze looked up from his book with a contemptuous frown.

“I will not be sneered out of my purpose; for I never did a braver,
better act than when I say to you, ‘I dare not lie to Gladys.’”

“What need of lying? Surely you love her now, or you are a more
accomplished actor than I thought you.”

“I have tried,—tried too faithfully for her peace, I fear; but, though I
reverence her as an angel, I do not love her as a woman. How can I
look into her innocent, confiding face, and tell her,—she who is all
truth,—that I love as she does?”

“Yet that is the commonest, most easily forgiven falsehood a man can
utter. Is it so hard for you to deceive?”

Quick and deep rose the hot scarlet to Canaris’s face, and his eyes
fell, as if borne down by the emphasis of that one word. But the
sincerity of his desire brought courage even out of shame; and, lifting
his head with a humility more impressive than pride or anger, he said,
steadily,—

“If this truth redeems that falsehood, I shall, at least, have recovered
my own self-respect. I never knew that I had lost it, till Gladys showed
me how poor I was in the virtue which makes her what she is.”

“What conscientious qualm is this? Where would this truth-telling bring
you? How would your self-respect bear the knowledge that you had broken
the girl’s heart? for, angel as you call her, she has one, and you have
stolen it.”

“At your bidding.”

“Long before I thought of it. Did you imagine you could play with her,
to pique Olivia, without harm to Gladys? Is yours a face to smile on a
woman, day after day, and not teach her to love? In what way but this
can you atone for such selfish thoughtlessness? Come, if we are to
talk of honor and honesty, do it fairly, and not shift the
responsibility of your acts upon my shoulders.”

“Have I done that? I never meant to trouble her. Is there no way out of
it but this? Oh, sir, I am not fit to marry her! What am I, to take a
fellow-creature’s happiness into my hands? What have I to offer her but
the truth in return for her love, if I must take it to secure her
peace?”

“If you offer the truth, you certainly will have nothing else, and not
even receive love in return, perhaps; for her respect may go with all
the rest. If I know her, the loss of that would wound her heart more
deeply than the disappointment your silence will bring her now. Think of
this, and be wise as well as generous in the atonement you should make.”

“Bound, whichever way I look; for when I meant to be kindest I am
cruel.”

Canaris stood perplexed, abashed, remorseful; for Helwyze had the art to
turn even his virtues into weapons against him, making his new-born
regard for Gladys a reason for being falsely true, dishonorably tender.
The honest impulse suddenly looked weak and selfish, compassion seemed
nobler than sincerity, and present peace better than future happiness.

Helwyze saw that he was wavering, and turned the scale by calling to his
aid one of the strongest passions that rule men,—the spirit of
rivalry,—knowing well its power over one so young, so vain and
sensitive.

“Felix, there must be an end of this; I am tired of it. Since you are
more enamoured of truth than Gladys, choose, and abide by it. I shall
miss my congenial comrade, but I will not keep him if he feels my
friendship slavery. I release you from all promises: go your way, in
peace; I can do without you.”

A daring offer, and Helwyze risked much in making it; but he knew the
man before him, and that in seeming to set free, he only added another
link to the invisible chain by which he held him. Canaris looked
relieved, amazed, and touched, as he exclaimed, incredulously,—

“Do you mean it, sir?”

“I do; but in return for your liberty I claim the right to use mine as I
will.”

“Use it? I do not understand.”

“To comfort Gladys.”

“How?”

“You do not love her, and leave her doubly forlorn, since you have given
her a glimpse of love. I must befriend her, as you will not; and when
she comes to me, as she has promised, if she is happy, I shall keep
her.”

“As fille adoptive.”

Canaris affirmed, not asked, this; and, in the changed tone, the
suspicious glance, Helwyze saw that he had aimed well. With a smile that
was a sneer, he answered coldly,—

“Hardly that: the paternal element is sadly lacking in me; and, if it
were not, I fear a man of forty could not adopt a girl of eighteen
without compromising her, especially one so lonely and so lovely as poor
little Gladys.”

“You will marry her? Yet when I hinted it, you said, ‘Impossible!’”

“I did; but then I did not know how helpful she could be, how glad to
love, how easy to be won by kindness. Ennui drives one to do the
rashest things; and when you are gone, I shall find it difficult to fill
your place. ’Tis a pity to tie the pretty creature to such a clod. But,
if I can help and keep her in no other way, I may do it, remembering
that her captivity would be a short one; it should be my care that it
was a very light one while it lasted.”

“But she loves me!” exclaimed Canaris, with jealous inconsistency.

“I fear so; yet you reject her for a scruple. Hearts are easily caught
in the rebound; and who will hold hers more gently than I? Olivia will
tell you I can be gentle when it suits me.”

The name stung Canaris, where pride was sorest; and the thought, that
this man could take from him both the woman whom he loved and the girl
who loved him, roused an ignoble desire to silence the noble one. He
showed it instantly, for his eye shot a quick glance at the mirror; a
smile that was almost insolent passed over his face; and his air was
full of the proud consciousness of youth, health, comeliness, and
talent.

“Thanks for my freedom; I shall know how to use it. Since I may tell
Gladys the truth, I do not dread her love so much; and will atone
generously, if I can. I think she will accept poverty with me rather
than luxury with you. At least she shall have her choice.”

“Well said. You will succeed, since you possess all the gifts which win
women except wealth and”—

“Stop! you shall not say it,” cried Canaris, hotly. “Are you possessed
of a devil, that you torment me so?” He clenched his hands, and walked
fast through the room, as if to escape from some fierce impulse.

A certain, almost brutal, frankness characterized the intercourse of
these men at times; for the tie between them was a peculiar one, and
fretted both, though both clung to it with strange tenacity. With equal
candor and entire composure Helwyze answered the excited question.

“We are all possessed, more or less; happy the man who is master. My
demon is a bad one; for your intellectual devil is hard to manage, since
he demands the best of us, and is not satisfied or cheated as easily as
some that are stronger, yet less cunning. Yours is ambition,—an
insatiable fellow, who gives you no rest. I had a fancy to help you rule
him; but he proves less interesting that I thought to find him, and is
getting to be a bore. See what you can do, alone; only, when he gets the
upper hand again, excuse me from interfering: once is enough.”

Canaris made no reply, but dashed out of the room, as if he could bear
no more, leaving Helwyze to throw down his book, muttering impatiently,—

“Here is a froward favorite, and excitement with a vengeance! He will
not speak yet; for with all his fire he is wary, and while he fumes I
must work. But how? but how?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  VII.


A storm raged all that night; but dawn came up so dewy and serene, that
the world looked like a child waking after anger, with happy smiles upon
its lips, penitential tears in its blue eyes.

Canaris was early astir, after a night as stormy within as without,
during which he had gone through so many alternations of feeling, that,
weary and still undecided, he was now in the mood to drift whithersoever
the first eddy impelled him. Straight to Gladys, it seemed; and, being
superstitious, he accepted the accident as a good omen, following his
own desire, and calling it fate.

Wandering in the loneliest, wildest spot of all the domain, he came upon
her as suddenly as if a wish had brought her to the nook haunted for
both by pleasant memories. Dew-drenched her feet, hatless her head; but
the feet stood firmly on the cliff which shelved down to the shore
below, and the upturned head shone bright against the deep blue of the
sky. Morning peace dwelt in her eyes, morning freshness glowed on her
cheek, and her whole attitude was one of unconscious aspiration, as she
stood there with folded hands and parted lips, drinking in the
storm-cooled breeze that blew vigorous and sweet across the lake.

“What are you doing here so early, little dryad?” and Canaris paused,
with an almost irresistible desire to put out his arms and hold her,
lest she fly away, so airy was her perch, so eager her look into the
boundless distance before her.

“Only being happy!” and she looked down into his face with such tender
and timid joy in her own, he hardly had need to ask,—

“Why, Gladys?”

“Because of this,” showing a string of pearls that hung from her hand,
half-hidden among the trailing bits of greenery gathered in her walk.

“Who gave you that?” demanded Canaris, eying it with undisguised
surprise; for the pearls were great, globy things, milk-white, and so
perfect that any one but Gladys would have seen how costly was the gift.

“Need you ask?” she said, blushing brightly.

“Why not? Do you suspect me?”

“You cannot deceive me by speaking roughly and looking stern. Who but
you would put these in my basket without a word, and let me find them
there when I laid my work away last night? I was so pleased, so proud, I
could not help keeping them, though far too beautiful for me.”

Then Canaris knew who had done it; and his hand tightened over the
necklace, while his eye went towards the lake, as if he longed to throw
it far into the water. He checked himself, and, turning it about with a
disdainful air, said, coldly,—

“If I had given you this, it should have been quite perfect. The cross
is not large nor fine enough to match the chain. Do you see?”

“Ah, but the little cross is more precious than all the rest! That is
the one jewel my mother left me, and I put it there to make my rosary
complete;” and Gladys surveyed it with a pretty mixture of devout
affection and girlish pleasure.

“I’ll give you a better one than this,—a string of tiny carved saints in
scented wood, blessed by holy hands, and fit to say prayers like yours
upon. You will take it, though my gift is not half so costly as his?” he
said, eagerly.

“Whose?”

“Helwyze gave you that.”

“But why?” and Gladys opened wide her clear, large eyes in genuine
astonishment.

“He is a generous master; your singing pleases him, and he pays you so,”
replied Canaris, bitterly.

“He is not my master!”

“He will be.”

“Never! I shall not go, if I am to be burdened with benefits. I will
earn my just due, but not be overpaid. Tell him so.”

Gladys caught back the chain, unclasped the cross, and threw the pearls
upon the grass, where they lay, gleaming, like great drops of frozen
dew, among the green. Canaris liked that; thought proudly, “I have no
need to bribe;” and hastened to make his own the thing another seemed to
covet. Drawing nearer, he looked up, asking, in a tone that gave the
question its true meaning,—

“May I be your master, Gladys?”

“Not even you.”

“Your slave, then?”

“Never that.”

“Your lover?”

“Yes.”

“But I can give you nothing except myself.”

“Love is enough;” and finding his arms about her, his face, warm and
wistful, close to hers, Gladys bent to give and take the first kiss,
which was all they had to bestow upon each other.

Singularly unimpassioned was the embrace in which they stood for a brief
instant. Canaris held her with a clasp more jealous than fond; Gladys
clung to him, yet trembled, as if some fear subdued her joy; and both
vaguely felt the incompleteness of a moment which should be perfect.

“You do love me, then?” she whispered, wondering at his silence.

“Should I ask you to be my wife if I did not?” and the stern look melted
into an expression of what seemed, to her, reproach.

“No; ah, no! I fancied that I might have deceived myself. I am so young,
you are so kind. I never had a—friend before;” and Gladys smiled shyly,
as the word which meant “lover” dropped from her lips.

“I am not kind: I am selfish, cruel, perhaps, to let you love me so. You
will never reproach me for it, Gladys? I mean to save you from ills you
know nothing of; to cherish and protect you—if I can.”

Verily in earnest now; for the touch of those innocent lips reminded him
of all his promise meant, recalled his own unfitness to guide or guard
another, when so wayward and unwise himself. Gladys could not understand
the true cause of his beseeching look, his urgency of tone; but saw in
them only the generous desire to keep safe the creature dearest to him,
and loved him the more for it.

“I never can think you selfish, never will reproach you but will love
and trust and honor you all my life,” she answered, with a simplicity as
solemn as sincere; and, holding out the hand that held her dead mother’s
cross, Canaris pledged his troth upon it with the mistaken chivalry
which makes many a man promise to defend a woman against all men but
himself.

“Now you can be happy again,” he said, feeling that he had done his best
to keep her so.

She thought he meant look out upon the lake, dreaming of him as when he
found her; and, turning, stretched forth her arms as if to embrace the
whole world, and tell the smiling heaven her glad secret.

“Doubly happy; then I only hoped, now I know!”

Something in the exultant gesture, the fervent tone, the radiant face,
thrilled Canaris with a sudden admiration; a feeling of proud
possession; a conviction that he had gained, not lost; and he said
within himself,—

“I am glad I did it. I will cherish her; she will inspire me; and good
shall come out of seeming evil.”

His spirits rose with a new sense of well-being and well-doing. He
gathered up the rejected treasure, and gave it back to Gladys, saying
lightly,—

“You may keep it as a wedding-gift; then he need give no other. He meant
it so, perhaps, and it will please him. Will you, love?”

“If you ask it. But why must brides wear pearls? They mean tears,” she
added, thoughtfully, as she received them back.

“Perhaps because then the sorrows of their lives begin. Yours shall not:
I will see to that,” he promised, with the blind confidence of the
self-sacrificing mood he was in.

Gladys sat down upon the rock to explore a pocket, so small and empty
that Canaris could not help smiling, as he, too, leaned and looked with
a lover’s freedom.

“Only my old chain. I must put back the cross, else I shall lose it,”
laughed Gladys, as she brought out a little cord of what seemed woven
yellow silk.

“Is it your hair?” he asked, his eye caught by its peculiar sunshiny
hue.

“Yes; I could not buy a better one, so I made this. My hair is all the
gold I have.”

“Give it to me, and you wear mine. See, I have an amulet as well as
you.”

Fumbling in his breast, Canaris undid a slender chain, whence hung a
locket, curiously chased, and tarnished with long wear. This he unslung,
and, opening, showed Gladys the faded picture of a beautiful, sad woman.

“That is my Madonna.”

“Your mother?”

“Yes.”

“Mine now.” The girl touched it with her lips, then softly closed and
laid it on her lap.

Silently Canaris stood watching her, as she re-slung both poor but
precious relics, while the costlier one slipped down, as if ashamed to
lie beside them. He caught and swung it on his finger, thinking of
something he had lately read to Helwyze.

“Kharsu, the Persian, sent a necklace to Schirin, the princess, whom he
loved. She was a Christian, and hung a cross upon his string of pearls,
as you did,” he said aloud.

“But I am not a princess, and Mr. Helwyze does not love me; so the
pretty story is all spoiled.”

“This thing recalled it. I have given you a necklace, and you are
hanging a cross upon it. Wear the one, and use the other, for my sake.
Will you, Gladys?”

