something to look at. No plainer attire nor brighter beauty would be
seen among the gay snow-revellers that afternoon. She flung a sparkling
glance at her sister as she turned to go.

"Don't be very long!" Lois said.

"Just as long as he likes to make it!" Madge returned. "Do you think
I am going to ask him to turn about, before he is ready? Not I, I
promise you. Good-bye, hermit!"

Away she ran, and Lois turned again to her window, where all the white
seemed suddenly to have become black. She will marry him!--she was
saying to herself. And why should she not? she has made no promise. I
am bound--doubly; what is it to me, what they do? Yet if not right for
me it is not right for Madge. Is the Bible absolute about it?

She thought it would perhaps serve to settle and stay her mind if she
went to the Bible with the question and studied it fairly out. She drew
up the table with the book, and prayed earnestly to be taught the
truth, and to be kept contented with the right. Then she opened at the
well-known words in 2 Corinthians, chap. vi.

"Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers"--

"Yoked together." That is, bound in a bond which obliges two to go one
way and pull in one draught. Then of course they must go one way; and
which way, will depend upon which is strongest. But cannot a good woman
use her influence to induce a man who is also good, only not Christian,
to go the right way?

Lois pondered this, wishing to believe it. Yet there stood the command.
And she remembered there are two sides to influence; could not a good
man, and a pleasant man, only not Christian, use his power to induce a
Christian woman to go the wrong way? How little she would like to
displease him! how willingly she would gratify him!--And then there
stands the command. And, turning from it to a parallel passage in 1
Cor. vii. 39, she read again the directions for the marriage of a
Christian widow; she is at liberty to be married to whom she will,
"only in the Lord." There could be no question of what is the will of
God in this matter. And in Deut. vii. 3, 4, she studied anew the
reasons there given. "Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy
daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou
take unto thy son. For they will turn away thy son from following me,
that they may serve other gods."

Lois studied these passages with I cannot say how much aching of heart.
Why did her heart ache? It was nothing to her, surely; she neither
loved nor was going to love any man to whom the prohibition could
apply. Why should she concern herself with the matter? Madge?-- Well,
Madge must be the keeper of her own conscience; she would probably
marry Mr. Dillwyn; and poor Lois saw sufficiently into the workings of
her own heart to know that she thought her sister very happy in the
prospect. But then, if the question of conscience could be so got over,
why was she troubled? She would not evade the inquiry; she forced
herself to make it; and she writhed under the pressure and the pain it
caused her. At last, thoroughly humbled and grieved and ashamed, she
fled to a woman's refuge in tears, and a Christian's refuge in prayer;
and from the bottom of her heart, though with some very hard struggles,
gave up every lingering thought and wish that ran counter to the Bible
command. Let Madge do what Madge thought right; she had warned her of
the truth. Now her business was with herself and her own action; and
Lois made clean work of it. I cannot say she was exactly a happy woman
as she went down-stairs; but she felt strong and at peace. Doing the
Lord's will, she could not be miserable; with the Lord's presence she
could not be utterly alone; anyhow, she would trust him and do her
duty, and leave all the rest.

She went down-stairs at last, for she had spent the afternoon in her
own room, and felt that she owed it to Mrs. Wishart to go down and keep
her company. O, if Spring were but come! she thought as she descended
the staircase,--and she could get away, and take hold of her work, and
bring things into the old train! Spring was many weeks off yet, and she
must do different and harder work first, she saw. She went down to the
back drawing-room and laid herself upon the sofa.

"Are you not well, Lois?" was the immediate question from Mrs. Wishart.

"Yes, ma'am; only not just vigorous. How long they are gone! It is
growing late."

"The sleighing is tempting. It is not often we have such a chance. I
suppose everybody is out. You don't go into the air enough, Lois."

"I took a walk this morning."

"In the snow!--and came back tired. I saw it in your face. Such
dreadful walking was enough to tire you. I don't think you half know
how to take care of yourself."

Lois let the charge pass undisputed, and lay still. The afternoon had
waned and the sun gone down; the snow, however, made it still light
outside. But that light faded too; and it was really evening, when
sounds at the front door announced the return of the sleighing party.
Presently Madge burst in, rosy and gay as snow and sleigh-bells could
make anybody.

"It's glorious!" she said. "O, we have been to the Park and all over.
It's splendid! Everybody in the world is out, and we saw everybody, and
some people we saw two or three times; and it's like nothing in all the
world I ever saw before. The whole air is full of sleigh-bells; and the
roads are so thick with sleighs that it is positively dangerous."

"That must make it very pleasant!" said Lois languidly.

"O, it does! There's the excitement, you know, and the skill of
steering clear of people that you think are going to run over you. It's
the greatest fun I ever saw in my life. And Mr. Dillwyn drives
beautifully."

"I dare say."

"And the next piece of driving he does, is to drive you out."

"I hardly think he will manage that."

"Well, you'll see. Here he is. She says she hardly thinks you will, Mr.
Dillwyn. Now for a trial of power!"

Madge stood in the centre of the room, her hood off, her little plain
cloak still round her; eyes sparkling, cheeks rosy with pleasure and
frosty air, a very handsome and striking figure. Lois's eyes dwelt upon
her, glad and sorry at once; but Lois had herself in hand now, and was
as calm as the other was excited. Then presently came Mr. DilIwyn, and
sat down beside her couch.

"How do you do, this evening?"

His manner, she noticed, was not at all like Madge's; it was quiet,
sober, collected, gentle; sleighing seemed to have wrought no
particular exhilaration on him. Therefore it disarmed Lois. She gave
her answer in a similar tone.

"Have you been out to-day?"

"Yes--quite a long walk this morning."

"Now I want you to let me give you a short drive."

"O no, I think not."

"Come!" said he. "I may not have another opportunity to show you what
you will see to-day; and I want you to see it."

He did not seem to use much urgency, and yet there was a certain
insistance in his tone which Lois felt, and which had its effect upon
her, as such tones are apt to do, even when one does not willingly
submit to them. She objected that it was late.

"O, the moon is up," cried Madge; "it won't be any darker than it is
now."

"It will be brighter," said Philip.

"But your horses must have had enough."

"Just enough," said Philip, laughing, "to make them go quietly. Miss
Madge will bear witness they were beyond that at first. I want you to
go with me. Come, Miss Lois! We must be home before Mrs. Wishart's tea.
Miss Madge, give her your hood and cloak; that will save time."

Why should she not say no? She found it difficult, against that
something in his tone. He was more intent upon the affirmative than she
upon the negative. And after all, why should she say no? She had
fought her fight and conquered; Mr. Dillwyn was nothing to her, more
than another man; unless, indeed, he were to be Madge's husband, and
then she would have to be on good terms with, him. And she had a secret
fancy to have, for once, the pleasure of this drive with him. Why not,
just to see how it tasted? I think it went with Lois at this moment as
in the German story, where a little boy vaunted himself to his sister
that he had resisted the temptation to buy some ripe cherries, and so
had saved his pennies. His sister praised his prudence and firmness.
"But now, dear Hercules," she went on, "now that you have done right
and saved your pennies, now, my dear brother, you may reward yourself
and buy your cherries!"

Perhaps it was with some such unconscious recoil from judgment that
Lois acted now. At any rate, she slowly rose from her sofa, and Madge,
rejoicing, threw off her cloak and put it round her, and fastened its
ties. Then Mr. Dillwyn himself took the hood and put it on her head,
and tied the strings under her chin. The start this gave her almost
made Lois repent of her decision; he was looking into her face, and his
fingers were touching her cheek, and the pain of it was more than Lois
had bargained for. No, she thought, she had better not gone; but it was
too late now to alter things. She stood still, feeling that thrill of
pain and pleasure where the one so makes the other keen, keeping quiet
and not meeting his eyes; and then he put her hand upon his arm and led
her down the wide, old-fashioned staircase. Something in the air of it
all brought to Lois's remembrance that Sunday afternoon at Shampuashuh
and the walk home in the rain; and it gave her a stricture of heart.
She put the manner now to Madge's account, and thought within herself
that if Madge's hood and cloak were beside him it probably did not
matter who was in them; his fancy could do the rest. Somehow she did
not want to go to drive as Madge's proxy. However, there was no helping
that now. She was put into the sleigh, enveloped in the fur robes; Mr.
Dillwyn took his place beside her, and they were off.



CHAPTER XLVI.



OFF AND ON.



Certinaly Madge had not said too much, and the scene was like witchery.
The sun was down, but the moon was up, near full, and giving a white
illumination to the white world. The snow had fallen thick, and neither
sun nor wind had as yet made any impression upon it; the covering of
the road was thick and well beaten, and on every exposed level surface
lay the white treasure piled up. Every twig and branch of the trees
still held its burden; every roof was blanketed; there had been no time
yet for smoke and soil to come upon the pure surfaces; and on all this
fell the pale moon rays, casting pale shadows and making the world
somehow look like something better than itself. The horses Mr. Dillwyn
drove were fresh enough yet, and stepped off gaily, their bells
clinking musically; and other bells passed them and sounded in the
nearer and further distance. Moreover, under this illumination all less
agreeable features of the landscape were covered up. It was a pure
region of enchanted beauty to Lois's sense, through which they drove;
and she felt as if a spell had come upon her too, and this bit of
experience were no more real than the rest of it. It was exquisitely
and intensely pleasant; a bit of life quite apart and by itself, and
never to be repeated, therefore to be enjoyed all she could while she
had it. Which thought was not enjoyment. Was she not foolish to have
come?

"Are you comfortable?" suddenly Mr. Dillwyn's voice came in upon these
musings.

"O, perfectly!" Lois answered, with an accentuation between delight and
desperation.

And then he was silent again; and she went on with her musings, just
that word having given them a spur. How exquisite the scene was! how
exquisite everything, in fact. All the uncomelinesses of a city suburb
were veiled under the moonlight; nothing but beauty could be seen; here
were points that caught the light, and there were shadows that simply
served to set off the silvery whiteness of the moon and the snow; what
it was that made those points of reflection, or what lay beneath those
soft shadows, did not appear. The road was beaten smooth, the going was
capital, the horses trotted swiftly and steadily, Lois was wrapped in
soft furs, and the air which she was breathing was merely cold enough
to exhilarate. It was perfection. In truth it was so perfect, and Lois
enjoyed it so keenly, that she began to be vexed at herself for her
enjoyment. Why should Mr. Dillwyn have got her out? all this luxury of
sense and feeling was not good for her; did not belong to her; and why
should she taste at all a delight which must be so fleeting? And what
had possessed him to tie her hood strings for her, and to do it in that
leisurely way, as if he liked it? And why did she like it? Lois
scolded and chid herself. If he were going to marry Madge ever so much,
that gave him no right to take such a liberty; and she would not allow
him such liberties; she would keep him at a distance. But was she not
going to a distance herself? There would be no need.

The moonlight was troubled, though by no cloud on the ethereal
firmament; and Lois was not quite so conscious as she had been of the
beauty around her. The silence lasted a good while; she wondered if her
neighbour's thoughts were busy with the lady he had just set down, to
such a degree that he forgot to attend to his new companion? Nothing
could be more wide of the truth; but that is the way we judge and
misjudge one another. She was almost hurt at his silence, before he
spoke again. The fact is, that the general axiom that a man can always
put in words anything of which his head and heart are both full, seems
to have one exception. Mr. Dillwyn was a good talker, always, on
matters he cared about, and matters he did not care about; and yet now,
when he had secured, one would say, the most favourable circumstances
for a hearing, and opportunity to speak as he liked, he did not know
how to speak. By and by his hand came again round Lois to see that the
fur robes were well tucked in about her. Something in the action made
her impatient.

"I am very well," she said.

"You must be taken care of, you know," he said; to Lois's fancy he said
it as if there were some one to whom he must be responsible for her.

"I am not used to being taken care of," she said. "I have taken care of
myself, generally."

"Like it better?"

"I don't know. I suppose really no woman can say she likes it better.
But I am accustomed to it."

"Don't you think I could take care of you?"

"You are taking capital care of me," said Lois, not knowing exactly
how to understand him. "Just now it is your business; and I should say
you were doing it well."

"What would you say if I told you that I wanted to take care of you all
your life?"

He had let the horses come to a walk; the sleigh-bells only tinkled
softly; no other bells were near. Which way they had gone Lois had not
considered; but evidently it had not been towards the busy and noisy
haunts of men. However, she did not think of this till a few minutes
afterwards; she thought now that Mr. Dillwyn's words regarded Madge's
sister, and her feeling of independence became rigid.

"A kind wish,--but impracticable," she answered.

"Why?"

"I shall be too far off. That is one thing."

"Where are you going to be?--Forgive me for asking!"

"O yes. I shall be keeping school in New England somewhere, I suppose;
first of all, at Esterbrooke."

"But if I had the care of you--you would not be there?"

"That is my place," said Lois shortly.

"Do you mean it is the place you prefer?"

"There is no question of preference. You know, one's work is what is
given one; and the thing given me to do, at present, seems to be there.
Of course I do prefer what my work is."

Still the horses were smoothly walking. Mr. Dillwyri was silent a
moment.

"You did not understand what I said to you just now. It was earnest."

"I did not think it was anything else," said Lois, beginning to wish
herself at home. "I am sure you meant it, and I know you are very good;
but--you cannot take care of me."

"Give me your reasons," he said, restraining the horses, which would
have set off upon a quicker pace again.

"Why, Mr. Dillwyn, it is self-evident. You would not respect me if I
allowed you to do it; and I should not respect myself. We New England
folks, if we are nothing else, we are independent."

"So?--" said Mr. Dillwyn, in a puzzled manner, but then a light broke
upon him, and he half laughed.--"I never heard that the most rampant
spirit of independence made a wife object to being dependent on her
husband."

"A wife?" said Lois, not knowing whether she heard aright.

"Yes," said he. "How else? How could it be else? Lois, may I have you,
to take care of the rest of my life, as my very own?"

The short, smothered breath with which this was spoken was intelligible
enough, and put Lois in the rarest confusion.

"Me?--" was all she could ejaculate.

"You, certainly. I never saw any other woman in my life to whom I
wished to put the question. You are the whole world to me, as far as
happiness is concerned."

"I?--" said Lois again. "I thought--"

"What?"

She hesitated, and he urged the question. Lois was not enough mistress
of herself to choose her words.

"I thought--it was somebody else."

"Did you?--Who did you think it was?"

"O, don't ask me!"

"But I think I must ask you. It concerns me to know how, and towards
whom, my manner can have misled you. Who was it?"

"It was not--your manner--exactly," said Lois, in terrible
embarrassment. "I was mistaken."

"How could you be mistaken?"

"I never dreamed--the thought never entered my head--that--it was I."

"I must have been in fault then," said he gently; "I did not want to
wear my heart on my sleeve, and so perhaps I guarded myself too well. I
did not wish to know anybody else's opinion of my suit till I had heard
yours. What is yours, Lois?--what have you to say to me?"

He checked the horses again, and sat with his face inclined towards
her, waiting eagerly, Lois knew. And then, what a sharp pain shot
through her! All that had gone before was nothing to this; and for a
moment the girl's whole nature writhed under the torture. She knew her
own mind now; she was fully conscious that the best gift of earth was
within her grasp; her hands were stretched longingly towards it, her
whole heart bounded towards it; to let it go was to fall into an abyss
from which light and hope seemed banished; there was everything in all
the world to bid her give the answer that was waited for; only duty
bade her not give it. Loyalty to God said no, and her promise bound her
tongue. For that minute that she was silent Lois wrestled with mortal
pain. There are martyrs and martyrdoms now-a-days, that the world takes
no account of; nevertheless they have bled to death for the cause, and
have been true to their King at the cost of all they had in the world.
Mr. Dillwyn was waiting, and the fight had to be short, though well she
knew the pain would not be. She must speak. She did it huskily, and
with a fierce effort. It seemed as if the words would not come out.

"I have nothing to say, Mr. Dillwyn,--that you would like to hear," she
added, remembering that her first utterance was rather indefinite.

"You do not mean that?" he said hurriedly.

"Indeed I do."

"I know," he said, "you never say anything you do not mean. But how
do you mean it, Lois? Not to deny me? You do not mean that?"

"Yes," she said. And it was like putting a knife through her own heart
when she said it. O, if she were at home! O, if she had never come on
this drive! O, if she had never left Esterbrooke and those
sick-beds!--But here she was, and must stand the question; and Mr.
Dillwyn had not done.

"What reason do you give me?"--and his voice grated now with pain.

"I gave none," said Lois faintly. "Don't let us talk about it! It is no
use. Don't ask me anything more!"

"One question I must. I must know it. Do you dislike me, Lois?"

"Dislike? O no! how should I dislike you?" she answered. There was a
little, very slight, vibration in her voice as she spoke, and her
companion discerned it. When an instrument is very high strung, a quite
soft touch will be felt and answered, and that touch swept all the
strings of Mr. Dillwyn's soul with music.

"If you do not dislike me, then," said he, "what is it? Do you,
possibly like me, Lois?"

Lois could not prevent a little hesitation before she answered, and
that, too, Philip well noted.

"It makes no difference," she said desperately. "It isn't that. Don't
let us talk any more about it! Mr. Dillwyn, the horses have been
walking this great while, and we are a long way from home; won't you
drive on?"

He did drive on then, and for a while said not a word more. Lois was
panting with eagerness to get home, and could not go fast enough; she
would gladly have driven herself, only not quite such a fresh and gay
pair of horses. They swept along towards a region that she could see
from afar was thicker set with lights than the parts where they were.
Before they reached it, however, Mr. Dillwyn drew rein again, and made
the horses walk gently.

"There is one question still I must ask," he said; "and to ask it, I
must for a moment disobey your commands. Forgive me; but when the
happiness of a whole life is at stake, a moment's pain must be
borne--and even inflicted--to make sure one is not suffering needlessly
a far greater evil. Miss Lois, you never do anything without a reason;
tell me your reason for refusing me. You thought I liked some one else;
it is not that; I never have liked any one else. Now, what is it?"

"There is no use in talking," Lois murmured. "It is only pain."

"Necessary pain," said he firmly. "It is right I should know, and it
must be possible for you to tell me. Say that it is because you cannot
like me well enough--and I shall understand that."

But Lois could not say it; and the pause, which embarrassed her
terribly, had naturally a different effect upon her companion.

"It is not that!" he cried. "Have you been led to believe something
false about me, Lois?--Lois?"

"No," she said, trembling; the pain, and the difficulty of speaking,
and the struggle it cost, set her absolutely to trembling. "No, it is
something true." She spoke faintly, but he listened well.

"True! What is it? It is not true. What do you mean, dear?"

The several things which came with the intonations of this last
question overset the remnant of Lois's composure. She burst into tears;
and he was looking, and the moonlight was full in her face, and he
could not but see it.

"I cannot help it," she cried; "and you cannot help it. It is no use to
talk about it. You know--O, you know--you are not a Christian!"

It was almost a cry at last with which she said it; and the usually
self-contained Lois hid her face away from him. Whether the horses
walked or trotted for a little while she did not know; and I think it
was only mechanical, the effort by which their driver kept them at a
foot pace. He waited, however, till Lois dropped her hands again, and
he thought she would attend to him.

"May I ask," he then said, and his voice was curiously clear and
composed,--"if that is your only objection to me?"

"It is enough!" said Lois smotheredly, and noticing at the same time
that ring in his voice.

"You think, one who is a Christian ought never to marry another who is
not a Christian?"

"No!" she said, in the same way, as if catching her breath.

"It is very often done."

She made no reply. This was a most cruel discussion, she thought. Would
they never reach home? And the horses walking! Walking, and shaking
their heads, with soft little peals of the bells, like creatures who
had at last got quiet enough to like walking.

"Is that all, Lois?" he asked again; and the tone of his voice
irritated her.

"There need not be anything more," she answered. "That is enough. It is
a barrier for ever between us; you cannot overcome it--and I cannot. O,
do make the horses go! we shall never get home! and don't talk any
more."

"I will let the horses go presently; but first I must talk a little
more, because there is something that must be said. That was a
barrier, a while ago; but it is not now. There is no need for either of
us to overcome it or try to overcome it, for it does not exist. Lois,
do you hear me? It does not exist."

"I do not understand," she said, in a dazed kind of way, turning
towards him. "What does not exist?"

"That barrier--or any barrier--between you and me."

"Yes, it does. It is a barrier. I promised my dear grandmother--and
if I had not promised her, it would be just the same, for I have
promised to obey God; and he forbids it."

"Forbids what?"

"Forbids me, a Christian, to have anything to do with you, who are not
a Christian. I mean, in that way."

"But, Lois--I am a Christian too."

"You?" she said, turning towards him.

"Yes."

"What sort of a one?"

Philip could not help laughing at the naïve question, which, however,
he perfectly understood.

"Not an old one," he said; "and not a good one; and yet, Lois, truly an
honest one. As you mean the word. One whose King Christ is, as he is
yours; and who trusts in him with the whole heart, as you do."

"You a Christian!" exclaimed Lois now, in the greatest astonishment.
"When did it happen?"

He laughed again. "A fair question. Well, it came about last summer.
You recollect our talk one Sunday in the rain?"

"O yes!"--

"That set me to thinking; and the more I saw of you,--yes, and of Mrs.
Armadale,--and the more I heard of you from Mrs. Barclay, the more the
conviction forced itself upon my mind, that I was living, and had
always lived, a fool's life. That was a conclusion easily reached; but
how to become wise was another matter. I resolved to give myself to the
study till I had found the answer; and that I might do it
uninterruptedly, I betook myself to the wilds of Canada, with not much
baggage beside my gun and my Bible. I hunted and fished; but I studied
more than I did either. I took time for it too. I was longing to see
you; but I resolved this subject should be disposed of first. And I
gave myself to it, until it was all clear to me. And then I made open
profession of my belief, and took service as one of Christ's declared
servants. That was in Montreal."

"In Montreal!"

"Yes."

"Why did you never say anything about it, then?"

"I am not accustomed to talking on the subject, you know. But, really,
I had a reason. I did not want to seem to propitiate your favour by any
such means; I wished to try my chances with you on my own merits; and
that was also a reason why I made my profession in Montreal. I wanted
to do it without delay, it is true; I also wanted to do it quietly. I
mean everybody shall know; but I wished you to be the first."

There followed a silence. Things rushed into and over Lois's mind with
such a sweep and confusion, that she hardly knew what she was thinking
or feeling. All her positions were knocked away; all her assumptions
were found baseless; her defences had been erected against nothing; her
fears and her hopes were alike come to nought. That is, bien entendu,
her old fears and her old hopes; and amid the ruins of the latter new
ones were starting, in equally bewildering confusion. Like little green
heads of daffodils pushing up above the frozen ground, and fair
blossoms of hepatica opening beneath a concealing mat of dead leaves.
Ah, they would blossom freely by and by; now Lois hardly knew where
they were or what they were.

Seeing her utterly silent and moveless, Mr. Dillwyn did probably the
wisest thing he could do, and drove on. For some time the horses
trotted and the bells jingled; and by too swift approaches that
wilderness of lights which marked the city suburb came nearer and
nearer. When it was very near and they had almost entered it, he drew
in his reins again and the horses tossed their heads and walked.

"Lois, I think it is fair I should have another answer to my question
now."

"What question?" she asked hurriedly.

"You know, I was so daring as to ask to have the care of you for the
rest of your natural life--or of mine. What do you say to it?"

Lois said nothing. She could not find words. Words seemed to tumble
over one another in her mind,--or thoughts did.

"What answer are you going to give me?" he asked again, more gravely.

"You know, Mr. Dillwyn," said Lois stammeringly, "I never thought,--I
never knew before,--I never had any notion, that--that--that you
thought so."--

"Thought so?--about what?"

"About me."

"I have thought so about you for a great while."

Silence again. The horses, being by this time pretty well exercised,
needed no restraining, and walked for their own pleasure. Everything
with Lois seemed to be in a whirl.

"And now it becomes necessary to know what you think about me," Mr.
Dillwyn went on, after that pause.

"I am very glad--" Lois said tremulously.

"Of what?"

"That you are a Christian."

"Yes, but," said he, half laughing, "that is not the immediate matter
in hand. What do you think of me in my proposed character as having the
ownership and the care of you?"

"I have never thought of you so," Lois managed to get out. The words
were rather faint, heard, however, as Mr. Dillwyn's hand came just then
adjusting and tucking in her fur robes, and his face was thereby near
hers.

"And now you do think of me so?--What do you say to me?"

She could not say anything. Never in her life had Lois been at a loss
and wrecked in all self-management before.

"You know, it is necessary to say something, that I may know where I
stand. I must either stay or go. Will you send me away? or keep me 'for
good,' as the children say?"

The tone was not without a touch of grave anxiety now, and impatient
earnestness, which Lois heard well enough and would have answered; but
it seemed as if her tongue clave to the roof of her mouth. Mr. Dillwyn
waited now for her to speak, keeping the horses at a walk, and bending
down a little to hear what she would say. One sleigh passed them, then
another. It became intolerable to Lois.

"I do not want to send you away," she managed finally to say, trembling.

The words, however, were clear and slow-spoken, and Mr. Dillwyn asked
no more then. He drove on, and attended to his driving, even went fast;
and Lois hardly knew how houses and rocks and vehicles flew past them,
till the reins were drawn at Mrs. Wishart's door. Philip whistled; a
groom presently appeared from the house and took the horses, and he
lifted Lois out. As they were going up the steps he asked softly,

"Is that all you are going to say to me?"

"Isn't it enough for to-night?" Lois returned.

"I see you think so," he said, half laughing. "I don't; but,
however--Are you going to be alone to-morrow morning, or will you take
another sleigh ride with me?"

"Mrs. Wishart and Madge are going to Mme. Cisco's matinée."

"At what o'clock?"

"They will leave here at half-past ten."

"Then I will be here before eleven."

The door opened, and with a grip of her hand he turned away.



CHAPTER XLVII.



PLANS.



Lois went along the hall in that condition of the nerves in which the
feet seem to walk without stepping on anything. She queried what time
it could be; was the evening half gone? or had they possibly not done
tea yet? Then the parlour door opened.

"Lois!--is that you? Come along; you are just in time; we are at tea.
Hurry, now!"

Lois went to her room, wishing that she could any way escape going to
the table; she felt as if her friend and her sister would read the news
in her face immediately, and hear it in her voice as soon as she spoke.
There was no help for it; she hastened down, and presently perceived to
her wonderment that her friends were absolutely without suspicion. She
kept as quiet as possible, and found, happily, that she was very
hungry. Mrs. Wishart and Madge were busy in talk.

"You remember Mr. Caruthers, Lois?" said the former;--"Tom Caruthers,
who used to be here so often?"

"Certainly."

"Did you hear he had made a great match?"

"I heard he was going to be married. I heard that a great while ago."

"Yes, he has made a very great match. It has been delayed by the death
of her mother; they had to wait. He was married a few months ago, in
Florence. They had a splendid wedding."

"What makes what you call a 'great match'?" Madge asked.

"Money,--and family."

"I understand money," Madge went on; "but what do you mean by 'family,'
Mrs. Wishart?"

"My dear, if you lived in the world, you would know. It means name, and
position, and standing. I suppose at Shampuashuh you are all alike--one
is as good as another."

"Indeed," said Madge, "you are much mistaken, Mrs. Wishart. We think
one is much better than another."

"Do you? Ah well,--then you know what I mean, my dear. I suppose the
world is really very much alike in all places; it is only the names of
things that vary."

"In Shampuashuh," Madge went on, "we mean by a good family, a houseful
of honest and religious people."

"Yes, Madge," said Lois, looking up, "we mean a little more than that.
We mean a family that has been honest and religious, and educated too,
for a long while--for generations. We mean as much as that, when we
speak of a good family."

"That's different," said Mrs. Wishart shortly.

"Different from what you mean?"

"Different from what is meant here, when we use the term."

"You don't mean anything honest and religious?" said Madge.

"O, honest! My dear, everybody is honest, or supposed to be; but we do
not mean religious."

"Not religious, and only supposed to be honest!" echoed Madge.

"Yes," said Mrs. Wishart. "It isn't that. It has nothing to do with
that. When people have been in society, and held high positions for
generation after generation, it is a good family. The individuals need
not be all good."

"Oh--!" said Madge.

"No. I know families among the very best in the State, that have been
wicked enough; but though they have been wicked, that did not hinder
their being gentlemen."

"Oh--!" said Madge again. "I begin to comprehend."

"There is too much made of money now-a-days," Mrs. Wishart went on
serenely; "and there is no denying that money buys position. I do not
call a good family one that was not a good family a hundred years ago;
but everybody is not so particular. Not here. They are more particular
in Philadelphia. In New York, any nobody who has money can push himself
forward."

"What sort of family is Mr. Dillwyn's?"

"O, good, of course. Not wealthy, till lately. They have been poor,
ever since I knew the family; until the sister married Chauncey
Burrage, and Philip came into his property."

"The Caruthers are rich, aren't they?"

"Yes."

"And now the young one has made a great match? Is she handsome?"

"I never heard so. But she is rolling in money."

"What else is she?" inquired Madge dryly.

"She is a Dulcimer."

"That tells me nothing," said Madge. "By the way you speak it, the word
seems to have a good deal of meaning for you."

"Certainly," said Mrs. Wishart. "She is one of the Philadelphia
Dulcimers. It is an old family, and they have always been wealthy."

"How happy the gentleman must be!"

"I hope so," said Mrs. Wishart gravely. "You used to know Tom quite
well, Lois. What did you think of him?"

"I liked him," said Lois. "Very pleasant and amiable, and always
gentlemanly. But I did not think he had much character."

Mrs. Wishart was satisfied; for Lois's tone was as disengaged as
anything could possibly be.

Lois could not bring herself to say anything to Madge that night about
the turn in her fortunes. Her own thoughts were in too much agitation,
and only by slow degrees resolving themselves into settled conclusions.
Or rather, for the conclusions were not doubtful, settling into such
quiet that she could look at conclusions. And Lois began to be afraid
to do even that, and tried to turn her eyes away, and thought of the
hour of half-past ten next morning with trembling and heart-beating.

It came with tremendous swiftness, too. However, she excused herself
from going to the matinée, though with difficulty. Mrs. Wishart was
sure she ought to go; and Madge tried persuasion and raillery. Lois
watched her get ready, and at last contentedly saw the two drive off.
That was good. She wanted no discussion with them before she had seen
Mr. Dillwyn again; and now the coast was clear. But then Lois retreated
to her own room up-stairs to wait; she could not stay in the
drawing-room, to be found there. She would have so much time for
preparation as his ring at the door and his name being brought
up-stairs would give her. Preparation for what? When the summons came,
Lois went down feeling that she had not a bit of preparation.

Philip was standing in the middle of the floor, waiting for her; and
the apparition that greeted him was so unexpected that he stood still,
feasting his eyes with it. He had always seen Lois calm, collected,
moving and speaking with frank independence, although with perfect
modesty. Now?--how was it? Eyes cast down, colour coming and going; a
look and manner, not of shyness, for she came straight to him, but of
the most lovely maidenly consciousness; of all things, that which a
lover would most wish to see. Yet she came straight to him, and as he
met her and held out his hand, she put hers in it.

"What are you going to say to me this morning, Lois?" he said softly;
for the pure dignity of the girl was a thing to fill him with reverence
as well as with delight, and her hand seemed to him something sacred.

Her colour stirred again, but the lowered eyelids were lifted up, and
the eyes met his with a most blessed smile in them.

"I am very happy, Mr. Dillwyn," she said.

Everybody knows how words fail upon occasion; and on this occasion the
silence lasted some considerable time. And then Philip put Lois into
one of the big easy-chairs, and went down on one knee at her feet,
holding her hand. Lois tried to collect her spirits to make
remonstrance.

"O, Mr. Dillwyn, do not stay there!" she begged.

"Why not? It becomes me."

"I do not think it becomes you at all," said Lois, laughing a little
nervously,--"and I am sure it does not become me."

"Mistaken on both points! It becomes me well, and I think it does not
become you ill," said he, kissing the hand he held. And then, bending
forward to carry his kiss from the hand to the cheek,--"O my darling,
how long I have waited for this!"

"Long?" said Lois, in surprise. How pretty the incredulity was on her
innocent face.

"Very long!--while you thought I was liking somebody else. There has
never been any change in me, Lois. I have been patiently and
impatiently waiting for you this great while. You will not think it
unreasonable, if that fact makes me intolerant of any more waiting,
will you?"

"Don't keep that position!" said Lois earnestly.

"It is the position I mean to keep all the rest of my life!"

But that set Lois to laughing, a little nervously no doubt, yet so
merrily that Philip could not but join in.

"Do I not owe everything to you?" he went on presently, with tender
seriousness. "You first set me upon thinking. Do you recollect your
earliest talk to me here in this room once, a good while ago, about
being satisfied?"

"Yes," said Lois, suddenly opening her eyes.

"That was the beginning. You said it to me more with your looks than
with your words; for I saw that, somehow, you were in the secret, and
had yourself what you offered to me. That I could not forget. I had
never seen anybody 'satisfied' before."

"You know what it means now?" she said softly.

"To-day?-- I do!"

"No, no; I do not mean to-day. You know what I mean!" she said, with
beautiful blushes.

"I know. Yes, and I have it, Lois. But you have a great deal to teach
me yet."

"O no!" she said most unaffectedly. "It is you who will have to teach
me."

"What?"

"Everything."

"How soon may I begin?"

"How soon?"

"Yes. You do not think Mrs. Wishart's house is the best place, or her
company the best assistance for that, do you?"

"Ah, please get up!" said Lois.

But he laughed at her.

"You make me so ashamed!"

"You do not look it in the least. Shall I tell you my plans?"

"Plans!" said Lois.

"Or will you tell me your plans?"

"Ah, you are laughing at me! What do you mean?"

"You were confiding to me your plans of a little while ago;
Esterbrooke, and school, and all the rest of it. My darling!--that's
all nowhere."

"But,"--said Lois timidly.

"Well?"

"That is all gone, of course. But--"

"You will let me say what you shall do?"

"I suppose you will."

"Your hand is in all my plans, from henceforth, to turn them and twist
them what way you like. But now let me tell you my present plans. We
will be married, as soon as you can accustom your self to the idea.
Hush!--wait. You shall have time to think about it. Then, as early as
spring winds will let us, we will cross to England."

"England?" cried Lois.

"Wait, and hear me out. There we will look about us a while and get
such things as you may want for travelling, which one can get better in
England than anywhere else. Then we will go over the Channel and see
Paris, and perhaps supplement purchases there. So work our way--"

"Always making purchases?" said Lois, laughing, though she caught her
breath too, and her colour was growing high.

"Certainly, making purchases. So work our way along, and get to
Switzerland early in June--say by the end of the first week."

"Switzerland!"

"Don't you want to see Switzerland?"

"But it is not the question, what I might like to see."

"With me it is."

"As for that, I have an untirable appetite for seeing things.
But--but," and her voice lowered, "I can be quite happy enough on this
side."

"Not if I can make you happier on the other."

"But that depends. I should not be happy unless I was quite sure it was
