    that of a prince, or of some other person?"

    "Ah, sir, what a question!"

    "And yet, do you not see that I, or the prince, or any one
    else, would answer precisely as you do, and that no one would
    consent to live his life over again?"

    "Yes, sir, I suppose so."

    "Am I to understand, then, that you would not live your life
    over again?"

    "No, sir, truly, I would not."

    "What life would you care for, then?"

    "I would like, without any other condition, such a life as
    God might be pleased to give me."

    "In other words, one which would be happy-go-lucky, and of
    which you would know no more than you do of the coming year."

    "Exactly."

    "Well, then, that is what I would like too; it is what every
    one would like, and for the simple reason that up to this
    time there is no one whom chance has not badly treated. Every
    one agrees that the misery of life outbalances its pleasure,
    and I have yet to meet the man who would care to live his
    old life over. The life which is so pleasant is not the life
    with which we are personally acquainted; it is another life,
    not the life that we have lived, but the life which is to
    come. Next year will treat us all better; it will be the
    beginning of a happy existence. Do you not think it will?"

    "Indeed, I hope so, sir."

    "Show me your best calendar."

    "This one, sir; it is thirty soldi."

    "Here they are."

    "Thank you, sir, long life to you, sir. Calendars! new
    calendars!"

There are few scenes as clever as this, and fewer still in which irony
and humor are so delicately blended; and yet, notwithstanding its
studied bitterness, there is little doubt that its author clearly
perceived that life does hold one or two incontestable charms.

In speaking of glory, Pascal noted in his "Pensées" that even
philosophers seek it, and those who wrote it down wished the reputation
of having written it down well. To this rule Leopardi was no exception;
he admitted as much on several occasions; and even if he had not done
so, the fact would have been none the less evident from the burnish of
his verse and the purity of his prose, which was not that of a writer
to whom the opinion of others was indifferent. In the essay, therefore,
in which he attacks the illusion of literary renown, he reminds one
forcibly of Byron hurrying about in search of the visible isolation
which that simple-minded poet so seriously pursued; and yet while no
other writer, perhaps, has been more thoroughly given to pose than
the author of "Childe Harold," there are few who have been so entirely
devoid of affectation as Leopardi. The comparative non-success of his
writings, however, was hardly calculated to make him view with any
great enthusiasm the subject of literary fame; and as, moreover, he
considered it his mission to besiege all illusions, he held up this one
in particular as a seductive chimera and attacked it accordingly.

In the "Ovvero della Gloria," he says reflectively: "Before an author
can reach the public with any chance of being judged without prejudice,
think of the amount of labor which he expends in learning how to write,
the difficulties which he has to overcome, and the envious voices which
he must silence. And even then, what does the public amount to? The
majority of readers yawn over a book, or admire it because some one
else has admired it before them. It is the style that makes a book
immortal; and as it requires a certain education to be a judge of
style, the number of connoisseurs is necessarily restricted. But beyond
mere form there must also be depth, and as each class of work
presupposes a special competence on the part of the critic, it is easy
to see how narrow the tribunal is which decides an author's reputation.
And even then, is it one which is thoroughly just? In the first place,
the critic, even when competent, judges--and in that he is but
human--according to the impression of the moment, and according to the
tastes which age or circumstances have created. If he is young, he
likes brilliance; old, he is unimpressionable. Great reputations are
made in great cities, and it is there that heart and mind are more or
less fatigued. A first impression, warped in this way, may often become
final; for if it be true that valuable works should be re-read, and are
only appreciated with time, it is also true that at the present time
very few books are read at all. Supposing, however, the most favorable
case: supposing that a writer, through the suffrage of a few of his
contemporaries, is certain of descending to posterity as a great
man,--what is a great man? Simply a name, which in a short time will
represent nothing. The opinion of the beautiful changes with the days,
and literary reputations are at the mercy of their variations; as to
scientific works, they are invariably surpassed or forgotten. Nowadays,
any second-rate mathematician knows more than Galileo or Newton."
Genius, then, is a sinister gift, and its attendant glory but a vain
and empty shadow.

The life of Leopardi, as told by his biographers, is poetically
suggestive of the story of the pale Armide, who burned the palace that
enchanted her; and the similarity becomes still more noticeable when he
is found hacking and hewing at the illusion of love. Personally
considered, Leopardi was not attractive; he was undersized, slightly
deformed, near-sighted, prematurely bald, nervous, and weak; and though
physical disadvantages are often disregarded by women, and not
infrequently inspire a compassion which, properly tended, may warm into
love, yet when the body, weak and infirm as was his, incases the
strength and lurid vitality of genius, the unlovable monstrosity is
complete. Indeed, in this respect, it may be noted that while the love
of a delicate-minded woman for a coarse and stupid ruffian is an
anomaly of daily repetition, there are yet few instances in which
genius, even when strong of limb, has succeeded in inspiring a great
and enduring affection.

Against Leopardi, then, the house of love was doubly barred. When he
was about nineteen, he watched the usual young girl who lives over the
way, and with a naïveté which seems exquisitely pathetic he made no
sign, but simply watched and loved. The young lady does not appear to
have been in any way conscious of the mutely shy adoration which her
beauty had fanned into flame, and at any rate paid no attention to the
sickly dwarf across the street. She sat very placidly at her window, or
else fluttered about the room humming some old-fashioned air. This went
on for a year or more, until finally she was carried away in a rumbling
coach, to become the willing bride of another.

This, of course, was very terrible to Leopardi. Through some inductive
process, which ought to have been brought about by the electric
currents which he was establishing from behind the curtain, he had in
his lawless fancy made quite sure that his love would sooner or later
be felt and reciprocated. When, therefore, from his hiding place he saw
the bride depart in maiden ignorance of her conquest, and entirely
unconscious of the sonnets which had been written in her praise, the
poet's one sweet hope faded slowly with her.

This pure and sedate affection remained vibrant in his memory for many
years, and formed the theme of so many reveries and songs that love
finally appeared to him as but another form of suffering. In after
life, when much of the lustre of youthful candor had become dull and
tarnished, he besieged the heart of another lady, but this time in a
bolder and more enterprising fashion. His suit, however, was
unsuccessful. It may be that he was too eloquent; for eloquence is
rarely captivating save to the inexperienced, and the man who makes
love in rounded phrases seems to the practised eye to be more artistic
than sincere. At all events, his affection was not returned. The
phantom had passed very close, but all he had clutched was the air. He
was soon conscious, however, that he had made that mistake which is
common to all imaginative people: it was not the woman he loved, it was
beauty; not woman herself, but the ideal. It was a conception that he
had fallen in love with; a conception which the woman, like so many
others, had the power to inspire, and yet lacked the ability to
understand. This time Leopardi was done with love, and forthwith
attacked it as the last, yet most tenacious, of all illusions. "It is,"
he said, "an error like the others, but one which is more deeply
rooted, because, when all else is gone, men think they clutch therein
the last shadow of departing happiness. Error beato," he adds, and so
it may be, yet is he not well answered by that sage saying of Voltaire,
"L'erreur aussi a son mérite"?

It was in this way that Leopardi devastated the palace from whose
feasts he had been excluded. At every step he had taken he had left
some hope behind; he had been dying piecemeal all his life; he was
confessedly miserable, and this not alone on account of his poverty and
wretched health, but chiefly because of his lack of harmony with the
realities of existence. The world was to him the worst one possible,
and he would have been glad to adorn the gate of life with the
simplicity of Dante's insistent line,--

     "Lasciate ogni speranza voi ch'entrate."

"There was a time," he said, "when I envied the ignorant and those who
thought well of themselves. To-day, I envy neither the ignorant nor the
wise, neither the great nor the weak; I envy the dead, and I would only
change with them."

This, of course, was purely personal. Toward the close of his life he
recognized that his judgment had been in a measure warped by the
peculiar misfortunes of his own position, but in so doing he seemed
almost to be depriving himself of a last, if sad, consolation. Nor did
he ever wholly recant, and it is in the conception of the universality
of misery which stamped all his writings, and which, even had he
wished, he was then powerless to alter, that his relation to the
theoretic pessimism of to-day chiefly rests.

As a creed, the birthplace of pessimism is to be sought on the banks of
the Ganges, or far back in the flower-lands of Nepaul, where the
initiate, with every desire lulled, awaits Nirvâna, and murmurs only,
"Life is evil."

Now, as is well known, in every religion there is a certain
metaphysical basis which is designed to supply an answer to man's first
question; for while the animal lives in undismayed repose, man of all
created things alone marvels at his own existence and at the
destruction of his fellows. To his first question, then, What is life
and death? each system attempts to offer a perfect reply; indeed, the
temples, cathedrals, and pagodas clearly attest that man at all times
and in all lands has continually demanded that some reply should be
given, and it is perhaps for this very reason that where other beliefs
have found fervent adherents, neither materialism nor skepticism have
been ever able to acquire a durable influence. It is, however, curious
to note that in attempting the answer, nearly every creed has given an
unfavorable interpretation to life. Aside from the glorious lessons of
Christianity, its teaching, in brief, is that the world is a vale of
tears, that nothing here can yield any real satisfaction, and that
happiness, which is not for mortals, is solely the recompense of the
ransomed soul. To the Brahmin, while there is always the hope of
absorption in the Universal Spirit, life meanwhile is a regrettable
accident. But in Buddhism, which is perhaps the most naïve and yet the
most sublime of all religions, and which through its very combination
of simplicity and grandeur appeals to a larger number of adherents than
any other, pessimism is the beginning, as it is the end.

To the Buddhist there is reality neither in the future nor in the past.
To him true knowledge consists in the perception of the nothingness of
all things, in the consciousness of--

     "The vastness of the agony of earth,
     The vainness of its joys, the mockery
     Of all its best, the anguish of its worst;"

and in the desire to escape from the evil of existence into the entire
affranchisement of the intelligence. To the Buddhist,--

                                ... "Sorrow is
     Shadow to life, moving where life doth move."

The Buddhist believes that the soul migrates until Nirvâna is attained,
and that in the preparation for this state, which is the death of
Death, the nothingness of a flame extinguished, there are four degrees.
In the first, the novitiate learns to be implacable to himself, yet
charitable and compassionate to others. He then acquires an
understanding into the nature of all things, until he has suppressed
every desire save that of attaining Nirvâna, when he passes initiate
into the second degree, in which judgment ceases. In the next stage,
the vague sentiment of satisfaction, which had been derived from
intellectual perfection, is lost, and in the last, the confused
consciousness of identity disappears. It is at this point that Nirvâna
begins, but only begins and stretches to vertiginous heights through
four higher degrees of ecstasy, of which the first is the region of
infinity in space, the next, the realm of infinity in intelligence,
then the sphere in which nothing is, and, finally, the loss of even the
perception of nothing. When Death is dead, when all have attained
Nirvâna, then, according to the Buddhist, the universe will rock
forevermore in unconscious rest.

In brief, then, life to the Christian is a probation, to the Brahmin a
burden, to the Buddhist a dream, and to the pessimist a nightmare.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Zeller, Philosophie der Griechen.]

[Footnote 2: Werke, v. p. 408, et seq.]




CHAPTER II.

THE HIGH PRIEST OF PESSIMISM.


Arthur Schopenhauer, the founder of the present school, was born toward
the close of the last century, in the now mildewed city of Dantzic. His
people came of good Dutch stock, and were both well-to-do and peculiar.
His grandmother lost her reason at the death of her husband, a
circumstance as unusual then as in more recent years; his two uncles
passed their melancholy lives on the frontiers of insanity, and his
father enjoyed a reputation for eccentricity which his end fully
justified.

This latter gentleman was a rich and energetic merchant, of educated
tastes and excitable disposition, who, when well advanced in middle
life, married the young and gifted daughter of one of the chief
magnates of the town. Their union was not more unhappy than is usually
the case under similar circumstances, his time being generally passed
with his ledger, and hers with the poets.

With increasing years, however, his untamable petulance grew to such an
extent that he was not at all times considered perfectly sane, and it
is related that on being visited one day by a lifelong acquaintance,
who announced himself as an old friend, he exclaimed, with abrupt
indignation, "Friend, indeed! there is no such thing; besides, people
come here every day and say they are this, that, and the other. I don't
know them, and I don't want to." A day or two later, he met the same
individual, greeted him with cheerful cordiality, and led him amiably
home to dinner. Shortly after, he threw himself from his warehouse to
the canal below.

He had always intended that his son, who was then in his sixteenth
year, should continue the business; and to prepare him properly for his
duties he had christened him Arthur, because he found that name was
pretty much the same in all European languages, and furthermore had
sent the lad at an early age first to France, and then to England, that
he might gain some acquaintance and familiarity with other tongues.

The boy liked his name, and took naturally to languages, but he felt no
desire to utilize these possessions in the depressing atmosphere of
commercial life, and after his father's death loitered first at the
benches of Gotha and then at those of Göttingen.

Meanwhile his mother established herself at Weimar, where she soon
attracted to her all that was brilliant in that brilliant city. Goethe,
Wieland, Fernow, Falk, Grimm, and the two Schlegels were her constant
guests. At court she was received as a welcome addition, and such an
effect had these surroundings upon her imagination, that in not very
many years she managed to produce twenty-four compact volumes of
criticism and romance.

During this time her son was not idle. Thoroughly familiar with ancient
as with modern literature, he devoted his first year at Göttingen to
medicine, mathematics and history; while in his second, which he passed
in company with Bunsen and William B. Astor, he studied physics,
physiology, psychology, ethnology and logic; as these diversions did
not quite fill the hour, he aided the flight of idle moments with a
guitar.

He was at this time a singularly good-looking young man, possessing a
grave and expressive type of beauty, which in after years developed
into that suggestion of majestic calm for which the head of Beethoven
is celebrated, while to his lips there then came a smile as
relentlessly implacable as that of Voltaire.

From boyhood he had been of a thoughtful disposition, finding wisdom in
the falling leaf, problems in vibrating light, and movement in
immobility. Already he had wrung his hands at the stars, and watched
the distant future rise with its flouting jeer at the ills of man. In
this, however, there was little of the cheap sentimentalism of Byron,
and less of the weariness of Lamartine. His griefs were purely
objective; life to him was a perplexing riddle, whose true meaning was
well worth a search; and as the only possible solution of the gigantic
enigma seemed to lie in some unexplored depth of metaphysics, he soon
after betook himself to Berlin, where Fichte then reigned as Kant's
legitimate successor. But the long-winded demonstrations that Fichte
affected, his tiresome verbiage, lit, if at all, only by some trivial
truism or trumpery paradox, bored Schopenhauer at first well-nigh to
death, and then worked on his nerves to such an extent that he longed,
pistol in hand, to catch at his throat, and cry, "Die like a dog you
shall; but for your pitiful soul's sake, tell me if in all this rubbish
you really mean anything, or take me simply for an imbecile like
yourself." For Schopenhauer, it should be understood, had passed his
nights first with Plato and then with Kant; they were to him like two
giants calling to one another across the centuries, and that this
huckster of phrases should pretend to cloak his nakedness with their
mantle seemed to him at once indecent and absurd.

Schelling pleased him no better; he dismissed him with a
word,--mountebank; but for Hegel, Caliban-Hegel as he was wont in after
years to call him, his contempt was so violent that, with a prudence
which is both amusing and characteristic, he took counsel from an
attorney as to the exact limit he might touch in abusing him without
becoming amenable to a suit for defamation. "Hegel's philosophy," he
said, "is a crystalized syllogism; it is an abracadabra, a puff of
bombast, and a wish-wash of phrases, which in its monstrous
construction compels the mind to form impossible contradictions, and
in itself is enough to cause an entire atrophy of the intellect." "It
is made up of three fourths nonsense and one fourth error; it contains
words, not thoughts;" and then, rising in his indignation to the
heights of quotation, he added, "'Such stuff as madmen tongue and brain
not.'" Time, it may be noted, has to a great extent indorsed
Schopenhauer's verdict. The tortures of Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel
linger now in the history of philosophy very much as might the memory
of a nightmare, and except in a few cobwebbed halls the teachings of
the three sophists may safely be considered as a part of the
inexplicable past.

It should not, however, be supposed that because he found the
philosophy of the moment so little to his taste he necessarily
squandered his time; on the contrary, he turned to Aristotle and
Spinoza for consolation, and therewith followed sundry lectures in
magnetism, electricity, ichthyology, amphiology, ornithology, zoölogy,
and astronomy, all of which he enlivened with rapid incursions to the
rich granaries of Rabelais and Montaigne, and moreover gave no little
time to the study of the religion and philosophy of India.

It was at this time characteristic of the man, that while his
appearance, wealth, and connections would have formed an open letter to
the best society in Berlin, which was then heterogeneously agreeable,
or even to the worst, which is said to have been charming, he preferred
to pass his leisure hours in scrutinizing the animals in the
Zoölogical Gardens, and in studying the inmates of the State Lunatic
Asylum.

In this cità dolente his attention was particularly claimed by two
unfortunates who, while perfectly conscious of their infirmity, were
yet unable to master it; in proof of which, one wrote him a series of
sonnets, and the other sent him annotated passages from the Bible.

In the second year of his student life at Berlin the war of 1813 was
declared, and Schopenhauer was in consequence obliged to leave the city
before he had obtained his degree. He prepared, however, and forwarded
to the faculty at Jena an elaborate thesis, which he entitled the
Quadruple Root of Conclusive Reason,--a name which somewhat astounded
his mother, who asked him if it were something for the apothecary,--and
meanwhile prowled about Weimar meditating on the philosophy which he
had long intended to produce. He visited no one but Goethe, took
umbrage at his mother's probably harmless relations with Fernow,
treated her to discourse not dissimilar to that which Hamlet had
addressed to his own parent, received his degree from Jena, and then
went off to Dresden, where he began to study women with that
microscopic eye which he turned on all subjects that engaged his
attention.

The result of these studies was an essay on the metaphysics of love,
which he thereupon attached to his budding system of philosophy; an
axiom to the effect that women are rich in hair and poor in thought;
and the same misadventure that befell Descartes.

His life at Dresden was necessarily much less secluded than that to
which he had been hitherto accustomed; he became an habitué at the
opera and comedy, a frequent guest in literary and social circles, and,
as student of men and things, he went about disturbing draperies and
disarranging screens, very much as any other philosopher might do who
was bent on seeing the world.

Meanwhile, he was not otherwise idle: the morning he gave to work, and
in the afternoon he surrendered himself to Nature, whom he loved with a
passionate devotion, which increased with his years. The companionship
of men was always more or less irksome to him; and while it was less so
perhaps at this time than at any other, it was nevertheless with a
sense of relief that he struck out across the inviting pasture-lands of
Saxony, or down the banks of the Elbe, and left humanity behind, in
search of that open-air solitude which is Nature's nearest friend.

In the companionship of others he was constantly seeking a trait or a
suggestion, some hint capable of development; when in the world,
therefore, he flashed a lantern, so to speak, at people, and then
passed them by; but in the open country he communed with himself, and
strolled along, note-book in hand, jotting down the thoughts worth
jotting very much after the manner that Emerson is said to have
recommended.

With regard to the majority of men, it will not seem reckless to say
that their end and aim is happiness and self-satisfaction; but however
trite the remark may be, it may still perhaps serve to bring into
relief something of Schopenhauer's distinctive purpose. It would, of
course, be foolish to assert that he did not care for his own
happiness, and disregarded his own satisfaction, for of these things
few men, it is imagined, have thought more highly. If his ideas of
happiness diverged widely from those generally received as standards,
it has but little to do with the matter in hand, for the point which is
intended to be conveyed is simply that above all other things, beyond
the culture of self, that which Schopenhauer cared for most was truth,
and that he pursued it, moreover, as pertinaciously as any other
thinker whom the world now honors. Whether he ran it to earth or not,
the reader must himself decide; indeed, it was very many years before
any one even heard that he had been chasing it at all. Of late,
however, some of the best pickets who guard the literary outposts from
Boston to Bombay have brought a very positive assurance that he did
catch it, and, moreover, held it fast long enough to wring out some
singularly valuable intimations.

In hurrying along after his quarry, Schopenhauer became convinced that
life was a lesson which most men learned trippingly enough, but whose
moral they failed to detect; and this moral, which he felt he had
caught on the wing, as it were, he set about dissecting with a great
and sumptuous variety of reflection.

Wandering, then, on the banks of the Elbe, massing his thoughts and
arranging their progression, his system slowly yet gradually expanded
before him. He wrote only in moments of inspiration, yet his hours were
full of such moments; little by little he drifted away from the opera
and his friends into a solitude which he made populous with thought,
and in this manner gave himself up so entirely to his philosophy that
one day, it is reported, he astonished an innocent-minded gate-keeper,
who asked him who he was, with the weird and pensive answer, "Ah! if I
but knew, myself!"

Meanwhile his work grew rapidly beneath his hands, and when after four
years of labor and research "Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung" was so
far completed as to permit its publication, he read it over with
something of the same unfamiliarity which he would have experienced in
reading the work of another author, though, doubtless, with greater
satisfaction.

Fascinated with its merits, he offered the manuscript to Brockhaus, the
Leipsic publisher. "My book," he wrote, "is a new system of philosophy,
but when I say new I mean new in every sense of the word; it is not a
restatement of what has been already expressed, but it is in the
highest degree a continuous flow of thought such as has never before
entered the mind of mortal man. It is a book which, in my opinion, is
destined to rank with those which form the source and incentive to
hundreds of others."

Brockhaus, familiar with the proverbial modesty of young authors, lent
but an inattentive ear to these alluring statements, and accepted the
book solely on account of the reputation which Schopenhauer's mother
then enjoyed; a mark of confidence, by the way, which he soon deeply
regretted. "It is so much waste paper," he said, dismally, in after
years; "I wish I had never heard of it." He lived long enough, however,
to change his mind, and in 1880 his successors published a stout little
pamphlet containing the titles of over five hundred books and articles,
of which the "World as Will and Idea" formed the source and incentive.
"Le monde," Montaigne has quaintly noted, "regorge de commentaires,
mais d'auteurs il en est grand chierté."

Schopenhauer's philosophy first appeared in 1818; but while it was
still in press, its author, like one who has sprung a mine and fears
the report, fled away to Italy, where he wandered about from Venice to
Naples bathing his senses in color and music. He associated at this
time very willingly with Englishmen, and especially with English
artists and men of letters. Germans and Americans he avoided, and as
for Jews, he not only detested them, but expressed an admiring approval
of Nebuchadnezzar, and only regretted that he had been so lenient with
them. "The Jews are God's chosen people, are they?" he would say,
"very good; tastes differ, they certainly are not mine." In this
dislike he made no exception, and scenting in after years some of the
fœtor judaicus on Heine and Meyerbeer, he refused them the
attention which others were only too glad to accord. Schopenhauer's
distaste, however, for everything that savored of the Israelite will be
perhaps more readily understood when it is remembered that the Jews, as
a race, are optimists, and their creed, therefore, to him, in his
consistency, was like the aggressive flag to the typical bull.

With the Germans he had another grievance. "The Germans," he said, "are
heavy by nature; it is a national characteristic, and one which is
noticeable not only in the way they carry themselves, but in their
language, their fiction, their conversation, their writings, their way
of thinking, and especially in their style and in their mania for
constructing long and involved sentences. In reading German," he
continued, "memory is obliged to retain mechanically, as in a lesson,
the words that are forced upon it, until after patient labor a period
is reached, the keynote is found, and the meaning disentangled. When
the Germans," he added, "get hold of a vague and unsuitable expression
which will completely obscure their meaning, they pat themselves on the
back; for their great aim is to leave an opening in every phrase,
through which they may seem to come back and say more than they
thought. In this trick they excel, and if they can manage to be
emphatic and affected at the same time, they are simply afloat in a sea
of joy. Foreigners hate all this, and revenge themselves in reading
German as little as possible.... Wherefore, in provision of my death, I
acknowledge that on account of its infinite stupidity I loathe the
German nation, and that I blush to belong thereto."

At various tables-d'hôte Schopenhauer had encountered traveling
Yankees, and objected to them accordingly. "They are," he said, "the
plebs of the world, partly, I suppose, on account of their republican
government, and partly because they descend from those who left Europe
for Europe's good. The climate, too," he added, reflectively, "may have
something to do with it." Nor did Frenchmen escape his satire. "Other
parts of the world have monkeys; Europe has Frenchmen, ça balance."

But with Englishmen he got on very well, and during his after life
always talked to himself in their tongue, wrote his memoranda in
English, and read the "Times" daily, advertisements and all.

Meanwhile Schopenhauer held his hand to his ear unavailingly. From
across the Alps there came to him no echo of any report, only a silence
which was ominous enough to have assured any other that the fusee had
not been properly applied. But to him it was different; he had, it is
true, expected a reverberation which would shake the sophistry of all
civilization, and when no tremor came he was mystified, but only for
the moment. He had been too much accustomed to seek his own dead in the
great morgue of literature not to know that any man, who is to belong
to posterity, is necessarily a stranger to his epoch. And that he was
to belong to posterity he had no possible doubt; indeed he had that
prescience of genius which foresees its own future, and he felt that
however tightly the bushel might be closed over the light, there were
still crevices through which it yet would shine, and from which at last
some conflagration must necessarily burst.

It was part of the man to analyze all things, and while it cannot be
said that the lack of attention with which his philosophy had been
received left him entirely unmoved, it would be incorrect to suppose
that he was then sitting on the pins and needles of impatience.

Deeply reflective, he was naturally aware that as everything which is
exquisite ripens slowly, so is the growth of fame proportioned to its
durability. And Schopenhauer meant to be famous, and this not so much
for fame's sake, as for the good which his fame would spread with it.
He could therefore well afford to wait. His work was not written
especially to his own epoch, save only in so far as his epoch was part
of humanity collectively considered. It did not, therefore, take him
long to understand that as his work was not tinted with any of the
local color and fugitive caprices of the moment, it was in consequence
unadapted to an immediate and fictitious vogue. Indeed, it may be added
that the history of art and literature is eloquent with the examples of
the masterpieces which, unrewarded by contemporary appreciation, have
passed into the welcome of another age; and of these examples few are
more striking than that of the absolute indifference with which
Schopenhauer's philosophy was first received.

It was presumably with reflections of this nature that Schopenhauer
shrugged his shoulders at the inattention under which he labored, and
wandered serenely among the treasuries and ghosts of departed Rome.

About this time an incident happened which, while not possessing any
very vivid interest, so affected his after life as to be at least
deserving of passing notice. Schopenhauer was then in his thirty-first
year. On coming of age, he had received his share of his father's
property, some of which he securely invested, but the greater part he
deposited at high interest with a well-known business house in Dantzic.
When leaving for Italy, he took from this firm notes payable on demand
for the amount which they held to his credit, and after he had cashed
one of their bills, learned that the firm was in difficulties. Shortly
after, they suspended payment, offering thirty per cent. to those of
their creditors who were willing to accept such an arrangement, and
nothing to those who refused.

All the creditors accepted save Schopenhauer, who, with the wile of a
diplomat, wrote that he was in no hurry for his money, but that perhaps
if he were made preferred creditor he might accept a better offer. His
debtors fell into the trap, and offered him first fifty, and then
seventy per cent. These offers he also refused. "If," he wrote, "you
offer me thirty per cent. when you are able to pay fifty, and fifty per
cent. when you are able to pay seventy, I have good reason to suspect
that you can pay the whole amount. In any event, my right is perennial.
I need not present my notes until I care to. Settle with your other
creditors, and then you will be in a better position to attend to me. A
wise man watches the burning phœnix with a certain pleasure, for he
well knows what that crafty bird does with its ashes. Keep my money,
and I will keep your drafts. When your affairs are straightened either
we will exchange, or you will be arrested for debt. I am, of course,
very sorry not to be able to oblige you, and I dare say you think me
very disagreeable, but that is only an illusion of yours, which is at
once dispelled when you remember that the money is my own, and that its
possession concerns my lifelong freedom and well-being. You will say,
perhaps, that if all your creditors thought as I do, it would be deuced
hard for me. But if all men thought as I do, not only would more be
thought, but there would probably be neither bankrupts nor swindlers.
Machiavelli says, Giacchè il volgo pensa altrimente,--although the
common herd think otherwise,--ma nel mondo non é se non volgo,--and
the world is made up of the common herd,--e gli pocchi ivi luogo
trovano,--yet the exceptions take their position,--dove gli molti stare
non possono,--where the crowd can find no foot-hold."

By the exercise of a little patience, and after a few more dagger
thrusts of this description, Schopenhauer recovered the entire amount
which was due him, together with the interest in full. But the danger
which he had so cleverly avoided gave him, so to speak, a retrospective
shock; the possibility of want had brushed too near for comfort's sake.
He was thoroughly frightened; and in shuddering at the cause of his
fright he experienced such a feeling of insecurity with regard to what
the future might yet hold that he determined to lose no time in seeking
a remunerative shelter. With this object he returned to Berlin, and as
privat-docent began to lecture on the history of philosophy.

Hegel was then in the high tide of his glory. Scholars from far and
near came to listen to the man who had compared himself to Christ, and
said, "I am Truth, and teach truth." In the "Reisebilder," Heine says
that in the learned caravansary of Berlin the camels collected about
the fountain of Hegelian wisdom, kneeled down, received their burden of
precious waters, and then set out across the desert wastes of
Brandenburg.

At that time not to bend before Hegel was the blackest and most wanton
of sins. To disagree with him was heretical, and as few understood his
meaning clearly enough to attempt to controvert it, it will be readily
understood that in those days there was very little heresy in Berlin.

Among the few, however, Schopenhauer headed the list. "I write to be
understood," he said; and indeed no one who came in contact with him or
with his works had ever the least difficulty in seizing his meaning and
understanding his immense disgust for the "pachyderm hydrocephali,
pedantic eunuchs, apocaliptic retinue della bestia triumphante," as in
after years, with gorgeous emphasis, he was wont to designate Hegel and
his clique. The war that he waged against them was truly Homeric. He
denounced Hegel in a manner that would have made Swinburne blush; then
he attacked the professors of philosophy in general and the Hegelians
in particular, and finally the demagogues who believed in them, and who
had baptized themselves "Young Germany."

For the preparation of such writings as theirs he had a receipt, which
was homeopathic in its simplicity. "Dilute a minimum of thought in five
hundred pages of nauseous phraseology, and for the rest trust to the
German patience of the reader." He also suggested that for the wonder
and astonishment of posterity every public library should carefully
preserve in half calf the complete works of the great philosophaster
and his adorers; and, considering very correctly that philosophers
cannot be hatched like bachelors of arts, he further recommended that
the course in philosophy should be cut from the University programmes,
and the teaching in that branch be limited to logic. "You can't write
an Iliad," he said, "when your mother is a dolt, and your father is a
cotton nightcap."

There are few debts which are so faithfully acquitted as those of
contempt; and as Schopenhauer kicked down every screen, tore off every
mask, and jeered at every sham, it would be a great stretch of fancy to
imagine that he was a popular teacher. But this at least may be said:
he was courageous, and he was strong of purpose. In the end, he dragged
Germany from her lethargy, and rather than take any other part in
Hegelism than that of spectre at the feast, he condemned himself to an
almost lifelong obscurity. If, therefore, he seems at times too bitter
and too relentless, it should be remembered that this man, whom Germany
now honors as one of her greatest philosophers, fought single-handed
for thirty years, and routed the enemy at last by the mere force and
lash of his words.

But in the mean time, while Hegel was holding forth to crowded halls,
his rival, who, out of sheer bravado, had chosen the same hours,
lectured to an audience of about half a dozen persons, among whom a
dentist, a horse-jockey, and a captain on half pay were the more
noteworthy. Such listeners were hardly calculated to make him
frantically attached to the calling he had chosen, and accordingly at
the end of the first semester he left the empty benches to take care of
themselves.

Early in life Schopenhauer wrote in English, in his note-book,
"Matrimony--war and want!" and when the privat-docent had been
decently buried, and the crape grown rusty, he began to consider this
little sentence with much attention. As will be seen later on, he
objected to women as a class on purely logical grounds,--they
interfered with his plan of delivering the world from suffering; but
against the individual he had no marked dislike, only a few pleasing
epigrams. During his Dresden sojourn, as in his journey to Italy, he
had knelt, in his quality of philosopher who was seeing the world, at
many and diverse shrines, and had in no sense wandered from them
sorrow-laureled; but all that had been very different from assuming
legal responsibilities, and whenever he thought with favor of the
petits soins of which, as married man, he would be the object, the
phantom of a milliner's bill loomed in double columns before him.

Should he or should he not, he queried, fall into the trap which nature
has set for all men? The question of love did not enter into the matter
at all. He believed in love as most well-read people believe in William
Tell; that is, as something very inspiring, especially when treated by
Rossini, but otherwise as a myth. Nor did he need Montaigne's hint to
be assured that men marry for others and not for themselves. The
subject, therefore, was somewhat complex: on the one side stood the
attention and admiration which he craved, and on the other an eternal
farewell to that untrammeled freedom which is the thinker's natural
heath.

The die, however, had to be cast then or never. He was getting on in
life, and an opportunity had at that time presented itself, a
repetition of which seemed unlikely. After much reflection, and much
weighing of the pros and cons, he concluded that it is the married man
who supports the full burden of life, while the bachelor bears but
half, and it is to the latter class, he argued, that the courtesan of
the muses should belong. Thereupon, with a luxury of reminiscence and
quotation which was usual to him at all times, he strengthened his
resolution with mental foot-notes, to the effect that Descartes,
Leibnitz, Malebranche, and Kant were bachelors, the great poets
uniformly married and uniformly unhappy; and supported it all with
Bacon's statement that "he that hath wife and children has given
hostages to fortune, for they are impediments to great enterprises,
either of virtue or of mischief."

In 1831 the cholera appeared in Berlin, and Schopenhauer, who called
himself a choleraphobe by profession, fled before it in search of a
milder and healthier climate. Frankfort he chose for his hermitage, and
from that time up to the day of his death, which occurred in September,
1860, he continued to live there in great peace and tranquillity.

Schopenhauer should in no wise be represented as having passed his life
in building dungeons in Spain. Like every true scholar he was, in the
absence of his peers, able to live with great comfort with the dead. He
was something of a Mezzofanti; he spoke and read half a dozen languages
with perfect ease, and he could in consequence enter any library with
the certainty of finding friends and relations therein. For the
companionship of others he did not care a rap. He was never so lonely
as when associating with other people, and of all things that he
disliked the most, and a catalogue of his dislikes would fill a
chapter, the so-called entertainment headed the obnoxious list.

He had taken off, one by one, the different layers of the social nut,
and in nibbling at the kernel he found its insipidity so great that he
had small approval for those who made it part of their ordinary diet.
It should not, however, be supposed that this dislike for society and
the companionship of others sprang from any of that necessity for
solitude which is noticeable in certain cases of hypochondria; it was
simply due to the fact that he could not, in the general run of men,
find any one with whom he could associate on a footing of equality. If
Voltaire, Helvetius, Kant, or Cabanais, or, for that matter, any one
possessed of original thoughts, had dwelled in the neighborhood,
Schopenhauer, once in a while, would have delighted in supping with
them; but as agreeable symposiasts were infrequent, he was of necessity
thrown entirely on his own resources. His history, in brief, is that of
the malediction under which king and genius labor equally. Both are
condemned to solitude; and for solitude such as theirs there is neither
chart nor compass. Of course there are many other men who in modern
times have also led lives of great seclusion, but in this respect it
may confidently be stated that no thinker of recent years, Thoreau not
excepted, has ever lived in isolation more thorough and complete than
that which was enjoyed by this blithe misanthrope.

It is not as though he had betaken himself to an unfrequented waste, or
to the top of an inaccessible crag; such behavior would have savored of
an affectation of which he was incapable, and, moreover, would have
told its story of an inability to otherwise resist the charms of
society. Besides, Schopenhauer was no anchorite; he lived very
comfortably in the heart of a populous and pleasant city, and dined
daily at the best table d'hôte, but he lived and dined utterly alone.

He considered that, as a rule, a man is never in perfect harmony save
with himself, for, he argued, however tenderly a friend or mistress may
be beloved, there is at times some clash and discord. Perfect
tranquillity, he said, is found only in solitude, and to be permanent
only in absolute seclusion; and he insisted that the hermit, if
intellectually rich, enjoys the happiest condition which this life can
offer. The love of solitude, however, can hardly be said to exist in
any one as a natural instinct; on the contrary, it may be regarded as
an acquired taste, and one which must be developed in indirect
progression. Schopenhauer, who cultivated it to its most supreme
expression, admitted that at first he had many fierce struggles with
the natural instinct of sociability, and at times had strenuously
combated some such Mephistophelian suggestion as,--

     "Hör' auf, mit deinem Gram zu spielen,
     Der, wie ein Geier, dir am Leben frisst:
     Die schlechteste Gesellschaft lässt dich fühlen
     Dass du ein Mensch, mit Menschen bist."

But solitude, more or less rigid, is undoubtedly the lot of all
superior minds. They may grieve over it, as Schopenhauer says, but of
two evils they will choose it as the least. After that, it is
presumably but a question of getting acclimated. In old age the
inclination comes, he notes, almost of itself. At sixty it is well-nigh
instinctive; at that age everything is in its favor. The incentives
which are the most energetic in behalf of sociability then no longer
act. With advancing years there arises a capacity of sufficing to one's
self, which little by little absorbs the social instinct. Illusions
then have faded, and, ordinarily speaking, active life has ceased.
There is nothing more to be expected, there are no plans nor projects
to form, the generation to which old age really belongs has passed
away, and, surrounded by a new race, one is then objectively and
essentially alone.

Then, too, many things are clearly seen, which before were as veiled by
a mist. As the result of long experience very little is expected from
the majority of people, and the conclusion is generally reached that
not only men do not improve on acquaintance, but that mankind is made
up of very defective copies, with which it is best to have as little to
do as possible.

But beyond converting his life into a monodrama with reflections of
this description, Schopenhauer considered himself to be a missionary of
truth, and in consequence as little fitted for every-day companionship
as missionaries in China feel themselves called upon to fraternize with
the Chinese. It was the rule of his life to expect nothing, desire as
little as possible, and learn all he could, and as little was to be
expected and nothing was to be learned from the majority of the dull
ruffians who go to the making of the census, it is not to be wondered
that he trod the thoroughfares of thought alone and dismissed the
majority of men with a shrug.

"They are," he said, "just what they seem to be, and that is the worst
that can be said of them." Epigrams of this description were naturally
not apt to increase his popularity. But for that he cared very little.
He considered that no man can judge another save by the measure of his
own understanding. Of course, if this understanding is of a low degree,
the greatest intellectual gifts which another may possess convey to him
no meaning; they are as colors to the blind; and consequently, in a
great nature there will be noticed only those defects and weaknesses
which are inseparable from every character.

But to such a man as Schopenhauer,--one who considered five sixths of
the population to be knaves or blockheads, and who had thought out a
system for the remaining fraction,--to such a man as he, the question
of esteem, or the lack thereof, was of small consequence. He cared
nothing for the existence which he led in the minds of other people. To
his own self he was true, to the calling of his destiny constant, and
he felt that he could sit and snap his fingers at the world, knowing
that Time, who is at least a gentleman, would bring him his due
unasked.

Schopenhauer's character was made up of that combination of seeming
contradictions which is the peculiarity of all great men. He had the
audacity of childhood and the timidity of genius. He was suspicious of
every one, and ineffably kind-hearted. With stupidity in any form he
was blunt, even to violence, and yet his manner and courtesy were such
as is attributed to the gentlemen of the old school. If he was an
egotist, he was also charitable to excess; and who shall say that
charity is not the egotism of great natures? He was honesty itself, and
yet thought every one wished to cheat him. To mislead a possible thief
he labeled his valuables Arcana Medica, put his banknotes in
dictionaries, and his gold pieces in ink bottles. He slept on the
ground floor, that he might escape easily in case of fire. If he heard
a noise at night he snatched at a pistol, which he kept loaded at his
bedside. Indeed, he might have chosen for his motto, "Je ne crains rien
fors le dangier," and yet who is ever so foolish as a wise man? Kant's
biography is full of similar vagaries, and one has but to turn to the
history of any of the thinkers whose names are landmarks in literature,
to find that eccentricities no less striking have also been recorded of
them.

Voltaire said, "On aime la vie, mais le néant ne laisse pas d'avoir du
bon;" and Schopenhauer, not to be outdone, added more massively, that
if one could tap on the tombs and ask the dead if they cared to return,
they would shake their heads. His views of life, however, and of the
world in general, will be considered later on, and for the moment it is
but necessary to note that he regarded happiness as consisting solely
in the absence of pain, and laid down as one of the supreme rules for
the proper conduct of life that discontent should be banished as far as
possible into the outer darkness.

When, therefore, to this Emerson in black there came those moments of
restlessness and dissatisfaction which visit even the most philosophic,
he would argue with himself in a way which was almost pathetic, and
certainly naïve; it was not he that was moody and out of sorts, it was
some privat-docent lecturing to empty halls, some one who was abused
by the Philistines, some defendant in a suit for damages, some one
whose fortune was engulfed perhaps beyond recovery, some lover
pleading to inattentive ears, some one attacked by one of the thousand
ills that flesh is heir to; yet this was not he; these things truly he
might have endured and suffered as one bears for a moment an ill-made
shoe, but now the foot no longer ached; indeed, he was none of all
this, he was the author of the "Welt als Wille und Vorstellung," and
what had the days to do with him!

But through all the intervening years the book had lain unnoticed on
the back shelves of the Leipsic publisher; and Schopenhauer, who had at
first been puzzled, but never disheartened, at the silence which had
settled about it, became convinced that through the influence of the
three sophists at Berlin, all mention of its merit had been suppressed
from the start.

"I am," he said, "the Iron Mask, the Caspar Hauser of philosophy," and
thereupon he pictured the Hegelians as looking admiringly at his
system, very much as the man in the fairy tale looked at the genie in
the bottle which, had he allowed it to come out, would carry him off.
Truth, however, which is long-lived, can always afford to wait; and
Schopenhauer, with something of the complacency of genius that is in
advance of its era, held his fingers on the public pulse and noted the
quickening which precedes a return to consciousness. Germany was waking
from her torpor. Already the influence of Hegel had begun to wane; his
school was split into factions, and his philosophy, which in solving
every problem had left the world nothing to do but to bore itself to
death, was slowly falling into disrepute. Moreover, the great class of
unattached scholars and independent thinkers, who cared as little for
University dogmas as they did for the threats of the Vatican, were
earnestly watching for some new teacher.

Schopenhauer was watching too; he knew that a change was coming, and
that he would come in with the change. He had but to wait. "My extreme
unction," he said, "will be my baptism; my death, a canonization."

Meanwhile old age had come upon him unawares, but with it the rich
fruition of lifelong study and reflection. The perfect tranquility in
which he passed his days had been utilized in strengthening and
expanding his work, and in 1843, in his fifty-sixth year, the second
and complementary volume of his philosophy was completed.

Twelve months later he wrote to Brockhaus, his publisher:--

"I may tell you in confidence that I am so well pleased with this
second volume, now that I see it in print, that I really think it will
be a great success.... If, now, in return for this great work, you are
willing to do me a very little favor, and one that is easily performed,
I will beg you each Easter to let me know how many copies have been
sold."

For two years he heard nothing, then in answer to a letter from him,
Brockhaus wrote:--

"In reply to your inquiry concerning the sale of your book, I can only
tell you that, to my sorrow, I have made a very poor business out of
it. Further particulars I cannot enter into."

"Many a rose," Schopenhauer murmured, as he refolded the note and
turned to other things.

In 1850, when, after six years' daily labor, he had completed his last
work, "Parerga und Paralipomena," his literary reputation was still so
insignificant that Brockhaus refused to publish it. Schopenhauer then
offered it, unavailingly, to half a dozen other publishers. No one
would have anything to do with it; the name which it bore would have
frightened a pirate, and the boldest in the guild was afraid to examine
its contents. "One thing is certain," said Schopenhauer, reflectively,
"I am unworthy of my contemporaries, or they of me." The "Parerga,"
however, in spite of the lack of allurement in its title, was not
destined to wither in manuscript. After much reconnoitring a publisher
was discovered in Berlin who, unwillingly, consented to produce it, and
thereupon two volumes of the most original and entertaining essays were
given to the public. For this work Schopenhauer received ten copies in
full payment.

Meanwhile a few adherents had rallied about him. Brockhaus, in an
attempt to make the best of a bad bargain, had marked the "Welt" down
to the lowest possible price, and a few copies had in consequence
fallen into intelligent hands. Among its readers there were some who
came to Frankfort to make the author's acquaintance; a proceeding
which pleased, yet alarmed Schopenhauer not a little.

One of them wrote to people with whom he was unacquainted, advising
them to read the work at once. "He is a fanatic," said Schopenhauer, in
complacent allusion to him, "a fanatic, that's what he is."

Dr. Gwinner, his subsequent biographer, whom he met about this time,
was his apostle, while Dr. Frauenstadt, another Boswell, whose
acquaintance he made at table d'hôte, he called his arch-evangelist,
and, not without pathos, repeated to him Byron's seductive lines,--

     "In the desert a fountain is springing,
       In the white waste there still is a tree,
     And a bird in the solitude singing,
       That speaks to my spirit of thee."

These gentlemen, together with a few others, made up a little band of
sturdy disciples, who went about wherever they could, speaking and
writing of the merits of Schopenhauer's philosophy. But the first note
of acclamation which, historically speaking, was destined to arouse the
thinking world, came, curiously enough, from England.

In 1853 the "Westminster Review" published a long and laudatory article
on Schopenhauer's philosophy; and this article Lindner, the editor of
the "Vossiche Zeitung," to whom Schopenhauer had given the title of
