that long and wretched night, the image of my wife seemed to devour my
brain and my reason.

The great clock on the neighbouring church struck one with a heavy and
a solemn intonation, of which I can only say that it was to me unlike
anything I had ever heard before.  It gave me a shudder to hear it, as
if I listened to some supernatural thing.  The first hour of the new
day rang like a long cry.  Some freak of association brought to my mind
that angel in the Apocalypse who proclaimed with a mighty voice that
Time should be no more.  I caught myself thinking this preposterous
thing: Suppose it were all over?  Suppose we never saw each other
again?  Suppose my wife were to die?  To-night?  Suppose some accident
befell her?  If she tripped upstairs?  If the child's crib took fire
and she put it out, and herself received one of those deadly shocks
from burns not in themselves mortal?

Suppose--she herself opening the door to let in the messenger expected
from me--that some drunken fellow, or some tramp--

"This," I said aloud, "is the kind of thing she does when I am delayed.
This is what it means to wait.  Men don't do it often enough to know
what it is.  I wonder if we have any scale of measurement for what
women suffer?"

What she, for instance, by that time was suffering, oh, who in the wide
world else could guess or dream?  There were such suffering cells in
that exquisite nature!  Who but me could understand?

I brought my clinched hand down upon the broker's blue blotting-paper,
and laid my heavy head upon it.

Suppose somebody had got the news to her that the horse had been seen
dashing free of the buggy, or had returned alone to the stable, panting
and cut?

Suppose Helen thought that my unaccountable absence had something to do
with that scene between us?  Suppose she thought--or if she
suspected--perhaps she imagined--

I hid my face within my shaking hands and groaned.  A curse upon the
cruel words that I had spoken to the tenderest of souls, to the dearest
and the gentlest of women!  A curse upon the lawless temper that had
fired them!  Accursed the hot lips that had uttered them, the unmanly
heart that could have let them slip!

I thought of her face--I really had not thought of her face before,
that wretched night.  I had not strictly dared.  Now I found that
daring had nothing to do with it.  I thought because I had to think.  I
dwelt upon her expression when I spoke to her--God forgive me!--as I
did; her attitude, the way her hands fell, her silence, the quiver in
her delicate mouth.  I saw the dim parlour, the lighted room beyond
her, the scarlet shade upon the gas; she standing midway, tall and
mute, like a statue carved by one stroke of a sword.

My own words came back to me; and I was not apt to remember things I
said to people.  So many impressions passed in and out of my mind in
the course of one busy day, that I became their victim rather than
their master.  But now my language to my wife that unhappy evening
returned to my consciousness with incredible vividness and minuteness.
It will be seen from the precision with which I have already recorded
it, how inexorable this minuteness was.

It occurred to me that I might as well have struck her.

In this kind of moral pommelling which sensitive women feel--as they
do--how could I have indulged!  I, who knew what a sensitive woman is,
what fearful and wonderful nervous systems these delicate creatures
have to manage; I, with what I was pleased to term my high organization
and special training--I, like any brutal hind, had berated my wife.  I,
who was punctilious to draw the silken porti√®re for her, who could not
let her pick up so much as her own lace handkerchief, nor allow her to
fold a wrap of the weight of a curlew's feather about her own soft
throat--I had belaboured her with the bludgeons that bruise the life
out of women's souls.  I wondered, indeed, if I should have been a less
amiable fellow if I had worn cow-hide boots and kicked her.

My reproaches, my remorses, my distresses, it is now an idle tale to
tell.  That night passed like none before it, and none which have come
after it.  My mind moved with a piteous monotony over and over and
about the aching thought: to see Helen--to see Helen--to be patient
till morning, and tell Helen--Only to get through this horrible night,
and hurry, rushing to the morning air, to the nearest cab dashing down
the street, and making the mad haste of love and shame, to see my
wife--to tell my wife--

As never in all our lives before, I should tell her how dear she was;
how unworthy was I to love her; how I loved her just as much as if I
were worthy, and could not help it though I tried--or (as we say) could
not help it though I died!  I should run up, ringing the bell, never
waiting to find the latch-key--for I could wait for nothing.  I should
spring into the house, and find her upstairs, in our own room; it would
be so early; she would be only half-dressed yet, pale and lovely,
looking like a spirit, far across the rich colours of the room, her
long hair loose about her.  I should gather her to my heart before she
saw me; my arms and lips should speak before my breaking voice.  I
should kiss my soul out on her lifted face.  I should love her so, she
should forgive me before I could so much as say, Forgive!  And when I
had her--to myself again--when these arms were sure of their own, and
these lips of hers, when her precious breath was on this cheek again,
and I could say;--

"Helen, Helen, Helen"--

and could say no more, for love and shame and sorrow, but only--

"Helen, Helen"--


"Yes," said the watchman's voice in the corridor.  "It is all right,
sir.  Me and Inspector Drayton, we thought we beard a noise, last
night, and we considered it safe to look about.  We had a thorough
search.  We thought we'd better.  But there wasn't nothing.  It's all
straight, sir."

It was morning, and Brake's clerk was coming in.  It was very early,
earlier than he usually came, perhaps; but I could not tell.  He did
not notice me at first, and, remembering Drayton's hypothesis, I shrank
behind the tall desk, and instinctively kept out of sight for a few
uncertain minutes, wondering what I had better do.  The clerk called
the janitor, and scolded a little about the fire, which he ordered
lighted in the grate.  It was a cold morning.  He said the room would
chill a corpse.  He had the morning papers in his hand.  He unfolded
the "Herald," and laid it down upon his own desk, as if about to read
it.

At that instant, the telegraph clicked, and he pushed the damp, fresh
paper away from him, and went immediately to the wires.  The young man
listened to the message with an expression of great intentness, and
wrote rapidly.  Moved by some unaccountable impulse, I softly rose and
glanced over his shoulder.

The dispatch was dated at midnight, and was addressed to Henry Brake.
It said:

"Have you seen my husband, to-night?" and it was signed, "Helen
Thorne."

Oh, poor Helen!...

Now, maniac with haste to get to her, it occurred to me that the moment
while the clerk was occupied in recording this message was as good a
time as I could ask for in which to escape unobserved, as I greatly
wished to do.  As quietly as I could--and I succeeded in doing it very
quietly--I therefore moved to leave the broker's office.  As I did so,
my eye caught the heading, in large capitals, of the morning news in
the open "Herald" which lay upon the desk behind the clerk.  I stopped,
and stooped, and read.  This is what I read:--

  SHOCKING ACCIDENT.

  TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
  RUNAWAY AT THE WEST END.

  The eminent and popular physician.
  Dr. Esmerald Thorne,

  KILLED INSTANTLY.




CHAPTER VII.

At this moment, the broker entered the office.

With the "Herald" in my hand, I made haste to meet him.

"Brake!" I cried, "Mr. Brake!  Thank Heaven, you have come!  I have
passed such a night--and look here!  Have you seen this abominable
canard?  This is what has come of my being locked into your"--

The broker regarded me with a strange look; so strange, that for very
amazement I stood still before it.  He did not advance to meet me;
neither his hand nor his eyes gave me the human sign of welcome; he
looked over me, he looked through me, as a man does at one whose
acquaintance he has no desire to recognize.

I thought:--

"Drayton has crammed him.  He too believes that I was shut in here to
sleep it off.  The story will get out in two hours.  I am doomed in
this town henceforth for a drunken doctor.  I'd better have been killed
instantly, as this infernal paper says."

But I said,--

"Mr. Brake?  You don't recognize me, I think.  It is I, Dr. Thorne.  I
couldn't get here before two.  I went to your house last evening.  I
got the impression you were here, so I came after you.  I was locked in
here by your confounded watchman.  They have this minute let me free.
I am in a great hurry to get home.  Nice job this is going to be!  Have
you seen that?"

I put my shaking finger upon the "Herald's" fiery capitals, and held
the column folded towards him.

"Jason," he said, after an instant's pause, "pick up the 'Herald,' will
you?  A gust of wind has blown it from the table.  There must be a
draught.  Please shut the door."


To say that I know of no earthly language which can express the
sensation that crawled over me as the broker uttered these words is to
say little or nothing about it.  I use the expression "crawled" with
some faint effort to define the slowness and the repulsiveness with
which the suspicion of that to which I dared not and did not give a
name, made itself manifest to my mind.

"Excuse me, Brake," I said with some agitation, "you did not hear what
I said.  I was locked in.  I am in a hurry to get home.  Ask Drayton.
Drayton let me in.  I must get home at once.  I shall sue the 'Herald'
for that outrageous piece of work--  What do you suppose my wife--
Good God!  She must have read it by this time!  Let me by, Brake!"

"Jason," said the broker, "this is a terrible thing!  I feel quite
broken up about it."

"Brake!" I cried, "Henry Brake!  Let me pass you!  Let me home to my
wife!  You're in my way--don't you see?  You're standing directly
between me and the door.  Let me pass!"

"There's a private dispatch come," said the clerk Badly.  "It is for
you, sir.  It is from Mrs. Thorne herself."

"Brake!" I pleaded, "Brake, Brake!--Jason!--Mr. Brake!  Don't you hear
me?"

"Give me the message, Jason," said Brake, holding out his hand; he
seated himself, as he did so, at the office table, where I had sat the
night out; he looked troubled and pale; he handled the message
reluctantly, as people do in the certainty of bad news.

"In the name of mercy, Henry Brake!" I cried, "what is the meaning of
this?  Don't you hear a word I say?  Don't you feel me?--There!"  I
gripped the broker by the shoulder, and clinched both hands upon him
with all my might.  "Don't you feel me?  God Almighty! don't you
see me, Brake?"

"When did this dispatch come, Jason?" said the broker.  He laid Helen's
message gently down; he had tears in his eyes.

"Henry Brake," I pleaded brokenly, for my heart failed me with a mighty
fear, "answer me, in human pity's name.  Are you gone deaf and blind?
Or am I struck dumb?  Or am I"--

"It came ten minutes ago, sir," replied Jason.  "It is dated, I see, at
midnight.  They delivered it as soon as anybody was likely to be
stirring, here; a bit before, too; considering the nature of the
message, I suppose, sir."

"It is a terrible affair!" repeated the broker nervously.  "I have
known the doctor a good many years.  He had his peculiarities; but he
was a good fellow.  Say--Jason!"

"Yes, sir?"

"How does it happen that Mrs. Thorne--  You say this message was dated
at midnight?"

"At midnight, sir.  12.15."

"How is it she didn't know by that time?  I pity the fellow who had
to tell her.  She's a very attractive woman....  The 'Herald' says--
Where is that paper?"

"The 'Herald' says," answered Jason decorously, "that he was scooped
into the buggy-top, and dragged, and dashed against--  Here it is."

He handed his employer the paper, as I had done, or had thought I did,
with his finger on the folded column.  The broker took the paper, and
slowly put on his glasses, and slowly read aloud:--

"'Dr. Thorne was dragged for some little distance, it is thought,
before the horse broke free.  He must have hit the lamp-post, or the
pavement.  He was found in the top of the buggy, which was a wreck.
The robe was over him, and his face was hidden.  His medicine case lay
beneath him; the phials were crushed to splinters.  Life was extinct
when he was discovered.  His watch had stopped at five minutes past
seven o'clock.  It so happened that he was not immediately identified,
though our reporter could not learn the reason of this extraordinary
mischance.  By some unpardonable blunder, the body of the distinguished
and favourite physician was taken to the Morgue'"--

"That accounts for it," said Jason.

--"'Was taken to the Morgue,'" read on Mr. Brake with agitated voice.
"'It was not until midnight that the mistake was discovered.  A
messenger was dispatched at twenty minutes after twelve o'clock to the
elegant residence of the popular doctor, in Delight Street.  The news
was broken to the widow as agreeably as possible.  Mrs. Thorne is a
young and very beautiful woman, on whom this shocking blow falls with
uncommon cruelty.

"'The body was carried to Dr. Thorne's house at one o'clock.  The time
of the funeral is not yet appointed.  The "Herald" will be informed as
soon as a decision is reached.

"'The death of Dr. Thorne is a loss to this community which it is
impossible to,'--hm--m--'his distinguished talents'--hm--m--hm--m."

The broker laid down the paper, and sighed.

"I sent for him yesterday, to consult about his affairs," he observed
gently.  "It is a pity for her to lose that Santa Ma.  She will need it
now.  I'm sorry for her.  I don't know how he left her, exactly.  He
did a tremendous business, but he spent as he went.  He was a good
fellow--I always liked the doctor!  Terrible affair!  Terrible affair!
Jason!  Where is that advertisement of Grope County Iowa Mortgage?  You
have filed it in the wrong place!  Be more careful in future."

..."Mr. Brake!"  I tried once more; and my voice was the voice of
mortal anguish to my own appalled and ringing ear.

"Do you not hear?  Can you not see?  Is there no one in this place
who hears?  Or sees me, either?"

An early customer had strayed in; Drayton was there; and the watchman
had entered.  The men (there were five in all) collected by the
broker's desk, around the morning papers, and spoke to each other with
the familiarity which bad news of any public interest creates.  They
conversed in low tones.  Their faces wore a shocked expression.  They
spoke of me; they asked for more particulars of the tragedy reported by
the morning press; they mentioned my merits and defects, but said more
about merits than defects, in the merciful, foolish way of people who
discuss the newly dead.

"I've known him ten years," said the broker.

"I've had the pleasure of the doctor's acquaintance myself a good
while," said the inspector politely.

"Wasn't he a quick-tempered man?" asked the customer.

"He cured a baby of mine of the croup," said the watchman.  "It was
given up for dead.  And he only charged me a dollar and a half.  He was
very kind to the little chap."

"He set an ankle for me, once, after a football match," suggested the
clerk.  "I wouldn't ask to be better treated.  He wasn't a bit rough."

..."Gentlemen," I entreated, stretching out my hands toward the group,
"there is some mistake--I must make it understood.  I am here.  It is
I, Dr. Thorne; Dr. Esmerald Thorne.  I am in this office.  Gentlemen!
Listen to me!  Look at me!  Look in this direction!  For God's sake,
try to see me--some of you!"...

"He drove too fast a horse," said the customer.  "He always has."

"I must answer Mrs. Thorne's message," said the broker sadly, rising
and pushing back the office chair.

...I shrank, and tried no more.  I bowed my head, and said no other
word.  The truth, incredible and terrible though it were, the truth
which neither flesh nor spirit can escape, had now forced itself upon
my consciousness.

I looked across the broker's office at those five warm human beings as
if I had looked across the width of the breathing world.  Naught had I
now to say to them; naught could they communicate to me.  Language was
not between us, nor speech, nor any sign.  Need of mine could reach
them not, nor any of their kind.  For I was in the dead, and they the
living men.

..."Here is your dog, sir," said Jason.  "He has followed you in.  He
is trying to speak to you, in his way."

The broker stooped and patted the dumb brute affectionately.  "I
understand, Lion," he said.  "Yes, I understand you."

The dog looked lovingly up into his master's face, and whined for joy.




CHAPTER VIII.

This incident, trifling as it was, I think, did more than anything
which had preceded it to make me aware of the nature of that which had
befallen me.  The live brute could still communicate with the living
man.  Skill of scientist and philosopher was as naught to help the
human spirit which had fled the body to make itself understood by one
which occupied it still.  More blessed in that moment was Lion, the
dog, than Esmerald Thorne, the dead man.  I said to myself:--

"I am a desolate and an outcast creature.  I am become a dumb thing in
a deaf world."

I thrust my hands before me, and wrung them with a groan.  It seemed
incredible to me that I could die; that was more wonderful, even, than
to know that I was already dead.

"It is all over," I moaned.  "I have died.  I am dead.  I am what they
call a dead man."

Now, at this instant, the dog turned his head.  No human tympanum in
the room vibrated to my cry.  No human retina was recipient of my
anguish.  What fine, unclassified senses had the highly-organized
animal by which he should become aware of me?  The dog turned his noble
head--he was a St. Bernard, with the moral qualities of the breed well
marked upon his physiognomy; he lifted his eyes and solemnly regarded
me.

After a moment's pause he gave vent to a long and mournful cry.

"Don't, Lion," I said.  "Keep quiet, sir.  This is dreadful!"

The dog ceased howling when I spoke to him; after a little hesitation
he came slowly to the spot where I was standing, and looked earnestly
into my face, as if he saw me.  Whether he did, or how he did, or why
he did, I knew not, and I know not now.  The main business of this
narrative will be the recording of facts.  Explanations it is not mine
to offer; and of speculations I have but few, either to give or to
withhold.

A great wistfulness came into my soul, as I stood shut apart there from
those living men, within reach of their hands, within range of their
eyes, within the vibration of their human breath.  I looked into the
animal's eyes with the yearning of a sudden and an awful sense of
desolation.

"Speak to me, Lion," I whispered.  "Won't you speak to me?"

"What is that dog about?" asked the customer, staring.  "He is standing
in the middle of the room and wagging his tail as if he had met
somebody."

The dog at this instant, with eager signs of pleasure or of pity--I
could not, indeed, say which--put his beautiful face against my hand,
and kissed, or seemed to kiss it, sympathetically.

"He has queer ways," observed Jason, the clerk, carelessly; "he knows
more than most folks I know."

"True," said his master, laughing.  "I don't feel that I am Lion's
equal more than half the time, myself.  He is a noble fellow.  He has a
very superior nature.  My wife declares he is a poet, and that when he
goes off by himself, and gazes into vacancy with that sort of look, he
is composing verses."

Another customer had strolled in by this time; he laughed at the
broker's easy wit; the rest joined in the laugh; some one said
something which I did not understand, and Drayton threw back his head
and guffawed heartily.  I think their laughter made me feel more
isolate from them than anything had yet done.

"Why!" exclaimed the broker sharply, "what is this?  Jason!  What does
this mean?"

His face, as he turned it over his shoulder to address the clerk, had
changed colour; he was indeed really pale.  He held his fingers on the
great sheet of blue blotting-paper, to which he pointed, unsteadily.

"Upon my soul, sir," said Jason, flushing and then paling in his turn.
"That is a queer thing!  May I show it to Mr. Drayton?"

The inspector stepped forward, as the broker nodded; and examined the
blotting-paper attentively.

"It is written over," he said in a professional tone, "from end to end.
I see that.  It is written with one name.  It is the name of"--

"Helen!" interrupted the broker.

"Yes," replied the inspector.  "Yes, it is: Helen; distinctly, Helen.
Someone must have"--

But I stayed to hear no more.  What some one must have done, I sprang
and left the live men to decide--as live men do decide such
things--among themselves.  I sprang, and crying: "Helen!  Helen!
Helen!" with one bound I brushed them by, and fled the room, and
reached the outer air and sought for her.

As nearly as one can characterize the emotion of such a moment I should
say that it was one of mortal intensity; perhaps of what in living men
we should call maniac intensity.  Up to this moment I could not be said
to have comprehended the effect of what had taken place upon my wife.

The full force of her terrible position now struck me like the edge of
a weapon with whose sheath I had been idling.

Hot in the flame of my anger I had gone from her; and cold indeed had I
returned.  Her I had left dumb before my cruel tongue, but dumb was
that which had come back to her in my name.

I was a dead man.  But like any living of them all--oh, more than any
living--I loved my wife.  I loved her more because I had been cruel to
her than if I had been kind.  I loved her more because we had parted so
bitterly than if we had parted lovingly.  I loved her more because I
had died than if I had lived.  I must see my wife!  I must find my
wife!  I must say to her--I must tell her--  Why, who in all the world
but me could do anything for Helen now?

Out into the morning air I rushed, and got the breeze in my face, and
up the thronging street as spirits do, unnoted and unknown of men, I
passed; solitary in the throng, silent in the outcry, unsentient in the
press.

The sun was strong.  The day was cool.  The dome of the sky hung over
me, too, as over those who raised their breathing faces to its beauty.
I, too, saw, as I fled on, that the day was fair.  I heard the human
voices say:

"What a morning!"

"It puts the soul into you!" said a burly stock speculator to a
railroad treasurer; they stood upon the steps of the Exchange,
laughing, as I brushed by.

"It makes life worth while," said a healthy elderly woman, merrily,
making the crossing with the light foot that a light heart gives.

"It makes life possible," replied a pale young girl beside her, coming
slowly after.

"Poor fellow!" sighed a stranger whom I hit in hurrying on.  "It was an
ugly way to die.  Nice air, this morning!"

"He will be a loss to the community," replied this man's companion.
"There isn't a doctor in town who has his luck with fevers.  You can't
convince my wife he didn't save her life last winter.  Frost, last
night, wasn't there?  Very invigorating morning!"

Now, at the head of the street some ladies were standing, waiting for a
car.  I was delayed in passing them, and as I stepped back to change my
course I saw that one of them was speaking earnestly, and that her eyes
showed signs of weeping.

"He wouldn't remember me," she said; "it was eleven years ago.  But
sick women don't forget their doctors.  He was as kind to me"--

"Oh, poor Mrs. Thorne!" a soft voice answered, in the accented tone
of an impulsive, tender-hearted woman.  "It's bad enough to be a
patient.  But, oh, his wife!"

"Let me pass, ladies!" I cried, or tried to cry, forgetting, in the
anguish which their words fanned to its fiercest, that I could not be
heard and might not be seen.  "There seems to be some obstruction.  Let
me by, for I am in mortal haste!"

Obstruction there was, alas! but it was not in them whom I would have
entreated.  Obstruction there was, but of what nature I could not and I
cannot testify.  While I had the words upon my lips, even as the group
of women broke and left a space about me while they scattered on their
ways, there on the corner of the thoroughfare, in the heart of the
town, by an invisible force, by an inexplicable barrier, I, the dead
man fleeing to my living wife, was beaten back.

Whence came that awful order?  How came it?  And wherefore?  I knew no
more than the November wind that passed me by, and went upon its errand
as it listed.

I was thrust back by a blast of Power Incalculable; it was like the
current of an unknown natural force of infinite capability.  Set the
will of soul and body as I would, I could not pass the head of the
street.




CHAPTER IX.

Struggling to bear the fate which I had met, I turned as manfully as I
might, and retraced my steps down the thronging street, within whose
limits I now learned that my freedom was confined.  It was a sickening
discovery.  I had been a man of will so developed and freedom so
sufficient that helplessness came upon me like a change of temperament;
it took the form of hopelessness almost at once.

What was death?  The secret of life.  What knew I of the system of
things on which a blow upon the head had ushered me all unready,
reluctant, and uninstructed as I was?  No more than the ruddiest live
stockbroker in the street, whose blood went bounding, that fresh
morning, to the antics of the Santa Ma.  I was not accustomed to be
uninformed; my ignorance appalled me.  Even in the deeps of my misery,
I found space for a sense of humiliation; I felt profoundly mortified.
In that spot, in that way, of all others, why was I withheld?  Was it
the custom of the black country called Death, which we mark
"unexplored" upon the map of life,--was it the habit to tie a man to
the place where he had died?  But this was not the spot where I had
died.  It was the spot where I had learned that I had died.  It was the
place where the consciousness of death had wrought itself, not upon the
nerves of the body, but upon the faculties of the mind.  I had been
dead twelve hours before I found it out.

I looked up and down the street, where the living men scurried to and
fro upon their little errands.  These seemed immeasurably small.  I
looked upon them with disgust.  Fettered to that pavement, like a
convict to his ball-and-chain, I passed and repassed in wretchedness
whose quality I cannot express, and would not if I could.

"I am punished," I said; "I am punished for that which I have done.
This is my doom.  I am imprisoned here."

Sometimes I broke into uncontrollable misery, crying upon my wife's
dear name.  Then I would hush the outbreak, lest some one overhear me;
and then I would remember that no one could overhear.  I looked into
the faces of the people whom I met and passed, with such longings for
one single sign of recognition as are not to be described.  It even
occurred to me that among them all one might be found of whom my love
and grief and will might make a messenger to Helen.  But I found none
such, or I gained no such power; and, sick at heart, I turned away.

Suddenly, as I threaded the thick of the press, beating to and fro, and
up and down, as dead leaves move before the wind, some one softly
touched my hand.

It was the St. Bernard, the broker's dog.  This time, as before, he
looked into my face with signs of pleasure or of pity, or of both, and
made as if he would caress me.

"Lion!" I cried, "you know me, don't you?  Bless you, Lion!"

Now, at the dumb thing's recognition, I could have wept for pleasure.
The dog, when I spoke to him, followed me; and for some time walked up
and down and athwart the street, beside me.  This was a comfort to me.
At last his master came out upon the sidewalk and looked for him.
Brake whistled merrily, and the dog, at the first call, went bounding
in.


Ordinary writers upon usual topics, addressing readers of their own
condition, have their share of difficulties; at best one conquers the
art of expression as a General conquers an enemy.  But the obstacles
which present themselves to the recorder of this narrative are such as
will be seen at once to have peculiar force.  Almost at the outset they
dishearten me.  How shall I tell the story unless I be understood?  And
how should I be understood if I told the story?  Were it for me, a man
miserable and erring, gone to his doom as untrained for its
consequences, or for the use of them, as a drayman for the use of
hypnotism in surgery,--were it for me to play the interpreter between
life and death?  Were it for me to expect to be successful in that
solemn effort which is as old as time, and as hopeless as the eyes of
mourners?

What shall I say?  It is willed that I shall speak.  The angel said
unto me: Write.  How shall I obey, who am the most unworthy of any soul
upon whom has been laid the burden of the higher utterance?  Sacred be
the task.  Would that its sacredness could sanctify the unfitness of
him who here fulfils it.


The experience which I have already narrated was followed by an
indefinite period of great misery.  How long I remained a prisoner in
that unwelcome spot I cannot accurately tell.

What are called by dwellers in the body days and nights, and dawns and
darks, succeeded each other, little remarked by my wretchedness, or by
the sense of remoteness from these things which now began to grow upon
me.  The life of what we call a spirit had begun for me in the form of
a moral dislocation.  The wrench, the agony, the process of setting the
nature under its new conditions, took place in due order, but with
bitter laggardness.  The accident of death did not heal in my soul by
what surgeons call "the first intention."  I retained for a long time
the consciousness of being an injured creature.

As I paced and repaced the narrow street where the money-makers and
money-lovers of the town jostled and thronged, a great disgust
descended upon me.  The place, the springs of conduct, wearied me,
something in the manner that an educated person is wearied by low
conversation.  It seemed to be like this:--that the moral motives of
the living created the atmosphere of the dead therein confined.  It was
as if I inhaled the coarse friction, the low aspiration, the
feverishness, the selfishness, the dishonour, that the getting of gain,
when it became the purpose of life, involved.  I experienced a sense of
being stifled, and breathed with difficulty; much as those live men
would have done, if the gas-pipes had burst in the street.

It did not detract from this feeling of asphyxia that I was aware of
having, to a certain extent, shared the set of moral compounds which I
now found resolved to their elements, by the curious chemistry of death.

I had loved money and the getting of money, as men of the world, and of
success in it, are apt to do.  I was neither better nor worse than
others of my sort.  I had speculated with the profits of my profession,
idly enough, but hotly, too, at times.  I had told myself that I did
this out of anxiety for the future of my family.  I had viewed myself
in the light of the model domestic man, who guards his household
against an evil day.  It had never occurred to me to classify myself
with the mere money-changers, into whose atmosphere I had elected to
put myself.

Now, as I glided in and out among them, unseen, unheard, unrecognized,
a spirit among their flesh, there came upon me a humiliating sense of
my true relation to them.  Was it thus, I said, or so?  Did I this or
that?  Was the balance of motives so disproportionate after all?  Was
there so little love of wife and child?  So much of self and gain?  Was
the item of the true so small?  The sum of the false so large?  Had I
been so much less that was noble, so much more that was low?

I mingled with the mass of haggard men at a large stock auction which
half the street attended.  The panic had spread.  Sleeplessness and
anxiety had carved the crowding faces with hard chisels.  The shouts,
the scramble, the oaths, the clinched hands, the pitiful pushing,
affected me like a dismal spectacular play on some barbarian stage.
How shall I express the sickening aspect of the scene to a man but
newly dead?

The excitement waxed with the morning.  The old and placid Santa Ma
throbbed like any little road of yesterday.  The stock had gained 32
points in ten minutes, and down again, and up again to Heaven knows
what.  Men ran from despair to elation, and behaved like maniacs in
both.  Men who were gentlemen at home turned savages here.  Men who
were honourable in society turned sharpers here.  Madness had them, as
I watched them.  A kind of pity for them seized me.  I glided in among
them, and lifted my whole heart to stay them if I could.  I stretched
the hands that no one saw.  I raised the voice that none could hear.

"Gentlemen!" I cried, "count me the market value of it--on the margin
of two lives!  By the bonds wherewith you bind yourselves you shall be
bound!...  What is the sum of wealth represented within these walls
to-day?  Name it to me....  The whole of it, for the power to leave
this place!  The whole of it, the whole of it, for one half-hour in a
dead man's desolated home!  A hundred-fold the whole of it for"--

But here I lost command of myself, and fleeing from the place where my
presence and my misery and my entreaty alike were lost upon the
attention of the living throng as were the elements of the air they
breathed, I rushed into the outer world again; there to wander up and
down the street, and hate the place, and hate myself for being there,
and hate the greed of gain I used to love, and hate myself for having
loved it; and yet to know that I was forced to act as if I loved it
still, and to be the ghost before the ghost of a desire.

"It is my doom," I said.  "I am punished.  I am fastened to this
worldly spot, and to this awful way of being dead."

Now, while I spoke these words, I came, in the stress of my
wretchedness, fleeing to the head of the street; and there, I cannot
tell you how, I cannot answer why, as the arrow springs from the bow,
or the conduct from the heart, or the spirit from the flesh,--in one
blessed instant I knew that I was free to leave the spot, and crying,
"Helen, Helen!" broke from it.




CHAPTER X.

But no.  Alas, no, no!  I was and was not free.  All my soul turned
toward her, but something stronger than my soul constrained me.  It
seemed to me that I longed for her with such longing as might have
killed a live man, or might have made a dead one live again.  This
emotion added much to my suffering, but nothing to my power to turn one
footstep toward her or to lift my helpless face in her direction.  It
was not permitted to me.  It was not willed.

Now this, which might in another temperament have produced a sense of
fear or of desire to placate the unknown Force which overruled me,
created in me at first a stinging rage.  This is the truth, and the
truth I tell.

In my love and misery, and the shock of this disappointment--against
the unknown opposition to my will, I turned and raved; even as when I
was a man among men I should have raved at him who dared my purpose.

"You are playing with me!" I wailed.  "You torture a miserable man.
Who and what are you, that make of death a bitterer thing than life can
guess?  Show me what I have to fight, and let me wrestle for my
liberty,--though I am a ghost, let me wrestle like a man!  Let me to my
wife!  Give way, and let me seek her!"

Shocking and foreign as words like these must be to many of those who
read these pages, it must be remembered that they were uttered by one
to whom faith and the knowledge that comes by way of it were the leaves
of an abandoned text-book.  For so many years had the tenets of the
Christian religion been put out of my practical life, even as I put
aside the opinions of the laity concerning the treatment of disease,
that I do not over-emphasize; I speak the simplest truth in saying that
my first experience of death had not in any sense revived the vividness
of lost belief to me.  As the old life had ended had the new begun.
Where the tree had fallen it did lie.  What was habit before death was
habit after.  What was natural then was natural now.  What I loved
living I loved dead.  That which interested Esmerald Thorne the man
interested Esmerald Thorne the spirit.  The incident of death had
raised the temperature of intellect; it had, perhaps, I may say, by
this time quickened the pulse of conscience; but it had in no wise
wrought any miracle upon me, nor created a religious believer out of a
worldly and indifferent man of science.  Dying had not forthwith made
me a devout person.  Incredible as it may seem, it is the truth that up
to this time I had not, since the moment of dissolution, put to myself
the solemn queries concerning my present state which occupy the
imaginations of the living so much, while yet death is a fact remote
from their experience.

It was the habit of long years with me, after the manner of my kind, to
settle all hard questions by a few elastic phrases, which, once
learned, are curiously pliable to the intellectual touch.  "Phenomena,"
for instance,--how plastic to cover whatever one does not understand!
"Law,"--how ready to explain away the inexplicable!  Up to this point
death had struck me as a most unfortunate phenomenon.  Its personal
disabilities I found it easy to attribute to some natural law with
which my previous education had left me unfamiliar.  Now, standing
baffled there in that incredible manner half of tragedy, half of the
absurd,--even the petty element of the undignified in the position
adding to my distress,--a houseless, homeless, outcast spirit, struck
still in the heart of that great town, where in hundreds of homes was
weeping for me, where I was beloved and honoured and bemoaned, and
where my own wife at that hour broke her heart with sorrow for me and
for the manner of my parting from her,--then and there to be beaten
back, and battered down, and tossed like an atom in some primeval
flood, whithersoever I would not,--what a situation was this!

Now, indeed, I think for the first time, my soul lifted itself, as a
sick man lifts himself upon his elbows, in his painful bed.  Now,
flashing straight back upon the outburst of my defiance and despair,
like the reflex action of a strong muscle, there came into my mind, if
not into my heart, these impulsive and entreating words:--

"What art Thou, who dost withstand me?  I am a dead and helpless man.
What wouldst Thou with me?  Where gainest Thou Thy force upon me?  Art
Thou verily that ancient Myth which we were wont to call Almighty God?"

Simultaneously with the utterance of these words that blast of Will to
which I have referred fell heavily upon me.  A Power not myself
overshadowed me and did environ me.  Guided whithersoever I would not,
I passed forth upon errands all unknown to me, rebelling and obeying as
I went.

"I am become what we used to call a spirit," I thought, bitterly, "and
this is what it means.  Better might one become a molecule, for those,
at least, obey the laws of the universe, and do not suffer."

Now, as I took my course, it being ordered on me, it led me past the
door of a certain open church, whence the sound of singing issued.  The
finest choir in the city, famous far and near, were practising for the
Sunday service, and singing like the sons of God, indeed, as I passed
by.  With the love of the scientific temperament for harmony alert in
me, I lingered to listen to the anthem which these singers were
rendering in their customary great manner.  With the instinct of the
musically educated, I felt pleasure in this singing, and said:--

"Magnificently done!" as I went on.  It was some moments before the
words which the choir sang assumed any vividness in my mind.  When they
did I found that they were these;--

"For God is a Spirit.  God is a Spirit: and they that worship Him must
worship Him in spirit"--


Now it fell out that my steps were directed to the hospital; and to the
hospital I straightway went.  I experienced some faint comfort at this
improvement in my lot, and hurried up the avenue and up the steps and
into the familiar wards with eagerness.  All the impulses of the healer
were alive in me.  I felt it a mercy for my nature to be at its own
again.  I hastened in among my sick impetuously.

The hospital had been a favourite project of mine; from its start,
unreasonably dear to me.  Through the mounting difficulties which
blockade such enterprises, I had hewn and hacked, I had fathered and
doctored, I had trusteed and collected, I had subscribed and directed
and persisted and prophesied and fulfilled, as one ardent person must
in most humanitarian successes; and I had loved the success
accordingly.  I do not think it had ever once occurred to me to
question myself as to the chemical proportions of my motives in this
great and popular charity.  Now, as I entered the familiar place, some
query of this nature did indeed occupy my mind; it had the strangeness
of all mental experiences consequent upon my new condition, and
somewhat, if I remember, puzzled me.

The love of healing?  The relief of suffering?  Sympathy with the
wretched?  Chivalry for the helpless?  Generosity to the poor?
Friendship to the friendless?  Were these the motives, all the motives,
the whole motives, of him who had in my name ministered in that place
so long?  Even the love of science?  Devotion to a therapeutic creed?
Sacrifice for a surgical doctrine?  Enthusiasm for an important
professional cause?  Did these, and only these, sources of conduct
explain the great hospital?  Or the surgeon who had created and
sustained it?

Where did the motive deteriorate?  Where did the alloy come in?  How
did the sensitiveness to self, the passion for fame, the joy of power,
amalgamate with all that noble feeling?  How much residuum was there in
the solution of that absorption which (outside of my own home) I had
thought the purest and highest of my interests in life?

For the first of all the uncounted times that I had entered the
hospital for now these many years, I crossed the threshold questioning
myself in this manner, and doubting of my fitness to be there, or to be
what I had been held to be in that place.  Life had carried me gaily
and swiftly, as it carries successful men.  I had found no time, or
made none, to cross-question the sources of conduct.  My success had
been my religion.

I had the conviction of a prosperous person that the natural emotions
of prosperity were about right.  Added to this was something of the
physician's respect for what was healthful in human life.  Good luck,
good looks, good nerves, a good income, an enviable reputation for
professional skill, personal popularity, and private happiness,--these
things had struck me as so wholesome that they must be admirable.
Behind the painted screen which a useful and successful career sets
before the souls of men I had been too busy or too light of heart to
peer.  Now it was as if, in the act or the fact of dying, I had moved a
step or two, and looked over the edge of the bright shield.

Thoughts like these came to me so quietly and so naturally, now, that I
wondered why I had not been familiar with them before; it even occurred
to me that being very busy did not wholly excuse a live man for not
thinking; and it was something in the softened spirit of this strange
humility that I opened the noiseless door, and found myself among my
old patients in the large ward.

Never before had I entered that sad place that the electric thrill of
welcome, which only a physician knows, had not pulsated through it,
preceding me, from end to end of the long room.  The peculiar
lighting of the ward that flashes with the presence of a favourite
doctor; the sudden flexible smile on pain-pinched lips; the yearning
motion of the eyes in some helpless body where only the eyes can stir;
the swift stretching-out of wasted hands; the half-inaudible cry of
welcome: "The doctor's come!" "Oh, there's the doctor!"  "Why, it's the
doctor!"--the loving murmur of my name; the low prayer of blessing on
it,--oh, never before had I entered my hospital, and missed the least
of these.

I thought I was prepared for this, but it was not without a shock that
I stood among my old patients, mute and miserable, glancing piteously
at them, as they had so often done at me; seeking for their
recognition, which I might not have; longing for their welcome, which
was not any more for me.

The moans of pain, the querulous replies to nurses, the weary cough or
plethoric breathing, the feeble convalescent laughter,--these greeted
me; and only these.  Like the light that entered at the window, or the
air that circulated through the ward, I passed unnoticed and unthanked.
Some one called out petulantly that a door had got unfastened, and bade
a nurse go shut it, for it blew on her.  But when I came up to the
bedside of this poor woman, I saw that she was crying.

"She's cried herself half-dead," a nurse said, complainingly.  "Nobody
can stop her.  She's taking on so for Dr. Thorne."

"I don't blame her," said a little patient from a wheeled-chair.
"Everybody knows what he did for her.  She's got one of her
attacks,--and look at her!  There can't anybody but him stop it.
Whatever we're going to do without the doctor"--

Her own lip quivered, though she was getting well.

"I don't see how the doctor could die!" moaned the very sick woman,
weeping afresh, "when there's those that nobody but him can keep alive.
It hadn't oughter to be let to be.  How are sick folks going to get
along without their doctor?  It ain't right!"

"Lord have mercy on ye, poor creetur," said an old lady from the
opposite cot.  "Don't take on so.  It don't help it any.  It ain't
agoing to bring the doctor back!"

Sobs arose at this.  I could hear them from more beds than I cared to
count.  Sorrow sat heavily in the ward for my sake.  It distressed me
to think of the effect of all this depression upon the nervous systems
of these poor people.  I passed from case to case, and watched the
ill-effects of the general gloom with a sense of professional
disappointment which only physicians will understand as coming
uppermost in a man's mind under circumstances such as these.

My discomfort was increased by the evidences of what I considered
mistakes in treatment on the part of my colleagues; some of which had
peculiarly disagreed with certain patients since my death had thrown
them into other hands.  My helplessness before these facts chafed me
sorely.

I made no futile effort to make myself known to any of the hospital
patients.  I had learned too well the limitations of my new condition
now.  I had in no wise learned to bear them.  In truth, I think I bore
them less, for my knowledge that these poor creatures did truly love
me, and leaned on me, and mourned for me; I found it hard.  I think it
even occurred to me that a dead man might not be able to bear it to see
his wife and child.

"Doctor!" said a low, sweet voice, "Doctor?"  My heart leaped within
me, as I turned.  Where was the highly organized one of all my
patients, who had baffled death for love of me?  Who had the
clairvoyance or clairaudience, or the wonderful tip in the scale of
health and disease, which causes such phenomena?

With hungry eyes I gazed from cot to cot.  No answering gaze returned
to me.  Craving their recognition more sorely than they had ever, in
the old life, craved mine, in such need of their sympathy as never had
the weakest of the whole of them for mine, I scanned them all.  No--no.
There was not a patient in the ward who knew me.  No.

Stung with the disappointment, I sank into a chair beside the weeping
woman's bed, and bowed my face upon my hands.  At this instant I was
touched upon the shoulder.

"Doctor!  Why, Doctor!" said the voice again.

I sprang and caught the speaker by the hands.  It was Mrs. Faith.  She
stood beside me, sweet and smiling.

"The carriage overturned," she said in her quiet way, "I was badly
hurt.  I only died an hour ago.  I started out at once to find you.  I
want you to see Charley.  Charley's still alive.  Those doctors don't
understand Charley.  There's nobody I'd trust him to but you.  You can
save him.  Come!  You can't think how he asked for you, and cried for
you....  I thought I should find you at the hospital.  Come quickly,
Doctor!  Come!"




