
"No, sir. Don't be offended, but it seems so strange," faltered Ruth.

"The money was unwisely invested. A large part of it was in wild-cat
mining stocks, which were not worth the paper they were written on."

"Father never spoke to us about any such investments."

"I presume not. Most men keep such matters to themselves. Well, the
upshot is that but seventy-five dollars are left. I presume your mother
received my check for this amount."

"Yes, sir."

"Then that is all I can do for you. I will in time forward a bill of
particulars. A present I am busy."

At this moment Luella Ferguson entered the room. She recognized Ruth at
once.

"You here?" she said in haughty surprise.

"Yes, I came on business."

"We do not want any servants. Papa, this girl was very insolent to me
on the train yesterday. I hope you will send her away."

"I am going, Miss Ferguson," said Ruth with spirit. "Your father was
the trustee of my poor father's property, and it was to ask about it
that I came here. Good evening."

She left the house with faltering steps, for her last hope had been
destroyed, and she felt keenly the cruel slight of Luella Ferguson. As
she set foot on the sidewalk her brain reeled, and she would have
fallen had not a young man who was about to ascend the steps sprung
forward and supported her.




CHAPTER XX.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

Ruth Patton recovered herself by a great effort. "I won't trouble you
any longer, sir," she faltered. "I think I can do without further
assistance."

"Excuse me for doubting it. You look very weak. Take my arm. There is a
drug store not far away where I can procure you a strengthening
draught."

"I am sorry to trouble you so much," she murmured apologetically.

"It is no trouble, I assure you. I count myself fortunate in being on
hand so opportunely."

Ruth for the first time, encouraged by his kind words, stole a glance
at the stranger. He was a well made and unusually handsome young man of
perhaps twenty-seven. His careful dress and something in his manner
seemed to indicate high social position. The indication corresponded
with the fact. Alfred Lindsay belonged to an old and distinguished New
York family. Though his means were ample he was not content to be an
idler, but after careful preparation at Columbia College and Law
School, he had opened a law office in the Mills Building, and was
already beginning to be known as a young man with a future.

His wealth and high social standing led him to be considered a "catch,"
in the matrimonial market. It is safe to say that at least half a dozen
young ladies had set their caps for him. Among these was Luella
Ferguson, and there were those who considered her chance of landing the
prize the best. At any rate Mr. Lindsay, who had been employed by the
elder Ferguson in some legal matter, became a frequent caller, to the
great satisfaction of Luella Ferguson. It may not be considered a mark
of taste on the part of the young man to have fallen a victim to the
young lady's arts, but in his presence she was all that was amiable.
She was not without a certain attractiveness of face, which, had it
been joined to an equally agreeable disposition, might have proved a
good excuse to any young man for succumbing to her fascinations. Never
for a moment had he cause to suspect that she was otherwise than she
seemed. Kind and sympathetic himself, the absence of these qualities,
if known to him, would have rendered her repulsive to him.

He conducted Ruth to a drug store, and the druggist administered
restoratives that soon brought back her strength and color, but not her
cheerfulness.

"I am strong enough now to go on my way," she said rising. "How can I
thank you, sir, for your kindness?"

"By allowing me to see you to your own door," and this he insisted on
despite Ruth's protest.

"Would it be indiscreet," he asked, when they had set out on their way,
"to ask if you can account for your sudden illness?"

"I had a shock," she answered.

"Of what sort? Are you willing to make me your confidant? I do not ask
out of curiosity, but because it may be in my power to serve you."

"I have so few friends that I will not decline your kind offer."

"You were coming from the house of Mr. Robert Ferguson?"

"Yes, sir; do you know him?"

"Quite well. I was myself going there."

"Is he considered--an honorable man?"

"Why, surely. What can lead you to doubt it?"

In answer Ruth told her story. The young lawyer listened in pained
surprise. Strictly honorable himself, he found it hard to believe that
a man whom he knew so well could be guilty of the meanness of
defrauding two women whose interests had been confided to him. Yet the
story seemed probable. Moreover, even had matters been as Mr. Ferguson
represented, his want of feeling seemed almost as bad as absolute
dishonesty. He asked Ruth several questions in order that he might
become fully possessed of all particulars.

"This, then, was the cause of your agitation?" he said at length.

"Not wholly. It was the treatment I received from Miss Ferguson that
affected me most."

"Miss Ferguson! Do you know Miss Ferguson?" Lindsay asked quickly.

"I met her for the first time yesterday afternoon."

"Where--may I ask?"

"In the Erie train. I entered the cars at Port Jervis. She was already
on board, but I do not know from what point she had come."

"I think I know. She had been visiting a school friend at Binghamton."

"You know her, then?"

"Yes. I met her at a party about a year since."

"If she is a friend of yours I will not say anything to her
disadvantage."

"But I want you to tell me all there is to tell. I have a special
reason for learning all I can about her. You say she treated you ill?"

"She treated me cruelly. She took offense in the cars because the
conductor removed her dog from a seat in order to make room for me."

"Was there no other seat in the car?"

"None, or I would not have disturbed her. I did not like to stand all
the way from Port Jervis to New York."

"Of course not. Please favor me with the particulars."

The young man listened attentively while Ruth in simple language--not
exaggerating in any respect--told her story. Young Lindsay's brow
contracted, for he felt indignant at the cold selfishness shown by the
young lady who had hitherto attracted him. He felt that, if it were all
true, he could never again look upon her even with ordinary friendship.

"She feigned to look upon me as a servant," Ruth concluded, "and
sharply rebuked me for thrusting myself upon her. I would gladly have
taken another seat had any been unoccupied, but the car was full. I
heard from the train boy that it was on account of an excursion to
Shohola Glen."

"I confess, Miss Patton" (Ruth had told her name), "I am surprised and
pained by what you have told me. I never knew that Luella--Miss
Ferguson--had such unlovely traits. To me she has always seemed kind
and considerate."

Looking in the young man's expressive face, Ruth Patton felt that she
understood better than he why Miss Ferguson had assumed to be what she
was not. She was not surprised that Luella should desire to make a
favorable impression upon one who seemed to her the most attractive
young man she had ever met. But of course she could not give utterance
to the thought that was in her mind, and remained silent.

"To change the subject," said Lindsay, after a pause, "may I ask what
are your plans if you have any?"

"I must try to earn some money. If--if you would advise me."

"With pleasure. Let me ask, first, what you can do."

"I used to do some copying for a lawyer at Port Jervis."

"You are used, then, to copying legal documents?"

"I have done considerable of it."

"You do not use the typewriter?"

"No, I have never learned."

Alfred Lindsay paused, and his expressive face showed that he was busy
thinking.

"I am a lawyer," he said at length, "and I have copying to do, of
course. Would you mind calling upon me at my office to-morrow morning?"

"I shall be very glad to do so," answered Ruth, her eyes lighting up
with new-born hopes.

"I think I can promise you something to do."

"Oh, sir, you don't know how your words cheer me. This is where I live.
Thank you very much for your kind escort."

"Don't mention it. I will expect you to-morrow," and the young man took
off his hat as respectfully as if Ruth, instead of being a poor girl in
search of work, were a lady in his own set.




CHAPTER XXI.

LUELLA'S PAINFUL DISCOVERY.

"What business had that girl with you, papa?" asked Luella Ferguson,
when, stung by her insolence, Ruth had left the house.

"She told you," answered the father evasively.

"Is it true that you were trustee of any property belonging to her?"

"Well, there is some truth in it. Her father was an old schoolmate of
mine, though we were never intimate, and when he died, considerably to
my surprise, he asked me to settle his estate."

"How much did it amount to?"

"After paying all bills, including funeral expenses, there was
seventy-five dollars left."

"A fine estate, upon my word!" said Luella with a scornful laugh.
"Really, the girl is a great heiress."

"She thought she ought to have been. What do you think she and her
mother expected?"

"Something amusing, no doubt."

"They thought that they would realize ten thousand dollars, and be
completely provided for."

"They must be fools!"

"We won't use so harsh an expression. Women know very little about
business."

"Some women, papa. You will please make an exception in my case."

"Well, I admit, Luella," said her father complacently, "you do seem to
have a sharp eye to your own interests."

"Why shouldn't I? I come honestly by it, papa, don't I?"

"Well, perhaps----"

"You have been pretty sharp yourself, eh, papa? I fancy you have a
pretty good sum of money salted down--that's the term, isn't it?"

"Well, I have something, but I don't care to make a boast of it. There
would be plenty who would want a share--for instance, Mrs. Fenton."

"That reminds me; her son is a train-boy on the Erie road."

"Did you see him?"

"Yes, he made himself very obnoxious by his impertinent intermeddling.
He insisted upon my removing my poor Fido, in order to give that girl a
seat."

"What concern was it of his?"

"None at all, but he made such a fuss that I had to do it."

"You need not have done so. The train boy has no authority in such
matters."

"He called the conductor, and he took my poor darling into the baggage
car. Papa, can't you get him discharged?"

"I have no influence with the Erie officials, my dear. Besides, if I
deprive him of his chance to make a living, he and his mother will be
importuning me for money. Better leave well enough alone!"

This was the sort of argument that weighed with Luella Ferguson. She
was meanness personified, and would rather save money than be revenged
upon Fred.

"Do you think you will have any more trouble with this girl who called
to-night?"

"I should not be surprised if she called again to ask me to help her to
employment."

"If she does, advise her to go out to service. She could get a position
as chambermaid without difficulty."

"Remember, Luella, that in her own town she has held a good social
position. She may have too much pride."

"Then let her starve!" said Luella, harshly. "It is preposterous for a
pauper to be proud."

"She is not exactly a pauper," said Mr. Ferguson, who was not quite so
venomous in his hatred as his daughter.

"I forgot--she has a fortune of seventy-five dollars. Will you do me a
favor?"

"What is it?"

"If the girl comes again, turn her over to me."

"Very well, my dear. I shall be glad to do so. It will relieve me from
embarrassment."

"I shall feel no embarrassment. I shall rather enjoy it."

"By the way, Luella, how are you getting on with young Lindsay?"

Luella flushed a little, and a softer light shone in her eyes. She had
very little heart, but such as she had was given to Alfred Lindsay. At
first attracted by his wealth and social position--for on his mother's
side he belonged to one of the Knickerbocker families--she had ended by
really falling in love with him. In his company she appeared at her
best. Her amiable and attractive manners were not wholly assumed, for
the potent spell of love softened her and transformed her from a hard,
cynical, selfish girl to a woman seeking to charm one who had touched
her heart.

"He comes to see me very often, papa," she answered, coyly.

"And he seems impressed?"

"I think so," said Luella, lowering her eyes, while a gratified smile
lighted up her face.

"He has never actually proposed?" asked Ferguson eagerly.

"Well, not exactly, but from his manner I think he will soon."

"I hope so, Luella. There is no one whom I would more prefer for a
son-in-law."

"I shall not say him nay, papa."

"Of course not. He is rich and of distinguished family. He will make a
very suitable mate for you."

"Yes, papa, I appreciate that, but you too are rich and of high social
position."

"Well, daughter, I stand fairly, but as to family, I can't boast much.
My father--your grandfather--was a village blacksmith. I have never
told you that before."

"Horrors, papa!" exclaimed Luella. "You cannot mean this?"

"It is a sober fact. I have never told you, for I knew it would shock
you."

"Does any one know it in our circle?"

"No. Indeed, the only one who is likely to have any knowledge of it is
Mrs. Fenton and her son."

"The train boy!"

"Yes."

"If it should get out I should die of mortification."

"Neither you nor I are likely to mention it. I only referred to it to
show the advantages of marrying a man of high lineage like Alfred
Lindsay. I have money, but I have never been able to get into the inner
circle to which the Lindsays belong. Money will buy much, but it won't
buy that. I hope yon will do your best to bring the young mail to the
point."

"I will manage it, papa," said Luella complacently. "Do you know I have
made up my mind to go to Europe on a wedding trip?"

"If Lindsay consents."

"He will do whatever I wish. I expect him to call this evening."

"Do you?"

"Yes, and--papa, something might happen," added Luella playfully.

"I hope so sincerely, my dear."

"Mind, if he comes to you, not a word about the blacksmith! I wish you
hadn't told me."

"Forget it then, Luella. We will keep it a profound secret."

Luella left her father's presence with a smile upon her face. It was
already eight o'clock. Half an hour passed, and she became anxious.
Fifteen minutes more clipped by, and still the welcome ring at the bell
was not heard. She was ready to cry with vexation, for she had made up
her mind to lead the young man to a declaration that very evening if it
were a possible thing.

She summoned a servant.

"Jane," she said, "Mr. Lindsay has not called this evening, has he?"

"No miss. If he had of course I would tell you."

"I thought perhaps there might have been some mistake. If he should
come--and it isn't very late yet--let me know at once."

"Surely I will, Miss Luella."

"She's dead gone on that man," said Jane to herself. "Well, I don't
wonder, for he is awfully handsome, that's a fact. But my! if he could
only see her in some of her tantrums, he'd open his eyes. He thinks
she's an angel, but I know her better."

Several days passed and still Alfred Lindsay did not call. Luella
became alarmed. Was she losing her hold upon him? She was considering
whether it would be proper to write a letter to the young lawyer at his
office, when she chanced to make a very painful discovery.

About five o'clock on Saturday afternoon she was coming out of Lord &
Taylor's up-town store when in a plainly dressed girl who was just
passing she recognized Ruth Patton. Curiosity led her to address Ruth.

"So you are still in the city?" she said abruptly.

"Yes, Miss Ferguson," answered Ruth calmly.

"Of course you are very poor. I think I can get you a place as
chambermaid in the family of one of my friends."

"Thank you, but I have a position I like better."

"What sort of a position?"

"I am in a lawyer's office, copying legal papers."

"Indeed! I suppose you are poorly paid."

"I receive ten dollars a week."

"That is ridiculously high pay. Of course you don't earn it."

"Mr. Lindsay fixed the salary--I did not."

"Lindsay!" gasped Luella, "what Lindsay?"

"Alfred Lindsay. He has his office in the Mills Building."

Ruth Patton passed on, having unconsciously given poignant anguish to
the haughty Miss Ferguson.

"Where could she have met Alfred?" Luella asked herself with contracted
brow. "I must get him to discharge her. I had no idea she was such an
artful minx."




CHAPTER XXII.

MISS FERGUSON WRITES A NOTE.

It was indeed true that Ruth Patton had found employment at ten dollars
a week. Her services were scarcely worth that sum to her employer, but
Alfred Lindsay was not only rich but generous, and was glad to believe
Ruth's anxiety by insuring her a comfortable income. She was still at
Mrs. Fenton's rooms, being now able to contribute her share of the
expense incurred. The widow was willing to accept only three dollars
per week, so that Ruth had the satisfaction of sending a weekly
remittance to her mother. She was very grateful for the change in her
circumstances, and, notwithstanding the disappointment about her
father's estate, felt that there was reason to hope.

Two days later Alfred Lindsay found a letter upon his desk addressed in
a delicate female hand which he did not recognize.

"A lady client!" he thought. "What does she want--a divorce?"

When he opened the envelope he read the following note, written on a
highly perfumed sheet:

MY DEAR MR. LINDSAY: Pray don't be shocked at my boldness in writing
you, but it is so long since you have called that papa suggests
sickness as a possible cause. I do hope that this is not what has kept
you away. I confess that I have missed you very much. I have so enjoyed
our conversations. You are not like the fashionable butterflies of whom
we meet so many in society. One must tolerate them, of course but it is
a comfort to meet a man who can talk intelligently about books and art.
Apropos, I have a new collection of etchings that I want to show you.
Won't you name an evening when you will call, as I want to be certain
to be at home when you really do come. I should be desolated, as the
French say, to be absent.

Now don't fail to answer this screed. Otherwise I shall certainly
manage to have some law business that will give me an excuse for
calling at your office.

                            Very sincerely yours,

                            LUELLA FERGUSON.

Alfred Lindsay read this note slowly, and there was a smile upon his
face, for he fully appreciated Luella's motive in writing it. A
fortnight since he would have been charmed, but his feelings with
respect to Miss Ferguson had undergone a change. The revelation of her
real character had shocked him, and served effectually to kill his
growing attachment. Beauty of face could not make up for deformity of
character. On the other hand, he was beginning to be attracted by Ruth.
She lacked Luella's regular features and cold, classic beauty, but her
sweet face revealed a disposition warm, kindly, and sympathetic; and
when her deep, serious eyes rested upon him, he felt that she was far
more attractive than her showy rival.

"What shall I do?" he asked himself as his eyes fell upon the note. He
must of course answer it, but should he accept the invitation? Upon the
whole he decided to do so. There was no reason which he could allege
for declining, and, though it would be to sacrifice an evening, he
would go armed against Luella's fascinations by the knowledge he had
acquired. He drew out a sheet of paper from a drawer in his desk, and
wrote as follows:

MY DEAR MISS FERGUSON: As I am writing in my office, you will
understand and excuse the unfashionable business paper which I am
using. I am flattered to find that you miss me, and still more at the
reason you assign for preferring my company to that of the gilded young
men who worship at your shrine. I am but "a plain, blunt man," as
Shakspeare has it, and cannot vie with them in compliment. I shall no
doubt find pleasure in examining the etchings which you hold out as an
inducement to call. I will name Thursday evening, but should you have a
previous engagement, don't scruple to notify me, as I can easily
postpone my visit to another date.

                                      Yours sincerely,

                                      ALFRED LINDSAY.

Luella Ferguson read this note with mingled pleasure and
disappointment.

"It is very cold," she murmured, "almost as if I were an ordinary
acquaintance. I suppose men feel hampered when they try to express
themselves upon paper. I will not believe that he is less friendly, or
admires me less than he used to do. At any rate he is coming, and I
must make myself as fascinating as possible. I have a chance to win
him, and I mean to do it."

"Papa," said Luella on Thursday morning, "Mr. Lindsay will call here
this evening."

"I am glad to hear it, Luella. I hope he is coming--on business."

"I don't know," she answered demurely.

"You know my wishes on the subject?"

"They accord with mine, papa."

When Alfred Lindsay was announced, he found Luella resplendent in a new
dress, and bedecked with jewels. She intentionally made herself as
attractive as possible.

"Really. Miss Ferguson, you are radiant tonight," he said.

"Do you think so?" she asked.

"There is no doubt of it. Are you expecting other company?"

"Only yourself."

"Then I am to consider it a special compliment to me."

"If you like."

"Then I must express my acknowledgments."

Yet as he spoke, his thoughts reverted to Ruth Patton, with her lack of
ornament and severe simplicity, and he felt that her image was to him
the more attractive of the two. It was fortunate for Miss Ferguson's
peace of mind that she could not read his thoughts.

"Now, you bad boy," she said playfully, "you must tell me why you have
stayed away so long."

"Perhaps to see if you would miss me."

"I have missed you so much."

"That is certainly a compliment to me as a conversationalist, As you
wrote in your note you appreciate my sensible conversation I am afraid
you overestimate me. I have a friend who is really brilliant, and can
converse eloquently upon any subject. May I bring him with me?"

"Who is he?" asked Luella hesitatingly.

"Professor Grimes."

"What, the lecturer?"

"Yes."

"Why. he is grotesque in appearance. I heard him lecture once, and
thought he wore a mask, so ugly was his face."

"You admit his eloquence, however?"

"Yes; but from such a mouth even pearls cease to attract. Pray don't
bring him! He positively makes me shudder, I assure you."

Luella did not like the turn the conversation had taken. There seemed
no chance for sentiment, and she wanted to bring all her fascinations
to bear.

"You have some etchings to show me; Miss Ferguson?" said Lindsay, after
a pause.

"Yes; but I want to show them to you myself. You will have to come and
sit beside me."

"Willingly," answered Alfred, but his tone was conventional, and lacked
the warmth it had formerly shown.

Together they looked over the collection. Luella saw, however, to her
mortification, that Lindsay was calm and cold. It seemed clear that she
had lost her power over him. What could be the reason?

"Can it be that girl, Ruth Patton?" she asked herself. "Is it she who
is drawing Alfred Lindsay away from me? I must warn him against her."

"By the way, haven't you a copyist in your office named Ruth Patton?"

"How did you know?" asked Lindsay.

"I met her the other day on Broadway. Perhaps you don't know, but she
is an humble protegee of my father's."

"A protegee?"

"Yes; papa has been very kind to the family. He took charge of their
affairs on the death of her father, and, though there was not enough
property to pay the debts, he paid them all, and sent a check to Mrs.
Patton besides."

"That was certainly considerate!" said Lindsay; but from his tone it
could not be discovered if he were speaking in earnest or ironically.

"As you say, it was considerate, but this Ruth is very ungrateful. She
was actually ridiculous enough to think they ought to have had a
fortune, and I believe blames papa for the way things have come out."

Alfred Lindsay listened politely, but did not express an opinion.

"She is a very good copyist," he said.

"I am glad she is earning a living, though I think it would have been
better for her to remain in the country, don't you?"

"Really, I can't judge for others, not knowing all the circumstances."

"The girl is ill bred, I am sorry to say. She treated me rudely in the
cars."

"She gives me no cause of complaint," said Lindsay shortly. He
understood and despised Luella's attempts to prejudice him against the
copyist.

When he rose to go, Luella was disappointed. She felt that she had
brought him no nearer, and had not strengthened her hold upon him.

As the young lawyer descended the steps he met a man coming up whom he
recognized as a dealer in worthless mining stock, who was looked upon
by reputable business men with doubt and suspicion.

"What business can Orlando Jenkins have with Mr. Ferguson?" he asked
himself.




CHAPTER XXIII.

ANOTHER RAILROAD ADVENTURE.

Six months have passed and brought with them some changes. At the end
of two months Ruth Patton sent for her mother, who was feeling very
lonely at Port Jervis, and engaged a suite of three rooms over those
occupied by Mrs. Fenton and Fred. Though she was away during the day,
the two ladies, living so near together, were company for each other.
Ruth had now become advanced to twelve dollars a week, not out of
charity, but because Alfred Lindsay's business had considerably
increased and gave his copyist more to do.

Fred was still on the Erie road, but it was now winter, and the travel
had so much diminished that where he had formerly earned seven or eight
dollars a week he now averaged no more than four. He began to be
dissatisfied, for his income now was inadequate to meet his expenses,
and he had been obliged to spend twenty dollars out of the two hundred
which he had received from Mr. Lawrence at Niagara Falls. He was now
seventeen, and he felt that it was high time he had entered upon some
business in which he could advance by successive steps. On the road, if
he remained till he was thirty years of age, he could earn no more than
at present. He answered several advertisements, but secured nothing
likely to be an improvement upon his present place.

One evening toward the end of December he was about to leave the cars,
when his attention was drawn to an old gentleman with hair nearly
white, who did not rise with the rest of the passengers, but remained
in his seat with his head leaned back and his eyes closed.

The train boy, concluding that he had fallen asleep, went up to him and
touched him gently.

"We have reached Jersey City," he said.

The old man opened his eyes slightly and gazed at him bewildered.

"I--I don't know where I am," he murmured vaguely.

"You are in Jersey City, sir."

"I want to go to New York."

"You have only to cross the ferry."

"Excuse me; I am a stranger here. I am from Ohio. Where is the ferry?"

"Let me lead you to the boat, sir."

The old man rose feebly and put his hand to his head.

"I don't know what is the matter with me," he said. "I feel sick."

"Perhaps you are upset by your journey. Come with me, and I will take
care of you."

"You are a very good boy, and I will accept your offer."

He rose and left the car, leaning heavily on Fred's arm.

"How long have you felt unwell?" asked the train boy sympathetically.

"Ever since we left Elmira. My head troubles me."

"It is the motion of the cars, no doubt. Here we are!"

They were just in time to reach the boat. They entered the ladies'
cabin, as Fred thought the tobacco smoke which always pervaded the
cabin devoted to men would increase the old gentleman's head trouble.

"Where do you wish to go when we have reached the New York side?" asked
Fred, when they were nearly across the river.

"I have a nephew living on Madison Avenue. Do you know that street?"

"Oh, yes, sir, very well. I will go up with you if you will let me know
your nephew's name."

The name was mentioned, and to Fred's surprise was that of a wealthy
and influential Wall Street broker. It was clear that the old
gentleman, though plainly dressed, would not need to economize.

"I think, sir," said Fred, noticing that the old man seemed to be
getting more and more feeble, "that it will be well for you to take a
cab, in order to avoid any walking. You seem very much fatigued."

"You are right. Will you call one? I don't feel able."

"With pleasure, sir."

Fred passed through the gate and beckoned a hackman, who drove up with
alacrity.

"Where to, sir?" he asked.

Fred gave the number on Madison Avenue.

"Mr. John Wainwrignt lives there," said the hackman. "I sometimes drive
him up from Wall Street."

"That is the place. This is his uncle."

The hackman touched his hat respectfully to the old gentleman, whom he
had at first mentally styled a rusty old codger. His relationship to
the wealthy broker gave him dignity in the eyes of the driver.

"Won't you get in too?" asked the old gentleman who had come to rely
upon Fred as his guardian.

"Certainly, sir."

"I shall feel safer. I am a perfect stranger to the city."

He leaned back in the seat and partially closed his eyes.

The hack rattled through the streets and in due time reached its
destination.

The hackman opened the door of the cab and Fred assisted the old
gentleman to alight.

"Take my pocketbook and pay him," said the old man.

The hackman did not venture to ask more than his rightful fare, as it
would have come to the knowledge of the broker, whom he did not care to
offend.

The driver paid, Fred ascended the steps and rang the bell.

A man servant opened the door.

"Is Mr. Wainwright at home?" asked Fred.

The servant, seeing an old man in rather a rusty dress, was inclined to
think that he was an applicant for charity, and answered rather
superciliously:

"Yes, he's at 'ome, but I ain't sure as he'll see you."

"Tell him," said Fred sharply, "that his uncle has arrived."

"His uncle!" repeated the astounded flunkey. "O yes, sir, certainly,
sir. I think he is at 'ome. Won't you step in, sir?"

Fred would have gone away, but the old gentleman still seemed to
require his assistance, and he stepped in with him and led him into the
drawing-room.

The servant promptly reported the arrival to Mr. Wainwright, who
descended the staircase quickly and greeted his uncle.

"You are heartily welcome, Uncle Silas," he said. "I did not expect you
till to-morrow, or I would have sent the carriage for you."

"I changed my mind, John, and decided to push through."

"Who is this young man with you?"

"He is a kind friend, John. I was taken sick--the effect of the
journey, I think--and I shouldn't have been able to get up here but for
him."

The broker smiled pleasantly and held out his hand to Fred.

"You are the train boy, are you not?" he asked, glancing at Fred's cap.

"Yes, sir."

"I hope you find it pays you well."

"Not at this season, sir."

"How long have you been in service?"

"Over a year."

"Thank you for your kindness to my uncle. He seems ill and requires my
attention now. Can you make it convenient to call here to-morrow
evening at eight o'clock?"

"Yes, sir. I will call with pleasure."

"Good night, then, and don't forget to call."

The broker shook hands with Fred again, and the train-boy left the
house quite won by the pleasant and affable manner of the great broker.

"I never expected to know such a man as that," thought Fred. "I wish he
would give me a position in his office. That would be much better worth
having than my present place."

"Why are you so late, Fred?" asked his mother, when he reached home.

"I had to make a call on Mr. Wainwright, the broker," answered Fred.

"I guess you are only funning," said Albert.

"No, I am not. I am invited to call again to-morrow evening."

"What for?"

"Perhaps he's going to take me into partnership," said Fred in joke.




CHAPTER XXIV.

FRED'S GOOD LUCK.

Fred made a short trip the next day, and returned home at four o'clock.
He was glad to be back so early, as it gave him time to prepare for his
evening visit. Naturally his mind had dwelt upon it more or less during
the day, and he looked forward to the occasion with pleasant
anticipations. The broker's gracious manners led Fred to think of him
as a friend.

"I would like to be in the employ of such a man," he reflected.

He started from home in good season, and found himself on the broker's
steps on the stroke of eight.

The door was opened by the same servant as on the evening previous, but
he treated Fred more respectfully, having overheard Mr. Wainwright
speak of him cordially.

So when Fred asked, "Is Mr. Wainwright at home?" he answered "Yes, sir;
come right in. I believe as you are expected."

The old man was descending the stairs as Fred entered, and immediately
recognized him.

"Ha, my young friend!" he said. "I am glad to see you," and he held out
his hand.

"I hope you are feeling better, sir," said Fred respectfully.

"Oh, yes, thank you. I feel quite myself to-day. It was the length of
the journey that upset and fatigued me. I couldn't travel every day, as
you do."

"No, sir, I suppose not now; but when you were of my age it would have
been different."

"How old are you?"

"Seventeen."

"And I am seventy-one, the same figures, but reversed. That makes a
great difference. Come in here; my nephew will be down at once."

The train boy followed the old gentleman into the handsome drawing-room,
and sat down on a sofa feeling, it must be owned, not quite as much at
home as he would have done in a plainer house.

"Did you make much to-day?" asked Silas Corwin (that was his name) in a
tone of interest.

"No, sir, it was a poor day. I only sold three dollars' worth."

"And how much did that yield you?"

"Sixty cents. I have a commission of twenty per cent."

"What was the most you ever made in a day?"

"I took in thirteen dollars once--it was on a holiday."

"That would give you two dollars and sixty cents."

"Yes, sir."

"Very good indeed!"

"If I could keep that up I should feel like a millionaire."

"Perhaps happier than a millionaire. I have known millionaires who were
weighed down by cares, and were far from happy."

Fred listened respectfully, but like most boys of his age found it
impossible to understand how a very rich man could be otherwise than
happy.

At this point Mr. John Wainwright entered the room.

"Good evening, my boy!" he said cordially. "I won't apologize for being
late, as my uncle has no doubt entertained you."

"Yes, sir; he was just telling me that millionaires are sometimes
unhappy."

"And you did not believe him?"

"I think I should be happy if I were worth a million."

"You might feel poorer than you do now. I knew a millionaire once--a
bachelor--who did not venture to drink but one cup of coffee at his
breakfast (he took it at a cheap restaurant) because it would involve
an added expenditure of five cents."

"Was he in his right mind, sir?"

"I don't wonder you ask. I don't think a man who carries economy so far
is quite in his right mind. However, he was shrewd enough in his
business transactions. But now tell me something about yourself. Are
you alone in the world?"

