helped him down the piazza-steps and into the dark of the avenue,
tunnelled about their feet by the light of the lantern, as they led and
pushed their helpless capture toward the lodge at the avenue gate.

Northwick had heard and understood them; he did not know what secret
purpose their pretence of taking him to his children might not cover;
but he was not capable of offering any resistance, and when he reached
the cottage he sank passively on the steps. He shook in every nerve,
while Elbridge pounded on the door, till a window above was lifted, and
Adeline's frightened voice quavered out, "Who is it? What is it?"

Mrs. Newton took the words out of her husband's mouth. "It's us, Miss
Northwick. If you're sure you're awake--"

"Oh, yes. I haven't been asleep!"

"Then listen!" said Mr. Newton, in a lowered tone. "And don't be scared.
Don't call out--don't speak loud. There's somebody here--Come down, and
let him in."

Northwick stood up. He heard the fluttered rush of steps on the stairs
inside. The door opened, and Adeline caught him in her arms, with
choking, joyful sobs. "Oh, father! Oh, father! Oh, I knew it! I knew it!
Oh, oh, oh! Where was he? How did you find him?"

She did not heed their answers. She did not realize that she was
shutting them out when she shut herself in with her father; but they
understood.




VI.


Northwick stared round him in the light of the lamp which Adeline turned
up. He held fast by one of her hands. "What's he going to do? Has he
gone for the officer? Is he going to give me up?"

"Who? Elbridge Newton? Well, I guess his wife hasn't forgot what you did
for them when their little boy died, if he has, and I guess he
hasn't gone for any officer! Where did you see him?"

"In the house. I was there."

"But how did he know it?"

"I had to have a light to see by."

"Oh, my goodness! If anybody else had caught you I don't know what I
should have done. I don't see how you could be so venturesome!"

"I thought you were there. I had to come back. I couldn't stand it any
longer, when that fellow came with your letter."

"Oh, he found you," she cried, joyfully. "I knew he would find you,
and I said so--Sit down, father; do." She pushed him gently into a
cushioned rocking-chair. "It's mother's chair; don't you remember, it
always stood in the bay-window in your room, where she put it? Louise
Hilary bought it at the sale--I know she bought it--and gave it to me.
It was because the place was mother's that I wouldn't let Suzette give
it up to the company."

He did not seem to understand what she was saying. He stared at her
piteously, and he said with an effort: "Adeline, I didn't know about
that accident. I didn't know you thought I was dead, or I--"

"No! Of course you didn't! I always told Suzette you didn't. Don't you
suppose I always believed in you, father? We both believed in you,
through it all; and when that letter of yours came out in the paper I
knew you were just overwrought."

Northwick rose and looked fearfully round him again, and then came
closer to her, with his hand in his breast. He drew it out with the roll
of bank-notes in it. "Here's that money I took away with me. I always
kept it in my belt: but it hurt me there. I want you should take care of
it for me, and we can make terms with them to let me stay."

"Oh, they won't let you stay. We've tried it over and over; and the
court won't let you. They say you will have to be tried, and they will
put you in prison."

Northwick mechanically put the money back.

"Well, let them," said the broken man. "I can't stand it any longer. I
have got to stay." He sank into the chair, and Adeline broke into tears.

"Oh, I can't let you! You must go back! Think of your good name, that
there's never been any disgrace on!"

"What--what's that?" Northwick quavered, at the sound of footsteps
overhead.

"Why, it's Suzette, of course! And I hadn't called her," said Adeline,
breaking off from her weeping. She ran to the foot of the stairs, and
called, huskily, "Suzette, Suzette! Come down this instant! Come down,
come down, come down!" She bustled back to her father. "You must be
hungry, ain't you, father? I'll get you a cup of tea over my lamp here;
the water heats as quick! And you'll feel stronger after that. Don't you
be afraid of anything; there's nobody here but Suzette; Mrs. Newton
comes to do the work in the morning; they used to stay with us, but we
don't mind it a bit, being alone here. I did want to go into the
farmhouse, when we left our own, but Suzette couldn't bear to live right
in sight of our home, all the time; she said it would be worse than
being afraid; but we haven't been afraid; and the Newtons come all the
time to see if we want anything. And now that you've got back--" She
stopped, and stared at him in a daze, and then turned to her lamp again,
as if unable to cope with the situation. "I haven't been very well,
lately, but I'm getting better; and if only we could get the court to
let you come back I should be as well as ever. I don't believe but what
Mr. Hilary will make it out yet. Father!" She dropped her voice, and
glanced round; "Suzette's engaged to young Mr. Hilary--oh, he's the
best young man!--and I guess they're going to be married just as soon
as we can arrange it about you. I thought I'd tell you before she came
down."

Northwick did not seem to have taken the fact in, or else he could not
appreciate it rightly. "Do you suppose," he whispered back, "that she'll
speak to me?"

"Speak to you!"

"I didn't know. She was always so proud. But now I've brought back the
money, all but the little I've had to use--"

There was a rustle of skirts on the stairs. Suzette stood a moment in
the doorway, looking at her father, as if not sure he was real; then she
flung herself upon him, and buried her face in his white beard, and
kissed him with a passion of grief and love. She sank into his lap, with
a long sigh, and let her head fall on his shoulder. All that was not
simply father and daughter was for the moment annulled between them.

Adeline looked on admiring, while she kept about heating the water over
her lamp; and they all took up fitfully the broken threads of their
lives, and tried to piece them again into some sort of unity.

Adeline did most of the talking. She told her father how friends seemed
to have been raised up for them in their need, when it was greatest. She
praised herself for the inspiration she had in going to Putney for
advice, because she remembered how her father had spoken of him that
last night, and for refusing to give up the property to the company. She
praised Putney for justifying and confirming her at every step, and for
doing everything that could be done about the court. She praised the
Hilarys, all of them, for their constancy to her father throughout, and
she said she believed that if Mr. Hilary could have had his way, there
never would have been any trouble at all about the accounts, and she
wanted her father to understand just how the best people felt about him.
He listened vaguely to it all. A clock in the next room struck four, and
Northwick started to his feet. "I must go!"

"Go?" Adeline echoed.

"Why must you go?" said Suzette, clinging about him.

They were all silent in view of the necessity that stared them in the
face.

Then Adeline roused herself from the false dream of safety in which her
words had lulled her. She wailed out, "He's got to go! Oh, Suzette,
let him go! He's got to go to prison if he stays!"

"It's prison there" said Northwick. "Let me stay!"

"No, no! I can't let you stay! Oh, how hard I am to make you go! What
makes you leave it all to me, Suzette? It's for you, as much as
anything, I do it."

"Then don't do it! If father wants to stay; if he thinks he had better,
or if he will feel easier, he shall stay; and you needn't think of me. I
won't let you think of me!"

"But what would they say--Mr. Hilary say--if they sent father to
prison?"

Suzette's eyes glowed. "Let them say what they will. I know I can trust
him, but if he wants to give me up for that, he may. If father wishes
to stay, he shall, and nothing that they can do to him will ever make
him different to us. If he tells us that he didn't mean anything wrong,
that will be enough; and people may say what they please, and think what
they please."

Northwick listened with a confused air. He looked from one to the other,
as if beaten back and forth between them; he started violently, when
Adeline almost screamed out: "Oh, you don't know what you're talking
about! Father, tell her you don't wish to stay!"

"I must go, Suzette; I had better go--"

"Here, drink this tea, now, and it will give you a little strength."
Adeline pressed the cup on him that she had been getting ready through
all, and made him drain it. "Now, then, hurry, hurry, hurry, father! Say
good-by! You've got to go, now--yes, you've got to!--but it won't be
for long. You've seen us, and you've found out we're alive and well, and
now we can write--be sure you write, father, when you get back there;
or, you'd better telegraph--and we can arrange--I know we can--for you
to come home, and stay home."

"Home! Home!" Northwick murmured.

"It seems as if he wanted to kill me!" Adeline sobbed into her hands.
She took them away. "Well, stay, then!" she said.

"No, no! I'll go," said Northwick. "You're not to blame, Adeline. It's
all right--all for the best. I'll go--"

"And let us know where you are, when you get there, this time, father!"
said Adeline.

"Yes, I will."

"And we will come to you, there," Suzette put in. "We can live together
in Canada, as well as here."

Northwick shook his head. "It's not the same. I can't get used to it;
their business methods are different. I couldn't put my capital into any
of their enterprises. I've looked the whole ground over. And--and I want
to get back into our place."

He said these things vaguely, almost dryly, but with an air of final
conviction, as after much sober reflection. He sat down, but Adeline
would not let him be. "Well, then, we'll help you to think out some way
of getting back, after we're all there together. Go; it'll soon begin to
be light, and I'm afraid somebody'll see you, and stop you! But oh, my
goodness! How are you going? You can't walk! And if you try to start
from our depot, they'll know you, some one, and they'll arrest you. What
shall we do?"

"I came over from East Hatboro' to-night," said Northwick. "I am going
back there to get the morning train." This was the way he had planned,
and he felt the strength of a fixed purpose in returning to his plan in
words.

"But it's three miles!" Adeline shrieked. "You can never get there in
the world in time for the train. Oh, why didn't I tell Elbridge to come
for you! I must go and tell him to get ready right away."

"No, I'll go!" said Suzette. "Adeline!"

Adeline flung the door open, and started back, with a cry, from the
dark, van-like vehicle before the door, which looked like the Black
Maria, or an undertaker's wagon, in the pale light.

"It's me," said Elbridge's voice from the front of it, and Elbridge's
head dimly showed itself. "I got to thinkin' maybe you'd want the
carryall, and I didn't know but what I'd better go and hitch up,
anyway."

"Oh, well, we did!" cried Adeline, with an hysterical laugh. "Here,
now, father, get right in! Don't lose a second. Kiss Suzette; good-by!
Be sure you get him to East Hatboro' in time for the four-forty,
Elbridge!" She helped her father, shaking and stumbling, into the
shelter of the curtained carryall. "If anybody tries to stop you--"

"I'd like to see anybody try to stop me," said Elbridge, and he whipped
up his horse. Then he leaned back toward Northwick, and said, "I'm going
to get the black colt's time out of the old mare."

"Which mare is it?" Northwick asked.




VII.


On his way home from the station, Elbridge Newton began to have some
anxieties. He had no longer occasion for any about Northwick, he was
safe on his way back to Canada; and Elbridge's anxieties were for
himself. He was in the cold fit after his act of ardent generosity. He
had no desire to entangle himself with the law by his act of incivism in
helping Northwick to escape, and he thought it might be well to put
himself on the safe side by seeing Putney about it, and locking the
stable after the horse was stolen.

He drove round by the lawyer's house, and stopped at his gate just as
Putney pushed his lawn-mower up to it, in his exercise of the instrument
before breakfast.

Elbridge leaned out of the carryall, and asked, in a low confidential
voice, "If J. Milton Northwick was to come back here, on the sly, say,
to see his family, and I was to help him git off again, would I be
li'ble?"

"Why?" asked Putney.

"Because I just done it," said Elbridge, desperately.

"Just done it?" shouted Putney. "Why, confound you!" He suddenly brought
his voice down. "Do you mean to tell me the fellow's been back here, and
you didn't let me know?"

"I hadn't any orders to do it," Elbridge weakly urged.

"Orders, the devil!" Putney retorted. "I'd 'a' given a hundred dollars
to see that man and talk with him. Come, now; tell me all you know about
it! Don't miss a thing!" After a few words from Newton, he broke out:
"Found him in the house! And I was down there prowling round the place
myself not three hours before! Go on! Great Scott! Just think of it!"

Putney was at one of those crises of his life when his drink-devil was
besetting him with sore temptation, and for the last twenty-four hours
he had been fighting it with the ruses and pretences which he had
learned to employ against it, but he felt that he was losing the game,
though he was playing for much greater stakes than usual. He had held
out so long since his last spree, that if he lost now he would defeat
hopes that were singularly precious and sacred to him: the hopes that
those who loved him best, and distrusted him most, and forgave him
soonest, had begun to cherish. It would not break his wife's heart; she
was used to his lapses; but it would wring it more cruelly than usual if
he gave way now.

When the fiend thrust him out of his house the night before, he knew
that she knew of it, though she let him go in that fearful company, and
made no effort to keep him. He was so strait an agnostic that, as he
boasted, he had no superstitions even; but his relation to the
Northwicks covered the period of his longest resistance of temptation,
and by a sort of instinctive, brute impulse, he turned his step towards
the place where they lived, as if there might be rescue for him in the
mere vicinity of those women who had appealed to him in their distress,
as to a faithful enemy. His professional pride, his personal honor, were
both involved in the feeling that he must not fail them; their implicit
reliance had been a source of strength to him. He was always hoping for
some turn of affairs which would enable him to serve them, or rather to
serve Adeline; for he cared little for Suzette, or only secondarily; and
since Pinney had gone upon his mission to Canada he was daily looking
for this chance to happen. He must keep himself for that, and not
because of them alone, but because those dearest to him had come tacitly
to connect his resistance of the tempter with his zeal for the interests
of his clients. With no more reasoned motives than these he had walked
over the Northwick place, calling himself a fool for supposing that some
virtue should enter into him out of the ground there, and yet finding a
sort of relief, in the mere mechanical exercise, the novelty of
exploring by night the property grown so familiar to him by day, and so
strangely mixed up with the great trial and problem of his own
usefulness.

He listened by turns, with a sinking and a rising heart, as Newton now
dug the particulars of his adventure out of himself. At the end, he
turned to go into the house.

"Well, what do you say, Squire Putney?" Elbridge called softly after
him.

"Say?"

"You know: about what I done."

"Keep your mouth shut about what you 'done.' I should like to see you
sent to jail, though, for what you didn't do."

Elbridge felt a consolatory quality in Putney's resentment, and Putney,
already busy with the potentialities of the future, was buoyed up by the
strong excitement of what had actually happened rather than finally cast
down by what he had missed. He took three cups of the blackest coffee at
breakfast, and he said to the mute, anxious face of his wife, "Well,
Ellen, I seem to be pulling through, somehow."




VIII.


Adeline was in a flutter of voluble foreboding till Elbridge came back.
She asked Suzette whether she believed their father would get away; she
said she knew that Elbridge would miss the train, with that slow, old
mare, and their father would be arrested. Weak as she was from the
sick-bed she had left to welcome him, she dressed herself carefully, so
as to be ready for the worst; she was going to jail with him if they
brought him back; she had made up her mind to that. From time to time
she went out and looked up the road, to see if Elbridge was coming back
alone, or whether the officers were bringing her father; she expected
they would bring him first to his family; she did not know why. Suzette
tried to keep her indoors; to make her lie down. She refused, with wild
upbraidings. She declared that Suzette had never cared anything for her
father; she had wanted to give their mother's property away, to please
the Hilarys; and now that she was going to marry Matt Hilary, she was
perfectly indifferent to everything else. She asked Suzette what had
come over her.

Elbridge drove first to the stable and put up his horse, when he came
back. Then he walked to the lodge to report.

"Is he safe? Did he get away? Where is he?" Adeline shrieked at him
before he could get a word out.

"He's all right, Miss Northwick," Elbridge answered soothingly. "He's on
his way back to Canady, again."

"Then I've driven him away!" she lamented. "I've hunted him out of his
home, and I shall never see him any more. Send for him! Send for him!
Bring him back, I tell you! Go right straight after him, and tell him
I said to come back! What are you standing there for?"

She fell fainting. Elbridge helped Suzette carry her upstairs to her
bed, and then ran to get his wife, to stay with them while he went for
the doctor.

Matt Hilary had been spending the night at the rectory with Wade, and he
walked out to take leave of Suzette once more before he went home. He
found the doctor just driving away. "Miss Northwick seems not so well,"
said the doctor. "I'm very glad you happen to be here, on all accounts.
I shall come again later in the day."

Matt turned from the shadow of mystery the doctor's manner left, and
knocked at the door. It was opened by Suzette almost before he touched
it.

"Come in," she said, in a low voice, whose quality fended him from her
almost as much as the conditional look she gave him. The excited babble
of the sick woman overhead, mixed with Mrs. Newton's nasal attempts to
quiet her, broke in upon their talk.

"Mr. Hilary," said Suzette, formally, "are you willing my father should
come back, no matter what happens?"

"If he wishes to come back. You know what I have always said."

"And you would not care if they put him in prison?"

"I should care very much."

"You would be ashamed of me!"

"No! Never! What has it to do with you?"

"Then," she pursued, "he has come back. He has been here." She flashed
all the fact upon him in vivid, rapid phrases, and he listened with an
intelligent silence that stayed and comforted her as no words could have
done. Before she had finished, his arms were round her, and she felt how
inalienably faithful he was. "And now Adeline is raving to have him come
back again, and stay. She thinks she drove him away; she will die if
something can't be done. She says she would not let him stay
because--because you would be ashamed of us. She says I would be
ashamed--"

"Suzette! Sue!" Adeline called down from the chamber above, "don't you
let Mr. Hilary go before I get there. I want to speak to him," and while
they stared helplessly at each other, they heard her saying to Mrs.
Newton, "Yes, I shall, too! I'm perfectly rested, now; and I shall go
down. I should think I knew how I felt. I don't care what the doctor
said; and if you try to stop me--" She came clattering down the stairs
in the boots which she had pulled loosely on, and as soon as she showed
her excited face at the door, she began; "I've thought out a plan, Mr.
Hilary, and I want you should go and see Mr. Putney about it. You ask
him if it won't do. They can get father let out on bail, when he comes
back, and I can be his bail, and then, when there's a trial, they can
take me instead of him. It won't matter to the court which they have, as
long as they have somebody. Now, you go and ask Mr. Putney. I know he'll
say so, for he's thought just as I have about father's case, all along.
Will you go?"

"Will you go up and lie down again, Adeline, if Mr. Hilary will go?"
Suzette asked, like one dealing with a capricious child.

"What do you all want me to lie down for?" Adeline turned upon her. "I'm
perfectly well. And do you suppose I can rest, with such a thing on my
mind? If you want me to rest, you'd better let him go and find out what
Mr. Putney says. I think we'd better all go to Canada and bring father
back with us. He isn't fit to travel alone or with strangers; he needs
some one that understands his ways; and I'm going to him, just as soon
as Mr. Putney approves of my plan, and I know he will. But I don't want
Mr. Hilary to lose any time, now. I want to be in Quebec about as soon
as father is. Will you go?"

"Yes, Miss Northwick," said Matt, taking her tremulous hand. "I'll go to
Mr. Putney; and I'll see my father again; and whatever can be done to
save your father any further suffering, or yourself--"

"I don't care for myself," she said, plucking her hand away. "I'm young
and strong, and I can bear it. But it's father I'm so anxious about."

She began to cry, and at a look from Suzette, Matt left them. As he
walked along up toward the village in mechanical compliance with
Adeline's crazy wish, he felt more and more the deepening tragedy of the
case, and the inadequacy of all compromises and palliatives. There
seemed indeed but one remedy for the trouble, and that was for Northwick
to surrender himself, and for them all to meet the consequences
together. He realized how desperately homesick the man must have been to
take the risks he had run in stealing back for a look upon the places
and the faces so dear to him; his heart was heavy with pity for him. One
might call him coward and egotist all one would; at the end remained the
fact of a love which, if it could not endure heroically, was still a
deep and strong affection, doubtless the deepest and strongest thing in
the man's weak and shallow nature. It might be his truest inspiration,
and if it prompted him to venture everything, and to abide by whatever
might befall him, for the sake of being near those he loved, and
enjoying the convict's wretched privilege of looking on them now and
then, who should gainsay him?

Matt took Wade in on his way to Putney's office, to lay this question
before him, and he answered it for him in the same breath: "Certainly no
one less deeply concerned than the man's own flesh and blood could
forbid him."

"I'm not sure," said Wade, "that even his own flesh and blood would have
a supreme right there. It may be that love, and not duty, is the highest
thing in life. Oh, I know how we reason it away, and say that true
love is unselfish and can find its fruition in the very sacrifice of our
impulses; and we are fond of calling our impulses blind, but God alone
knows whether they are blind. The reasoned sacrifice may satisfy the
higher soul, but what about the simple and primitive natures which it
won't satisfy?"

For answer, Matt told how Northwick had come back, at the risk of
arrest, for an hour with his children, and was found in the empty house
that had been their home, and brought to them: how he had besought them
to let him stay, but they had driven him back to his exile. Matt
explained how he was on his way to the lawyer, at Adeline's frantic
demand, to go all over the case again, and see if something could not be
done to bring Northwick safely home. He had himself no hope of finding
any loophole in the law, through which the fugitive could come and go;
if he returned, Matt felt sure that he would be arrested and convicted,
but he was not sure that this might not be the best thing for all. "You
know," he said, "I've always believed that if he could voluntarily
submit himself to the penalty of his offence, the penalty would be the
greatest blessing for him on earth; the only blessing for his ruined
life."

"Yes," Wade answered, "we have always thought alike about that, and
perhaps this torment of longing for his home and children, may be the
divine means of leading him to accept the only mercy possible with God
for such a sufferer. If there were no one but him concerned, we could
not hesitate in urging him to return. But the innocent who must endure
the shame of his penalty with him--"

"They are ready for that. Would it be worse than what they have learned
to endure?"

"Perhaps not. But I was not thinking of his children alone. You,
yourself, Matt; your family--"

Matt threw up his arms impatiently, and made for the door. "There's no
question of me. And if they could not endure their portion,--the
mere annoyance of knowing the slight for them in the minds of vulgar
people,--I should be ashamed of them."

"Well, you are right, Matt," said his friend. "God bless you and guide
you!" added the priest.

The lawyer had not yet come to his office, and Matt went to find him at
his house. Putney had just finished his breakfast, and they met at his
gate, and he turned back indoors with Matt. "Well, you know what's
happened, I see," he said, after the first glance at Matt's face.

"Yes, I know; and now what can be done? Are you sure we've considered
every point? Isn't there some chance--"

Putney shook his head, and then bit off a piece of tobacco before he
began to talk. "I've been over the whole case in my mind this morning,
and I'm perfectly certain there isn't the shadow of a chance of his
escaping trial if he gives himself up. That's what you mean, I suppose?"

"Yes; that's what I mean," said Matt, with a certain disappointment. He
supposed he had nerved himself for the worst, but he found he had been
willing to accept something short of it.

"At times I'm almost sorry he got off," said Putney. "If we could have
kept him, and surrendered him to the law, I believe we could have staved
off the trial, though we couldn't have prevented it, and I believe we
could have kept him out of State's prison on the ground of insanity."
Matt started impatiently. "Oh, I don't mean that it could be shown that
he was of unsound mind when he used the company's funds and tampered
with their books, though I have my own opinion about that. But I feel
sure that he's of unsound mind at present: and I believe we could show
it so clearly in court that the prosecution would find it impossible to
convict. We could have him sent to the insane asylum, and that would be
a creditable exit from the affair in the public eye; it would have a
retroactive effect that would popularly acquit him of the charges
against him."

Putney could not forego a mischievous enjoyment of Matt's obvious
discomfort at this suggestion. His fierce eyes blazed; but he added
seriously, "Why shouldn't he have the advantage of the truth, if that is
the truth about him? And I believe it is. I think it could be honestly
and satisfactorily proved from his history, ever since the defalcation
came out, that his reason is affected. His whole conduct, so far as I
know it, shows it; and I should like a chance to argue the case in
court. And I feel pretty sure I shall, yet. I'm just as certain as I sit
here that he will come back again. He can't keep away, and another time
he may not fall into the hands of friends. It will be a good while
before any rumor of last night's visit gets out; but it will get out at
last, and then the detectives will be on the watch for him. Perhaps it
will be just as well for us if he falls into their hands. If we produced
him in court it might be more difficult to work the plea of insanity.
But I do think the man's insane, and I should go into the case with a
full and thorough persuasion on that point. Did he tell them where to
find him in Canada?"

"He promised to let them know."

"I doubt if he does," said Putney. "He means to try coming back again.
The secrecy he's kept as to his whereabouts--the perfectly needless and
motiveless secrecy, as far as his children are concerned--would be a
strong point in favor of the theory of insanity. Yes, sir; I believe the
thing could be done; and I should like to do it. If the pressure of our
life produces insanity of the homicidal and suicidal type, there's no
reason why it shouldn't produce insanity of the defalcational type. The
conditions tend to produce it in a proportion that is simply
incalculable, and I think it's time that jurisprudence recognized the
fact of such a mental disease, say, as defalcomania. If the fight for
money and material success goes on, with the opportunities that the
accumulation of vast sums in a few hands afford, what is to be the end?"

Matt had no heart for the question of metaphysics or of economics,
whichever it was, that would have attracted him in another mood. He went
back to Suzette and addressed himself with her to the task of quieting
her sister. Adeline would be satisfied with nothing less than the
assurance that Putney agreed with her that her father would be acquitted
if he merely came back and gave himself up; she had changed to this
notion in Matt's absence, and with the mental reservation which he
permitted himself he was able to give the assurance she asked. Then at
last she consented to go to bed, and wait for the doctor's coming,
before she began her preparations for joining her father in Canada. She
did not relinquish that purpose; she felt sure that he never could get
home without her; and Suzette must come, too.




IX.


The fourth morning, when Pinney went down into the hotel office at
Quebec, after a trying night with his sick child and its anxious mother,
he found Northwick sitting there. He seemed to Pinney a part of the
troubled dream he had waked from.

"Well, where under the sun, moon and stars have you been?" he
demanded, taking the chance that this phantasm might be flesh and blood.

A gleam of gratified slyness lit up the haggardness of Northwick's face.
"I've been at home--at Hatboro'."

"Come off!" said Pinney, astounded out of the last remnant of deference
he had tried to keep for Northwick. He stood looking incredulously at
him a moment. "Come in to breakfast, and tell me about it. If I could
only have it for a scoop--"

Northwick ate with wolfish greed, and as the victuals refreshed and
fortified him, he came out with his story, slowly, bit by bit. Pinney
listened with mute admiration. "Well, sir," he said, "it's the biggest
thing I ever heard of." But his face darkened. "I suppose you know it
leaves me out in the cold. I came up here," he explained, "as the agent
of your friends, to find you, and I did find you. But if you've gone and
given the whole thing away, I can't ask anything for my services."

Northwick seemed interested, and even touched, by the hardship he had
worked to Pinney. "They don't know where I am, now," he suggested.

"Are you willing I should take charge of the case from this on?" asked
Pinney.

"Yes. Only--don't leave me," said Northwick, with tremulous dependence.

"You may be sure I won't let you out of my sight again," said Pinney. He
took a telegraphic blank from his breast pocket, and addressed it to
Matt Hilary: "Our friend here all right with me at Murdock's Hotel." He
counted the words to see that there were no more than ten; then he
called a waiter, and sent the despatch to the office. "Tell 'em to pay
it, and set it down against me. Tell 'em to rush it."

Pinney showed himself only less devoted to Northwick than to his own
wife and child. His walks and talks were all with him; and as the baby
got better he gave himself more and more to the intimacy established
with him; and Northwick seemed to grow more and more reliant on Pinney's
filial cares. Mrs. Pinney shared these, as far as the baby would permit;
and she made the silent refugee at home with her. She had her opinion of
his daughters, who did not come to him, now that they knew where he was;
but she concealed it from him, and helped him answer Suzette's letters
when he said he was not feeling quite well enough to write himself.
Adeline did not write; Suzette always said she was not quite well, but
was getting better. Then in one of Suzette's letters there came a tardy
confession that Adeline was confined to her bed. She was tormented with
the thought of having driven him away, and Suzette said she wished her
to write and tell him to come back, or to let them come to him. She
asked him to express some wish in the matter, so that she could show his
answer to Adeline. Suzette wrote that Mr. Hilary had come over from his
farm, and was staying at Elbridge Newton's, to be constantly near them;
and in fact, Matt was with them when Adeline suddenly died; they had not
thought her dangerously sick, till the very day of her death, when she
began to sink rapidly.

In the letter that brought this news, Suzette said that if they had
dreamed of present danger they would have sent for their father to come
back at any hazard, and she lamented that they had all been so blind.
The Newtons would stay with her, till she could join him in Quebec; or,
if he wished to return, she and Matt were both of the same mind about
it. They were ready for any event; but Matt felt that he ought to know
there was no hope of his escaping a trial if he returned, and that he
ought to be left perfectly free to decide. Adeline would be laid beside
her mother.

The old man broke into a feeble whimper as Mrs. Pinney read him the last
words. Pinney, walking softly up and down with the baby in his arms,
whimpered too.

"I believe he could be got off, if he went back," he said to his wife,
in a burst of sympathy, when Northwick had taken his letter away to his
own room.

The belief, generous in itself, began to mix with self-interest in
Pinney's soul. He conscientiously forbore to urge Northwick to return,
but he could not help portraying the flattering possibilities of such a
course. Before they parted for Pinney's own return, he confided his
ambition for the future to Northwick, and as delicately as he could he
suggested that if Northwick ever did make up his mind to go back, he
could not find a more interested and attentive travelling-companion.
Northwick seemed to take the right view of the matter, the business
view, and Pinney thought he had arranged a difficult point with great
tact; but he modestly concealed his success from his wife. They both
took leave of the exile with affection; and Mrs. Pinney put her arms
round his neck and kissed him; he promised her that he would take good
care of himself in her absence. Pinney put a business address in his
hand at the last moment.

Northwick seemed to have got back something of his moral force after
these people, who had so strangely become his friends, left him to his
own resources. Once more he began to dream of employing the money he had
with him for making more, and paying back the Ponkwasset company's
forced loans. He positively forbade Suzette's coming to him, as she
proposed, after Adeline's funeral. He telegraphed to prevent her
undertaking the journey, and he wrote, saying he wished to be alone for
a while, and to decide for himself the question of his fate. He approved
of Matt's wish that they should be married at once, and he replied to
Matt with a letter decently observant of the peculiar circumstances,
recognizing the reluctance his father and mother might well feel, and
expressing the hope that he was acting with their full and free consent.
If this letter could have been produced in court, it would have told
heavily against Putney's theory of a defence on the ground of insanity,
it was so clear, and just, and reasonable; though perhaps an expert
might have recognized a mental obliquity in its affirmation of
Northwick's belief that Matt's father would yet come to see his conduct
in its true light, and to regard him as the victim of circumstances
which he really was.

Among the friends of the Hilarys there was misgiving on this point of
their approval of Matt's marriage. Some of them thought that the
parents' hands had been forced in the blessing they gave it. Old
Bromfield Corey expressed a general feeling to Hilary with senile
frankness. "Hilary, you seem to have disappointed the expectation of the
admirers of your iron firmness. I tell 'em that's what you keep for your
enemies. But they seem to think that in Matt's case you ought to have
been more of a Roman father."

"I'm just going to become one," said Hilary, with the good temper proper
to that moment of the dinner. "Mrs. Hilary and Louise are taking me over
to Rome for the winter."

"You don't say so, you don't say!" said Corey, "I wish my family would
take me. Boston is gradually making an old man of me. I'm afraid it will
end by killing me."




X.


Northwick, after the Pinneys went home, lapsed into a solitude relieved
only by the daily letters that Suzette sent him. He shrank from the
offers of friendly kindness on the part of people at the hotel, who
pitied his loneliness; and he began to live in a dream of his home
again. He had relinquished that notion of attempting a new business
life, which had briefly revived in his mind; the same causes that had
operated against it in the beginning, controlled and defeated it now. He
felt himself too old to begin life over; his energies were spent. Such
as he had been, he had made himself very slowly and cautiously, in
familiar conditions; he had never been a man of business dash, and he
could not pick himself up and launch himself in a new career, as a man
of different make might have done, even at his age. Perhaps there had
been some lesion of the will in that fever of his at Haha Bay, which
disabled him from forming any distinct purpose, or from trying to carry
out any such purpose as he did form. Perhaps he was, in his
helplessness, merely of that refugee-type which exile moulds men to: a
thing of memories and hopes, without definite aims or plans.

As the days passed, he dwelt in an outward inertness, while his dreams
and longings incessantly rehabilitated the home whose desolation he had
seen with his own eyes. It would be better to go back and suffer the
sentence of the law, and then go to live again in the place which, in
spite of his senses, he could only imagine clothed in the comfort and
state that had been stripped from it. Elbridge's talk, on the way to
West Hatboro', about the sale, and what had become of the horses and
cattle, and the plants, went for no more than the evidence of his own
eyes that they were all gone. He did not realize, except in the shocks
that the fact imparted at times, that death as well as disaster had
invaded his home. Adeline was, for the most part, still alive: in his
fond reveries she was present, and part of that home as she had always
been.

He began to flatter himself that if he went back he could contrive that
compromise with the court which his friends had failed to bring about;
he persuaded himself that if it came to a trial he could offer evidence
that would result in his acquittal. But if he must undergo some
punishment for the offence of being caught in transactions which were
all the time carried on with impunity, he told himself that interest
could be used to make his punishment light. In these hopeful moods it
was a necessity of his drama that his transgression of the law should
seem venial to him. It was only when he feared the worst that he felt
guilty of wrong.

It could not be said that these moments of a consciousness of guilt were
so frequent as ever to become confluent, and to form a mood. They came
and went; perhaps toward the last they were more frequent. What seems
certain is that in the end there began to mix with his longing for home
a desire, feeble and formless enough, for expiation. There began to be
suggested to him from somewhere, somehow, something like the thought
that if he had really done wrong, there might be rest and help in
accepting the legal penalty, disproportionate and excessive as it might
be. He tried to make this notion appreciable to Pinney when they first
met after he summoned Pinney to Quebec; he offered it as an explanation
of his action.

In making up his mind to return at all hazards and to take all the
chances, he remembered what Pinney had said to him about his willingness
to bear him company. It was not wholly a generous impulse that prompted
him to send for Pinney, or the self-sacrificing desire to make Pinney's
fortune in his new quality of detective; he simply dreaded the long
journey alone; he wanted the comfort of Pinney's society. He liked
Pinney, and he longed for the vulgar cheerfulness of his buoyant spirit.
He felt that he could rest upon it in the fate he was bringing himself
to face; he instinctively desired the kindly, lying sympathy of a soul
that had so much affinity with his own. He telegraphed Pinney to come
for him, and he was impatient till he came.

Pinney started the instant he received Northwick's telegram, and met him
with an enthusiasm of congratulation. "Well, Mr. Northwick, this is a
great thing. It's the right thing, and it's the wise thing. It's going
to have a tremendous effect. I suppose," he added, a little tremulously,
"that you've thought it all thoroughly over?"

"Yes; I'm prepared for the worst," said Northwick.

"Oh, there won't be any worst," Pinney returned gayly. "There'll be
legal means of delaying the trial; your lawyer can manage that; or if he
can't, and you have to face the music at once, we can have you brought
into court without the least publicity, and the judge will go through
with the forms, and it'll be all over before anybody knows anything
about it. I'll see that there's no interviewing, and that there are no
reporters present. There'll probably be a brief announcement among the
cases in court; but there won't be anything painful. You needn't be
afraid. But what I'm anxious about now is, not to bring any influence to
bear on you. I promised my wife I wouldn't urge you, and I won't; I know
I'm a little optimistic, and if you don't see this thing exactly
couleur de rose, don't you do it from anything I say." Pinney
apparently put great stress upon himself to get this out.

"I've looked it in the face," said Northwick.

"And your friends know you're coming back?"

"They expect me at any time. You can notify them."

Pinney drew a long, anxious breath. "Well," he said, with a sort of
desperation, "then I don't see why we don't start at once."

"Have you got your papers all right?" Northwick asked.

"Yes," said Pinney, with a blush. "But you know," he added,
respectfully, "I can't touch you till we get over the line, Mr.
Northwick."

"I understand that. Let me see your warrant."

Pinney reluctantly produced the paper, and Northwick read it carefully
over. He folded it up with a deep sigh, and took a long stiff envelope
from his breast-pocket, and handed it to Pinney, with the warrant. "Here
is the money I brought with me."

"Mr. Northwick! It isn't necessary yet! Indeed it isn't. I've every
confidence in your honor as a gentleman." Pinney's eyes glowed with joy,
and his fingers closed upon the envelope convulsively. "But if you mean
business--"

"I mean business," said Northwick. "Count it."

Pinney took the notes out and ran them over. "Forty-one thousand six
hundred and forty."

"That is right," said Northwick. "Now, another matter. Have you got
handcuffs?"

"Why, Mr. Northwick! What are you giving me?" demanded Pinney. "I'd as
soon put them on my own father."

"I want you to put them on me," said Northwick. "I intend to go back
as your prisoner. If I have anything to expiate"--and he seemed to
indulge a question of the fact for the last time--"I want the atonement
to begin as soon as possible. If you haven't brought those things with
you, you'd better go out to the police station and get them, while I
attend to the tickets."

"Oh, I needn't go," said Pinney, and his face burned.

He was full of nervous trepidation at the start, and throughout the
journey he was anxious and perturbed, while on Northwick, after the
first excitement, a deep quiet, a stupor, or a spiritual peace, seemed
to have fallen.

"By George!" said Pinney, when they started, "anybody to see us would
think you were taking me back." He was tenderly watchful of
Northwick's comfort; he left him free to come and go at the stations;
from the restaurants he bought him things to tempt his appetite; but
Northwick said he did not care to eat.

They had a long night in a day-car, for they found there was no sleeper
on their train. In the morning, when the day broke, Northwick asked
Pinney what the next station was.

Pinney said he did not know. He looked at Northwick as if the possession
of him gave him very little pleasure, and asked him how he had slept.

"I haven't slept," said Northwick. "I suppose I'm rather excited. My
nerves seem disordered."

"Well, of course," said Pinney, soothingly.

They were silent a moment, and then Northwick asked, "What did you say
the next station was?"

"I'll ask the brakeman." They could see the brakeman on the platform.
Pinney went out to him, and returned. "It's Wellwater, he says. We get
breakfast there."

"Then we're over the line, now," said Northwick.

"Why, yes," Pinney admitted, reluctantly. He added, in a livelier note,
"You get a mighty good breakfast at Wellwater, and I'm ready to meet it
half way." He turned, and looked hard at Northwick. "If I should happen
to get left there, what would you do? Would you keep on, anyway? Is your
mind still made up on that point? I ask, because all kinds of accidents
happen, and--" Pinney stopped, and regarded his captive fixedly. "Or if
you don't feel quite able to travel--"

"Let me see your warrant again," said Northwick.

Pinney relaxed his gaze with a shrug, and produced the paper. Northwick
read it all once more. "I'm your prisoner," he said, returning the
paper. "You can put the handcuffs on me now."

"No, no, Mr. Northwick!" Pinney pleaded. "I don't want to do that. I'm
not afraid of your trying to get away. I assure you it isn't necessary
between gentlemen."

Northwick held out his wrists. "Put them on, please."

"Oh, well, if I must!" protested Pinney. "But I swear I won't lock
'em." He glanced round to find whether any of the other passengers were
noticing. "You can slip 'em off whenever you get tired of 'em." He
pushed Northwick's sleeves down over them with shame-faced anxiety.
"Don't let people see the damned things, for God's sake!'"

"That's good!" murmured Northwick, as if the feel of the iron pleased
him.

The incident turned Pinney rather sick. He went out on the platform of
the car for a little breath of air, and some restorative conversation
with the brakeman. When he came back, Northwick was sitting where he
left him. His head had fallen on his breast. "Poor old fellow, he's
asleep," Pinney thought. He put his hand gently on Northwick's shoulder.
"I'll have to wake you here," he said. "We'll be in, now, in a minute."

Northwick tumbled forward at his touch, and Pinney caught him round the
neck, and lifted his face.

"Oh, my God! He's dead!"

The loosened handcuffs fell on the floor.




XI.


After they were married, Suzette and Matt went to live on his farm; and
it was then that she accomplished a purpose she had never really given
up. She surrendered the whole place at Hatboro' to the company her
father had defrauded. She had no sentiment about the place, such as had
made the act impossible to Adeline, and must have prevented the
sacrifice on Suzette's part as long as her sister lived. But suffering
from that and from all other earthly troubles was past for Adeline; she
was dead; and Suzette felt it no wrong to her memory to put out of her
own hands the property which something higher than the logic of the case
forbade her to keep. As far as her father was concerned, she took his
last act as a sign that he wished to make atonement for the wrong he had
committed; and she felt that the surrender of this property to his
creditors was in the line of his endeavor. She had strengthened herself
to bear his conviction and punishment, if he came back; and since he was
dead, this surrender of possessions tainted for her with the dishonesty
in which the unhappy man had lived was nothing like loss; it was rather
a joyful relief.

Yet it was a real sacrifice, and she was destined to feel it in the
narrowed conditions of her life. But she had become used to narrow
conditions; she had learned how little people could live with when they
had apparently nothing to live for; and now that in Matt she had
everything to live for, the surrender of all she had in the world left
her incalculably rich.
