friend; to her surprise she saw that the friend was blushing.

"Why, Beatrice!" she exclaimed, "is it possible--"

"No," said Beatrice, "it is not possible. I know that I am blushing; but
you must not think too much of that. I am not as strong as I was, and
blush at everything; I am taking iron for it. In the present case, it
only means that--" She paused.

"That you like him," suggested the other, smiling.

"I like a number of persons," said Mrs. Lovell, tranquilly, gazing in
her turn down the broad, slightly winding valley, dotted with its little
white villages, and ending in a soft blue haze, through which the tawny
Arno, its course marked by a line of tall, slender, lightly foliaged,
seemingly branchless trees, like tall rods in leaf, went onward towards
the west.

"I know you do," said the first speaker. "And I really wish," she added,
with a slight touch of vehemence, "that your time would come--that I
should see you at last liking some one person really and deeply and
jealously, and to the exclusion of all the rest."

"I don't know why you should wish me unhappiness, Margaret. You have
beautiful theories, I know; but in my experience" (Mrs. Lovell
slightly underlined this word as if in opposition to the "theories" of
her friend) "the people who have those deeper sort of feelings you
describe are almost always very unhappy."

Margaret turned her head, and looked towards the waving line of the
Carrara mountains; in her eyes there was the reflection of a sudden
inward pain. But she knew that she could indulge in this momentary
expression of feeling; the mountains would not betray her, and the
friend by her side did not realize that anything especial could have
happened to "Margaret." In excuse for Mrs. Lovell it may be said that so
much that was very especial had always happened, and still continued to
happen, to her, that she had not much time for the more faintly colored
episodes of other people.

Beatrice Lovell was an unusually lovely woman. The adjective is here
used to signify that she inspired love. Not by an effort, word, action,
or hardly interest of her own; but simply because she was what she was.
Her beauty was not what is called striking; it touched the eye gently at
first, but always grew. People who liked to analyze said that the secret
lay in the fact that she had the sweetness, the tints, the surface
texture as it were, and even sometimes the expression, of childhood
still; and then, when you came to look deeper, you found underneath all
the richer bloom of the woman. Her golden hair, not thick or long, but
growing in little soft wavelets upon her small head; her delicate
rose-leaf skin, showing the blue veins; her little teeth and the shape
of her sweet mouth--all these were like childhood. In addition, she was
dimpled and round, with delicately cut features, and long-lashed violet
eyes, in whose soft depths lay always an expression of gentle trust.
This beautiful creature was robed to-day in widow's mourning-garb made
in the severest fashion, without one attempt to decorate or lighten it.
But the straight-skirted, untrimmed garments, the little close bonnet,
and the heavy veil pinned over it with straight crape-pins, only brought
out more vividly the tints of her beauty.

"No," she continued, as her companion did not speak, "I by no means wish
for the feelings you invoke for me. I am better off as I am; I keep my
self-possession. For instance, I told this Sicily person that it was in
very bad taste to speak to me in that way at such a time--so soon after
Mr. Lovell's death; and that I was much annoyed by it."

"It has not prevented his writing," said Margaret, coming back slowly
from the Carrara mountains, and letting her eyes rest upon the tower of
the Palazzo Vecchio below, springing above the city roofs like the stem
of a flower.

"They always write, I think," said Mrs. Lovell, simply.

"I know they do--to you," said Margaret. She turned as she spoke, and
looked at her friend with the same old affection and admiration which
she had felt for her from childhood, but now with a sort of speculative
curiosity added. How must it feel to live such a life--to be constantly
surrounded and accompanied by an atmosphere of devotion and enthralment
such as that letter had expressed? Beatrice seemed to divine something
of her friend's thought, and answered it after her fashion.

"It is such a comfort to be with you, Margaret," she said,
affectionately; "it has always been a comfort, ever since we were
children. I can talk freely to you, and as I can talk to no one else.
You understand; you do not misunderstand. But all the other women I meet
invariably do; or, at least, pretend to enough to excuse their being
horribly disagreeable."

Margaret took her hand. They had taken off their gloves, as the
afternoon was warm, and they had the heights to themselves; it was early
in March, and the crowd of tourists who come in the spring to Italy, and
those more loitering travellers who had spent the winter in Naples or
Rome, had not yet reached Florence, although it may be said that they
were at the door. Mrs. Lovell's hands, now destitute of ornament save
the plain band of the wedding-ring, were small, dimpled, very white; her
friend Miss Stowe had hands equally small, but darker and more slender.

"You have been happy all your life, have you not, Beatrice?" said
Margaret, not questioningly so much as assertively.

"Yes," answered Mrs. Lovell, "I think I have. Of course I was much
shocked by Mr. Lovell's death; he was very kind to me."

"Mr. Lovell," as his wife always called him, had died four months
previously. He was fifty-six years of age, and Beatrice had been his
wife for a little more than a year. He had been very happy with her, and
had left her his fortune and his blessing; with these, and his memory,
she had come abroad, and had been for six weeks in Sicily, with some
elderly friends. She had stopped in Florence to see Miss Stowe, who was
spending the winter there with an aunt; but she was not to remain. In
her present state of seclusion she was to visit Venice and the Lakes in
advance of the season, and spend the summer in "the most quiet village"
which could be discovered for her especial benefit on the Brittany
coast. The friends had not met for two years, and there had been much to
tell--that is, for Beatrice to tell. Her always personal narratives were
saved from tediousness, however, because they were not the usual
decorated feminine fancies, but plain masculine facts (oh, very plain!);
and because, also, the narrator was herself quite without the vanity
which might naturally have accompanied them. This last merit seemed to
her admirers a very remarkable one; in reality it was only that, having
no imagination, she took a simple, practical view of everything,
themselves included. This last, however, they never discovered, because
her unfailing tact and gentleness lay broadly and softly over all.

"And what shall you do about your Sicily person?" said Margaret, not in
the least, however, associating the remark, and knowing also that
Beatrice would not associate it, with "Mr. Lovell" and his "memory" (it
was quite well understood between them about "Mr. Lovell").

"Of course I shall not answer."

"And if he follows you?"

"He will hardly do that--now. Besides, he is going to America; he sails
to-morrow. Our having been together in Sicily was quite by chance, of
course; he knows that, and he knows also that I intend to pay, in every
way, the strictest respect to Mr. Lovell's memory. That will be fully
two years."

"And then?"

"Oh, I never plan. If things do not assert themselves, they are not
worth a plan."

"You certainly are the most delightful little piece of common-sense I
ever met," said Margaret, laughing, and kissing her. "I wish you would
give me a share of it! But come--it is late; we must go."

As they went down the slope together towards the village where their
carriage was waiting, they looked not unlike the two seventeen-year-old
school-girls of eight years before; Beatrice was smiling, and Margaret's
darker face was lighted by the old animation which had always charmed
her lovely but unanimated friend. It may here be remarked that the
greatest intellectual excitements which Beatrice Lee had known had been
when Margaret Stowe had let loose her imagination, and carried her
friend up with her, as on strong wings, to those regions of fancy which
she never attained alone; Beatrice had enjoyed it, wondered over it, and
then had remained passive until the next time.

"Ah well--poor Sicily person!" said Margaret, as they took their places
in the carriage. "I know just what you will do with him. You will write
down his name in a memorandum-book, so as not to forget it; you will
safely burn his poor letter, as you have safely burned so many others;
and you will go gently on to Brittany without even taking the ashes!"

"Keep it for me!" said Mrs. Lovell, suddenly, drawing the letter from
her pocket and placing it in Margaret's hand. "Yes," she repeated,
enjoying her idea and dwelling upon it, delighted to find that she
possessed a little fancy of her own, after all, "keep it for me, and
read it over once in a while. It is quite well written, and will do you
good, because it is not one of your theories, but a fact. There is
nothing disloyal in my giving it to you, because I always tell you
everything, and this Sicily person has no claim for exemption in that
regard. He has gone back to America, and you will not meet him.
No--positively, I will not take it. You must keep it for me."

"Very well," said Margaret, amused by this little unexpected flight.
"But as I may go back to America also, I want to be quite sure where I
stand. Did you happen to mention to this Sicily person my name, or
anything about me?"

"No," replied Mrs. Lovell, promptly. "We did not talk on such subjects,
you know."

"And he had no idea that you were to stop in Florence?"

"No; he supposed I was to take the steamer at Naples for Marseilles. You
need not be so scrupulous; everything is quite safe."

"And when shall I return the epistle?"

"When I ask for it," said Mrs. Lovell, laughing.

The next morning she went northward to Venice.

      

Two weeks later Miss Stowe formed one of the company at a reception, or,
rather, a musical party. She looked quite unlike the "Margaret" of
Fiesole as she sat on a small, faded purple satin sofa, listening,
rather frowningly, to the rippling movement that follows the march in
Beethoven's sonata, opus twenty-six; she had never liked that rippling
movement, she did not pretend to like it now. Her frown, however, was
slight--merely a little line between her dark eyebrows; it gave her the
appearance of attention rather than of disapprobation. The "Margaret" of
Fiesole had looked like an animated, almost merry, young girl; the "Miss
Stowe" of the reception appeared older than she really was, and her face
wore an expression of proud reserve, which, although veiled by all the
conventional graciousness required by society, was not on that account
any the less apparent. She was richly dressed; but the general effect of
her attire was that of simplicity. She fanned herself slowly with a
large fan, whose sticks were of carved amber, and the upper part of soft
gray ostrich plumes, curled; closed or open, as she used it or as it lay
beside her, this fan was an object of beauty. As the music ceased a lady
came fluttering across the room, and, with a whispered "Permit me,"
introduced a gentleman, whose name, in the hum of released
conversation, Miss Stowe did not hear.

"He understands everything about old pictures, and you know how
ignorant I am!" said this lady, half closing her eyes, and shaking her
ringleted head with an air of abnegation. "I have but one
inspiration; there is room in me but for one. I bring him, therefore,
to you, who have so many! We all know your love for the early
masters--may I not say, the earliest?"

Madame Ferri was an American who had married a Florentine; she was now a
little widow of fifty, with gray ringlets and emotions regarding music
almost too ineffable to be expressed. I say "almost," because she did,
after all, express them, as her friends knew. She was a useful person in
Florence because she indefatigably knew everybody--the English and
Americans as well as the Florentines; and she spent her time
industriously at work mingling these elements, whether they would or no.
No one thanked her for this especially, or remembered it after it was
done; if republics are ungrateful, even more so is a society whose
component parts are transient, coming and departing day by day. But
Madame Ferri herself appreciated the importance of her social
combinations if no one else did; and, like many another chemist, lived
on content in the consciousness of it.

"I know very little about old pictures," said the stranger, with a
slight smile, finding himself left alone beside Miss Stowe.

"And I--do not like them," she replied.

"If, more than that, you dislike them, we shall have something to talk
about. Dislike can generally express itself very well."

"On the contrary, I think it is one of those feelings we do not
express--but conceal."

"You are thinking of persons, perhaps. I was speaking of things.
Pictures are things."

Miss Stowe felt herself slightly displeased; and the feeling was not
lessened when, with a "Will you allow me?" the stranger took a seat at
the end of her sofa, in the space left free by the gray silken sweep of
her dress. There was in reality an abundance of room for him; other men
were seated, and there was no chair near. Still, the sofa was a small
one; the three Italians and two Frenchmen who had succeeded each other
in the honor of standing beside her for eight or ten minutes'
conversation had not thought of asking for the place so calmly taken by
this new-comer. She looked at him as he began talking; he was quite
unlike the three Italians and two Frenchmen. He was not ruddy enough for
an Englishman of that complexion; he had a lethargic manner which was
un-American. She decided, however, that he was, like herself, an
American; but an American who had lived much abroad.

He was talking easily upon the various unimportant subjects in vogue at
a "small party;" she replied in the same strain.

Margaret Stowe was not beautiful; "pretty" was the last word that could
have been applied to her. Her features were irregular; she had a
well-shaped, well-poised head, and a quantity of dark hair which she
wore closely braided in a low knot behind. She was tall, slender, and
rather graceful; she had dark eyes. As has been said before, she was not
beautiful; but within the past two years she had acquired, her friends
thought, an air of what is called distinction. In reality this was but
a deep indifference, combined with the wish at the same time to maintain
her place unchanged in the society in which she moved. Indifference and
good manners taken together, in a tall and graceful person, will
generally give that air. Beatrice Lovell had not perceived this change
in her friend, but on that day at Fiesole Miss Stowe had been simply the
"Margaret" of old.

In accordance with what we have called her good manners, Miss Stowe now
gave to the stranger beside her easy replies, several smiles, and a fair
amount of intelligent attention. It was all he could have expected; but,
being a man of observation, he perceived her indifference lying broadly
underneath, like the white sand under a shallow river.

During the same week she met him at a dinner-party, and they had some
conversation. Later he was one of the guests at a reception which she
attended, and again they talked together awhile. She now mentioned him
to her aunt, Miss Harrison, to whom she generally gave, every few days,
a brief account of the little events in the circle to which they
belonged. She had learned his name by this time; it was Morgan.

"I wonder if he is a grandson of old Adam Morgan," said Miss Harrison,
who was genealogical and reminiscent. "If he is, I should like to see
him. Has he a Roman nose?"

"I think not," said her niece, smiling.

"Well, describe him, then."

"He is of medium height, neither slender nor stout; he is light, with
rather peculiar eyes because they are so blue--a deep, dull blue, like
old china; but they are not large, and he does not fully open them. He
has a long, light mustache, no beard, and very closely cut hair."

"He must be good-looking."

"No; he is not, especially. He may be anywhere between thirty and forty;
his hair in a cross-light shows a slight tinge of gray. He looks
fatigued; he looks cynical. I should not be surprised if he were
selfish. I do not like him."

"But if he should be the grandson of old Adam, I should have to invite
him to dinner," said Miss Harrison, reflectively. "I could not do less,
I think."

"I won't poison the soup. But Morgan is a common name, Aunt Ruth; this
is the fourth Morgan I have met here this spring. There isn't one chance
in a thousand that he belongs to the family you know." She was smiling
as she spoke, but did not explain her smile; she was thinking that
"Morgan" was also the name signed to that letter locked in her
writing-desk--a letter whose expressions she now knew quite well, having
obeyed Mrs. Lovell's injunction to "read it over" more than once. They
were ardent expressions; it might be said, indeed, that they were very
ardent.

But now and then that one chance in a thousand, so often summarily
dismissed, asserts its existence and appears upon the scene. It turned
out in the present case that the stranger was the grandson of the old
Adam Morgan whom Miss Harrison remembered. Miss Stowe, in the meantime,
had continued to meet him; but now she was to meet him in a new
way--when he would be more upon her hands, as it were; for Miss Harrison
invited him to dinner.

Miss Ruth Harrison was an invalid of nearly sixty years of age; she had
been for ten years in Europe, but had only had her orphaned niece with
her during the past eighteen months. She had a large fortune, and she
gave Margaret every luxury; especially she liked to see her richly
dressed. But it was quite well understood between them that the bulk of
her wealth was to go to another relative in America who bore her family
name. It was understood between them, but it was not understood outside.
On the contrary, it was generally believed in Florence that Miss Stowe
would inherit the whole. It is just possible that this belief may have
had a remote influence in shaping the opinion which prevailed
there--namely, that this young lady was "handsome" and "gracious," when,
in truth, she was neither. But Mr. Morgan, the new-comer, exhibited so
far, at least, no disposition to fall in with this fiction. In his
estimation Miss Stowe was a conventionally agreeable, inwardly
indifferent young lady of twenty-six, who carried herself well, but was
too ironical as well as too dark. He came to dinner. And did not change
his opinion.

A few days after the dinner Miss Harrison invited her new acquaintance
to drive; she was able to go out for an hour or two in the afternoon,
and she had a luxurious carriage and fine horses. Miss Stowe did not
accompany them; she went off by herself to walk in the Boboli Garden.

Miss Harrison returned in good-humor. "I like him," she announced, as
the maid removed her bonnet. "Yes, I think I may hope that the grandson
of old Adam is not going to be a disappointment."

"The grandson of Adam--I suppose his name is Adam also--is a fortunate
person, Aunt Ruth, to have gained your liking so soon; you do not often
take likings to strangers."

"His name is not Adam," pursued Miss Harrison, "and that is a pity;
there is character as well as association in Adam. He has a family
name--Trafford. His mother was a Miss Trafford, of Virginia, it seems."

Miss Stowe was selecting flowers from a fragrant heap before her to fill
the wide-mouthed vases which stood on the floor by her side; but now she
stopped. "Trafford Morgan" was the name signed at the end of that
letter! It must be he; it was not probable that there were two names of
that special combination; it seemed a really remarkable chance. And
evidently he had not gone to America, in spite of Mrs. Lovell's belief.
She began to smile and almost to laugh, bending her head over a great
soft purple heap of Florence lilies in order that her aunt might not
observe it. But the large room was dusky, and Miss Harrison
near-sighted; she observed nothing. The two ladies occupied an apartment
in a house which, if it had not been so new, would have been called a
"palace." Although modern, the measurements had been after the old
Florentine pattern, and the result was that the occupants moved about in
rooms which could have contained entire, each one, a small American
house. But they liked the vastness. After a moment Miss Stowe went on
arranging her blossoms, but inwardly she was enjoying much
entertainment; she was going over in her own mind the expressions of
that letter, which now took on quite a new character, coming no longer
from some formless stranger, but from a gentleman with whom she had
spoken, a person she had met and would meet again. "I never should have
dreamed that he was capable of it," she said to herself. "He has seemed
indifferent, blasé. But it places me in a nice position! Especially
now that Aunt Ruth has taken a fancy to him. I must write to Beatrice
immediately, and ask her to take back the stupid letter." She wrote
during the same evening.

The next day she was attacked by a severe illness--severe, although
short. No one could tell what was the matter with her; even the
physician was at fault. She did not eat or sleep, she seemed hardly to
know what they said when they spoke to her. Her aunt was alarmed. But at
the end of the week, as suddenly as she had fallen ill, she came back to
life again, rose, ordered the maid to braid her hair, and appeared at
Miss Harrison's lonely little dinner-table quite herself, save that she
was tremulous and pale. But by the next day even these signs were no
longer very apparent. It was decided that she had had an attack of
"nervous prostration;" "although why in the world you should have been
seized by it just now, and here, I am at a loss, Margaret, to imagine,"
said her aunt.

On the day of her reappearance at the dinner-table there came a letter
from Beatrice which bore the postmark of a village on one of the Channel
islands. Mrs. Lovell had changed her plans, and gone yachting for a
month or two with a party of friends, a yacht probably being considered
to possess attributes of seclusion more total than even the most
soundless village on the Brittany shore. Of course she had not received
Margaret's letter, nor could she receive one--their route being
uncertain, but nevertheless to the southward--until her return.
Communication between them for the present was therefore at an end.

On the afternoon after Margaret's reappearance Madame Ferri was making a
visit of congratulation upon the recovery of "our dear girl." It was a
cool day, a heavy rain had fallen, and fresh snow gleamed on the summits
of the Apennines; our dear girl, very unresponsive and silent, was
dressed in black velvet, whose rich, plain folds brought out her
slenderness, and made more apparent than usual the graceful shape of her
head and hair. But the unrelieved black made her look extremely pale,
and it was her recent illness, probably, which made her look also tired
and languid. Madame Ferri, who kept constantly in practice her talent
for being charming (she was always spoken of as "charming"), looked at
her for a time while conversing; then she rose, took all the crimson
roses from a vase, and, going to her, placed one in her hair,
meditatively; another in a button-hole of the closely fitting high
corsage; and, after a moment's reflection, all the others in a bunch in
a velvet loop which was on the side of the skirt not quite half-way
down, rapidly denuding herself of pins for the purpose as she proceeded.
"There!" she said, stepping back a few paces to survey her handiwork,
with her head critically on one side, "now you are a picture. Look,
dear Miss Harrison, pray look."

Miss Harrison put up her glass and approved. And then, while this climax
still lasted, Madame Ferri took her departure; she liked to depart in a
climax.

She had hardly gone when another card was brought in: "Mr. Trafford
Morgan." He, too, had come to pay his respects to Miss Harrison upon the
change for the better in her niece; he had not expected to see the
latter person, he had merely heard that there was "an improvement."
After he had been there twenty minutes he said to himself that there
was, and in more ways than one. She not only looked much better than
usual (this may have been owing to the roses), but there was a new
gentleness about her; and she listened with a perceptible increase of
attention to what he said. Not that he cared much for this; he had not
admired Miss Stowe; but any man (this he remarked to himself) likes to
be listened to when he is talking better than the contrary; and as the
minutes passed he became conscious that Miss Stowe was not only
listening, but bestowing upon him also what seemed an almost serious
attention. She did not say much--Miss Harrison said more; but she
listened to and looked at him. She had not looked at him previously;
people can turn their eyes upon one without really looking, and Miss
Stowe had excelled in this accomplishment.

During the next week he met her at a dinner-party; she went to these
entertainments with a friend of her aunt's, a lady who was delighted to
act as chaperon for the heiress. The spring season was now at its height
in Florence, and the members of the same circle perforce constantly met
each other; on each separate occasion during the two weeks that followed
Trafford Morgan was conscious that Miss Stowe was honoring him, although
in a studiously guarded and quiet way, with much of a very observant
attention. This, in the end, excited in him some curiosity. He had as
good an opinion of himself as most men have; but he did not think it
probable that the heiress had suddenly fallen in love with him without
rhyme or reason, as it were, the "rhyme" being that he was neither an
Apollo, an Endymion, nor a military man; the "reason," that he had
never in the least attempted to make himself agreeable to her. Of
course, if he had attempted--But he had not. She was not in need of
entertainment; she had enough of that, of all sorts, including
apparently the sort given by suitors. She showed no sign of having
troublesomely impulsive feelings; on the contrary, she seemed cold. "She
is playing some game," he thought; "she has some end in view. But if she
wishes to make use of me she must show her hand more. I may assist her,
and I may not; but, at any rate, I must understand what it is--I will
not be led." He made up his mind that her aim was to excite remark in
their circle; there was probably some one in that circle who was to be
stimulated by a little wholesome jealousy. It was an ancient and
commonplace method, and he had not thought her commonplace. But human
nature at heart is but a commonplace affair, after all, and the methods
and motives of the world have not altered much, in spite of the gray
lapse of ages.

Morgan was an idle man; at present he was remaining in Italy for a
purpose, and had nothing to do there. The next time he met Miss Stowe he
followed out his theory and took the lead; he began to pay her attention
which might, if pursued, have aroused observation. To his surprise she
drew back, and so completely that he was left stranded. He tried this
three times on three different occasions, and each time met the same
rebuff. It became evident, therefore, that Miss Stowe did not wish for
the kind of attention which he had supposed was her point; but as,
whenever she could do it unobserved, she continued to turn upon him the
same quiet scrutiny, he began to ask himself whether she wished for any
other. An opportunity occurred which made him think that she did.

It was in the Boboli Garden, where he had gone to walk off a fit of
weariness; here he came upon Miss Stowe. There seemed to be no one in
the garden save themselves--at least, no one whom they knew; only a few
stray tourists wandering about, with Baedeker, Horner, and Hare. The
world of fashion was at the Cascine that day, where races were going on.
Morgan did not feel like talking; he exchanged the usual phrases with
Miss Stowe, and then prepared to pass on. But she said, gently, "Are you
going now? If not, why not stroll awhile with me?"

After this, as he mentally observed, of course he was forced to stroll
awhile. But, on the whole, he found himself entertained, because his
companion gave him an attention which was almost devout. Its
seriousness, indeed, compelled him to be serious likewise, and made him
feel as though he were in an atmosphere combining the characteristics of
a church and a school; he was partly priest, partly pedagogue, and the
sensation was amusing. She asked him what he liked best in Florence; and
she called it, gravely, "enchanting Florence."

"Giotto and Botticelli," he answered.

"I wish you would be in earnest; I am in earnest."

"With all the earnestness in the world, Miss Stowe, I could only repeat
the same reply."

"What is it you find to like in them? Will you tell me?"

"It would take an age--a full half-hour; you would be quite tired out.
Women are so much quicker in their mental processes than we are that you
would apprehend what I was going to say before I could get it out; you
would ascend all the heights, scour all the plains, and arrive at the
goal before I came even in sight, where you would sit waiting, patiently
or impatiently, as I, slowly and with mortified perception, approached."

"Yes, we are quick; but we are superficial. I wish you would tell me."

He glanced at her; she was looking at him with an expression in her eyes
which was extremely earnest. "I cannot deliver a discourse while
walking," he said. "I require a seat."

"Let us go to the amphitheatre; I often sit there for a while on the
stone benches under the old statues. I like to see them standing around
the circle; they are so serenely indifferent to the modern
pencil-scrawlings on their robes, so calmly certain that their time will
come again."

"What you say is entirely charming. Still, I hardly think I can talk to
the statues. I must have something more--more secluded." He was aware
that he was verging upon a slight impertinence; but he wished to see
whether she would accede--what she would do. He made no effort to find
the seclusion of which he spoke; he left that to her.

She hesitated a moment; then, "We might go to a seat there is under a
tree at the top of the slope," she said. "It is a pleasant place."

He assented; and they went up the path by the side of the tall, stately
hedges, and past the fountain and the great statue of Abbondanza. The
stone bench was not one of those sought for; it was not in front, but on
the western side. It commanded a view of the city below, with the Duomo
and Giotto's lovely bell-tower; of the fruit-trees, all in flower on the
outskirts; of the treetops of the Cascine, now like a cloud of golden
smoke with their tender brown leaflets, tasselled blossoms, and winged
seeds; of the young grain, springing greenly down the valley; and the
soft, velvety mountains rising all around. "How beautiful it is!" she
said, leaning back, closing her parasol and folding her hands.

"Beautiful--yes; but barren of human interest save to those who are
going to sell the fruit, or who depend upon the growth of the grain. The
beauty of art is deeper; it is all human."

"I must be quite ignorant about art," she answered, "because it does not
impress me in that way; I wish it did. I wish you would instruct me a
little, Mr. Morgan."

"Good!" he thought. "What next?" But although he thought, he of course
was obliged to talk also, and so he began about the two art masters he
had mentioned. He delivered quite an epic upon Giotto's two little
frescos in the second cloister of Santa Maria Novella, and he openly
preferred the third there--the little Virgin going up the impossible
steps--to Titian's splendid picture of the same subject, in Venice. He
grew didactic and mystic over the round Botticelli of the Uffizi and the
one in the Prometheus room at the Pitti; he invented as he went along,
and amused himself not a little with his own unusual flow of language.
His companion listened, and now and then asked a question. But her
questions were directed more towards what he thought of the pictures
(after a while he noticed this), and what impressions they made upon
him, than to the pictures themselves or their claims to celebrity. As
he went on he made some slight attempts to diverge a little from the
subject in hand, and skirt, if ever so slightly, the borders of
flirtation; he was curious to see if she would follow him there. But she
remained unresponsive; and, while giving no sign of even perceiving his
digressions, she brought him back to his art atmosphere, each time he
left it, with a question or remark very well adapted for the purpose; so
well, indeed, that it could not have been by chance.

She declined his escort homeward, pretexting a visit she wished to pay;
but she said, of her own accord, that she would sing for him the next
time he came. He knew this was a favor she did not often grant; Madame
Ferri had so informed him.

He went, without much delay; and she sang several songs in the dusky
corner where her piano stood while he sat near. The light from the wax
candles at the other end of the large room, where Miss Harrison was
knitting, did not penetrate here; but she said she liked to sing in a
semi-darkness, as she had only a twilight voice. It was in truth not at
all powerful; but it was sweet and low, and she sang with much
expression. Trafford Morgan liked music; it was not necessary to make up
a conviction or theory about that; he simply had a natural love for it,
and he came more than once to hear Miss Stowe sing.

In the meantime Miss Harrison continued to like "the grandson of old
Adam," and again invited him to drive. A month went by, and, by the end
of it, he had seen in one way and another a good deal of these two
ladies. The "later manner" (as he mentally called it) of Miss Stowe
continued; when they were in company, she was as she had been
originally, but when they were unobserved, or by themselves, she gave
him the peculiar sober attention which he did not quite comprehend. He
had several theories about it, and varied between them. He was a man who
did not talk of persons, who never told much. If questioned, while
answering readily and apparently without reserve, it was noticed
afterwards that he had told nothing. He had never spoken of Sicily, for
instance, but had talked a good deal of Sweden. This reticence, so
exasperating to many women, seemed agreeable to Miss Stowe, who herself
did not tell much, or talk of persons--that is, generally. One person
she talked about, and with persistence. Morgan was hardly ever with her
that she did not, sooner or later, begin to talk to him about himself.
Sometimes he was responsive, sometimes not; but responsive or
unresponsive, in society or out of it, he had talked, all told, a goodly
number of hours with Miss Stowe when May attained its zenith and the
season waned.

The tourists had gone to Venice; the red gleam of guide-books along the
streets and the conscientiousness of woollen travelling-dresses in the
galleries were no longer visible. Miss Stowe now stepped over the
boundary-line of her caution a little; many of the people she knew had
gone; she went with Trafford to the Academy and the Pitti; she took him
into cool, dim churches, and questioned him concerning his creed; she
strolled with him through the monastery of San Marco, and asked what his
idea was of the next world. She said she liked cloisters; she would like
to walk in one for an hour or two every day.

He replied that there were a number of cloisters in Florence; they might
visit them in succession and pace around quietly. The effect would be
heightened if she would read aloud, as they paced, short sentences from
some ancient, stiff-covered little book like De Contemptu Mundi.

"Ah," she said, "you are not in earnest. But I am!"

And she seemed to be; he said to himself that he had hardly had a look
or word from her which was not only earnest, but almost portentously so.
She now began to do whatever he asked her to do, whether it was to sing
Italian music or to read Dante's Vita Nuova, both of which she had
said she did not like. It is probable that he asked her to do a number
of things about this time which he did not especially care for, simply
to see if she would comply; she always did.

"If she goes on in this sort of way," he thought, "never showing the
least opposition, or personal moods different from mine, I really don't
know where we shall end!"

But at last she did show both. It was in the evening, and she was at the
piano; after one or two ballads he asked her to sing a little English
song he had found among her music, not printed, but in manuscript.

"Oh, that is nothing," she said, putting out her hand to take it from
him. "I will sing this of Schumann's instead; it is much prettier."

But he maintained his point. "I like this better," he said. "I like the
name--of course it is impossible, but it is pleasant--'Semper Fidelis.'"

She took it, looked at it in silence for a moment, and then, without
further reply, began to sing. There was nothing remarkable in the words
or the music; she did not sing as well as usual, either; she hurried the
time.

                   "SEMPER FIDELIS

    "Dumb and unchanged my thoughts still round thee hover,
               Nor will be moved;
     E'en though I strive, my heart remains thy lover,
               Though unbeloved;
     Yet there is sad content in loyalty,
     And, though the silent gift is naught to thee,
               It changes never--
               Faithful forever."

This was the verse; but at the fifth line she faltered, stopped, and
then, rising abruptly, left the room.

"Margaret is very uneven at times," said Miss Harrison, apologetically,
from her easy-chair.

"All interesting persons are uneven," he replied. He went over and took
a seat beside his hostess, remaining half an hour longer; but as he went
back to his hotel he said to himself that Miss Stowe had been for many
weeks the most even woman he had ever known, showing neither variation
nor shadow of turning. She had been as even as a straight line.

On this account her sudden emotion made an impression upon him. The next
day he mentioned that he was going to Trieste.

"Not Venice?" said Miss Harrison. "I thought everybody went to Venice."

"Venice," he replied, "is pre-eminently the place where one needs either
an actual, tangible companionship of the dearest sort, or a memory like
it. I, who have neither, keep well away from Venice!"

"I rather think, Mr. Morgan, that you have had pretty much what you
wanted, in Venice or elsewhere," said Miss Harrison, with a dry humor
she sometimes showed. Here she was called from the room to see a poor
woman whom she befriended; Miss Stowe and Morgan were left alone.

He was looking at her; he was noting what effect, if any, the tidings of
his departure (he had named to-morrow) would have upon her. She had not
been conventional; would she resort to conventionality now?

Her gaze was bent upon the floor; after a while she looked up. "Where
shall you be this summer?" she said, slowly. "Perhaps we shall be there
too." Her eyes were fixed upon his face, her tone was hardly above a
whisper.

Perhaps it was curiosity that made him do what he did; whether it was or
not, mingled with it there was certainly a good deal of audacity. He
rose, went to her, and took her hand. "Forgive me," he said; "I am in
love with some one else."

It implied much. But had not her manner implied the same, or more?

She rose; they were both standing now.

"What do you mean!" she demanded, a light coming into her eyes--eyes
usually abstracted, almost dull.

"Only what I have said."

"Why should you say it to me?"

"I thought you might be--interested."

"You are mistaken. I am not in the least interested. Why should I be?"

"Are you not a little unkind?"

"Not more unkind than you are insolent."

She was very angry. He began to be a little angry himself.

"I ask your pardon with the deepest humility, Miss Stowe. The insolence
of which you accuse me was as far as possible from my mind. If I thought
you might be somewhat interested in what I have told you, it was because
you have honored me with some small share of your attention during the
past week or two; probably it has spoiled me."

"I have; and for a month or two, not a week or two. But there was a
motive--It was an experiment."

"You have used me for experimental purposes, then?"

"Yes."

"I am immensely grateful to have been considered worthy of a part in an
experiment of yours, even although a passive one. May I ask if the
experiment is ended?"

"It is."

"Since when? Since I made that confession about some one else?"

Miss Stowe's face was pale, her dark eyes were brilliant. "I knew all
the while that you were in love--hopelessly in love--with Mrs. Lovell,"
she said, with a proud smile. "That was the reason that, for my
experiment, I selected you."

A flush rose over his face as she spoke. "You thought you would have the
greater triumph?" he asked.

"I thought nothing of the kind. I thought that I should be safe, because
you would not respond."

"And you did not wish me to respond?"

"I did not."

"Excuse me--we are speaking frankly, are we not?--but do you not
contradict yourself somewhat? You say you did not wish me to respond;
yet, have you not tried to make me?"

"That was not my object. It was but a necessary accompaniment of the
experiment."

"And if I had responded?" he said, looking at her.

"I knew you could not. I knew quite well--I mean I could imagine quite
well--how much you loved Beatrice. But it has all been a piece of folly
upon my part--I see it now." She turned away, and went across to the
piano. "I wish you would go now," she said, in a low voice, vaguely
turning over the music. "I cannot, because my aunt will think it
strange to find me gone."

Instead of obeying her, he crossed the room and stood beside her; and
then he saw in the twilight that her eyes were full of tears and her
lips quivering, in spite of her effort to prevent it.

"Margaret," he said, suddenly, and with a good deal of feeling in his
voice, "I am not worth it! Indeed I am not!" And again he touched her
hand.

But she drew it from him. "Are you by any chance imagining that my tears
are for you?" she said, in a low tone, but facing him like a creature
at bay. "Have you interpreted me in that way? I have a right to know;
speak!"

"I am at a loss to interpret you," he said, after a moment's silence.

"I will tell you the whole, then--I must tell you; your mistake forces
it from me." She paused, drew a quick breath, and then went on, rapidly:
"I love some one else. I have been very unhappy. Just after you came I
received a letter which told me that he was soon to be married; he is
married now. I had an illness in consequence. You may remember my
illness? I made up my mind then that I would root out the feeling if
possible, no matter at what cost of pain and effort and long patience.
You came in my way. I knew you were deeply attached elsewhere--"

"How did you know it?" he said. He was leaning against the piano
watching her; she stood with her hands folded, and pressed so tightly
together that he could see the force of the pressure.

"Never mind how; but quite simply and naturally. I said to myself that I
would try to become interested in you, even if only to a small degree; I
would do everything in my power to forward it. It would be an acquired
interest; still, acquired interests can be deep. People can become
interested in music, in pictures, in sports, in that way; why not, then,
in persons also, since they are more human?"

"That is the very reason--because they are too human," he answered.

But she did not heed. "I have studied you; I have tried to find the good
in you; I have tried to believe in you, to idealize you. I have given
every thought that I could control to you, and to you alone, for two
long months," she said, passionately, unlocking her hands, reddened with
their pressure against each other, and turning away.

"It has been a failure?"

"Complete."

"And if you had succeeded?" he asked, folding his arms as he leaned
against the piano.

"I should have been glad and happy. I should never have seen you
again, of course; but at least the miserable old feeling would have been
laid at rest."

"And its place filled by another as miserable!"

"Oh no; it could never have been that," she said, with an emphasis of
scorn.

"You tried a dangerous remedy, Margaret."

"Not so dangerous as the disease."

"A remedy may be worse than a disease. In spite of your scornful tone,
permit me to tell you that if you had succeeded at all, it would have
been in the end by loving me as you loved--I mean love--this other man.
While I, in the meantime, am in love (as you are kind enough to inform
me--hopelessly) with another woman! Is Beatrice a friend of yours?"

"My dearest friend."

"Has it never occurred to you that you were playing towards her rather a
traitorous part?"

"Never."

"Supposing, during this experiment of yours, that I had fallen in love
with you?"

"It would have been nothing to Beatrice if you had," responded Mrs.
Lovell's friend instantly and loyally, although remembering, at the same
moment, that Fiesole blush. Then, in a changed voice, and with a proud
humility which was touching, she added, "It would have been quite
impossible. Beatrice is the loveliest woman in the world; any one who
had loved her would never think of me."

At this moment Miss Harrison's voice was heard in the hall; she was
returning.

"Good-bye," said Morgan. "I shall go to-morrow. You would rather have me
go." He took her hand, held it an instant, and then raised it to his
lips. "Good-bye," he said, again. "Forgive me, Margaret. And do not
entirely--forget me."

When Miss Harrison returned they were looking at the music on the piano.
A few moments later he took leave.

"I am sorry he has gone," said Miss Harrison. "What in the world is he
going to do at Trieste? Well, so goes life! nothing but partings! One
thing is a consolation, however--at least, to me; the grandson of old
Adam did not turn out a disappointment, after all."

"I do not think I am a judge," replied Miss Stowe.

      

In June Miss Harrison went northward to Paris, her niece accompanying
her. They spent the summer in Switzerland; in the autumn returned to
Paris; and in December went southward to Naples and Rome.

Mrs. Lovell had answered Margaret's letter in June. The six weeks of
yachting had been charming; the yacht belonged to an English gentleman,
who had a country-seat in Devonshire. She herself, by-the-way, might be
in Devonshire during the summer; it was so quiet there. Could not Miss
Harrison be induced to come to Devonshire? That would be so
delightful. It had been extremely difficult to wear deep mourning at
sea; but of course she had persisted in it. Much of it had been
completely ruined; she had been obliged to buy more. Yes--it was
amusing--her meeting Trafford Morgan. And so unexpected, of course. Did
she like him? No, the letter need not be returned. If it troubled her to
have it, she might destroy it; perhaps it was as well it should be
destroyed. There were some such pleasant qualities in English life;
there was not so much opportunity, perhaps, as in America--"That blush
meant nothing, then, after all," thought the reader, lifting her eyes
from the page, and looking musingly at a picture on the wall. "She said
it meant only a lack of iron; and, as Beatrice always tells the truth,
she did mean that, probably, and not irony, as I supposed." She sat
thinking for a few moments, and then went back to the letter: There was
not so much opportunity, perhaps, as in America; but there was more
stability, more certainty that things would continue to go on. There
were various occurrences which she would like to tell; but she never
wrote that sort of thing, as Margaret knew. If she would only come to
Devonshire for the summer--and so forth, and so forth.

But Beatrice did sometimes write "that sort of thing," after all. During
the next February, in Rome, after a long silence, Margaret received a
letter from her which brought the tidings of her engagement. He was an
Englishman. He had a country-seat in Devonshire. He owned a yacht.
Beatrice seemed very happy. "We shall not be married until next winter,"
she wrote. "I would not consent, of course, to anything earlier. I have
consistently endeavored to do what was right from the beginning, and
shall not waver now. But by next January there can be no criticism, and
I suppose that will be the time. How I wish you were here to advise me
about a hundred things! Besides, I want you to know him; you will be
sure to like him. He is"--and so forth, and so forth.

"She is following out her destiny," thought the reader in Rome.

In March Miss Harrison found the Eternal City too warm, and moved
northward as far as Florence. Madame Ferri was delighted to see them
again; she came five times during the first three days to say so.

"You will find so many whom you knew last year here again as well as
yourselves," she said, enthusiastically. "We shall have some of our
charming old reunions. Let me see--I think I can tell you." And she
ran over a list of names, among them that of "Mr. Morgan."

"What, not the grandson of Adam?" said Miss Harrison.

"He is not quite so old as that, is he?" said Madame Ferri, laughing.
"It is the one who dined with you several times last year, I
believe--Mr. Trafford Morgan. I shall have great pleasure in telling him
this very day that you are here."

"Do you know whether he is to remain long?" said Miss Stowe, who had not
before spoken.

"I am sorry to say he is not; Mr. Morgan is always an addition, I
think--don't you? But he told me only yesterday that he was going this
week to--to Tarascon, I think he said."

"Trieste and Tarascon--he selects the most extraordinary places!" said
Miss Harrison. "The next time it will be Tartarus."

Madame Ferri was overcome with mirth. "Dear Miss Harrison, you are
too droll! Isn't she, dear Miss Stowe?"

"He probably chooses his names at random," said Miss Stowe, with
indifference.

The next day, at the Pitti, she met him. She was alone, and returned his
salutation coldly. He was with some ladies who were standing near,
looking at the "Madonna of the Chair." He merely asked how Miss Harrison
was, and said he should give himself the pleasure of coming to see her
very soon; then he bowed and returned to his friends. Not long
afterwards she saw them all leave the gallery together.

Half an hour later she was standing in front of one of Titian's
portraits, when a voice close beside her said, "Ah! the young man in
black. You are not admiring it?"

There had been almost a crowd in the gorgeous rooms that morning. She
had stood elbow to elbow with so many persons that she no longer noticed
them; Trafford Morgan had been able, therefore, to approach and stand
beside her for several minutes without attracting her recognition. As he
spoke she turned, and, in answer to his smile, gave an even slighter bow
than before; it was hardly more than a movement of the eyelids. Two
