
"They are in the village of Walkeshwar. The peninsula now quite near is
Colaba. Indian names are very much mixed in regard to their spelling. The
c and the k are about interchangeable, and you can use either
one of them. Hence this point is often written Kolaba, and the hill yonder
Kumballa. The southern part of this neck of land is the native quarter. You
will visit all these localities, and it is not worth while to describe them
minutely."

"That looks like a cemetery," said Mr. Woolridge, as the steamer approached
the point. "There is the lighthouse."

The commander had left his party as the steamer approached the entrance to
the harbor, and had gone forward. The ship had slowed down, and the captain
spoke to the pilot about a convenient anchorage. The harbor was large
enough to accommodate all the navies of the world, and there was no
difficulty on this account. Lord Tremlyn had left his party to look at what
was to be seen by themselves, and came forward to the pilot-house. The
anchorage was settled.

"Captain Ringgold, if you please, we will now exchange places," said the
viscount. "Up to the present time we have been your guests; now I will
become the host, and you and your party will be my guests. I beg you will
raise no objections, my dear sir, and I shall feel very much wounded if you
do not accept the hospitality I tender to you. You are at home on the sea
as I am in Bombay."

"You have put it in such a way that I cannot refuse to accept," replied the
commander, laughing at the corner in which he was placed. "For the present
we are your guests, and we place ourselves entirely under your direction."

"I am extremely happy to take you all under my protection; but I cannot
submit to the proviso which you have added to my offer, though I will be
satisfied to have you 'for the present' as my guests, and we will leave the
future to take care of itself. But in whatever capacity we travel over
India, or such portion of it as you may elect, it is rather necessary that
we fix upon a plan for our operations."

"I am quite agreed that we had better draw up a programme, and I shall
depend upon your counsel in the matter," replied the captain. "For the
present, will you excuse me until the ship comes to anchor?"

"Certainly, Captain."

"Here is the custom-house boat, and I suppose I must attend to that."

"Leave that to me, if you please."

In another half-hour the Guardian-Mother was at anchor off the Apollo
Bunder, the wharf, or landing-place. The custom-house officers came on
board; and, as the ship was not one of any regular line, a high official
came off with them. As soon as he reached the deck he discovered his
lordship, and rushed to him, bowed profusely, and addressed him in the most
deferential manner.

"This is a very unexpected visit, my Lord, and in a steamer flying the
American flag," said he, as the viscount gave him his hand, a piece of
condescension he appeared to appreciate very highly. "What has become of
the Travancore?"

"She was wrecked in the Arabian Sea in a collision, and went to the bottom
after holding us up for a few hours. We were rescued from certain death by
this steamer, and we have been treated with the utmost kindness and
consideration," said his lordship quite hurriedly. "Sir Modava Rao and Dr.
Ferrolan are on board. I am entirely devoted to those to whom we owe our
lives, and I am in their service as long as they will stay in India. What
is your business on board, Mr. Windham?"

"It is in connection with the customs, my Lord."

"You will dispense with everything in that connection, for this is a yacht;
and you will oblige me by not subjecting any person on board to any
annoyance, Mr. Windham."

"Certainly not, my Lord; and not a trunk shall be opened. But the
newspapers will want the account of your shipwreck, and a reporter came off
with me," replied the official.

"Refer him to my secretary."

The under-official obtained particulars from the first officer in regard to
the steamer for the custom-house, and Dr. Ferrolan gave the reporter an
account of the disaster to the Travancore which he had written.

"I propose to land and proceed to our hotel as soon as the ladies are
ready," said Lord Tremlyn, when he had retired to the captain's cabin with
the commander. "While they are preparing, we will consider the programme of
the tour."

"Very well, your Lordship; I will have the party notified. Mr. Scott," said
the captain, opening the door into the pilot-house, "inform all the company
that we go on shore in half an hour; and you will go with them. Mr.
Boulong, lower the gangway, and have the barge ready."

"Perhaps you have arranged a programme yourself already," suggested the new
host of the party.

"I have considered the matter. I proposed to see Bombay, and perhaps run
down to Poona. Then go to Surat in the steamer, and visit Baroda, and
proceed by the ship to Kurrachee. From there I thought I should send the
Guardian-Mother round to Calcutta in charge of Mr. Boulong, while we
travelled to Lahore, Delhi, Cawnpore, Lucknow, Allahabad, Benares, and
Calcutta by railway. From there we will go to Madras and Ceylon by the
steamer," said the commander, who seemed to have arranged the whole trip.

"Excellent, Captain Ringgold!" exclaimed the viscount. "I can hardly better
that."

He made some suggestions; but this route was substantially adopted.




                                 CHAPTER XVI

                        A MULTITUDE OF NATIVE SERVANTS


The barge was ready as soon as it was needed, and lay at the platform of
the gangway, with the crew in their white uniforms, quite as smart as
man-of-war's-men. The coolie boatmen who were seeking a job to put the
passengers on shore were disappointed. The clothing of the guests had been
taken in hand by Sparks and Sordy, the cabin stewards, dried, cleaned, and
pressed. They wore them now, and had returned the borrowed garments.

The party were impatient to see the strange sights on shore; and they were
ready at the gangway when the viscount, to whom the commander had abandoned
the direction of the company, gave the word. The ladies were assisted to
their places, and the "Big Four" went into the fore-sheets. Bargate, the
old man-of-war's-man, was the cockswain, and his lordship gave the word to
him to give way.

"Pull to the Apollo Bunder, if you please, my man," said he.

"Which, your honor?" asked Bargate blankly.

"I mean the bit of a basin you see nearly abreast of the ship," the new
leader explained, pointing out the locality.

The cockswain shoved off the stern of the boat, the oars dropped into the
water, and the men gave way. It was a pull of but a few minutes, and the
barge shot into the basin, and came to a convenient landing-place. On the
shore they found Mr. Windham, one of the chief officials of the
custom-house, who had been on board of the ship. He was surrounded by a
small mob of young Hindus, neatly dressed in the native garments of white
cotton. The ladies were assisted to the shore first. All of the party
carried small valises or satchels containing the needed articles for a few
days' stay at a hotel; and these natives took possession of them as they
landed.

"What is this man, Sir Modava?" asked Mrs. Belgrave, as one of them
relieved her of the bag she carried.

"He is your Khidmutgar, madam," replied the Hindu knight, with a
smile on his handsome face.

"My what?" demanded the lady. "And must I pronounce that word?"

"Not unless you wish to do so. This man is your servant, your waiter."

"But what are we to do with such a lot of them?" inquired Mrs. Belgrave, as
she looked upon the group of Hindus.

"There is only one for each person of the company; for every one must have
his servant. We are going to the Victoria Hotel, and this Khidmutgar
will attend upon you at the table, and do anything you require."

"I don't think I shall need him all the time," added the lady, who thought
he would be a nuisance to her.

The young Hindus presented themselves to all the passengers as they landed,
taking their small baggage, canes, and umbrellas. Some of them had heard
Sir Modava's explanation, and Lord Tremlyn repeated it to others. Most of
them had decided to take things as they came, and accepted the custom of
the country without any friction. Mrs. Blossom looked rather wildly at the
satellite who was to attend to her wants; but her good friend told her to
say nothing, and she submitted without a word.

"Captain Ringgold," said the viscount, as he brought forward a rather stout
man, with spectacles on his nose, and an odd-looking cap or turban on his
head, "this is Pallonjee Pestonjee, the proprietor of the Victoria Hotel."

"I am happy to know you, sir," replied the commander, as he took the hand
of the gentleman, who was a Parsee, though he did not attempt to pronounce
the name.

"We have half a dozen shigrams here," continued his lordship.

"What are we to do with them, my Lord?" asked the captain.

"They are two-horse carriages; and, if you please, we will ride to the
hotel in them," laughed the distinguished guide.

The party seated themselves in the vehicles, which were of English pattern;
and they saw cabs and omnibuses in the vicinity. Taking Rampart Row, they
passed the university, the court-house, and other public buildings, into
Esplanade Road, leading to their destination, about a mile from the
landing.

"On our right is Byculla, one of the divisions of the city, and a business
quarter, where you will find the retail shops, though they are not all
here," said the viscount. "This locality is generally called the Fort; for
though its walls have been removed, it retains the old name. Just below the
Apollo Bunder, where we landed, are the Grant buildings, or warehouses.
Perhaps you saw them from the deck of the ship. Below these, at the
extremity of the point, is Colaba, the native town, which is largely
occupied by commercial buildings. But we shall ride over this ground again,
and you will have the opportunity to see the various structures in detail."

But the tourists were not very much interested in the buildings; for they
wanted to see India, its manners and customs, and for the last year they
had been seeing edifices as noted as any in the world, though they had yet
to be introduced to the temples and palaces of this country, which were
different from anything they had seen before.

They soon arrived at the Victoria Hotel; and the khidmutgars,
carrying the light baggage, were not behind them, though they had run all
the way from the bunder. The landlord had come in a carriage. Felix
McGavonty, who was the captain's clerk, had made out several lists of the
passengers, at the request of Lord Tremlyn; and one of them had been sent
to the hotel, so that their rooms were already assigned to them. Their
servants appeared to be familiar with the Victoria, and they were taken to
their apartments at once.

"What the dickens do we want of all these fellows?" asked Scott when they
had been conducted to a room with four beds in it. "They will be a nuisance
to us."

"We don't need all you fellows," added Louis Belgrave, turning to his
servant. "We are accustomed to wait on ourselves. One of you is enough for
all of us."

"No, Sahib; no khidmutgar waits on more than one gentleman," replied
Louis's man, with a cheerful smile, displaying a wealth of white teeth
which would have been creditable to an Alabama negro.

"That's what's the matter, is it?" added Scott. "I have learned that no
Hindu will do more than one kind of work, take care of more than one
person; and no groom will take care of more than one horse. If you have six
horses, you must have six hostlers. That is what Sir Modava told me."

"Custom is law here, and we must follow the fashions," replied Louis. "What
is your name, my boy?" he continued, turning to his servant.

"Sayad, sahib," answered he.

Scott's was Moro, Morris's was Mobarak, and Felix's was Balaya; but the
last two were speedily abbreviated into "Mobby" and "Bally," to which the
young Hindus offered no objection. They were all under twenty years of age,
and spoke English passably well.

"Here, Sayad! black my shoes," said Louis, determined to make use of his
servant.

"I don't clean the shoes," replied the fellow, shaking his head. "I call
the porter;" and he did so.

"That is just what Sir Modava told me," added Scott.

But Sayad had opened his master's valise, placed his toilet articles on the
bureau, and brushed his coat, which he had taken off. He arranged
everything with good taste, and smiled expansively every time Louis looked
at him. The shoes of all four were polished in time; and they were ready to
begin their explorations of the city, though it was rather late in the day.

"What time is dinner, Moro?" asked Scott.

"Seven o'clock, sahib," replied the boy; and he was more of a boy than a
man.

"What time are the other meals?"

"Meals?" queried Moro.

"What time is breakfast?"

"Bring sahib coffee at six in the morning; breakfast at nine; tiffin at
one."

"What's that last one, Moro?"

"We had tiffin at Suez, and it means luncheon," interposed Morris.

"I didn't hear the word; but it is all right, and tiffin it is after this
time. Come; are you going down-stairs, fellows?"

"There is a public sitting-room down-stairs, and we will find that first."

The four servants followed them when they went down-stairs. None of the
party had yet gone to the public room except Sir Modava, though Lord
Tremlyn soon joined him. Their attendants stopped outside the doors.

"We are going to the tailor's now," said the Hindu gentleman. "As you are
aware, we lost all our clothes except what we had on, and we must order a
new supply."

"May we go with you?" asked Louis.

"Certainly; if you desire to do so. You may find something to amuse you on
the way, as we shall walk; for we want to get our sea-legs off," replied
Sir Modava. "It is only five o'clock here, and we have two hours before
dinner-time. Ah, here is Miss Blanche."

She was followed by her servant, who was decidedly a nuisance to her,
though he retreated from her room as soon as he had put things in order,
and remained within call outside the door. Louis invited her to take a walk
with them, and she went up-stairs to consult her mother. She returned in a
few minutes, ready to go out; and she was as radiant as a fairy in her
light costume.

They passed out of the hotel; and the first thing that attracted Louis's
attention was a palanquin. It was not a new thing to the travellers, for
they had seen such conveyances in Constantinople and elsewhere.

[Illustration: "The young millionaire walked by the side of the vehicle."
--Page 155.]

"You must ride in that palanquin, Miss Blanche," said Louis; and he told
Sayad to have it brought up to the door.

It was a compartment like a box, about seven feet long, with a pair of
sliding doors at the side. It was balanced on a pole, with braces above and
below it. It appeared to be so poised, with the pole above the centre of
gravity, that it could not be turned over. The four bearers were coolies,
with bare legs, cotton turbans on their heads, and not otherwise overloaded
with clothing; but they were dressed like all the coolies about the streets
and in the boats of the harbor.

The fair young lady had never been in a palanquin, though she had seen
them, and she was pleased with the idea of the ride. It was dropped down
upon its four legs, or feet, and Louis assisted her to the interior. It was
provided with cushions, and Sir Modava instructed her to recline so that
she could see out of the open doors. The young millionaire walked by the
side of the vehicle, while the others all followed, with their servants at
a respectful distance.

"How do you like the motion, Miss Blanche?" asked Louis, after they had
gone a short distance.

"It is not as uneasy as the gait of a camel, though I can feel every step
of the bearers. But I should prefer a shigram, if it only had a
better name," replied she.

"You can call it a brougham, or simply a carriage, if you prefer. We are
not here to learn the Indian languages, and we can take our choice; and we
can talk 'good old United States,' in speaking of things," suggested Louis.
"There! what will you call that vehicle, Miss Blanche?"

"That is called a gharri" interposed Sir Modava, who was within
hearing.

The vehicle was such as none of the Americans had ever seen. It was a sort
of two-wheeled cart, with a top like an old-fashioned chaise, in which a
man was seated, while a rough-looking fellow rode in front.

"I should say it was an ox-cart, so far as the team is concerned," said
Scott.

"Those are not oxen; they are called bullocks in this country. As you see,
they have humps like a camel, though much smaller, in front of which is the
yoke," the Hindu knight explained.

"But they don't drive oxen in the United States with a pair of rope reins,
as this fellow does," said Scott.

"I have seen them do so in North Carolina," added Morris, who had travelled
in the South with his parents.

"I give it up, and it's all right. But what is that man in the cart? Is he
a Grand Mogul?"

"Hardly," replied Sir Modava, laughing. "The driver is the lowest caste of
laborers, who works for fivepence a day, and supports his family on it. The
man inside is the cook of a Parsee merchant I happen to know, and probably
he is going to market to buy supplies for the family. But here we are at
the tailor's. You can continue your ramble, and your servants can tell you
the way, and what the buildings are."

The two gentlemen entered the tailor's shop; for there are no stores here
any more than in London.




                                 CHAPTER XVII

                     A HOSPITAL FOR THE BRUTE CREATION


The live boys did not care much for the buildings, though most of those of
a public character were architecturally very fine. Around a large open
space they found the Town Hall, the Mint, and all the great mercantile
establishments. At the time of the young people's visit, it was almost
entirely abandoned by those who had held possession of it during the day.
Business hours are from ten in the forenoon till four in the afternoon.

Before and after these hours the Fort, as the business section of the city
is called, is deserted. This quarter was formerly surrounded by walls or
ramparts, which have now been removed; but in its limits is concentrated
the great wealth of Bombay. There are no dwellings within this territory,
which is consecrated to trade and commerce; and both Europeans and natives
hasten at the early closing hour to their homes at Colaba, the Esplanade,
Mazagon, Malabar Hill, and Breach Candy, the latter on the seashore.

In front of the Grant buildings they found the Cotton-Green, deserted now,
though the stacks of bales were still there, with a few sheds and shanties.
A few half-naked coolies and policemen were loitering about the place; but
it is not convenient for a thief to carry off a bale of cotton on his back,
and a bullock cart in this locality would excite suspicion. In business
hours this is a busy place; and the Parsee and native merchants, robed in
loose white garments, not all of them indulging in the luxury of trousers,
reclining on the bales, or busy with customers, form a picturesque scene.

"I don't think this is the right time to explore this region," suggested
Scott. "We had better come down here when there is something going on."

"You are right, Scott," replied Louis; "and I dare say Miss Blanche has had
enough of the palanquin, or will have by the time we get back to the hotel,
for we are more than a mile from it."

"I don't think I like a palanquin as well as a carriage," replied the young
lady. "If you please, I should like to walk back."

She was promptly assisted to alight, and the palanquin bearers were paid so
liberally that they did not complain at being discharged so far from the
hotel. Sayad and Moro were sent ahead to lead the way, while the other two
walked behind. On their arrival at the Victoria, they found all the rest of
the tourists assembled in the parlor, to whom they gave an account of what
they had seen.

They went to the saloon in which dinner was served, closely followed
by their servants; and the scene there was decidedly unique to the
Americans, for there were as many servants as guests. The hotel furnishes
no attendants, and each visitor brings his own. But as soon as all were
seated, order came out of confusion, and the service proceeded. The dishes
were somewhat peculiar; but Sir Modava explained them to the commander and
Mrs. Belgrave, while Lord Tremlyn rendered a similar service to the
Woolridges and Louis, and Dr. Ferrolan to the professional gentlemen of the
company.

"I think you will find this fish very good," said his lordship, as the
second course came on. "It is the bummaloti, sometimes called the
Bombay duck, something like both the salmon and the trout. It is a
salt-water fish, abundant off this coast, where it is extensively taken,
salted, and dried, to be sent to all parts of India."

"It is elegant," said Mr. Woolridge, who was an epicure.

The roast beef and chickens were very good, and the fruit was highly
appreciated. The dinner finished, the party returned to the sitting-room,
and found themselves very nearly alone. At the suggestion of Captain
Ringgold, Lord Tremlyn consented to give the travellers some information in
regard to the city of Bombay.

"When I consider what a vast extent of territory you are to explore in
India," the speaker began, "I realize that not much of your time must be
taken up in long discourses, and especially not in lengthy introductions.
Bombay, the western province of the peninsula, includes twenty-four British
districts and nineteen native states, the latter governed wholly or in part
by Hindu rulers. This word Hindu, I repeat, properly applies to only a
portion of this country, but has come into use as a name for the entire
region.

"This is the Bombay Presidency, with a governor appointed by the crown, a
Legislative Council, a mixed garrison of English and native soldiers, under
a local commander-in-chief. That is all I shall say of the presidency,
which is one of three in India.

"The city of Bombay occupies the south end of the island of the same name,
and is one of a group of several, of which Salsette is the largest, with
which Bombay Island, eleven miles in length, is connected by causeways,
over which the railway passes. The business part is at the Fort, where we
landed, and the bazaars extend from that in the direction of Mazagon, which
lies to the north and east of it.

"You will find here many public buildings and commercial structures which
compare favorably with similar edifices in any city of the world; and we
shall see them to-morrow forenoon. The Princess Dock, where the great
steamship lines land their merchandise, cost a million sterling. Three or
four miles off this dock, to the eastward, you saw a couple of islands, the
farther one of which is Elephanta, with its wonderful cave, which you will
visit.

"The western terminus of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway is here, and
with its connections it extends all over India. This is the first port
usually reached by vessels from Europe, though Kurrachee is nearer. It is
the great mail port; and I have seen landed at Dover thirty tons of
post-bags, sent from here by Suez and through Europe by the Orient Express.

"Bombay now exceeds Calcutta in the extent of its commerce. The principal
exports are cotton, wheat, shawls, opium, coffee, pepper, ivory, and gums;
and the chief imports are the manufactured goods of England, metals, wine,
beer, tea, and silks. The prominent industries of the city and its vicinity
are dyeing, tanning, and metal working. It has sixty large steam-mills. Of
the vast population, now approaching a million, not more than 13,000 are
British-born. The water here is excellent, for it is brought from a lake
fifteen miles north of us.

"Goa is still a Portuguese possession, nearly three hundred miles down the
coast; and a year before they captured it they took possession of this
island, in 1509. They held it till 1661, when it was ceded to England as a
part of the dowry of the Infanta Catharine, who became queen of Charles II.
That is all I need say at present."

The next morning after breakfast the carriages bespoken were at the door.
The party seated themselves in the vehicles, which were English, and quite
commodious, according to their own fancies; and it need only be said that
the commander was in the one with Mrs. Belgrave, and Louis with Miss
Blanche. The viscount directed the driver of his carriage to pass through
Cruikshank Road to the Parsees' Bazaar, which is just north of the Fort.
Most of the Parsees and Bhorahs who do business here reside in the same
section; and there were many fine houses there, though they are abundantly
able to live at Breach Candy and Malabar Hill, the abode of the
élite. The vehicles stopped at an attractive point, and the party
alighted. They went into several shops, and were treated with the utmost
politeness and attention.

In one of them they were invited into a small rear saloon, magnificently
furnished, where they were presented by Lord Tremlyn to a Parsee gentleman.
He was dignity and grace united. He was dressed in white throughout, except
his cap, or turban, which was of darker material. He wore trousers, with
white socks and slippers. His shirt appeared to be outside of his trousers,
like the Russians, with a sort of vest over it. He wore a long coat, shaped
like a dressing-gown, reaching nearly to the floor.

He was kind enough to call in his wife and little daughter. Both of them
had pleasing faces. The lady wore a rich dress and a magnificent shawl,
with a head-dress of gold and diamonds. The little girl had on bagging
trousers like the Turkish women, and a heavily embroidered tunic, and both
of them wore Indian slippers, with the toes turned up.

The ladies of the party were presented to the lady. She spoke English
correctly and fluently, and the interview between them was exceedingly
interesting to both sides. The Americans did not meddle with forbidden
topics, as they had been cautioned not to do, such as their religion and
burial rites; but they could not help thinking of this elegant lady's
comely form being torn to pieces by the crows and vultures in the Tower of
Silence with absolute horror.

From the Bazaar the carriages proceeded through the Fort, and the public
buildings were pointed out to them. At the Cotton-Green they got out; for
the place was now alive with Parsees and other merchants, with plenty of
coolies, some of whom were moving bales, and others sorting cotton. From
this locality they rode through Colaba, and saw some native dwellings, as
well as some fine European residences, with beautiful gardens around them.
They alighted near the most southern point, and inspected a "bungalow,"
which they were politely invited to enter. It was fitted up with a view to
comfort rather than elegance, and the interior appeared as though it might
be delightfully cool in the heat of summer.

"What do you call that house?" asked Mrs. Belgrave, as they returned to the
road, which they call them all over the city, and not streets.

"A bungalow," replied Sir Modava.

"Why do you call it so?"

"That reminds me of the German," interposed Captain Ringgold, laughing
heartily. "'Do you know vot vas der reason vy ve calls our boy Hans?'"

"Well, what was the reason, Captain?" inquired the lady seriously.

"'Der reason vy ve calls our boy Hans is, dot is his name.'"

"Well, that is precisely why we call that house a bungalow," added Sir
Modava. "It is the house usually occupied by Europeans here. They are one
story high, with a broad veranda, like the one we have just visited. Almost
always they have a pyramidal roof, generally thatched, but rarely slated or
tiled. When the body is of brick or stone, they call them pucka
houses. Doubtless you wished to know the origin of the word, Mrs.
Belgrave."

"That was just what I wished to know."

"They were probably first called Bengalese houses, and the present name was
corrupted out of the adjective."

The party collected together on the seashore, for the viscount appeared to
have something to say. The captain of the Guardian-Mother called the
attention of the company to the shape of the small bay before them, which
looked exactly like a lobster's big claw.

"The point where we are is Cape Colaba, and the small point is Cape
Malabar," said Lord Tremlyn. "I think we have seen all our time permits,
and now we will drive back through the town and the Esplanade. Perhaps you
have not yet heard of the Jains. They are a religious sect, and are more
influential and intelligent than most of the Hindus. More than any other
sect they hold the lower animals in the highest regard, amounting to a
strange sort of tenderness.

"They believe that man should not injure any animal; and more than this,
that human beings are bound to protect the lives and minister to the ills
of all creatures, even those the most despised. When, therefore, the pious
Jain comes upon a wounded creature of the lower order, he stops to attend
to its needs, and even takes it into his house to be healed. To forward
this charity, the wealthy of this sect have contributed money for the
foundation and endowment of hospitals for the care of sick and wounded
animals, and even of those permanently disabled."

"What a beautiful idea, if it is heathen!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave.

"We will now drive to one of these hospitals. We have to pass through the
Esplanade again to reach the Black Town, as it is called, where most of the
natives reside; but we will go by a different road."

In about half an hour the carriages passed through the densely populated
region of the Hindus, and stopped at the hospital. The party alighted in a
large court, surrounded by sheds, in which are a number of bullocks, some
of them with their eyes bandaged, others lame, or otherwise in a helpless
condition. They were all stretched out on clean straw. Some of the
attendants were rubbing them; others were bringing food and drink to them.

Passing into a smaller court, they found it contained dogs and cats in the
same unfortunate and suffering condition.

"It would be a mercy to kill them, and thus put them out of misery," said
Dr. Hawkes to the native officer with him.

"Do you serve your sick and disabled in that way?" asked the official.

He could not answer this appeal for the want of time, and they passed into
a place for birds. Venerable crows, vultures, buzzards, and other bipeds,
most of them with their plumage gone, pass the remainder of their lives in
peace in this curious retreat. At the end of the enclosure a heron proudly
strutted about with a wooden leg, among lame hens and blind geese and
ducks. Rats, mice, sparrows, and jackals have an asylum in the Jain
hospital.

"I should like to have some of our people take a lesson from this
institution," said Mrs. Woolridge as they left the place.

The carriages then conveyed them to a Hindu temple.




                                 CHAPTER XVIII

                          A SNAKY SPECTACLE IN BOMBAY


On the way to the temple the carriages stopped at a horse bazaar, in which
Mr. Woolridge was especially interested, for some very fine animals were to
be seen, including some choice Arabians. They were looked over and admired
by the party. The best of them were valued at from six hundred to twelve
hundred dollars; and the cheapest were hardly less than two hundred
dollars. None but the wealthiest people of the city could afford to ride
after these animals.

Around these stables were numerous cafés, and a collection of people of
various nationalities were gathered in front and within them. Arabs,
negroes, Bedouins, and others were consuming spicy drinks; a group of
Persians in picturesque costumes were regaling themselves with great
dough-balls, made of flour, sugar, and milk; and dirty visitors from Cabul
were feeding themselves on dates.

Still in the Black Town, the carriages stopped at the Chinese Bazaar,
though the tourists did not alight. It extended to the shore of the bay,
and was crowded with all sorts of people. On the quays were no end of
Asiatic goods, mostly of the coarser kind,--the horns of cattle, tortoise
shells, elephants' tusks, and bags of pepper, spices, and coffee.

"This looks like Constantinople," said Miss Blanche, as four big coolies,
bearing a large box of goods suspended from a pole resting on their
shoulders, passed them, struggling under the burden they bore.

"Oriental customs are much the same wherever you find them," replied Sir
Modava.

"But if they had a hand-truck, such as they use in the stores of our
country, they could do their work with far less labor," suggested Scott.

"Those coolies would not use them," added the Hindu gentleman. "I have seen
them in London, and these laborers would regard them as an invention of the
Evil One to lead them away from their religion."

Parsees and other merchants were circulating in the crowd, making notes of
the prices; and the great variety of representatives of different countries
was surprising to the visitors. Not far from this bazaar is the great
mosque of the Mohammedans. After all the magnificent buildings of this kind
the party had visited in Turkey, Egypt, and Algeria, it was not a great
attraction. It was not to be compared with many mosques they had seen. As
usual, the party were invited to remove their shoes, though the sight
hardly paid for the trouble. The scene was the same as in others of the
kind. A venerable Moollah was expounding the Koran to a group of true
believers.

His audience were all seated on the pavement, and they seemed to be giving
excellent attention to the discourse. Sir Modava explained that the
Mohammedans of Bombay were more orthodox, or strict, in the observance of
the requirements of their religion than in Bengal; for a considerable
proportion are direct descendants from the original stock who had emigrated
to India from Persia. They are bitterly opposed to the Hindus, and a
serious riot had occurred not long before.

There are many Hindu temples in Bombay, though not many of them are
accessible to strangers; but the party drove to one in the Black Town. It
had a low dome and a pyramidal spire. Both of them were of the Indian style
of architecture, very elaborate in ornamentation. It looked like a huge
mass of filigree work.

The visitors next found themselves at Girgaum, which is a forest of
cocoanut-trees extending from the Bazaars to Chowpatti, at the head of the
Back Bay. Among the trees, as the carriages proceeded along the Queen's
Road, they found a great number of Hindu huts, half hidden in the dense
foliage. They paused to look at one of them.

The walls were of bamboo and other tropical woods, and the roof was
thatched with cocoanut leaves, which required poles to keep them in place.
It had several doors, and cross-latticed windows. There was no particular
shape to the structure, and certainly nothing of neatness or comeliness
about it. A large banana tree grew near it; a woman stood at one of the
doors, staring with wonder at the strangers, and a couple of half-naked
coolies were at work farther away. The morality of the residents of this
section could not be commended.

"In the evening this grove is lighted up with colored lamps," said the
viscount. "Taverns and small cafés are in full blast, the sounds of music
are heard, and a grand revel is in progress. Europeans, Malays, Arabs,
Chinese, and Hindus frequent the grove. Far into the night this debauchery
continues, and I trust the authorities will soon clean it out."

The carriages continued on their way to Malabar Hill, and made a thorough
survey of the locality. At the southerly point they came to the village of
Walkeshwar, whose pagoda-like towers they had seen from the ship, filled
with residences, though not of the magnates of the city. Most of the
buildings here were very plain. The hill is not a high one, but along its
sides the elaborate bungalows of the merchants and others were erected, all
of them with fine gardens surrounding them.

Breach Candy, on the seashore, in front of Cumballa Hill, is the most
aristocratic neighborhood, and contains the finest mansions. Tramways,
which is the English name for horse-cars, extend to this locality, as well
as to most other important parts of the city; and there is a station on the
steam railroad near it, though most of the wealthy residents ride back and
forth in their own carriages.

The Tower of Silence, in which the Parsees expose their dead to be devoured
by birds of prey, was pointed out to them. No one but the priests are
allowed to enter it; and the relatives leave the body at the door, from
which they take it into the building. It is placed between two grates,
which allow the vultures to tear off the flesh, but not to carry off the
limbs. It made the Americans shudder when their guides told them about it
more in detail than when it was described in the lecture.

Passing by the cemeteries of the English and the Mussulmans on their return
to the city, they halted at the Hindu Burning-Ground, on the shore of the
Back Bay. Here the natives are burned to ashes. For some distance they had
noticed funeral processions on their way to this place. The remains are
borne on open litters. A granite platform is the base of the funeral pyre,
and the bodies wait their turn to be reduced to ashes; and the cremation is
far more repulsive than that in our own country.

Dealers in wood for the combustion sell the article to the relatives. Some
of them are cutting up fuel and arranging the pyre, while others seated on
the walls play a lugubrious strain on the native instruments. The disposal
of the body of an old man was in process while the tourists looked on; and
the corpse was placed on the pile, the friends covering it with bits of
wood till it was no longer in sight.

Then the eldest son came to the scene, howling his grief and beating his
breast. Grasping a torch prepared for him, he set fire to the corners of
the pile that covered the remains. The flames rose high in the air, and the
attendants fed the fire by throwing on oil. Soon the body reappears, a
blazing mass, which is soon reduced to ashes. Water is then thrown on the
pyre, and a portion of the ashes cast into the sea.

There is nothing very repulsive in the rite of burning the dead; though the
visitors had some difficulty in keeping out of the reach of the foul smoke,
which brought with it a disagreeable odor. The carriages continued on their
way to the city; and when they entered a street, Lord Tremlyn called the
attention of those with him to a couple of native women who had stopped to
look at them, for the party excited no little curiosity wherever they went.
It had become known by this time that a dozen American ladies and gentlemen
were circulating through the place, engaged in sight-seeing.

They had comely features of a brownish hue, and were dressed in the loose
robes of the country, reaching to the ground; one of the garments extended
to cover the head, though not the face. Both of them wore heavy gold
bangles on their arms, but both were barefoot.

"They are not Mohammedans," suggested Mrs. Woolridge.

"They may be for aught I know," replied his lordship. "The women of this
sect here do not veil their faces as a rule."

"They are quite good-looking," added the New York magnate. "What caste or
class do they belong to?"

"I should say they were in the Vaisya caste, agriculture and trade. They
are well dressed, and therefore not Sudra. Probably they are the wife and
daughter of a shopkeeper.

"What is this crowd in the square?" asked Morris, who had been looking
about him.

"We will drive over there and see," replied the viscount as he directed the
coachman.

"Festival of Serpents," said the driver through the window.

"You have an opportunity to see one of the sights of Bombay; but we shall
be obliged to leave the carriages, for it is a great performance, and there
will be a large crowd." They alighted at a convenient place, and moved
towards the square. The ladies were in doubt as to whether or not they
cared to see such an exhibition; but the three gentlemen who were
accustomed to them declared that there was no danger.

"This affair is in the nature of a religious festival," said Sir Modava.
"There are scores of snakes brought before you; but they have had their
poison fangs extracted, and they could not harm you much more than a
playful kitten. This is a day appointed to make prayers and offerings to
the snakes, in order to conciliate them and to insure immunity from their
bites. Though these occasions occur all over India, I don't believe there
is a single bite the less for them."

"It is the anniversary of the killing of the great serpent Bindrabund,
which was creating terrible havoc on the shores of the river Jumna, an
event in Hindu mythology, which is as true as any mythology," added Lord
Tremlyn. "You observe that it calls together a great crowd of people of all
classes, and you see fat Brahmin ladies here in palanquins, very richly
dressed, and looking as sweet as sugar. You notice the rich standards and
the torches, the trumpeters, and the girls playing on tom-toms and cymbals.
But we must get nearer to the centre of the show."

"Not too near," pleaded Mrs. Woolridge.

The crowd opened for the sahibs and the ladies, treating them with the
utmost deference, as though they were superior beings; and they obtained a
position where they could see the entire performance. A group of
sapwallahs, or serpent-charmers, each bearing a basket about fifteen
inches in diameter at the bottom, but not more than ten at the top, each
containing several cobras, marched into the centre of the crowd. Pious
Hindus brought forward bowls of the milk of buffaloes, of which the
serpents are very fond, and placed them on the ground. The snakes were
released from their confinement, and they made for the bowls of milk
without any delay.

Some of the tourists had never seen a cobra, though they are found in
Egypt. The ladies shrank back when they appeared, and some of them
shuddered at the sight of the reptiles. The body was somewhat enlarged near
the head, and the spectacles could be distinctly seen in this part. The
instruments played, the standards and the torches were waved; but the
snakes continued their milk feast undisturbed.

The principal sapwallah had a wand in his hand, which he flourished
while he repeated a volume of gibberish which none of the party but Sir
Modava could understand. When Mrs. Belgrave asked what he said; he replied
that he was uttering invocations to the serpents, and entreating the whole
tribe of snakes not to bite the people.

One of the sapwallahs, who wore nothing but a turban on his head and
a fringed cloth about his loins, went to one of the bowls from which half a
dozen cobras were feeding, and taking hold of one of them, pulled him away
from the milk. The serpent thus treated was furious with anger, and
instantly opened out his hood, showing the spectacles in full. Another
cobra was put in his place at the bowl, and his persecutor sat down on the
ground with him, fooling with him as though he had been a kitten or a pet
dog.

In turn the snakes remaining in the baskets were released, and allowed to
feast on the milk as others were removed. There was a great crowd of
sapwallahs in charge of them, and none of them were permitted to
escape. The reptiles showed their temper as they were taken from the milk
by spreading their hoods; but they were so skilfully manipulated that they
had no chance to bite.

"I think I have had enough of this thing," said Mr. Woolridge, with a look
of disgust on his face. "There is no fun at all in it, and I should like to
make them a target for my revolver."

"It is about time for tiffin, and we had better return to the hotel," added
Lord Tremlyn. "I shall keep you busy this afternoon; and while you are
resting you shall take in a Nautch dance, which is one of the institutions
of this country. After that we shall go to the island of Elephanta."

The live boys of the party were rather pleased with the spectacle, though
they had had enough of it; while the ladies, whose flesh had been
"crawling" at the uncanny sight, were glad to escape. They all reached the
hotel, and were hungry enough after the long jaunt of the forenoon to
appreciate the "tiffin."




                                 CHAPTER XIX

                            THE CAVES OF ELEPHANTA


The influence of Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava was enough to procure anything
in Bombay, and an apartment that served as a special banquet hall had been
prepared at their command, and their guests were introduced to it
immediately after tiffin. As the viscount had suggested, they were
considerably fatigued after the long jaunt of the forenoon, though they
were refreshed by the luncheon they had taken. The hall was furnished with
sofas and easy-chairs for the occasion, and they were made very
comfortable.

The performers were seated on the floor of the room when the company took
their places. A man with a slouched turban and something like a sheet wound
around his body, reaching nearly to his ankles, the only clothing he wore,
entered the hall. At the entrance of the party the girls rose from the
floor and saluted them deferentially.

There were six of them, very modestly dressed, only their arms and feet
being bare. Their black hair was parted in the middle, and combed back
behind the ears, after the fashion of many years ago in the United States.
They all wore ornaments in their ears, and around their ankles. The
material of their dresses was various, some of it quite rich, with pearls
and gold in places. They looked quite serious, as though they were about to
engage in a religious ceremony, though it had no such connection. Some of
them were decidedly pretty, though their style of beauty was not entirely
to the taste of the Americans. They had black eyes, and they looked the
visitors full in the face, and with entire self-possession.

"Now what are these girls, Sir Modava?" asked Mrs. Belgrave.

"They are professional dancers, and that is their sole occupation," replied
he. "They are engaged by rich people when they give parties, and for
weddings and other festive occasions."

"Is that man the only musician?"

"He is the only one for this entertainment, and he plays the tom-tom with
his fingers. I am afraid you do not appreciate our native music, and we did
not engage any more of it. They are about to begin."

The musician beat the tom-tom, and the girls rose from the floor, shook out
their dresses as any lady would, and then it appeared that the ornaments on
their ankles were bells, which rattled as though it were sleighing-time as
they moved about. They formed in a semicircle before the audience; one of
them stepped forward, and turned herself around very slowly and gracefully,
with a quivering of the body, like the gypsy girls of Spain, which caused
her bells to jingle.

With eyes half-closed, and with a languishing expression on her dusky face,
she made a variety of gestures, posturing frequently as she continued to
turn. When this one seemed to have exhausted her material, another advanced
to the front, and proceeded to exhibit her variety of gestures and
postures, which were but slightly different from those of the first one,
though she went through the movements of a snake-charmer. In like manner
all the performers went through their several parts, imitating various
musicians on different native instruments.

Two of them went through a very lively performance, leaping and whirling
very rapidly. The exhibition concluded with a round dance, which was
thought to be very pretty, perhaps because it was exceedingly lively. Mrs.
Belgrave and Mrs. Blossom had never been to a theatre in their lives, never
saw a ballet, and were not capable of appreciating the posturing, though
the animated dance pleased them. The Nautch girls retired, and the
"Nautch," as such an occasion is called, was ended.

"Perhaps you have seen snakes enough for one day," said Lord Tremlyn; "but
I thought you ought to see the performance of the snake-charmers. We will
have it here instead of in the open street; and it is quite different from
the show you witnessed this forenoon."

As he spoke the door opened, and a couple of old and rather snaky-looking
Hindus, folded up in a profusion of cloths, rather than garments, entered
the apartment. Sir Modava conducted them to a proper distance from the
audience, who could not help distrusting the good intentions of the
vicious-looking reptiles. Each of them carried such a basket as the party
had seen in the square. The men seemed to be at least first cousins to the
serpents the baskets contained, for their expression was subtle enough to
stamp them as belonging to the same family.

The performers squatted on the floor, and each placed a basket before him,
removing the cover; but the serpents did not come out. The charmers then
produced a couple of instruments which Sir Modava called lutes, looking
more like a dried-up summer crookneck squash, with a mouthpiece, and a tube
with keys below the bulb. Adjusting it to their lips, they began to play;
and the music was not bad, and it appeared to be capable of charming the
cobras, for they raised their heads out of the baskets.

The melody produced a strange effect upon the reptiles, for they began to
wriggle and twist as they uncoiled themselves. They hissed and outspread
their hoods, and instead of being charmed by the music, it seemed as though
their wrath had been excited. They made an occasional dart at the human
performers, who dodged them as though they had been in their native
jungles, with their business fangs in order for deadly work. But the Hindu
gentleman explained that they could bite, though they could not kill, after
their poison fangs had been removed.

Then one of the performers stood up, and seizing his snake by the neck, he
swung him three times around his head, and dropped him on the floor. There
he lay extended at his full length, as stiff as though he had taken a dose
of his own poison.

"I have killed my serpent!" exclaimed the Hindu with a groan. "But I can
make him into a useful cane."

Sir Modava interpreted his remarks, and the fellow picked up his snake, and
walked before the audience, using it as a staff, and pretending to support
himself upon it. Then he held out the reptile to the visitors, and offered
to sell his cane; but they recoiled, and the ladies were on the point of
rushing from the room when Sir Modava ordered him off. He retreated a
proper distance, and then thrust the head of the creature beneath his
turban, and continued to crowd him into it till nothing but his tail was in
sight. Then he took off his head covering, and showed the reptile coiled up
