Then she was suddenly and unexpectedly overcome by a shamed sense of her
inability to accomplish any such act of justice. It was as though she
had already tried, and had failed, and he had laughed in her face and
turned away. It seemed to her that there could be nothing in her which
could appeal to such a man. There was Lady Fan, much older, with plenty
of experience, doubtless; and she had been deceived, and betrayed, and
abandoned, before the young girl's very eyes. What chance could such a
mere girl possibly have? It was folly, and moreover it was wicked of her
to think of such things. She would be willingly lowering herself to his
level, trying to do the very thing which she despised and hated in him,
trying to outwit him, to out-deceive him, to out-betray him. One side
of her nature, at least, revolted against any such scheme. Besides, she
could never do it.

She was not a great beauty; she was not extraordinarily clever--not
clever at all, she said to herself in her sudden fit of humility; she
had no "experience." That last word means a good deal more to most young
girls than they can find in it after life's illogical surprises have
taught them the terrible power of chance and mood and impulse.

She glanced at her face in the mirror, and looked away. Then she glanced
again. The third time she turned to the glass she began to examine her
features in detail. Lady Fan was a fair woman, too. But, without vanity,
she had to admit that she was much better-looking than Lady Fan. She was
also much younger and fresher, which should be an advantage, she
thought. She wished that her hair were golden instead of flaxen; that
her eyes were dark instead of blue; that her cheeks were not so thin,
and her throat a shade less slender. Nevertheless, she would have been
willing to stand any comparison with the little lady in white. Of
course, compared with the famous beauties, some of whom she had seen,
she was scarcely worth a glance. Doubtless, Brook Johnstone knew them
all.

Then she gazed into her own eyes. She did not know that a woman, alone,
may look into her own eyes and blush and turn away. She looked long and
steadily, and quite quietly. After all, they looked dark, for the pupils
were very large and the blue iris was of that deep colour which borders
upon violet. There was something a little unusual in them, too, though
she could not quite make out what it was. Why did not all women look
straight before them as she did? There must be some mysterious reason.
It was a pity that her eyelashes were almost white. Yet they, too, added
something to the peculiarity of that strange gaze.

"They are like periwinkles in a snowstorm!" exclaimed Clare, tired of
her own face; and she turned from the mirror and went to bed.




CHAPTER VI


The first sign that two people no longer stand to each other in the
relation of mere acquaintances is generally that the tones of their
voices change, while they feel a slight and unaccountable constraint
when they happen to be left alone together.

Two days passed after the little incident which had occurred at dinner
before Clare and Johnstone were momentarily face to face out of Mrs.
Bowring's sight. At first Clare had not been aware that her mother was
taking pains to be always present when the young man was about, but when
she noticed the fact she at once began to resent it. Such constant
watchfulness was unlike her mother, un-English, and almost unnatural.
When they were all seated together on the terrace, if Mrs. Bowring
wished to go indoors to write a letter or to get something she invented
some excuse for making her daughter go with her, and stay with her till
she came out again. A French or Italian mother could not have been more
particular or careful, but a French or Italian girl would have been
accustomed to such treatment, and would not have seen anything unusual
in it. But Mrs. Bowring had never acted in such a way before now, and it
irritated the young girl extremely. She felt that she was being treated
like a child, and that Johnstone must see it and think it ridiculous. At
last Clare made an attempt at resistance, out of sheer contrariety.

"I don't want to write letters!" she answered impatiently. "I wrote two
yesterday. It is hot indoors, and I would much rather stay here!"

Mrs. Bowring went as far as the parapet, and looked down at the sea for
a moment. Then she came back and sat down again.

"It's quite true," she said. "It is hot indoors. I don't think I shall
write, after all."

Brook Johnstone could not help smiling a little, though he turned away
his face to hide his amusement. It was so perfectly evident that Mrs.
Bowring was determined not to leave Clare alone with him that he must
have been blind not to see it. Clare saw the smile, and was angry. She
was nineteen years old, she had been out in the world, the terrace was a
public place, Johnstone was a gentleman, and the whole thing was absurd.
She took up her work and closed her lips tightly.

Johnstone felt the awkwardness, rose suddenly, and said he would go for
a walk. Clare raised her eyes and nodded as he lifted his hat. He was
still smiling, and her resentment deepened. A moment later, mother and
daughter were alone. Clare did not lay down her work, nor look up when
she spoke.

"Really, mother, it's too absurd!" she exclaimed, and a little colour
came to her cheeks.

"What is absurd, my dear?" asked Mrs. Bowring, affecting not to
understand.

"Your abject fear of leaving me for five minutes with Mr. Johnstone. I'm
not a baby. He was laughing. I was positively ashamed! What do you
suppose could have happened, if you had gone in and written your letters
and left us quietly here? And it happens every day, you know! If you
want a glass of water, I have to go in with you."

"My dear! What an exaggeration!"

"It's not an exaggeration, mother--really. You know that you wouldn't
leave me with him for five minutes, for anything in the world."

"Do you wish to be left alone with him, my dear?" asked Mrs. Bowring,
rather abruptly.

Clare was indignant.

"Wish it? No! Certainly not! But if it should happen naturally, by
accident, I should not get up and run away. I'm not afraid of the man,
as you seem to be. What can he do to me? And you have no idea how
strangely you behave, and what ridiculous excuses you invent for me.
The other day you insisted on my going in to look for a train in the
time-tables when you know we haven't the slightest intention of going
away for ever so long. Really--you're turning into a perfect duenna. I
wish you would behave naturally, as you always used to do."

"I think you exaggerate," said Mrs. Bowring. "I never leave you alone
with men you hardly know--"

"You can't exactly say that we hardly know Mr. Johnstone, when he has
been with us, morning, noon, and night, for nearly a week, mother."

"My dear, we know nothing about him--"

"If you are so anxious to know his father's Christian name, ask him. It
wouldn't seem at all odd. I will, if you like."

"Don't!" cried Mrs. Bowring, with unusual energy. "I mean," she added in
a lower tone and looking away, "it would be very rude--he would think it
very strange. In fact, it is merely idle curiosity on my part--really, I
would much rather not know."

Clare looked at her mother in surprise.

"How oddly you talk!" she exclaimed. Then her tone changed. "Mother
dear--is anything the matter? You don't seem quite--what shall I say?
Are you suffering, dearest? Has anything happened?"

She dropped her work, and leaned forward, her hand on her mother's, and
gazing into her face with a look of anxiety.

"No, dear," answered Mrs. Bowring. "No, no--it's nothing. Perhaps I'm a
little nervous--that's all."

"I believe the air of this place doesn't suit you. Why shouldn't we go
away at once?"

Mrs. Bowring shook her head and protested energetically.

"No--oh no! I wouldn't go away for anything. I like the place immensely,
and we are both getting perfectly well here. Oh no! I wouldn't think of
going away."

Clare leaned back in her seat again. She was devotedly fond of her
mother, and she could not but see that something was wrong. In spite of
what she said, Mrs. Bowring was certainly not growing stronger, though
she was not exactly ill. The pale face was paler, and there was a worn
and restless look in the long-suffering, almost colourless eyes.

"I'm sorry I made such a fuss about Mr. Johnstone," said Clare softly,
after a short pause.

"No, darling," answered her mother instantly. "I dare say I have been a
little over careful. I don't know--I had a sort of presentiment that you
might take a fancy to him."

"I know. You said so the first day. But I sha'n't, mother. You need not
be at all afraid. He is not at all the sort of man to whom I should ever
take a fancy, as you call it."

"I don't see why not," said Mrs. Bowring thoughtfully.

"Of course--it's hard to explain." Clare smiled. "But if that is what
you are afraid of, you can leave us alone all day. My 'fancy' would be
quite, quite different."

"Very well, darling. At all events, I'll try not to turn into a duenna."

Johnstone did not appear again until dinner, and then he was unusually
silent, only exchanging a remark with Clare now and then, and not once
leaning forward to say a few words to Mrs. Bowring as he generally did.
The latter had at first thought of exchanging places with her daughter,
but had reflected that it would be almost a rudeness to make such a
change after the second day.

They went out upon the terrace, and had their coffee there. Several of
the other people did the same, and walked slowly up and down under the
vines. Mrs. Bowring, wishing to destroy as soon as possible the
unpleasant impression she had created, left the two together, saying
that she would get something to put over her shoulders, as the air was
cool.

Clare and Johnstone stood by the parapet and looked at each other. Then
Clare leaned with her elbows on the wall and stared in silence at the
little lights on the beach below, trying to make out the shapes of the
boats which were hauled up in a long row. Neither spoke for a long time,
and Clare, at least, felt unpleasantly the constraint of the unusual
silence.

"It is a beautiful place, isn't it?" observed Johnstone at last, for the
sake of hearing his own voice.

"Oh yes, quite beautiful," answered the young girl in a
half-indifferent, half-discontented tone, and the words ended with a
sort of girlish sniff.

Again there was silence. Johnstone, standing up beside her, looked
towards the hotel, to see whether Mrs. Bowring were coming back. But she
was anxious to appear indifferent to their being together, and was in no
hurry to return. Johnstone sat down upon the wall, while Clare leaned
over it.

"Miss Bowring!" he said suddenly, to call her attention.

"Yes?" She did not look up; but to her own amazement she felt a queer
little thrill at the sound of his voice, for it had not its usual tone.

"Don't you think I had better go to Naples?" he asked.

Clare felt herself start a little, and she waited a moment before she
said anything in reply. She did not wish to betray any astonishment in
her voice. Johnstone had asked the question under a sudden impulse; but
a far wiser and more skilful man than himself could not have hit upon
one better calculated to precipitate intimacy. Clare, on her side, was
woman enough to know that she had a choice of answers, and to see that
the answer she should choose must make a difference hereafter. At the
same time, she had been surprised, and when she thought of it afterwards
it seemed to her that the question itself had been an impertinent one,
merely because it forced her to make an answer of some sort. She decided
in favour of making everything as clear as possible.

"Why?" she asked, without looking round.

At all events she would throw the burden of an elucidation upon him. He
was not afraid of taking it up.

"It's this," he answered. "I've rather thrust my acquaintance upon you,
and, if I stay here until my people come, I can't exactly change my seat
and go and sit at the other end of the table, nor pretend to be busy all
day, and never come out here and sit with you, after telling you
repeatedly that I have nothing on earth to do. Can I?"

"Why should you?"

"Because Mrs. Bowring doesn't like me."

Clare rose from her elbows and stood up, resting her hands upon the
wall, but still looking down at the lights on the beach.

"I assure you, you're quite mistaken," she answered, with quiet
emphasis. "My mother thinks you're very nice."

"Then why--" Johnstone checked himself, and crumbled little bits of
mortar from the rough wall with his thumbs.

"Why what?"

"I don't know whether I know you well enough to ask the question, Miss
Bowring."

"Let's assume that you do--for the sake of argument," said Clare, with a
short laugh, as she glanced at his face, dimly visible in the falling
darkness.

"Thanks awfully," he answered, but he did not laugh with her. "It isn't
exactly an easy thing to say, is it? Only--I couldn't help noticing--I
hope you'll forgive me, if you think I'm rude, won't you? I couldn't
help noticing that your mother was most awfully afraid of leaving us
alone for a minute, you know--as though she thought I were a suspicious
character, don't you know? Something of that sort. So, of course, I
thought she didn't like me. Do you see? Tremendously cheeky of me to
talk in this way, isn't it?"

"Do you know? It is, rather." Clare was more inclined to laugh than
before, but she only smiled in the dark.

"Well, it would be, of course, if I didn't happen to be so painfully
respectable."

"Painfully respectable! What an expression!" This time, Clare laughed
aloud.

"Yes. That's just it. Well, I couldn't exactly tell Mrs. Bowring that,
could I? Besides, one isn't vain of being respectable. I couldn't say,
Please, Mrs. Bowring, my father is Mr. Smith, and my mother was a Miss
Brown, of very good family, and we've got five hundred a year in
Consols, and we're not in trade, and I've been to a good school, and am
not at all dangerous. It would have sounded so--so uncalled for, don't
you know? Wouldn't it?"

"Very. But now that you've explained it to me, I suppose I may tell my
mother, mayn't I? Let me see. Your father is Mr. Smith, and your mother
was a Miss Brown--"

"Oh, please--no!" interrupted Johnstone. "I didn't mean it so very
literally. But it is just about that sort of thing--just like anybody
else. Only about our not being in trade, I'm not so sure of that. My
father is a brewer. Brewing is not a profession, so I suppose it must be
a trade, isn't it?"

"You might call it a manufacture," suggested Clare.

"Yes. It sounds better. But that isn't the question, you know. You'll
see my people when they come, and then you'll understand what I
mean--they really are tremendously respectable."

"Of course!" assented the young girl. "Like the party you came with on
the yacht. That kind of people."

"Oh dear no!" exclaimed Johnstone. "Not at all those kind of people.
They wouldn't like it at all, if you said so."

"Ah! indeed!" Clare was inclined to laugh again.

"The party I came with belong rather to a gay set. Awfully nice, you
know," he hastened to add, "and quite the people one knows at home. But
my father and mother--oh no! they are quite different--the difference
between whist and baccarat, you know, if you understand that sort of
thing--old port and brandy and soda--both very good in their way, but
quite different."

"I should think so."

"Then--" Johnstone hesitated again. "Then, Miss Bowring--you don't think
that your mother really dislikes me, after all?"

"Oh dear no! Not in the least. I've heard her say all sorts of nice
things about you."

"Really? Then I think I'll stay here. I didn't want to be a nuisance,
you know--always in the way."

"You're not in the way," answered Clare.

Mrs. Bowring came back with her shawl, and the rest of the evening
passed off as usual. Later, when she was alone, the young girl
remembered all the conversation, and she saw that it had been in her
power to make Johnstone leave Amalfi. While she was wondering why she
had not done so, since she hated him for what she knew of him, she fell
asleep, and the question remained unanswered. In the morning she told
the substance of it all to her mother, and ended by telling her that
Johnstone's father was a brewer.

"Of course," answered Mrs. Bowring absently. "I know that." Then she
realised what she had said, and glanced at Clare with an odd, scared
look.

Clare uttered an exclamation of surprise.

"Mother! Why, then--you knew all about him! Why didn't you tell me?"

A long silence followed, during which Mrs. Bowring sat with her face
turned from her daughter. Then she raised her hand and passed it slowly
over her forehead, as though trying to collect her thoughts.

"One comes across very strange things in life, my dear," she said at
last. "I am not sure that we had not better go away, after all. I'll
think about it."

Beyond this Clare could get no information, nor any explanation of the
fact that Mrs. Bowring should have known something about Brook
Johnstone's father. The girl made a guess, of course. The elder
Johnstone must be a relation of her mother's first husband; though,
considering that Mrs. Bowring had never seen Brook before now, and that
the latter had never told her anything about his father, it was hard to
see how she could be so sure of the fact. Possibly, Brook strongly
resembled his father's family. That, indeed, was the only admissible
theory. But all that Clare knew and could put together into reasonable
shape could not explain why her mother so much disliked leaving her
alone with the man, even for five minutes.

In this, however, Mrs. Bowring changed suddenly, after the first evening
when she had left them on the terrace. She either took a totally
different view of the situation, or else she was ashamed of seeming to
watch them all the time, and the consequence was that during the next
three or four days they were very often together without her.

Johnstone enjoyed the young girl's society, and did not pretend to deny
the fact in his own thoughts. Whatever mischief he might have been in
while on the yacht, his natural instincts were simple and honest. In a
certain way, Clare was a revelation to him of something to which he had
never been accustomed, and which he had most carefully avoided. He had
no sisters, and as a boy he had not been thrown with girls. He was an
only son, and his mother, a very practical woman, had warned him as he
grew up that he was a great match, and had better avoid young girls
altogether until he saw one whom he should like to marry, though how he
was to see that particular one, if he avoided all alike, was a question
into which his mother did not choose to enter. Having first gone into
society upon this principle, however, and having been at once taken up
and made much of by an extremely fashionable young woman afflicted with
an elderly and eccentric husband, it was not likely that Brook would
return to the threshold of the schoolroom for women's society. He went
on as he had begun in his first "salad" days, and at five-and-twenty he
had the reputation of having done more damage than any of his young
contemporaries, while he had never once shown the slightest inclination
to marry. His mother, always a practical woman, did not press the
question of marriage, deeming that with his disposition he would stand a
better chance of married peace when he had expended a good deal of what
she called his vivacity; and his father, who came of very long-lived
people, always said that no man should take a wife before he was thirty.
As Brook did not gamble immoderately, nor start a racing stable, nor
propose to manage an opera troupe, the practical lady felt that he was
really a very good young man. His father liked him for his own sake; but
as Adam Johnstone had been gay in his youth, in spite of his sober
Scotch blood, even beyond the bounds of ordinary "fastness," the fact of
his being fond of Brook was not of itself a guarantee that the latter
was such a very good young man as his mother said that he was. Somehow
or other Brook had hitherto managed to keep clear of any entanglement
which could hamper his life, probably by virtue of that hardness which
he had shown to poor Lady Fan, and which had so strongly prejudiced
Clare Bowring against him. His father said cynically that the lad was
canny. Hitherto he had certainly shown that he could be selfish; and
perhaps there is less difference between the meanings of the Scotch and
English words than most people suppose.

Daily and almost hourly intercourse with such a young girl as Clare was
a totally new experience to Brook Johnstone, and there were moments
when he hardly recognised himself for the man who had landed from the
yacht ten days earlier, and who had said good-bye to Lady Fan on the
platform behind the hotel.

Hitherto he had always known in a day or two whether he was inclined to
make love to a woman or not. An inclination to make love and the
satisfaction of it had been, so far, his nearest approach to being in
love at all. Nor, when he had felt the inclination, had he ever
hesitated. Like a certain great English statesman of similar
disposition, he had sometimes been repulsed, but he never remembered
having given offence. For he possessed that tactful intuition which
guides some men through life in their intercourse with women. He rarely
spoke the first word too soon, and if he were going to speak at all he
never spoke too late--which error is, of the two, by far the greater. He
was young, perhaps, to have had such experience; but in the social world
of to-day it is especially the fashion for men to be extremely young,
even to youthfulness, and lack of years is no longer the atrocious crime
which Pitt would neither attempt to palliate or deny. We have just
emerged from a period of wrinkles and paint, during which we were told
that age knew everything and youth nothing. The explosion into nonsense
of nine tenths of all we were taught at school and college has given
our children a terrible weapon against us; and women, who are all
practical in their own way, prefer the blundering whole-heartedness of
youth to the skilful tactics and over-effective effects of the
middle-aged love-actor. In this direction, at least, the breeze that
goes before the dawn of a new century is already blowing. Perhaps it is
a good sign--but a sign of some sort it certainly is.

Brook Johnstone felt that he was in an unfamiliar position, and he tried
to analyse his own feelings. He was perfectly honest about it, but he
had very little talent for analysis. On the other hand, he had a very
keen sense of what we roughly call honour. Clare was not Lady Fan, and
would probably never get into that category. Clare belonged amongst the
women whom he respected, and he respected them all, with all his heart.
They included all young girls, and his mother, and all young women who
were happily married. It will be admitted that, for a man who made no
pretence to higher virtues, Brook was no worse than his contemporaries,
and was better than a great many.

Be that as it may, in lack of any finer means of discrimination, he
tried to define his own position with regard to Clare Bowring very
simply and honestly. Either he was falling in love, or he was not.
Secondly, Clare was either the kind of girl whom he should like to
marry, spoken of by his practical mother--or she was not.

So far, all was extremely plain. The trouble was that he could not find
any answers to the questions. He could not in the least be sure that he
was falling in love, because he knew that he had never really been in
love in his life. And as for saying at once that Clare was, or was not,
the girl whom he should like to marry, how in the world could he tell
that, unless he fell in love with her? Of course he did not wish to
marry her unless he loved her. But he conceived it possible that he
might fall in love with her and then not wish to marry her after all,
which, in his simple opinion, would have been entirely despicable. If
there were any chance of that, he ought to go away at once. But he did
not know whether there were any chance of it or not. He could go away in
any case, in order to be on the safe side; but then, there was no reason
in the world why he should not marry her, if he should love her, and if
she would marry him. The question became very badly mixed, and under the
circumstances he told himself that he was splitting hairs on the
mountains he had made of his molehills. He determined to stay where he
was. At all events, judging from all signs with which he was
acquainted, Clare was very far indeed from being in love with him, so
that in this respect his sense of honour was perfectly safe and
undisturbed.

Having set his mind at rest in this way, he allowed himself to talk with
her as he pleased. There was no reason why he should hamper himself in
conversation, so long as he said nothing calculated to make an
impression--nothing which could come under the general head of "making
love." The result was that he was much more agreeable than he supposed.
Clare's innocent eyes watched him, and her mind was divided about him.

She was utterly young and inexperienced, but she was a woman, and she
believed him to be false, faithless, and designing. She had no idea of
the broad distinction he drew between all good and innocent women like
herself, and all the rest whom he considered lawful prey. She concluded
therefore, very rashly, that he was simply pursuing his usual tactics, a
main part of which consisted in seeming perfectly unaffected and natural
while only waiting for a faint sign of encouragement in order then to
play the part of the passionate lover.

The generalisations of youth are terrible. What has failed once is
despicably damned for ever. What is true to-day is true enough to-morrow
to kill all other truths outright. The man whose hand has shaken once
is a coward; he who has fought one battle is to be the hero of seventy.
Life is a forest of inverted pyramids, for the young; upon every point
is balanced a gigantic weight of top-heavy ideals, spreading
base-upwards.

To Clare, everything Johnstone said or did was the working of a
faithless intention towards its end. It was clear enough that he sought
her and stayed with her as long as he could, day by day. Therefore he
intended to make love to her, sooner or later, and then, when he was
tired, he would say good-bye to her just as he had said good-bye to Lady
Fan, and break her heart, and have one story more to laugh over when he
was alone. It was quite clear that he could not mean anything else,
after what she had seen.

All the same, he pleased her when he was with her, and attracted her
oddly. She told herself that unless he had some unusual qualities he
could not possibly break hearts for pastime, as he undoubtedly did, from
year's end to year's end. She studied the question, and reached the
conclusion that his strength was in his eyes. They were the most frank,
brave, good-humoured, clear, unaffected eyes she had ever seen, but she
could not look at them long. There was no reason why she should, indeed,
but she hated to feel that she could not, if she chose. Whenever she
tried, she at once had the feeling that he had power over her, to make
her do things she did not wish to do. That was probably the way in which
he had influenced Lady Fan and the other women, probably a dozen,
thought Clare. If they were really as honest as they seemed, she thought
she should have been able to meet them without the least sensation of
nervousness.

One day she caught herself wishing that he had never done the thing she
so hated. She was too honest to attribute to him outward defects which
he did not possess, and she could not help thinking what a fine fellow
he would be if he were not so bad. She might have liked him very much,
then. But as it was, it was impossible that she should ever not hate
him. Then she smiled to herself, as she thought how surprised he would
be if he could guess what she thought of him.

But there was no probability of that, for she felt that she had no right
to know what she knew, and so she treated him always, as she thought,
with the same even, indifferent civility. But not seldom she knew that
she was wickedly wishing that he might really fall in love with her and
find out that men could break their hearts as well as women. She should
like to fight with him, with his own weapons, for the glory of all her
sex, and make him thoroughly miserable for his sins. It could not be
wrong to wish that, after what she had seen, but it would be very wrong
to try and make him fall in love, just with that intention. That would
be almost as bad as what he had done; not quite so bad, of course,
because it would serve him right, but yet a deed which she might be
ashamed to remember.

She herself felt perfectly safe. She was neither sentimental nor
susceptible, for if she had been one or the other she must by this time
have had some "experience," as she vaguely called it. But she had not.
She had never even liked any man so much as she liked this man whom she
hated. This was not a contradiction of facts, which, as Euclid teaches
us, is impossible. She liked him for what she saw, and she hated him for
what she knew.

One day, when Mrs. Bowring was present, the conversation turned upon a
recent novel in which the hero, after making love to a woman, found that
he had made a mistake, and promptly made love to her sister, whom he
married in the end.

"I despise that sort of man!" cried Clare, rather vehemently, and
flashing her eyes upon Johnstone.

For a moment she had thought that she could surprise him, that he would
look away, or change colour, or in some way betray his most guilty
conscience. But he did not seem in the least disturbed, and met her
glance as calmly as ever.

"Do you?" he asked with an indifferent laugh. "Why? The fellow was
honest, at all events. He found that he didn't love the one to whom he
was engaged, and that he did love the other. So he set things straight
before it was too late, and married the right one. He was a very
sensible man, and it must have taken courage to be so honest about it."

"Courage!" exclaimed the young girl in high scorn. "He was a brute and a
coward!"

"Dear me!" laughed Brook. "Don't you admit that a man may ever make a
mistake?"

"When a man makes a mistake of that sort, he should either cut his
throat, or else keep his word to the woman and try to make her happy."

"That's a violent view--really! It seems to me that when a man has made
a mistake the best thing to do is to go and say so. The bigger the
mistake, the harder it is to acknowledge it, and the more courage it
needs. Don't you think so, Mrs. Bowring?"

"The mistake of all mistakes is a mistake in marriage," said the elder
woman, looking away. "There is no remedy for that, but death."

"Yes," answered Clare. "But don't you think that I'm right? It's what
you say, after all--"

"Not exactly, my dear. No man who doesn't love a woman can make her
happy for long."

"Well--a man who makes a woman think that he loves her, and then leaves
her for some one else, is a brute, and a beast, and a coward, and a
wretch, and a villain--and I hate him, and so do all women!"

"That's categorical!" observed Brook, with a laugh. "But I dare say you
are quite right in theory, only practice is so awfully different, you
know. And a woman doesn't thank a man for pretending to love her."

Clare's eyes flashed almost savagely, and her lip curled in scorn.

"There's only one right," she said. "I don't know how many wrongs there
are--and I don't want to know!"

"No," answered Brook, gravely enough. "And there is no reason why you
ever should."




CHAPTER VII


"You seemed to be most tremendously in earnest yesterday, when we were
talking about that book," observed Brook on the following afternoon.

"Of course I was," answered Clare. "I said just what I thought."

They were walking together along the high road which leads from Amalfi
towards Salerno. It is certainly one of the most beautiful roads in
Europe, and in the whole world. The chain of rocky heights dashes with
wild abruptness from its five thousand feet straight to the dark-blue
sea, bristling with sharp needles and spikes of stone, rough with a
chaos of brown boulders, cracked from peak to foot with deep torn
gorges. In each gorge nestles a garden of orange and lemons and
pomegranates, and out of the stones there blows a perfume of southern
blossom through all the month of May. The sea lies dark and clear below,
ever tideless, often still as a woodland pool; then, sometimes, it rises
suddenly in deep-toned wrath, smiting the face of the cliff, booming
through the low-mouthed caves, curling its great green curls and
combing them out to frothing ringlets along the strips of beach, winding
itself about the rock of Conca in a heavily gleaming sheet and whirling
its wraith of foam to heaven, the very ghost of storm.

And in the face of those rough rocks, high above the water, is hewn a
way that leads round the mountain's base, many miles along it, over the
sharp-jutting spurs, and in between the boulders and the needles, down
into the gardens of the gorges and past the dark towers whence watchmen
once descried the Saracen's ill-boding sail and sent up their warning
beacon of smoke by day and fire by night.

It is the most beautiful road in the world, in its infinite variety, in
the grandeur above and the breadth below, and the marvellous rich
sweetness of the deep gardens--passing as it does out of wilderness into
splendour, out of splendour into wealth of colour and light and odour,
and again out to the rugged strength of the loneliness beyond.

Clare and Johnstone had exchanged idle phrases for a while, until they
had passed Atrani and the turn where the new way leads up to Ravello,
and were fairly out on the road. They were both glad to be out together
and walking, for Clare had grown stronger, and was weary of always
sitting on the terrace, and Johnstone was tired of taking long walks
alone, merely for the sake of being hungry afterwards, and of late had
given it up altogether. Mrs. Bowring herself was glad to be alone for
once, and made little or no objection, and so the two had started in the
early afternoon.

Johnstone's remark had been premeditated, for his curiosity had been
aroused on the preceding day by Clare's words and manner. But after she
had given him her brief answer she said no more, and they walked on in
silence for a few moments.

"Yes," said Johnstone at last, as though he had been reflecting, "you
generally say what you think. I didn't doubt it at the time. But you
seem rather hard on the men. Women are all angels, of course--"

"Not at all!" interrupted Clare. "Some of us are quite the contrary."

"Well, it's a generally accepted thing, you know. That's what I mean.
But it isn't generally accepted that men are. If you take men into
consideration at all, you must make some allowances."

"I don't see why. You are much stronger than we are. You all think that
you have much more pride. You always say that you have a sense of honour
which we can't understand. I should think that with all those advantages
you would be much too proud to insist upon our making allowances for
you."

"That's rather keen, you know," answered Brook, with a laugh. "All the
same, it's a woman's occupation to be good, and a man has a lot of other
things to do besides. That's the plain English of it. When a woman isn't
good she falls. When a man is bad, he doesn't--it's his nature."

"Oh--if you begin by saying that all men are bad! That's an odd way out
of it."

"Not at all. Good men and bad women are the exceptions, that's all--in
the way you mean goodness and badness."

"And how do you think I mean goodness and badness? It seems to me that
you are taking a great deal for granted, aren't you?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Brook, growing vague on a sudden. "Those are
rather hard things to talk about."

"I like to talk about them. How do you think I understand those two
words?"

"I don't know," repeated Johnstone, still more vaguely. "I suppose your
theory is that men and women are exactly equal, and that a man shouldn't
do what a woman ought not to do--and all that, you know. I don't exactly
know how to put it."

"I don't see why what is wrong for a woman should be right for a man,"
said Clare. "The law doesn't make any difference, does it? A man goes to
prison for stealing or forging, and so does a woman. I don't see why
society should make any distinction about other things. If there were a
law against flirting, it would send the men to prison just like the
women, wouldn't it?"

"What an awful idea!" laughed Brook.

"Yes, but in theory--"

"Oh, in theory it's all right. But in practice we men are not wrapped in
cotton and tied up with pink ribbons from the day we are born to the day
we are married. I--I don't exactly know how to explain what I mean, but
that's the general idea. Among poor people--I believe one mustn't say
the lower classes any more--well, with them it isn't quite the same. The
women don't get so much care and looking after, when they are young, you
know--that sort of thing. The consequence is, that there's much more
equality between men and women. I believe the women are worse, and the
men are better--it's my opinion, at all events. I dare say it isn't
worth much. It's only what I see at home, you know."

"But the working people don't flirt!" exclaimed Clare. "They drink, and
that sort of thing--"

"Yes, lots of them drink, men and women. And as for flirting--they
don't call it flirting, but in their way I dare say it's very much the
same thing. Only, in our part of the country, a man who flirts, if you
call it so, gets just as bad a name as a woman. You see, they have all
had about the same bringing up. But with us it's quite different. A girl
is brought up in a cage, like a turtle dove, with nothing to do except
to be good, while a boy is sent to a public school when he is eleven or
twelve, which is exactly the same as sending him to hell, except that he
has the certainty of getting away."

"But boys don't learn to flirt at Eton," observed the young girl.

"Well--no," answered Johnstone. "But they learn everything else, except
Latin and Greek, and they go to a private tutor to learn those things
before they go to the university."

"You mean that they learn to drink and gamble, and all that?" asked
Clare.

"Oh--more or less--a little of everything that does no good--and then
you expect us afterwards to be the same as you are, who have been
brought up by your mothers at home. It isn't fair, you know."

"No," answered Clare, yielding. "It isn't fair. That strikes me as the
best argument you have used yet. But it doesn't make it right, for all
that. And why shouldn't men be brought up to be good, just as women
are?"

Brook laughed.

"That's quite another matter. Only a paternal government could do
that--or a maternal government. We haven't got either, so we have to do
the best we can. I only state the fact, and you are obliged to admit it.
I can't go back to the reason. The fact remains. In certain ways, at a
certain age, all men as a rule are bad, and all women, on the whole, are
good. Most of you know it, and you judge us accordingly and make
allowances. But you yourself don't seem inclined to be merciful. Perhaps
you'll be less hard-hearted when you are older."

"I'm not hard-hearted!" exclaimed Clare, indignantly. "I'm only just.
And I shall always be the same, I'm sure."

"If I were a Frenchman," said Brook, "I should be polite, and say that I
hoped so. As I'm not, and as it would be rude to say that I didn't
believe it, I'll say nothing. Only to be what you call just, isn't the
way to be liked, you know."

"I don't want to be liked," Clare answered, rather sharply. "I hate what
are called popular people!"

"So do I. They are generally awful bores, don't you know? They want to
keep the thing up and be liked all the time."

"Well--if one likes people at all, one ought to like them all the time,"
objected Clare, with unnecessary contrariety.

"That was the original point," observed Brook. "That was your objection
to the man in the book--that he loved first one sister and then the
other. Poor chap! The first one loved him, and the second one prayed for
him! He had no luck!"

"A man who will do that sort of thing is past praying for!" retorted the
young girl. "It seems to me that when a man makes a woman believe that
he loves her, the best thing he can do is to be faithful to her
afterwards."

"Yes--but supposing that he is quite sure that he can't make her
happy--"

"Then he had no right to make love to her at all."

"But he didn't know it at first. He didn't find out until he had known
her a long time."

"That makes it all the worse," exclaimed Clare with conviction, but
without logic.

"And while he was trying to find out, she fell in love with him,"
continued Brook. "That was unlucky, but it wasn't his fault, you know--"

"Oh yes, it was--in that book at least. He asked her to marry him
before he had half made up his mind. Really, Mr. Johnstone," she
continued, almost losing her temper, "you defend the man almost as
though you were defending yourself!"

"That's rather a hard thing to say to a man, isn't it?"

Johnstone was young enough to be annoyed, though he was amused.

"Then why do you defend the man?" asked Clare, standing still at a turn
of the road and facing him.

"I won't, if we are going to quarrel about a ridiculous book," he
answered, looking at her. "My opinion's not worth enough for that."

"If you have an opinion at all, it's worth fighting for."

"I don't want to fight, and I won't fight with you," he answered,
beginning to laugh.

"With me or with any one else--"

"No--not with you," he said with sudden emphasis.

"Why not with me?"

"Because I like you very much," he answered boldly, and they stood
looking at each other in the middle of the road.

Clare had started in surprise, and the colour rose slowly to her face,
but she would not take her eyes from his. For the first time it seemed
to her that he had no power over her.

"I'm sorry," she answered. "For I don't like you."

"Are you in earnest?" He could not help laughing.

"Yes." There was no mistaking her tone.

Johnstone's face changed, and for the first time in their acquaintance
he was the one to turn his eyes away.

"I'm sorry too," he said quietly. "Shall we turn back?" he asked after a
moment's pause.

"No, I want to walk," answered Clare.

She turned from him, and began to walk on in silence. For some time
neither spoke. Johnstone was puzzled, surprised, and a little hurt, but
he attributed what she had said to his own roughness in telling her that
he liked her, though he could not see that he had done anything so very
terrible. He had spoken spontaneously, too, without the least thought of
producing an impression, or of beginning to make love to her. Perhaps he
owed her an apology. If she thought so, he did, and it could do no harm
to try.

"I'm very sorry, if I have offended you just now," he said gently. "I
didn't mean to."

"You didn't offend me," answered Clare. "It isn't rude to say that one
likes a person."

"Oh--I beg your pardon--I thought perhaps--"

He hesitated, surprised by her very unexpected answer. He could not
imagine what she wanted.

"Because I said that I didn't like you?" she asked.

"Well--yes."

"Then it was I who offended you," answered the young girl. "I didn't
mean to, either. Only, when you said that you liked me, I thought you
were in earnest, you know, and so I wanted to be quite honest, because I
thought it was fairer. You see, if I had let you think that I liked you,
you might have thought we were going to drift into being friends, and
that's impossible, you know--because I never did like you, and I never
shall. But that needn't prevent our walking together, and talking, and
all that. At least, I don't mean that it should. That's the reason why I
won't turn back just yet--"

"But how in the world can you enjoy walking and talking with a man you
don't like?" asked Johnstone, who was completely at sea, and began to
think that he must be dreaming.

"Well--you are awfully good company, you know, and I can't always be
sitting with my mother on the terrace, though we love each other
dearly."

"You are the most extraordinary person!" exclaimed Johnstone, in
genuine bewilderment. "And of course your mother dislikes me too,
doesn't she?"

"Not at all," answered Clare. "You asked me that before, and I told you
the truth. Since then, she likes you better and better. She is always
saying how nice you are."

"Then I had better always talk to her," suggested Brook, feeling for a
clue.

"Oh, I shouldn't like that at all!" cried the young girl, laughing.

"And yet you don't like me. This is like twenty questions. You must have
some very particular reason for it," he added thoughtfully. "I suppose I
must have done some awful thing without knowing it. I wish you would
tell me. Won't you, please? Then I'll go away."

"No," Clare answered. "I won't tell you. But I have a reason. I'm not
capricious. I don't take violent dislikes to people for nothing. Let it
alone. We can talk very pleasantly about other things. Since you are
good enough to like me, it might be amusing to tell me why. If you have
any good reason, you know, you won't stop liking me just because I don't
like you, will you?"

She glanced sideways at him as she spoke, and he was watching her and
trying to understand her, for the revelation of her dislike had come
upon him very suddenly. She was on the right as they walked, and he saw
her against the light sky, above the line of the low parapet. Perhaps
the light behind her dazzled him; at all events, he had a strange
impression for a moment. She seemed to have the better of him, and to be
stronger and more determined than he. She seemed taller than she was,
too, for she was on the higher part of the road, in the middle of it.
For an instant he felt precisely what she so often felt with him, that
she had power over him. But he did not resent the sensation as she did,
though it was quite as new to him.

Nevertheless, he did not answer her, for she had spoken only half in
earnest, and he himself was not just then inclined to joke for the mere
sake of joking. He looked down at the road under his feet, and he knew
all at once that Clare attracted him much more than he had imagined. The
sidelong glance she had bestowed upon him had fascination in it. There
was an odd charm about her girlish contrariety and in her frank avowal
that she did not like him. Her dislike roused him. He did not choose to
be disliked by her, especially for some absurd trifle in his behaviour,
which he had not even noticed when he had made the mistake, whatever it
might be.

He walked along in silence, and he was aware of her light tread and the
soft sound of her serge skirt as she moved. He wished her to like him,
and wished that he knew what to do to change her mind. But that would
not be easy, since he did not know the cause of her dislike. Presently
she spoke again, and more gravely.

"I should not have said that. I'm sorry. But of course you knew that I
wasn't in earnest."

"I don't know why you should not have said it," he answered. "As a
matter of fact, you are quite right. I don't like you any the less
because you don't like me. Liking isn't a bargain with cash on delivery.
I think I like you all the more for being so honest. Do you mind?"

"Not in the least. It's a very good reason." Clare smiled, and then
suddenly looked grave again, wondering whether it would not be really
honest to tell him then and there that she had overheard his last
interview with Lady Fan.

But she reflected that it could only make him feel uncomfortable.

"And another reason why I like you is because you are combative," he
said thoughtfully. "I'm not, you know. One always admires the qualities
one hasn't oneself."

"And you are not combative? You don't like to be in the opposition?"

"Not a bit! I'm not fond of fighting. I systematically avoid a row."

"I shouldn't have thought that," said Clare, looking at him again. "Do
you know? I think most people would take you for a soldier."

