and that Tebaldo has thrown the blame on the priest, just because he is
a Saracinesca.'

'Perhaps. Anything is possible, except that the priest killed him. But
as we know nothing, it is better to say nothing. It might be thought
that we favoured the Romans.'

'It is strange,' said Aliandra. 'When he is speaking, I believe all he
says, but now that he is gone, I feel as you do about it He said he
should come back to-morrow.'

'It is of no use for you to see him again. Why does he come here? I do
not wish to be involved in this affair. Make an excuse, if he comes, and
do not see him.'

'Yes,' answered Aliandra. 'I will manage not to see him. It is of no
use, as you say.'

Tebaldo rode back to Santa Vittoria to bury his brother. Almost the
whole population followed the funeral from the church to the cemetery,
and it was easy to see how the people looked at the matter. Tebaldo
received a summons to appear and give his evidence in two days, and he
left the village early in order to have time to spend in Randazzo with
Aliandra before taking the afternoon train from Piedimonte to Messina.

One thing only he had left undone which he had intended to do, for it
had been impossible to accomplish it without attracting attention. He
had meant to get into the little church alone and recover the knife he
had dropped through the grating that stood before the glass casket in
which the bones of the saint were preserved. As the details of those
short and terrible moments came back to him, he remembered that the
thing had not dropped far. He had heard it strike the stone inside
immediately, and though it was improbable that the grating should be
opened for a long time, yet the weapon was there, waiting for someone to
find it, and possibly for some to recognise it, for he had possessed it
several years.

The first requiem mass for Francesco had been sung in the parish church,
for the curate had said that Santa Vittoria must be reconsecrated by the
bishop before mass could be celebrated there again, the crime committed
being a desecration. Tebaldo thought it just possible that at the
bishop's visit the grating might be opened in order to show him the
casket. But this was by no means certain. On the whole he believed
himself safe, for there was no name on the sheath of the knife, and he
did not remember that he had ever shown it to anyone who could identify
it as belonging to him.

He had sent for a carriage and drove down to Randazzo, stopping at the
inn, as usual. He knocked at the door of the notary's house a few
minutes later, expecting to be admitted by Gesualda. To his surprise, no
one came to let him in. He knocked twice again with the same result, and
was about to go away, when Basili's man, the same who had accompanied
San Giacinto and Orsino to Camaldoli, opened the stable gate and came up
to him.

'There is the notary,' he said. 'No one else is at home. The Signorina
Aliandra has taken Gesualda and is gone out to visit friends in the
country. They will not come back before to-morrow. The notary sleeps.'

Tebaldo was very much surprised and disconcerted. He remembered how
kindly and gently Aliandra had spoken when he had parted from her, and
he could not understand. She had left no message, and it was clear
enough that she had gone away in order to avoid him. He went back to the
inn, a good deal disturbed, for if she wished to avoid him, it must be
because she had some suspicion. That was the only conclusion which he
could reach as he thought the matter over. It was by no means absolutely
logical, being suggested by the state of his conscience rather than by
the operation of his reason.

He was disturbed and nervous, and he realised with a vague trepidation
that instead of forgetting what he had done, and becoming hardened to
the consciousness of it, he was suffering from it more and more as the
hours and days went by. Little things came back to their lost places in
his memory, which might have been noticed by other people, and might
betray him. To himself, knowing the truth, the story he had invented
looked far less probable than it appeared to those who had heard it from
him.

He thought of writing to Aliandra, for he was bitterly disappointed at
not seeing her; but when he considered what he could say in a letter, he
saw that he could only tell her of his disappointment. What he
unconsciously longed for, was the liberty to speak out plainly to
someone, and tell the whole truth, with perfect safety to himself. But
that desire was still vague and unformulated.

There was no possibility of waiting till the next day to see Aliandra
when she returned. He was expected to appear on the following morning in
Messina, to give his evidence, and he had no choice but to go at once.
He left Randazzo with a heavy heart, and a feverish sensation in his
head.




CHAPTER XXXI


Ippolito was committed for trial on the charge of having killed
Francesco Pagliuca in the church of Santa Vittoria, and Tebaldo Pagliuca
was the principal witness against him. That was the result of the
preliminary examination in Messina.

No one believed that Ippolito had committed the crime, neither the judge
nor the prefect of the province, nor the carabineers who had arrested
him and brought him down. Yet the evidence was such that it was
impossible to acquit him, and his obstinate silence, after a simple
denial of the charge, puzzled the authorities. It was the expressed
opinion of the judge that, in any case, and supposing that the priest
were guilty, it was not a murder, but a homicide committed in a
struggle, which had been the result of a quarrel entirely unaccounted
for. Taking Tebaldo's own story as true, it was clear that Francesco's
appearance in the church had been too sudden and unexpected to allow of
the smallest premeditation on Ippolito's part. Tebaldo said that he had
come in and seen the two fighting. The judge observed that, if a
struggle had taken place, it was more than probable that Francesco,
coming suddenly upon Ippolito, had sprung upon him to avenge himself for
having been maltreated by the priest on the previous day. Here Orsino
rose and told the story of that first quarrel, as he had heard it from
his brother immediately after it had occurred. On being questioned,
Ippolito admitted the perfect truth of the story, and the judge ordered
that Concetta's evidence should be taken at Santa Vittoria by a deputy
of the court.

Tebaldo had been in complete ignorance of the truth about Concetta, but
he saw that it would be best to take the judge's view. For all he knew,
he said, his brother might have attacked Ippolito on entering the
church. Ippolito was at liberty to say so, if he chose, observed
Tebaldo. The fact did not militate against his own story, in the least.
On the contrary, it accounted for the struggle. Francesco was unarmed,
however. Tebaldo was prepared to swear to that, and did. Ippolito did
not know it, and, being attacked suddenly, might have drawn his knife
and defended himself.

The worst of all this was that it lent a faint air of probability to the
accusation, of which Tebaldo, with his usual quickness, took advantage
at once. But the judge, in his heart, was no more inclined to believe
Ippolito guilty than before, though he saw no way of acquitting him. The
young priest stood calm and self-possessed between the carabineers
throughout the whole examination, and his quiet eyes made Tebaldo
uncomfortable.

San Giacinto arrived from Rome before the hearing was finished, and
entered the court-room when Tebaldo was speaking. There was something so
gloomily ominous about the grey old giant's eyes that even Tebaldo's
voice changed a little as he spoke. San Giacinto had twice, in serious
affairs, been the means of clearing matters up suddenly and completely,
and as Orsino grasped his huge hand, he felt that all would be well.

The judge admitted Ippolito to bail, and San Giacinto offered himself
and was accepted as surety, being a large landowner in Sicily and a
person well known throughout the country. The trial would probably not
take place before the autumn, but there is a great latitude allowed in
Italy, in the matter of bail, except when the prisoner is charged with
premeditated murder.

'I think,' said San Giacinto to the judge, when the proceedings were
officially closed, 'that it would be worth your while to visit Santa
Vittoria in person.'

Tebaldo heard and listened, and he thought of the knife under the altar.
If the judge should go to the church and insist upon examining
everything thoroughly, it might be found.

'The second hearing will not come before me,' observed the judge.
'Nevertheless--' He hesitated a moment and then spoke in a lower tone.
'The case interests me very much,' he said. 'I should like to see the
place where it happened. I might take that country girl's evidence
myself, and visit the church at the same time. Yes, I think I shall
accept the suggestion.'

Though he had lowered his voice, Tebaldo had heard most of what he had
said, and more than enough to increase the fear of discovery, which was
rapidly growing up in the place of the cynical certainty of safety which
he had at first felt. Nor had the examination gone so absolutely against
Ippolito as he had hoped. The judge and the officials were evidently in
sympathy with the accused man, and Tebaldo had been heard with a sort of
cold reserve which suggested a doubt in his hearers. Like Aliandra and
her father, they all felt the utter improbability of the story, as they
compared the accused with the accuser, though they had been obliged to
admit just so much as they had no means of denying.

The view taken by the law on the strength of the whole evidence can be
summed up in a few words. Francesco Pagliuca had assaulted a young
country girl on the high-road. She had screamed for help. Ippolito
Saracinesca had been near and had saved her and soundly beaten her
assailant. On the very next occasion of meeting him by accident,
Francesco had rushed at the priest to repay his score of blows, and the
priest, taken unawares, had defended himself with a knife he had about
him, and which his brother had insisted that he should carry, for the
very reason that he might, at any moment, be assaulted by Francesco. It
was not justifiable homicide, assuredly, but there were a great many
extenuating circumstances. That was as much as the men of the law could
say for Ippolito, on the evidence; but not one of them believed that he
had killed Francesco.

The three Saracinesca men left the court together and drove away in a
closed carriage. They decided that Orsino and Ippolito should return to
Rome at once and quiet the family by their appearance, while San
Giacinto went up to Camaldoli, to keep matters in order as far as he
could. Orsino offered to go back alone, if San Giacinto would accompany
his brother, but the big man preferred to take matters into his own
hands, as he usually did when there was a crisis of any sort.

When the two brothers were alone in their compartment in the train that
left Reggio that evening. Orsino drew a long breath. The sunset glow was
over the hills, and the rushing breeze that blew in through the open
window was sweet and clean to the taste after the foul air of filthy
Messina and the almost more poisonous atmosphere of the court-room.
Orsino looked out in silence for a few moments, too glad to speak to
Ippolito. When he looked round at last, he saw that his brother was
leaning back in the opposite corner, with closed eyes, one hand thrust
into the bosom of his cassock, the other lying upon the seat behind him.
Orsino watched him, expecting that presently he would open his eyes and
begin to talk. But Ippolito had fallen asleep almost instantly in his
corner, exhausted by the long strain of days and nights spent in
terrible anxiety.

No one ever knew what he had suffered during that time. Though of a
fibre different from his father and his brothers, he was strong and
healthy, but in those few days he had become thin and white, so that he
looked positively delicate now, as he leaned back in his corner.

His anxiety had not been all for himself. It was a fearful thing,
indeed, to be accused of murder, and be led like a murderer through a
yelling rabble, to be lodged in a prison, to be thrust forward to the
bar of a crowded court-room to answer for a great crime. But it was
worse to be accused by the real murderer and to be bound by one of the
most solemn of all vows to keep that murderer's secret and bear his
accusation without giving one hint of the truth.

It was no wonder that at the first relief from such a tension, he should
fall asleep at last, and Orsino was glad when he saw and partly
understood. He had slept little himself since the night of Francesco's
death, but he could not have rested now, for he still had much anxiety
and many things to disturb his peace. He was in profound ignorance of
what had happened to Vittoria and her mother, though he had been almost
hourly in communication with his own family.

Corona's first impulse had been to leave Rome instantly and join her
sons, and it had been with the greatest difficulty that Giovanni had
persuaded her to await the result of the preliminary hearing. He himself
was afraid to leave her, and he had perfect confidence in San Giacinto.
He was in reality most preoccupied about his wife; for he, like everyone
else, was struck from the first by the outrageous improbability of the
accusation. He hardly ate or slept, himself, it was true, but he was all
along perfectly certain that Ippolito must be at liberty in a few days,
and that the whole truth must be known before long.

Corona said little after she had consented to remain at home, but she
suffered intensely. The beautiful high features were like a white marble
mask, and when she spoke at all, her words were brief, nervous, almost
hard. Her eyes were like black steel, and her figure grew slighter, and
seemed to grow taller, too. Giovanni thought that the little, soft, grey
streaks in her intensely black hair were suddenly growing broad and
silvery. He was almost more anxious for her than for Ippolito.

But she never broke down in any way. She showed herself to the world, in
her carriage, as if nothing had happened, though she received no one
during those days. She knew how to bear suffering, for she had borne
much in early life, and Giovanni needed not to fear for her. He hardly
left her. They so belonged to each other that it was easier to bear
trouble together. Possibly, though he did not know it, he looked to her
in his anxiety quite as much as she looked to him. It would have been
hard to say; for where there is such sympathy, such trust, and such
love, there is also a sort of community of courage and of strength and
of endurance for a joint suffering.

When the news of the decision in Messina came, however, Giovanni
considered the trouble to be at an end. Corona only smiled faintly as
they read the telegram together.

'At liberty on bail,' she said slowly. 'That is not an acquittal. He is
still accused of the murder.'

'Long before the trial we shall have discovered the truth,' answered
Giovanni, confidently.

'Until we do, he is still accused of the murder,' repeated Corona, with
slow insistence.

She had not believed it possible that he could be held for trial. But
the gladness of a near meeting with him stole upon her anxiety.

As soon as the first greetings were over, he went with her to her own
sitting-room, and they remained alone together. For a long time she held
his hands and looked into his eyes, while he spoke to her.

'Do not ask me any questions, mother dear,' he said, smiling at her.
'You know that I did not kill the poor man, and no one believes that I
did. Do not let them torment me with all sorts of questions. If I could
answer them, I should have answered them at once. I cannot.'

Still she did not speak, for Orsino had written and telegraphed every
detail, and had again and again spoken of Ippolito's inexplicable
silence.

'Mother, trust me, and do not ask me questions,' said the young priest,
earnestly.

'Yes,' she said at last. 'I trust you, and I always have. I was not
hesitating, my dear, and I shall never ask you anything about it, nor
allow anyone else to do so, if I can prevent it. But it has dawned on
me--the truth I wanted. I believe I understand.'

A startled look came into Ippolito's eyes, and his hands closed suddenly
upon hers. He opened his lips to speak, but could not find wise words,
for he believed that she had guessed the truth, by some extraordinary
and supernormal process of intuition.

'No,' she said reassuringly, 'do not be afraid. I shall not even tell
you what I think, and I shall certainly not tell anyone else. But--' She
stopped suddenly.

'But what?' he asked, in the utmost anxiety, searching her eyes.

'Nothing that I need say, my dear boy,' she answered quietly. 'It is
better to say nothing about such things when one is not sure. Sit down
beside me, and let us be together as we used to be before all this
happened.'

He sat down, and they remained long together.

There was but one opinion in Rome. Everyone said that Tebaldo Pagliuca
knew more about his brother's death than he chose to tell, and had
managed to cast the burden of evidence against Ippolito. Hundreds of
people called at the Palazzo Saracinesca, and Ippolito had scores of
notes from friends, congratulating him on having regained his liberty.

Old Donna Francesca Campodonico came to see Corona, a saintly, shadowy
woman, who lived alone in a beautiful old palace near the Tiber.

'A Corleone, my dear!' she said. 'What do you expect? We are told to
love our enemies, it is true, but we are at liberty to love them as
enemies, and not as friends. In order to do that it is necessary to
distinguish them, and the more clearly we draw the line, the better.'

'It is refreshing to hear you speak of anyone as an enemy,' answered
Corona, with a smile.

'My dear,' said Donna Francesca, 'I am very human, I assure you. Never
have anything to do with a Corleone or a Braccio. There is very little
to choose between us. We are hereditary sinners!'

She was a Braccio herself, and Corona laughed, though she knew there was
truth in the saying. The Braccio people had many friends, but so far as
the Corleone were concerned, all Rome agreed with Donna Francesca, and
congratulated the Saracinesca, quite regardless of the fact that
Ippolito was not really acquitted.

But Corona was not as she had been before, and her eyes followed
Ippolito about, when he was within sight, with a sort of wondering,
anxious expression that showed how perpetually her thoughts were
occupied with him.




CHAPTER XXXII


Orsino made an attempt to see Vittoria on the day after his return. The
liveried porter put his ear to the speaking-tube as of old, and then,
shaking his head, told Orsino that the ladies could see no one. He
volunteered the information that Donna Maria Carolina was very ill, and
that her servants believed her to be out of her mind, since the death of
her second son. The young lady did not go out every day, he said. When
she did, he always heard her tell the coachman to drive to the Hotel
Bristol. There were two sisters of the French order of the Bon Secours
who took turns as nurses, with her mother. The doctor came twice daily,
and sometimes three times. The porter had asked the doctor about Donna
Maria Carolina, and he had answered that she was in no danger of her
life. That was all.

The porter, as has been said, volunteered the information; but if he did
so, it was because he knew Orsino and had read in the newspaper a full
account of Francesco's death, and of the hearing at Messina. Being a
good Roman, he felt personally outraged at the idea that any member of a
great old Roman house should be accused of killing a Sicilian gentleman.
He might kill him, if he chose, the porter thought, but it was an
abominable insult to accuse him of it. The man had never liked
Francesco, who had been stingy and self-indulgent, spending money on
himself, but never giving a present to a servant if he could help it,
and generally ready to find fault with everything. Tebaldo was not mean.
Orsino, when he gave at all, gave lavishly, and he gave whenever he
happened to think of it, as he did to-day. The porter bowed low, as much
to the bank-note as to the heir of all the Saracinesca, and Orsino went
away.

He wondered why Vittoria went to the Hotel Bristol whenever she went
out. He remembered having once or twice left cards there on foreigners,
but he could not remember their names. He might recognise them, however,
if he saw them, and he drove to the hotel at once. Looking down the list
of the guests, he immediately came upon the names of Mrs. and Miss
Slayback, and he remembered how it had been said of late that the young
American girl was to marry Tebaldo Pagliuca. It was tolerably clear that
these were the people whom Vittoria visited when she went out at all.
Orsino remembered that he had been introduced to them at some party.
Without the smallest hesitation he sent up his card to Mrs. Slayback,
and in a very short time was requested to go upstairs.

Mrs. Slayback received him with cool interest, and showed no surprise at
his visit.

'I have been in Sicily most of the time since I had the pleasure of
being introduced, or I should have done myself the honour of calling
sooner,' said Orsino, rather formally.

'Of course,' answered Mrs. Slayback. 'I quite understood.'

She was silent, as though expecting him to open the conversation. That,
at least, was what he thought.

'You are staying in Rome very late,' he began. 'Of course it is cool
here compared with Sicily, and June is really one of our best months,
but, as a rule, foreigners are afraid of the heat.'

But she had not wanted that sort of conversation, and had only been
making up her mind how she should speak, being taken at short notice by
his visit. He was a good deal surprised at what she said.

'Please do not talk about the weather, Don Orsino,' she began. 'I am
very glad that you have come to see me, for I am in great perplexity. I
know that you will tell me the truth, and you may help me. Will you?'

'Certainly,' answered Orsino, becoming grave at once. 'Anything that I
could do--' He waited.

'My niece is engaged to be married to Don Tebaldo Pagliuca. She is an
orphan, a niece of my husband's, and is--well--rich, to say the least
of it. She has fallen in love with this young Sicilian and insists upon
marrying him. The Romans say that it is a family of brigands. You shot
one of them in self-defence not long ago, and now the papers say that
your brother has killed Don Francesco, whom we knew. It is rather an
awful double tragedy for civilised modern life, you know. Such things
happen with us in the West, though not so often as formerly, but they do
not happen to people who live in New York, for instance.'

'I hope not,' said Orsino, gravely. 'Sicily is a good deal less
civilised than your West, I fancy. But I assure you that my brother did
not kill Francesco Pagliuca, though I believe he knows who did kill him.
He only tells me that he did not, and I am willing to give my word for
him, on the strength of his.'

'But Don Tebaldo gave evidence on oath that he saw your brother do it,'
objected Mrs. Slayback.

'And Don Tebaldo is engaged to marry your niece,' answered Orsino. 'You
will allow me to say that the fact silences me.'

'I hope not,' said Mrs. Slayback, 'for I do not wish my niece to marry
him. I come to you for an argument against the marriage. I do not wish
to silence you, as you call it.'

'You know Don Tebaldo very well,' replied Orsino. 'You have probably
formed an opinion about his character. I am in a very difficult position
with regard to him, myself.'

He wondered whether Vittoria, growing intimate with the American girl,
had spoken of him.

'Your position cannot be half so hard as mine.'

Mrs. Slayback spoke with a conviction which reassured him, and he merely
bent his head a little, as though assenting to what she said.

'It is clear,' she continued, 'that since you know that Don Tebaldo has
sworn to this evidence, while you yourself, on your brother's word, are
willing to swear to the contrary, you believe that Don Tebaldo is
deliberately perjuring himself. That is perfectly clear, is it not?'

Orsino said nothing, but he could hardly keep from smiling a little at
her directness.

'Very well,' she went on; 'should you allow your niece, or your sister,
or anyone belonging to you, to marry a man who has deliberately perjured
himself?'

'You are perfectly logical,' said Orsino.

'Oh, perfectly! I always was thought so, in my family. And now that you
have helped me so far, for which I am really very grateful, can you tell
me whether Don Tebaldo is coming back to Rome at once?'

'I am sorry, but I know nothing of his movements. I believe you know his
sister, Donna Vittoria, very well, do you not? I should think she might
be able to tell you. His mother is very ill, poor lady.'

He had taken the first possible opportunity of introducing Vittoria's
name.

'Vittoria comes to see Lizzie whenever she can get out for an hour,'
answered Mrs. Slayback. 'But yesterday, when she was here, she did not
know anything about her brother. I think she does not like to talk of
him, for some reason or other. Have you seen her lately?'

She asked the question very naturally and easily.

'No,' said Orsino. 'Her mother is ill, and she has no one else with her.
She could not receive me, of course.'

'I suppose not. She could in America. She is sure to Come to-morrow
afternoon about five o'clock, I should think, unless her mother is much
worse. We shall be very glad to see you if you like to come in for a cup
of tea.'

'You are very kind--very kind, indeed, and I will come with pleasure,'
Orsino answered, surprised and delighted by the unexpected invitation.

'That is,' said Mrs. Slayback, as though correcting herself, and not
heeding his answer, 'that is, you know, if you have no objection to
meeting Donna Vittoria after all this dreadful business. If you have,
come in the next day, and we shall be alone, I daresay.'

Again Orsino found it hard not to smile, though he was very far indeed
from anything like mirth.

'It would be more likely that Donna Vittoria might object to seeing me,'
he said.

'Oh no!' replied Mrs. Slayback, with alacrity. 'I think she likes you,
by the way she sometimes speaks of you, and she does not believe her
brother any more than you or I do, I can see, though she does not quite
say so. Indeed, I hardly understand her. She wears black, of course, and
they see no one since that poor man's death, but she comes here just the
same. As for being sad, she was always sad, ever since I knew her.'

'She has had enough to sadden her,' said Orsino, gravely. 'None of us
who have been concerned in this dreadful affair can be anything but sad
just now.'

When he went away he could not make up his mind as to whether Mrs.
Slayback knew anything of his love for Vittoria or not. Foreigners, and
especially Americans, were unlike other people, he thought. It never
would have occurred to any Roman lady, a mere acquaintance, to ask him
to come for a cup of tea and meet two young girls. An intimate friend
might have done it, in order to do him a service, but not a mere
acquaintance. But foreigners were different, as he knew.

He pondered the question all night, and the next day seemed very long
until it was time to go up to the Hotel Bristol at five o'clock. He
thought the correct Swiss porter's face relaxed a little when he saw the
card Orsino gave, as if he had been told to expect him. This was the
more apparent when Orsino was ushered upstairs at once.

He heard an exclamation in Vittoria's voice as he entered the
drawing-room, and then for a moment he seemed to himself to lose
consciousness, as he advanced. He had not known what it would be to be
brought face to face with her after all that had happened.

Neither she nor Miss Slayback saw anything unusual in his face as he
came forward, and the latter certainly had no idea how disturbed he was,
as she smilingly held out her hand to him. Vittoria had uttered the one
little cry of surprise, and then she felt very cold and frightened for a
moment, after which she apparently regained her composure.

'My aunt is lying down in the next room, so it is perfectly proper,'
said Miss Slayback, in the very words she had used to Tebaldo.

Her voice brought Orsino back to lively consciousness at once, and as
he sat down nearly opposite to the two young girls, he glanced from the
one to the other quickly, before looking long at Vittoria. Miss Lizzie
seemed worn and harassed, he thought, and much less pretty than when he
had last seen her. There was a nervous restlessness about her, and she
was unable to sit still for a moment without moving her hands, or her
head, or her shoulders, to look round, when there was nothing to look
at.

Vittoria's gentle young face was undeniably sad. She did not look weary
like her friend, for she was not naturally nervous; but there was
something shadowy and half ethereal about her eyes and features that
moved Orsino strangely. He made a civil remark to Miss Slayback, in
order not to be silent, and she answered him in short, broken little
sentences. Somehow the whole position seemed odd to him. All at once
Miss Lizzie rose to her feet.

'I knew I had forgotten something!' she said. 'It is the day for letters
to catch the French steamer, and I have not written to Uncle Ben. I
always write him a line once a week. Do you mind amusing Don Orsino,
Vittoria? Just a moment, you know--I can write a letter in ten minutes.'

And before Vittoria could answer, she was gone, talking as she went, and
not looking back. As the door closed after her, Orsino was beside
Vittoria, with both her hands hidden in his and looking into her face.
She met his eyes for a moment, and her head sank on his breast, as
though she were very tired.

'It is not meant to be, love,' she said, and he could but just hear the
words.

'It shall be, whether it is meant or not,' he answered, bending down to
her little ear.

'It is all too terrible!' She shook her head against his coat, hiding
her face. 'Nothing but death, death, everywhere--my poor brothers--one
after the other.' She roused herself and laid her hands upon his
shoulders, looking up suddenly into his face with wide, searching eyes.
'Tell me that Ippolito did not kill him!' she begged. 'Tell me that it
is not true! I shall believe you. I cannot believe myself, when I say
it.'

'It is not true,' answered Orsino, earnestly. 'I will pledge you what
you will for my brother, my word of honour--everything. It is not true,'
He repeated the words slowly and emphatically.

'I know it is not, when you say it.' Her head sank upon his shoulder.
'But it is all so terrible, so horrible! Tebaldo killed him. I know it.
I knew he would, when I saw his face that night, after they had
quarrelled. Tebaldo has put it upon your brother--I know it, though I do
not know how it was.'

He kissed her hair, for he could not see her face.

'It is a worse crime than if Ippolito had killed him to defend himself,'
she said. 'I feel--I do not know--but I love you so--and yet--oh,
Orsino, Orsino! How will it all end?'

She rocked herself a little, to and fro, her forehead against his coat,
and her hand twisted painfully upon his, but there were no tears in her
voice, for she had shed all she had in the lonely nights since she had
seen him last.

'It shall end in our way,' said Orsino, in the low tone that means most
with a man.

'You and I? Married?' Again she shook her head. 'Oh no! It will be
different--the end! I am not cowardly, but this is killing me. My
mother--' She lowered her voice still more, and hesitated. 'My mother is
going mad, they say.'

Orsino wondered how fate could do more than it had done upon the
Corleone.

'Nothing shall take you from me,' he said, his arms going round her and
folding her to him. 'Nothing, neither death, nor madness, nor sorrow.'

She was silent for a moment, and the mirage of happiness rose in the
mist of tears.

'But it is not possible,' she said, as the brief vision faded. 'You know
it is not possible. Ippolito did not do it--I know. There is not that to
separate us. But you could not take the sister of such brothers as mine
have been to be your wife. How could you? And your father, your
mother--all that great family of yours--they would not have me, they
would not--oh, it is impossible! Do not talk to me of it, love. It will
make it harder to die.'

'To die? You?' His voice rang with life.

Suddenly, and for the first time since he had loved her, he pressed her
head gently backwards, and his lips met hers.

She started, and a little shiver ran to her small hands, and her eyelids
dropped till they closed, and still he kissed her, long and
passionately. And the colour rose slowly in her cheeks when her pulse
beat again, for it had stopped a moment, and then she hid the scarlet
blush against his coat, and heard the heavy, mysterious beating of his
heart through flesh and bone and cloth,--the strong, deep sound which no
woman forgets who has heard it, and has known that it was for her.

'You can make me live,' she said softly. 'But not without you,' she
added, drawing a deep breath between.

'Together,' he answered. 'Always together, to the very end.'

Then, by degrees, as the great wave of passion subsided, they talked
more quietly, he with perfect confidence in the future, and she more
hopefully, and they forgot Miss Lizzie and her letter, till they heard
her move the handle of the door. They both started.

'Does she know?' asked Orsino, quickly.

'I never told her,' Vittoria had time to answer, before Miss Slayback
could hear.

'I have written such a nice long letter to Uncle Ben,' said the young
girl, airily. 'I hope you have not bored yourselves! Not that I am very
amusing myself,' she added, pausing before a mirror, on her way along
the side of the room. 'And I am a perfect fright! Just look at my eyes.
Oh, well, it does not matter! Don Orsino does not mind, and I am sure
you do not, Vittoria, do you?'

It was the girl's way of trying to jest at what was a real pain, if it
was not a very great sorrow. It was not very successful, and her worn
little face betrayed her, as well as the dark lines under her eyes. She
had believed herself very much in love with Tebaldo, and, to tell the
truth, she was in love with him still, so far as she had yet any idea of
what it meant to be in love. But she had just made up her mind that she
could never marry him. It was not possible to marry into such a family,
where everybody was always killing everybody else, as Mrs. Slayback
expressed it. The friends of the Saracinesca had found a great deal to
say about the previous history of the whole tribe of Pagliuca d'Oriani,
including the Corleone of old, during the last four days, and much of it
had got into the Roman papers, which all took part against the
Sicilians. Romance was very well, up to a certain point, Miss Lizzie
thought, but it was necessary to draw the line somewhere, and she had
drawn it now. Yet her heart ached for the fierce-eyed Sicilian, all the
same, and her small face was weary and careworn.




CHAPTER XXXIII


Tebaldo's nerves were beginning to give way. It was of no use for him to
argue with himself, and tell himself that the knife would not be found.
He knew that the possibility existed. No one in Santa Vittoria would
look for it, but there was the bishop, who would shortly reconsecrate
the church, and there was the judge, who had told San Giacinto that he
might go up to visit the scene of the murder. The bishop might order the
grating to be opened in order to see the bones of the saint; and the
judge, accustomed to the ways of criminals, might insist upon a search,
seeing that the murder had taken place within arm's length of the altar.

In his broken dreams, the judge and the bishop appeared separately and
together and turned into each other, and invariably found the knife, and
then Tebaldo was suddenly in the court-room, at the bar, where Ippolito
had stood, instead of on the witness stand, and he heard all the people
yell and curse his name, as the villagers of Santa Vittoria had cursed
the young priest. As in the old days of torture a man was drawn up by
his hands to the high vault of the prison, and then dropped all at once
with a hideous wrenching and tearing of the joints till his feet were
but a foot from the floor, so Tebaldo's sudden waking was but a sudden
change of agony renewed each time and each time more unendurable, till
the fear of dreaming was outdone by the dread of returning to
consciousness.

When he was awake he imagined impossible schemes for getting possession
of the knife unobserved. It might have seemed simple enough to go up to
Santa Vittoria, call the sacristan, and have the church opened for him.
Then he could have invented an excuse for sending the fat man away
while he quietly reached down through the grating and felt for the
knife. In his ordinary state of mind and health he would have done that,
and there were ninety-nine chances in a hundred that he would have
succeeded.

But it looked differently to him now. In the first place, a sheer
physical horror of going back to the village at all had taken the place
of the cynical indifference which had at first left his cunning and his
coolness free to act. Everyone who has dealt with humanity under the
influence of pain or fear knows that the effect of either is cumulative,
and that in each individual there seems to be a limit beyond which the
nerves will resist no more, and the will-power altogether ceases. A man
may bear a certain grievous pain on the first day without a sign; on the
second day he will grind his teeth; on the third he will wince; later he
will groan, writhe, and at last break down, like a mere child, under
one-tenth of the suffering he bore manfully and silently at first. And
it is the same with any given fear. In a smaller degree it is so also in
the matter of losing one's temper under constantly-renewed irritation of
the same kind. Even in another direction, but in one which equally
concerns the nerves, this thing is true. Often, in a farce on the stage,
an indifferent action passes unnoticed; it recurs and excites attention;
again it comes, and the audience smile; once more, and they laugh, and
cannot control their laughter each time the action is repeated, until a
certain capacity for being moved to mirth again and again in one
direction, which varies in each individual, is momentarily paralysed.
People afterwards realise with surprise, and sometimes with a little
shame, the emptiness of the absurdities at which they have laughed so
heartily; as many a man has despised himself for having been angry at a
trifle, and wondered at his own weakness in having winced under an
insignificant pain. But the trifle is only the drop that overfills the
cup at last.

So Tebaldo had almost reached the limit of endurance, and the mere idea
of going back to the village and the church was intolerable to him. It
seemed to him that even if he could make up his mind to the attempt, he
should be sure to fail. The sacristan would come back unexpectedly and
find him with his hand through the grating, groping after the knife; or
the lame boy, who always hung about the gate, would look in and see him.
Yet he could not have locked himself into the church, for that also
would have excited suspicion.

The idea that he might get some one else to recover the weapon for him
took hold of him by degrees. At first it appeared to be madness to trust
any one with his secret, and his keen sense rejected the plan with
scorn. But it suggested itself again and again with increasing
persistence, because the mere thought that he might get the thing back
without going to Santa Vittoria in person was an inexpressible relief,
and he began to try and think of some person whom he could trust to be
prompt and secret.

At first he thought of asking someone in Santa Vittoria. The fat
sacristan, whom he had known for years, could do it easily. But Tebaldo
recognised at once that he had no hold upon the man, who might betray
him at any moment. Money would tempt the fellow, but no sum could
silence him afterwards, if he should demand more, as was very probable.
Besides, it would be necessary to write to him, and the man might lose
the letter, even if he were able to read it well enough to understand,
which was doubtful. There was Don Atanasio, the apothecary. He would do
much out of hatred for the Saracinesca, as his daughter had done
already. But he was a cautious old man, dependent, in a large measure,
upon the government, and would not be inclined to endanger his position
to oblige Tebaldo. It would not do to risk a refusal.

Then it occurred to the wretched man that women had more than once saved
men who loved them from desperate danger, and that, after all, he might
do worse than to tell Aliandra the truth. If she were willing, she could
go up to Santa Vittoria on a pretext and visit the little church, and
get rid of the sacristan. Then, if she wore a wide cloak, she could
kneel down on pretence of looking through the grating, and her slim
woman's arm could run through it in a moment, and her hand could not
fail to find the knife. He could remember, now, exactly at how many
inches from the left he had dropped it through. The details came back to
him with vivid clearness, though at first he had almost quite forgotten
them.

He almost made up his mind to go to Aliandra for assistance, and the
half-decision was a sudden and immense relief. He could eat and drink,
and he felt that he should sleep. Immediately his mind outran this first
plan, and he saw himself in Rome again, in three or four days at the
most, engaged to marry the great heiress, resuming his regular life of
wise courtship, and discussing with his future wife the details of a
brilliant existence. He drove away the subconsciousness that the thing
was not yet done, and revelled in visions in which there was no fear.

But that did not last long, for he could not sleep, after all; and the
knowledge that he must act quickly grew constantly more disturbing, till
he rose in the night and sat by the open window, working out his plan.
He must go to Randazzo again and see Aliandra; then he must wait at the
inn, while she went up to Santa Vittoria. The hours of waiting would be
hard to bear, but at the end of them there would be freedom. She would
come back, and he should see her pass. He should go to her father's
house. She would meet him at the door and draw him into the familiar
sitting-room, and a moment later the weapon would be in his hand. After
all, if he once had it, she could have no proof against him, beyond her
mere assertion, if she should ever turn against him. For the sake of his
love for her, she would never do that, he thought.

He telegraphed to Tatò at dawn to meet him at the Piedimonte station. It
was a Thursday, and he felt sure that the judge would not be at leisure
to go up to Santa Vittoria before Sunday. It was most probable, too,
that the bishop would choose the Sunday to reconsecrate the church, and
it occurred to Tebaldo that it would be strange if the two should meet
as they were always meeting in his dreams. But there was plenty of time
before that, and all would come right. Aliandra would not refuse to do
him this service.

Tatò met him at Piedimonte in person, instead of sending down his man,
and in obedience to Tebaldo's telegram he had brought a light conveyance
in which the two sat side by side, with Tebaldo's little valise at their
feet, and his rifle between them. They were old acquaintances, for Tatò
had driven the Corleone family for years himself, and by deputy, as it
were, while he had been serving his time in Ponza. He had a profound
respect for Tebaldo, for he knew how the latter with his brothers had
long ago led the soldiers astray when pursuing the brigands in the
neighbourhood of Camaldoli There was probably no man in that part of the
country who knew as much about people of all sorts and conditions, and
about their movements, as the smart-looking owner of the stable at
Piedimonte, nor anyone who could keep his own counsel better. He was a
thorough type of the 'maffeuso,' at all points, as San Giacinto had at
first observed to Orsino. San Giacinto had always believed that the man
had known of Ferdinando's intended attack, and of the pitfall in the
avenue.

Tatò told Tebaldo that he had driven San Giacinto alone up to Camaldoli
on the previous evening, returning during the night.

'What courage!' he exclaimed, with some genuine admiration, as he spoke
of the big man. 'After all that has happened! He is a man of iron, full
of courage and blood.'

'There was no particular danger in driving up to Camaldoli,' observed
Tebaldo, indifferently.

Tatò looked at him curiously for a moment, to see whether he were in
earnest.

'Then you do not know?' he enquired. 'They are in the woods above
Maniace.'

'They' means the outlaws, or the carabineers, as the sense requires.

Tebaldo looked quickly at Tatò in his turn.

'How many?' he asked.

'A dozen or fifteen,' said Tatò. 'There is Mauro, and Leoncino, and the
one they call Schiantaceci--he was a gentleman of Palermo, but no one
knows his real name, and the Moscio--eh, there are many! Who knows all
their names? But Mauro is with them.'

'Leoncino is a good man,' observed Tebaldo, quite naturally.

'Souls of his dead! You have spoken the truth. It was he that wore the
carabineer's uniform when they took the Duca di Fornasco's bailiff. He
has a face like a stone. Yet Mauro himself is the best of them, though
he is often ill with his liver. You know the life they lead. The food is
sometimes good, but sometimes it is badly cooked, and they eat in a
hurry, and then that poor Mauro's liver troubles him.'

'Why have they come over from Noto? Do you know?'

'For a change of air, I suppose,' answered Tatò, imperturbably. 'But
they say that the Fornasco is coming from Naples. Perhaps they would
like to try for the Saracinesca. Who knows what they want?'

'Do the carabineers know that they are near Maniace?'

'How should they know? Mauro and the Leoncino rode into Santa Vittoria
yesterday afternoon to see--good health to you--to see where Don
Francesco died. They asked the little lieutenant of infantry to tell
them the way to the church, as though they were strangers. Do you think
he has their photographs in his pocket? He took them for two farmers
going from Catania to Randazzo.'

'They might have caught San Giacinto last night when you drove him up,'
said Tebaldo.

'If everyone knew where to look for money, there would be no poor men,'
returned Tatò. 'They did not know about the Saracinesca, and the
carabineers do not know about them. Thus the world goes. Each man turns
his back on his fortune and chases flies. Should you not like to see the
Moscio, Don Tebaldo? You know that it was he who helped that angel of
paradise, Don Ferdinando. He goes everywhere, for he is not known.'

'Yes. I should like to see him. But I do not care to go up to the
Maniace woods, for I am known, though he is not. How can I see him? I
should like to ask him about my brother.'

'Where shall you stay to-night?' enquired Tatò.

'At the inn at Randazzo. I am not going to Santa Vittoria. I have
business with Basili.'

'I will arrange it,' answered Tatò. 'Leave it to me.'

Tebaldo assented and remained silent for some time. As they drove on,
nearer and nearer to Randazzo, the folly of his present plan became
clear to him, and in the place of Aliandra, as an agent for getting back
the knife, the possibility of employing the young outlaw known as the
Moscio presented itself, and the possibility of confiding freely in a
man whose position was ten times more desperate than his own, and whose
evidence could never be of any value in the eyes of the law. Mauro
himself was under obligations to Tebaldo, who could have betrayed him to
the authorities on more than one occasion, less than a year earlier.
Again and again both Mauro and the Moscio, as well as three or four
others of the band, had been at Camaldoli, and the Corleone had given
them food and drink and ammunition at a time when a great effort had
been made to catch them.

'Are you quite sure of being able to send a message to the Moscio?'
asked Tebaldo.

'Leave it to me,' said Tatò, again. 'I have a little bundle for him in
the back of the waggon. How do I know what is in it? It feels like new
clothes from the tailor in Messina. The Moscio is fond of good clothes.
He writes to his tailor, who sends the things when he can, by a sure
hand. You know how they live, as well as I do. They always wear new
clothes, and give their old things to the peasants, because they can
only carry little with them. And then, they are well brought up and are
accustomed to be clean. But I speak as though you were a Roman. You know
how they live. The Moscio will have his bundle this afternoon, and this
evening he will come down and have supper with you at Randazzo, at the
inn. I know this, therefore I asked if you wished to see him, and not
another.'

Before Randazzo was in sight, Tebaldo had quite made up his mind to
confide in the outlaw, and he could hardly have believed that he had
left Messina that morning with the firm intention of imploring Aliandra
to help him. But he looked forward to seeing her and to spending most of
the afternoon with her.

He was disappointed. Everything happened exactly as at his last visit.
Basili's man appeared at the door of the house, instead of from the
stable, and gave precisely the same message. Aliandra had taken Gesualda
to the country to visit some friends, and had not come back. No one knew
when she meant to come.

'Tell me something else,' said Tebaldo, offering the man money, for he
knew that the story could not be true.

The man threw back his head in refusal.

'You might give me also Peru,' he answered 'This is the truth, and this
I have told you.'

'I should like to see Signor Basili,' said Tebaldo, thinking that he
might get into the house.

'The notary sleeps,' answered the man, stolidly, and he began to shut
the door.

To force an entrance seemed out of the question, and Tebaldo went away
angry and disappointed. He could see that it would be of no use to try
again, for the same answer would be given to his enquiries. It was
enraging to know that the woman he loved was within a few yards of him,
and able to keep him away from her. But his anger was a relief from the
perpetual anxiety about the knife, which was wearing out his nerves, day
and night.

In the afternoon he shut himself up in the room he had taken and tried
to write to Aliandra, but he was in no condition for composing
love-letters. He could find nothing but reproaches for her unkindness in
refusing to admit him; and as soon as he had expressed them, he felt
that his own words exhibited him in an absurdly undignified position.
Besides, he was really waiting in the unconscious hope of explaining her
conduct to himself, when he knew that it was as yet inexplicable.
Meanwhile he tore up the pages he had covered, and threw the whole blame
upon Basili, unwilling to admit that the woman he loved could turn
against him.
