Nothing had come of it, so it couldn't as yet be compared to Mrs. Joe
Gargery's "rampage."

Mr. Reed sat comfortably on the front stoop smoking and reading. The
wind drove the smoke straight down the street, and not into the house.
How it could get in with the windows shut down was a mystery, but it
seemed to sometimes.

Charles brushed his hair and washed his hands.

"I must cut your hair. I ought to do it this very night, tired as I
am. Now brush your clothes and go out to your father. I'll be thinking
up what I want. Pepper is one thing. Go down to the old man's and get
some horseradish. If there is anything else I'll come out and tell you."

Charles went reluctantly out to the front stoop.

"Hillo!" said his father cheerfully. "You through?"

That did not sound very threatening.

"We are to get pepper and horseradish."

Mr. Reed nodded, folded his paper and, slipping it into his pocket,
settled his hat.

"Mother may think of something else."

She positively couldn't. She considered that it saved time to do errands
when you were going out, and she spent a great deal of time trying to
think how to save it.

They walked down First Avenue past Houston Street. Almost at the end of
the next block there was a barber-pole with its stripes running round.
The barber-pole and the Indian at the cigar shops were features of that
day, as well.

"Wouldn't you like to have your hair cut, Charles?" inquired his father.

The world swam round so that Charles was minded to clutch the
barber-pole, but he bethought himself in time that it was dusty. He
looked at his father in amaze.

"Oh, don't be a ninny! No one will take your head off. Come, you're big
enough boy to go to the barber's."

The palace of delight seemed opening before the boy. No one can rightly
understand his satisfaction at this late day. The mothers, you see, used
to cut hair as they thought was right, and nearly every mother had a
different idea except those whose idea was simply to cut it off.

They had to wait awhile. Charles sat down in a padded chair, had a large
white towel pinned close up under his chin, his hair combed out with the
softest touch imaginable. The barber's hands were silken soft; his
mother's were hard and rough. Snip, snip, snip, comb, brush, sprinkle
some fragrance out of a bottle with a pepper-sauce cork--bulbs and
sprays had not been invented. Oh, how delightful it was! He really did
not want to get down and go home.

Mr. Reed had been talking to an acquaintance. The other chair being
vacant, he had his beard trimmed. He was not sure whether he would have
it taken off this summer, though he generally did. He turned his head a
little and looked at his son. He wasn't as poetical looking, but really,
he was a nice, clean, wholesome, and--yes--manly boy. But he blushed
scarlet.

"That looks something like," was his father's comment. What a nice broad
forehead Charles had!

"He's a nice boy," said the barber in a low tone. "Boy to be proud of. I
wish there were more like him."

Mr. Reed paid his bill and they went to the store. Then they strolled on
down the street. But Charles was in distress lest the pungent berry and
odoriferous root should take the barber's sweetness out of him. He was
puzzled, too. It seemed to him he ought to say something grateful to his
father. He was so very, very glad at heart. But it was so hard to talk
to his father. He always envied Jim and Ben Underhill their father. He
had found it easy to talk to him on several occasions.

"I must say you are improved," his father began presently. "You mother
has too much to do bothering about household affairs. And you're getting
to be a big boy. Why don't you find some boys to go with? There are
those Underhills. You're too big to play with girls."

"But mother doesn't like boys," hesitatingly.

"You should have been a girl!" declared his father testily. "But since
you're not, do try to be a little more manly."

The father hardly knew what to say himself. And yet he felt that he did
love his son.

They were just at the area gate. Charles caught his father's hand. "I'm
so glad," breathlessly. "The boys have laughed at me, and you--you've
been so good."

Mr. Reed was really touched. They entered the basement. Mrs. Reed, like
Mrs. Gargery, still had on her apron. Charles put the pepper in the
canister, his mother took care of the horseradish. Then he sat down with
his history.

"For pity's sake, Abner Reed, what have you done to that child! He looks
like a scarecrow! He's shaved thin in one place and great tufts left in
another. I was going to cut his hair this very evening. And I'll trim it
to some decency now."

She sprang up for the shears.

"You will let him alone," said Mr. Reed, in a firm, dignified tone. "He
is quite old enough to look like other boys. When I want him to go to
the barber's I'll take him. You will find enough to do. Charles, get a
lamp and go up to your own room."

"I don't allow him to have a lamp in his room. He will set something
a-fire."

"Then go up in the parlor."

"The parlor!" his mother shrieked.

"I'll go to bed," said Charles. "I know my lesson."

There was a light in the upper hall. On the second floor were the
sleeping-chambers. Charles' was the back hall room. He could see very
well from the light up the stairway.

What happened in the basement dining-room he could not even imagine. His
father so seldom interfered in any matter, and his mother had a way of
talking him down. But Charles was asleep when they came to bed.

Still, he had a rather hard day on Sunday. His mother was coldly severe
and captious. Once she said:

"I can't bear to look at you, you are so disfigured! If that is what
your father calls style----" and she shook her head disapprovingly.

He went to church and Sunday-school, and then his father took him up to
Tompkins Square for a walk. It seemed as if they had never been
acquainted before. Why, his father was real jolly. And it was a nice
week at school after the boys got done asking him "Who his Barber was?"
He could see the big B they put to it.

On Saturday afternoon Mrs. Reed had to go out shopping with a cousin.
She was an excellent shopper. She could find flaws, and beat down, and
get a spool of cotton or a piece of tape thrown in. When Charles came
home from singing-school he was to go over to the Deans and play in the
back yard. He was not to be out on the sidewalk at all.

They were going to have a splendid time. Elsie and Florence Hay would
bring their dolls. Even Josie envied the pretty names, though she
confessed to Hanny that she didn't think Hay was nice, because it made
you think of "hay, straw, oats" on the signs at the feed stores. But the
girls were very sweet and pleasant. Nora had come in with the cat
dressed in one of her own long baby frocks.

Hanny ran in to get her doll. It was still her choice possession, and
had been named and unnamed. Her mother began to think she was too big to
play with dolls, but Margaret had made it such a pretty wardrobe.

Ben sat at the front basement window reading. Mr. and Mrs. Underhill had
gone up to see Miss Lois, who was far from well. Margaret was out on
"professional rounds," which Ben thought quite a suggestive little
phrase. Martha was scrubbing and of course he couldn't talk to her. He
had cut the side of his foot with a splinter of glass, and his mother
would not allow him to put on his shoe.

Hanny brought down her doll. Ben looked rather wistfully at her.

"I wish you'd come in too. We're going to have such a nice time," she
said in a soft tone.

"I'd look fine playing with dolls."

"But you needn't really play with dolls. Mrs. Dean doesn't. She's the
grandmother. We go to visit her, and she tells us about the old times,
just as Aunt Nancy and Aunt Patience do. Of course she wasn't there
really, she makes believe, you know. And you might be the--the----"

"Grandfather who had lost his leg in the war."

Ben laughed. He had half a mind to go.

"Oh, that would be splendid. And you could be a prisoner when the
British held New York. There'd be such lots to talk about. You could
wear John's slipper, you see----"

She smiled so persuasively. She would never be as handsome as Margaret,
but she had such tender, coaxing eyes, and such a sweet mouth.

"Well, I'll bring my book along." It was one of Cooper's novels that
boys were going wild over just then. "Do you really think they'd like to
have me?"

"Oh, I know they would," eagerly.

Ben had to walk rather one-sided. Joe said he must not bear any weight
on the outside of his foot to press the wound open.

"I've brought Ben," announced the little girl. "And he's going to be a
Revolutionary soldier."

"We are very glad to see him," and Mrs. Dean rose. She had a white
kerchief crossed on her breast, and a pretty cap pinned up for the
occasion.

The yard was shady in the afternoon. There was a piece of carpet spread
on the grass, and some chairs arranged on it, and two or three rugs laid
around. On the space paved with brick stood the table, and two boxes
were the dish closets. There were some cradles, and a bed arranged on
another box. It really was a pretty picture.

Josie and Charles were generally the mother and father of one household.
Charles blushed up to the roots of his hair. He liked playing with the
girls, when he was the only boy, with no one to laugh at him.

"Now you mustn't mind me or I shall go back home and stay all alone,"
said Ben. That appealed to everybody's sympathy. "I'm coming over here
to talk to grandmother about what we did when we were young."

Grandmother had some knitting. People even then knit their husband's
winter stockings because they wore so much better. "And Mrs.
Pennypacker, you might come and call on us."

Nora laughed. That was Ben's favorite name for her when she had the cat.

The soft gray head and the gray paws looked rather queer out of the long
white dress. Pussy Gray had a white nose and his eyes were fastened in
with a black streak that looked like a ribbon.

"How is your son to-day?" Ben inquired.

"He is pretty well, except he's getting some teeth. Ain't you, darling?"
and Nora hugged him up.

"Wow," said Kitty softly.

"Have you had the doctor?"

"No-o," answered Kitty, looking up pathetically.

"I'm afraid I've neglected him," explained Mrs. Pennypacker. "You poor
darling! But your mother has been so busy."

"Meaow," said Kitty resignedly.

"Are you hungry, dear? Would you like a bit of cold chicken? He has to
have something to keep up his strength. Teething is so hard on
children."

"Me-e-a-ow," returned Kitty, with plaintive affirmation.

Mrs. Pennypacker went over to the table and gave him a mouthful of
something. If it wasn't chicken it answered the purpose. Then she sat
down to rock him to sleep and asked Ben in what battle he had lost his
leg.

Ben thought it was the battle of White Plains. He was very young at the
time.

"How hard it must be to have a wooden leg," sighed Nora. "And of course
you can't dance a bit."

"Oh, no, indeed!"

"Did they treat you very badly when you were a prisoner?"

"Dreadful," answered Ben. "They didn't give us half enough to eat."

"That was terrible. I hope you'll be contented here, where everything is
so nice and cheerful. I am going to see Mr. and Mrs. Brown now."

"Please give them my compliments and tell them I should be very happy to
have them call."

Charles had been watching Ben furtively with an apprehension that the
real enjoyment of the afternoon would be spoiled. And no doubt he would
tell the Houston Street boys "all about it." He was hardly prepared to
see Ben enter so into the spirit of the "make believe."

Then Ben and Mrs. Dean had a little talk that might have been considered
an anachronism, since it was about the foot still fast to his body. He
had stepped on a piece of glass in the stable, and it had gone through
the old shoe he had on for that kind of work. But Joe had seen it that
morning and thought it would get along all right.

They were talking very eagerly over the other side of the city. And
presently quite a procession came to call on the old veteran. Ben and
Charles fell into a discussion about some battles, and the misfortune it
was to the country to lose New York so early in the contest. They
compared their favorite generals and discussed the prospect of war with
Mexico that was beginning to be talked about. And Mr. Brown said he had
some cousins who were very anxious to see an old soldier of the
Revolution. Could he bring them over?

Then Elsie and Florence Hay came. Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Pennypacker asked
him to tea and he said he should be glad to accept.

Mrs. Dean thought they had better have their tea in the dining-room, but
Josie said let them spread the cloth on the coping of the area, and
bring the chairs and benches just inside. Charles said that would be a
sort of Roman feast and the guests would make believe there were
couches. They put down papers and then a cloth, and Josie brought out
her dishes. Grandmother held the Pennypacker baby, who certainly was the
best cat in the world and settled himself down, white dress and all.

Ben asked Charles if he was studying Roman history, and found he was
reading the Orations of Cicero in Latin, and knew a great deal about
Greece and Rome. He had read most of Sir Walter Scott's novels, and
liked "Marmion" beyond everything.

"What was he going to do--enter college?"

"Mother wants me to. Father says I may if I like."

He colored a little, but did not say his mother had set her heart on his
being a minister because his Uncle Robert, who died, had intended to
enter that profession. Ben said the boys, John and the doctor, wanted
him to go, but he wished he could be a newspaper man like Nora's father.
His mother thought it a kind of shiftless business. They talked over
their likes and dislikes in boy fashion, and Charles enjoyed it
immensely. He thought it would be just royal to have a big brother who
was a doctor, and a little sister like Hanny.

Meanwhile the little women had been very much engrossed with their
children and their tea party, and the prospect of a grandmother and an
old soldier coming to visit them.

"And Mr. Brown is so heedless," said Mrs. Brown. "He ought to be here to
go to the store, but he's off talking and men are so absent-minded."

Elsie said she'd go to the store, which was the closet in the basement.

Then the company came, and the old soldier limped dreadfully. Mrs. Brown
scolded her husband a little, and then excused him, and everybody was
seated in a row. There was a plate of thin bread-and-butter, some smoked
beef cut in small pieces, some sugar crackers, quite a fad of that day,
and a real cake. Mrs. Dean had given them half of a newly baked one.

It was quite a tea. Mr. Dean came home in the midst of it and
sympathized warmly with the hero of 1776, and was extremely courteous to
grandmother. The little girls cleared away the dishes, put their
children to bed, had a fine swing and played "Puss in the Corner" with
two sets.

Mr. Reed came in for Charles.

"I wish you'd come over and see my boy," he said to Ben. "He's a rather
lonely chap, having no brothers or sisters."

"Let him come over to our house," returned Ben cordially. "We have a
good supply."

Then everybody dispersed. They'd had such a good time, and were eager in
their acknowledgments.

"Why, I quite like John Robert Charles," said Ben. "He's a real smart
fellow."

"If you would please not call him all those names," entreated Hanny. "He
doesn't like them."

"Well, I should say not. I'd like just plain Bob. He wants the
girlishness shaken out of him."

"But he's so nice. And if he should come over please don't let Jim
plague him."

"Oh, I'll look out."

It was a week before Ben could put on his shoe, and of course it was not
wisdom for him to go to school. He went down-town in the wagon and did
some writing and accounts for Steve, and read a great deal. Mr. Reed and
Charles sauntered over one evening. Hanny was sitting out on the stoop
with "father and the boys," and gave Charles a soft, welcoming smile.
Margaret was playing twilight tunes in a gentle manner, and the dulcet
measures fascinated the boy, who could hardly pay attention to what Ben
was saying.

"Do you want to go in and hear her?" Hanny asked, with quick insight as
she caught his divided attention.

"Oh, if I could!" eagerly.

"Yes." Hanny rose and held out her hand, saying: "We are going in to
Margaret."

The elder sister greeted them cordially. After playing a little she
asked them if they would not like to sing.

They chose "Mary to the Saviour's Tomb" first. It was a great favorite
in those days. The little girl liked it because she could play and sing
it for her father. She was taking music lessons of Margaret's teacher
now, and practised her scales and exercises with such assiduity that she
had been allowed to play this piece. She did sometimes pick out tunes,
but it was after the real work was done.

"Your boy has a fine voice," said John to Mr. Reed.

The father was not quite sure singing was manly. He had roused to the
fact that Charles was rather "girly," and he wanted him like other boys.

"He is a good scholar," his father returned in half protest. "Stands
highest in his class."

"Going to send him to college?"

"I don't just know," hesitatingly.

"Has he any fancy for a profession? He'd make an attractive minister."

"I don't know as I have much of a fancy for that."

Mr. Reed knew it was his wife's hope and ambition, but it had never
appealed to him.

"The boys want Ben to go to college," said John, the "boys" standing for
the two older brothers.

"I don't want to be a lawyer nor a doctor," subjoined Ben decisively.
"And I shouldn't be good enough for a minister. There ought to be some
other professions."

"Why, there are. Professorships, civil engineering, and so on."

While the men discussed future chances, the children were singing, and
their sweet young voices moved both fathers curiously. Mr. Reed decided
that he would cultivate his neighbor, even if Charles had not made much
headway with Ben and Jim.




CHAPTER XVI

DAISY JASPER


What to do with Ben was the next question of importance. He was fond of
books, an omnivorous reader, in fact, a very fair scholar, and, with a
certain amount of push, could have graduated the year before. He really
was not longing for college.

There was only one line of horse-cars, and that conveyed the passengers
of the Harlem Railroad from the station on Broome Street to the
steam-cars up-town. Only a few trains beside the baggage and freight cars
were allowed through the city. Consequently a boy's ambition had not
been roused to the height of being a "car conductor" at that period. A
good number counted on "running wid de machine" when they reached the
proper age, but boys were not allowed to hang around the engine-houses.
Running with the machine was something in those days. There were no
steam-engines. Everything was drawn by a long rope, the men ranged on
either side. The force of the stream of water was also propelled by main
strength, and the "high throwing" was something to be proud of. There
was a good deal of rivalry among the companies to see who could get to a
fire the first. Sometimes, indeed, it led to quite serious affrays if
two parties met at a crossing. "Big Six" never gave up for any one.
"Forty-one" was another famous engine on the East side. Indeed they had
a rather menacing song they sometimes shouted out to their rivals, which
contained these two blood-curdling lines:

    "From his heart the blood shall run
    By the balls of Forty-one."

Later on the fights and disturbances became so bitter that the police
had to interfere, and as the city grew larger some new method of
expediting matters had to be considered. But the "fire laddies" were a
brave, generous set of men, who turned out any time of day or night and
dragged their heavy engines over the rough cobble-stones with a spirit
and enthusiasm hard to match. They received no pay, but were exempt from
jury duty, and after a number of years of service had certain privileges
granted them. Jim counted strongly on being a fireman. John had
sometimes gone to fires but was not a "regular."

But all differences were forgotten in the "great fire," as it was called
for a long time. There had been one about ten years before that had
devastated a large part of the city. And in February of this year there
had been quite a tragic one in the Tribune Building. There was a fierce
drifting snowstorm, so deep it was impossible to drag the engines
through it, and some of the hydrants were frozen. Men had jumped from
the windows to save their lives, and there had been quite a panic.

Early in the gray dawn of July nineteenth, a watchman discovered flames
issuing from an oil store on New Street. A carpenter shop next door was
soon in flames. A large building in which quantities of saltpetre was
stored caught next. A dense smoke filled the air, and a sudden explosive
sound shot out a long tongue of flame that crossed the street. At
intervals of a few moments others followed, causing everybody to fly for
their lives. And at last one grand deafening burst like a tremendous
clap of thunder, and the whole vicinity was in a blaze. Bricks and
pieces of timber flew through the air, injuring many people. Then the
fire spread far and wide, one vast, roaring, crackling sheet of flame.
One brave fireman and several other people were killed, and Engine 22
was wrecked in the explosion.

It was said at first that powder had been stored in the building, but it
was proved on investigation that the saltpetre alone was the dangerous
agent. Three hundred and forty-five buildings were destroyed, at a loss,
it was estimated, of ten millions of dollars. For days there was an
immense throng about the place. The ruins extended from Bowling Green to
Exchange Place.

A relic of Revolutionary times perished in this fire. The bell of the
famous Provost prison, that had been used by the British during their
occupancy of the city, had been removed when the building was remodelled
and placed on the Bridewell at the west of the City Hall, and used for a
fire-alarm bell. When the Bridewell had been destroyed it was
transferred to the cupola of the Naiad Hose Company in Beaver Street. It
rang out its last alarm that morning, for engine house and bell perished
in the flames.

Stephen had been very fortunate in that he was out of the fire district.
He took Margaret and Hanny down to view the great space heaped with
blackened débris, and when a fire alarm was given the little girl used
to shiver with fright for months afterward.

And now schools were considering their closing exercises, and parents of
big boys were puzzled to know just where to start them in life. Ben
declared his preference at last--he wanted to be some sort of a
newspaper man.

They called Mr. Whitney in to council. He was not quite sure he would
recommend beginning there. It would be better to learn the trade
thoroughly at such a place as the Harpers'. Then there would always be
something to fall back upon. Steve did not cordially approve, and Dr.
Joe was quite disappointed. He was ready to help Ben through college.

Newspaper people did not rank as high then as now. There was a good deal
of what came to be called Bohemianism among them, and it was not of the
artistic type. For the one really good position there were a dozen
precarious ones.

Aunt Nancy Archer rather amused them with another objection. She wasn't
at all sure the publishing of so many novels was conducive to the
advancement of morals and religion. She never could quite understand how
so good a man as Brother Harper could lend it countenance. When she was
young the girls of her time were reading Hannah More. And there was Mrs.
Chapone's letters, and now Charlotte Elizabeth and Mrs. Sigourney.

"Did you know Hannah More wrote a novel?" inquired John, with a half
smile of his father's humor. "And Mrs. Barbauld and Mrs. Edgeworth and
Charlotte Elizabeth's stories are in the novel form."

"But they have a high moral. And there are so many histories for young
people to read. They ought to have the real truth instead of silly
make-believes and trashy love stories."

"There are some histories that would be rather terrible reading for
young minds," said John. "I think I'll bring you two or three, Aunt
Nancy."

"But histories are true."

"There are a great many sad and bitter truths in the world. And the
stories must have a certain amount of truth in them or they would never
gain a hearing. Do we not find some of the most beautiful stories in the
Bible itself?"

"Well, I can't help thinking all this novel reading is going to do harm
to our young people. Their minds will get flighty, and they will lose
all taste and desire for solid things. They are beginning to despise
work already."

"Aunt Nancy," said Ben, with a deprecating smile, "the smartest girl I
know lives just below here. She does most all the housekeeping, she can
wash and iron and sweep and sew, and she reads novels by the score. She
just races through them. I do believe she knows as much about Europe as
any of our teachers. And I never dreamed there had been such tremendous
conquests in Asia, and such wonderful things in Egypt until I heard her
talk about them; and she knows about the great men and generals and
rulers who lived before the Christian era, and at the time Christ was
born----"

Aunt Nancy gasped.

"Of course there were Old Testament times," she returned hesitatingly.

"And I am not sure but Mayor Harper is doing a good work in
disseminating knowledge of all kinds. I believe we are to try all things
and hold fast to that which is good," said John.

He brought Aunt Nancy the history of Peter the Great and the famous
Catharine of Russia, but she admitted that they were too cruel and too
terrible for any one to take pleasure in.

Mrs. Underhill and Margaret went to the closing exercises of Houston
Street school. Jim as usual had a splendid oration, one of Patrick
Henry's. Ben acquitted himself finely. There was a large class of boys
who had finished their course, and the principal made them an admirable
address, in which there was much good counsel and not a little judicious
praise as well as beneficial advice concerning their future.

But at Mrs. Craven's there was something more than the ordinary
exercises. The front parlor was turned into an audience-room, and a
platform was raised a little in the back parlor almost like a stage.
There was a dialogue that was a little play in itself, and displayed the
knowledge as well as the training of the pupils. Some compositions were
read, and part of a little operetta was sung quite charmingly by the
girls. Then there was a large table spread out with specimens of
needlework that were really fine; drawing, painting, and penmanship that
elicited much praise from the visitors.

The crowning pleasure was the little party given in the evening, to
which any one was at liberty to invite a brother or cousin, or indeed a
neighbor of whom their mother approved. And strange to relate, there
were a good many boys who were really pleased to be asked to the "girls'
party." Charles Reed came and had a delightful time. Josie had waylaid
Mr. Reed again and told him all about it, and hoped he would let Charles
come, and he said he would be very happy to. Mrs. Reed did not approve
of parties for children, and Charles had been but to very few.

Mr. Underhill and Dr. Joe went down to the Harpers', having decided to
place Ben there to learn a trade. Thinking it all over, he resolved to
acquiesce, though he told Hanny privately that some day he meant to have
a newspaper of his own and be the head of everything. But he supposed he
would have to learn first.

Margaret and Hanny went with them, and found many changes since their
first visit. The making of a book seemed a still more wonderful thing to
the child, but how one could ever be written puzzled her beyond all. A
composition on something she had seen or read was within the scope of
her thought, but to tell about people and make them talk, and have
pleasant and curious and sad and joyous happenings, did puzzle her
greatly.

Ben was not to go until the first of September. So he would help Steve,
go to the country for a visit, and have a good time generally before he
began his life-work. Stephen's house was approaching completion, and it
was wonderful to see how the rows of buildings were stretching out, as
if presently the city would be depleted of its residents. One wondered
where all the people came from.

John Robert Charles had grown quite confidential with his father and
began to think him as nice as Mr. Underhill--not as funny, for Mr.
Underhill had a way of joking and telling amusing stories and teasing a
little, that was very entertaining, and never sharp or ill-natured.

He had carried off the honors of his class and was proud of it. Mr. Reed
showed his satisfaction as well. Mrs. Reed was rather doubtful and
severe, and thought it her duty to keep Charles from undue vanity. She
was in a fret because she had to go away and leave the house and waste a
whole month.

"I don't want to go," said Charles to his father. "It's awful lonesome
up there in the mountains, and there's no one to talk to. Aunt Rhoda's
deaf, and Aunt Persis hushes you up if you say a word. And the old
gardener is stupid. There are no books to read, and I do get so tired."

"Well, we'll see," replied his father.

To his wife Mr. Reed said: "Why do you go off if you don't want to?"

"I won't have Charles running the streets and getting into bad company,
and wearing out his clothes faster than I can mend them," she replied
shortly.

It would not be entertaining for Charles in his office, and he didn't
just see what the boy could do. But he met a friend who kept a sort of
fancy toy store, musical instruments and some curios, down Broadway, and
learned that they were very much in want of a trusty, reliable lad who
was correct in figures and well-mannered. A woman came in the morning to
sweep the store and sidewalk, to wash up the floor and windows, and do
the chores. So there was no rough work.

"I'll send my boy down and see how you like him. I think he would fancy
the place, and during the month you might find some one to take it
permanently. There seems to be no lack of boys."

"You can't always find the right sort," said Mr. Gerard. "Yes, I shall
be glad to try him."

Mr. Reed did not set forth the matter too attractively to his wife, not
even to Charles, who had learned to restrain his enthusiasm before his
mother. And though she made numerous objections, and the thought of bad
company seemed to haunt her, she reluctantly decided to let him try it
for a week. He would go down in the morning with his father, so he could
not possibly begin his day in mischief.

Charles was delighted. The city was not over-crowded then. The Park gave
"down-town" quite a breathing space.

Now a boy would think it very hard not to have any vacation after eleven
months of study. He would be so tired and worn and nervous that ten
weeks would be none too much. The children then studied hard and played
hard and were eager to have a good time, and generally did have it. And
now Charles was delighted with the newness of the affair. He walked up
at night fresh and full of interest, and was quite a hero to the girls
over on Mrs. Dean's stoop.

"I hope you will bring them down even if you shouldn't want to buy
anything. Mr. Gerard said the stock was low now, as it is the dullest
season of the year. But there are such beautiful articles for gifts,
china cups and saucers and dainty pitchers and vases, and sets like
yours, Josie, some ever so much smaller, and a silver knife and fork and
spoon in a velvet case, and lovely little fruit-knives and nut-picks and
ever so many things I have never heard of. And musical instruments,
flutes and flageolets and violins, and oh, the accordeons! There are
German and French. Oh, I wish I could own one. I know I could soon
learn to play on it!" declared Charles eagerly.

In that far-back time an accordeon really was considered worth one's
while. A piano was quite an extravagance. A good player could evoke real
music out of it, and at that period it had not been handed over to the
saloons. In fact, saloons were not in fashion.

The children listened enchanted. It was a great thing to know any one in
such a store. Mrs. Dean promised to take them all down.

Hanny had a new source of interest. Dr. Joe had told her a very moving
story when he was up to tea on Sunday evening, about a little girl who
had been two months in the hospital and who had just come home for good
now, who lived only a little way below them. It was Daisy Jasper, whom
they had seen a little while last summer in a wheeling chair, and who
had disappeared before any one's curiosity could be satisfied. She was
an only child, and her parents were very comfortably well off. When
Daisy was about six years old, a fine, healthy, and beautiful little
girl, she had trodden on a spool dropped by a careless hand and fallen
down a long flight of stairs. Beside a broken arm and some bruises she
did not seem seriously injured. But after a while she began to complain
of her back and her hip, and presently the sad knowledge dawned upon
them that their lovely child was likely to be a cripple. Various
experiments were tried until she became so delicate her life appeared
endangered. Mr. Jasper had been attracted to this pretty row of houses
standing back from the street with the flower gardens in front. It
seemed secluded yet not lonely. She grew so feeble, however, that the
doctors had recommended Sulphur Springs in Virginia, and thither they
had taken her. When the cool weather came on they had gone farther south
and spent the winter in Florida. She had improved and gained sufficient
strength, the doctors thought, to endure an operation. It had been
painful and tedious, but she had borne it all so patiently. Dr. Mott and
Dr. Francis had done their best, but she would always be a little
deformed. The prospect was that some day she might walk without a
crutch. Joe had seen a good deal of her, and at one visit he had told
her of his little sister who was just her age, as their birthdays were
in May.

Hanny had cried over the sorrowful tale. She thought of her early story
heroine, "Little Blind Lucy," whose sight had been so marvellously
restored. But Daisy could never be quite restored to straightness.

After supper Joe had taken her down to call on Daisy. Oh, how pretty the
gardens were, a beautiful spot of greenery and bloom, such a change from
the pavements! A narrow brick walk ran up to the house, edged with rows
of dahlias just coming into bloom. On the other side there were circles
and triangles and diamond-shaped beds with borders of small flowers, or
an entire bed of heliotrope or verbena. The very air was fragrant. Up
near the house was a kind of pavilion with a tent covering to shield one
from the sun.

Daisy, with her mother and aunt, were sitting out here when Dr. Joe
brought his little sister. Daisy's chair was so arranged that the back
could be adjusted to any angle. It was of bamboo and cane with a soft
blanket thrown over it, a pretty rose color that lighted up the pale
little girl whose languor was still perceptible.

After a little Mrs. Jasper took Dr. Joe into the house, as she wanted to
question him. Then Hanny and Daisy grew more confidential. Daisy asked
about the children in the neighborhood and thought she would like to see
Nora and Pussy Gray. She was very fond of cats, but theirs, a very good
mouser, was bad-tempered and wanted no petting. And then the Dean girls
and Flossy and Elsie Hay, and last but not least of all, Charles Reed
with his beautiful voice.

"I do so dearly love music," said Daisy longingly. "Auntie plays but she
doesn't sing. Mamma knows a good many old-fashioned songs that are
lovely. When I am tired and nervous she sings to me. I don't suppose I
can ever learn to play for myself," she ended sadly.

Hanny told her she was learning and could play "Mary to the Saviour's
Tomb" for her father. And there were the boys and Stephen and her lovely
married sister Dolly and her own sister Margaret.

"Oh, how happy you must be!" cried Daisy. "I should like such a lot of
people. I never had any brothers or sisters, and I do get so lonesome.
And the doctor is so pleasant and sweet; you must love him a great
deal."

"I can't tell which one is best. Steve teases and says funny things, and
is--oh, just as nice as any one can be! And John is splendid, too. And
Ben is going to learn to make books, and I can have all the books I
want."

Daisy sighed. She was very fond of reading, but it soon tired her.

"I should so like to see you all. You know I've never been much with
children. And I like live people. I want to hear them talk and sing and
see them play. One gets tired of dolls."

"If you would like I will bring Nora and Pussy Gray. And I know Josie's
mother will let them come. If you could be wheeled up on our sidewalk."

"Oh, that would be delightful!" and the soft eyes glowed.

Hanny had taken Nora the very next afternoon, and Pussy Gray had been
just too good for anything. Daisy had to laugh at the conversations
between him and Nora. It really did sound as if he said actual words.
And they told Daisy about the time they went to the Museum and had a
double share for their money. Daisy laughed heartily, and her pale
cheeks took on a pretty pink tint.

"You are so good to come," said Mrs. Jasper. "My little girl has had so
much suffering in her short life that I want her to have all the
pleasure possible now."

Josie and Tudie Dean had been out spending the day, and really, there
was so much to tell that it was nine o'clock before it was all
discussed. Charles was very much interested in Daisy Jasper.

"You know I can tell just how she feels about not having any brothers
and sisters," he exclaimed. "I've wished for them so many times. And I
do think Hanny is the luckiest of the lot; she has so many. It is like
a little town to yourself."

"I'm so glad it is vacation," declared Josie. "If we were going to
school we wouldn't have half time for anything."

Mr. Underhill came for his little girl. While he was exchanging a few
words with Mr. Dean Hanny caught one hand in both of hers and hopped
around on one foot. She was so glad she could do it. Poor Daisy, with
her beautiful name, who could never know the delight of exuberant
spirits.

Hanny's thoughts did not take in the long word, but that was what she
felt in every fibre of her being.

Charles wondered how she dared. He was frightened when he caught his
father's hand with an impulse of gratitude. But in pure fun!

There was quite a stir with the little clique in the upper end of the
block. Mrs. Underhill, Mrs. Dean, and Margaret called on their neighbor,
and the wheeled chair came up the street a day or two after. It had to
go to the corner and cross on the flagging, as the jar would have been
too great on cobble stones. They had a young colored lad now who kept
the garden in order, did chores, and waited upon "Missy" as he called
her.

The sidewalk was generally sunny in the afternoon, but this day it was
soft and gray without being very cloudy. The chariot halted at the
Underhills'. The little girls brought their dolls to show Daisy, their
very best ones, and Nora dressed up Pussy Gray in the long white baby
dress, and pussy was very obliging and lay in Daisy's arms just like a
real baby. The child felt as if she wanted to kiss him.

What a pretty group of gossips they were! If Kate Greenaway had been
making pictures then, she would have wanted them, though their attire
was not quite as quaint as hers. They went up and down the steps, they
told Daisy so many bright, entertaining things, and the fun they had
with their plays. Josie's party was described, the closing exercises at
school, and the many incidents so important in child life. Sometimes two
or three talked together, or some one said, "It's my turn, now let me."
They referred to Charles so much it really piqued Daisy's curiosity.

"Jim calls him a 'girl-boy,' because he plays with us," said Hanny, "and
in some ways I like girl-boys best. Ben is a sort of girl-boy. I'm going
to bring him over to see you. Jim's real splendid and none of the boys
dare fight him any more," she added loyally.

"And first, you know," began Tudie in a mysteriously confidential
manner, "we thought it so queer and funny. His mother called him John
Robert Charles. And she used to look out of the window and ask him if he
had his books and his handkerchief, and tell him to come straight home
from school, and lots of things. Oh, we thought we wouldn't have her
for our mother, not for a world!"

"How did he come by so many names?" Daisy smiled.

"Well, grandfather and all," replied Tudie rather ambiguously. "His
father calls him Charles. It sounds quite grand, doesn't it? We all
wanted to call him Robert. And Hanny's big sister sings such a lovely
song--"Robin Adair." I'd like to call him that."

"I should so like to hear him sing. I'm so fond of singing," said Daisy
plaintively.

"Now if we were in the back yard we could all sing," rejoined Josie.
"But of course we couldn't in the street with everybody going by."

"Oh, no!" Yet there was a wistful longing in Daisy's face, that was
beginning to look very tired.

There were not many people going through this street. Houston Street was
quite a thoroughfare. But the few who did pass looked at the merry group
of girls and at the pale invalid whose chair told the story, and gave
them all a tender, sympathetic thought.

All except Lily Ludlow. She was rather curious about the girl in the
chair and made an errand out to the Bowery. When Hanny saw who was
coming she turned around and talked very eagerly to Elsie Hay, and
pretended not to know it. Lily had her President, and Jim admired her,
that was enough.

"You're very tired, Missy," Sam said presently.

"Yes," replied Daisy. "I think I'll go home now. And will you all come
to see me to-morrow? Oh, it is so nice to know you all! And Pussy Gray
is just angelic. Please bring him, too."

They said good-by. For some moments the little girls looked at each
other with wordless sorrow in their eyes. I think there were tears as
well.




CHAPTER XVII

SOME OF THE OLD LANDMARKS


"Yes, all of us," said Ben. "We can tuck in the Deans. I only wish
Charles could go. Well, the house won't run away. And Mr. Audubon has
travelled all over the world. Mr. Whitney wrote an article about him.
That's the work I'd like to do--go and see famous people and write about
them."

Interviewing was not such a fine art in those days. Ben had enough of it
later on.

Dr. Joe had asked Mr. Audubon's permission to bring a crowd of children
to see him and his birds. He was getting to be quite an attraction in
the city.

When they packed up they found a crowd sure enough. But Dr. Hoffman took
Margaret and the little girl with him, as Charles had been allowed a
half day off for the trip. The drive was so full of interest. They went
up past the old Stuyvesant place and took a look at the pear-tree that
had been planted almost two hundred years ago and was still bearing
fruit. Then they turned into the old Bloomingdale Road, and up by
Seventy-fifth Street they all stopped to see the house where Louis
Philippe taught school when he was an emigrant in America. And now he
was on the throne, King of the French people, a grander and greater
position, some thought, than being President of the United States.

"For of course," said Jim, "he can stay there all his life, and the
President has only four years in the White House. After all, it is a big
thing to be a king."

And in a little more than two years he was flying over to England for
refuge and safety, and was no longer a king. Mr. Polk was still in the
White House.

It was an odd, low, two-story frame house where royalty had been
thankful to teach such boys as Ben and Jim and Charles. There was a
steep, sloping roof with wide eaves, a rather narrow doorway in the
middle of the front, carved with very elaborate work, and an old knocker
with a lion's head, small but fierce. The large room on one side had
been the schoolroom, and the board floor was worn in two curious rows
where the boys had shuffled their feet. The fireplace was what most
people came to see. It was spacious and had a row of blue and white
Antwerp tiles with pictures taken from the New Testament. They were
smoked and faded now, but they still told their story. The mantelpiece
and the doors were a mass of the most elaborate carving.

There were still some old houses standing in New York that had been
built with bricks brought from Holland. Charles was very much interested
in these curiosities and had found one of the houses down in Pearl
Street.

Then they drove up through McGowan's Pass, where Washington had planned
to make a decisive stand at the battle of Harlem Heights. There was the
ledge of rock and the pretty lake that was to be Central Park some day.
It was all wildness now.

There was so much to see that Dr. Joe declared they had no more time to
spend following Washington's retreat.

"But it was just grand that he should come back here to be inaugurated
the first President of the United States," said Charles. "I am proud of
having had that in New York."

"The city has a great many famous points," said Dr. Joe; "but we seem to
have lost our enthusiasm over them. Beyond there," nodding his head over
east, "is the Murray House that can tell its story. Handsome Mrs.
Murray, and she was a Quaker, too, made herself so charming in her
hospitality to the British generals that she detained them long enough
for Silliman's brigade to retreat to Harlem. Washington was awaiting
them at the Apthorpe House, and they had left that place not more than
fifteen minutes when the British came flying in the hot haste of
pursuit. So but for Mrs. Murray's smiles and friendliness they might
have captured our Washington as well as the city."

"That was splendid," declared Charles enthusiastically.

"And maybe as a boy Lindley Murray might have thought up his grammar
that he was to write later on to puzzle your brains," continued Dr. Joe.

"Well, that is odd, too. I'll forgive him his grammar," said Ben, with a
twinkle in his eye.

"And if we don't go on we will have no time for Professor Audubon and
the birds. But we could ramble about all day."

"I didn't know there were so many interesting things in the city. They
seem somehow a good ways off when you are studying them," replied
Charles.

He really wished Hanny was in the carriage. She was so eager about all
these old stories.

Then they went over to Tenth Avenue. There was the old Colonial house,
