
"Out of the way, there!" he called out, as a shabbily-dressed stranger
with a weary step plodded along the pathway.

Whether because he was hard of hearing or because his mind was
preoccupied, the stranger did not heed the warning, and Clarence, who
might easily have avoided the collision, ran into him recklessly. Had
the bicycle been moving at a greater rate of speed, he might have been
seriously hurt. As it was, he was nearly thrown down.

But he rallied, and seizing the offending rider with no gentle grasp,
dragged him from the wheel and shook him vigorously.

"Let me alone, you tramp!" exclaimed Clarence, furiously.

But the stranger did not release his hold.

"Not till you apologize for running into me," he answered sternly.

"Apologize to a man like you!" ejaculated Clarence, struggling
furiously for his freedom. "What do you take me for?"

"For an impudent young rascal," was the reply.

"Let me alone, I tell you!"

"Will you apologize?"

"There is no need of an apology. You got in my way."

"You have no business on the sidewalk with your bicycle. It is meant
for foot-passengers."

"Do you know who I am?" demanded Clarence, haughtily.

"No, I don't, nor do I care."

"I am Clarence Ray, son of Squire Stephen Ray. He is a magistrate, and
he can send you to jail."

These words of Clarence had the effect he desired. The stranger
released him and eyed him with close scrutiny.

"So you are the son of Stephen Ray?" he said.

"Yes. What have you to say now?"

"That you had no right to run into me, whoever your father may be."

"I shall report your insolence to my father. I shall charge you with
violently assaulting me."

"I might have known you were Stephen Ray's son," said the stranger
thoughtfully.

"Do you know my father?" asked Clarence in considerable surprise.

"I am on my way to call upon him."

"I don't think it will do any good. He never gives money to tramps."

"I have a great mind to give you another shaking up," said the man,
and in some fear Clarence edged away from him.

It was evident that this shabby-looking stranger had not a proper
respect for those who were in a higher station.

"I will tell him not to give you anything," continued Clarence.

"Like father, like son," said the stranger thoughtfully, apparently
not disturbed by the boy's threats.

Evidently he was no common tramp, or he would have been more
respectful to the son of the man from whom he was probably about to
ask a favor.

"You just wait till you see my father. He'll give you a lecture that
you won't soon forget."

"You'd better get on your wheel, boy, and go right along," said the
stranger calmly.

"Do you know where my father lives?"

"Yes, at yonder fine house. I see him sitting out on the piazza. Shall
we go along together?"

"No, I don't keep such company as you. Tramps are not my style."

"And yet some day you may be as poor and friendless as myself."

"That isn't very likely; my father is a very rich man."

"I knew him when he was poor."

More and more puzzled by the independent manner of this shabby
stranger, Clarence made a spurt, and soon found himself in the grounds
of his father's house.

"With whom were you talking, Clarence?" asked Stephen Ray, as his son
joined him on the piazza.

"One of the most impudent tramps I ever came across," answered
Clarence. "He made an attack upon me, and pulled me from my bicycle."

Stephen Ray's cheek flamed with anger. An insult to his son was an
insult to him.

"Why did he do this? How dared he?" he demanded angrily.

"Because I happened to touch him as I passed," answered Clarence.

"He actually pulled you from your bicycle?" asked Stephen Ray, almost
incredulous.

"Yes."

"I should like to meet him. I should feel justified in ordering his
arrest."

"You will have a chance to meet him. He told me he was going to call
upon you there he is now, entering the gate."

Stephen was glad to hear it. He wanted to empty the vials of his wrath
on the audacious offender. He prided himself on his grand manner.

He was accustomed to seeing men of the stamp of this stranger quail
before him and show nervous alarm at his rebukes. He had no doubt that
his majestic wrath would overwhelm the shabby outcast who had
audaciously assaulted his son and heir.

He rose to his feet, and stood the personification of haughty
displeasure as the poor man, who dared his anger, walked composedly up
the path. He now stood by the piazza steps.

"It is well you have come here," began the squire in a dignified tone.
"My son tells me that you have committed an unprovoked outrage upon
him in dragging him from his wheel. I can only conclude that you are
under the influence of liquor."

Stephen Ray waited curiously to hear what the man would say. He was
prepared for humble apologies.

"I am no more drunk than yourself, if that is what you mean, Stephen
Ray," was the unexpected reply.

Squire Ray was outraged and scandalized.

"You must be drunk or you would not dare to talk in this way. Who
authorized you to address me in this familiar way?"

"You are only a man, I believe, Stephen Ray. I have addressed you as
respectfully as you have spoken to me."

"Respect to you?" repeated Mr. Ray, disdainfully. "Has the time come
when we must be respectful to tramps?"

"A poor tramp is quite as deserving of respect as a rich rascal."

"What do you mean by that?" demanded the squire suspiciously.

"It was a general remark."

"It is well that it was. But it has no application in the present
instance. If you are poor I will give you a quarter, but only on
condition that you apologize to my son."

The stranger laughed.

"Why should I apologize to your son?" he asked.

"You pulled him off his bicycle. Do you deny it?"

"No, I do not. Do you know what he did?"

"He brushed against you with his wheel, he tells me, accidentally."

"So that is his version of it? He deliberately ran into me."

"I gave you warning. I said 'Out of the way, there!'" interrupted
Clarence.

"Yes, but you had no right on the side walk. That is meant for
foot-passengers."

"It seems to me, sir, that you are remarkably independent for a man of
your rank. Even if it had been as you say, you had no right to assault
my son. I might have you arrested on your own confession, but I will
forbear doing so on condition that you leave town at once."

"I have a little business with you, first, Stephen Ray."

"If you expect alms, you have come to the wrong man. I don't believe
in encouraging beggars."

"I know very well that you are not charitable. You see, I used to be
acquainted with you."

"Who are you?"

"My name is Benjamin Bolton."

Stephen Ray looked startled.

"Benjamin Bolton!" he repeated, half incredulous. "I can't believe
it."




CHAPTER XXV.

A STARTLING DISCLOSURE.

"Look at me closely, Stephen Ray," said the strange visitor. "I think
you will see some traces of the Bolton you used to know."

Stephen Ray, somewhat discomposed, did examine his visitor closely.
Against his will he was obliged to acknowledge the resemblance of the
man before him to one who in past times had had an intimate
acquaintance with his affairs.

"You may be Benjamin Bolton," he said after a pause, "but if so, you
have fallen off greatly in your appearance. When I first knew you, you
were well dressed and--"

"Respectable, I suppose you mean to say?"

"Well, respectable, if you will have it so. Now you look more like a
tramp than a lawyer."

"True as gospel, every word of it. But it isn't too late to mend.
That's an old proverb and a true one. It is quite in the line of
possibility that I should get back to the position from which I fell."

"Perhaps so, but I'm not sanguine of it."

"With your powerful help nothing is impossible--not even that."

"You must not count upon that," said Stephen Ray, stiffly. "It is a
good while since we parted company. I don't myself care to renew the
acquaintance."

"But I do," rejoined Bolton with emphasis. "I told you that I had
business with you."

"I have very little time at my disposal," said Ray, pulling out an
elegant gold watch--a Jurgensen--and consulting it.

"I think it may be well for you to spare me a little time," went on
Bolton, quietly.

There was something in his tone that sounded like a threat, and
Stephen Ray could not wholly conceal his uneasiness.

"Well," he said, "I will give you ten minutes. Get through your
business, whatever it is, as soon as possible."

"Hadn't you better send your son away?" suggested Bolton,
significantly.

"Why should I?"

But on second thoughts Mr. Ray concluded to act on the hint, and
turning to Clarence he said, "Clarence, you might take another spin on
your wheel."

This did not suit Clarence at all. His curiosity had been excited by
his father's change of front towards the objectionable stranger, and
he counted on finding out the reason for it.

"Why can't I stay?" he grumbled. "I am tired of riding."

"Then go up stairs. This man and I have a little private business
together."

He spoke firmly, and Clarence knew by his tone that further
remonstrance would be un availing, so with a dissatisfied look he left
the room.

"Now, sir," said Stephen Ray, sharply, when his son had taken his
departure, "I gave you ten minutes. You will need to be expeditious."

"It will take more than ten minutes--what I have to say," returned
Bolton, coolly. "I am rather tired of standing, so you will excuse me
if I sit down."

As he spoke he dropped into a comfortable chair three feet from his
host.

"Confound his impudence!" thought Ray, much annoyed.

"I think we had better go indoors," he said.

He did not care to be seen in an apparently friendly conversation with
a man like Bolton.

"Very well. I think myself it may be better."

He followed Ray into a room which the latter used as a library and
office, and took care to select a comfortable seat.

"Really, Stephen Ray," he remarked, glancing around him at the
well-filled bookcases, the handsome pictures, and the luxurious
furniture, "you are very nicely fixed here."

"I suppose you didn't come to tell me that," responded Stephen Ray
with a sneer.

"Well, not altogether, but it is as well to refer to it. I have known
you a good many years. I remember when you first came here to visit
your uncle in the character of a poor relation. I don't believe you
had a hundred dollars to your name."

Such references grated upon the purse-proud aristocrat, who tried to
persuade himself that he had always been as prosperous as at present.

"There is no occasion for your reminiscences," he said stiffly.

"No, I suppose you don't care to think of those days now. Your cousin,
Dudley, a fine young man, was a year or two older. Who would have
thought that the time would come when you--the poor cousin--would be
reigning in his place?"

"If that is all you have to say, our interview may as well close."

"It isn't all I have to say. I must indulge in a few more
reminiscences, though you dislike them. A few years passed. Dudley
married against his father's wishes; that is, his father did not
approve of his selection, and he fell out of favor. As he lost favor
you gained it."

"That is true enough, but it is an old story. Why recall it?"

"Does it seem just that an own son should be disinherited and a
stranger--"

"A near relative," corrected Stephen Ray.

"Well, a near relative, but less near than an only son. Does it seem
right that Dudley should have been disinherited and you put in his
place?"

"Certainly. My cousin disobeyed his father, while I was always dutiful
and obedient."

"So he was left in poverty."

"I don't see how that concerns you, Benjamin Bolton. My uncle had the
right to dispose of his property as he pleased. It was not for me to
question his right nor you."

"Probably Dudley Ray is living in poverty now."

"You are mistaken. He is dead."

"Indeed! Poor fellow. He was a generous and high-minded man."

"Whatever he may have been, he offended his father and suffered the
consequences."

"Too true!"

"But I fail to understand why you should have come to discuss this
matter with me."

"When did Dudley die?"

"I can't be sure as to the year. I think it was about a year after his
father's death."

"I presume that his father's injustice helped to hasten his end."

"I won't permit any reflections upon my dear uncle and benefactor. He
did what he liked with his own. He felt that the estate would be
better in my hands than in Dudley's."

"Admitting for a moment that this was so, did your heart prompt you to
bestow a part of the estate on your unfortunate cousin?"

"No; for I am sure my uncle would have disapproved of such action on
my part."

"Do you know if he suffered much from poverty?"

"No; I did not concern myself with that, nor need you."

"I would like to comment on one of your statements. You say that your
uncle had a right to dispose of his estate as he pleased."

"Do you dispute it?"

"No; I agree with you. Stephen Ray, was his estate disposed of
according to his wishes?"

Mr. Ray started, and his face became flushed.

"What do you mean?" he asked.

"I mean that he bequeathed the estate to his son, and you took
possession of it."

Bolton spoke slowly, and eyed Stephen Ray keenly.

"Are you mad?" gasped Stephen. "How could I do that? His will,
devising the estate to me, was duly probated, and I entered upon my
inheritance by due process of law."

"I know such a will was probated."

"Then what have you to say?" demanded Stephen Ray, defiantly. "Do you
mean to deny that the will was genuine?"

"No."

"Because if you do, you can go to the probate office, and submit the
will to any judge of my uncle's handwriting."

"There will be no occasion. I admit that the will was written by him."

"What do you mean, then?" asked Stephen Ray, showing relief.

"I mean this--that it was not his last will and testament."

"Where is the later one? Produce it if you can," said Stephen Ray,
triumphantly.

"You say this fearlessly because you found a later will--and destroyed
it."

"It is a vile slander!"

"No; I will swear that such a will was made."

"If it was destroyed, he destroyed it himself."

"No, he did not. I am willing to swear that when he died that will was
in existence."

"I don't think your swearing will do much good," sneered Stephen Ray.

"Perhaps so; but one thing has not occurred to you."

"What is that?"

"A duplicate of the last will was placed in my hands. That will
exists to-day!"

Stephen Ray started violently.

"I don't believe it," he said.

"Seeing is believing."

"Then bring it here, and let me see it. However, there is one material
circumstance that would make it of no value."

"What is it?"

"My cousin Dudley is dead, and so is his son Ernest. There would be no
one to profit by the production of the alleged will."

Bolton was quite taken aback by this statement, as Stephen Ray
perceived, and he plumed himself on the success of his falsehood.

"When did the boy die?" asked Bolton.

"About five years ago."

"And where?"

"At Savannah," answered Ray, glibly.

"What should have taken him down there?"

"I am not positive, but I believe after his father's death a Southern
gentleman became interested in him and took him to Georgia, where the
poor boy died."

Bolton looked keenly at the face of his companion, and detected an
expression of triumph about the eyes which led him to doubt the truth
of his story. But he decided not to intimate his disbelief.

"That was sad," he said.

"Yes; and as you will see, even had your story about the will been
true it would have made no difference in the disposal of the
property."

"Still the revelation of your complicity in the suppression of the
last will would injure your reputation, Mr. Ray."

"I can stand it," answered Ray with assumed indifference. "You see, my
dear fellow, you have brought your wares to the wrong market. Of
course you are disappointed."

"Yes, especially as I am dead broke."

"No doubt."

"And it prompts me to take my chances with the will in spite of the
death of the rightful heirs."

"What do you propose to do?"

"Lay the matter before a shrewd lawyer of my acquaintance, and be
guided by his advice."

Stephen Ray looked uneasy. The lawyer might suggest doubts as to the
truth of his story concerning Ernest's decease.

"That would be very foolish," he said.

"Would it? Then perhaps you can suggest a better course."

"You are a man of education and have been a lawyer yourself. Get a
place in the office of some attorney and earn an honest living."

"You see how I am dressed. Who would employ me in this garb?"

"There is something in what you say. I feel for you, Bolton. Changed
as you are, you were once a friend. I certainly haven't any reason to
feel friendly to you, especially as you came here with the intention
of extorting money from me. But I can make allowance for you in your
unfortunate plight, and am willing to do something for you. Bring me
the document you say you possess, and I will give you fifty no, a
hundred dollars."

Bolton eyed his prosperous companion with a cunning smile.

"No, Stephen Ray, I prefer to keep the will," he replied, "though I
can do nothing with it. Give me the money unconditionally, and if I
get on my feet you will have nothing to fear from me."




CHAPTER XXVI.

BOUGHT OFF.

Bolton's reply did not quite suit Mr. Ray, but he felt that if he said
too much about the will it would give it an exaggerated importance in
the eyes of the man before him. So he answered carelessly, "Oh, very
well! The document is of no value, and though I should prefer to have
it, I won't insist. I will give you the hundred dollars, but I wish it
understood that it is all I can give you at any time. Don't apply to
me again, for it will be of no use."

"I understand," said Bolton, non-committally.

"Shall I give you a check?"

"I could do better with the money. My name is not known now at any
bank."

"Well, I think I can accommodate you. I believe I have that sum in my
desk."

He opened a drawer in his secretary, and produced a hundred dollars in
crisp new bills. They had been taken from the bank the day before for
a different purpose.

Bolton took them joyfully. It was long since he had had so much money
in his possession. He had been his own worst enemy. Once a prosperous
lawyer, he had succumbed to the love of drink, and gradually lost his
clients and his position. But he had decided to turn over a new leaf,
and he saw in this money the chance to reinstate himself, and in time
recover his lost position.

"Thank you," he said; but while there was relief there was no
gratitude in his tone.

"And now," said Stephen Ray, "I must ask you to leave me. I have
important business to attend to. You will excuse me if I suggest it
would be better to go away--to a distance--and try to build yourself
up somewhere where you are not known."

"I might go to Savannah."

"Yes, to Savannah, if you think it will be to your advantage," said
Ray with equanimity.

The other noticed his manner, and he said to himself, "He is willing
to have me visit Savannah. It is clear that Ernest did not die
there."

Benjamin Bolton left the house in a pleasant frame of mind. It was not
the sum which he had received that exhilarated him. He looked upon it
only as the first instalment. It was clear that Stephen Ray feared
him, for he was not an open-handed man, and would not have parted with
his money unnecessarily.

Bolton had not arranged his campaign, but he was determined to raise
himself in the world by playing on the fears of the man he had just
visited.

"I wonder," he said to himself, "whether Dudley Ray's son is really
dead. He was a strong and healthy boy, and he may still be living."

This was a point not easy to ascertain.

He went to a restaurant and obtained a substantial meal, of which he
stood very much in need. Then he went out for a stroll. He did not
propose to leave the place yet.

As he was walking along he met Clarence Ray again, but not now on his
bicycle. The boy recognized him.

"Are you going to stay in town?" asked Clarence, curiously.

"Not long."

"Did you get through your business with pa?"

"Yes, for the present. By the way, I suppose you know that you have a
cousin about your own age. I used to know him and his father."

"Did you? His father is dead."

"So I have understood. Do you happen to know where the son is?"

"Somewhere out West, I think."

Bolton pricked up his ears. So it seemed that Stephen Ray had deceived
him.

"I would give five dollars to know where he is," he said slowly.

"Have you got five dollars?" Clarence asked, doubtfully.

By way of answer Bolton took a roll of bills from his pocket. They
were those which Stephen Ray had given him.

"Do you mean it?" asked Clarence, in a more respectful tone. Since
Bolton had money, he regarded him differently.

"Yes, I mean it."

"Why didn't you ask pa?"

"He never liked the boy nor his father, and I don't think he would
tell me."

"That is true. He didn't like either of them."

"I suppose you couldn't find out for me?" said Bolton, tentatively.

"I don't know but I could," answered Clarence, briskly.

He had a special use for five dollars, and it struck him that he might
just as well earn the money offered by the stranger.

"If you could, I would cheerfully pay you the five dollars. You see I
used to know Ernest Ray and his father, and I would be pleased to meet
Ernest again."

"Just so," said Clarence, complaisantly. "How long are you going to
remain in town?"

"I did think of going to Elmira to-night, but I think on the whole I
will stay at the hotel here till to-morrow morning."

"That will give me time to find out," said Clarence.

"All right! You had better not ask your father, for he is so
prejudiced I don't think he would tell you."

"That's so. He will be going out this evening, and then I will search
in his desk. I saw a letter there once in which the boy's name was
mentioned. But I say, if you've got money why don't you buy some new
clothes? You look awfully shabby."

"Your suggestion is a good one," said Bolton, smiling. "Come to look
at myself I do appear shabby. But then I'm no dude. I dare say when
you rode into me this morning you took me for a tramp."

"Well, you did look like one."

"That's so. I can't blame you."

"Shall I find you at the hotel this evening?"

"Yes."

"Then I'll see what I can do."

About seven o'clock Squire Ray went out to attend to a business
meeting, and Clarence was left in possession of the study. He locked
the door and began to ransack his father's desk. At length he
succeeded in his quest.

Benjamin Bolton was sitting in the public room of the hotel an hour
later smoking a cigar, and from time to time looking towards the door.
Presently Clarence entered, and went up to him.

"Have you got it?" asked Bolton, eagerly.

"Yes," nodded Clarence.

He took a piece of paper from his vest pocket and handed it to Bolton.

It read thus: "Ernest Ray, Oak Forks, Iowa."

"How did you get it?" asked Bolton.

"I found a letter in pa's desk from an old man named Peter Brant,
asking pa for some money for the boy, who was living with him."

"When was that letter written?"

"About two years ago."

"Thank you. This gives me a clue. Come out of doors and I will give
you what I promised. It isn't best that any one should think we had
dealings together."

Five minutes later Clarence started for home, happy in the possession
of a five-dollar bill.

"I never paid any money more cheerfully in my life," mused Bolton.
"Now I must find the boy!"




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE TOWN OF OREVILLE.

When Ernest and Luke Robbins started for California they had no very
definite plans as to the future. But they found among their
fellow-passengers a man who was just returning from the East, where he
had been to visit his family. He was a practical and successful miner,
and was by no means reluctant to speak of his success.

"When I landed in Frisco," he said, "two years ago, I had just forty
dollars left after paying the expenses of my trip. I couldn't find
anything to do in the city, so I set out for the mines."

"Where did you go?" asked Luke, becoming interested.

"To Oreville. At least, that's what they call it now. Then it didn't
have a name."

"I hope you prospered," said Ernest.

"Well, not just at first, but luck came after a while. When I reached
the mines I was dead broke, and went to work for somebody else. After
a while I staked out a claim for myself. Well, I won't go into
particulars, but I've got six thousand dollars salted down with a
trust company in Frisco, and I've got a few hundred dollars about my
clothes besides."

"That's the place for us, Ernest," said Luke.

"So I think," answered Ernest.

"Do you want to go to the mines?" asked the miner.

"Yes; we have our fortunes to make, and are willing to work."

"Then go out to Oreville with me. Have you got any money?"

"We have enough to get there, and perhaps a little over."

"That will do. I'll set you to work on one of my claims. We will share
and share alike. How will that suit you?"

"It seems fair. Do you think we can make enough to live upon?"

"That depends partly on yourselves and partly upon luck. Luck has
something to do with it."

"At any rate, we are willing to work," said Ernest.

"Then I'm your friend, and will help you," said the miner heartily.
"Tom Ashton never goes back on his friends."

This was very encouraging. Luke and Ernest were not dead broke, but
were near it. They had less than forty dollars between them, and they
had already found out that living was high in California. They
remained but a day in San Francisco, and then started for Oreville
with Mr. Ashton.

The two friends knew nothing of mining, but as practised in those
early days it took very little time to learn. They found that their
new friend was a man of consideration at Oreville. He owned several
claims, and had no difficulty in finding them employment. They set to
work at once, for they were almost penniless.

It may be easily supposed that the miners were not fastidious about
living. The cabins or huts which they occupied were primitive to the
last degree. Generally they did their own cooking, such as it was.
Three of these cabins Tom Ashton owned, and one was assigned to the
use of Ernest and his friend.

For years, Ernest, with his old friend and supposed uncle, Peter
Brant, had lived in a cabin at Oak Forks, but it was superior to their
new residence. Yet his former experience enabled him the better to
accommodate himself to the way of living at Oreville.

For a month the two friends worked steadily at their claim, which
Ashton had finally given them. They made something, but not much. In
fact, it was with difficulty that they made expenses.

"It will be a long time before we make our pile, Ernest," said Luke
one evening, as he sat in front of his cabin smoking.

"Yes, Luke, things don't look very promising," replied Ernest,
gravely.

"If it weren't for my pipe I should feel blue. Smoking cheers me up."

"That is where you have the advantage of me, Luke."

"You have the same chance that I have. I have an extra pipe. Won't you
take a smoke?"

Ernest shook his head.

"I think I'm better off without it."

"Perhaps you're right, lad. I remember my poor father warned me
against smoking. The question is, how long we'd better keep at it."

"Is there anything else, Luke?"

"Well, no; not here."

"And we haven't money enough to get away."

Just then a tall man with reddish hair strode across the field to
their cabin.

"Good evening, neighbors," he said. "How are you making out?"

"Not over-well," answered Luke.

"There's a difference in claims. You've got a poor one."

"Probably you are right."

"There's been considerable gold dust gathered in Oreville within six
months. I have been one of the lucky ones."

"Indeed! I am glad of it."

"Yes; I found a nugget two months since that I sold for two thousand
dollars. I have made five thousand within a year."

"You've been in luck. I wish the boy and I could be as successful."

"The claim is not good enough to support two. Why not let the boy find
something else?"

"You wouldn't have me freeze him out?" said Luke, in a tone of
displeasure.

"No, but suppose I find something for him to do? What then?"

"That's a different matter. Have you an extra claim?"

"Yes; but that isn't what I offer him. I have a plan in which he can
help me."

"What is it?"

"All our supplies come from Sacramento. What we need is a retail store
in Oreville--a general store for the sale of almost everything that
miners need."

"It would be a good plan to open one," said Luke, approvingly.

"Now, you must know that I am an old storekeeper. I had for years a
store about twenty miles from Boston. I succeeded fairly with it, but
my health gave out. The doctor told me I must not be so confined--that
I needed out-of-door exercise. So I came out here and got it. Well,
the advice proved good. I am strong and robust, and I feel
enterprising. Now, what I propose is this: I will open a store, and
put the boy in charge under me."

"I should like it," said Ernest, eagerly.

"You know what we pay for supplies. There's at least a hundred per
cent, made, and no one objects to the prices. Why shouldn't we make it
as well as the Sacramento storekeepers?"

"True!" said Luke.

"I don't ask you to work for me, my friend, for I don't think it would
suit you."

"It wouldn't. At home--that's in Oak Forks, Iowa--I was a hunter. I
was always in the open air. The sort of life we live here suits me,
though I haven't made much money as yet."

"The boy, I think, would do. He looks like a hustler. I need only look
at his face to know that he'd be honest and faithful. What is your
name, boy?"

"Ernest Ray."

"That's a good name. You'll only have to live up to it--to the first
part of it, I mean. Then you accept my offer?"

"You haven't made any," said Ernest, smiling.

"Oh, you mean about wages. Well, I don't offer any stated wages. I
will give you one-third profits, and then your pay will depend on your
success. The fact is, you are to keep the store."

Ernest looked an inquiry.

"One person can attend to it by day. I will come in the evening, and
take a general look after things. Just at first I'll stay with you
till you've got the hang of things. But during the day I shall be
looking after my claims. Do you know how to keep books?"

"I understand single entry bookkeeping."

"That will be all you will require."

"How soon shall you start?" asked Ernest, who began to feel very much
interested.

"I will go to Sacramento to-morrow, now that we have come to terms.
You know that frame building near Ashton's cabin?"

"Yes."

"I don't know what it was originally used for, but it is empty and I
can secure it for our store. It isn't large, but it will hold all we
need. I can get new supplies as we need them."

"Yes, that will do."

"You haven't said how you like my offer."

"Of one-third profits? I like it better than if you paid me wages. I
will make it amount to a good deal."

"That will suit me. I don't care how much you make out of it, for I
shall make twice as much."

"How did you happen to think of me?"

"I've watched you ever since you came. I can judge of any one, boy or
man, if I have time enough to take stock of him. I saw that you were
just the man for me."

"Boy," suggested Ernest, smiling.

"Oh, well, I'll make a man of you. By the way, an idea has just
occurred to me. You'd better go to Sacramento with me to-morrow."

"I should like to do it," said Ernest, brightening up.

"Then you can notice where I buy my supplies. You may need to go alone
sometimes."

"At what time will we start?"

"The stage leaves at seven o'clock."

"I will be ready."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE TURNS UP.

The journey to Sacramento was made, the goods selected, and in less
than a week the new store was stocked. In the arrangement of goods
Ernest took a zealous part. He had never served in a store, yet it
seemed to come natural to him, and he felt more interest in it than in
the work of mining.

After the store was in full working order Horace Ames left Ernest as
sole manager, coming in only in the evening to look at the books, for
Ernest, as far as possible, kept a record of every sale.

Storekeeping in those days and in that country was unusually
profitable. Ernest made a little comparison between the cost of goods
and the selling price, and arrived at the conclusion that the average
profits were a hundred per cent. And still the miners were able to buy
goods cheaper than when they sent to Sacramento for them.

At the end of the first week Ernest figured up the sales and found
they aggregated two hundred dollars. His share of the profits amounted
to a little over thirty dollars.

This was encouraging, being three times as much as he had ever
realized in the same length of time from mining.

There was one embarrassment. There was no bank in the place where
money could be deposited, and of course the chance of loss by robbery
was much increased. However, his partner purchased a small safe, and
