respectability.

As Hugh Manton (the reporter) and he went up to the counter to pay
the amount of their checks, a stout, handsomely-dressed man, of
portly form and medium stature, entered the restaurant. As his eye
fell upon Ben he started and muttered to himself:

"That boy in New York! What does he want here?"




                            CHAPTER II.

                  A LODGING IN ST. MARK'S PLACE.


Hugh Manton, whose calling had trained him to quick observation, did
not fail to notice that the stout gentleman was in some way moved by
the sight of his young companion. This surprised him not a little,
for in the portly gentleman he recognized a wealthy retail merchant
whose store was located on the upper part of Broadway.

"Can there be any connection between this country boy and the rich
Mr. Walton?" he asked himself, curiously.

He resolved to take an early opportunity to question Ben.

When their bills were paid they went out of the restaurant. It was
twelve o'clock by the clock on the City Hall when they emerged from
the lunch-room. A Third Avenue horse-car was just passing.

"Follow me!" said the reporter, as he jumped aboard.

Ben did so.

"My room is on St. Mark's place," he said. "I suppose you don't know
where that is?"

"No; I have never been in New York before."

"It must be nearly two miles from the City Hall Park. It is the
eastern part of Eighth street."

"Fare!" said the conductor.

Ben put his hand into his pocket.

"No," said his companion, "I have the change."

"Thank you!" said Ben, "but you ought not to pay for me."

"Oh, you shall take your turn some time."

They sat down in the car, and, both being tired, sat silent.

After riding fifteen to twenty minutes they came in sight of a large
brown-colored building, set between Third and Fourth avenues, just
beyond the termination of the Bowery.

"We will get out here," said Hugh Manton. "That building is the
Cooper Institute. Of course you have heard of it? We turn to the
right, and will soon reach my den."

Time was when St. Mark's place had some pretension to gentility, but
now it is given up to lodging and boarding-houses. In front of a
brick house, between Second and First avenues, the reporter paused.

"This is where I live," he said.

He opened the door with a latch-key, and they entered a dark hall,
for at eleven o'clock the light was extinguished.

"Follow me," he said to Ben. "Take hold of the banister, and feel
your way. I am generally the last in," he said, "unless some one
of my fellow-lodgers is out having a good time. One more flight of
stairs. So, here we are."

The rear room on the third floor was his. Opening a door, he quickly
lighted a gas-jet on one side of the room.

"There, my young friend," said the reporter, "you can undress as
soon as you please, and jump into that bed nearest the window. It
isn't luxurious, but will serve your turn."

"Thank you," said Ben. "I feel very tired. I shan't lie awake long
to consider what kind of a bed I am in. Do you get up early?"

"Sometimes I get up as early as nine o'clock."

Ben laughed.

"Do you call that early?" he said. "Six o'clock isn't extra early in
the country."

"My young friend--by the way, what's your name?"

"Ben Baker."

"Well, Ben, let me tell you that nine o'clock is a very early
hour for a reporter. We'll rise at nine, and go out to breakfast
together."

"I think I can sleep till then," said Ben, "for I am as tired as I
ever was after a hard day's work on the farm."

      *       *       *       *       *

"Wake up, Ben."

It was the next morning and the words were spoken by Hugh Manton, as
he gave a gentle shake to the still sleeping boy.

Ben opened his eyes and looked about him in a confused way. Finally
recollection came to him.


"I thought I was in that park down town," he said, with a smile.

"Do you know where you are now?"

"Yes."

"Have you slept well, youngster?"

"I have had a bully sleep."

"And you feel ready for breakfast?"

"I think I can eat some."

The two new acquaintances dressed and went down stairs. Ben was
about to take his bundle, but the reporter stopped him.

"Leave it here," he said, "for the present. Blodgett won't be back
for three or four days, and you can stay here till he returns. You
won't want to be lugging that bundle all over town."

"You are very kind," said Ben, gratefully.

"Why shouldn't I be? I came to the city myself a poor country
youth, and I had a hard struggle as first till I reached my present
pinnacle of wealth," he concluded, with a smile.

"Are reporters well paid?" asked Ben, innocently.

"That depends! Whatever they earn, it is seldom that one gets fifty
dollars ahead. That is because, as a rule, they are improvident,
and sometimes dissipated. I am not as well paid as some, but I make
a little writing sketches for the weekly story papers. I pick up
two or three hundred a year that way. Then I take better care of
my money than some. I laid up five hundred dollars last year, and
nearly as much the year before."

"You will soon be rich," said Ben, to whom five hundred dollars
seemed a large sum of money.

The reporter smiled.

"It takes considerable money to make a man rich in New York," he
said. "However, I know it makes me feel very comfortable to think I
have a thousand dollars in the bank."

"I should think it would," said Ben, seriously.

"Here we are!" said the reporter, pausing in front of a restaurant
on Ninth street, facing the side of the great retail store
established by the late A. T. Stewart. "We can get a comfortable
breakfast inside for a low price."

They entered, and sat down at one of the small tables. Hugh Manton
ordered a beefsteak and a cup of coffee. This, with bread and
butter, cost twenty cents. Ben duplicated the order. The meat was
not of the best quality, but it was as good as could be afforded at
the price, and Ben ate with the zest of a healthy boy of his age.

"By the way, Ben," said the reporter, with apparent carelessness,
though he scanned the face of his young companion attentively as he
spoke, "are you acquainted with a clothing merchant of this city
named Nicholas Walton?"

Ben started in irrepressible astonishment.

"What makes you ask?" he said. "Did you know he was my uncle?"

It was Hugh Manton's turn to be astonished.

"Your uncle!" he exclaimed. "You don't mean to say Nicholas Walton
is your uncle?"

"Yes, I do. My mother is his sister."

"Is it possible? He has the reputation of being very rich, while
you----"

"While I am very poor. Yes, that is true."

"Are you going to call upon him?"

"Yes. I thought, being my uncle, he might give me a place in his
store."

"Did you write him that you were coming?"

"No--that is, not lately. I wrote three months ago, and he wrote
back that I had better stay where I was."

"What were you doing?"

"I was working on a farm. I was paid three dollars a week."

"Did you live on the farm?"

"No; I lived with my mother."

"She is living, then?"

"Yes," said Ben, and his face lighted up with love for his absent
mother.

"I should think Mr. Walton would do something for his own sister."

"So he does. He sends her twenty-five dollars a month. She lives in
a small house belonging to my grandfather. My uncle is part owner,
but he lets mother live in it."

"I suppose you don't like the country, or you wouldn't have come to
the city."

"I have a taste for business, and no taste for farming. My uncle
came to New York a poor boy, and he has succeeded. I don't see why I
can't."

"It doesn't always follow," said the reporter, thoughtfully. "Still
I think you have it in you to succeed. You look bold, persevering
and resolute."

"I mean to succeed!" said Ben, firmly. "I am not afraid of work."

"Shall you call on your uncle this morning?"

"Yes; I want to find out as soon as I can what I am to depend upon."

"Very well! Just make my room your home. I shall not be back myself
till midnight, or later, but here is a latch-key which will admit
you to my room whenever you like. I have Blodgett's with me, which I
can use myself."




                           CHAPTER III.

                      THE MERCHANT'S SECRET.


Five years before Ben's arrival in the city Nicholas Walton kept a
moderate sized store on Grand street. He was doing a good business,
but he was not satisfied. He wished to take a store on Broadway, and
make his name prominent among business men. In this wish his wife
entirely sympathized with him. She boasted aristocratic lineage, but
when Mr. Walton married her she was living in genteel poverty, while
her mother was forced, very much against her will, to take lodgers.
It was a great piece of good luck for Theodosia Granville to marry
a prosperous young merchant like Nicholas Walton, but she chose to
consider that all the indebtedness was on the other side, and was
fond of talking about the sacrifice she made in marrying a man of no
family.

They had two children, Emiline and Clarence Plantagenet Walton,
the latter about three months older than his cousin Ben. Both were
haughty and arrogant in temper and disposition, and as a matter of
course neither was a favorite with their young associates, though
each had flatterers whose interest was served by subserviency.

At that time Ben's father was living and practicing as a physician
in the little town of Sunderland, fifty miles distant in the
country. There was comparatively little intercourse between the
families, though there was not yet that difference in their worldly
circumstances that afterward arose.

One day, just as the clerks were getting ready to close up, Nicholas
Walton was surprised by the sudden appearance of his brother-in-law,
Dr. Baker.

"What brings you to town, James?" he asked.

"Business of great importance," answered Baker.

"Indeed!" said Walton, curiously.

"I will tell you all about it, but not here."

"Do you go back to Sunderland to-night?"

"No; I think of trespassing upon your hospitality."

"Certainly. I shall be glad to have you stay with me. My wife and
children are out of town--visiting a sister of hers in Hartford--but
the servants will see that we are comfortable."

"All the better. Of course I should have been glad to see Mrs.
Walton and the children, but now you can give me more attention."

"I wonder whether he wants to borrow money," thought the merchant,
with some uneasiness. "If he does, I shall refuse as civilly as I
can. I don't propose to be a prey to impecunious relatives. I need
all the money I can command to further my own schemes. In three or
four years, if things go well, I shall be able to move to Broadway,
and then our family can take a higher social position. My wife would
like to have me move at once, but I don't choose to do anything
rashly. The time has not yet come for so important a step."

"We will go now," said Mr. Walton. "The clerks will close up. If
you will walk as far as the Bowery, we will board a Fourth avenue
car."

"Do you still live on Twelfth street, Nicholas?"

"Yes. Mrs. Walton urges me to take a house on Madison avenue, but I
must not go too fast."

"You are prospering, I take it, Nicholas?"

"He is feeling his way toward a loan, I am afraid," thought the
merchant.

"Yes, I am making headway," he admitted, warily, "but I have to be
very cautious. Oftentimes I am short of money, I assure you. In
fact, I am hampered by my small capital."

"My neighbors in Sunderland would be surprised to hear that," said
Dr. Baker, smiling. "They look upon you as one of the merchant
princes of New York."

"Do they?" said Walton, looking gratified. "Some day I hope to be
what they think I am now."

"You will be, if you are not too much in haste."

"So I hope. And you, I hope you are prospering?" said the merchant,
guardedly.

"I have no cause for complaint," said his brother-in-law,
"especially now."

"What does he mean by 'especially now?'" thought the merchant.

"I am glad to hear it," he said, aloud.

Arrived at the house in Twelfth street--it was a plain brick house
of three stories--dinner was found to be awaiting, and as they sat
down at once, there was no opportunity for a private conversation.
When the cloth was removed, and they were left to themselves, Walton
invited his brother-in-law's confidence by saying, suggestively:

"So business of importance brought you to New York, doctor?"

"Yes, business of great importance!"

"I suppose it seems great to him," thought Walton. "Well," he said
aloud, "you have aroused my curiosity. It is only fair to gratify
it."

"That is what I propose to do. Let me say, then, that this day has
made a great change in me."

"I don't see any change," said Walton, puzzled.

"Yet it has; I awoke this morning a poor man. To-night I am rich."

"You--haven't been speculating?" said Walton, curiously.

"No; I had no money to speculate with. But to-day a fortune has come
to me."

"A fortune! How much?"

"One hundred thousand dollars!" answered the physician.

"A hundred thousand dollars!" ejaculated Nicholas Walton, staring at
his brother-in-law in amazement.

"Yes."

"Explain yourself--that is, if you are not joking."

"Fortunately it is not a joke. As to the explanation, here it is:
Some years ago I was called, when a young practitioner in New York
(I began here, you know), to attend a wealthy West Indian planter,
boarding at the New York Hotel. He was critically sick, and required
constant attention. I had little to do, and devoted myself to him.
He was convinced that he owed his life to me. He paid me handsomely
then, and requested me to keep him apprised of my whereabouts. I
have done so. Yesterday I received a letter, requesting me to come
to New York, and call at a certain room in the Fifth Avenue Hotel. I
did so. I found a Cuban gentleman, who, first apprising me that my
former patient was dead, added, to my amazement, that he had left me
in his will one hundred thousand dollars. Furthermore, he had the
amount with him in negotiable securities, and transferred them at
once to my hands."

"And you have them with you?"

"Yes."

"It was strangely informal."

"True, but this gentleman was about to sail for Europe, to be absent
five years--he sailed this afternoon--and he wished to be rid of his
commission."

"It is like a romance," said the merchant, slowly.

"Yes, it's like a romance. I don't mind telling you," added the
doctor, in a lower tone, "that it relieves me very much. Conscious,
as I am, that my life hangs on a thread, it makes me easy about the
future of my wife and child."

"Your life hangs on a thread? What do you mean?"

"I mean," said the physician, seriously, "that our family is subject
to heart disease. My grandfather died at a minute's notice; so did
my father; so, in all probability, shall I. No insurance company,
knowing this, would insure me, and, till this windfall came, I was
subject at times to great anxiety."

"Does your wife--my sister--know that you have received this money?"
asked Walton, slowly.

"No; she merely knows that I received a letter from New York."

"And you are really liable to die suddenly?"

"Yes; I shall probably drop dead some day. My father died at my
present age. Any sudden excitement----"

"Good heavens! what is the matter with you?" exclaimed Walton,
springing to his feet, excitedly.

"What do you mean?" asked the physician, startled.

"Your face is livid; you look like a corpse. Great heavens! has
your time come?"

Doctor Baker rose to his feet in terrible agitation; his face
changed; he put his hand on his heart, swayed himself for a moment,
and then fell lifeless.

Walton had supplied the sudden excitement, and brought upon him the
family doom.

Nicholas Walton, half-terrified, half-triumphant, gazed at his
victim. He knelt down, and tearing open the vest of his visitor,
placed his hand upon his heart.

It had ceased to beat.

"Now for the securities!" he murmured hoarsely.

They were found. A brief examination showed that they were
negotiable by bearer. He carefully locked them up in his desk, and
then, ringing the bell hastily, summoned a physician. One came, but
could afford no help.

"Now," he said to himself, with inward exultation, "this fortune is
mine, and I can realize the dream of my life! No one will ever be
the wiser."




                            CHAPTER IV.

                     THE MOCK PHILANTHROPIST.


Nicholas Walton, much sooner than he had anticipated, was able
to realize the dream of his life. He engaged a larger store on
Broadway, within three months of the death of his brother-in-law.
The latter was supposed to have died a poor man. In settling up his
estate it was found that he left only the modest cottage in which
he had lived. Mrs. Baker's anxiety, however, was alleviated by the
following letter from her brother Nicholas:

    "MY DEAR SISTER:--I sympathize with you sincerely in
    your sad and sudden loss. I am afraid my poor brother-in-law
    has not been able to leave you comfortably provided for. I
    cannot do as much as I would like, but I will send you a
    monthly sum of twenty-five dollars, which, as you have no
    rent to pay, will perhaps keep you comfortable. If I can at
    any time feel justified in so doing, I will increase this
    allowance."


"Nicholas is very kind," said Mrs. Baker, to her friends. "He has
done this without any appeal from me."

She really felt grateful for his kindness, as she termed it, having
no suspicion of the terrible secret that haunted her brother day and
night, making him an unhappy man in spite of his outward prosperity.
But he had no intention of making restitution; his remorse did not
go so far as this.

"As to taking a hundred thousand dollars from my business," he said,
in answer to conscience, "it would cripple me seriously. Besides,
my sister doesn't want it; it would do her no good. She and her
children can live comfortably on what I send her."

He tried to persuade himself that he was liberal in his provision
for his sister; but even his effrontery could not go so far as this.

In reality, Mrs. Baker would have found great difficulty in keeping
her expenses within three hundred dollars a year if Ben had not
managed to pick up a dollar or two a week by working at odd jobs,
running errands, or assisting some of the neighboring farmers. But
the small town of Sunderland did not satisfy the ambitious boy.
There was no kind of business which he could learn at home that
offered him a satisfactory career.

"Mother," he said, about three months before my story begins, "don't
you think my uncle would give me a place in his store?"

"You don't want to leave home, Ben, do you?"

"I don't want to leave you, mother; but you know how it is. There is
nothing to do in Sunderland."

"I am sure you pick up considerable money in the course of a year,
Ben."

"But what does it all amount to, mother?"

"It is a great help to me," said Mrs. Baker.

"I don't mean that. It isn't getting me ahead. I can't do any more
now than I could a year ago. If I learned my uncle's business I
might get ahead, as he has."

"You may be right, Ben; but how could I spare you? I should feel so
lonely."

"You have Alice, mother. She is ten years old, and is a good deal of
company to you."

So the discussion continued. Finally, as might have been expected,
Ben obtained from his mother a reluctant consent to his writing to
his uncle. He did not have to wait long for the answer; but when it
came, it was cold and unsatisfactory. It read thus:

    "NEPHEW BENJAMIN:--Your letter has come to hand, asking me
    to give you a place in my store. I think you are much better
    off in the country. Besides that, I do not think you ought
    to leave your mother. You say there is no chance for you
    in Sunderland; but you are mistaken. You can work for some
    farmer, and gradually acquire a knowledge of the business,
    and in time I may help you buy a farm, or at any rate hire
    one, if I am satisfied with your conduct. As to the city,
    you had better keep away from it. I am sure your mother will
    agree with me.

    "Your uncle,

    "NICHOLAS WALTON."

"Your uncle seems to me to write very sensibly," said Mrs. Baker.
"The city is full of temptations."

"If I go to the city I shall work too hard to be troubled in that
way, mother."

"Your uncle makes a very kind offer, I think."

"It doesn't bind him to much," said Ben. "He says he may help me to
buy or hire a farm, if I learn farming."

"That would be a gift worth having, Ben," said his mother, who
thought chiefly of keeping Ben at home.

"I shall never make a farmer, mother; I don't like it well enough.
It is a very useful and honorable business, I know, but I have a
taste for business; and if Uncle Nicholas won't help me to a start,
I must see what I can do for myself after a time."

Nicholas Walton congratulated himself when his letter to Ben
remained unanswered.

"That will settle the matter," he said to himself. "I would
rather keep the boy in the country. I couldn't have him in my
establishment. I should never see him without thinking of his
father's sudden death before my eyes," and the rich merchant
shuddered in spite of himself. "Besides," and a shade of
apprehension swept over his face, "I am in constant fear lest he
should hear of the large sum of money which came into his father's
hands just before his death. While he stays in Sunderland, there is
little chance of any such knowledge coming to him; if he is in the
city, there is a greater chance of it. Who knows; the man who paid
Doctor Baker the money may turn up. It was his intention to go to
Europe for five years. That period has nearly passed already. If
this discovery should ever be made, I am ruined. I might even be
accused of murdering him, though, happily, that could not be proved.
But there would be a blot on my name, and my reputation would
suffer."

For three months Ben made no sign, and his uncle concluded that he
had given up his plan of coming to New York in search of employment.

But one evening--it was the one on which our story commenced--on his
way back from a call upon some friends in Brooklyn, Nicholas Walton
stepped into Hitchcock's lunch-room, knowing it well by reputation,
and was startled by seeing the nephew whose appearance he so much
dreaded.

It was his first impulse to speak to him, and harshly demand his
reason for disobeying the positive command to remain at home; but
this might be followed by an appeal for help (it was clear that Mr.
Walton did not understand his nephew) and that might be awkward.

"No," thought the merchant; "I won't speak to him till he comes to
the store, as no doubt he intends to. Then I will give him a piece
of my mind."

We now come back to Ben and his new found friend, the reporter.

"If you don't object, I will walk down town with you, Mr. Manton,"
said Ben, as they left the restaurant where they had breakfasted.

"I shall be glad of your company, Ben," said Manton, cordially. "I
will point out to you the chief landmarks, and places of interest,
as we go along."

"I wish you would," said Ben. "I know very little of the city."

"That is a defect you will soon remedy," said his friend.

"By the way," said Ben, with a sudden thought, "how was it that you
asked me if I knew Mr. Walton?"

"Because I saw that Mr. Walton knew you."

"You saw that he knew me?" repeated Ben, puzzled.

"Yes. Do you remember a stout gentleman who came into Hitchcock's
just as we were going out?"

"No; I did not observe him."

"It was Nicholas Walton. When his glance first rested upon you he
started and looked disturbed."

"He did not approve of my coming to New York," explained Ben. "Then
you think he recognized me?"

"I am sure of it."

"I wonder he did not speak to me!" said Ben, thoughtfully.

"Probably for the reason you have assigned--because he did not
approve of your coming. Do you expect to call upon him?"

"Yes; I am going to ask if he won't give me a place in his store. He
employs a large number, I suppose?"

"Yes; not less than a hundred, I should think, in various ways
inside the store, besides scores of seamstresses outside. He has a
very large establishment, and is accounted a very rich man."

"So I have always heard," said Ben. "He wanted me to stay in
Sunderland and become a farmer."

"And you don't fancy the advice?"

"No. I should never make a farmer. If I had any taste for it, I
might have followed my uncle's advice."

"Have you ever seen Mr. Walton's store?" asked the reporter,
presently.

"No."

"Here it is," and he pointed to a spacious store, with great
plate-glass windows, in which was displayed suits of clothes in
profusion.

"Then, Mr. Manton, I believe I will leave you and go in. I want
to find out as soon as possible whether my uncle will help me, or
whether I must depend upon myself."

"Good luck to you, Ben, then! I will expect to see you to-night."

And Hugh Manton kept on his way down town, to see what work had
been laid out for him at the office.




                            CHAPTER V.

                           A YOUNG DUDE.


Ben entered the great store, gazing not without admiration at the
long counters loaded with piles of clothing.

"My uncle must be a very rich man," he said to himself. "Surely he
can find a place for me in so large a store."

"Do you wish to buy a suit?" asked a spruce young man, coming
forward to meet our hero.

"No; I would like to see Mr. Walton," answered Ben.

The young man surveyed Ben's country garb with a smile of
depreciation. He was apt to judge others by their clothes,
being conscious, perhaps, that they were his own chief claim to
consideration.

"I don't think Mr. Walton will see you, youngster," he said.

"Why not?" demanded Ben, looking him calmly in the eye.

"His time is of too much value to waste on country kids."

"Mr. Walton is my uncle," said Ben, quietly.

"Your uncle!" repeated the clerk, in considerable surprise. "Oh,
well, that alters the case. Just go through the store and you will
find Mr. Walton in his office."

Ben followed directions, and found the office without further
inquiry.

Through the open door he saw a short man, of fifty or thereabouts,
sitting at a desk. There was another person in the office--a boy,
somewhere near his own age--dressed in the fashion, with a gold
watch-chain across his vest, a showy pin in his scarf, and the air
of a young coxcomb.

This was Clarence Plantagenet Walton, the only son of the merchant,
and of course Ben's cousin. The two, however, had not met since both
were very young boys, and neither would have recognized the other.

Ben overheard a fragment of the conversation between his uncle and
cousin.

"You spend too much money, Plantagenet. It is less than a week since
I gave you ten dollars."

"The fellows I go with are all rich, and spend plenty of money. You
wouldn't want them to look upon me as mean, pa?"

"The boys of the present day are altogether too extravagant," said
his father, frowning. "Why, when I was a boy, I didn't spend ten
dollars in three months."

"You were not in fashionable society like me, pa," said Clarence
Plantagenet, consequentially.

"Much good it does you!" muttered Mr. Walton. "What do you want
money for particularly to-day?"

"I am going with Percy Van Dyke to a base-ball match this afternoon.
Percy lives in a splendid house on Fifth avenue, and his family is
one of the first. I suppose we shall get home late, and I want to
give him a little supper at Delmonico's."

"The Van Dykes stand very high," said Mr. Walton, complacently. "I
am very glad to have you associate with such a high-toned family. I
suppose I must let you have the money."

He drew out a ten-dollar bill and tendered it to Clarence.

"Five dollars more, if you please, pa," said the elegant youth.
"Suppers at Delmonico's are expensive, and I don't want to economize
with such a fellow as Percy."

"Very well; here are five dollars more, but don't be foolishly
extravagant."

Clarence was about to leave the office, well satisfied, when he
espied Ben.

"Who do you want to see, boy?" he demanded, curtly.

"I should like to speak with my uncle," answered Ben.

"Then don't hang around my father's office. If your uncle is
employed in this establishment, you can ask one of the floor-walkers
to point him out."

Ben eyed the arrogant boy in some amusement, and answered, demurely:

"My uncle is Mr. Nicholas Walton, and you, I suppose, are my cousin
Clarence."

Clarence Plantagenet recoiled in disgust.

"I don't understand you," he said. "You must be crazy."

Ben was not obliged to vindicate his sanity, for his uncle, who had
hitherto remained silent, now spoke.

"You can come in, if you are Benjamin Baker, of Sunderland."

"Thank you, Uncle Nicholas," said Ben.

"Is he my cousin?" asked Plantagenet of his father, in evident
discomposure.

"Yes, I presume so. His mother is my sister."

"Did you send for him, pa?"

"No."

"Then why is he here?"

"I expect him to explain that to me," said Mr. Walton, coldly.
"Benjamin, what brings you to New York?"

"I want to get a position here, so that I may learn business. I
thought you might find me a place in your store, Uncle Nicholas."

"Did I not write you to stay in Sunderland?" asked Mr. Walton,
coldly.

"Yes."

"Then why have you disobeyed me?" continued the merchant, with a
frown.

"Because I have no taste for farming, and there is no other
employment there."

"A boy like you is not qualified to judge what is best for him,"
said Mr. Walton, harshly. "Did I not promise, if you learned
farming, that when you got older I would set you up on a farm of
your own?"

"I never should succeed as a farmer, for I don't like it," answered
Ben.

"What fault have you to find with it?" demanded the merchant,
testily.

"None whatever, uncle, except that I am not suited for it."

"You don't look to me suited for anything else," said Clarence
Plantagenet, insolently.

"I don't think you know me well enough to judge what I am fit for,"
answered Ben, calmly.

"You might make a good blacksmith, perhaps," continued Clarence, in
the same offensive tone. "Isn't there any opening in that line in
the country?"

"There might be. The business is not to my taste, though it may be
to yours."

"To my taste!" ejaculated the horrified Plantagenet. "What have I to
do with such a dirty business as that?"

"Stop this foolish discussion, Plantagenet," said his father. "You
had better go to meet your friend, Van Dyke, and I will settle
matters with your cousin here."

"Pack him back to the country, pa!" said Clarence. "That is the best
place for him."

So saying, the young "dude" sauntered out of the office and left
the store, several of the clerks who wished to stand well with
their employer bowing deferentially to him. Plantagenet barely
acknowledged their bows by a supercilious nod. He did not look upon
them as his social equals.

"I am inclined to agree with my son," said the merchant, after
Plantagenet had left the office. "I think the country is the best
place for you."

"Then, Uncle Nicholas, you won't give me a place in your store?"
asked Ben, his face showing his disappointment.

"I will do nothing to encourage you in a step which I consider so
ill-advised as coming to the city."

"Then I must bid you good-morning," said Ben, soberly.

"Stay!" said his uncle. "I am willing to make up to you the expense
of your trip to the city, on condition that you go back to-day."

He put his hand into his pocket as he spoke.

"Thank you, Uncle Nicholas," said Ben. "I thank you for your offer,
but I won't accept it; I shall not go back to Sunderland."

"You won't go back!" gasped the merchant. "What will you do, then?"

"Look elsewhere for a place," said Ben.

"You are a foolish, headstrong boy. I wash my hands of you. You need
not expect any help from me. You must make your own way."

"I mean to," answered Ben, quietly, as he bowed and walked out of
the office.

"This is very annoying," said Mr. Walton to himself. "He is an
obstinate boy. However, his eyes will soon be opened to his folly,
and he will have to go back, after all. Perhaps it is as well for
him to try, and fail. He will be more manageable afterward."




                            CHAPTER VI.

                      BEN GETS INTO TROUBLE.


Ben went out of his uncle's store in a serious frame of mind. He
knew that his uncle was opposed to his leaving his country home and
coming to New York, but he had hoped that he would nevertheless be
willing to extend to him a helping hand, especially as it would cost
him so little.

He found himself now in a critical position. He had in his pocket
a dollar and twenty-seven cents, and this constituted his entire
worldly capital. It was enough to carry him back to Sunderland,
but, if he had been willing to do that, it would have been for his
interest to accept his uncle's offer to refund to him what his trip
would cost.

But Ben was not easily discouraged. His motto was:

 "If at first you don't succeed, Try, try again!"

"I won't go back to Sunderland unless I am obliged to," he said to
himself. "There are other stores besides my uncle's in this large
city, and more ways of making a living than one. I won't give up
till I have tried my best."

So he walked along Broadway in a leisurely way, keeping his eyes
wide open, and interested, in spite of his critical circumstances,
in the crowds and bustle of that brilliant thoroughfare.

Presently he came to a shop window on which was posted the notice--

"BOY WANTED."

"Here's a chance for me," he thought, hopefully. "I'll apply for the
place. I can't be any more than refused."

He entered. It was a store appropriated to "Gentlemen's Furnishing
Goods."

A tall young man, with his auburn hair parted in the middle, glanced
at him languidly.

"I see you want a boy," said Ben, plunging at once into business.

"Humph! Are you the boy?"

"I am a boy, and would like a place," answered Ben.

The clerk picked his teeth languidly with a wooden toothpick which
he had brought from the cheap restaurant where he had taken his
breakfast.

"Are you from the country?"

"Yes, sir."

"How long have you been in the city?"

"I arrived yesterday."

"Then you don't know your way round New York?"

"No; but I would soon learn."

"That wouldn't suit us. Besides, you don't live with your parents."

"My father is dead; my mother lives in the country."

"You won't suit us, then. However, you can go back and speak to Mr.
Talbot. There he is, in the rear of the store."

Ben had at first supposed that the young man with whom he was
speaking was the proprietor. He did not dream that he was a clerk,
working for nine dollars a week. He made application to Mr. Talbot,
a middle-aged gentleman, not half so consequential as his clerk, but
was asked essentially the same questions as before.

"I am afraid I must refuse you," said Mr. Talbot, kindly. "We
require a boy who is used to the city streets, and we prefer that he
should live with his parents. I am sorry for your disappointment."

"Thank you, sir," said Ben; but it was in rather a subdued tone. His
prospects did not seem quite so good as a little while before.

