as you may perhaps have inferred from my appearance, a minister."

"I thought you looked like one, sir."

"I am going to make an exchange with a clerical brother."

"Yes, sir," returned the young lady, wondering what interest she could
be expected to take in this circumstance.

"I always like to get acquainted with young people. I may perhaps have
an opportunity of influencing them for good."

"Just so, sir; but I think such advice is better suited for Sunday,
don't you?"

"I am accustomed to drop words of counsel in season, and out of
season."

"I would rather listen to them when they are in season."

"True! I stand reproved."

The minister took from his pocket a small volume which he opened and
began to read.

"This volume," he said, "contains the sermons of the excellent Dr.
Hooker. If I had another copy I should be glad to offer it to you."

"Thank you, I don't care to read just at present."

Half an hour passed. The minister put back his book into his pocket, and
bowing politely, bade the young lady good morning.

"I am pleased to have made your acquaintance," he said.

"Thank you, sir."

Five minutes later the young lady put her hand into her pocket. She
uttered a cry of alarm.

"What is the matter, miss?" asked Mark.

"My purse is gone!" exclaimed the young lady in a state of nervous
excitement.

"When did you last see it?" asked the messenger boy.

"About an hour ago. I bought a copy of MUNSEY'S MAGAZINE of the train
boy, and took out my purse to pay for it."

"An hour ago? You were sitting alone at the time?"

"Yes."

"Did any one sit beside you except the old gentleman who has just left?"

"No."

"You are sure it hasn't fallen on the floor?"

"I will look."

The young lady rose and looked about under the seat, but the lost purse
was not found.

"I--I don't see how I could have lost it. I have been sitting here all
the time."

An idea flashed upon Mark.

"It must have been taken by the man who just left you," he said.

"But that can't be! He was a minister."

"I know he was dressed as a minister, but I don't believe he was one."

"He looked just like one. Besides he was reading a volume of sermons. I
can't believe that he would rob me."

"There was one thing that didn't look very ministerial."

"What was that?"

"His nose. Do you not notice how red it was?"

"Yes, but I thought it might be some humor."

"It was colored by whisky, I think. I know topers in New York who have
noses exactly like his. You may depend upon it that he has your purse.
I hope there wasn't much in it."

"Only about five dollars. Generally the loss would not inconvenience me,
but as it is--" and she looked anxious.

"If--if I can be of any service," stammered Mark, "I hope you won't mind
saying so. I can lend you five dollars."

The young lady looked grateful, but seemed in doubt as to whether she
ought to accept the offer.

"I don't know whether I ought to accept such an offer from a young
gentleman--" she said hesitating.

"I am a very young gentleman," said Mark smiling. "I am only sixteen!"

"That is true, and it does make a difference. Are you sure you can spare
the money for a day or two?"

"Quite so, Miss--"

"Loring," prompted the young lady.

"Are you related to Mrs. Arabella Loring of Cleveland?"

The young lady looked very much surprised.

"She is my mother," she replied. "But how in the world do you know of
her?"

"I will tell you later," answered Mark.

He felt that it wouldn't be wise to mention the commission, or let any
one know that he had a diamond ring in charge.

"Are you going directly to Cleveland, Miss Loring?"

"Yes, but about thirty miles this side I have a young niece at a
boarding school. She will join me on the train, and will expect me to
pay her railroad fare. But for that, the loss of the money would have
entailed no inconvenience."

Mark drew from his pocket book a five-dollar bill and passed it to Miss
Loring.

"But how can I return this to you?" she asked.

"I will call at your house. I am going to Cleveland also."

"Do so. Here is my card."

She took out a small card and tendered it to Mark. On it was inscribed:

    MISS FLORENCE LORING.
       No. 1001Â½ Euclid Avenue.

"Inquire for me when you call!" she said.

"Thank you."

"It seems so strange that you should know my mother," she continued
evidently feeling curious.

Mark smiled.

"You will know in time," he said. "If we were alone I would tell you
now."

Here there was a stop at some station, and a shabby and dirty-looking
man entered the car.

There was but one seat vacant, the one next to Florence Loring.

Mark hastily rose and sat down in it.

"I thought," he said apologetically, "you might prefer me to the man who
has just entered the car."

"By all means," she answered with a bright smile. "I prefer you also to
the clerical gentleman who rode with me earlier."

"Thank you. When your niece joins you I will vacate the seat in her
favor."

Florence Loring was perhaps nineteen, three years older than Mark. She
looked upon him quite as a boy, and therefore felt under no constraint.

"Do you come from New York?" she asked.

"Yes."

"You seem young to travel alone."

"I don't think you can be much older than I," said Mark.

"Mercy! I feel ever so much older. I feel old enough to be your aunt."

"I shouldn't mind having you for an aunt," returned Mark.

"On the whole, though, it might prove to be too much of a
responsibility. You may be very hard to manage."

"Do you mind my calling you aunt?"

"Well, perhaps it might make me appear too venerable."

"Did you notice, Miss Loring, whether your clerical friend left the cars
when he left the seat?"

"No; I didn't feel any particular interest in him, and did not give him
a second thought."

"Perhaps he may still be on the train. I have a great mind to go and
see."

"I don't think it would do any good. We could not prove that he took my
purse."

"If you will excuse me for five minutes I will make a search."

Mark went through the next car and entered the second one, which was a
smoking car. He looked about him, and in a seat about the middle of the
car he saw the man of whom he was in search. He recognized him by his
white tie and his red nose. He was smoking a cigar and gazing out of the
car window.

The seat beside him being vacant Mark went forward and sat down in it.

The gentleman with the white tie glanced at him carelessly, but did not
appear to think Mark was worthy of attention. He changed his mind when
Mark said in a low voice:

"Please give me the purse which you took from a young lady in the second
car back."




CHAPTER XVI.

MARK AS A DETECTIVE.


THE adventurer turned swiftly when he heard Mark's startling question.
He seemed astounded at the boy's audacity.

"What did you say?" he demanded with hauteur.

"I asked you to return the purse which you took from a young lady in the
second car back," repeated Mark calmly.

"Boy," said the false minister, "you must be insane or drunk."

"I don't think I am either," returned Mark.

"What do you mean by such nonsense, then? Are you aware that I am a
minister of the gospel?"

"Where do you preach?"

"It is of no consequence," said the other loftily. "I am not in habit of
being insulted by whipper-snappers like you."

"Are you in the habit of taking young ladies' purses, Mr.----"

"Rev. Mr. Buffington is my name, young man."

"Then, Mr. Buffington, will you answer my question?"

"I shall be tempted to forget my sacred profession and throw you out of
the car," said the pseudo minister, looking very unclerical as he spoke.

"I have no doubt you would like to do so."

"You ought to be thrashed for your impertinence."

"Suppose you call the conductor and complain of me. You may tell your
story and I will tell mine."

This suggestion seemed fair enough, but it did not appear to strike the
Rev. Mr. Buffington favorably.

"I do not care to notice the foolish insolence of a half grown boy," and
the pseudo clergyman, taking a paper from his lap, half turned away from
Mark, and began to read, or appeared to do so.

Mark, however, did not propose to be bluffed off in this manner.

"Mr. Buffington," he said resolutely, "I am a boy, but I know what I am
about. You took the young lady's purse. Before you sat down beside her
she had it in her pocket. When you left the car it was gone."

"If I ever get you alone," said Buffington in a low tone of concentrated
rage.

"If you do, I hope you won't forget your sacred profession."

"I am a minister, but I am also a gentleman, and I shall resent an
insult."

"Look here," said Mark, getting out of patience, "either you give me
back that purse for the young lady or I will call the conductor and lay
the matter before him."

"Rev." Mr. Buffington tried to turn Mark from his purpose by threats,
but he was evidently alarmed. He was conscious of guilt, and he knew how
such an appeal would end for him.

Mark saw him waver, and followed up his advantage.

"There was only about five dollars in the purse," he said, "and it won't
pay you to keep it. If you give it up without further trouble I won't
expose you. What do you say?"

Mr. Buffington looked in Mark's resolute face and he saw that he was in
serious earnest. He felt that he was in the boy's power, and much as it
galled him, he decided that he must yield.

"It is possible, of course, that the young lady in handling the purse,
may have dropped it into my pocket," he said. "I will search for it, and
if that is the case it shall be returned."

He thrust his hand into his pocket and drew out the purse.

"I wouldn't have believed it," he murmured. "It is a most extraordinary
incident. Is this the young lady's purse?"

Mark took it, and opening it, saw that it contained three dollars in
bills, and a dollar and seventy-five cents in silver.

"Yes, sir," he said; "this answers the description."

"Give it back to the young lady with my compliments," said Buffington
with unabashed assurance. "Express my regrets at the unfortunate
mistake. I now remember how it occurred. I saw the purse on the floor
where she had doubtless dropped it, and supposing it to be my own put it
into my pocket. I was so busily engaged, reading the volume of sermons
which I carry with me that it made little impression on my mind."

"I will tell her what you say, Mr. Buffington," said Mark gravely.

Of course he might have expressed doubt of the accuracy of his
companion's statement, but he had accomplished his purpose, and did not
care to humiliate Buffington farther.

"Good morning, young man," said Buffington with Christian forgetfulness
of Mark's errand.

"Good morning, sir."

When Mark had left the car Buffington's face underwent a change. He
looked absolutely ferocious.

"To think I should have been trapped and worsted by a kid!" he said to
himself. "The boy is about as cool and resolute as any I ever saw. I
hope I shall some day have a chance to get even with him."

Mark returned to his own car and paused at Miss Loring's seat.

"Is this your purse?" he asked, holding it up.

"Yes. Oh, where did you get it?"

"From the party who took it."

"Is he on the smoking car still?"

"Yes he is on the smoking car."

"But--didn't he object to surrendering it?"

"He made a decided objection, but I succeeded in convincing him that it
was for his interest to do so."

"You are a remarkable boy," said Florence Loring admiringly.

"Thank you, Miss Loring. You will make me vain if you flatter me."

"But I am quite in earnest. I am now able to return the money you so
kindly lent me."

"Are you sure you will not need it?"

"Quite sure."

The hours sped fast. Soon they reached the station where Miss Loring
expected to see her niece. She went to the door of the car, and from the
platform signaled to a child of eight, who returned the greeting
joyfully.

"I was so afraid I should miss you, auntie," said the child.

"I have been on the lookout for you, Gertie. Come in at once."

Of course Mark vacated his seat, and aunt and niece were able to sit
together. The messenger boy secured a seat a little nearer the door. He
found the journey less interesting now that he was deprived of his fair
companion's company.

As they were leaving the train at the Cleveland station, Florence said,
"Gertie, this is Mr. Mason, who has been of great service to me during
the journey."

Gertie surveyed Mark attentively. She was an irrepressible young lady,
given to plain speaking.

"He ain't your beau, is he, Aunt Florence?" she asked.

Florence smiled and blushed.

"No," she answered. "Don't you see he is younger than I am. He is better
suited to be your beau."

"I've got a beau already," said the child unexpectedly.

"Indeed! That is news. What's his name?"

"Dan Sillis. He is a nice boy."

"How old is he?"

"About fifteen."

"Isn't that too old for you?"

"Oh no. Husbands always are older than their wives."

Both Mark and Florence laughed.

"Don't you think you could make room for another beau?" asked Mark.

"No; but if I get tired of Dan I won't mind taking you," responded
Gertie with the most perfect gravity.

"I will remember that. If we should get married your Aunt Florence would
be my aunt too."

"Can I do anything for you, Miss Loring?" Mark asked as they reached the
exterior of the depot.

"If you would be kind enough to call a cab."

Mark did so, and the two young ladies entered.

"I suppose you will call if you have business with mother," said
Florence.

"Yes; I shall call to-morrow."

Mark was in doubt where to go, knowing nothing of the hotels in
Cleveland, but seeing a stage bearing the name "Erie Hotel," decided to
go there.

For obvious reasons I have not given the right name of the hotel. This
name will answer so far as our story goes.

He sprang in with his valise and in a few minutes was set down before a
comfortable looking hotel of good size.

He entered, and registering his name was assigned to room 96.

"Will you go up-stairs at once, Mr. Mason?" asked the clerk.

"Yes, sir."

Mark followed the hall boy to a room on the third floor.

"Will dinner be ready soon?" he asked.

"It is on the table now, sir."

Mark washed his hands and face, combed his hair, and went down-stairs.
He had but one flight to descend, the dining-room being on the second
floor.

Even if the dinner had been an indifferent one Mark would have
appreciated it, for he was very hungry. When he had satisfied his
appetite he had a chance to look around.

What was his surprise when a little farther down the table, on the same
side, he recognized his acquaintance of the smoking car, Mr.
Buffington!




CHAPTER XVII.

MARK MAKES A CALL ON EUCLID AVENUE.


MARK was not altogether pleased to find that he had not got rid of the
railroad adventurer. He recognized him as a dangerous and unprincipled
man.

As long as Mark had the diamond pin in his possession, the vicinity of
such a fellow meant peril. He decided that he had better lose no time in
delivering the pin to Mrs. Loring. He had told Florence that he would
call the next day, but really there was no reason why he should not
deliver it at once.

About three o'clock he called a cab and directed the driver to drive to
No. 1001Â½ Euclid Avenue. The distance was somewhat more than a mile, and
in fifteen minutes he found himself at his destination.

"Shall I wait for you?" asked the hackman.

"No; I may be in the house some time."

He paid for the cab and rang the doorbell.

"Is Mrs. Loring at home?" asked Mark of the servant who answered the
bell.

"Yes, sir, but I don't know if she will see you."

"Tell her that I come from Mr. Swan of New York."

"She will see you," said the servant returning after a short absence.

Mark was ushered into the reception room, and in a few minutes a
pleasant-looking woman of middle age entered. She seemed surprised when
her glance rested upon Mark.

"Surely you are not Mr. Swan's messenger?" she said.

"Yes, madam."

"And you--have brought the pin?"

"Here it is," said Mark, producing it from his pocket.

Mrs. Loring eagerly opened the casket and uttered an exclamation of
delight.

"It is beautiful--just what I wanted," she said.

"Mr. Swan said he thought he knew your taste."

"Did he mention the price?"

"A thousand dollars. Here is the bill."

"I shall not dispute the price, for I have perfect confidence in Mr.
Swan. But--isn't it strange that he should have selected so young a
messenger?" she continued, regarding Mark with curiosity.

"I agree with you," said Mark, smiling, "but I feel confidence in Mr.
Swan's judgment and did not object to come."

"You might have been robbed, if any evil-minded person had known what
you carried."

"That is true, but they would not be likely to think a boy would be
intrusted with an article of great value."

"That is certainly an important consideration. How long have you been in
Mr. Swan's employ?"

"About a week."

"And he trusted you like this?" said the lady in astonishment.

"I am really a telegraph boy. Mr. Swan had known me in that character."

"He certainly paid you a great compliment, and his confidence does not
seem to have been misplaced. Shall I pay you for the pin?"

"You can give me a check payable to Mr. Swan, and I will forward it to
him by mail."

"I will do so. Can you wait?"

"Oh, yes, Mrs. Loring. I had no business in Cleveland except to deliver
this ring."

At that moment Florence Loring entered the room, and to her mother's
surprise went up to Mark and offered her hand.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Mason," she said.

"Thank you, Miss Florence."

"Is this call made on me?"

"Partly," answered Mark smiling, "but I had some business with your
mother."

"How in the world did you two get acquainted?" asked Mrs. Loring.

"Don't you remember, mama, what I told you about being robbed by a man
who sat next to me, and having my purse returned by a boy--a young
gentleman."

"I don't mind being called a boy," said Mark. "I shall be one for some
time yet."

"Well?"

"Mr. Mason is the one who recovered my purse. Before that he kindly
offered to loan me some money. But what possible business can he have
with you?"

"See what he has brought me from New York. He comes from Mr. Swan."

"Oh mama, how lovely! Is it a present for me? You know my birthday comes
in eight months."

"My dear child, even if it came to-morrow I should hardly pay a thousand
dollars for a birthday gift for you."

"A thousand dollars? It seems even more lovely now that I know the
price."

"Remain here, Florence, and entertain Mr. Mason while I go to the
library and write a check for the purchase money."

"All right, mama! Mr. Mason, why didn't you tell me what business you
had with mama?"

"I shouldn't have minded telling you, but if some one else had heard,
your clerical friend for instance, I might have been robbed."

"That is true. I hope I shall never see him again."

"Perhaps you may. I have seen him."

"You have seen him?" ejaculated Florence in surprise. "Where?"

"At the dinner table at my hotel."

"Do you think he is staying there?"

"I only know that I saw him at the table."

"At what hotel are you staying?"

"At the Erie Hotel."

"I hope you will be cautious. He may do you an injury," said Florence
with flattering earnestness.

"It was because I saw him that I was anxious to deliver the pin as soon
as possible."

"But he wouldn't know you had it."

"He would suppose I had some money for traveling expenses."

"True. And now you will have the large check my mother is to give you."

"I shall not keep it in my possession. I shall go back to the hotel at
once and inclose it in a letter to Mr. Swan."

"You seem to be a remarkable boy--I mean you are remarkably sharp for
your age."

"Telegraph boys have to be sharp."

"So you are a telegraph boy. Are there any telegraph girls?"

"Not that I know of."

"I am afraid we poor girls would be too easily imposed upon."

"Well, have you entertained Mr. Mason?" asked Mrs. Loring re-entering
the room.

"I have done my best, mama. What do you think he tells me? That horrid
man that stole my purse is staying at his hotel."

"Then I hope you won't send him an invitation to call here."

"He would call fast enough," suggested Mark, "if he knew what a valuable
diamond pin you have in the house."

"Then I hope he won't find out. How did it happen, Florence, you didn't
watch him when he was sitting beside you?"

"How could you expect me to watch a man who was engaged in reading a
volume of sermons. They were the sermons of Rev. Dr. Hooker."

"Perhaps that is where he learned hooking," laughed Mark.

"That's a good joke!" said Florence. "By the way, mama, have you
tickets for the theater this evening?"

"Yes, but one won't be used. Louisa Frost can't go."

"Then suppose you give it to Mr. Mason. I am sure he would enjoy the
play."

"Well thought of, Florence. Won't you get one of the tickets? You will
find them on my bureau, that is if our young friend has no other
engagement."

"I have none whatever," said Mark promptly. "You are very kind, Mrs.
Loring."

"You must thank Florence. If you were a few years older I should be
afraid she had designs upon you. It is leap year, you know."

"Now, mama, what will Mr. Mason think of me? I am propriety
personified."

Mark concluded his call and left the house, well pleased at having
successfully carried out his instructions. He went back directly to the
hotel, and sitting down in the reading room wrote the following letter
to his employer:

       *       *       *       *       *

"HENRY SWAN, ESQ.,

"DEAR SIR: I have delivered the diamond ring, and inclose Mrs. Loring's
check for a thousand dollars in payment. She is very much pleased with
it, and says it exactly suits her. I have had a pleasant journey, and
expect to start on my return to-morrow.

"Yours respectfully,

"MARK MASON."

       *       *       *       *       *

As he was writing the address some one passed behind his chair and
looked over his shoulder at the superscription.

It was the "Rev." Mr. Buffington, as he called himself.

His eye lighted up as he saw to whom the letter was addressed.

"So this boy is traveling for a New York jeweler," he said to himself.
"I am glad to know this. He probably carries a stock of jewelry with
him, and if so, I shall cultivate his acquaintance."

He passed out of the reading room without Mark observing him. Mr.
Buffington took care to keep out of the way, and Mark supposed he had
left the hotel.




CHAPTER XVIII.

A MIDNIGHT VISIT.


MARK was confirmed in his belief that Mr. Buffington had left the hotel,
because on looking over the book he found no such name. It did not occur
to him that Lawrence Perkins was his railroad friend under another
alias. Mr. Buffington was rich in names, and had masqueraded under at
least a dozen. He, however, had seen Mark's name in the register, and
noted carefully the number of his room. The information seemed to him
important, especially after he had looked over Mark's shoulder and found
that he represented a prominent jeweler in New York.

Mark did not fail to keep his appointment at the theater. He arrived
first, but five minutes later Mrs. Loring, Florence and a young man,
cousin to the latter, made their appearance.

Florence smiled pleasantly, and arranged the party so that Mark should
sit beside her.

"Now, George," she said to her cousin, "make yourself agreeable to
mama, and I will try to entertain Mr. Mason."

"No flirting, Florence," cautioned her cousin.

"Did you ever know me to flirt?" asked Florence in mock indignation.

"Well, occasionally."

"Very well, if I have the reputation I may as well deserve it," and she
proceeded to chat with Mark.

In the gallery, among the cheap seats, sat Mr. Buffington, who wanted to
while away the evening in a pleasant but economical manner. He did not
immediately discover Mark below, but after a time recognized him.

"It is just as well I came here," he reflected, "as the kid won't get to
bed till late. Wonder who his friends are. That young lady looks
stylish."

Buffington took good care when the play was over to keep out of the way
of the throng issuing from the main entrance. He made his way to the
hotel by a devious course, and on arriving went up to his room. Mark
came in not long after him, and went up to bed at once. He felt quite
tired, but was well pleased with his experiences thus far. He had got
rid of his responsibility, having delivered the diamond ring, received
pay therefor and forwarded the check to his principal in New York.

"Now I can have a comfortable night's rest," he reflected.

He had nearly fifty dollars with him, but this seemed a trifle compared
with the diamond pin. Still he considered in what way he could secure
this from chance of theft.

There seemed, however, to be very little danger. He had locked the door
inside, leaving the key in the lock. There was no door communicating
with any other room. After some consideration he decided to hide the
wallet containing his money, not under his pillow, but under the sheet
at the lower part of the bed where he could feel it with his feet.

"I guess I'll find it safe in the morning," he said to himself.

Now that he was relieved from all anxiety he composed himself to sleep,
and in less than ten minutes he was unconscious of all around him.

About an hour later Mr. Buffington in bare feet stood in front of Mark's
door. Through the open transom he could hear the boy's peaceful
breathing.

"He is fast asleep," he said to himself with satisfaction. "I know how
boys sleep, especially when they are tired. I don't think there will be
much risk in carrying out my scheme."

He had a skeleton key which would readily have opened the door had the
key not been in the lock on the inside. This fact he soon ascertained.

"It will make it harder for me," he reflected, "but there is the
transom. I shall have to make use of that."

Mr. Buffington, to use the name by which we first knew him, had some
experience as a gymnast. He drew himself up to a level with the transom,
and then with considerable difficulty managed to get through.

The room was partially illuminated with moonlight. First of all, on
descending on the other side, he turned the key in the lock so as to
afford himself a way of easy escape in case of need.

Though he made some noise in landing Mark was too sound asleep to be
aware of it.

"Now where does the boy keep his valuables?" Buffington asked himself.

He searched all Mark's pockets, even to the vest, but without finding
anything.

Next he turned his attention to the gripsack, but that proved to contain
only wearing apparel. But Mr. Buffington was sharp enough to understand
the ways of wary travelers. He went to the bed, and gently slid his hand
under the pillow. That is the most common hiding-place for watches and
other valuables. But he made no discovery.

Buffington paused to reflect on the situation.

"The kid has certainly got a pocketbook," he soliloquized. "He can't
travel without money. Now where is it? That is the question."

He had searched everywhere else. He decided that it must be concealed
somewhere about the bed. Finally he made a correct guess.

He approached the bed at the lower end, and raising the covering began
to feel about in the neighborhood of Mark's feet. Now, as probably all
my young readers know from personal experience, the feet are very
sensitive, and there are few who are not "ticklish."

Mark who had been unconscious of the intruder's presence till now
speedily became aware that some one was fumbling about his feet. On the
impulse of the moment he drew one foot back and extended it suddenly in
the act of kicking.

Mr. Buffington withdrew his hand swiftly, and looked anxiously at the
sleeper.

Mark's eyes did not open, and the burglar resolved after a suitable
pause to continue his investigations. But Mark's slumbers, since the
interruption, were not as sound as before. When the visitor continued
his manipulations he woke suddenly, and opening his eyes took in the
situation. He recognized Mr. Buffington's features and at once was wide
awake.

But for the fact that the burglar was dangerously near the money he
would have allowed him to keep on. As it was he thought it time to
interfere. He gave a vigorous kick, and called out, "Who's there?"

Buffington understood that his scheme was defeated. To rob Mark when he
was awake was to run too much risk.

He sprang for the door which he had unlocked, as already noted, and
opening it dashed out into the corridor. Mark did not propose to
facilitate his flight. He sprang from the bed and called out in a loud
tone, "Help! Thieves!"

Now it so happened that the watchman attached to the hotel was just
making his rounds and was not far off. He ran to the spot, caught sight
of the flying figure of the departing burglar, and caught him by the
shoulder.

Buffington was a strong man, and could have got away from a man of
ordinary muscles. But the watchman was a man of more than average
strength, having served as porter before he had been transferred to the
post of watchman and detective.

He gripped Buffington in a vise-like grasp.

"No, my man," he said, "you don't get away so easy. Stand still, and
give an account of yourself."

"I am a guest of the hotel," said Buffington sullenly.

"Then why are you not in bed?"

"Because I had a severe headache and thought I would take a little walk
in the corridor."

"What made you come into my room?" demanded Mark, who now appeared on
the scene.

"I didn't know whose room it was. I thought it was my own."

"How did you get in? The door was locked."

"No, it wasn't," answered Buffington boldly. "You thought you locked it,
but you didn't. Trying the knob it opened at once, and I supposed it was
my own which I had left unlocked."

"Is that true?" asked the watchman, looking doubtfully at Mark.

"No, it isn't. I took special pains to lock the door, for I knew that
there was a possibility of my room being entered."

"Then he must have got through the transom. We have had such cases
before."

"If you have finished asking foolish questions I will go back to bed,"
said Buffington with remarkable assurance.

"Wait a minute. Did you see this man in your room?"

The question was addressed to Mark.

"Yes. I woke up while he was there."

"What was he doing?"

"Searching for my purse. He was fumbling about the bedclothes at the
foot of the bed."

"Was your money there?"

"Yes."

Buffington's face contracted with disappointment. He had been on the
brink of success, when Mark, unfortunately for him, awoke.

"And you spoke to him?"

"Yes."

"What then?"

"He sprang for the door, and would have escaped if you had not caught
him."

"Did you ever see the man before?"

"I saw him on the train coming here for the first time."

"Did anything happen on the train?"

"Yes. He stole a young lady's pocketbook. I made him give it up."

Buffington looked at Mark menacingly. He would have liked to wreak his
vengeance upon him.

"Do you know his name?"

"He calls himself Rev. Mr. Buffington."

The watchman laughed grimly.

"Sorry to disturb you, reverend sir," he said, "but I shall be obliged
to lock you in your room till morning."

Buffington shrugged his shoulders.

"All right!" he said. "I shall at any rate secure a good night's sleep."

The watchman did as he suggested. He shut the burglar in his room, and
locked the door from the outside.

"Now," he said to Mark, "you can sleep undisturbed for the balance of
the night."




CHAPTER XIX.

AT NIAGARA FALLS.


ALTHOUGH Mark was inclined to pity any man deprived of his liberty, he
felt pleased to think that Buffington's career was cut short for a time.
There was little doubt that he would be imprisoned for a time more or
less extended.

"How much better it would be for him," thought Mark, "if he had earned
his living in some honest way!"

Stealing may seem an easy way of obtaining money, but the one who
depends on it is likely to be brought up with a round term at last.

When Mark went down in the morning the clerk said to him, "So you had a
little excitement in your room last night, the watchman tells me."

"Yes; I had a visitor, but fortunately he was caught without securing
anything. He was about to take my pocketbook when I woke up. I was
lucky, for I might have found myself unable to pay my bill here."
