Bangs. "If you want a boat why don't you hire one?"

"I don't have to hire one," answered Randy.

"You wouldn't dare to touch my boat," continued Bob, who was known as
the town bully. His father was rich and for that reason he thought he
could ride over all the other boys.

"I shouldn't care to touch it," said Randy.

"Don't you know you haven't any right to touch Jack's boat without his
permission?" went on the big youth.

"Bob Bangs, this is none of your business."

"Humph! I'll make it my business."

"If you do, you may get into trouble."

"I'll risk that. If you don't get out of that boat I'll tell Jack."

"I am not going to get out of the boat."

"Maybe I'll make you get out," and Bob Bangs came a step closer, and
put his hand on the gunwale of the rowboat.

"You leave me and the boat alone," said Randy, sharply.

"You get out of that boat."

"Not for you."

Bob Bangs looked ugly. He was on the point of catching Randy by the
collar when an interruption came from behind.

"So you got here ahead of me, eh?" came in Jack's voice, as he
approached on a swift walk. "I had to do an errand for father and that
kept me."

As Jack came up Bob Bangs fell back in disgust.

"Humph! Why didn't you say you were waiting for Jack?" he said to
Randy, with a sour look on his face.

"You didn't ask me, that's why," returned Randy.

"What's the trouble?" questioned Jack, quickly.

"Bob wanted me to leave the boat alone."

"I thought he was trying to sneak it on the sly," explained the big
boy. "I didn't know you cared to go out with him," he added, to Jack,
with a toss of his head.

"Why shouldn't I go out with Randy?" asked Jack, quickly.

"Oh, I shouldn't care to go out with the son of a poor carpenter."

"See here, Bob Bangs, I consider myself as good as you," said Randy,
quickly.

"Humph!"

"Randy is all right, even if his father is a carpenter," said Jack.
"It's mean of you, Bob, to talk that way."

"Choose your own company and I'll choose mine," answered Bob Bangs,
loftily, and stalked away, his nose tilted high in the air.

Angry words arose to Randy's lips but he repressed them and said
nothing. In a moment more some goods on the dock hid the big boy from
view.

"Don't you care for what he says," said Jack, quickly. "He thinks a few
dollars are everything in this world."

"I didn't mind him--much, Jack."

"Wanted you to get out of my boat, didn't he?"

"Yes. He didn't know I was waiting for you."

"That was a good joke on him."

"I can't understand why he is so disagreeable."

"It was born in him," said Jack, as he leaped into the rowboat and
stowed away his fishing outfit. "His father is the same way and so is
his mother. They think that just because they have money everybody
else, especially a poor person, is dirt under their feet."

"Why, Jack, I guess your father is as rich as Mr. Bangs."

"Maybe he is."

"And you don't put on such airs."

"And I don't intend to. Money is a good thing to have, but it isn't
everything--that is what my father and mother say."

"Bob wouldn't want me out in his boat with him."

"Maybe you wouldn't like to go out with him either."

"You are right there. I am getting so I hate to speak to him."

"Well, I am getting that way, too. Every time we meet he tries to
impress it upon me that he is a superior person,--and I don't see it."

"Your father and his father have some business dealings, haven't they?"

"Yes, they are interested in the same iron company,--and from what
father says, I think they are going to have trouble before long."

"I hope your father comes out ahead."

"It is this way: Father has a controlling interest and Mr. Bangs is
doing his best to get it away from him. If Mr. Bangs can get control he
will, so father says, join the company of a larger concern, and then
father will be about wiped out and he won't get more than half of what
is really coming to him."

"But wouldn't that be fraud?"

"Yes, morally, but not legally--so father says," answered Jack, and
heaved a sigh. "I hope it all comes out right."

"And so do I--for your sake as well as for your folks," added Randy,
heartily.




CHAPTER II

AT THE FISHING HOLE


The fishing hole for which the two boys were bound was on the river
about a mile and a half above the town. At this point the stream was
thirty to forty feet wide and ten to fifteen feet deep. It was lined on
one side with sharp rocks and on the other by thick trees and bushes.
At the foot of some of the rocks, where the river made a bend, there
was a deep hole, and this some of the lads, including Randy and Jack,
considered an ideal place for fishing.

The boys did not row directly for the hole, being afraid they might
scare the fish away. Instead they landed below the spot, tied fast to a
tree root between the stones, and then crawled over the big rocks until
they reached a point from which they could cast into the hole with
ease.

They soon baited up. Randy was ready first, but he gave his companion
the chance to make the initial cast. Scarcely had Jack's hook touched
the water when there came a jerk and the line was almost pulled from
the boy's hands.

"You've got him!" cried Randy, excitedly. "Good for you!"

"If I don't lose him before I get him on the rocks!" answered Jack. But
his fears were groundless, for a few seconds later the catch lay at his
feet--a fish weighing at least a pound and a half.

"That's the way to do it," said Randy.

"You might have had him--if you had cast in first," answered his
companion, modestly.

"I'll try my luck now," and Randy cast in without delay. Then Jack also
tried it again, and both boys began to fish in earnest. Soon Randy got
a bite and brought in a fish weighing as much as the first catch.

"Now we are even," said Jack.

In an hour Randy had four good-sized fish to his credit and Jack had an
equal number. Then Jack's luck fell away and Randy got three more while
his companion got nothing.

"There is no use of talking, you are a better fisherman than I," said
Jack.

"I think you drop down too deep," answered Randy. "Try it this way,"
and he showed his friend what he meant.

After that Jack's success was a trifle better, but still Randy kept
ahead of him.

When the boys had caught twenty fish between them they decided to give
up the sport. Randy knew where they could find some blackberries, and
leaving their fish in a hole among the rocks, where there was a small
pool of water, they tramped away from the river to where the blackberry
bushes were located.

"These are fine," said Jack, eating a handful with a relish. "Randy, we
ought to come berrying here some day."

"I am willing."

"These berries would make the nicest kind of pies."

"Yes, indeed! And if there is anything I love it is a good, juicy
blackberry pie."

"If we had a kettle we might take some home with us now."

"I am afraid it is too late. What time is it?"

Jack carried a neat silver watch which he consulted.

"Why, it's half-past five already! I thought it might be four. Yes,
we'll have to get back."

"Let us go down to the boat first and then row up and get the fish."

This suited the two boys, and soon they were making their way back over
the rocks to where Jack's craft had been left. As they came out from
among the trees and bushes they saw another boat on the river, headed
for Riverport.

"There is Bob Bangs again!" exclaimed Randy.

"Hullo!" yelled Jack. "Have you been fishing, too?"

"Yes," answered the big boy, and continued to row down the river.

"Have any luck?" went on Jack.

"Fine," was the short answer, and then Bob Bangs' craft drew out of
hearing.

"He was in a tremendous hurry," mused Jack.

"Perhaps he didn't want us to see what he had caught," answered Randy.

"That's likely it, Randy. I don't believe he knows as much about
fishing as I do--and that is little enough."

Having secured the rowboat, Randy and Jack rowed up to the fishing
hole, and Randy scrambled up the rocks to secure their two strings of
fish. He soon reached the shallow pool among the rocks in which they
had been placed and drew up the two strings.

"Well, I declare!" he ejaculated, as he looked the fish over. Then he
counted them carefully. "What can this mean?"

His string had held twelve fish and Jack's eight fish. Now three of the
largest fish from each string were gone. He looked around with care,
but could see nothing of the missing fish.

"Hullo! What's keeping you?" shouted Jack, from the boat.

"Come up here!" called back Randy.

"Anything wrong?"

"Yes."

"Landy! I hope the fish aren't gone!" burst out Jack, as he scrambled
up the rocks and ran to where Randy was continuing the search.

The situation was soon explained and both boys hunted around in the
neighborhood of the pool, thinking the fish might have gotten away in
some manner. Then of a sudden Jack uttered a cry:

"Look at this, Randy!"

"What is it?"

"A key ring, with two keys on it."

"Where did you find it?"

"Here, right beside the pool."

"Then somebody has been here and taken our fish!"

"Exactly what I believe."

Jack began to examine the key ring and then he uttered another
exclamation:

"Here are some initials on the ring."

"What are they?"

"I can't make out very well--they are so worn. I think the first is R."

"Let me see."

Jack passed the find over and Randy examined it.

"I can make it out," said Randy. "R. A. B."

"Robert A. Bangs!" shouted Jack.

"Bob Bangs!" murmured Randy. "Could he have been mean enough to come
here and take some of our fish?"

"It certainly looks that way."

"Let us go after him and find out."

"All right. Anyway, we can make him explain how his key ring got here."

Taking what was left of the fish, the two boys hurried back to the
rowboat and soon each was seated at an oar and pulling a good stroke in
the direction of the town.

"He must have been watching us fish," observed Jack. "And he must have
seen us place our catch in the pool."

"And took our best fish because he couldn't catch any of his own,"
concluded Randy. "Well, if he has my fish he has got to give them up,"
he added, with determination.

Rowing at a good rate of speed, it did not take the boys long to reach
the town. As they moved past one dock after another they looked for Bob
Bangs, but the big youth was nowhere in sight.

"I reckon he was afraid of being followed," said Jack.

"There is his boat," answered Randy, and pointed to the craft, which
was tied up near an old boathouse and not at the regular Bangs dock.

While the two boys rested on their oars an old man who was lame, and
who rented out boats for a living, came from the old boathouse. "Hullo,
Isaac!" called out Jack. "Have you seen Bob Bangs around here?"

"Why, yes; he just went ashore," answered Isaac Martin.

"Did he have any fish?"

"Yes, a nice string--some pretty big ones, too."

"How many?"

"Seven or eight."

"Which way did he go?"

"Up Samson Street."

"That's the back way to his house," cried Randy. "Come on!"

"What shall we do with our fish and the boat?"

"Let Isaac take care of them."

"Want me to take care of things, eh?" said the lame boatman. "Very
well, I'll do it."

The two boys were soon on the way, on a run. They knew about the route
Bob Bangs would take to get home and came in sight of the big boy just
as he was entering his father's garden by a rear gate.

"Stop, Bob!" called out Randy.

The big boy looked around hastily and was much chagrined to see the
others so close at hand. He held his string of fish behind him.

"What do you want?" he demanded, as they came closer.

"You know well enough what we want," returned Jack. "We want our fish."

"Your fish? Who has got your fish?" blustered Bob.

"You've got them," retorted Randy, and made a snatch at the string. The
big boy held fast and a regular tug of war ensued.

"Let go!"

"I won't!"

"You shall!"

"See here, Bob," interposed Jack. "It won't do you any good to hang on.
Those are our fish and we want them."

"Bah! How do you know they are your fish?"

"Because you took them from the pool in which we placed them."

"I did not."

"You did."

"You can't prove it."

"Yes, we can."

"How?"

"By this," said Jack, triumphantly, and exhibited the key ring and
keys.




CHAPTER III

EXPOSING BOB BANGS


When Bob Bangs saw the key ring his face changed color.

"Where did you get that?" he demanded.

"Got it where you dropped it--at the pool where we left our fish."

"How do you know it is mine?"

"By the initials on it."

"Humph!"

"If you don't want the key ring we'll keep it," put in Randy, quickly.

"No, you won't keep it. Give it to me."

"Then give us our fish," said Randy, quietly but firmly.

"They are not all your fish. I caught two of them."

"The two smallest, I suppose."

"No, the two largest."

"We lost six big fish and these belong to us," said Randy, and took the
best fish from the string. "Bob Bangs, it was a contemptible thing to
do," he added, with spirit. "I wouldn't do such a dirty thing for a
thousand dollars."

"Bah! Don't talk to me, unless you want to get hurt," growled the large
youth, savagely.

"I am not afraid of you, even if you are bigger than I am," said Randy,
undaunted by the fighting attitude the bully had assumed.

"It certainly was a mean piece of business," came from Jack. "If you
wanted some fish why didn't you ask us for them?"

"Humph! I can buy my fish if I want to."

"Then why did you take ours?" demanded Randy.

"I--er--I didn't know they belonged to you. I just saw the strings in
the pool and took a few," answered the boy, lamely. "Give me my key
ring."

The ring with the keys was passed over, and Randy and Jack restrung
their fish. In the meantime Bob Bangs entered his father's garden,
slamming the gate after him.

"You just wait--I'll get square with you!" he shouted back, and shook
his fist at Randy.

"You be careful, or you'll get into trouble!" shouted back Randy, and
then he and Jack walked away with their fish.

"What's the matter, Master Robert?" asked the man-of-all-work around
the Bangs place, as he approached Bob from the barn.

"Oh, some fellows are getting fresh," grumbled the big youth. "But I'll
fix them for it!"

"I see they took some of your fish."

"We had a dispute about the fish. Rather than take them from such a
poor chap as Randy Thompson I let him keep them," said Bob, glibly.
"But I am going to get square with him for his impudence," he added.

After a long hard row and fishing for over an hour, Bob Bangs had
caught only two small fish and he was thoroughly disgusted with
everything and everybody. He walked into the kitchen and threw the fish
on the sink board.

"There, Mamie, you can clean those and fry them for my supper," he said
to the servant girl.

"Oh, land sakes, Master Bob, they are very small," cried the girl.
"They won't go around nohow!"

"I said you could fry them for my supper," answered Bob, coldly.

"They are hardly worth bothering with," murmured the servant girl, but
the boy did not hear her, for he had passed to the next room. He went
upstairs and washed up and then walked into the sitting room, where his
mother reclined on a sofa, reading the latest novel of society life.

"Where is father?" he asked, abruptly.

"I do not know, Robert," answered Mrs. Bangs, without looking up from
her book.

"Will he be home to supper?"

To this there was no reply.

"I say, will he be home to supper?" and the boy shoved the book aside.

"Robert, don't be rude!" cried Mrs. Bangs, in irritation. "I presume he
will be home," and she resumed her novel reading.

"I want some money."

To this there was no reply. Mrs. Bangs was on the last chapter of the
novel and wanted to finish it before supper was served. She did little
in life but read novels, dress, and attend parties, and she took but
small interest in Bob and his doings.

"I say, I want some money," repeated the boy, in a louder key.

"Robert, will you be still? Every time I try to read you come and
interrupt me."

"And you never want to listen to me. You read all the time."

"No, I do not--I really read very little, I have so many things to
attend to. What did you say you wanted?"

"I want some money. I haven't had a cent this week."

"Then you must ask your father. I haven't anything to give you," and
again Mrs. Bangs turned to her book.

"Can't you give me a dollar?"

Again there was no answer.

"I say, can't you give me a dollar?"

"I cannot. Now go away and be quiet until supper time."

"Then give me fifty cents."

"I haven't a penny. Ask your father."

"Oh, you're a mean thing!" growled the wayward son, and stalked out of
the sitting room, slamming the door after him.

"What a boy!" sighed the lady of the house. "He never considers my
comfort--and after all I have done for him!" And then she turned once
more to her precious novel.

It wanted half an hour to supper time and Bob, not caring to do
anything else, took himself back to his room. Like his mother, he, too,
loved to read. Stowed away in a trunk, he had a score or more of cheap
paper-covered novels, of daring adventures among the Indians, and of
alluring detective tales, books on which he had squandered many a dime.
One was called "Bowery Bob, the Boy Detective of the Docks; or, Winning
a Cool Million," and he wanted to finish this, to see how Bob got the
million dollars. The absurdity of the stories was never noticed by him,
and he thought them the finest tales ever penned.

He was deep in a chapter where the hero in rags was holding three men
with pistols at bay when he heard a noise below and saw his father
leaping from the family carriage. Mr. Bangs' face wore a look of great
satisfaction, showing plainly that his day's business had agreed with
him.

"How do you do, dad?" he said, running down to greet his parent.

"First-rate, Bob," said Mr. Bangs, with a smile. "How have things gone
with you to-day?"

"Not very well."

"What's the matter?"

"You forgot to give me my spending money this week."

"I thought I gave it to you Saturday."

"That was for last week."

"I think you are mistaken, Bob. However, it doesn't matter much," went
on Mr. Bangs, as he entered the house.

"Phew! He's in a fine humor to-night," thought Bob. "I'll have to
strike him for more than a dollar."

"Where's your mother?" went on the gentleman.

"In the sitting room, reading. But I say, dad, what about that money?"

"Oh, do you want it right away?"

"I'd like to have it after supper."

"Very well."

"Can I have three dollars? I want to buy something extra this
week--some things I really need."

"Ahem! Three dollars is quite a sum. I don't know of any other boy in
Riverport who gets as much as three dollars in one week to spend."

"Well, but they haven't as rich a father as I have."

"Ah, quite true," nodded Mr. Bangs, with satisfaction. "I think I can
safely lay claim to being the richest man in this district."

"Then I can have the three dollars?" went on Bob, anxiously.

"Yes. Here you are," and his parent brought forth a well-filled wallet
and handed over three new one-dollar bills.

Bob was stowing the money away in his pocket and congratulating himself
on his luck when a door opened and Mrs. Bangs appeared.

"So you are back, Amos," she said, sweetly. "It has been such a long,
lonesome day without you."

"And a busy day for me," answered Amos Bangs, as he passed into the
sitting room and dropped into an easy chair.

"Did you go to Springfield?"

"I did, and met Tuller and the rest. We've got that thing in our grip
now."

"Yes," she said, vaguely. In reality she took no interest whatever in
her husband's affairs so long as she got what money she desired.

"Yes, sir--we've got the thing just where we want it," continued Amos
Bangs.

"You mean----?" his wife hesitated.

"I mean that iron works affair of course, Viola. Can't you understand
at all?"

"Oh--er--yes, of course. Let me see, you were trying to get control so
you said."

"Exactly, and I've got it."

"Was not that the works in which Mr. Bartlett is interested?"

"The same."

"Did not he have the control?"

"Yes, but I have it now, and I am going to keep it," answered Amos
Bangs, with evident satisfaction.

"Do you mean Jack Bartlett's father, dad?" questioned Bob, eagerly.

"I do."

"Have you got the best of him?"

"Well, I have--ahem--carried my point and the iron works will be
absorbed by the concern in Springfield."

"And Jack Bartlett's father won't like that?"

"No. In fact, I am afraid he will fight it. But he can do nothing,
absolutely nothing," went on Amos Bangs. "I hold the whip hand--and I
shall continue to hold it."

"I hate the Bartletts and I hope you do get the best of them."

"This will make Mrs. Bartlett take a back seat," said Mrs. Bangs,
maliciously.

"Maybe you mean that seat in church," said Bob, slyly.

"Not that particularly, although it is time they went to the rear--they
have had a front seat so long. Amos, we must take a front seat now."

"As you please, Viola."

"And I must have some new dresses."

"You shall have them, my dear."

"You dear, good man!" cried the fashionable wife; and then the whole
family went in to supper. Bob felt particularly elated. He had gotten
three dollars for spending money and he felt sure that the Bartletts,
including Jack, would have to suffer.

"I wish dad could do something to injure the Thompsons," he said to
himself. "But Mr. Thompson is only a carpenter. I must watch my chance
and get square with Randy on my own account."




CHAPTER IV

RANDY AT HOME


All unmindful of the trouble that had already come to the Bartletts,
and of the trouble Bob Bangs was hatching out for him, Randy divided
the mess of fish with Jack and hurried home.

"See what a fine mess I've got, mother!" he cried, as he entered the
kitchen, where his mother had just started to prepare the evening meal.
"Aren't they real beauties?"

"They are, Randy," answered Mrs. Thompson, and smiled brightly. "Did
Jack do as well?"

"Almost as well as I did, and we divided evenly, because, you see, he
furnished the boat. And, mother, I've found out where we can get a fine
lot of blackberries. If you want me to, I'll go for them to-morrow."

"I wish you would, Randy. Your father loves blackberry pie and
blackberry pudding."

"And so do I."

"I've got time to fry some of these fish for supper," went on Mrs.
Thompson. "And we can have some more to-morrow, too. But I don't think
we can use them all."

"I was thinking we might give Mrs. Gilligan a couple."

"That will be very nice. If you will, take them over at once."

Mrs. Gilligan was a poor Irishwoman who took in washing and ironing for
a living. She was alone in the world and often had a struggle to make
both ends meet.

"Just to look at that now!" she cried, as Randy held up the fish. "Sure
an' ye air a great fisher b'y, Randy, so ye air!"

"I got so many I thought I'd bring you a couple," said our hero.

"Now that's rale kind of ye," answered Mrs. Gilligan, as she dried her
hands and took the fish. "Just loike my Pat used to catch afore he was
kilt on the railroad."

"I caught them this afternoon, so you can be sure they are fresh."

"I'm much obliged to ye, I am indade," said Mrs. Gilligan. She drew a
long breath. "Sure an' the Lord is good to us after all. I was just
afther thinkin' I had nothin' but throuble, whin in comes these iligant
fish."

"Is something wrong?" asked Randy, curiously.

"It's not a great dale, yet it's enough fer a poor woman loike me. It's
Mrs. Bangs' wash, so it is. Nothin' suits that lady, an' she always
wants to pay less than she agreed."

"You mean Bob Bangs' mother?"

"Th' same, Randy. Oh, they are a hard-hearted family, so they are!"

"I believe you. And yet Mr. Bangs is rich."

"It's little enough I see of his money," sighed Mrs. Gilligan.
"Although I do me besht wid the washin' an' ironin', so I do!"

"It's a wonder Mrs. Bangs don't make the servant do the washing and
ironing."

"She did make the other wan do that same. But the new one can't iron
an' won't try, so I have the work, an' the girrul gits less wages,"
answered the Irishwoman.

When Randy returned home he found supper almost ready. The appetizing
odor of frying fish filled the air. A few minutes later Mr. Thompson
came in.

Louis Thompson was a man a little past middle age, tall and thin and
not unlike Randy in the general appearance of his face. He was not a
strong man, and the winter before had been laid up with a severe attack
of rheumatism.

"That smells good," he said, with a smile, as he kissed his wife. "I
like fish."

"Randy just caught them."

"Good enough."

"You look tired, Louis," went on Mrs. Thompson. "Was the work extra
hard?"

"Not much harder than usual, Lucy, but I was working on a cellar
partition and it was very damp. It brought back a bit of the
rheumatism."

"That is too bad."

"Can't the boss give you something else to do--something where it isn't
damp?" questioned Randy.

"I have asked him about it," answered his father. "But just at present
there is nothing else in sight."

"You must take care, Louis," said Mrs. Thompson. "It will not do to
risk having the rheumatism come back."

"I wish I could get something to do," said Randy, while the evening
meal was in progress. "I might earn some money and it would help. But
there doesn't seem to be any kind of an opening in Riverport."

"Times are rather dull," answered Mr. Thompson. "And I am afraid they
will be worse before they are better."

On the following day Randy went out after blackberries. Jack went with
him and the boys went up the stream in the latter's boat.

"If I can get a good mess mother is going to preserve some," said
Randy.

"I like blackberry jam," answered his friend.

The two boys had brought their lunch with them, intending to remain out
all day. By noon they had picked twelve quarts of berries and then sat
down by the river side to eat their lunch.

"What do you say to a swim?" remarked Jack, after the meal was over.

"Just the thing!" cried our hero. "But we mustn't remain in longer than
half an hour. I want to pick more berries."

They were soon in the water, which was deliciously cool and refreshing.
They dove and splashed around to their hearts' content and raced from
one bank to the other and back. Randy won the race by several seconds.

"I declare, Randy, you are a regular water rat!" declared Jack. "I
never saw a better swimmer."

"Well, I do love the water, that is certain," answered Randy.

"And you row such a good stroke, too."

"That's because I love boats."

The half-hour at an end, our hero leaped ashore and began to don his
garments, and Jack did the same. They were just finishing their toilet
when a rowboat came into view, containing Bob Bangs and several other
of the loud boys of Riverport.

"There is Bob Bangs again," whispered Randy.

"We'll have to watch out that he doesn't try to rob us of our berries,"
whispered Jack, significantly.

"Humph! Up here again, eh?" remarked the big youth, resting on his
oars.

"We are," answered Randy. "I think we can come, if we please."

"Certainly--for all I care," growled Bob.

"We are picking berries, and we intend to watch them, too," put in
Randy, loudly.

At this pointed remark Bob Bangs colored slightly.

"I should think you'd pick your company, Jack Bartlett," he said,
coarsely.

"I do. That is why I am not with you."

"Humph!"

"I consider myself just as good as you, Bob Bangs," said Randy, warmly.
"I may not be as rich, but I never tried to steal a mess of fish from
anybody."

"You shut up!" roared the big boy. And then he started to row away.

"You'll not get a chance to rob us of these berries," called out Jack
after him.

"What do they mean about robbing somebody of fish?" asked one of Bob's
companions.

"Oh, that was only a joke," answered the rich youth. "Just wait--I'll
fix them for it!"

As soon as Bangs and his cronies had disappeared Randy and Jack went
back to their berry picking. They worked steadily until five o'clock in
the afternoon, and by that time had a great number of quarts to their
credit.

"The folks at home will be pleased," said Jack. "My mother loves fresh
berries. She says they are much better than those which are several
days in the market."

"And she is right."

The boys had brought along several large and small kettles, and had
left three of these down near the boat, filled with the fruit. Each
walked to the shore with a kettle full of berries in his hand.

"Well, I never!" cried Jack, in dismay.

"Bob Bangs again!" murmured Randy. "Oh, don't I just wish I had him
here. I'd pummel him good!"

There was good cause for our hero's anger. On the rocks lay the
overturned berry kettles, the berries scattered in all directions and
many of them crushed under foot.

"And look at the boat!" gasped Jack, turning to inspect the craft.

The rowboat was partly filled with water and on the seats and in the
bottom a quantity of mud had been thrown. The oars were sticking in a
mud bank close by.

"Does she leak?" asked our hero, with concern.

"I'll have to find out."

It was soon discovered that the craft was intact, and then they set to
work to clean up the muss. This was no easy job, and the boys perspired
freely, for the day was a warm one. Then Randy looked over the
scattered berries.

"About one-third of them are fit to take along," he said. "The others
are crushed and dirty."

"I'll tell you what I am going to do," said Jack, stoutly. "I am going
to make Bob Bangs pay for dirtying my boat, and he can pay for the lost
berries, too."

"But how can we prove he is guilty?"

"We'll make him own up to it. Nobody else would play such a mean
trick."

The two boys were in no happy frame of mind as they rowed back to
Riverport. They suspected that Bob Bangs would keep out of their sight,
but just as they were landing they caught sight of him peering at them
from behind a dock building.

"There he is!" cried Jack. "After him, Randy!"

"Right you are!" answered our hero, and ran after Bob Bangs with might
and main. Randy was a good sprinter and although the rich youth tried
to get away he was soon brought to a halt.

"Let go of me!" he roared, as Randy caught him by the collar.

"Not just yet, Bob Bangs!" returned Randy. "A fine trick you played this
afternoon."

"I didn't play any trick!"

"Yes, you did."

"I didn't! Let me go!" And now Bob Bangs did his best to get away. He
saw that Randy and Jack were thoroughly angry and was afraid he was in
for a drubbing--or worse. He gave a jerk and then started to run. Randy
put out his foot and the big youth went sprawling full length, his face
violently striking the ground.




CHAPTER V

THE RESULT OF A QUARREL


If any boy was ever humiliated it was Bob Bangs. His face and hands
were covered with dust and so was his elegant suit of clothing, while
the skin was cut on the side of his nose.

"Now, see what you have done!" he spluttered, gazing ruefully at
himself. "My suit is just about ruined!"

"And it serves you right, Bob Bangs," came warmly from Jack.

"That is what you get for trying to run away," added our hero.

"I'll have the law on you, Randy Thompson!"

"Maybe I'll have the law on you, Bob Bangs!"

"You had no right to throw me down in that fashion."

"Then why did you start to run away?"

"Because I didn't want to stay here--and you had no right to stop me."

"We wanted to know about this berry affair," said Jack. "And about the
dirty boat."

"I don't know what you are talking about," answered the big boy, but
his face showed his concern.

"You put mud in my boat and spilled our berries."

"Who says I did that?"

"We know you did."

"Did you see us?"

"No, but we know you did it and nobody else."
