had settled them--perhaps she had settled him more definitely, as he
liked the way. Eunice was thinking of the little girl who had neither
father or mother. She had some unfulfilled dreams. In her youth there
had been a lover, and a wedding planned when he came home from his
voyage. She had begun to "lay by" for housekeeping. And there were some
pretty garments in the trunk upstairs, packed away with other articles.
The lover was lost at sea, as befell many another New England coast
woman.

She had hoped against hope for several years--men were sometimes
restored as by a miracle--but he never came. So she sometimes dreamed
of what might have been, of home and children, and it kept her heart
tender. Anthony's little girl would make a sight of trouble, she could
see that, but a little girl about would be a great pleasure--to her at
least. She glanced furtively at Elizabeth, then at Chilian. She could
not comfort either of them with this sudden glow and warmth that
thrilled through her veins.

"Well, we will be through with house-cleaning before she comes," said
the practical and particular housewife. Chilian simply sighed. It was
the usual spring ordeal, and did end. But who could predict the ending
of the other?




CHAPTER II

THE LITTLE GIRL


Down at the wharf there was much bustle and stir. Vessels were lading
for various home ports, fishing craft were going out on their ventures,
even a whaler had just fitted up for a long cruise, and the young as
well as middle-aged sailors were shouting out farewells. White and black
men were running to and fro, laughing, chaffing, and swearing at each
other.

There lay the East Indiaman, with her foreign flag as well as that of
her country. She had come in about midnight and at early dawn
preliminaries had begun. Captain Corwin had been ashore a time or two,
looking up and down amid the motley throng, and now he touched his hat
and nodded to Chilian Leverett, who picked his way over to him.

"We are somewhat late," he began apologetically. "A little due to rough
weather, but one can never fix an exact date."

"All is well, I hope;" in an anxious tone.

"Yes; the child proved a good sailor and was much interested in
everything. I was afraid she would take it hard. But she is counting on
her father's coming. I don't know how you will ever console her when she
learns the truth."

"And he----" Chilian looked intently into the captain's eyes.

"I suppose the end has come before this. They thought he might last a
month when we left. It's sad enough. He should have lived to be ninety.
But matters went well with him, and he has been an honest, kindly,
upright man with a large heart. I've lost my best friend and adviser."

The captain drew his rough coat-sleeve across his face and looked past
Chilian, winking hard.

"There's a sight of business when we come to that, Mr. Leverett, but
now--will you go on board? The maid is a most excellent and sensible
person. They are in the cabin."

"Yes," he answered and followed with a curious throb at his heart--pity
for the orphaned child and a sense of responsibility he was conscious
that he accepted unwillingly, yet he would do his duty to the uttermost.

Already some officials were on hand, for at this period Salem was really
a notable port. Chilian passed them with a bow, followed the captain
down the gangplank, stared a little at the foreign deck-hands in their
odd habiliments, stepped over boxes and bales in canvas and matting full
of Oriental fragrance that from the closeness was almost stifling,
coming from the clear air. Then he was ushered into the cabin, that was
replete with Orientalism as well.

A rather tall woman rose to meet him.

"This is Mistress Rachel Winn, who has mothered the little girl for
several years, Mr. Leverett, her relative and guardian,
and--Cynthia----"

The child threw herself down on the couch.

"I want to go back home. I want to see my father, and Aymeer, and Babo,
and Nalla. I can't stay here."

"But perhaps your father will bring them when he comes. Don't you
remember he told you he lived here when he was a little boy, and what
nice times he had with the cousin he loved? And the cousin is here to
bid you welcome. Come and speak to him. We cannot go back at once, the
ship has to unload her cargo and take in ever so many other things. See,
here is Cousin Leverett."

She sat up, made a forward movement as if she would rise, but simply
stared.

"Yes, I am Cousin Leverett." He began advancing and held out his hand.

"And very glad to see such an excellent traveller as you have been,"
said the captain. "And such a nice little girl. You are an American
girl; you know your father told you that. And this is your native town.
Cousin Leverett remembers you when you were very little."

"But I don't remember you;" taking no notice of the proffered hand.

"Then you must get acquainted with me. And you must tell me about your
life and your father, whom I have not seen in a long, long time. Let us
shake hands."

She held out hers then and raised herself to her feet.

"Oh, how soft your hands are," she cried, "just like Nalla's. But they
are very white. Nalla's were brown."

"And who was Nalla?"

"She used to come and play with me and make chains out of shells, and
make bracelets and anklets, and dance. And she used to go to the Sahibs'
house and dance with snakes. I'm afraid of them. Are you?"

"Indeed I am, of the large ones," he said at a venture.

He fancied that he felt a gentle pressure of sympathetic approval. She
glanced up for an instant and her eyes transfixed him. They were a deep
wonderful blue, almost black at the pupil, then raying off a little
lighter. It made him think of a star in the winter midnight sky with a
halo around it. The lashes were long and nearly black. Otherwise she had
little claim to beauty just then. Her complexion had a tawny hue made by
sun and wind, her hair was light, but it had a peculiar sunburned tint,
though it was fine and abundant and hung in loose curls about her
shoulders. Her nose was the only Leverett feature--it was straight,
rather small, and had the flexibility that betrayed passing emotions.
The Leverett lips were thin, hers were full in the middle, giving a
certain roundness to the mouth.

"Are there any where you live?" hesitatingly.

"Any?" Then he recalled the subject they had touched upon. "Oh, no; you
seldom see them, and they are mostly harmless."

"Have you any little girls in your house?"

"No, I am sorry to say."

"There were two little English girls on shipboard at first. They went on
board another vessel after a while. I liked them very much. They knew a
great many things about countries. I can read, but I don't a great deal.
Sometimes father would tell me about America. There are a great many
countries in it, and once they had a big war. They had wars, too, in
India. Why must people kill each other?"

"There seem to be reasons. A little girl could not understand them all,
I think;" and how could he explain them?

"Oh, there is Captain Corwin!" She flew across the cabin with
outstretched arms, which she clasped about him.

"Well, have you been getting acquainted with--he will be your uncle, I
suppose. What title are you going to take with the child, Mr. Leverett?"

Chilian Leverett colored, without a cause he thought, and it annoyed
him.

"Are you going back to India to-day?" She was not interested in Chilian
Leverett's answer.

Captain Corwin laughed heartily and patted her shoulder.

"Not to-day, nor even next week. The cargo will have to be taken off,
little missy, and a new one stowed away. And I fancy there must be some
repairs. I shall stay in town and run down to Marblehead. So you will
see me quite often."

"And you are coming back again from India?"

"Oh, I hope so. More than once."

"You will bring father then. It is such a long while to wait;" and she
sighed.

The men exchanged glances.

"I want to see him so much. Couldn't I go back with you?"

"Don't you remember I told you the other evening he might start before I
reached India again? Don't you want to go ashore and see Salem? Ask Miss
Rachel to get you ready."

Rachel was beckoning to her. "Let us go up on deck," she said. "It's a
strange country to me as well as to you. And I fancy the men want to
talk."

She crossed the cabin slowly, not quite certain what she did desire
most, except to see her father.

"You will have a rather sorry task. But Captain Ant'ny would have it so.
He wanted to feel that she would be among friends. He had the fullest
confidence that you could manage wisely. There is a great box of
papers, instructions, etc. You are appointed her guardian and trustee.
I've brought boxes of stuff that the officers will have to go through.
But the legal matters you may take with you. He tried to make it as easy
as he could. She will have considerable of a fortune, and more to come
when matters get settled on the other side. A cousin of the Bannings
came out,--English are great hands to keep things in the family. But it
is one of the biggest importing houses out there and it owes its success
to the long and wise head of Captain Anthony. They want young Banning in
it and the matter was about settled when we came away, but the payments
will run over several years. All these papers will be sent to you. The
Bannings are upright business men, and I think you need have no fear.
But the child's fortune is to be invested on this side of the water. Oh,
you cannot realize what a trial it was to give up all thoughts of ending
his days here."

Captain Corwin brushed some tears from his honest, weather-beaten face.

"But if he had started earlier----"

"He would not believe the trouble would prove fatal. And when it was
declared there was so much to put in order. Then he could not bear to
think of leaving his wife alone there, though it's only the shell after
all, and, if we believe the Good Book, we shall see the real part over
there that was so much to us. But he could not explain the parting to
the child, though death is such a common thing out there. Yet it is
hard to believe our own can die. We are never ready for that. How you
will manage----"

The customs officers had come. Captain Corwin went out to meet them.
Chilian Leverett dropped into the well-worn leather-covered chair that
had been fine in its day. A heavy burthen had been laid upon him. He was
not fond of business. Cousin Giles might be of some assistance; he
grasped at the thought as if he had been a drowning man and this the
straw. And the child, somehow, was different from the average child, he
felt; though he was not certain what the average child would unfold day
after day. What would Elizabeth think? Eunice he could count on. Though
she yielded on many points in that tacit sort of way, she was by no
means an echo of her sister.

The three men entered the cabin. Chilian was no stranger to the
officials, who greeted him cordially and who sympathized with Captain
Anthony Leverett's untimely ending, as he was hardly past middle life.

"Why, it will be quite a change to have a child in your household," said
Josiah Ward. "But if she is like mine, I advise you not to give her the
run of your study. But there are two ladies to look after her;" and he
smiled.

It was surmised that Mr. Ward, a widower of two years' standing, had
glanced more than once in the direction of Miss Eunice Leverett.

Rachel came back at this juncture. The little girl had an accession of
shyness and would only nod to the strangers. Then they made ready to
leave the vessel. Chilian took his japanned case of important papers;
the rest of the luggage would be sent after inspection.

A primitive street it was in those days, and the fine wharves of the
present were rather rude if busy places. Over beyond they could see the
river,--South River,--and that was alive with various small craft.

"It seems almost like home," said Rachel Winn, pausing to take a survey.
"You do not find this rural aspect in India."

"How long were you there?" asked Chilian.

"Seven years. I went out with my brother, who had just married my
dearest friend. He died the third year, and she soon after married a
military man. Then I took charge of a little lame boy and was mostly up
in the mountains until he was sent to England, when Captain Leverett's
hospitable doors opened to me. Believe me, I was sorry to leave him at
this crisis. Yet it was his wish;" and she glanced at Cynthia.

"Why did we come away?" demanded the child passionately. "Oh, Rachel,
are you sure father will come? It takes so long, so long;" and there
were tears in her voice.

"Here we are!" exclaimed Chilian.

There was a white picket fence across the sort of courtyard that had a
broad paved path leading up to the front door, bordered by shrubs that
would presently be in bloom, and spaces between for smaller plants.
This was the delight of Eunice's heart. A square but rather ornate
porch, with fluted columns, supporting the outer edge of the roof, and
an elaborately carved hall-door with a fanlight overhead. The stoop
stood up some five steps, and at the sides there were benches for
out-of-doors comfort on summer nights. A brass knocker, with a lion's
head, announced visitors. Chilian, however, let himself in with his
latchkey. But both sisters met the party in the hall.

"And this is Anthony's little girl!" said Elizabeth. "Child, let me look
at you----"

But the child had a perverse fit at that moment and turned away her
head, to the elder's surprise and almost displeasure.

"This is Miss Winn," interrupted Chilian. "My household guardians and
cousins, Miss Elizabeth and Miss Eunice Leverett. I dare say our guests
feel strange to be on land, after such a long journey."

"It seems almost incredible that one can stand it, but we see them
starting every few days for distant ports. My farthest journey has been
to Providence; but, land alive! you don't know where that is, and it's
no great distance. Will you not come and have a cup of tea or coffee?"

"Thank you. We had breakfast not long ago, it seems."

"Let me take you to your room," said Eunice. "And I hope you will soon
feel at home with us. We are quiet people, but we shall endeavor to
make you comfortable. Cynthia, will you not shake hands with me?"

The soft, rather pleading voice attracted the child. She glanced up
shyly and then held out a tiny hand hesitatingly.

"She is rather backward at first," explained Rachel, who followed the
hostess up the broad stairway.

One of the guest-chambers had been set aside for their use after much
discussion as to whether one or two would be needed. A smaller one
opened into this, and a large closet was at the side.

"You can take off your things--I suppose your boxes, or whatever you
have, will be here presently. The bureau is empty and this chest of
drawers. We are rather old-fashioned people, and the house is the same
as it was in the time of Chilian's father. The captain made one visit
here, when the little girl was about four. It must have been hard for
him to lose his wife in a strange country like that. I suppose there are
not many Americans?"

"No; there are numbers of Englishwomen, wives of soldiers and traders,
though I think most of them long to get home. They do not seem to take
root easily."

"I shouldn't think they would, in that idolatrous country. The accounts
of heathendom are appalling. And that car of Juggernaut, and drowning
their poor little babies! They do not seem to make much of girl
children."

"Indeed, they do not, only as in some families they are wanted for
wives. But the devotion of mothers to their sons is wonderful."

Rachel had laid aside a silk coat that filled Eunice with a sort of
wonder, being brocaded with beautiful leaves and roses that seemed as if
they must have been worked by hand, they stood out so clearly. The child
appeared fantastically attired to her plainer eyes, and her slim arms
were weighted with bracelets. In her dainty ears were some splendid
sapphires.

"I do hope you will soon feel at home," Eunice said from a full heart,
if there was a rather awkward feeling about it. Yet she liked Miss
Winn's face. It had a kindly and intelligent aspect and was medium in
all respects. The social lines in the town, indeed in all the Eastern
towns, were not sharply defined as to mistress and maid. True, many
households preferred black servants; in not a few some elderly relative
looked after the household, or a bound-out girl was trained in
industrious ways.

There had been some discussion as to what sphere this Miss Winn would
occupy. If she was simply the attendant on an over-indulged child, an
uneducated person, as many of the English maids were who came over to
better their conditions or get husbands, it might be rather awkward. But
the woman was certainly well-bred and used her English in a correct
manner.

"Perhaps you will get to feeling more at home if you come down to the
sitting-room, since there is nothing to unpack;" with a faint smile.

Cynthia had been looking out of the window. "How queer it all is!" she
said. "I think I do not quite like it. And how funny one feels. I want
to go this way;" and she swayed from side to side.

"The motion of the vessel," interposed Rachel. "I have heard it took
days to get over it."

Meanwhile, downstairs Elizabeth had studied her Cousin Chilian.

"The child is not at all pretty," she began rather sharply. "And her
mother was considered a beautiful young woman, I believe."

"Yes; but a long voyage and shipboard living may not be conducive to the
development of beauty. And children seldom are at that age."

"The Goodell children are pretty, I am sure, with their fine
complexions. And the Bates girls. She has a furtive sort of look. Oh, I
hope she isn't deceitful and untrue. Those heathen nations, I believe,
are given largely to falsehood, and she has lived among them so long
without any mother's care. It seems as if a pretty girl like Alletta
Orne might have found some one at home to marry and reared her child in
a Christian land."

"Do not let us begin by borrowing trouble. It always comes fast enough."

"And I can foresee that we shall have plenty of it. Well, I suppose it
must be endured. There! my bread is light enough to go in the
oven--running over, likely as not."

So, when they came downstairs, Miss Elizabeth was in the kitchen,
immersed in her baking interest.

A large gray cat lay curled up on a cushion. Cynthia went straight over
to it, but it glanced at her with wild eyes, jumped down, and
disappeared through the doorway.

"Oh!" she exclaimed in accents of disappointment, glancing up at
Chilian.

"Pussy is not used to children. He always runs away from them. But I
think he will like you when he gets acquainted."

She turned to the window with a swelling heart. It seemed so cold and
strange. It was better on shipboard, she thought. She had come to know
the sailors quite well and Missy had grown to be a great favorite with
them. There was always something cheerful going on. They sang songs in
their loud clear voices, or whistled merry tunes. They danced as well.
She was quite used to the dancing-girls at Calcutta, and when they were
at Hong Kong or other ports. But the Indian girls pleased her best.

The sailors seemed always full of fun, even in the worst of times.
During some fearful storms she was safely housed in the cabin, and it
amused her to see the things pitch and roll as far as their chains would
allow them. Sometimes, too, they had to hold the food in their hands,
but she never knew the danger of the worst storms. Rachel would not
admit that she was afraid, and the captain said, "Yes, we're having a
stiff blow, but the Flying Star has weathered many a gale before." And
here it was so very quiet. It looked dreary outside, with the leafless
trees. She liked the toss and tumult of the waves with their snowy,
jewelled crests, and the clouds scudding along the sky, which she
imagined was another sea full of ships. Often they went in port and
there was nothing left but the blue sky above--a great hollow vault. And
when the sun shone the real sea and ocean was in flames of such splendid
colors. There was no end of curious people at ports where they stopped
for supplies, there was always something strange, even when they were
days alone on the water. For the sunset and sunrise were never twice
alike. Then the moon from its tiny crescent to the great round globe
that illumined the world with her fairy richness and scattered jewels on
every crested wave. She had watched it turn the other way and grow
smaller and smaller until you saw it vaguely in the morning.

She was so interested in the stories they told about it, the signs and
wonders they ascribed to it.

"And was it ever a real world like that we have left behind?" she asked
of the captain. "Were there people in it? And land, and rivers, and
growing things, and flowers?" and her wondering eyes grew larger.

"No one can tell now. Some astronomers believe it a burned-out world and
the things we take for a man," laughing, "and the cow ready to jump
off, are remnants of roads, and forests, and mountains."

"You can see the man in the moon," she returned decisively. "Sometimes
he laughs. And the cow has great horns. I should be afraid of them if I
met such a cow. Ours are so small and tame."

"You will see large ones in Salem. But I think, for the most part, they
are gentle."

She never wearied talking over the strange things. And so she came to
have her head filled with wonderful lore that indeed cropped out now and
then all her life long until she felt as if she had really been in
fairyland.

It seemed stranger here than on shipboard. The others were going through
the ceremony of getting acquainted. Rachel Winn's voice had a soft
sound, with an almost foreign accent. Eunice's, though low-pitched, had
a clear resonance. Now and then Chilian Leverett made a comment, or
asked a question, but she was not heeding them. Her heart and mind had
wandered back to her father and that wonderful land where nothing ever
seemed bleak, though in long hot droughts it was arid. But there were
always temples, and palaces, and picturesque huts, and women and
children in gay attire, old men kneeling somewhere, praying but keeping
a sharp lookout for alms.

Chilian Leverett had been watching the small face and wondering at the
changes passing over it. Now he saw some tears slowly coursing down the
pale cheeks, and his heart was moved with infinite pity.

Suddenly a robin alighted on the limb of a tree and began picking at the
buds. Then he held his head up straight, swelled out his brownish red
breast, and poured forth such a volume of melody that the effort fairly
made him dance with joy. Spring had surely come! It was the time of love
and joy, and all things made over new.

She turned a trifle. Her face was transfigured with delight. Her eyes
shone, though the tears were still wet on her cheek.




CHAPTER III

A STRANGER, YET AT HOME


Rachel Winn settled herself to the new order of things more readily than
the Leveretts. Or rather she seemed to take the lead in arrangements for
herself and her charge. She was after all a sort of nurse and
waiting-maid, though she had a fine dignity about it that even Elizabeth
could not gainsay. She was to be one of the family, there could be no
objection to that in the simple New England living. Though it was true,
times were changing greatly since the days of war and privation, and
perhaps the mingling of people from other states, the growing
responsibility of being part of a great commonwealth. Servants were
being relegated to a different position. Boston in a certain fashion set
the pace, though Salem held up her head proudly. Were not her seaports
the busy mart of the Eastern shore? Stores of finery, silks and laces,
and marvellous Indian embroidery went down to Boston and the houses were
enriched with choice china that in the next hundred years was to be
handed down as heirlooms. Fine houses were being built, choice woods
came from southern ports by vessels that believed they could find
fortunes nearer home than China or India. But they could grow no
spices, or coffees, or teas, and they must come from the Orient. No
looms could turn out such exquisite fabrics as yet, though housewives
were to be proud of their home-made drapery for a generation or two.

Chilian spent a large part of that first night inspecting his box of
papers. There was a journal-like letter in which Anthony Leverett had
jotted down many things he hardly dared say in his letter; indeed, there
was not sufficient space. As soon as he had learned the serious nature
of his disease, he had begun to put his house in order and consider the
future welfare of his child. Some lines touched Chilian deeply, the
trust and dependence he was not at all sure he could fulfil, but he felt
he must rouse himself to the earnest endeavor. The father had a
passionate love for his child, he was making a fortune for her, counting
the years when he should return and have a home of his own, when Cynthia
would grow up and marry and there would be grandchildren to climb his
knees. India was no place for a woman child to grow up in, there were no
chances for education or accomplishment, and next to no society. After
all there was not, and never would be, such a country as the new world
that had struggled so long and bravely for her independence, and now had
only to go on developing her grand theories. Crowned heads might look on
doubtingly, but the foundation had been laid in justice and truth and
equality of right. It quite thrilled him that this man, amassing money
in a far-away land, could see so clearly and have no doubts about its
future greatness.

To Captain Corwin, his good, trusty friend, he had willed half the value
of the Flying Star. The money from his part was to be invested, as the
payments came in, in real estate in Salem, which was to be the shipping
mart of the New England coast, at least, and run a race with New York,
he thought. So with the stations at Calcutta and Hong Kong in the hands
of the Bannings. And there were treasures that would answer for a
wedding dowry when the time came. If possible, he would like Rachel Winn
retained; he had the highest confidence in her, and she had no relatives
to call her back to England. He had given her much of the family
history, and described the town and the people, so that it would not
seem so new and strange to her.

He was not asking all this as a favor. Chilian was touched by the
provision made for himself, which it would be quite impossible to
decline, he saw. True it would break in upon his leisurely, student
life, yet he felt he could not in honor refuse to accept the trust.

Rachel Winn studied the arrangements of the rooms at their disposal. Her
young mistress was not a child taken out of benevolence or relationship.
She must have her standing from the very beginning, and she fancied
Elizabeth was inclined to consider her a sort of interloper.

"If it makes no difference, I will take the small room," she announced
to her. "There are some pieces of furniture on the vessel that Captain
Leverett particularly wished her to keep, and as she grows older she
will cherish them----"

"That great room for such a child!" In her amazement, Elizabeth spoke
without thought. She was not used to seeing children set in the very
forefront. In her day, indeed, yet in some families the large open
garret was considered the place for children.

"You see, she was used to it at home--over there, I mean;" with a nod of
the head. "Her father's room was one side, mine on the other. Of course,
in a way I shall share it with her. I will keep it in order and look
after her clothes, and sew for her. But I prefer the smaller one."

Elizabeth was aghast. One of the best spare chambers, with the
furnishings that had come from England a hundred years before. On the
other side she and Eunice shared a plainly appointed room with some of
their very own belongings. There was still another, but the closet was
small. She had asked Chilian where they should be placed and he had
chosen this. It was his house, of course----

Whether it would have ended in a discussion could not to be told, for at
that moment a dray drove up with some boxes and a piece of furniture so
wrapped and protected that it was quite impossible to guess at its
name.

Chilian came out and ran lightly down the stairs; and then called
Elizabeth.

"Where had the boxes better go? They will have to be unpacked, I
suppose;" helplessly.

"There are more to come," announced the man. "Enough to set up
housekeeping, if the right sort of things are in them;" and he gave a
short laugh.

Miss Winn came downstairs. "Isn't there a garret to the house?" she
asked, looking from one to the other. "I packed them up, but I can
hardly tell----"

"Yes; we could store half the vessel's contents in it. Well, not exactly
that. A ship's hold is a capacious place. Yes, the boxes might go there.
Have you any idea what this is?"

"A sort of desk and bookcase. A very handsome thing the captain set
great store by."

The men shouldered the boxes and Elizabeth convoyed them. Silas was
spading up the garden and came at the call.

It was a work of some labor to get the article out of its secure
casings. It disclosed a very handsome piece of furniture in the
escritoire style, carved and inlaid not only with beautiful woods, but
much silver. Chilian surveyed it with admiration.

"That must stand in the parlor," he decided. "But some one must come and
help. I'm afraid I am not sufficiently robust. Silas, see if you can't
find the Uphams' man. He was working there a short time ago."

"If there's more to come, it is hardly worth while to clear up," began
Elizabeth. "I hope it will soon follow."

Chilian directed the two men, who found it still quite a burthen.
Elizabeth opened the parlor shutter unwillingly, and the men set it in
the middle of the floor.

There were two large rooms held almost sacred by both sisters. They were
separated by an archway, apparently upheld on each end by a fluted
column. Both rooms had a wide chimney-piece, the mantel and its supports
elaborately carved and painted white. Two windows were in each end,
draped with soft crimson curtains. The floor was polished, with a rug
laid down in the centre. It was furnished in a manner that would have
delighted a connoisseur, but Elizabeth did not admire the
conglomeration. They were family relics and seemed to have little
relation with one another, yet they were harmonious. There was a
thin-legged spinet, with a Latin legend running across the front of the
cover, which was always down. The chairs were not made for lounging,
that was plain; and the sofa, with its rolling ends and claw feet, had
been polished until the haircloth looked like satin. A dead and gone
Leverett bride had imported that from London.

When the East Indian article had been consigned to an appropriate space,
it looked as much at home as if it had lived there half a century. Then
the parlor was shut up again, the mat in the hall shaken out, the front
door bolted. Miss Winn had asked for a hammer and chisel that she might
open one of the boxes.

"Take Silas. That is a man's work," said Chilian.

Cynthia was in the sitting-room, where it was still chilly enough to
have a fire. Eunice was knotting fringe for a bedspread, and it
interested the child wonderfully. She was not a little shocked to find a
child of nine knew nothing about sewing, had never hemmed ruffles, nor
done overseam, or knit, or it seemed anything useful.

"Why, when I was a little girl of your age I could spin in the little
wheel."

"What did you spin?"

"Why, thread, of course, linen thread made from flax."

"Were you a truly little girl?" in surprise.

"Why, child, don't you know anything?" Then Miss Eunice laughed softly
and patted the small shoulder, looking kindly into the wondering eyes.
There was no hurt in her tone and the words rather amused.

"I know a great many things. I can read some Latin, and I know about
Greece and its splendid heroes who conquered a good deal of the world.
There was Alexander the Great and Philip of Macedon. And Tamerlane, who
conquered nearly all Asia. And--and Confucius, the great man of China,
who was a wise philosopher, and wrote a bible----"

"Oh, no; not a bible!" interrupted Miss Eunice, horrified. "There is
only one Bible, my dear, and that is the Word of God."

"But the other is the bible of the Chinese, and some of them believe
Confucius was a god."

"That is quite impossible, my dear;" in a rather decisive, but still
gentle tone.

"And there is Brahma, and Vishnu, and there are ever so many gods in
India. The people pray to them. And temples. When they want anything
very much, they go and pray for it. There was a woman whose little son
was very ill, and if he lived he was going to be a great prince, or
something, and she gathered up her precious stones and her necklace and
took them to the temple for the god. Father sent an English doctor, but
they wouldn't let him see the little boy. He was so pretty, too. I used
to see him in the court."

"And did he live?" Miss Eunice asked, much interested.

"No; he didn't. And the father beat her for losing the jewels."

"You see, those gods have no power."

"Did you ever pray for anything you wanted very much?"

Cynthia's bright eyes studied the placid face before her.

"Yes," the lips murmured faintly.

"And did you get it?"

A flush stole over the puzzled countenance.

"My dear, God doesn't see as we do. And He knows what is best for us,
and gives us that. Maybe our prayer wasn't right."

"How can you tell when a prayer is right or wrong?" inquired the young
theologian.

"Why, you have to leave that to God;" in a low, resigned tone.

"I didn't want to come here. I wanted to stay with father. I didn't know
there was any one beside, and I do not believe any one will ever love me
so well. But he promised to come when the business was all done. So I
prayed to the God of father's Bible, and I went to the temple with Nalla
and put down a half-crown--it was all the money I had. But"--her eyes
filled with tears and her voice had a break in it--"father begged so,
and I came. But if Captain Corwin does not bring him next time I shall
go back. I can't live without him."

The mild blue eyes of Miss Eunice filled with tears as well. She was not
sure this had been the wisest course. The absolute truth was always
best. But she temporized also in a vague fashion.

"Yes; you can tell then. And you may come to like us so well you may
stay content."

"Oh, if he comes! Then it will be all right. And you think I ought to
pray for that?"

It was a cruel strait for Miss Eunice and staggered her faith. She was
not to lead astray or harm "one of the least of these." But the child
was a heathen with no real knowledge of the true God. Like a vision
almost, Miss Eunice looked back at her own childhood, and the awful,
overshadowing power she believed was God, who wrote down every wicked
thought and wrong deed, and would confront her with them at the Judgment
Day. She prayed nightly, often in the night, when she woke up, and she
was no surer of God's love than this little heathen child.

"It is right to pray for the things we want, but to be resigned if God
doesn't see fit to give them to us."

"Then the prayers are thrown away. And do you know just what God is?"

"My dear!" in a shocked tone, "no one can tell. It is one of the
mysteries to be revealed when we see Him as He truly is at the last day.
A little girl cannot understand it. I do not, and I have sought the
truth many years. Now I am trusting, because I feel assured He will do
what is right. Tell me something about your life with your father."

"Oh, things were so different there. Houses, and there were always
servants, so you didn't ever need to fan yourself. Babo and Nalla were
always about. Babo used to take me out in a chair that had curtains
around and a big umbrella overhead. Sometimes Chandra went with him. And
the streets were funny and crooked, and houses set anywhere in them. I
liked going up in the mountains best, it wasn't so hot. And the trees
were splendid, and beautiful vines and flowers of all sorts. Mrs. Dallas
went the last time. She had two girls and a big boy. I did not like
him. He would pinch my arms and then say he didn't. I liked the girls,
one was larger than I. And we swung in the hammocks the vines made. Only
I was afraid of the snakes, and there are so many everywhere. Alfred
liked to kill them."

She shuddered a little and glanced about the room with dilated eyes.

"They come into your houses sometimes. Nalla used to catch them and
sling them hard on the ground, and that stunned them. And we used to
make wreaths of the beautiful flowers. Agnes Dallas knew so many stories
about fairies, little people who come out at night, when the moon
shines, and dance round in rings. They slip in houses, and the nice ones
do some work, but the wicked ones sour the milk, and spoil the bread,
and hide things. And, sometimes, they change children into a cat, or a
rabbit, or something, and it is seven years before you can get your own
shape again. Do you have them here?"

"There is no such thing. That is all falsehood," was the decisive
comment.

"But--Agnes knew of their coming. And she had seen them dancing on the
grass. But if you speak or go near them, they disappear."

Miss Winn came out to the sitting-room.

"Oh, you are here," she said. "I thought you were out of doors. You
ought to take a run. What a wonderful garret you have upstairs, Miss
Eunice. But I am afraid we shall fill it up sadly. There were so many
things to bring. I do not believe we shall find use for half of them. I
want a few mouthfuls of fresh air. I suppose I can walk up the street
without danger of getting lost if I turn square around when I return?
Don't you want to come, Cynthia?"

Cynthia was ready.

"You had better wrap up warm. It gets chilly towards night."

"It was a long stretch on shipboard. We stopped at several ports,
however. But I am glad to be on solid ground. Come, child."

She had brought down a wrap and hood. Cynthia was glad of something new,
though she liked Miss Eunice.

They turned a rather rounding corner and went on to a sort of
market-place, where sweepers were gathering up the débris after the
day's sales. They glanced about the city. Salem had made rapid strides
since the grand declaration of peace, but at the end of the century it
was far from the grandeur the next twenty years would give it.

"There are no palaces and no temples," said Cynthia, rather
complainingly. "And how white all the people are. Do you suppose they
have been ill?"

"Oh, no; they have been housed up during the winter, and the climate is
cold. And, you know, they are of a different race. This part, New
England, was settled mostly from old England."

"Are you going to like it, Rachel?"

"Why--I don't quite know. You can't tell at once about a strange place."

"Miss Eunice is nice. But she has some queer ideas."

"Or is it a little girl, named Cynthia Leverett, who has queer ideas
that she has brought largely from a far-off country?"

The child laughed. Then she saw some girls and boys playing tag in the
street, laughing and squealing when they were caught, or when they
narrowly missed. And some empty carts went rattling by, with now and
then a stately coach, or a man on horseback, attired in the fashion of
the times. The sun suddenly dropped down.

"We had better turn about," declared Miss Winn. "It will not do to be
late for supper."

The walk had not been straight, but her gift of locality was good. They
passed the market-place again, made the winding turn, and found the
lighted lamps gave the house a cheerful aspect.

Miss Eunice had put away her knotting and begun to lay the cloth when
Elizabeth entered, her face clouded over.

"I'm sure I don't see why Providence should send this avalanche upon us
to destroy our peace and comfort," she began almost angrily. "The
Thatchers' visit was pleasant, though that made a sight of clearing up
afterward. And we had hardly gotten over that when this must happen. I
was going to put that white quilt in the frame, but the garret will be
turned upside down for no one knows how long! Such a mess of stuff, and
more coming. There's enough in this house without any more being added
to it."

"But it was natural Captain Anthony should want his child to have
something belonging to him, maybe her mother, too. And goodness knows
there's room enough in the garret. It isn't half full with his traps,
and there's some of ours. And there's the loft over the kitchen."

"Well, we want some place to dry clothes in rainy weather. And when I
sweep I want to move things about, not sweep just in front of them, and
have the dust settle in rows behind. Chilian didn't know what a lot
there would be, though he might have looked it over on the ship. When it
is all through, the house will need a thorough cleaning again. And what
do you think, Eunice! She's going to put the child in that big bed and
she sleep in the little one! The best room in the house! I'm sorry they
have it."

Eunice was roused a little.

"That doesn't seem the proper thing. But maybe she thought--I do suppose
the child has had the best of everything."

"I don't believe in pampering children. And I don't altogether like the
woman. I do wonder if we will have to keep her. A girl of nine is old
enough to look after herself, and begin to keep her own clothes and her
room in order."

"It's been very different out in India. And I do suppose Anthony was
over-indulgent, she having no mother to train her."

"We'll have our hands full, Eunice, when the tussle really begins."

"Oh, I do not think she will be hard to manage. She seems rather
shy----"

"Those eyes of hers ain't so deep for nothing. She hasn't the Leverett
mouth, and those full lips are wilful and saucy, generally speaking.
Letty Orne was a pretty girl, as I remember. Strange, now, when you come
to think of it, that the child should have been born in this house. But
she'll never have any beauty to spare, that's certain. For the land
sakes, Eunice, look at the time and you dawdling over the table. I'm
tired as a dog after a long race."

Elizabeth dropped into a chair. In her secret heart Eunice knew that
when her sister was tired out she was fractious; she loved her too well
to say cross words.

"Shall we have fish or cold meat?" she asked mildly.

"Oh, I don't care! Well, fish. There will be meat enough for to-morrow's
dinner if it isn't meddled with."

The fish was salted down in the season, soaked a little, laid in spiced
vinegar for a few hours, cut in thin slices, and was very appetizing.
Eunice went about with no useless flutter, she stepped lightly and
never made any clatter with dishes. The tea china, thin and lovely, the
piles of white bread and brown, molasses gingerbread and frosted sugar
cake, stewed dried fruit and rich preserves, made an inviting-looking
table. Chilian came in and made himself neat, as usual, then the guests.

Cynthia was very quiet. Twice Miss Winn answered a question for her. She
scarcely ate anything. Then she said wearily:

"I am so tired and sleepy. Can't I go to bed?"




CHAPTER IV

UNWELCOME


Miss Winn and her charge went down to the ship the next morning with
Chilian Leverett. Elizabeth inspected the rooms. She was not meddlesome,
nor over-curious generally, but with a feeling of possessorship and
responsibility in the house, she wanted to know how far she could trust
the newcomers. The beds were well made, but closets and drawers were
rather awry. She did begrudge the best chamber, and wondered whether it
would not be possible to change them about presently. True, they seldom
had guests.

Then a new load of boxes came, with two trunks, and several more pieces
of furniture. The latter were left standing in the hall. The garret had
been a sort of fetich with Elizabeth. There were dried herbs hanging to
the rafters in their muslin bags, so as not to make a litter and mostly
for the fragrance. There was not a cobweb anywhere. On one side of the
sloping roof were ranged their own trunks and chests, two of cedar, in
which woollen clothes and blankets passed the summer, securely hidden
from moths. In one gable were miscellaneous household articles, a few
chairs good enough to be repaired, a more than century-old cherry table,
spinning-wheels, a bedstead piled high with a feather bed, and
numberless pillows, for Elizabeth thought it her duty to make a new pair
every year, as they kept a flock of geese that spent their days in a
small cove on South River.

The interloper boxes could make a row down the cleared side. That left
the centre, the highest part, clear for drying clothes, which probably
would not be needed until winter. But careful Elizabeth planned ahead
for every emergency. True, the emergency did not always fit the plans,
but it gave her tense spirit a rest.

The Salem air was fragrant, with all manner of sweet springtime
odors--the ship was not. Things that had been stored in the hold came up
with a certain old smell and a little mustiness. First, Cynthia held her
nose and made a wry face. But it was delightful to run about and
exchange greetings with the sailors, who seemed merry enough over their
work.

"Well, missy," said the captain, catching her in his arms as she ran,
"how do you like living on dry land? You haven't lost your sea legs yet,
that's plain."

"It's very queer. There are just tiny leaves coming out on the trees,
and a few curious white flowers, little bells, coming up in the garden,
and crocus in pretty colors. But I don't like it very much. Miss Eunice
is nice and has such a soft voice. And the houses are so funny and shut
up, and there are no servants about, nor any one praying on the corners
and holding out a basin for rice; and no piles of fruit for sale."

"No; this isn't the time of year for fruit;" and there was a funny
twinkle in the captain's eye. "Just wait until August and September."

Cynthia considered. "That is three and four months away. Father will be
here then;" with a child's confidence.

"And there are berries earlier, and cherries, and then some sugar pears.
Oh, you will be feasted. And you'll like Cousin Leverett, when you come
to get acquainted with him. You will go to school, too, and know lots of
little girls. You won't want to go back to India."

"Unless father shouldn't come. Oh, he surely will, because, you see, I'm
praying ever so many times a day."

"That's right;" with a cheerful nod.

"When are you going back?"

"In about a month, I calculate."

She sighed and looked out over the great stretch of waters. "What is
that long point down there?" she asked suddenly.

"That's Salem Neck, and there is Winter Island. They are always building
ships down there and turn out some mighty fine ones. And fishing;
there's a sight of cod, and haddock, and mackerel, and all the other
fish in season. They salt them and take them half over the world. And
there's a rope-walk you'd enjoy seeing, leastways you would if you were
a boy. And there are some stores. We have lots of goods consigned to the
