something to occupy him till after dark, when he determined to venture
forth. The dreaded  carabinieri  had paid him not the slightest
attention; so far he was as safe as though he were in New York.

It was yet so early in the day that the two young men sallied forth in
quest of light adventure. Besides, Merrihew was very eager to find some
Roman and Florence newspapers. The American Comic Opera Company was
somewhere north. They found stationed outside the hotel a rosy-cheeked
cabby who answered to the name of Tomasso, or Tomass', as the
Neapolitans generally drop the finals. He carried a bright red lap-robe
and blanket, spoke a little English, and was very proud of the
accomplishment. He was rather disappointed, however, when Hillard
bargained with him in his own tongue. He saw at once that there would be
no imposing on the young  Americano . The two harangued for a while, on
general principles. Twice words rose so high that Merrihew thought they
were about to come to blows. Tomass' shook his fingers under Hillard's
nose and Hillard returned the compliment. Finally Tomass' compromised on
one-lira-fifty per hour, with fifty centesimi  pourboire . Crack-crack!
Down the hill they went, as if a thousand devils were after them.

"By George!" gasped Merrihew, clutching his seat; "the fool will break
our necks!"

"They are always like this," laughed Hillard. "Slowly, slowly!" he
called.

Tomass' grinned and cracked his whip. He did not understand the word
slowly in his own tongue or in any other; at least, not till he reached
the shops. It was business to go slowly there. A dozen times, on the Via
Roma, Merrihew yelled that they would lose a wheel. But Tomass' knew the
game. A man on foot could not have eluded collisions more skilfully.
Merrihew never saw such driving. Nor had he ever seen such shops. Coral,
coral, wherever the eye roamed. Where did they get it all and to whom
did they sell it? Necklaces, tiaras, rings, brooches, carved and
uncarved; were there women enough in the world to buy these things?

"If I had a wife..." he began.

"Well?"

"I'd feel devilish sorry for her husband at this moment."

"But isn't the color great?" said Hillard. It was good to be in Naples
again.

Indeed, on a sunny afternoon, the traveler will find no other street
offering such a kaleidoscope of luxuriant colors as the Via Roma of
Naples. Behold the greens, the flowers, the cheeses, the shining fish,
the bakestuffs, the silver- and goldsmiths, the milliners, the
curio-dens! And the people! Dark-eyed beauties on foot or driving,
handsome bearded men, monks, friars, priests, an archbishop in his
splendid carriage, a duke driving tandem, nuns, and children. And
uniforms as thick as poppies in a wheat-field. Officers rode past in
their light blue capes, their gold and scarlet braids and polished
scabbards; the foot-soldiers with their flowing green cock-feathers,
policemen with their short swords, the tall and dignified  carabinieri 
(always in pairs) with their cocked hats and crimson pompons towering
above the sea of hats. It seemed to Merrihew that a rainbow had been
captured and trained accordingly.

"I never saw so many kids," he observed; "so many dirty ones," he added.
"Herod would have had his work cut out for him here. Now, where can we
get some newspapers? I must know where she is."

"Presently," said Hillard. "The Piazza dei Martin," he directed Tomass'.
Then he turned to Merrihew solemnly. "My boy, if you are to travel with
me, beware of the Tauchnitz edition."

"What's that?"

"It's good reading in paper-covers. It is easier to sit in the hotel all
day and read Tauchnitz than it is to tramp through churches and
galleries and museums."

"No Tauchnitz; I promise." And Merrihew was an inveterate novel reader.

At the book-shop in the Piazza they found the Rome and Florence papers.
Hillard went through them thoroughly, but nowhere did he see anything
relative to the doings of the American Comic Opera Company.

"Not a line, Dan."

"But there must be something in the Florence paper. They should be
playing there yet."

"Nothing; these papers are two weeks old."

Merrihew stared blankly at the sheet. "I should like to know what it
means."

"We will write to the consulate in Rome. If there has been any trouble
he will certainly notify us. I'll write to-night. Now, here's Cook's
next door. We'll ask if there is any mail for Kitty Killigrew."

But there wasn't, nor had there been; and the name was not on the
forwarding books.

"Looks as if your Kitty were the needle in the haystack."

"Hang the luck!" Merrihew jammed his hands into his pockets and sulked
with the world.

"It is evident that Kitty will not have you."

"Cut it!" savagely. Pictures and churches and museums were all well
enough, but Merrihew wanted Kitty Killigrew above all the treasures of
earth. It was no longer a passing fancy; he was downright in love.

When they turned down to the Via Caracciolo, with the full sweep of the
magnificent bay at their feet, Merrihew's disappointment softened
somewhat. It was the fashionable hour. The band was playing near-by in
the Villa Nazionale. Americans were everywhere. Occasionally a stray
princess or countess flashed by, inert and listless against the
cushions, and invariably over-dressed. And when men accompanied them,
the men (if they were husbands) lolled back, even more listless. And
beggars of all sorts and descriptions besieged the "very great grand
rich Americans." To the Neapolitan all Americans are rich; they are the
only  forestieri  who are always ready to throw money about, regardless
of results. The Englishman, now, when the  poveretto  puts out his
unlovely hand, looks calmly over his head and drives on. The German (and
in the spring there are more Germans in Italy than Italians!) is deep in
his Koran, generally, his Karl Baedeker, or too thrifty to notice. It is
to the American, then, that the beggar looks for his daily macaroni.

They were nearly a week in Naples. They saw the galleries, the museums
and churches; they saw underground Naples; they made the weary and
useless ascent of Vesuvius; and Merrihew added a new smell to his
collection every hour. Pompeii by moonlight, however, was worth a
thousand ordinary dreams; and Merrihew, who had abundant imagination,
but no art with which to express it--happily or unhappily--saw Lytton's
story unfold in all its romantic splendor. In the dark corners he saw
Glaucus, and Sallust, and Arbaces; he could hear the light step of the
luxurious Julia, and the tramp of the gladiators; he could hear Ione's
voice in song and the low whisper of Nydia with her roses. "To the
lions! Glaucus to the lions!" It would have been perfect had Vesuvius
blown off the top of its head at that moment.

They lingered at Amalfi three days, and dreamed away the hours under the
white pergola. Merrihew was loath to leave; but Hillard was for going on
to Sorrento, for which his heart was always longing.

A spring rain fell as they took the incline, and it followed them over
the mountains and down into Sorrento. The ruddy oranges hung in clusters
over the old walls which lined both sides of the road, walls so old that
history stops before them doubtfully. And the perfume of the sweet rain
mingling with that of the fruit was like nothing Merrihew had ever
sensed before. They finally drew up in the courtyard of the Hotel de la
Sirena, and the long ride was at an end. The little garden was white and
pink with roses and camellias, and the tubbed mandarins were heavy with
fruit.

"And this is March!" said Merrihew, his thought traveling back to his
own bleak country, where winter is so long and summer is so short.

Their rooms were on the northeast corner, on the first floor; and from
the windows they could look down upon the  marina piccola  and the
tideless sea, a sheer hundred and fifty feet below. Everybody welcomed
the Signore Hillard; the hotel was his, and everything and everybody in
it. Fire? It was already burning in the grate; orange wood, too, the
smoke of which leaves no strong acidulous odor on the air. The Signore
Hillard had only to speak, he had only to express a wish; they would
scour the village to gratify it. Hillard accepted all these attentions
as a matter of course, as a duke or a prince might have accepted them.

"By George!" whispered Merrihew; "they treat you like a prince here."

Later, when they were alone, Hillard began to explain.

"They remember my father; he used to live like a prince in Sorrento.
Every time I come here I do the best I can to keep the luster to his
name. To-morrow I shall point out to you the villa in which I was born.
A Russian princess owns it now. You will know the place by the pet
monkey which is always clambering about the balconies near the porter's
lodge. More than that, if the princess is not on the Riviera, I'll take
you there to tea some afternoon."

"A real live princess!" said Merrihew. "Is she beautiful?"

"Once upon a time," returned Hillard, laughing. "And, now, what do you
say to a game of penuchle till dinner, a penny a point?"

Merrihew found two decks of cards, arranged them, and the game began. It
was all very cheerful, the fire in the grate, the rain on the
casement-windows, the blur on the bay, and the fragrance of two
well-filled pipes.

There is very little to do in Sorrento at night; no theaters, no bands,
no well-lighted caf√©s, nothing save wandering companies who dance the
tarantella in the lobbies of the hotels, the men clumsy in their native
costumes and the girls with as much grace and figure as so many heifers.
It is only in Sicily that the Latin has learned to dance. But the
tarantella is a novelty to the sight-seeing tourist, who believes he
must see everything in order to be an authority when he gets back home.

Giovanni did not return till late that night, and on the morrow Hillard
questioned him.

"I have been to see a cousin," said Giovanni, "who lives on the way to
El Deserta."

"Ah! So you have a cousin here?"

"Yes, signore."

How old he looked, poor devil! Hillard had not taken particular notice
of him during the past week's excursions. Giovanni had aged ten years
since they landed.

"And was this cousin glad to see you? And is he to be trusted?"

"Both, signore. He had some news. She is--dancer in one of the Paris
music-caf√©s."

Hillard kindled his pipe thoughtfully. And patiently Giovanni waited,
knowing that shortly his master would offer some suggestion.

"Would you like me to give you the necessary money to go to Paris and
bring her back to the Sabine Hills?" he asked softly.

"I shall go to Paris, signore--after."

"You will never find him."

"Who can say?"

"What is his name?" Hillard had never till this moment asked this
question.

"I know it; that is sufficient. He is high, signore, very high; yet I
shall reach him. If I told you his name--"

"There would be the possibility of my warning him."

"That is why I hesitate."

"You are a Catholic, Giovanni."

Giovanni signified that he was.

"Does not the God of all Catholics, of all Christians, in fact, does He
not say that vengeance is His and that He will repay?"

"But there are so many of us, signore, so many of us small and of slight
importance, that, likely enough, God with all His larger cares has not
the time to remember us. What may happen to him in the hereafter does
not concern me; for he will certainly be in the purgatory of the rich
and I in the purgatory of the poor. It must be now, now!"

"Go your own way," said Hillard, dismissing him; "I shall never urge you
again."

Giovanni gone, Hillard leaned against the casement. The sun was bright
this morning and the air was clear. He could see Naples distinctly.
Below, the fishermen and their wives, their bare feet plowing in the wet
sands, were drawing in the nets, swaying their bodies gracefully.
Presently the men in the boat landed the catch, and the net sparkled
with living silver. So long as Giovanni was with him, he would be
morally responsible for his actions. He would really be glad when the
grim old Roman took himself off on his impossible quest.

How the sight of this beach recalled his boyhood! How many times had he
and his brilliant mother wandered over these sands, picking up the
many-colored stones, or baiting a young star-fish, or searching the
caverns of the piratical Saracens that honeycombed the clifts, or yet,
again, taking a hand at the nets! Sometimes he grew very lonely; for
without a woman, either of one's blood or of one's choice, life holds
little. Ah, that woman in the mask, that chimera of a night, that fancy
of an hour!

And then Merrihew burst in upon him, wildly excited, and flourished the
hotel register.

"Look at this!" he cried breathlessly. He flung the book on the table
and pointed with shaking finger.

Hillard came forward, and this is what he saw:

      Thomas O'Mally
      James Smith
      Arthur Worth
      La Signorina Capricciosa
      Kitty Killigrew
    Am. Comic Opera Co., N.Y.

"Kitty has been here!"

"Perfectly true. But I wonder."

"Wonder about what?" asked Merrihew.

"Who La Signorina Capricciosa is. Whimsical indeed. She must be the
mysterious prima donna."

He studied the easy-flowing hand, and ran his fingers through his hair
thoughtfully. Then he frowned.

"What is it?" asked Merrihew curiously.

"Nothing; only I am wondering where I have seen that handwriting
before."




CHAPTER IX

MRS. SANDFORD WINKS


A week in Sorrento, during which Merrihew saw all the beautiful villas,
took tea with the Russian princess, made a martyr of himself trying to
acquire a taste for the sour astringent wines of the country, and bought
inlaid-wood paper-cutters and silk socks and neckties and hat-bands,
enough, in truth, to last him for several generations; another week in
Capri, where, at the Zum Kater Hidigeigei, he exchanged compliments with
the green parrot, drank good beer, played  batseka  (a game of
billiards) with the exiles (for Capri has as many as Cairo!) and beat
them out of sundry lire, toiled up to the ledge where the playful
Tiberius (see guide-books) tipped over his whilom favorites, bought a
marine daub; and then back to Naples and the friendly smells. His
constant enthusiasm and refreshing observations were a tonic to Hillard.

At the hotel in Naples they found a batch of mail. There was a letter
which held particular interest to Merrihew. It was from the consul at
Rome, a reply to Hillard's inquiries regarding the American Comic Opera
Company.

"We'll now find out where your charming Kitty is," Hillard said,
breaking the seal.

But they didn't. On the contrary, the writer hadn't the slightest idea
where the play-actors were or had gone. They had opened a two weeks'
engagement at the Teatro Quirino. There had been a good house on the
opening night; the remainder of the week did not show the sale of a
hundred tickets. It was a fallacy that traveling Americans had any
desire to witness American productions in Italy. So, then, the managers
of the theater had abruptly canceled the engagement. The American
manager had shown neither foresight nor common sense. He had, in the
first place, come with his own scenery and costumes, upon which he had
to pay large duties, and would have to pay further duties each time he
entered a large city. His backer withdrew his support; and the
percentage demanded by the managers in Florence, Genoa, Milan and Venice
was so exorbitant (although they had agreed to a moderate term in the
beginning) that it would have been nothing short of foolhardiness to try
to fill the bookings. The singing of the prima donna, however, had
created a highly favorable impression among the critics; but she was
unknown, and to be unknown was next to positive failure, financially.
This information, the writer explained, had been obtained by personal
investigation. The costumes and scenery had been confiscated; and the
manager and his backer had sailed for America, leaving the members of
the company to get back the best way they could. As none of the players
had come to the consulate for assistance, their whereabouts were
unknown. The writer also advised Mr. Hillard not to put his money in any
like adventure. Italy was strongly against any foreign invasion, aside
from the American trolley-car.

"That's hard luck," growled Merrihew, who saw his hopes go down the
horizon.

"But it makes me out a pretty good prophet," was Hillard's rejoinder.
"The Angel's money gave out. Too many obstacles. To conquer a people and
a government by light opera--it can't be done here. And so the American
Comic Opera Company at the present moment is vegetating in some little
 pensione , waiting for money from home."

Merrihew gnawed the end of his cane. All his pleasant dreams had burst
like soap-bubbles. Had they not always done so? There would be no jaunts
with Kitty, no pleasant little excursions, no little suppers after the
performance. And what's a Michelangelo or a Titian when a man's in love?

"Brace up, Dan. Who knows? Kitty may be on the high seas, that is, if
she has taken my advice and got a return-ticket. I'll give you a dinner
at the Bertolini to-night, and you may have the magnum of any vintage
you like. We'll have Tomass' drive us down the Via Caracciolo. It will
take some of the disappointment out of your system."

"Any old place," was the joyless response. "Seems to me that Italy has
all the cards when it comes to graft."

"America, my boy, is only in the primary department. Kitty's manager
forgot the most important thing of the whole outfit."

"What's that?"

"The Itching Palm. Evidently it had not been properly soothed. Come on;
we may run across some of our ship-acquaintances. To-morrow we'll start
for Rome, and then we shall add our own investigations to those of the
consul."

They had ridden up and down the Via Caracciolo twice when they espied a
huge automobile, ultramarine blue. It passed with a cloud of dust and a
rumble which was thunderous. Hillard half rose from his seat.

"Somebody you know?" asked Merrihew.

"The man at the wheel looked a bit like Sandford."

"Sandford? By George, that would be jolly!"

"Perhaps they will come this way again. Tomass', follow that motor."

Sure enough, when the car reached the Largo Vittoria, it wheeled and
came rumbling back. This time Hillard had no doubts. He stood up and
waved his arms. The automobile barked and groaned and came to a stand.

"Hello, Sandford!"

"Jack Hillard, as I live, and Dan Merrihew! Nell?" turning to one of the
three pretty women in the tonneau. "What did I tell you? I felt it in my
bones that we would run across some one we knew."

"Or over them," his wife laughed.

In a foreign land one's flag is no longer eyed negligently and
carelessly, as though it possessed no significance; it now becomes a
symbol of the soil wherein our hearts first took root. A popular tune we
have once scorned, now, when heard, catches us by the throat; the merest
acquaintance becomes a long-lost brother; and persons to whom we nod
indifferently at home now take the part of tried and true friends. But
when we meet an old friend, one who has accepted our dinners and with
whom we have often dined, what is left but to fall on his neck and weep?
There was, then, over this meeting, much ado with handshaking and
compliments, handshaking and questions; and, as in all cases like this,
every one talked at once. How was old New York? How was the winter in
Cairo? And so forth and so on, till a policeman politely told them that
this was not a private thoroughfare, and that they were blocking the
way. So they parted, the two young men having promised to dine with the
Sandford party that evening.

"What luck, Dan!" Hillard was exuberant.

"Saves you the price of a dinner."

"I wasn't thinking of that. But I shall find out all about her
to-night."

"Who?"

"The Lady in the Fog, the masquerading lady!"

"Bah! I should prefer something more solid than a vanishing lady."

"Look here, Dan, I never throw cold water on you."

"There have been times when it would have done my head good."

Sandford knew how to order a dinner; and so by the time that Merrihew
had emptied his second glass of Burgundy and his first of champagne, he
was in the haze of golden confidence. He would find Kitty, and when he
found her he would find her heart as well.

"Say, Jack," said Sandford, "what did you mean by that fool cable,
anyhow?"

Hillard had been patiently waiting for an opening of this sort. "And
what did you mean by hoaxing me?"

"Hoaxing you?"

"That's the word. I was in your house that night; I was there as surely
as I am here to-night."

"Nell, am I crazy, or is it Jack?"

"Sometimes," said Mrs. Sandford, "when you put the chauffeur in the
tonneau, I'm inclined to think that it is you."

Hillard looked straight into the placid grey eyes of his hostess. Very
slowly one of the white lids drooped. His heart bounded.

"But really," continued Sandford seriously, "unless you bribed the
caretaker, you could not possibly have entered the house. You have been
dreaming."

"Very well, then; it begins to look as if I had." It was apparent to
Hillard that Sandford was not in his wife's confidence in all things. He
also saw the wisdom of dropping the subject while at the table. To take
up the thread of that romance again! He needed no wine to tingle his
blood.

They took coffee and liqueur in the glass-inclosed balcony. All Naples
sparkled at their feet, and the young moon rose over the Sorrentine
Hills. Sandford and Merrihew and the other two ladies began an animated
exchange of experiences. Hillard found a quiet nook, not far from the
lift. He saw that Mrs. Sandford's chair was placed so that she could get
a good view of the superb night. He sat down himself, sipped his liqueur
meditatively, drank his coffee, and, as she nodded, lighted a cigarette.

"Well?" she said, smiling into his brown eyes. She was rather fond of
Hillard; a gentleman always, and one of excellent taste. There was never
any wearisome innuendo in his wit nor suggestion in his stories.

"You deliberately winked at me," he began.

"I deliberately did."

"Sandford is in the dark; I suspected as much."

"Regarding the wink?"

"Regarding the mysterious woman who occupied your house by your express
authority, and who rode the hunter in the park."

"Was there ever a more beautiful picture?" sweeping her hands toward the
city.

"The beauty of it will last several hours yet. Who and what was she?"

"I wish I could find you a wife; you would make a good husband."

"Thank you. I am even willing, with your assistance, to prove it. Who
was she, and how came she in your house?"

"She wished that favor, and that her presence in New York should not be
known. Now, describe to me exactly what happened. I am worrying about
the plate and the silver."

He laughed. "And you will meet me half-way?"

"I promise to tell you all I ... dare."

"There is a mystery?"

"Yes. So begin with your side of it."

He was a capital story-teller. He recounted the adventure in all its
color; the voice under his window, the personals in the paper, the
interchange of letters, the extraordinary dinner, the mask in the
envelope. She followed him with breathless interest.

"Charming, charming!" She clapped her hands. "And how well you tell it!
You have told it just as it happened."

"Just as it happened!" confounded for a moment.

"Exactly. I have had a letter, two, in fact. You did not see her face?"

"Only the chin and mouth. But if I ever meet her again I shall know her
by her teeth."

"Heavens! And how?"

"Two lower ones are gone; otherwise they would be beautiful."

"Poor man! You have builded your house upon the sands. Her teeth are
perfect. She has fooled you."

"But I saw with these two eyes!"

"There is a preparation which theatrical people use; a kind of gum. She
mentioned the trick. Isn't she clever?"

"Yet I shall know her hair," doggedly.

She put her hands swiftly to her head. "Now, you have known me for
years. What is the color of my hair?"

"Why, it is blond."

"Nothing of the kind. It is auburn. If you can not tell mine, how will
you tell hers?"

"I shall probably run after every red-headed woman in Europe till I find
her," humorously.

"If you can keep out of jail long enough."

"I shall at any rate remember her voice."

"That is better. Our ears never deceive half so often as our eyes."

"Her face is not scarred, is it?"

"Scarred!" indignantly. "She is as beautiful as a Raphael, as lovely as
a Bouguereau. If I were a man I should gladly journey round the world
for the sight of her."

"I am willing, even anxious."

"I should fall in love with her."

"I believe I have."

"And I should marry her, too."

"Even that."

"Come, Mr. Hillard; I am just fooling. You are too sensible a man to
fall in love with a shadow, a mask. Your fancy has been trapped, that is
all. One does not fall in love that way."

"You ought to know," with a sidelong glance at Sandford.

As her glance followed his, hers grew warm and kindly. Sandford, by
chance meeting the look, smiled back across the room. This little
by-play filled Hillard with a sense of envy and loneliness. At
three-and-thirty a bachelor realizes that there is something else in
life besides business and travel.

"It is quite useless to ask who she is?" he inquired of his hostess.

"Quite useless."

"She is married?"

"Certainly I have not said so."

He flicked the ash from his cigarette. What was the use of trying to
trap a woman into saying what she did not propose to say?

"Have you those letters?"

"One of them I'll show you."

"Why not the other?"

"It would be wasting time. It merely relates to your adventure. She
sailed the day after you dined with her."

"That accounts for the shutters. The police and the caretaker were
bribed."

"I suspect they were."

"If I were a vain man, and you know I am not, I might ask you if she
spoke well of me in this letter. Understand, I am not inquiring."

"But you put the question as adroitly as a woman. We are sure of vanity
always. Yes, she spoke of you. She found you to be an agreeable
gentleman. But," with gentle malice, "she did not say that she wished
she had met you years ago, under more favorable circumstances, or that
she liked your eyes, which are really fine ones."

He had to join in her laughter.

"Come, give me the death-stroke and have done with it. Tell me what you
dare, and I'll be content with it."

She opened her handkerchief purse and delved among the various articles
therein.

"I expected that you would be asking questions, so I came prepared. I
did not tell my husband for that very reason. He would have insisted
upon knowing everything. Here, read this. It is only a glimpse."

He searched eagerly for the signature.

"Don't bother," she said. "The name is only a nickname we gave her at
school."

"School? Do you mean to tell me that you went to school with her?
Where?"

"In Pennsylvania first; then in Milan. Read."

     O Cara Mia--If only you knew how sorry I am to miss you! Why must
     you sail at once? Why not come to my beautiful Venice? True, I
     could not entertain you as in the days of my good father. But I
     have so much to say to you that can not be written. You ask about
     the adventure. Pouf! goes my little dream of greatness. It was a
     blank failure. Much as I knew about Italy I could not know
     everything. The officials put unheard-of obstacles in our path. The
     contracts were utterly disregarded. In the first place, we had not
     purchased our costumes and scenery in Italy.

"Costumes and scenery?" Hillard sought the signature again. Mrs.
Sandford was staring at the moonlit bay.

     That poor manager! And that poor man who advanced the money! They
     forgot that the booking is as nothing, the incidentals everything.
     The base of all the trouble was a clerk in the consulate at Naples.
     He wrote us that there would be no duties on costumes and scenery.
     Alas! the manager and his backer are on the way to America, sadder
     and wiser men. We surrendered our return tickets to the chorus and
     sent them home. The rest of us are stranded--is not that the
     word?--here in Venice, waiting for money from home. If I were
     alone, it would be highly amusing; but these poor people with me!
     There is only one way I can help them, but that, never. You
     recollect that my personal income is quarterly, and it will be two
     months before I shall have funds. I could get it advanced, but I
     dare not. There are persons moving Heaven and earth to find me. My
     companions haven't the least idea who I am; to them I am one of the
     profession. So here we all are, wandering about the Piazza San
     Marco, calling at Cook's every day in hopes of money, and
     occasionally risking a penny in corn for the doves. I am staying
     with my nurse, my mother's maid, in the Canipo Santa Maria Formosa,
     near our beloved Santa Barbara. Very quietly I have guaranteed the
     credit of my unfortunate companions, and they believe that
     Venetians are very generous people. Generous! Think of it! Come to
     Venice, dear; it is all nonsense that you must return to America.
     Perhaps you will wonder how I dared appear on the stage in Italy. A
     black wig and a theatrical make-up; these were sufficient. A duke
     sent me an invitation to take supper with him, as if I were a
     ballerina! I sent one of the American chorus girls, a little minx
     for mischief. She ate his supper, and then ran away. I understand
     that he was furious. Only a few months more, Nell, and then I may
     come and go as I please. Come to Venice. Capricciosa.

Hillard did not stir. Another labyrinth to this mystery! Capricciosa;
Kitty Killigrew's unknown prima donna; and all he had to do was to take
the morning train for Venice, and twenty-four hours later he would be
prowling through the Campo Santa Maria Formosa. Though his mind was busy
with a hundred thoughts, his head was still bent and his eyes riveted
upon the page.

Mrs. Sandford observed him curiously, even sadly. Why couldn't his fancy
have been charmed by an every-day, sensible girl, and not by this
whimsical, extraordinary woman who fooled diplomats, flaunted dukes, and
kept a king at arm's length as a pastime? And yet--!

"Capricciosa," he mused aloud. "That is not her name."

"And I shall not tell it you."

"But her given name? Just a straw; something to hold on; I'm a drowning
man." Hillard's pleadings would have melted a heart of stone.

"It is Hilda."

"That is German."

"She prefers it to Sonia."

"Sonia Hilda; it begins well. May I keep this letter?"

"Certainly not. With that  cara mia ? Give it to me."

He did so. "Shall I seek her?"

"This is my advice: don't think of her after to-night. If you ever see
or recognize her, avoid her. It may sound theatrical, but she is the
innocent cause of two deaths. These men sought her openly, too."

"What has she done?"

"She made a great, though common, mistake."

"Political?"

Her lips closed firmly, but a smile lurked in the corners.

He sighed.

"Don't be foolish. I am sorry I let you see the letter. I forgot that
she told me her hiding-place."

"Her hiding-place?"

"Mr. Hillard, she is as far removed from your orbit as Mars' is from
Jupiter's. Forget her."

"My orbit is not limited. I shall seek her; when I find her I
shall ... marry her."

But her lips closed again.

"Sphinx!" he murmured with reproach.

"I like you too much, Mr. Hillard, to stand by and see you break your
heart against a stone wall."

"Don't you see, the deeper the mystery is the more powerful the
attraction becomes?"

The door to the lift opened and closed noisily, and Hillard turned
negligently. A man sauntered through the room. The moment he came into
the light Hillard's interest became lively enough: It was the handsome
Italian with the scar.

"Who is that man?" he whispered. "Only a few weeks ago I bumped into him
on coming out of the club."

A swift glance, then her eyes grew unfriendly, her shoulders rigid and
repellent.

"Do not attract his attention," she answered in a low tone. "Yes, I know
him, and I do not wish him to see me."

"Who is he?" he repeated.

"A Venetian officer, and a profligate. I entertained him once, but I
learned from him that I had been ill-advised."

Hillard saw that this subject would admit of no further questions. The
man with the scar had committed some inexcusable offense, and Mrs.
Sandford had crossed him off the list. He knew that the Italian officer
is, more or less, a lady's man; and the supreme confidence he has in the
power of brass buttons and gold lace makes him at times insufferable.

It was after ten when Hillard and his friend took their leave. They
would not see their host and hostess again till they reached New York.
Upon coming out on the Corso, Hillard whistled merrily.

"Pleasant evening," was Merrihew's comment.

Hillard continued to whistle.

"Good dinner, too."

The whistle went on serenely, in spite of Merrihew's obvious attempts to
choke it off.

"You seemed to have a good deal to say to Mrs. Sandford. She knows the
lady who was in the house?"

Still the whistle.

"Say, wake up!" cried Merrihew impatiently.

"We shall leave in the morning for Venice," said Hillard, taking up the
tune again.

"Venice? How about Rome and Florence?"

"Which would you prefer: Rome and the antiquities, or Venice and--Kitty
Killigrew?"

"Kitty in Venice? Are you sure?"

"She is there with La Signorina Capricciosa. Oh, this is a fine world,
after all, and I was wrong to speak ill of it this morning."

"If Kitty's in Venice, I'm an ungrateful beggar, too. But I do not see
why Kitty's being in Venice excites you."

"No? Well, fate writes that Kitty's mysterious prima donna and my Lady
of the Mask are one and the same person."

"No!"

The two, without further words, marched along the middle of the Corso to
the hotel, which was only a few steps away. They entered. The concierge
started toward them as if he desired to impart some valuable
information, but suddenly reconsidered, and retreated to his bandbox of
an office and busied himself with the ever-increasing  debours . The
strangeness of his movements passed unnoticed by the two men, who
continued on through the lobby, turning into the first corridor. Hillard
inserted his key in the door of his room, unlocked it, and swung it
inward. This done, he paused irresolutely on the threshold, and with
good cause.

"What the devil can this mean?" he whispered to Merrihew, who peered
over his shoulder.

Two dignified  carabinieri  rose quickly and approached Hillard. There
was something in the flashing eyes and set jaws that made him realize
that the safest thing for him to do at that moment was to stand
perfectly still!




CHAPTER X

CARABINIERI


"Signori," began Hillard calmly, "before you act, will you not do me the
honor to explain to me the meaning of this visit?"

"It is not he!" said one of the  carabinieri . "It is the master, and
not the servant. This is Signore Hil lar , is it not?" he continued,
addressing himself to Hillard.

"Yes."

"The signore has a servant by the name of Giovanni?"

"Yes. And what has he done to warrant this visit?" Hillard asked less
calmly.

"It is a matter of seven years," answered the spokesman. "Your servant
attempted to kill an officer in Rome. Luigi here, who was then
interested in the case in Rome, thought he recognized Giovanni in the
street to-day. Inquiries led us here."

"Ah!" Hillard thought quickly. "I am afraid that you have had your
trouble for nothing. Giovanni is now a citizen of the United States,
under full protection of its laws, domestic and foreign. It would not be
wise for you to touch him."

The  carabinieri  stared at each other. They shrugged.

"Signore, we recognize no foreign citizenship for our countrymen who,
having committed a crime, return to the scene of it. We are here to
arrest him. He will be tried and sentenced. But it is possible that he
may be allowed to return to America, once he has been proved guilty of
intent to kill."

Hillard flushed, but he curbed the rise in his temper. It was enough
that the United States was made the dumping-ground of the criminal
courts of Europe, without having it forced upon him in this
semi-contemptuous fashion. The  carabinieri  saw the effort.

"The signore speaks Italian so well that he will understand that we have
nothing to do with deportation. Our business is simply to arrest
offenders against the State. It is to the State you must look for
redress; and here the State is indifferent where the offender goes, so
long as it is far away." The speaker bowed ceremoniously.

"Yes, I understand. But I repeat, my servant is a legal citizen of the
United States, and there will be complications if you touch him."

"Not for us. That rests between you and the State. Our orders are to
arrest him."

"At any rate, it looks as though Giovanni had been forewarned of your
visit. And may I ask, what is the name of the officer Giovanni attempted
to kill?"

"It is not necessary that you should know."

Hillard accepted the rebuke with becoming grace.

"And now, signore," with the utmost courtesy, "permit us to apologize
for this intrusion. We shall wait in the hall, and if we find Giovanni
we shall gladly notify you of the event."

The two officers bowed and passed out into the corridor. Hillard raised
his hat, and closed the door.

"Now, what the deuce has all this powwow been about?" demanded Merrihew;
for he had understood nothing, despite his  How to Speak Italian in One
Day .

"It's that rascal Giovanni."

"Did he find his man and cut him up?"

"No. It seems that these carabinieri have remark-able memories; the old
affair. Poor devil! I can't imagine how they traced him here. But I
repeatedly warned him about going abroad in the daylight. Hello, what's
this?" going to the table. It was a note addressed to him; and it was
from the fugitive.

     My kind master--The  carabinieri  are after me. But rest easy. I
     was not born to rot in a dungeon. I am going north. As for my
     clothes, send them to Giacamo, the baker, who lives on the road to
     El Deserta. He will understand. May the Holy Mother guard you,
     should we never meet again!

Hillard passed the note to Merrihew.

"That's too bad. I've taken a great fancy to him. It seems that the
peasant has no chance on this side of the water. His child a painted
dancer in Paris, and a price on his own head! It's hard luck. And the
fellow who caused all this trouble goes free."

"He always goes free, Dan, here or elsewhere."

"Why, we'd have lynched him in America."

"That's possible. We are such an impulsive race," ironically. "Yes, no
doubt we'd have lynched him; and these foreigners would have added
another ounce of fact to their belief that we are still barbarians."

"I hadn't thought of that," Merrihew admitted. Till now he had never
cared particularly whether a foreigner's opinion was favorable or not.

"No, but when you start for home you will always think of it. Our
reporters demand of the foreigner, barely he has stepped ashore, what he
thinks of the United States; and then nearly every one he meets helps to
form the opinion that we are insufferably underbred. Ours is not studied
incivility; it is worse than that; it is downright carelessness."

"I am beginning to see things differently. When the concierge tips his
hat, I tip mine. Since Giovanni is gone, suppose we pack up? There's
little to do, as the trunks are as we left them. But I say, how is it
that all these  carabinieri  we see are so tall? The Neapolitan is
invariably short and thick-set."

"They come from the north as far as Domo d'Ossola; mountaineers. Italy
has a good policy regarding her military police. The Neapolitan is sent
north and the Venetian and Tuscan south, out of reach of family ties and
feuds. Thus, there is never any tug between duty and friendship. The
truth is, the Italian is less inclined toward duty than toward
friendship. This isolation makes the  carabinieri  the right hand of the
army, and no other soldier in Europe is half so proud of his uniform,
not even the German. The people smile as they pass, you will notice
always in pairs; but when they are in trouble, these weather-vane
people, they fly straight to the  carabinieri . Imagine the cocksureness
and insolence we'd have suffered from two New York policemen, had we
found them in our homes! Oh, I have a soft spot for the  carabinieri .
You will find no brigands in Italy now; that is because the
 carabinieri  are everywhere, silent, watchful, on highways, in the
mountains, in all villages and in all stations. I have never seen one of
them ogle a woman. And never ask them where your hotel is, or the
station, or such and such a street. They will always tell you, but they
secretly resent it."

"I'll remember; but so far as I'm concerned, they'd have an easy time of
it. Why, I couldn't ask a question in billboard Italian. Now, out with
it; where and how did you learn that Kitty is in Venice?"

Hillard told him briefly.

"And so they are all in Venice, broke? By George, here's our chance;
everlasting gratitude and all that. We'll bail 'em out and ship 'em
home! How is that for a bright idea?" Merrihew had regained his usual
enthusiasm.
