
But it did not open very far--just a crack remained. Then, listening with
all our might, we heard the cautiously suppressed breathing of somebody
in the hallway just outside of my door.

Lezard turned and cast at me a glance of horrified intelligence. In dumb
pantomime he outlined in the air, with one hand, the large and feminine
amplification of his own person, conveying to us the certainty of his
suspicions concerning the unseen eavesdropper.

We nodded. We understood perfectly that she was out there prepared to
listen to every word we uttered.

A flicker of ferocious joy disturbed Lezard's otherwise innocuous
features; he winked horribly at Dr. Fooss and at me, and uttered a faint
click with his teeth and tongue like the snap of a closing trap.

"Gentlemen," he said, in the guarded yet excited voice of a man who is
confident of not being overheard, "the matter under discussion admits of
only one interpretation: a discovery--perhaps the most vitally important
discovery of all the centuries--is imminent.

"Secrecy is imperative; the scientific glory is to be shared by us alone,
and there is enough of glory to go around.

"Mr. Chairman, I move that epoch-making letter be read aloud!"

"I second dot motion!" said Dr. Fooss, winking so violently at me that
his glasses wabbled.

"Gentlemen," said I, "it has been moved and seconded that this
epoch-making letter be read aloud. All those in favor will kindly
say 'aye.'"

"Aye! Aye!" they exclaimed, fairly wriggling in their furtive joy.

"The contrary-minded will kindly emit the usual negation," I went
on.... "It seems to be carried.... It is carried. The chairman will
proceed to the reading of the epoch-making letter."

I quietly lighted a five-cent cigar, unfolded the letter and read aloud:

  "Joneses Shack,

  Golden Glacier,
  Cook's Peninsula, Baffin Land,

  March 15, 1915.

  "Professor, Dear Sir:

  "I already wrote you three times no answer having been rec'd perhaps
  you think I'm kiddin' you're a dam' liar I ain't.

  "Hoping to tempt you to come I will hereby tell you more'n I told you
  in my other letters, the terminal moraine of this here Golden Glacier
  finishes into a marsh, nothing to see for miles excep' frozen tussock
  and mud and all flat as hell for fifty miles which is where I am
  trappin' it for mink and otter and now ready to go back to Fort
  Carcajou. i told you what I seen stickin' in under this here marsh,
  where anything sticks out the wolves have eat it, but most of them
  there ellerphants is in under the ice and mud too far for the wolves to
  git 'em.

  "i ain't kiddin' you, there is a whole herd of furry ellerphants in the
  marsh like as they were stuck there and all lay down and was drownded
  like. Some has tusks and some hasn't. Two ellerphants stuck out of the
  ice, I eat onto one, the meat was good and sweet and joosy, the damn
  wolves eat it up that night, I had cut stakes and rost for three months
  though and am eating off it yet.

  "Thinking as how ellerphants and all like that is your graft, I being
  a keeper in the Mouse House once in the Bronx and seein' you nosin'
  around like you was full of scientific thinks, it comes to me to write
  you and put you next.

  "If you say so I'll wait here and help you with them ellerphants.
  Livin' wages is all I ask also eleven thousand dollars for tippin' you
  wise. I won't tell nobody till I hear from you. I'm hones' you can
  trus' me. Write me to Fort Carcajou if you mean bizness. So no more
  respectfully,

  James Skaw."

When I finished reading I cautiously glanced at the door, and, finding it
still on the crack, turned and smiled subtly upon Lezard and Fooss.

In their slowly spreading grins I saw they agreed with me that somebody,
signing himself James Skaw, was still trying to hoax the Great Zo√∂logical
Society of Bronx Park.

"Gentlemen," I said aloud, injecting innocent enthusiasm into my voice,
"this secret expedition to Baffin Land which we three are about to
organise is destined to be without doubt the most scientifically prolific
field expedition ever organised by man.

"Imagine an entire herd of mammoths preserved in mud and ice through all
these thousands of years!

"Gentlemen, no discovery ever made has even remotely approached in
importance the discovery made by this simple, illiterate trapper, James
Skaw."

"I thought," protested Lezard, "that we are to be announced as the
discoverers."

"We are," said I, "the discoverers of James Skaw, which makes
us technically the finders of the ice-preserved herd of
mammoths--technically, you understand. A few thousand dollars,"
I added, carelessly, "ought to satiate James Skaw."

"We could name dot glacier after him," suggested Dr. Fooss.

"Certainly--the Skaw Glacier. That ought to be enough glory for him. It
ought to satisfy him and prevent any indiscreet remarks," nodded Lezard.

"Gentlemen," said I, "there is only one detail that really troubles me.
Ought we to notify our honoured and respected Chief of Division
concerning this discovery?"

"Do you mean, should we tell that accomplished and fascinating lady,
Professor Bottomly, about this herd of mammoths?" I asked in a loud,
clear voice. And immediately answered my own question: "No," I said, "no,
dear friends. Professor Bottomly already has too much responsibility
weighing upon her distinguished mind. No, dear brothers in science, we
should steal away unobserved as though setting out upon an ordinary field
expedition. And when we return with fresh and immortal laurels such as no
man before has ever worn, no doubt that our generous-minded Chief of
Division will weave for us further wreaths to crown our brows--the
priceless garlands of professional approval!" And I made a horrible face
at my co-conspirators.

Before I finished Lezard had taken his own face in his hands for the
purpose of stifling raucous and untimely mirth. As for Dr. Fooss, his
small, porcine eyes snapped and twinkled madly behind his spectacles, but
he seemed rather inclined to approve my flowers of rhetoric.

"Ja," said he, "so iss it besser oursellufs dot gefrozenss herd von
elephanten to discover, und, by and by, die elephanten bei der Pronx Bark
home yet again once more to bring. We shall therefore much praise thereby
bekommen. Ach wass!"

"Gentlemen," said I, distinctly, "it is decided, then, that we shall say
nothing concerning the true object of this expedition to Professor
Bottomly."

Lezard and Fooss nodded assent. Then, in the silence, we all strained our
ears to listen. And presently we detected the scarcely heard sound of
cautiously retreating footsteps down the corridor.

When it was safe to do so I arose and closed my door.

"I think," said I, with a sort of infernal cheerfulness in my tones,
"that we are about to do something jocose to Jane Bottomly."

"A few," said Professor Lezard. He rose and silently executed a
complicated ballet-step.

"I shall laff," said Dr. Fooss, earnestly, "und I shall laff, und I shall
laff--ach Gott how I shall laff my pally head off!"

I folded my arms and turned romanesquely toward the direction in which
Professor Bottomly had retreated.

"Viper!" I said. "The Bronx shall nourish you in its bosom no more! Fade
away, Ophidian!"

The sentiment was applauded by all. There chanced to be in my desk a
bottle marked: "That's all!" On the label somebody had written: "Do it
now!" We did.




III


It was given out at the Bronx that our field expedition to Baffin
Land was to be undertaken solely for the purpose of bringing back
living specimens of the five-spotted Arctic woodcock--Philohela
quinquemaculata--in order to add to our onomatology and our glossary
of onomatopoeia an ontogenesis of this important but hitherto unstudied
sub-species.

I trust I make myself clear. Scientific statements should be as clear as
the Spuyten Duyvil. Sola in stagno salus!

But two things immediately occurred which worried us; Professor Bottomly
sent us official notification that she approved our expedition to Baffin
Land, designated the steamer we were to take, and enclosed tickets. That
scared us. Then to add to our perplexity Professor Bottomly disappeared,
leaving Dr. Daisy Delmour in charge of her department during what she
announced might be "a somewhat prolonged absence on business."

And during the four feverish weeks of our pretended preparations for
Baffin Land not one word did we hear from Jane Bottomly, which caused us
painful inquietude as the hour approached for our departure.

Was this formidable woman actually intending to let us depart alone
for the Golden Glacier? Was she too lazy to rob us of the secretly
contemplated glory which we had pretended awaited us?

We had been so absolutely convinced that she would forbid our expedition,
pack us off elsewhere, and take charge herself of an exploring party to
Baffin Land, that, as the time for our leaving drew near we became first
uneasy, and then really alarmed.

It would be a dreadful jest on us if she made us swallow our own
concoction; if she revealed to our colleagues our pretended knowledge of
the Golden Glacier and James Skaw and the supposedly ice-imbedded herd of
mammoths, and then publicly forced us to investigate this hoax.

More horrible still would it be if she informed the newspapers and gave
them a hint to make merry over the three wise men of the Bronx who went
to Baffin Land in a boat.

"What do you suppose that devious and secretive female is up to?"
inquired Lezard who, within the last few days, had grown thin with worry.
"Is it possible that she is sufficiently degraded to suspect us of trying
to put one over on her? Is that what she is now doing to us?"

"Terminus est--it is the limit!" said I.

He turned a morbid eye upon me. "She is making a monkey of us. That's
what!"

"Suspendenda omnia naso," I nodded; "tarde sed tute. When I think
aloud in Latin it means that I am deeply troubled. Suum quemque scelus
agitat. Do you get me, Professor? I'm sorry I attempted to be sportive
with this terrible woman. The curse of my scientific career has been
periodical excesses of frivolity. See where this frolicsome impulse
has landed me!--super abyssum ambulans. Trahit sua quemque voluptas;
transeat in exemplum! She means to let us go to our destruction on this
mammoth frapp√© affair."

But Dr. Fooss was optimistic:

"I tink she iss alretty herselluf by dot Baffin Land ge-gone," he said.
"I tink she has der bait ge-swallowed. Ve vait; ve see; und so iss it ve
know."

"But why hasn't she stopped our preparations?" I demanded. "If she wants
all the glory herself why does she permit us to incur this expense in
getting ready?"

"No mans can to know der vorkings of der mental brocess by a
Frauenzimmer," said Dr. Fooss, wagging his head.

The suspense became nerve-racking; we were obliged to pack our camping
kits; and it began to look as though we would have either to sail the
next morning or to resign from the Bronx Park Zo√∂logical Society, because
all the evening papers had the story in big type--the details and objects
of the expedition, the discovery of the herd of mammoths in cold storage,
the prompt organization of an expedition to secure this unparalleled
deposit of prehistoric mammalia--everything was there staring at us in
violent print, excepting only the name of the discoverer and the names of
those composing the field expedition.

"She means to betray us after we have sailed," said Lezard, greatly
depressed. "We might just as well resign now before this hoax explodes
and bespatters us. We can take our chances in vaudeville or as lecturing
professors with the movies."

I thought so, too, in point of fact we all had gathered in my study to
write out our resignations, when there came a knock at the door and Dr.
Daisy Delmour walked in.

Oddly enough I had not before met Dr. Delmour personally; only formal
written communications had hitherto passed between us. My idea of her
had doubtless been inspired by the physical and intellectual aberrations
of her chief; I naturally supposed her to be either impossible and
corporeally redundant, or intellectually and otherwise as weazened as
last year's Li-che nut.

I was criminally mistaken. And why Lezard, who knew her, had never set me
right I could not then understand. I comprehended later.

For the feminine assistant of Professor Jane Bottomly, who sauntered into
my study and announced herself, had the features of Athene, the smile of
Aphrodite, and the figure of Psyche. I believe I do not exaggerate these
scientific details, although it has been said of me that any pretty girl
distorts my vision and my intellectual balance to the detriment of my
calmer reason and my differentiating ability.

"Gentlemen," said Dr. Delmour, while we stood in a respectful semi-circle
before her, modestly conscious of our worth, our toes turned out, and
each man's features wreathed with that politely unnatural smirk which
masculine features assume when confronted by feminine beauty. "Gentlemen,
on the eve of your proposed departure for Baffin Land in quest of living
specimens of the five-spotted Philohela quinquemaculata, I have been
instructed by Professor Bottomly to announce to you a great good fortune
for her, for you, for the Bronx, for America, for the entire civilized
world.

"It has come to Professor Bottomly's knowledge, recently I believe, that
an entire herd of mammoths lie encased in the mud and ice of the vast
flat marshes which lie south of the terminal moraine of the Golden
Glacier in that part of Baffin Land known as Dr. Cook's Peninsula.

"The credit of this epoch-making discovery is Professor Bottomly's
entirely. How it happened, she did not inform me. One month ago today she
sailed in great haste for Baffin Land. At this very hour she is doubtless
standing all alone upon the frozen surface of that wondrous marsh,
contemplating with reverence and awe and similar holy emotions the fruits
of her own unsurpassed discovery!"

Dr. Delmour's lovely features became delicately suffused and transfigured
as she spoke; her exquisite voice thrilled with generous emotion; she
clasped her snowy hands and gazed, enraptured, at the picture of Dr.
Bottomly which her mind was so charmingly evoking.

"Perhaps," she whispered, "perhaps at this very instant, in the midst of
that vast and flat and solemn desolation the only protuberance visible
for miles and miles is Professor Bottomly. Perhaps the pallid Arctic sun
is setting behind the majestic figure of Professor Bottomly, radiating a
blinding glory to the zenith, illuminating the crowning act of her career
with its unearthly aura!"

She gazed at us out of dimmed and violet eyes.

"Gentlemen," she said, "I am ordered to take command of this expedition
of yours; I am ordered to sail with you tomorrow morning on the Labrador
and Baffin Line steamer Dr. Cook.

"The object of your expedition, therefore, is not to be the quest of
Philohela quinquemaculata; your duty now is to corroborate the almost
miraculous discovery of Professor Bottomly, and to disinter for her the
vast herd of frozen mammoths, pack and pickle them, and get them to the
Bronx.

"Tomorrow's morning papers will have the entire story: the credit and
responsibility for the discovery and the expedition belong to Professor
Bottomly, and will be given to her by the press and the populace of our
great republic.

"It is her wish that no other names be mentioned. Which is right. To the
discoverer belongs the glory. Therefore, the marsh is to be named
Bottomly's Marsh, and the Glacier, Bottomly's Glacier.

"Yours and mine is to be the glory of laboring incognito under the
direction of the towering scientific intellect of the age, Professor
Bottomly.

"And the most precious legacy you can leave your children--if you get
married and have any--is that you once wielded the humble pick and shovel
for Jane Bottomly on the bottomless marsh which bears her name!"

       

After a moment's silence we three men ventured to look sideways at
each other. We had certainly killed Professor Bottomly, scientifically
speaking. The lady was practically dead. The morning papers would
consummate the murder. We didn't know whether we wanted to laugh or not.

She was now virtually done for; that seemed certain. So greedily had this
egotistical female swallowed the silly bait we offered, so arrogantly had
she planned to eliminate everybody excepting herself from the credit of
the discovery, that there seemed now nothing left for us to do except to
watch her hurdling deliriously toward destruction. Should we burst into
hellish laughter?

We looked hard at Dr. Delmour and we decided not to--yet.

Said I: "To assist at the final apotheosis of Professor Bottomly makes us
very, very happy. We are happy to remain incognito, mere ciphers blotted
out by the fierce white light which is about to beat upon Professor
Bottomly, fore and aft. We are happy that our participation in this
astonishing affair shall never be known to science.

"But, happiest of all are we, dear Dr. Delmour, in the knowledge that
you are to be with us and of us, incognito on this voyage now imminent;
that you are to be our revered and beloved leader.

"And I, for one, promise you personally the undivided devotion of a man
whose entire and austere career has been dedicated to science--in all
its branches."

I stepped forward rather gracefully and raised her little hand to my lips
to let her see that even the science of gallantry had not been neglected
by me.

Dr. Daisy Delmour blushed.

"Therefore," said I, "considering the fact that our names are not to
figure in this expedition; and, furthermore, in consideration of the fact
that you are going, we shall be very, very happy to accompany you, Dr.
Delmour." I again saluted her hand, and again Dr. Delmour blushed and
looked sideways at Professor Lezard.




IV


It was, to be accurate, exactly twenty-three days later that our voyage
by sea and land ended one Monday morning upon the gigantic terminal
moraine of the Golden Glacier, Cook's Peninsula, Baffin Land.

Four pack-mules carried our luggage, four more bore our persons; an
arctic dicky-bird sat on a bowlder and said, "Pilly-willy-willy! Tweet!
Tweet!"

As we rode out to the bowlder-strewn edge of the moraine the rising sun
greeted us cordially, illuminating below us the flat surface of the marsh
which stretched away to the east and south as far as the eye could see.

So flat was it that we immediately made out the silhouettes of two mules
tethered below us a quarter of a mile away.

Something about the attitude of these mules arrested our attention, and,
gazing upon them through our field-glasses we beheld Professor Bottomly.

That resourceful lady had mounted a pneumatic hammock upon the two mules,
their saddles had sockets to fit the legs of the galvanized iron tripod.

No matter in which way the mules turned, sliding swivels on the hollow
steel frames regulated the hammock slung between them. It was an infernal
invention.

There lay Jane Bottomly asleep, her black hair drying over the hammock's
edge, gilded to a peroxide lustre by the rays of the rising sun.

I gazed upon her with a sort of ferocious pity. Her professional days
were numbered. I also had her number!

"How majestically she slumbers," whispered Dr. Delmour to me, "dreaming,
doubtless, of her approaching triumph."

Dr. Fooss and Professor Lezard, driving the pack-mules ahead of them,
were already riding out across the marsh.

"Daisy," I said, leaning from my saddle and taking one of her gloved
hands into mine, "the time has come for me to disillusion you. There are
no mammoths in that mud down there."

She looked at me in blue-eyed amazement.

"You are mistaken," she said; "Professor Bottomly is celebrated for the
absolute and painstaking accuracy of her deductions and the boldness and
the imagination of her scientific investigations. She is the most
cautious scientist in America; she would never announce such a discovery
to the newspapers unless she were perfectly certain of its truth."

I was sorry for this young girl. I pressed her hand because I was sorry
for her. After a few moments of deepest thought I felt so sorry for her
that I kissed her.



"You mustn't," said Dr. Delmour, blushing.

The things we mustn't do are so many that I can't always remember all of
them.

"Daisy," I said, "shall we pledge ourselves to each other for
eternity--here in the presence of this immemorial glacier which moves a
thousand inches a year--I mean an inch every thousand years--here in
these awful solitudes where incalculable calculations could not enlighten
us concerning the number of cubic tons of mud in that marsh--here in the
presence of these innocent mules--"

"Oh, look!" exclaimed Dr. Delmour, lifting her flushed cheek from my
shoulder. "There is a man in the hammock with Professor Bottomly!"

I levelled my field-glasses incredulously. Good Heavens! There was a
man there. He was sitting on the edge of the hammock in a dejected
attitude, his booted legs dangling.

And, as I gazed, I saw the arm of Professor Bottomly raised as though
groping instinctively for something in her slumber--saw her fingers close
upon the blue-flannel shirt of her companion, saw his timid futile
attempts to elude her, saw him inexorably hauled back and his head
forcibly pillowed upon her ample chest.

"Daisy!" I faltered, "what does yonder scene of presumable domesticity
mean?"

"I--I haven't the faintest idea!" she stammered.

"Is that lady married! Or is this revelry?" I asked, sternly.

"She wasn't married when she sailed from N-New-York," faltered Dr.
Delmour.

We rode forward in pained silence, spurring on until we caught up with
Lezard and Fooss and the pack-mules; then we all pressed ahead, a prey,
now, to the deepest moral anxiety and agitation.

The splashing of our mule's feet on the partly melted surface of the mud
aroused the man as we rode up and he scrambled madly to get out of the
hammock as soon as he saw us.

A detaining feminine hand reached mechanically for his collar, groped
aimlessly for a moment, and fell across the hammock's edge. Evidently its
owner was too sleepy for effort.

Meanwhile the man who had floundered free from the hammock, leaped
overboard and came hopping stiffly over the slush toward us like a
badly-winged snipe.

"Who are you?" I demanded, drawing bridle so suddenly that I found myself
astride of my mule's ears. Sliding back into the saddle, I repeated the
challenge haughtily, inwardly cursing my horsemanship.

He stood balancing his lank six feet six of bony altitude for a few
moments without replying. His large gentle eyes of baby blue were fixed
on me.

"Speak!" I said. "The reputation of a lady is at stake! Who are you? We
ask, before we shoot you, for purpose of future identification."

He gazed at me wildly. "I dunno who I be," he replied. "My name was
James Skaw before that there lady went an' changed it on me. She says she
has changed my name to hers. I dunno. All I know is I'm married."

"Married!" echoed Dr. Delmour.

He looked dully at the girl, then fixed his large mild eyes on me.

"A mission priest done it for her a month ago when we was hikin' towards
Fort Carcajou. Hoon-hel are you?" he added.

I informed him with dignity; he blinked at me, at the others, at the
mules. Then he said with infinite bitterness:

"You're a fine guy, ain't you, a-wishin' this here lady onto a pore
pelt-hunter what ain't never done nothin' to you!"

"Who did you say I wished on you?" I demanded, bewildered.

"That there lady a-sleepin' into the nuptool hammick! You wished her onto
me--yaas you did! Whatnhel have I done to you, hey?"

We were dumb. He shoved his hand into his pocket, produced a slug of
twist, slowly gnawed off a portion, and buried the remains in his vast
jaw.

"All I done to you," he said, "was to write you them letters sayin's as
how I found a lot of ellerphants into the mud.

"What you done to me was to send that there lady here. Was that
gratitood? Man to man I ask you?"

A loud snore from the hammock startled us all. James Skaw twisted his
neck turkey-like, and looked warily at the hammock, then turning toward
me:

"Aw," he said, "she don't never wake up till I have breakfast ready."

"James Skaw," I said, "tell me what has happened. On my word of honor I
don't know."

He regarded me with lack-lustre eyes.

"I was a-settin' onto a bowlder," said he, "a-fig-urin' out whether you
was a-comin' or not, when that there lady rides up with her led-mule a
trailin'.

"Sez she: 'Are you James Skaw?'

"Yes, marm,' sez I, kinder scared an' puzzled.

"'Where is them ellerphants?' sez she, reachin' down from her saddle an'
takin' me by the shirt collar, an' beatin' me with her umbrella.

"Sez I, 'I have wrote to a certain gent that I would show him them
ellerphants for a price. Bein' strictly hones' I can't show 'em to no one
else until I hear from him.'

"With that she continood to argoo the case with her umbrella, never
lettin' go of my shirt collar. Sir, she argood until dinner time, an'
then she resoomed the debate until I fell asleep. The last I knowed she
was still conversin'.

"An' so it went next day, all day long, an' the next day. I couldn't
stand it no longer so I started for Fort Carcajau. But she bein' onto a
mule, run me down easy, an' kep' beside me conversin' volooble.

"Sir, do you know what it is to listen to umbrella argooment every day,
all day long, from sun-up to night-fall? An' then some more?

"I was loony, I tell you, when we met the mission priest. 'Marry me,' sez
she, 'or I'll talk you to death!' I didn't realise what she was sayin'
an' what I answered. But them words I uttered done the job, it seems.

"We camped there an' slep' for two days without wakin.' When I waked up
I was convalescent.

"She was good to me. She made soup an' she wrapped blankets onto me an'
she didn't talk no more until I was well enough to endoor it.

"An' by'm'by she brooke the nooze to me that we was married an' that she
had went as far as to marry me in the sacred cause of science because man
an' wife is one, an' what I knowed about them ellerphants she now had a
right to know.

"Sir, she had put one over on me. So bein' strickly hones' I had to show
her where them ellerphants lay froze up under the marsh."




V


Where the ambition of this infatuated woman had led her appalled us all.
The personal sacrifice she had made in the name of science awed us.

Still when I remembered that detaining arm sleepily lifted from the
nuptual hammock, I was not so certain concerning her continued martyrdom.

I cast an involuntary glance of critical appraisal upon James Skaw. He
had the golden hair and beard of the early Christian martyr. His features
were classically regular; he stood six feet six; he was lean because fit,
sound as a hound's tooth, and really a superb specimen of masculine
health.

Curry him and trim him and clothe him in evening dress and his physical
appearance would make a sensation at the Court of St. James. Only his
English required manicuring.

The longer I looked at him the better I comprehended that detaining hand
from the hammock. Fabas indulcet fames.

Then, with a shock, it rushed over me that there evidently had been some
ground for this man's letters to me concerning a herd of frozen mammoths.

Professor Bottomly had not only married him to obtain the information but
here she was still camping on the marsh!

"James Skaw," I said, tremulously, "where are those mammoths?"

He looked at me, then made a vague gesture:

"Under the mud--everywhere--all around us."

"Has she seen them?"

"Yes, I showed her about a hundred. There's one under you. Look! you can
see him through the slush."

"Ach Gott!" burst from Dr. Fooss, and he tottered in his saddle. Lezard,
frightfully pale, passed a shaking hand over his brow. As for me my hair
became dank with misery, for there directly under my feet, the vast hairy
bulk of a mammoth lay dimly visible through the muddy ice.

What I had done to myself when I was planning to do Professor Bottomly
suddenly burst upon me in all its hideous proportions. Fame, the plaudits
of the world, the highest scientific honours--all these in my effort to
annihilate her, I had deliberately thrust upon this woman to my own
everlasting detriment and disgrace.

A sort of howl escaped from Dr. Fooss, who had dismounted and who had
been scratching in the slush with his feet like a hen. For already this
slight gallinaceous effort of his had laid bare a hairy section of frozen
mammoth.

Lezard, weeping bitterly, squatted beside him clawing at the thin skin of
ice with a pick-axe.

It seemed more than I could bear and I flung myself from my mule and
seizing a spade, fell violently to work, the tears of rage and
mortification coursing down my cheeks.

"Hurrah!" cried Dr. Delmour, excitedly, scrambling down from her mule and
lifting a box of dynamite from her saddle-bags.

Transfigured with enthusiasm she seized a crowbar, traced in the slush
the huge outlines of the buried beast, then, measuring with practiced eye
the irregular zone of cleavage, she marked out a vast oval, dug holes
along it with her bar, dropped into each hole a stick of dynamite, got
out the batteries and wires, attached the fuses, covered each charge,
and retired on a run toward the moraine, unreeling wire as she sped
upward among the bowlders.

Half frantic with grief and half mad with the excitement of the moment we
still had sense enough to shoulder our tools and drive our mules back
across the moraine.

Only the mule-hammock in which reposed Professor Bottomly remained on the
marsh. For one horrid instant temptation assailed me to press the button
before James Skaw could lead the hammock-mules up to the moraine. It was
my closest approach to crime.

With a shudder I viewed the approach of the mules. James Skaw led them by
the head; the hammock on its bar and swivels swung gently between them;
Professor Bottomly slept, lulled, no doubt, to deeper slumber by the
gently swaying hammock.

When the hammock came up, one by one we gazed upon its unconscious
occupant.

And, even amid dark and revengeful thoughts, amid a mental chaos of grief
and fury and frantic self-reproach, I had to admit to myself that Jane
Bottomly was a fine figure of a woman, and good-looking, too, and that
her hair was all her own and almost magnificent at that.

With a modiste to advise her, a maid to dress her, I myself might
have--but let that pass. Only as I gazed upon her fresh complexion and
the softly parted red lips of Professor Bottomly, and as I noted the
beautiful white throat and prettily shaped hands, a newer, bitterer, and
more overwhelming despair seized me; and I realized now that perhaps I
had thrown away more than fame, honours, applause; I had perhaps thrown
away love!

At that moment Professor Bottomly awoke. For a moment her lilac-tinted
eyes had a dazed expression, then they widened, and she lay very quietly
looking from one to another of us, cradled in the golden glory of her
hair, perfectly mistress of herself, and her mind as clear as a bell.

"Well," she said, "so you have arrived at last." And to Dr. Delmour she
smilingly extended a cool, fresh hand.

"Have you met my husband?" she inquired.

We admitted that we had.

"James!" she called.

At the sound of her voice James Skaw hopped nimbly to do her bidding. A
tender smile came into her face as she gazed upon her husband. She made
no explanation concerning him, no apology for him. And, watching her, it
slowly filtered into my mind that she liked him.

With one hand in her husband's and one on Dr. Delmour's arm she listened
to Daisy's account of what we were about to do to the imbedded mammoth,
and nodded approval.

James Skaw turned the mules so that she might watch the explosion. She
twisted up her hair, then sat up in her hammock; Daisy Delmour pressed
the electric button; there came a deep jarring sound, a vast upheaval,
and up out of the mud rose five or six dozen mammoths and toppled
gently over upon the surface of the ice.



Miserable as we were at such an astonishing spectacle we raised a tragic
cheer as Professor Bottomly sprang out of her hammock and, telling Dr.
Delmour to get a camera, seized her husband and sped down to where one of
the great, hairy frozen beasts lay on the ice in full sunshine.

And then we tasted the last drop of gall which our over-slopping cup of
bitterness held for us; Professor Bottomly climbed up the sides of the
frozen mammoth, dragging her husband with her, and stood there waving a
little American flag while Dr. Delmour used up every film in the camera
to record the scientific triumph of the ages.

[Illustration: "Dr. Delmour used up every film in the camera to record
the scientific triumph of the ages."]

Almost idiotic with the shock of my great grief I reeled and tottered
away among the bowlders. Fooss came to find me; and when he found me he
kicked me violently for some time. "Esel dumkopf!" he said.

When he was tired Lezard came and fell upon me, showering me with kicks
and anathema.

When he went away I beat my head with my fists for a while. Every little
helped.

After a time I smelled cooking, and presently Dr. Delmour came to where I
sat huddled up miserably in the sun behind the bowlder.

"Luncheon is ready," she said.

I groaned.

"Don't you feel well?"

I said that I did not.

She lingered apparently with the idea of cheering me up. "It's been
such fun," she said. "Professor Lezard and I have already located over
a hundred and fifty mammoths within a short distance of here, and
apparently there are hundreds, if not thousands, more in the vicinity.
The ivory alone is worth over a million dollars. Isn't it wonderful!"

She laughed excitedly and danced away to join the others. Then, out of
the black depth of my misery a feeble gleam illuminated the Stygian
obscurity. There was one way left to stay my approaching downfall--only
one. Professor Bottomly meant to get rid of me, "for the good of the
Bronx," but there remained a way to ward off impending disaster. And
though I had lost the opportunity of my life by disbelieving the simple
honesty of James Skaw,--and though the honors and emoluments and applause
which ought to have been mine were destined for this determined woman,
still, if I kept my head, I should be able to hold my job at the Bronx.

Dr. Delmour was immovable in the good graces of Professor Bottomly; and
the only way for me to retain my position was to marry her.

The thought comforted me. After a while I felt well enough to arise and
partake of some luncheon.

They were all seated around the campfire when I approached. I was
welcomed politely, inquiries concerning my health were offered; but the
coldly malevolent glare of Dr. Fooss and the calm contempt in Lezard's
gaze chilled me; and I squatted down by Daisy Delmour and accepted a dish
of soup from her in mortified silence.

Professor Bottomly and James Skaw were feasting connubially side by side,
and she was selecting titbits for him which he dutifully swallowed, his
large mild eyes gazing at vacancy in a gentle, surprised sort of way as
he gulped down what she offered him.

Neither of them paid any attention to anybody else.

Fooss gobbled his lunch in a sort of raging silence; Lezard, on the other
side of Dr. Delmour, conversed with her continually in undertones.

After a while his persistent murmuring began to make me uneasy, even
suspicious, and I glared at him sideways.

Daisy Delmour, catching my eye, blushed, hesitated, then leaning over
toward me with delightful confusion she whispered:

"I know that you will be glad to hear that I have just promised to marry
your closest friend, Professor Lezard--"

"What!" I shouted with all my might, "have you put one over on me,
too?"

Lezard and Fooss seized me, for I had risen and was jumping up and down
and splashing them with soup.

"Everybody has put one over on me!" I shrieked. "Everybody! Now I'm going
to put one over on myself!"



And I lifted my plate of soup and reversed it on my head.

They told me later that I screamed for half an hour before I swooned.

Afterward, my intellect being impaired, instead of being dismissed from
my department, I was promoted to the position which I now hold as
President Emeritus of the Consolidated Art Museums and Zo√∂logical Gardens
of the City of New York.

I have easy hours, little to do, and twenty ornamental stenographers and
typewriters engaged upon my memoirs which I dictate when I feel like it,
steeped in the aroma of the most inexpensive cigar I can buy at the
Rolling Stone Inn.

There is one typist in particular--but let that pass.

Vir sapit qui pauca loquitor.




UN PEU D'AMOUR




When I returned to the plateau from my investigation of the crater, I
realized that I had descended the grassy pit as far as any human being
could descend. No living creature could pass that barrier of flame and
vapour. Of that I was convinced.

Now, not only the crater but its steaming effluvia was utterly unlike
anything I had ever before beheld. There was no trace of lava to be
seen, or of pumice, ashes, or of volcanic rejecta in any form whatever.
There were no sulphuric odours, no pungent fumes, nothing to teach the
olfactory nerves what might be the nature of the silvery steam rising
from the crater incessantly in a vast circle, ringing its circumference
halfway down the slope.

Under this thin curtain of steam a ring of pale yellow flames played and
sparkled, completely encircling the slope.

The crater was about half a mile deep; the sides sloped gently to the
bottom.

But the odd feature of the entire phenomenon was this: the bottom of
the crater seemed to be entirely free from fire and vapour. It was
disk-shaped, sandy, and flat, about a quarter of a mile in diameter.
Through my field-glasses I could see patches of grass and wild flowers
growing in the sand here and there, and the sparkle of water, and a crow
or two, feeding and walking about.

I looked at the girl who was standing beside me, then cast a glance
around at the very unusual landscape.

We were standing on the summit of a mountain some two thousand feet high,
looking into a cup-shaped depression or crater, on the edges of which we
stood.

This low, flat-topped mountain, as I say, was grassy and quite treeless,
although it rose like a truncated sugar-cone out of a wilderness of trees
which stretched for miles below us, north, south, east, and west,
bordered on the horizon by towering blue mountains, their distant ranges
enclosing the forests as in a vast amphitheatre.

From the centre of this enormous green floor of foliage rose our grassy
hill, and it appeared to be the only irregularity which broke the level
wilderness as far as the base of the dim blue ranges encircling the
horizon.

Except for the log bungalow of Mr. Blythe on the eastern edge of this
grassy plateau, there was not a human habitation in sight, nor a trace of
man's devastating presence in the wilderness around us.

Again I looked questioningly at the girl beside me and she looked back at
me rather seriously.

"Shall we seat ourselves here in the sun?" she asked.

I nodded.

Very gravely we settled down side by side on the thick green grass.

"Now," she said, "I shall tell you why I wrote you to come out here.
Shall I?"

"By all means, Miss Blythe."

Sitting cross-legged, she gathered her ankles into her hands, settling
herself as snugly on the grass as a bird settles on its nest.

"The phenomena of nature," she said, "have always interested me
intensely, not only from the artistic angle but from the scientific point
of view.

"It is different with father. He is a painter; he cares only for the
artistic aspects of nature. Phenomena of a scientific nature bore him.
Also, you may have noticed that he is of a--a slightly impatient
disposition."

I had noticed it. He had been anything but civil to me when I arrived the
night before, after a five-hundred mile trip on a mule, from the nearest
railroad--a journey performed entirely alone and by compass, there being
no trail after the first fifty miles.

To characterize Blythe as slightly impatient was letting him down easy.
He was a selfish, bad-tempered old pig.

"Yes," I said, answering her, "I did notice a negligible trace of
impatience about your father."

She flushed.

"You see I did not inform my father that I had written to you. He doesn't
like strangers; he doesn't like scientists. I did not dare tell him that
I had asked you to come out here. It was entirely my own idea. I felt
that I must write you because I am positive that what is happening in
this wilderness is of vital scientific importance."

"How did you get a letter out of this distant and desolate place?" I
asked.

"Every two months the storekeeper at Windflower Station sends in a man
and a string of mules with staples for us. The man takes our further
orders and our letters back to civilization."

I nodded.

"He took my letter to you--among one or two others I sent----"

A charming colour came into her cheeks. She was really extremely pretty.
I liked that girl. When a girl blushes when she speaks to a man he
immediately accepts her heightened colour as a personal tribute. This
is not vanity: it is merely a proper sense of personal worthiness.

She said thoughtfully:

"The mail bag which that man brought to us last week contained a letter
which, had I received it earlier, would have made my invitation to you
unnecessary. I'm sorry I disturbed you."

"I am not," said I, looking into her beautiful eyes.

I twisted my mustache into two attractive points, shot my cuffs, and
glanced at her again, receptively.

She had a far-away expression in her eyes. I straightened my necktie. A
man, without being vain, ought to be conscious of his own worth.

"And now," she continued, "I am going to tell you the various reasons why
I asked so celebrated a scientist as yourself to come here."

I thanked her for her encomium.

"Ever since my father retired from Boston to purchase this hill and the
wilderness surrounding it," she went on, "ever since he came here to live
a hermit's life--a life devoted solely to painting landscapes--I also
have lived here all alone with him.

"That is three years, now. And from the very beginning--from the very
first day of our arrival, somehow or other I was conscious that there
was something abnormal about this corner of the world."

She bent forward, lowering her voice a trifle:

"Have you noticed," she asked, "that so many things seem to be circular
out here?"

"Circular?" I repeated, surprised.

