printing-office. He might well have counted on my help in easing him of
his load of debt, from the salary I had forgone, but there was no hint
of this in the welcome given me in the home where I was again so doubly
at home with my books and manuscripts. Now and then my friend of the
Gazette management managed to have some sketch of mine accepted for
it, and my life went on in my sister's literary companionship on much
the same terms as before our venture into the world the winter before.
My father's clerkship had ended with the adjournment of the legislature
in the spring, but in the autumn, when it grew toward winter, I asked
again for the correspondence of the Gazette. I got this by favor of my
friend, and then I had courage to ask for that of the Cleveland
Herald, which the interest of the blithe sexagenarian sufficed to
secure me, and I returned to the capital with no pretense that I was
not now writing the letters solely and entirely myself. But almost
before my labors began my health quite broke under the strain of earlier
over-study and later overwork. I gave up my correspondence for both
those honored newspapers to my father, who wrote it till the close of
the session, and at his suggestion the letters of the Gazette fell the
next winter to the fit and eager hands of a young man who had just then
sold his country newspaper and had come to try his fortune in the
capital. His name was Whitelaw Reid, in the retrospect a tall, graceful
youth with an enviable black mustache and imperial, wearing his hair
long in the Southern fashion, and carrying himself with the native ease
which availed him in a worldly progress uninterrupted to the end. He
wrote the legislative letters so acceptably that when the Civil War
broke out the Gazette people were glad to make him their correspondent
in the field, where he distinguished himself beyond any other war
correspondent in the West, or the East for what I knew. The world knows
how riches and honors followed him all his days, and how when he died
the greatest Empire sent his dust home to the greatest Republic in such
a war-ship as the war correspondent of those years could not have
dreamed of. From time to time we saw each other, but not often; he was
about his business in the State House, and now I was about mine in the
office of the Ohio State Journal, the organ of the Republican party,
which had been newly financed and placed on a firm footing after rather
prolonged pecuniary debility.

I was at home in the autumn, as I had been all the summer, eating my
heart out (as I would have said in those days) when the call to a place
on the Journal's editorial staff incredibly, impossibly came, and I
forgot my ills, and eagerly responded. I hardly know how to justify my
inconsistency when I explain that this place was the same which I had
rejected at twice the salary on the Cincinnati Gazette. Perhaps I
accepted it now because I could no longer endure the disappointment and
inaction of my life. Perhaps I hoped that in the smaller city the duties
would not be so odious or so onerous; perhaps it was because I would
have been glad to return to Columbus on any terms; in any case it fell
out that the duties of the place were undertaken by another who doted on
them, and quite different and far more congenial functions were assigned
to me.

My chief was Henry D. Cooke, the successful editor and proprietor of a
newspaper in northern Ohio, and brother of the banker Jay Cooke, once
nationally noted in our finance and himself afterward Governor of the
District of Columbia, the easiest of easy gentlemen, formed for
prosperity and leisure, with an instinct for the choice of subordinates
qualified to do the journalistic work he soon began to relinquish in his
preoccupation with the politics of the capital. I have had no sweeter
friend in a life abounding in friends, and after fifty years I think of
his memory with gratitude for counsels which availed me much when given
and would avail me still if I should ever again be a youth of
twenty-one, proposing to do and say the things I then proposed. He
rarely blamed anything I did in the stirring and distracted period of
our relation, but one morning he brought me a too graphic paragraph,
about a long-forgotten homicide done by an injured husband, and said,
"Never, never write anything you would be ashamed to read to a woman,"
and so made me lastingly ashamed of what I had done, and fearful of ever
doing the like again, even in writing fiction. It seems not to be so now
with our novelists, begun or beginning; they write many things they
ought to be ashamed to read to women, or if they are of that sex,
things they should be ashamed to read to men. But perhaps they are
ashamed and only hold out writing so for art's sake; I cannot very well
speak for them; but I am still very Victorian in my preference of
decency.

Mr. Cooke must have been often of a divided mind about his assistants,
or about their expression of the opinions which he reticently held in
common with them. He was a thorough Republican; he undoubtedly believed
that the time had come for calling black black, but his nature would
have been to call it dark gray, at least for that day or for the next.
He would have oftenest agreed with us in what we said of the pro-slavery
party and partisans, North and South, though he held it not honesty to
have it thus set down. He would have liked better the milde Macht of a
Hahnemannian treatment, while we were blistering and cauterizing, and
letting blood wherever we saw the chance, and there were every day
chances enough. I had been made news editor, and in the frequent
intervals of our chief's abeyance I made myself the lieutenant of the
keen ironical spirit who mostly wrote our leaders, but did not mind my
dipping my pen in his ink when I could turn from the paste and scissors
which were more strictly my means of expression. My work was to look
through the exchange newspapers which flocked to us in every mail, and
to choose from them any facts that could be presented to our readers as
significant. I called my column or two "News and Humors of the Mail,"
and I tried to give it an effect of originality by recasting many of the
facts, or, when I could not find a pretext for this, by offering the
selected passages with applausive or derisive comment. We had French and
Spanish and German exchanges, and I sometimes indulged a boyish vanity
by prefacing a paragraph from these with such a sentence as, "We
translate from the Courrier des Ã‰tats Unis," or, "We find in La
Cronaca of New York," or "We learn from the Wachter am Erie," as the
case might be. Why I should have been suffered to do this without
admonition from our chief or sarcasm from my senior I do not know;
perhaps the one thought it best to let youth have its head when the head
was harmlessly turned; and perhaps the other was too much occupied with
his own work to trouble himself with mine; but certainly if I had caught
a contemporary in such folly I should have tried what unsparing
burlesque could do to make him wiser.

The reader who has no follies to own will probably not think me wise in
owning mine, but from time to time I must do so; there were so many. It
is with no hope of repairing these follies now that I confess the pride
I felt in the poor little Spanish, German, and French which it had cost
me so much to acquire unaided and unguided, and I was willing that my
acquirements should shed luster on the newspaper I loved almost as much
as I loved myself. I admired it even more, and I wished to do all that I
could to make it admirable, even enviable, with others. I think now that
I was not using one of the best means to do it; I only contend that it
was one of the best I could think of then. If any contemporary had
turned it against us, I hope I should have been willing to suffer
personally for it, but I cannot now be sure.


VI

We aspired at least tacitly to a metropolitan character in our
journalism; there were no topics of human interest which we counted
alien to us anywhere in the range of politics, morals, literature, or
religion; and I was suffered my say. The writer who was more habitually
and profitably suffered his say was, I still think, a man of very
uncommon qualities and abilities. He was a journalist who could rightly
be called a publicist, earnest if things came to that, of a faithful
conscience and of a mocking skill in the chances pretty constantly
furnished us by our contemporaries, especially some of our Southern
contemporaries whom it was difficult to take as seriously as they took
themselves. When they made some violent proclamation against the North,
or wreaked themselves in some frenzy of pro-slavery ethics, we took our
pleasure in shredding the text into small passages and tagging each of
these with a note of open derision or ironical deprecation. We called it
"firing the Southern heart," in a phrase much used at the time. It was
not wise, it was not well, but it was undeniably amusing, and we carried
it to any lengths that the very intermittent supervision of our nominal
chief would allow. We may have supposed that it would help laugh away
the madness of the South which few in the North believed more than a
temporary insanity, but the uneasy honesty which always lurks somewhere
in my heart to make me own my errors must acquit my fellow-editor of the
worst excesses in this sort, so mainly literary with me. He was not only
a man of high journalistic quality, of clear insight, shrewd judgment,
and sincere convictions, but I do not believe that in the American press
of the time he was surpassed as a clear thinker and brilliant writer.
All the days of journalism are yesterdays; and the name of Samuel R.
Reed will mean nothing to these oblivious morrows, even in Ohio, but all
the more I wish to do his memory such honor as I may. We were of course
daily together in our work, and often in our walks on the Sundays which
were as other days to his steadfast agnosticism. The word was not yet,
but the thing has always been, and especially it always was in the
older West, where bold surmise of the whence and whither of life often
defied the authority of Faith, then much more imperative than now.
Reed's favorite author, whom he read as critically as if he were not his
favorite, was Shakespeare; but his far more constant reading was the
Bible, especially the Old Testament. I could not say why he read it so
much, but he may have felt in it the mystical power which commands the
imagination of men and holds them in respectful contemplation of a
self-sufficing theory of the universe such as nothing in science or
philosophy affords. He quoted it for a peculiar joy in the fitness of
its application to every circumstance; he quoted Dickens, as everybody
did then; he quoted Shakespeare a great deal more both in his talking
and in his writing; and later in his life, long after mine had parted
from it, he amused the spare moments of his journalistic leisure by a
study of Shakespeare's women whom he did not take at the generally
accepted critical appraisement.

I am tempted out of the order of these confessions to follow him to the
end which death put to the long kindness between us, and I recall with
tenderness our last meeting near New York where he was hesitating
whether to continue on his way to Europe. He had at last given up his
work in Cincinnati where he had spent the many years after the few years
we spent together in Columbus. He owned that he had worn himself out in
that work, toiling incessantly through many homicidal Cincinnati
summers, and he blamed himself for the sacrifice. He felt that he had
turned from it too late; and in fact he died at sea soon after. He
accepted his impending doom with the stoical calm which he always kept,
and which I had once seen him keep so wonderfully after the war began,
when a Southern Unionist, the formerly famous, now forgotten Parson
Brownlow of Tennessee, came to reproach him for the part which he held
that such writing as Reed's had borne in bringing on the strife. Reed
suffered the good man's passion almost with compassion, and when
Brownlow was gone he would not let me blame him, but said that he had
played a noble part in the struggle to hold his region in the Union. He
always kept a countenance of bland calm, lit by pale-blue eyes which
gave no hint of the feeling within, and if I had not loved him so much
and known him so well I might have thought the habitual smile of his
clean-shaven lip sometimes a little cruel. He let his full soft beard
grow inordinately long, and he had a way of stroking it as he slightly
smiled and crisply spoke; it was the only touch of quaintness in him at
a time when beards were self-indulgently worn in many fantastic ways. He
was the best-dressed man I knew, in fashions as little aged as possible
in their transition from the East to the West, and he was of a
carefulness in such minor morals as gloves and boots very uncommon in
our somewhat slovenly ways.

After his liking for Shakespeare and Dickens he liked the Ingoldsby
Legends, but he did not care for the poetry which I was constantly
reading and trying to write. The effect of my endeavor as it appeared in
the passionate or pessimistic verse which I contributed to Eastern
periodicals must have amused him; but perhaps he tolerated me because,
along with this poetical effusiveness in which I was grievously
sensitive to any breath of sarcasm, I had a tooth as sharp as his own in
our journalism. He was intelligently and I suppose scientifically fond
of music, since he failed of no chance to hear the best, a chance rare
in our city; and he held that the composition of grand opera was the
highest feat of the human intellect, which was to me a stumbling-block
and foolishness, though I liked dramatic singing, and indeed singing of
all kinds. We came together in our fondness for the theater, and after
our evening's work was done he sometimes turned with me into the
barnlike structure on State Street which served the pathetic need of the
drama in Columbus at that day. The place was heated in the winter for
its twenty or thirty frequenters by two huge cast-iron stoves, one on
either side of the orchestra: stoves such as I have since seen in
English cathedrals; but when the curtain rose the blast of freezing air
that swept out upon us made us shiver for the players in their bare arms
and necks and their thin hosiery and drapery. They were often such bad
players that they merited their sufferings; the prompter audibly bore a
very leading part in the performance as he still does in the Italian
theater; yet for all his efforts we one night saw Hamlet in two acts; it
was, to be sure, a very cold night, of an air eagerer and nippinger than
even that the ghost walked in at Elsinore, and we would not have had the
play longer. Yet we often saw very well given some of the old English
comedies which are now no longer well or ill given; and between the
acts, somewhere, a plain young girl, in a modest modicum of stocking,
represented the ballet by dancing the Highland Fling, always the
Highland Fling. Such plays as "The Lady of Lyons" happened now and then,
and "The Daughter of the Regiment" must have been, at least partly,
sung. We did not lack the more darkling melodrama, and there were heroic
pieces which gave the leading actor opportunities not lost upon him,
however they failed of effect with the rest of the cast. I remember how
one night a robustuous periwig-pated fellow ramped and roared up and
down the stage, but left quite cold a large group of the dramatis
personÃ¦ which his magniloquence was intended to convulse with either
sympathy or antipathy; and how Reed noted with mock-thoughtful
recognition of the situation, "Can't excite those fellows off to the
left, any." I should not be able to say how killingly droll I found
this.


VII

I suppose that every young man presently attempting journalism feels
something of the pride and joy I felt when I began it; though pride and
joy are weak words for the passion I had for the work. If my soul was
more in my verse, I did not know it, and I am sure my heart was as much
in my more constant labors. I could find time for poetry only in my
brief noonings, and at night after the last proofs had gone to the
composing-room, or I had come home from the theater or from an evening
party, but the long day was a long delight to me over my desk in the
room next my senior. To come upon some inviting fact, or some flattering
chance for mischief in an exchange, above all a Northern contemporary
with Southern principles, and to take this to him and talk it or laugh
it over and leave it with him, or bring it back and exploit it myself,
was something that made every day a heyday. We shunned personalities,
then the stock in trade of most newspaper wits; we meant to deal only
with the public character of men and things. It seems to have been all
pleasure as I tell it, but there was a great deal of duty in it, too;
though if burlesquing the opposite opinions of our contemporaries
happened to be a duty, so much the better. If it were to do again, I
should not do it, or not so much; but at the time I cannot deny that I
liked doing it. So, too, I liked to write cutting criticisms of the
books which it was part of my work to review; and I still hope to be
forgiven by the kindness which I sinned against without winning the
authority as reviewer which I aimed at.

I had much better been at the theater than writing some of the things I
then wrote. But it may as well be owned here as anywhere that whatever
might have been its value to me as a school of morals the theater was
not good society in Columbus then; and I was now in a way of being good
society, and had been so for some time. The rehabilitation of our
newspaper was coincident with the rise of the Republican party to the
power which it held almost unbroken for fifty years. It had of course
lost the Presidential election in 1856, but its defeat left it in better
case than an untimely victory might have done. Ohio had, at any rate, a
Republican Governor in a man afterward of a prime national importance,
and already known as a statesman-like politician well fitted by capacity
and experience for that highest office which never ceased to be his aim
while he lived. Salmon P. Chase had been a lawyer of the first standing
in Cincinnati, where, although a Democrat, he had early distinguished
himself by his services in behalf of friendless negroes. The revolt of
the whole self-respecting North against the repeal of the Missouri
Compromise swept him finally out of the Democracy into that provisional
organization which loosely knew itself as the Anti-Nebraska party; but
before he was chosen Governor by it he had already served a term in the
United States Senate, where with one other Freesoiler he held the
balance of power in an otherwise evenly divided body. He was a large,
handsome man, of a very senatorial presence, and now in the full
possession of his uncommon powers; a man of wealth and breeding,
educated perhaps beyond any of the other Presidential aspirants except
Seward, versed in the world, and accustomed to ease and state; and he
gave more dignity to his office, privately and publicly, than it had yet
known among us. He lived in a pretty house of the Gothic make then much
affected by our too eclectic architecture, with his brilliant young
daughter at the head of it; for the Governor was a widower.

He was naturally much interested in the new control of the Republican
organ, and it would not be strange if he had taken some active part in
its rehabilitation, but I do not know that he had. At any rate, he
promptly made the editorial force welcome to his house, where Reed and I
were asked to Thanksgiving dinner; Mr. Cooke had not yet brought his
family to Columbus. Thanksgiving was not then observed on the present
national terms; it was still the peculiar festival of New England, and
in our capital its recognition was confined to families of New England
origin; our Kentuckians and Virginians and Marylanders kept Christmas,
though the custom of New-Year's calls was domesticated among us with
people of all derivations, and in due time suffered the lapse which it
fell into in its native New York. Our Governor was born in New
Hampshire, where his family name was already distinguished in public
life; and he kept the Thanksgiving which he had probably not officially
invited his fellow-citizens to commemorate. I suppose we had turkey for
our dinner, but I am surer of the manner than the make of the feast, for
it was served with a formality new to my unworldly experience. The
turkey was set before the governor who carved it, and then it was
brought to the guests by a shining black butler, instead of being passed
from hand to hand among them, as I had always seen it done. That was, in
fact, my first dinner in society.

The young editors were the only guests; and after dinner the family did
not forbid itself the gaieties befitting its young people's years. We
had charades, then much affected in society, and I believe the Governor
alone was not pressed into helping dramatize the riddle to be finally
guessed as Canterbury Bell. I do not remember how the secret was kept to
the end, or guessed from the successive parts. My fear and pride were
put to a crucial test in the first dissyllable, which the girlish
hostess assigned me, and nothing but the raillery glancing through the
deep lashes of her brown eyes which were very beautiful, could have
brought me to the self-sacrifice involved. I lived through the delight
and anguish of that supreme evening, and found myself, as it were,
almost immediately afterward in society. It could not have been quite
immediately, for when I called at the Governor's soon after New-Year's
and he asked me if I had made many New-Year's calls I answered that I
had not made any because I knew no one. Then he said I might have called
at his house; and I did not fail, on this kind reproach, to go to Miss
Chase's next reception, where again she laughed at my supposed dignity
in refusing to dance; she would not suppose my inability.

But before entering that field so flowery fair which society now seemed
to open before me perhaps I had better continue my recollections of a
man whose public career has its peculiar pathos. It was his constant,
his intense, his very just desire to be President; no man of his long
time was fitter to be President, unless his ambition was a foible that
unfitted him. He accepted not the first place, but the second place, in
the administration of the man whose place as President he had so
ardently longed to fill, and after he had resigned his governorship of
Ohio and gone to Washington as Secretary of the Treasury under Lincoln I
saw him there when I went to look after the facts of the consulship
which had been offered me. His fellow Ohioans must have swarmed upon him
in the eagerness for public service afterward much noted in them, and I
do not blame him for imagining that I had called upon him in the hope
that he would urge my case upon the President. He said, rather eagerly,
that he had no influence with the administration (it likewise became
Lincoln's own humorous complaint) quite before I had asked it, and was
sorry that he could not help me; and when I thanked him and remarked
that I believed the President's private secretaries, Hay and Nicolay,
were interested in my affair, he said, with visible relief, Oh well,
then, I was in the best possible hands; as indeed it turned out. I had
heard before that he had spoken to the President in my behalf, and he
may very well have felt that he had done his best.

Four years later, and ten years after my first acquaintance with Chase,
I went to call upon him at his hotel in New York, when I was lately
returned from my consular post in Venice, and ventured to offer him my
congratulations upon his accession to the chief-justiceship of the
Supreme Court. He answered bluntly that it was not the sort of office he
had aspired to, and intimated that it was a defeat of his real
aspirations. He was not commonly a frank man, I believe, but perhaps he
felt that he could be frank with the boy I must still have seemed even
at twenty-eight, bringing the devotion he possibly over-imagined in me.
Since then those words of his, which were the last I was to hear from
him, have been of an increasing appeal with me; and if the Republicans
had not had Lincoln I still think it was a pity they could not have had
Chase. At the end, the Democrats would not have him.


VIII

Chase was of course our man for the 1860 nomination, and the political
relations between him and our chief were close; but somehow I went more
to other houses than to his, though I found myself apparently launched
from it upon a social tide that bore me through all the doors of the
amiable little city. I was often at the evening parties (we called them
evening parties then) which his daughter gave, and one day the Governor
himself, as we met in the street, invited me to luncheon with him. I
duly went and passed the shining butler's misgiving into the
dining-room, where I found the family at table with no vacant place
among them. The Governor had forgotten me! That was clear enough, but he
was at once repentant, and I lunched with him, outwardly forgiving, but
inwardly resolved that it should be the last time I would come at his
informal bidding. I have since forgotten much more serious engagements
myself; I have not gone to dinners where I have promised over my own
signature to go; but at twenty-one men are proud, and I was prouder then
than I can yet find any reason for having been.

In our capital at that day we had rather the social facts than the
social forms. We were invited to parties ceremoniously enough, but we
did not find it necessary to answer whether we would come or not. Our
hostess remained in doubt of us till we came or did not come; at least
that was the case with young men; we never inquired whether it was so
with young girls or not. But sometimes when a certain youth wished to go
with a certain maiden he found out as delicately as he could whether she
was invited, and if she was he begged her to let him go with her, and
arrived with her in one of the lumbering two-horse hacks which supplied
our cab-service, and which I see still bulking in the far perspective of
the State Street corner of the State House yard. If you had courage so
high or purse so full you had sent the young lady a flower which she
wore to the party, preferably a white camellia which the German florist,
known to our young world only as Joe, grew very successfully, and
allowed you to choose from the tree. Why preferably a camellia I could
not say after this lapse of time; perhaps because its cold, odorless
purity expressed the unimpassioned emotion which oftenest inspired the
gift and its acceptance. It was very simple, very pastoral; I do not
know when Columbus outgrew this custom, which of course it did long ago.

Bringing a young lady to a party necessarily meant nothing but that you
enjoyed the pleasure of bringing her. Very likely she found her mother
there when she came with you, unmindful, the one and the other, that
there was such a thing as chaperonage in a more fastidious or censorious
world. It seems to me, indeed, that parties at the Columbus houses were
never wanting in the elders whom our American society of girls and boys
used to be accused of ignoring. They superabounded at the legislative
receptions, but even at the affairs which my sophistication early
distinguished from those perfunctory hospitalities there were mature
people enough, both married and unmarried, who, though they had felt no
charge concerning their daughters or nieces, found it agreeable to
remain till the young ladies were ready to be seen home by their
self-chosen escorts. A youth who danced so reluctantly as I, was rather
often thrown upon these charitable elders for his entertainment, and I
cannot remember ever failing of it. People, and by people I do not mean
women only, read a good deal in that idyllic Columbus, and it was my
delight to talk with any one who would about the new books or the old.
The old books were known mostly to that number of professional
men--lawyers, doctors, divines, and scientists--which was
disproportionately large in our capital; they were each cultivated in
his own way, and in mine, too, or the better part of it, as I found. The
young and the younger women



read the current fiction and poetry at least enough to be asked whether
they had read this thing or that; and there was a group of young men
with whom I could share my sometimes aggressive interest in our favorite
authors. I put the scale purposely low; I think that I could truthfully
say that there was then no American community west of the Alleghanies
which surpassed ours in the taste for such things. At the same time I
must confess that it would be easy for such an exclusively literary
spirit as I was to deceive himself, and to think that he always found
what he may have oftener brought.

For a long time after the advent of our new journalism, the kind of
writing which we practised--light, sarcastic, a little cruel, with a
preference for the foibles of our political enemies as themes--seemed to
be the pleasure of good society, which in that serious yet hopeful time
did not object to such conscience as we put into our mocking. Some who
possibly trembled at our boldness darklingly comforted themselves for
our persiflage by the good cause in which it frisked. When anything very
daring came out in the afternoon the young news-editor in his round of
calls could hear the praise of it from charming readers in the evening,
or he might be stopped in the street next day and told how good it was
by the fathers, or brothers, or brothers-in-law, of those charming
readers. It was more like the prompt acclaim the drama enjoys than the
slow recognition of literature; but I, at least, was always trying to
make my writing literature, and after fifty-odd years it may perhaps be
safely owned that I had mainly a literary interest in the political
aspects and events which I treated. I felt the ethical quality of the
slavery question, and I had genuine convictions about it; but for
practical politics I did not care; I wished only to understand enough of
them to seize any chance for a shot at the other side which they might
give. I had been in the midst of practical politics almost from my
childhood; through my whole youth the din of meetings, of rallies, of
conventions had been in my ears; but I was never at a meeting, a rally,
or a convention; I have never yet heard a political speech to the end.
For a future novelist, a realist, that was a pity, I think, but so it
was.

In that day of lingering intolerance, intolerance which can scarcely be
imagined in this day, and which scarcely stopped short of condemning the
mild latitudinarianism of the Autocrat of the Breakfast Table as
infidelity, every one but a few outright atheists was more or less
devout. In Columbus everybody went to church; the different forms of
Calvinism drew the most worshipers; our chief was decorously constant
with his family at the Episcopal service; but Reed was frankly outside
of all ecclesiastical allegiance, and I who, no more than he, attended
any religious service, believed myself of my father's Swedenborgian
faith; at any rate. I could make it my excuse for staying away from
other churches, since there were none of mine. While I am about these
possibly needless confidences I will own that sermons and lectures as
well as speeches have mostly been wearisome to me, and that I have heard
only as many of them as I must. Of the three, I prefer sermons; they
interest me, they seem really to concern me; but I have been apt to get
a suggestive thought from them and hide away with it in a corner of my
consciousness and lose the rest. My absences under the few sermons which
I then heard must have ended chiefly in the construction or the
reconstruction of some scene in my fiction, or some turn of phrase in my
verse.

Naturally, under these circumstances, the maturer men whom I knew were
oftener doctors of medicine than doctors of divinity; in fact, I do not
think I knew one clergyman. This was not because I was oftener sick than
sorry; I was often sorry enough, and very sensible of my sins, though I
took no established means of repenting them; but I have always found the
conversation of physicians more interesting than that of most other men,
even authors. I have known myself in times past to say that they were
the saints of the earth, as far as we then had saints, but that was in
the later Victorian period when people allowed themselves to say
anything in honor of science. Now it is already different; we have begun
to have our doubts of doubt and to believe that there is much more in
faith than we once did; and I, within the present year, my
seventy-ninth, have begun to go to church and to follow the sermon with
much greater, or more unbroken, attention than I once could, perhaps
because I no longer think so much in the terms of fiction or meditate
the muse as I much more used to do.

In those far days I thought prose fit mainly for every-day use in
newspaper work. I was already beginning to print my verses in such of
the honored Eastern periodicals as would take them: usually for nothing.
I wrote for the Saturday Press of New York, which ambitious youth
everywhere were then eager to write for, and I wrote for the Atlantic
Monthly oftener than I printed in it. I have told all this and more in
My Literary Passions and I will not dwell here upon the whirl of
Ã¦sthetic emotion in which I eddied round and round at that tumultuous
period. In that book I have also sufficiently told the story of my first
formal venture in the little volume of verse which I united with my
friend John J. Piatt in offering to the world. But I may add here that
it appeared just at Christmas-time in 1859 from the press of a hopeful
young publisher of Columbus who was making his experiment in the
disquieting hour when no good thing was expected to come out of our
Western Nazareth. We two were of the only four poets west of the
Alleghanies who had yet been accepted by the Atlantic, and our
publisher had the courage to make our book very pretty in print and
binding. It was so pretty that I am afraid some readers liked it for its
looks; one young lady said that I at least could have no trouble in
choosing what Christmas presents I should make my friends. She was that
very beautiful girl who easily bore the palm for beauty in Columbus, and
I do not yet understand how I was able to reject her unprofessional
suggestion with as much pride as if she had been plain. I gave my book
to no one, in my haughty aversion from even the shadow of advertising,
and most of my friends had their revenge, I suppose, in not buying it.


IX

I had begun now to know socially and intrinsically the little capital
which I had known only politically and extrinsically during the two
winters passed there as a legislative correspondent. I then consorted
with the strangers whom their share in the government made sojourners,
and who had little or no local quality to distinguish them from one
another. I shared the generalized hospitalities offered them with that
instinctive misgiving which I have rather more than hinted; and though I
distinguished among them, and liked and valued certain of them, yet I
had a painful sense of our common exteriorality and impermanence. I
cannot say that I ever expected to become part of the proper life of the
city, and when suddenly I found myself in that life, if not of it, I was
very willing to find it charming. How charming it was compared with the
life of other cities I had no means of knowing, but now after the
experiences, not too exhaustive, of half a century I still feel it to
have been charming, with the wilding grace proper to all the West in
those days, and the refinement remembered from the varied culture (such
culture as there was) of the East and South it derived from.

Not so many people in our town could have known me for my poetry as for
my journalism, and I do not pretend that the sexes were equally divided
in their recognition. I have intimated my fancy that with most men, men
of affairs, men of the more serious callings, the face of the poet was
saved by the audacity of the paragrapher. If I could be so sharp, so
hard in my comment on the day's events, I could not be so soft as I
seemed in those rhymes where I studied the manner of Heine, the manner
of Tennyson, and posed in this or that dramatized personality. I cannot
flatter myself that I did not seem odd sometimes to many of my
fellow-citizens, though I hope that with some of the hardest-headed
among them I was acceptable for qualities which recommend average men to
one another. Some of that sort made friends with me; some even who were
of an entirely diverse political thinking tolerated my mockeries of
opinions which they supposed their principles. But neither my pleasure
nor my pride was in such friendships. What I wished to do always and
evermore was to think and dream and talk literature, and literature
only, whether in its form of prose or of verse, in fiction, or poetry,
or criticism. I held it a higher happiness to stop at a street corner
with a congenial young lawyer and enter upon a fond discussion of, say,
De Quincey's essays than to prove myself worthy the respect of any most
eminent citizen who knew not or loved not De Quincey. But I held it far
the highest happiness to call at some house where there were young
girls waiting and willing to be called upon and to join them in asking
and saying whether we had read this or that late novel or current
serial. It is as if we did nothing then but read late novels and current
serials, which it was essential for us to know one another's minds upon
down to the instant; other things might wait, but these things were
pressing.

Of course there were some houses where such problems were of more
immediate and persistent interest than other houses. Such a house was
the ever-dear house of the S. family, which made itself a home any hour
of the day up to midnight for such youth as had once been adopted its
sons. It was not only a literary house, it was even more a musical
house, where there was both singing and playing, with interludes of
laughing and joking in all forms of seemly mirth, with the whole family,
till the little boys of it stumbled up the stairs half asleep. I could
not play, but I was sometimes suffered by that large-hearted hospitality
to try singing; and I could talk with the best. So, it was my more than
content in the lapses of the music to sit with the young aunt (she
seemed so mature in her later twenties to me in my earliest) and
exchange impressions of the books new and old that we had been reading.
We frequenters of the house held her in that honor which is the best
thing in the world for young men to feel for some gentle and cultivated
woman; I suppose she was a charming person apart from her literary
opinions; but we did not think of her looks; we thought of her wise and
just words, her pure and clear mind.

It was the high noon of Tennyson and Thackeray and George Eliot and
Dickens and Charles Reade, whose books seemed following one another so
rapidly. The Newcomes was passing as a serial through Harper's
Magazine, and we were reading that with perhaps more pleasure than any
of the other novels and with the self-satisfaction in our pleasure which
I have before this argued was Thackeray's most insidious effect with
youth striving to spurn the world it longed to shine in. We went about
trying to think who in the story was like whom in life, and our kind
hostess was reading it, too, and trying to think that, too; but it was
not well for her to say what she thought in the case of the handsomest,
and for several reasons, really, the first among us. It appeared that
she thought he was like Clive Newcome and that we others were like those
friends of his whom in the tale his nature was shown subordinating. She
said something like this to some one, and when her saying came to us
others we revolted in a body. No, we would not have that theory of our
relation to our friend; and I do not know to what infuriate excess of
not calling for a week we carried our resentment. I do not know how
after the week, if it was so long, we began calling again; but I surmise
it was through something said or done by that dear Miss A. which made it
easy for her sister to modify her wounding theory into a recognition of
the proud equality which bound us friends together.

We are all dead now, all save me and the youngest daughter of the house,
but as I think back we are all living again, and others are living who
are also dead. Among these is a young lady visitor from a neighboring
city, one of those beautiful creatures who render the Madonna faces of
the painters credible, and of a prompt gaiety which shared our wonted
mirth in its own spirit. Her beauty might have dedicated her to any
mysterious fate; beauty is often of such tragical affinition; but not
her gaiety; and yet the glad die, too, and this glad creature within a
year had gone to the doom which sent no whisper back to the hearts left
lifelong aching. Her father was appointed consul to a Mediterranean
port, and she sailed with him in the ship which sailed with them both
into eternity, unseen, unsignaled, as messageless as if it had been a
mist swept from the face of the sea.

But well a year before this time and a year after our first meeting in
Columbus I saw her in Boston, in a house swept as wholly from the face
of the earth as that ship from the face of the sea. I suppose the Court
House in Boston is an edifice as substantial as it is plain, but for me,
when I look at the place where it stands my vision pierces to the row of
quiet, dignified mansions which once lined that side of Somerset Street,
and in one of which I somehow knew that I should find with her uncle's
family the beautiful creature already so unimaginably devoted to
tragedy, to mystery, to the eternal baffle of surmise. It seemed that
from often being there she knew the city so enchanted and enchanting to
me then, and she went about with me from one wonder of it to another;
and it remains in the glimmer of that association, which no after-custom
could wholly eclipse. It was a moment of the glad young American life of
other days which seems so impossible to after days and generations; and
with the Common and its then uncaterpillared elms, with the Public
Garden, just beginning in leaf and flower, with the stately dwellings
which looked upon those pleasances in the streets long since abandoned
to business, with the Public Library, the fine old Hancock House, and
the Capitol as Bullfinch designed and left it, and the AthenÃ¦um as it
used to be, and Faneuil Hall, swarming with memories for my young ardor,
and the Old State House, unvisited by its manifold transformations,--the
brave little city of the past is all contemporaneous again.


X

As I have said, all they of that Columbus house but one are gone. One of
the little boys went before they were men, and then the other; the
mother went long afterward; the elder daughter, who had been the widow
of our repudiated Clive Newcome, went longer afterward yet; and then
still later, finding myself once on a very mistaken lecturing-tour in
Kansas, where our beloved Miss A. had lived many married years, I asked
for her, hoping to see her, and heard that she had died the year before.
But first of all the father died, leaving me the memory of kindness
which I hardly know how to touch aright. He was my physician as well as
my friend, and saw me through the many maladies, real and unreal, of my
ailing adolescence, but he would have no fee for curing me of either my
pains or my fears. I had come to him first with my father, who somehow
knew him before me, and it was as if he became another father to me.
Often in those nights of singing and playing, of talking and joking, he
would look in for a moment between patients to befriend our jollity; and
when at last it came to my leaving Columbus, and going that far journey
to Venice, whither I seemed bound as on a journey to another planet, he
asked me one night into his little outside office by the State Street
gate, and had me tell him what provision I had made for the chances
before me. I told him, and then whether he thought it not enough in that
war-time when the personal risks were doubled by the national risks he
said, "Well, I am not a rich man, or the son of a rich man, but if you
think you need something more, I can let you have it." I had been
keeping my misgivings to myself, but now I owned them and borrowed the
two hundred dollars which he seemed to have there with him, as if in
expectation of my need.

For a darker tint in the picture I have been painting of my past let me
record here a fact which may commend itself for the younger reader's
admonition; the old cannot profit by it, perhaps, though as long as we
live we are in danger of forgetting kindness. When my family first came
to Columbus we were much beholden to another family, poor like
ourselves, which did everything but turn itself out of doors to let us
have the little house we were to occupy after them. They shared it with
us till they could place themselves elsewhere; and my father and mother
remained bound to them in willing gratitude. When I came back to the
capital after my five years of exile in our village I, too, remembered
our common debt, but when the world began to smile upon me I forgot the
friends who had not forgotten me till one day my father wished me to go
with him to see them. The mother of the family received me with a sort
of ironical surprise, and then her hurt getting the better, or the
worse, of her irony, she said some things about my losing sight of
humble friends in the perspectives opening so alluringly before me. I
could not recall, if I would, just the things she said, but they
scorched, and the place burns yet; and if I could go back and repair the
neglect which she brought home to me how willingly, after nearly sixty
years, would I do it! But at the time I hardened my heart and as I came
away I tried to have my father say something in extenuation of the fault
which I angrily tried to make a merit of; but with all his tenderness
for me he would not or could not.

Perhaps he, too, thought that I had been a snob, a thing that I had not
needed the instruction of Thackeray to teach me the nature of; but I
hope I was not so bad as that; I hope there was nothing meaner in me
than youth flattered out of remembrance of old kindness by the new
kindness in which it basked. I will confess here that I have always
loved the world and the pleasures which other sages pretend are so
vapid. If I could make society over, or make it over a little, so that
it would be inclusive rather than exclusive, I believe I would still
like to go into it, supposing it always sent a motor to fetch and carry
me and did not insist upon any sort of personal exertion from me. But
when I was between twenty and twenty-three and lived in Columbus I was
willing to be at almost any trouble for it. All up and down the wide
shady streets which ran from High eastward, and were called Rich and
Town and State and Broad, there were large pleasant houses of brick,
with or without limestone facings, standing in lawns more ample or less,
and showing through their trees the thrilling light of evening parties
that burst with the music of dancing from every window. Or if this was
not the case with every house, beautiful girls were waiting in every
other to be called upon, beside the grates with their fires of soft
coal, which no more discriminated between winter and summer than the
door-yard trees which seem to have been full-foliaged the whole year
round.

It may be that with the passage of time there began to be shadows in the
picture otherwise too bright. It seems to me that in time the calls and
balls may have begun to pall and a subtle Weltschmerz, such as we had
then, to pierce the heart; but scarcely any sense of that remains. What
is certain is that the shadow of incredible disaster which was soon to
fill the whole heaven still lurked below the horizon, or if it showed
itself there, took the form of retreating clouds which we had but to
keep on laughing and singing in order to smile altogether out of sight.
The slavery question which was not yet formidably a question of disunion
was with most of the older men a question of politics, though with men
like Dr. S. it was a question of ethics; with the younger men it was a
partisan question, a difference between Democrats and Republicans; with
me it was a question of emotions, of impassioned preoccupations, and in
my newspaper work a question of copy, of material for joking, for firing
the Southern heart. It might be brought home to us in some enforcement
of the Fugitive Slave Law, as in the case of the mother who killed her
children in Cincinnati rather than let them be taken back with her to
Kentucky; or in the return of an escaping slave seized in our own
railroad station; and there was at first the horror of revolted humanity
and then the acquiescence of sickened patience. It was the law, it was
the law; and the law was constitutional and must be obeyed till it was
repealed. Looking back now to that law-abiding submission, I can see
that it was fine in its way, and I can see something pathetic in it as
well as in the whole attitude of our people, the South and North
confronted in that inexorable labyrinth, neither side quite meaning it
or realizing it.

That was a very crucial moment indeed, but the crisis had come for us
five or six years before when the case of some conscientious citizens,
arrested in the Western Reserve for violation of that abominable law,
came before Chief-Justice Swann of the Ohio Supreme Court. It was hoped
by the great majority of the Republican party and largely expected that
Justice Swann's opinion would in whatever sort justify the offenders,
and it was known that the Governor would support the decision with an
armed force against the United States, which must logically attempt the
execution of the law with their troops. Very probably the state of Ohio
would have been beaten in such an event, but Justice Swann defeated the
popular hope and expectation before-hand by confirming the judgment
against those right-minded but wrong-headed friends of humanity. Ohio
was

[Illustration: Old-time dwellings on one of the Columbus streets that
Mr. Howells used to frequent]

spared the disaster which befell South Carolina five or six years later,
and Justice Swann suffered the penalty of men whose judgment is
different from the convictions of their contemporaries. From being one
of the most honored leaders of his party, with the prospect of any
highest place in its gift, he remained one of the most distinguished
jurists of his time whose best reward came coldly from those who would
not blame where they could not praise. In Ohio the judiciary is
elective, and Judge Swann hastened the decision of the court before the
meeting of the Republican State Convention in order that his party might
not unwittingly renominate him in the expectation of an opinion from him
favorable to the good men of Ohio who had broken the bad law of the
United States.

There is a legend, cherished more for its dramatic possibility than for
any intrinsic probability, that when Lincoln appointed Noah L. Swayne
justice of the Supreme Court of the United States he supposed that he
was appointing Joseph Swann, and that he was misled by the similarity of
the names, not very great either to ear or eye. Swayne was then one of
the most eminent members of the Columbus bar, and, though he lacked the
judicial experience of Swann, was entirely fit for the place he was
called to fill. If such a mistake was made it was one which could well
retrieve itself, but it seems a very idle fancy which has toyed with its
occurrence. It would be altogether too nice in the face of its
unlikelihood to inquire whether Lincoln might have wished to express a
certain sympathy for the eminent jurist in the arrest of his public
career which followed his decision. One would first have to establish
the fact of such a feeling in him and prove that if he had it he would
have been so careless of the jurist's name as to mistake another name
for it. These are the things that happen in fiction when the novelist
is hard driven by the exigencies of his plot, but cannot easily occur in
sober history.

I met both of these prominent men during my Columbus years, as an
improminent young fellow-citizen might, Justice Swayne rather often, and
Justice Swann once at least, in their own houses. On this sole occasion,
which dimly remains with me, I was paying one of those evening calls
which we youth were diligent in making at houses where there were young
ladies; and after due introduction to the great jurist, I was aware of
him, withdrawn and darkling in the next room, not unkindly, but not
sensibly contributing to the gaiety of the time in me. That might have
been after I was asked to a party at his house, which I was told, by a
lady versed in such mysteries, was the greatest distinction which
society had to offer in our city, and I suppose from this fact that the
popular blame for his momentous decision, even if it was of much force,
did not follow him into more rarefied air.


XI

We young men of that time were mostly Republicans, but some of us were
Democrats and some of us were Southerners, or derivatively Southern. I
have said how little society with us was affected by New England, even
in such a custom as Thanksgiving, and I may go a little farther and say
how it was characterized for good as well as for evil by the nearer
South rather than the farther East, but more for good than for evil.
Many people of Southern origin among us had chosen a Northern home
because they would rather live in a Free State than a Slave State; they
had not cast their sectional patriotism, but when it came to a question
of which ideal should prevail, they preferred the Northern ideal. They
derived from that South which antedated the invention of the
cotton-gin, and which could take a leading part in keeping the
Northwestern Territory free, with Ohio the first Free State born of that
great mother of Free States. The younger generation of their blood were
native Ohioans, and these were not distinguishable from the children of
the New-Englanders and the Scotch-Irish Pennsylvanians by anything that
I can remember. We had already begun to be Ohioans, with an accent of
our own, and I suppose our manners were simpler and freer than those of
the East, but the American manners were then everywhere simple and free,
and are so yet, I believe, among ninety-nine hundred-thousandths of our
ninety-nine millions. It seems to me now that the manners in Columbus
were very good then among the young people. No one can say what change
the over-muchness of subsequent money may have made in them, but one
likes to think the change, if any, is not for the better. There seems to
have been greater pecuniary equality then than there is now; there was
an evener sky-line, with scarcely a sky-scraping millionaire breaking it
anywhere. Within what was recognized as society there was as much social
as pecuniary equality; apparently one met the same people everywhere on
that easily ascertained level above the people who worked for their
living with their hands. These were excluded, as they always have been
excluded from society in all times and places; so that if I had still
been a compositor at the printer's case I could not have been received
at any of the houses that welcomed me as a journalist, though that did
not occur to me then, and only just now occurs to me, as something
strange and sad; something that forever belies our democracy, but is so
fast and deep-rooted in the conditions which our plutocracy has kept
from our ancestral monarchies and oligarchies and must keep as long as
men live upon one another in the law of competition.

In one house there was more singing and playing and in another more
reading and talking. All the young ladies were beautiful, with the
supremacy of that young lady whom it was our poetry to hold so beautiful
that no other might contest it. As I believe the use still is in the
South, we called them Miss Lilly, Miss Julia, Miss Sally, Miss Fanny,
Miss Maggie, whether they were the older or the younger daughters of the
family. We were always meeting them at parties or, failing that or
including that, we went to call upon them at their houses. We called in
the evening and it was no strange thing for a young man to call every
evening of the week, not at one house, but at three or four. How, in the
swift sequence of the parties, we managed so often to find the young
ladies at home remains one of the mysteries which age must leave youth
to solve. Possibly in that sharply foreshortened perspective of the past
the parties show of closer succession than they really were.

At most of the houses we saw only the young ladies; it was they whom we
asked for; but there were other houses where the mothers of the family
received with the daughters, and at one of these my welcome was
immediately of a kindness and always of a conscience which it touches me
to realize. I was taken at the best I meant as well as the best I was by
the friend who was the exquisite spirit of the house, and made me at
home in it. My world had been very small, and it has never since been
the greatest, but I think yet, as I divined then, that she was of a
social genius which would have made her in any great-worldlier capital
the leader she was in ours, where her supremacy in that sort was no more
questioned than the incomparable loveliness of that most beautiful girl
whom every one worshiped. Her house expressed her, so that when her home
finally changed to another the new house obeyed the magic of her taste
and put on the semblance of the first, with a conservatory breathing
through it the odor of her flowers and the murmur of the dove that lived
among them: herself a flower-like and birdlike presence, delicate,
elegant, such as might have been fancied of some fine, old-world
condition in a new-world reading of it. She lived to rule socially in a
community which attested its gentleness by its allegiance to her until
she was past eighty, but when I knew her first she was too young to be
titularly accepted as their mother by her stepdaughters and was known to
them as their cousin in what must have been her own convention; but I
suppose she liked to be not less than sovereign among her equals. With
me she was not only the kindest, but the most candid of my friends; my
literary journalism and later my literature may have been to her liking,
but she never flattered me for them when, as I now know, too much praise
had made me hungry for flattery. No young man such as I was then could
have had a wiser and faithfuler friend, and I render her memory my
tribute after so many years from a gratitude which cannot be spoken.
After so many years I cannot make out whether she accepted or merely
suffered my extreme opinions in politics; though she was wholly Ohioan,
her husband's family had close affiliations with the South; but hers was
certainly a Republican house, as nearly all the houses I frequented
were. What may have made her even anticipatively my friend was our
common acceptance of the Swedenborgian philosophy, which long, long
afterward, the last time I saw her, I spoke of as a philosophy. But then
she rejected the notion with scorn; it might be a pleasant fancy, she
said, but a philosophy, no; and I perceived that she had come the way of
that agnosticism which the whole cultivated world had taken. Now I have
heard that in her last years she went back to the faith which was
perhaps more inherited than reasoned in both of us. But I am sure that
it was at first a bond and that she was conscientiously true to this
bond of a common spiritual tradition, when upon some public recognition
of my work she reminded me how according to Swedenborg every beautiful
thing we said or did was by an influx from the divine. I submitted
outwardly, but inwardly I rebelled: not that my conceit of the things I
did was so very great; I believe I thought rather modestly of myself for
doing them, and I always meant to do much better things; in fact I still
have my masterpiece before me; but, poor things as they were, I wished
to feel them wholly mine.

For a kindred reason I quite as altogether refused, and more explicitly,
the theory of my old friend, Moncure D. Conway, as to the true function
of the West in literature. He was then a young Unitarian minister,
preaching at Cincinnati an ever-widening liberalism in religion, and
publishing a slight monthly magazine named after The Dial of Emerson
at Concord, and too carefully studied from it. For this paler avatar of
that transcendental messenger he had asked me for contributions, and so
a friendship, which lasted throughout our lives, sprang up between us.
When he once came to Columbus he came to lunch with me, and quite took
my appetite away by propounding his theory that the West was to live its
literature, especially its poetry, rather than write it, the East being
still in that darkling period when it could not live its literature. I
do not remember the arguments by which he supported his thesis; but
proofs as of holy writ could not have persuaded me of it as far as I
myself was concerned. My affair was to make poetry, let who would live
it, and to make myself known by both the quality and quantity of my
poetry. It is not clear to me now how I declared my position without
immodesty, but somehow I declared it, and so finally that Conway was
very willing to carry away with him for his magazine a piece of rhyme
which I had last made. He could the more willingly do this because The
Dial was one of those periodicals, commoner then than now, that paid
rather in glory than in money; in fact it was not expected to pay
anything in money, so that I doubly defeated him: I was not only not
living my poetry, I was not even living by it.




IV


The days of the years when youth is finding its way into manhood are not
those which have the most flattering memories. It is better with the
autobiographer both before and after that time, though both the earlier
and later times have much to offer that should keep him modest. But that
interval is a space of blind struggle, relieved by moments of rest and
shot with gleams of light, when the youth, if he is fortunate, gathers
some inspiration for a worthier future. His experiences are vivid and so
burnt into him that if he comes to speak of them it will require all his
art to hide from himself that he has little to remember which he would
not much rather forget. In his own behalf, or to his honor and glory, he
cannot recall the whole of his past, but if he is honest enough to
intimate some of its facts he may be able to serve a later generation.
His reminiscences even in that case must be a tissue of egotism, and he
will merit nothing from their altruistic effect.


I

Journalism was not my ideal, but it was my passion, and I was
passionately a journalist well after I began author. I tried to make my
newspaper work literary, to give it form and distinction, and it seems
to me that I did not always try in vain, but I had also the instinct of
actuality, of trying to make my poetry speak for its time and place. For
