Cassy fingered the bundle. Always she had hated to explain and of all
possible explanations what could be more hateful than this? If only he
would guess it, flare up, stamp about, get it over, let it go. But the
cup was there and she drank it.

"I thought I was married. I am a fool."

For the awaited curse, she braced herself. The explosion did not come,
but his eyes had widened. They covered her. Then, with an intake of the
breath and of understanding, he lowered them. Apparently he was weighing
it and Cassy thought he was trying to restrain himself, and she blessed
him for it. It was less terrible than she had feared. But immediately it
occurred to her that instead of trying to restrain himself, he was
seeking the strength wherewith to rend her. And I am so innocent, she
despairfully thought.

Her eyes were upon him and he looked up into hers.

"Why did you think you were married?"

"I told you, because I am a fool. There was a clergyman and a ceremony.
Afterwards I found that the clergyman was not a clergyman and that the
ceremony was a sham."

"When was that?"

"This afternoon."

"What did you do?"

"What was there for me to do? I left him."

"Where is he now?"

Cassy put down the bundle. She had no idea. But she said: "This evening
we were to go to the opera. I hardly fancy he will miss it on my
account." She paused and with a little catch in her voice continued: "I
know it is all my fault, I ought to have known better and I shall be so
unhappy if you mind. Won't you try not to?"

As she spoke, he stood up and she thought that the delayed volcano of
his wrath was about to burst. To smother it, she touched him. "Of course
you will mind. But I would not have been such a fool if I had not
believed that everything would be so much nicer for you. Can't you see
that and, if you do, can't you forgive me?"

He had moved from her to the piano; there he turned and looked. "There
is nothing to forgive, Cassy. You have been a good girl always. I am
sorry, of course I am sorry, but you are not to blame."

Understanding instead of maledictions! Sympathy in lieu of abuse! Such
things are affecting. The tears swam to her eyes and wretchedly and yet
thankfully she wept.

He did not seem to notice. In the narrow space he was moving about,
shifting things on the piano, displacing and replacing a score, which,
finally, he let fall. He stooped for it. As he raised it, Cassy saw
through her tears that his hand was shaking. He, too, may have seen it.
He left the room and she heard him pottering in the kitchen.

She wiped her eyes. Across the court was another kitchen in which were a
woman and a child. Often she had seen them there, but if she had seen
them elsewhere she would not have recognised them. They were but forms,
the perceptions of a perceiver, and though Cassy had never read Fichte
and was unacquainted with Berkeley, the idea visited her that they had
no real existence, that, it might be, she had none either, that all she
had endured was a dream drifting by, with nothing past which to drift.

It was her father's attitude that had induced these metaphysical
hysterics. She had expected that some demon within him would spring out
and gibber. Instead of which he had told her, and so gently, that she
was not to blame. It is words like these that bring tears swiftest. The
tears had come, but the words had also sufficed to reduce the people
across the way into baseless appearances, in which, for the moment, she
included herself.

But now at least her father was actual. He was coming in with glasses
and a bottle which he put on the table.

"You are tired," he said. "Have a little."

Seating himself, he drank and Cassy feared that if the liquor exerted
the authority that liquor has, he might go back into it and exact from
her details which it would revolt her to supply. In helping himself, he
had poured a glass for her. She did not want it. What she wanted was bed
and the blanket of long, dreamless sleep. It could not be too long. She
was tired, as he had said, but more so than he knew, tired with the
immense fatigue that emotions and their crises create.

She moved over to where he sat. Several minutes had gone since he spoke
yet it seemed to her but the moment before.

"Yes, I am tired, but you're a good daddy and I love you."

She bent over him, went to the kitchen, got a glass of milk and a
biscuit, which she carried to her room, where she opened the window and
closed the door.

Long later, when she awoke, it was with the consciousness of something
there, something waiting, something evil, something that had jeered and
pummelled her in her sleep. But what? Then, instantly, she knew. A
palace of falsehoods had tumbled about her and the lies had laughed and
bruised her as they fell. They had been laughing and falling the whole
night through.

The light distracted her. In the morning, because of the building
opposite, her room was dark. Now it was bright. The sun had scaled the
roof. A gleam looked in and told her it was noon.

How could I have slept so long? she wondered. She put some things on and
opening the door smelled coffee. The poor dear! she thought, he had to
make it himself.

She went on into the living-room. There her father sat. On the table
before him was a paper.

Without speaking he pointed at a headline. The letters squirmed. They
leaped and sprang at her. From before them she backed. But what
nonsense! It was impossible. She could not believe it. Yet there it was!
Abruptly there also was something else. An electric chair, the man of
all men in it!

From before the horror of that she reeled, steadied herself, looked at
her father, looked without seeing him.

"God of gods! And I did it!"




XXVIII


In high red boots, wide purple breeches and a yellow mandarin jacket,
Jones entered the workshop.

His appearance did not alarm him. He was invisible. Lloyd George and
Clémenceau might have called. Mr. Ten Eyck Jones was not at home, sir.
If necessary he was dead. Always, while he dressed, his servant put,
unseen, a tray on the workshop table and, still unseen, disappeared.
With the tray was the morning paper and the usual letters, which Jones
never read. Morning in the workshop meant work. No interruptions
permitted. On one occasion the house got on fire. His servant did not
venture to tell him, though the firemen did. Apart from such outrages,
necessarily infrequent, the only intrusion was the morning paper and the
cat that talked in her sleep. The cat had many privileges, the paper had
few. Sometimes it was briefly considered, more often it was not even
looked at, but its great privilege consisted in being stacked.

On this morning Jones did look, but quite involuntarily, and only
because a headline caught his eye. It was the same headline from before
which Cassy backed. The leaping words shouted at the girl. They shouted
at the novelist, a circumstance which did not prevent him from
breakfasting.

The fruit, the crescents, the coffee he consumed, not as was customary,
with his thoughts on his own copy, but on that which the paper supplied.
It was very colourful. At the opera, the night before, Monty Paliser had
been killed.

In New York, many men are killed, but not so many are murdered and of
those that are murdered, few are millionaires and fewer still have a box
at the Metropolitan, where, apart from stage business, no one up to then
had been done for. The case was therefore unique and, save for the
assassination of Abraham Lincoln, without a parallel. In the
circumstances, the leaded line of leaping words was justified.

According to the story that followed and which, Jones realised, must
have reached the city editor just as the paper was going to press, an
attendant, whose duty it was to visit the boxes after the performance
and see what, if anything, the occupants had forgotten, had, on entering
Paliser's box, found him at the back of it, unconscious, on the floor.
There were no external marks of violence, but a commandeered physician
pronounced him dead and, on examination, further pronounced that death
was due to internal hemorrhage, superinduced by heart-puncture, which
itself had been caused by some instrument, presumably a stiletto.

A picturesque detail followed. The box at the right was owned by the
Leroy Thompsons. The box at the left was the Harriwells'. At the late
hour, an attempt to communicate with the former had failed, but over the
wire, Mr. Legrand Harriwell stated that the deceased had come in during
the third act, that he had spoken to Mrs. Harriwell, after which he had
moved back and had either gone, or remained in the rear of the box. Mr.
Harriwell knew nothing else, he had been unaware of anything occurring,
he was not in the habit of spying about and he wished it distinctly
understood that he must not be mixed up in the matter, or Mrs. Harriwell
either.

The dear thing! thought Jones, who saw him, a tall, thin-lipped beast of
a brute, with a haw-haw manner and an arrogant air. God bless him!

But, Jones resumed to himself, voyons! The opera was Aïda. Paliser came
in during the third act. The house then is brilliant. But during the
fourth--the duo in the crypt--it is dark. It was then that he was done
for and with what is assumed to have been a stiletto.

To cut out the account, Jones turned in search of a dagger, long, thin,
wicked, which, one adventurous night in Naples, he had found--just in
time--in his back. On the blade was inscribed a promise, Penetrabo. Now
his eyes roamed the table. He lifted the tray, lifted his copy, looked
on the floor. Yet only the evening before, when Lennox was there and
Cassy Cara had come, he had seen it. Since then it had gone.

The disappearance did not disturb him. Occasionally, in hunting for an
object, he found it in his hand. It is somewhere, he cogently reflected
and, taking a pencil, set to work.

But the muse was timorous as a chicken. The metaphor is entirely
metaphorical. Jones had no faith in the wanton. He believed in regular
hours, in silence and no interruptions. No intrusions of any kind. A
letter was an intrusion, so also was the news of the day. These things
he considered, when he did consider them, after his work was done.
Sometimes he ignored them entirely. Usually he had a bushel of letters
that he had not opened, a bale of papers at which he had not looked. Of
such is the life known as literary or, at any rate, such was the life
led by Jones.

On this morning, his copy, ordinarily fluent enough, would not come.
Ideas fluttered away just out of reach. The sequence of a chapter had
been in his head. Like the dagger, it had gone. He could not account for
that disappearance, nor did he try. It would turn up again. So,
ultimately, would the ousted sequence. For the latter's departure he did
not try to account either. The effort was needless. He knew. An
interruption had occurred. The news of the day had intruded itself upon
him. A headline had entangled his thoughts.

Abandoning the pencil, he lit a cigarette. Across the room, above the
bookcase, was a stretch of silk, a flight of dragons that he had got in
Rangoon. Above the silk was an ivory mask, the spoil of a sarcophagus,
which he had found in Seville. He looked at them. The dragons fled on,
the mask fell asleep. Something else took their place.

On the wall was the scene at the opera.

In the golden gloom of the darkened house, it showed Paliser, sitting
back in his box, presumably enjoying the Terra addio, for which Caruso
had, as usual, been saving himself. Without, in the corridor, a figure
furtively peering at the names on the doors. Then the voice of the
soprano blending with that of the tenor and, during the divine duo, the
door of the box opening, letting in a thread of light; Paliser turning
to look and beholding that figure and a hand which, instantly
descending, deepened the gloom forever.

It was certainly Terra addio, Jones reflected. Certainly, too, the
scene is easy enough to reconstruct But whose was the hand?

Flicking his ashes, he looked about and saw two hands, between which, he
also saw, he was entirely free to pick and choose. One hand, slight and
fragile, was Cassy Cara's. The other, firm and virile, was Lennox'.

Lennox had threatened. He had been acidly murderous. He had a motive. He
had the opportunity. He knew where Paliser would be. He had been
supplied with a seat in that box. The hand was his. It was a clear case.
That was obvious, particularly to Jones, who regarded the obvious as
very misleading.

Given the chance, he reflected, and Lennox might have done for Paliser,
but he would have done for him with bare fists, never with a knife. It
was not Lennox to use one. It was not Lennox at all.

Jones threw him out and pulled in Cassy Cara.

The case against her was equally clear. Presumably she owned the
stiletto which a hat pin is. In addition, she also had a motive. If ever
a girl had cause to up and do it, she had. Then, too, the risk was
negligible. Any jury would acquit and tumble over each other to shake
hands with her. For equity has justice that the law does not know.
Moreover there are crimes that jurists have not codified. Some are too
inhuman, others too human. Cassy's righting of her own wrongs belonged
among the latter. Cassy's, that is, provided she had done it. But had
she? Logically, yes. If the police could look behind the scenes,
logically they would say to her, "Thou art the man."

But, Jones resumed, logic when pushed far enough becomes incoherence.
The psychologist prefers vision and it would display none to believe
that she did it. In the abstract, that is to be regretted. A lovely
assassin! A beautiful girl slaying a recreant lover! A future prima
donna killing a local millionaire! Monty Paliser murdered by the
Viscountess of Casa-Evora! And at the opera! If I had ever put anything
of the kind in my copy, reviewers would have indolently asked: "Why
doesn't this imbecile study life?"

Jones laughed. The enjoyment of one's own ideas--or of the absence of
them--is a literary trait. When Dumas wrote, he roared.

Here it is, then, Jones continued. If the police knew certain things
they would nab Lennox. If they knew others, they would nab Cassy Cara.
If they knew more, they would nab me. I should be held as a witness.
This is cheerful, particularly as my sole complicity in the matter has
been due to a desire to be of use. But that is just it. Through the
enigmatic laws of life, any kindness is repaid in pain.

Pleasurably, for a moment, he considered the altruism of that aphorism.
Then he got back at the murder which, he decided, must have been
premeditated by some one who knew where Paliser would be. That
conclusion reached, he groped for another. Lennox knew, but did Cassy
know, and, if she did, had she utilised the knowledge?

To decide the point he reviewed the visit of the previous evening.

Ostensibly Cassy's visit had been occasioned not by any wish to relate
what had happened to her, but to acquaint Lennox with the cause of what
had happened to him. In view of what had befallen her, the proceeding
was certainly considerate. In the misadventures of life, the individual
is usually so obsessed by his own troubles that they blind him to those
of another. But ostensibly Cassy had sunk her troubles and had pulled
them up, not to exhibit them, but to show Lennox the lay of the land as
it affected not her at all but him. The proceeding was certainly
considerate--unless it were astute, unless her object had been to employ
Lennox for the wreaking of her own revenge.

That was possible, but was it probable?

An ordinary young woman would have gone at it differently, gone at it
hammer and tongs. Cassy's methods were merely finer. That was the common
sense view. But was it psychology? The common sense view that is
applicable to the average individual is inapplicable to a problematic
nature and, consequently, not to Cassy, who must therefore have had
another incentive for her visit, an incentive stronger than the
primitive instinct for revenge.

But, Jones asked himself, what are the fundamental principles of human
activity? They are self-preservation and the perpetuation of the
species. Every idea that has existed, or does exist, in the mind of man
is the result of the permutations and combinations of those two
principles, of which the second is the stronger and its basis is sex.
That is what actuated Cassy. She is, or was, in love with Lennox, and
told him for no other reason.

That is it, Jones decided. But the course of her true love could not
have run very smooth and, knowing that Lennox was otherwise interested,
she took up with Paliser out of pique.

Pique! he repeated. But no, that is not Cassy Cara either. She----

Like a thread snapped suddenly, the novelist's meditations ceased. On
the wall before him the dragons alighted, the mask awoke. Between them a
canvas was emerging. Dim, shadowy, uncertain, it hesitated, wavered,
advanced.

Then, as it hung unsupported in the air--far too unsupported, he
presently thought--he looked it over.

To apparitions he was accustomed. They were part of his equipment.
Unsummoned, without incantations they came, sent, one might think, by
the muse whom he derided, but more naturally and very simply produced by
the machinery in his brain.

Now, as he examined the canvas, its imprecision diminished, the shadows
passed, the obscurity lifted, the penumbra brightened, outlines defined
themselves, the colouring appeared, a colouring, after the manner of
Rembrandt, composed of darkness in which there is light and which, as
such, reveals.

Jones stood up, turned around and sat down again as gamblers, disquieted
by their luck, will do.

Before him still the picture floated. He disavowed it, disowned it. Yet
there it was, the child of his fancy, the first-born of the morning, the
fruit of his concentrated thought, and as, surprisedly, he considered
it, it took on such semblances of legitimacy, that the disavowals
ceased. Then, slowly disintegrating, its consistence lessened. It was
departing, vaporously as it had come. Jones waved at it, omitting out of
sheer abstraction to say Au revoir, yet omitting also, and through equal
modesty, to say Eureka!

He pressed a button. Instantly, as though sprung from a trap, his
servant appeared.

"Get Mr. Lennox on the telephone."

The minutes lengthened. Finally the servant reappeared.

"Mr. Lennox is not at home, sir. His man says he's gone to Centre
Street. He's been arrested. Mr. Lennox has been arrested. Yes, sir."

Pausing, the servant cocked an ear and added: "They're calling extras,
sir. Would you wish one?"

Circuitously, through the open door, the cat, her tail in the air,
approached and wowed.

Jones leaned over and tickled her in the stomach. The cat hopped up on
him. He put a finger to his forehead, held it there, removed it and
looked at the man.

"In war-time, with the price of everything going up, it is a criminal
waste of money to buy an extra--particularly when you know what isn't in
it."

"Yes, sir."

Jones motioned. "Look through the old newspapers. Among the March issues
there is one that has an article entitled 'The Matter of Ziegler.' Let
me have it."

The cat, now on his shoulder, purred profusely in his ear. Raising a
hand, he tickled her again.

"Mimi-Meow, this Matter of Ziegler may interest us very much and after
we have looked it over, I will attend to our friend von Lennox, who
seems to have become a Hun."




XXIX


Already over the picked-up codfish, flapjacks, Hamburg steaks and
cognate enticements on which the Bronx and Harlem breakfasts, the news
of it had buttered the toast, flavoured the coffee, added a sweetness to
this April day and provided a cocktail to people who did not know
Paliser from the Pierrot in the moon. That he was spectacularly wealthy
was a tid-bit, that he had been killed at the Metropolitan was a
delight, the war news was nothing to the fact that the party with the
stiletto had escaped "unbeknownst." These people were unacquainted with
Paliser. But here was a young man with an opera-box of his own, and
think of that! Here was the mythological monster that the Knickerbocker
has become. Here was the heir to unearned and untold increments. These
attributes made him as delectable to the majority who did not know him,
as he had become to the privileged few who did.

Elsewhere, and particularly in and about fashion's final citadel which
the Plaza is, solemn imbeciles viewed the matter vehemently. "Young
Paliser! Why, there is no better blood in town! By Jove, I believe we
are related!"

Or else: "That's M. P.'s son, isn't it? Yes, here it is. I never met the
old cock but I heard of him long before we came East. A damned outrage,
that's what I call it."

Or again: "Dear me, what is the world coming to? What a blessing it is
we were not there. They might have come and murdered us all!"

Adjacently, in clubland, old men with one foot in the grave and the
other on Broadway, exchanged reminiscences of the nights when social New
York was a small and early family party and M. P. led the ball, and at a
pace so klinking that he danced beyond the favours of the cotillon--the
german as it, the cotillon, was then lovingly called--into assemblies,
certainly less select, but certainly, too, more gay, and had horrified
scrumptious sedateness with the uproar of his orgies.

The indicated obituaries followed. "Well, at any rate, they didn't
murder him for it." "The son now, a chip of the old block, eh?" "Nothing
of the kind, a quiet young prig." "The papers say----" "Damn the papers,
they never know anything." "You mean they don't print what they do
know." "I mean they don't give us the woman. For it was a woman. I'll
eat my hat it was a woman." "Let's have lunch instead."

Generally, for the moment, that was the verdict, one in which the police
had already collaborated. But what woman? And, assuming the woman,
whence had she come? Where had she gone?--problems, momentarily
insoluble but which investigations, then in progress, would probably
decide.

At the great white house on upper Fifth Avenue, the servants knew only
that they knew nothing. Nothing at all. Already coached, they were sure
and unshakable in their knowledge of that. A Mr. Harvey--from
Headquarters--could not budge them an inch. Not one!

The night before, at the first intelligence of it, M. P. came nearer to
giving up the ghost than is commonly advisable. Suffocation seized him.
An incubus within was pushing his life-springs out. So can emotion and
an impaired digestion affect a father. The emotion was not caused by
grief. It was fear. For weeks, for months, during the tedium and terror
of the trial, his name, Paliser, would top the page! It had topped it
before, very often, but that was years ago. Then he had not cared. Then
the wine of youth still bubbled. No, he had not cared. But that was long
ago. Since then the wine of youth had gone, spilled in those orgies
which he had survived, yet, in the survival, abandoned more and more to
solitude and making him seek, what the solitary ever do seek,
inconspicuousness. For years he had courted obscurity as imbeciles court
fame. And now!

If only the boy had had the decency to die of pneumonia!

It was then the incubus gripped him. For a second he saw the visage,
infinitely consoling, that Death can display and possibly, but for an
immediate drug, there too would have echoed the Terra addio!

He was then in white velvet. A preparation of menthe, dripping from a
phial, spotted it green. He did not notice. At the moment the spasm had
him. Then as that clicked and passed, he looked in the expressionless
face of the butler who had told him.

The spasm had shaken him into a chair.

The room, an oblong, was furnished after a fashion of long ago. The
daised bed was ascended by low, wide steps. Beyond stood a table of
lapis-lazuli. A mantel of the same material was surmounted by a mirror
framed in jasper. Beneath the mirror, a fire burned dimly. The lights
too were dim. They were diffused by tall wax candles that stood shaded
in high gold sticks. On the table there were three of them.

The chair was near this table, at which M. P. had been occupied very
laboriously, in doing nothing, a task that he performed in preparation
for the bed, which was always ready for him, and for sleep, which seldom
was. There he had been told. It had shaken him to his feet, shaken
apoplexy at him and shaken him back in the chair.

Now, as he looked at the servant's wooden mask, for a moment he relived
an age, not a pleasant one either and of which this blow, had he known
it, was perhaps the karma. He did not know it. He knew nothing of karma.
None the less, with that curious intuition which the great crises
induce, he too divined the woman and wished to God that he had kept his
hands off, wished that he had not interfered and told Monty to put her
in a flat and be damned to her! It was she, he could have sworn it. At
once, precisely as he wished he had let her alone, he hoped and quite as
fervently that she had covered her tracks, that there would be no trial,
nothing but inept conjectures and that forgetfulness in which all
things, good and bad, lose their way.

The futility of wishing passed. The time for action had come. He
motioned. "Is Benny here?"

"He left this noon, sir."

"Did he say anything?"

The butler did not know whether to lie or not, but seeing no personal
advantage in either course, he hedged. "Very little, sir."

That little, the old man weighed. A little is often enough. It may be
too much.

"He spoke about a girl, eh?"

"He said a lady was stopping there. Yes, sir."

"What else?"

The butler shuffled. "He said she was very pretty, sir."

"Go on, Canlon."

"Well, sir, it seems there was a joke about it. The young lady thought
she was married."

"How was that?"

"I'm not supposed to know, sir. But from what was let on, Benny was
rigged out as a dominie and it made 'em laugh."

The old man ran his head out like a turtle. "Damnation, what has that to
do with it?"

"Why, sir, he pretended to marry her."

"Benny did?"

"Yes, sir."

"He pretended that she was his wife."

"No, sir, he pretended to marry her to Mr. Monty."

"Good God!" the old man muttered and sank back. The blackness was
blacker than any black he had entered. In days gone by, he had agreeably
shocked New York with the splendid uproar of his orgies. He had left
undone those things which he ought to have done and done those things
which he should have avoided. He had been whatever you like--or
dislike--but never had he been dishonest. Little that would avail him
now. If this turpitude were published, it would be said that he had
fathered it. At the prospect, he felt the incubus returning. In a moment
it would have him and, spillingly, he drank the green drug.

The agony receded, but the nightmare confronted him. He grappled with
it.

"The coat I had on at dinner. There is a card-case in the pocket. Give
it to me."

Probably it was all very useless. Probably no matter what he contrived,
the police would ferret her out. There was just one chance though which,
properly taken, might save the situation.

The card-case, pale damask, lined with pale silk, the man brought him.
He put it on the table.

"Canlon!"

"Yes, sir."

"Benny said nothing."

"Very good, sir."

"I have a few hundred for you here, between eight and nine, I think."

"Thank you, sir."

"To-morrow there will be more."

"I am sure I am very grateful, sir."

"Don't interrupt me. Recently my son returned from Cuba. Occasionally he
went visiting. Where he went, he did not tell you. That is all you know.
You know nothing else. You heard nothing. Nobody here heard anything.
Nobody, in this house, knows anything at all. You understand?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then see to it. The police will come. You must be at the door. You know
now what to say. They will want a word with me. I am too prostrated to
see anybody."

"Thank you, sir."

"Telephone to the Place. Get Benny. Repeat my orders. Say I will do as
well by him as I shall by you."

"Thank you, sir."

"Take the money. You may have the case also."

"I thank you, sir."

"Tell Peters to fetch me some brandy. The 1810. That will do."

Presently, when the police did come and, several hours later, in the
person of Mr. Harvey, came again, they came upon the barriers, invisible
and unscalable, which ignorance, properly paid, can erect. With an empty
bag, Mr. Harvey made off; not far, however, a few squares below to the
Athenæum Club.

There, the hall-porter succeeded in being magnificent The strange and
early visitor he rebuked. It was not customary for members to be
murdered!

A badge, carelessly disclosed, disconcerted him. For a second only.
However unusual a member might be, no information could be supplied
concerning him. There was another rule, equally strict. Strangers were
not admitted. Though, whether the rule applied to a bull, he was
uncertain. Momentarily, the hall-porter, previously magnificent, became
an unhappy man. Misery is fertile. A compromise surprised him.

He crooked a thumb. "Here! Go 'round by the back way and ask for Mr.
Johnson--he's one of the captains."

From the steps, in the slanting rays of the morning sun, he saw him off.
But the gaiety of the eager rays that charged the air with little gold
motes, did not cheer him. The lustre of his office was tarnished. A
member had been murdered! It was most unusual.

Meanwhile, down the area steps, a hostile and hasty youth in
shirt-sleeves and a slashed waistcoat barred the way. The barring was
brief. The badge and a smile demolished it. Within, beneath a low
ceiling, at a long table, other youths, equally slashed but less
hostile, were at breakfast.

Affably, the intruder raised a hand. "Gentlemen, don't let me disturb
you. I'm just having a look-in on Mr. Johnson."

Mr. Johnson did not breakfast with slashed young men; it would have been
subversive to discipline, and it was negligently, through a lateral
entrance, that presently he appeared. In evening clothes on this early
morning, he surveyed his visitor, a big fellow with a slight moustache,
an easy way and a missing front tooth, who went straight at it.

"Pleased to meet you, Mr. Johnson. My name's Harvey. It's about young
Paliser. There may be something in it for you. I'm from Headquarters."

The captain coughed. "It's awful. I can't tell you anything though. He
wasn't here often. Doubt if I've seen him in a week." He looked about.
The slashed youths were edging up. "Come in here."

In an adjoining room, he took a chair, waved politely at another,
coughed again and resumed. "You say there may be something in it for
me?"

Mr. Harvey sat down. "Cert. There'll be a reward--a big one."

The captain turned it over. "It is as much as my place is worth, but
last evening one of the members was talking fierce about him."

"Yes, so I heard," said Mr. Harvey, who had heard nothing of the kind
and who, not for an instant, had expected to tumble on a fierce-talking
member. "I heard his name too. It's--er----"

"Lennox," the captain put in.

"Lennox, yes, that's it, and just to see how my account tallies with
yours, what did he say?"

"He said he'd do for him. I could have laughed."

"It was funny, I laughed myself, and about a woman, wasn't it?"

"I don't know. But he was engaged to be married. I saw it in the
papers."

"And this young Paliser butted in?"

"I couldn't say. But he threw up his business and sat around and last
night he was going to do for him."

"At the opera?"

"He was talking random-like. He had just had a B. and S. I didn't hear
anything about the opera. He wasn't got up for it. Just a business suit.
But, Lord bless you, he didn't do it. He isn't that kind. Nice,
free-handed feller."

"No, of course not. I wouldn't believe it, not if you told me so. Let me
see. Where did I hear he lives?"

"I don't rightly know. Somewhere in the neighbourhood."

"So I thought and his first name is?"

"I've forgotten. Hold on! Keith! That's it. Keith Lennox. Are you going
to see him? P'raps he can set you straight."

"P'raps he can."

"But don't let on about me, my friend."

"Not on your life," replied his friend, who added: "Where's your hat?"

"My hat!" Mr. Johnson surprisedly exclaimed.

Affably that friend of his nodded. "Ever been to Headquarters? Well,
you're going there now!"

Then, presently, the captain and his friend ascended a stairway, down
which, a few hours later, hoarse voices came.

"Extra! Extra!"




XXX


At the Athenæum, that afternoon, members gathered together, buttonholed
each other, talked it over and so importantly that, if you had not known
better, you might have thought the war a minor event. It gave one rather
a clear idea of the parochialism of clubland. But then, to discuss the
affairs of people who never heard of you is, essentially, a social act.

Meanwhile the shouted extras had told of Lennox' arrest. The evening
papers supplied the evidence.

In them you read that Lennox had said he would "do" for Paliser, that in
his possession had been found a stiletto, an opera-check, together with
a will, and that, when apprehended, he had been effecting what is called
a getaway.

There you had the threat, the instrument, the opportunity and what more
could you ask, except the motive? As for the rest, it was damning. On
that point foregathering members agreed--with one exception.

In a seated group was Jones. His neighbours alarmed him. They belonged,
he thought, to a very dangerous class, to a class which a sociologist
defined as the most dangerous of all--to the stupid. According to them,
Lennox was not merely guilty, he was worse. He had besplattered the club
with the blood of a man who, hang it all, whether you liked him or not,
was also a member. The Athenæum would become a byword. Already, no
doubt, it was known as the Assassin's. Et cetera and so forth.

The group thinned, increased, thinned again, scattered.

Jones, alone with a survivor, addressed him. "How is my handsome friend
to-day?"

Verelst turned impatiently. "In no mood for jesting. I ought to have
hurried him off. Now he is in jail."

Jones lit a cigarette. "There are honest men everywhere, even in jail,
perhaps particularly in jail. Whom has he, do you know?"

"To defend him? Dunwoodie. Ogston told me. Ogston says----"

"I daresay he does. His remarks are always very poignant."

"But look here. Before the arrest was known, Ogston was in this room
telling everybody that, last night, he gave Lennox a seat in Paliser's
box. He will have to testify to it. He can't help himself."

"Perhaps I can help him though. I was with Lennox at the time."

"You were? That's awkward. You may have to corroborate him."

"I certainly shall. I have the seat."

"What?"

"Lennox dropped the ticket. After he had gone, I found it on the floor.
It is in my shop now."

"Well, well!" Verelst astoundedly exclaimed. "But, here, hold on. The
papers say he had a return check."

Jones flicked his ashes. "I have one or two myself. Probably you have.
Even otherwise return checks tell no tales, or rather no dates."

"I never thought of that."

"Think of it now, then."

"Yes, but confound it, there is the stiletto."

"As you say, there it is and I wish it were here. It is mine."

Verelst adjusted his glasses. "What are you talking about?"

"The war," Jones answered. "What else? In my shop last evening, Lennox
was drawing his will. In gathering up the sheets, the knife must have
got among them and, without knowing it, he carried it off. This morning
I missed it. The loss affected me profoundly. It is an old friend."

"You don't tell me."

"Don't I? I'll go so far as to lay you another basket of pippins that
the police can't produce another like it. On the blade is inscribed
Penetrabo--which is an endearing device."

"But see here," Verelst excitedly exclaimed. "You must tell Dunwoodie.
You----" In sheer astonishment he broke off.

Innocently Jones surveyed him. "You think it important as all that?"

"Important? Important isn't the word."

With the same air of innocence, Jones nodded. "I thought it wasn't the
word. I should have said trivial."

"But----"

Wickedly Jones laughed. "If you feel reckless enough to go another
basket of pippins, I will wager that if I tell Dunwoodie anything--and
mind the 'if'--he will agree that the paper-cutter is of no
consequence--except to its lawful owner, who wants it back."

"But tell me----"

"Anything you like. For the moment, though, tell me something."

"What?"

Jones blew a ring of smoke. "Do you happen to know whether Paliser had
anything?"

"What on earth has that to do with it?"

Jones blew another ring. "I had an idea that his mother might have left
him something. You knew her, didn't you? Any way, you still know M. P.
Did he ever say anything about it?"

"He did not need to. It was in the papers. He made over to him the
Splendor, the Place, and some Wall Street and lower Broadway property
that has been part of the Paliser estate since the year One."

"What is it all worth?" Jones asked. "Ten or twenty million?"

"Thirty, I should say. Perhaps more. But what has it to do with Lennox?"

Negligently Jones flicked his ashes. "Well, it changes the subject. I
can't talk about the same thing all the time. It is too fatiguing."

As he spoke, he stood up.

Verelst put out a hand. "Dunwoodie is sure to look in. Where are you off
to?"

Jones smiled at him. "I am going to gaze in a window where there are
pippins on view."

"Go to the devil!" said Verelst, who also got up.

Fabulists tell strange tales. It is their business to tell them. Jones
had no intention of looking at pippins. What he had in mind was fruit of
another variety. It was some distance away. Before he could make an
appreciable move toward it, Verelst, who had turned from him, turned
back.

"There!"

Beyond, through the high-arched entrance, a man was limping. He had the
battered face of an old bulldog and the rumpled clothes of a young
ruffian.

"There's Dunwoodie!"

Verelst, a hand on Jones' elbow, propelled him toward the lawyer, who
gratified them with the look, very baleful and equally famous, with
which he was said to reverse the Bench.

But Verelst, afraid of nothing except damp sheets, stretched a hand.
"You know Ten Eyck Jones. He has something very important to tell you."

"Yes," said Jones. "In March, on the eighth or ninth, I have forgotten
which, but it must be in the 'Law Journal,' a decision was rendered----"

He got no farther. Other members, crowding about, were questioning,
surmising, eager for a detail, a prediction, an obiter dictum, for
anything they could take away and repeat concerning the murder, in which
all knew that the great man was to appear.

But Dunwoodie was making himself heard, and not gently either. It was as
though already he was at the district attorney's throat.

"Where is the evidence? Where is it? Where is the evidence? There is not
a shred, not a scintilla. On the absence of facts adduced, I shall
maintain what I assert until the last armed Court of Appeals expires.
Hum! Ha!"

Fiercely he turned on Jones. "What were you saying, sir?"

Before Jones could reply, Verelst cut in. "The stiletto is his. He has
the opera-ticket. He----"

"Imbeciles tell each other that great men think alike," Jones,
interrupting, remarked at Dunwoodie. "I merely happened to be
forestalling your views, when a recent decision occurred to me and----"

Jones' remarks were lost, drowned by others, by questions, exclamations,
the drivel that amazement creates.

"But, I say----" "Tell me this----" "No evidence!" "The stiletto his!"
"How did Lennox get it?" "Then what about----"

Dunwoodie, fastening on Jones, roared at him. "You tell me the
instrument is yours?"

Jones patted his chin. "I did not, but I will."

"How do you know, sir?"

"It has a little love message on it."

"Hum! Ha!" Dunwoodie barked. "Come to my office to-morrow. Come before
ten."

Dreamily Jones tilted his hat. "I am not up before ten. Where do you
live? In the Roaring Forties?"

But, in the mounting clamour, the answer, if answer there were, was
submerged. Jones went out to the street, entered a taxi, gave an address
and sailed away, up and across the Park, along the Riverside and into
the longest thoroughfare--caravan routes excepted--on the planet.

On a corner was a drug-shop, where anything was to be had, even to
umbrellas and, from a sign that hung there, apparently a notary public
also. Opposite was a saloon, the Ladies Entrance horribly hospitable.
Jones' trained eye--the eye of a novelist--gathered these things which
it dropped in that bag which the subconscious is. Meanwhile the car,
scattering children, tooted, turned and stopped before a leprous door.

In the hall, a girl of twelve, with the face of a seraph, and the voice
of a fiend, was shrieking at a switchboard. Jones fearing, if he
addressed her, that she might curse him, went on and up, higher, still
higher, and began to feel quite birdlike. On the successive landings
were doors and he wondered what tragedies, what comedies, what aims,
lofty, mean or merely diabolic, they concealed. They were all labelled
with names, Hun or Hebrew, usually both. But one name differed. It
caressed.

There he rang.

When it opened, a strawberry mouth opened also. "Oh!" Cassy's blue eyes
were red. There was fright in them. "It is horrible! Tell me, do you
think it was he?"

Jones removed his hat. "I know it was not."

That mouth opened again, opened for breath, opened with relief. Gasping,
she stared. "Thank God! I was afraid----But are you sure? It was I who
told him--I thought it my fault. It was killing me. Tell me. Are you
really sure?"

Jones motioned. "His lawyer is. I have just seen him."

"He is! Thank God then! Thank God! And my father! It has made him ill.
He liked him so! I am going for medicine now. Will you go in and speak
to him?"

She turned and called. "It is Mr. Jones--a friend of Mr. Lennox." She
turned again. "I will be back in a minute."

Beyond, in the room with the piano and the painted warrior, the musician
lay on a sofa, bundled in a rug. There was not much space on the sofa,
yet, as Jones entered, he seemed to recede. Then, cavernously, he spoke.

"Forgive me for not rising. This business has been too much for me. Sit
down."

Jones put his hat on the table and drew a chair. "I am sorry it has
upset you. It amounts to nothing."

Perplexedly the musician repeated it. "Nothing?"

"I was referring to our friend Lennox."

"You call his arrest nothing?"

"Well, everything is relative. It may seem unusual to be held without
bail and yet, if we all were, it would be commonplace."
