old-fashioned corner of his soul he admired them, and he was idly
convinced that a woman with so perfectly shaped a head, long and
narrow, but not too narrow, must have a profile.  Probably her full
face would not be so attractive.  Women with cendré hair generally
had light brows and lashes, and her eyes might be a washed-out blue.
Or prominent.  Or her mouth too small.  He would bet on the profile,
however, and instead of rushing out when that blessed curtain went down
he would wait and look for it.

Then he closed his eyes again and forgot her until he was roused by the
clapping of many hands.  First-nighters always applaud, no matter how
perfunctorily.  Noblesse oblige.  But the difference between the
applause of the bored but loyal and that of the enchanted and quickened
is as the difference between a rising breeze and a hurricane.

The actors bowed en masse, in threes, in twos, singly.  The curtain
descended, the lights rose, the audience heaved.  Men hurried up the
aisle and climbed over patient women.  People began to visit.  And then
the woman two seats ahead of Clavering did a singular thing.

She rose slowly to her feet, turned her back to the stage, raised her
opera glasses and leisurely surveyed the audience.

"I knew it!"  Clavering's tongue clicked.  "European.  No American
woman ever did that--unless, to be sure, she has lived too long abroad
to remember our customs."

He gazed at her eagerly, and felt a slight sensation of annoyance that
the entire house was following his example.  The opera glasses
concealed her eyes, but they rested upon the bridge of an indubitably
straight nose.  Her forehead was perhaps too high, but it was full, and
the thick hair was brushed back from a sharp point.  Her eyebrows,
thank Heaven, were many shades darker than her hair.  They were also
narrow and glossy.  Decidedly they received attention.  Possibly they
were plucked and darkened--life had made him skeptical of "points."
However, Clavering was no lover of unamended nature, holding nature,
except in rare moments of inspiration, a bungler of the first water.

In spite of its smooth white skin and rounded contours above an
undamaged throat, it was, subtly, not a young face.  The mouth, rather
large, although fresh and red (possibly they had lip sticks in Europe
that approximated nature) had none of the girl's soft flexibility.  It
was full in the center and the red of the underlip was more than a
visible line, but it was straight at the corners, ending in an almost
abrupt sternness.  Once she smiled, but it was little more than an
amused flicker; the mouth did not relax.  The shape of the face bore
out the promise of the head, but deflected from its oval at the chin,
which was almost square, and indented.  The figure was very slight, but
as subtly mature as the face, possibly because she held it
uncompromisingly erect; apparently she had made no concession to the
democratic absence of "carriage," the indifferent almost apologetic
mien that had succeeded the limp curves of a few years ago.

She wore a dress of white jet made with the long lines of the present
fashion--in dress she was evidently a stickler.  The neck was cut in a
low square, showing the rise of the bust.  Her own lines were long, the
arms and hands very slender in the long white gloves.  Probably she was
the only woman in the house who wore gloves.  Life was freer since the
war.  She wore a triple string of pearls.

He waited eagerly until she should drop her glasses. . . .  He heard
two girls gasping and muttering behind him. . . .  There was a titter
across the house.

She lowered the opera glasses and glanced over the rows of upturned
faces immediately before her, scrutinizing them casually, as if they
were fish in an aquarium.  She had dropped her lids slightly before her
eyes came to rest on Clavering.  He was leaning forward, his eyes hard
and focal, doing his best to compel her notice.  Her glance did linger
on his for a moment before it moved on indifferently, but in that brief
interval he experienced a curious ripple along his nerves . . . almost
a note of warning. . . .  They were very dark gray eyes, Greek in the
curve of the lid, and inconceivably wise, cold, disillusioned.  She did
not look a day over twenty-eight.  There were no marks of dissipation
on her face.  But for its cold regularity she would have looked
younger--with her eyes closed.  The eyes seemed to gaze down out of an
infinitely remote past.

Suddenly she seemed to sense the concentrated attention of the
audience.  She swept it with a hasty glance, evidently appreciated the
fact that she alone was standing and facing it, colored slightly and
sat down.  But her repose was absolute.  She made no little embarrassed
gestures as another woman would have done.  She did not even affect to
read her program.




II

Clavering left his chair and wandered up the aisle.  He felt none of
his usual impatience for the beneficent cigarette.  Was he hit?
Hardly.  Inquisitive, certainly.  But he had seen so many provocative
shells.  Vile trick of nature, that--poverty-stricken unoriginal
creature that she was.

He glanced over the rows of people as he passed.  It was not the play
that was animating them.  The woman was a godsend.

His gaze paused abruptly on the face of Mr. Charles Dinwiddie.
Clavering's grand-aunt had married Mr. Dinwiddie's father and the two
men, so far apart in years, were more or less intimate; the older man's
inexhaustible gossip of New York Society amused Clavering, who in turn
had initiated Mr. Dinwiddie into new and strange pleasures, including
literary parties and first nights--ignored by the world of fashion.

All New York men of the old régime, no matter what their individuality
may have been twenty years earlier, look so much alike as they approach
sixty, and more particularly after they have passed it, that they might
be brothers in blood as in caste.  Their moustaches and what little
hair they have left turns the same shade of well-bred white.  Their
fine old Nordic faces are generally lean and flat of cheek, their
expression calm, assured, not always smug.  They are impeccably groomed
and erect.  Stout they may be, but seldom fat, and if not always
handsome, they are polished, distinguished, aloof.  They no longer wear
side-whiskers and look younger than their fathers did at the same age.

Mr. Dinwiddie's countenance as a rule was as formal and politely
expressionless as became his dignified status, but tonight it was not.
It was pallid.  The rather prominent eyes were staring, the mouth was
relaxed.  He was seated next the aisle and Clavering hastened toward
him in alarm.

"Ill, old chap?" he asked.  "Better come out."

Mr. Dinwiddie focussed his eyes, then stumbled to his feet and caught
Clavering by the arm.  "Yes," he muttered.  "Get me out of this and
take me where I can get a drink.  Seen a ghost."

Clavering guided him up the aisle, then out of a side exit into an
alley and produced a flask from his hip-pocket.  Mr. Dinwiddie without
ceremony raised it to his lips and swallowed twice, gasping a little.
He had reached the age of the mild whiskey and soda.  Then he stood
erect and passed his hand over the shining curve of his head.

"Ever seen a ghost, Lee?" he asked.  "That woman was there, wasn't she?"

"She was there, all right."  Clavering's face was no longer cynical and
mysterious; it was alive with curiosity.  "D'you know who she is?"

"Thirty-odd years ago any one of us old chaps would have told you she
was Mary Ogden, and like as not raised his hat.  She was the beauty and
the belle of her day.  But she married a Hungarian diplomat, Count
Zattiany, when she was twenty-four, and deserted us.  Never been in the
country since.  I never wanted to see her again.  Too hard hit.  But I
caught a glimpse of her at the opera in Paris about ten years
ago--faded!  Always striking of course with that style, but withered,
changed, skinny where she had been slim, her throat concealed by a dog
collar a yard long--her expression sad and apathetic--the dethroned
idol of men.  God!  Mary Ogden!  I left the house."

"It is her daughter, of course----"

"Never had a child--positive of it.  Zattiany title went to a nephew
who was killed in the war. . . .  No . . . it must be . . . must
be . . ."  His eyes began to glitter.  Clavering knew the symptom.  His
relative was about to impart interesting gossip.

"Well?" he asked impatiently.

"There were many stories about Mary Ogden--Mary Zattiany--always a
notable figure in the capitals of Europe.  Her husband was in the
diplomatic service until he died--some years before I saw her in Paris.
She was far too clever--damnably clever, Mary Ogden, and had a
reputation for it in European Society as well as for beauty--to get
herself compromised.  But there were stories--that must be it!  She had
a daughter and stowed her away somewhere.  No two women could be as
alike as that except mother and daughter--don't see it too often at
that.  Why, the very way she carries her head--her style . . . wonder
where she kept her?  That girl has been educated and has all the air of
the best society.  Must have got friends to adopt her.  Gad!  What a
secret chapter.  But why on earth does she let the girl run round
loose?"

"I shouldn't say she was a day under twenty-eight.  No doubt she looked
younger from where you were sitting."

"Twenty-eight!  Mary must have begun sooner than we heard.  But--well,
we never felt that we knew Mary--that was one of her charms.  She kept
us guessing, as you young fellows say, and she had the devil's own
light in her eyes sometimes."  His own orb lit up again.  "Wonder if
Mary is here?  No doubt she's come over to get her property back--she
never transferred her investments and of course it was alienated during
the war.  But not a soul has heard from her.  I am sure of that.  We
were discussing her the other night at dinner and wondering if her
fortune had been turned over.  It was at Jane Oglethorpe's.  Jane and a
good many of the other women have seen her from time to time
abroad--stayed at her castle in Hungary during the first years of her
marriage; but they drifted apart as friends do. . . .  She must be a
wreck, poor thing.  She ran a hospital during the war and was in Buda
Pesth for some time after the revolution broke out.  I hope she had the
girl well hidden away."

"Perhaps she sent the girl over to look after her affairs."

"That's it.  Beyond a doubt.  And I'll find out.  Trent is Mary's
attorney and trustee.  I'll make him open up."

"And you'll call on her?"

"Won't I?  That is, I'll make Trent take me.  I never want to look at
poor Mary again, but I'd feel young----  Hello!  I believe you're hit!"
Mr. Dinwiddie, having solved his problems, was quite himself again and
alert for one of the little dramas that savored his rather tasteless
days.  "I'd like that.  I'll introduce you and give you my blessing.
Wrong side of the blanket, though."

"Don't care a hang."

"That's right.  Who cares about anything these days?  And you can only
be young once."  He sighed.  "And if she's like her mother--only
halfway like her inside--she'll be worth it."

"Is that a promise?"

"We'll shake on it.  I'll see Trent in the morning.  Dine with me at
the club at eight?"

"Rather!"




III

The critics left after the second act to damn the play at leisure.
Clavering remained in his seat.  Forty minutes later, while the
performers were responding to faint calls and amiable friends were
demanding the author of the doomed play, the lady of mystery (who,
Clavering reflected cynically, was doubtless merely an unusual looking
person with a commonplace history--most explanations after wild guesses
were common-place) left her seat and passed up the aisle.
Irresistibly, Clavering followed her.  As she stood for a moment under
the glare of the electric lights at the entrance he observed her
critically.  She survived the test.  A small car drew up to the curb.
She entered it, and he stood in the softly falling snow feeling
somewhat of a fool.  As he walked slowly to his rooms in Madison Square
he came definitely to the conclusion that it was merely his old
reporter's instinct that burned so fiercely, even when he had prodded
Dinwiddie and shaken hands in a glow of anticipation.  Certainly there
was no fire in his blood.  His imagination had not toyed for a moment
with the hope that here at last . . .  He did not feel in the least
romantic.  But what man, especially after Dinwiddie's revelations,
wouldn't feel a bit curious, a bit excited?  Thank Heaven he was young
enough for that.  He must know who she was.  Certainly, he would like
to talk to her.  She knew the world, no doubt of it--with those eyes!
European women, given the opportunity, could cram more of life into ten
years than an American woman into forty.  She had had her experiences
in spite of that madonna face; he'd bet on it.  Well, he wasn't falling
in love with a woman who had too heavily underscored in the book of
life.  But he enjoyed talking to European women of the world.  New York
had been overrun of late with Russian princesses and other ladies of
title come over in the hope of milking the good old American cow, and
when he could divert them from their grievances he found them clever,
subtle and interesting.  It was unlikely that this woman had a
grievance of that sort or was looking for a chance to get at the
generous but elusive udder.  Her pearls might not be real, but her gown
was superlatively expensive, her evening wrap of mauve velvet lined
with ermine, and her little car perfectly turned out.  He'd look like a
fortune-hunter with his salary of fifteen thousand a year and a few
thousands in bonds . . . not if he knew it!  But find out who she was,
know her, talk to her, learn what he felt was an interesting
history--quite another matter.




IV

The next evening when he arrived at the club he found Mr. Dinwiddie
fuming.

"What do you think!" he exclaimed as he led his guest to his favorite
table in the corner.  "That old rascal bluffed me!  Bluffed me.  Said
there was no relative of Countess Zattiany in the country that he knew
of.  Looked blank as a post when I told him of the extraordinary
resemblance of that girl to Mary Ogden.  Said he never heard of her.
Laughed at the idea of a sub-rosa daughter.  Pretended to be angry at
such an aspersion on Mary's fair fame--was in love with her himself
like the rest of us.  But he was lying and he knew that I knew he was
lying.  What'll you have?"

"Anything.  Go ahead.  I know by the glitter of your eye that you
haven't finished."

"You're right, I haven't."  He gave his order and leaned forward.
"I've done a little prospecting on my own account.  Mary inherited the
old Ogden house over on Murray Hill.  I happen to know that the lease
ran out last year and that it hasn't been rented since.  Well, I walked
past there today, and some one is living in it.  Boarding off.  Windows
open.  Fresh curtains.  A servant receiving a parcel at the area door.
She's there, mark my words."

"Not a doubt of it.  Why didn't you walk boldly up and send in your
card?"

"Hadn't the courage.  Besides, that girl never heard of me.  I hadn't
the ghost of an excuse."

"Why not put Mrs. Oglethorpe on the scent?  She could call.  Women are
always fertile in excuses."

"I can't see what pretext she could trump up.  She'd be keen enough,
all right, but she hardly could tell this haughty creature with the
unmistakable stamp of the great world on her that she knows she must be
the left-handed daughter of Mary Ogden.  Even Jane hasn't assurance
enough for that."

"She might assume that this young woman is a member of the Countess
Zattiany's family--daughter of a cousin or something--those
extraordinary resemblances do recur in families. . . .  That indeed may
be the explanation."

"Not a bit of it.  That girl is Mary's daughter."

"I'm inclined to agree with you.  But it is understood that you can't
hurl it at her.  Mrs. Oglethorpe, however, could invent a pretty
pretence--saw her at the theatre--struck by her likeness to her old
friend--discovered she was living in the family mansion--felt that she
must seek her out----"

"Um.  That's not quite the sort of thing the New York woman does, and
you know it.  True, the war has upset them as it has every one else.
They are still restless.  I have met two opera singers, two actresses,
three of these juvenile editors and columnists at dinners and musical
evenings during the last month alone.  I believe they'd lionize Charley
Chaplin if he'd let them, but I understand he's more exclusive than we
are.  God!  What is New York Society coming to?"

"You like straying outside the sacred preserves yourself occasionally."

"I do.  But I'm a man.  We always did stray a bit.  But when I think of
the exclusiveness of only a few years ago!  Why, New York Society was a
Club.  The most exclusive club in the world.  London Society was
Bohemia compared to it.  It's the democratic flu, that's what!
Aristocracy's done for."

"I'm not so sure.  The reaction may be devastating.  But it's a sign of
grace that they've at last discovered sufficient intelligence to be
bored with their somewhat monotonous selves.  And Mrs. Oglethorpe
always does exactly as she pleases.  Better drop her a hint."

"Well, I'll try it.  But while Jane may be high-handed, she has certain
rigid ideas when it comes to Society and who shall enter its gates.  So
far she's made no concessions.  She and a few others still keep a tight
rein.  Their daughters though!  And granddaughters!  Jane's girls are
replicas of herself with every atom of her personality left out--but
Jim's daughter, Janet, is her grandmother over again plus modern bad
manners, bad habits, and a defiance of every known convention.
Wretched little flapper.  Gad!  What are we coming to!"

"Never mind Janet----"

"Why don't you suggest it to Jane?  She thinks more of you than of any
one else.  I doubt if you could ask her anything----"

"Not much.  She'd twig at once.  I've had several hints lately that she
has her eye on somebody she wants me to marry.  You must do it
yourself--and you must!"

"Well!  If she won't, Mrs. Jim might.  The younger women would know
this girl like a shot if they thought there was any fun in it--then
drop her if she didn't measure up.  I don't know that I care to place
her in such a position."

"I've an idea the fair unknown can take care of herself.  I don't see
her picked up and dropped.  Probably it would be the deuce and all to
meet her.  I think my plan is best.  You can rouse any woman's
curiosity, and no one has more than Mrs. Oglethorpe.  That would be the
wedge.  You'd meet her and then you could give her a dinner and invite
me."

"All right.  I'll try it.  Something must happen soon.  My arteries
won't stand the strain."




V

"Madam is not at home, ma'am."

"Is she not?  Then I'll wait for her."

Mrs. Oglethorpe swept by the butler and he had the sensation of chaff
scattering before a strong wind.  In truth Mrs. Oglethorpe was an
impressive figure and quite two inches taller than himself.  He could
only stare at her in helpless awe, the more so as he had recognized her
at once.  Leadership might be extinct, but Mrs. Oglethorpe was still a
power in New York Society, with her terrible outspokenness, her
uncompromising standards, her sardonic humor, her great wealth, and her
eagle eye for subterfuge.  How could a mere servant hope to oppose that
formidable will when his betters trembled at her nod?

Mrs. Oglethorpe had made her usual careful toilet.  Her full long dress
of heavy-pile black velvet, almost covered with a sable cape, swept the
floor; changing skirts meant nothing to her.  Like all women of the old
régime in New York, she wore her hair dressed very high and it was
surmounted by a small black hat covered with feathers, ruthlessly
exposing her large square face with its small snapping black eyes and
prominent nose.  A high-boned collar of net supported what was left of
her throat.  She wore no jewels, as she clung to the rigorous law of
her youth which had tabued the vulgar display of anything but pearls in
the daytime.  As she was too old and yellow for pearls she compromised
on jet earrings and necklace.  She carried a cane.

Mr. Dinwiddie to his surprise had found no difficulty in persuading her
to investigate the mysteries of the Ogden mansion, for she had leapt at
once to the conclusion that the friend of her youth was in some way
menaced by this presumptuous stranger of the fantastic resemblance.
There had been a time when, while indignantly repudiating the stories
so prevalent for many years after Mary Ogden's marriage to Count
Zattiany, she had secretly believed and condoned them; not only because
she had loved her devotedly and known something of her heavy
disillusionment, but because the wild secret life the exalted Countess
Zattiany was believed to be leading fed her own suppressed longings for
romance and adventure.  With the passage of years, which had taken
their toll of Mary's beauty and fascination, and brought complete
disillusionment to herself, she had almost forgotten that old phase;
moreover, it was many years since she had visited Europe and
correspondence between the two friends, once so intimate, had almost
ceased before the war.  During that long interval she had heard nothing
of her except that she was running a hospital in Buda Pesth, but
shortly after the close of the war she had been distressed to learn
from a member of one of the various commissions to Vienna that Countess
Zattiany was ill in a sanitarium.  She had written at once, but
received no reply.  Now she feared that some adventuress had taken
advantage of a superficial resemblance--she dismissed Mr. Dinwiddie's
protestations of the exactness of that resemblance as the maunderings
of a weakened memory playing about among the ghosts of its youth--to
scheme for the Ogden fortune.  When told that Judge Trent was evidently
shielding the woman her suspicions were redoubled.  She had
consistently hated Judge Trent for fifty years.

If, on the other hand, the creature were really Mary's daughter--and
could prove it--well, she would make up her mind what course to take
when she met her.

"I'll wait in the library," she announced, and moved majestically down
the hall.  Then at a sound she paused and glanced toward the stair
which rose on the left, opposite the library.  A woman was descending,
a woman only an inch or two shorter than herself and no less stately,
with ashen blonde hair coiled low on her graceful neck and wearing a
loose gown of pale green crepe with a silver girdle.

"My God!" exclaimed Mrs. Oglethorpe in a loud imperious voice, as if
commanding the Almighty to leap from his throne and fly to her
assistance.  Then she leaned heavily on her cane.

The lady came quickly down the stairs and made a peremptory signal to
the butler.  As he disappeared she walked forward more slowly and
paused within a few feet of her agitated guest.  Her eyebrows were
slightly raised, her face impassive.  Not even those sharp old eyes
staring at her guessed that she had been completely taken by surprise
and was inwardly quaking.

Mrs. Oglethorpe could not speak for a moment.  The years had dropped
from her.  She was once more a young woman come to spend the day with
her favorite friend . . . or to attend a reception in the stately
formal house on Murray Hill . . . high rooms filled with women wearing
tight basques, bustles, full sweeping skirts, small hats or bonnets
perched on puffs and braids. . . .  Mary, the most radiant and
beautiful and enchanting girl in the world, coming forward with hands
outstretched, while her more formal mother frowned a little at her
enthusiasm . . . or were they both risen to haunt the old house?

But confusion could reign for only a few seconds in Mrs. Oglethorpe's
indomitable soul.  She drew herself up to her imposing height, and her
voice was harsher than usual as she addressed the vision that had
confounded her.

"Pardon me.  Your likeness to my old friend, Countess Zattiany,
startled me.  Who are you, may I ask?"

"Does it really matter?"  And once more Mrs. Oglethorpe started,
although the accent was foreign.

"Yes, it does matter," she said grimly.  "That is what I have come to
find out."

"Oh!"  Again there was a slight lift of the eyebrows.  "I had always
heard that Americans were unconventional, but hardly that they carried
their independence of the conventions so far as to invade the house of
a stranger."

"I'll not be put off.  Are you Mary Zattiany's daughter?"

For a second there was an expression of broad amusement on the
beautiful cold face opposite, but it passed with a slight shrug of the
shoulders.  "No," she said evenly.

"Then who are you?"

"I do not choose to say--at present."  Her tone was as arrogant as her
interlocutor's and Mrs. Oglethorpe bristled.

"What does Trent mean by lying about your presence in this house?"

"Judge Trent respects my wishes."

"Your wishes!  You've made a fool of him.  But I am Countess Zattiany's
oldest friend, and if she has been imposed upon, if she has come to any
harm, if you are after her fortune by pretending on the strength of
your singular likeness to be her heir, I shall know how to put a stop
to it in spite of Judge Trent.  I suppose you have never heard of me.
My name is Oglethorpe."

"I have heard of Mrs. Oglethorpe--from Countess Zattiany.  But she
failed to prepare me for your excessively bad manners."

"Manners be damned.  I use what manners I choose and I've never done
anything else.  I repeat to you that Countess Zattiany was the most
intimate friend of my youth and for many years after.  If she has no
one to protect her interests in this country, I shall protect them
myself.  Don't you suppose I am well aware that if you were in her
confidence she would have sent you direct to me?  It is the first thing
she would have thought of.  If you are not an impostor and an
adventuress present your credentials and I will ask your pardon."

"Judge Trent has my credentials.  Now, if you will excuse me----"

"I will not excuse you.  I will get to the depth of all this mystery.
I abominate mystery.  It is vulgar and stupid.  You will tell me who
you are, or I will set the newspapers on your track.  They'll soon
ferret it out.  I've only to say the word."

"Ah!"  The lady seemed to falter for a moment.  She looked
speculatively at the indignant old face opposite, then made a vague
little gesture toward her hair, and dropped her eyes.  "No," she said
softly.  "Don't--please."  She raised her eyes once more and looked
straight into Mrs. Oglethorpe's.  The two women stood staring at each
other for several seconds.  Mrs. Oglethorpe's eyes blinked, her jaw
fell.  Then she drew herself up in her most impressive manner.

"Good day," she said.  "Your pardon for the intrusion," and although
her voice had trembled, she swept majestically down the hall.  The
unwilling hostess touched a bell and a footman opened the door.




VI

Three weeks passed.  There were almost twice as many first-nights.
"Mary Ogden," as Clavering called her for want of the truth, was at
each.  She never rose in her seat again, and, indeed, seemed to seek
inconspicuousness, but she was always in the second or third row of the
orchestra, and she wore a different gown on each occasion.  As she
entered after the curtain rose and stole out before it went down for
the last time, few but those in the adjacent seats and boxes were
edified by any details of those charming creations, although it was
noticeable that the visiting of both sexes was most active in her
neighborhood.

For by this time she was "the talk of the town," or of that important
and excessively active-minded section of Greater New York represented
at first-nights.  The columnists had commented on her.  One had indited
ten lines of free verse in her honor, another had soared on the wings
of seventeenth century English into a panegyric on her beauty and her
halo of mystery.  A poet-editor-wit had cleped her "The Silent Drama."
Had it been wartime she would inevitably have been set down as a spy,
and as it was there were dark inferences that she was a Bolshevik agent
who had smuggled vast sums of money into the country and passed it on
to the Reds.  There were those who opined she was some rich man's
mistress, recently imported, snatched from some victim of revolution
who could no longer afford her.  Blonde madonnas were always under
suspicion unless you knew all about them.  Others, more practical,
scoffed at these fancy theories and asserted roundly that she was
either a Russian refugee who had sound American or English investments,
or some American woman, educated abroad, who knew no one in New York
and amused herself at the theatre.  Indeed?  Why then should an
obviously wealthy young woman of as obviously good birth and breeding
bring no letters?  Something crooked, not a doubt of it.  A European
girl or young widow of position would never come to America without a
chaperon; nor an American brought up abroad.  A woman with that "air"
knows what's what.  She's simply put herself beyond the pale and
doesn't care.  Some impoverished woman of the noblesse who has taken up
with a rich man.

The men would have liked to put a detective on the track of every
millionaire in town.

Clavering had confided in no one, and Mr. Dinwiddie, although he had
attended a party given by one of the most hospitable of the
Sophisticates where the unknown was discussed from cocktail to
cocktail, and where, forgetting his arteries, he had befuddled himself
at the generous fount, had guarded his tongue.  To Clavering he had
been unable to extend either hope or information.  Mrs. Oglethorpe had
turned a bleak and rigid countenance upon the friend of her youth when
he had called with an eager ear, and forbidden him tartly ever to
mention the subject to her again.

"Interview must have been devilish unpleasant to curdle poor old Jane
like that," he had commented.  "No doubt the girl showed her the door.
Gad!  Jane!  But Mary's daughter could do it.  None better."

Clavering was deeply disappointed.  He turned a scowling back on the
gossips rending The Topic to tatters.  New York must have a new Topic
every season.  This girl had arrived in a season of dearth.  And,
unless she were discovered to be living in absolute flagrancy, they
would throw down the carpet.  Some went even further.  After all, what
about . . .

But there seemed to be not the remotest prospect of meeting her, nor
even of solving the mystery.  She had been seen striding round the
reservoir in a short skirt and high laced boots of soft pale leather.
One triumphant woman had stood next to her at a glove counter and
overheard her observe to the clerk in a sweet and rather deep voice
with an ineluctably refined--and foreign--accent that gloves were
cheaper in New York than in Paris.  She had been passed several times
in her smart little car, and once she had been seen going into the
Public Library.  Evidently she was no hermit.  Several of the
Sophisticates had friends in Society and questioned them eagerly, but
were rewarded only by questions as eager in return.

On the sixth of these first-nights, when the unknown slipped quietly
from her seat at the end of the last act, she saw the aisle in front of
her almost blocked.  One after another the rows of seats were hurriedly
deserted.  Clavering, as usual, was directly behind her, but Mr.
Dinwiddie, forced from his chair many aisles back, was swept out with
the crowd.

When she reached the foyer she found herself surrounded by men and
women whose frank interest was of the same well-bred but artless
essence as that afforded a famous actress or prima donna exhibiting
herself before the footlights.  It was evident that she had a sense of
humor, for as she made her way slowly toward the entrance a smile
twitched her mouth more than once.  Clavering thought that she was on
the point of laughing outright.  But he fumed.  "Damn them!  They'll
scare her off.  She'll never come again."

One or two women had vowed they'd speak to her.  After all a
first-night was a club of sorts.  But their courage failed them.  The
crowd made way for her and she crossed the pavement to wait for her
car.  Clavering, always hoping that some drunken brute would give him
the opportunity to succor her, followed and stood as close as he dared.
Her car drove up and she entered.  As it started she turned her head
and looked straight at him.  And then Clavering was sure that she
laughed outright.

He started recklessly after the car, plunging between automobiles going
in four different directions, and jumping on the running board of a
taxi, told the man to drive like hell toward Park Avenue.  There was
amused recognition in that glance!  She had, must have, noticed him
before tonight!

And then he had his chance.  To the brave belong the fair.




VII

He dismissed the taxi at the corner of her street and walked rapidly
toward the house.  He had no definite object, but with the blood of
romantic ancestors who had serenaded beneath magnolia trees pounding in
his veins, he thought it likely he would take up his stand under the
opposite lamp-post and remain there all night.  The reportorial
news-sense died painlessly.

Suddenly, to his amazement, he saw her run down the steps of her house
and disappear into the area.  She was once more at the gate when he
hurried up to her.

"May I--am I----" he stammered.  "Is anything the matter?"

For a moment she had shrunk back in alarm, but the narrow silent street
between its ramparts of brown stone was bright with moonlight and she
recognized him.

"Oh, it is you," she said with a faint smile.  "I forgot my key and I
cannot make any one hear the bell.  The servants sleep on the top
floor, and of course like logs.  Yes, you can do something.  Are you
willing to break a window, crawl in, and find your way up to the front
door?"

"Watch me!"  Clavering forgot that he was saturnine and remote and
turning thirty-four.  He took the area steps at a bound.  Iron gates
guarded the basement doors, but the old bars on the windows were easily
wrenched out.  He lifted his foot, kicked out a pane, found the catch,
opened the window and ran up the narrow dark stairs.  There was a light
in the spacious hall and in another moment he had opened the door.  He
expected to be dismissed with a word of lofty thanks, but she said in a
tone of casual hospitality:

"There are sandwiches in the library and I can give you a whiskey and
soda."

She walked with a light swift step down the hall, the narrow tail of
her black velvet gown wriggling after her.  Clavering followed in a
daze, but his trained eye took note of the fine old rugs and carved
Italian furniture, two splendid tapestries, and great vases of flowers
that filled the air with a drowsy perfume.  He had heard of the Ogden
house, built and furnished some fifty years ago.  The couple that had
leased it had been childless and it showed little wear.  The stairs
curving on the left had evidently been recarpeted, but in a very dull
red that harmonized with the mellow tints of the old house.

She opened a door at the end of the hall on the right and he found
himself in a large library whose walls were covered with books to the
ceiling.  Dinwiddie had told him that the Ogdens were bookish people
and that "Mary's" grandfather had been an eminent jurist.  The room was
as dark in tone as the hall, but the worn chairs and sofas looked very
comfortable.  A log was burning on the hearth.

She took a key from a drawer and handed it to him.

"You will find whiskey and a syphon in that cabinet, Mr. Clavering.  I
keep them for Judge Trent."

"Mr. Cla----"  He came out of his daze.  "You know who I am then?"

"But certainly.  I am not as reckless as all that."

Her accent was slight but indubious, yet impossible to place.  It might
be that of a European who spoke many languages, or of an American with
a susceptible ear who had lived the greater part of her life abroad.
"I was driving one day with Judge Trent and saw you walking with Mr.
Dinwiddie."

"Trent--ah!"

He had his first full look into those wise unfathomable eyes.  Standing
close to her, she seemed somewhat older than he had guessed her to be,
although her face was unlined.  Probably it was her remarkable poise,
her air of power and security--and those eyes!  What had not they
looked upon?  She smiled and poured broth from a thermos bottle.

"You are forgetting your whiskey and soda," she reminded him.

He filled his glass, took a sandwich and sank into the depths of a
leather chair.  She had seated herself on an upright throne-like chair
opposite.  Her black velvet gown was like a vase supporting a subtly
moulded flower of dazzling fairness.  She wore the three rows of pearls
that had excited almost as much speculation as her mysterious self.  As
she drank her mild beverage she looked at him over the brim of her cup
and once more appeared to be on the verge of laughter.

"Will you tell me who you are?" asked Clavering bluntly.  "This is
hardly fair, you know."

"Mr. Dinwiddie really managed to coax nothing from Judge Trent?  He
called three times, I understand."

"Not a word."

"He had my orders," she said coolly.  "I am obliged to pass some time
in New York and I have my reasons for remaining obscure."

"Then you should have avoided first-nights."

"But I understood that Society did not attend first-nights.  So Judge
Trent informed me.  I love the play.  Judge Trent told me that
first-nights were very amusing and that I would be sure to be seen by
no one I had ever met in European Society."

"Probably not," he said drily and feeling decidedly nettled at her calm
assumption that nothing but the society of fashion counted.  "But the
people who do attend them are a long sight more distinguished in the
only way that counts these days, and the women are often as well
dressed as any in the sacrosanct preserves."

"Oh, I noticed that," she said quickly.  "Charming intelligent faces, a
great variety of types, and many--but many--quite admirable gowns.  But
who are they, may I ask?  I thought there was nothing between New York
Society and the poor but--well, the bourgeoisie."

He informed her.

"Ah!  You see--well, I always heard that your people of the artistic
and intellectual class were rather eccentric--rather cultivated a pose."

"Once, maybe.  They all make too much money these days.  But there are
freaks, if you care to look for them.  Some of the suddenly prosperous
authors and dramatists have rather dizzy-looking wives; and I suppose
you saw those two girls from Greenwich Village that sat across the
aisle from you tonight?"

She shuddered.  "One merely looked like a Hottentot, but the
other!--with that thin upper layer of her short black hair dyed a
greenish white, and her haggard degenerate green face.  What do they do
in Greenwich Village?  Is it an isolation camp for defectives?"

"It was once a colony of real artists, but the big fish left and the
minnows swim slimily about, giving off nothing but their own sickly
phosphorescence."

"How interesting.  A sort of Latin Quarter, although I never saw
anything in Paris quite like those dreadful girls."

"Probably not.  As a race we are prone to exaggerations.  But are you
not going to tell me your name?"

She had finished her supper and was leaning against the high back of
her chair, her long slender but oddly powerful looking hands folded
lightly on the black velvet of her lap.  Once more he was struck by her
absolute repose.

"But certainly.  I am the Countess Zattiany."

"The Countess Zattiany!"

"The Countess Josef Zattiany, to be exact.  I went to Europe when I was
a child, and when I finished school visited my cousin, Mary Zattiany--I
belong to the Virginian branch of her mother's family--at her palace in
Vienna and married her cousin's nephew."

"Ah!  That accounts for the resemblance!" exclaimed Clavering.  And
then, quite abruptly, he did not believe a word of it.

"Resemblance?"

"Yes, poor old Dinwiddie was completely bowled over when you stood up
and surveyed the house that night.  Thought he had seen the ghost of
his old flame.  I had to take him out in the alley and give him a
drink."

She met his eyes calmly.  "That was the cause of his interest?  Cousin
Mary always said that the likeness to herself as a young woman was
rather remarkable, that we might be mother and daughter instead of only
third cousins."

"Ah--yes--exactly.  Is--is she with you?"

"No, alas!  She is in a sanitarium in Vienna and likely to remain there
for a long time.  When Judge Trent wrote that it would be well for her
interests if she came to New York she asked me to come instead and gave
me her power of attorney.  As my husband was killed in the first year
of the war and I had no other ties, I can assure you I was glad to
come."  She shivered slightly.  "Oh, yes!  Vienna!  To see so much
misery and to be able to give so little help!  But now that Mary's and
my own fortune are restored I can assure you it gives me the greatest
satisfaction of my life to send a large share of our incomes to our
agent in Vienna."

This time there was an unmistakable ring of truth in her deep tones.
And she was human.  Clavering had begun to doubt it, notwithstanding
her powerful disturbing magnetism.  But was he falling in love with
her?  He was attracted, dazzled, and he still felt romantic.  But love!
In spite of his suspicions she seemed to move on a plane infinitely
remote.

"Shall you stay here?"

"Oh, for a time, yes.  I cannot see Cousin Mary, and even Paris is
spoiled.  Besides, Judge Trent wishes me to learn something of
business.  He is growing old and says that women nowadays take an
interest in their investments.  I certainly find it highly diverting."

"No doubt.  But surely you will not continue to shut yourself up?  You
could know any one you choose.  Judge Trent has only to give you a
dinner.  Unfortunately most of his respectable friends are a great many
years older than yourself----"

"I have no desire to know them.  In Paris, off and on, I met many of
those elderly New York ladies of position.  They all have that built-up
look, with hats too small and high for their bony old faces, which they
do not even soften with powder or the charming accessories of the
toilet known to every European woman of fashion.  And feathers!  Why
are they so fond of feathers--not charming drooping feathers, but a
sort of clipped hedge, all of a size, like a garden plot; sometimes
oblong, sometimes round?  And why do they never look à la mode, in
spite of their expensive furs and materials?"

"That is the sign manual of their intense respectability.  The old
régime would not compromise with fashion in all its extravagant changes
for the world.  Moreover, it is their serene belief that they may dress
exactly as they choose, and they choose to keep an old tradition alive.
Are not English duchesses much the same?"

"So.  Well, I do not bore myself."

"But the younger women.  They are the smartest in the world.  There is
not the least necessity you should bore yourself with the elders.
Surely you must long for the society of women of your age."

She moved restlessly for the first time.  "They were always in Europe
before the war.  I met many of them.  They did not interest me.  I
hardly knew what they were talking about."

"But men.  Surely a woman as young--and beautiful----"

"Oh, men!"  Clavering had never heard as profound disillusion in any
woman's tones.  And then a curious expression of fear flitted through
her eyes and she seemed to draw herself together.

"What has some brute of a man done to her?" thought Clavering with
furious indignation, and feeling more romantic than ever.  Could it
have been her husband?  For a moment he regretted that Count Josef
Zattiany had gone beyond human vengeance.

"You are too young to hate men," he stammered.  And then he went on
with complete banality, "You have never met the right man."

"I am older than you perhaps think," she said drily.  "And I have known
a great many men--and of a variety!  But," she added graciously, "I
shall be glad if you will come and see me sometimes.  I enjoy your
column, and I am sure we shall find a great deal to talk about."

Clavering glowed with a pride that almost convinced him he was not as
blasé as he had hoped.  He rose, however.

"I'll come as often as you will let me.  Make no mistake about that.
But I should not have stayed so long.  It is very late, and you
are--well, rather unprotected, you know.  I think you should have a
chaperon."

"I certainly shall not.  And if I find you interesting enough to talk
with until two in the morning, I shall do so.  Dine with me tomorrow
night if you have nothing better to do.  And----"  She hesitated a
moment, then added with a curious smile, "Bring Mr. Dinwiddie.  It is
always charitable to lay a ghost.  At half after eight?"

She walked with him to the front door, and when he held out his hand
she lifted hers absently.  He was a quick-witted young man and he
understood.  He raised it lightly to his lips, then let himself out.
As he was walking rapidly toward Park Avenue, wondering if he should
tramp for hours--he had never felt less like sleeping--he remembered
the broken window.  The "crime wave" was terrorizing New York.  There
was no policeman in sight.  To leave her unprotected was unthinkable.
He walked back slowly until he reached the lamp-post opposite her
house; finally, grinning, he folded his arms and leaned against it.
There he stood until a policeman came strolling along, some two hours
later.  He stated the case and told the officer that if anything
happened to the house he would hold him responsible.  The man was
inclined to be intensely suspicious until Clavering mentioned his
newspaper and followed the threat with a bill.  Then he promised to
watch the house like a hawk, and Clavering, tired, stiff, and very
cold, went home to bed.




VIII

"Tommy rot.  Don't believe a word of it.  Mary's mother was one of the
Thornhills.  Don't believe there ever was a Virginia branch.  But I'll
soon find out.  Also about this Josef Zattiany.  That girl is Mary
Ogden's daughter."

They were seated in a corner of Mr. Dinwiddie's favorite club, where
they had met by appointment.  Clavering shrugged his shoulders.  He had
no intention of communicating his own doubts.

"But you'll dine there tonight?"

"Won't I?  And I'll keep my ears open."

Clavering privately thought that the Countess Josef Zattiany would be
more than a match for him, but replied: "After all, what does it
matter?  She is a beautiful and charming woman and no doubt you'll have
a very good dinner."

"That's all very well as far as it goes, but I've never been so
interested in my life.  Of course if she's Mary's daughter I'll do
anything to befriend her--that is if she'll be honest enough to admit
it.  But I don't like all this lying and pretence----"

"I think your terms are too strong.  There have been extraordinary
resemblances before in the history of the world, 'doubles,' for
instance, where there was no known relationship.  Rather remarkable
there are enough faces to go round.  And she confesses to be of the
same family.  At all events you must admit that she has not made use of
her alibi to force her way into society."

"Probably knows her alibi won't stand the strain.  The women would soon
ferret out the truth. . . .  What I'm afraid of is that she's got this
power of attorney out of Mary when the poor girl was too weak to
resist, and is over here to corral the entire fortune."

"But surely Judge Trent----"

"Oh, Trent!  He's a fool where women are concerned.  Always was, and
now he's got to the stage where he can't sit beside a girl without
pawing her.  They won't have him in the house.  Of course this lovely
creature's got him under her thumb.  (I'll see him today and give him a
piece of my mind for the lies he's told me.)  And if this girl has
inherited her mother's brains, she's equal to anything."

"I thought that your Mary was composite perfection."

"Never said anything of the sort.  Didn't I tell you she always kept us
guessing?  I sometimes used to think that if it hadn't been for her
breeding and the standards that involves, and her wealth and position,
she'd have made a first-class adventuress."

"Was she a good liar?"

"She was insolently truthful, but I'm certain she wouldn't have
hesitated at a whopping lie if it would have served her purpose.  She
was certainly rusée."

"Well, the dinner should be highly interesting with all these
undercurrents.  I'll call for you at a quarter past eight.  I must run
now and do my column."


Clavering, often satirical and ironic, was positively brutal that
afternoon.  The latest play, book, moving picture, the inefficiency of
the New York police, his afflicting correspondents, were hacked to the
