him very kindly, and all his friends treated him as though nothing had
happened; but for all this, he could not feel right. His sufferings were
not yet ended; repentance will not banish at once the remembrance of
former sin and error. There was a deep feeling of commiseration
manifested towards him by his associates. He was to them the returned
prodigal, and they would fain have killed the fatted calf in honor of
his happy restoration.

The Zephyrs and the Butterflies wore their uniforms, and Mr. Walker was
so excited that all the boys were sure a good time was before them;
though, as the boats had not yet been recovered, they were at a loss to
determine the nature of the sports to which they had been invited.

The Rovers still maintained themselves on the island. The rupture
between Tim and Barney had evidently been healed; for both parties
seemed to mingle as though nothing had occurred to mar their harmonious
action.

The boys at the boat-house were not kept long in suspense in relation to
their day's sport. Captain Sedley formed them into a procession, when
all had arrived, and, after appointing Fred Harper chief marshal,
directed them to march down to Rippleton, cross the river, and halt upon
the other side till he came.

When they reached the place they found Uncle Ben there, and soon after
were joined by Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker.

"Follow us," said the former, as he led the way down to a little inlet
of the lake, whose waters were nearly enclosed by the land.

"Hurrah!" shouted Fred Harper, suddenly, when he obtained a view of the
inlet, and the cry was taken up by the whole party.

"The fleet! The fleet!" was passed from mouth to mouth; and unable to
control their excitement, they broke their ranks and ran with all their
might down to the water's side.

Resting gracefully, like so many swans, on the bright waters of the
inlet, lay five beautiful club boats. They were of different sizes, and
fore and aft floated their flags to the gentle breeze.

I will not attempt to describe the wild delight of the boys when they
beheld the splendid boats. The bright vision of a fleet, which they had
so cheerfully abandoned to be enabled to do a good and generous deed,
was realized. Here was the fleet, far surpassing in grandeur their most
magnificent ideal.

Five boats! And the Zephyr and the Butterfly would make seven!

"You have done this!" exclaimed Frank, as Mr. Walker approached.

"Your father and I together did it. Now, boys, if you will form a ring
we will explain."

"Three cheers for Mr. Walker first," suggested Tony.

They were given, and three more for Captain Sedley.

"My lads, I heard all about your giving up the fleet to help Mr. Munroe
out of trouble. It was noble--heroic, and I have since taken pains to
