full in view at last, an exquisitely made and mounted microscope of one
of the best London makers. Now was Mr. Rhys in his element; and proved
how justly he had declared himself a boy. He got the microscope all
into place and arranged, and then set himself to find out its powers
and method of management.. There were some prepared objects sent with
the instrument, which gave him enough to work with; and over them he
was in an absorbed state for hours; not selfishly, however, for he
allowed Eleanor to take her full share of the pleasure of looking, when
once he had brought objects into view. At last he broke off and hurried
away to an engagement.

The next day at breakfast, Eleanor was a good deal surprised to be
asked if she would take a walk?

"Now?" said Eleanor. "You mean immediately after breakfast?"

"It is the only time I have to-day. All the time before dinner, I have;
but I supposed we should want the whole of it. I am going after objects
for the microscope--and I thought it would be selfish to go alone.
Besides, we may help one another."

"I shall be very glad to go," said Eleanor laughing; "but don't expect
any help of me; unless it be in the way of finding out such places as
you want."

"I fancy I know those better than you do. Miss Powle, a small basket
would be desirable to hold phials of water."

"And phials."

"I will take care of those."

Much amused, and a little excited, Eleanor made ready for the walk, and
in the matter of the basket at least proved helpful. It was bright and
early when they set out. Among those mountains and valleys, the dew was
not off the fields yet, while the air was freshly sweet from roses and
wild thyme, and primroses lingering, and numberless other sweet things;
for hedgerow and meadow and mountain side were gay and rich with a
multitude of flowers. There was a mingling of shadow and sunshine too,
at that early time in the morning; and as the two walkers passed along
they were sometimes in one, sometimes in the other. There was little
conversation at first. Mr. Rhys went not with a lingering step, but as
if with some purpose to reach a definite locality. Eleanor was musing
to herself over the old walks taken with Julia by her present
companion; never but once Eleanor's walking companion till now. How
often Julia had gone with him; what a new and strange pleasure it was
for herself; and how oddly life changes about things; that the
impossible thing at Wiglands should be possible at Plassy.

"What sort of places are you looking for, Mr. Rhys?" Eleanor inquired
at last.

"All sorts of places," he said smiling. "All sorts at least of wet
places. But I know nothing about it, you know, except what I have read.
They say, wherever water is found, some or other species of these
minute wonders may be met with; standing pools, and rivers, and ditches
all have them; and some particularly beautiful are to be found in bog
water; so with, I am afraid you will think, a not very commendable
impatience, I am pointing my steps towards a bog that I know--in the
wish to get some of the best first."
