visit had been a most unfortunate one, for the lieutenant could not have
avoided seeing the nature of the papers on the table. But as Somers was
a true and loyal man, his conscience accused him of no wrong, and he had
no fears in regard to the result. This revelation simply imposed upon
him the necessity of making Mr. Pillgrim his confidant, which he
proposed to do at the first convenient opportunity.

"You think you will not sign the oath to-night, Mr. Somers?" said his
companion.

"It had better be deferred," replied Somers, as he folded up the
commission, and put it in his pocket, regarding it as the most important
evidence in his possession against Coles, and a sufficient confirmation
of the truth of the statement he had so carefully written out the night
before.

"Suit yourself, Somers. We shall not differ about these small matters,"
added Wynkoop, as he folded up the oath, and put it in his pocket. "By
the way, Somers, what do you think of our friend Pillgrim?"

"He is a fine fellow, and I am told he is a good officer. I was not
aware that you knew him."

"I have only met him once, just as I met you. How do you think he stands
affected towards our cause?"

"Not well."

"So I feared."

"He is a loyal man, though a Virginian."

"Do you think I could make anything of him?"

"I am satisfied you could not."

"I did not dare to try him. I gave him a chance to nibble at my bait,
but he wouldn't bite. Perhaps, when I know him better, he will come
round; for I don't think there are many of these Yankee officers that
have any real heart in their work."

"You are utterly mistaken," said Somers; but remembering that he was
hardly in a position to defend his loyal comrades in the navy, he did
not seriously combat the proposition of the rebel emissary.

As the business of the interview was now finished, Somers shook hands
with his agreeable host--though his heart repelled the act,--and took
leave of him. He hastened to his chamber, agitated and excited by the
strange and revolting scene through which he had just passed. It was
some time before he was calm enough to think coherently of what he had
done, and of the compact he had made. He wished very much to see Mr.
Waldron now; indeed, he felt the absolute necessity of confiding to some
trustworthy person the momentous secret he had obtained, which burned in
his soul like an evil deed.

If Lieutenant Pillgrim had not actually read his commission when it lay
on the table, he must, at least, have suspected that all was not right
with his shipmate. He must, therefore, confide in him, and without the
loss of another moment, he hastened to his room for this purpose; but
the lieutenant was not there. He searched for him in all the public
