uncommon bore, this doing nothing but looking at the trees. I say,
Breynton, the slope's easy here for a quarter of a mile; come ahead."

"No, thank you; I don't approve of racing up mountains."

Tom might have said he didn't approve of being beaten; the iron-gray was
no match for the colt, and he knew it.

"Who'll race?" persisted Mr. Francis, impatiently; "isn't there
anybody?"

"I will," said Gypsy, seriously enough.

"You!" said Tom; "why, the colt would leave that bay mare out of sight
before you could say Jack Robinson."

"Oh, I don't expect to beat. Of course that's out of the question. But I
should like the run; where's the goal, Francis?"

"That turn in the road where the tall fir-tree is, with those dead
limbs; you see?"

"Yes. We'll trot, of course. All ready."

"Be very careful, Gypsy," called her father, nervously; "I'm really
almost afraid to have you go. You might come to the precipice sooner,
than you expect, and then the horse may shy."

"I'll be careful father; come, Nelly, gently—whe-ee!"

Suddenly reflecting that it was not supposed to be lady-like to whistle,
Gypsy drew her lips into a demure pucker, touched Nelly with the tassel
of her whip, and flew away up the hill on a brisk trot. Mr. Francis
condescendingly checked the full speed of the colt, and they rode on
pretty nearly side by side.

"I'm afraid, in justice to my horse, I must really come in first," began
Mr. Francis, loosening his rein as they neared the fir-tree.

"Oh, of course," said Gypsy, with a twinkle in her eyes; "I didn't
undertake to beat."

Now Nelly had a trick with which Gypsy was perfectly familiar, of
breaking into a run at an instant's notice, if she were pinched in a
certain spot on her neck. Suddenly, while the colt was springing on in
his fleet trot, and Mr. Francis supposed Gypsy was a full eight feet
behind, he was utterly confounded to see her flying past him on a
bounding gallop, her hair tossing in the wind, her cheeks scarlet, her
eyes triumphant.

But right in the middle of the road, between them and the fir-tree, was
something neither of them had seen;—a huge tree just fallen, with its
high, prickly branches on.

"Jerusalem!" said Mr. Francis, under his breath as the colt pricked up
his ears ominously.

"Oh, good! here's a jump," cried Gypsy, and over it she went at a bound.
The colt reared and shied, and planting his dainty forefeet firmly on
the ground, refused to stir an inch. Gypsy whirled around and stood
