though really, all the capital suggestions and plans for merrymaking
always come from him.”

“He is better, I hope?” asked both sisters with real sympathy, making
their young faces womanly and sweet.

“Yes, and has hopes of entire recovery. At least, they tell him so,
though Dr. Ashley said there was no chance of it.”

“Dear, dear, how sad! Shall we see him, Tavia?”

“Certainly; he is able to be with us now in the evening, and enjoys
society as much as ever. But please take no notice of his infirmity, and
make no inquiries beyond the usual ‘How do you do.’ He is sensitive, and
hates to be considered an invalid more than ever.”

“How charming it must be to take care of him, he is so accomplished and
delightful. I quite envy you,” said Blanche pensively.

“Sir Jasper told us that the General and Mrs. Snowdon were coming. I
hope they will, for I’ve a most intense curiosity to see her--”
 began Rose.

“Hush, she is here with Mamma! Why curious? What is the mystery? For you
look as if there was one,” questioned Octavia under her breath.

The three charming heads bent toward one another as Rose replied in a
whisper, “If I knew, I shouldn’t be inquisitive. There was a rumor that
she married the old general in a fit of pique, and now repents. I asked
Mamma once, but she said such matters were not for young girls to hear,
and not a word more would she say. N’importe, I have wits of my
own, and I can satisfy myself. The gentlemen are coming! Am I all right,
dear?” And the three glanced at one another with a swift scrutiny that
nothing could escape, then grouped themselves prettily, and waited, with
a little flutter of expectation in each young heart.

In came the gentlemen, and instantly a new atmosphere seemed to pervade
the drawing room, for with the first words uttered, several romances
began. Sir Jasper was taken possession of by Rose, Blanche intended to
devote herself to Maurice Treherne, but Annon intercepted her, and
Octavia was spared any effort at politeness by this unexpected move on
the part of her lover.

“He is angry, and wishes to pique me by devoting himself to Blanche. I
wish he would, with all my heart, and leave me in peace. Poor Maurice,
he expects me, and I long to go to him, but must obey Mamma.” And
Octavia went to join the group formed by my lady, Mrs. Snowdon, the
general, and the major.

The two young couples flirted in different parts of the room, and
Treherne sat alone, watching them all with eyes that pierced below the
surface, reading the hidden wishes, hopes, and fears that ruled them. A
singular expression sat on his face as he turned from Octavia’s clear
countenance to Mrs. Snowdon’s gloomy one. He leaned his head upon his
hand and fell into deep thought, for he was passing through one of those
fateful moments which come to us all, and which may make or mar a life.
Such moments come when least looked for: an unexpected meeting, a
peculiar mood, some trivial circumstance, or careless word produces it,
and often it is gone before we realize its presence, leaving
aftereffects to show us what we have gained or lost. Treherne was
