his wife. He had not told her that he had four thousand dollars in gold
in the house, for he feared that she might be tempted to rob him of his
treasure. Mrs. Fairfield, therefore, did not comprehend his despairing
utterances when he announced the loss of his money.

Levi and his aunt conveyed the senseless form to the front room, and
after working over him nearly half an hour, he came out of the fit, but
only to suffer the most intense agonies at the loss of his money.

"What on airth is the matter with you, Nathan?" asked his wife, when,
after another examination of the hole in the wall, he appeared in the
kitchen again.

Bessie had gone home; but Levi remained, to render any assistance in
his power in putting the house to rights.

"O!" groaned the miser, heavily, as he paced the room with furious
strides.

"Can't you tell what ails you?" continued Mrs. Fairfield.

"It's all gone," gasped he, with a prolonged sigh.

"What is it? What's all gone? Why don't you tell a body what has
happened?"

"My money is all gone! Somebody has stolen it--robbed me, ruined me!"

"Who on airth stole it?"

"I donno," replied Mr. Fairfield, glancing at Levi.

"How much was stole?"

"Four thousand dollars," sighed the miser.

"For massy sake!" exclaimed Mrs. Fairfield; and it was a question
whether she would not faint, for such a sum of money was beyond her
comprehension.

"Where was it, uncle Nathan?" asked Levi, who pitied the sufferings of
the old man.

The miser looked at his nephew. People always suspect those whom they
hate. If any wicked deed is done, they charge it upon those they love
the least, regardless of circumstances.

"Levi Fairfield, you stole my money!" continued the old man, fiercely.

"Nonsense, Nathan!" interposed Mrs. Fairfield. "Levi didn't do nothin'
of the sort."

"Didn't you tell me he went up in the attic before the fire? Didn't you
tell me you gave him a piece of candle?" demanded Mr. Fairfield,
earnestly; and doubtless he felt that Levi was guilty, for his
impulsive charge was made on the strength of a course of reasoning he
had followed out.

"What if I did tell you so? Levi didn't steal no four thousand dollars.
There's no sense nor reason in sayin' so," added aunt Susan.
