
"I'm not cold. Shall you be gone long?" she asked.

"No."

"This is a very dismal place."

"You shall be on the broad river in the morning."

She lay down, and I left her to meet Sim at the landing-place. He had
arrived before me, and we loaded all the rest of the goods on the raft.

"What shall I do with the wheelbarrow?" asked Sim.

"Take it up into the open field, where they can see it. It might lie in
the swamp for a year before any one found it; and I don't mean to take a
single thing from Fishley. I carried back the saw I borrowed, and bought
a new one. I don't owe him anything now," I replied.

"I reckon he'll wonder where you and Miss Flora are, when he gets back,"
said Sim, with one of his broad grins.

"Let him wonder. I shall not charge him anything for wondering."

"I s'pose not," chuckled Sim, as he went off with the wheelbarrow.

While he was gone, I amused myself in picking up a quantity of dry wood
on the high ground for the stove, which I placed upon the raft. As soon
as Sim returned, we pushed off, and made our last trip through the
swamp. When we arrived at the raft, I found Flora had got up, and was
walking about the platform. She was so nervous she could not lie in bed.
I placed her chair in the large room, closed the shutters, and made a
fire in the stove. In a few minutes I had the pleasure of seeing her
seated before the fire, seemingly comfortable and happy.

Sim and I transferred the articles, including Flora's wagon, from the
small raft to the house on the large one. By this time it was quite
dark, and I lighted my lantern. My first work was in Flora's room, where
I made up the bed, and spread a rug on the floor. I drove nails into the
walls to hang her clothes upon, and arranged her boxes on some shelves I
had put up. The place looked very cosy to me, and Flora declared that it
was ever so much nicer than she had expected. I had taken great pains
with this part of the building, and carefully stopped every crack where
the wind could blow through upon her, and the roof had already been
tested in a heavy shower.

By nine o'clock, as nearly as I could guess the time, I had finished my
sister's room; but, though it was past her bedtime, she was not willing
to retire. I had hoped she would take to her bed at the usual hour, and
relieve me of all anxiety about her, for I was afraid she would catch
cold and be sick. But the excitement would not permit her to do so. The
stove warmed both of the rooms, and we were in more danger from the want
of ventilation than from the night air. She sat in her chair in her
room, with Sim and me before her, talking over the matter.

"Why don't you start, Buckland?" she asked, when I had detailed more
fully than before my plans.

"It is rather too early yet. You know the road to Riverport runs along
the bank of the creek, and I don't wish anybody in these parts to see
