
"What do you think you shall do for a living, Phil Farringford, when
you arrive at St. Louis?" asked Mr. Gracewood, as we sat on the
hurricane deck of a Missouri River steamer.

"I don't care much what I do, if I can only get into some mechanical
business," I replied. "I want to learn a trade. I don't think I'm very
vain when I say that I have about half learned one now."

"Perhaps you have half learned several," added my excellent friend,
with a smile. "I have no doubt you will make a good mechanic, for you
are handy in the use of tools; and you have been thrown so much upon
your own resources that you are full of expedients."

"I am always delighted when I have a difficult job to do. Nothing
pleases me so much as to study up the means of overcoming an obstacle,"
I added.

"The first qualification for any pursuit is to have a taste for it. You
will make a good mechanic."

"I am only afraid that after I have learned a trade, I shall not care
to work at it."

"That won't do," protested Mr. Gracewood. "You mustn't keep jumping
from one thing to another. Frequent change is the enemy of progress.
You must not be fickle."

"But, after I have learned my trade, or rather finished learning it,
there will be no more difficulties to overcome."

"Yes, there will. What trade do you mean to learn?"

"The carpenter's, I think."

"There may be an infinite variety in the trade."

"I know there may be, but there is not. One house must be very much
like every other one, I don't think I could be contented to keep doing
the same thing over and over again."

"If you wish to succeed, you must stick to your trade, Phil
Farringford."

"Should I stick to it if I can do better at something else?"

"You must, at least, be very sure that you can do better at something
else."

"Of course I shall; but, if I learn my trade, I shall always have it to
fall back upon."

"That is very true; but I wish to impress it upon your mind that
fickleness of purpose is fatal to any real success in morals, in
science, and in business."

Our conversation was interrupted by the stopping of the steamer at a
wood-yard; for I never lost an opportunity, on those occasions, to take
a walk on shore. I was nervously anxious to see everything there was to
be seen. All was new and strange; and every day, as the settlements on
