do if we live to be ninety. It will be the loss of others if they don’t
see our bloom upon us. Shall I get you a paper of cherries, Isabel? The
children seem to be enjoying them.”

Isabel sprang upon her offspring with a cry of despair. “Oh, what shall
I do? Now we shall not have a wink of sleep with them to-night. Where
is that nux?” She hunted for the medicine in her bag, and the children
submitted; for they had eaten all the cherries, and they took their
medicine without a murmur. “I wonder at your letting them eat the sour
things, Basil,” said their mother, when the children had run off to the
newsstand again.

“I wonder that you left me to see what they were doing,” promptly
retorted their father.

“It was your nonsense about the brides,” said Isabel; “and I think
this has been a lesson to us. Don’t let them get anything else to eat,
dearest.”

“They are safe; they have no more money. They are frugally confining
themselves to the admiration of the Japanese bows and arrows yonder. Why
have our Indians taken to making Japanese bows and arrows?”

Isabel despised the small pleasantry. “Then you saw nobody at the
hotel?” she asked.

“Not even the Ellisons,” said Basil.

“Ah, yes,” said Isabel; “that was where we met them. How long ago it
seems! And poor little Kitty! I wonder what has become of them? But I’m
glad they’re not here. That’s what makes you realize your age: meeting
the same people in the same place a great while after, and seeing how
old--they’ve grown. I don’t think I could bear to see Kitty Ellison
again. I’m glad she didn’t come to visit us in Boston, though, after
what happened, she couldn’t, poor thing! I wonder if she’s ever
regretted her breaking with him in the way she did. It’s a very painful
thing to think of,--such an inconclusive conclusion; it always seemed as
if they ought to meet again, somewhere.”

“I don’t believe she ever wished it.”

“A man can’t tell what a woman wishes.”

“Well, neither can a woman,” returned Basil, lightly.

His wife remained serious. “It was a very fine point,--a very little
thing to reject a man for. I felt that when I first read her letter
about it.”

Basil yawned. “I don’t believe I ever knew just what the point was.”

“Oh yes, you did; but you forget everything. You know that they met two
Boston ladies just after they were engaged, and she believed that he did
n’t introduce her because he was ashamed of her countrified appearance
before them.”

“It was a pretty fine point,” said Basil, and he laughed provokingly.

“He might not have meant to ignore her,” answered Isabel thoughtfully;
“he might have chosen not to introduce her because he felt too proud of
