bitterly. "I hope such things will be prevented."

"What things?" asked Mr. Lowington, mildly.

"Secret societies, sir."

"I am not in favor of such associations for political purposes; but I
think the crew had a perfect right to organize for this election."

"But the students who joined the society had to pledge themselves to
vote for Cantwell."

"That is virtually done at all caucuses and political conventions. You
think such societies ought to be suppressed--do you?"

"I certainly do, sir."

"Then I suppose we must begin in the cabin," laughed the principal.

"We had no secret society in the cabin, sir."

"No?"

"Certainly not, Mr. Lowington."

"Inasmuch as no seaman is allowed to enter the after cabin, your
meetings there were, to all intents and purposes, secret. You proposed
to keep the offices among yourselves, and you nominated the candidates,
without consulting the crew, who were to find most of the votes to
elect them, if they were elected. I think Scott was perfectly justified
in taking the course he did. The secret society, I suspect, is rather
for amusement than for anything else. You knew of its existence, and it
is only a fair counterbalance for your meetings in the after cabin."

"We have come to the conclusion, sir, that our plan does not work very
well," added De Forrest, rather sheepishly.

"It has not been tried under favorable circumstances. I have a higher
opinion of it than you seem to have," replied Mr. Lowington. "It was
brought forward, I am told, by yourself and others, to prevent Cantwell
from becoming captain or first lieutenant. This was an unworthy
purpose, and in the eyes of the crew it amounted to persecution."

"We did not think he was fit for either of these places."

"Perhaps he was not; and if your plan had not been adopted, he would
only have been fourth lieutenant. As the matter stands now, you have
actually made an unpopular officer your captain by your attempt to
persecute him. However odd and ridiculous Scott's tactics may have been
to defeat your intentions, they were based upon a genuine love of fair
play. You have been caught in your own trap."

"I confess that we have, sir; and we would like to get out of the
trap," replied De Forrest.

"That is quite impossible. Cantwell has been fairly elected, and he
shall serve out his month."

"But after that, sir?"

