and Lincoln, while the principal and the doctor went round by the
doors as the more dignified means of egress. Peaks went one way, and
the two lieutenants the other way.

Clyde, fearful that haste might look suspicious, walked a short
distance, till he came to a building on which was a sign, HÃ´tel du
Nord, and which appeared to be under repairs. He stepped in at the
open door, and went up stairs. Men were at work in some of the rooms;
but he avoided them, and appeared to be looking over the building. At
last he came to an open window on the street from which he had
entered. He looked out, and in the distance saw his pursuers running
rapidly in opposite directions. After he had remained in the hotel
about an hour, he ventured to leave, and walked very cautiously up the
street. Feeling the need of an overcoat, he entered a store, and
purchased one, which still further disguised him, so that if he met
any of his late shipmates, they would be still less likely to
recognize him. He walked till he came to a carriage stand; where,
entering a vehicle, he pointed in the direction he wished to go, which
was towards the king's palace. When the driver stopped at the gate, he
pointed towards the hills in the rear of the city. The Norwegian
looked astonished, and could not understand him.

"I want to go out of town."

The driver drove his horse to the other side of the street, and hailed
a short, stout man, who was passing at the time.

"Do you want a guide, sir?" asked the stranger.

"Yes," promptly replied Clyde.

"Where do wish to go?"

"Over there," replied Clyde, pointing again in the direction he wished
to go.

"To Sandviken?"

"Yes; that's the place," added the youth, who did not care where he
went, if he could only get out of the city.

"It is more than eight miles," suggested the guide.

"I don't care if it is eighty; that's where I want to go. Are you a
commissionaire?"

"Yes. I belong to the Victoria Hotel."

"All right; jump in."

The man made a bargain with the driver, and in a few moments Clyde was
on his way to Sandviken, confident that he had escaped any further
pursuit. He had already come to the conclusion not to see his mother
until after the Young America had left Christiania.

In the mean time, Peaks had given up the chase. Paul assured the
principal that Clyde would come back as soon as his mother arrived.
Mr. Lowington did not care to have the new scholar see his mother
again if he was to be a student in the Academy; but as Clyde could not
be found, there appeared to be no alternative.
