

"You find us, in humble imitation of Mr. Turveydrop, still using our
little arts to polish--polish!" said Jessie Kirke, mimicking the
famous trowel gesture of the Professor of Deportment, as Orrin
Wyllys entered Mrs. Baxter's drawing-room on the evening of the
fourth of January.

The Lady President's "collegiate re-unions" on the first and third
Thursdays of each month had, up to this winter, been declared a
nuisance by the class for whose benefit she had inaugurated the
series; to wit, the homeless, graceless students whose intellectual
training was committed to her husband and his confr√®res, while
their polite education was left to Fate and the hap-hazard culture
of promiscuous society. Now, promiscuous society--(the term is Mrs.
Baxter's--not mine) in Hamilton, although less detrimental to the
principles, manners, and conversational powers of unguarded youth
than the same foe would have been in a region more remote from the
great humanizing and refining centre expressed, to the visual
organs, by the square, cream-colored mansion at the right of the
college campus--was yet inimical to the best interests (another
stolen phrase!) of the aforesaid matriculated youngsters. To
counteract the evil, the presidential residence was converted, on
the evenings I have designated, into a social reformatory, and the
mistress put forth her utmost energy to render the process of
amelioration pleasant to the subjects thereof. The success of her
system, which had gone into operation two years before, had been
less than indifferent up to the date of her young kinswoman's
arrival. Simultaneously with her appearance at the pillared portal
of the cream-colored Centre, the cause of elegant deportment and
colloquial accomplishments began to look up in the contiguous halls
of learning. The "reception" on the ensuing Thursday was well
attended, the second was a "crush "--the supply of lemonade and
sponge-cake inadequate to the demand.

This was the third, and the hostess, elate with past, and sanguine
of prospective, victories, had, with the assistance of her guest,
bedecked her rooms with New Year's garlands and floral legends. As
an ingenious tribute to the learning of the major portion of the
assembly, Mrs. Baxter had accomplished a Latinization of certain
stock phrases of welcome, and was immensely proud of the "classic
air" imparted to her saloon by these.

"I suppose they are all right," Jessie said dubiously to Orrin, when
he inspected them. "My knowledge of the dead tongue is confined to
the musty sayings everybody has learned by heart--'Sic transit
gloria mundi,' 'Mirabile dictu,' and the like."

"SALVE!" blossomed into being in heather, and pink-and-white paper
roses over the mantel opposite the door of the front parlor. Over
that in the back--"Jubemus vos salvere," while "O faustum et
felicem hunc diem!" was tacked above the piano in the music-room.

"To polish! to polish!" reiterated Jessie, stroking her gloved left
hand with her right, and looking so roguishly beautiful that Orrin
had no difficulty in throwing an expression of intense admiration
into his gaze.

"Stand off, and let me look at you!" said he, brusquely for him,
drawing back for a better view.
