Colonel ran to the spot and read this:

“Tremendous Sensation! Startling news from Saint’s Rest! On first ballot
for U. S. Senator, when voting was about to begin, Mr. Noble rose in
his place and drew forth a package, walked forward and laid it on the
Speaker’s desk, saying, ‘This contains $7,000 in bank bills and was
given me by Senator Dilworthy in his bed-chamber at midnight last night
to buy--my vote for him--I wish the Speaker to count the money and
retain it to pay the expense of prosecuting this infamous traitor for
bribery. The whole legislature was stricken speechless with dismay and
astonishment. Noble further said that there were fifty members present
with money in their pockets, placed there by Dilworthy to buy their
votes. Amidst unparalleled excitement the ballot was now taken, and J.
W. Smith elected U. S. Senator; Dilworthy receiving not one vote! Noble
promises damaging exposures concerning Dilworthy and certain measures
of his now pending in Congress. “Good heavens and earth!” exclaimed the
Colonel.

“To the Capitol!” said Washington. “Fly!”

And they did fly. Long before they got there the newsboys were running
ahead of them with Extras, hot from the press, announcing the astounding
news.

Arrived in the gallery of the Senate, the friends saw a curious
spectacle--every Senator held an Extra in his hand and looked as
interested as if it contained news of the destruction of the earth. Not
a single member was paying the least attention to the business of the
hour.

The Secretary, in a loud voice, was just beginning to read the title of
a bill:

“House-Bill--No. 4,231,--An-Act-to-Found-and-Incorporate-the
Knobs-Industrial-University!
--Read-first-and-second-time-considered-in-committee-of-the-whole-ordered-engrossed
and-passed-to-third-reading-and-final passage!”

The President--“Third reading of the bill!”

The two friends shook in their shoes. Senators threw down their extras
and snatched a word or two with each other in whispers. Then the gavel
rapped to command silence while the names were called on the ayes and
nays. Washington grew paler and paler, weaker and weaker while the
lagging list progressed; and when it was finished, his head fell
helplessly forward on his arms. The fight was fought, the long struggle
was over, and he was a pauper. Not a man had voted for the bill!

Col. Sellers was bewildered and well nigh paralyzed, himself. But no man
could long consider his own troubles in the presence of such suffering
as Washington’s. He got him up and supported him--almost carried him
indeed--out of the building and into a carriage. All the way home
Washington lay with his face against the Colonel’s shoulder and merely
groaned and wept. The Colonel tried as well as he could under the dreary
circumstances to hearten him a little, but it was of no use. Washington
was past all hope of cheer, now. He only said:

“Oh, it is all over--it is all over for good, Colonel. We must beg our
bread, now. We never can get up again. It was our last chance, and it is
gone. They will hang Laura! My God they will hang her! Nothing can
