“Yes, but nobody’s going to trouble me.”

“Nor me,” said Edith.

“Oh, but you don’t know what kind of a place it is, nor what dreadful
people live there.”

“I could get a policeman to go with me, couldn’t I?”

“Yes, maybe you could, or Mr. Paulding, the missionary. He goes about
everywhere.”

“Where can I find Mr. Paulding?”

“At the mission in Briar street.”

“You’ll show me the way there after school?”

“Oh yes; it isn’t a nice place for you to go, but I guess nobody’ll
trouble you.”

After the school closed, Edith, guided by the child, made her way to the
Briar st. mission-house. As she entered the narrow street in which it
was situated, the aspect of things was so strange and shocking to her
eyes that she felt a chill creep to her heart. She had never imagined
anything so forlorn and squalid, so wretched and comfortless. Miserable
little hovels, many of them no better than pig-styes, and hardly cleaner
within, were crowded together in all stages of dilapidation. Windows
with scarcely a pane of glass, the chilly air kept out by old hats, bits
of carpet or wads of newspaper, could be seen on all sides, with here
and there, showing some remains of an orderly habit, a broken pane
closed with a smooth piece of paper pasted to the sash. Instinctively
she paused, oppressed by a sense of fear.

“It’s only halfway down,” said the child. “We’ll ‘go quick. I guess
nobody’ll speak to you. They’re afraid of Mr. Paulding about here. He’s
down on ‘em if they meddle with anybody that’s coming to the mission.”

Edith, thus urged, moved on. She had gone but a few steps when two men
came in sight, advancing toward her. They were of the class to be seen
at all times in that region--debased to the lowest degree, drunken,
ragged, bloated, evil-eyed, capable of any wicked thing. They were
singing when they came in sight, but checked their drunken mirth as soon
as they saw Edith, whose heart sunk again. She stopped, trembling.

“They’re only drunk,” said the child. “I don’t believe they’ll hurt
you.”

Edith rallied herself and walked on, the men coming closer and closer.
She saw them look at each other with leering eyes, and then at her in
a way that made her shiver. When only a few paces distant, they paused,
and with the evident intention of barring her farther progress.

“Good-afternoon, miss,” said one of them, with a low bow. “Can we do
anything for you?”

The pale, frightened face of Edith was noticed by the other, and it
touched some remnant of manhood not yet wholly extinguished.

“Let her alone, you miserable cuss!” he cried, and giving his drunken
