
"He isn't my cousin, and you know it," said Fitz, stamping with rage.

"I wish I wasn't," said Abner.  "If I could have my pick, I'd rather
have him," indicating Tom.  "But blood can't be wiped out.  We're
cousins, even if we don't like it."

"Are you quite sure you are right about this relationship?" asked
Henry Fairbanks, gravely.  "Fitz, here, says he belongs to one of the
first families of Boston."

"Well, I belong to one of the first families of Hampton," said Abner,
with a grin.  "Nobody don't look down on me, I guess."

"You hear that, Fitz," said Oscar.  "Be sensible, and shake hands
with your cousin."

"Yes, shake hands with your cousin!" echoed the boys.

"You all seem to want to insult me," said Fitz, sullenly.

"Not I," said Oscar, "and I'll prove it--will you shake hands with
me, sir?"

"That I will," said Abner, heartily.  "I can see that you're a young
gentleman, and I wish I could say as much for my cousin, Fitz."

Oscar's example was followed by the rest of the boys, who advanced in
turn, and shook hands with the tin-pedler.

"Now Fitz, it's your turn," said Tom.

"I decline," said Fitz, holding his hands behind his back.

"How much he looks like his marm did when she was young," said Abner.
"Well, boys, I can't stop no longer.  I didn't think Cousin Fitz
would be so stuck up, just because his father's made some money.
Good-mornin'!"

"Three cheers for Fitz's cousin!" shouted Tom.

They were given with a will, and Mr. Bickford made acknowledgment by
a nod and a grin.

"Remember me to your mother when you write, Cousin Fitz," he said at
parting.

Fitz was too angry to reply.  He walked off sullenly, deeply
mortified and humiliated, and for weeks afterward nothing would more
surely throw him into a rage than any allusion to his cousin the
tin-pedler.  One good effect, however, followed.  He did not venture
to allude to the social position of his family in presence of his
school-mates, and found it politic to lay aside some of his airs of
superiority.




CHAPTER XII.

