The sweet-faced woman looks pitifully at the haggard, weary face, and
says something to call the attention of her husband. An angry flush
rises to his face. He frowns, and whips up the horse, and is gone. A
sort of rage and bitterness possess Maggie's soul. What is the use of
trying to do better? Nobody pities her. Nobody helps her. The world is
all against her. Why not go to the bad?




CHAPTER XXXV.

A SOUL IN PERIL.


It will be seen by the way in which we left poor Maggie that she
stood in just one of those critical steep places of life where a
soul is in pain and peril; where the turning of a hair's breadth may
decide between death and life. And it is something, not only to the
individual, but to the whole community, what a woman may become in one
of these crises of life.

Maggie had a rich, warm, impulsive nature, full of passion and energy;
she had personal beauty and the power that comes from it; she had in
her all that might have made the devoted wife and mother, fitted to
give strong sons and daughters to our republic, and to bring them up
to strengthen our country. But, deceived, betrayed, led astray by the
very impulses which should have ended in home and marriage, with even
her best friends condemning her, her own heart condemning her, the
whole face of the world set against her, her feet stood in slippery
places.

There is another life open to the woman whom the world judges and
rejects and condemns; a life short, bad, desperate; a life of revenge,
of hate, of deceit; a life in which woman, outraged and betrayed by
man, turns bitterly upon him, to become the tempter, the betrayer, the
ruiner of man,--to visit misery and woe on the society that condemns
her.

Many a young man has been led to gambling, and drinking, and
destruction; many a wife's happiness has been destroyed; many a mother
has wept on a sleepless pillow over a son worse than dead,--only
because some woman, who at a certain time in her life might have been
saved to honor and good living, has been left to be a vessel of wrath
fitted to destruction. For we have seen in Maggie's history that there
were points all along, where the girl might have been turned into
another and a better way.

If Mrs. Maria Wouvermans, instead of railing at her love of feathers
and flowers, watching for her halting, and seeking occasion against
her, had only had grace to do for her what lies in the power of
every Christian mistress; if she had won her confidence, given her
motherly care and sympathy, and trained her up under the protection of
household influences, it might have been otherwise. Or, supposing that
Maggie were too self-willed, too elate with the flatteries that come
to young beauty, to be saved from a fall, yet, after that fall, when
she rose, ashamed and humbled, there was still a chance of retrieval.

Perhaps there is never a time when man or woman has a better chance,
with suitable help, of building a good character than just after a
