
However, he was not destined to nurse his disgust very long in brooding
silence. The last of September the great house of Bristol, Stokes, &
Co., collapsed. The wreck was unexpected, the ruin wide-spread. The
house of Minor & Morgan was hard hit, which did not improve Mr. Minor's
temper, though, Spartan-like, he wore a cheerful face, and kept his
losses to himself. Even if it should be his turn next, the world must
not know it.

"There's a letter that concerns you, though it was sent to me as
administrator," said Minor to Fred, as he sauntered in one morning,
tossing the missive over to him.

Fred opened it with languid indifference, and his eye wandered over the
following lines:--

          HAMILTON MINOR, ESQ.

          Dear Sir,--On taking possession of Hope Mills,
          for business purposes, I find some personal
          property belonging to the late Mr. Lawrence. It
          may have a value for the family, and shall be at
          your disposal whenever you desire it. Respectfully
          yours,

                                                 JOHN DARCY.

"As soon as Hope Terrace is disposed of, the accounts can be audited and
settled," said Minor in a sharp, business-like way. "The debts have all
come in, and been paid dollar for dollar; though, if your father had
been a prudent man, he would have made sure of something for his family.
No one expects estates to pay more than fifty per cent nowadays."

Fred rose, and crushed Jack Darcy's note in his pocket, holding himself
proudly, while his cheek flushed.

"I am very thankful," in a clear, cold tone. "My father's life was pure
and honorable, and no man can fling a stone at his grave. I would rather
be penniless, as I am, than have it otherwise."

"Oh! very well, very well," sneeringly.

Fred walked out of the office, and turned into Broadway. The same
curious, restless, hurrying throng. Where were they all going? Did they
find room and work? How clearly the sun shone! The sky was so blue, with
great drifts of white floating about,--strange barques on a mystical
sea. In spite of the outside roar and rush, there was a solemn and
awesome stillness within him. He began to feel how entirety alone he
stood. A twelvemonth ago there were hosts of friends pulling him hither
and yon, proposing this and that, laughing and chatting gayly. Where
were they now? Not all weak and false, but the shadow of circumstances
had drifted them apart. We do not always cease to love or like when
separation ensues; and in this shifting, changing life, people drop out,
yet are not quite forgotten. Some of the young fellows whom fortune had
buffeted had found a place in active, stirring life: he, with his
education, refinement, accomplishments, and talent, was merely a piece
of driftwood. Sylvie Barry had been right,--he was a useless appendage
to the world. Ah, no wonder she despised him! Sturdy, honest Jack Darcy
could find a place. His self-complacency was more than touched,--it was
shattered, completely broken up. The present was blank and colorless,
