
“They say he’s poplar among ‘em,” observed the storekeeper thoughtfully.

“He’s been pooty p’tic’lar, or they have,” said Cap’n Jabez.

“Well, most on ‘em’s merried women,” Hackett urged. “It’s astonishin’
how they do come off and leave their husbands, the whole summer long.
They say they’re all out o’ health, though.”

“I wonder,” said old Cap’n Billy, “if them coaliers is goin’ to make a
settled thing of haulin’ inside before they signal a pilot.”

“I know one thing,” answered Cap’n Jabez, “that if any coalier signals
me in the channel, I’ll see her in hell first” He slipped his smooth,
warm knife into his pocket, and walked out of the store amid a general
silence.

“He’s consid’ble worked up, about them coaliers,” said old Cap’n Billy.
“I don’t know as I’ve heard Jabez swear before--not since he was mate of
the Gallatin. He used to swear then, consid’able.”

“Them coaliers is enough to make any one swear,” said Cap’n George. “If
it’s any ways fair weather they won’t take you outside, and they cut you
down from twenty-five dollars to two dollars if they take you inside.”

Old Cap’n Billy did not answer before he had breathed awhile, and then,
having tried his cigar and found it out, he scraped a match on his
coat-sleeve. He looked at the flame while it burned from blue to yellow.
“Well, I guess if anybody’s been p’tic’lar, it’s been him. There ain’t
any doubt but what he’s got a takin’ way with the women. They like him.
He’s masterful, and he ain’t a fool, and women most gen’ly like a man
that ain’t a fool. I guess if he ‘s got his eye on the girl’s prop’ty,
she’ll have to come along. He’d begin by havin’ his own way about her
answer; he’d hang on till she said Yes, if she did n’t say it first-off;
and he’d keep on as he’d begun. I guess if he wants her it’s a match.”
 And Cap’n Billy threw his own into the square box of tobacco-stained
sawdust under the stove.

Mrs. Maynard fully shared the opinion which rocked Dr. Mulbridge’s
defeat with a belief in his invincible will. When it became necessary,
in the course of events which made Grace and Libby resolve upon a
short engagement, to tell her that they were going to be married, she
expressed a frank astonishment. “Walter Libby!” she cried. “Well, I
am surprised. When I was talking to you the other day about getting
married, of course I supposed it was going to be Dr. Mulbridge. I did
n’t want you to marry him, but I thought you were going to.”

“And why,” demanded Grace, with mounting sensation, “did you think
that?”

“Oh, I thought you would have to.”

“Have to?”

“Oh, you have such a weak will. Or I always thought you had. But perhaps
it’s only a weak will with other women. I don’t know! But Walter
Libby! I knew he was perfectly gone upon you, and I told you so at the
beginning; but I never dreamt of your caring for him. Why, it seems too
ridiculous.”

