the boat along when it is blowing from behind her, but not when it
comes from the way it does now.”

“It is the friction of the wind against the sails. Did you ever see a
ferry-boat cross a river by the force of the current?”

John Brattle happened to be the only one of the party who had seen a
current-boat. He had crossed the Androscoggin River, in Maine, in a
stage on such a craft.

“If the ferry-boat were headed square across the river, the current
would not move her any way but down the river,” added Dory.

“There was a big wire rope stretched across the river, which did not
let her go down the stream,” replied John Brattle. “Then the boat was
turned to an angle half-way between the direction of the current and
the wire rope.”

“Precisely as our sails are set at an angle with the course of the
boat. In this position the friction of the water against the boat
forces it across the river.”

“But you have no wire rope.”

“We have a centre-board instead.” Dory pointed out the centre-board of
the Goldwing, and showed how it worked. “This boat would slide off
sideways if it were not for that.”

“But we have to go a great deal farther when beating,” said Ned
Bellows.

“Of course we do,” replied Dory. “Sometimes we have to go two miles to
make one when the wind is dead ahead.”

“Captain Gildrock said it was twenty miles from Burlington to Beech
Hill. Must we go forty miles to get there?” asked Ben Ludlow.

“Not at all: the wind isn’t dead ahead. Here we are, just north of
Willsborough Point. I am coming about now. Look out for your heads
when the boom goes over.”

Dory put the helm down, and all the sails began to flap and bang. But
in a moment the Goldwing took the wind on the starboard tack, the
sails went over, and the schooner began to gather headway on her new
course.

“That’s what we call tacking,” said the skipper. “We shall go about
eleven miles on this tack.”

“I say, Dory, let me steer her a while now,” added Oscar Chester,
rising from his seat, and moving aft.

“Keep your seat!” replied the skipper rather sharply. “You mustn’t
move about in the boat.”

“But I want to steer her,” persisted Oscar, resuming his seat.

“Did you ever steer a boat?” asked Dory.

“I never steered a sailboat; but I can do it as well as you can,”
