perfectly natural. Have you never heard of people's changing? That is
what has happened to me--I have changed. And I tell you the truth about
it, just as I told you the truth when it was different--when I cared for
you. For I did care for you once, ever so much; didn't you believe it?
Didn't you know that I cared for you that night on the barren?"

A red rose in Winthrop's cheeks. After a moment he answered, humbly
enough, "Yes, I thought you did."

"Of course you thought I did. And why? Because I did; that night, and
for some time afterwards, I adored you, Evert. But I don't see why you
should color up about it; wasn't it natural that I should be delighted
to be engaged to you when I adored you? and isn't it just as natural
that I should wish to break it off when I don't? You can't want me to
pretend to care for you when it's all over?"

"No, no," said Winthrop, his eyes turning from her.

"I do believe you are embarrassed," said Garda, reverting to her usual
good temper again. Then she broke into smiles. "You ought to thank me,
for, really, you never cared for me at all." She leaned back against her
tree again, and folded her arms. "I dare you to tell me that you ever
really cared for me, even when I cared so much for you," she continued,
in smiling challenge. "What you would answer if you spoke the truth (as
I do), would be--'I did my duty, Garda.' As though I wanted duty! You
ought to fall down on your knees in the sand this moment and thank me
for releasing you; for you are much too honorable ever to have released
yourself, you are the soul of honor. Just supposing we had been
married--that we were married now--where should we be? I should have got
over caring for you, probably (you see I have got over it without being
married), and you never did really care for me at all; I think we've had
a lucky escape."

"Perhaps we have," Winthrop answered.

"No 'perhaps,' it's a certainty. And yet," she went on, slowly, looking
at him with musing eyes, "it might have had a different termination. For
I adored you, and you could perhaps have kept it along if you had tried.
But you never did try, the only thing you tried to do was to 'mould'
me; you made me read things, or, if you didn't, you wanted to; you have
treated me always as if I were a child. You have had an idea of me from
the first (I don't know where you got it) that wasn't like me, what I
really am, in the very least. And you never found out your mistake
because you never took the trouble to study me, myself; you only studied
your Idea. Your Idea was lovely, of course," pursued the girl, laughing;
"so much the worse for me, I suppose, that I am not like her. Your Idea
would have been willing to be moulded; and she would have read
everything you suggested; and then in due course of time--when she
should be at least eighteen"--interpolated the girl, with another burst
of laughter, "she would have gratefully thanked you for admitting her to
the privileges of being 'grown up.' Why--you didn't even want me to care
for you as much as I did, because your Idea wouldn't have cared so much
for anybody, of course, 'when she was only sixteen.'"

Winthrop flushed fiercely, as her mocking eyes met his, full of mirth.
Then he controlled himself, and stopped where he was; he did not answer
her.

"You are the best man in the world," said Garda, coming towards him and
abandoning her raillery. "With your views (though I think them all
