helplessness in the new life on which I had entered; and I was still as
incredulous of helplessness and as galled by it as I should have been
by the very world of woe which had formed so irritating a dogma to me
in the theology of my day on earth, and which I had regarded as I did
the nightmares of a dyspeptic patient.

In this state of feeling, it was the greatest comfort to me when, at
some period of time which I have no means of defining, but which could
not have been long afterward, Mrs. Faith came suddenly again across my
path.  She radiated happiness and health and beauty, and when she held
out both her hands to me in greeting they seemed to glitter, as if she
had stepped from a bath of delight.

"Oh," she said joyously, "have you seen Him yet?"  It embarrassed me
to be forced to answer in the negative; it gave me a strange feeling,
as if I had been a convict in the country, and denied the passport of
honourable men.  I therefore waived her question as well as I might,
and proceeded to make known to her the thought which had been occupying
me.

"You have the entr√©e of the dear earth," I said sadly.  "They do
not treat you in the--in the very singular manner with which I am
treated.  It is important beyond explanation that I get a message to my
wife.  A beggar in the street may be admitted to her charity,--I saw
one at the door the night I stood there.  I, only I, am forbidden to
enter.  Whatever may be the natural laws which are sot in opposition to
me, they have extraordinary force; I can do nothing against them.  I
suppose I do not understand them.  If I had an opportunity to study
them--but I have no opportunities at anything.  It is a new experience
to me to be so--so disregarded by the general scheme of things.  I seem
to be of no more consequence in this place than a bootblack was in the
world, or a paralytic person.  It seems useless for me to fly in the
face of fate, since this is fate.  I have no hope of being able to
reach my wife.  You have privileges in this condition which are
evidently far superior to mine.  I have been thinking that possibly you
may be able--and willing--to approach her for me?"

"I don't think it would succeed, Doctor," replied my old patient
quickly.  "I'd do it!  You know I would!  But if I were Helen--She is
a very reserved person; she never talks about her husband, as different
women do; her feeling is of such a sort; I do not think she would
understand, if another woman were to speak from you to her."

"Perhaps not," I sighed.

"I am afraid it would be the most hopeless experiment you could make,"
said Mrs. Faith.  "She loves you too much for it," she added, with the
divination of her sex.  Comforted a little by Mrs. Faith, I quickly
abandoned this project; indeed, I soon abandoned every other which
concerned itself with Helen, and yielded myself with a kind of
desperate lethargy, if I may be allowed the expression, to the fate
which separated me from her.  Of resignation I knew nothing.  Peace was
the coldest stranger in that strange land to me.  I yielded because I
could not help it, not because I would have willed it; and with that
dull strength which grows into the sinews of the soul from necessity,
sought to adjust myself in such fashion as I might to my new
conditions.  It occurred to me from time to time that it would have
been an advantage if I had felt more interest in the conditions
themselves; that it would even have spared me something if I had ever
cultivated any familiarity with the possibilities of such a state of
