some of the savinges did. I’ll tell you about it;” and Button went
on eagerly. “Cousin Penny is the good old one, but rather fussy and
slow, so I’m kind and patient, and now she loves me and lets me do
things I like. She is my best one. Cousin Henny is my cannybel,
‘cause she eats so much, and I please HER by bringing nice things
and getting her cushions ready. You are my baddest one, who is cross
to me, and fights, and raps my head, and slaps my hands; so I
thought some beads would be nice for you, and I bringed these
beauties. Mr. Thomas gave ‘em to me when I told him my trials.”

Cicely looked angry, amused, and ashamed, as she listened to the
funny yet rather pathetic little play with which the lonely child
had tried to cheer herself and win the hearts of those about her.
She had the grace to blush, and offer back the necklace, saying in a
self-reproachful tone,--

“Keep your beads, little missionary, I’ll be converted without them,
and try to be kinder to you. I AM a selfish wretch, but you shall
play be my little sister, and not have to go to strangers for
comfort in your trials any more. Come, kiss me, dear, and we’ll
begin now.”

Rosy was in her arms at once, and clung there, saying with a face
all smiles,--

“That’s what I wanted! I thought I’d make a good savinge of you if I
tried VERY hard. Please be kind to me just till Mamma comes back,
and I’ll be the best little sister that ever was.”

“Why didn’t you tell me all about it before?” asked Cicely,
smoothing the tired head on her shoulder with a new gentleness; for
this last innocent confession had touched her heart as well as her
conscience.

“You never seemed to care about my plays, and always said, ‘Don’t
chatter, child; run away and take care of yourself.’ So I did; but
it was pretty dull, with only Tabby to tell secrets to and Bella to
kiss. Mr. Thomas said people over here didn’t like children very
well, and I found they didn’t. HE does, dearly, so I went to him;
but I like you now, you are so soft and kind to me.”

“How hot your cheeks are! Come and let me cool them, and brush your
hair for tea,” said Cis, as she touched the child’s feverish skin,
and saw how heavy her eyes were.

“I’m all burning up, and my head is SO funny. I don’t want any tea.
I want to lie on your sofa and go to sleep again. Can I?” asked
Rosy, with a dizzy look about the room, and a shiver at the idea of
eating.

“Yes, dear, I’ll put on your little wrapper, and make you all
comfortable, and bring you some ice-water, for your lips are very
dry.”

As she spoke, Cicely bustled about the room, and soon had Rosy
nicely settled with her best cologne-bottle and a fan; then she
hastened down to report that something was wrong, with a fear in her
own heart that if any harm did come to the child it would be her
fault. Some days before Cicely had sent Button-Rose with a note to a
friend’s house where she knew some of the younger children were ill.
