the expression of thought and power rather than of age. He was tall,
thin, and soldier-like, extremely courteous in manner and speech, but
grave and not inclined to mirth; he belonged to that class of active men
in whom the constant exercise of vitality and intelligence appears to
prolong life instead of exhausting its force, who possess a constitution
in which the body is governed by the mind, and who, being generally
little capable of enjoying the pleasure of the moment, find it easy to
devote their energies to the attainment of an object in the future.
Count Ananoff was the ideal diplomatist: cautious, far-sighted,
impenetrable, and exact, outwardly ceremonious and dignified, not too
skeptical of other men's qualities nor too confident of his own. His
convictions might be summed up, according to the old Russian joke, in
the one word Nabuchadnezar,--Na Bogh ad ne Czar,--"There is no God but
the Czar."

As Paul entered the ambassador's study, he was glad that he had always
been on good terms with his chief. Indeed, there was much sympathy
between them, and it might well have been predicted at that time that
Paul would some day become just such a man as he under whom he now
served. Convinced as he was that in his present career quite as much of
success depended upon the manner of carrying out a scheme as on the
scheme itself, Paul had long come to the conclusion that no manner could
possibly be so effective as that of Count Ananoff, and that in order to
cultivate it the utmost attention must be bestowed upon the study of his
chief's motives. Himself grave and cautious, he possessed the two main
elements noticeable in the character of his model, and to acquire the
rest could only be a matter of time. The ambassador noticed the ease
with which Paul comprehended his point of view, and fancied that he saw
in his secretary a desire to imitate himself, which of course was
flattering. The result was that a sincere good feeling existed between
the two, made up of a genuine admiration on the one side, and of
considerable self-satisfaction on the other. Patoff felt that the moment
had come when he must test the extent of the regard his chief felt for
him, and, considering the difficulty of his position and the personal
anxiety he felt for his brother, it is not surprising that he was
nervous and ill at ease.

"I have a painful story to tell, excellency," he said, standing before
the broad writing-desk at which the count was sitting. The latter looked
up from his tea.

"Be seated," he said gravely, but fixing a keen look on Paul's haggard
face.

"I will tell you everything, with all the details," said Patoff, sitting
down; and he forthwith began his story. The narrative was clear and
connected, and embraced the history of the night from the time when Paul
had left Buyukdere with his brother to the time of his return. Nothing
was omitted which he could remember, but when he had done he was
conscious that he had only told the tale of his long search for the
missing man. He had thrown no light upon the cause of the disappearance.
The ambassador looked very grave, and his thoughtful brows knit
themselves together, while he never took his eyes from Paul's face.

"It is very serious," he said at last. "Will you kindly explain to me,
if you can do so without indiscretion, the causes of the violent quarrel
which took place between you yesterday afternoon?"

Paul had foreseen the question, and proceeded to detail the occurrences
in the Valley of Roses, explaining the part he had played, and how he
