if the boat will be large enough for my purpose."

Clip laughed in amusement.

"You must think you'self mighty big, Massa Bob," he said, "if you think
there isn't room on that boat for you an' me."

"It would certainly be large enough for two passengers like ourselves,
Clip," answered Bob, smiling; "for that matter our rowboat is large
enough for two boys, but if I go I shall carry a load with me."

Clip was still in the dark, but he was busying himself in unloosing the
rowboat, according to Bob's bidding. The two boys jumped in, and a few
strokes of the oars carried them to the ferry-boat. Fastening the
flat-bottomed boat, the two boys clambered on deck.

Bob found the boat in good condition. It had occurred to him that it had
been deserted as old and past service, and allowed to drift down the
creek, but an examination showed that in this conjecture he was
mistaken. It was sufficiently good to serve for years yet. This
discovery was gratifying in one way, but in another it was a
disappointment. As a boat of little value, Bob could have taken
possession of it, fairly confident that no one would interfere with his
claim, but in its present condition it was hardly likely to be without
an owner, who would appear sooner or later and put in his claim to it.

"It seems to be a pretty good boat," said Bob.

"Dat's so, Massa Bob."

"It must have slipped its moorings and drifted down the creek during the
night. I wish I knew who owned it."

"You an' me own it, Massa Bob. Finding is keeping."

"I am afraid it won't be so in the present case. Probably the owner will
appear before long."

"Can't we get off down de river afore he comes, Massa Bob?"

"That wouldn't be honest, Clip."

Clip scratched his head in perplexity. He was not troubled with
conscientious scruples, and was not as clear about the rights of
property as his young patron. He was accustomed, however, to accept
whatever Bob said as correct and final. In fact, he was content to let
Bob do his thinking for him.

"What was you goin' to take down de ribber, Massa Bob?" he asked.

"I'll tell you what I was thinking of, Clip. You know we are gathering
our crop of grain, and of course it must be sold. Now, traders ask a
large commission for taking the wheat to market, and this would be a
heavy tax. If I could load it on board this boat, and take it down
myself, I should save all that, and I could sell it myself in St.
Louis."

"Can I go, too?" asked Clip, anxiously.

"You shall go if I do," answered Bob.
