She had not thought of him for months—until to-night.

She raised her head with abrupt impatience and scowled. What folly! How
many men had not she met with black hair and dark-blue eyes and athletic
frames? What woman ever really met her ideal? But—there had been
something besides physical resemblance of build and color. A certain
power had shone through his eyes, a certain magnetism had radiated from
him—she shuddered, threw herself back on the rug, and covered her eyes
with her hands. To meet him now!

                 




                             CHAPTER XXII.


                         QUINTARD IS DISCUSSED.

The next afternoon Hermia was sitting in the library with Miss Starbruck
when Helen came in. Hermia greeted her eagerly. Helen always diverted
her mind. Perversely, also, she wanted to hear some one speak of
Quintard.

“I have only a few moments,” said Helen. “I told Mr. Winston to call for
me at four. We are going to find a place to walk where we shall not meet
everybody we know——.” She stopped suddenly as she caught sight of Miss
Starbruck’s gray, erect figure and shocked expression. “I beg your
pardon, Miss Starbruck,” she said, sweetly; “I did not see you.”

“Why do you object to meeting people you know when you walk with young
men?” demanded Miss Starbruck, severely.

Helen, by this time, had quite recovered her presence of mind. “Oh! they
always want to stop and talk,” she said, lightly, “and that is such a
bore.” Then she turned to Hermia: “I saw Grettan Quintard in your box
last night. Did you ever hear such a name? As hard as a rock! But I
imagine it suits him—although he felt pretty bad five years ago.”

“What about?” demanded Hermia.

“You never heard that story? But, to be sure, that was before your time.
He was awfully in love with Mrs. Theodore Maitland—one of the prettiest
women in town—and she with him. Everybody was talking, and finally Mr.
Maitland found it out. He was very cool about it; he calmly went down
town to a lawyer and told him to begin proceedings for a divorce. He
sent for his things and took rooms at a hotel. Everybody cut Mrs.
Maitland, and she felt so horrible that she killed herself. Quintard was
fearfully upset. He went abroad at once and staid five years. This is
his first reappearance.”

“A true nineteenth-century romance!” exclaimed Hermia, sarcastically.
“An intrigue, a divorce court, and a suicide!” But she had listened with
a feeling of dull jealousy, and the absurdity of it angered her. Her
imagination had made a fool of her often enough; was she about to weakly
yield herself to its whip again? What was Quintard or his past to her?
“I rather liked his face,” she added, indifferently. “Did you know him
before he went away?”

