"With Guy?" Mechanically Roland repeated the phrase. Then at once into
the very core of memory entered the lancinating pang of a nerve exposed.
During the second that followed, in that tumult of visions that visits
him who awakes from a swoon, there came to him the effort made in Tuxedo
to recall in what manner the name of Dunellen was familiar to his ears;
but that instantly departed, and in its stead came a face one blur of
tears, and behind it a stripling livid with hate. Could that be Guy? If
it were, then indeed would the high-road narrow into an alley, with a
dead wall at the end. Yet of the inward distress he gave no outward
sign. About his thin lips a smile still played, and as he repeated the
phrase he looked, as he always did, confident and self-possessed.

"Yes, I am sure you will like each other," the girl answered; "all the
more so perhaps because no two people could be less alike. Guy, you see,
is--"

But whatever description she may have intended to give remained
unexpressed. A porti√®re had been drawn, and some one was entering the
room. Roland, whose back was toward the door, turned obliquely and
looked.

"Why, there he is!" he heard Justine exclaim; and in the man that stood
there he saw the stripling he had just evoked. Into the palms of his
hands a moisture came, yet as Justine proceeded with some form of
introduction he rose to his feet. "So you are the cousin," he mused; and
then, with a bow in which he put the completest indifference, he resumed
his seat.

"We were just talking of you," Justine continued. "Why didn't you come
in last night?"

"It is snowing," the cousin remarked, inconsequently, and sat himself
down.

"Dr. Thorold, you know;" and Justine, turning to Mistrial, began to
relate one of those little anecdotes which are serviceable when
conversation drags.

As she ran on, Roland, apparently attentive, marked that one of
Thorold's feet was moving uneasily, and divined rather than saw that the
fingers of his hand were clinched. "He is working himself up," he
reflected. "Well, let him; it will make it the easier for me." And as he
told himself this he turned on Thorold a glance which he was prepared
to instantly divert. But the physician was not looking; he sat
bolt-upright, his eyes lowered, and about his mouth and forehead the
creases of a scowl.

Dr. Thorold was of that class of man that women always like and never
adore. He was thoughtful of others, and considerate. Physically he was
well-favored, and pleasant to the eye. He was sometimes dull, but rarely
selfish; by taste and training he was a scholar--gifted at that; and yet
through some accident of nature he lacked that one fibre which
differentiates the hero from the herd. In the way we live to-day the
need of heroes is so slight that the absence of that fibre is of no
moment at all--a circumstance which may account for the fact that
Justine admired him very much, trusted him entirely, and had she been
his sister instead of his cousin could not have appreciated him more.

And now, as Roland eyed him for one moment, through some of those
indetectable currents that bring trivialities to the mind that is most
