but he knew that his love had taken greater strength and depth than ever
before. He spent a sleepless night indeed, but when he rose in the
morning he did not feel tired. Something within him which was quite new
seemed to sustain him and nourish him. He could not tell whether it was
love for Laura, or anger against the woman who slandered her, or both
acting at once, and he did not waste much time in speculating upon his
mental condition. He had formed a resolution upon which he meant to act
without delay.

It was a rainy morning, chilly and raw again, as the weather had been
earlier in the year.

"Give me warm clothes, Donald," he said to his man. "I am going out."

"Going out, my lord! In this weather!" Donald's face expressed the
greatest anxiety.

"Never mind the weather," said Arden. "Give me warm clothes, and send
for a closed carriage."

Donald obeyed, shaking his head, and muttering in detached expressions
of disapproval. He was a privileged person.




CHAPTER VIII.


Arden, for the first time in his life, paid no attention to Laura's
remonstrances when she tried to prevent him from going out in the rain,
and he would not hear of her accompanying him on any condition. He
assured her that with his fur coat, and in a closed carriage with a
foot-warmer, he was as safe as at home in the drawing-room, and he gave
her to understand that he had a small surprise in store for her, of
which all the effect would be spoiled if she went with him. Very
reluctantly she let him go. Even after he was gone, when she heard the
brougham rattling down the Via Gregoriana, she was tempted to open the
window and call the driver back. Then she reflected that she was
probably foolish in being so anxious, since he now seemed almost as well
as ever.

When he left the house, Arden drove to a certain studio, and then and
there bought a small picture which Laura had admired very much, and had
been two or three times to see. To the artist's surprise, he insisted
upon carrying it away with him at once, just as it was. Then he told the
coachman to drive to the Palazzo Savelli. He sent up his card and asked
to see Don Francesco, and at once received an answer, begging him to go
up stairs.

Francesco was very much surprised by the visit, and could not conceive
what had brought Lord Herbert Arden to him at eleven o'clock in the
morning. He awaited him in a vast and gloomy drawing-room in which there
was no fire. The walls were hung with old portraits of the Savelli in
armour, the carpet was of a sombre hue, and the furniture consisted of
three superb marble tables with carved and gilt feet, and sixteen chairs
of the style of Louis the Fourteenth's reign, all precisely alike, and
standing side by side against the walls. Francesco Savelli stood facing
the door, his yellow hair, blue eyes, and fresh complexion contrasting
strongly with the dark background. He was a fine-looking fellow, with a
