electric smile flashed more frequently than it had done for many years,
and his steely eyes glittered in the light. But he had grown thin of
late, for it was hard to wait so long before realizing the miserâ€™s
dream.

In the night, when he lay awake, he had a wild idea which haunted him in
the dark hours, though it never crossed his brain during the daylight.
He thought of realizing a whole million in gold coin, and of revelling
in the delight of pouring it from one hand to another. He had a million
of his own, in a very realizable shape, but somehow he would not have
risked that, so long as he had not a second. Some one might rob him--one
could never tell. He should like to be alone with the gold in his own
room for one hour, and then know that it was safe. He considered whether
the gas-light in his dressing-room were strong enough to make the metal
glitter. Electric light would be better.

It was a childish thought, and in the daytime he paid no attention to
it, but at night it came upon him like hunger or thirst, drying his
lips and driving away sleep. Then, in order to quiet his brain, he had
to promise himself that he would really do the thing he longed to do as
soon as it lay in his power. But in the morning, when he stood before
his shaving-glass, and looked into his own hard eyes, he laughed
scornfully.

So things went on for a few days more. Then Alexander arose and said
that there should be no more delay, but that the will should be brought
to probate at the next session of the court, which does not sit every
day. And then the excitement grew more intense, and the Brights and the
Lauderdales avoided one another in the street. Ralston still went
regularly to the bank and saw Hamilton Bright every day. But though they
were friends still, and there had been no unfriendly word spoken between
them, they met as little as possible and merely nodded quickly when a
meeting was unavoidable. But Ralston was displeased by the notice he
attracted whenever he got up from his seat or sat down again.
Occasionally an acquaintance of one of the numerous young gentlemen in
the bank came in, and it was rarely that, after exchanging a few words
with his friend, the stranger did not turn and glance at John, where he
sat. Ralston did not like it, but he could do nothing against it.

Then came the day of judgment. Without warning the Brights produced a
man whom they believed to be the real John Simons, and who swore that he
had signed the will in the presence of the testators and in the presence
of the other witnesses.

This was a terrible blow to the Lauderdale side. But the other witnesses
had previously sworn to and signed a statement, extracted from them by
the Lauderdales, to the effect that Persimmons was the man who had
signed with them; and whether the John Simons now present, who was a
genuine John Simons of some kind, were the right one or not, they had no
intention of laying themselves open to a possible action for perjury,
and stuck to their original testimony, regardless of the fact that the
witness now confronted with them, being also clean shaven, of average
height, and possibly the possessor of a brown jacket, was a perfectly
respectable citizen of New York. At this the legal advisers of the
Brights were thunderstruck, and the court was surprised. But with the
fear of prosecution by the Lauderdales before their eyes, the other two
would not budge, though the real John Simons, whether he had signed or
not, immediately threatened to prosecute them for perjury on his own
account. But he did not look imposing enough, and they preferred that
risk to the other.
