
"Much that you charge to him was the work of his agents."

"He hatched up the conspiracy with Mazagan, for Louis heard every word
of it in the café at Gallipoli. The attempt was made in Pournea Bay in
the Archipelago to take Miss Blanche and Louis out of the Maud."

"I grant it; but Mazagan far exceeded his instructions, as he did at
Zante."

"How much money did the Pacha offer Mazagan to obtain the persons
mentioned?"

"Twenty thousand dollars, or a hundred thousand francs; but that is a
bagatelle to him. The Pacha is another man now," added the ex-detective
impressively.

"How long has he been another man?" asked Captain Ringgold with
something like a sneer.

"Over six months."

"But Mazagan has been operating the same old scheme in Egypt within two
months," protested the commander of the Guardian-Mother very vigorously.

"Then he was not acting under the instructions of the Pacha."

"We should have found it difficult to believe that if you had told it to
us in Cairo," said the objector in a manner that might have made one who
did not know the captain decidedly belligerent. "Mazagan told Louis that
the Pacha had offered him two hundred thousand francs if he succeeded in
his enterprise, or half that sum if he failed."

"Then the fellow lied!" exclaimed the captain of the Blanche.

"He told Louis if he would persuade his trustee to give him half the
full amount of the reward, he would collect the other half of His
Highness, as promised in case of failure."

"That Mazagan is a villain and a scoundrel I have no doubt," said
Captain Sharp. "Since the affair at Zante, the Pacha has had no hand in
the matter."

"But the steamer of His Highness, the Fatimé, has been in Rosetta in
command of Mazagan," put in the objector with earnestness, believing his
reply would demolish the truth of his companion's statement.

"That can be explained," answered the commander of the Blanche. "If you
believe there is joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, it is
quite time for me to tell my story; and I hope you will take a different
view of the Pacha's present character, as I believe you will."

"Where is the distinguished Moor now?" asked Captain Ringgold,
carelessly and flippantly, as though it was of no consequence to him
where he was.

"He is in the cabin."

"In the cabin!" exclaimed the commander of the Guardian-Mother, leaping
out of his chair with an utter lack of dignity for him. "What cabin?"
