
"I believe it is a fraud," replied the doctor.

"The color of the cobra varies from pale yellow to dark olive. One kind has
something like a pair of spectacles on the back of his hood, or it looks
something like the eyes with which ladies fasten their dress. This hood or
bonnet is spread out by the action of the ribs of the creature, and he
opens it when he is angry.

"I had a tame mongoose, a sort of ichneumon. This animal, not much bigger
than a weasel, is a great cobra-killer, and he understands his business.
This snake is given to hiding himself in the gardens around the bungalow
for the purpose of preying on the domestic fowls. I found one once, and
brought out the mongoose. He tackled him at once, and killed him about as
quick as a rifle would have done it. I think you will learn all you want to
know about snakes as you travel through India."

Sir Modava retired with the usual applause. As the company returned from
the platform, a gun from the Blanche attracted their attention.




                                 CHAPTER XI

                        A PLEASANT DINNER-PARTY AT SEA


The Blanche was on the starboard beam of the Guardian-Mother, or, in shore
parlance, she was on the right-hand side of her as both ships sailed to the
eastward. She chose her own position, and it varied considerably at
different times, though it was generally about half a mile from her
consort. At the present time she had come within less than a quarter of a
mile, as the sea was quite smooth.

"Why, the Blanche is all dressed up as though she were going to a ball!"
exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, as the booming gun attracted the attention of the
entire party.

"So she is," added the commander, as he observed her altered appearance for
the first time; for he had been giving his whole attention to the lecture.
"Captain Sharp is evidently getting up some sort of a frolic."

The first gun was followed by a second, and then by a third; and they
continued till thirty-one of them had been discharged. Four pieces were
evidently used, and they were fired with considerable rapidity, proving
that the British tars who formed her ship's company had seen service in the
navy.

"What does all that mean?" queried Captain Ringgold, as the party gathered
about him for an explanation, though he was as much puzzled as any of them.
"It is not a national salute, so far as I know, and I am utterly unable to
say what it means."

But as soon as the firing ceased a signal number went up to the fore-peak.
Bangs was the signal officer, and he had his book open as soon as he saw
that it was needed.

"What is it, Bangs?" asked the commander at the window of the pilot-house.

