important, because it is at a point through which I must pass, to make
the railway at all, short of an expensive tunnel. Your management will
simply consist in keeping things in order until the railway makes the
land valuable. Then I shall sell it, of course.'

'I see. Very well. Could you not give my old architect something to do?
Andrea Contini is his name. The houses we built for Del Ferice have all
turned out well, you know.' Orsino laughed rather bitterly.

'Remind me of him at the proper time,' said San Giacinto. 'Tell him to
learn something about building small railway stations. There will be
between fifteen and twenty, altogether.'

'I will. But--do you expect that a railway in Sicily will ever pay you?'

'No. I am not an idiot.'

'Then why do you build one, if that is not an indiscreet question?'

'The rise in the value of all the land I buy will make it worth while,
several times over. It is quite simple.'

'It must take an enormous capital,' said Orsino, thoughtfully.

'It needs a large sum of ready money. But the lands are generally
mortgaged for long periods, and almost to two-thirds of their selling
value. The holders of the mortgages do not care who owns the land. So I
pay about one-third in cash.'

'What becomes of the value of a whole country, when all the land is
mortgaged for two-thirds of what it is worth?' asked Orsino, carelessly,
and half laughing.

But San Giacinto did not laugh.

'I have thought about that,' he answered gravely. 'When the yield of the
land is not enough to pay the interest on the mortgages, the taxes to
the government, and some income to the owners, they starve outright, or
emigrate. There is a good deal of starvation nowadays, and a good deal
of emigration in search of bread.'

'And yet they say that the value of land is increasing almost all over
the country,' objected Orsino. 'You count on it yourself.'

'The value rises wherever railways and roads are built.'

'And what pays for the railways?'

'The taxes.'

'And the people pay the taxes.'

'Exactly. And the taxes are enormous. The people in places remote from
the projected railway are ruined by them, but the people who own land
where the railways pass are indirectly very much enriched by the result.
Sometimes a private individual like myself builds a light road. I think
that is a source of wealth, in the end, to everyone. But the building of
the government roads, like the one down the west coast of Calabria,
seems to destroy the balance of wealth and increase emigration. It is a
necessary evil.'
