for such nonsense! It spoiled children to put them forward. He ought to
be thinking of his lessons and forming his character, instead of
spending his time over silly songs. And to sing on a public stage!"

"Some of the best families are to let their children participate in it.
I don't think it will hurt them," her husband said decisively.

Then she actually sobbed.

"You will ruin that child, after all the trouble I've taken. I've worked
and slaved from morning till night, made him get his lessons and be
careful of his clothes, and kept him out of bad company; and now I'm
not allowed to say a word, but just stand by while you let him go to
ruin. The next thing we'll have him in a nigger minstrel band, or
playing on a fiddle!"

"I've known some very worthy men who played on a fiddle. And all the
children growing up can't be minstrels, so perhaps our boy will be
compelled to find some other employment. I am going to have him like
other boys; and if it can't be so at home, I'll send him away to
school."

That was a terrible threat. To be gone months at a time, with no one to
look after his clothes!

Mrs. Reed went about the house sighing, and scrubbed harder than ever.
She made Charles feel as if he brought in dirt by the bushel, and
scattered it about in pure spite. She even refused his help in clearing
away the dishes; and she tried to make him wear his second-best clothes
that eventful evening.

Oh, what an evening it was! The hall was crowded. The stage was full of
children, one tier of seats rising above another. The girls were dressed
in white, and most of them had their hair curled. The boys had a white
ribbon tied in the buttonhole of their jackets. How eager and pretty
they looked! Hanny thought of the day at Castle Garden when the
Sunday-schools had walked.

It was a simple cantata, but a great success. Charles Reed sang
charmingly. His father had said, "Don't get frightened, my boy, and do
your very best;" and he was just as desirous of pleasing his father as
any one, even Mr. Bradbury.

Daisy Jasper could have listened all night, entranced. Tall Doctor Joe
sat beside her, easing her position now and then, while Hanny smiled and
made joyful comments of approval in so soft a tone they disturbed no
one.

"I've never been so happy in all my life," Daisy Jasper said to Doctor
Joe. "It seems as if I could never feel miserable again. There are so
many splendid things in the world that I am glad to live and be among
them, if I can't ever be quite straight and strong."

"My dear child!" Doctor Joe's eyes said the rest.

They waited for the crowd to get out. Charles came down the aisle with
his father and Mr. Bradbury, and Mr. Dean was escorting his little
girls. They had a very delightful chat, and were charmed with the leader
of the children's concert.

