
"How well you are looking," he said suddenly, when young Harmon had
relapsed into silence.  "You are as fresh as a rose."

"A rose of yesterday," said Helen Harmon, a little sadly.

Quite naturally, Colonel Wimpole sighed as he walked along at her elbow;
for though he did not know that she had ever loved him, he remembered
the letter he had written to the man she had afterwards married, and he
was too much a man himself not to believe that all might have been
different if he had not written it.

"Where are you stopping?" he asked, when they had gone a few steps in
silence.

Mrs. Harmon named a quiet hotel on the other side of the river.

"Close to us," observed the colonel, just as they reached the new
bridge.

They were half-way across when an exclamation from young Harmon
interrupted their conversation, which was, indeed, but a curiously stiff
exchange of dry information about themselves and their movements, past,
planned, and probable.  For people who are fond of each other and meet
rarely are first of all anxious to know when they may meet again.  But
the boy’s cry of surprise made them look round.

"Jukes!" he exclaimed loudly.  "Jukes!" he repeated, more softly but
very emphatically, as though solely for his own benefit.

’Jukes’ was his only expression when pleased and surprised.  No one knew
whether he had ever heard the word, or had invented it, and no one could
ever discover what it meant nor from what it was derived.  It seemed to
be what Germans call a ’nature-sound,’ by which he gave vent to his
feelings.  His mother hated it, but had never been able to induce him to
substitute anything else in its place.  She followed the direction of
his eager glance, for she knew by his tone that he wanted what he saw.

She expected to see a pretty boat, or a big dog, or a gorgeous posted
bill.  Archie had a passion for the latter, and he often bought them and
took them home with him to decorate his own particular room.  He loved
best the ones printed in violent and obtrusive colours.  The gem of his
collection was a purple woman on a red ground with a wreath of yellow
flowers.

But Mrs. Harmon saw neither advertisement nor dog, nor boat.  She saw
Sylvia Strahan. She knew the girl very well, and knew Miss Wimpole, of
course.  The two were walking along on the other side of the bridge,
talking together.  Against the blaze of the afternoon sun, reflected
from the still lake, they could hardly have recognized the colonel and
the Harmons, even if they had looked that way.

"It’s Sylvia, mother," said Archie, glaring at the girl.  "But isn’t she
grown!  And isn’t she lovely?  Oh, Ju-u-ukes!"

His heavy lips thickened outwards as he repeated the mysterious
ejaculation, and there was more colour than usual in his dark face. He
was but little older than Sylvia, and the two had played together as
small children, but he had never shown any special preference for her as
a playmate.  What struck him, now, was evidently her beauty.  There was
