she was certainly grateful; my wife said that, and I saw it.  She seemed
to have written home about us to her father, for she read my wife part of
a letter from him conveying his “respects,” and asking her to thank us
for him.  She came to me with the cheque it enclosed, and asked me to get
it cashed for her; it was for a handsome amount.  But she continued to go
about at our cost, quite unconsciously, till one day she happened to
witness a contest of civility between Kendricks and myself as to which
should pay the carriage we were dismissing.  That night she came to Mrs.
March, and, with many blushes, asked to be allowed to pay for the past
and future her full share of the expense of our joint pleasures.  She
said that she had never thought of it before, and she felt so much
ashamed.  She could not be consoled till she was promised that she should
be indulged for the future, and that I should be obliged to average the
outlay already made and let her pay a fourth.  When she had gained her
point, Mrs. March said that she seemed a little scared, and said, “I
haven’t offended you, Mrs. March, have I?  Because if it isn’t right for
me to pay—”

“It’s quite right, my dear,” said my wife, “and it’s very nice of you to
think of it.”

“You know,” the girl explained, “I’ve never been out a great deal at home
even; and it’s always the custom there for the gentlemen to pay for a
ride—or dance—or anything; but this is different.”

Mrs. March said “Yes,” and, in the interest of civilisation, she did a
little missionary work.  She told her that in Boston the young ladies
paid for their tickets to the Harvard assemblies, and preferred to do it,
because it left them without even a tacit obligation.

Miss Gage said she had never heard of such a thing before, but she could
see how much better it was.

I do not think she got on with the Last Days of Pompeii very rapidly; its
immediate interest was superseded by other things.  But she always had
the book about with her, and I fancied that she tried to read it in those
moments of relaxation from our pleasuring when she might better have been
day-dreaming, though I dare say she did enough of that too.

What amused me in the affair was the celerity with which it took itself
out of our hands.  In an incredibly short time we had no longer the
trouble of thinking what we should do for Miss Gage; that was provided
for by the forethought of Kendricks, and our concern was how each could
make the other go with the young people on their excursions and
expeditions.  We had seen and done all the things that they were doing,
and it presently bored us to chaperon them.  After a good deal of talking
we arrived at a rough division of duty, and I went with them walking and
eating and drinking, and for anything involving late hours, and Mrs.
March presided at such things as carriage exercise, concerts, and
shopping.

There are not many public entertainments at Saratoga, except such as the
hotels supply; but a series of Salvation Army meetings did duty as
amusements, and there was one theatrical performance—a performance of
East Lynne entirely by people of colour.  The sentiments and incidents
of the heart-breaking melodrama, as the coloured mind interpreted them,
were of very curious effect.  It was as if the version were dyed with the
same pigment that darkened the players’ skins: it all came out negro.
Yet they had tried to make it white; I could perceive how they aimed not
at the imitation of our nature, but at the imitation of our convention;
