proceeded, "has it happily been confirmed to you?"

It pulled her up a trifle. "'Confirmed'----?"

"That he's her lover."

My eyes had been meeting hers without, as it were, hers quite meeting
mine. But at this there had to be intercourse. "By my husband."

It pulled me up a trifle. "Brissenden knows?"

She hesitated; then, as if at my tone, gave a laugh. "Don't you suppose
I've told him?"

I really couldn't but admire her. "Ah--so you have talked!"

It didn't confound her. "One's husband isn't talk. You're cruel
moreover," she continued, "to my joke. It was Briss, poor dear, who
talked--though, I mean, only to me. He knows."

I cast about. "Since when?"

But she had it ready. "Since this evening."

Once more I couldn't but smile. "Just in time then! And the way he
knows----?"

"Oh, the way!"--she had at this a slight drop. But she came up again. "I
take his word."

"You haven't then asked him?"

"The beauty of it was--half an hour ago, upstairs--that I hadn't to
ask. He came out with it himself, and that--to give you the whole
thing--was, if you like, my moment. He dropped it on me," she continued
to explain, "without in the least, sweet innocent, knowing what he was
doing; more, at least, that is, than give her away."

"Which," I concurred, "was comparatively nothing!"

But she had no ear for irony, and she made out still more of her story.
"He's simple--but he sees."

"And when he sees"--I completed the picture--"he luckily tells."

She quite agreed with me that it was lucky, but without prejudice to his
acuteness and to what had been in him moreover a natural revulsion. "He
has seen, in short; there comes some chance when one does. His, as
luckily as you please, came this evening. If you ask me what it showed
him you ask more than I've either cared or had time to ask. Do you
consider, for that matter"--she put it to me--"that one does ask?" As
her high smoothness--such was the wonder of this reascendancy--almost
deprived me of my means, she was wise and gentle with me. "Let us leave
it alone."

I fairly, while my look at her turned rueful, scratched my head. "Don't
you think it a little late for that?"

"Late for everything!" she impatiently said. "But there you are."

