dreadful if you were not reverent; you must fancy that you are
coming to hear a wonderful musician, and you know that he’ll play
for you, but you don’t know just when. That’s what I used to
pretend, and I used to come every day for a week or two, and very
early in the morning, when the dew was still everywhere and the
winds were still gay. Several times you go back home disappointed,
but that only makes you more eager for the next time; and when you
do find them it is wonderful--oh, most wonderful! For there is a
whole hedge of them along the edge of the wood; and you may be just
as madly happy as you choose and never be half happy enough, because
they are so beautiful!”

“These are wild roses?” asked the other, smiling.

“Yes,” said Helen, “and oh, think how many days I have forgotten
them, and they may have bloomed! And for three years I have not been
here, and I was thinking about it all the way over on the steamer.”
 They had come to the path that turned off to the woods, and Helen
led her companion down it, still prattling away in the meantime;
when they came to the edge of the woods she began walking upon tip
toe, and put her fingers upon her lips in fun. Then suddenly she
gave a cry of delight, for there were the roses for a fact, a whole
hedge of them as she had said, glowing in the bright sun and making
a wonderful vision.

The two stopped and stood gazing at them, the girl’s whole soul
dancing within her. “Oh do you know,” she cried suddenly, “I think
that I could get drunk with just looking at roses! There is a
strange kind of excitement that comes over one, from drinking in the
sight of their rich red, and their gracefulness and perfume; it
makes all my blood begin to flow faster, and I quite forget
everything else.” Helen stood for a few moments longer with her
countenance of joy; afterwards she went towards the flowers and
knelt down in front of them, choosing a bud that was very perfect.
“I always allow myself just one,” she said, “just one for love,” and
then she bent over it, whispering softly:

  “Hush, ‘tis the lullaby time is singing,
  Hush and heed not, for all things pass.”

She plucked it and held it up before her, while the wind came up
behind her and tossed it about, and tossed her skirts; Helen,
radiant with laughter, glanced at her companion, saying gaily, “You
must hold it very lightly, just like this, you know, with one finger
and a thumb; and then you may toss it before you and lose yourself
in its perfectness, until it makes all your soul feel gracious. Do
you know, Mr. Howard, I think one could not live with the roses very
long without becoming beautiful?”

“That was what Plato thought,” said the other with a smile, “and
many other wise people.”

“I only wish that they might bloom forever,” said the girl, “I
should try it.”

Her companion had been lost in watching her, and now as she paused
he said: “Sometimes, I have been happy with the roses, too, Miss
Davis. Here is some music for your flower.” She gazed at him
eagerly, and he recited, half laughingly:

