certainly appear in the Roman papers that very evening. Guido would not
hear of it at present, because Lamberti would keep it from him, but he
must know it in the end.

The girl was powerless, and realised it. If she had been mistress of her
own fortune she would readily have satisfied the Princess's demands on
Guido, for she suspected that in some way the abominable article had
been authorised by his aunt. But she was still Baron Goldbirn's ward,
and the sensible financier would have laughed to scorn the idea of
ransoming Guido d'Este's reputation. So would her mother, though she was
generous; and besides, the Countess could not touch her capital, which
was held in trust for Cecilia.

"What a mercy that you are not married to him!" she said, reading the
article again, while her daughter walked up and down the small boudoir.

"You should not say such things!" Cecilia answered hotly. "Why do you
read that disgusting paper? You know the story is a vile falsehood, from
beginning to end. You know that as well as I do! Signor Lamberti will go
to Paris to-night and kill the man who wrote it."

Her eyes flashed, and she had visions of the man she loved shaking a
miserable creature to death, as a terrier kills a rat. Oddly enough the
miserable creature took the shape of Monsieur Leroy in her vivid
imagination.

"Monsieur Leroy is at the bottom of this," she said with instant
conviction. "He hates Guido."

"I daresay," answered the Countess. "I never liked Monsieur Leroy. Do
you remember, when I asked about him at the Princess's dinner, what an
awful silence there was? That was one of the most dreadful moments of my
life! I am sure her relations never mention him."

"He does what he likes with her. He is a spiritualist."

"Who told you that, child?"

"That dear old Don Nicola Francesetti, the arch√¶ologist who showed us
the discoveries in Saint Cecilia's church."

"I remember. I had quite forgotten him."

"Yes. He told me that Monsieur Leroy makes tables turn and rap, and all
that, and persuades the Princess that he is in communication with
spirits. Don Nicola said quite gravely that the devil was in all
spiritualism."

"Of course he is," assented the Countess. "I have heard of dreadful
things happening to people who made tables turn. They go mad, and all
sorts of things."

"All sorts of things," in the Countess's mind represented everything she
could not remember or would not take the trouble to say. The expression
did not always stand grammatically in the sentence, but that was of no
importance whatever compared with the convenience of using it in any
language she chanced to be speaking. She belonged to a generation in
which a woman was considered to have finished her education when she had
learned to play the piano and had forgotten arithmetic, and she had now
forgotten both, which did not prevent her from being generally liked,
