
"Ah," he couldn't help breaking in, "what do you know of my place?
Pardon me," he at once added; "my preference is the one I express."

She had in an instant nevertheless a curious thought. "But won't the
facts be published?"

"'Published'?"--he winced.

"I mean won't you see them in the papers?"

"Ah never! I shall know how to escape that."

It seemed to settle the subject, but she had the next minute another
insistence. "Your desire is to escape everything?"

"Everything."

"And do you need no more definite sense of what it is you ask me to
help you to renounce?"

"My sense is sufficient without being definite. I'm willing to believe
that the amount of money's not small."

"Ah there you are!" she exclaimed.

"If she was to leave me a remembrance," he quietly pursued, "it would
inevitably not be meagre."

Kate waited as for how to say it. "It's worthy of her. It's what she
was herself--if you remember what we once said that was."

He hesitated--as if there had been many things. But he remembered one
of them. "Stupendous?"

"Stupendous." A faint smile for it--ever so small--had flickered in her
face, but had vanished before the omen of tears, a little less
uncertain, had shown themselves in his own. His eyes filled--but that
made her continue. She continued gently. "I think that what it really
is must be that you're afraid. I mean," she explained, "that you're
afraid of all the truth. If you're in love with her without it, what
indeed can you be more? And you're afraid--it's wonderful!--to be in
love with her."

"I never was in love with her," said Densher.

She took it, but after a little she met it. "I believe that now--for
the time she lived. I believe it at least for the time you were there.
But your change came--as it might well--the day you last saw her; she
died for you then that you might understand her. From that hour you
did." With which Kate slowly rose. "And I do now. She did it for
us." Densher rose to face her, and she went on with her thought. "I
used to call her, in my stupidity--for want of anything better--a dove.
Well she stretched out her wings, and it was to that they reached.
They cover us."

"They cover us," Densher said.

"That's what I give you," Kate gravely wound up. "That's what I've done
for you."
