CHAPTER III.

TROUBLE FOR MARK.


Time has a way of passing very hurriedly when there is anything going to
happen, especially if it be something disagreeable. The hands of the
clock had been at half-past eleven when Mark left. It took them almost
no time to hurry on to midnight, and not much longer to get to two. And
from two it went on to three, and then to half-past. The blackness of
the night began to wane, and the sky outside the window to lighten with
the first gray streaks of dawn. Not long after this time up in one of
the rooms on the second floor of barracks, Division 8, the occupant of
one of the rooms began to grow restless. For the occupant had promised
himself and others to awaken them. And awaken he did suddenly, and
turned over, rubbed his eyes, and sat up.

"Mark! Oh, Mark!" he called, softly. "Git up, thar! It's time to be
hustlin'!"

There was no answer, and Texas got up, yawning, and went to the other
bed.

"Git up thar, you prize fighter you!"

And as he spoke he aimed a blow at the bed, and the next moment he
started back in amazement, for his hand had touched nothing but a
mattress, and Texas knew that the bed was empty.

"Wow!" he muttered. "He's gone without me!"

And with this thought in his mind he rushed to his watch to see if he
were too late.

No, it was just ten minutes to four, and Texas started hastily to dress,
wondering at the same time what on earth could have led Mark to go so
early and without his friend.

"That was the goldurndest queer trick I ever did hear of in my life, by
jingo!"

It took him but a few short moments to fling his clothes on; and then he
stepped quickly across the hall and entered a room on the other side.

"I wonder if that Parson's gone with him," he muttered.

The "Parson" had not, for Texas found him engaged in encasing his long,
bony legs in a pair of trousers that would have held a dozen such.

"Are you accoutered for the combat?" he whispered, in a sepulchral
tone, sleepily brushing his long black hair from his eyes. "Where is
Mark?"

"The fool's gone up there without us!" replied the Texan, angrily.

"Without us!" echoed Stanard, sliding into his pale sea-green socks.

"Bless my soul!" echoed a voice from the bed--Indian was too sleepy to
get up. "Bless my soul, what an extraordinary proceeding!"

