difference, and withal a certain power that was like authority over
Renée. Oh, what if—and suddenly André Valbonais knew the child’s play;
the pretty imperiousness of ownership had a deeper meaning for him. He
would dispute this man’s claim. What was it but trifling? The two men
were as transient guests in the town. They would go away as soon as the
spring opened. But this one should not trifle with little Renée. Ah! he
did not look like trifling. The resolution in his face startled André.

“Ma’m’selle Renée,” he began, “are you ill? Shall I take you home?” and
André’s eyes questioned.

There was an ardent pressure on the small hand that said
authoritatively, “Come! come!” It roused the spirit of wilfulness, of
which she had quite too much. And what was there to be afraid of? She
was suddenly courageous.

“I am better now,” she said. “We will go back. But I will not dance.
Monsieur Laflamme, choose some other partner. One does not dance every
time, even with a king. We rule our own court here and make our own
laws. And I will lend the fair one my rose.”

She took André’s arm and smiled up in the other’s face with the most
provoking nonchalance. Laflamme gnawed his lip. He was very angry.

“I shall not consent to that. I am not so easily transferred,
ma’m’selle.”

“But you must go and dance. You will break the circle. Monsieur
Valbonais and I will look on.”

She turned, her head held up haughtily. There was nothing to do but
follow or make a scene, which was not to be thought of.

“And here is Lucie Aubry, the most queenlike girl in the room. You two
look splendid on the floor. Ma’m’selle Lucie, will you take my rose?”

“Ma’m’selle Aubry does not need it. May I have the pleasure?” Laflamme
placed himself between the two and led Lucie away.




CHAPTER XV

GATHERING THISTLES


“What happened?” asked André abruptly. “Were you ill, or—or offended?”

“I was dizzy and warm, that was all.”

“Renée,” he began presently, “that man is playing with you. He is
endeavoring to win your affections, and he will go away soon and you
will be left to get over it as best you may.”

“Get over what?” Her look and tone were so demure, so innocent, that he
studied her in amaze.

“Why,” with some embarrassment, “if you care for him—and now I
remember——”
