it made."

Some one else took her. He looked after her. She would be a pretty
girl presently and quite worth considering. He had a good opinion of
himself, and was not going to be lightly thrown away.

They trudged up the hill just after midnight. Laverne was gay and
chatty, recounting her good times. It seemed as if she had as much
attention as Olive from the younger men, and Olive was always so proud
of that.

Uncle Jason gave a sigh.

"Oh," she cried, "you look tired. Don't you like parties? I thought it
splendid!"

"I'm getting old, dear----"

"Oh, you mustn't get old!" she interrupted impulsively. "Why can't
people turn back a little somewhere along, and be young again? For,
you know, I can't get old very fast, and I think--yes, I am quite sure
I don't want to. I'm having such a splendid time since you were so
lovely to Carmen, and made her happy. I sometimes think if you had
sent her back to Monterey--but you couldn't have done that, could
you?"

"No, dear," he answered softly.

He had heard a point discussed this evening that did trouble him a
little. They were talking of lowering Telegraph Hill again. He was not
ready to go yet. In two years maybe. She would not have any lovers by
that time, and then they could start off together. He must not grow
old too fast.

The next happening in their little circle did interest her a good
deal. Howard Personette had finished his year's term at college, and
come home quite unexpectedly, when his father had intended him to
finish and take a degree.

"I'm not a student, I'm convinced of that," he announced rather
doggedly. "I don't see any sense in keeping at what you don't like,
and don't mean to follow. I want the stir and rush of business instead
of splitting hairs about this and that. I've been awfully homesick the
last year, and dissatisfied, but I knew you would not agree to my
coming home, so I just came. And if there's nothing else for me to do,
I'll go to work on the streets."

Students were expected to study in those days. Athletics had not come
in for their diversion. Mr. Personette was disappointed. He wanted to
make a lawyer out of his son, and to lay a good foundation for the
years to come.

Mrs. Personette rather sympathized with the eager young fellow, who
was ready to take up any active life.

"The East is so different," he explained. "Perhaps if I hadn't been
born here and breathed this free, exhilarating air all my life, I
might have toned myself down and stayed. But I had begun to hate
books, and what was the use maundering away several years?"

