
She regarded him intently with that clear gaze he found so refreshing--a
direct, fearless scrutiny which straightened her eyebrows to a
fascinating level and always made him think of a pagan marble, with
delicately chiselled, upcurled lips, and white brow youthfully grave.

"Did you study abroad?"

"Yes--not long enough."

She seemed rather astonished at this. Amused, he rested both elbows on
the parapet, looking at her from between the strong, lean hands that
framed his face.

"It was droll--the way I managed to scurry like a jack-rabbit through
school and college on nothing a year. I was obliged to hurry
post-graduate courses and Europe and such agreeable things. Otherwise I
would probably be more interesting to you--"

"You are sufficiently interesting," she said, flushing up at his wilful
misinterpretation.

And, as he laughed easily:

"The horrid thing about it is that you are interesting and you know
it. All I asked of you was to be seriously interesting to
me--occasionally; and instead you are rude--"

"Rude!"

"Yes, you are!--pretending that I was disappointed in you because you
hadn't dawdled around Europe for years in the wake of an education. You
are, apparently, just about the average sort of man one meets--yet I
kicked over several conventions for the sake of exchanging a few
premature words with you, knowing all the while I was to meet you later.
It certainly was not for your beaux yeux; I am not sentimental!" she
added fiercely. "And it was not because you are a celebrity--you are not
one yet, you know. Something in you certainly appealed to something
reckless in me; yet I did not really feel very sinful when I let you
speak to me; and, even in the boat, I admit frankly that I enjoyed every
word that we spoke--though I didn't appear to, did I?"

"No, you didn't," he said.

She smiled, watching him, chin on hand.

"I wonder how you'll like this place," she mused. "It's gay--in a way.
There are things to do every moment if you let people rob you of your
time--dances, carnivals, races, gambling, suppers. There's the
Fortnightly Club, and various charities too, and dinners and teas and
all sorts of things to do outdoors on land and on water. Are you fond of
shooting?"

"Very. I can do that pretty well."

"So can I. We'll go with my father and Gray. Gray is my brother; you'll
meet him at luncheon. What time is it?"

He looked at his watch. "Eleven--a little after."

