farce is ended. Are you going to leave me to face things alone? You
can't! I won't let you! I am----"



"Be careful," he said, spinning the 13 ball into a pocket. "People are
watching us. Toss that cue-ball back to me, please. Laugh a little when
you do it."

For a second she balanced the white ivory ball in a hand which matched
it; then the mad impulse to dash it into his smiling face passed with a
shudder, and she laughed and sent it caroming swiftly from cushion to
cushion, until it darted into his hand.

"Jim," she said, "you are not really serious. I know it, too; and
because I do know it, I have been able to endure the things you have
done--your idle fancies for a pretty face and figure--your
indiscretions, ephemeral courtships, passing inclinations. But this is
different----"

"Yes, it is different," he said. "And so am I, Elena. Let us be about
the honest business of life, in God's name, and clear our hearts and
souls of the morbid and unwholesome mess that lately entangled us."

"Is that how you speak of what we have been to each other?" she asked,
very pale.

He was silent.

"Jim, dear," she said timidly, "won't you give me ten minutes alone with
you?"

He scarcely heard her. He spun the last parti-coloured ball into a
corner pocket, straightened his shoulders, and looked at Jacqueline
where she sat in the corner of the fireplace. Herrendene, cross-legged
on the rug at her feet, was doing Malay card tricks to amuse her; but
from moment to moment her blue eyes stole across the room toward Desboro
and Mrs. Clydesdale where they leaned together over the distant pool
table. Suddenly she caught his eye and smiled a pale response to the
message in his gaze.

After a moment he said quietly to Elena: "I am deeply and reverently in
love--for the first and only time in my life. It is proper that you
should know it. And now you do know it. There is absolutely nothing
further to be said between us."

"There is--more than you think," she whispered, white to the lips.




CHAPTER XI


Nobody, apparently, was yet astir; not a breakfast tray had yet tinkled
along the dusky corridors when Desboro, descending the stairs in the dim
morning light, encountered Jacqueline coming from the general direction
of the east wing, her arms loaded with freshly cut white carnations.

"Good morning," he whispered, in smiling surprise, taking her and her
