approaching the cage to tear away the brush.  Eight brigands, at a sign
from their chief, surrounded the investigators, who found themselves
nicely caught.

The natives fled incontinently.  So did Bala Khan's camel men.

"Death if you move!" snarled the chief.  "Ah, you gave us bad opium,
and we dropped like logs!  Swine!"  He raised his rifle threateningly.

"Wait a minute," said Bruce coolly.  "What you want is money."

"Ay, money!  Ten thousand rupees!"

"It shall be given you if you let us go.  You will conduct us over the
hills to the sea, and there the money will be given you."

The chief laughed long and loudly.  "What!  Am I a goat to put my head
inside the tiger's jaws?  Nay, I shall hold you here for ransom.  Let
them bring gold.  Now, take hold," indicating the trap cage.  "We shall
take this fine man eater along with us.  I am speaking to you, white
men, and you, pig of a Hindu!  Chalu!  I will kill any one who falters.
Opium!  Ah, yes!  You shall pay for my headache and the sickness of my
comrades.  Chalu!  And your white woman; she shall give a ransom of her
own!"

The village jutted out into the desert after the fashion of a
peninsula.  On the west of it lay another stretch of sand.  They
followed the verdure till they reached the base of the rocky hills,
which were barren of any vegetation; huge jumbles of granite the color
of porphyry.  During the night they made about ten miles, and at dawn
were smothered by one of those raging sand-storms, prevalent in this
latitude.  They had to abandon the trap cage and seek shelter in a
near-by cave.  Here they remained huddled together till the storm died
away.

"It has blown itself out," commented the chief.  Then he spoke to
Ramabai.  "Who is this man?" with a nod toward the colonel.

"He is an American."

"He came for Allaha?"

"Yes," said Ramabai unsuspiciously.

"Ha!  Then that great prince did not lie."

"What prince?" cried Ramabai, now alarmed.

"The Prince Durga Ram.  Three fat bags of silver, he said, would he pay
me for the white hunter with the white hair.  It is the will of Allah!"

The colonel's head sank upon his knees.  Kathlyn patted his shoulder.

"Father, I tell you mind not the mouthings of a vile guru.  We shall
soon be free."

"Kit, this time, if I return to Allaha, I shall die.  I feel it in my
bones."

"And I say no!"
