lovely fashion for her prices are high and she doesn't care to take any
scholars only from the best families. I do wonder how that Nevins girl
slipped in? Her father is a first-class banker, I have understood. They
have a big house in New York and a summer house at Elberon, and their
New York house is rented out for seven thousand dollars; but isn't she a
terror? How do you stand her, Miss Boyd?"

"She has had very little training. Her mother has been ill and seems
very indulgent," answered Lilian quietly. "Yet she may make a very fair
scholar."

"It's funny to hear her talk. Bragging, we call it. Do you suppose the
stories are true?"

"Mrs. Barrington would know," was the cautious reply.

"Well, I suppose she must be satisfactory or she wouldn't be here. But
there's common blood back of her somewhere. Money doesn't give you the
prestige of good birth. That always shows--don't you think so?" with a
confident upward glance.

"I have not had experience enough with the world to judge," answered
Lilian. "We lived in a factory town--"

"And in such places there are a good many newly rich, and they think
they have it all."

Mrs. Boyd had been straightening out the rent and basting it on a piece
of stiff paper.

"I wonder if you would mind asking Mrs. Dane if there were irons on the
range."

She looked straight at Louie, not at all as if she was asking a favor.
Lilian was on her knees straightening and dusting the lower shelf of the
book case. She did not even turn her head.

Miss Howe went out with what she thought was a stately step and frowned
at the girl on the floor whose business was to wait on her mother. When
she was clear out of sight and hearing Lilian sprang up and clasped her
arms about her mother.

"Oh, that was just splendid!" she cried, her eyes soft and shining.

"I--I think I meant--either of you!" hesitating.

"It was her business and it won't hurt her to wait on herself. The girls
go down to the kitchen and iron out ribbons and things. I'm not their
maid, and she had no business to stand here gossipping about Miss
Nevins. I'm sorry for her and I don't like her, but there are some girls
that are real friendly. There are two girls going to college next year.
They have money, too, and they think a degree a great thing, and know
of girls who have taught awhile and then taken a year or two and taught
again. I was reading such a fine book--this girl and her mother took a
cottage and boarded the overflow of girls and had a lovely time, she
helping and studying. That's what we will try to do, and this year you
will get real well and strong. Oh, isn't it nice not to have any care of
things and so much comfort?"

The mother bent over her work turning her head aside so that a tear
