A thin, inscrutable smile stirred the lips of the man bound in the
chair.




CHAPTER II

Vroon faced Hargreave's butler somberly.  The one reason why Braine
made this man his lieutenant was because Vroon always followed the
letter of his instructions to the final period; he never sidestepped or
added any frills or innovations of his own, and because of this very
automatism he rarely blundered into a trap.  If he failed it was for
the simple fact that the master mind had overlooked some essential
detail.  The organization of the Black Hundred was almost totally
unknown to either the public or the police.  It is only when you fail
that you are found out.

"The patrolman has been trussed up like you," began Vroon.  "If they
find him they will probably find you.  But before that you will grow
thirsty and hungry.  Where did your master put that money?"

"He carried it with him."

"Why didn't you call for help?"

"The houses on either side are too far away.  I might yell till
doomsday without being heard.  They will have heard the pistol shots;
but Mr. Hargreave was always practising in the back yard."

"The people in those two houses have been called out of town.  The
servants are off for the night."

"Very interesting," replied Jones, staring at the rug.

"Your master is dead."

Jones' chin sank upon his breast.  His heart was heavy, heavier than it
had ever been before.

"Your master left a will?"

"Indeed, I could not say."

"We can say.  He has still three or four millions in stocks and bonds.
What he took to the bottom of the sea with him was his available cash."

"I know nothing about his finances.  I was his butler and valet."

Vroon nodded.  "Come, men; it is time we took ourselves off.  Put
things in order; close the safe.  You poor jackals, I always have to
watch you for outbreaks of vandalism.  Off with you!"

He was the last to leave.  He stared long and searchingly at Jones, who
felt the burning gaze but refused to meet it lest the plotter see the
fire in his.  The door closed.  For fully an hour Jones listened but
did not stir.  They were really gone.  He pressed his feet to the floor
and began to hitch the chair toward the table.  Half-way across the
intervening space he crumpled in the chair, almost completely
exhausted.  He let a quarter of an hour pass, then made the final
