
The green door in the garden wall had been perforated by a dozen bullets
from outside before the first heavy crash came, almost shaking it from
its hinges.

Warner had already whipped out his own automatic; Halkett pushed him
aside across a flower bed.

"Keep out of this!" he said.  "It’s my affair——"

"I’m damned if it is!" retorted Warner.  "I’ll settle that question once
for all!"  And he leveled his automatic and sent a stream of lead
through the green door in the wall.

No more blows fell on it, but all over it, from top to bottom, white
splinters flew while bullets poured through it from outside.

"You are wrong to involve yourself," insisted Halkett, raising his voice
to dominate the racket of the automatics.  "They want only me."

"So do I, Halkett.  And I’ve got you and mean to keep you.  Blood is the
thicker, you know."

Philippa came from the arbor, carrying the badly frightened cat with
difficulty.

"Is it really war?" she asked calmly, while Ariadne alternately cowered
and struggled.

"Just a little private war," said Halkett.  "And you had better go into
the house at once——"

"You and I should go, also," added Warner, "if there are more than two
men out there."

"I saw at least half a dozen beyond the wall.  You are quite right,
Warner; we couldn’t hope to hold this garden.  But I dislike to go into
a strange house and invite assault on other people’s property—just to
save my own hide——"

"Keep out of range!" interrupted Warner sharply, taking him by the arm
and following Philippa around the garden toward the rear of the house.

The back door was iron, armed with thick steel bolts; the neighborhood
of the quarry rendering such defenses advisable.  Warner shot all three
bolts, then passed rapidly through the kitchen to the front door and
secured it, while Halkett went to the telephone.  The nearest gendarmes
were at Ausone.

Linette, the chambermaid and waitress, and Magda, the cook, had followed
Halkett and Philippa from the pantry through the kitchen to the front
hallway.  They had heard the noisy fusillade in the garden.  Curiosity
seemed to be their ruling emotion, but even that was under control.

"Is it the Prussians, Messieurs?" asked Linette calmly.  "Has the war
really begun?"  Her face, and Magda’s too, seemed a trifle colorless in
the failing evening light, but her voice was steady.

"Magda," said Warner, "the men outside our garden who fired at Mr.
Halkett are certainly Germans.  He and I mean to keep them out of this
