Brisson, much interested, asked Palla whether the void left by
discredited Divinity did not bewilder her.

"There is no void," said the girl. "It is already filled with my own
kind of God, with millions of Gods--my own fellow creatures."

"Your fellow beings?"

"Yes."

"You think your fellow creatures can fill that void?"

"They have filled it."

Brisson nodded reflectively: "I see," he said politely, "you intend to
devote your life to the cult of your fellow creatures."

"No, I do not," said the girl tranquilly, "but I intend to love them
and live my life that way unhampered." She added almost fiercely: "And
I shall love them the more because of their ignorant faith in an
all-seeing and tender and just Providence which does not exist! I
shall love them because of their tragic deception and their
helplessness and their heart-breaking unconsciousness of it all."

Ilse Westgard smiled and patted Palla's cheeks: "All roads lead
ultimately to God," she said, "and yours is a direct route though you
do not know it."

"I tell you I have nothing in common with the God you mean," flashed
out the girl.

Brisson, though interested, kept one grey eye on duty, ever hopeful of
wolves. It was snowing hard now--a perfect geography scene, lacking
only the wolves; but the Ã©tape was only half finished. There might be
hope.

The rather amazing conversation in the sleigh also appealed to him,
arousing all his instincts of a veteran newspaper man, as well as his
deathless curiosity--that perpetual flame which alone makes any
intelligence vital.

Also, his passion for all documents--those sewed under his underclothes,
as well as these two specimens of human documents--were now keeping
his lively interest in life unimpaired.

"Loss of faith," he said to Palla, and inclined toward further debate,
"must be a very serious thing for any woman, I imagine."

"I haven't lost faith in love," she said, smilingly aware that he was
encouraging discussion.

"But you say you have lost faith in spiritual love--"

"I did not say so. I did not mean the other kind of love when I said
that love is sufficient religion for me."

"But spiritual love means Deity----"

"It does not! Can you imagine the all-powerful father watching his
child die, horribly--and never lifting a finger! Is that love? Is that
