Yet, for myself, my escapades had been harmless enough--a pretty maid
kissed at a quilting, perhaps; another courted lightly at a barn-romp; a
laughing tavern wench caressed en passant, but no evil thought of it and
nothing to regret--no need to remember aught that could start a tear in
any woman's eyes.

Watts said to Claudia: "There is a maid at Caughnawaga who serves old
Douw Fonda--a Scotch girl, who might serve you as well as Flora cares
for my sister."

"Penelope Grant!" exclaims Hare with an oath. Whereat these three young
men fell a-laughing, and even Sir John leered.

I had heard her name and that the careless young gallants of the country
were all after this young Scotch girl, servant to Douw Fonda--but I had
never seen her.

"She lives with the old gentleman, does she not?" inquired Claudia with
a shrug.

"She cares for him, dresses him, cooks for him, reads to him, sews,
mends, lights him to bed and tucks him in," said Hare. "My God, what a
wife she'd make for a farmer! Or a mistress for a gentleman."

"A wench I would employ very gladly," quoth Claudia, frowning. "Could
you get her ear, Jack, and fetch her?"

"Take her from Douw Fonda?" I exclaimed in surprise.

"The old man is like to die any moment," remarked Watts.

"Besides," said Moucher, "he has scores of kinsmen and their women to
take him in charge."

"She's a pretty bit o' baggage," said Sir John drunkenly. "If you but
kiss the little slut she looks at you like a silly kitten, and, I think,
with no more sense or comprehension."

Captain Watts darted an angry look at his brother-in-law but said
nothing.

Lady Johnson's features were burning and her lip quivered, but she
forced a laugh, saying that her husband could have judged only by
hearsay, and that the Scotch girl's reputation was still very good in
the country.

"Somebody'll get her," retorted Sir John, thickly, "for they're all
a-pestering--Walter Butler, too, when he was here,--and your brother,
and Hare and Moucher yonder. The little slut has yellow hair, but she's
too damned thin!----" he hiccoughed and upset his wine; and a servant
wiped his neck-cloth and his silk and silver waistcoat while he, with
wagging and unsteady head, gazed gravely down at the damage done.

Claudia set her lips to my ear: "The beast!--to affront his wife!" she
whispered. "Tell me, do you, also, go about your rustic gallantries in
the shameful manner of these educated and Christian gentlemen?"

"I seek no woman's destruction," said I drily.

"Not even mine?" She laughed as I reddened, and tapped me with her fan.
