
Then Guffey hung up the receiver and turned to Peter. “Now Gudge,”
 he said, “that’s all your story, is it; that’s all you got to tell
us?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well then, you might as well quit your fooling right away. We
understand that you framed this thing up, and we’re not going to be
taken in.”

Peter stared at Guffey, speechless; and Guffey, for his part, took a
couple of steps toward Peter, his brows gathering into a terrible
frown, and his fists clenched. In a wave of sickening horror Peter
remembered the scenes after the Preparedness Day explosion. Were
they going to put him thru that again?

“We’ll have a show-down, Gudge, right here,” the head detective
continued. “You tell us all this stuff about Angell--his talk with
Jerry Rudd, and his pockets stuffed with bombs and all the rest of
it--and he denies every word of it.”

“But, m-m-my God! Mr. Guffey,” gasped Peter. “Of course he’ll deny
it!” Peter could hardly believe his ears--that they were taking
seriously the denial of a dynamiter, and quoting it to him!

“Yes, Gudge,” responded Guffey, “but you might as well know the
truth now as later--Angell is one of our men; we’ve had him planted
on these `wobblies’ for the last year.”

The bottom fell out of Peter’s world; Peter went tumbling heels over
head--down, down into infinite abysses of horror and despair. Joe
Angell was a secret agent like himself! The Blue-eyed Angell, who
talked dynamite and assassination at a hundred radical gatherings,
who shocked the boldest revolutionists by his reckless
language--Angell a spy, and Peter had proceeded to plant a
“frame-up” on him!




Section 47


It was all up with Peter. He would go back into the hole! He would
be tortured for the balance of his days! In his ears rang the
shrieks of ten thousand lost souls and the clang of ten thousand
trumpets of doom; and yet, in the midst of all the noise and
confusion, Peter managed somehow to hear the voice of Nell,
whispering over and over again: “Stick it out, Peter; stick it out!”

He flung out his hands and started toward his accuser. “Mr. Guffey,
as God is my witness, I don’t know a thing about it but what I’ve
told you. That’s what happened, and if Joe Angell tells you anything
different he’s lying.”

“But why should he lie?”

“I don’t know why; I don’t know anything about it!”

