second cup, and pulled out his pocket-book.

"People will be asking if I made you a present. Thank goodness!
Christmas comes but once a year. Two would break a man. There!"
fillipping a roll of notes to his daughter. "Don't waste it upon
gimcracks and finery. If women had to earn money, they wouldn't be
so crazy to spend it. You must have some, I suppose:" and he laid a
smaller bundle upon Ida's plate.

"No, sir! I have money of my--" but he did not wait to hear her
through. As she quitted the table, Josephine pointed to the untouched
"present."

"Take it, if you choose!" said Ida, contemptuously. "I am not a
dependant or a beggar!"

Josephine loved money, and pocketed it. "And the old curmudgeon is none
the wiser!" chuckled the dutiful daughter.

Ida stretched herself upon a lounge, and set seriously about reasoning
herself out of her despondency. She thought of Carry, and Lynn and
Charley; but they came reluctantly, with selfishly happy faces; with
their schemes and amusements and dearer friends. Mr. and Mrs. Dana
pitied her;--this was the spring of their kindness! and her haughty
soul winced at the idea. Hope and Fancy crept, with trailing wings,
into hiding-places until the sun should shine out--she sullenly hugged
her misery. What visionary who reads this, but has suffered from these
morbose fits?

"Well?" said she, tartly, as Rachel tiptoed across the floor.

"I thought you was asleep;" replied the sable damsel.

"I am awake--do you want anything?"

Rachel rubbed her chin, gave her turban a twitch, and fumbled in her
pocket "Law! I ain't lost it, I know! It must be in my bosom!"

Ida, awakened by her movements, watched her as she produced a tiny
packet from the last-mentioned receptacle. With an odd compound of
awkwardness and affection, she slipped a ring upon her mistress' finger.

"Thar! it fits! don't it?" intensely complacent.

"But where did you get it, Rachel? is it for me?"

"For you, and nobody else, Miss Ida. I was determined your nose should
not be made a bridge of by everybody; so I've been a savin' my spare
coppers--(and no servant of yours wants for 'em,) and when you was
admirin' that ar ring of Miss Josephine's, I says to myself--'She shall
have one!' and when I'd cleaned up your room, I took off down town to
the jewellerers--and thar 'tis--wishin' you a Merry Christmas, and an
ever-lastin' Happy New Year, ma'am!" stepping back with a flourishing
courtesy. Ida tried to smile at her peroration, and failing, burst into
tears. Rachel was transfixed. She was not used to hysterics, and had
never seen her mistress weep before. Her consternation was a speedy
restorative; and Ida finally made her sensible that she was not grieved
or displeased, but overjoyed at her gift. Then the voluble Abigail
recollected "somethin' else" she had to communicate.

"Ain't that tall gentleman, with black whiskers, that visits here so
constant, named Mr. Lacy?"

"Yes."

"I thought so. When I went into the jewellerer's he was a standin'
at the counter, buyin' a pair of gold spectacles--for his mother--I
reckon. I heard him say they was for a lady. I asked for the rings, and
the shop-boy gave me a string of brassy, ugly things--and says I--'I
want a handsome one, sir, for my mistis.'

"'Your mistis!' says he. 'Them's plenty good for her!'

"'Are these the best you have?' says Mr. Lacy, sort o' frownin' and
talkin' like he was his master fifty times over.

"'No, sir--would you like to see some?' says the boy, turnin' white.

"'Bring them!' says Mr. Lacy; and when they come, he told me, with
the sweetest smile, and so respectful! 'These cost a great deal of
money--do you know it'?' So I showed him what I had, and he said
'twould do. Bimeby, I picked out two, and could not tell which was the
prettiest. I kept a-lookin' at one, and then at 'tother, and says he,
'Can't you choose between them?'

"'No, sir,' says I.

"'I think that the handsomest;' says he, pintin' to one, and that's
it you've got on your finger, this minute, Miss Ida. He seed that
low-lived boy give me the right change, and when I curchyed and said,
'I'm mightily obliged to you, sir;' he said, 'You are welcome,' just
like I'd been the Governor! We colored folks know a gentleman when we
see him, and he is a real born one."

The ring was very elegant, and the blood mounted to Ida's temple's, as
she toyed with it.

"Perhaps, it was not Mr. Lacy?" said she, in a tone of extreme
indifference. "Where had you met him, that you know him?"

