
"How are you going to make yourself comfortable here?" said
Winthrop presently; -- "these rooms are unfurnished."

She might have said that she did not expect to be comfortable
anywhere; but she swallowed that too.

"I will go and see what I can do in the way of getting some
furniture together," he went on. "I hope you will be able to
find some way of taking rest in the mean time -- though I
confess I do not see how."

"Pray do not!" said Elizabeth starting up, and her whole
manner and expression changing. "I am sure you are tired to
death now."

"Not at all. I slept last night."

"How much? Pray do not go looking after anything! You will
trouble me very much."

"I should be sorry to do that."

"I can get all the rest I want."

"Where?"

"On the rocks -- on the grass."

"Might do for a little while," said Winthrop; -- "I hope it
will; but I must try for something better."

"Where can you find anything -- in this region?"

"I don't know," said he; "but it must be found. If not in this
region, in some other."

"To-morrow, Mr. Landholm."

"To-morrow -- has its own work," said he; and went.

"Will he go to-morrow?" thought Elizabeth, with a pang at her
heart. "Oh, I wish -- no, I dare not wish -- that I had never
been born! What am I to do with myself?"

Conscience suggested very quietly that something might be
done; but Elizabeth bade conscience wait for another time,
though granting all it advanced. She put that by, as she did
Mrs. Nettley and Clam who both presently came where Winthrop
had been standing, to make advances of a different nature.

"What'll I do, Miss 'Lizabeth?" said the latter, in a tone
that argued a somewhat dismal view of affairs.

"Anything you can find to do."

"Can't find nothin, --" said Clam, "'cept Karen. One corner of
the house is filled enough with her; and the rest ha'n't got
nothin' in it."

"Let Karen alone, and take care of your own business, Clam."

"If I knowed what 'twas," said the persevering damsel. "I
can't make the beds, for there ain't none; nor set the
furnitur to rights, for the rooms is 'stressed empty."

"You can let me alone, at all events. The rooms will have
something in them before long. You know what to do as well as
any one; -- if you don't, ask Mr. Landholm."

"Guess I will!" said Clam; "when I want to feel foolisher than
I do. Did the furnitur come by the sloop?"

"No. Mr. Landholm will send some. I don't care anything about
it."

"Ha! then if he's goin' to send it," said Clam turning away,
"the place 'll have to be ready for it, I s'pose."

Mrs. Nettley appeared in Clam's place. Elizabeth was still
sitting on the door-step, and though she knew by a side view
that one had given place to the other, she did not seem to
know it and sat looking straight before her at the sunny
landscape.

"It's a beautiful place," said Mrs. Nettley after a little
pause of doubt.

"Very beautiful," said Elizabeth coldly.

"I did not know it was so beautiful. And a healthy place, I
should suppose."

Elizabeth left the supposition unquestioned.

"You are sadly fatigued, Miss Haye," said Mrs. Nettley after a
longer pause than before.

"I suppose I am," said Elizabeth rising, for patience had
drawn her last breath; -- "I am going down by the water to
