the "young giant." "Allow me to observe, that 'to-night' is not come
yet."

"Did you ever!" said Sam in an aside to Reuben, who had stood perfectly
still without speaking. "Well any time since he got home then, sir?"

"No, sir."

"Have you, Miss Faith?" said Reuben.

"No, Reuben--I am just going home. What's the matter?"

"Why he fainted in school--that's all," said Sam,--"he said there was
nothing the matter. Only we were going down to see how he got home, and
I thought maybe the doctor might tell us first." And not staying for
more words the two boys walked on a few steps, then set off and soon
ran themselves out of sight.

The other two quickened their walk, the doctor moderating his steps
however to suit the strength of his companion. But she soon took the
lead, and Mrs. Derrick's house was reached in as short a space of time
as the ground might be travelled without a speed which Faith did not
dare assume.

There was nothing alarming in the little parlour. Mrs. Derrick sat
knitting; Mr. Linden had been reading, but now was talking--half
laughing, half chiding--with the two boys who stood before him. Reuben
stood silent, smiling a little; Sam's energy was at work.

Faith came in quietly, with a face to which all her quick walk had not
brought back the colour. She said nothing. But the doctor's tongue was
free.

"Why what's this, Linden?"

"This is--Linden," said that gentleman coolly. "No boys--go off,--I
think I can live without seeing either of you again till to-morrow.
What's the matter, Dr. Harrison?"

"Just and precisely what I was asking," said the doctor; while Faith
glided to her mother and sitting down by her whispered enquiry. But
Mrs. Derrick knew nothing--had heard nothing, apparently.

"It's for you to state the case--" said Mr. Linden. "You speak as if
you had a warrant of arrest in your pocket."

"Why!" said the doctor, standing and looking down upon him,--"here's a
wind that has blown from nowhere! Do you want me to lodge information
against yourself?"

"I don't wish to lodge any."

"Linden," said the doctor changing his tone to one of serious kindly
interest, while Faith's eyes from her more distant seat waited for the
answer,--"what is the matter? What made you faint to-day?"

"What nonsense have those boys been talking?" said Mr. Linden--but his
look carried the charge a little beyond the range of his words. "I was
faint for awhile--not quite in a 'deadly swoond,' however."

"That young scapegrace said and declared you had fainted."

"They are so used to their own red cheeks, they think red is 'the only
colour,'" said Mr. Linden. "However, I believe he spoke true--but it
was nothing worth speaking of, after all."

"What was the cause?"

"I presumed a little upon the successful way in which I got through
yesterday--tried to do a little too much to-day, had one or two things
to try me--and so. Which of my boys do you honour with that title of
scapegrace?"

"You mustn't do so again," said the doctor seriously.

"There was no malice prepense to-day," said Mr. Linden. "What have you
been about all the afternoon?--I expect to hear that you have sailed up
the Great Pyramid in a canal boat, or coasted Japan in a Chinese
lantern."

"Nearly right," said the doctor. "We have been enacting the part of the
wise men of Gotham--I can't imagine where I ever heard of them!--who
went to sea in a tub."

"Went to see--what?--" said Mr. Linden laughing.

"Went to Se-vast-a-pool!" said the doctor with perfect gravity. "I hope
you're better!"

"Don't I look well?"

"If I were to take the votes on that subject," said the doctor, "I
presume the verdict would be unanimous. But looks are
proverbially--unsatisfactory! Do you know what damage you have done me
by your exploit this afternoon?"

"I should be very glad to hear."

"Why you have brought me into discredit and disfavour with half
Pattaquasset, man, because I have let you go out too soon--don't you
