
Dr. Harrison looked at him with a grave, considerative face, drawing a
little back; perhaps to do it the better.

"Do you mean to say, that you do such a thing as pray for me?"

A slight, sweet smile came with the answer--"Can you doubt it?"

"Why I might very reasonably doubt it,--though not your word. Why do
you,--may I ask?"

"What can I do for a man in deadly peril, whom my arm cannot reach?"
The tone was very kindly, very earnest; the eyes with their deep light
looked full into the doctor's.

Dr. Harrison was silent, meeting the look and taking the depth and
meaning of it, so far as fathomable by him. The two faces and figures,
fine as they both were, made a strange contrast. The doctor's face was
in one of its serious and good expressions; but the other had come from
a region of light which this one had never entered. And even in
attitude--the dignified unconsciousness of the one, was very different
from the satisfied carelessness of the other.

"May I further ask," he said in a softened tone,--"why you do this for
me?"

"Because I care about you."

"It's incredible!" said the doctor, his eye wavering, however. "One man
care about another! Why, man, I may be the worst enemy you have in the
world, for aught you know."

"That cannot hinder my being your friend."

"Do you know," said the other looking at him half curiously,--"I am
ready to do such a foolish thing as to believe you? Well--be as much of
a friend to me as you can; and I'll deserve it as well as I can--which
maybe won't be very well. Indeed that is most likely!" He had stretched
out his hand to Mr. Linden however, and clasped his warmly. He quitted
it now to go forward and take that of Faith.

She came in just as usual, and met the doctor with her wonted manner;
only the crimson stain on her cheek telling anything against her. She
did not give him much chance to observe that; for Cindy followed her
with the tea things and Faith busied herself about the table. The
doctor went back to his stand and watched her.

"Mignonette has changed colour," he remarked presently. "How is that,
Miss Derrick?"

"How is what, sir?"

"How come you to change the proper characteristics of mignonette? Don't
you know that never shews high brilliancy?"

"I suppose I am not mignonette to-night," said Faith, returning to the
safer observation of the tea-table.

"Are you my flower, then? the Rhodora?" he said with a lowered tone,
coming near her.

If Faith heard, she did not seem to hear this question. Her attention
was bestowed upon the preparations for tea, till Mrs. Derrick came in
to make it; and then Faith found a great deal to do in the care of the
other duties of the table. It was a mystery, how she managed it; she
who generally had as much leisure at meals as anybody wanted. Dr.
Harrison's attention however was no longer exclusively given to her.

"Do you always have these muffins for tea, Mrs. Derrick?" he remarked
with his second essay.

"Why no!" said Mrs. Derrick,--"we have all sorts of other things. Don't
you like muffins, doctor?"

"Like them!" said the doctor. "I am thinking what a happy man Mr.
Linden must be."

"Marvellously true!" said Mr. Linden. "I hope you'll go home and write
a new 'Search after happiness,' ending it sentimentally in muffins."

"Not so," said the doctor. "I should only begin it in muffins--as I am
doing. But my remark after all had a point;--for I was thinking of the
possibility of detaching anybody from such a periodical attraction.
Mrs. Derrick, I am the bearer of an humble message to you from my
sister and father--who covet the honour and pleasure of your presence
to-morrow evening. Sophy makes me useful, when she can. I hope you will
give me a gracious answer--for yourself and Miss Faith, and so make me
useful again. It is a rare chance! I am not often good for anything."

"I don't know whether I know how to give what you call gracious
answers, doctor," said Mrs. Derrick pleasantly. "I'm very much obliged
to Miss Sophy, but I never go anywhere at night."

With the other two the doctor's mission was more successful; and then
he disclosed the other object of his visit.

"Miss Derrick, do you remember I once threatened to bring the play of
Portia here--and introduce her to you?"

"I remember it," said Faith.
