
"Do you mean to say, mother, that you would have given him leave to go,
even if he had teased you for a month?" asked John.

"Certainly I should," replied his mother, stopping short in the middle of
the floor. "I'm ready and willing to have my boys fight for their country,
but I don't want them to sneak off as though they had been robbing a
hen-roost, and without even saying good by to me."

"If Tom were here, do you mean to say you would let him go?" demanded
John, earnestly.

"Certainly I do; I mean so. But I don't think there is any need of boys
like him going, when there are men enough to do the fighting."

"You told Tom he shouldn't go."

"Well, I didn't think he really meant it. If he had--What's that, John?"
asked she, suddenly, as a noise at the window attracted her attention.

"Only the cat, mother."

"If Thomas or you had asked me in earnest, and there was need of your
going, I wouldn't have kept either of you at home. I would go to the
poorhouse first. My father and my brother both fought for their country,
and my sons shall when their country wants them."

"Then you are willing Tom should go?"

"I am, but not to have him sneak off like a sheep-stealer."

"Three cheers for you, mother!" shouted Thomas, as he threw up the window
at which he had been standing for some ten minutes listening to this
interesting conversation.

"Where have you been, Thomas?" exclaimed the delighted mother.

"Open the door, Jack, and let me in, and I will tell you all about it,"
replied the absentee.

"Come in; the door isn't locked," said John.

He came in; and what he had to tell will interest the reader as well as
his mother and his brother.




CHAPTER VII.

A MIDNIGHT ADVENTURE.


Tom Somers was an enterprising young man, as our readers have already
discovered; and when the door of the finished room in the attic of Squire
Pemberton's house was fastened upon him, he was not at all disposed to
submit to the fate which appeared to be in store for him. The idea of
becoming a victim to the squire's malice was not to be entertained, and he
threw himself upon the bed to devise some means by which he might make his
escape.

The prospect was not encouraging, for there was only one window in the
chamber, and the distance to the ground was suggestive of broken limbs, if
not of a broken neck. Tom had read the Life of Baron Trenck, and of
Stephen Burroughs, but the experience of neither of these worthies seemed
to be available on the present occasion.

As the family had not yet retired, it would not be safe to commence
operations for some hours. The stale, commonplace method of tying the
sheets and blankets together, and thus forming a rope by which he could
descend to the ground, occurred to him; but he had not much confidence in
the project. He lay quietly on the bed till he heard the clocks on the
churches at the Harbor strike twelve. It was time then, if ever, for the
family to be asleep, and he decided to attempt an escape by another means
which had been suggested to him. If it failed, he could then resort to the
old-fashioned way of going down on the rope made of sheets and blankets.

The apartment in which Tom was confined was not what people in the country
call an "upright chamber." The sides of the room were about four feet in
height; and a section of the apartment would have formed one half of an
irregular octagon. In each side of the chamber there was a small door,
opening into the space near the eaves of the house, which was used to
store old trunks, old boxes, the disused spinning-wheel, and other lumber
of this description. Tom had been in the attic before, and he remembered
these doors, through one of which he now proposed to make his escape.

When the clock struck twelve, he cautiously rose from the bed, and pulled
off his boots, which a proper respect for his host or the bed had not
prompted him to do before. The house was old, and the floors had a
tendency to creak beneath his tread. With the utmost care, he crawled on
his hands and knees to one of the doors of the lumber hole, which he
succeeded in opening without much noise.

Making his way in among the old boxes, trunks, and spinning-wheels, he was
fully embarked in his difficult venture. The dust which he stirred up in
his progress produced an almost irresistible desire to sneeze, which Lord
Dundreary might have been happy to indulge, but which might have been
fatal to the execution of Tom Somers's purpose. He rubbed his nose, and
held his handkerchief over the intractable member, and succeeded in
overcoming its dangerous tendency. His movements were necessarily very
