reefed; and though she jumped, plunged, and rolled, making a terrific
roar as she went along, everything was ship-shape about her, and the
boys soon became accustomed to the exciting scene. She was making but
little headway, but she still kept within three points of her general
course. Mr. Lowington remained on deck the rest of the night, anxiously
watching the ship and her crew in the trying experience of the hour.

Augustus Pelham, the discontented lieutenant, went below when his
quarter watch was relieved. The little incident, before all hands were
called, between himself and the captain, had disturbed him more than he
would have been willing to acknowledge. He thought it was harsh of the
captain to say anything to him, though he had broken one of the rules of
the ship; and he regarded the gentle reproof he had received as a very
great indignity.

He went to his state room. The ship was rolling fearfully, and he could
not stand up without holding on at the front of his berth. Goodwin, the
third lieutenant who was his room-mate, had already turned in; but it
was impossible for him to sleep. Pelham took a match from his pocket and
lighted the lamp, which swung on gimbals in the room.

"What are you doing, Pelham?" demanded Goodwin "It is against the rule
to light a lamp after ten o'clock."

"I know it; but I'm not going to blunder round here, and have my brains
knocked out in the dark," growled Pelham.

"Put the light out; you will get into trouble," remonstrated his
room-mate.

"I won't do it."

"What are you going to do?"

"Go to sleep, Goodwin, and don't bother me."

"What's the matter, Pelham? What ails you? I never knew you to think of
breaking one of the rules before."

"I should like to break them all, as Moses did the ten commandments. I
have been insulted."

"Who insulted you?"

"The captain."

"Gordon?" asked Goodwin, in astonishment

"Yes."

"I never knew him to do such a thing as that. I think you didn't
understand him; or he must have been excited by the gale."

"It was before it came on to blow very hard," replied Pelham, seating
himself on a stool, and bracing his feet against the front of the berth
to prevent being thrown down.

"What did he do?"

"He snubbed me, told me I knew the rule, and was as overbearing as
though I had been his servant, instead of an officer of the ship."

"But what did you do? He wouldn't have done anything of the kind if you
hadn't given him some provocation."

"I told the quartermaster, when the wind was heading off the ship, to
alter the course."

"Didn't you tell the captain beforehand?"

"Not I."

"Then I don't blame him for snubbing you. What's the use of being
captain if the officers don't obey you?"

"If he had anything to say to me, he might have been a little more
gentle about it."

Pelham neglected to say that he was not particularly gentle himself.

"Put that light out, Pelham, for my sake, if not for your own," said
Goodwin, when he found that his companion was too much out of sorts to
be reasonable.

"Neither for yours nor my own will I put it out," replied Pelham, as he
took a cigar from its hiding-place, under the lower berth.

"What are you going to do, Pelham?" demanded Goodwin, filled with
astonishment, as he observed the conduct of his fellow-officer.

"I'm going to have a smoke."

"But you know that smoking is positively prohibited either on ship or
shore."

"I haven't had a smoke since vacation," replied Pelham, as he lighted
the cigar.

"See here, Pelham; I won't stand this!" exclaimed the third lieutenant,
rising up in his bed, in which act he was nearly pitched out of his
