
"Am I perfectly safe?" she asked, timidly, as she crawled out of the
cuddy.

"Yes; no one can see you now. Sit down on this seat, and don't be
alarmed."

"What shall we do with Miss Loraine now we have released her?" asked
Bob, as she sat down by his side in the standing-room.

"I don't know," I replied. "We will settle that question before we go on
shore. What did Mrs. Loraine do to you when you went into the house,
Kate?"

"She spoke to me very severely, and sent me to my room. She told me I
should not come out again for a month."

"She was mistaken this time, if she never was before," said Bob, with a
congratulatory smile.

"She was, indeed; and O, I'm so thankful to you!"

"Do you know where Mrs. Loraine has gone now?" I asked, approaching the
subject which was so near my own heart.

"I don't; I heard a carriage drive up the yard. I suppose she has gone
out to ride," replied Kate.

"A gentleman drove up to the door in a two-horse buggy. Do you know who
the gentleman was?" I asked, anxiously. "Mrs. Loraine called him Tom."

"O, that was Mr. Thornton," she answered.

"Mr. Thornton!" I exclaimed.

"Yes; is he any relation to you!"

"Not that I am aware of," I replied, musing upon the fact that he bore
my name.

"He often comes to see Mrs. Loraine, and people say they are engaged to
be married," continued Kate.

"Where does he live?"

"I'm not very sure, but I think it is in Philadelphia. He stays at the
Cannondale Hotel about a week at a time, and comes to Mrs. Loraine's
every day."

"How often does he come to Cannondale?"

"Every two or three months, I should think. But I don't see much of him.
I have been kept in my chamber most of the time," she added, sadly.

"Did you ever hear him speak about Amos Thornton, my uncle?"

"Never."

"You say he is going to be Mrs. Loraine's husband."

"That's what people say; I don't know anything about it, only that he is
very often at the house."

"Do you know anything about Mr. Thornton?" I continued. "Is he rich?"

"I don't know whether he is or not. I think he must be. He always takes
her out to ride with a span of fine horses."

"Is Mrs. Loraine very rich herself?"

"She is not very rich herself. She has what my father left her by his
will."

"Of course your father left something to you," added Bob Hale.

"Mr. Windleton called me a little heiress two years ago, and said I
should have forty thousand dollars when I was old enough to receive it."

"Who is Mr. Windleton?"

"He was a great friend of my father. He keeps the money that belongs to
me. I forget what they call him."

"A trustee," suggested Bob, who was somewhat earned in the law.

"Yes; that's what he said he was. My father gave his wife only half as
much as he gave me; but I wish he had given her all of his property,"
said Kate, looking over into the water.

"Why do you wish so?" I asked.

"I think she would have been kinder to me. Mr. Windleton's daughter
Ellen told me, if I should die, that my money would go to Mrs. Loraine.
I don't know whether it is true or not;" and without any apparent
reason, Kate burst into tears.

Bob and I comforted her as well as we could.

"I'm afraid," she continued, when she had wiped away her tears, "she
hopes I shall die."
