the Caribbee?"

"She struck on a rock to the southward of King's Island, in the gale,
yesterday morning. She has broken up before this time."

"And I was on board of her at the time," said Bessie.

"Though the Caribbee was twenty tons larger than The Starry Flag, we
were just a match for her in sailing," added Levi. "We lost her a week
out of New York, saw her again at the Cape of Good Hope, and then lost
sight of her three or four times; but we arrived at the entrance of
Bass Strait about the same time."

"I think I will not stop to hear the story now. Bessie, there is some
one on shore who wishes to see you," replied Mr. Watson.

"Who? O, I know, father! It is mother! Come, let us go on shore, this
minute!" exclaimed the bewildered girl, dancing about again, as this
new joy dawned upon her.

Levi informed the consul that one of the conspirators had been saved
from the wreck, and this gentleman promised to attend to the matter.
The life boat was lowered; and leaving his mate in charge of the
vessel, with strict injunctions not to let Mat Mogmore escape, Levi
went on shore with Bessie and her father.

"My mother in Australia!" exclaimed Bessie.

"And Mrs. McGilvery, too!" added Mr. Watson.

"Why, then the whole family are here! Only think of it! I didn't expect
to see you or mother for months yet."

"We could not do anything but come, for every hour seemed like an age
to us," replied Mr. Watson. "When I received Levi's letter, I saw that
nothing more could be done on our side of the world, and I decided to
follow you. Dock Vincent assured me I should never see my daughter
again; and I was satisfied by the confidence he exhibited, and the
persistency with which he urged me to pay his demand, that the Caribbee
had indeed sailed upon her long voyage. Levi's letter, written when he
had been three days at sea, with the Caribbee in sight, fully confirmed
my view. I was sorry Levi did not return to New York, instead of
following the vessel."

"Why so?" asked Levi, blushing under the implied censure.

"If I had known the result in season, I might have sent a steamer in
pursuit of the Caribbee. As it was, I did not get the letter till a
week after her departure."

"The chances of a steamer finding the Caribbee were not more than one
in fifty," replied Levi.

"I was sorry then, Levi; but I am not now. You have achieved almost a
miracle, and I am willing to believe now that your course was the best
and the safest. I decided at once to be in Melbourne when the Caribbee
arrived. I sailed for England in the steamer with your mother and your
aunt. We came from there by the way of Egypt, and landed here three
weeks ago. I have an agent in every principal port in Australia on the
lookout for the Caribbee. When any fore-and-aft vessel came into this
harbor I was informed of the fact, and you may judge my surprise when I
saw The Starry Flag. I will not tell you what I feared when I
recognized her, for all that passed away when I saw Bessie on the
deck;" and the devoted father clasped her in his arms again.

The party landed. In a few moments they reached the hotel, and Bessie
was folded in the embrace of her mother.




CHAPTER XXVI.

CONCLUSION.


Mrs. Watson wept tears of joy over her lost child, now restored to her.
Mrs. McGilvery declared that the pleasure of witnessing such a joyful
meeting was worth a voyage half round the world, or, indeed, all the
way round the world.

"Well, Levi, what shall we do next?" asked Mr. Watson, when the young
skipper had been thanked and extolled by the ladies till his cheeks
burned with blushes.

"Go home, I suppose, sir, unless the ladies desire to settle here,"
replied Levi.

"Doubtless we shall go home," added Mr. Watson; "but how shall we do
it? I think the ladies will not care to be kept on board of the yacht
for three months or more."

"I will do what I can to make them comfortable if they will return in
The Starry Flag; but that is saying only a little."

"You would arrive on the coast of the United States in the middle of
the winter, and you will see many heavy storms, and much bad weather,"
suggested Mr. Watson.

"Yes, sir; it was bad enough coming out here, especially after we left
