
"You haven't any cause to be ashamed of it, Dick. It wasn't a very
desirable business, but it was honest. Now you can do something better.
You must adapt yourself to your new circumstances."

"So I mean to," said Dick. "I'm going in for respectability. When I get
to be sixty years old, I'm goin' to wear gold spectacles and walk round
this way, like the old gentlemen I see most every day on Wall Street."

Dick threw his head back, and began to walk round the room with a
pompous step and an air of great importance.

"I hope we'll both rise, Dick; we've got well started now, and there've
been other boys, worse off than we are, who have worked hard, and risen
to FAME AND FORTUNE."

"We can try," said Dick. "Now let us go out and have a walk."

"All right," said Fosdick.

They went downstairs, and out into the street. Accustomed to the lower
part of the city, there was a novelty in the evening aspect of Broadway,
with its shops and theatres glittering with light. They sauntered
carelessly along, looking in at the shop-windows, feeling more and more
pleased with their change of location. All at once Dick's attention was
drawn to a gentleman accompanied by a boy of about his own size, who was
walking a little in advance.

"Stop a minute," he said to Fosdick, and hurrying forward placed his
hand on the boy's arm.

"How are you, Frank?" he said.

Frank Whitney, for it was he, turned in some surprise and looked at
Dick, but did not at first recognize in the neat, well-dressed boy of
fifteen the ragged boot-black he had encountered a year before.

"I don't think I remember you," he said, surveying Dick with a puzzled
expression.

"Perhaps you'd remember me better if I had on my Washington coat and
Napoleon pants," said our hero, with a smile. He felt rather pleased to
find he was not recognized, since it was a compliment to his improved
appearance.

"What!" exclaimed Frank, his face lighting up with pleasure, "is it
possible that you are--"

"Richard Hunter, at your service," said our hero; "but when you knew me
I was Ragged Dick."




CHAPTER II.

INTRODUCTION TO MERCANTILE LIFE.


Frank Whitney was indeed surprised to find the ragged boot-black of a
year before so wonderfully changed. He grasped Dick's hand, and shook it
heartily.

"Uncle," he said, "this is Dick. Isn't he changed?"

"It is a change I am glad to see," said Mr. Whitney, also extending his
hand; "for it appears to be a change for the better. And who is this
other young man?"

"This is my private tutor," said Dick, presenting Fosdick,--"Professor
Fosdick. He's been teachin' me every evenin' for most a year. His terms
is very reasonable. If it hadn't been for him, I never should have
reached my present high position in literature and science."

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Professor Fosdick," said Frank,
laughing. "May I inquire whether my friend Dick owes his elegant system
of pronunciation to your instructions?"

"Dick can speak more correctly when he pleases," said Fosdick; "but
sometimes he falls back into his old way. He understands the common
English branches very well."

"Then he must have worked hard; for when I first met him a year ago, he
was--"

"As ignorant as a horse," interrupted Dick. "It was you that first made
me ambitious, Frank. I wanted to be like you, and grow up 'spectable."

"Respectable, Dick," suggested Fosdick.

"Yes, that's what I mean. I didn't always want to be a boot-black, so I
worked hard, and with the help of Professor Fosdick, I've got up a
little way. But I'm goin' to climb higher."

"I am very glad to hear it, my young friend," said Mr. Whitney. "It is
always pleasant to see a young man fighting his way upward. In this free
country there is every inducement for effort, however unpromising may be
the early circumstances in which one is placed. But, young gentlemen, as
my nephew would be glad to speak further with you, I propose that we
adjourn from the sidewalk to the St. Nicholas Hotel, where I am at
