dismissed the rest of the crew.

Mr. Fluxion probably acted on the principle of the celebrated
schoolmaster who charged all the faults of his pupils upon himself. If
Cleats had not left the deck, the conspiracy could not have been even
partially successful, and he charged all the blame upon him. After the
affair he increased his own vigilance, adding Dr. Carboy to one watch,
and the head steward to the other, so that another attempt to escape
must certainly fail.

"I never believed much in that plan," said Herman, the next day, as he
and Perth met on deck.

"I did. I won't go back on it now. If we had had half an hour more, we
should have been safe. Phillips didn't do as he agreed with Bitts,"
answered the leader. "He ought to have put a line a dozen times around
his body, so that he couldn't move his hands."

"He said he was afraid of actually choking him to death."

"Tying his hands would not have choked him."

"Well, whatever the reason was, the plan failed. We are played out for
this cruise."

"Yes, and haven't seen Paris, Switzerland, Germany, or the Rhine,"
growled Perth.

"I suppose it is our own fault."

"Humph!" snuffed the conquered leader.

"I am satisfied, now, that if we had done our duty, we should have had
a better time."

"Repent, then," said Perth, as he turned on his heel.

Possibly there was no other runaway in the crew who confessed as much
as this, but if is doubtful whether there was one who did not realize
the truth of the statement. All of them were satisfied that it was
useless to contend against the discipline of the Academy while it was
administered by such men as the principal and the vice-principal.

The Josephine had a fair passage, and reached Lisbon on the day after
the Young America had anchored in the river. She was loudly cheered
when she luffed up under the quarter of the ship, but not a sound came
from the disappointed and disheartened runaways in response, and more
fully than the sufferers themselves did the members of the Order of the
Faithful believe that the way of the transgressor is hard.

Mr. Fluxion immediately went on board of the ship, and reported to the
principal. For an hour they discussed the events of the cruise of the
Josephine up the Mediterranean; but both were satisfied that the
discipline of the squadron had been triumphant. Mr. Lowington was more
indulgent towards Cleats than the vice-principal was disposed to be,
and he was put on probation.

Before night the original order on board both vessels was restored, and
again the runaways mingled with the faithful ones. Each party had a
story to tell, and the glories of the beautiful Rhine lost nothing in
the description given by the tourists. The narrative of the adventures
of the excursionists was galling to the others, for the latter had
nothing but sea life to speak of, unless it was the harbor of Genoa. It
was painful to be obliged to say that they had been up the
Mediterranean without putting a foot on shore during their absence.
Certainly those who had done their duty could appreciate the pleasures
of their trip, after contrasting it with that of the runaways; and
perhaps they needed this contrast to enable them fully to realize the
satisfaction which follows right doing.

Fresh provisions and water were taken in by both vessels. Only a few of
the students went on shore, and those on duty; and at noon on the day
after the arrival of the Josephine, the squadron got under way,
homeward bound. The usual routine on board was restored, and the
studies of the school-room were mingled with the duties of the ship.
Only one gale disturbed the serenity of the passage, and both vessels
came to anchor in Brockway harbor, after a voyage of thirty days. The
runaways had behaved tolerably well during the trip, for they had
learned that there was no safety or satisfaction in rebellion and
disobedience. They were not reformed, and perhaps never will be; but
they were controlled, and saved from a vicious life on shore during the
period of the cruise.

Others had been reformed, and converted from evil-disposed boys into
well-meaning ones. Shuffles and Pelham were not the only ones who had
been turned aside from the error of their ways, though their individual
experience has not been detailed. The moral results of the voyage were
very good. If the discipline of the ship and her consort had not
reformed all the vicious characters, it had restrained their evil
tendencies, and kept them away from the haunts of vice, though its most
pernicious haunt is within the soul of the evil-doer.

On the other hand, the intellectual results of the cruise were
abundantly satisfactory. The students had made excellent progress in
their studies, and not a few of them were already competent navigators.
There had been hardly a case of sickness on board, and the boys were
all in rugged health. Mr. Lowington, therefore, had every reason to be
satisfied with the success of his great experiment. He intended to make
some changes in the vessels, and return to Europe the following spring,
after spending the winter in various ports of the United States.
