and simplicity of his address. This acted now as a dissuasive to the
sentimental address Mrs. Sutton had meditated as a means of winning
the flinty walls behind which his social affections and sympathies were
supposed to be intrenched. Had her mission been in behalf of any other
cause, she would have drawn off her forces upon some pretext, and
effected an ignominious retreat. Nerved by the thought of Mabel’s
bashfulness and solicitude, and Frederic’s strangerhood, she stood to
her guns.

Winston heard her story, from the not very coherent preamble, to the
warm and unqualified endorsement of Frederic Chilton’s credentials, and
her moved mention of the mutual attachment of the youthful pair, and
never changed his attitude, or manifested any inclination to stay
the narration by question or comment. When she ceased speaking, his
physiognomy denoted no emotion whatever. Yet, Mabel was his nearest
living relative. She had been bequeathed to his care, when only ten
years old, by the will of their dying father, and grown up under his eye
as his child, rather than a sister. And he was hearing, for the first
time, of her desire to quit the home they had shared together from her
birth, for the protection and companionship of another. Mrs. Sutton
thought herself pretty well versed in “Winston’s ways,” but she had
expected to detect a shade of softness in the cold, never-bright eyes
and anticipated another rejoinder than the sentence that stands at the
head of this chapter.

“And so you know nothing of this gentleman beyond what he has told you
of his character and antecedents?” he said--the slender white fingers,
his aunt fancied, looked cruel even in their idleness, lightly linked
together while his elbows rested upon the arms of his chair.

“My dear Winston! what a question! Haven’t I told you that he is my
husband’s namesake and godson! I was at his fathers house a score of
times, at least, in dear Frederic’s life-time. It was a charming place,
and I never saw a more lovely family. I recollect this boy perfectly,
as was very natural, seeing that his name was such a compliment to my
husband. He was a fine, manly little fellow, and the eldest son. The
christening-feast was postponed, for some reason I do not now remember,
until he was two years old. It was a very fine affair. The company was
composed of the very elite of that part of Maryland, and the Bishop
himself baptized the two babies--Frederic, and a younger sister. I know
all about him, you see, instead of nothing!”

“What was the date of this festival?” asked Winston’s unwavering voice.

“Let me see! We had been married seven years that fall. It must have
been in the winter of 18--.”

“Twenty-three years ago!” said Winston, yet more quietly. “Doubtless,
your intimacy with this estimable and distinguished family continued up
to the time of your husband’s death?”

“It did.”

“And afterward?”

Mrs. Button’s color waned, And her voice sank, as the inquisition
proceeded. “Dear Frederic’s” death was not the subject she would have
chosen of her free will to discuss with this man of steel and ice.

“I never visited them again. I could not--”

If she hoped to retain a semblance of composure, she must shift her
ground.

“I returned to my father’s house, which was, as you know, more remote
from the borders of Maryland--”

“You kept up a correspondence, perhaps?” Winston interposed, overlooking
her agitation as irrelevant to the matter under investigation.

“No! For many months I wrote no letters at all, and Mr. Chilton was
never a punctual correspondent. The best of friends are apt to be
dilatory in such respects, as they advance in life.”

“I gather, then, from what you have ADMITTED”--there was no actual
stress upon the word, but it stood obnoxiously apart from the remainder
of the sentence, to Mrs. Sutton’s auriculars--“from what you have
admitted, that for twenty years you have lost sight of this gentleman
and his relatives, and that you might never have remembered the
circumstance of their existence, had he not introduced himself to you at
the Springs this summer.”

“You are mistaken, there!” corrected the widow, eagerly. “Rosa Tazewell
introduced him to Mabel at the first ‘hop’ she--Mabel--attended there.
He is very unassuming. He would never have forced himself upon my
notice. I was struck by his appearance and resemblance to his father,
and inquired of Mabel who he was. The recognition followed as a matter
of course.”

“He was an acquaintance of Miss Tazewell--did you say?”

“Yes--she knew him very well when she was visiting in Philadelphia last
winter.”

“And proffered the introduction to Mabel?” the faintest imaginable
glimmer of sarcastic amusement in his eyes, but none in his accent.

“He requested it, I believe.”

“That is more probable. Excuse my frankness, aunt, when I say that it
