"Now, how vexatious!" she cried.

"I have two extra strokes for my two wickets, but I shall make nothing
by it." In fact, Miss Sophie, with two nervous hits, succeeded only in
placing her ball exactly where with fair luck the next player must be
sure to get it.

Eva now came through the two first wickets, one at a time, and with a
well-directed tap took possession of Miss Sophie, who groaned audibly,
"Oh, now she's got me! well, there's no saying now where she'll stop."

In fact, Miss Eva performed very skillfully the r√¥le of the "cat who
doth play, and after--slay." She was perfect mistress of the tactics of
split-shots, which sent her antagonist's ball one side the wicket and
hers the other, and all the other mysteries of the craft, and she used
them well, till she had been up and hit the stake and come down to the
middle wicket, when her luck failed.

Then came my turn, and I came through the first two wickets, struck her
ball and used it for the two next wickets, till I came near my partner,
when with a prosperous split-shot I sent her off to distant regions,
struck my partner's ball, put it through its wicket, and came and
stationed myself within its reach for future use.

Then came Mr. Sydney with a vigorous succession of hits, and knocked us
apart; sent one to one side of the ground, and one to the other, and
went gallantly up to his partner. By this time our blood was thoroughly
up, and the game became as Eva prophesied, "war to the knife." Mohawk
indians could not have been more merciless in purposes of utter mischief
to each other than we, and for a while it seemed as if nothing was done
but to attack each other's balls, and send them as far as possible to
the uttermost part of the grounds. As each had about equal skill in
making long shots the re-union however was constantly effected, and thus
each in turn were beaten back from the wickets, till it seemed for a
while that the game would make no progress.

At last, however, one slip of our antagonists threw the power into our
hands, and Miss Sophie used it to take herself and me up through three
wickets to the stake, and thence down again till the intricate middle
wicket stopped our course.

A burst of cheering greeted her success, and the dark little lady seemed
to glow like a coal of fire. I wasn't sure that sparks did not snap from
her eyes as she ended her performance with a croquet that sent Eva's
ball spinning to the most inaccessible distances.

A well-pointed shot from Wat Sydney again turned the tide of battle, and
routed the victors, while he went to the rescue of the banished
princess, and took her back to position.

Every turn of the tide, and every good shot was hailed with cheers, and
the excitement became intense. There were points in the battle as hard
to carry as the Malakoff, and we did nothing but fight, without
advancing a step. It seemed for a while that none of us would ever so
far get the advantage of another as to pass that downward middle wicket.
Every successive step was won by battles. The ladies were so excited
that they seemed two flames of fire. Every nerve in them was alive, and
we men felt ourselves only clumsy instruments of their enkindled ardor.
We were ordered about, commanded, rebuked, encouraged, and cheered on to
the fray with a pungency and vigor of decision that made us quite
secondary characters in the scene. At last a fortunate stroke gave Miss
Sophie the command of the game, and she dashed through the middle
wicket, sent Eva's ball to farthest regions up, and Mr. Sydney's down to
the stake, took mine with her in her victorious race through wicket
after wicket, quite through to the stake, and then leaving me for a
moment she croqueted Sydney's ball against the stake, and put it out. A
general cheer and shouts of "victory" arose.

"We've got it! We're quite sure to go out the next move!" she said, in
triumph, as she left her ball by my side. "She never can hit at that
distance."

"I can try, though," said Eva, walking across the ground, and taking her
place by her ball, pale and resolved, with a concentrated calmness. She
sighted the balls deliberately, poised her mallet, took aim, and gave a
well-considered stroke. Like a straight-aimed arrow the ball flew across
the green, through the final wicket, and struck Sophie's ball!

A general cheering arose, and the victorious markswoman walked
deliberately down to finish her work. One stroke put Sophie out of the
combat, the next struck upon me and then from me up to the head of the
two last wickets that yet remained to be made. She came through these
with one straight stroke, and hit me again.

"Now for it," she said, setting her red-slippered foot firmly on the
ball, and with one virulent tap, away flew my ball to the other end of
the ground, while at the same time hers hit the stake and the victory
was won.

A general shout, and three cheers, and all the spectators started from
their seats like a troop of gay tropical birds, and came flocking around
the victors.

I knelt down, and laid my mallet at her feet. "Beautiful princess!" said
I, "behold your enemies, conquered, await your sentence."

"Arise, Sir Knight," she said, laughing; "I sentence you to write a
ballad describing this battle. Come, Sophie," she added, turning gayly
to the brunette, "let's shake hands on it. You shall have your revenge
of me at Newport this summer," and the two rival fair ones shook hands
