entrance had been omitted; and he fulfilled for old Cudjo these
formalities, thus settling his title; and, moreover, he sent legal
papers by which the sheriff of the county was enabled to do him justice:
and so old Cudjo was re-instated in his rights.

The Professor met him, sparkling and jubilant, on the wharf once more.

"Well, Cudjo, 'de angel' blew for you quicker than you expected."

He laughed all over. "Ye', haw, haw! Yes, massa." Then, with his usual
histrionic vigor, he acted over the scene. "De sheriff, he come down
dere. He tell dat man, 'You go right off he'yr. Don't you touch none dem
rails. Don't you take one chip,--not one chip. Don't you take'--Haw,
haw, haw!" Then he added,--

"He come to me, sah: he say, 'Cudjo, what you take for your land?' He
say he gib me two hunder dollars. I tell him, 'Dat too cheap; dat all
too cheap.' He say, 'Cudjo, what will you take?' I say, 'I take ten
t'ousand million dollars! dat's what I take.' Haw, haw, haw!"




  [Illustration]

THE LABORERS OF THE SOUTH.


Who shall do the work for us? is the inquiry in this new State, where
there are marshes to be drained, forests to be cut down, palmetto-plains
to be grubbed up, and all under the torrid heats of a tropical sun.

"Chinese," say some; "Swedes," say others; "Germans," others.

But let us look at the facts before our face and eyes.

The thermometer, for these three days past, has risen over ninety every
day. No white man that we know of dares stay in the fields later than
ten o'clock: then he retires under shade to take some other and
less-exposing work. The fine white sand is blistering hot: one might
fancy that an egg would cook, as on Mt. Vesuvius, by simply burying it
in the sand. Yet the black laborers whom we leave in the field pursue
their toil, if any thing, more actively, more cheerfully, than during
the cooler months. The sun awakes all their vigor and all their
boundless jollity. When their nooning time comes, they sit down, not in
the shade, but in some good hot place in the sand, and eat their lunch,
and then stretch out, hot and comfortable, to take their noon siesta
with the full glare of the sun upon them. Down in the swamp-land near
our house we have watched old Simon as from hour to hour he drove his
wheelbarrow, heavy with blocks of muck, up a steep bank, and deposited
it. "Why, Simon!" we say: "how can you work so this hot weather?"

The question provokes an explosion of laughter. "Yah, hah, ho, ho, ho,
misse! It be hot; dat so: ho, ho, ho!"

"How can you work so? I can't even think how you can do such hard work
under such a sun."

"Dat so: ho, ho! Ladies can't; no, dey can't, bless you, ma'am!" And
Simon trundles off with his barrow, chuckling in his might; comes up
with another load, throws it down, and chuckles again. A little laugh
goes a great way with Simon; for a boiling spring of animal content is
ever welling up within.

One tremendously hot day, we remember our steamer stopping at
Fernandina. Owing to the state of the tide, the wharf was eight or ten
feet above the boat; and the plank made a steep inclined plane, down
which a mountain of multifarious freight was to be shipped on our boat.
A gang of negroes, great, brawny, muscular fellows, seemed to make a
perfect frolic of this job, which, under such a sun, would have
threatened sunstroke to any white man. How they ran and shouted and
jabbered, and sweated their shirts through, as one after another
received on their shoulders great bags of cotton-seed, or boxes and
bales, and ran down the steep plane with them into the boat! At last a
low, squat giant of a fellow, with the limbs and muscles of a great
dray-horse, placed himself in front of a large truck, and made his
fellows pile it high with cotton-bags; then, holding back with a
prodigious force, he took the load steadily down the steep plane till
within a little of the bottom, when he dashed suddenly forward, and
landed it half across the boat. This feat of gigantic strength he
repeated again and again, running up each time apparently as fresh as
if nothing had happened, shouting, laughing, drinking quarts of water,
and sweating like a river-god. Never was harder work done in a more
jolly spirit.

Now, when one sees such sights as these, one may be pardoned for
thinking that the negro is the natural laborer of tropical regions. He
is immensely strong; he thrives and flourishes physically under a
temperature that exposes a white man to disease and death.

The malarial fevers that bear so hard on the white race have far less
effect on the negro: it is rare that they have what are called here the
"shakes;" and they increase and multiply, and bear healthy children, in
situations where the white race deteriorate and grow sickly.

On this point we had an interesting conversation with a captain employed
in the Government Coast Survey. The duties of this survey involve much
hard labor, exposure to the fiercest extremes of tropical temperature,
and sojourning and travelling in swamps and lagoons, often most deadly
to the white race. For this reason, he manned his vessel with a crew
