
SOMETHING ABOUT THE HIDDEN TREASURE.


Miss Sarah Liverage had been three days at the Cliff House before the
mystery of her coming appeared to promise a solution. The landlord was
sure she had come for something, for all her speech and all her actions
indicated this. She had not visited the shore for recreation, and was
not idling away a vacation. One day she commenced a conversation with
Mr. Bennington, and the next with Leopold; and, though she evidently
desired to make some important revelation, or ask some startling
question, she always failed to carry out her purpose. She was nervous
and excitable; and on the second day of her stay at the hotel, the
chambermaid discovered her in her room, on her knees before the
fireplace, apparently investigating the course of the flue; but when the
girl asked her what she was doing, she answered that she was looking
for her shawl-pin, which she had dropped.

The weather was rather chilly, and the wind blew fresh and stormy on the
bay, so that Leopold seldom went out in the new boat, but did a man's
work about the hotel; for as the season advanced the "help" was reduced.
Miss Liverage, for some reason, seemed to be very desirous of
cultivating his acquaintance, and she talked with him much more than
with his father. On the second day of her stay she offered him a dollar,
when he brought her a pitcher of water to drink in the parlor, which the
young man was too proud to accept. The guest talked to him for half an
hour; and he noticed that she did not drink any of the water he had
brought. On the strength of this and other similar incidents, Leopold
declared that she was a very strange woman. She sent for him, or
procured his attendance by less direct means, as though she had
something to say; but she did not say it. She asked a multitude of
questions in regard to some of the localities in the vicinity, but she
did not connect her business at Rockhaven with any of them.

On the third day of her residence at the Cliff House a violent
north-east storm commenced, and the guest could not go out of the house
as she had been accustomed to do in the forenoon for a short time. From
the cliff near the house Leopold had explained to her the geography of
the vicinity; and when she inquired where the ledges were on which the
Waldo had been lost, he indicated the direction in which they were
situated, for the high land on the south shore of the river intercepted
the view of them. Miss Liverage appeared to become more desperate in her
purpose, whatever it was as the day passed away; and the storm seemed to
increase her excitement. On the fourth day after her arrival, she
vibrated between her chamber and the parlor all the forenoon,
occasionally visiting the dining-room and the office. The landlord said
she was "as uneasy as a fish out of water;" and he carried books and
newspapers to her, but these did not seem to occupy her attention. She
only glanced at them, and it was plain that her mind wandered when she
attempted to read them. After dinner, on this eventful day her
desperation appeared to culminate in a resolve to do something; and for
the twentieth time since her arrival she sent for Leopold.

When he entered the parlor, where she was nervously walking across the
floor, she closed the door after him, and looked out at the windows
which opened on the piazza, apparently to assure herself that no one was
within hearing distance of her. She labored under more than her usual
excitement of manner, and the landlord's son was impressed with a belief
that something was about to happen. Miss Liverage had evidently made up
her mind to say something, and Leopold promptly made up his mind, also,
to hear what it was.

"I didn't come down here for nothing," said she, and then paused to
observe the effect of this startling revelation upon her auditor.

"I didn't suppose you did," replied Leopold, judging from the pause that
he was expected to say something, though he was not very deeply
impressed by the guest's announcement.

"Leopold, Harvey Barth said you were a very nice young man," she added.

"Then I suppose I am, for I think Mr. Barth was a man of good judgment,"
laughed Leopold.

"He told me you owed some money for your new boat."

"He told the truth at that time; but I don't owe anything now. I was
very lucky with the mackerel, and I have had plenty of jobs for the
boat, so that I have paid up all I owed."

"Then you have paid your debt," added Miss Liverage, apparently "headed
off" by the young man's reply.

"I don't owe a cent to anybody."

"I didn't know but you might want to make some money."

"I do; I am always ready to make a dollar, though I don't owe anybody
anything," replied Leopold, willing to encourage the woman, while he did
not desire to make anything out of her.

"Five hundred dollars is a good deal of money," continued Miss Liverage,
watching the countenance of the young man very closely.

Leopold did not dispute the remark, and with a nod he admitted the truth
of it.

"I suppose you would not object to making five hundred dollars,
Leopold."

