are heartily glad at the sight, and both at the same time have a secret
recollection of their vow, and are still more glad. But many of the
peasants, who are not lovers of the Lord, and therefore also not lovers
of their good pastor, and of the good farmer as little, feel no
pleasure, but a regular hateful grudge in their hearts; for indeed there
is everywhere a plenty of envy and spite to be found among unbelievers,
because they make their god out of what is earthly, and that is all they
care about. However they comfort themselves with the thought that when
the thunder-showers once come with their violent rain-pours, then surely
there will be stones and soil enough rolling down upon the field from
off the hill in the end to destroy all that is standing upon it. Verily
that is not a godly sort of satisfaction, but a true Satanic delight,
for Satan rejoices when any evil happens to people.

"'And at last, the wish of the peasants seems to be fulfilled. There
comes up an uncommonly violent thunder-storm; the rain pours down from
heaven in streams, as if the clouds had burst; so that regular brooks
are flowing down the village streets. Then the envious people triumph;
there is no mistake about it, the field lying so exposed on the slope of
the hill must be thoroughly laid waste. Those two men, it may well be,
tremble too, for the storm is too frightful; but lose heart they do not;
on the contrary, the need drives them to more ardent prayer: "Lord,
help, and do not let the field be spoiled. Thou art the strong, almighty
God of Sabaoth, and Thy hand is not shortened, but Thine arm is
stretched out still." So they prayed; and when the storm was past they
went confidently up to the field, a good many accompanying them; and as
they were going, and while the many who went along could hardly hide
their delight, they were singing in their hearts the hymn--

    "Was mein Gott will gescheh allzeit,
      Sein Wille ist der beste;
    Zu helfen ist Er dem bereit,
      Der an Ihn gla√ºbet feste."'"

"Ditto, we don't understand that."

"It means about this. 'The will of my God be done always. His will is
the best. He is always ready to help them who rest on Him in firm
faith.'"

"'With that they are able to look up cheerfully and they are of good
courage. And when they arrive at the field, what do they see? The entire
field is unharmed. The stalks of grain lift their heads up bravely, as
if they too would give thanks for the beautiful rain which has so
refreshed them. But on both sides of the field a whole stream has poured
down from the hill, and nothing is to be seen but a wild mass of rocks
and stones. Whose is the strong hand which seized the rain flood, and
parted it just before it came to the field, and so gently led it down on
both sides of the field? Moved to the depth of their hearts, our two
friends were constrained to cry out--"The Lord, He is the God! The Lord,
He is the God! Give our God the glory." And it is to be hoped that many
of the unbelievers, if not aloud, yet quietly joined in the prayer with
them.

"'And now, when the harvest was finished, and the farmer brought to the
pastor what he had promised to give the Lord of the produce of the
field, and then also the pastor's vow was made known to the farmer, the
two fell upon their knees again and thanked the Lord for His goodness,
because His mercy endureth for ever. Must not such gifts to the heathen
go with God's special blessing resting upon them?'"

"Is that all?" said Maggie.

"That is all," said Meredith smiling.

"I do not know what to make of that story," said Flora.

"Why?"

"Storms come from natural causes."

"Oh, do they?" said Meredith. "You do not believe then what the psalm
says--'He commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind'"----

"But that is poetry."

"So is this," said Mr. Murray,--"'Who hath divided a watercourse for the
overflowing of waters; or a way for the lightning of thunder; to cause
it to rain on the earth, where no man is; on the wilderness, wherein is
no man; to satisfy the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud
of the tender herb to spring forth?'"

"Well," said Flora a little abashed, "isn't it poetry?"

"I do think, Flo," said her brother, "you have forgotten all our talks
around the breakfast table in Florida and elsewhere."

"Here again," said Mr. Murray,--"'He saith to the snow, Be thou on the
earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of His
strength.' It won't do, Miss Flora, to resist the fact. And I would
remark, that the highest poetry is the highest truth also."

"But do you think, Mr. Murray, if it is so, that God will change His
arrangements just for men's asking Him."

"I don't think, I know it, Miss Flora. It is precisely the Lord's way.
But we cannot stop to talk about that now. My friends, do you see where
the sun is?"

"Oh, must we go?" cried they all.
