  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Chicken Soup.
  Mayonnaise of Fish.      Veal Chops with Tomato Sauce.
  Potato Strips.      Macaroni and Eggs.
  ——
  Jelly Cake Fritters.
  ——


CHICKEN SOUP.

Take the fat from the top of the liquor in which your chicken was
boiled yesterday, and put on the soup to heat. Meanwhile, boil half a
cupful of rice tender in a pint of salted milk, and when the rice is
soft, stir in a tablespoonful of butter worked up in flour to prevent
oiling. When the soup boils up clear, skim and add the rice and milk,
with two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley. Pepper and salt to taste;
simmer ten minutes. Chop up three hard-boiled eggs fine; put into the
tureen and pour the soup upon them.


MAYONNAISE OF FISH.

  Yolks of 3 boiled eggs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of best oil.
  2 teaspoonfuls of sugar.
  6 tablespoonfuls of vinegar.
  1 teaspoonful of salt, and half as much each of pepper and made mustard.
  White of 1 raw egg.
  2 cupfuls of cold boiled fish (yesterday’s cod).
  2 heads of lettuce.

Rub the yolks smooth with the oil, add sugar, salt, pepper, and
mustard, and, when all are mixed, the vinegar, a little at a time. Set
by, covered, while you cut—not chop—the fish into strips an inch long,
and shred the lettuce. Mix these in a bowl. Whip the frothed white of
egg into the dressing, and pour upon the salad. Stir up with a silver
fork and put into a glass dish. Garnish with rings of the whites of
boiled eggs.


VEAL CHOPS WITH TOMATO SAUCE.

Trim and flatten the chops. Dip in raw egg, then in cracker dust, and
fry, rather slowly, in lard or dripping. Open a can of tomatoes, and
drain off the liquor. Salt the rest of the tomatoes and reserve for
Friday’s soup. Put the liquor into a saucepan with a sliced onion, and
stew ten minutes. Strain out the onion, return the juice to the fire;
thicken with a great spoonful of butter, worked up in a teaspoonful of
corn-starch; pepper and salt. Boil up sharply, and when you have laid
the chops upon a dish, pour the sauce over them.


MACARONI WITH EGGS.

Break half a pound of macaroni into short bits; cook tender in boiling,
salted water. Drain well; put into a deep dish and pour over it a
cupful of drawn butter in which have been stirred two beaten eggs, and
two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, with salt and pepper. Loosen the
macaroni to allow the sauce to penetrate the mass. Pass more grated
cheese with it.


POTATO STRIPS.

Pare, cut in long, even strips; lay in cold water for one hour; dry by
spreading them upon a towel and pressing another upon them. Fry to a
light brown in salted lard. Shake off the fat in a hot colander. Line
a deep dish with a napkin and put in the strips. They should not be
crowded in frying, but each should be distinct and free from the rest.


JELLY-CAKE FRITTERS.

Cut stale sponge or very plain cup cake into rounds with a cake-cutter.
Fry to a nice brown in sweet lard. Dip each round in boiling milk,
to soften it and get rid of the grease. Lay upon a hot dish and spread
with sweet jelly or jam. Pile neatly one upon another. Send around hot,
sweetened cream to pour over them.



  First Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Graham Soup.
  Scalloped Oysters.      Stewed Sweetbreads, Brown.
  Moulded Potato.      Lettuce.
  ——
  Quaking Custard.
  ——


GRAHAM SOUP.

  2 onions.
  2 carrots.
  4 turnips.
  ½ cabbage.
  A little celery-seed tied in a thin muslin bag.
