This salad deserves its name.


CHICKEN SALAD. 

    The white meat of a cold boiled or roasted chicken (or turkey).
    Three-quarters the same bulk of chopped celery.
    2 hard-boiled eggs.
    1 raw egg, well beaten.
    1 teaspoonful of salt.
    1 teaspoonful pepper.
    1 teaspoonful made mustard.
    3 teaspoonfuls salad oil.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    ½ teacupful of vinegar.

Mince the meat well, removing every scrap of fat, gristle, and skin;
cut the celery into bits half an inch long, or less, mix them, and
set aside in a cold place while you prepare the dressing.

Rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine powder, add the salt, pepper, and
sugar, then the oil, grinding hard, and putting in but a few drops at a
time. The mustard comes next, and let all stand together while you whip
the raw egg to a froth. Beat this into the dressing, and pour in the
vinegar spoonful by spoonful, whipping the dressing well as you do it.
Sprinkle a little dry salt over the meat and celery; toss it up lightly
with a silver fork; pour the dressing over it, tossing and mixing until
the bottom of the mass is as well saturated as the top; turn into the
salad-bowl, and garnish with white of eggs (boiled) cut into rings or
flowers, and sprigs of bleached celery-tops.

If you cannot get celery, substitute crisp white cabbage, and use
celery vinegar in the dressing. You can also, in this case, chop some
green pickles, gherkins, mangoes, or cucumbers, and stir in.

Turkey makes even better salad than chicken.

You can make soup of the liquor in which the fowl is cooked, since it
need not be boiled in a cloth.


LETTUCE SALAD. 

    Two or three heads white lettuce.
    2 hard-boiled eggs.
    2 teaspoonfuls salad oil.
    ½ teaspoonful salt.
    1 teaspoonful white sugar.
    ½ teaspoonful made mustard.
    1 teaspoonful pepper.
    4 tablespoonfuls vinegar.

Rub the yolks to a powder, add sugar, pepper, salt, mustard, and oil.
Let it stand five minutes, and beat in the vinegar. Cut the lettuce up
with a knife and fork,—a chopper would bruise it,—put into a bowl, add
the dressing, and mix by tossing with a silver fork.


Or,

You can dress on the table with oil and vinegar only, pulling the
heart of the lettuce out with your fingers, and seasoning to taste.


SUMMER SALAD.

    3 heads of lettuce.
    2 teaspoonfuls green mustard leaves.
    A handful of water-cresses.
    Four or five very tender radishes.
    1 cucumber.
    3 hard-boiled eggs.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    1 teaspoonful pepper.
    1 teaspoonful made mustard.
    1 teacupful vinegar.
    2 tablespoonfuls salad oil.

Mix the dressing as for lettuce salad. Cut up the hearts of the
lettuce, the radishes and cucumber, into very small pieces; chop the
mustard and cress. Pour over these the dressing, tossing very lightly,
not to bruise the young leaves; heap in a salad-bowl upon a lump of
ice, and garnish with fennel-heads and nasturtium-blossoms.

This is a delightful accompaniment to boiled or baked fish.


WATER-CRESSES.

Wash and pick over the cresses carefully, pluck from the stems, and
pile in the salad bowl, with a dressing of vinegar, pepper, salt, and
sugar, well stirred in.


CABBAGE SALAD, OR COLD SLAW. 

    1 head of fine white cabbage, minced fine.
    3 hard-boiled eggs.
    2 tablespoonfuls salad oil.
