


X.

During her convalescence Mrs. Maynard had the time and inclination to
give Grace some good advice. She said that she had thought a great deal
about it throughout her sickness, and she had come to the conclusion
that Grace was throwing away her life.

“You’re not fit to be a doctor, Grace,” she said. “You’re too nervous,
and you’re too conscientious. It is n’t merely your want of experience.
No matter how much experience you had, if you saw a case going wrong in
your hands, you’d want to call in some one else to set it right. Do you
suppose Dr. Mulbridge would have given me up to another doctor because
he was afraid he couldn’t cure me? No, indeed! He’d have let me die
first, and I should n’t have blamed him. Of course I know what pressure
I brought to bear upon you, but you had no business to mind me. You
oughtn’t to have minded my talk any more than the buzzing of a mosquito,
and no real doctor would. If he wants to be a success, he must be
hard-hearted; as hard-hearted as”--she paused for a comparison, and
failing any other added--“as all possessed.” To the like large-minded
and impartial effect, she, ran on at great length. “No, Grace,” she
concluded, “what you want to do is to get married. You would be a good
wife, and you would be a good mother. The only trouble is that I don’t
know any man worthy of you, or half worthy. No, I don’t!”

Now that her recovery was assured, Mrs. Maynard was very forgiving and
sweet and kind with every one. The ladies who came in to talk with her
said that she was a changed creature; she gave them all the best advice,
and she had absolutely no shame whatever for the inconsistency involved
by her reconciliation with her husband. She rather flaunted the
happiness of her reunion in the face of the public, and she vouchsafed
an explanation to no one. There had never been anything definite in her
charges against him, even to Grace, and her tacit withdrawal of them
succeeded perfectly well. The ladies, after some cynical tittering,
forgot them, and rejoiced in the spectacle of conjugal harmony afforded
them: women are generous creatures, and there is hardly any offence
which they are not willing another woman should forgive her husband,
when once they have said that they do not see how she could ever forgive
him.

Mrs. Maynard’s silence seemed insufficient to none but Mrs. Breen and
her own husband. The former vigorously denounced its want of logic to
Grace as all but criminal, though she had no objection to Mr. Maynard.
He, in fact, treated her with a filial respect which went far to efface
her preconceptions; and he did what he could to retrieve himself from
the disgrace of a separation in Grace’s eyes. Perhaps he thought that
the late situation was known to her alone, when he casually suggested,
one day, that Mrs. Maynard was peculiar.

“Yes,” said Grace mercifully; “but she has been out of health so long.
That makes a great difference. She’s going to be better now.”

“Oh, it’s going to come out all right in the end,” he said, with his
unbuoyant hopefulness, “and I reckon I’ve got to help it along. Why, I
suppose every man’s a trial at times, doctor?”

“I dare say. I know that every woman is,” said the girl.

“Is that so? Well, may be you’re partly right. But you don’t suppose but
what a man generally begins it, do you? There was Adam, you know. He did
n’t pull the apple; but he fell off into that sleep, and woke up
with one of his ribs dislocated, and that’s what really commenced the
trouble. If it had n’t been for Adam, there would n’t have been any
woman, you know; and you could n’t blame her for what happened after she
got going?” There was no gleam of insinuation in his melancholy eye, and
Grace listened without quite knowing what to make of it all. “And then
I suppose he was n’t punctual at meals, and stood round talking politics
at night, when he ought to have been at home with his family?”

“Who?” asked Grace.

“Adam,” replied Mr. Maynard lifelessly. “Well, they got along pretty
well outside,” he continued. “Some of the children didn’t turn out just
what you might have expected; but raising children is mighty uncertain
business. Yes, they got along.” He ended his parable with a sort of
weary sigh, as if oppressed by experience. Grace looked at his slovenly
figure, his smoky complexion, and the shaggy outline made by his
untrimmed hair and beard, and she wondered how Louise could marry him;
but she liked him, and she was willing to accept for all reason the
cause of unhappiness at which he further hinted. “You see, doctor, an
incompatibility is a pretty hard thing to manage. You can’t forgive it
like a real grievance. You have to try other things, and find out that
there are worse things, and then you come back to it and stand it. We’re
talking Wyoming and cattle range, now, and Mrs. Maynard is all for the
new deal; it’s going to make us healthy, wealthy, and wise. Well, I
suppose the air will be good for her, out there. You doctors are sending
lots of your patients our way, now.” The gravity with which he always
assumed that Grace was a physician in full and regular practice would
have had its edge of satire, coming from another; but from him, if it
was ironical, it was also caressing, and she did not resent it. “I’ve
had some talk with your colleague, here, Dr. Mulbridge, and he seems to
think it will be the best thing for her. I suppose you agree with him?”

“Oh, yes,” said Grace, “his opinion would be of great value. It wouldn’t
be at all essential that I should agree with him:’

“Well, I don’t know about that,” said Maynard. “I reckon he thinks a
good deal of your agreeing with him. I’ve been talking with him about
