
"I am not acquainted with any Greeks," replied Miss Vanhorn.

"You are still as devoted as ever to the beautiful and refined study of
plant life, dear madame," pursued Tante, changing the current of
conversation. "How delightful to have a young relative to assist you,
with the fresh and ardent interest belonging to her age, when the
flowers bloom again upon the rural slopes of Haarderwyck!" As Tante said
this, she looked off dreamily into space, as if she saw aunt and niece
wandering together through groves of allegorical flowers.

"She is not likely to see Haarderwyck," answered Miss Vanhorn. Then,
after a moment's pause--a pause which Tante did not break--she peered at
Anne with half-open eyes, and asked, abruptly, "Do you, then, know
anything of botany?"

Tante made a slight motion with her delicate withered old hand. But Anne
did not comprehend her, and answered, honestly, "No, grandaunt, I do
not."

"Bah!" said Miss Vanhorn; "I might have known without the asking. Make
what you can of her, madame. I will pay your bill for one year: no
longer. But no nonsense, no extras, mind that." Again she sought a
caraway seed, pursuing it vindictively along the bottom of her bag, and
losing it at the last, after all.

"As regards wardrobe, I would advise some few changes," said Tante,
smoothly. "It is one of my axioms that pupils study to greater advantage
when their thoughts are not disturbed by deficiencies in dress.
Conformity to our simple standard is therefore desirable."

"It may be desirable; it is not always, on that account, attainable,"
answered Miss Vanhorn, conveying a finally caught seed to her mouth,
dropping it at the last moment, and carefully and firmly biting the seam
of the glove finger in its place.

"Purchases are made for the pupils with discretion by one of our most
experienced teachers," continued Tante.

"Glad to hear it," said her visitor, releasing the glove finger, and
pretending to chew the seed which was not there.

"But I do not need anything, Tante," interposed Anne, the deep color
deepening in her cheeks.

"So much the better," said her grandaunt, dryly, "since you will have
nothing."

She went away soon afterward somewhat placated, owing to skillful
reminiscences of a favorite cousin, who, it seemed, had been one of
Tante's "dearest pupils" in times past; "a true Vanhorn, worthy of her
Knickerbocker blood." The word "Neeker-bo-ker," delicately comprehended,
applied, and, what was more important still, limited, was one of Tante's
most telling achievements--a shibboleth. She knew all the old Dutch
names, and remembered their intermarriages; she was acquainted with the
peculiar flavor of Huguenot descent; she comprehended the especial
aristocracy of Tory families, whose original property had been
confiscated by a raw republic under George Washington. Ah! skillful old
Tante, what a general you would have made!

Anne Douglas, the new pupil, was now left to face the school with her
island-made gowns, and what courage she could muster. Fortunately the
gowns were black and severely plain. Tante, not at all disturbed by
Miss Vanhorn's refusal, ordered a simple cloak and bonnet for her
through an inexpensive French channel, so that in the street she passed
unremarked; but, in the house, every-day life required more courage than
scaling a wall. Girls are not brutal, like boys, but their light wit is
pitiless. The Southern pupils, provided generously with money in the
lavish old-time Southern way, the day scholars, dressed with the
exquisite simplicity of Northern school-girls of good family, glanced
with amusement at the attire of this girl from the Northwest. This girl,
being young, felt their glances; as a refuge, she threw herself into her
studies with double energy, and gaining confidence respecting what she
had been afraid was her island patois, she advanced so rapidly in the
French classes that she passed from the lowest to the highest, and was
publicly congratulated by Tante herself. In Italian her progress was
more slow. Her companion, in the class of two, was a beautiful dark-eyed
Southern girl, who read musically, but seldom deigned to open her
grammar. The forlorn, soiled old exile to whom, with unconscious irony,
the bath-room had been assigned for recitations in the crowded house,
regarded this pupil with mixed admiration and despair. Her remarks on
Mary Stuart, represented by Alfieri, were nicely calculated to rouse him
to patriotic fury, and then, when the old man burst forth in a torrent
of excited words, she would raise her soft eyes in surprise, and inquire
if he was ill. The two girls sat on the bath-tub, which was decorously
covered over and cushioned; the exile had a chair for dignity's sake.
Above, in a corresponding room, a screen was drawn round the tub, and a
piano placed against it. Here, all day long, another exile, a German
music-master, with little gold rings in his ears, gave piano lessons,
and Anne was one of his pupils. To Signor Belzini, the teacher of vocal
music, the drawing-room itself was assigned. He was a prosperous and
smiling Italian, who had a habit of bringing pieces of pink cream candy
with him, and arranging them in a row on the piano for his own
refreshment after each song. There was an atmosphere of perfume and
mystery about Belzini. It was whispered that he knew the leading
opera-singers, even taking supper with them sometimes after the opera.
The pupils exhausted their imaginations in picturing to each other the
probable poetry and romance of these occasions.

Belzini was a musical trick-master; but he was not ignorant. When Anne
