belief that it is a necessary ingredient in marriages.

"You are cynical," he says, with a pleasant laugh. "You do not have
enough fresh air."

"But I see Laura." Then, after a pause, "Do not imagine I have the
slightest objection. There will be only two of us left, and it does
seem as if Marcia might pick up some one. Floyd----"

"Well," as she makes a long pause.

"Do you know anything about the business? Eugene is so--so
unsatisfactory. Where is Laura going to get her money?"

"I shall attend to that. Gertrude, what has been said about affairs
that makes you all so desponding?"

Floyd Grandon asks a question as if he expected an answer. Gertrude
gives a little twist to her long, slender figure, and pushes one
shoulder forward.

"Well, there has been no money, and Eugene cannot get any. And all you
hear about is notes to pay."

The house certainly does not look as if there was any lack. The table
is bountiful, and he has seen four servants, he is quite sure.

"My not being here has delayed the settlement, no doubt," he answers,
cheerfully. "It will all come right."

"You quite put courage into one. I suppose you always feel well and
strong; you have grown handsome, Floyd, and there is nothing to make
you desponding."

"Yes, I am always well. Do you stay in-doors all the time and read? You
must have a change, something to stir your nerves and brain, and infuse
a new spirit in you."

"I am too weak for exercise. Even carriage-riding tires me dreadfully.
And my nerves cannot bear the least thing. I dread this wedding and all
the tumult, only it will be excellent to have it finished up and off
one's mind." Then she sighs and turns to her book again.

"We are on a tour of discovery," says Floyd, rather gayly, as he moves
forward. "The house seems quite new to me, and extremely interesting."

She makes no effort to detain him. They turn into the hall, and a voice
from above calls Floyd.

"Oh, are you up here, Marcia?" beginning to ascend.

"Yes. Here is my eyrie, my den, my study, or whatever name fits it
best. I have a fancy for being high up. Nothing disturbs me. I have
never been able, though, to decide which I really liked best, this or
the tower. Only here I have three connecting rooms. Cecil, you little
darling, come and kiss me! Floyd, I must paint that heavenly child! I
have been doing a little at portraits. I want to take some lessons as
soon as the ships come in. I hope you have brought fair weather,
and--is it a high tide that floats the barque in successfully?"

She utters all this in a breath, and makes a dash at Cecil, who buries
her face in her father's coat-sleeve.

"Cecil's kisses do not seem to be very plentiful," he remarks. "But how
quaint and pretty you are up here!"

The sleeping chamber is done up in white, gold, and blue, and in very
tolerable order. This middle room is characteristic. The floor is of
hard wood and oiled, and rugs of every description are scattered about.
Easels with and without pictures, studies, paintings in oil and
water-colors, bric-Ã -brac of every shape and kind, from pretty to ugly,
a cabinet, some book-shelves, a wide, tempting lounge in faded raw
silk, with immense, loose cushions, two tables full of litter, and
several lounging chairs. Evidently Marcia is not of the severe order.

The third room really beggars description. An easel stands before the
window, with a pretentious canvas on which a winding river has made its
appearance, but the dry land has not yet emerged from chaos.

"You paint"--he begins, when she interrupts,--

"And now that you have come, Floyd, you can give me some advice. I
was such a young idiot when I ran over Europe, but you have done it
leisurely. Did you devote much time to French art? I can't decide which
to make a specialty. The French are certainly better teachers, but why,
then, do so many go to Rome? It is my dream." And she clasps her hands
in a melodramatic manner.

"What have you been doing?" he asks, as she pauses for breath.

"I took up those things first," nodding to some flower pieces. "But
every school-girl paints them."

"These are exceedingly well done," he says, examining them closely.

"There is nothing distinctive about them. Who remembers a rose or a
bunch of field flowers? Half a dozen women have honorable mention and
one cannot be told from the other. But a landscape or a story or a
striking portrait,--you really must let me try Cecil," glancing at her
with rapture. "Oh, there is an article here in the Art Journal on
