They did not remain at the shore a moment after they had picked up their
passengers, but followed the yacht by the inside route. The crews of the
Dasher and Racer had not seen the capture of the Gildrock with the
lasso, and could not have known that the Winooski was making for the New
York shore, a mile or more to the north of them. Their passengers told
them their story, and no doubt they were anxious to see the battle for
the other boat, if not to take a hand in it.

The presence of the Chesterfields had considerably disturbed the
arrangements of Dory, who had intended to tackle the marauders in the
other barge as soon as he could get rid of the prisoners. It had taken
some time to dispose of them, and it was possible that Tom Topover had
reached the shore by this time.

"There are the two four-oar boats," said Matt, when they were off the
point north of Rock Harbor.

"I am glad to see them, for the coming of the Chesterfields at just this
time has mixed things," replied Dory. "We must get rid of the Gildrock,
for we can't do anything dragging her after us. We may have a lively
time of it yet."

"We can't turn her adrift," added Matt.

"Of course not; but we can put four of our fellows into her and send
her home," said Dory.

It was promptly decided to dispose of her in this manner, and Dory
selected the three members of the old Goldwing club who were on board,
making Thad Glovering the temporary coxswain. Ben Ludlow was added to
the number. They objected to leaving the Goldwing just as the battle was
coming on.

"There will be no fight if I can avoid one," argued the skipper.
"Probably we shall pick up the Winooski in about the same way we did the
Gildrock. You need not hurry home, and you can see from the boat all
there is to be seen. But we must be in a hurry, for the job must be done
before the Chesterfields can get down here to meddle with the affair."

The objections were overcome, and the four oarsmen were to take the
Gildrock as soon as the Winooski could be seen. Tom Topover had got his
craft into the smooth water, as compared with the open lake, of one of
the numerous inlets when the Gildrock was captured. When last seen, his
crew were laying on their oars watching the operations of the Goldwing.

The schooner was now approaching this inlet, and the next minute or two
would inform the skipper where she was. About half an hour had elapsed
since she lost her consort. Tom Topover might have gone to the aid of
the rest of his party, and it was strange that he had not done so. The
fact was that he had been jawing with Kidd Digfield more than half the
time in regard to what they should do. The crew did not like the idea of
going out into the rough water again.

"There's the Winooski!" shouted Thad Glovering, who was lying on the
half deck at the heel of the bowsprit.

Dory instantly threw the schooner up into the wind, and Matt hauled in
the Gildrock. Thad and his crew were hurried into her, and the Goldwing
filled away again. The Winooski was coming out of the cove, and was just
striking into the rough water. Dory gave the tiller to Matt, and went
forward himself. He had the lasso ready, but he had his doubts about
being able to use it again.

The skipper directed Matt to tack at the proper moment, and the Goldwing
rushed on her course in a direction to intercept the Winooski. When Tom
Topover saw the schooner approaching, he called Kidd Digfield to the
tiller-lines, and, taking a boathook in his hand, went forward himself.

"That fellow means fight," said Oscar Chester.

"No doubt of it; he means it every time, and for that reason you had
better have a boathook in your hand, and be on the forward deck with
me," answered Dory, as he picked up his lasso. "Keep her off a little
more, if you please, Matt."

The oarsmen of the Winooski showed a disposition to abandon their oars,
for a collision seemed to be inevitable to them. Tom stood in the bow of
the barge with his boathook poised ready to strike. Dory saw that it
would be impossible for him to lasso the boat, and he removed the stove
cover from his line.

"Luff a little, Matt," called Dory; and the schooner rounded in upon the
barge. This movement seemed to be too much for Tom's nerves, and instead
of striking with the boathook, he used it to fend off. The moment he
bent over, Dory threw his line, not at the stem of the boat, but at the
body of the Topover. The noose went over his head, and dropped down upon
his shoulders.

"Keep her off!" shouted Dory.

The instant Tom felt the rope, he dropped the boathook and tried to
seize hold of the bow of the barge. The Goldwing fell off, and dashed
ahead on her course. Dory let off his line a few feet, and then took a
turn with it over a cleat. Tom Topover suddenly felt a smart jerk, which
was irresistible, and he was twitched out of the boat as a fish is
twitched out of the water.

[Illustration: "Tom Topover suddenly felt a smart jerk, which was
irresistible."--Page 168.]

