Billcord. The land on which that cottage stands," continued Paul,
pointing to it, "is not worth ten dollars. At ten per cent, the ground
rent would be one dollar a year, or two dollars for the two years it has
stood there. I have done work enough for you in the shape of errands,
taking care of your boat, and in other ways, to pay for the land twice
over. I have carried the first black bass of the season to your house,
when I could have sold the fish for a dollar apiece, for two years. As I
look at the question of gratitude, there is a balance of at least twenty
dollars in my favor; but I give it to you with all my heart, and I don't
claim the privilege of insulting your daughter for what I have done."

"You are a glib-talking puppy, and there is no more reason or common
sense in you than there is in a heifer calf. I have had enough of you,
and so has my son," responded the major, choking with wrath over the
unanswerable argument of the poor dependent.

"If you have had enough of me, you and Mr. Walker, I am satisfied to let
the matter drop where it is; but if Mr. Walker, or any other student of
the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, insults my sister, I shall hit
him as hard as I can," replied Paul coolly.

"Woman, you have heard the insulting words of your son, and you uphold
him in his wickedness. I must take the next step. I will not have such a
vile reprobate on my land. I will not have you or your ungrateful
daughter on my territory. You are a tenant at will. That cottage must
not remain another day on my premises. Remove it at once. If it is here
at three o'clock to-morrow afternoon, I will give the students
permission to tumble it into the lake. Do you hear me, woman?" stormed
the major fiercely.

"I hear you, sir," replied Mrs. Bristol, covering her face with her
handkerchief, and beginning to weep bitterly.

"You needn't cry about it, marm. You and that graceless son of yours
have brought it on yourselves; and I think the students will enjoy the
fun of pitching the shanty into the lake."

"It is all the property I have in the world, Major Billcord," pleaded
the poor woman. "Give me a little time to remove the cottage, I implore
you!"

"Don't implore me, marm! Thank your wretch of a son for it. By three
o'clock to-morrow afternoon, if you haven't removed it in the mean time,
the shanty shall be rolled into the lake."

"I cannot get it through the woods to remove it," groaned Mrs. Bristol.

"That's your lookout, marm," said the major as he and Walk departed.

Mrs. Bristol seated herself on the lower step of the cottage, and
continued to weep bitterly.




CHAPTER IV.

THE ABSENCE OF THE TRUANT DRAGON.


The cottage of the Bristols had been framed in Burlington, and brought
down to Sandy Point on a schooner. As it stood, it was estimated to be
worth about three hundred and fifty dollars, which was the cost of it to
the poor woman when she invested her all in what was to be a home for
the family.

It was a small sum the cottage cost, but to the poor woman it was as big
as a million to a millionnaire. She had been well brought up in her
father's house, and she could not exist like a Chinaman or a Hottentot,
and it had cost the family a struggle to live during the absence of the
father.

Now all that she had was to be taken from her. As they had paid no
ground rent for the site, the law could do nothing for her. She was a
tenant on suffrance rather than a tenant at will, and had no rights
whatever. The magnate could tumble the cottage into the lake, and the
wind would carry it where it listed. It would probably be broken up on
the rocks or shoals, and the major might as well set it on fire as turn
it adrift on the lake.

The rich man intended to execute his mandate in the cruelest manner
possible. The students were to have a frolic in tumbling it into the
lake. The humble structure contained all their household goods, all the
little articles they valued far beyond the money they cost. It was
hardly possible to remove them in the time allowed for the purpose, for
everything would have to be carried by hand or transported in the
flatboat.

No team could be driven down to the point, for the major would not allow
a tree to be felled to make a road, and the owner had been compelled to
leave his saddle-horse at a considerable distance from the lake when he
visited it. Of course, the cruel magnate understood all this, and
realized that his final mandate doomed the cottage and all it contained
to certain destruction, for neither he nor his persecuted tenants could
see any means of relief.

Even if they could carry away their goods, they had no place to put
them. The brief period of probation given them was not more than enough
to enable the poor woman to find another tenement. It was two miles to
Westport, and five to Genverres, by water. The situation looked entirely
