These deductions, of course, need not follow because a man finds that
he is more or less indifferent to every form of entertainment, from a
king's revel to a walking-match; but they may follow of any man who has
begun to dislike the propinquity of the average, and to feel that where
the crowd find amusement there will be nothing but weariness and
vexation of spirit for him. Under such circumstances he is an
instinctive pessimist, and one who needs but little theoretic
instruction to learn that he, as all others, has been made use of, and
cheated to boot. The others, it is true, are, generally speaking,
unaware of the deception that has been practiced on them; they have, it
may be, a few faint suspicions that something has gone wrong somewhere,
but even in uttermost depression the untutored look upon their
misfortunes as purely individual, and unshared by the world at large.
Of the universality of suffering, of the fact, as John Stuart Mill has
put it, that there is no happiness for nineteen twentieths of the
world's inhabitants, few have any conception or idea. They look, it may
be, over their garden wall, and, hearing their neighbor grumble, they
think that, being cross-grained and ill-tempered, his life is not one
of unalloyed delight. But their vision extends no further. They do not
see the sorrow that has no words, nor do they hear the silent knell of
irrecoverable though unuttered hopes, "the toil of heart, and knees,
and hands." Of all these things they know nothing; household worries,
and those of their neighbor and his wife, circle their existence. If
they are not contented themselves, then happiness is but a question of
distance. Another street, or another town, or another country holds it,
and if the change is made, the old story remains to be repeated.

There are those, too, who from dyspepsia, torpidity of the liver, or
general crankiness of disposition, are inclined to take a gloomy view
of all things; then there is a temperamental pessimism which displays
itself in outbursts of indignation against the sorrows of life, and in
frantic struggles with destiny and the meshes of personal existence;
there is also the sullen pessimism of despair noticeable in the quiet
folding of hands, and which with tearless eyes awaits death without
complaint; then there are those who complain and sulk, who torment
themselves and others, and who have neither the spunk to struggle nor
the grace to be resigned,--this is the "forme miserable;" there is
also a haphazard pessimism which comes of an unevenness of disposition,
and which asserts itself on a rainy day, or when stocks are down;
another is the accidental type, the man who, with loss of wife, child,
or mistress, settles himself in a dreary misanthropy; finally, there is
hypochondria, which belongs solely to pathology.

In none of these categories do the victims have any suspicion that a
philosophical significance is attached to their suffering. Curiously
enough, however, it is from one or from all of these different classes
that the ordinary acceptation of pessimism is derived; it is these
forms that are met with in every-day life and literature, and yet it is
precisely with these types, that spring from the disposition and
temperament of the individual who exhibits them, that scientific
pessimism has nothing to do. It ignores them entirely.

Broadly stated, scientific pessimism in its most advanced form rests on
a denial that happiness in any form ever has been or ever will be
obtained, either by the individual as a unit or by the world as a
whole; and this for the reason that life is not considered as a
pleasant gift made to us for our pleasure; on the contrary, it is a
duty which must be performed by sheer force of labor,--a task which in
greater matters, as in small, brings in its train a misery which is
general, an effort which is ceaseless, and a tension of mind and body
which is extreme, and often unbearable. Work, torment, pain, and misery
are held to be the unavoidable lot of nearly every one, and the work,
torment, pain, and misery of life are considered as necessary to
mankind as the keel to the ship. Indeed, were it otherwise, were
wishes, when formed, fulfilled, in what manner would the time be
employed? Imagine the earth to be a fairyland where all grows of
itself, where birds fly roasted to the spit, and where each would find
his heart's best love wreathed with orange flowers to greet his coming;
what would the result be? Some would bore themselves to death, some
would cut their throats, while others would quarrel, assassinate, and
cause generally more suffering than is in the present state of affairs
actually imposed upon them. Pain is not the accident, but the necessary
and inevitable concomitant of life; and the attractiveness of the
promise "that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee," is, in consequence, somewhat impaired.

Nor, according to scientific pessimism, is there any possibility that
happiness will be obtained in a future life. In this there is no
atheism, though the arguments that follow may seem to savor of the
agnostic.

As has been seen, pleasures are, as a rule, indirect, being cessations
or alleviations of pain. If it be taken for granted that in a future
life there will be no pain, the difficulty is not overcome, but rather
increased by the fact of the rapid exhaustion of nervous susceptibility
to pleasure. Furthermore, as without brain there is no consciousness,
it will not be illogical to suppose that every spirit must be provided
with such an apparatus; in which case the psychological laws in the
other life must be strictly analogous to those of early experience. The
deduction follows of itself,--there, too, must be pain and sorrow.

To this it may be objected that in a future life there need be no
question either of pain or pleasure, and that the ransomed soul will,
in contemplation, or love, or the practice of morality, be too refined
to be susceptible to any sensations of a grosser nature.

To all this advanced pessimism has a ready answer: first, there can be
no morality, for where there is no body and no property it is
impossible to injure another; second, there can be no love, for every
form of love, from the highest to the lowest, rests on the basis of
