ungreased cart-wheel."

"Oh, did he take the watch? I will speak to him about it. He will pay
you immediately. How did the Lala come to have a watch to sell?"

"Allah bilir. He is always bringing me things to sell."

"Other things?"

"He showed me a gold chain one day in the winter. But it was not
curious, so he took it to a jeweler in the jeweler's tcharshee, who gave
him the value of the gold by weight."

"Who is he?" asked Gregorios, judging that he ought to show some
curiosity about the man.

"I cannot tell," answered the Jew.

"That means that you will not, of course. Very well. It is your affair.
Curiosity is the mother of deception. Will you give me the Rhodes for
ten pounds?"

They began to bargain again, but nothing was concluded on that day, for
Gregorios had got what he wanted, and was anxious to reach home and to
see me.

Patoff and I, as usual on Thursday, had made a trip up the Bosphorus,
and it was on this occasion that he first pointed out to me the hideous
negro. He proved to be the same man I had seen once before, on our very
first excursion. To-day he looked more ugly than ever, as he went ashore
at Yeni Köj. There was a malignity in his face such as I have never seen
equaled in the expression of any human being.

"I wonder what we shall find out," said Paul thoughtfully. "I have a
very strong belief that he is the fellow who sold the watch. If he is,
poor Alexander can have had but small chance of escape. Did you ever see
such a diabolical face? Of course it may be a mere fancy, but I cannot
rid myself of the thought."

"Balsamides will find out," I replied. "He can handle those fellows in
the bazaar as only an Oriental can."

It was not long before I heard the story of the morning's adventure from
Gregorios. I found him waiting for me and very impatient. He told his
tale triumphantly, dwelling on the fact that Marchetto himself had never
suspected that he was interested in the matter.

"And who is Laleli Khanum Effendi?" I inquired when he had finished.
"And how are we to get into her house?"

"You never heard of Laleli? You Franks think you know Constantinople,
but you know very little in reality. Laleli means 'a tulip.' A pretty
name, Tulip. Why not 'cabbage rose,' or 'artichoke,' or 'asparagus'?
Laleli is an extraordinary woman, my friend, and has been in the habit
of doing extraordinary things, ever since she poisoned her husband. She
is the sister of a very high and mighty personage, who has been dead
some time. She was married to an important officer in the government.
She was concerned in the conspiracy against Abdul Azis; she is said to
have poisoned her husband; she fell in her turn a victim to the
conspiracy against Murad, and, though not banished, lost all favor. She
managed to keep her fortune, however, which is very large, and she has
lived for many years in Yeni Köj. There are all sorts of legends about
her. Some say she is old and hideous, others declare that she has
preserved her beauty by witchcraft. There is nothing absurd which has
not been said of her. She certainly at one time exercised considerable
influence in politics. That is all I know of her except this, which I
have never believed: it has been said that more than one person has been
seen to enter her house, but has never been seen to leave it."

"How can one believe that?" I asked skeptically. "If it were really
known, her house would have been searched, especially as she is out of
favor."

"It is curious, however," said Gregorios, without contradicting me,
"that we should have traced Alexander Patoff's personal possessions to
her house."

"What shall we do next?" I asked.

"There are only two courses open. In the first place, we can easily
catch the Lala who sold the watch, and take him to a quiet place."

"Well, do you suppose he will tell us what he knows?"

"We will torture him," said Balsamides, coolly. I confess that I was
rather startled by the calm way in which he made the proposition. I
inwardly determined that we should do nothing of the kind.

"What is the other alternative?" I inquired, without showing any
surprise.

"To break into the house and make a search, I suppose," answered my
friend, still quite unmoved, and speaking as though he were proposing a
picnic on the Bosphorus.

"That is not an easy matter," I remarked, "besides being slightly
illegal."

"Whatever we do must be illegal," answered Gregorios. "If we begin to
use the law, the Khanum will have timely warning. If Alexander is still
