prodigal, the coward brave, the genius becomes a simpleton, and in the
simpleton there awakes a Machiavelli. Tristrem passed a forenoon in
trying to unravel as cruel a problem as has ever been given a lover to
solve--how, in a city like New York, to meet a girl of whom he knew
absolutely nothing, and who was probably unaware of his own existence.
He might have waited, it is true--chance holds many an odd trick--but he
had decided to be impatient, and in his impatience he went to Gramercy
Park and drank tea there, not once, but four afternoons in succession,
an excess of civility which surprised Mrs. Weldon not a little.

That he should make an early visit of digestion was quite in the order
of things, but when that visit was repeated again and again, Mrs.
Weldon, with a commingling of complacency and alarm, told herself that,
in her quality of married woman, such persistence should be discouraged.
But the opportunity for such discouragement did not present itself, or
rather, when it did the need of discouragement had passed. Tristrem
drank tea with her several times, and then disappeared abruptly. "He
must have known it was hopeless," she reflected, when a week went by
unmarked by further enterprise on his part. And then, the intended
discouragement notwithstanding, she felt vaguely vexed.

In the tea-drinking Tristrem's object, if not apparent to Mrs. Weldon,
was perfectly clear to himself. He desired to learn something of Miss
Raritan, and he knew, if the tea-drinking was continued with sufficient
endurance, not only would he acquire, from a talkative lady like his
hostess, information of the amplest kind, which after all was secondary,
but that in the course of a week the girl herself must put in an
appearance. A dinner call, if not obligatory to him, was obligatory to
her, and on that obligation he counted.

To those who agree to be bound by what the Western press calls
etiquette, there is nothing more inexorable than a social debt. A woman
may contest her mantua-maker's bill with impunity, her antenuptial
promises may go to protest and she remain unestopped; but let her leave
a dinner-call overdue and unpaid, then is she shameless indeed. In this
code Tristrem was necessarily learned. On returning to Fifth Avenue he
had marvelled somewhat at noting that laws which applied to one sex did
not always extend to the other, that civility was not exacted of men,
that politeness was relegated to the tape-counter and out of place in a
drawing-room; in a word, that it was not good form to be courteous, and
not ill-bred to be rude.

While the tea-drinking was in progress he managed without much
difficulty to get Mrs. Weldon on the desired topic. There were spacious
digressions in her information and abrupt excursions into irrelevant
matter, and there were also interruptions by other visitors, and the
consequent and tedious exchange of platitude and small-talk. But after
the fourth visit Tristrem found himself in possession of a store of
knowledge, the sum and substance of which amounted to this: Miss Raritan
lived with her mother in the shady part of the Thirties, near Madison
Avenue. Her father was dead. It had been rumored, but with what truth
Mrs. Weldon was not prepared to affirm, that the girl had some intention
of appearing on the lyric stage, which, if she carried out, would of
course be the end of her socially. She had been very much ruin after on
account of her voice, and at the Wainwarings the President had said that
he had never heard anything like it, and asked her to come to Washington
and be present at one of the diplomatic dinners. Personally Mrs. Weldon
knew her very slightly, but she intimated that, inasmuch as the
government had once sent Raritan p√®re abroad as minister--in order
probably to be rid of him--his daughter was inclined to look down on
those whose fathers held less exalted positions--on Mrs. Weldon herself,
for example.

It was with this little store of information that Tristrem left her on
the Thursday succeeding the dinner. It was meagre indeed, and yet ample
enough to afford him food for reflection. During the gleaning many
people had come and gone, but of Miss Raritan he had as yet seen
nothing. The next afternoon, however, as he was about to ascend Mrs.
Weldon's stoop for the fifth time in five days, the door opened and the
girl on whom his thoughts were centred was before him.

Throughout the week he had lived in the expectation of meeting her, it
was the one thing that had brought zest to the day and dreams to the
night; there was even a little speech which he had rehearsed, but for
the moment he was dumb. He plucked absently at his cuff, to the palms of
his hands there came a sudden moisture. In the vestibule above, a
servant stood waiting for Miss Raritan to reach the pavement before
closing the door, and abruptly, from a barrel-organ at the corner, a
waltz was thrown out in jolts.

The girl descended the steps before Tristrem was able to master his
emotion.

"Miss Raritan," he began, hastily, "I don't suppose you remember me. I
am Mr. Varick. I heard you sing the other night. I have come here every
day since in the hope of----; you see, I wanted to ask if I might not
have the privilege of hearing you sing again?"

"If you consider it a privilege, certainly. On Sunday evening, though, I
thought you seemed rather bored." She made this answer very graciously,
with her head held like a bird's, a trifle to one side.

Tristrem gazed at her in a manner that would have mollified a tigress.
"I was not bored. I had never heard anyone sing before."

"Yet your friend, Mr. Weldon, tells me that you are very fond of music."

"That is exactly what I mean."

At this speech of his she looked at him, musingly. "I wish I deserved
