"Father, she is a flower."

"Of which you have enjoyed the perfume. Doña Clarisa is a bouquet. The
change should be pleasant. Come, Ruis, prepare yourself; in an hour we
must start."

"I have given my word."

Don Jayme coughed and examined his tapering, yellow fingers. "Then get
it back," he said at last.

"Ah yes, but how."

Don Jayme coughed again and shrugged his shoulders. Then suddenly he
filliped his forefinger and thumb together as were he counting coin.
"Send for your horse, Ruis. I will attend to that." When Ruis returned
Don Jayme placed two small yet heavy bags before him. "Offer one," he
said; "it is ample. But should she play the difficult, then give the
other too. And Ruis, the road is not always safe; are you armed? At
least take this dagger. There, I had forgotten; that there may be no
complications, get a receipt."

Ruis stuck the dirk in his belt and placed the bags in the holster. His
father stood watching him on the veranda. "I will wait for you here," he
said, as Ruis mounted; "do not be long." And as the young man touched
the horse with his heel, he called out, "I count on you, Ruis." He
waved his hand to him lovingly. He was in great good spirits; the goal
to which for five years he had striven was full in sight.

And Ruis from the saddle answered, "Count on your gold, Don Jayme."

In a moment he was out of sight, galloping down the road, with only
stars and fire-flys to light the way. But of the road the horse knew
every inch. And as Ruis galloped he thought of Madrid and its
allurements, of the corrida and its emotions, of the Doña Clarisa that
was to be his, and of other doñas that he would meet. The future
certainly was very bright. As for the present, it was not entirely to
his liking. There was an awkward five minutes to pass, but once passed
he would shake the red dust from him and never set foot on that road
again. Fausta, truly, had been very sweet, and she had beguiled for him
many and many an otherwise wearisome hour. But she was like the fruit,
which on arriving he had relished. She had lost her savor. I will give
her the gold, he thought, the gold and a kiss. The gold will serve for
dower and the kiss for farewell.

So mused Don Ruis. He had reached her door, and, as before, at the noise
of hoofs she came out with a welcome.

"Ah, Ruis," she murmured, "I have watched for you the entire day. This
morning I went to our Eden, and again this afternoon. Where were you?
Ruis, I caught a butterfly, it was like a winged acacia, and I gathered
the jasmines you like, and waited, but you did not come. My Ruis, I
thought you ill perhaps, yet everything was so fair and still I knew
you could not be but well. And, Ruis, as I was leaving, a yellow-breast
began to sing. He seemed to bring a message from you. I know it now, it
was that you would come to-night. Ruis, forgive my foolish words, it is
because my heart is full of love for you. But why do you not dismount?
Come, we will stroll there beneath the stars. Do you know, Ruis, with
you I am so happy there are moments when I could die of joy. But why do
you not speak to me? Is it the night? My Ruis, your face seems changed."

"Fausta, I have come to say good-bye."

"Good-bye? Ruis, you jest."

"No, Fausta, it is not jest. Don Jayme and I return to Spain."

"To Spain! It cannot be! You said that when you went, we both should
go; that I should be your wife."

"Don Jayme has found another for me."

"And what of your word, Don Ruis?"

"There, Fausta, it is painful enough. Were it not for Don Jayme, you
know--naturally, you know--you know very well what I would do. But see,
what would you? It is painful, indeed."

"Painful? Painful to whom? Not to Don Jayme, nor seemingly to you."

"Ah, but it is; and see, I have brought you this, and this too." He took
the bags from the holster and held them to her. Yet she made no motion
to take them. She stepped back a little, and to the midnight of her eyes
came a sudden flash. "How much is in them," he continued, "I do not
know, but it must be like St. Peter's pence; you can see"--and he
affected a little laugh--"they are not light to hold. Truly they must
represent a pretty dower, for Don Jayme said--for pleasantry, no
doubt--'Ruis, you will do well to get an acknowledgment.'"

"Ruis! He called you Ruis! Your name is Judas." The girl's face was
always white, but now it was whiter than the moon. The red had left her
lips, and her voice, which had been melodious as the consonance of
citherns and guitars, grew abruptly harsh and strident. She was
trembling from head to foot.

"But will you not take them?" he asked, referring to the bags of money
which, awkwardly enough, he still held out to her.

"Get back, Spaniard, into the night from which you came. I gave you
love, you bring me gold. I gave my trust, you ask a receipt. You shall
