aside a part of his force to remain behind and keep the peace in case
there should be an outbreak, and with the rest he began to journey
homeward, taking a great spoil and many captives with him.

During the march most of the women captives rode on camels, but a few of
the most beautiful were taken in litters lest the fatigues of riding
should injure their appearance and thus diminish their value. Almasta
was one of these, and the Sultan of Haïl was taken in a cage as has been
said, though he was not otherwise ill-treated, and received his portion
of camel's meat and bread, equal to that of the soldiers.

Khaled sent messengers on fleet mares to Riad to give warning of his
coming, but he could not himself proceed very quickly, because his army
was burdened with so much spoil; and as there was now no haste to
overtake an enemy he journeyed chiefly at night, resting during the day
wherever there was water, for although the summer was far advanced it
was still hot. He thought continually of Zehowah, by day in his tent and
by night on the march, for he supposed that she would be glad when she
heard of the victory and that she would now love him, because he had
avenged her people, and taken Haïl, and brought back gold and captives,
besides other treasures.

'She was already pleased with my deeds, before we left Riad,' he
thought, 'for she asked me how many of the Shammars I had slain with my
own hand, and at the last she wished me to stay with her, most probably
that I might tell her more about the fight. How much the more will she
be glad now, since I have killed so many more and have brought back
treasure, and made a whole country subject to her father. Shall not
blood and gold buy the love of a woman?'

It chanced once during this journey that Khaled was sitting at the door
of his tent after the sun had gone down and before the night march had
begun. Upon the one side, at a little distance, was the tent of the
women captives who had been taken from the palace in Haïl, and upon the
other the soldiers had set down the cage in which the Sultan of Shammar
was carried. The men had laid a carpet over the cage to keep the sun
from the prisoner during the heat of the day, lest he should not reach
Riad alive as Khaled desired. For the Sultan was fat and of a choleric
temper. Now the soldiers had given him food but had forgotten to bring
him water, and it was hot under the carpet now that the evening had
come. But he could lift it up a little on one side, and having done so,
he began to cry out, cursing Khaled and railing at him, not knowing that
he was so near at hand.

'Oh you whose portion it shall be to broil everlastingly, and to eat
thistles and thorns, and to lie bound in red-hot chains as I lie in this
cage! Have you brought me out into the desert to die of thirst like a
lame camel? Surely your entertainment on the day of judgment shall be
boiling water and the fruit of Al Zakkam, and whenever you try to get
out of hell you shall be dragged back again and beaten with iron clubs,
and your skin shall dissolve, and the boiling water shall be poured upon
your head!'

In this way the captive cried out, for he was very thirsty. But when
Khaled saw that no one gave him water he called in the darkness to the
women who sat by their tent.

'Fetch water and give the man to drink,' he said.

One of the women rose quickly and filled a jar at the well close by, and
took it to the cage. But then the railing and cursing broke out afresh,
so that Khaled wondered what had happened.

'Who has sent me this unbelieving woman to torture me with thirst?'
cried the prisoner. 'Are you not Aziz whom I was about to take for my
fourth wife on account of your red hair? But your hair shall be a
perpetual flame hereafter, burning the bones of your head, and your
flesh shall be white with heat as iron in a forge. If I were still in my
kingdom you should eat many sticks! If Allah delivers me from my enemies
I will cause your skin to be embroidered with gold for a trapping to my
horse!'

The moon rose at this time, being a little past the full, and Khaled
looked towards the cage and saw that the woman was standing two paces
away from the Sultan's outstretched hand. She dabbled in the cool water
with her fingers so that a plashing sound was heard, and then drank
herself, and scattered afterwards a few drops in the face of the thirsty
captive.

'It is good water,' she said. 'It is cold.'

Khaled knew from her broken speech that it was Almasta, and he
understood that she was torturing the prisoner with the sound and sight
of the water, and with her words. So he rose from his place and went to
the cage.

'Did I not tell you to give him drink?' he asked, standing before the
woman.

'Oh my lord, be merciful,' cried the captive, when he saw that Khaled
himself was there. 'Be merciful and let me drink, for your heart is
easily moved to pity, and by an act of charity you shall hereafter sit
in the shade of the tree Sedrat and drink for ever of the wine of
paradise.'

'I do not desire wine,' said Khaled. 'But you shall certainly not
thirst. Give him the jar,' he said to Almasta. But she shook her head.

'He is bad and ugly,' she said. 'If he does not drink, he will die.'

