first came to the house. Do you remember, Francesco--four years ago? I
used to think you liked Laura better than me. Indeed I did! It was so
foolish, and now you are always so good to me that I see how silly I
was. It never was true, carissimo, was it?"

"No, indeed!" answered Savelli, with an awkward laugh, and turning away
his face to hide the colour that rose in his cheeks.

"Of course not. And as for Laura, she is so much in love with her
husband that I believe she was dreaming of him even then, before she had
ever seen him, and long before she was old enough to think of marrying
any one. How she loves him! Is it not wonderful?"

Francesco glanced at his wife, and he believed that he was not mistaken
in her. There was a look of genuine admiration almost amounting to
enthusiasm in her face. He suppressed a slight sigh, for he still loved
Laura in his helpless and hopeless way.

"Yes," he said, "it is wonderful, all things considered."

"But then," concluded Adele, "with Arden's beautiful character--well, I
am not surprised."




CHAPTER IX.


Adele Savelli was a very good actress, and she deceived her husband
without much trouble, making him believe that she had never felt
ill-disposed towards Laura, and that the repulsion she had felt for
Arden had depended upon his deformity, to which she had now grown
accustomed, as was quite natural. She had aways been careful not to
speak out her mind upon the subject to Francesco, and had been more than
cautious in other respects. She was far too clever a woman to let him
hear the gossip she had originated except through outsiders, in the way
of general conversation, and now she found it easy to change her tactics
completely without doing anything to rouse his suspicion. She seemed
very much preoccupied, however, in spite of her efforts to seem cheerful
and agreeable during the two days which preceded the dinner party her
father had obliged her to give. There were domestic details, too, which
gave her trouble, and she had more than enough to occupy her. Her maid
had been very ill, too, and was barely beginning to recover. Every woman
of the world knows what it means to be suddenly deprived of a thoroughly
good maid's services just at the opening of the season. That was one
more annoyance among the many she encountered, and, in her opinion, not
the smallest.

There was, of course, no open humiliation in what she was now forced to
do, but she felt the shame of defeat very keenly whenever she thought of
her interview with her father. It was not surprising that her hatred of
the Ardens should suddenly take greater proportions under circumstances
so favourable to its growth. And she hated them both with all her heart,
while preparing herself to receive them with open arms and protestations
of affection. But she did everything in her power to make the meeting
effective. She even went so far as to buy pretty little gifts for the
Prince and Princess of Gerano, and for Laura and Arden, which she took
the trouble to conceal with her own hands in the folds of each one's
napkin just before dinner; pretty little chiselled silver sweetmeat
boxes for the two ladies, and tiny matchboxes for the men. Both the
elder Savelli being away at the time, she arranged everything according
to her own taste, which was excellent, thus taking advantage of her
position as temporary mistress of the house. There were flowers
scattered on the table, a form of decoration of which the old butler
disapproved, shaking his head mournfully as he carried out Adele's
directions.

She did not over-act her part when the evening came, for she knew how to
be very charming when she pleased, and she meant on the present occasion
to produce a very strong impression upon every one present at dinner.
She succeeded well. The Ardens themselves were surprised at the pleasant
feeling which seemed to pervade everything. Gerano looked at his
daughter approvingly, repeatedly smiled, nodded to her, and at last
drank her health. Don Francesco was delighted, for he saw in his wife's
manner the strongest refutation of all that Arden had told him two days
earlier. Moreover, he had Laura Arden on his left and was at liberty to
talk to her as much as he pleased, which was in itself a great
satisfaction, especially as she herself was more than usually cordial,
being determined not to betray herself. Francesco looked across the
table at Arden more than once, with a significant glance, and inwardly
congratulated himself upon having said nothing to his wife about the
difficulty.

Arden looked ill. He had caught cold during that interview with Savelli
in the icy drawing-room, and even an ordinary cold told quickly upon his
appearance in his weak state of health. But he did all in his power to
seem cheerful and talked more than usually well, so that his wife alone
knew that he was making an effort.

So the dinner passed off admirably--so well, indeed, that when all were
going home, Laura and her mother looked at one another as though they
could hardly believe what they had seen and heard. The Princess of
Gerano began to doubt the truth of the accusations against Adele, and
even Laura fancied that they must have been very much exaggerated. The
Prince, himself, the only one of the party who had heard the slander
from Adele's own lips, sentence by sentence, and almost word for word as
Ghisleri had repeated it to him, wisely held his peace, while by no
means so wisely believing that his daughter had repented and was
carrying out his instructions in all sincerity. He kissed her
