
"I prefer to leave that to you, sir."

"You can do so safely. The nephew is a disagreeable boy, who would not
suit me at all. He thinks more of dress than of duty, and, if I read him
aright, is lazy and incompetent. Nevertheless, Mr. Talbot has spoken to
me about taking him."

"Perhaps he doesn't know his nephew's faults."

"He knows them well enough, but is desirous of promoting his interests.
He won't look upon you very favorably when he learns that I have engaged
you."

"If you are satisfied, I won't care for that."

"Well spoken, my lad. And now for a few words in confidence," and Mr.
Rogers lowered his voice. "Our business is a large one, and the sums of
money handled are necessarily large. Three months since I ascertained
that somewhere in my establishment there was a leak. We are losing money
in some unexplained way. I believe that some one in whom I repose
confidence is betraying me."

Dan listened in earnest attention.

"Do you suspect any one, sir?" he asked.

"I suspect Mr. Talbot," he said, in the same low voice.

Dan started in surprise.

"It seems strange, perhaps, that I should speak so confidentially to
you--a mere boy--but I am impressed with the idea that you can help me."

"If I can, sir, I will," said Dan, earnestly.

"I don't doubt it. My first injunction is to say no word, even to your
nearest relations, of what I have told you."

"I won't, sir."

"Next, keep a watch over Mr. Talbot. I want to know what are his habits,
whether he uses money freely, with whom he associates. Can you, without
betraying to him that he is watched, find out some information for me on
these points?"

"I will try, sir."

"If you secure any information, never communicate it to me in the
office. Either come to my house, or write me there."

"Yes, sir."

"You understand that I am employing you in a detective capacity, and
that your time will partly be taken up out of business hours. I intend
to pay you extra, according to results. Is that satisfactory?"

"Perfectly so, Mr. Rogers, but I am afraid you will be disappointed in
me."

"I will take my risk of that."

"Have you any directions to give me, sir, as to how to go to work?"

"No; I am nothing of a detective myself. I leave that to you. I might,
of course, employ a professional detective, but Talbot is sharp, and he
would suspect. You he will not suspect. He won't dream of my employing a
boy. That is all I have to say for the present. When can you come to
work?"

"I can come to-morrow morning. To-day we are going to move."

"To-morrow let it be, then. Good-morning, Dan."

Mr. Rogers shook hands with our hero, and walked away.

"I am afraid I have a hard job on my hands," thought Dan, "but I will do
my best."




CHAPTER XVI.

DAN MAKES A DISCOVERY.


Dan's mother was much pleased with her new quarters. The large room,
occupied by Althea and herself, was bright and cheerful, and well
furnished. Besides the ordinary chamber furniture, there was a
comfortable arm-chair and a lounge. Mrs. Mordaunt felt that she would
not be ashamed now to receive a visit from some of her former friends.

She had anticipated some trouble about the preparation of meals, but
Mrs. Brown made a proposition which wonderfully removed all
difficulties.

"Mrs. Mordaunt," she said, "your family is about the same as mine. I
have a son who is employed in a newspaper office down town, and you have
two young children. Now, suppose we club together, and each pay half of
