his incredulity beginning to weaken a little.

"There was this much in it," said Angelo: "what was told us of our
characters was minutely exact--we could not have bettered it ourselves.
Next, two or three memorable things that had happened to us were laid
bare--things which no one present but ourselves could have known about."

"Why, it's rank sorcery!" exclaimed Tom, who was now becoming very much
interested. "And how did they make out with what was going to happen to
you in the future?"

"On the whole, quite fairly," said Luigi. "Two or three of the most
striking things foretold have happened since; much the most striking one
of all happened within that same year. Some of the minor prophecies have
come true; some of the minor and some of the major ones have not been
fulfilled yet, and of course may never be: still, I should be more
surprised if they failed to arrive than if they didn't."

Tom was entirely sobered, and profoundly impressed. He said,
apologetically--

"Dave, I wasn't meaning to belittle that science; I was only
chaffing--chattering, I reckon I'd better say. I wish you would look at
their palms. Come, won't you?"

"Why certainly, if you want me to; but you know I've had no chance to
become an expert, and don't claim to be one. When a past event is
somewhat prominently recorded in the palm I can generally detect that,
but minor ones often escape me,--not always, of course, but often,--but
I haven't much confidence in myself when it comes to reading the future.
I am talking as if palmistry was a daily study with me, but that is not
so. I haven't examined half a dozen hands in the last half dozen years;
you see, the people got to joking about it, and I stopped to let the
talk die down. I'll tell you what we'll do, Count Luigi: I'll make a try
at your past, and if I have any success there--no, on the whole, I'll
let the future alone; that's really the affair of an expert."

He took Luigi's hand. Tom said--

"Wait--don't look yet, Dave! Count Luigi, here's paper and pencil. Set
down that thing that you said was the most striking one that was
foretold to you, and happened less than a year afterward, and give it to
me so I can see if Dave finds it in your hand."

Luigi wrote a line privately, and folded up the piece of paper, and
handed it to Tom, saying--

"I'll tell you when to look at it, if he finds it."

Wilson began to study Luigi's palm, tracing life lines, heart lines,
head lines, and so on, and noting carefully their relations with the
cobweb of finer and more delicate marks and lines that enmeshed them on
all sides; he felt of the fleshy cushion at the base of the thumb, and
noted its shape; he felt of the fleshy side of the hand between the
wrist and the base of the little finger, and noted its shape also; he
painstakingly examined the fingers, observing their form, proportions,
and natural manner of disposing themselves when in repose. All this
process was watched by the three spectators with absorbing interest,
their heads bent together over Luigi's palm, and nobody disturbing the
stillness with a word. Wilson now entered upon a close survey of the
palm again, and his revelations began.

He mapped out Luigi's character and disposition, his tastes, aversions,
proclivities, ambitions, and eccentricities in a way which sometimes
made Luigi wince and the others laugh, but both twins declared that the
chart was artistically drawn and was correct.

Next, Wilson took up Luigi's history. He proceeded cautiously and with
hesitation, now, moving his finger slowly along the great lines of the
palm, and now and then halting it at a "star" or some such landmark, and
examining that neighborhood minutely. He proclaimed one or two past
events, Luigi confirmed his correctness, and the search went on.
Presently Wilson glanced up suddenly with a surprised expression--

"Here is a record of an incident which you would perhaps not wish me
to--"

"Bring it out," said Luigi, good-naturedly; "I promise you it sha'n't
embarrass me."

But Wilson still hesitated, and did not seem quite to know what to do.
Then he said--

"I think it is too delicate a matter to--to--I believe I would rather
write it or whisper it to you, and let you decide for yourself whether
you want it talked out or not."

"That will answer," said Luigi; "write it."

Wilson wrote something on a slip of paper and handed it to Luigi, who
read it to himself and said to Tom--

"Unfold your slip and read it, Mr. Driscoll."

Tom read:

"It was prophesied that I would kill a man. It came true before the year
was out."

Tom added, "Great Scott!"
