
"Ah!" said Pauline, rising and drawing on her gloves, "you wouldn't care
for me. In Paris I am altogether another person; I am not at all as
you see me here. In Paris you would call me a doll. Come, don't dissect
the happy present; enjoy it as I do. 'He only is rich who owns the day,'
and we own this--for our ride."



    "'I hear the hoofs upon the hill;
      I hear them fainter, fainter still,'"

she sang in her clear voice. "The idea of that old Virginia song coming
to me here!"

"This talk about reclaiming and reforming is all bosh," remarked Ash,
leaning back against a high fragment of rock, with his hands in his
pockets. "I am what I am because I choose to be, that's all. The usual
successes of American life, what are they? I no longer care a rap about
them, because I've had them, or at least have seen them within my reach.
I came up from nothing; I got an education--no matter now how I got it;
I studied law. In ten years I had won such a position in my profession
(my branch of it--I was never an office lawyer) that everything lay open
before me. It was only a question of a certain number of years. Not only
was this generally prophesied, but I knew it myself. But by that time I
had found out the unutterable stupidity of people and their pursuits; I
couldn't help despising them. I had made enough to make my mother
comfortable, and there came over me a horror of a plodding life. I said
to myself, 'What is the use of it?' Of pleasure there was no question.
But I could go back to that plodding life to-morrow if I chose. Don't
you believe it, Pauline?"

"Yes."

"Yet you don't say--try?"

"Try, by all means."

"At a safe distance from you!"

"Yes, at a safe distance from me," Pauline answered. "I should do you no
good; I am not enough in earnest. I am never in earnest long about
anything. I am changeable, too--you have no idea how changeable. There
has been no opportunity to show you."

"Is that a threat? You know that I am deeply in love with you." He did
not move as he said this, but his eyes were fixed passionately upon her
face.

"I neither know it nor believe it; it is with you simply as it is with
me--there is no one else here." She stood there watching the wavelets
break at her feet. Nothing in her countenance corresponded in the least
with the description she had just given of herself.

"How you say that! What am I to think of you? You have a face to
worship: does it lie?" said Ash.

"Oh, my face!" She turned, and began to cross the field towards the
farm.

"It shouldn't have that expression, then," he said, joining her, and
walking by her side. "I don't believe you know what it is yourself,
Pauline--that expression. It seems to say as you talk, coming straight
from those divine lips, those sweet eyes: 'I could love you. Be good and
I will.' Why, you have almost made me determine to be 'good' again,
almost made me begin to dream of going back to that plodding life that
I loathe. And you don't know what I am."

Mrs. Graham did not answer; she did not look up, though she knew that
his head was bent beseechingly towards her.

John Ash was obliged to bend; he was very tall. His figure was rather
thin, and he had a slouching gait; his broad shoulders and well-knit
muscles showed that he had plenty of force, and his slouching step
seemed to come from laziness, as though he found it too much trouble to
plant his feet firmly, to carry his long length erect. He was holding
his hat in his hand, and the light from the sea showed his face
clearly, its good points and its bad. His head was well shaped, covered
with thick brown hair, closely cut; but, in spite of the shortness, many
silver threads could be seen on the brown--a premature silver, as he was
not yet thirty-five. His face was beardless, thin, with a bold
eagle-like outline, and strong, warm blue eyes, the blue eyes that go
with a great deal of color. Ordinarily, Ash had now but little color;
that is, there was but little red; his complexion had a dark brown hue;
there were many deep lines. The mouth, the worst feature, had a cynical
droop; the jaw conveyed suggestions that were not agreeable. The
expression of the whole countenance was that of recklessness and
cleverness, both of no common order. Of late the recklessness had often
changed into a more happy merriment when he was with Pauline, the
careless merriment of a boy; one could see then plainly how handsome he
must have been before the lines, and the heaviness, and, alas! the evil,
had come to darken his youth, and to sadden (for so it must have been)
his silent, frightened-looking mother.

They reached the farm; he led out the horses, and mounted her. She
gathered up the reins; but he still held the bridle. "How tired you
look!" he said.

Her face was flushed slightly, high on the cheeks close under the eyes;
between the fair eyebrows a perpendicular line was visible; for the
