time burnt me out, all the same. I've never been the same man since. Nor
has any other San Franciscan. Even Polk and Yorba, although they sold
out at the right moment in nine cases out of ten, felt the strain. As
for Jack Belmont, he was on one glorious drunk all the time,--and never
more of a gentleman. How he pulled through and doubled his pile to boot,
the Lord only knows; but he did."

"Miss Belmont will be a great prize," observed Fort, thoughtfully. "The
greatest beauty in the State, if she has fulfilled her promise; any
amount of go, and one or two cold millions,--the Californian heiress
sublimated."

"And mistress of herself and her millions in a few years. I hear that
Belmont has not drunk a drop since he has been in Europe with her; he's
been gone a year now. That is fatal at his age,--after having been in
pickle some thirty years. Poor Jack,--the best fellow that ever lived! I
suppose his love for the girl brought him up with a round turn.
Doubtless he suddenly realised that she was old enough to understand,
and that he must pull himself up if he would keep her respect. There's a
good deal of tragedy in California, Mr. Trennahan, and it's not of the
sentimental young folks' sort, neither."

"I won't admit it," said Trennahan, who was looking at Magdaléna. "Its
very air breathes content--now, at any rate. I am glad I did not come
earlier."

"California is the Princess Royal of her country," said Fort; "and at
her birth all the good fairies came and gave her of every gift in the
stores of the immortals. Then a wicked fairy came and turned the
skeleton in her beautiful body to gold; and, lo! the princess who had
been fashioned to bless mankind carried, hidden from sight by her
innocent and beneficent charms, a terrible curse. Men came to kiss, and
stayed to tear away her flesh with their teeth. When her skeleton has
been torn forth, even to the uttermost rib, then the spell of the wicked
fairy will be broken, and California be the most gracious mother mankind
has ever known."

"Eugene, you like to hear yourself talk, but it must be admitted that
you talk well. Will you come out and have a cigar? and you, Mr.
Trennahan?"

There was no doubt that the party was a success. Between dances the
girls stood together in groups and superciliously regarded the ranks of
humble wall-flowers. Suddenly a half-dozen would dash down upon a young
man, beg him simultaneously for an eighth of a waltz, and scribble
hieroglyphics on their fans. Alan Rush was the belle, and no girl was
allowed to have more than a fourth of him at a time. Once the girls left
the room in a body, returning, with mumbled excuses, after the music for
the next dance had been playing some three minutes. Sometimes a girl
would approach a segregated youth, ask him patronisingly if he was
enjoying himself, talk to him until the music began, then sidle off with
an inaudible remark. Altogether if the young men had sinned during the
summer,--and they searched their consciences in vain,--they were
punished. The New Woman had not arrived in the Eighties, but the
instinct was there, inherited from remotest mother.

The party was a third over when Trennahan approached Magdaléna for the
first time. She had taken her partner to his chaperon, Mrs. Geary, and
was regarding a group of expectant youths. The spirit of the thing had
possessed her and she was enjoying herself. Her shyness had worn off to
some extent; she danced rather well, and had learned to make small talk.
Being happy, all things seemed easy of accomplishment. She became aware
that Trennahan was standing beside her, but did not turn her eyes.

"Will you sit out a dance with me--or rather walk it out in the garden?
You must be a little tired, and it is delightful out there."

"I'd rather--I think papa would not like it."

"I am positive that he would not mind."

"I am engaged."

"Let me see your fan."

She delivered it reluctantly.

"You have no one down for the next--nor the next."

"I--I--think I'd rather not go."

"Do you mean that? For if you do, I shall go home. I came for nothing
else. I have not seen you alone for three days."

"I am sorry."

"Come."

Her jumping fingers closed about her fan, and the sticks creaked; but
she followed him.

As they descended the steps he drew her hand through his arm. The garden
looked very wild and dark. The stars were burning overhead. Slanting
into the heavy perfume of flowers were the pungent odours of a forest
fire.

"You look like a pomegranate flower."

"Do you like my frock?"

