generous sum which Major Grafton had agreed to pay for his ward.
It was more than he received for any other of his patients, for
M. Bourdon, recognizing Ben's sanity, shrewdly surmised that the
guardian had some special design in having his ward locked up, and
took advantage of it to increase the weekly sum which he charged.

And now all this was lost.

But no! A happy thought struck the worthy doctor. Ben had escaped,
it is true, but why could not he go on charging for him just as
before? His escape was not known to Major Grafton, and probably
would not be discovered for a long time at least. The major was not
very likely to visit the asylum, as an interview between him and his
young victim would be rather embarrassing to him.

Yes, that was the course he would pursue. He would from time to time
send in a report of his patient, and regularly collect his board,
while he would be at no expense whatever for him. It was necessary,
however, to take Francois into his confidence, and he drove back to
the cottage of the humble attendant.

Francois was watching outside. He was afraid the doctor would
succeed in capturing the boy, in whom he had begun to feel a strong
interest. When he saw M. Bourdon drive up alone he smiled to
himself, though his features remained outwardly grave.

"Did you find him, sir?" he asked, respectfully.

"No," answered M. Bourdon, roughly. "The train had just started."

"And was he a passenger?"

"Doubtless."

"What will you do, Monsieur le Docteur?" Francois asked, curiously.

"Francois," said M. Bourdon, suddenly, "I am sorry for you."

"Why?" asked Francois, considerably surprised. "Is it because my
little Marie is sick?"

"Plague take your little Marie! It is because you have helped the
boy to escape."

"How could I help him, sir?"

"Some one must have unlocked the door of his room. Otherwise, he
could not have got out."

"I don't know, monsieur," said Francois, assuming ignorance.

"When did you first see him?"

"I had walked about a quarter of a mile," said Francois,
mendaciously, "when he ran up and overtook me. I told him to go
back, but he would not. He followed me, and came here."

"This story is by no means ingenious," said the doctor, shaking his
head. "When you stand up in a court of justice you will see how the
lawyers will make you eat your words. And very likely they will send
you to prison."

"Oh, no! Don't say that!" said poor Francois, much frightened. "What
would become of my poor wife and child?"

"You should have thought of them before this."

"Oh, Monsieur le Docteur, you will save me from prison!" exclaimed
poor, simple-minded Francois.

"On one condition."

"Name it, monsieur."

"Let no one know that the boy has escaped."

"I will not, if you desire it."

"You see, it will be bad for me as well as for you. It was very
important to keep him--very important, indeed--and his friends will
call me to account. But they need not know it, if you remain silent."

"No one shall hear me say a word, Monsieur le Docteur," said
Francois, promptly.

"That is well. In that case I will overlook your disobedience, and
allow you to return to your place."

"Oh, monsieur is too good!" said Francois, who did not by any means
anticipate such magnanimous forgiveness.

"When can you come back?"

"When monsieur will."

"Come, then, this evening. It will be in time. I will allow you to
spend the day with your family, since your child is sick."

The doctor turned his horse's head, and drove back to the asylum.

