and to try to persuade them to come over for a Sunday visit. She
congratulated Patricia warmly on her prospects.

"Perhaps we shall have a double wedding," with a soft, motherly smile.

"Oh, don't plan for that!" ejaculated the elder girl with a shiver.
"Grandmamma did, you know, and such misfortunes happened."

"But it would be lovely!" Patricia exclaimed longingly, wondering at
her sister's vehemence.

"And you think you cannot come?" Mrs. Carrington said as they drove
back to Mrs. Jettson's. "It would be such a great pleasure to us all!"

"We have a Saturday-night engagement at the Hamiltons'," Patricia
replied. "And Sunday there are to be some guests to dinner."

"And the play Monday evening," added Jaqueline in a voice she tried to
keep steady.

"I don't wonder you two girls have delightful times and are full of
engagements," said the elder woman with a smile of admiration. "But my
turn will come presently. Good-by, my dears."

Jaqueline felt confident she should meet her lover at the Hamiltons',
but she did not. Sunday passed without him.

"Whatever is the matter?" inquired Patty.

"A little lovers' tiff," and Jaqueline gave an airy toss of the head,
with a rather disdainful smile.

"You never do mean to quarrel with Roger Carrington!" exclaimed Patty
in surprise.

"It was of his own making."

"Jack, now that I have a lover of my very own, I don't see how you can
be so fond of--of other men. You haven't treated Roger at all well."

"I won't be called that detestable Jack! And I am not man-crazy!"

"No, they are crazy about you. I shouldn't think Roger would like it.
No lover would stand it."

Jaqueline made no reply.

Monday there was a rehearsal, and Jaqueline remained to tea. There
was a very enthusiastic audience, and the play was charmingly acted.
Of course Roger was there, and chatted with Patricia and the doctor.
Jaqueline in her heart acted for him alone. She was so eager and
interested in furthering Margaret Bradford's love for Lieutenant
Ralston that she thought he must see how frankly and freely she could
relinquish him. But Roger, knowing that Margaret Bradford had a real
lover, looked at it from a different point of view.

"Will you give my congratulations to your sister?" he said to Patricia,
rising, as the curtain fell for the last time. "There is some important
business at Mr. Monroe's, and I am to be there at ten."

"Are you not going to stay to the supper?" Patty cried in surprise. "I
know Jaqueline expects you."

If she had sent ever such a little note to bid him come! But she had
made no sign.

Then Jaqueline Mason was very angry. She would not believe any man
actually in love could so hold aloof. It was an insult! And while her
passion was at white heat the next morning she penned a sharp note of
dismissal. He should not plume himself upon having given her up.

Mr. Mason came to Washington according to agreement, and was very well
satisfied with his prospective son-in-law.

"But do not go on too fast," he advised. "Matters look squally ahead.
And if we should have war----"

"It will hardly invade us, when there are more important cities open
to attack. And I cannot really think it. As the capital of the nation
we must plan and build for the future. L'Enfant planned magnificently;
it is for us to carry it out. And we younger men, who have not had our
tempers so tried with all the disputes, will continue it with greater
enthusiasm. It must be the grandest place in the whole country."

Mr. Mason smiled thoughtfully.

"I hope it may be. We had a hard fight for it in the beginning. I want
the wisdom of our choice apparent."

"It will be the city of my adoption, and I shall bend all my energies,
and whatever money I can spare, to its advancement. Having won my wife
here, it will always keep a charm for me. I should like to be married
as soon as is convenient. Patricia will be very happy here, I am sure."

Patricia was a fortunate girl, her father thought. Fathers had their
daughters' interests at heart in those days, when there was time to
live.

"What is this?" he asked of Jaqueline on the morning of their
departure, holding a brief note before her eyes. "You don't mean that
