
"Lie there!" he cried. "S-sh! Not a sound!"

The wisdom of the ruse was apparent. Crashing footsteps gave the officer
something to follow; without it he might not find them in the black
woods. They heard his horse thrashing about in the underbrush; the man
was evidently afraid of nothing even in the darkness, for he plunged
through it furiously, riding back and forth and beating the bushes. Once
he passed so near to them that Texas heard the sword swish and felt for
his revolvers instinctively. But that was the best the man could do,
and finally he gave it up in disgust and rode out to the road again.

Then the two highwaymen arose and stole softly away in the darkness,
congratulating themselves upon that narrow escape and still more upon
their success.

When they reached the camp, which they did in a great hurry, for they
knew the officer would alarm the post, they passed the sentry in the
same way, and separated, Texas hurrying into his own tent. To his
amazement he found his tent mates awake and sitting up, for what reason
he had no idea.

"What's the matter?" he cried anxiously, for he saw at once that
something horrible had happened.

"Matter enough!" cried Mark in just as much anxiety. "It's not enough
for me to get dismissed, but you have to go to work and get yourself in
the same scrape."

"I dismissed!" echoed Texas, in amazement. "How?"

"Your absence has been noticed," groaned Mark. "Lieutenant Allen has
ordered an inspection of the tent every half hour until you return.
They've been here twice now, and you're a goner. And what makes it ten
thousand times worse, I know it's on account of me. You've been doing
something to clear me."

All this was said in about as lugubrious a tone as one could well
imagine. But as for Texas, he merely chuckled as if he didn't care in
the least.

"I reckon it'll be all right," he chuckled, as he began to shed his
"cits" clothing. "Jes' you fellers go to bed an' be good. I reckon it'll
all come out all right. Good-night."




CHAPTER XXI.

BENNY IS EXPOSED.


"Well, sir, I've come to ask what you propose to do about it."

It was the pompous old squire, and he stood once more in the
superintendent's office, impatience written in every line of his face.

"Yes, sir," he continued, "I should like to know your decision."

"But, my dear sir," exclaimed Colonel Harvey, "I have not made up my
mind entirely. It is only yesterday you stated your case. What is the
hurry?"

"Hurry, sir?" returned the squire, "I am in a hurry for my rights. I
mean that my son shall have the cadetship he has earned."

"Where is your son?" inquired the other, after a moment's thought.

"He is up at the hotel," answered the squire. "Why?"

"I should like to see him for just a moment. I have one question to ask
him, if you please. I'll send an orderly for him."

The old man bowed stiffly; he sat up very straight in his chair and
waited with dignity until his young hopeful appeared, wondering
meanwhile what more the obdurate officer could want.

Master Benjamin entered the room obviously pale and flushed. He did not
feel very well as the result of his last night's "manliness," and he had
dim visions of robbers and stolen papers besides. He bowed to his father
and the grave superintendent.

"Take a seat," said the latter. "I shall not keep you long. Take this
pen and paper. I am anxious to see your handwriting. Please write these
words as I dictate them."

Benny, puzzled and alarmed, prepared to obey; he saw that the army
officer was watching him narrowly, which did not increase his ease of
manner.

"Write," said Colonel Harvey, "I--promise--to--pay-to--Nick---- What's
the matter?"

Benny had begun to write promptly. At the sixth word he had turned pale
as death, and his hand was trembling.

"What's the matter?" thundered the colonel again. "Why don't you write?"

"I--I----" stammered Benny. "I'm not very well."
