
"For my part, I would it were to-morrow.  Our swords will be given back
to us.  Take heed, Vicomte," holding out a splendid arm, as if calling
the vicomte's attention to it.

The vicomte twisted his shoulder and made a grimace.  "I will kill you
as certainly as we stand here.  It is written.  And after you . . ."

D'Hérouville could not piece together this broken sentence.

Four days later, the first of October, they came to the mission.  The
lake of Onondaga lay glittering in the sunshine, surrounded by green
valleys, green hills, and crimsoning forests.  As they arrived at the
palisade and fort, Du Puys, sighting them, fired a salute of welcome.
The echoes awoke, and hurried to the hills and back again with
thrilling sound.  The deer lifted his lordly antlers and trembled; the
bear, his jaws dripping with purloined honey, flattened his ears
restlessly; the dozing panther opened his eyes, yellow and round as a
king's louis; and from the dead arms of what was once a kingly pine,
the eagle rose and described circles as he soared heavenward.  The gaze
of the recent captives roved.  Here were fruitful valley and hill;
pine, oak, beech, maple and birch; luscious grape and rosy apple; corn
and golden pumpkin.  They saw where the beaver burrowed in his dams,
and in the golden shallows and emerald deeps of the lake caught
glimpses of trout, bass, salmon and pickerel.  And what a picture met
their eyes as they entered the palisades: the black-robed priests, the
shabby uniforms of the soldiers and their quaint weapons and dented
helmets, the ragged garbs of the French gentlemen who had accompanied
the expedition, the painted Indian and his ever-inconsolable dog.

"Here might a man dwell in peace," said the Chevalier.

"Not with ambition for his bride," was the vicomte's observation.


The beginning of the end came on the seventh of October, after a famous
hunting day.  A great fire was built on the shores of the lake.  The
moon, crooked in shape and mellow as a fat pumpkin, hung low over the
forest crests.  The water was golden and red: the moon and the flames.
The braves were holding a hunting dance in honor of the kill.  There
were at this time about sixty warriors encamped around the mission.
The main body was at the Long House, far back among the hills.  A weird
chanting broke the stillness of the night.  The outer circle was
composed of the older braves and chieftains, the colonists, the
Jesuits, and the four unhappy men who were their guests.  None of the
four took particular interest in the unique performance.  Here they
were, but little better situated than at Oneida.  True, they were no
longer ill-treated and food was plentiful, but they were held here in a
captivity no less irksome.  They were prisoners of impotency.  Chance
and the god of whims had put them upon a sorry highway to the heart's
desire.  It mattered nothing that madame had said plainly that she
loved none of them.  The conceit of man is such that, like hope, it
dies only when he dies.  Perhaps the poet's heart was the most
peaceful: he had bravely turned over the alluring page.

The dance grew wilder and noisier.

Chaumonot guilelessly pushed his inquiries regarding Monsieur le
Marquis.  Those thousand livres had done so much!  That generosity was
so deeply imbedded in his mind!  And what had brought Monsieur le
Marquis to Quebec, and how long was he to remain?  The Chevalier's jaws
knotted and knotted; but he succeeded in answering each question
courteously or avoiding it adroitly by asking a question himself.  More
than once he felt the desire to leap up and dash into the forest.
Anything but that name . . .  Monsieur le Marquis!  "Tell Monsieur le
Comte for me that I am sleeping and may not be disturbed!"  It had been
a cup of gall indeed that he drank outside his father's chamber.

All this while D'Hérouville smiled and smiled; the vicomte labored over
the rust on his blade.  When at length the good Father moved to another
side of the circle, where Du Puys and Nicot sat, the Chevalier stood up
and stepped before D'Hérouville.

"Rise, Monsieur," he said.  His voice was even.

D'Hérouville rose, wondering.  Victor ceased to inspect his hands, and
the vicomte let the blade sink to his knees.

"You have laughed, Monsieur D'Hérouville; you have laughed at
misfortune."  The Chevalier still spoke quietly.  Only Victor surmised
the raging fire beneath those quiet tones.

"And will," retorted D'Hérouville, his eyes lighting with intelligence.

"At Quebec you held an unmanly threat above my head.  Come with me;
there is no woman here."

"Fight you?  I believe we have settled that matter," insolently.

The Chevalier brought the back of his hand swiftly against
D'Hérouville's mouth.

The laugh which sounded came from the vicomte.  This would be
interesting if no one interfered.  But he was up almost as quickly as
Victor, who rushed between the two men.  D'Hérouville's sword was half
free.

"Wherever you say!" he cried hoarsely.

"A moment, gentlemen!" said the vicomte, pointing toward the dancing
