

CHAPTER IX

FIRST DAYS IN NEW YORK


Having paid for his room for one week in advance, Nat sat down to talk
to Mrs. Talcott. He found her a very pleasant woman, whose experiences
in life had been much varied.

"Dick is the only person left to me," said she. "He had both a brother
and a sister, but they died when they were young."

"Does he sell papers every day?"

"Oh, yes, and he has a morning route besides, which he carries for a
stationer on the Avenue."

"I suppose he makes quite some money, doesn't he? Excuse me for asking,
but you know, I've got to make my living too."

"The route pays him a dollar and a quarter a week, and he makes three or
four dollars besides."

"Well, five dollars a week is better than nothing."

"The stationer says he will give Dick a place this fall. That will pay
six or seven dollars a week."

"I wish I had a job at six or seven dollars a week."

"Have you anything in view?"

"Not a thing. I am going out in the morning to look for work."

"You may find it very hard to get an opening."

"Oh, I guess I can find something," answered Nat, confidently.

"I trust you are not disappointed. So many come in from the country and
find it impossible to get an opening."

"I wish I had a map of New York City. I could study it, and locate the
streets."

"I have such a map," was the answer, and the lady brought it forth. "I
will put it on the table just as it should be. This is east and this is
west, and here is where this house is located, and here is the Grand
Central Depot. Now, you can do your best to fix the rest of it in your
head."

Nat pored over the map for a good hour, and during that time located
Broadway, and a number of other important thoroughfares.

"It's certainly a tremendously big city," said he. "One could get lost
without half trying."

"You can carry that map around this week, if you wish," said Mrs.
Talcott. "It may help you a great deal."

Nat went to bed with his head in something of a whirl from the long
train ride and from studying the map. It was a long while ere he could
close his eyes in sleep.

"I'm up against it now," he mused. "It's sink or swim, and nothing
else."

He resolved to arise early, and as soon as he heard Dick Talcott get up,
he dressed and went into the dining room to meet the newsboy.

"Hullo, how did you sleep?" asked Dick.

"Fairly good, considering. Are you going out on your route now?"

"Yes."

"I want to buy some papers that have advertisements of Help Wanted in
them. Which are the best papers?"

Dick named them. "You needn't buy them unless you wish. I'll let you
look over my bunch, if you want to come with me."

"Thank you, Dick."

The two procured a hasty breakfast, and set out, and soon the newsboy
had his package of morning newspapers. He showed Nat where to look for
the advertisements, and our hero sat down on a stoop, while Dick ran his
route.

"Well, did you find anything worth looking up?" asked the newsboy, on
returning.

"A dozen or more," cried Nat, gleefully. "It will be an easy matter to
get work, I'm thinking."

At this the New York boy grinned broadly.

"Don't you fool yourself, Nat."

