scene.  Here we were, all of us, trying savagely to smoke a cigar or
cigarette through the flabby aperture designated in a mask as the
mouth.  It was a hopeless job; for myself, I gave it up in disgust.

Nobody dared talk naturally for fear of being identified.  When a man
did open his mouth it was only to commit some banal idiocy, for which,
during office hours, he would have been haled to the nearest insane
asylum and labeled incurable.  Added to this was a heat matching
Sahara's and the oppressive odor of weltering paint.

By Jove!  Only one man knew that the back of my card was unlike the
others: the man who had picked it up in old Friard's curio-shop, the
man who had come to Blankshire with me!  I knew now.  He had been there
buying a costume like myself.  He had seen me on the train, and had
guessed the secret.  I elbowed my way out of the smoking-room.  It
wouldn't do me a bit of harm to ask a few polite questions of Mr.
Caesar of the sardonic laugh.

But I had lost the golden opportunity.  Caesar had gone to join the
shades of other noble Romans; in vain I searched high and low for him.
Once I ran into Hamilton.  His face was pale and disturbed and anxious.

"What's the trouble, Hamilton?" I asked, with forced gaiety.

He favored me with a penetrating glance.

"The very devil is the trouble," he growled.  "Several of the ladies
have begun to miss valuable jewels.  Anne of Austria has lost her
necklace and Queen Elizabeth is without a priceless comb; altogether,
about ten thousand dollars."

"Robbery?"  I looked at him aghast.

"That's the word.  Curse the luck!  There is always something of this
sort happening to spoil the fun.  But whoever has the jewels will not
get away with them."

"What are you going to do?"

"I have already sent for the village police.  Now I shall lock
all the doors and make every man and woman produce cards for
identification,"--abruptly leaving me.

Thunderbolts out of heaven!  My knees and collar bothered me again; the
first attack was trifling compared to this second seizure.  How the
devil was I to get out?

"Are you searching for me?" inquired a soft voice at my elbow.

I turned instantly.  The Blue Domino had come back to me.

"I have been searching for you everywhere," I said gallantly.

"Oh!  but that is a black one.  Never mind; the fib was well meant."

I led her over to a secluded nook, within a few feet of the door which
gave entrance to the club cellars.  This door I had been bearing in
mind for some time.  It is well to know your topography.  The door was
at the left of the band platform.  There was a twin-door on the other
side.  We sat down.



"Have you heard the news?" I asked.

"No.  Has some one been discovered making love to his own wife by
mistake?"

"It's serious.  Anne of Austria and Queen Elizabeth have been robbed of
some jewels."

"A thief among us?"

"A regular Galloping Dick.  I'm a thief myself, for that matter."

"You?" she drew away from me a bit.

"Yes.  My name is Procrastination."

"Ah, my grave Capuchin, we do not steal time; we merely waste it.  But
is what you tell me true?"

"I am very sorry to say it is.  The jewels were worth something like
ten thousand dollars."

"Merciful heavens!"

"It is true, infernally true,"--looking around to see if by chance
Caesar had reappeared on the scene.  (How was I to manage my escape?
It is true I might hie me to the cellars; but how to get out of the
cellars!)  "Have you seen Julius Caesar?" I asked.

"Caesar?"

"Yes, Miss Hawthorne--"

The Blue Domino swung about and leaned toward me, her hands tense upon
the sides of her chair.

"What name did you say?"--a strained note in her voice.
