them around to her guests, who didn't think they were anything much in
the vegetable line and too expensive ever to become general.

Birds sang about them, flocks of wild geese had started on their
northward journey. What a wonderful world it was! And her father had
been a boy here in Salem village, had lived in Cousin Chilian's house in
the father's time, and her mother had been married in the stately
parlor. Why, she could dream of their being real guests of the place.
How odd she should come to live here. The life in India would be the
dream presently.

She was very tired when Chilian lifted her out of the carriage and took
her upstairs. Rachel put her to bed for a while and gave her a cup of
hot tea--mint and catnip--which was a great restorer, or so considered,
in those days. She came down to supper and was quite bright.

Every day she improved a little. Eunice said she was getting 'climated.

Elizabeth wondered if she had any deep feeling. She had expected to see
her "take on" terribly. Chilian begged her not to disturb the child's
faith that both parents were in heaven.

"Letty Orne, that was, might have been one of the elect, but sea
captains are seldom considered safe in the fold, as children of grace. I
never heard that he had any evidence. And 'tisn't safe to count on
meeting them unless you've had some sign."

"We must leave a good many of these things to God. His ways are better
than our short-sighted wisdom."

Elizabeth was never quite sure of Chilian. So much study, and reading,
and college talk, and the new theories, and what they called
discoveries, were enough to unsettle one's faith, and she feared for
him. Younger children than Cynthia had gone through the throes of
conviction--she had herself, and she longed to see her in this state.

But the child was quite her olden self. What with the change of climate
and her illness she was many shades fairer, and her hair was losing its
queer sunburned color. Her thin frame began to fill out, her face grew
rounder, and her smile was sweetness itself.

"But she hasn't grown a mite since she came. Leverett people are all of
a fair size. I don't know a little runt among them," persisted
Elizabeth.

"I wish I could grow," she sighed in confidence to Chilian.

"Never mind. Then you will always be my little girl," he would answer
consolingly.




CHAPTER IX

LESSONS OF LIFE


Even Chilian wondered that the little girl took the death of her father
so calmly. Elizabeth called it unnatural and questioned whether the
child had any deep feeling.

"I don't believe she's shed a tear. And, Eunice, the child ought to go
in black."

The child was trying to get used to changed ideas. If her mother was
glad and happy, now that they were again united, why should she be
sorry? It seemed selfish to her as if she grudged them the joy. And
Cousin Chilian was trying every way to entertain her, to help her on to
perfect recovery. Sometimes, when she sat alone in the study, the soft
eyes would overflow and the tears course silently down her cheeks. She
never cried in the tempestuous way of some children. But she knew now
she had counted a good deal on their having a home together. Rachel
would keep the house and she and her father would take walks and have a
garden, where she could cut flowers and have them in the house. Cousin
Elizabeth said they made a litter. And now she should never go down to
the wharf and see him standing on the deck, and wave her hand to him,
as she used when he went on short journeys in India. They would have a
low carry-all and ride around, as she would tell him all she had learned
about Salem. And they would have people in to drink tea and have pretty
dishes on the table. Perhaps he would give her a party. But she didn't
know any children, except the Uphams. It might be better to go to school
so that she could get acquainted.

Chilian was a good deal startled about the black garments.

"She is so little and thin," he objected. "I never did like children in
black; it seems as if you weighted them down with woe. And he has been
dead so many months now."

"But one ought to pay decent respect to a custom sanctioned by all
civilized people. There will be a talk about it. Folks may think it our
fault."

"I do not believe half a dozen people would notice it. It's only a
custom after all. I never did like it. We will see how she feels about
it."

"Chilian, you make that child of as much importance as if she was a
woman grown. You will have your hands full by and by. She will think
