him. However, if the creatures were not shot, they must inevitably
perish in the winter snows; and he had heard that Robbie sent the game
to the hospitals. Also, the score was being kept, and Miss Vincent, who
was something of a shot herself, was watching him with eager
excitement, being wild with desire to beat out Billy Price and Chappie
de Peyster, who were the champion shots of the company. Baby de Mille,
who was on his left, and who could not shoot at all, was blundering
along, puffing for breath and eyeing him enviously; and the attendants
at his back were trembling with delight and murmuring their applause.
So he shot on, as long as the drive lasted, and again on their way
back, over a new stretch of the country. Sometimes the birds would rise
in pairs, and he would drop them both; and twice when a blundering
flock took flight in his direction he seized a second gun and brought
down a second pair. When the day's sport came to an end his score was
fifteen better than his nearest competitor, and he and his partner had
won the day.

They crowded round to congratulate him; first his partner, and then his
rivals, and his host and hostess. Montague found that he had suddenly
become a person of consequence. Some who had previously taken no notice
of him now became aware of his existence; proud society belles
condescended to make conversation with him, and Clarrie Mason, who
hated de Peyster, made note of a way to annoy him. As for Oliver, he
was radiant with delight. "When it came to horses and guns, I knew
you'd make good," he whispered.

Leaving the game to be gathered up in carts, they made their way home,
and there the two victors received their prizes. The man's consisted of
a shaving set in a case of solid gold, set with diamonds. Montague was
simply stunned, for the thing could not have cost less than one or two
thousand dollars. He could not persuade himself that he had a right to
accept of such hospitality, which he could never hope to return. He was
to realize in time that Robbie lived for the pleasure of thus
humiliating his fellow-men.

After luncheon, the party came to an end. Some set out to return as
they had come; and others, who had dinner engagements, went back with
their host in his private car, leaving their autos to be returned by
the chauffeurs. Montague and his brother were among these; and about
dusk, when the swarms of working people were pouring out of the city,
they crossed the ferry and took a cab to their hotel.




CHAPTER V


They found their apartments looking as if they had been struck by a
snowstorm-a storm of red and green and yellow, and all the colours that
lie between. All day the wagons of fashionable milliners and costumiers
had been stopping at the door, and their contents had found their way
to Alice's room. The floors were ankle-deep in tissue paper and tape,
and beds and couches and chairs were covered with boxes, in which lay
wonderful symphonies of colour, half disclosed in their wrappings of
gauze. In the midst of it all stood the girl, her eyes shining with
excitement.

"Oh, Allan!" she cried, as they entered. "How am I ever to thank you?"

"You're not to thank me," Montague replied. "This is all Oliver's
doings."

"Oliver!" exclaimed the girl, and turned to him. "How in the world
could you do it?" she cried. "How will you ever get the money to pay
for it all?"

"That's my problem," said the man, laughing. "All you have to think
about is to look beautiful."

"If I don't," was her reply, "it won't be for lack of clothes. I never
saw so many wonderful things in all my life as I've seen to-day."

"There's quite a show of them," admitted Oliver.

"And Reggie Mann! It was so queer, Allan! I never went shopping with a
man before. And he's so--so matter-of-fact. You know, he bought
me--everything!"

"That was what he was told to do," said Oliver. "Did you like him?"

"I don't know," said the girl. "He's queer--I never met a man like that
before. But he was awfully kind; and the people just turned their
stores inside out for us--half a dozen people hurrying about to wait on
you at once!"

"You'll get used to such things," said Oliver; and then, stepping
toward the bed, "Let's see what you got."

"Most of the things haven't come," said Alice. "The gowns all have to
be fitted.--That one is for to-night," she added, as he lifted up a
beautiful object made of rose-coloured chiffon.

Oliver studied it, and glanced once or twice at the girl. "I guess you
can carry it," he said. "What sort of a cloak are you to wear?"

"Oh, the cloak!" cried Alice. "Oliver, I can't believe it's really to
belong to me. I didn't know anyone but princesses wore such things."

The cloak was in Mrs. Montague's room, and one of the maids brought it
