"I think he was very much relieved, though he pretended not to be.  I
wonder if he did come here to see Christine?  The girl is cool enough
with him, and he is inclined to follow her about in an aimless sort of
way, as though he had something on his mind."

"He seems to be equally attentive to Christine and Mrs. Wemyss,"
observed Silvette. "It appears that he and that ample beauty are old
friends."

"Who is Mrs. Wemyss, anyway?"

Silvette smiled.  "I asked Mrs. Rivett, saying that there was something
familiar about Mrs. Wemyss, and that I had an idea I had seen her
somewhere; but Mrs. Rivett didn’t know who she was.  She had met her
last winter at the Plaza, which is the kind of thing one might have
expected—even of Mrs. Rivett, who is as dear a little woman as ever wore
sapphires at breakfast....  What a horrid, cynical thing I’m turning
into! ... And now I’m going to turn into an imitation of a young girl
dressing for luncheon. Heigho!  I wish other people were what they ought
to be and I were what I’d like to be. The world would wag very well,
then."


Luncheon was the usual animated, gossipy, and amusing function that
Silvette and Diana and Jack Rivett always made it, and at which Colonel
Curmew assiduously assisted according to his notions of jollity.

Edgerton for the last week or so had remained rather silent among the
others, amiable and nice always and perfectly receptive when spoken to,
but not volunteering very much, and not, according to Colonel Curmew’s
idea, earning his salary.  However, as the colonel didn’t like him, that
fact may have colored his judgment when he spoke to Mr. Rivett about it
after luncheon in the privacy of that silent man’s study.

"He’s turned into what I knew he was—a damned snob!" said the colonel,
sitting with widened legs, a rich cigar tucked in under his military
mustache, and furtively loosening the rear buckle of his white
waistcoat.

"He doesn’t pay for his keep," he went on. "What use to you is a man who
sits around looking unapproachable?"

"I have no difficulty in approaching him," observed Mr. Rivett.

"You pay him.  To look at him, one would think he paid you."

"He pays me his services."

"Ah, but he doesn’t!  He’s off with that little Diana girl half the
time."

"That’s their affair."

"By gad!  Is it?  They’re both here on a salary if it comes to that,
Jake....  Say, did it ever strike you as funny—this cousin business he
puts up?"

Mr. Rivett’s burned-brown eyes fixed themselves on the jaunty colonel.

"How?"

"Oh, nothing....  They’re rather distant relatives, that’s all....  Not
but what she seems to be straight—as far as I know."

"What does anybody else know about her?"

"Oh, nothing—nothing," said the colonel, waving his cigar and heavy seal
ring.  "But it’s curious....  You can’t really say a word against an
Edgerton, rich or poor; but, as far as I can see the girl is only a
little adventuress looking for trouble....  She’ll probably get it some
day," he added with a tenor laugh peculiarly ungrateful to the auditory
mechanism of Mr. Rivett.

The colonel puffed his cigar in smiling silence for a while; then,
expelling another laugh and a large volume of blue smoke, slapped his
knee, straightened his tie and waistcoat and shot his cuffs.



"She’ll be all right to take about town, eh, Jake?" he said.

Mr. Rivett said nothing.

"Now, there’s old Parke Ellingford," continued the colonel; "he’s never
had as good looking a girl, and, b’gad!  I’ve seen ’em all—known most of
’em," he added with a leer. "And take any of the men you and I
know—Wallowby, Dankland, and that hatchet-faced Van Wyne!  They’ve never
had any better-looking girl than that little Diana."

Mr. Rivett said nothing.

"B’gad!" said the colonel, with a laugh that approached the falsetto,
"if she doesn’t cut a dash in town’ this winter, I miss my guess."

"Oh—are you to be in town?" inquired Mr. Rivett.

"I?  No; Palm Beach," said the colonel hastily, watching the other out
of his pale and protruding eyes.  "And then—I don’t go in for such
capers," he explained with a pained expression.  "What a man jokes
about, he never bothers with."
