this was the mother of her dreams and ideals, and their souls were as
one.

They kissed away each other's tears.

"I felt that I must come, that I must see you. But I am not going to
take you away, much as I long for you, since you have a sacred duty
here. When that is finished we will begin our lives together. At first,
your father was mad with jealousy that she should have dared to love
you so much, but now he is glad as I am that you did not suffer from
coldness or indifference. That would have broken my heart."

"And I am afraid I did not always return love for love. I was always
dreaming, desiring something I had not. She worked for me all those
early years. I had resolved as soon as was possible to be her caretaker,
to put in her life the things she desired, whether they pleased me or
not. It did not take much to make her happy."

"And no man can understand the longing of a woman's soul when her child
has been torn from her arms. Poor empty arms, that no prayer can fill.
And this was why she snatched at the baby, believing it was motherless.
Yes, I forgave her and so did he when he came to look at it in the true
light. Some women, when times pressed hard in work and poverty, would
have placed you in an institution----"

"Oh, I think she would have starved first!" interrupted the girl,
vehemently.

"And now, if God grants it, we may have a long, satisfying life
together. For He has given me back my health like a miracle, as we had
thought it could never be, and were quite resigned. And now He has
restored all that we missed, given us the oil of joy for mourning. Oh,
child, let me look at you. As a baby you were so different from Zaidee,
it hardly seemed as if you could be twins; and you are taller, yes, you
are more like Willard. But you have my eyes, and I never was fairy-like.
Oh, I hope you girls will love each other, and I want you to love me
with all your heart to make up for those years that have fallen out of
our lives."

The exquisitely soft, silvery laugh was music to the girl's heart. Yes,
this was the ideal mother. Was there some secret quality in heredity,
after all?

They talked on and on. She wanted to hear more particulars of her
daughter's life, but Lilian softened some of the roughest places, the
fights she had had with herself, when she felt she must give up her
cherished school, the pleasure of coming to an atmosphere like this, the
warm interest of Mrs. Barrington.

"And now I must leave you," said the mother, "but I take with me a
delightful hope. When your duty is done here, and I appreciate your
doing it, you will find your true home in my heart and my home. Oh, I
think you will never be able to understand all my joy."

She rose and wiped away her tears. Yes, she was beautiful enough to
adore. Her own mother! It thrilled every pulse.

"Oh, my dear, let us both thank God for this restoration. It is like a
heavenly dream. I must have time to get used to it."

Lilian watched her as she stepped into the ph√¶ton, with its handsome
bays and the silver mountings. And Zaidee could have every wish
gratified; friends, music, travel. It was there for her, also. She had
never dreamed of that.




CHAPTER XIII

A MOTHER'S LOVE


Mrs. Boyd had not stirred. Lilian bent over her and found the breathing
very faint. Miss Arran sat by the window and merely glanced up. The girl
buried her face in the pillow and heard again the soft, finely modulated
voice, the clasp of the hand that meant so much, the promise for
tomorrow.

"If they were not so rich," her musings ran, "If I could do something
for her. Oh, it seems too much. If we could go away--but to face all the
girls, to hear the comments."

"Miss Boyd, can you spare me a few moments," said Mrs. Dane. "Mrs. Arran
will watch."

Lilian followed to Mrs. Dane's room.

"Miss Boyd, I have an apology to make to you, and I am honest enough to
confess it. I can't just tell why, but I did take a dislike to you and
your mother. She seemed very weak and as if she was afraid a baleful
secret might come to light, and you were the master mind holding some
curious power over her."

"Oh, it was not that," cried Lilian, eagerly. "It was because in her
simple life she had not been accustomed to the usages that obtained in
the larger world. Often I did guide her a little. She was very timid."

"And it seemed to me--of course I understand it now, that you held your
head quite too high for your mother's daughter. I was brought up to do
