"And there are the notices in the newspapers. They ought to tell,"
Miss Prittiman added, more convincingly. "I don't know," she said, as
from a sensitive conscience, "whether there have been any about this
book yet, but I should think there would be."

"And in the mean time, as you won't guarantee the book so that I can
bring it back and get my money if I find it worthless, I must accept
the publisher's word?" Erlcort pressed further.

"I should think you could do that," the floor-walker suggested, with
the appearance of being tired.

"Well, I think I will, for once," Erlcort relented. "But wait! What
does the publisher say?"

"It's all printed on this slip inside," the blonde said, and she
showed it as she took the book from him. "Shall I send it? Or will
you--"

"No, no, thank you, I'll take it with me. Let me--"

He kept the printed slip and began to read it. The blonde wrapped the
book up and laid it with a half-dollar in change on the counter before
Erlcort. The floor-walker went away; Erlcort heard him saying, "No,
madam; toys on the fifth floor, at the extreme rear, left," while he
lost himself in the glowing promises of the publisher. It appeared
that the book he had just bought was by a perfectly new author, an old
lady of seventy who had never written a novel before, and might
therefore be trusted for an entire freshness of thought and feeling.
The plot was of a gripping intensity; the characters were painted with
large, bold strokes, and were of an unexampled virility; the story was
packed with passion from cover to cover; and the reader would be held
breathless by the author's skill in working from the tragic conditions
to an all-round happy conclusion.

From time to time Erlcort heard the gentle blonde saying such things
as, "Oh yes; it's the best-seller, all right," and, "All I can say is
I set up till two o'clock in the morning to finish it," and, "Yes,
ma'am; it's by a new writer; a very old lady of seventy who is just
beginning to write; well, that's what I heard."

On his way up-town in the Subway he clung to the wonted strap,
unsupported by anything in the romance which he had bought; and yet he
could not take the book back and get his money, or even exchange it
for some article of neckwear or footwear. In his extremity he thought
he would try giving it to the trainman just before he reached his
stop.

"You want to give it to me? Well, that's something that never
happened to me on this line before. I guess my wife will like it.
I--1009th Street! Change for East Brooklyn and the Bronx!" the guard
shouted, and he let Erlcort out of the car, the very first of the tide
that spilled itself forth at the station. He called after him, "Do as
much for you some time."

The incident first amused Erlcort, and then it began to trouble him;
but he appeased his remorse by toying with his old notion of a
critical bookstore. His mind was still at play with it when he stopped
at the bell-pull of an elderly girl of his acquaintance who had a
studio ten stories above, and the habit of giving him afternoon tea in
it if he called there about five o'clock. She had her ugly
painting-apron still on, and her thumb through the hole in her
palette, when she opened her door to him.

"Too soon?" he asked.

She answered as well as she could with the brush held horizontally in
her mouth while she glared inhospitably at him. "Well, not much," and
then she let him in, and went and lighted her spirit-lamp.

He began at once to tell her of his strange experience, and went on
till she said: "Well, there's your tea. I don't know what you've
been driving at, but I suppose you do. Is it the old thing?"

"It's my critical bookstore, if that's what you call the old thing."

"Oh! That! I thought it had failed 'way back in the dark ages."

"The dark ages are not back, please; they're all 'round, and you
know very well that my critical bookstore has never been tried yet.
But tell me one thing: should you wish to live with a picture, even
for a few hours, which had been painted by an old lady of seventy who
had never tried to paint before?"

"If I intended to go crazy, yes. What has all that got to do with it?"

"That's the joint commendation of the publisher and the kind little
blonde who united to sell me the book I just gave to that poor Subway
trainman. Do you ever buy a new book?"

"No; I always borrow an old one."

"But if you had to buy a new one, wouldn't you like to know of a
place where you could be sure of getting a good one?"

"I shouldn't mind. Or, yes, I should, rather. Where's it to be?"

"Oh, I know. I've had my eye on the place for a good while. It's a
funny old place in Sixth Avenue--"

