"I wonder if you could tell me where I might find the caissière of the
cabaret—Mademoiselle Philippa?"

The girl shook her head:

"I think she went to Paris."

"When?"

"The other day.  We understood that she had gone to Paris."

"No," said Warner, "she did not go to Paris.  Has she not returned to
Ausone?"

The caissière rapped with her pencil and a waiter hastened to the
desk.

"Pierre, didn’t you say something about Mademoiselle Philippa this
morning?"

"I said that I thought I saw her.  It was somebody who resembled her, no
doubt."

Warner wheeled around:

"When?"

"It was before noon, some time——"

"Where?"

"Monsieur, they were putting up and locking the shutters of the cabaret,
and on the top floor somebody inside was lowering the lateen shades and
drawing the blue curtains.

"I thought I saw Mademoiselle Philippa—I thought I saw her face for a
moment behind one of the windows in the Patron’s apartment."

"And what do you think about it now?"

"Ma foi, Monsieur, if Mademoiselle Philippa has gone to Paris, I could
not have seen her at the window."

"But you saw somebody there?"

"I thought I did."

"Could we go to the cabaret and inquire?"

"It is locked up.  There is nobody now within."

"How do you know?"

"They locked and padlocked it from the outside. They even removed the
geraniums and the three cats. The place is empty, Monsieur.  I know,
because I helped remove the cats and the potted plants.  Everybody and
everything was transferred last night to the café.  And at noon today
the police put seals on the doors."

Warner forced a smile:

"That, of course, settles it.  I’m sorry.  I wanted to see the Patron
and Mademoiselle Philippa. Another time will do."

He thanked the waiter, lifted his hat to the caissière, turned, and
walked over to a table by the opposite wall, where he ordered coffee and
cognac and a newspaper, as though he had just lunched.

When his coffee was brought, he opened the paper and leaned back against
the padded leather seat, pretending to read, but studying the room and
everybody in it.

It was a café typical of almost any half dead provincial town in
France—large, rather dimly lighted, shabbily furnished with
marble-topped tables ranged around the walls and two ancient billiard
tables occupying the center of the room.

In the corner near the door was the cashier’s cage and desk; on the same
side of the room, in the further corner, a swinging leather door, much
battered, gave exit and entrance to the waiters as they went to or
arrived from kitchen and cellar.

And one thing occurred to him immediately: the same kitchen, and perhaps
the same cellar, had supplied both cabaret and café.  Therefore, there
must still be some passage of communication between the cabaret—which
had been locked and sealed by the authorities—and the café which the
police had decreed must remain open for the convenience of the public.

Deeply perturbed by what the waiter had said concerning the glimpse he
had caught of somebody resembling Philippa, and made doubly anxious by
Halkett’s sinister remark in regard to the girl’s knowledge of secrets
which might send Wildresse before a platoon of execution, he studied the
gloomy room from behind his newspaper, trying to come to some
conclusion.

He did not believe that Wildresse and his companions had dared drive
into Ausone by daylight with Philippa in the tonneau, either unconscious
or resisting them.

If they had brought her to Ausone at all, they must have carried her by
