dollars I think, "mere starvation wages," as he put it, and he went on
to say that the manager wanted him to make certain changes in it. He
paused and added: "But who am I to tamper with a masterpiece?"--a
jest which afterward he was too generous to hoard.

Later, in London, I saw him again. In appearance and mode of life he
had become entirely conventional. The long hair, the knee-breeches,
the lilies, the velvet, all the mountebank trappings had gone. He was
married, he was a father, and in his house in Tite street he seemed a
bit bourgeois. Of that he may have been conscious. I remember one of
his children running and calling at him: "My good papa!" and I
remember Wilde patting the boy and saying: "Don't call me that, it
sounds so respectable."

In Tite street I had the privilege of meeting Mrs. Oscar, who asked me
to write something in an album. I have always hated albumenous poetry
and, as I turned the pages in search of possible inspiration, I
happened on this: From a poet to a poem. Robert Browning.

Poets exaggerate and why should they not? They have been found, too,
with their hands in other people's paragraphs. Wilde helped himself to
that line which he put in a sonnet to this lady, who had blue eyes,
fair hair, chapped lips, and a look of constant bewilderment.

As for that, Oscar was sufficiently bewildering. He talked infinitely
better than he wrote, and on no topic, no matter what, could he talk
as other mortals must. Once only I heard of him uttering a platitude
and from any one else that platitude would have been a paradox. He
exuded wit and waded in it with a serenity that was disconcerting.

It was on this abnormal serenity and on his equally abnormal
brilliance that he relied to defeat the prosecution. "I have all the
criminal classes with me," he announced, and that was his one
platitude, a banality that contrived to be tragic. Then headlong down
the stair of life he fell.

Hell he had long since summarised as the union of souls without bodies
to bodies without souls. There are worse definitions than this which
years later I recalled when, through a curious forethought of fate, he
was taken, en route to the cemetery, through the Porte de l'Enfer.

But in Tite street, at this time, and in Regent street where he
occasionally dined, he was gentle, wholesome, and joyous; a man who
paid compliments because, as he put it, he could pay nothing else. He
had been caricatured: the caricatures had ceased. People had turned to
look: they looked no longer. He was forgiven and, what is worse,
forgotten. Yet that tiger, his destiny, was but sharpening its claws.

At an inn where Gautier dined, the epigrams were so demoralising that
a waiter became insane. Similarly in the Regent street restaurant it
was reported, perhaps falsely, that a waiter had also lost his reason.
But Wilde, though a three decanter man, always preserved his own. He
preserved, too, his courtesy which was invariable. The most venomous
thing that he ever said of anyone was that he was a tedious person,
and the only time he ever rebuked anybody was at the conclusion of one
of those after-dinner stories which some host or other interrupted by
rising and saying: "Shall we continue the conversation in the
drawing-room?"

But I am in error. That was not his only rebuke. On one occasion I
drove with him to Tite street. An hour previous he had executed a
variation on the "Si j'Ã©tais roi." "If I were king," he had sung, "I
would sit in a great hall and paint on green ivory and when my
ministers came and told me that the people were starving, I would
continue to paint on green ivory and say: 'Let them starve.'"

The aria was rendered in the rooms of Francis Hope, a young man who
later married and divorced May Yohe, but who at the time showed an
absurd interest in stocks. Someone else entered and Hope asked what
was new in the City. "Money is very tight," came the reply. "Ah,
yes," Wilde cut in. "And of a tightness that has been felt even in
Tite street. Believe me, I passed the forenoon at the British Museum
looking at a gold-piece in a case."

Afterward we drove to Chelsea. It was a vile night, bleak and bitter.
On alighting, a man came up to me. He wore a short jacket which he
opened. From neck to waist he was bare. I gave him a shilling. Then
came the rebuke. With entire simplicity Wilde took off his overcoat
and put it about the man.

But the simplicity seemed to me too Hugoesque and I said: "Why didn't
you ask him in to dinner?"

Wilde gestured. "Dinner is not a feast, it is a ceremony."

Subsequently that ceremony must have been contemplated, for Mrs. Wilde
was kind enough to invite me. The invitation reached me sometime in
advance and I took it of course that there would be other guests. But
on the appointed evening, or what I thought was the appointed
evening, when I reached this house--on which Oscar objected to paying
taxes because, as he told the astonished assessors, he was so seldom
at home--when I reached it, it seemed to me that I must be the only
guest. Then, presently, in the dreary drawing-room, Oscar appeared.
"This is delightful of you," he told me. "I have been late for dinner
a half hour, again a whole hour; you are late an entire week. That is
what I call originality."

I put a bold face on it. "Come to my shop," I said, "and have dinner
with me. Though," I added, "I don't know what I can give you."

