sky!"

I flung aside my letter, ran to the kitchen, and called Penelope.

"Pack up and be ready to leave!" said I. And, to Nick: "Saddle Kaya and
be ready to take Penelope a-horse to Mayfield block-house. Call my
Indian!"

As I belted my shirt and stood ready, my Saguenay came swiftly, trailing
his rifle.

"Come," said I, "we must learn why that smoke towers yonder to the
sky."

Penelope took me by the sleeve:

"Do nothing rash, John Drogue," she said in a breathless way.

"Get you ready for flight," said I, fixing a fresh flint. "Nick shall
run at your stirrup if it comes to that pinch----"

"But you!"

"Why, I am well enough; and if the Iroquois are at Fish House then I
retreat through Varick's, and so by Fonda's Bush to Mayfield Fort."

She clasped her hands.

"I do not wish to leave Summer House," she said pitifully. "What is to
happen to our sheep and cattle--and to our fowls and all our stores--and
to Summer House itself?"

"God knows," said I impatiently. "Why do you stand there idle when you
must make ready for flight!"

"I--I can not bear to have you go to Fish House--all alone----"

"I have the Yellow Leaf, and can keep clear o' trouble. Come,
Penelope!----"

"When you move toward trouble I do not desire to flee the other way,
toward safety!----"

"Pack up, Penelope!" shouted Nick, leading Kaya into the orchard, all
saddled; and fell to making up his pack on the grass.

"At Mayfield Fort!" I called across to Nick. "And if I be not there by
night, then take Penelope to Johnstown, for it means that the Iroquois
are on the Sacandaga!"

"I mark you, Jack!" he replied. I turned to the girl:

"Farewell, Penelope," I said. "You shall be safe with Nick."

"But you, John Drogue?"

"Safe in the forest, always, and the devil himself could not catch me,"
said I cheerily.

She stretched out her hand. I took it, looked at her, then kissed her
fingers. And so went away swiftly, to where our canoe lay, troubled
because of this young girl whom I had no desire to fall truly in love
with, and yet knew I had been near to it many times that spring.

I got into the canoe and took the stern paddle; my Saguenay kneeled down
in the bow; and we shot out across the Vlaie Water.

Once I turned and looked back over my shoulder; and I saw Penelope
standing there on the grass, and Nick awaiting her with Kaya.

But I did not wish to feel as I felt at that moment. I did not desire to
fall in love. No!

"Au large!" I said to my Indian, and swept the birchen craft out into
the deep and steady current.




CHAPTER XXIV

GREEN-COATS


Nothing stirred on the Drowned Lands as we drove our canoe at top speed
between tall bronzed stalks of rushes and dead water-weeds. Vlaie Water
was intensely blue and patched with golden d√©bris of floating
stuff--shreds of cranberry vine, rotting lily pads, and the like--and in
twenty minutes we floated silently into the Spring Pool, opposite the
Stacking Ridge, where hard earth bordered both shores and where maples
and willows were now in lusty bud.

Two miles away, against Maxon's sturdy bastion, a vast quantity of smoke
was writhing upward in dark and cloudy convolutions. I could not see
Fish House--that oblong, unpainted building a story and a half in
height, with its chimneys of stone and the painted fish weather vane
swimming in the sky. But I was convinced that it was afire.

We beached our canoe and drew it under the shore-reeds, and so passed
rapidly down the right bank of the stream along the quick water, holding
