and that the girl was Mary Ogden.  He stepped forward eagerly, almost
holding his breath.  The portrait ended at the tiny waist, and the
stiff satin of the cuirass-like bodice was softened with tulle which
seemed to float about the sloping shoulders.  The soft ashen hair,
growing in a deep point on the broad full brow, was brushed softly back
and coiled low on the long white neck.  The mouth was soft and pouting,
with a humorous quirk at the corners, and the large dark gray eyes were
full of a mocking light that seemed directed straight into the depths
of his puzzled brain as he stood gazing at that presentment of a once
potent and long vanished beauty. . . .  Extraordinarily like and yet so
extraordinarily unlike!  But the resemblance may have well been exact
when Mary Zattiany was twenty.  How had Mary Ogden looked at thirty?
That very lift of the strong chin, that long arch of nostril . . .
something began to beat in the back of his brain. . . .

"What a beauty poor Mary must have been, no?"

He turned, and forgot the portrait.  Madame Zattiany wore a gown of
that subtle but unmistakable green that no light can turn blue; thin
shimmering velvet to the knees, melting into satin embroidered with
silver and veiled with tulle.  On her head was a small diamond tiara
and her breast was a blaze of emeralds and diamonds.  She carried a
large fan of green feathers.

He had believed he had measured the extent of her beauty, but the crown
gave her a new radiance--and she looked as attainable as a queen on her
throne.

He went forward and raised her hand to his lips.  "I insist," he said
gallantly.  "Anything else would be out of the picture.  I need not
tell you how wonderful you look--nor that after tonight you will hardly
remain obscure!"

"Why do things halfway?  It has never been my method.  And Mary told me
once that Nile-green had been her favorite color until she lost her
complexion.  So--as I am to exhibit myself in a box--enfin! . . .
Besides, I wanted to go."  She smiled charmingly.  "It was most kind of
you to think of me."

"Would that all 'kind' acts were as graciously rewarded.  I shall be
insufferably conceited for the rest of my life--only it is doubtful if
I shall be seen at all.  Shall we go?"

When they arrived at Sherry's they found the large restaurant almost
deserted.  It was barely seven.  After he had ordered the dinner--and
he thanked his stars that he knew how to order a dinner--she said
casually:

"I had a call from your friend, Miss Dwight, today."

"Yes?  You did not see her, I suppose?"

"Oh, but I did.  We talked for two hours.  It was almost comical--the
sheer delight in talking to a woman once more.  I have never been what
is called a woman's woman, but I always had my friends, and I suddenly
realized that I had missed my own sex."

"I shouldn't fancy that you two would have much in common."

"You forget that we were both nurses.  We compared experiences: methods
of nursing, operations, doctors, surgeons, shell shock, plastic
surgery, the various characteristics of wounded men--all the rest of
it."

"It must have been an exciting conversation."

"You never could be brought to believe it, but it was.  Afterward, we
talked of other things.  She seems to me quite a remarkable woman."

"Entirely so.  What is it she lacks that prevents men from falling in
love with her?  Men flock there, and she is more discussed as a mind
and a personality than any woman among us; but it is all above the
collar.  And yet those handsome-ugly women often captivate men."

"You ask one woman why another cannot fascinate men!  I should say that
it is for want of transmission.  The heart and passions are there--I
will risk guessing that she has been tragically in love at least
once--but there is something wrong with the conduit that carries sexual
magnetism; it has been bent upward to the brain instead of directed
straight to the sex for which it was designed.  Moreover, she is too
coldly and obviously analytical and lacks the tact to conceal it.  Men
do not mind being skewered when they are out for purely intellectual
enjoyment, but they do not love it."

Clavering laughed.  "I fancy your own mind is quite as coldly
analytical, but nature took care of your conduits and you see to the
tact.  You cannot teach Gora how to redistribute her magnetism, but you
might give her a few points."

"They would be wasted.  It is merely that I am a woman of the world,
something she will never be.  And in my hey-day, I can assure you, I
was not analytical."

"Your hey-day?"

"I was a good many years younger before the war, remember.  Heavens!
How rowdy those young people are!  A month ago I should have asked if
they were ladies and gentlemen, but I have been quite close to their
kind in the tea rooms and their accent is unmistakable; although the
girls talk and act like gamines.  One of them seems to know you."
