wrong. We are justified in lending to those who need such kind offices,
but not to put others to the inconvenience of lending when we are fully
able to supply our own wants. This is going beyond the scope of the
Divine injunction, and I hold it to be morally wrong to do so. Some of
you, I am credibly informed," and his voice fell to a low, distinct,
and solemn tone, "are in the habit of regularly borrowing Aunt Mary's
preserving kettle--(here Aunt Mary looked up with a bewildered air,
while her face coloured deeply, and the whole congregation stared in
amazement; but the minister went calmly on)--and this, too, without
regard to her convenience. Nor is this all--the kettle is hardly ever
returned in a good condition. How thoughtless! how wrong! In this, Aunt
Mary alone has been faithful to the precept in my text, while you have
departed widely from its true spirit. Let me hope that you will think
better of this matter, and wisely resolve to let your past
short-comings suffice."

And thus the sermon closed. It may well be supposed that for some days
there was something of a stir in the hive. The ladies of the
congregation who were among the borrowers of the preserving kettle, and
they were not a few, including the minister's wife, were for a time
deeply incensed at Aunt Mary, and not a few at the minister. But this
temporary indignation soon wore off, for Aunt Mary was so kind and good
that no one could feel offended with her for any length of time, more
especially where there was really no cause of offence. One by one, they
called upon her, as they were enabled to see how really they had been
guilty of trespassing upon good nature, and, after apologizing, enjoyed
with her a hearty laugh upon the subject. And, finally, the whole thing
came to be looked upon as quite an amusing as well as an instructive
affair.

After this, Aunt Mary was allowed to possess her beautiful bell-metal
preserving kettle in peace, which was to her a source of no small
satisfaction. And what was more, in the course of the next preserving
season, a stock of twenty or thirty brass, copper, and bell-metal
kettles, that had been lying for years on the shelves of a
hardware-dealer's store in the village, almost uninquired for, were all
sold off, and a new supply obtained from Boston to meet the increased
demand.




HOME AT LAST.


"WE'RE home at last, and I am so glad!" exclaimed a little girl, not
over ten years of age, as she paused at twilight with her mother before
a small and mean-looking house, one evening late in the month of
November.

The mother did not reply, but lifted the latch, when both passed in.
There was no light in the dwelling, and no fire on the hearth. All was
cold, dark, and cheerless in that place which had been called "home" by
the little girl; yet, cold, dark, and cheerless as it was, she still
felt glad to be there once more.

"I will get a light, mother," said she, in a cheerful tone, running
to a closet, and taking thence a candle and a match.

In a moment or two afterwards the candle was burning brightly, and
throwing its light into every corner of that meanly-furnished room,
which contained but few articles, and they the simplest that were
needed. An old pine table, without leaves, three or four old chairs the
paint from which had long since disappeared, a bench and a water
bucket, with a few cooking utensils, made up the furniture of the
apartment.

A small fire was soon kindled on the hearth, over which the mother hung
a tea-kettle. When this had boiled, and she had drawn some tea, she
placed upon the table a few slices of bread and a piece of cheese,
which she took from a basket that she had borne on her arm. Then the
mother and child sat down to partake of their frugal meal, which both
eat with a keen relish.

"I'm so glad to get home again!" the little girl said, glancing up into
her mother's face, with a cheerful smile.

The mother looked upon her child with a tender expression, but did not
reply. She thought how poor and comfortless that home was which seemed
so desirable.

"I don't like to go to Mrs. Walker's," said the child, after the lapse
of a few moments.

"Why not, Jane?"

"Because I can't do any thing right there. Amy scolds me if I touch a
thing, and John won't let me go any place, except into the kitchen. I'm
sure I like home a great deal better, and I wish you would always stay
at home, mother."

"I would never go out, Jane, if I could help it," the mother replied,
in the effort to make her daughter understand, that she might acquiesce
in the necessity. "But you know that we must eat, and have clothes to
wear, and pay for the house we live in. I could not get the money to do
all this, if I did not go out to work in other people's houses, and
then we would be hungry, and cold, and not have any home to come to."

The little girl sighed and remained silent for a few moments. Then she
said, in a more cheerful tone,

"I know it's wrong for me to talk as I do, mother, and I'll try not to
complain any more. It's a great deal harder for you than it is for me
to go into these big people's houses. You have to work so hard, and I
have only to sit still in the kitchen. But won't father come home soon?
He's been away so long! When he was home we had every thing we wanted,
and you didn't have to go out a working."

Tears came into the mother's eyes, and her feelings were so moved, that
she could not venture to reply.

"Won't he be home soon, mother?" pursued the child.

"I'm afraid not," the mother at length said, in as calm a voice as she
could assume.

"Why not, mother? He's been gone a long time."

"I cannot tell you, my child. But I don't expect him home soon."

"Oh, I wish he would come," the child responded, earnestly. "If he was
only home, you would not have to go out to work any more."

The mother thought that she heard the movement of some one near the
door, and leant her head in a listening attitude. But all was silent
without, save the occasional sound of footsteps as some one hurried by.

To give the incidents and characters that we have introduced their true
interest, we must go back some twelve years, and bring the history of
at least one of the individuals down from that time.

A young lady and one of more mature age sat near a window, conversing
earnestly, about the period to which we have reference.

"I would make it an insuperable objection," the elder of the two said,
in a decided tone.

"But surely there can be no harm in his drinking a glass of wine or
brandy now and then. Where is the moral wrong?"

"Do you wish to be a drunkard's wife?"

"No, I would rather be dead."

"Then beware how you become the wife of any man who indulges in even
moderate drinking. No man can do so without being in danger. The vilest
drunkard that goes staggering past your door, will tell you that once
he dreamed not of the danger that lurked in the cup; that, before he
suspected evil, a desire too strong for his weak resistance was formed."

"I don't believe, aunt, that there is the slightest danger in the world
of Edward Lee. He become a drunkard! How can you dream of such a thing,
aunt?"

"I have seen much more of the world than you have, Alice. And I have
seen too many as high-minded and as excellent in character as Edward
Lee, who have fallen. And I have seen the bright promise of too many
girls utterly extinguished, not to tremble for you. I tell you, Alice,
that of all the causes of misery that exist in the married life,
intemperance is the most fruitful. It involves not only external
