The poor mother clasped her hands, and, looking upwards, said, “The Lord
be thanked! He has heard my prayers at last!”

And, now, will it be said this is an exceptional case—it happens one
time in a thousand? Though we know that this is the foulest of
falsehoods, and that the case is only a specimen of what is acting every
day in the American slave-trade, yet, for argument’s sake, let us, for
once, admit it to be true. If only once in this nation, under the
protection of our law, a Christian girl had been torn from the altar and
the communion-table, and sold to foulest shame and dishonor, would that
have been a light sin? Does not Christ say, “Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me”? O, words of
woe for thee, America!—words of woe for thee, church of Christ! Hast
thou trod them under foot and trampled them in the dust so long that
Christ has forgotten them? In the day of judgment every one of these
words shall rise up, living and burning, as accusing angels to witness
against thee. Art thou, O church of Christ! praying daily, “Thy kingdom
come”? Darest thou pray, “Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly”? O, what if He
should come? What if the Lord, whom ye seek, should suddenly come into
his temple? If his soul was stirred within him when he found within his
temple of old those that changed money, and sold sheep and oxen and
doves, what will he say now, when he finds them selling body, blood and
bones, of his own people? And is the Christian church, which justifies
this enormous system,—which has used the awful name of her Redeemer to
sanction the buying, selling and trading in the souls of men,—is this
church the bride of Christ? Is she one with Christ, even as Christ is
one with the Father? O, bitter mockery! Does this church believe that
every Christian’s body is a temple of the Holy Ghost? Or does she think
those solemn words were idle breath, when, a thousand times, every day
and week, in the midst of her, is this temple set up and sold at
auction, to be bought by any godless, blasphemous man, who has money to
pay for it!

As to poor Daniel Bell and his family, whose contested claim to freedom
was the beginning of the whole trouble, a few members of it were
redeemed, and the rest were plunged into the abyss of slavery. It would
seem as if this event, like the sinking of a ship, drew into its
maëlstrom the fate of every unfortunate being who was in its vicinity. A
poor, honest, hard-working slave-man, of the name of Thomas Ducket, had
a wife who was on board the Pearl. Tom was supposed to know the men
who countenanced the enterprise, and his master, therefore, determined
to sell him. He brought him to Washington for the purpose. Some in
Washington doubted his legal right to bring a slave from Maryland for
the purpose of selling him, and commenced legal proceedings to test the
matter. While they were pending, the counsel for the master told the men
who brought action against his client that Tom was anxious to be sold;
that he preferred being sold to the man who had purchased his wife and
children, rather than to have his liberty. It was well known, that Tom
did not wish to be separated from his family, and the friends here,
confiding in the representations made to them, consented to withdraw the
proceedings.

Some time after this, they received letters from poor Tom Ducket, dated
ninety miles above New Orleans, complaining sadly of his condition, and
making piteous appeals to hear from them respecting his wife and
children. Upon inquiry, nothing could be learned respecting them. They
had been sold and gone,—sold and gone,—no one knew whither; and as a
punishment to Tom for his contumacy in refusing to give the name of the
man who had projected the expedition of the Pearl, he was denied the
privilege of going off the place, and was not allowed to talk with the
other servants, his master fearing a conspiracy. In one of his letters
he says, “I have seen more trouble here in one day than I have in all my
life.” In another, “I would be glad to hear from her [his wife], but I
should be more glad to hear of her death than for her to come here.”

In his distress, Tom wrote a letter to Mr. Bigelow, of Washington.
People who are not in the habit of getting such documents have no idea
of them. We give a facsimile of Tom’s letter, with all its poor
spelling, all its ignorance, helplessness, and misery.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

                                                 [February 18, 1852.

  MR. BIGELOW. DEAR SIR:—I write to let you know how I am getting
  along. Hard times here. I have not had one hour to go outside the
  place since I have been on it. I put my trust in the Lord to help
  me. I long to hear from you all I written to hear from you all. Mr.
  Bigelow, I hope you will not forget me. You know it was not my fault
  that I am here. I hope you will name me to Mr. Geden, Mr. Chaplin,
  Mr. Bailey, to help me out of it. I believe that if they would make
  the least move to it that it could be done. I long to hear from my
  family how they are getting along. You will please to write to me
  just to let me know how they are getting along. You can write to me.

                                    I remain your humble servant,
                                                        THOMAS DUCKET.

  You can direct your letters to Thomas Ducket, in care of Mr. Samuel
  T. Harrison, Louisiana, near Bayou Goula. For God’s sake let me hear
  from you all. My wife and children are not out of my mind day nor
  night.]

-----

Footnote 22:

  The words of the Georgia Annual Conference: Resolved, “That slavery,
  as it exists in the United States, is not a moral evil.”




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                              KIDNAPPING.


The principle which declares that one human being may lawfully hold
another as property leads directly to the trade in human beings; and
that trade has, among its other horrible results, the temptation to the
crime of kidnapping.

The trader is generally a man of coarse nature and low associations,
hard-hearted, and reckless of right or honor. He who is not so is an
exception, rather than a specimen. If he has anything good about him
when he begins the business, it may well be seen that he is in a fair
way to lose it.

Around the trader are continually passing and repassing men and women
who would be worth to him thousands of dollars in the way of trade,—who
belong to a class whose rights nobody respects, and who, if reduced to
slavery, could not easily make their word good against him. The
probability is that hundreds of free men and women and children are all
the time being precipitated into slavery in this way.

The recent case of Northrop, tried in Washington, D. C., throws light
on this fearful subject. The following account is abridged from the New
York Times:

  Solomon Northrop is a free colored citizen of the United States; he
  was born in Essex county, New York, about the year 1808; became
  early a resident of Washington county, and married there in 1829.
  His father and mother resided in the county of Washington about
  fifty years, till their decease, and were both free. With his wife
  and children he resided at Saratoga Springs in the winter of 1841,
  and while there was employed by two gentlemen to drive a team South,
  at the rate of a dollar a day. In fulfilment of his employment, he
  proceeded to New York, and, having taken out free papers, to show
  that he was a citizen, he went on to Washington city, where he
  arrived the second day of April, the same year, and put up at
  Gadsby’s Hotel. Soon after he arrived he felt unwell, and went to
  bed.

  While suffering with severe pain, some persons came in, and, seeing
  the condition he was in, proposed to give him some medicine, and did
  so. This is the last thing of which he had any recollection, until
  he found himself chained to the floor of Williams’ slave-pen in this
  city, and handcuffed. In the course of a few hours, James H. Burch,
  a slave-dealer, came in, and the colored man asked him to take the
  irons off from him, and wanted to know why they were put on. Burch
  told him it was none of his business. The colored man said he was
  free, and told where he was born. Burch called in a man by the name
  of Ebenezer Rodbury, and they two stripped the man and laid him
  across a bench, Rodbury holding him down by his wrists. Burch
  whipped him with a paddle until he broke that, and then with a
  cat-o’-nine-tails, giving him a hundred lashes; and he swore he
  would kill him if he ever stated to any one that he was a free man.
  From that time forward the man says he did not communicate the fact
