with trembling hope, the other with joyous confidence, into the
future,--the father, proud of his household treasures, but not their
wise and jealous guardian.

Ah! that his hands should have unbarred the door, and thrown it wide,
for the wolf to enter that precious fold! I saw them all in their sunny
life before me; yet, even as I looked upon them, their sky began to
darken. I heard the distant mutterings of the storm, and soon the
desolating tempest swept down fearfully upon them. I shuddered as it
passed away, to look upon the wrecks left scattered around. What a
change!

"And all this," said I, "that one man, tired of being useful, and eager
to get gain, might gather in accursed gold!"

Pushing open the gate, I entered the yard, and walked around the
dwelling, my footsteps echoing in the hushed solitude of the deserted
place. Hark! was that a human voice?

I paused to listen.

The sound came, once more, distinctly to my ears, I looked around,
above, everywhere, but perceived no living sign. For nearly a minute I
stood still, listening. Yes; there it was again--a low, moaning voice,
as of one in pain or grief. I stepped onward a few paces; and now saw
one of the doors standing ajar. As I pushed this door wide open, the
moan was repeated. Following the direction from which the sound came, I
entered one of the large drawing-rooms. The atmosphere was stifling,
and all as dark as if it were midnight. Groping my way to a window, I
drew back the bolt and threw open the shutter. Broadly the light fell
across the dusty, uncarpeted floor, and on the dingy furniture of the
room. As it did so, the moaning voice which had drawn me thither
swelled on the air again; and now I saw, lying upon an old sofa, the
form of a man. It needed no second glance to tell me that this was
Judge Hammond. I put my hand upon him, and uttered his name; but he
answered not. I spoke more firmly, and slightly shook him; but only a
piteous moan was returned.

"Judge Hammond!" I now called aloud, and somewhat imperatively.

But it availed nothing. The poor old man aroused not from the stupor in
which mind and body were enshrouded.

"He is dying!" thought I; and instantly left the house in search of
some friends to take charge of him in his last, sad extremity. The
first person to whom I made known the fact shrugged his shoulders, and
said it was no affair of his, and that I must find somebody whose
business it was to attend to him. My next application was met in the
same spirit; and no better success attended my reference of the matter
to a third party. No one to whom I spoke seemed to have any sympathy
for the broken-down old man. Shocked by this indifference, I went to
one of the county officers, who, on learning the condition of Judge
Hammond, took immediate steps to have him removed to the Alms-house,
some miles distant.

"But why to the Alms-house?" I inquired, on learning his purpose. "He
has property."

"Everything has been seized for debt," was the reply.

"Will there be nothing left after his creditors are satisfied?"

"Very few, if any, will be satisfied," he answered. "There will not be
enough to pay half the judgments against him."

"And is there no friend to take him in,--no one, of all who moved by
his side in the days of prosperity, to give a few hours' shelter, and
soothe the last moments of his unhappy life?"

"Why did you make application here?" was the officer's significant
question.

I was silent.

"Your earnest appeals for the poor old man met with no words of
sympathy?"

"None."

"He has, indeed, fallen low. In the days of his prosperity, he had many
friends, so called. Adversity has shaken them all like dead leaves from
sapless branches."

"But why? This is not always so."

"Judge Hammond was a selfish, worldly man. People never liked him much.
His favoring, so strongly, the tavern of Slade, and his distillery
operations, turned from him some of his best friends. The corruption
and terrible fate of his son--and the insanity and death of his
wife--all were charged upon him in people's minds, and every one seemed
to turn from him instinctively after the fearful tragedy was completed.
He never held tip his head afterward. Neighbors shunned him as they
would a criminal. And here has come the end at last. He will be taken
to the poorhouse, to die there--a pauper!"

"And all," said I, partly speaking to myself, "because a man, too lazy
to work at an honest calling, must needs go to rum-selling."

"The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth," remarked the
officer with emphasis, as he turned from me to see that his directions
touching the removal of Mr. Hammond to the poor-house were promptly
executed.

In my wanderings about Cedarville during that day, I noticed a small
but very neat cottage, a little way from the centre of the village.
There was not around it a great profusion of flowers and shrubbery; but
the few vines, flowers, and bushes that grew green and flourishing
about the door, and along the clean walks, added to the air of taste
and comfort that so peculiarly marked the dwelling.

"Who lives in that pleasant little spot?" I asked of a man whom I had
frequently seen in Blade's bar-room. He happened to be passing the
house at the same time that I was.

"Joe Morgan," was answered.

"Indeed!" I spoke in some surprise. "And what of Morgan? How is he
doing?"

"Very well."

"Doesn't he drink?"

"No. Since the death of his child, he has never taken a drop. That
event sobered him, and he has remained sober ever since."

"What is he doing?"

"Working at his old trade."

"That of a miller?"

"Yes. After Judge Hammond broke down, the distillery apparatus and
cotton spinning machinery were all sold and removed from Cedarville.
The purchaser of what remained, having something of the fear of God, as
well as regard for man, in his heart, set himself to the restoration of
the old order of things, and in due time the revolving mill-wheel was
at its old and better work of grinding corn and wheat for bread. The
only two men in Cedarville competent to take charge of the mill were
Simon Slade and Joe Morgan. The first could not be had, and the second
came in as a matter of course."

"And he remains sober and industrious?"

"As any man in the village," was the answer.

I saw but little of Slade or his son during the day. But both were in
the bar-room at night, and both in a condition sorrowful to look upon.
Their presence, together, in the bar-room, half intoxicated as they
were, seemed to revive the unhappy temper of the previous evening, as
freshly as if the sun had not risen and set upon their anger.

During the early part of the evening, considerable company was present,
though not of a very select class. A large proportion were young men.
To most of them the fact that Slade had fallen into the sheriff's hands
was known; and I gathered from some aside conversation which reached my
ears, that Frank's idle, spendthrift habits had hastened the present
crisis in his father's affairs. He, too, was in debt to Judge Lyman--on
what account, it was not hard to infer.

