in fact the crest of the bank of the little river Faith had referred to.

And now, and truly for one or two fields before, the shouts and cries
of the nut-hunters rang through the air. For just edging, and edging
into, the border of trees last spoken of, were the great chestnuts and
hickories; and underneath and among them many little dark spots were
flying about; which spots, as Mrs. Derrick and Faith came up, enlarged
into the familiar outlines of boys' caps, jackets, and trowsers, and
ran about on two legs apiece.



CHAPTER X.



The two ladies paused at a safe distance,--there seemed to be nothing
but boys astir--boys and nuts; and these last not dropping from the
tree, but thrown from hand to hand (hand to head would be more correct)
of the busy throng. Some picking up, some throwing stones to bring
down, others at some flat stone 'shucking,' others still filling their
baskets. And four boys out of five, cracking and eating--whatever else
they were about. The grass, trodden down by the many feet, lay in
prostrate shadow at the foot of the great tree; and the shadows of
other trees fell and met in soft wavy outline. From the side of one old
tree a family of grey squirrels looked out, to see the besiegers lay
waste the surrounding country; in the top of another--a tall hickory,
full clad with golden leaves, Mr. Linden sat--to view the same country
himself; well knowing that he had given the boys full occupation for at
least fifteen minutes. He was not very visible from below, so thickly
did the gold leaves close him in; but Faith heard one of the boys call
out,

"You Johnny Fax! if you throw stones in that tree, you'll hit Mr.
Linden."

"Trust Johnny Fax for not never throwin' so high as he is," said Joe
Deacon.

"I don't want to--" said Johnny Fax--"I don't want to fetch him
down."

Whereupon there was a general shout, and "Guess you'd better not,
Johnny!"--"He might come, if you didn't just hit him," vociferated from
various quarters.

"My!" Mrs. Derrick said, surveying the golden hickory, "how on earth
did he ever get up?--And how do you s'pose, Faith, he'll ever get
down!"

Faith's low laugh was her only answer; but it would have told, to
anybody who could thoroughly have translated it, Faith's mind on both
points.

Apparently he was in no haste to come down--certainly meant to send the
nuts first; for a sudden shower of hickory nuts and leaves swept away
every boy from the tree near which Faith and her mother stood, and
threw them all into its vortex. Drop, drop, the nuts came down, with
their sweet patter upon the grass; while the golden leaves fell singly
or in sprays, or floated off upon the calm air.

"Child," said Mrs. Derrick, "how pretty it is! I haven't seen such a
sight since--since a long while ago," she added with a sobering face.

"I want to be there under the tree," said Faith looking on enviously.
"No mother--and I haven't seen it before in a long time, either. It's
as pretty as it can be!"

"Run along then, child," said her mother,--"only take care of your
eyes. Why shouldn't you? I don't want to pick up nuts myself, but I'll
go down and pick you up."

Faith however kept away from the crowd under the hickory tree; and went
peering about under some others where the ground was beaten and the
branches had been, and soon found enough spoil to be hammering away
with a stone on a rock like the rest. But she couldn't escape the boys
so, for little runners came to her constantly. One brought a handful of
nuts, another a better stone--while a third told her of 'lots' under
the other tree; and Reuben Taylor was ready to crack or climb as she
chose to direct.

"If you'll come down the other side, Miss. Faith," said Reuben, "down
by the bank, you could see it all a great deal better."

Faith seized two or three nuts and jumped up, and Reuben led the way
through the leaf-strewn grass to the other side of the mob. But mobs
are uncertain things! No sooner was Faith seen approaching the hickory,
though yet full three feet from the utmost bound of its shadow, than a
sudden pause in the great business of the day was followed by such a
tumultuous shout of "Three cheers for Miss Faith Derrick!--the
prettiest girl in Pattaquasset!"--that she was well nigh deafened. And
promptly upon that, Joe Deacon stepped up to Reuben and whispered,

"That'll fetch him down!"

Faith did not hear the words--she only heard Reuben's indignant,

"Joe Deacon! behave yourself. What makes you always leave your manners
home? that big basket of yours would have held 'em all, easy."

"I didn't know but Sam might want 'em," replied the unabashed Joe,
dashing back into the midst of his compardons, while Reuben at last
reached the pretty look-out at the edge of the woods where Faith could
see the whole meadow and its scattered trees. And having placed her
there ran off again. Standing half hidden by the oaks and chestnuts,
she could see the whole group clustering about the climber now, for he
had come down from his high post.

"Boys," he said, "I am going back to the house to dinner. Any boy who
prefers nuts to dinner may stay and pick them up."

A sudden recollection came over Faith that her fire was probably well
down and coffee not in a state presentable. Taking a survey of the
ground, and calculating that so large a company would want a little
time to get under weigh, she slipped round to where her mother sat, and
giving her a word, set off fleetly and skilfully under cover of some
outstanding chestnuts across the fallow. If she had known it, Faith
need not have shunned to shew her running, for prettier running could
not be. She was soon hidden in the further woodland.

The rest of the party took it more leisurely, so their outrunner easily
gained her point; and having put the fire in order stood at the door to
watch the progress of the coming invasion. It looked enough like that.
For though excellent order of march had been kept for most of the way,
the main body of the troops maintaining a proper position in the rear
of their captain who was quietly escorting Mrs. Derrick over the
meadows, no sooner did the whole band come in sight of the distant
place of lunch baskets, than it became manifest for the hundred
thousandth lime that liberty too long enjoyed leads to license.
Scattering a little from the direct line of march, the better to cover
their purpose or evade any check thereto, as if by concert, first one
and then another set off on a run,--sprang the orchard fence,--and by
the time the mid-orchard was reached all of Mr. Linden's force with the
exception of one or two of the very steadiest, were ahead of him and
straining in full run, if not in full cry, for the now near-at-hand
farmhouse quarry. Beyond all call or hindrance. Standing at the kitchen
door, Faith watched their coming; but discerning beyond the runners the
one or two figures that did not indeed 'bring up the rear' but that
covered it, and supposing that the invaders' object was to storm the
wagon in which the lunch baskets were hid, she stood her ground; till
she perceived that the foremost of the band were making straight for
the kitchen door, and all the rest in their order. Faith gave back a
little and the whole horde poured in. The fire was in a brisk blaze;
the table had nice white cups and naperies on it; the nose of the
coffee-pot was steaming. It looked altogether an inviting place. Down
went hats and caps on the floor, from some of the party, and the whole
of them with flushed faces and open mouths took the survey.

"Ain't it jolly here!"

"I wonder if he'll let us take our dinner in here. There's lots o'
room."

"It's good shady."

"It's a long sight better under the trees."

"Coffee!--I'm blessed!"--said a fifth speaker bending over the
fireplace; while a sixth began slyly to inspect what lay under Faith's
napkins on the table.
