        "Sub tutela Michaelis,
        Pax in terra, pax in c≈ìlis."[4]

        [4] "'Neath Saint Michael's watch is given
            Peace on earth and peace in heaven."

In such talk and work the day passed to Agnes; but we will not say that
she did not often fall into deep musings on the mysterious visitor of
the night before. Often while the good monk was busy at his drawing,
the distaff would droop over her knee and her large dark eyes become
intently fixed on the ground, as if she were pondering some absorbing
subject.

Little could her literal, hard-working grandmother, or her artistic,
simple-minded uncle, or the dreamy Mother Theresa, or her austere
confessor, know of the strange forcing process which they were all
together uniting to carry on in the mind of this sensitive young girl.
Absolutely secluded by her grandmother's watchful care from any actual
knowledge and experience of real life, she had no practical tests by
which to correct the dreams of that inner world in which she delighted
to live and move, and which was peopled with martyrs, saints, and
angels, whose deeds were possible or probable only in the most exalted
regions of devout poetry.

So she gave her heart at once and without reserve to an enthusiastic
desire for the salvation of the stranger, whom Heaven, she believed,
had directed to seek her intercessions; and when the spindle drooped
from her hand, and her eyes became fixed on vacancy, she found herself
wondering who he might really be, and longing to know yet a little more
of him.

Towards the latter part of the afternoon, a hasty messenger came to
summon her uncle to administer the last rites to a man who had just
fallen from a building, and who, it was feared, might breathe his last
unshriven.

"Dear daughter, I must hasten and carry Christ to this poor sinner,"
said the monk, hastily putting all his sketches and pencils into her
lap. "Have a care of these till I return,--that is my good little one!"

Agnes carefully arranged the sketches and put them into the book, and
then, kneeling before the shrine, began prayers for the soul of the
dying man.

She prayed long and fervently, and so absorbed did she become, that she
neither saw nor heard anything that passed around her.

It was therefore with a start of surprise, as she rose from prayer,
that she saw the cavalier sitting on one end of the marble sarcophagus,
with an air so composed and melancholy that he might have been taken
for one of the marble knights that sometimes are found on tombs.

"You are surprised to see me, dear Agnes," he said, with a calm, slow
utterance, like a man who has assumed a position he means fully to
justify; "but I have watched day and night, ever since I saw you, to
find one moment to speak with you alone."

"My Lord," said Agnes, "I humbly wait your pleasure. Anything that a
poor maiden may rightly do, I will endeavor, in all loving duty."

"Whom do you take me for, Agnes, that you speak thus?" said the
cavalier, smiling sadly.

"Are you not the brother of our gracious King?" said Agnes.

"No, dear maiden; and if the kind promise you lately made me is founded
on this mistake, it may be retracted."

"No, my Lord," said Agnes, "though I now know not who you are, yet if
in any strait or need you seek such poor prayers as mine, God forbid I
should refuse them!"

"I am, indeed, in strait and need, Agnes; the sun does not shine
on a more desolate man than I am,--one more utterly alone in the
world; there is no one left to love me. Agnes, can you not love me a
little?--let it be ever so little, it shall content me."

It was the first time that words of this purport had ever been
addressed to Agnes; but they were said so simply, so sadly, so
tenderly, that they somehow seemed to her the most natural and proper
things in the world to be said; and this poor handsome knight, who
looked so earnest and sorrowful,--how could she help answering, "Yes"?
From her cradle she had always loved everybody and everything, and why
should an exception be made in behalf of a very handsome, very strong,
yet very gentle and submissive human being, who came and knocked so
humbly at the door of her heart? Neither Mary nor the saints had taught
her to be hard-hearted.

"Yes, my Lord," she said, "you may believe that I will love and pray
for you; but now, you must leave me, and not come here any more,
because grandmamma would not be willing that I should talk with you,
and it would be wrong to disobey her, she is so very good to me."

"But, dear Agnes," began the cavalier, approaching her, "I have many
things to say to you,--I have much to tell you."

"But I know grandmamma would not be willing," said Agnes; "indeed you
must not come here any more."

"Well, then," said the stranger, "at least you will meet me at some
time,--tell me only where."

"I cannot,--indeed I cannot," said Agnes, distressed and embarrassed.
"Even now, if grandmamma knew you were here, she would be so angry."

"But how can you pray for me, when you know nothing of me?"

"The dear Lord knoweth you," said Agnes; "and when I speak of you, He
will know what you need."

"Ah, dear child, how fervent is your faith! Alas for me! I have lost
the power of prayer! I have lost the believing heart my mother gave
me,--my dear mother who is now in heaven."

"Ah, how can that be?" said Agnes. "Who could lose faith in so dear a
Lord as ours, and so loving a mother?"

"Agnes, dear little lamb, you know nothing of the world; and I should
be most wicked to disturb your lovely peace of soul with any sinful
doubts. Oh, Agnes, Agnes, I am most miserable, most unworthy!"

"Dear sir, should you not cleanse your soul by the holy sacrament of
confession, and receive the living Christ within you? For he says,
'Without me ye can do nothing.'"

"Oh, Agnes, sacrament and prayer are not for such as me! It is only
through your pure prayers I can hope for grace."

"Dear sir, I have an uncle, a most holy man, and gentle as a lamb. He
is of the convent San Marco in Florence, where there is a most holy
prophet risen up."

"Savonarola?" said the cavalier, with flashing eyes.

"Yes, that is he. You should hear my uncle talk of him, and how blessed
his preaching has been to many souls. Dear sir, come sometime to my
uncle."

At this moment the sound of Elsie's voice was heard ascending the path
to the gorge outside, talking with Father Antonio, who was returning.

Both started, and Agnes looked alarmed.

"Fear nothing, sweet lamb," said the cavalier; "I am gone."

He kneeled and kissed the hand of Agnes, and disappeared at one bound
over the parapet on the side opposite that which they were approaching.

Agnes hastily composed herself, struggling with that half-guilty
feeling which is apt to weigh on a conscientious nature that has
been unwittingly drawn to act a part which would be disapproved by
those whose good opinion it habitually seeks. The interview had but
the more increased her curiosity to know the history of this handsome
stranger. Who, then, could he be? What were his troubles? She wished
the interview could have been long enough to satisfy her mind on these
points. From the richness of his dress, from his air and manner, from
the poetry and the jewel that accompanied it, she felt satisfied that,
if not what she supposed, he was at least nobly born, and had shone in
some splendid sphere whose habits and ways were far beyond her simple
experiences. She felt towards him somewhat of the awe which a person of
