break in the line. "Bravo, sergeant! You shall have a commission! Forward,
my brave boys! Massachusetts sees you!"

"Up and at them," cried Tom, as the rebels began to yield and break before
the tremendous charge of our regiment.

The young sergeant's throat was raw with the shouting he had done, and his
limbs were beginning to yield to the fatigues of the day; but the words of
the commander of the division made him over new again, and his husky voice
still rang along the line, full of new courage and new energy to his
exhausted comrades. The rebels were driven back for the time, and fled
before the iron masses that crowded upon them.

The regiment was recalled, and the weary troops, now almost decimated by
the slaughter which had taken place in their ranks, were permitted to
breathe once more.

"This is awful," said the veteran of Company K, panting from the violence
of his exertions. "I never saw any thing like this before."

"Nor I," replied Tom, dropping upon the ground with exhaustion.

"I know something about this business. I thought Cerry Gordy was
consid'able of a battle, but 'twas nothin' like this."

"It's awful," sighed Tom, as he thought of the good fellows he had seen
fall upon the field.

"Heaps of our boys have gone down!"

"Attention--battalion!" came ringing with startling effect along the line,
in the familiar tones of the intrepid colonel.

"If we win the day, we can afford to lose many. Victory or death!" shouted
Tom, as he sprang to his feet, in obedience to the command. "More work for
us!"

"How do you feel, Tom?" demanded the veteran, as they sprang into the
line.

"All right," replied Tom, with a forced buoyancy of spirits.

"Are you sure, my boy?" continued the veteran, gazing with deep anxiety
into the face of the sergeant.

"I'm first rate, uncle. I think I can stand it as long as any body else."

"You have done wonders to-day, Tom. I'm proud of you, but I'm afeared you
are doing too much. If you are used up, it wouldn't be any disgrace for
you to go to the rear. After what you've done, nobody will say a word.
Don't kill yourself, Tom, but go to the rear."

"I go to the rear!" exclaimed Tom, with indignation.

"If you are disabled, I mean, of course," apologized the veteran.

"I'm not disabled. If I go to the rear with these socks on, it won't be
till after the breath has left my body."

"Socks!" replied Hapgood, with a sneer. "I'm afeared that gal will be the
death of you."

"I don't sulk in these socks," replied Tom, with a faint smile, as the
regiment moved off on the double quick to some new position of peril.

"The rebels are flanking us!" shouted an officer in another command, as
our regiment hurried forward to the endangered point.

"That's what we are wanted for," said Hapgood.

The enemy had nearly accomplished their purpose when our gallant colonel
and his jaded force reached the left of the line, and in a few moments
more would have poured a flanking fire into our devoted battalions, which
were struggling with terrible energy to roll back the pressure in front of
them.

The colonel had his men well in hand, and he manoeuvred them with
consummate skill, so as to bring them advantageously to the work they were
to perform. The regiment was hurled against the head of the flanking
column, and the boys rushed forward with that dash and spirit which had
characterized their conduct half a score of times before in various parts
of the field.

Tom's muscles had become loose and soft after the long continued strain
upon them, and if his soul had not been ten times as big as his body, he
must have sunk under the exhaustion of the day. Another desperate
onslaught was required of the men of our regiment, and commanding all his
energies, Tom braced himself up once more for the fearful struggle.

"How do you feel now, Tom?" demanded the anxious veteran, as he bit off
the cartridge, and rammed it home.

"First rate, uncle!" replied Tom, as the regiment poured a withering
volley into the rebel line.

"For Heaven's sake, Tom, don't kill yourself," added the old man, as they
loaded up again. "Your knees shake under you now."

"Do you think I'm afraid, uncle?" demanded the sergeant with a grim smile.

"No, no, Tom; of course I don't think any thing of the kind. I'm afeared
you'll bust a blood-vessel, or something of that sort."

"If I do, I'll let you know, uncle."

"Charge bayonets! Double quick--march!" rang along the line.

"Have at them!" cried Tom, who was always the first to catch the orders of
the commanding officer. "Down with them! Give 'em Yankee Doodle, Hail,
Columbia, and the Red, White, and Blue."

The advancing column, shaken by the furious fire of our regiment, recoiled
before the shock. Slowly the foe fell back, leaving heaps of their slain
upon the hotly-contested ground. Our boys halted, and poured in another
destructive volley.

The Confederate officers rallied their men, and, maddened by the check
they had received, drove them forward to recover the lost ground.

"Once more, boys! Give it to 'em again," cried Tom, as the order to
advance was repeated.

His words were only representations of his actions; for, as he spoke, he
rushed on a little in front of his comrades, who, however, pressed forward
to keep up with him. He did not exceed the orders of his superior, but he
was one of the promptest to obey them. On dashed the regiment, and again
the rebel line recoiled, and soon broke in spite of the admirable efforts
of their officers to keep them steady.

"Kearney! Kearney! Kearney is here!" shouted the weary heroes in various
parts of the field.

"Down with them!" roared Tom, as the inspiring words rang in his ears.
"Down with them! Kearney has come, and the day is ours!"

He had scarcely uttered the words, and sprung forward, before he was seen
to drop upon the ground, several paces in front of the line, though the
undaunted old Hapgood was close by his side. The enemy had fled; the
danger of being flanked was averted; and when Kearney's men dashed on the
field, the sad-hearted veteran, assisted by Fred Pemberton, bore the
silent form of the gallant sergeant to the rear.

Kearney and Hancock rushed gallantly to the rescue of the exhausted
troops, and Hooker's division was ordered to the rear to act as a reserve.
The strife raged with unabated fury as those who had borne the brunt of
the battle slowly fell back to give place to the fresh legions.

Poor Tom was tenderly carried by the wiry veteran and his friends to the
surgeon's quarters in the rear. There were tears in the eyes of the old
man as he laid the silent form of his protégé upon the wet ground. There
he sat by his charge, sorrowful beyond expression, till tremendous shouts
rent the air. Tom opened his eyes.

"Glory and Victory!" shouted he, in husky tones, as he sprang to his feet.




CHAPTER XXXII.

