"Sit here," replied Fanny, pointing to the corner of the stern-sheets,
where the helmsman usually sits. "This is the tiller," she added,
indicating the serpent-shaped stick attached to the rudder, by which
the boat is steered. "Keep it just as it is, until I tell you to move
it."

"I don't know how to move it."

"When I say right, move it this way;" and Fanny pointed to the
starboard side. "When I say left, move it the other way."

Fanny watched her a moment to see that her instructions were obeyed.

"We don't want this any longer," said she, unfastening the painter of
the skiff and throwing it into the water, thus permitting the boat to
go adrift.

"What did you do that for?" demanded Kate, as the Greyhound dashed on,
leaving the skiff behind to be borne down the river by the tide.

"We don't want the skiff, and dragging it behind keeps us back some."

"What did you bring it for, then?"

"To keep Mr. Long from chasing us in it. All the rest of the boats are
hauled up, and he will have to find one before he can come after us."

Fanny went forward, and having fearlessly removed the stops from the
jib, which required her to crawl out a little way on the bowsprit, she
hoisted the sail, and carried the sheet aft to the standing-room, as
she had often seen the boatmen do. The effect of this additional canvas
was immediately seen, for the Greyhound had now reached the middle of
the river, where she felt the full force of the wind, which was fresh
from the north-west, and came in puffs and flaws.

When the Greyhound went out from the shore, her sails were over on the
right hand side; that is, she took the wind abaft the port beam. The
boat was now careened over nearly to her rail, and was darting through
the water like a rocket. Kate trembled, but Fanny was delighted.

"Now we will go down the river," said Fanny, as she took the tiller.

Suiting the action to the word, she put the helm up just as a flaw of
wind came sweeping over the waves. The boat came round; the three
sails, caught by the flaw, suddenly flew over, filled on the other
side, and the Greyhound careened till she was half full of water.




CHAPTER V.

DOWN THE RIVER.


Putting a boat about, as Fanny had turned the Greyhound, is nautically
termed gybing her. It is a dangerous manoeuvre when the wind is
fresh, and should never be attempted by young or inexperienced boatmen.
By putting the boat about in the opposite direction, hauling in the
sheet as the sail flutters, the danger may be wholly avoided. The
boat's head should always be turned in the direction from which the
wind comes. But a person who does not understand the management of a
boat should no more attempt to handle one than an unskilful person
should attempt to run a steam engine.

Fanny Grant knew but little about a boat, and it was fortunate for her
and her companion in mischief that the wind was not strong enough to
carry the Greyhound wholly over. If she had careened only a little
more, she would have filled with water and sunk, for she was heavily
ballasted. As it was, she was half full of water, and the situation of
the young ladies, if not perilous, was very uncomfortable.

"O, Fanny!" screamed Kate, in mortal terror, as the Greyhound heeled
over, and the water rushed in over the washboard.

"Don't be scared," replied Fanny, with wonderful self-possession. "It's
all right, and there is no harm done."

"We shall be drowned!" gasped Kate.

"No, we shall not be drowned. Don't you see the boat stands up like a
major? Don't be frightened. I understand it all."

"No; you don't know anything about it. The boat is almost full of
water, and we shall sink to the bottom."

"I tell you she is doing very well. Pooh! that wasn't anything! She
often takes in the water like that."

"What shall we do?" moaned Kate.

This was a question which appealed even to Fanny's prudence. Without
answering in words, she let go the halliards, and hauled down the
foresail. After the boat came about, she had not righted the helm, and
the Greyhound had been thrown up into the wind as she heeled over and
took in the flood of water. She now lay with her sails flapping, and
Fanny cast off the main-sheet, rather to stop the fluttering than to
avoid further peril. Fortunately, this was the proper course to pursue.

"What shall we do?" repeated Kate, expecting every moment that the
treacherous sails would carry them over again, and that they would soon
find their way to the bottom of the river.

"Bale out the water," replied Fanny, taking a pail and a dipper from
the cuddy forward. "Now go to work, and we shall soon be ready to sail
again."

"I don't want to sail any more," whined Kate.

"Dip away as fast as ever you can. Don't stop to talk about it now."

Fanny took the pail herself, and gave the dipper to Kate, and both of
them went to work with a zeal which promised soon to free the Greyhound
from the burden under which she was laboring. There was a large
quantity of water in the boat, and the process of dipping it out was
very slow. Fanny was afraid that this accident would throw her into the
power of her great enemy, the constable; and this was the only fear
which troubled her. The perils of the mighty river had no terrors to
her while she had a plank under her feet.

Kate was utterly disconsolate and hopeless, and Fanny was obliged to
use all her ingenuity to keep her in working condition. To show her
confidence, she sang like a nightingale, as she dipped out the water;
and Fanny was an excellent singer. She labored hard to prove to her
desponding companion that there was no danger, and at last she
succeeded in restoring Kate to a tolerable degree of self-possession.

When about half the water had been dipped out, Fanny trimmed the sails,
and headed the boat down the river, to the utter consternation of her
timid associate, who was heartily sick of the adventure, and longed to
put her feet on the dry land again.

"Now, Kate, you take the pail, and I will use the dipper; I can work
and steer the boat at the same time," said Fanny, when the Greyhound
was under headway again.

"The boat is going down the river, Fanny!" exclaimed Kate, as she took
the pail.

"Of course she is," replied the bold skipper. "Where did you expect her
to go?"

"But you are not going any farther--are you?"

"To be sure I am. Do you think I am going to back out now?"

"We shall certainly be drowned!"

"Nonsense!"

"I don't want to go any farther," moaned Kate, who felt like one going
to execution.

"I can't help it if you don't. I'm going down to Pennville," answered
Fanny, still dipping up the water from the bottom of the boat.

"I won't bale out any more then," ejaculated Kate, as she dropped the
pail, and looked as though she actually meant what she said.

"Very well; then I won't," added Fanny, throwing down the dipper.
