"'Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his color
in the cup, at the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an
adder,'" continued the chaplain, as he passed out of the lock-up.

Mr. Agneau went to the prisoner's berth, and found the two bottles of
wine. They were a sufficient explanation of the remarkable conduct of
Shuffles. The youth had "drank wine, and was drunken," otherwise he
would not have been guilty of such flagrant disobedience. Though in his
own estimation the excuse was worse than the original fault, yet it was
an explanation; and if the root of the evil could be removed, the evil
itself would cease to exist. The wine could be thrown overboard, and as
no more could be obtained during the voyage, the good conduct of the
young tippler would be insured, at least till the ship reached
Queenstown, which was the port to which she was bound.

With the two bottles in his hands, the chaplain returned to the
professors' cabin. Mr. Lowington was on deck. He did not deem it prudent
to leave the ship in the hands of the students, at first, without any
supervision, and it was arranged that the principal, Mr. Fluxion, and
Mr. Peake, the boatswain, should take turns in observing the course and
management of the vessel. Mr. Agneau carried the prize he had captured
on deck, and informed Mr. Lowington what had just transpired in the
brig.

"I knew the boy drank wine when he was at home," replied the principal;
"and if he is ruined, his father must blame himself."

"But it is really shocking!" exclaimed the chaplain as he tossed one of
the bottles of wine over the rail. "How can a parent permit his son to
drink wine, when he knows that more men are killed by intemperance than
by war and pestilence? I am amazed!"

"So am I, Mr. Agneau."

"The boy is hardly to blame for his conduct, since he contracted this
vicious habit under the eye of his father."

"The discipline of the ship must be preserved."

"Certainly, Mr. Lowington."

"And the boy is just as much to blame for his act of disobedience as
though it had been done in his sober senses."

"But you can afford to pardon him, under the circumstances."

"I will do that when he is willing to make a proper acknowledgment of
his offence in the presence of the ship's company, before whom the act
was committed."

"He is quite ready to do so now."

"If he will say as much as that to me, he shall be released at once."

"He will, sir."

"It is very strange to me that I noticed nothing peculiar in the boy's
speech or manner at the time," added the principal. "He certainly did
not seem to be intoxicated."

"Probably he had taken just enough to inflame his evil passions, without
affecting his manner," suggested the chaplain.

"I did not even discover the odor of wine upon him."

"Perhaps you did not go near enough to him. If you please, Mr.
Lowington, we will go down and see him; and you can judge for yourself
whether or not it is prudent to release him."

"I will."

"Thank you, sir. I feel a deep interest in the young man, and I hope he
may yet be saved."

When Mr. Agneau left the brig, after his second visit, Wilton, who was
very anxious to know what Shuffles meant by "making a chain," came out
of his mess room. He had been watching the chaplain, and wondering what
the prisoner could have to say to him.

"What's up, Shuffles?" asked Wilton, when Mr. Agneau had left the
steerage.

"I've been smoothing him down," laughed Shuffles, with an audible
chuckle. "I have concluded not to stay in here any longer."

"What do you mean?"

"I'm coming out pretty soon, though it has cost me a bottle and a half
of old sherry to get out," laughed Shuffles.

"I don't know what you mean."

"I told the parson that I was drunk when I disobeyed orders, and that I
was very sorry for it, and wouldn't get drunk any more."

"Did you tell him that?"

"I did; I assured him I was the worst fellow in the whole world, and
ought to be hung, drawn, and quartered for my wickedness; and he
swallowed it as a codfish does a clam."

"And you gave him all the wine?"

"No, I didn't; I gave him one full bottle, and what was left in the one
from which we drank this afternoon. I have two more."

"We were going to have a good time with that wine."

"I have enough left."

"Where is it?"

"In my locker."

"They may find it."

"No, they won't; I will put it in some other place before inspection
day. There is plenty of wine in the medical stores. It was a good joke
for the parson to suppose I was drunk."

"Perhaps you were," suggested Wilton.

"I felt good; but I was as sober as I am now."

"The drink I took went into my head, and I felt as though I was going up
in a ballon."

"That was because you are not used to the article. It waked me up a
little, but I knew what I was about."

"I think you were a confounded fool to do what you did."

"Wilton, I'm not going to live in the steerage--you may take my word for
it. I've been an officer too long to come down to that. If we don't
succeed in making a chain, I shall quit the concern the first time I put
my foot on shore in Ireland."

"What do you mean by making a chain?" asked Wilton, eagerly.

"A chain is strong."

"Well; what of it?"

"It is composed of many links. Can't you understand that?"

"Hush up! Some one is coming," said Wilton, as he walked away from the
brig.

"Here! who is that?" demanded Mr. Lowington, as he saw Wilton moving
away from the lock-up.

"No. 59, sir--Wilton," replied he. "I was just going on deck to find
you, sir."

"To find me?" asked the principal.

"Yes, sir. Shuffles called me when I was passing, and wished me to tell
you he wanted to see you very much. I was just going after you, sir."

"If there is any blame, sir, it rests on me," interposed Shuffles,
