see in the distance, with the evening light upon them. The
omnibus went straight over the plain; green and smooth and
fresh, it lay on the one side and on the other side of us,
excepting one broad strip on the right. I wondered what had
taken off the grass there; but then we passed within a hedge
enclosure and drew up at the hotel steps.

"Have you met an acquaintance already, Daisy?" Dr. Sandford
asked as he handed me out.

"An acquaintance?" said I. "No, but I shall fine him soon, I
suppose." For I was thinking of Preston. But I forgot Preston
the next minute. Mrs. Sandford had seized my hand and drew me
up the piazza steps and through the hall, out to the piazza at
the north side of the house. I was in fairyland surely! I had
thought so before, but I knew it now. Those grand hills, in
the evening colours, standing over against each other on the
east and on the west, and the full magnificent river lying
between them, bright and stately, were like nothing I had ever
seen or imagined. My memory goes back now to point after point
of delight which bewildered me. There was a dainty little sail
sweeping across just at the bend of the river; I have seen
many since; I never forget that one. There was a shoulder of
one of the eastern hills, thrown out towards the south-west,
over which the evening light fell in a mantle of soft gold,
with a fold of shadow on the other side. The tops of those
eastern hills were warm with sunlight, and here and there a
slope of the western hills. There was a point of lower ground,
thrust out into the river between me and the eastern shore,
which lay wholly in shadow, one soft mass of dusky green,
rounding out into a promontory. Above it, beyond it, at the
foot of the hills, a white church spire rose sharp as a
needle. It is all before me, even the summer stillness in
which my senses were rapt. There was a clatter in the house
behind me, but I did not hear it then.

I was obliged to go away to get ready for tea. The house was
full; only one room could be spared for Mrs. Sandford and me.
That one had been engaged beforehand, and its window looked
over the same view I had seen from the piazza. I took my post
at this window while waiting for Mrs. Sandford. Cooler and
crisper the lights, cooler and grayer the shadows had grown;
the shoulder of the east mountain had lost its mantle of
light; just a gleam rested on a peak higher up; and my single
white sail was getting small in the distance, beating up the
river. I was very happy. My school year, practically, was
finished, and I was vaguely expecting some order or turn of
affairs which would join me to my father and mother. I
remember well what a flood of satisfied joy poured into my
heart as I stood at the window. I seemed to myself so very
rich, to taste all that delight of hills and river; the
richness of God's giving struck me with a sort of wonder. And
then, being so enriched, and tasting the deep treasures of
heaven and earth which I had been made to know, happy so
exceedingly,  it came to my heart with a kind of pang, the
longing to make others know what I knew; and the secret
determination to use all my strength as Christ's servant,  in
bringing others to the joy of the knowledge of him.

I was called from my window then, and my view was exchanged
for the crowded dining-room, where I could eat nothing. But
after tea we got out upon the piazza again, and a soft north-
west breeze seemed to be food and refreshment too. Mrs.
Sandford soon found a colonel and a general to talk to; but
Dr. Sandford sat down by me.

"How do you like it, Daisy?"

I told him, and thanked him for bringing me.

"Are you tired?"

"No  I don't think I am tired."

"You are not hungry of course, for you can eat nothing. Do you
think you shall sleep?"

"I don't feel like it now. I do not generally get sleepy till a
great while after this."

"You will go to sleep somewhere about nine o'clock," said the
doctor; "and not wake up till you are called in the morning."

I thought he was mistaken, but as I could not prove it I said
nothing.

"Are you glad to get away from school?"

"On some accounts. I like school too, Dr. Sandford; but there
are some things I do not like."

"That remark might be made, Daisy, about every condition of
life with which I am acquainted."

"I could not make it just now," I said.

He smiled.

"Have you secured a large circle of friends among your
schoolmates,  that are to last for ever?"

"I do not think they love me well enough for that," I said,
wondering somewhat at my guardian's questioning mood.

"Nor you them?"

"I suppose not."

"Why, Daisy," said Mrs. Sandford, "I am surprised! I thought
you used to love everybody."

I tried to think how that might be, and whether I had changed.
Dr. Sandford interrupted my thoughts again 

"How is it with friends out of school?"

"I have none," I said; thinking only of girls like myself.

"None?" he said. "Do you really know nobody in New York?"

"Nobody,  but one old lady."

"Who is that, Daisy?"

He asked short and coolly, like one who had a right to know;
and then I remembered he had the right. I gave him Miss
Cardigan's name and number.

"Who is she? and who lives with her?"

"Nobody lives with her; she has only her servants."

"What do you know about her then, besides what she has told
you? Excuse me, and please have the grace to satisfy me."

"I know I must," I said half laughing.

"Must?"

"You know I must too, Dr. Sandford."

"I don't know it indeed," said he. "I know I must ask; but I
do not know what power can force you to answer."

"Isn't it my duty, Dr. Sandford?"

"Nobody but Daisy Randolph would have asked that question," he
said. "Well, if duty is on my side, I know I am powerful. But,
Daisy, you always used to answer me, in times when there was
no duty in the case."

"I remember," I said, smiling to think of it; "but I was a
child then, Dr. Sandford."

"Oh!  Well, apropos of duty, you may go on about Miss
Cardigan."

"I do not know a great deal to tell. Only that she is very
good, very kind to me and everybody; very rich, I believe; and
very wise, I think. I know nothing more  except the way her
