
"I hope you will find them pleasant. By the way, here is our president,
Mr. Brandon. Brandon, let me introduce you to a new member of our
society, Mr. Crawford."

The president, who was a tall young man of eighteen, bowed graciously
to Roswell.

"Mr. Crawford," said he, "allow me, in the name of the society, to bid
you welcome to our gay and festive meetings. We are a band of good
fellows, who like to meet together and have a social time. We are proud
to receive you into our ranks."

"And I am very glad to belong," said Roswell, who felt highly pleased
at the cordial manner in which he was received.

"You'd better go to the secretary, and enter your name in the books of
the club," suggested Ralph. "You can pay him the five dollars at the
same time. Here, Tracy, Mr. Crawford wants to enroll his name."

"All right," said Tracy; "walk this way if you please, Mr. Crawford."

Roswell wrote down his name, residence, and the store where he was
employed.

"I see, Mr. Crawford, you are engaged in literary pursuits," said the
secretary.

"Yes, for the present," said Roswell. "I don't think I shall remain
long, as the book business doesn't give me scope enough; but I shall
not leave at present, as it might inconvenience Mr. Baker. What is your
initiation fee?"

"Five dollars."

"I happen to have the money with me, I believe," said Roswell. "Here it
is."

"Thank you; that is right. I will enter you as paid. The monthly
assessments are one dollar, as perhaps Graham told you."

"Yes, I think he mentioned it. It is quite reasonable, I think," said
Roswell, in a tone which seemed to indicate that he was never at a loss
for money.

"Yes, I think so, considering our expenses. You see we have to pay for
the room; then we pay Jackson's wages, and there are cigars, etc., for
the use of the members. Have you ever before belonged to a club?"

"No," said Roswell. "I have always declined hitherto (he had never
before received an invitation) but I was so much pleased with what I
heard of the Madison Club from my friend Graham, that I determined to
join. I am glad that you are particular whom you admit as members of
the club."

"Oh, yes, we are very exclusive," said Tracy. "We are not willing to
admit anybody and everybody."

Meanwhile there had been numerous arrivals, until probably nearly all
the members of the club were present.

"Order, gentlemen!" said the president, assuming the chair, and
striking the table at the same time. "The club will please come to
order."

There was a momentary confusion, but at length the members settled into
their seats, and silence prevailed. Roswell Crawford took a seat beside
Ralph Graham.




CHAPTER XXII.

A CLUB NIGHT.


"The secretary will read the journal of the last meeting," said
President Brandon.

Tracy rose, and read a brief report, which was accepted, according to
form.

"Is there any business to come before the club?" inquired the president.

"I would like to nominate a friend of mine as a member of the club,"
said Burgess.

"What's his name?" inquired a member.

"Henry Drayton."

"Will Mr. Burgess give some account of his friend, so that the members
can vote intelligently on his election?" requested Brandon.

"He's a jolly sort of fellow, and a good singer," said Burgess. "He'll
help make our meetings lively. He's about my age--"

"In his second childhood," suggested Wilmot.

This produced a laugh at the expense of Burgess, who took it
good-naturedly.

"Has he got five dollars?" inquired another member.

"His father is a rich man," said Burgess. "There will be no fear about
his not paying his assessments."

"That's the principal thing," said Wilmot. "I second the nomination."

A vote was taken which was unanimously affirmative.

"Mr. Drayton is unanimously elected a member of the Madison Club,"
announced the president. "Notification will be duly sent him by the
secretary. Is there any other business to come before the club?"

As there appeared to be none, Brandon added, "Then we will proceed to
the more agreeable duties which have brought us hither."

He rang a small bell.

Jackson answered the summons.

"Jackson, is the punch ready?" inquired the president.

"Yes, sir," said Jackson.

"Then bring it in. I appoint Wilmot and Burgess to lend you the
necessary aid."

A large flagon of hot whiskey punch was brought in and placed on a
table. Glasses were produced from a closet in the corner of the room,
and it was served out to the members.

"How do you like it, Roswell?" inquired Ralph Graham.

"It's--rather strong," said Roswell, coughing.

"Oh, you'll soon be used to it. The fellows will begin to be jolly
after they've drunk a glass or two."

"Do they ever get tight?" whispered Roswell.

"A little lively,--that's all."

The effect predicted soon followed.

"Wilmot, give us a song," said Burgess.

"What will you have?" said Wilmot, whose flushed face showed that the
punch had begun to affect him.

"Oh, you can give us an air from one of the operas."

"Villikens and his Dinah?" suggested Tracy.

"Very good," said Wilmot.

Wilmot was one of those, who, with no voice or musical ear, are under
the delusion that they are admirable singers. He executed the song
