get the words all right. They do plague me so; but I haven't been to
school for two years. Mother wanted me home, for Martha was so little.
That's why I'd like to be a lady, and know just what was right to do and
say. I thought you was so elegant that night!"

"There are a great many 'ladies,' as you call them, much poorer than
you; and some rich people who are coarse and ignorant."

"There ain't only two or three men in Middleville any richer than
father. He owns sights of land and timber, but he thinks that if you can
read and write and cipher a little it is enough. I don't suppose I could
ever be as nice as you are, though,"--with a sadness in her tone and a
longing in her eyes.

"In what respect?" Kathie smiled encouragingly.

"Well--to talk as you do. I thought that night at the Fair that it was
just like a story-book or music. I know I'm always makin' mistakes."

"Then you must try to be careful. Does not your teacher correct you?"

"Well, I am learning a little; but it seems to be such hard work. How
did you do it?"

"I have always been sent to school, and then my mother has taken a good
deal of pains with me. It seems unfortunate that people should fall into
such careless habits of pronouncing, and oftentimes of spelling."

"Was my letter all right?" Sarah asked, with quick apprehension. "I
tried so hard, and wrote it over ever so many times."

"I let my uncle read it, and he said he had seen letters from older
women that would hardly bear comparison. There were very few mistakes in
it."

Kathie's honesty impelled her to say this, though under some
circumstances she would have uttered no comment.

"Tell me what they were. I think I could do better now."

"Do you really wish me to?"

"Yes, I do," with a good deal of rising color.

"Your pronoun I, when you speak of yourself, must always be a
capital,--never a small i, and dotted."

"But how can you tell?"

"It is a personal pronoun, and is never used in any other way. A single
I must always be a capital."

"Always! I'll be sure to remember that," Sarah answered, with great
earnestness; "and what else?"

"Christmas wasn't quite right. That begins with a capital, because it is
a proper name, and the first syllable is spelled just like Christ."

"Is it? Why, I never thought! and I've seen it so many times too. What
other mistakes were there?"

"I really cannot remember," said Kathie, laughing; and she spoke the
truth. "The lichen was so lovely, Uncle Robert put it up in the library.
Where do you find such beautiful specimens?"

"Over in the swamp, about a mile south of here. There are so many pretty
things. Do you know Indian pipe?"

"Yes!" exclaimed Kathie, with a touch of enthusiasm.

"Isn't it lovely?--just as if it was cut out of white wax. I like to go
rambling round to find all manner of odd things; but I never thought of
putting them up anywhere, or making frames. O, come see mine!"

Both girls rose, and Kathie really took her first survey of the parlor.
There was a dull-colored ingrain carpet on the floor, the flowers of
which ran all over it; a square, stiff-backed sofa, studded with brass
nails; some rush-bottomed chairs, two old family portraits, and a pair
of high brass candlesticks on the mantelpiece.

But above this Sarah had hung her two pictures, and put up the lichen
brackets.

"I couldn't make my frame as pretty as yours," she said; "and I broke
ever so many straws."

"But you succeeded very well, I think."

"And I made this. I took the picture out of a book."

It was a moss frame, very neatly manufactured, but the picture was a
rather coarsely colored fashion-plate.

"I do love pictures so! I wish I had a whole houseful! And if I could
only make 'em myself,--them, I mean," coloring, and correcting her
speech.

"I have brought you two more--O, they were left in the wagon!--and some
books."

Sarah's eyes sparkled. "Would you mind running out? The boys have some
rabbits down to the barn, and there's a great swing,--O, and loads of
nuts! Do you ever go chestnutting?"

"I have been, but there are not a great many trees around Brookside."

"Here's a shawl; just wrap yourself head and ears in it. We're going
down to the barn, mother."

They found Uncle Robert entertaining Jim and Steve, the latter of whom
sat in wide-eyed astonishment; but the entrance of the girls broke up
the conclave.

Sarah took, Kathie all round, showed her Whitefoot and Jenny, both of
whom whinnied gratefully. Then there was the beautiful little Durham
heifer that Jim was raising, hens of every variety, the rabbits, the
loft strewn with corn, nuts, and strings, and packages of seeds.

Then Kathie must swing. Steve pushed her until the dainty kid boots
touched the beam, and she experienced the sensation of standing upon her
head.

In the midst of this a shrill blast from a horn reached their ears.
Kathie started.

"That's for dinner. Father's gone to mill to-day with Mr. Ketcham, and
he won't be home."

The three younger ones took the lead, while Uncle Robert and Jim
lingered behind, discussing ways and means of making money at farming.

Such a table full of youngsters looked strange to Kathie's eyes. On the
whole they behaved very well, a little awed, perhaps, by the presence of
strangers. Sarah paused now and then to watch Kathie, whose quiet
manners were "so like a lady." She made no clatter with her knife and
fork, did not undertake to talk with her mouth full, and said "Thank
you" to everything that was handed to her.

"I never can be like that!" she thought with a despairing sigh, and yet
unconsciously her manners took tone from this unobtrusive example.

Uncle Robert and Kathie made themselves at ease with truest politeness.
Mrs. Strong talked over the Fair, and how much she enjoyed it, and told
Kathie that the children were delighted with their gifts. Then followed
some conversation on the war. The Strongs were very patriotic, to say
the least. Sarah was excused from helping to wash the dishes, so she and
Kathie went to the parlor again, and the package was opened.

A very pretty story-book, one of Kathie's favorites, and a copy of
Longfellow's Evangeline, illustrated. She had also brought two colored
photographs,--the sad-eyed Evangeline, and the "Children," companion
pictures.

"I don't know whether you like poetry or not, but it always seems to me
that it is pleasant to know the story of anything that interests you."

"I like--some verses--" Sarah returned, rather hesitatingly, "and the
book is beautiful. But--I can't say anything at all--"

The tears were so near to her voice that it rendered her almost
