married woman, with oceans of money to spend, and nothing on earth to
do but follow the fancies of the passing hour.

This was Lillie’s highest ideal of happiness; and didn’t she enjoy it?

Wasn’t it something to flame forth in wondrous toilets in the eyes of
Belle Trevors and Margy Silloway and Lottie Cavers, who were not
married; and before the Simpkinses and the Tomkinses and the Jenkinses,
who, last year, had said hateful things about her, and intimated that
she had gone off in her looks, and was on the way to be an old maid?

And wasn’t it a triumph when all her old beaux came flocking round her,
and her parlors became a daily resort and lounging-place for all the
idle swains, both of her former acquaintance and of the newcomers, who
drifted with the tide of fashion? Never had she been so much the rage;
never had she been declared so “stunning.” The effect of all this good
fortune on her health was immediate. We all know how the spirits affect
the bodily welfare; and hence, my dear gentlemen, we desire it to be
solemnly impressed on you, that there is nothing so good for a woman’s
health as to give her her own way.

Lillie now, from this simple cause, received enormous accessions of
vigor. While at home with plain, sober John, trying to walk in the
quiet paths of domesticity, how did her spirits droop! If you only
could have had a vision of her brain and spinal system, you would have
seen how there was no nervous fluid there, and how all the fine little
cords and fibres that string the muscles were wilting like flowers out
of water; but now she could bathe the longest and the strongest of
any one, could ride on the beach half the day, and dance the German
into the small hours of the night, with a degree of vigor which showed
conclusively what a fine thing for her the Newport air was. Her
dancing-list was always over-crowded with applicants; bouquets were
showered on her; and the most superb “turn-outs,” with their masters
for charioteers, were at her daily disposal.

All this made talk. The world doesn’t forgive success; and the ancients
informed us that even the gods were envious of happy people. It is
astonishing to see the quantity of very proper and rational moral
reflection that is excited in the breast of society, by any sort of
success in life. How it shows them the vanity of earthly enjoyments,
the impropriety of setting one’s heart on it! How does a successful
married flirt impress all her friends with the gross impropriety of
having one’s head set on gentlemen’s attentions!

“I must say,” said Belle Trevors, “that dear Lillie does astonish me.
Now, I shouldn’t want to have that dissipated Danforth lounging in
my rooms every day, as he does in Lillie’s: and then taking her out
driving day after day; for my part, I don’t think it’s respectable.”

“Why don’t you speak to her?” said Lottie Cavers.

“Oh, my dear! she wouldn’t mind me. Lillie always was the most
imprudent creature; and, if she goes on so, she’ll certainly get
awfully talked about. That Danforth is a horrid creature; I know all
about him.”

As Miss Belle had herself been driving with the “horrid creature”
only the week before Lillie came, it must be confessed that her
opportunities for observation were of an authentic kind.

Lillie, as queen in her own parlor, was all grace and indulgence.
Hers was now to be the sisterly rôle, or, as she laughingly styled
it, the maternal. With a ravishing morning-dress, and with a killing
little cap of about three inches in extent on her head, she enacted the
young matron, and gave full permission to Tom, Dick, and Harry to make
themselves at home in her room, and smoke their cigars there in peace.
She “adored the smell;” in fact, she accepted the present of a fancy
box of cigarettes from Danforth with graciousness, and would sometimes
smoke one purely for good company. She also encouraged her followers
to unveil the tender secrets of their souls confidentially to her, and
offered gracious mediations on their behalf with any of the flitting
Newport fair ones. When they, as in duty bound, said that they saw
nobody whom they cared about now she was married, that she was the only
woman on earth for them,—she rapped their knuckles briskly with her
fan, and bid them mind their manners. All this mode of proceeding gave
her an immense success.

[Illustration: “And would sometimes smoke one purely for good
company.”]

But, as we said before, all this was talked about; and ladies in their
letters, chronicling the events of the passing hour, sent the tidings
up and down the country; and so Miss Letitia Ferguson got a letter from
Mrs. Wilcox with full pictures and comments; and she brought the same
to Grace Seymour.

“I dare say,” said Letitia, “these things have been exaggerated; they
always are: still it does seem desirable that your brother should go
there, and be with her.”

“He can’t go and be with her,” said Grace, “without neglecting his
business, already too much neglected. Then the house is all in
confusion under the hands of painters; and there is that young artist
up there,—a very elegant gentleman,—giving orders to right and left,
every one of which involves further confusion and deeper expense; for
my part, I see no end to it. Poor John has got ‘the Old Man of the Sea’
on his back in the shape of this woman; and I expect she’ll be the ruin
of him yet. I can’t want to break up his illusion about her; because,
what good will it do? He has married her, and must live with her; and,
for Heaven’s sake, let the illusion last while it can! I’m going to
draw off, and leave them to each other; there’s no other way.”

“You are, Gracie?”

“Yes; you see John came to me, all stammering and embarrassment, about
this making over of the old place; but I put him at ease at once. ‘The
most natural thing in the world, John,’ said I. ‘Of course Lillie has
her taste; and it’s her right to have the house arranged to suit it.’
And then I proposed to take all the old family things, and furnish
the house that I own on Elm Street, and live there, and let John and
Lillie keep house by themselves. You see there is no helping the thing.
Married people must be left to themselves; nobody can help them. They
must make their own discoveries, fight their own battles, sink or swim,
together; and I have determined that not by the winking of an eye will
I interfere between them.”

“Well, but do you think John wants you to go?”

“He feels badly about it; and yet I have convinced him that it’s best.
Poor fellow! all these changes are not a bit to his taste. He liked the
old place as it was, and the old ways; but John is so unselfish. He has
got it in his head that Lillie is very sensitive and peculiar, and that
her spirits require all these changes, as well as Newport air.”

“Well,” said Letitia, “if a man begins to say A in that line, he must
say B.”

“Of course,” said Grace; “and also C and D, and so on, down to X,
Y, Z. A woman, armed with sick-headaches, nervousness, debility,
presentiments, fears, horrors, and all sorts of imaginary and real
diseases, has an eternal armory of weapons of subjugation. What can a
man do? Can he tell her that she is lying and shamming? Half the time
she isn’t; she can actually work herself into about any physical state
she chooses. The fortnight before Lillie went to Newport, she really
looked pale, and ate next to nothing; and she managed admirably to seem
to be trying to keep up, and not to complain,—yet you see how she can
go on at Newport.”

“It seems a pity John couldn’t understand her.”

“My dear, I wouldn’t have him for the world. Whenever he does, he will
despise her; and then he will be wretched. For John is no hypocrite,
any more than I am. No, I earnestly pray that his soap-bubble may not
break.”

“Well, then,” said Letitia, “at least, he might go down to Newport
for a day or two; and his presence there might set some things right:
it might at least check reports. You might just suggest to him that
unfriendly things were being said.”

“Well, I’ll see what I can do,” said Grace.

So, by a little feminine tact in suggestion, Grace despatched her
brother to spend a day or two in Newport.

       *       *       *       *       *

His coming and presence interrupted the lounging hours in Lillie’s
room; the introduction to “my husband” shortened the interviews. John
was courteous and affable; but he neither smoked nor drank, and there
