"The way Matilda bore your persecutions was the first thing that made
me want to know about her religion."

"What persecutions?" Mrs. Bartholomew asked; but nobody seemed ready to
answer her, and she went on--"Judy, you are a fool. David might change
his opinions, surely, without being a poke. My son, you do not mean to
be different from what you have always been,--do you?"

David hesitated, and said, "I hope so, mother."

"Different--how?" she asked quickly.

"I am the King's servant, mamma," he answered with a certain
steadfastness which had much dignity about it.

"Well, what then? what does that mean?"

"Then of course I must do the King's commands, mamma."

"Didn't you always?"

David's answer was prevented by a fresh outburst of Judy's reproaches
and charges, which lasted till her brother took himself out of hearing;
then silence fell. Norton stopped the book exercise and looked about
him. Matilda's face he had seen by glimpses; he knew it was flushed and
anxious and glad at once. Mrs. Laval and her sister were grave, with
different styles of gravity; one thoughtful, the other vexed. Old Mrs.
Lloyd was in tears.




CHAPTER XII.


The atmosphere of the house was very quiet during several successive
days, as far as Matilda could observe it. The boys were extremely busy
at school; and at home there was no public recurrence of Monday night's
discussion. In private Mrs. Laval questioned Matilda very closely as to
all the particulars of their Shadywalk expedition and all that she had
known for weeks past of David's state of mind. She made no comment on
the answers; and Matilda heard no more about the matter, until Saturday
morning came. Then when they were at breakfast, Mrs. Bartholomew said
in a conciliating tone,

"David, my son, I don't see any necessity for that communication you
are proposing to make to your uncles."

"I must go to see them, mamma."

"Certainly; that is all just and proper; but there is no occasion to
talk to them about your change of views."

"Then they would believe me what I am not."

"Well--" said Mrs. Bartholomew; "they would a great deal rather believe
so than know the truth."

"Would you have liked me to hide it from you, mamma?"

"I don't know; yes,--I think I should."

"What would have been your opinion of me by and by, when you came to
find it out?"

"Just the truth," said Judy languidly. "Nothing can make you more of a
sneak than you are already."

"One thing," said David firmly. "To get, or try to get, my uncles'
money under false pretences. You know they would never give it to a
Christian."

"Judy," said Mrs. Lloyd, "another ill-bred word like that, and I send
you from the table."

"But my dear boy," Mrs. Bartholomew went on, "you said Monday night
that you were as much of a Jew as ever."

"The poor fellow was afraid of falling between two stools," said Judy;
"so he clutched at 'em both, without thinking."

"And you are very young; and you do not know what your opinions may be
in a few years more. And in the mean while, I am very unwilling that
you should offend your uncles. They would never get over it."

"I guess they wouldn't," said Judy. "What a time David will have with
'em!"

"Don't you see, my dear," pursued Mrs. Bartholomew, "it is unnecessary,
and may be premature, and so unwise?"

"Mother," said David, evidently struggling with his feelings, "Messiah
has said that he will not own those who do not own him."

"You'll get nothing out of him, mamma," said Judy. "He is one of
Matilda's crazy kind. He is going to get rid of his money as fast as he
can; and then he will turn chaplain of some jail, I should think; or
else he will get a place as a Methodist parson and go poking into all
the poor places of the earth; and then we shall see his name up in
bills--'Preaching at the cross corners to-night--Rev. David Bartholomew
will speak to the people from a candle box.'"

David changed colour once or twice, but he said nothing.

"Matilda Laval," said Judy sharply, "eat your breakfast! He won't want
you to help him preach."

Matilda wondered privately that the elders were so patient of Judy's
tongue and so very silent themselves. They seemed to have thoughts not
ready for utterance. At any rate the breakfast party broke up with Judy
having the last word, and scattered their several ways; and Matilda
heard no more on David's subject for some time. How the Saturday's work
issued she did not know; nothing was said about it in her hearing; and
David looked as happy and as calm as he had done before Saturday. She
watched him, and she was sure of that.

One afternoon, it was a Sunday, and the ladies of the family were shut
up in their rooms, resting or dressing, Matilda and David were alone in
the little reception room. It was the hour before dinner; Matilda had
come in from Sunday school and was sitting there with a new book, when
David joined her. He sat down beside her, Matilda knew immediately, for
a talk; and she shut up her book.

"Matilda, I have been reading about the men with the talents; the five
talents, and the ten talents, you know?"

"Yes, I know."

"I am afraid I don't know all my talents."

"What do you mean, David?"

"The talents are whatever is given to us to use for God--and that is,
whatever is given to us; for we may use it all for him."

"Yes, David."

"Well--that means a great deal, Tilly."

"Yes, I know it does."

"And one might easily have talents that one didn't think of; lying by
so, and not used at all."

"I dare say they often do," Matilda said thoughtfully.

"I want you to help me, if you can."

"I help you?" said Matilda very humbly.

"You have been longer in the way than I. You ought to know more about
it."

"I am afraid I don't, though, David. But I guess Jesus will teach us,
if we ask him."

"I am sure of that; but I think he means that we should help one
another. What can I do, that I am not doing?"

Matilda thought a little, and then went upstairs and fetched the card
