"A lot of brandy that I could have sold for over a thousand dollars,
which didn't cost me four hundred. It would bring fifteen hundred at
retail."

"O ho!" said the squire, opening his eyes.

"I'm caught, and I may as well make the best of it. I used to think this
sort of business paid, but I don't think so now. I shall lose my boat,
the money I paid for the stuff, and have to pay a fine of a thousand
dollars besides. That makes me about two thousand out--half of all I'm
worth, besides my farm; and all because Little Bobtail wouldn't make a
trade with me. I as good as offered to give him the boat, if he would
return the stuff; and I reckon he'll wish he had when you take the boat
away from him, for he has been making money with her."

"No, he won't," said Mr. Hines, decidedly. "He gave the information that
led to the seizure of the goods, and his share of the fine and
forfeiture will be at least five hundred dollars, and he can buy the
boat."

"Is that so?" exclaimed the skipper, opening his eyes. "I had no idea I
was to make anything out of this business. But I am in love with this
boat; and if I get her, I shall be the happiest fellow on Penobscot
Bay."

"You will have her; and we'll manage it so that you shall have the use
of her till she is sold," added Mr. Hines.

Captain Chinks was no longer a man of doubtful reputation. His
contraband operations were capable of proof without his confession, and
his reputation as a dishonest man was now fully established. The Skylark
arrived at Rockland in a couple of hours. The United States deputy
marshal arrested Captain Chinks; but he was liberated on bail furnished
by Squire Gilfilian. The Skylark was seized, and Mr. Hines appointed
keeper; and, on his own responsibility, he permitted Bobtail to have the
use of her.

The detective had fully sifted the captain's method of operating. He was
in company with a "Blue Nose" fisherman, who used to run the goods down
to the coast of Maine, where his partner took them into his boat,
usually in the night, or under the lee of some uninhabited island.
Another lot was on its way, but the captain concluded to have them
properly entered, and paid the duties.

When Bobtail returned from the custom-house in Rockland to the Skylark,
he found Mr. Tom Barkesdale on board of her, waiting for him. This
gentleman had come down to Camden in the steamer, and finding that the
boy had gone to Rockland, he obtained a team, and drove to that place,
where he found the Skylark at the wharf. Monkey did not know where the
skipper had gone; but he soon appeared with all his passengers, for the
business had not detained them more than an hour. But Mr. Barkesdale was
not inclined to "tell him all" in the presence of so many persons. He
finally, after much persuasion, induced Bobtail to return with him in
his buggy, while Mr. Hines sailed the Skylark back to Camden. Nothing
but the assurance that the business was of the utmost importance could
prevail upon the skipper to leave the yacht; and much he wondered what
that business could be. They walked up to the hotel together, but, as
yet, Mr. Barkesdale said nothing.

"I think you have worn that bobtail coat about long enough," said the
gentleman, when they came to Main Street.

"I have a better suit at home."

"What color is it?"

"Blue, sir."

"That will hardly answer. You must go up to Belfast with me, and attend
the funeral of Mr. Montague."

"I?"

"Yes; the family are all very much interested in you. You need a black
suit, and we will get one here," added Mr. Barkesdale, as they entered
the best clothing store on the street.

The finest suit that could be obtained was purchased; and it was
supplemented, at other stores, with a cap, nice shoes, black kid gloves,
and other furnishing goods. Bobtail protested against the gloves; he did
not want any gloves in summer; never wore them, except in winter. But
Mr. Barkesdale said he must wear them at the funeral, if he never did
again.

"I don't see why I should be rigged up in all these togs, to go to the
funeral of a man I never saw but twice in my life," said Bobtail, as
they seated themselves in the buggy.

"You don't know much," laughed Mr. Barkesdale.

"I know I don't."

"You don't even know your own name."

"Everybody calls me Little Bobtail, and it wouldn't be strange if I
forgot my own name," replied the boy.

"I'm told your father's habits are not very good."

"Zeke Taylor's? He isn't my father; he is my mother's second husband;
and my father died when I was small."

"Your mother must have a hard time of it with a drunken husband."

"That's so; I wish she would leave him; and I think she will, for he
don't do much, and spends all he gets for rum. He's ugly, too, and tries
to get her money away from her."

"Then your mother has money of her own?"

"I don't know; there's something strange about it," replied Bobtail,
looking into the face of his companion, and wondering what he was
"driving at." "Zeke says she has money hid away from him."

"Then you have thought of the matter?"

"Well, I can't see, for the life of me, how she supports the family."

"Well you don't know much--not even your own name," laughed Mr.
Barkesdale again.

"I know that my father's name was Wayland, and by rights mine ought to
be Wayland."

"Are you quite sure of that?"

"Of course I am. I know what my mother told me. I was born in the Island
of Cuba."

"That's true, but not the rest of it."

"What do you mean?"

"Your name is not Wayland."

"What is it, then?" asked Bobtail, amazed beyond expression.

"Your name is Robert Barkesdale Montague--the middle name after me."

"You don't mean so!"

"I do; and when you see your mother, as you call her, she will tell you
the same thing."

"Isn't she my mother?" asked Bobtail,--or rather Robert, as we shall
insist upon calling him now,--with a gasp of astonishment.

"She is not; she is a very worthy woman, but she is not your mother."

"Well, who is my mother?"

"The first Mrs. Montague, of course; she died in Cuba when you were only
a few months old. Mrs. Wayland--as she was then--was your nurse. She has
brought you up, and brought you up very well too, for it appears that
you are an honest, good boy, noble, brave, and intelligent."

"But what's the reason I never knew anything about this before?" asked
the puzzled youth.

"I'll tell you;" and Mr. Barkesdale told the story which is related in
