“Why isn’t it? What’s the road out?”

“Another appropriation, don’t you see?”

“Bother the appropriations. They cost more than they come to.”

“Not the next one. We’ll call for half a million--get it and go for a
million the very next month.”

“Yes, but the cost of it!”

The president smiled, and patted his secret letters affectionately. He
said:

“All these people are in the next Congress. We shan’t have to pay them
a cent. And what is more, they will work like beavers for us--perhaps it
might be to their advantage.”

Harry reflected profoundly a while. Then he said:

“We send many missionaries to lift up the benighted races of other
lands. How much cheaper and better it would be if those people could
only come here and drink of our civilization at its fountain head.”

“I perfectly agree with you, Mr. Beverly. Must you go? Well, good
morning. Look in, when you are passing; and whenever I can give you any
information about our affairs and prospects, I shall be glad to do it.”

Harry’s letter was not a long one, but it contained at least the
calamitous figures that came out in the above conversation. The
Colonel found himself in a rather uncomfortable place--no $1,200 salary
forthcoming; and himself held responsible for half of the $9,640 due the
workmen, to say nothing of being in debt to the company to the extent of
nearly $4,000. Polly’s heart was nearly broken; the “blues” returned in
fearful force, and she had to go out of the room to hide the tears that
nothing could keep back now.

There was mourning in another quarter, too, for Louise had a letter.
Washington had refused, at the last moment, to take $40,000 for the
Tennessee Land, and had demanded $150,000! So the trade fell through,
and now Washington was wailing because he had been so foolish. But he
wrote that his man might probably return to the city soon, and then he
meant to sell to him, sure, even if he had to take $10,000. Louise had a
good cry--several of them, indeed--and the family charitably forebore to
make any comments that would increase her grief.

Spring blossomed, summer came, dragged its hot weeks by, and the
Colonel’s spirits rose, day by day, for the railroad was making good
progress. But by and by something happened. Hawkeye had always declined
to subscribe anything toward the railway, imagining that her large
business would be a sufficient compulsory influence; but now Hawkeye was
frightened; and before Col. Sellers knew what he was about, Hawkeye,
in a panic, had rushed to the front and subscribed such a sum that
Napoleon’s attractions suddenly sank into insignificance and the
railroad concluded to follow a comparatively straight coarse instead of
going miles out of its way to build up a metropolis in the muddy desert
of Stone’s Landing.

The thunderbolt fell. After all the Colonel’s deep planning; after all
his brain work and tongue work in drawing public attention to his pet
project and enlisting interest in it; after all his faithful hard toil
with his hands, and running hither and thither on his busy feet; after
all his high hopes and splendid prophecies, the fates had turned their
backs on him at last, and all in a moment his air-castles crumbled to
ruins about him. Hawkeye rose from her fright triumphant and rejoicing,
and down went Stone’s Landing! One by one its meagre parcel of
inhabitants packed up and moved away, as the summer waned and fall
approached. Town lots were no longer salable, traffic ceased, a deadly
lethargy fell upon the place once more, the “Weekly Telegraph” faded
into an early grave, the wary tadpole returned from exile, the bullfrog
resumed his ancient song, the tranquil turtle sunned his back upon bank
and log and drowsed his grateful life away as in the old sweet days of
yore.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Philip Sterling was on his way to Ilium, in the state of Pennsylvania.
Ilium was the railway station nearest to the tract of wild land which
Mr. Bolton had commissioned him to examine.

On the last day of the journey as the railway train Philip was on was
leaving a large city, a lady timidly entered the drawing-room car, and
hesitatingly took a chair that was at the moment unoccupied. Philip saw
from the window that a gentleman had put her upon the car just as it was
starting. In a few moments the conductor entered, and without waiting an
explanation, said roughly to the lady,

“Now you can’t sit there. That seat’s taken. Go into the other car.”

“I did not intend to take the seat,” said the lady rising, “I only sat
down a moment till the conductor should come and give me a seat.”

“There aint any. Car’s full. You’ll have to leave.”

“But, sir,” said the lady, appealingly, “I thought--”

“Can’t help what you thought--you must go into the other car.”

“The train is going very fast, let me stand here till we stop.”

“The lady can have my seat,” cried Philip, springing up.

The conductor turned towards Philip, and coolly and deliberately
surveyed him from head to foot, with contempt in every line of his face,
turned his back upon him without a word, and said to the lady,

“Come, I’ve got no time to talk. You must go now.”

The lady, entirely disconcerted by such rudeness, and frightened, moved
towards the door, opened it and stepped out. The train was swinging
along at a rapid rate, jarring from side to side; the step was a long
one between the cars and there was no protecting grating. The lady
attempted it, but lost her balance, in the wind and the motion of the
car, and fell! She would inevitably have gone down under the wheels, if
Philip, who had swiftly followed her, had not caught her arm and drawn
her up. He then assisted her across, found her a seat, received her
bewildered thanks, and returned to his car.

The conductor was still there, taking his tickets, and growling
something about imposition. Philip marched up to him, and burst out
with,

“You are a brute, an infernal brute, to treat a woman that way.”

“Perhaps you’d like to make a fuss about it,” sneered the conductor.

Philip’s reply was a blow, given so suddenly and planted so squarely in
the conductor’s face, that it sent him reeling over a fat passenger, who
was looking up in mild wonder that any one should dare to dispute with a
conductor, and against the side of the car.

He recovered himself, reached the bell rope, “Damn you, I’ll learn you,”
 stepped to the door and called a couple of brakemen, and then, as the
speed slackened; roared out,

“Get off this train.”

“I shall not get off. I have as much right here as you.”

“We’ll see,” said the conductor, advancing with the brakemen. The
passengers protested, and some of them said to each other, “That’s too
bad,” as they always do in such cases, but none of them offered to take
a hand with Philip. The men seized him, wrenched him from his seat,
dragged him along the aisle, tearing his clothes, thrust him from the
car, and, then flung his carpet-bag, overcoat and umbrella after him.
And the train went on.

The conductor, red in the face and puffing from his exertion, swaggered
through the car, muttering “Puppy, I’ll learn him.” The passengers, when
he had gone, were loud in their indignation, and talked about signing a
protest, but they did nothing more than talk.

The next morning the Hooverville Patriot and Clarion had this “item”:--

SLIGHTUALLY OVERBOARD.

“We learn that as the down noon express was leaving H---- yesterday a
lady! (God save the mark) attempted to force herself into the already
full palatial car. Conductor Slum, who is too old a bird to be caught
with chaff, courteously informed her that the car was full, and when
