

Judge Provost, whose wife and daughters were the leaders of fashion
in Hamilton, was himself a social Greatheart. Having brought to bear
upon various vexed domestic problems the force of his astute mind
and enlightened Christianity, he had arrived at a series of
conclusions equally creditable to both. The pertinence of his
deductions was so obvious to the impartial reasoner as to excite his
surprise, that the great body of good and sensible men and women did
not adopt and practise them. For example, he maintained first, that
the best way to keep men out of jails, was to provide them with
abodes so comfortable that they would prefer these to stone cells
and prison fare: secondly, as a modification of the same principle,
that, since amusements are necessary to the happiness of the young,
they should be provided with lawful diversions in their own homes,
lest they should seek unlawful abroad; thirdly, in unconscious
plagiarism of the wise and genial author of "Annals of a Country
Neighborhood," he held and believed for certain, that the surest way
to make an indifferent thing bad, was for good people to hold
themselves aloof from doing it.

Acting upon these principles, the eminent jurist built a
bowling-alley at the back of his garden; caused his eight children
to be instructed in music and dancing, and encouraged them to pursue
these recreations in his parlors,--where, also, lay backgammon and
chess board in full sight. Finally, he crowned their gratification
while he drew upon himself the reprobation of the zealots and
puritans among his neighbors, by throwing a wing out from his
already spacious residence, expressly for a billiard-room. It was a
pretty place, and a cheerful, with its green carpets and lounges,
tinted walls, and long French windows, and was, as may be supposed,
a popular resort with those of the college students who had the
entr√©e, as well as with the young Provosts and their friends of
both sexes in the town. A happy, hospitable set were the young
Provosts--the four sisters and four brothers--affectionate to one
another, dutiful and loving to the parents to whose judicious
affection they owed their sunny childhood and youth. Jessie liked
them better than she did any other family in Hamilton, while Fanny,
the second daughter, had taken a fancy to her at first sight, which
was ripening into a cordial friendship.

The billiard-room was very bright with afternoon sunshine, and merry
with the chatter of gay voices, one day late in February, when a
party of six or eight girls was collected about the table--four
playing, the others looking on and talking, sometimes of the game
in progress, sometimes upon other subjects--all in a familiar yet
ladylike way.

"Somebody mark for me, please!" said a ruddy-cheeked damsel who had
never, by any chance, won a game, and whose principal points were
the point she made of missing every shot. "If I should hit anything
it would be a pity not to get credit for it. Now--all of you look
and learn!"

She poised the cue with a superabundance of caution, pursing up her
lips into an O, as she took aim; dashed at the white ball nearest
her, which flew frantically from side to side of the board,
rebounding twice from the cushion, and, at last, popping into a
distant pocket, having dodged every other ball with a malicious
ingenuity eminently illustrative of the proverbial perversity of
inanimate things.

"Better luck next time!" said the player, invincibly good-humored,
resigning her place. "If there is anything in perseverance and hope,
I shall do it yet, some day, and astonish you all."

The others laughed--with, rather than at her--and Jessie Kirke took
the stand she had vacated. All leaned forward to watch her play, her
skill being already an established fact. A touch--not a thrust--to
the white ball sent it against a red at such an angle that in the
rebound it hit another quite at the other end of the green table,
which latter rolled into a pocket. This, to the uninitiated,
meaningless process, being repeated by her, with trifling
variations, until she had made sixteen points, was considered a feat
among the embryo billiardists surrounding her.

"So much for a true eye and a sure touch!" said Fanny Provost. "You
shame us all, Jessie dear."

"So much for having a good teacher!" said another, less
complimentary. "If Mr. Wyllys would bestow as much care upon our
tuition as he has upon hers, we might be adepts, too."

"She has practised ten times as much with me as she has with him,"
answered Fanny, pleasantly. "So, I am entitled to the larger share
of the praise for her proficiency. I will not be cheated of my
laurels."

"Is Mr. Wyllys, then, your best player?"

The querist was Miss Sanford, who "did not care about billiards,"
and had even remonstrated, at the beginning of her visit with her
cousin Fanny, with regard to her liking for the game--"such a queer
one for ladies! She would be afraid to touch a cue for fear she
might be called strong-minded." She had discovered, furthermore,
that her wrists were not stout enough to bear the weight of a cue
steadily, and took pleasure in publishing their genteel fragility.
Only that afternoon she had called attention to this by an
exclamation addressed to Jessie, as she drew up her cuffs in order
to be ready for her turn.

"Dear me! Miss Kirke! what wouldn't I give to be as robust as you
are! Look at her arms! They would make six of mine. What do you do
to develop your muscles so?"

Jessie smiled in quiet satisfaction with her own beautifully moulded
wrists.

"I am healthy, and I lead an active life," she said, laconically,
but politely.

Miss Sanford was not pleased either with smile or words, but there
was apparently nothing to resent, and she returned to her sofa. She
had attended a party the evening before, and was to-day "utterly
worn out." While the game went on, she toyed with her rings, slipped
her bracelets of dead gold and pearls up and down her thin arms, and
now and then yawned behind her hand. Mr. Wyllys' name awoke her from
the apathetic droning.

"Decidedly!" replied a looker-on, Selina Bradley by name--a
kind-hearted, talkative, and indiscreet girl whom everybody liked,
yet of whose tripping tongue many were afraid. "Decidedly the best
in town. Don't you think so, Fan?"

"There are not many who can equal him among our finest billiard
players," said Fanny. "I do not believe he has lost a game since Mr.
Fordham went away. He played splendidly! His nerves were steady
and his judgment nice."

"Fordham!" repeated the heiress, quickly. "What was his first name?
Who is he?"

"Roy--and he is a professor in our college. He is now in Heidelberg,
Germany. Do you know him?" said Fanny, in surprise. "You must have
heard us speak of him before."

"Never! I used to know him," rejoined Miss Sanford, tossing her
head. "He was engaged to a very dear friend of mine. No! I didn't
know he was in Germany. I am glad of it!"

Selina, breathless with excitement, did not catch the meaning of the
latter sentences.

"Engaged! I thought he was love-proof! Fanny! Nettie! Sue! do you
hear this? Who do you guess is engaged to be married? No less a
personage than our invulnerable Professor Fordham!"

The girls crowded about Miss Sanford, forgetting the game in the
superior attractions of a love-story.

"To whom?"

"Who told you?"

"I don't believe it!" were the divers comments upon the
intelligence.

Jessie remained alone at the table, tapping the cushion opposite her
with her cue, her face flaming with indignant confusion. Taken
utterly by surprise, she could not at once rally to reply to the
