Granger’s manner grew reserved, almost embarrassed. Mr. Dinneford was
not wrong in his impression of the cause. How could he help thinking of
Edith, who, turning against him with the rest, had accepted the theory
of guilt and pronounced her sentence upon him, hardest of all to bear?
So it appeared to him, for he had nothing but the hard fact before him
that she had applied for and obtained a divorce.

Yes, it was the thought of Edith that drew Granger back and covered him
with reserve. What more could Mr. Dinneford say? He had not considered
all the hearings of this unhappy case; but now that he remembered the
divorce, he began to see, how full of embarrassment it was, and how
delicate the relation he bore to this unhappy victim of his wife’s
dreadful crime.

What could he say for Edith? Nothing! He knew that her heart had never
turned itself away from this man, though she had, under a pressure she
was not strong enough to resist, turned her back upon him and cast aside
his dishonored name, thus testifying to the world that she believed him
base and criminal. If he should speak of her, would not the young man
answer with indignant scorn?

“Give me the address of your friends, and I will call upon them
immediately,” said Mr. Dinneford, replying, after a long silence, to
Granger’s last remark. “I am here to repair, to any extent that in me
lies the frightful wrongs you have suffered. I shall make your cause my
own, and never rest until every false tarnish shall be wiped from your
name. In honor and conscience I am bound to this.”

Looking at the young man intently, he saw a grateful response in the
warmer color that broke into his face and in the moisture that filled
his eyes.

“I would be base if I were not thankful, Mr. Dinneford,” Granger
replied. “But you cannot put yourself in my place, cannot know what I
have suffered, cannot comprehend the sense of wrong and cruel rejection
that has filled my soul with the very gall of bitterness. To be cast out
utterly, suddenly and without warning from heaven into hell, and for no
evil thought or act! Ah, sir! you do not understand.”

“It was a frightful ordeal, George,” answered Mr. Dinneford, laying his
hand on Granger with the tenderness of a father. “But, thank God! it
is over. You have stood the terrible heat, and now, coming out of the
furnace, I shall see to it that not even the smell of fire remain upon
your garments.”

Still the young man could not be moved from his purpose to remain at the
asylum until he had seen and conferred with his friends, in whose hands
Mr. Dinneford placed the governor’s pardon and the affidavit of Lloyd
Freeling setting forth his innocence.

Mrs. Bray did not call on Mr. Dinneford, as she had promised. She had
quarreled with Pinky Swett, as the reader will remember, and in a fit
of blind anger thrust her from the room. But in the next moment she
remembered that she did not know where the girl lived, and if she lost
sight of her now, might not again come across her for weeks or months.
So putting on her hat and cloak hurriedly, she waited until she heard
Pinky going down stairs, and then came out noiselessly, and followed her
into the street. She had to be quick in her movements, for Pinky, hot
with anger, was dashing off at a rapid speed. For three or four blocks
Mrs. Bray kept her in view; but there being only a few persons in the
street, she had to remain at a considerable distance behind, so as not
to attract her attention. Suddenly, she lost sight of Pinky. She had
looked back on hearing a noise in the street; turning again, she could
see nothing of the girl. Hurrying forward to the corner which Pinky had
in all probability turned, Mrs. Bray looked eagerly up and down, but to
her disappointment Pinky was not in sight.

“Somewhere here. I thought it was farther off,” said Mrs. Bray to
herself. “It’s too bad that I should have lost sight of her.”

She stood irresolute for a little while, then walked down one of the
blocks and back on the other side. Halfway down, a small street or alley
divided the block.

“It’s in there, no doubt,” said Mrs. Bray, speaking to herself again.
On the corner was a small shop in which notions and trimmings were sold.
Going into this, she asked for some trifling articles, and while looking
over them drew the woman who kept the shop into conversation.

“What kind of people live in this little street?” she inquired, in a
half-careless tone.

The woman smiled as she answered, with a slight toss of the head,

“Oh, all kinds.”

“Good, bad and indifferent?”

“Yes, white sheep and black.”

“So I thought. The black sheep will get in. You can’t keep ‘em out.”

“No, and ‘tisn’t much use trying,” answered the shop-keeper, with a
levity of manner not unmarked by Mrs. Bray, who said,

“The black sheep have to live as well as the white ones.”

“Just so. You hit the nail there.”

“And I suppose you find their money as good as that of the whitest?”

“Oh yes.”

“And quite as freely spent?”

“As to that,” answered the woman, who was inclined to be talkative and
gossipy, “we make more out of the black sheep than out of the white
ones. They don’t higgle so about prices. Not that we have two prices,
but you see they don’t try to beat us down, and never stop to worry
about the cost of a thing if they happen to fancy it. They look and buy,
and there’s the end of it.”

“I understand,” remarked Mrs. Bray, with a familiar nod. “It may be
wicked to say so; but if I kept a store like this, I’d rather have the
sinners for customers than the saints.”

She had taken a seat at the counter; and now, leaning forward upon her
arms and looking at the shop-woman in a pleasant, half-confidential way,
said,

“You know everybody about here?”

“Pretty much.”

“The black sheep as well as the white?”

“As customers.”

“Of course; that’s all I mean,” was returned. “I’d be sorry if you knew
them in any other way--some of them, at least.” Then, after a pause, “Do
you know a girl they call Pinky?”

“I may know her, but not by that name. What kind of a looking person is
she?”

“A tall, bold-faced, dashing, dare-devil sort of a girl, with a snaky
look in her eyes. She wears a pink hat with a white feather.”

“Yes, I think I have seen some one like that, but she’s not been around
here long.”

“When did you see her last?”

“If it’s the same one you mean, I saw her go by here not ten minutes
ago. She lives somewhere down the alley.”

“Do you know the house?”

“I do not; but it can be found, no doubt. You called her Pinky.”

“Yes. Her name is Pinky Swett.”

“O-h! o-h!” ejaculated the shop-woman, lifting her eyebrows in a
surprised way. “Why, that’s the girl the police were after. They said
she’d run off with somebody’s child.”

“Did they arrest her?” asked Mrs. Bray, repressing, as far as possible,
all excitement.

“They took her off once or twice, I believe, but didn’t make anything
