in condition to meet any demand upon him. Laud had paid him seven
fifty-dollar bills, and he put them in his pocket. As he passed through
the kitchen, he lighted the lantern, and returned to the shop.

"I didn't mean to dun you up so sharp for this bill," said Leach; "but I
haven't a dollar in my pocket at this minute, and I am very anxious to
be punctual in the payment of my interest."

"It's all right; I had as lief pay it now as at any other time. In fact,
I like to pay up as soon as the work is done," replied Donald, as he
handed the sail-maker three of the fifty-dollar bills, which was the
price agreed upon for the sails, five in number.

Leach looked carefully at each of the bills. All of them were quite new
and fresh, and one was peculiar enough to attract the attention of any
one through whose hands it might pass. It was just like the others, but
at some period, not very remote in its history, it had been torn into
four parts. It might have been in a sheet of note paper, torn up by some
one who did not know the bill was between the leaves. It had been mended
with two narrow slips of thin, white paper, extending across the length
and width of the bill, like the horizontal white cross on the flag of
Denmark.

"That bill has been in four pieces," said Leach, as he turned it over
and examined it; "but I suppose it is good."

"If it is not, I will give you another for it," answered Donald.

"It is all here; so I think it is all right. I wonder who tore it up."

"I don't know; it was so when I took it."

"I am very much obliged to you, Don John; and the next time I make a
suit of sails for you, you needn't pay me till you get ready," said the
sail-maker, as he put the money in his wallet.

"I didn't pay for this suit till I got ready," laughed the boat-builder;
"and when you get up another, I hope I shall be able to pay you the cash
for them."

Leach left the shop a happy man; for most men are cheerful when they
have plenty of money in their pocket. He was more especially happy
because, being an honest man, he was able now to pay the interest on the
mortgage note on the day it was due. He had worked half the night before
in order to finish the sails, so that he might get the money to pay it.
With a light step, therefore, he walked to the elegant mansion of
Captain Patterdale, and rang the bell at the library door. There was a
light in the room, which indicated that the captain was at home. He was
admitted by the nabob himself, who answered his own bell at this door.

"I suppose you thought I wasn't going to pay my interest on the day it
was due," said Leach, with a cheerful smile.



"On the contrary, I didn't think anything at all about it," replied
Captain Patterdale. "I was not even aware that your interest was due
to-day."

"I came pretty near not paying it, for work has been rather slack this
season; but the firm of Ramsay & Son helped me out by paying me promptly
for the sails I made for the Maud."

"Ramsay & Son is a great concern," laughed the nabob.

"It pays promptly; and that's more than all of them do," added Leach,
drawing his wallet from his pocket.

"I haven't your note by me, Mr. Leach," said Captain Patterdale; but he
did not consider it necessary to state that the important document was
at that moment in the tin box, wherever the said tin box might be. "I
will give you a receipt for the amount you pay, and indorse it upon the
note when I have it."

"All right, captain."

"Do you know how much the interest is? I am sure I have forgotten,"
added the rich man.

"I ought to know. I have had to work too hard to get the money in time
to forget how much it was. It is just seventy dollars," answered Leach.

"You needn't pay it now, if you are short."

"I'm not short now. I'm flush, for which I thank Don John," said the
sail-maker, as he placed two of the fifty-dollar bills on the desk, at
which the captain was writing the receipt.

The uppermost of the two bills was the mended one, for Leach thought if
there was any doubt in regard to this, it ought to be known at once. If
the nabob would take it, the matter was settled. Captain Patterdale
wrote the receipt, and did not at once glance at the money.

"There's a hundred, captain," added the sail-maker.

The rich man picked up the bills, and turned over the upper one. If he
did not start, it was not because he was not surprised. He was utterly
confounded when he saw that bill, and his thoughts flashed quickly
through his mind. But he did not betray his thoughts or his emotions,
quick as were the former, and intense as were the latter. He took up the
mended bill, and looked it over several times.

"That's the white cross of Denmark," said he, suppressing his emotions.

"Isn't the bill good?" asked the sail-maker.

"Good as gold for eighty-eight cents on a dollar," replied the captain.

"Then it is not good," added Leach, who did not quite comprehend the
nabob's mathematics.

"Yes, it is."

"But you say it is worth only eighty-eight cents on a dollar."

"That is all any paper dollar is worth when gold is a little rising
fourteen per cent. premium. The bill is perfectly good, in spite of the
white cross upon it. You want thirty dollars change."

The captain counted out this sum, and handed it to the debtor.

"If the bill isn't good, I can give you another," replied Leach, as he
took the money.

"It is a good bill, and I prefer it to any other for certain reasons of
my own. It has the white cross of Denmark upon it; at least, the white
bars on this bill remind me of the flag of that nation."

"It's like a flag--is it?" added the sail-maker, who did not understand
the rich man's allusion.

"Like the flag of Denmark. I made a voyage to Copenhagen once, and this
bill reminds me of the merchant's flag, which has a couple of white bars
across a red ground. Where did you say you got this bill, Mr. Leach?"

"Don John gave it to me, not half an hour ago."

"It has been torn into quarters some time, and the pieces put together
again. Did Don John mend the bill himself?"

"No, sir; he says the bill is just as it was when he received it. I
looked at it pretty sharp when I took it; but he said if it wasn't good,
he would give me another."

"It is perfectly good. Did he tell you where he got the bill?" asked
Captain Patterdale, manifesting none of the emotion which agitated him.

"No, sir; he did not. I didn't ask him. If it makes any difference, I
will do so."

"It makes no difference whatever. It is all right, Mr. Leach."

The sail-maker folded up his receipt, and left the library. He went home
with eighty dollars in his pocket, entirely satisfied with himself, with
the nabob, and especially with the firm of Ramsay & Son. He did not care
a straw about the white cross of Denmark, so long as the bill was good.
Captain Patterdale was deeply interested in the bill which bore this
mark, and possibly he expected to conquer by this sign. He was not so
much interested in the bill because he had made a voyage up the Baltic
and seen the white cross there, as because he had seen it on a bill in
