cooking."

"Oh, dear me, mum! you've forgot the drafts is shut," said Midge, just
as if I had ever thought of drafts, or supposed there was any craft or
mystery about them.

Midge, however, proceeded to open certain mysterious slides, whereat
the stove gave a purr of satisfaction, which soon broadened into a
roar.

"That will do splendidly," said I; "and now, Midge, go and get the
potatoes and turnips, peel them, and have them ready."

The stove roared away merrily, and I went on with my china-closet
arrangements, laying out a dessert, till suddenly I smelled a smell of
burning. I went into the kitchen, and found the stove raging like a
great red dragon, and the top glowing hot, and, opening the oven door,
a puff of burning fume flew in my face.

"Oh, Midge, Midge," I cried, "what is the matter? The turkey is all
burning up!" and Midge came running from the cellar.

"Why, mother shuts them slides part up, when the fire gets agoing
too fast," said Midge--"so;" and Midge manipulated the mysterious
slides, and the roaring monster grew calm.

But my turkey needed to be turned, and I essayed to turn him--a thing
which seems the simplest thing in life, till one tries it and becomes
convinced of the utter depravity of matter. The wretched contrary bird
of evil! how he slipped and slid, and went every way but the right
way! How I wrestled with him, getting hot and combative, outwardly and
inwardly! How I burned my hand on the oven door, till finally over he
flounced, spattering hot gravy all over my hand and the front breadth
of my dress. I had a view then that I never had had before of the
amount of Christian patience needed by a cook. I really got into quite
a vengeful state of feeling with the monster, and shut the oven door
with a malignant bang, as Hensel and Gretel did when they burned the
old witch in the fairy story.

But now came the improvising of my dessert! I had projected an elegant
arrangement of boiled custard, with sponge-cake at the bottom, and
feathery snow of egg-froth on top--a showy composition, which, when
displayed in a high cut-glass dish, strikingly ornaments the table.

I felt entirely equal to boiled custard. I had seen Mary make it
dozens of times. I knew just how many eggs went to the quart of
milk, and that it must be stirred gently all the time, in a kettle
of boiling water, till the golden moment of projection arrived. So
I stirred and stirred, with a hot face and smarting hands; for the
burned places burned so much worse in the heat as to send a doubt
through my mind whether I ever should have grace enough to be a martyr
at the stake, for any faith or cause whatever.

But I bore all for the sake of my custard; when, oh! from some cruel,
mysterious, unexplained cause, just at the last moment, the golden
creamy preparation suddenly separated into curd and whey, leaving my
soul desolate within me!

What had I done? What had I omitted? I was sure every rite and form
of the incantation had been performed just as I had seen Mary do it
hundreds of times; yet hers proved a rich, smooth, golden cream, and
mine unsightly curd and watery whey!

The mysteriousness of natural laws was never so borne in upon me.
There is a kink in every one of them, meant to puzzle us. In my
distress, I ran across to the back door again and consulted Dinah.

"What can be the matter, Dinah? My custard won't come, when I've mixed
everything exactly right, according to the rules; and it's all turned
to curd and whey!"

"Land sake, missis, it's jest cause it will do so sometimes--dat are's
de reason," said Dinah, with the certainty of a philosopher. "Soft
custard is jest de aggravatinest thing! you don't never know when it's
goin' to be contrary and flare up agin you."

"Well, Dinah," said Miss Dorcas, "you try your luck with some of our
fresh morning's milk--you always have luck--and carry it over to Mrs.
Henderson."

The dear old angel! No morning cap, however fearful, could disguise
her. I fell upon her neck and kissed her, then and there, she was so
good! She is the best old soul, mother, and I feel proud of having
discovered her worth. I told her how I did hope some time she would
let me do something for her, and we had quite a time, pledging our
friendship to each other in the kitchen.

Well, Dinah brought over the custard, thick and smooth, and I arranged
it in my high cut-glass dish and covered it with foamy billows of
whites of egg tipped off with sparkles of jelly, so that Dinah
declared that it looked as well "as dem perfectioners could do it;"
and she staid to take my turkey out for me at the dinner hour; and I,
remembering my past struggle and burned fingers, was only too glad to
humbly accept her services.

Dinah is not a beauty, by any of the laws of art, but she did look
beautiful to me, when I left her getting up the turkey, and retired to
wash my hot cheeks and burning hands and make my toilette; for I was
to appear serene and smiling in a voluminous robe, and with unsullied
ribbons, like the queen of the interior, whose morning had been passed
in luxurious ease and ignorant of care.

To say the truth, dear mother, I was so tired and worn out with the
little I had done that I would much rather have lain down for a
nap than to have enacted the part of charming hostess. Talk about
women meeting men with a smile, when they come in from the cares of
business! I reflected that, if this sort of thing went on much longer,
Harry would have to meet me with a smile, and a good many smiles, to
keep up my spirits at this end of the lever. However, it was but for
once; I summoned my energies and was on time, nicely dressed, serene
and fresh as if nothing had happened, and we went through our dinner
without a break down, for little Midge was a well-trained waiter and
did heroically.

Only, when I came to pour the coffee after dinner, I was astonished at
its unusual appearance. Our clear, limpid, golden coffee had always
been one of our strong points, and one on which I had often received
special compliments. People had said, "How do you contrive to always
have such coffee?" and I had accepted with a graceful humility,
declaring, as is proper in such cases, that I was not aware of any
particular merit in it, etc.

The fact is, I never had thought about coffee at all. I had seen, as
I supposed, how Mary made it, and never doubted that mine would be
like hers; so that when a black, thick, cloudy liquid poured out of my
coffee pot, I was, I confess, appalled.

Harry, like a good fellow, took no notice, and covered my defect by
beginning an animated conversation on the merits of the last book our
gentleman had published. The good man forgot all about his coffee in
his delight at the obliging things Harry was saying, and took off the
muddy draught with a cheerful zeal, as if it was so much nectar.

But, on our way to the parlor, Harry contrived to whisper,

"What has got into Mary about her coffee to-day?"

"O Harry," I replied, "Mary's gone. I had to get the dinner all
alone."

"You did! You wonderful little puss!" said the good boy. "Never mind
the coffee! Better luck next time."

And, after we were alone that night, Harry praised and admired me, and
I got out the cookery book to see how I ought to have made my coffee.

The directions, however, were not near as much to the point as the
light I got from Dinah, who came across on a gossiping expedition to
our kitchen that evening, and to whom I propounded the inquiry, "Why
wasn't my coffee clear and nice like Mary's?"

"Land sakes, Mis' Henderson, ye didn't put in no fish-skin, nor
nothing to clar it."

"No. I never heard of such a thing."

"Some uses fish-skin, and some takes an egg," continued Dinah. "When
eggs is cheap, I takes an egg. Don't nobody have no clarer coffee 'n
mine."

