quite different from her husband, being gentle and kind, and it was to
her that Ben always went for sympathy, in any trouble or difficulty,
whether at home or at school.

Mrs. Brandon was sitting at the window with her work in her hand; but it
had fallen listlessly in her lap, and on her face was a look of painful
preoccupation. Opposite her sat her daughter Mary, Ben's only sister,
already referred to.

"Don't worry so, mother," said Mary; "you will make yourself sick."

"I cannot help it, Mary," said Mrs. Brandon. "I can't help worrying
about Ben. He has been gone a week now, and Heaven knows what he has
suffered. He may be dead."

"No, mother," said Mary, who had more of her father's strength than her
mother's gentleness. "He is not dead, you may depend upon that."

"But he had no money, that I know of. How could he live?"

"Ben can take care of himself better than most boys of his age."

"But think of a boy of ten going out in the world by himself!"

"There are many boys of ten who have to do it, mother."

"What could the poor boy do?"

"He might suffer a little; but if he does, he will the sooner come
home."

"I wish he might," said Mrs. Brandon, with a sigh. "I think your father
does very wrong not to go after him."

"He wouldn't know where to go. Besides, he has advertised."

"I hope Ben will not see the advertisement. Poor boy! he would feel hurt
to think that we cared so little for him as to offer only one dollar for
his return."

"He will know you had nothing to do with the advertisement, mother; you
may be sure of that."

"Yes, he knows me too well for that. I would give all I have to have him
back."

"I want him back too," said Mary. "He is my only brother, and of course
I love him; but I don't think it will do him any harm to suffer a little
as a punishment for going away."

"You were always hard upon the poor boy, Mary," said Mrs. Brandon.

"No, I am not hard; but I see his faults, and I want him to correct
them. It is you who have been too indulgent."

"If I have been, it is because you and your father have been too much
the other way."

There was a brief pause, then Mrs. Brandon said, "Can you think of any
place, Mary, where Ben would be likely to go?"

"Yes, I suppose he went to Philadelphia. When a boy runs away from home,
he naturally goes to the nearest city."

"I have a great mind to go up to-morrow."

"What good would it do, mother?"

"I might meet him in the street."

"There is not much chance of that. I shouldn't wonder if by this time he
had gone to sea."

"Gone to sea!" repeated Mrs. Brandon, turning pale. "What makes you
think so? Did he ever speak of such a thing to you?"

"Yes, he once threatened to run away to sea, when I did something that
did not suit him."

"Oh, I hope not. I have heard that boys are treated very badly on board
ship. Besides, he might get drowned."

"I am not sure whether a good sea-voyage might not be the best thing for
him," said strong-minded Mary.

"But suppose he should be ill-treated?"

"It might take the pride out of him, and make him a better boy."

"I never get much satisfaction from you, Mary. I don't see how you can
be so harsh."

"I see we are not likely to agree, mother. But there is a boy coming up
the walk with a letter in his hand."

"It may be from Ben," said his mother, rising hastily, and going to the
door.

The boy was William Gordon, a school-mate of Ben's, whose disappearance,
long before this time, had been reported throughout the village.

"I was passing the post-office, Mrs. Brandon," he said, "when the
postmaster called from the window, and asked me to bring you this
letter. I think it is from Ben. The handwriting looks like his."

"Oh, thank you, William," said Mrs. Brandon, joyfully. "Give it to me
quick."

She tore it open and read the letter, which is given at length in the
last chapter.

"Is it from Ben?" asked William.

"Yes."

"Is he in Philadelphia? I noticed it was mailed there."

"Yes--no--he says he cannot tell us where he is."

"I think he must be in Philadelphia, or the letter would not be mailed
there."

"Come in, William. I must go and tell Mary."

"No, thank you, Mrs. Brandon. I am on an errand for my mother. I hope
Ben is well?"

"Yes, he says so."

Mrs. Brandon went in, and showed the letter to her daughter.

"There, I told you, mother, you need not be alarmed. He says he is
earning his living."

"But it seems so hard for a boy of ten to have to work for his living.
What can he do?"

"Oh, there are various things he can do. He might sell papers, for
instance."

"I think I shall go to Philadelphia to-morrow, Mary."

"It won't be of any use, you may depend, mother. He is not in
Philadelphia."

"But this letter is posted there."

"That is a proof to me that he is not there. He says he don't want to
come back."

Shortly after, Mr. Brandon entered the house.

"We have had a letter from Ben, father," said Mary.

"Show it to me," he said, briefly.

He read the letter, and handed it back without a word.

"What are you going to do about it, Mr. Brandon?" asked his wife.

