
“Bless my soul! What now?” ejaculated the doctor in great surprise.

Rose put down her water pot and shears, came and stood before him with
her hands nervously twisted together, and said, just as she used to do
when she was a little girl confessing some misdeed: “Uncle, I must tell
you, for I’ve been getting very envious, discontented, and bad lately.
No, don’t be good to me yet, for you don’t know how little I deserve it.
Scold me well, and make me see how wicked I am.”

“I will as soon as I know what I am to scold about. Unburden yourself,
child, and let me see all your iniquity, for if you begin by being
jealous of Mac and Phebe, I’m prepared for anything,” said Dr. Alec,
leaning back as if nothing could surprise him now.

“But I am not jealous in that way, sir. I mean I want to be or do
something splendid as well as they. I can’t write poetry or sing like a
bird, but I should think I might have my share of glory in some way. I
thought perhaps I could paint, and I’ve tried, but I can only copy I’ve
no power to invent lovely things, and I’m so discouraged, for that is
my one accomplishment. Do you think I have any gift that could be
cultivated and do me credit like theirs?” she asked so wistfully that
her uncle felt for a moment as if he never could forgive the fairies who
endow babies in their cradles for being so niggardly to his girl. But
one look into the sweet, open face before him reminded him that the good
elves had been very generous and he answered cheerfully: “Yes, I do, for
you have one of the best and noblest gifts a woman can possess. Music
and poetry are fine things, and I don’t wonder you want them, or that
you envy the pleasant fame they bring. I’ve felt just so, and been ready
to ask why it didn’t please heaven to be more generous to some people,
so you needn’t be ashamed to tell me all about it.”

“I know I ought to be contented, but I’m not. My life is very
comfortable, but so quiet and uneventful, I get tired of it and want to
launch out as the others have, and do something, or at least try. I’m
glad you think it isn’t very bad of me, and I’d like to know what my
gift is,” said Rose, looking less despondent already.

“The art of living for others so patiently and sweetly that we enjoy it
as we do the sunshine, and are not half grateful enough for the great
blessing.”

“It is very kind of you to say so, but I think I’d like a little fun and
fame nevertheless.” And Rose did not look as thankful as she ought.

“Very natural, dear, but the fun and the fame do not last, while the
memory of a real helper is kept green long after poetry is forgotten and
music silent. Can’t you believe that, and be happy?”

“But I do so little, nobody sees or cares, and I don’t feel as if I was
really of any use,” sighed Rose, thinking of the long, dull winter, full
of efforts that seemed fruitless.

“Sit here, and let us see if you really do very little and if no one
cares.” And, drawing her to his knee, Dr. Alec went on, telling off each
item on one of the fingers of the soft hand he held.

“First, an infirm old aunt is kept very happy by the patient, cheerful
care of this good-for-nothing niece. Secondly, a crotchety uncle, for
whom she reads, runs, writes, and sews so willingly that he cannot get
on without her. Thirdly, various relations who are helped in various
ways. Fourthly, one dear friend never forgotten, and a certain cousin
cheered by praise which is more to him than the loudest blast Fame could
blow. Fifthly, several young girls find her an example of many good
works and ways. Sixthly, a motherless baby is cared for as tenderly as
if she were a little sister. Seventhly, half a dozen poor ladies made
comfortable; and, lastly, some struggling boys and girls with artistic
longings are put into a pleasant room furnished with casts, studies,
easels, and all manner of helpful things, not to mention free lessons
given by this same idle girl, who now sits upon my knee owning to
herself that her gift is worth having after all.”

“Indeed, I am! Uncle, I’d no idea I had done so many things to please
you, or that anyone guessed how hard I try to fill my place usefully.
I’ve learned to do without gratitude now I’ll learn not to care for
praise, but to be contented to do my best, and have only God know.”

“He knows, and He rewards in His own good time. I think a quiet life
like this often makes itself felt in better ways than one that the world
sees and applauds, and some of the noblest are never known till they
end, leaving a void in many hearts. Yours may be one of these if you
choose to make it so, and no one will be prouder of this success than I,
unless it be Mac.”

The clouds were quite gone now, and Rose was looking straight into her
uncle’s face with a much happier expression when that last word made
it color brightly and the eyes glance away for a second. Then they came
back full of a tender sort of resolution as she said: “That will be
the reward I work for,” and rose, as if ready to be up and doing with
renewed courage.

But her uncle held her long enough to ask quite soberly, though his eyes
laughed: “Shall I tell him that?”

“No, sir, please don’t! When he is tired of other people’s praise, he
will come home, and then I’ll see what I can do for him,” answered Rose,
slipping away to her work with the shy, happy look that sometimes came
to give to her face the charm it needed.

“He is such a thorough fellow, he never is in a hurry to go from one
thing to another. An excellent habit, but a trifle trying to impatient
people like me,” said the doctor and, picking up Dulce, who sat upon
the rug with her dolly, he composed his feelings by tossing her till she
crowed with delight.

Rose heartily echoed that last remark, but said nothing aloud, only
helped her uncle off with dutiful alacrity and, when he was gone, began
to count the days till his return, wishing she had decided to go too.

He wrote often, giving excellent accounts of the “great creatures,” as
Steve called Phebe and Mac, and seemed to find so much to do in various
ways that the second week of absence was nearly over before he set a
day for his return, promising to astonish them with the account of his
adventures.

Rose felt as if something splendid was going to happen and set her
affairs in order so that the approaching crisis might find her fully
prepared. She had “found out” now, was quite sure, and put away all
doubts and fears to be ready to welcome home the cousin whom she was
sure Uncle would bring as her reward. She was thinking of this one day
as she got out her paper to write a long letter to poor Aunt Clara, who
pined for news far away there in Calcutta.

Something in the task reminded her of that other lover whose wooing
ended so tragically, and opening a little drawer of keepsakes, she took
out the blue bracelet, feeling that she owed Charlie a tender thought in
the midst of her new happiness, for of late she had forgotten him.

She had worn the trinket hidden under her black sleeve for a long time
after his death, with the regretful constancy one sometimes shows in
doing some little kindness all too late. But her arm had grown too round
to hide the ornament, the forget-me-nots had fallen one by one,
the clasp had broken, and that autumn she laid the bracelet away,
acknowledging that she had outgrown the souvenir as well as the
sentiment that gave it.

She looked at it in silence for a moment, then put it softly back and,
shutting the drawer, took up the little gray book which was her pride,
thinking as she contrasted the two men and their influence on her life
the one sad and disturbing, the other sweet and inspiring “Charlie’s was
passion Mac’s is love.”

“Rose! Rose!” called a shrill voice, rudely breaking the pensive
reverie, and with a start, she shut the desk, exclaiming as she ran to
the door: “They have come! They have come!”




Chapter 21 HOW PHEBE EARNED HER WELCOME

Dr. Alec had not arrived, but bad tidings had, as Rose guessed the
instant her eyes fell upon Aunt Plenty, hobbling downstairs with her
cap awry, her face pale, and a letter flapping wildly in her hand as she
cried distractedly: “Oh, my boy! My boy! Sick, and I not there to nurse
him! Malignant fever, so far away. What can those children do? Why did I
let Alec go?”

Rose got her into the parlor, and while the poor old lady lamented, she
read the letter which Phebe had sent to her that she might “break the
