disappointed. And you have no need to be anxious." 

"No, I know," he said. "But at times it is hard for faith to get above 
sense. And I am not anxious; only I would like to know how you are going 
to do." 

There was a silence then of some length. 

"Things are pretty unequal in this world," Mr. Carpenter began again. 
"Look at Serena and you. One sister with more than she can use; the other 
talking of sewing for a livelihood! And all because you would marry a 
poor man. A poor reason!" 

"Liph, I had my choice," his wife said, with a shadow of a smile. "She is 
the one to be pitied." 

"Well, I think so," he said. "For if her heart were as roomy as her 
purse, she would have shewn it before now. My dear, do not expect 
anything from Serena. Till next fall you will have the shelter of this 
house; and that will give you time to look about you." 

"Liph, you must not talk so!" his wife cried; and her voice broke. She 
threw herself upon her husband's breast, and they held each other in a 
very long, still, close embrace. 

Mr. Carpenter was quite right in some at least of his expectations. His 
own life was not prolonged to the summer. In one of the last days of a 
rough spring, the time came he had spoken of, when his wife and child 
were left alone. 

She had till fall to look about her. But perhaps, in the bitterness of 
her loneliness, she had not heart to push her search after work with 
sufficient energy. Yet Mrs. Carpenter never lacked energy, and indulged 
herself selfishly no more in grief than she did in joy. More likely it is 
that in the simple region of country she inhabited there was not call 
enough for the work she could do. Work did not come, at any rate. The 
only real opening for her to earn her livelihood, was in the shape of a 
housekeeper's situation with an old bachelor farmer, who was well off and 
had nobody to take care of him. In her destitution, I do not know but 
Mrs. Carpenter might have put up with even this plan; but what was she to 
do with Rotha? So by degrees the thought forced itself upon her that she 
must take up her old notion and go to the great city, where there were 
always people enough to want everything. How to get there, and what to do 
on first arriving there, remained questions. Both were answered. 

As Mr. Carpenter had foreseen, the mortgages came in the fall to 
foreclosure. The sale of the land, however, what he had not foreseen, 
brought in a trifle more than the mortgage amount. To this little sum the 
sale of household goods and furniture and stock, added another somewhat 
larger; so that altogether a few hundreds stood at Mrs. Carpenter's 
disposal. This precisely made her undertaking possible. It was a very 
doubtful undertaking; but what alternative was there? One relation she 
would find, at the least; and another Mrs. Carpenter had not in the wide 
world. She made her preparations very quietly, as she did everything; her 
own child never knew how much heart-break was in them. 

"Shall we go first to aunt Serena's, mother?" Rotha asked one day. 

"No." 

The "no" was short and dry. Rotha's instinct told her she must not ask 
why, but she was disappointed. From a word now and then she had got the 
impression that this relation of theirs was a very rich woman and lived 
accordingly; and fancy had been busy with possibilities. 

"Where then, mother?" 

"Mr. Forbes," he was the storekeeper at the village, "has told me of the 
boarding house he goes to when he goes to New York. We can put up there 
for a night or two, and look out a quiet lodging." 

"What is New York like, mother?" 

"I have never been there, Rotha, and do not know. O it is a city, my 
child; of course; it is not like anything here." 

"How different?" 

"In every possible way." 

"Every way, mother? Aren't the houses like?" 

"Not at all. And the houses there stand close together." 

"There must be room to get about, I suppose?" 

"Those are the streets." 

"No green grass, or trees?" 

"Little patches of grass in the yards." 

"No trees?" 

"No. In some of the fine streets I believe there are shade trees." 

"No gardens, mother?" 

"No." 

"But what do people do for vegetables and things?" 

"They are brought out of the country, and sold in the markets. Don't you 
know Mr. Jones sends his potatoes and his fruit to the city?" 

"Then if you want a potato, you must go to the market and buy it?" 

"Yes." 

"Or an apple, mother?" 

"Yes, or anything." 

"Well I suppose that will do," said Rotha slowly, "if you have money 
enough. I shouldn't think it was pleasant. Do the houses stand close 
together?" 

"So close, that you cannot lay a pin between them." 

"I should want to have very good neighbours, then." 

Rotha was innocently touching point after point of doubt and dread in her 
mother's mind. Presently she touched another. 

"I don't think it sounds pleasant, mother. Suppose we should not like it 
after we get there?" 

Mrs. Carpenter did not answer. 

"What then, mother? Would you come back again, if we did not like it 
there?" 

"There would be no place to come to, here, any more, my child. I hope we 
shall find it comfortable where we are going." 

"Then you don't know?" said Rotha. "And perhaps we shall not! But, 
mother, that would be dreadful, if we did not like it!" 

"I hope you would help me to bear it." 

"I!" said Rotha. "You don't want help to bear anything; do you, mother?" 

An involuntary gush of tears came at this appeal; they were not suffered 
to overflow. 

"I should not be able to bear much without help, Rotha. Want help? yes, I 
want it--and I have it. God sends nothing to his children but he sends 
help too; else," said Mrs. Carpenter, brushing her hand across her eyes, 
"they would not last long! But, Rotha, lie means that we should help each 
other too." 

"I help you?" 

"Yes, certainly. You can, a great deal." 

"That seems very funny. Mother, what is wrong about aunt Serena?" said 
Rotha, following a very direct chain of ideas. 

"I hope nothing is wrong about her." 

