such a rate.

He tried his bow and shot all his arrows many times in vain, for the
lively creatures gave him no chance.  He had better luck with a brown
bird who sat in a bush and was hit full in the breast with the sharpest
arrow.  The poor thing fluttered and fell, and its blood wet the green
leaves as it lay dying on the grass.  Tommy was much pleased at first;
but as he stood watching its bright eye grow dim and its pretty brown
wings stop fluttering, he felt sorry that its happy little life was so
cruelly ended, and ashamed that his thoughtless fun had given so much
pain.

"I ’ll never shoot another bird except hawks after chickens, and I won’t
brag about this one. It was so tame, and trusted me, I was very mean to
kill it."

As he thought this, Tommy smoothed the ruffled feathers of the dead
thrush, and, making a little grave under the pine, buried it wrapped in
green leaves, and left it there where its mate could sing over it, and
no rude hands disturb its rest.

"I ’ll tell mamma and she will understand; but I won’t tell Billy.  He
is such a greedy old chap he’ll say I ought to have kept the poor bird
to eat," thought Tommy, as he went back to the hut, and sat there,
restringing his bow, till Billy woke up, much more amiable for his
sleep.

They tried to find the woodchuck, but lost their way, and wandered
deeper into the great forest till they came to a rocky place and could
go no farther.  They climbed up and tumbled down, turned back and went
round, looked at the sun and knew it was late, chewed sassafras bark and
checkerberry leaves for supper, and grew more and more worried and tired
as hour after hour went by and they saw no end to woods and rocks.  Once
or twice they heard the hunter’s gun far away, and called and tried to
find him.

Tommy scolded Billy for not going with the man, who knew his way and was
probably safe in the valley when the last faint shot came up to them.
Billy cried, and reproached Tommy for proposing to run away; and both
felt very homesick for their mothers and their good safe beds at Farmer
Mullin’s.

The sun set, and found them in a dreary place full of rocks and blasted
trees half-way up the mountain.  They were so tired they could hardly
walk, and longed to lie down anywhere to sleep; but, remembering the
hunter’s story of the bear, they were afraid to do it, till Tommy
suggested climbing a tree, after making a fire at the foot of it to
scare away the bear, lest he climb too and get them.

But, alas! the matches were left in their first camp; so they decided to
take turns to sleep and watch, since it was plain that they must spend
the night there.  Billy went up first, and creeping into a good notch of
the bare tree tried to sleep, while brave Tommy, armed with a big stick,
marched to and fro below.  Every few minutes a trembling voice would
call from above, "Is anything coming?" and an anxious voice would answer
from below, "Not yet. Hurry up and go to sleep!  I want my turn."

At last Billy began to snore, and then Tommy felt so lonely he could n’t
bear it; so he climbed to a lower branch, and sat nodding and trying to
keep watch, till he too fell fast asleep, and the early moon saw the
poor boys roosting there like two little owls.

A loud cry, a scrambling overhead, and then a great shaking and howling
waked Tommy so suddenly that he lost his wits for a moment and did not
know where he was.

"The bear! the bear! don’t let him get me! Tommy, Tommy, come and make
him let go," cried Billy, filling the quiet night with dismal howls.

Tommy looked up, expecting to behold a large bear eating his unhappy
friend; but the moonlight showed him nothing but poor Billy dangling
from a bough, high above the ground, caught by his belt when he fell.
He had been dreaming of bears, and rolled off his perch; so there he
hung, kicking and wailing, half awake, and so scared it was long before
Tommy could make him believe that he was quite safe.

How to get him down was the next question. The branch was not strong
enough to bear Tommy, though he climbed up and tried to unhook poor
Billy.  The belt was firmly twisted at the back, and Billy could not
reach to undo it, nor could he get his legs round the branch to pull
himself up.  There seemed no way but to unbuckle the belt and drop.
That he was afraid to try; for the ground was hard, and the fall a high
one.  Fortunately both belt and buckle were strong; so he hung safely,
though very uncomfortably, while Tommy racked his boyish brain to find a
way to help him.

Billy had just declared that he should be cut in two very soon if
something was not done for him, and Tommy was in despair, when they
thought they heard a far-off shout, and both answered it till their
throats were nearly split with screaming.

"I seem to see a light moving round down that way," cried Billy from his
hook, pointing toward the valley.

"They are looking for us, but they won’t hear us.  I ’ll run and holler
louder, and bring ’em up here," answered Tommy, glad to do anything that
would put an end to this dreadful state of things.

"Don’t leave me!  I may fall and be killed! The bear might come!  Don’t
go! don’t go!" wailed Billy, longing to drop, but afraid.

"I won’t go far, and I ’ll come back as quick as I can.  You are safe up
there.  Hold on, and we ’ll soon get you down," answered Tommy, rushing
away helter-skelter, never minding where he went, and too much excited
to care for any damage.

The moon was bright on the blasted trees; but when he came down among
the green pines, it grew dark, and he often stumbled and fell. Never
minding bumps and bruises, he scrambled over rocks, leaped fallen
trunks, floundered through brooks, and climbed down steep places, till,
with a reckless jump, he went heels over head into a deep hole, and lay
there for a moment stunned by the fall.  It was an old bear-trap, long
unused, and fortunately well carpeted with dead leaves, or poor Tommy
would have broken his bones.

When he came to himself he was so used up that he lay still for some
time in a sort of daze, too tired to know or care about anything, only
dimly conscious that somebody was lost in a tree or a well, and that, on
the whole, running away was not all fun.

By and by the sound of a gun roused him; and remembering poor Billy, he
tried to get out of the pit,--for the moon showed him where he was.  But
it was too deep, and he was too stiff with weariness and the fall to be
very nimble.  So he shouted, and whistled, and raged about very like a
little bear caught in the pit.

It is very difficult to find a lost person on these great mountains, and
many wander for hours not far from help, bewildered by the thick woods,
the deep ravines, and precipices which shut them in.  Some have lost
their lives; and as Tommy lay on the leaves used up by his various
struggles, he thought of all the stories he had lately heard at the
farm, and began to wonder how it would feel to starve to death down
there, and to wish poor Billy could come to share his prison, that they
might die together, like the Babes in the Wood, or better still the Boy
Scouts lost on the prairies in that thrilling story, "Bill Boomerang,
the Wild Hunter of the West."

"I guess mother is worried this time, because I never stayed out all
night before, and I never will again without leave.  It’s rather good
fun, though, if they only find me.  I ain’t afraid, and it is n’t very
cold.  I always wanted to sleep out, and now I ’m doing it.  Wish poor
Billy was safely down and in this good bed with me. Won’t he be scared
all alone there?  Maybe the belt will break and he get hurt bumping
down. Sorry now I left him, he’s such a ’fraid-cat. There’s the gun
again!  Guess it’s that man after us.  Hi! hollo!  Here I am!  Whoop!
Hurrah! Hi! hi! hi!"

Tommy’s meditations ended in a series of yells as loud as his shrill
little voice could make them, and he thought some one answered.  But it
must have been an echo, for no one came; and after another rampage round
his prison, the poor boy nestled down among the leaves, and went fast
asleep because there was nothing else to do.

So there they were, the two young hunters, lost at midnight on the
mountain,--one hanging like an apple on the old tree, and the other
sound asleep in a bear-pit.  Their distracted mothers meantime were
weeping and wringing their hands at the farm, while all the men in the
neighborhood were out looking for the lost boys.  The hunter on his
return to the hotel had reported meeting the runaways and his effort to
send them home in good season; so people knew where to look, and, led by
