
“You’re too modest, Mrs. Brinkley.”

“No, really. There ought to be some men among us--men without morrows.
Now, why don’t you and my husband set an example to your sex? Why don’t
you relax your severe sense of duty? Why need you insist upon being at
your offices every morning at nine? Why don’t you fling off these habits
of lifelong industry, and be gracefully indolent in the interest of the
higher civilisation?”

Bromfield Corey looked round at her with a smile of relish for her
satire. Her husband was a notoriously lazy man, who had chosen to live
restrictedly upon an inherited property rather than increase it by the
smallest exertion.

“Do you think we could get Andy Pasmer to join us?”

“No, I can’t encourage you with that idea. You must get on without Mr.
Pasmer; he’s going back to Europe with his son-in-law.”

“Do you mean that their girl’s married?”

“No-engaged. It’s just out.”

“Well, I must say Mrs. Pasmer has made use of her time.” He too liked to
imply that it was all an effect of her manoeuvring, and that the young
people had nothing to do with it; this survival from European fiction
dies hard. “Who is the young man?”

Mrs. Brinkley gave him an account of Dan Mavering as she had seen him at
Campobello, and of his family as she just heard of them. “Mr. Munt was
telling me about them as you came up.”

“Why, was that John Munt?”

“Yes; didn’t you know him?”

“No,” said Corey sadly. “I don’t know anybody nowadays. I seem to be
going to pieces every way. I don’t call sixty-nine such a very great
age.”

“Not at all!” cried Mrs. Brinkley. “I’m fifty-four myself, and
Brinkley’s sixty.”

“But I feel a thousand years old. I don’t see people, and when I do I
don’t know ‘em. My head’s in a cloud.” He let it hang heavily; then
he lifted it, and said: “He’s a nice, comfortable fellow, Munt is. Why
didn’t he stop and talk a bit?”

“Well, Munt’s modest, you know; and I suppose he thought he might be the
third that makes company a crowd. Besides, nobody stops and talks a bit
at these things. They’re afraid of boring or being bored.”

“Yes, they’re all in as unnatural a mood as if they were posing for a
photograph. I wonder who invented this sort of thing? Do you know,” said
the old man, “that I think it’s rather worse with us than with any other
people? We’re a simple, sincere folk, domestic in our instincts, not
gregarious or frivolous in any way; and when we’re wrenched away
from our firesides, and packed in our best clothes into Jane’s gilded
saloons, we feel vindictive; we feel wicked. When the Boston being
abandons himself--or herself--to fashion, she suffers a depravation into
something quite lurid. She has a bad conscience, and she hardens her
heart with talk that’s tremendously cynical. It’s amusing,” said Corey,
staring round him purblindly at the groups and files of people surging
and eddying past the corner where he sat with Mrs. Brinkley.

“No; it’s shocking,” said his companion. “At any rate, you mustn’t say
such things, even if you think them. I can’t let you go too far, you
know. These young people think it heavenly, here.”

She took with him the tone that elderly people use with those older than
themselves who have begun to break; there were authority and patronage
in it. At the bottom of her heart she thought that Bromfield Corey
should not have been allowed to come; but she determined to keep him
safe and harmless as far as she could.

From time to time the crowd was a stationary mass in front of them; then
it dissolved and flowed away, to gather anew; there were moments when
the floor near them was quite vacant; then it was inundated again with
silken trains. From another part of the house came the sound of music,
and most of the young people who passed went two and two, as if they
were partners in the dance, and had come out of the ball-room between
dances. There was a good deal of nervous talk, politely subdued among
them; but it was not the note of unearthly rapture which Mrs. Brinkley’s
conventional claim had implied; it was self-interested, eager, anxious;
and was probably not different from the voice of good society anywhere.




XXXVI.

“Why, there’s Dan Mavering now!” said Mrs. Brinkley, rather to herself
than to her companion. “And alone!”

Dan’s face showed above most of the heads and shoulders about him; it
was flushed, and looked troubled and excited. He caught sight of Mrs.
Brinkley, and his eyes brightened joyfully. He slipped quickly through
the crowd, and bowed over her hand, while he stammered out, without
giving her a chance for reply till the end: “O Mrs. Brinkley, I’m so
glad to see you! I’m going--I want to ask a great favour of you, Mrs.
Brinkley. I want to bring--I want to introduce some friends of mine to
you--some ladies, Mrs. Brinkley; very nice people I met last summer at
Portland. Their father--General Wrayne--has been building some railroads
down East, and they’re very nice people; but they don’t know any
one--any ladies--and they’ve been looking at the pictures ever since
they came. They’re very good pictures; but it isn’t an exhibition!” He
broke down with a laugh.

“Why, of course, Mr. Mavering; I shall be delighted,” said Mrs.
Brinkley, with a hospitality rendered reckless by her sympathy with the
young fellow. “By all means!”

“Oh; thanks!--thank you aver so much!” said Dan. “I’ll bring them to
you--they’ll understand!” He slipped into the crowd again.

Corey made an offer of going. Mrs. Brinkley stopped him with her fan.
“No--stay, Mr. Corey. Unless you wish to go. I fancy it’s the people you
were talking about, and you must help me through with them.”

“I ask nothing better,” said the old man, unresentful of Dan’s having
not even seemed to see him, in his generous preoccupation. “I should
like to see how you’ll get on, and perhaps I can be of use.”

“Of course you can--the greatest.”

“But why hasn’t he introduced them to his Pasmers? What? Eh? Oh!”
 Corey made these utterances in response to a sharper pressure of Mrs.
Brinkley’s fan on his arm.

Dan was opening a way through the crowd before them for two ladies, whom
he now introduced. “Mrs. Frobisher, Mrs. Brinkley; and Miss Wrayne.”

Mrs. Brinkley cordially gave her hand to the ladies, and said, “May I
introduce Mr. Corey? Mr. Mavering, let me introduce you to Mr. Corey.”
 The old man rose and stood with the little group.

Dan’s face shone with flattered pride and joyous triumph. He bubbled
out some happy incoherencies about the honour and pleasure, while at the
same time he beamed with tender gratitude upon Mrs. Brinkley, who was
behaving with a gracious, humorous kindliness to the aliens cast upon
her mercies. Mrs. Frobisher, after a half-hour of Boston society,
was not that presence of easy gaiety which crossed Dan’s path on the
Portland pavement the morning of his arrival from Campobello; but she
was still a handsome, effective woman, of whom you would have hesitated
to say whether she was showy or distinguished. Perhaps she was a little
of both, with an air of command bred of supremacy in frontier garrisons;
her sister was like her in the way that a young girl may be like a young
matron. They blossomed alike in the genial atmosphere of Mrs. Brinkley
and of Mr. Corey. He began at once to make bantering speeches with them
both. The friendliness of an old man and a stout elderly woman might not
have been their ideal of success at an evening party, used as they were
to the unstinted homage of young captains and lieutenants, but a brief
experience of Mrs. Bellingham’s hospitality must have taught them
humility; and when a stout, elderly gentleman, whose baldness was still
trying to be blond, joined the group, the spectacle was not without
its points of resemblance to a social ovation. Perhaps it was a Boston
social ovation.

“Hallo, Corey!” said this stout gentleman, whom Mrs. Brinkley at once
