It was clear that in galloping by her side at full speed Alexander's
head had struck violently against a heavy branch, which grew lower than
the rest. His eyes had been turned on her, and he had not seen the
danger. The branch was so placed that Hermione, lowering her head to
avoid the leaves, as she looked straight before, had passed under it in
safety; whereas her cousin must have struck full upon the thickest part,
three or four feet nearer to the tree. At the pace they were riding, the
blow might well have been fatal; and as the moments passed and the
injured man showed no signs of life, Hermione's heart beat faster and
her face grew whiter. Her first thought was of his mother, and a keen,
sharp fear shot through her as she thought of the dreadful moment when
Madame Patoff must be told; but the next instant brought her a feeling
of far deeper horror. He had been hurt almost while speaking words of
love to her; he had struck his head because he was looking at her
instead of before him, and it was in some measure her fault, for she had
urged the speed of that foolish race. She bent down over him, and the
tears started to her eyes. She tried to listen for the beating of his
heart, and, opening his coat, she laid her ear to his breast. Something
cold touched her cheek, and she quickly raised her head again and looked
down. It was a small flat silver flask which he carried in the pocket of
his waistcoat, and which in the fall had slipped up from its place.
Hermione withdrew it eagerly and unscrewed the cap. It contained some
kind of spirits, and she poured a little between his parted lips.

The deathly features contracted a little, and the eyelids quivered. She
poured the brandy into the palm of her hand, and chafed his temples and
forehead. Alexander drew a long breath and slowly opened his eyes; then
shut them again; then, after a few moments, opened them wide, stared,
and uttered an exclamation of surprise in Russian.

"Are you better?" asked Hermione, breathlessly. "I thought you were
dead."

"No, I am all right," he said, faintly, trying to raise himself. But his
head swam, and he fell back, once more insensible. This time, however,
the fainting fit did not last long, and he soon opened his eyes again
and looked at Hermione without speaking. She continued to rub the
spirits upon his forehead. Then he put out his hand and grasped the
flask she held, and drank a long draught from it.

"It is nothing," he said. "I can get up now, thank you." He struggled to
his feet, leaning on the young girl's arm. "How did it happen?" he
asked. "I cannot remember anything."

"You must have struck your head against that branch," answered Hermione,
pointing to the thick bough which projected over the lane. "Do you feel
better?"

"Yes. I can mount in a minute," he replied, steadying himself. "I have
had a bad shaking, and my head hurts me. It is nothing serious."

"Better sit down for a few minutes, until the others come up," suggested
the young girl, who was surprised to see him recover himself so quickly.
He seemed glad enough to follow her advice, and they sat down together
on the mossy bank.

"It was my fault," said Hermione, penitently. "It was so foolish of me
to ride fast in such a place."

"Women care for nothing but galloping when they are on horseback," said
Alexander. It was not a very civil speech, and though Hermione forgave
him because he was half stunned with pain, the words rang unpleasantly
in her ear. He might have been satisfied, she thought, when she owned
that it was her fault. It was not generous to agree with her so
unhesitatingly. She wondered whether Paul would have spoken like that.

"Do you really think you can ride back?" she asked, in a colder tone.

"Certainly," he said; "provided we ride slowly. What can have become of
uncle John and Griggs?"

Uncle John and Griggs were at that moment wondering what had become of
the two young people. We had ridden on to the top of the hill, and had
stopped on reaching the open space near the Khedive's farm, where there
is a beautiful view, and where we expected to find our companions
waiting for us. But we were surprised to see no one there. After a great
deal of hesitation we agreed that John Carvel, who did not know the
forest, should follow the main road down the hill on the other side,
while I rode back over the way we had come. I suspected that Alexander
and Hermione had taken the wrong turn, and I was more anxious about them
than I would show. The forest is indeed said to be safe, but hardly a
year passes without some solitary rider being molested by gypsies or
wandering thieves, if he has ventured too far from the beaten tracks. I
rode as fast as I could, but it was nearly twenty minutes before I
struck into the hollow lane. I found the pair seated on the bank, a mile
further on, and Hermione hailed me with delight. Everything was
explained in a few words. Alexander seemed sufficiently recovered from
his accident to get into the saddle, and we were soon walking our horses
back towards the maidám of Buyukdere. Neither Alexander nor Hermione
talked much by the way, and we were all glad when we reached the tiny
bazaar, and were picking out way over the uneven street, amongst the
coppersmiths, the lounging soldiers, the solemn narghylè smokers, the
kaffejis, the beggars, and the half-naked children.

On that evening, two things occurred which precipitated the course of
events. John Carvel had an interview with Hermione, and I had a most
unlucky idea. John Carvel's mind was disturbed concerning the future of
his only daughter, and though he was not a man who hastily took fright,
his character was such that when once persuaded that things were not as
they should be, he never hesitated as to the course he should pursue.
Accordingly, that night he called Hermione into his study, and
determined to ask her for an explanation. The poor girl was nervous, for
she suspected trouble, and did not see very clearly how it could be
avoided.

"Sit down, Hermy," said John, establishing himself in a deep chair with
a cigar. "I want to talk with you, my dear."

"Yes, papa," answered Hermione, meekly.

"Hermy, do you mean to marry Paul, or not? Don't be nervous, my child,
but think the matter over before you answer. If you mean to have him, I
have no objection to the match; but if you do not mean to, I would like
to know. That is all. You know you spoke to me about it in England
before we left home. Things have been going on a long time now, and yet
Paul has said nothing to me about it."

It was impossible to put the matter more clearly than this, and Hermione
knew it. She said nothing for some minutes, but sat staring out of the
window at the dark water, where the boats moved slowly about, each
bearing a little light at the bow. Far down the quay a band was playing
the eternal Stella Confidente, which has become a sort of national air
in Turkey. The strains floated in through the window, and the young girl
struggled hard to concentrate her thoughts, which somehow wound
themselves in and out of the music in a very irrelevant manner.

"Must I answer now, papa?" she asked at last, almost desperately.

"My dear," replied the inexorable John, in kind tones, "I cannot see why
you should not. You are probably in very much the same state of mind
to-night as you were in yesterday, or as you will be in to-morrow. It is
better to settle the matter and be done with it. I do not believe that a
fortnight, a month, or even a longer time will make any perceptible
difference in your ideas about this matter." He puffed at his cigar, and
again looked at his daughter.

"Hermy," he continued, after another interval of silence, "if you do not
mean to marry Paul, you are treating him very badly. You are letting
that idiot of a brother of his make love to you from morning till
night."

"Oh, papa! How can you!" exclaimed Hermione, who was not accustomed to
hearing any kind of strong language from her father.

"Idiot,--yes, my dear, that expresses it very well. He is my nephew, and
I have a right to call him an idiot if I please. I believe the fellow
wears stays, and curls his hair with tongs. He has a face like a girl,
and he talks unmitigated rubbish."

"I thought you liked him, papa," objected Hermione. "I do not think he
is at all as silly as you say he is. He is very agreeable."

"I have no objection to him," retorted John Carvel. "I tolerate him.
Toleration is not liking. He fascinated us all for a day or two, but it
did not last long; that sort of fascination never does."

There was another long pause. The band had finished the Stella
Confidente, and ran on without stopping to the performance of the
drinking chorus in the Traviata. Hermione twisted her fingers
together, and bit her lips. Her father's opinion of Alexander was a
