originally devised, and it was in connection with that transfer that he
was taxed with old-world folly. But the matter was misunderstood and
afterward forgotten, and only raked up again when the press of two
continents busied itself with his name. At that time he was in his
twenty-fifth or twenty-sixth year.

He was slender, of medium height, blue of eye, and clear-featured. His
hair, which was light in color, he wore brushed upward and back from the
forehead. When he walked, it was with a slight stoop, which was the more
noticeable in that, being nearsighted, he had a way of holding his chin
out and raising his eyebrows as though he were peering at something
which he could not quite discern. In his face there was a charm that
grew and delighted and fastened on the beholder. At the age of
twenty-six he would have been recognized by anyone who had known him as
a boy. He had expanded, of course, and a stoop and dimness of vision had
come with years; but in his face was the same unmistakable, almost
childish, expression of sweet good-will.

His school-days were passed at Concord. When he first appeared there he
looked so much like a pretty girl, in his manner was such gentleness,
and his nature was found to be so vibrant and sensitive, that his
baptismal name was promptly shortened into Trissy. But by the time he
reached the fourth form it was lengthened back again to its rightful
shape. This change was the result of an evolution of opinion. One day
while some companions, with whom he happened to be loitering, scurried
behind a fence, he stopped a runaway horse, clinging to the bridle
though his arm had been dislocated in the earliest effort. Another time,
when a comrade had been visited, unjustly it appeared, with some
terrible punishment--five hundred lines, perhaps, or something equally
direful--Tristrem made straight for the master, and argued with him to
such effect that the punishment was remitted. And again, when a tutor
asked how it was that there was no W in the French language, Tristrem
answered, "Because of Waterloo."

Boys are generous in their enthusiasms; they like bravery, they are not
deaf to wit, but perhaps of all other things they admire justice most.
And Tristrem seemed to exhale it. It is said that everyone has a
particular talent for some one thing, whether for good or evil, and the
particular talent which was accorded to Tristrem Varick was that of
appreciation. He was a born umpire. In disputes his school-fellows
turned to him naturally, and accepted his verdict without question. When
he reached the altitudes which the Upper School offers, no other boy at
St. Paul's was better liked than he. At that time the form of which he
was a member--and in which, parenthetically, he ranked rather low--was
strengthened by a new-comer, a turbulent, precocious boy who had been
expelled from two other schools, and with whom, so ran the gossip, it
would go hard were he expelled again. His name was Royal Weldon, and on
his watch, and on a seal ring which he wore on his little finger, he
displayed an elaborate coat-of-arms under which for legend were the
words, Well done, Weldon, words which it was reported an English king
had bawled in battle, ennobling as he did so the earliest Weldon known
to fame.

Between the two lads, and despite the dissimilarity of their natures, or
perhaps precisely on that account, there sprang up a warm friendship
which propinquity cemented, for chance or the master had given them a
room in common. At first, Tristrem fairly blinked at Weldon's precocity,
and Weldon, who was accustomed to be admired, took to Tristrem not
unkindly on that account. But after a time Tristrem ceased to blink and
began to lecture, not priggishly at all, but in a persuasive manner that
was hard to resist. For Weldon was prone to get into difficulties, and
equally prone to make the difficulties worse than they need have been.
When cross-questioned he would decline to answer; it was a trick he had.
Now Tristrem never got into difficulties, except with Latin prosody or a
Greek root, and he was frank to a fault.

It so happened that one day the headmaster summoned Tristrem to him. "My
dear," he said, "Royal is not acting quite as he should, is he?" To this
Tristrem made no reply. "He is a motherless boy," the master continued,
"a poor motherless boy. I wish, Tristrem, that you would use your
influence with him. I see but one course open to me, unless he does
better--" Tristrem was a motherless boy himself, but he answered bravely
that he would do what he could. That evening, as he was battling with
the platitudes of that Augustan bore who is called the Bard of Mantua,
presumably because he was born in Andes--Weldon came in, smelling of
tobacco and drink. It was evident that he had been to town.

Tristrem looked up from his task, and as he looked he heard the step of
a tutor in the hall. He knew, if the tutor had speech with Weldon, that
on the morrow Weldon would leave the school. In a second he had seated
him before the open dictionary, and in another second he was kneeling at
his own bedside. Hardly had he bowed his head when there came a rap at
the door, the tutor entered, saw the kneeling figure, apologized in a
whisper, and withdrew.

When Tristrem stood up again, Weldon was sobered and very pale.
"Tristrem--" he began, but Tristrem interrupted him. "There, don't say
anything, and don't do it again. To-morrow you had better talk it over
with the doctor."

Weldon declined to talk it over with anyone, but after that he behaved
himself with something approaching propriety. Two years later, in
company with his friend, he entered Harvard, from which institution he
was subsequently dropped.

Tristrem meanwhile struggled through the allotted four years. He was not
brilliant in his studies, the memorizing of abstruse questions and
recondite problems was not to his liking. He preferred modern tongues to
dead languages, an intricate fugue was more to his taste than the
simplest equation, and to his shame it must be noted that he read
Petrarch at night. But, though the curriculum was not entirely to his
fancy, he was conscientious and did his best. There are answers that he
gave in class that are quoted still, tangential flights that startled
the listeners into new conceptions of threadbare themes, totally
different from the usual cut and dried response that is learned by rote.
And at times he would display an ignorance, a stupidity even, that was
fathomless in its abysses.

After graduation, he went abroad. England seemed to him like a rose in
bloom, but when autumn came and with it a succession of fogs, each more
depressing than the last, he fled to Italy, and wandered among her
ghosts and treasuries, and then drifted up again through Germany, to
Paris, where he gave his mornings to the Sorbonne and his evenings to
orchestra-stalls.




II.


It was after an absence of nearly five years that Tristrem Varick
returned to the States. He had wearied of foreign lands, and for some
time previous he had thought of New York in such wise that it had grown
in his mind, and in the growing it had assumed a variety of attractive
attributes. He was, therefore, much pleased at the prospect of renewing
his acquaintance with Fifth Avenue, and during the homeward journey he
pictured to himself the advantages which his native city possessed over
any other which he had visited.

He had not, however, been many hours on shore before he found that Fifth
Avenue had shrunk. In some unaccountable way the streets had lost their
charm, the city seemed provincial. He was perplexed at the discovery
that the uniform if depthless civility of older civilizations was rarely
observable; he was chagrined to find that the minuti√¶ which, abroad,
he had accepted as a matter of course, the thousand trifles which
amount, after all, to nothing particularly indispensable, but which
serve to make mere existence pleasant, were, when not overlooked,
inhibited by statute or custom.

In the course of a week he was surprised into reflecting that, while no
other country was more naturally and bountifully favored than his own,
there was yet no other where the art of living was as vexatiously
misunderstood.

Of these impressions he said nothing. His father asked him no questions,
nor did he manifest a desire for any larger sociological information
than that which he already possessed. His grandfather was too irascible
for anyone to venture with in safety through the shallows of European
refinements, and of other relatives Tristrem could not boast. Few of his
former friends were at once discoverable, and of those that he
encountered some had fallen into the rut and routine of business life,
some had married and sent in their resignations to everything but the
Humdrum, and some passed their days in an effort to catch a train.

For the moment, therefore, there was no one to whom Tristrem could
confide his earliest impressions, and in a month's time the force of
these impressions waned; the difference between New York and Paris lost
much of its accent, and in its place came a growing admiration for the
pluck and power of the nation, an expanding enthusiasm for the stretch
