



III.


In a city like New York it is not an easy task, nor is it always a
profitable one, to besiege a young person that is fortressed in her
father's house. And when the house has a cousin for sentinel, and that
cousin is jealous, the difficulty is increased. But, time and tact
aiding, what obstacle may not be removed?

Roland understood all this very thoroughly, and on the day succeeding
his return from Tuxedo he examined the directory, strolled into Wall
Street, and there, at the shingle of Dunellen, Metuchen, & Such, sent in
a card to the senior member of the firm.

The Hon. Paul Dunellen--Honest Paul, to the world in which he moved--was
a man who in his prime must have been of glad and gallant appearance;
but latterly he had shrunk: his back had bent almost into a hump, he
held his head lower than his shoulders, but with uplifted chin--a habit
which gave him the appearance of being constantly occupied in peering at
something which he could not quite discern, an appearance that was
heightened by his eyes, which were restless, and by his brows, which
were tormented and bushy. He had an ample mouth: when he spoke, the
furrows in his cheeks moved with it. His nose was prominent; all his
features, even to his ears, were larger than the average mould. When
Roland was admitted to the room in which he sat, the first impression
which he got from him was that of massiveness in decay.

"Mr. Mistrial, I am glad to see you. I knew your father, and I had the
honor of knowing your grandfather as well. Will you not take a seat?"
The old man had half risen, and in this greeting made manifest something
of that courtesy which we are learning to forget.

"You are very kind," Roland answered. "It is because of my father that
I venture to call. If I interrupt you, though"--and Roland, apparently
hesitant, occupied himself in a study of his host--"if I do," he
continued, "I beg you will allow me to come again."

To this suggestion Mr. Dunellen refused to listen; but during the
moments that followed, as Roland succinctly one after the other
enumerated the facts in the case of his lost inheritance, the lawyer did
listen; and he listened, moreover, with that air of concentrated
attention which is the surest encouragement to him who has aught to say.
And when Roland had completed the tale of his grievance, he nodded, and
stroked his chin.

"The matter is perfectly clear," he announced, "though I can't say as
much for the law. Undue influence is evident. The trouble will be to
invalidate a gift made during the lifetime of the donor; but--" And Mr.
Dunellen made a gesture as who should say, It is for that that courts
were established. "Yet, tell me, why is it that you have done nothing
about it before?"

To this Roland made no immediate reply. He lowered his eyes. "Paralysis
is written in your face," he mused. Then aloud and rather sadly: "The
fairest patrimony is an honored name," he said. "It is for me to guard
my father's reputation. It is only recently, stress of circumstances
aiding, I have thought that without publicity some compromise might
possibly be effected." He looked up again, and as he looked he assured
himself that the old man would not outlast the year.

"Well, Mr. Mistrial, you must let me quote the speech a lord made to a
commoner, 'You are not a noble, sir, but you are worthy of being one.'"
And Mr. Dunellen reaching out caught Roland's hand and shook it in his
own. "I enter thoroughly into your delicacy the more readily because I
do not encounter it every day--no, nor every month. It does me good--on
my word it does. Now, if a compromise can, as you suggest, be effected,
and you care to leave the matter in my hands, I will do my best to serve
you. It may take some little time, we must seem neither zealous nor
impatient, and meanwhile--h'm--I understood you to say something about
your circumstances. Now if I can be of any--"

This offer Roland interrupted. "You are truly very kind, sir," he broke
in, "and I thank you with all my heart. All the more so even because I
must refuse. I have been badly brought up, I know; you see, I never
expected that it would be necessary for me to earn my own living; yet if
it is, I cannot begin too soon: but what would the end be if I began by
borrowing money?"

As Roland delivered this fine speech he was the image of Honesty arrayed
in a Piccadilly coat. He rose from his seat. "I am detaining you, I am
sure. Let me get the papers together and bring them to you to-morrow."

"Do so, by all means," Mr. Dunellen answered, rising too. "Do so, by all
means. But wait: to-morrow I may be absent. Could you not send them to
my house this evening, or better still, bring them yourself? It would
give me pleasure to have my daughter meet a man who is the moral
portrait of his grandfather."

"Your daughter!" Roland exclaimed. "It is not possible that she is the
Miss Dunellen whom I saw the other day at Tuxedo."

"With Mrs. Metuchen? Why, of course it is." And the lawyer looked as
surprised as his client. "This is indeed a coincidence. But you will
come, will you not?"

"I shall consider it a privilege to do so," Roland, with a charming
affectation of modesty, replied; and presently, when he found himself in
the street again, he saw, stretching out into beckoning vistas, a
high-road paved with promises of prompt success.

And that evening, when the papers had been delivered, and Mr. Dunellen,
leaving the guest to his daughter's care, had gone with them to his
study, Roland could not help but feel that on that high-road his footing
was assured; for, on entering the drawing-room, Justine had greeted him
as one awaited and welcome, and now that her father had gone she
motioned him to a seat at her side.

"Tell me," she said, "what is it you do to people? There is Mrs.
Metuchen, who pretends to abominate young men, and openly admires you.
To-day you captured my father; by to-morrow you will be friends with
Guy."

"With Guy?" Mechanically Roland repeated the phrase. Then at once into
the very core of memory entered the lancinating pang of a nerve exposed.
During the second that followed, in that tumult of visions that visits
him who awakes from a swoon, there came to him the effort made in Tuxedo
to recall in what manner the name of Dunellen was familiar to his ears;
but that instantly departed, and in its stead came a face one blur of
tears, and behind it a stripling livid with hate. Could that be Guy? If
it were, then indeed would the high-road narrow into an alley, with a
dead wall at the end. Yet of the inward distress he gave no outward
sign. About his thin lips a smile still played, and as he repeated the
phrase he looked, as he always did, confident and self-possessed.

"Yes, I am sure you will like each other," the girl answered; "all the
more so perhaps because no two people could be less alike. Guy, you see,
is--"

But whatever description she may have intended to give remained
unexpressed. A porti√®re had been drawn, and some one was entering the
room. Roland, whose back was toward the door, turned obliquely and
looked.

"Why, there he is!" he heard Justine exclaim; and in the man that stood
there he saw the stripling he had just evoked. Into the palms of his
hands a moisture came, yet as Justine proceeded with some form of
introduction he rose to his feet. "So you are the cousin," he mused; and
then, with a bow in which he put the completest indifference, he resumed
his seat.

"We were just talking of you," Justine continued. "Why didn't you come
in last night?"

"It is snowing," the cousin remarked, inconsequently, and sat himself
down.

"Dr. Thorold, you know;" and Justine, turning to Mistrial, began to
relate one of those little anecdotes which are serviceable when
conversation drags.

As she ran on, Roland, apparently attentive, marked that one of
Thorold's feet was moving uneasily, and divined rather than saw that the
fingers of his hand were clinched. "He is working himself up," he
reflected. "Well, let him; it will make it the easier for me." And as he
told himself this he turned on Thorold a glance which he was prepared
to instantly divert. But the physician was not looking; he sat
