
"They say they shipped to fight the Yankees, and they are not going to
do such work as lighting up the steamer."

"Perhaps we can bring them to their senses," said Christy, as he ordered
Beeks to give way again.

A few strokes of the oars enabled the officers in the stern sheets to
obtain a full view of the Teaser, and she looked like a trim little
steamer of about two hundred tons. She was rather long, and she had a
very sharp bow. The reports gave her the reputation of being a very fast
sailer.

"Let every man have his arms in order," said Christy impressively, in a
low tone. "Give way with a will, and when you unship your oars have your
weapons ready, though I hardly think you will have to use them at
present."

As the boat dashed towards the little steamer, the sounds of an
altercation came over the water. The angry voice of the captain, if
the late speaker was the captain, and several others were heard in a
dispute; and as the boat came alongside the report of a pistol indicated
that the belligerents were in earnest.

Christy sprang upon the deck of the Teaser, with his revolver in his
hand. Half a dozen men stood in a group by the side of the engine-room,
confronting the man who had done the talking with the boat, as Christy
knew by the sound of his voice.

"We are not held by any papers we signed!" protested one of the men
forward. "We are willing to do our duty, Captain Folkner, but we did not
ship to burrow through the sand, and run the risk of being captured by
the Yankees. We shipped to run the blockade, and that risk is in the
papers."

"I shall take my vessel out as I think best, Lonley; and my men are not
to dictate to me what I am to do," replied Captain Folkner angrily.

"I am willing to leave it to Captain Gilder. You know as well as I do
that the rest of the ship's company would not come on board till the
Teaser was outside of Santa Rosa Island. We appeal to you, Captain
Gilder," said Lonley.

"Why do you object to going out through Santa Rosa Sound?" asked
Christy, willing to do the fair thing, since the mutineers had appealed
to him.

"The Teaser draws ten feet of water with her coal in, and she cannot get
through the sound in a week, if ever."

"Are you willing to go to sea by running the blockade, Lonley?"

"Perfectly willing; and so are the whole ship's company."

"But I won't take the risk of running the blockade. They put a fast
steamer on there to-day, and it is useless," replied Captain Folkner.

The situation was certainly interesting to Christy and his companions.




CHAPTER XX

COMING TO THE POINT


Captain Folkner of the Teaser was evidently somewhat timid, and he had
heard of the arrival of the Bellevite. Just now the large ships-of-war
which had been there were absent on their duty, though they were
expected to return at any time. There was liable to be some
unpleasantness at any time between Fort Pickens and Fort Barrancas;
but everything was quiet just now.

Flint had come on board of the Teaser with Christy, but none of the
boat's crew had attended them. The situation was very novel to the
lieutenant, and he did not feel competent to arbitrate between the
contending parties. Besides, he was not willing to believe that he could
be entirely impartial, for he had a personal and patriotic interest in
the issue of the quarrel.

The seamen, under the leadership of Lonley, who appeared to be an
officer, were the more powerful party, and the more to be dreaded. He
was disposed to decide against them, if he could get them out of the way
by doing so. They were willing to leave the matter to him, and he began
at last to see his way through it.

"The captain of a ship is the authority to be respected, Lonley," said
he, when he had made up his mind what to do.

"We might as well bury ourselves in the sands as try to go through
there," replied the leader of the mutiny, who seemed to be a very
intelligent man, and Christy concluded from his language and manner
that he was not a common sailor.

"That may be; but the captain is supreme on the deck of his own ship,"
argued Christy.

"We are not on the high seas, and the Teaser has not yet gone into
commission. It was only this afternoon in Pensacola that Captain Folkner
told his ship's company that he was going to burrow through the sand in
Santa Rosa Sound. We all said we would not go with him; but a dozen of
us came down with him when he told us that he had a way to float the
steamer through, and he was sure it would work. We did not understand
that we were to become mud-diggers. When we got here, we were satisfied
that his plan amounted to nothing, and would not work."

"I am satisfied that it will work," interposed Captain Folkner.

"The agreement in the articles was to run the blockade. If we got
through the sound, it would take a week of constant drudgery, which
we did not ship to do."

"Are you ready to do duty on board of the Teaser when she is in deep
water, Lonley?" asked Christy.

"Every one of us; and every one of the party on shore!" protested the
leader.

"Will that satisfy you, Captain Folkner?" continued Christy, appealing
to him.

"It would if I had the steamer in deep water," replied the captain. "But
how am I to get her into deep water if my crew will not work?"

"Run the blockade, according to the articles!" exclaimed Lonley.

"When are the rest of the ship's company to join you?" asked Christy of
the leader of the mutineers.

"They are coming down in boats at midnight or later; and we shall join
them then and wait till the ship is ready to take us on board. They will
come across from Pensacola to Navy Cove, and then walk till they come to
the Teaser."

"All right," said the lieutenant. "I will land you at Navy Cove, and you
can wait there till the rest of the crew come."

"I am perfectly satisfied with that arrangement," replied Lonley.

"But I am not," interposed the captain, angrily. "What can I do without
any crew to help get the steamer through the sound?"

"I have men enough to take care of you and the Teaser, Captain Folkner;
and the men in the boat will do everything that is required to be done
on board of the Teaser."

"That's another thing," replied the captain, appeased by the implied
promise.

"I can hardly blame your men because they are not willing to go through
the sound with a steamer drawing ten feet of water when there is not
more than six feet of water to float her," said Christy. "Besides, if
you do not get to the other end of the sound before morning, you will
be seen by some of the blockaders, and they could blow this steamer to
pieces, and kill half your people in a few minutes."

"It may be dangerous, but so is running the blockade," added the
captain.

