a sailor.

When Tilly had sold nearly everything she possessed (for Fanny and
Sophie bought whatever the others declined), she made a fire of
drift-wood on the rocks, cooked fish for supper, and kept them till
moonrise, telling sea stories or singing old songs, as if she could not
do enough for these good fairies who had come to her when life looked
hardest and the future very dark.  Then she rowed them home, and
promising to bring loads of fruit and flowers every day, went back along
a shining road, to find a great bundle of books in her dismantled room,
and to fall asleep with wet eyelashes and a happy heart.



,, class:: center medium

    II.


For a month Tilly went daily to the Point with a cargo of pretty
merchandise, for her patrons increased; and soon the ladies engaged her
berries, the boys ordered boats enough to supply a navy, the children
clamored for shells, and the girls depended on her for bouquets and
garlands for the dances that ended every summer day.  Uncle Hiram’s fish
was in demand when such a comely saleswoman offered it; so he let Tilly
have her way, glad to see the old tobacco-pouch in which she kept her
cash fill fast with well-earned money.

She really began to feel that her dream was coming true, and she would
be able to go to the town and study in some great school, eking out her
little fund with light work.  The other girls soon lost their interest
in her, but Sophie never did; and many a book went to the island in the
empty baskets, many a helpful word was said over the lilies or wild
honeysuckle Sophie loved to wear, and many a lesson was given in the
bare room in the light-house tower which no one knew about but the gulls
and the sea-winds sweeping by the little window where the two heads
leaned together over one page.

"You will do it, Tilly, I am very sure.  Such a will and such a memory
will make a way for you; and one day I shall see you teaching as you
wish.  Keep the brave heart, and all will be well with you," said
Sophie, when the grand breaking-up came in September, and the girls were
parting down behind the deserted bathhouses.

"Oh, Miss Sophie, what should I have done without you?  Don’t think I
have n’t seen and known all the kind things you have said and done for
me.  I ’ll never forget ’em; and I do hope I ’ll be able to thank you
some day," cried grateful Tilly, with tears in her clear eyes that
seldom wept over her own troubles.

"I am thanked if you do well.  Adieu; write to me, and remember always
that I am your friend."

Then they kissed with girlish warmth, and Tilly rowed away to the lonely
island; while Sophie lingered on the shore, her handkerchief fluttering
in the wind, till the boat vanished and the waves had washed away their
footprints on the sand.



,, class:: center medium

    III.


December snow was falling fast, and the wintry wind whistled through the
streets; but it was warm and cosey in the luxurious parlor where Di and
Do were sitting making Christmas presents, and planning what they would
wear at the party Fanny was to give on Christmas Eve.

"If I can get mamma to buy me a new dress, I shall have something
yellow.  It is always becoming to brunettes, and I ’m so tired of red,"
said Di, giving a last touch to the lace that trimmed a blue satin
sachet for Fanny.

"That will be lovely.  I shall have pink, with roses of the same color.
Under muslin it is perfectly sweet."  And Dora eyed the sunflower she
was embroidering as if she already saw the new toilet before her.

"Fan always wears blue, so we shall make a nice contrast.  She is coming
over to show me about finishing off my banner-screen; and I asked Sophie
to come with her.  I want to know what she is going to wear," said Di,
taking a little sniff at the violet-scented bag.

"That old white cashmere.  Just think!  I asked her why she did n’t get
a new one, and she laughed and said she could n’t afford it. Fan told me
Sophie’s father sent her a hundred dollars not long ago, yet she has n’t
got a thing that we know of.  I do think she ’s mean."

"She bought a great bundle of books.  I was there when the parcel came,
and I peeped while she was out of the room, because she put it away in a
great hurry.  I ’m afraid she is mean, for she never buys a bit of
candy, and she wears shabby boots and gloves, and she has made over her
old hat instead of having that lovely one with the pheasant’s breast in
it."

"She’s very queer; but I can’t help liking her, she’s so pretty and
bright and obliging. I ’d give anything if I could speak three languages
and play as she does."

"So would I.  It seems so elegant to be able to talk to foreigners.
Papa had some Frenchmen to dinner the other day, and they were so
pleased to find they need n’t speak English to Sophie.  I could n’t get
on at all; and I was so mortified when papa said all the money he had
spent on my languages was thrown away."

"I would n’t mind.  It’s so much easier to learn those things abroad,
she would be a goose if she did n’t speak French better than we do.
There’s Fan! she looks as if something had happened.  I hope no one is
ill and the party spoiled."

As Dora spoke, both girls looked out to see Fanny shaking the snow from
her seal-skin sack on the doorstep; then Do hastened to meet her, while
Di hid the sachet, and was hard at work on an old-gold sofa cushion
when the new-comer entered.

"What’s the matter?  Where’s Sophie?" exclaimed the girls together, as
Fan threw off her wraps and sat down with a tragic sigh.

"She will be along in a few minutes.  I ’m disappointed in her!  I would
n’t have believed it if I had n’t seen them.  Promise not to breathe a
word to a living soul, and I ’ll tell you something dreadful," began
Fanny, in a tone that caused her friends to drop their work and draw
their chairs nearer, as they solemnly vowed eternal silence.

"I ’ve seen Sophie’s Christmas presents,--all but mine; and they are
just nothing at all!  She has n’t bought a thing, not even ribbons,
lace, or silk, to make up prettily as we do.  Only a painted shell for
one, an acorn emery for another, her ivory fan with a new tassel for a
third, and I suspect one of those nice handkerchiefs embroidered by the
nuns for me, or her silver filigree necklace.  I saw the box in the
drawer with the other things.  She’s knit woollen cuffs and tippets for
the children, and got some eight-cent calico gowns for the servants.  I
don’t know how people do things in Switzerland, but I do know that if
I had a hundred dollars in my pocket, I would be more generous than
that!"

As Fanny paused, out of breath, Di and Do groaned in sympathy, for this
was indeed a sad state of things; because the girls had a code that
Christmas being the season for gifts, extravagance would be forgiven
then as at no other time.

"I have a lovely smelling-bottle for her; but I ’ve a great mind not to
give it now," cried Di, feeling defrauded of the bracelet she had
plainly hinted she would like.

"I shall heap coals of fire on her head by giving her that;" and Dora
displayed a very useless but very pretty apron of muslin, lace, and
carnation ribbon.

"It is n’t the worth of the things.  I don’t care for that so much as I
do for being disappointed in her; and I have been lately in more ways
than one," said Fanny, listlessly taking up the screen she was to
finish.  "She used to tell me everything, and now she does n’t.  I ’m
sure she has some sort of a secret; and I do think I ought to know it.
I found her smiling over a letter one day; and she whisked it into her
pocket and never said a word about it.  I always stood by her, and I do
feel hurt."

"I should think you might!  It’s real naughty of her, and I shall tell
