very important was this time to be determined. When we had taken our
places on the benches, which were prepared for us, they unloosened
our hands, but did not remove from our waists the rope, which we were
led by. The governor now repeated the questions he had before asked
us, and had the answers we gave, carefully explained. But now came the
most important question, which was, whether I considered my conduct as
right or wrong, and whether I thought I had acted properly towards the
Japanese or not.

"The Japanese," replied I, "forced us to the course we took, by first
taking us prisoners by stratagem, and then refusing to give credence
to our assertions."

The governor appeared very much astonished at my words; the capturing
of us, he said, was now a by-gone affair, about which it was useless
to say any thing; he merely wished to know whether I considered myself
innocent or guilty, as in the former case he could not lay our case
before the Emperor. All the objections I made, did no good; they only
made him angry, and he kept repeating the same question. At last as I
began to see what he was aiming at, and that he only had our interests
in view, I frankly confessed that we had not acted rightly, and that
our conduct merited punishment. He seemed very well satisfied with
this confession of mine, and we were told that our affairs were
prospering.

We were now led back to the house, where we had dwelt before our
flight, and treated very well. Besides our usual fare, they gave us
tea, and very good tobacco, and provided us, too, with combs,
handkerchiefs, and also curtains, to protect us against the gnats,
which were very troublesome. Besides these marks of good-will, they
gave us some Russian books to read, and pens, ink, and paper; but
when we expressed a wish to learn to write the Japanese tongue, they
told us that their laws expressly forbade them to teach Christians
their language. We never, however, received permission to take walks
again, but in order that we might enjoy the fresh air, the governor
ordered the doors of our dwelling to be left open from morning until
evening.

In this manner, with all our wants gratified, but with time hanging
heavy on our hands, we lived until the sixth of September. On that day
we were again conducted to the castle, and received the joyful
intelligence that the Diana was again at Kumachir, and treating with
the Japanese government for our liberation. Our joy, however, was of
short duration, for we received information in a letter from the
commander of the vessel, that in order to satisfy the Japanese, he was
obliged to return to Russia to procure from the government the
required avowal, that the acts of violence perpetrated in Japanese
territory, was done without their knowledge or consent. We were,
therefore, obliged to remain for another year, but during that time we
were treated with the greatest consideration.

In September following, word was brought to us that a Russian vessel
had again arrived in the Japanese waters, and a few days afterwards we
were informed that the negotiations had been successfully terminated,
and that we would soon begin our journey to Khakodade. From this time
forward, we were most hospitably entertained. Several officers, with
their children, visited us, and heartily wished us joy at our
liberation. The mayor of the town, also came to see us, and presented
us with a beautifully lacquered casket, filled with confectionary, as
a token of remembrance. On the following morning, amid the rejoicing
of the inhabitants, we left Matsmai, and after a journey of three
days, reached Khakodade, where the Diana soon afterwards arrived,
accompanied by a multitude of Japanese boats, tastefully ornamented.

On the morning of the fifth of October, an officer, in the most
respectful manner, presented me with my hat and sword, which, during
our imprisonment, had been carefully preserved. I was, however,
obliged to dress myself as the Japanese wished, namely, in a jacket,
and wide breeches of costly silk, which had been made expressly for
the occasion. The hat and sword must have made this dress appear
strange enough in the eyes of Europeans, but as it was all the same to
the Japanese, and since they had returned our arms, they had ceased to
regard us as prisoners. I willingly complied with their wishes, and
determined to present myself before my countrymen, in a costume in
which they would have some difficulty in recognizing me.

As every thing was ready for our departure, we went down to the shore,
accompanied by the governor and all the officers. Here we found a
magnificently decorated barge waiting for us, in which we embarked,
after having taken leave of a crowd of people, who wished us a
pleasant journey. A multitude of boats, laden with every thing
belonging to us, and numerous presents besides, shot from the shore,
and accompanied us to the vessel.

On board the Diana, the officers and men received us with a joy which
only brothers or bosom friends feel under such circumstances. As for
ourselves, when after an imprisonment of two years, two months, and
twenty-six days, we again found ourselves on board an imperial vessel
of war, and surrounded by our countrymen, we felt what can only be
felt, and not described. On the tenth of October we weighed anchor,
and with a favorable wind left the land of our sufferings, whose
inhabitants, nevertheless, we had learned to esteem and love.

So ends the narrative of Golownin. He resumed the command of his
vessel, sailed for Kamtschatka, and from there went to St. Petersburg,
where he and his rescued companions were richly rewarded by the
Emperor.




A Sea-Fight on the Cuban Coast.


By the orders of the British government, I cruised for a season in the
Cuban waters, for the express purpose of aiding in the suppression of
the slave trade, which, in spite of all treaties and efforts to put an
end to it, was still carried on with the most unblushing boldness. I
had under my command a small, but well-armed schooner, with a crew of
picked men, and sailed for my destination with the most positive
orders to sink or capture all suspected vessels. We cruised about for
some time without making any prizes, and the weary and monotonous life
I led, became almost unbearable to me, driving me from the cabin to
the deck, and from the deck to the cabin, seeking in vain for some
relief from the ennui I suffered.

One very dark evening, it might have been about eight o'clock, I went
on deck depressed in spirits, and completely out of sorts. Here I
found Timothy Tailtackle, who had the watch, gazing into the
surrounding darkness so intently that he did not perceive me until I
was standing close to him.

"Any thing in sight, Master Tailtackle?" asked I, eagerly.

"Not exactly, sir, but I have just been begging for your glass. See
there! once, twice; but it is as dark as pitch Pray, sir, tell me how
far are we from the Hole in the Wall?"

The Hole in the Wall is a very remarkable rock forming the southern
promontory of the island of Abaco, one of the Bahamas. As its name
signifies, it resembles, either, from the action of the waves, or from
the cannonadings it has received, a perforated wall. It rises some
forty feet above the surface of the water.

"We are ten miles distant, at least," said I.

"Then," cried Tailtackle, in a sharp tone, "there must be a sail to
windward, and not far off either."

"Where?" asked I, eagerly; "quick, get my glass."

"Here it is, sir."

"Let me see, then."

I looked through the glass until my eyes ached, but as I could
perceive nothing, I resumed my walk on deck, satisfied in my own mind
that Timothy had been mistaken. The latter, however, continued to look
through the glass, and when I approached him, a few minutes
afterwards, said:

"Well, sir, now that it brightens a little, I see what it is that has
been puzzling me."

"The deuce you do! give me the glass." In a moment I saw it also.

"By Jove, Tailtackle, you're right. Send the men to their posts, get
the long guns ready, and clear the deck for action."

These orders of mine quickly changed our hitherto quiet vessel into a
