to his friend. "And this fine old lady, Madam Wetherill, can be induced
to go along, I think, when she realizes the hopelessness of the cause,
for she is, by birth, an Englishwoman. And Primrose, it is true, will be
quite an heiress. What a pretty name her mother gave her, and it seems
that in it she outwitted my father. He was one of the strait sort as I
remember him, and my pretty stepmother planned many a bit of indulgence
for me, and hid some childish pranks from his eyes that would have
brought severe punishment."

"You have good reason, then, to care for her and love the child. It
seems to me a curious thing that your father should let you go
abroad--his only son."

"But, if he had lived, he might have had half a dozen sons. He was a
hale, hearty man, much too fine looking for a Friend. You must go with
me to see the portrait of him, which, with some other keepsakes, belongs
to me."

"And these cousins they talk about?"

"Yes, I must pay my respects to them. The days go so rapidly that one
does not get through half one's plans. I had no idea there was so much
interest in this old town of William Penn's. The winter will be a merry
one."

"It seems not much like war," returned Gilbert Vane thoughtfully.

The party at Madam Wetherill's was a most brilliant affair. It seemed as
if every conclave except the Continentals were represented. There were
staid Friends in the rich attire of the better class; some in drab,
others in coat and breeches of brown velveteen and silk stockings, and
the younger men with various touches of worldly gauds. There were other
citizens in the picturesque attire of the day, with embroidered satin
waistcoats, powdered hair, and side rolls beside the queue, lace ruffles
and gold lace and gold buttons.

And the belles were not to be outdone by the beaux. There were gowns of
almost every degree of elegance, in brocades and glistening satins,
wrought with roses or silver thread, turned back over beautiful
petticoats. Gowns of Venise silk and velvet, with elbow sleeves and
ruffles of rich lace, and square corsages filled in with stiffened lace
called a modesty fence, through which the younger girls ran a narrow
ribbon that was tied in a cluster of bows.

The hair was worn high on the head, with puffs and rolls held in place
with great gilt or silver pins, and an aigrette nodding saucily from the
top. The elder women had large caps of fine and costly material. Few
were brave enough to go without, lest they might be accused of aping
youthfulness. There were fans of white, gray, and lavender silk,
bordered with peacocks' eyes, and their fair owners needed no Japanese
training to flirt with them.

There had been numerous discussions about Primrose. Her brother longed
to see her attired quite as a young lady.

"Nay, they grow up fast enough," protested Madam Wetherill. "And there
will be a host of town beauties to whom you must pay court, who would be
jealous of such a chit and think her forward."

"But she dances so beautifully. I can never be grateful enough that you
have had her so well instructed, and brought up a churchwoman. And
really she must dance. Lieutenant Vane is almost as much smitten with
her as I am."

"The more need for me to be careful, then."

"Nay, I shall guard her well, for I want to take her to England
fancy-free, so that she may have her pick among titles. She is fast
outgrowing childhood. And there is nothing so sweet as an opening bud."

"Mine shall not be pulled open before the time. Remember she has
guardians, and thou art not one. Her Quaker uncle may have a word. He
hath only lent her to me."

"We will settle that with other questions," the young man replied
laughingly.

That very morning he had brought her in a pair of pretty bracelets that
had delighted her mightily. He clasped them on her slender wrists.

"Now you are my prisoner," he said. "I will not let you go until I have
a sweet kiss from your rosy lips."

She turned her cheek to him gravely.

"Nay, that will not do. Truly thou art stingy of kisses. And I am thy
own brother!"

"I am not thy prisoner!" turning her eyes full upon him with a spirit of
resistance.

"Yes, indeed. I will get a requisition from General Howe that you shall
be delivered over to my keeping."

"But I will not go. Americans are born free."

"Yes, I have heard that they so declared. And equal, which is very
amusing, seeing there are slaves and work people of all sorts, with no
more manners than a plowboy at home. And elegant women like your Madam
Wetherill and that charming Miss Franks and the handsome Shippens.
Still, I adore thy spirit."

"Thou mayst take back thy gifts. I shall never go to London with thee."

"Oh, Primrose! What does possess thee to be so cruel! I am half a Friend
for thy sake, and our soldiers laugh at my thee and thou. What else
shall I do to win thee?"

"Thou shalt fight on the side of my country instead of against it. I
cannot love a traitor."

"Nay, I am no traitor. There was no question of this war when I was sent
to England. There are many Friends siding with us and longing for peace
and prosperity. It is these in arms against us who have forgotten their
fealty to their King. They are the ones to be called traitors."

"Nay, there is no king here. And many of them came hither to be free and
away from the King's rule, and they have the right to choose."

"What a saucy little rebel! And yet thou art so daintily sweet! Love me
just a little bit because thy mother did. Many a time she kissed me. And
hast thou no word of praise for the bracelets?"

"They are pretty, but I will not be a prisoner for their sake," and her
eyes sparkled with resolution and a spice of mischief.

"Thou shalt be quite free if thou wilt wear them for my sake and give me
a tender thought. Come, can I not be liked a little? I have heard thee
declare an ardent love for the woman Patty. Am I of less account than a
serving woman?"

There was something persuasive and plaintive in his tone.

"Patty makes my clothes and helps me with lessons when they are
difficult, and she knows how to cure earache and pains, and lets me go
with her to do errands, and tucks me up at night. And she has promised
to keep watch that no British soldier shall surprise us."

"It is a long list of virtues truly, but I will see the house is not
molested, and I might help with lessons. As for the earache--I do not
think such pretty ears can ever ache."

There were some quivering lines about her mouth, and now both laughed.

"And I will dance with thee to-night. Some day I will come and sing
songs with thee. And all I ask is one poor little kiss in return for my
gift."

"I would not give away a poor little kiss," she answered with
well-feigned indignation.

"No. Forgive me. It shall be the sweetest thing in the whole wide world.
Primrose, I am glad I can never be a lover to sue to thee. Thou wilt
wring many a heart. And now I must go. It is a pleasure to me to bring
thee pretty gauds, whether thou carest for me or not."

"I do care for thee," she said softly, a delicious color stealing over
her face.

"Then one kiss."
