
"I knows about dat, massa," added Quimp, as he bared his leg, and showed
an ugly scar.

Christy would not wait to hear any more, but ordered the cockswain to go
ahead again. It looked to him that Quimp, now that he had received his
money, and made fifteen dollars out of his morning's work, was
intentionally delaying the object of the expedition, for what reason he
could form no clear idea.

"I spose, if Captain Stopfoot kill me for w'at I done do, you'll bury me
side de old woman dat done gone to glory ten year ago?" continued the
negro, who did not look old enough to have buried a wife ten years
before.

"I am not in the burying business, my friend, and after you are dead,
you had better send for your sons to do the job, for they will know
where to find the grave of the departed companion of your joys and
sorrows," replied Christy, as the boat came in sight of the bowsprit of
the Reindeer again.

"My sons done gone away to Alabamy, sar, and"--

"That's enough about that. There are no alligators about here, and you
can swim ashore if you are so disposed; but you must shut up your wide
mouth and keep still if you stay in the boat. Heave the lead, bowman!"

"Mark under water two, sir," reported the leadsman.

In a few moments more the cutter had gained a position where the steamer
could be fully seen. She was a side-wheeler, and appeared to be a very
handsome vessel. She had a considerable deck-load of cotton, and
doubtless her hold was filled with the same valuable commodity.

"Is that steamer armed, Quimp?" asked Christy, who could see no signs of
life on board of her.

"She don't got no arms, but she hab two field-pieces on her for'ad
deck," replied the negro.

"How many men has she on board?"

"L'em me see: the cap'n and de mate is two, two ingineers, two firemen;
dat makes six; and den she hab two deck-hands."

"But that makes only eight in all," replied Christy. "Are you sure that
is all?"

"Dead shoar dat's all, Massa Ossifer."

"But that is not enough to handle the steamer on a voyage to a foreign
port, for I dare say she is going to Nassau," added Christy, who was on
the lookout for some piece of strategy by which his boat and its crew
might be destroyed.

"I don't know not'ing about dat, sar; but Cap'n Stopfoot is a pow'ful
smart man; and he's Yankee too. I done hear him say he gwine to j'in de
Yankee navy."

What Quimp said was rather suspicious; but Christy could see nothing to
justify his doubts. He directed the cockswain to steer the cutter as
closely to the side of the Reindeer as the movement of the oars would
permit, so that the field-pieces could not be brought to bear upon it.
The steamer lay at a sort of temporary pier, which had evidently been
erected for her accommodation, and the cotton had doubtless been brought
to the key by river steamers by the Suwanee and other streams from
cotton regions.

There was no habitation or other building on the shore, but a gangway
was stretched to the land, over which a couple of men were hastening on
board when the cutter reached the stern of the Reindeer. From
appearances Christy judged that the water had been deepened by dredges,
for a considerable quantity of sand and mud was disposed in heaps in the
shallow water a hundred feet or more from the rude wharf.

"Boat ahoy!" shouted a person on board, near the starboard accommodation
ladder, which the officer of the boat had noticed was in place.

"On board the steamer!" replied Christy.

"What is your business here?" inquired the person on the deck of the
Reindeer, though he could not be seen from the cutter.

"I will go on board and inform you," replied Christy.

As there were no signs of resistance on board of the vessel, the officer
of the cutter directed his men to make a dash for the accommodation
ladder, which had the appearance of having been left to make things
convenient for a boarding-party. The crew were all armed with a cutlass
and revolver in the belt.

"Lay her aboard!" said Christy, quietly enough, as he led the way
himself, for he was a bold leader, and was not content to follow his
men. As he leaped down from the bulwarks to the deck, he confronted the
person who had hailed him in the boat.

"What is your business on board of the Reindeer?" demanded, in a very
tame tone, the man in front of him.

"I am an officer of the United States navy, and my business is to make a
prize of this steamer and her cargo," replied Christy.

"Is that so? You did not give me your name, sir," added the man.

"Lieutenant Passford, attached to the United States steamer Bellevite.
Do me the favor to explain who you are, sir," returned Christy.

"I am Captain Solomon Stopfoot, in command of the Reindeer, at your
service, born and brought up on Long Island," answered the commander of
the steamer.

"Then what are you doing here?" demanded the naval officer. "Where were
you born on Long Island?"

"In Babylon, on the south shore."

"Then Babylon is fallen!" exclaimed Christy, indignant to find a man
born so near his own home doing the dirty work of the Confederate
government.

"Perhaps not; and perhaps you may change your view of me when you have
heard my story," added Captain Stopfoot.

"Well, Captain, there is only one story that I care to hear just now,
and its title is simply 'Surrender,'" replied Christy rather
impatiently. "You understand my business on board of the Reindeer; and
if you propose to make any resistance, it is time for you to begin."

"It would be folly for me to make any resistance, and I shall not make
any. I have only two engineers, two firemen, foreigners, hired in
Nassau, who would not fight if I wished them to do so, and two
deck-hands. I could do nothing against the eight well-armed men you have
brought on board. I surrender."

"I should say that was a wise step on your part, Captain Stopfoot,"
replied Christy. "When you are more at leisure, I hope you will indulge
me in an explanation of the manner in which a Long Islander happens to
be engaged in blockade-running."

"I am an American citizen now, as I have always been; I shall be only
too happy to get back under the old flag. As an evidence of my
sincerity, I will assist you in getting the Reindeer out of this place.
The tide is high at this moment; and half an hour from now it will be
too late to move the vessel," said Captain Stopfoot, with every
appearance of sincerity in his manner.

"I will see you, Captain, as soon as I have looked the steamer over,"
replied Christy, as he left the commander of the Reindeer at the door of
his cabin, and went forward to examine the vessel.

He found the steam up; and the engineer bowed to him as he looked into
his room. There was nothing to be seen but cotton, piled high on the
deck, and stuffed into the hold; and he returned to the cabin.




CHAPTER XXIX

BRINGING OUT THE PRIZE
