thoughtfully.

“And you will therefore naturally marry a fair woman,” answered his
companion, Hamilton Bright, stopping to look at the display in a
florist’s window. Ralston stood still beside him.

“Queer things--orchids,” he observed.

“Why?” Nothing in the world seemed queer or unnatural to Bright, who was
normally constituted in all respects, and had accepted the universe
without comment.

“I am not sure why. I think the soul must look like an orchid.”

“You are as bad as a Boston girl,” laughed Bright. “Always thinking of
your soul! Why should the soul be like an orchid, any more than like a
banana or a turnip?”

“It must be like something,” said Ralston, in explanation.

“If it’s anything, it’s faith in a gaseous state, my dear man, and
therefore even less visible and less like anything than the common or
market faith, so to say--the kind you get at from ten cents to a dollar
the seat’s worth, on Sundays, according to the charge at the particular
place of worship your craving for salvation leads you to frequent.”

“I prefer to take mine in a more portable shape,” answered Ralston,
grimly. “By the bottle--not by the seat--and very dry.”

“Yes--if you go on, you’ll get one sort of faith--the lively evidence of
things unseen--snakes, for instance.”

Bright laughed again as he spoke, but he glanced at his friend with a
look of interest which had some anxiety in it. John Ralston was said to
drink, and Bright was his good angel, ever striving to be entertained
unawares, and laughing when he was found out in his good intentions. But
if Bright was a very normal being, Ralston was a very abnormal one, and
was, to some extent, a weak man, though not easily influenced by strong
men. A glance at his face would have convinced any one of that--a keen,
nervous, dark face, with those deep lines from the nostrils to the
corners of the mouth which denote uncertain, and even dangerous
tempers--a square, bony jaw, aggressive rather than firm, but not
coarse--the nose, aquiline but delicate--the eyes, brown, restless, and
bright, the prominence of the temples concealing the eyelids entirely
when raised--the forehead, broad, high, and visibly lean like all the
features--the hair, black and straight--the cheek bones, moderately
prominent. Possibly John Ralston had a dash of the Indian in his
physical inheritance, which showed itself, as it almost always does, in
a melancholic disposition, great endurance and an unnatural love of
excitement in almost any shape, together with an inborn idleness which
it was hard to overcome.

Nothing is more difficult than to convey by words what should be
understood by actual seeing. There are about fifteen hundred million
human beings alive to-day, no two of whom are exactly alike, and we have
really but a few hundreds of words with which to describe any human
being at all. The argument that a few octaves of notes furnish all the
music there is, cannot be brought against us as a reproach. We cannot
speak a dozen words at once and produce a single impression, any more
than we can put the noun before the article as we may strike any one
note before or after another. So I have made acknowledgment of inability
to do the impossible, and apology for not being superhuman.

John Ralston was dark, good-looking, nervous, excitable, enduring, and
decidedly dissipated, at the age of five and twenty years, which he had
lately attained at the time of the present tale. Of his other gifts,
peculiarities and failings, his speech, conversation and actions will
give an account. As for his position in life, he was the only son of
Katharine Ralston, widow of Admiral Ralston of the United States Navy,
who had been dead several years.

Mrs. Ralston’s maiden name had been Lauderdale, and she was of Scotch
descent. Her cousin, Alexander Lauderdale, married a Miss Camperdown, a
Roman Catholic girl of a Kentucky family, and had two children, both
daughters, the elder of whom was Mrs. Benjamin Slayback, wife of the
well-known member of Congress. The younger was Katharine Lauderdale,
named after her father’s cousin, Mrs. Ralston, and she was the dark
cousin whom John admired.

Hamilton Bright was a distant relative to both of these persons. But by
his father’s side he had not originally belonged to New York, as the
others did, but had settled there after spending some years of his early
youth in California and Nevada, and had gone into business. At four and
thirty he was the junior partner in the important firm of Beman Brothers
and Company, Bankers, who had a magnificent building of their own in
Broad Street, and were very solidly prosperous, having shown themselves
to be among the fittest to survive the financial storms of the last
half century. Ralston’s friend was a strong, squarely built, very fair
man, of what is generally called the Saxon type. At first sight, he
inspired confidence, and his clear blue eyes were steady and true. He
had that faculty of looking almost superhumanly neat and spotless under
all circumstances, which is the prerogative of men with straight, flaxen
hair, pink and white complexions, and perfect teeth. It was easy to
predict that he would become too stout with advancing years, and he was
already a heavy man, though not more than half an inch taller than his
friend and distant cousin, John Ralston. But no one would have believed
at first sight that he was nine years older than the latter.

The nature of friendship between men has been almost as much discussed
as that of love between man and woman, but with very different results.
He laughs at the idea of friendship who turns a little pale at the
memory of love. At all events, most of us feel that friendship is
generally a less certain and undeniable thing, inasmuch as it is harder
to exclude from it the element of personal interest and advantage. The
fact probably is, that no one person can possibly combine all the
elements supposed to make up what every one means by friendship. It
would be far more reasonable to construct one friendship out of many
persons, securing in each of them one at least of the qualities
necessary. For instance, the discreet man, to whom it is safe to tell
secrets when they must be told at all, is not as a matter of course the
man most capable of giving the best advice; nor, if a certain individual
is extremely generous and ready to lend all he has to his friend, does
it follow that he possesses the tough, manly nature that will face
public scorn rather than abandon that friend in his hour of need. Some
men, too, want sympathy in their troubles, and will have it, even at the
cost of common sense. Others need encouragement; others, again, need
most of all to be told the unpleasant truth about themselves in the most
pleasant form practicable. Altogether it seems probable that the ideal
friend must either be an altogether superhuman personage, or a failure
in so far as his own life is concerned.

Hamilton Bright approached as nearly to that ideal as his humanity would
allow. He did not in the least trouble himself to find out why he liked
Ralston, and wished to be of service to him, and he wisely asked for
nothing whatever in return for what he gave. But he was very far from
looking up to him, and perhaps even from respecting him as he wished
that he might. He simply liked him better than other men, and stood by
him when he needed help, which often happened.

They left the florist’s window and walked slowly up Fifth Avenue. John
Ralston was a born New Yorker and preferred his own city to any other
place in the world with that solid, satisfactory, unreasoning prejudice
which belongs especially to New Yorkers and Parisians, and of which it
is useless to attempt any explanation. Hamilton Bright, on the contrary,
often wished himself away, and in spite of his excessively correct
appearance even the easy formality of American metropolitan life was
irksome to him. He had loved the West, and in the midst of great
interests and advantages, he regretted his former existence and daily
longed for the clearer air and bolder breath of Nevada. The only objects
about which he ever displayed much enthusiasm were silver and cattle,
about which Ralston knew nothing and cared less.

“When is it to be?” asked Bright after a long silence.

Ralston looked at him quickly.

“What?” he asked in a short tone.

Bright did not answer at once, and when he spoke his voice was rather
dull and low.

“When are you going to be married? Everybody knows that you are
engaged.”

“Then everybody is wrong. I am not engaged.”

“Oh--I thought you were. All right.”

Another pause followed and they walked on.

