"I didn't think of that."

"We shall be in a pretty pickle if that is lost."

"You don't think Mike would take it do you, Dan?"

"I think he would if he knew where to find it."

"I wish I had brought it with me," said Mrs. Mordaunt, in a tone of
anxiety.

"Don't fret, mother; I guess it's all right."

"Perhaps you had better go home at once without waiting for me, Dan. You
can go quicker."

"All right; I'll do it. Where is the money?"

"In my pocket-book, in the drawer of the work-table."

"Are the drawers locked?"

"No."

"Then hereafter you'd better lock them. Well, I'll be off, and will meet
you at the room."

Dan was not long in reaching his humble home. The more he thought of it,
the more he distrusted Mike, and feared that he might have had a
sinister design in the deception he had practiced upon his mother. To
lose the rent money would be a serious matter. Mr. Grab hated him, he
knew full well, and would show no mercy, while in the short time
remaining it would be quite impossible to make up the necessary sum.

Dan sprang up the stairs, several at a bound, and made his way at once
to the little work-table. He pulled the drawer open without ceremony,
and in feverish haste rummaged about until, to his great joy, he found
the pocket-book.

His heart gave a joyous bound.

"It's all right, after all," he said. "Mike isn't so bad as I thought
him."

He opened the pocket-book, and his countenance fell. There was a
twenty-five cent scrip in one of the compartments, and that was all.

"He's stolen the money, after all," he said, his heart sinking. "What
are we going to do now?"

He waited till his mother reached home. She looked inquiringly at him.
One glance told her what had happened.

"Is it gone, Dan?" she gasped.

"That is all that is left," answered Dan, holding up the scrip.

"Mike could not be wicked enough to take it."

"Couldn't he, though? You don't know him as I do, mother. He's a mean
thief, and he sent you off to have a clear field. I wish you had locked
the door."

"I couldn't think of that, or anything else, Dan, when I thought you
were hurt."

"That's why he told you."

"What can we do, Dan? Mr. Grab will be angry when he finds we can't pay
him."

"I will try to find Mike; and if I do, I will get the money if I can.
That's the first thing."

Dan went up stairs at once, and knocked at Mrs. Rafferty's door.

She came to the door, her arms dripping with suds, for she had been
washing.

"Is it you, Dan?" she said. "And how is your mother to-day?"

"Is Mike in?" asked Dan, abruptly, too impatient to answer the question.

"No; he went out quarter of an hour ago."

"Did he tell you where he was going, Mrs. Rafferty?"

"Yes, he did. He said he was going over to Brooklyn to see if he could
get a job, shure. Did you want him?"

"Yes, I did, Mrs. Rafferty. I'm sorry to tell you that Mike has played a
bad trick on my mother."

"Oh, whirra, whirra, what a bye he is!" wailed Mrs. Rafferty. "He's
always up to something bad. Sorra bit of worruk he does, and I at the
wash-tub all day long."

"He's a bad son to you, Mrs. Rafferty."

"So he is, Dan, dear. I wish he was like you. And what kind of trick has
he played on your good mother?"

"He told her that I had been run over and broken my leg. Of course she
went out to find me, thinking it was all true, and while she was away he
took the money from her pocket-book."

Some mothers would have questioned this statement, but Mrs. Rafferty
knew to her cost that Mike was capable of stealing, having been
implicated in thefts on several occasions.

"Was it much, Dan?" she asked.

"Six or seven dollars. I can't say just how much."

"Oh, what a bad bye! I don't know what to do wid him, shure."

"It was the money we were to pay our rent with to-morrow," continued
Dan. "It is a very serious matter."

"I wish I could make it up to you, Dan, dear. It's a shame it is."

"You are an honest woman, Mrs. Rafferty, but you ought not to make it
up. I wish I could find Mike. Do you think he has really gone to
Brooklyn."

"Shure, I don't know. He said so."

"He might have done it as a blind, just to put me on the wrong scent."

"So he might, shure."

"Well, Mrs. Rafferty, I can't stop any longer. I'll try to find him."

He went down stairs and told his mother what he had discovered or failed
to discover.

"Don't wait supper for me, mother," he said. "I'm going in search of
Mike."

"You won't fight with him, Dan?" said Mrs. Mordaunt, anxiously.

"I can't promise, mother. I will only agree to be prudent. I am not
going to submit to the loss without trying to get the money back, you
may be sure of that."

So Dan went down stairs, considerably perplexed in mind. Mike was sure
to keep out of the way for a time at least, anticipating that Dan would
be upon his track. While our hero was searching for him, he would have
plenty of opportunities of spending the money of which he had obtained
unlawful possession. To punish him without regaining the contents of the
lost pocket-book would be an empty triumph. In the street below Dan
espied Terence Quinn, an acquaintance of Mike.

"How are you, Terence?" he said. "Have you seen anything of Mike?"

"I saw him only a few minutes ago."

"Where did he go?"

"I don't know."
