expression upon his face; when he was in an ill-humor he was
impassively calm. It was Miss Macks, her eyes eager, her face flushed
with pleasure.

"Oh, what good luck!" she said. "And to think that I almost went to the
Borghese, and might have missed you! I am so delighted that I don't know
what to do. I am actually trembling." And she was. "I have so longed to
see these pictures with you," she went on. "I have had a real aching
disappointment about it, Mr. Noel."

Again Noel felt himself slightly touched by her earnestness. She looked
prettier than usual, too, on account of the color.

"I always feel a self-reproach when with you, Miss Macks," he
answered--"you so entirely over-estimate me."

"Well, if I do, live up to it," she said, brightly.

"Only an archangel could do that."

"An archangel who knows about Art! I have been looking at the Caraccis;
what do you think of them?"

"Never mind the Caraccis; there are better things to look at here." And
then he made the circuit of the gallery with her slowly, pointing out
the best pictures. During this circuit he talked to her as he would have
talked to an intelligent child who had been put in his charge in order
to learn something of the paintings; he used the simplest terms,
mentioned the marked characteristics, and those only of the different
schools, and spoke a few words of unshaded condemnation here and there.
All he said was in broad, plain outlines. His companion listened
earnestly. She gave him a close attention, almost always a
comprehension, but seldom agreement. Her disagreement she did not
express in words, but he could read it in her eyes. When they had seen
everything--and it took some time--

"Now," he said, "I want you to tell me frankly, and without reference to
anything I have said, your real opinion of several pictures I shall
name--that is, if you can remember?"

"I remember everything. I always remember."

"Very well. What do you think, then, of the Raphael double portrait?"

"I think it very ugly."

"And the portrait of Andrea Doria, by Sebastian del Piombo?"

"Uglier still."

"And the Velasquez?"

"Ugliest of all."

"And the two large Claude Lorraines?"

"Rather pretty; but insipid. There isn't any reality or meaning in
them."

"The Memling?"

"Oh, that is absolutely hideous, Mr. Noel; it hasn't a redeeming
point."

Raymond Noel laughed with real amusement, and almost forgot his
ill-humor.

"When you have found anything you really admire in the galleries here,
Miss Macks, will you tell me?"

"Of course I will. I should wish to do so in any case, because, if you
are to help me, you ought to thoroughly understand me. There is one
thing more I should like to ask," she added, as they turned towards the
door, "and that is that you would not call me Miss Macks. I am not used
to it, and it sounds strangely; no one ever called me that in Tuscolee."

"What did they call you in Tuscolee?"

"They called me Miss Ettie; my name is Ethelinda Faith. But my friends
and older people called me just 'Ettie'; I wish you would, too."

"I am certainly older," replied Noel, gravely (he was thirty-three);
"but I do not like Ettie. With your permission, I will call you Faith."

"Do you like it? It's so old-fashioned! It was my grandmother's name."

"I like it immensely," he answered, leading the way down-stairs.

"You can't think how I've enjoyed it," she said, warmly, at the door.

"Yet you do not agree with my opinions?"

"Not yet. But all the same it was perfectly delightful. Good-bye."

He had signalled for a carriage, as he had, as usual, an engagement. She
preferred to walk. He drove off, and did not see her for ten days.

Then he came upon her again and again in the Doria gallery. He was fond
of the Doria, and often went there, but he had no expectation of meeting
Miss Macks this time; he fancied that she followed a system, going
through her list of galleries in regular order, one by one, and in that
case she would hardly have reached the Doria on a second round. Her list
was a liberal one; it included twenty. Noel had supposed that there were
but nine in Rome.

This time she did not see him; she had some sheets of manuscript in her
hand, and was alternately reading from them and looking at one of the
pictures. She was much absorbed. After a while he went up.

"Good-morning, Miss Macks."

She started; her face changed, and the color rose. She was as delighted
as before. She immediately showed him her manuscript. There he beheld,
written out in her clear handwriting, all he had said of the Doria
pictures, page after page of it; she had actually reproduced from memory
his entire discourse of an hour.

There were two blank spaces left.

"There, I could not exactly remember," said Miss Macks, apologetically.
"If you would tell me, I should be so glad; then it would be quite
complete."

"I shall never speak again. I am frightened," said Noel. He had taken
the manuscript, and was looking it over with inward wonder.

"Oh, please do."

"Why do you care for my opinions, Miss Macks, when you do not agree with
them?" he asked, his eyes still on the pages.

"You said you would call me Faith. Why do I care? Because they are
yours, of course."

"Then you think I know?"

"I am sure you do."

"But it follows, then, that you do not."

"Yes; and there is where my work comes in; I have got to study up to
you. I am afraid it will take a long time, won't it?"

"That depends upon you. It would take very little if you would simply
accept noncombatively."

"Without being convinced? That I could never do."

"You want to be convinced against your will?"

"No; my will itself must be convinced to its lowest depths."

"This manuscript won't help you."

"Indeed, it has helped me greatly already. I have been here twice with
it. I wrote it out the evening after I saw you. I only wish I had one
for each of the galleries! But I feel differently now about asking you
to go."

"I told you you would desert me."
