under British protection, was proclaimed emperor, and his empire
re-established.

"Probably 90,000 soldiers, infantry and cavalry, were in a state of
rebellion. In many instances they had murdered their officers and their
families. They were spread over a broad country, and held forts, arsenals,
and treasuries. They were disciplined troops armed with European artillery
and muskets, and supplied with ammunition. In portions of the country the
British were isolated, as in the camp before Delhi, and in the works at
Agra, Allahabad, and Lucknow. The mutiny extended over an area of 100,000
square miles, with a population of 40,000,000. It came at the worst season
of the year; and if it had not been speedily suppressed, it would have
spread over the whole country. Many believed that the knell of the empire
had sounded.

"At that time there were 40,000 European troops"--

"Land, ho!" shouted the lookout man; and the cry was repeated by the
sailors and the officers.

"We will attend to the land now, and I will resume latter," said Lord
Tremlyn, as he descended from the rostrum.



                                 CHAPTER XIV

                     SIR HENRY HAVELOCK AND THE MUTINY


The announcement that land was in sight produced some excitement, and the
speaker good-naturedly paused to enable the company to see whatever was to
be seen. They looked to the eastward, but they could see nothing. They
stood upon the promenade, and strained their eyes to the utmost; but it
required a nautical eye to make land out of the dim haze in the distance,
for that was all there was of it.

"I can readily understand your desire to obtain the first view of India,"
said Lord Tremlyn.

"But they will not obtain it yet a while," added the commander.

Louis and Felix had ascended the fore-rigging, and discovered what might
have been the land or a bank of clouds. There were a great number of boats
and small craft in sight, but none of them were near enough to be seen
distinctly. They observed that the Guardian-Mother had reduced her speed.

"We shall not be where you can see anything for an hour or more," continued
Captain Ringgold. "We have to pass some rather dangerous rocks in this
vicinity, and we shall proceed cautiously till we take a pilot."

"A number of large vessels have been wrecked in this locality," said the
viscount; "and in a little while you will get in among the multitude of
fishing-craft that swarm off the islands."

When the company were satisfied that there was nothing to be seen, they
resumed their seats, and the "live boys" in the fore-rigging returned to
their places. All were greatly interested in the viscount's account of the
mutiny; and he had suspended his narrative just where cunning writers of
exciting stories place the "To be continued."

"I had hardly finished what I had to say, or at least what I intended to
say; for there are still a great many points upon which I have not touched,
leaving them to be brought up as you proceed on your travels through this
interesting country," said Lord Tremlyn.

"Go on! Go on!" said quite a majority of the party.

"I have been here before, and perhaps you will excuse me if I have occasion
to leave before your lordship has finished; and with this understanding, I
think you had better proceed," added the commander.

"I will do so with the greatest pleasure," replied the speaker, as he took
his place on the rostrum again. "I have described the terrible situation to
which the English in India had been reduced, with nearly a hundred thousand
Sepoys in rebellion, and the troops outnumbered a hundred to one, shut up
in camps and forts. The fanatical and blood-thirsty mob, far greater than
the body of native soldiers, were eager to fall upon and slaughter all
Europeans.

"At this time there were 40,000 British troops scattered over the country;
several thousand men on their way from England to China were diverted to
this country. Forty thousand from home were on their voyage of 12,000 miles
around the Cape of Good Hope to relieve the besieged garrisons. But in the
midst of the gloom of this miserable summer there was a gleam of sunshine,
and the sad disasters at Cawnpore and elsewhere were partially retrieved.
This came on the appearance of Henry Havelock, whose noble example of a
true life I commend to my young friends here who are just entering upon
their careers.

"Havelock was born in 1795. His father was a merchant, and he was well
educated. He was at first intended for the law; but he followed the example
of his brother, and entered the army a month after the battle of Waterloo.
In 1823 he was sent to India; and on the voyage he became a Christian in
the truest sense of the word, and this event influenced his life. He was
employed in the Afghan and Sikh wars; but he had learned 'to labor and to
wait,' and he was still a lieutenant after twenty-three years' service.

"He was in command of a division of the army that invaded Persia in 1856.
The news of the Indian mutiny called him hastily to Calcutta. Following the
Ganges to Allahabad," continued the speaker, pointing out the river and the
city on the map, "he organized, at this point, a force of two thousand men,
and pushed on for Cawnpore, driving the enemy before him. At Fatehpur the
rebels made a stand; but they broke before his little band, and he hastened
on to his destination.

"Nana Sahib, the native leader of the mutiny, was the adopted son of the
former peshwa, or ruler, of the Mahrattas, as certain states in the west
and middle of India are called. His foster-father had been deprived of his
dominion, and lived on a pension paid by the British. The son had been
brought up as a nobleman, with expensive habits. When the father died in
1851, the pension was not continued to the son. He was bitterly
disappointed that his income was cut off, and it stirred up all the bad
blood in his nature, and there was a good deal of it. He did his best to
foment discontent, and succeeded too well; for the mutiny was his work.

"As Havelock and his puny force approached Cawnpore, this miscreant incited
the cold-blooded massacre of all the women and children the rebels had
captured on the day before the place was taken. The intrepid general found
the Sepoys strongly intrenched at a village; but he turned their left, and
carried the works by a splendid charge of the 78th Highlanders. Entering
Cawnpore, he saw the results of the atrocious massacre in the mutilated
bodies of the women and children with his own eyes.

"The sight inspired the little band of heroes with renewed courage, and
Havelock began his march upon Lucknow.

"After fighting eight victorious battles, his little force was so reduced
by sickness and fatigue that he was forced to retire to Cawnpore. In
September General Outram arrived there with additional troops, and
operations against Lucknow were renewed. The general in command of this
force outranked Havelock, and the command belonged to him; but with a noble
generosity he waived his claim, and served in the expedition under his
victorious subordinate as a volunteer.

"Havelock's army now numbered 2,500 men, with seventeen guns. He
encountered the enemy, and scattered them several times. They reached the
thickly settled town where each house was a fortress, and with valor equal
to anything on record, fought their way to the Residency, where they were
rapturously received by the beleaguered garrison.

"But with all that could be mustered they were only a handful of men
compared with the hosts that surrounded them, and in turn they were at once
besieged by the rebels. They were not the men to yield to any odds; and
they held their own till November, when Sir Colin Campbell, with 4,700
regulars, forced his way through the enemy, and relieved the place. He was
one of the bravest and most distinguished generals of modern times. He
fought in the United States in 1814, and in many other parts of the world.
He was in the Crimea, and Alma and Balaklava are called his battles; for he
did the most to win them.

"In India he completed the work which Havelock had begun, and the following
year announced to the viceroy that the rebellion was ended. Just before he
had been created Lord Clyde. On his return to England he was made a
field-marshal, and received a pension of £2,000.

"To return to Havelock, great honors were bestowed upon him. He was made a
baronet, created a Knight Commander of the Bath, and a pension of £1,000
was awarded to him. But he did not live to enjoy his rewards and honors, or
even to see the end of the mutiny at which he struck the first heavy blows.
