as she had no money, and the long toilsome tramp in the wake of the
eventful night gave her appetite and many hours of rest. When she awoke
she felt that, whatever came, the most formidable crisis of her life had
been safely passed.




XXXI


In the autumn she found an occupation which gave her a temporary place
in the scheme of things. Mrs. Yorba fell ill. The sudden and complete
change from a personage to a nobody, the long confinement,--she rarely
put her foot outside the house lest her shabby clothes be remarked
upon,--and a four years' course of sensational novels induced a nervous
distemper. Magdaléna, hearing the sound of pacing footsteps in the hall
one night, arose and opened her door. Mrs. Yorba, arrayed in a red
flannel nightgown and a frilled nightcap, was walking rapidly up and
down, talking to herself. Magdaléna persuaded her to go to bed, and the
next morning sent for the doctor. He prescribed an immediate change of
scene,--travel, if possible; if not, the country. Magdaléna undertook to
carry the message to her father.

Knowing that a knock would evoke no response, she opened the door of the
study and went in. Don Roberto, dirty, unshaven, looked like a wild man
in a mountain cave; but his eyes were steady enough. His table and the
floor about his chair were piled high with ledgers. On everything else
the dust was inches thick, and the spiders had spun a shimmering web
across one side of the room. It hung from the gas-rod like a piece of
fairy tapestry, woven with red and gold here and there, where the sun's
rays, scattering through the slats of the inside blinds, caressed it. On
the mantel-piece, supported on its broken staff, was the big American
flag which had floated above the house of Don Roberto Yorba for thirty
years. It had been carefully washed, and although broken bits of
spiders' weavings hung to its edges, there were none on its surface.

Magdaléna felt no desire to kiss her parent, although it was the first
time for several years that she had stood in his presence. She disliked
and despised him, and thought no less of herself for her repudiation. If
she, a young, inexperienced, and lonely woman, could fight and conquer
morbid fancies, why not he, who had been counted one of the keenest
financial brains of the country? She felt thoroughly ashamed of her
progenitor as she stood looking down upon the little dirty shrunken
shambling figure.

"Well?" growled Don Roberto, "what you want?"

"My mother is very ill. This life is killing her. The doctor says she
must have a change."

"All go to die sometime. What difference now or bimeby?"

"Will you let us go to Santa Barbara to visit aunt?"

"Si she send you the moneys, I no care what you do with it. I no give
you one cents."

"Very well; I shall ask my aunt."

But Mrs. Yorba declared that she would not go to Santa Barbara: she
detested her sister-in-law, and would accept no favours from her, nor be
forced into her society. There was nothing for Magdaléna to do but to
nurse her, and a most exasperating invalid she proved. Nevertheless,
Magdaléna, although a part of her duties was to read her mother's
favourite literature aloud by the hour, was almost grateful for the
change. She seldom found time for her daily walk, but at least she had
little time to think.

When Mrs. Montgomery, Mrs. Geary, and Mrs. Brannan returned to town,
they came frequently to sit with the invalid, and cheered her somewhat
with talk of the coming summer, when they should take her down to their
own houses in Menlo.

"And I shall go," said Mrs. Yorba to her daughter, "if I haven't a
decent rag to my back. They think nothing of that; I was a fool not to
go before. And I'm going to get well--against the time when that old
fiend dies. There! I never thought I'd say that, for I was brought up in
the fear of the Lord, but saying it is little different from thinking
it, after all. I've been thinking it for two solid years. California's
not New England, anyhow. When I do get the money, won't I scatter it!
I've been economical all my life, for I had it in my blood, and it was
my duty, as your father wished it; as long as he did his duty by me, I
was more than willing to do mine by him: he can't deny it. But we all
know what reaction means, and it has set in in me. When I am my own
mistress, I'll give three balls and two dinners a week. I'll have the
finest carriages and horses ever seen in California. I'll have four
trousseaux a year from Paris, and I'll go to New York myself and buy the
most magnificent diamonds Tiffany's got. I'll refurnish this house and
Fair Oaks. The walls shall be frescoed, and every stick in them will
come from New York--"

She paused abruptly, springing to her elbow. The door was ajar. Through
the aperture came a long low chuckle. Magdaléna jumped to her feet,
flung the door to, and locked it.

"Do you think he's gone mad at last?" gasped Mrs. Yorba.

"It sounded like it."

"For Heaven's sake, don't leave me for a minute. You must sleep here at
night. There's a cot somewhere,--in the attic, I think, if the rats
haven't eaten it. What a life to live!" She fell to weeping, as she
frequently did in these days. Suddenly her face brightened. "If he
should make a will disinheriting us, we could easily enough prove him
insane after the way he's been acting these four years. Thank Heaven,
this is California! General William could break any will that ever was
made."

Mrs. Yorba took an opiate and fell asleep. Magdaléna went out, locking
the door behind her. She determined to ascertain at once if her father
was insane. If he was, he should be confined in two of the upper rooms
with a keeper. The world should know nothing of his misfortune; but it
would be absurd for herself and her mother to live in a constant state
of physical terror.

As she descended the stair, the door of her father's study opened
abruptly and a man shot out as if violently propelled from behind. The
door was slammed to immediately.

Magdaléna ran downstairs and toward the stranger. He was a tall man
greatly bowed, and as she approached him she saw that he was old and
wore a long white beard. His head was large and suggested nobility and
intellect; but the eyes were bleared, the flesh of the face loose and
discoloured, and he was shabby and dirty. He looked like a fallen king.

"Was--was--my father rude?" asked Magdaléna. "He is not very well.
Perhaps I can do something." The man appealed to her strangely, and she
had a dollar in her purse.

"We were great friends in our boyhood and youth," replied the stranger.
He spoke with an accent, but his English was unbroken. "And he has been
my guest many times. There was a time when he thought it an honour to
know me. When the Americans came, everything changed. My career closed,
for I would have nothing to do with them. I had held the highest offices
under the Mexican government. I could not stoop to hold office under the
usurpers--many of whom I would not have employed as servants. Then they
took my lands,--everything. But I am detaining you, señorita."

"Oh, no, no, indeed! How could they take your lands? Who are you? Tell
me everything."

"They 'squatted,' many of them, almost up to my door. The only law we
could appeal to was American law, and California was a hell of sharpers
at that time. It is bad enough now, but it was worse then. And then came
the great drought of '64, in which we lost all our cattle. We never
recovered from that, for we mortgaged our lands to the Americans to get
money to live on with,--everything was three prices then; and when the
time came they foreclosed, for we never had the money to pay. And we
were great gamblers, señorita, and so were the Americans--and far better
ones than we were. We were only made for pleasure and plenty, to live
the life of grandees who had little use for money, and scorned it. When
the time came for us to pit ourselves against sordid people, we crumbled
like old bones. Your father has been very fortunate: he had a clever man
to teach him to circumvent other clever men. Years ago, when I was
prouder than I am now, I put my pride in my pocket and wrote, asking him
for help. I wanted a small sum to pay off the mortgage on a ranchita,
upon which I might have ended my days in peace, for it was very
productive. He never answered. To-day I came to ask him for money to buy
bread. He roared at me like a bull, and vowed he'd blow my brains out if
