
There was something quite prophetic in that thought.

It is hard to keep awake all night, but a man can do it if he has to
even though he has been working like a Trojan all day.

Clif kept moving to work off the sleepiness whenever he felt it coming
on.

"I'll have time enough to sleep by and by," he muttered.

He was thinking, grimly enough, of how he would be stalled in the town
of Key West with his prize, waiting for a chance to get out to the fleet
again.

The vessel did not attempt to make more than half speed during the trip,
and that, against the storm, was very little.

But there was no need to hurry thought every one.

And so for some two hours the vessel crept on, wearily as it seemed and
monotonously. The only thing to vary matters was when some extra high
wave would fling itself over the bow in a shower of spray.

But that was not a welcome incident, for it made it harder for the weary
sailors to keep the course straight.

The cadet paced up and down the deck; he had been doing that for perhaps
the last half hour, stopping only to say a cheery word to the lookouts
and once to prop up Ignacio, who was being rolled unceremoniously about
the deck.

The cunning Spaniard looked so bedraggled and miserable that Clif would
have felt sorry for him if he had not known what a villain he was.

"He'd stab me again if he got a chance," he mused.

For Clif had saved that fellow's life once; but it had not made the
least difference in his vindictive hatred.

"I'm afraid," Clif muttered, "that Ignacio will have to suffer this
time."

The Spaniard must have heard him, for he muttered an oath under his
breath.

"It would be wiser if it was a prayer," said the cadet. "Ignacio, you
are near the end of your rope, and you may as well prepare for your
fate."

The man fairly trembled all over with rage as he glared at his enemy;
such rage as his was Clif was not used to, and he watched the man with a
feeling of horror.

"I don't like Spaniards!" was the abrupt exclamation, with which he
turned away.

And Ignacio gritted his teeth and simply glared at him, following back
and forth his every move, as a cat might.

"I may have a chance yet," he hissed, under his breath. "Carramba, if I
only had him by the throat!"

But Clif paid no more attention to the Spaniard. He had other things to
attend to, things to keep him busy.

It was not very long before that was especially true. For some
interesting events began to happen then.

They began so suddenly that there is almost no way to introduce them.
The first signs of the storm was when it broke.

In the blackness of the night nothing could be seen, and the vessel was
struggling along absolutely without suspicion. And Clif, as we have
said, was walking up and down engrossed in his own thoughts, almost
forgetting that he was out in the open sea where a Spanish warship might
chance to be lurking.

And so it was literally and actually a thunderbolt from a clear sky.

The blackness of the waters was suddenly broken by a sharp flash of
light, perhaps two hundred yards off to starboard.

And an instant later came the loud report of a gun.

The consternation of the Americans it would be hard to imagine. They
were simply aghast, and Clif stood fairly rooted to the deck.

His mind was in a tumult, but he strove to think what that startling
interruption could mean.

"They must have fired at us!" he gasped.

And if there was any doubt of that an instant later came a second flash.

To a merchantship in war time such a signal is peremptory. It means slow
up or else take the consequences.

There were two possibilities that presented themselves to the commander
of this particular merchantship. One was that he had met an American
warship----

And the other! It was far less probable, but it was possible, and
terrible. They might have fallen into the hands of the enemy.

But whatever was the case, there was nothing for Clif to do but obey the
signals. He could not run and he could not fight.

"If I only knew," he thought, anxiously.

And then suddenly he learned; for a faint voice was borne over to him
through the gale. It was a voice that spoke English!

"Ahoy there!" it rang.

And Clif roared back with all his might!

"Ahoy! What ship is that?"

And his heart gave a throb of joy when he heard:

"The United States cruiser Nashville. Who are you?"

"The Spanish merchantman Maria, in charge of a prize crew from the
Uncas!"

Whether all that was heard in the roar of the storm Clif could not tell;
but he put all the power of his lungs in it.

He knew that the story would be investigated.

And so he was quite prepared when he heard the response:

"Lay to and wait for a boarding party."

And quick as he could move Clif sprang to the pilot house, and signaled
to stop, and the vessel swung round toward the stranger.

The die was cast, for good or evil. They had given up!

For perhaps five minutes there was an anxious silence upon the vessel.
Every one was waiting anxiously, while the ship rolled in the trough of
the sea and shook with the crashes of the waves. Her small crew were
picturing in their minds what was taking place out there in the
darkness, their comrades struggling to get a small boat out in that
heavy sea.

And then they fancied them buffeting their way across, blinded by the
spray and half swamped by the heavier waves.

"They can't be much longer," muttered Clif, impatiently.

"Ahoy there! A ladder!"

It seemed to come from right underneath the lee of the merchantman. And
it was shouted in a loud, peremptory tone that was meant to be obeyed. A
moment later the rope ladder was flung down. Clif peered over the side
when he dropped it.

He could make out the shape of the boat tossing about below; he could
