"I am aware of that, but I feel entirely safe in doing so."

"Thank you, sir."

Other directions were given, and it was agreed that Mark should start on
his long journey on Monday morning.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

MARK AT OMAHA.


SOME days later Mark found himself at Omaha. Here he was to transfer
himself to the Union Pacific Railroad, at that time the only Pacific
road built with the exception of the Central Pacific, which formed with
it a continuous line to San Francisco. Mark decided to remain in Omaha
for a single day and then take the train for his destination.

At the hotel Mark found himself sitting next to a man with bronzed face
and rough attire who embodied his ideas of a miner. The stranger during
the meal devoted himself strictly to business, but going out of the
dining-room at the same time with Mark he grew sociable.

"Well, young pard.," he said, "what's your trail?"

Mark looked puzzled.

"I mean which way are you going--East or West?"

"I am going to San Francisco."

"Ever been there before?"

Mark shook his head.

"I never was as far West as this before," he answered. "I came from New
York."

"So I thought. You look like a tenderfoot. Are you going out to stay?"

"Only a short time. I am going after a young boy. I am going to carry
him back with me."

"A kid, eh? You're not much more than a kid yourself."

"I guess I can take care of myself," said Mark with a smile.

"Shouldn't wonder. You look like it. Nothing soft about you."

"I hope I haven't got a soft head. As to my heart, I hope that isn't
hard."

"Good for you. I reckon you're a likely kind of boy."

"I suppose you have been to California," said Mark, thinking it his turn
to ask questions.

"Yes; I've been on the coast for three years, more or less."

"How do you like it out there?"

"Well, I've had my ups and downs. A year ago, six months for that
matter, I was dead broke."

"Did your luck change?"

"Not till I struck Nevada. Then I got a small interest in the Golden
Hope mine----"

"The Golden Hope mine?" exclaimed Mark in excitement.

"Do you know anything of that mine, youngster?"

"Yes; I have a--a friend who owns some stock in it."

"Then your friend is in luck. Why, do you know where the stock stands
to-day?"

"No, but I should like to know."

"At 110."

Mark's eyes sparkled with joyous excitement.

"Is it possible?" he exclaimed.

"It's so. I've got a block of a hundred shares myself, which I bought
eighteen months ago for a song. I give you my word I didn't think it
worth more than a dollar or two a share--what I gave--when I learned not
long since that they'd struck it rich, and I was no longer a pauper."

"That's good news for me," said Mark slowly.

"Why? Have you got any of it?"

"My mother is entitled to two hundred shares from her father's estate."

"Whew! Have you come out to see about it?"

"No; that was not my object, but I shall find out what I can about it."

"You're in luck."

"Well, perhaps so. But my uncle is trying to cheat my mother out of it."

"Then he must be a rascal. Tell me about it."

The man looked sympathetic and trustworthy, and Mark without hesitation
told him the story as it is already known to the reader.

"Do you think the stock has reached its highest point?" he asked
anxiously.

"No; it will probably rise to two hundred."

"Then my uncle probably won't close it out just at present."

"No; he will hear how the matter stands, and if he is sharp he will hold
on."

"I am glad of that, for I want a little time to decide how to act."

"I am going to stop at the mine on my way to 'Frisco."

"I will give you my address and ask you to write me a line to the care
of my banker there, letting me know what you can about the mine."

"All right, boy! I like you, and I'll do it. When do you start?"

"To-morrow."

"We'll start together, and I'll get off the train in Nevada."




CHAPTER XXIX.

NAHUM SPRAGUE AND HIS ORPHAN WARD.


LEAVING Mark on his way we will precede him, and carry the reader at
once to Gulchville, in California, where he was to find the young boy of
whom Mr. Gilbert had requested him to take charge.

In an unpainted frame house lived Mr. Nahum Sprague. In New England such
a building would hardly have cost over five hundred dollars, but here it
had been erected at more than double the expense by the original owner.
When he became out of health and left California it was bought for a
trifling price by Nahum Sprague.

The letter was a man of forty-five with small eyes and a face
prematurely wrinkled. He was well-to-do, but how he had gained his money
no one knew. He and his wife, however, were mean and parsimonious.

They had one son, a boy of fifteen, who resembled them physically and
mentally. He was named Oscar, after a gentleman of wealth, in the hope
