England, pointed to Standish and said, “I am positive that man raised
the alarm.”

There was an immediate commotion. Voices from the crowd of passengers
called out: “Throw him into the river! Lynch him!”

Standish turned ghastly pale as he saw the menacing glances of those
around him.

“I assure you, gentlemen,” he protested, “this is a base calumny.”

“Do you mean to tell me I lie?” demanded the Yankee fiercely.

“No, no, I beg your pardon. I only mean to say you are mistaken!”

“I don’t think I am.”

“Throw him into the river! There he will be safe from fire!” called out
one man.

“Yes, yes, throw him into the river!”

Samuel Standish was not a hero. Indeed, he was far from it. He seemed
overcome with fear, and his knees smote with terror as a brawny cowboy
seized him by the shoulder and hurried him towards the side.

“A ducking will do him no harm,” said the cowboy, and he evidently
voiced the sentiment of his fellow passengers.

“Gentlemen, friends!” exclaimed Standish, “I can’t swim a stroke. Would
you murder me?”

The position was critical. His appearance was against him, and had
Gerald or his English friend mentioned the intrusion of Standish into
their stateroom it would have been all up with him. But he found a
friend just when he needed one most. Bradley Wentworth pushed his way
through the crowd, and exclaimed angrily: “Let go that man! I won’t
permit this outrage.”

“He raised the alarm of fire.”

“He did not! I was standing six feet from him when the cry was raised,
and if it had been he I should have known it.”

“But I heard him,” insisted the Yankee.

“You are mistaken! I hope you will not compel me to use a harsher word.
I appeal to the officers of this boat to prevent an outrage upon an
unoffending man.”

Bradley Wentworth was handsomely dressed, and looked to be a man of
wealth and standing, and his testimony had great weight. The Yankee was
poorly dressed, and from all appearances a laboring man. The fickle
crowd changed at once and such cries were heard as “It’s a shame!”
“It’s an outrage!” Samuel Standish was released. The tide had turned
and he was safe.

“Sir,” he said, turning to Bradley Wentworth, “I thank you for your
manly words. You have saved my life. You are a stranger to me, but
hereafter I shall always remember you in my prayers.”

“Thank you,” answered Wentworth, “but I don’t deserve your gratitude.
What I have done has been in the interest of justice; for I feel no
interest in you except as a man unjustly treated. I would have done as
much for any of my fellow passengers.”

These words created a very favorable impression and completely cleared
Standish from suspicion, except in the minds of the Yankee passenger,
Gerald and Noel Brooke.

“I believe Standish was the man,” said Brooke when they were by
themselves, “and Mr. Wentworth’s interference in his favor leads me to
think there is something between them.”

“But why should he give such an alarm?” asked Gerald puzzled.

“To get a chance to enter our stateroom.”

“I don’t quite understand why he should enter our stateroom rather than
any other?”

“Gerald,” said his friend significantly, “he was after your papers.
He thought you might keep them in the stateroom.”

“Do you really think that, Mr Brooke?”

“I think it altogether likely, and that he has been engaged for the
purpose by your friend, Mr. Bradley Wentworth. Unless I am greatly
mistaken, we shall see more of Mr. Standish after we land.”

“I believe you are right, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald thoughtfully. “I
shall most certainly adopt your suggestion, and copy the papers as soon
as I reach St. Louis.”

The steamer arrived about three o’clock in the afternoon. Noel Brooke
and Gerald went to the Lindell House and registered. An hour later, in
the lobby of the hotel, looking, it must be confessed, rather out of
place in his elegant surroundings, they recognized the familiar figure
of Samuel Standish.




CHAPTER XXV.

GERALD HAS AN UNPLEASANT ADVENTURE.


IT was certainly a matter of surprise that a man like Standish should
put up at a high-priced and fashionable hotel like the Lindell.
Moreover Gerald soon learned that he had a room very near them.
There was but one between. One thing more that looked suspicious was
that Standish, though he frequently passed Gerald and his companion,
appeared to take very little notice of them.

“I am afraid Mr. Standish is cutting us, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald
laughing.

“Perhaps we are not up to his standard,” returned Brooke. “I suppose
there is no help for it. If you think a little social attention would
conciliate him——”

“Such as lending him a five-dollar bill,” suggested Gerald.

“I see you have some knowledge of human nature, Gerald. I confess I
should like to find out the man’s object in following us, for it is
evident that our being at this hotel is the attraction for him.”

“I will engage him in conversation,” said Gerald, “on the first
opportunity.”

“Do so.”

That evening Gerald met Mr. Standish in the lobby of the hotel.

“I believe we met on the steamer coming down the river,” began Gerald
politely.

“Yes,” answered Standish promptly. “You are with an Englishman.”

“Yes.”

“I recognized you both, but I did not wish to intrude. Do you remain
long in this city?”

“I don’t know. Mr. Brooke is making a leisurely tour of the States, and
it depends upon him.”

“If you are not expected to spend all your time with him, I should like
to go about a little with you.”

“Then you are going to spend some time in St. Louis?” Gerald ventured
to inquire.

“That depends on circumstances. I am here on a little matter of
business. I am a traveling salesman.”

“Indeed! In what line?”

“I travel for a house in Chicago,” said Mr. Standish vaguely. “I would
