that I’ll carry the candles by default. I’m going to institute other
reforms also,--I’m going to make the choir sing in tune!”

“If you will only sing as you were singing just now, nobody will
hear the rest of the choir,” vowed the young man, who during her
remarks had never taken his eyes off the girl’s radiant face.

Helen seemed not to notice it, for she had been arranging the
marigolds; now she was drying them with her handkerchief before
fastening them upon her dress.

“You ought to learn to sing yourself,” she said while she bent her
head down at that task. “Do you care for music any more than you
used to?”

“I think I shall care for it just as I did then,” was the answer,
“whenever you sing it.”

“Pooh!” said Helen, looking up from her marigolds; “the idea of a
dumb poet anyway, a man who cannot sing his own songs! Don’t you
know that if you could sing and make yourself gloriously happy as I
was just now, and as I mean to be some more, you could write poetry
whenever you wish.”

“I can believe that,” said Arthur.

“Then why haven’t you ever learned? Our English poets have all been
ridiculous creatures about music, any how; I don’t believe there was
one in this century, except Browning, that really knew anything
about it, and all their groaning and pining for inspiration was
nothing in the world but a need of some music; I was reading the
‘Palace of Art’ only the other day, and there was that ‘lordly
pleasure house’ with all its modern improvements, and without a
sound of music. Of course the poor soul had to go back to the
suffering world, if it were only to hear a hand-organ again.”

“That is certainly a novel theory,” admitted the young poet. “I
shall come to you when I need inspiration.”

“Come and bring me your songs,” added the girl, “and I will sing
them to you. You can write me a poem about that brook, for one
thing. I was thinking just as I came down the road that if I were a
poet I should have beautiful things to say to that brook. Will you
do it for me?”

“I have already tried to write one,” said the young man,
hesitatingly.

“A song?” asked Helen.

“Yes.”

“Oh, good! And I shall make some music for it; will you tell it to
me?”

“When?”

“Now, if you can remember it,” said Helen. “Can you?”

“If you wish it,” said Arthur, simply; “I wrote it two or three
months ago, when the country was different from now.”

He fumbled in his pocket for some papers, and then in a low tone he
read these words to the girl:

AT MIDNIGHT

  The burden of the winter
    The year haa borne too long,
  And oh, my heart is weary
    For a springtime song!

  The moonbeams shrink unwelcomed
    From the frozen lake;
  Of all the forest voices
    There is but one awake

  I seek thee, happy streamlet
    That murmurest on thy way,
  As a child in troubled slumber
    Still dreaming of its play;

  I ask thee where in thy journey
    Thou seeest so fair a sight,
  That thou hast joy and singing
    All through the winter night.

Helen was silent for a few moments, then she said, “I think that is
beautiful, Arthur; but it is not what I want.”

“Why not?” he asked.

“I should have liked it when you wrote it, but now the spring has
come, and we must be happy. You have heard the springtime song.”

“Yes,” said Arthur, “and the streamlet has led me to the beautiful
sight.”

“It is beautiful,” said Helen, gazing about her with that naive
unconsciousness which “every wise man’s son doth know” is one thing
he may never trust in a woman. “It could not be more beautiful,” she
added, “and you must write me something about it, instead of
wandering around our pasture-pond on winter nights till your
imagination turns it into a frozen lake.”

The young poet put away his papers rather suddenly at that, and
Helen, after gazing at him for a moment, and laughing to herself,
sprang up from the seat.

“Come!” she cried, “why are we sitting here, anyway, talking about
all sorts of things, and forgetting the springtime altogether? I
haven’t been half as happy yet as I mean to be.”

She seemed to have forgotten her friend’s twelve mile walk; but he
had forgotten it too, just as he soon forgot the rather wintry
reception of his little song. It was not possible for him to remain
dull very long in the presence of the girl’s glowing energy; for
once upon her feet, Helen’s dancing mood seemed to come back to her,
if indeed it had ever more than half left her. The brooklet struck
up the measure again, and the wind shook the trees far above them,
to tell that it was still awake, and the girl was the very spirit of
the springtime once more.

“Oh, Arthur,” she said as she led him down the path, “just think how
happy I ought to be, to welcome all the old things after so long,
and to find them all so beautiful; it is just as if the country had
put on its finest dress to give me greeting, and I feel as if I were
not half gay enough in return. Just think what this springtime is,
how all over the country everything is growing and rejoicing; that
is what I want you to put into the poem for me.”

And so she led him on into the forest, carried on by joy herself,
and taking all things into her song. She did not notice that the
young man’s forehead was flushed, or that his hand was burning when
she took it in hers as they walked; if she noticed it, she chose at
any rate to pretend not to. She sang to him about the forest and the
flowers, and some more of the merry song which she had sung before;
then she stopped to shake her head at a saucy adder’s tongue that
thrust its yellow face up through the dead leaves at her feet, and
to ask that wisest-looking of all flowers what secrets it knew about
the spring-time. Later on they came to a place where the brook fled
faster, sparkling brightly in the sunlight over its shallow bed of
pebbles; it was only her runaway caroling that could keep pace with
that, and so her glee mounted higher, the young man at her side half
in a trance, watching her laughing face and drinking in the sound of
her voice.

How long that might have lasted there is no telling, had it not been
that the woods came to an end, disclosing more open fields and a
village beyond. “We’d better not go any farther,” said Helen,
laughing; “if any of the earth creatures should hear us carrying on
they would not know it was ‘Trunkenheit ohne Wein.’”

She stretched out her hand to her companion, and led him to a seat
upon a fallen log nearby. “Poor boy,” she said, “I forgot that you
were supposed to be tired.”

“It does not make any difference,” was the reply; “I hadn’t thought
of it.”

