
"There was something more important to do than to arrest Buckhurst. I
meant to find out what he had on hand in Paradise."

"So you disobeyed orders?"

"If you care to so interpret my action."

"Why did you not arrest the Countess de Vassart?"

"I did; the Uhlans made me prisoner as I reported to you."

"I mean, why did you not arrest her after you left Morsbronn?"

"That would have prevented Buckhurst from going to Paradise."

"Your orders were to arrest the Countess?"

"Yes."

"Did you obey those orders?"

"No," I said, between my teeth.

"Why?"

"I had every reason to believe that an important conspiracy was being
ripened somewhere near Paradise. I had every reason to believe that
the robbery of the crown jewels might furnish funds for the plotters.

"The arrest of one man could not break up the conspiracy; I desired
to trap the leaders; and to that end I deliberately liberated this man
Buckhurst as a stool-pigeon. If my judgment has been at fault, I
accept the blame."

Mornac's silver penknife closed. Presently he opened the blade again
and tested the edge on his plump forefinger.

"I beg to call your attention to the fact," I continued, "that a
word from Buckhurst to the provost at Morsbronn would have sent me
before the squad of execution. In a way, I bought my freedom. But," I
added, slowly, "I should never have bought it if the bargain by which
I saved my own skin had been a betrayal of France. Nobody wants to
die; but in my profession we discount that. No man in my division is a
physical coward. I purchased my freedom not only without detriment to
France, but, on the contrary, to the advantage of France."

"At the expense of your honor," observed Mornac.

My ears were burning; I advanced a pace and looked Mornac straight
between the eyes; but his eyes did not meet mine--they were fixed on
his silver penknife.

"I did the best I could do in the line of duty," I said. "You ask me
why I did not break my word and arrest Buckhurst after we left the
German lines. And I answer you that I had given my word not to arrest
him, in pursuance of my plan to use him further."

Mornac examined his carefully kept finger-tips in detail.

"You say he bribed you?"

"I said that he attempted to do so," I replied, sharply.

"With the diamonds?"

"Yes."

"You have them?"

"I deposited them as usual."

"Bring them."

Angry as I was, I saluted, wheeled, and hastened off to the safe
deposit. The jewel-bag was delivered when I presented my printed slip;
I picked it up and marched back, savagely biting my mustache and
striving to control my increasing exasperation. Never before had I
endured insolence from a superior officer.

Mornac was questioning Speed as I entered, and that young man, who has
much self-control to learn, was already beginning to answer with
disrespectful impatience, but my advent suspended matters, and Mornac
took the bag of jewels from my hands and examined it. He seemed to be
in no hurry to empty it; he lolled in his chair with an absent-minded
expression like the expression of a cat who pretends to forget the
mouse between her paws. Danger was written all over him; I squared my
shoulders and studied him, braced for a shock.

The shock came almost immediately, for, without a word, he suddenly
emptied the jewel-bag on the desk before him. The bag contained
little pebbles wrapped in tissue-paper.

I heard Speed catch his breath sharply; I stared stupidly at the
pebbles. Mornac made a careless, sweeping gesture, spreading the
pebbles out before us with his restless, ringed fingers.

"Suppose you explain this farce?" he suggested, unmoved.

"Suppose you explain it!" I stammered.

He raised his delicately arched eyebrows. "What do you mean?"

"I mean that an hour ago that bag contained the diamonds from the
crucifix of Louis XI! I mean that I handed them over to you on my
arrival at this bureau!"

"Doubtless you can prove what you say," he observed, and his silver
penknife snapped shut like the click of a trap, and he lay back in his
padded chair and slipped the knife into his pocket.

I looked at Speed; his sandy hair fairly bristled, but his face was
drawn and tense. I looked at Mornac; his heavy, black eyes met mine
steadily.

"It seems to me," he said, "that it was high time we abolished the
Foreign Division, Imperial Military Police."

"I refuse to be discharged!" I said, hoarsely. "It is your word
against mine; I demand an investigation!"

"Certainly," he replied, almost wearily, and touched a bell. "Bring
that witness," he added to the soldier who appeared in answer to the
silvery summons.

"I mean an official inquiry," I said--"a court-martial. It is my
right where my honor is questioned."

"It is my right, when you question my honor, to throw you into Mont
Val√©rien, neck and heels," he said, showing his teeth under his silky,
black mustache.

Almost stunned by his change of tone, I stood like a stone. Somebody
entered the room behind me, passed me; there was an odor of violets in
the air, a faint rustle of silk, and I saw Mornac rise and bow to his
guest and conduct her to a chair.

His guest was the young Countess de Vassart.

She looked up at me brightly, gave me a pretty nod of recognition,
then turned expectantly to Mornac, who was still standing at her
elbow, saying, "Then it is no longer a question of my exile,
monsieur?"

"No, madame; there has been a mistake. The government has no reason
to suspect your loyalty." He turned directly on me. "Madame, do you
know this officer?"

"Yes," said the Countess, smiling.

"Did you see him receive a small sack of diamonds in Morsbronn?"

The Countess gave me a quick glance of surprise. "Yes," she said,
wonderingly.

"Thank you, madame; that is sufficient," he replied; and before I
could understand what he was about he had conducted the Countess to
the next room and had closed the door behind him.

"Quick!" muttered Speed at my elbow; "let's back out of this trap.
