She hurried swiftly to the house. Mère Lunde was scolding Chloe, but
through the rasping sound she heard the steps, the cordial greeting. It
was quite dark within, and she was lighting the pine torch when the two
entered and her uncle said:

“We have reached home at last. What a day! Renée, here is a guest,” and
Uncle Gaspard gave his hearty, cheerful laugh.

“We were in the dark.” She rose in some confusion, the short curls
drooping almost into her eyes, her face quite flushed, and turned,
drawing a long, startled breath.

“The saints only know how glad I am to get home again!” and the strong
voice was full of rapture.

“And you don’t know yourself?” she interrupted quickly.

“Ah, you must not take me up like that!” laughing. “I doubt if even the
saints could understand my delight. No one but myself truly knows. Is
that better?”

The torch began to flame, and its red light threw him out boldly. He
seemed to have grown taller—no, it was not that, for Uncle Gaspard still
towered above him, but he was stouter, and the way he carried himself
had in it a new character and power. And the indescribable something in
his face that no girl could read at a glance, the shaping and tone
experience gives when one has been learning to rule his fellow-men and
to depend upon himself.

She was silent and a warm color played about her face. He took both
hands, drew her nearer to him, and suddenly she was afraid of the
intense personality. Her rosy lips quivered, her eyes drooped, her
breath came rapidly.

“Haven’t you a word of welcome for André?” asked Uncle Gaspard,
surprised.

“I was confused by the light, and—you are quite sure it is Monsieur
Valbonais?” turning to her uncle. “For he seems to have changed
mysteriously.”

“And you have not changed at all. Nothing has changed. M. Denys, light
your pipe and sit in the corner, and I will take this one. Ma’m’selle
Renée, sit here in the middle.” He pushed the chair and placed her
gently in it. “Now we can almost believe that I have not been away at
all, only there is the great gladness of coming back.”

“Has the time passed so quickly, monsieur?”

There was the faintest suggestion of mischief in her tone.

“Mademoiselle, you have not outgrown all your naughtiness, I perceive.
You find a second meaning in my simple words. No, there have been days
that seemed like months—last summer, when I hoped to return, when I was
homesick and heartsick. But what are you to do when the kindest employer
in the world begs you to stay and there is no one to take your place,
unless matters go at a great loss?”

“But New Orleans is gay and bright. And Madame Gardepier says the women
are lovely, and there is music and light-heartedness everywhere.”

“When you are in a close and dark office or out on the muddy, crowded,
vile-smelling levees with men of every nation shouting and hustling and
swearing all about you, and you have almost to fight to get your bidding
done, you have no thought for pretty women. But a man cannot always
choose. And my greatest grief is that I must go back or disappoint my
very good friends.”

“Oh!” with a toss of the head and a curve of the swelling lip that he
longed to kiss.

“Ma’m’selle, let us not talk about that now. There are pleasanter
subjects—all our old friends—for through the day it has been business,
business, until my head seemed in a whirl with it. M. Denys will tell
you. And we had to go to supper to finish, as if there would not be
another day. But it is so lovely here. And the pretty Madame Marchand is
well, and the Renaud girls, and the Aubrys with their husbands, and
Madame Gardepier with her little one! Ah, I shall have a fine time
presently, when I get a little leisure!”

What a new sound his voice had! A strength and resolution that swayed
one curiously, a definite manner of stating opinions that somehow
impressed one not only with a sense of security, but a sense of power
that she was minded to rebel against.

They talked late. Why could she not slyly disappear, as she often did,
and leave him with Uncle Denys, since he would remain all night?

But she shook off the mysterious chain with an effort and rose and
wished them good-night in a timid sort of way, though she stood up very
straight.

He caught her hand. “I am tempted to wish there could be no nights for a
long while,” he said. “They are not good nights.”

“Think how sleepy we should get. And mine are always good,” laughing
lightly. But she did not go across and kiss Uncle Denys.

There were several busy days, and friends that proffered André a warm
welcome. The Valbonais cousins were wedded long ago, but they claimed
him quite as cordially, and the old people were proud enough of him. The
Marchands offered him their home, and were delighted to have him drop
in. Then he was being asked to dine or sup with the Chouteaus, and he
was at the Government House, for his intelligent understanding of other
subjects besides commercial matters made him a desirable guest.

Renée experienced a curious sensation, as if she was being neglected.
She had lost her old power over him, which was mortifying. He teased her
a little, then he let her trifle with him and say saucy things. But it
was like a bird with a chain; he brought her back, he let her see it was
only playing. Then she grew indignant and flounced away, met him coldly
the next time, or was proud and silent.

Uncle Gaspard never raised a finger in the matter.

“I do not like him. I almost hate him!” she cried vehemently one day.
“Of course, I know he saved me in that dreadful peril, but he has been
thanked a hundred times over. And we do not owe him anything.”

“Oh, yes,” Uncle Gaspard said tenderly, as he pressed her to his heart.
“I owe him a great deal. For if I had lost you——”

“And you could never give me to any one else?”

“Well, whoever wanted one would have to take both.”

Presently the trafficking was about over. The Indians had gone to their
respective lodges, the voyageurs sailed up the river, and now only
occasional boats and canoes came in. André was not so busy. He joined
the parties on their rambles when he was certain Renée would be among
them. He did not hesitate to make himself agreeable to other
demoiselles. She could not help drawing contrasts. He had certain ways
of the better class, though social lines were not strongly marked and
few people knew what culture meant. He talked Spanish fluently; he was
quite an adept in English, though he had acquired a little of that
before. But the difference was largely one of manner, the small,
delicate attentions that went to her heart and understanding. Uncle
Gaspard always had some of them, M. Marchand also, and a few of the
others. The rather rough good nature had much honesty, but it was not so
flattering to a girl of Renée’s cast.

There were times when she was quite as jealous as she had ever been of
Uncle Gaspard. Yet it was strange to be so shaken by his coming when she
told herself she did not care for him, to have the touch of his hand
thrill through every nerve, to have the steady glance of his eye conquer
the spirit of rebellion until there was nothing left except the thin
outside crust, that would surely fall at the next assault if she did not
run away. This was cowardly, too, and she despised herself for it, but
she was not the first who had escaped in this fashion.

He was amused. In the earlier days he had experienced a great terror at
the thought of losing her. It might be the elder man’s wisdom had helped
open his eyes. He liked her piquant independence, and he learned, too,
there was a mood of most fascinating dependence as well. But she never
wholly gave up.

“Is it true you are going back to New Orleans?” Renée asked one day in
her charming, but imperious fashion.

“Yes, ma’m’selle. And I must start in another month.”
