
The two men faced each other.

"He lies.  If I have applied epithets to you, it has been done openly
and frankly.  I have not touched you over some one's shoulder, as in
the De Leviston case.  I entertain for you the greatest hatred.  It
will be a pleasure some day to kill you."

The Chevalier looked at the coin in his hand, at D'Hérouville, then
back at the coin.

"Believe me or not, Monsieur.  I overheard what took place, and in
justice to myself I had to speak."  D'Hérouville touched his hat and
departed.

The Chevalier stood alone, staring with blurred eyes at the sinister
contents of his hand.




CHAPTER XXX

THE VICOMTE D'HALLUYS RECEIVES BROTHER JACQUES' ABSOLVO TE

The fort had four large compartments which consisted of a mess-room
already described, a living-room, general sleeping quarters for the
Jesuit Fathers, lay brothers and officers, and a large room for stores.
A roomy loft extended over the mess-room, to be resumed again over the
sleeping quarters, the living-room being situated between.  Unknown to
the Iroquois, a carpenter's shop had been established in the loft for
the purpose of constructing some boats.

From the living-room there came to the Chevalier the murmur of voices,
sometimes a laugh.  He was unaware of how much time passed.  He was
conscious only of the voices, the occasional laugh, and the shining
pieces of silver in his hand.  The perpendicular furrow above his nose
grew deeper and deeper, the line of his lips grew thinner and thinner,
and the muscles of his jaws became and remained hard and square.
Presently he shook his head as a lion shakes his when about to leap.
He righted the corporal's chair and pushed his own under the table.  He
had forgotten his hunger.  With the coin closed tightly in his fist, he
started toward the door which gave into the living-room.  He stopped
still when his foot touched the threshold, and leaned against the jamb,
gloomily surveying the occupants of the room.  He saw Victor seated at
his table, making corrections on the pages of what was to be his book
of lore.  Father Chaumonot and Brother Jacques shared the table with
the poet, and both were reading.  The gentlemen who had been forced
either by poverty or the roving hand of adventure to take parts in this
mission drama were gathered before the fire, discussing the days of
prosperity and the court of Louis XIII.  A few feet from the poet's
table stood another, and round this sat Major du Puys, Nicot, and the
vicomte, engaged in a friendly game of dominoes.  D'Hérouville,
Corporal Frémin, Jean Pauquet and a settler named The Fox, were not
among the assemblage.

Victor saw his friend, nodded and smiled.  But the Chevalier did not
return the smile.  Had Victor looked closer he would have seen the pall
of impending tragedy on the Chevalier's darkened brow.

"Ha!" said the vicomte, as he stirred the dominoes about; "there you
are, Chevalier.  Come and take a hand."  He smiled encouragingly.

The Chevalier went slowly toward the table, never taking his eyes from
the vicomte's face.  When he finally stood beside the vicomte's stool,
he stretched out his arm and opened his hand.

"Monsieur le Vicomte," he said, "do you recognize these ten pieces of
silver?"

Not a man among them all but felt the ice of a chill strike his spine
at the sound of the Chevalier's voice.  Every head in the room turned.

"Recognize?"  The vicomte looked from the hand to the owner's face upon
which lay a purpose as calm and relentless as it was deadly.
"Recognize?  What do you mean, Monsieur?"

The Chevalier answered with a repellent laugh.  "Your economy does you
credit; you have sold me to a drunken corporal for ten pieces of
silver."  With a swift movement he flung the silver into the vicomte's
upturned face.

The vicomte covered his face with his hands and sprang to his feet.
But no sound escaped him.  When he withdrew his hands his lips were
bleeding and there were blue ridges on his cheeks and forehead.

Confusion.  Priests and soldiers and adventurers gathered quickly
around.  Du Puys took the Chevalier by the shoulders and pressed him
back from the table, while Brother Jacques threw his arms around the
vicomte.  Only the Chevalier and the victim of his rage were apparently
calm.

"Are you mad, Chevalier?" demanded Du Puys.  "What the devil!"

"Be seated, Messieurs," said the vicomte, wiping his lips.  "You are
all witnesses to this unprovoked assault.  There can be but one result.
You shall die, Monsieur," to the Chevalier.

"It is possible."  The Chevalier brushed aside Du Puys's hands and
tried to reach his sword.

"I will have one or the other of you shot, or both of you," roared Du
Puys.  But his heart was not in his voice.

"That is a small matter," said the Chevalier.

"What is the meaning of all this?" cried Chaumonot.

"Tell him, Monsieur le Chevalier," laughed the vicomte; "tell him!"

The Chevalier was mute; but his chest heaved and his eyes glowed with a
terrible fury.

"Monsieur," continued the vicomte, "you and I will step outside.  There
is moonlight."

"You will do nothing of the sort, Monsieur le Vicomte," said Brother
Jacques coolly.

"I will brook no interference from priests!" declared the vicomte.  His
calm was gradually leaving him.  But before he could prevent it,
Brother Jacques had whipped out the vicomte's rapier and had broken it
across his knee.  "Curse you, you meddling Jesuit!"  He wrenched loose
a hand and struck Brother Jacques violently in the face.

Brother Jacques caught the wrist.  "He grows profane," he said blandly.
"Be quiet, Monsieur, or I will break your wrist so badly that you will
never be able to handle a sword again."

The vicomte in his rage struck out with the other hand, but the young
priest was too quick for him.  Both the vicomte's wrists were
imprisoned as securely as though bauds of iron encircled them.  He
struggled for a space, then became still.

"That is more sensible," Brother Jacques said smoothly.

"In Heaven's name, Paul," cried Victor, "what does this all mean?"

"It means, lad, that there are no more masks.  That is all.  I am
sorry, Messieurs, that Monsieur le Vicomte's sword has been broken.
Will one of you lend him one?"

"I place you both under arrest," declared Du Puys, emphatically.

"Major," interposed Brother Jacques, "leave Monsieur le Vicomte to me.
There will be no duel between these two gentlemen.  I will arrange the
affair.  Unless Monsieur le Chevalier desires to apologize."

"Nothing of the kind!" replied the Chevalier harshly.

"Release my wrists, sneaking priest!"

Brother Jacques nodded toward the Chevalier to signify that he would
depend upon his own offices.  "Monsieur le Vicomte, listen to me.  Will
you follow me to your cabin?"

"You?"

"Even so.  I have something to say to you."

