"I am afraid Marcello is gone to Rome," she said, with an effort.

The Signora raised herself in her long chair and stared hard at the
girl. The Contessa looked at her in surprise.

"What do you know about it?" cried the Signora. "Why have you not
spoken, if you know anything? Don't you see that I am half mad with
anxiety?"

Aurora had never seen the good lady in such a state, and was almost
frightened; but there was nothing to be done now, except to go on. She
told her little story timidly, but truthfully, looking from her mother
to the Signora while she spoke, and wondering what would happen when she
had finished.

"He said, 'You shall wish me back, but I will not come.' I think those
were his last words."

"You have broken my boy's heart!" cried the Signora Corbario, turning
her face away.

Maddalena, whose heart had really been broken long ago, could not help
smiling.

"I am sure I did not mean to," cried Aurora, contritely. "And after all,
though I daresay it was my fault, he called me a miserable little flirt,
and I only called him a baby."

Maddalena would have laughed if her friend had not been in such real
distress. As for Aurora, she did not know whether she would have laughed
or cried if she had not felt that her girl's dignity was at stake. As it
was, she grew preternaturally calm.

"You have driven him away," moaned the Signora piteously. "You have
driven away my boy! Was he not good enough for you?"

She asked the question suddenly and vehemently, turning upon poor Aurora
with something like fury. She was quite beside herself, and the Contessa
motioned the girl away. Aurora rose and disappeared round the corner of
the house.

Alone with her friend, Maddalena did her best to comfort her. There were
arguments enough: it was barely noon, and Marcello had not been gone
four hours; he was used to taking long walks, he had probably gone as
far as the tower, and had rested there before coming back; or he had
gone to meet Ercole on the road to Porto d'Anzio; or he had gone off
towards the Nettuno woods to get over his anger in solitude; it was
natural enough; and after all, if he had gone to Rome as Aurora
thought, no harm could come to him, for he would go home, and would
surely send a telegram before evening. It was unlike him, yes; but just
at his age boys often did foolish things.

"Marcello is not foolish!" objected the Signora indignantly.

She could by no means listen to reason, and was angry because her friend
tried to argue with her. She rose with an energy she seldom displayed,
and began to walk up and down the verandah. Her face was very pale, her
lip quivered when she spoke, and there was an unnatural light in her
eyes. There was room for much moderate affection in her gentle nature;
she had loved her first husband; she loved Corbario dearly; but the
passion of her life was her son, and at the first presentiment of real
danger to him the dominant preoccupation of her heart took violent
possession of everything else in her, regardless of reason, friendship,
consideration for others, or common sense.

Maddalena walked up and down beside her, putting one arm affectionately
round her waist, and doing the best she could to allay the tempest.

It subsided suddenly, and was followed by a stony silence that
frightened the Contessa. It was time for luncheon, and Aurora came back,
hoping to find that she had been forgiven during her absence, but the
Signora only looked at her coldly once or twice and would not speak.
None of the three even pretended to have an appetite.

"I shall not go back to Rome to-day," said the Contessa. "I cannot
leave you in such anxiety."

"Folco will take care of me," answered the Signora in a dull tone. "Do
not change your plans on my account. The carriage is ordered at three
o'clock."

She spoke so coldly that Maddalena felt a little pardonable resentment,
though she knew that her friend was not at all herself.

"Very well," she answered quietly. "If you had rather that I should not
stay with you we will go back this afternoon."

"It will be much better."

When the carriage appeared neither Folco nor any of the men had
returned. The Signora made an evident attempt to show a little of her
habitual cordiality at parting, and she even kissed Aurora coldly on the
forehead, and embraced Maddalena with something like her usual
affection. The two looked back as they drove away, calling out a last
good-bye, but they saw that the Signora was not even looking after them;
she was leaning against one of the wooden supports of the verandah,
gazing towards the trees, and pressing one hand to her forehead.

"Do you think it was my fault, mamma?" asked Aurora, when they were out
of sight of the cottage.

"No, dear," answered Maddalena. "Something has happened, I wish I knew
what!"

"I only told him he was a baby," said Aurora, settling herself in the
corner of the carriage, and arranging her parasol behind her so that it
rested on the open hood; for the weather had cleared and the sun was
shining brightly after the storm.

So she and her mother went back to Rome that afternoon. But when the
Signora was alone, she was sorry that her friend was gone, and was all
at once aware that her head was aching terribly. Every movement she made
sent an agonizing thrill through her brain, and her hand trembled from
the pain, as she pressed her palm to her forehead.

She meant to go down to the beach alone, for she was sure that she could
find Marcello, and at least she would meet the men who were searching
for him, and have news sooner than if she stayed in the cottage. But she
could not have walked fifty steps without fainting while her headache
lasted. She would take five grains of phenacetine, and in a little while
she would be better.

She found the glass tube with the screw cap, and swallowed one of the
tablets with a little water. Then she sat down on the edge of her long
chair in the verandah to wait for the pain to pass. She was very tired,
and presently, she scarcely knew how it was, she was lying at full
length in her chair, her head resting comfortably against the cushion.

The sunlight fell slanting across her feet. Amongst the trees two or
three birds were twittering softly; it was warm, it was dreamy, she was
forgetting Marcello. She tried to rouse herself as the thought of him
crossed her mind, and she fancied that she almost rose from the chair;
but she had hardly lifted one hand. Then she saw his face close before
her, her lips relaxed, the pain was gone, she smiled happily, and she
was asleep.

Half an hour later her maid came quietly out to ask whether she needed
anything, and seeing that she was sleeping peacefully spread a light
shawl over her feet, placed the silver handbell within easy reach on the
table, and went away again.

Towards evening Folco came back and then the men, straggling in on their
tired little horses, for they had ridden far and fast. Marcello was not
with them.

Corbario came in alone, and saw his wife lying in her chair in the
evening light. He stood still a moment, and then came over and bent near
her, looking earnestly into her quiet face.

"Already," he said aloud, but in a very low voice.

His hand shook as he laid it on her heart, bending low. Then he started
violently and stood bolt upright, as an unearthly howl rent the air.

Nino, Ercole's queer dog, was close beside him, his forepaws planted on
the upper step of the verandah, his head thrown up, his half-open jaws
showing his jagged teeth, his rough coat bristling like spikes of
bearded barley.

And Ercole, still a hundred yards away amongst the trees, shook his head
