the girl and her mother would find quarters somewhere and there remain
until that acrobat, summer, turned handsprings into town and
frightened them off.

Summer had not yet come. But May had and, with it, an eager glitter,
skies of silk, all the caresses and surrenders of spring.

The season was becoming to Fanny. She fitted in it. She was a young
Venus in Paris clothes--Aphrodite a maiden, touched up by Doucet. In
her manner was a charm quite incandescent. In her voice were
intonations that conveyed the sensation of a kiss. Her eyes were very
loquacious. She could, when she chose, flood them with languors. She
could, too, charge them with rebuke. You never knew, though, just what
she would do. But you always did know what Sylvia would not.

Sylvia suggested the immateriality that the painters of long ago gave
to certain figures which they wished to represent as floating from the
canvas into space. You felt that her mind was clean as wholesome
fruit, that her speech could no more weary than could a star, that her
heart, like her house, was a home. She detained, but Fanny allured.

In spite of which or perhaps precisely because of their sheer
dissimilarity the two girls were friends. But association weaves
mysterious ties. It unites people who otherwise would come to blows.
Fanny and Sylvia had been brought up together. The mesh woven in
younger days was about them still, and on this particular noon in May
they made a picture which, while contrasting, was charmful.

"You really like my hat?"

The hat was gray. The girl's dress was gray. The skirt was of the
variety known as trotabout. The whole thing was severely plain, yet
astonishingly smart. Sylvia was also in street dress. The latter was
black.

They were in the parlor. For in New York there are still parlors. And
why not? A parlor--or parloir--is a talking-place. Yet in this
instance not a gay place. It was spacious, sombre, severe.

"And now," said Fanny, after the hat had been properly praised, "tell
me when it is to be?"

"When is what to be?"

"You and Arthur?"

"Next autumn."

"I shall send a fish knife," said Fanny, savorously. "A fish knife
always looks so big and costs so little. Though if I could I would
give you a diamond crown."

"Give me your promise to be bridesmaid, and you will have given me
what I want from you most."

"But what am I to wear? And oh, Sylvia, how am I to get it? I don't
dare any more to so much as look in on Annette, or Juliette, or
Marguerite. There are streets into which I can no longer go. I told
Loftus that, and he said--so sympathetically too--'Ah, is it memories
that prevent you?' 'Rubbish,' I told him, 'it's bills.'"

"Fanny! How could you? He might have offered to pay them."

"If he had only offered to owe them!" Fanny laughed as she spoke and
patted her perfect skirt.

"But he has other fish to fry. Do you know the other day I saw him--"

But what Fanny had seen was never told, or at least not then.
Annandale was invading the parlor.

"Conquering hero!" cried Fanny. "I am here congratulating Sylvia."

"I congratulate myself that you are. I have a motor at the door, and I
propose to take you both to Sherry's, afterward, if you like, to the
races. There you may congratulate me."

"What is this about Sherry's?" Again the parlor was invaded. This time
by Sylvia's mother. She had bright cheeks, bright eyes, bright hair.
In her voice was indulgence, in her manner ease. She gave a hand to
Fanny, the other to Annandale.

"In my day," she resumed, "girls did not go lunching without someone
to look after them."

"They certainly did not go to Sherry's," said Annandale. "There was no
Sherry's to go to. But why won't you come with us?"

"Thank you, Arthur. It is not because Fanny or Sylvia needs looking
after. But when I was their age anything of the sort would have been
thought so common. Yet then, what was common at that time seems to
have been accepted since. Now, there is a chance to call me
old-fashioned."

"I can do better than that," said Annandale, "I can call you grande
dame."

"Yes," Fanny threw in, "and that, don't you think, is so superior to
being merely--ahem--demned grand."

"Why, Fanny!" And Mrs. Waldron, at once amused at the jest and
startled at the expression, shook her finger at her.

But Annandale hastened to her rescue. "Fanny is quite right, Mrs.
Waldron. You meet women nowadays whose grandfathers, if they had any,
were paving the streets while your own were governing the country and
who, just because they happen to be beastly rich, put on airs that
would be comical in an empress. Now, won't you change your mind and
come with us? At Sherry's there are always some choice selections on
view."

"You are not very tempting, Arthur. But if the girls think otherwise,
take them. And don't forget. You dine with us tonight."

Thereat, presently, after a scurry through sunshine and streets,
Sherry's was reached.

There Annandale wanted to order a châteaubriand. The girls rebelled.
A maitre d'hôtel suggested melons and a suprème with a bombe to
follow.

Annandale turned to him severely. "Ferdinand, I object to your telling
me what you want me to eat."

"Let me order," said Sylvia. "Fanny, what would you like?"

"Cucumbers, asparagus, strawberries."

"Chicken?"

Fanny nodded.

"Yes," said Annandale to the chastened waiter, "order that and some
moselle, and I want a Scotch and soda. There's Orr," he interrupted
himself to announce. "I wonder what he is doing uptown? And there's
Loftus."

At the mention of Orr, Fanny, who had been eying an adjacent gown,
evinced no interest. But at the mention of Loftus she glanced about
the room.

It was large, high-ceiled, peopled with actresses and men-about-town,
smart women and stupid boys, young girls and old beaux. From a balcony
there dripped the twang of mandolins. In the air was the savor of
pineapple, the smell of orris, the odor of food and flowers.

On entering Sylvia had stopped to say a word at one table, Fanny had
loitered at another. Then in their trip to a table already reserved,
a trip conducted by the maitre d'hôtel whom Annandale had rebuked,
murmurs trailed after them, the echo of their names, observations
profoundly analytical. "That's Fanny Price, the great beauty." "That's
Miss Waldron, who is engaged to Arthur Annandale." "That is Annandale
there"--the usual subtleties of the small people of a big city. Now,
at the entrance, Orr and Loftus appeared.

"Shall I ask them to join us?" Annandale asked.

"Yes, do," said Fanny. "I like Mr. Orr so much."

But Loftus, who, with his hands in his pockets, a monocle in his eye,
