pricks again when the point comes out on the other side. One feels
very little, or nothing at all, if one is badly wounded in the head,
for one is stunned at once; it is the headache afterwards that really
hurts. If one is wounded in the lungs, one feels nothing, but one is
choked by the blood, and one must turn on one's face at once in order
not to suffocate. Broken bones hurt afterwards as a rule, more than at
first, but it is a curious sensation to have one's collar bone smashed
by a blow from a two-handed sword----'

'Good heavens!' cried Zoë. 'What a catalogue! How do you know how each
thing feels?'

'I can remember,' Zeno answered simply.

'You have been wounded in all those different ways, and you are
alive?'

Zeno smiled.

'Yes; and you understand now why I look so old.'

'I was not in earnest,' Zoë said. 'You knew that I was not. You need
only look at yourself in a mirror to see that I was laughing.'

'I was not very deeply hurt by being taken for a man of fifty,' Zeno
answered, not quite truthfully.

'Oh no!' laughed Zoë. 'I cannot imagine that my opinion of your age
could make any difference to you. It was silly of me--only, for a man
who has had so many adventures, you do look absurdly young!'

'So much the better, since my fighting days are over.'

'And since you are a sober, peace-loving merchant,' said Zoë,
continuing the sentence for him. 'But are you so very sure, my lord?
Would nothing make you draw your sword again and risk your life on
your fencing? Nothing?'

'Nothing that did not affect my honour, I truly believe.'

'You would not do it for a woman's sake?' She turned to him, to watch
his face, but its expression did not change.

'Three things can drive a wise man mad,--wine, women, and dice.'

'I daresay! Your lordship reckons us in good company. But that is no
answer to my question.'

'Yes it is,' said Zeno with a laugh. 'Why should I do for a woman what
I would not do for dice or wine?'

'But dice and wine never tempted you,' Zoë objected.

Zeno laughed louder.

'Never? When I was a student at Padua I sold everything, even my
books, to get money for both. It was only when the books were gone
that I turned soldier, and learned the greatest game of hazard in the
world. Compared with that, dice are an opiate, and wine is a
sleeping-draught.'

He only smiled now, after laughing, but there was a look in his face
as he spoke which she saw then for the first time and did not forget,
and recognised when she saw it again. It was subtle, and might have
passed unnoticed among men, but it spoke to the sex in the girl, and
made her young blood thrill. For worlds, she would not have had him
guess what she felt just then.

'Fighting for its own sake would tempt you, if nothing else could,'
she answered quietly.

'Ah--perhaps, perhaps,' he answered, musing.

'But you would need a cause, though ever so slight, and you have none
here, have you?'

'None that I care to take up.'

'You may find something to fight for--over the water,' Zoë suggested,
emphasising the words a little and watching his face.

The phrase meant nothing to him.

'Over the water?' he repeated carelessly. 'At home, in Venice, you
mean. Yes, if Venice needed me, I should not wait to be called twice!'

It was quite clear that he attached no meaning to the words she had
used, and this fact tallied with what the astrologer had told her in
the morning as to his having been deaf to all advances made to him by
the imprisoned Emperor's party.

Zoë leaned back in silence for a while, almost closing her eyes, and
she saw that he watched her, and that an unmistakable look of
admiration stole into his face. She was wondering whether it would
ever turn into something more, and whether she should ever see the
gleam of fight in his eyes, for her sake, that had flashed in them a
moment ago at the mere thought of battle. What did women do, to make
men love them? There is an age when girls believe that love need only
be called, like a tame dove, and that he will fly in at the window;
and there is an age when he comes to them uncalled-for. If only the
ages were the same for all, much trouble might be spared. Zoë was
perhaps between the two, but she still believed that there was some
fixed rule on which clever women acted to make men fall in love with
them, those wicked women who are described to young girls as
'designing,' and are supposed to know precisely the effect they can
produce on men at any moment, to the very nicety of an eyelash.

Zeno broke the long silence with an unexpected speech which roughly
awakened Zoë from her reflection.

'As for this Emperor John whom his son has locked up,' he said, 'his
friends have done their best to interest me in his cause. He has even
sent me messages, begging me to help him to escape. Why? What
difference can it make to me whether he or his son dies in the Amena
tower? They are poor things, both of them, and for all I care John may
starve in his chains before I will lift a finger!'

Zoë sighed and bit her lip to check herself, for his voluntary
declaration had dashed the palace of her hopes to pieces in an
instant.

Then she was ashamed of having even dreamt that he might love her,
since he despised the very cause for which she had wished to win his
love. But this state of mind did not last long, either. She was too
brave to let such a speech pass, as if she agreed with it.

'You are wrong,' she said, quite forgetting that she had set herself
to play the part of the slave. 'You ought to help him, if you can--and
you can, if you will.'

Zeno looked at her in surprise. There was something like authority in
her tone, and the two little maids, whom he had forgotten in their
corner behind him, stared in astonishment at her audacity. Not a word
of the conversation had escaped them.

'I mean,' continued Zoë, before he could find an answer to her plain
statement, 'if you are a true Venetian you should wish to put down the
man whom the Genoese and the Turks have set on the throne. Johannes is
your friend and your country's friend, though he is a weak man and
always will be. Andronicus is an enemy to Venice and a friend to her
enemies. He is even now ready to give the island of Tenedos to
them--the key to the Dardanelles----'

'What?' asked Zeno in a loud and angry tone. 'Tenedos?'

His manner had changed, and he almost rose from his seat as he bent
forwards and seized her wrist in his excitement. She was glad, and
smiled at him.

'Yes,' she answered, 'the Genoese demand it as the price of their
protection, and they will force him to give it to them. But it may not
be easy, for the governor of the island is loyal to Johannes.'

'How do you know these things?' asked Zeno, still holding her wrist
and trying to look into her eyes.

'I know them,' Zoë answered. 'If I am not telling you the truth, sell
me in the market to-morrow.'

  [Illustration: 'I know them,' Zoë answered. 'If I am not telling you
