northern front of the fire.

"Are you not in the least worried about Elton?" asked Isabel, abruptly.

"Not a bit. I never worried about him when he was a child. He was always
the most agile and ready youngster I ever saw."

"But he is very venturesome. He might be caught in one of those furnaces
as well as another, or killed by falling bricks."

"He is a man of destiny," said Victoria indifferently. "He will live to
accomplish what he was born for."

Isabel, in truth, found worry as impossible as any other common emotion,
nevertheless thought it odd that he did not come to them for a moment or
send a message. She could appreciate his wholly masculine mood, his
temporary indifference to the charms of her sex, but he had an ingrained
sense of responsibility, and was more considerate than the average man.

Lady Victoria returned to her vantage-point on the veranda, and Isabel
went down to the garden fence where the three Japs were standing, and
asked them if they intended to remain--half the servants had already
fled from the city. Two replied that later in the day they should go to
Oakland where they had friends. Isabel told them that she should not
part with what little money there was in the house, and they answered
politely that they expected to wait for their wages. The oldest of the
three, a respectable man of thirty, who looked like, and no doubt was,
a student, announced his intention to remain.

"I can cook," he added. "Not well, but perhaps well enough for a few
days. And perhaps if we are driven out I may go to the country with you.
I should be willing to work for anything you could pay me until things
were restored to their normal condition--if you would be good enough to
give me my evenings for study."

Isabel promised him the protection of her ranch-house, and stood talking
to him for some time. His English was unusually correct and his remarks
were more intelligent than those of the average man of her acquaintance.
He told her something of Japanese earthquakes, and was good enough to
add that he had never felt quite so violent or so peculiar a series of
earth movements as California had achieved that morning. He was curious
to see the result as recorded on the seismograph, and to know at what
hour it registered in Japan.

"I think Professor Omori will come over," he said, modestly. "This
earthquake will interest him very much. He will wish to study the
ground."

"Were you not frightened?" asked Isabel, curiously.

"I appreciated the danger, but frightened--no, miss, I think I have
never felt frightened. But I do not like fire. I have seen Tokio burn. I
shall walk about constantly and see that it does not steal upon us from
the north or west. Some silly person might make a fire, and all the
chimneys must be cracked."

"I feel much relieved to know that you will patrol," said Isabel,
wondering if she were being gracious to a prince. "Would you mind going
up to the top of the hill and asking some one if he knows whether all
the injured were taken from the Mechanics' Pavilion? It is blazing like
a wood pile."

He went up the hill and returned with the information that all the
patients, as well as the doctors and nurses, had been taken out, the
last of them while the roof was blazing, and conveyed in automobiles to
other emergency hospitals far away; and that the prisoners in the City
Hall had been transported, manacled, to the army prisons in the same
manner.

"One of the gentlemen said he saw Mr. Gwynne running an automobile full
of nurses and patients--one of Mr. Hofer's machines," he added. "And
that he returned twice at least. All the young men that own machines are
acting very well, they say, transporting the injured, and making
themselves generally useful. Many are on the roofs of the greater
buildings with the firemen fighting the fire with blankets, and hose
attached to the cisterns. A few buildings have been saved in that way,
but not many, and more or less of the water has to be turned on the men,
who catch fire repeatedly from the sparks."

Isabel went into the house and put on her hat. "I cannot keep still any
longer," she said to Victoria, a moment later. "And now I am quite
rested. I shall go down and see Mrs. Hofer, and reconnoitre for myself.
If Elton should come, ask him to wait for me here--he must need a
rest--or walk down Taylor Street."




XIII


She found her lower neighbors still sitting on their doorsteps or
standing in groups, but was told that many more had already gone out to
the Western Addition with their valuables, fearing that the fire might
come up the southern or eastern slopes before night. A large touring car
was standing in front of the Hofers' door. The children and their nurses
were in it, and Mr. Toole came out and took his place as Isabel reached
the house. He greeted her for the first time since she had known him
without a smile; and he looked very old and sad. Isabel heard Mrs.
Hofer's light high rapid voice within. She was standing in the large
drawing-room, giving orders to a group of servants. When she saw Isabel
she cried out as if confronted with a ghost.

"Oh!" she exclaimed, but not kissing her as usual; her mind apparently
was divided into many parts. "I am relieved to see that you are all
right. I didn't know what might have happened up State. Did you ever?
Well!--Great old country this. Talk about living on the side of
Vesuvius. And now everything is going, everything!"

"I keep hoping for a change of wind."

"Perhaps, but I've pretty well given it up. We are in disgrace to-day,
sure enough. And anyhow Mr. Hofer has lost millions, millions!
However--" She recovered herself with a bound. "He made them, so I
guess he can make more. And do you know what he's thinking about
already? He burst in here half an hour ago--as black as your hat--with
orders that I should take the family down to Burlingame at once, and
then began talking about the Burnham plans, and the opportunity to clean
up the city politically. There's a raging idealist for you. And do you
know what he and Mr. Gwynne are up to now? Carrying dynamite, no less,
between Fort Mason and the fire line. The two of them are running an
automobile apiece and have put themselves at the disposal of the
authorities. Nice thing for me to be thinking of all night. Don't you
want to come along?"

Isabel shook her head.

"Well, I'll move on then--before they change their minds and impress my
car. So far I have a gracious permit to keep it. The servants have
buried the silver and the pictures, but--" She glanced at the beautiful
frieze, which, without its electric lights, looked a mere blur of blue
and black, then shrugged her shoulders. "I just won't believe my house
will go," she said, defiantly; "not till the last minute, anyhow. When
the fire's over, or Mr. Hofer lets me, I'll come back and do something
for those poor wretches that have been burned out. Gather up what food
there is to be had in the country, and start an eating station or
something. Mr. Hofer says food will come pouring in from every direction
presently, and then they will need organizers. I'm good at that. Can I
rely on you? It will be an experience, anyhow; and of course it's my
place to do that sort of thing. Besides, I do feel terribly sorry for
those poor things, and I won't be able to sit still for a month."

"You can count on me. When this is over I shall find you somehow."

"Oh, don't worry. The newspapers won't miss anything. They're burned
out, but I hear that the editors are already over in Oakland scurrying
round after a plant. Well, adios. If you say the word I'll send the
car back for you--although I doubt if it would pass a squad without
those children in it. I suppose it would hold several tons of dynamite!
Heigh-ho, I suppose it is all in the day's work. What can you expect if
you live in an earthquake country?" They had reached the pavement and
she put her lips close to Isabel's ear. "I'd like to get out of the
damned place and never see it again," she whispered. "I'll keep a stiff
upper lip, but those are my sentiments and I guess I have company."

She stepped lightly into the car, nodded with a grim gayety, and in
another moment had disappeared round the corner of Taylor and California
streets.

Isabel started down the hill, and almost immediately met Anne
