
"Of whom I was one--and not the least lamentable example of the system!
Of course the only thing that saves us from their vengeance," Mrs.
Ansell added, "is that so few of them ever stop to think...."

"And yet, as I make out, it's precisely what you would have Bessy do!"

"It's what neither you nor I can help her doing. You've given her just
acuteness enough to question, without consecutiveness enough to explain.
But if she must perish in the struggle--and I see no hope for her--"
cried Mrs. Ansell, starting suddenly and dramatically to her feet, "at
least let her perish defending her ideals and not denying them--even if
she has to sell the New York house and all your china pots into the
bargain!"

Mr. Langhope, rising also, deprecatingly lifted his hands, "If that's
what you call saving me from her vengeance--sending the crockery
crashing round my ears!" And, as she turned away without any pretense of
capping his pleasantry, he added, with a gleam of friendly malice: "I
suppose you're going to the Hunt ball as Cassandra?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst, that morning, had sought out his wife with the definite resolve
to efface the unhappy impression of their previous talk. He blamed
himself for having been too easily repelled by her impatience. As the
stronger of the two, with the power of a fixed purpose to sustain him,
he should have allowed for the instability of her impulses, and above
all for the automatic influences of habit.

Knowing that she did not keep early hours he delayed till ten o'clock to
present himself at her sitting-room door, but the maid who answered his
knock informed him that Mrs. Amherst was not yet up.

His reply that he would wait did not appear to hasten the leisurely
process of her toilet, and he had the room to himself for a full
half-hour. Many months had passed since he had spent so long a time in
it, and though habitually unobservant of external details, he now found
an outlet for his restlessness in mechanically noting the intimate
appurtenances of Bessy's life. He was at first merely conscious of a
soothing harmony of line and colour, extending from the blurred tints of
the rug to the subdued gleam of light on old picture-frames and on the
slender flanks of porcelain vases; but gradually he began to notice how
every chair and screen and cushion, and even every trifling utensil on
the inlaid writing-desk, had been chosen with reference to the whole
composition, and to the minutest requirements of a fastidious leisure. A
few months ago this studied setting, if he had thought of it at all,
would have justified itself as expressing the pretty woman's natural
affinity with pretty toys; but now it was the cost of it that struck
him. He was beginning to learn from Bessy's bills that no commodity is
taxed as high as beauty, and the beauty about him filled him with sudden
repugnance, as the disguise of the evil influences that were separating
his wife's life from his.

But with her entrance he dismissed the thought, and tried to meet her as
if nothing stood in the way of their full communion. Her hair, still wet
from the bath, broke from its dryad-like knot in dusky rings and spirals
threaded with gold, and from her loose flexible draperies, and her whole
person as she moved, there came a scent of youth and morning freshness.
Her beauty touched him, and made it easier for him to humble himself.

"I was stupid and disagreeable last night. I can never say what I want
when I have to count the minutes, and I've come back now for a quiet
talk," he began.

A shade of distrust passed over Bessy's face. "About business?" she
asked, pausing a few feet away from him.

"Don't let us give it that name!" He went up to her and drew her two
hands into his. "You used to call it our work--won't you go back to that
way of looking at it?"

Her hands resisted his pressure. "I didn't know, then, that it was going
to be the only thing you cared for----"

But for her own sake he would not let her go on. "Some day I shall make
you see how much my caring for it means my caring for you. But
meanwhile," he urged, "won't you overcome your aversion to the subject,
and bear with it as my work, if you no longer care to think of it as
yours?"

Bessy, freeing herself, sat down on the edge of the straight-backed
chair near the desk, as though to mark the parenthetical nature of the
interview.

"I know you think me stupid--but wives are not usually expected to go
into all the details of their husband's business. I have told you to do
whatever you wish at Westmore, and I can't see why that is not enough."

Amherst looked at her in surprise. Something in her quick mechanical
utterance suggested that not only the thought but the actual words she
spoke had been inspired, and he fancied he heard in them an echo of
Blanche Carbury's tones. Though Bessy's intimacy with Mrs. Carbury was
of such recent date, fragments of unheeded smoking-room gossip now
recurred to confirm the vague antipathy which Amherst had felt for her
the previous evening.

"I know that, among your friends, wives are not expected to interest
themselves in their husbands' work, and if the mills were mine I should
try to conform to the custom, though I should always think it a pity
that the questions that fill a man's thoughts should be ruled out of his
talk with his wife; but as it is, I am only your representative at
Westmore, and I don't see how we can help having the subject come up
between us."

Bessy remained silent, not as if acquiescing in his plea, but as though
her own small stock of arguments had temporarily failed her; and he went
on, enlarging on his theme with a careful avoidance of technical terms,
and with the constant effort to keep the human and personal side of the
question before her.

She listened without comment, her eyes fixed on a little jewelled
letter-opener which she had picked up from the writing-table, and which
she continued to turn in her fingers while he spoke.

The full development of Amherst's plans at Westmore, besides resulting,
as he had foreseen, in Truscomb's resignation, and in Halford Gaines's
outspoken resistance to the new policy, had necessitated a larger
immediate outlay of capital than the first estimates demanded, and
Amherst, in putting his case to Bessy, was prepared to have her meet it
on the old ground of the disapproval of all her advisers. But when he
had ended she merely said, without looking up from the toy in her hand:
"I always expected that you would need a great deal more money than you
thought."

The comment touched him at his most vulnerable point. "But you see why?
You understand how the work has gone on growing--?"

His wife lifted her head to glance at him for a moment. "I am not sure
that I understand," she said indifferently; "but if another loan is
necessary, of course I will sign the note for it."

The words checked his reply by bringing up, before he was prepared to
deal with it, the other and more embarrassing aspect of the question. He
had hoped to reawaken in Bessy some feeling for the urgency of his task
before having to take up the subject of its cost; but her cold
anticipation of his demands as part of a disagreeable business to be
despatched and put out of mind, doubled the difficulty of what he had
left to say; and it occurred to him that she had perhaps foreseen and
reckoned on this result.

He met her eyes gravely. "Another loan is necessary; but if any proper
provision is to be made for paying it back, your expenses will have to
be cut down a good deal for the next few months."

The blood leapt to Bessy's face. "My expenses? You seem to forget how
much I've had to cut them down already."

"The household bills certainly don't show it. They are increasing
steadily, and there have been some very heavy incidental payments
lately."

"What do you mean by incidental payments?"

"Well, there was the pair of cobs you bought last month----"

She returned to a resigned contemplation of the letter-opener. "With
only one motor, one must have more horses, of course."

"The stables seemed to me fairly full before. But if you required more
