Then he rose and bade the man good morning.

When the door of his office was closed, he caught at the chair by
his desk to steady himself, and stood staring in front of him. “To
Stanley Ryder!” he gasped.

He turned to the ‘phone, and called up his friend.

“Lucy,” he said, “is it true that you have sold that stock?”

He heard her give a gasp. “Answer me!” he cried.

“Allan,” she began, “you are going to be angry with me--”

“Please answer me!” he cried again. “Have you sold that stock?”

“Yes, Allan,” she said, “I didn’t mean--”

“I don’t care to discuss the matter on the telephone,” he said. “I
will stop in to see you this afternoon on my way home. Please be in,
because it is important.” And then he hung up the receiver.

He called at the time he had set, and Lucy was waiting for him. She
looked pale, and very much distressed. She sat in a chair, and
neither arose to greet him nor spoke to him, but simply gazed into
his face.

It was a very sombre face. “This thing has given me a great deal of
pain,” said Montague; “and I don’t want to prolong it any more than
necessary. I have thought the matter over, and my mind is made up,
so there need be no discussion. It will not be possible for me to
have anything further to do with your affairs.”

Lucy gave a gasp: “Oh, Allan!”

He had a valise containing all her papers. “I have brought
everything up to date,” he said. “There are all the accounts, and
the correspondence. Anyone will be able to find exactly how things
stand.”

“Allan,” she said, “this is really cruel.”

“I am very sorry,” he answered, “but there is nothing else that I
can do.”

“But did I not have a right to sell that stock to Stanley Ryder?”
 she cried.

“You had a perfect right to sell it to anyone you pleased,” he said.
“But you had no right to ask me to take charge of your affairs, and
then to keep me in the dark about what you had done.”

“But, Allan,” she protested, “I only sold it three days ago.”

“I know that perfectly well,” he said; “but the moment you made up
your mind to sell it, it was your business to tell me. That,
however, is not the point. You tried to use me as a cat’s-paw to
pull chestnuts out of the fire for Stanley Ryder.”

He saw her wince under the words. “Is it not true?” he demanded.
“Was it not he who told you to have me try to get that information?”

“Yes, Allan, of course it was he,” said Lucy. “But don’t you see my
plight? I am not a business woman, and I did not realise--”

“You realised that you were not dealing frankly with me,” he said.
“That is all that I care about, and that is why I am not willing to
continue to represent you. Stanley Ryder has bought your stock, and
Stanley Ryder will have to be your adviser in the future.”

He had not meant to discuss the matter with her any further, but he
saw how profoundly he had hurt her, and the old bond between them
held him still.

“Can’t you understand what you did to me, Lucy?” he exclaimed.
“Imagine my position, talking to Mr. Hanson, I knowing nothing and
he knowing everything. He knew what you had been paid, and he even
knew that you had taken a note.”

Lucy stared at Montague with wide-open eyes. “Allan!” she gasped.

“You see what it means,” he said. “I told you that you could not
keep your doings secret. Now it will only be a matter of a few days
before everybody who knows will be whispering that you have
permitted Stanley Ryder to do this for you.”

There was a long silence. Lucy sat staring before her. Then suddenly
she faced Montague.

“Allan!” she cried. “Surely--you understand!”

She burst out violently, “I had a right to sell that stock! Ryder
needed it. He is going to organise a syndicate, and develop the
property. It was a simple matter of business.”

“I have no doubt of it, Lucy,” said Montague, in a low voice, “but
how will you persuade the world of that? I told you what would
happen if you permitted yourself to be intimate with a man like
Stanley Ryder. You will find out too late what it means. Certainly
that incident with Waterman ought to have opened your eyes to what
people are saying.”

Lucy gave a start, and gazed at him with horror in her eyes.
“Allan!” she panted.

“What is it?” he asked.

“Do you mean to tell me that happened to me because Stanley Ryder is
my friend?”

“Of course I do,” said he. “Waterman had heard the gossip, and he
thought that if Ryder was a rich man, he was a ten-times-richer
man.”

Montague could see the colour mount swiftly over Lucy’s throat and
face. She stood twisting her hands together nervously. “Oh, Allan!”
 she said. “That is monstrous!”

“It is not of my making. It is the way the world is. I found it out
myself, and I tried to point it out to you.”

“But it is horrible!” she cried. “I will not believe it. I will not
yield to such things. I will not be coward enough to give up a
friend for such a motive!”

“I know the feeling,” said Montague. “I’d stand by you, if it were
another man than Stanley Ryder. But I know him better than you, I
believe.”

“You don’t, Allan, you can’t!” she protested. “I tell you he is a
good man! He is a man nobody understands--”

Montague shrugged his shoulders. “It is possible,” he said. “I have
heard that before. Many men are better than the things they do in
this world; at any rate, they like to persuade themselves that they
are. But you have no right to wreck your life out of pity for Ryder.
He has made his own reputation, and if he had any real care for you,
he would not ask you to sacrifice yourself to it.”

“He did not ask me to,” said Lucy. “What I have done, I have done of
my own free will. I believe in him, and I will not believe the
horrible things that you tell me.”

“Very well,” said Montague, “then you will have to go your own way.”

He spoke calmly, though really his heart was wrung with grief. He
knew exactly the sort of conversation by which Stanley Ryder had
brought Lucy to this state of mind. He could have shattered the
beautiful image of himself which Ryder had conjured up; but he could
not bear to do it. Perhaps it was an instinct which guided him--he
knew that Lucy was in love with the man, and that no facts that
anyone could bring would make any difference to her. All he could
say was, “You will have to find out for yourself.”

And then, with one more look at her pitiful face of misery, he
turned and went away, without even touching her hand.




