
"I suppose," Montague remarked, "you have not failed to realize that
Evans might play you false."

And the other laughed, echoing the words, "Might do it!" Then he went
on to tell the tale of the great railroad builder of the West, whose
daughter had been married, with elaborate festivities; and some of the
young men present, thinking to find him in a sentimental mood, had
asked him for his views about the market. He advised them to buy the
stock of his road; and they formed a pool and bought, and as fast as
they bought, he sold--until the little venture cost the boys a total of
seven million and a half!

"No, no," Oliver added. "I have never put up a dollar for anything of
Evans's, and I never shall.--They are simply a side issue, anyway," he
added carelessly.

A couple of mornings later, while Montague was at breakfast, his
brother called him up and said that he was coming round, and would go
down town with him. Montague knew at once that that meant something
serious, for he had never before known his brother to be awake so early.

They took a cab; and then Oliver explained. The moment had arrived--the
time to take the plunge, and come up with a fortune. He could not tell
much about it, for it was a matter upon which he stood pledged to
absolute secrecy. There were but four people in the country who knew
about it. It was the chance of a lifetime--and in four or five hours it
would be gone. Three times before it had come to Oliver, and each time
he had multiplied his capital several times; that he had not made
millions was simply because he did not have enough money. His brother
must take his word for this and simply put himself into his hands.

"What is it you want me to do?" asked Montague, gravely.

"I want you to take every dollar you have, or that you can lay your
hands on this morning, and turn it over to me to buy stocks with."

"To buy on margin, you mean?"

"Of course I mean that," said Oliver. Then, as he saw his brother
frown, he added, "Understand me, I have absolutely certain information
as to how a certain stock will behave to-day."

"The best judges of a stock often make mistakes in such matters," said
Montague.

"It is not a question of any person's judgment," was the reply. "It is
a question of knowledge. The stock is to be MADE to behave so."

"But how can you know that the person who intends to make it behave may
not be lying to you?"

"My information does not come from that person, but from a person who
has no such interest--who, on the contrary, is in on the deal with me,
and gains only as I gain."

"Then, in other words," said Montague, "your information is stolen?"

"Everything in Wall Street is stolen," was Oliver's concise reply.

There was a long silence, while the cab rolled swiftly on its way.
"Well?" Oliver asked at last.

"I can imagine," said Montague, "how a man might intend to move a
certain stock, and think that he had the power, and yet find that he
was mistaken. There are so many forces, so many chances to be
considered--it seems to me you must be taking a risk."

Oliver laughed. "You talk like a child," was his reply. "Suppose that I
were in absolute control of a corporation, and that I chose to run it
for purposes of market manipulation, don't you think I might come
pretty near knowing what its stock was going to do?"

"Yes," said Montague, slowly, "if such a thing as that were
conceivable."

"If it were conceivable!" laughed his brother. "And now suppose that I
had a confidential man--a secretary, we'll say--and I paid him twenty
thousand a year, and he saw chances to make a hundred thousand in an
hour--don't you think he might conceivably try it?"

"Yes," said Montague, "he might. But where do you come in?"

"Well, if the man were going to do anything worth while, he'd need
capital, would he not? And he'd hardly dare to look for any money in
the Street, where a thousand eyes would be watching him. What more
natural than to look out for some person who is in Society and has the
ear of private parties with plenty of cash?"

And Montague sat in deep thought. "I see," he said slowly; "I see!"
Then, fixing his eyes upon Oliver, he exclaimed, earnestly, "One thing
more!"

"Don't ask me any more," protested the other. "I told you I was
pledged--"

"You must tell me this," said Montague. "Does Bobbie Walling know about
it?"

"He does not," was the reply. But Montague had known his brother long
and intimately, and he could read things in his eyes. He knew that that
was a lie. He had solved the mystery at last!

Montague knew that he had come to a parting of the ways. He did not
like this kind of thing--he had not come to New York to be a
stock-gambler. But what a difficult thing it would be to say so; and
how unfair it was to be confronted with such an issue, and compelled to
decide in a few minutes in a cab!

He had put himself in his brother's hands, and now he was under
obligations to him, which he could not pay off. Oliver had paid all his
expenses; he was doing everything for him. He had made all his
difficulties his own, and all in frankness and perfect trust--upon the
assumption that his brother would play the game with him. And now, at
the critical moment, he was to face about, and say; "I do not like the
game. I do not approve of your life!" Such a painful thing it is to
have a higher moral code than one's friends!

If he refused, he saw that he would have to face a complete break; he
could not go on living in the world to which he had been introduced.
Fifty thousand had seemed an enormous fee, yet even a week or two had
sufficed for it to come to seem inadequate. He would have to have many
such fees, if they were to go on living at their present rate; and if
Alice were to have a social career, and entertain her friends. And to
ask Alice to give up now, and retire, would be even harder than to face
his brother here in the cab.

Then came the temptation. Life was a battle, and this was the way it
was being fought. If he rejected the opportunity, others would seize
it; in fact, by refusing, he would be handing it to them. This great
man, whoever he might be, who was manipulating stocks for his own
convenience--could anyone in his senses reject a chance to wrench from
him some part of his spoils? Montague saw the impulse of refusal dying
away within him.

"Well?" asked his brother, finally.

"Oliver," said the other, "don't you think that I ought to know more
about it, so that I can judge?"

"You could not judge, even if I told you all," said Oliver. "It would
take you a long time to become familiar with the circumstances, as I
am. You must take my word; I know it is certain and safe."

Then suddenly he unbuttoned his coat, and took out some papers, and
handed his brother a telegram. It was dated Chicago, and read, "Guest
is expected immediately.--HENRY." "That means, 'Buy Transcontinental
this morning,'" said Oliver.

"I see," said the other. "Then the man is in Chicago?"

"No," was the reply. "That is his wife. He wires to her."

"--How much money have you?" asked Oliver, after a pause.

"I've most of the fifty thousand," the other answered, "and about
thirty thousand we brought with us."

"How much can you put your hands on?"

