   terrible, Garry; everything was grotesquely twisted--she had some
   fever, you know--and Miss Lester told me that it was too pitiful
   to hear her talk of you and mix up everything with military
   jargon about outpost duty and the firing line, and some comrade
   who had deserted her under fire.

   "All of which I mention, dear, so that you may, in a measure,
   comprehend how very ill she has been; and that she is not yet
   well by any means, and perhaps will not be for a long time to
   come.

   "To-night I had a very straight talk with Mr. Cardross. One has
   to talk straight when one talks to him. There is not in my mind
   the slightest doubt that he knows exactly now what misguided
   impulse drove Shiela to that distressing sacrifice of herself and
   you. And at first I was afraid that what she had done from a
   mistaken sense of duty might have hastened poor Louis' end; but
   Mr. Cardross told me that from the day of his father's death he
   had determined to follow in the same fashion; and had told Mr.
   Cardross of his intention more than once.

   "So you see it was in him--in the blood. See what his own sister
   did to herself within a month of Louis' death!

   "A strange family; an utterly incomprehensible race. And Mr.
   Cardross says that it happened to his father's father; and his
   father before him died by his own hand!

       *       *       *       *       *

   "Now there is little more news to write you--little more that
   could interest you because you care only to hear about Shiela,
   and that is perfectly reasonable."

   "However, what there is of news I will write you as faithfully as
   I have done ever since I came here on your service under pretence
   of fighting gout which, Heaven be praised, has never yet waylaid
   me!--unberufen!"

   "So, to continue: the faithful three, Messieurs Classon, Cuyp,
   and Vetchen, do valiantly escort me on my mountain rides and
   drives. They are dears, all three, Garry, and it does not become
   you to shrug your shoulders. When I go to Palm Beach in January
   they, as usual, are going too. I don't know what I should do
   without them, Virginia having decided to remain in Europe this
   winter.

   "Yes, to answer your question, Mr. Wayward expects to cruise as
   far South as Palm Beach in January. I happen to have a note from
   him here on my desk in which he asks me whether he may invite you
   to go with him. Isn't it a tactful way of finding out whether you
   would care to be at Palm Beach this winter?

   "So I shall write him that I think you would like to be asked.
   Because, Garry, I do believe that it is all turning out
   naturally, inevitably, as it was meant to turn out from the
   first, and that, some time this winter, there can be no reason
   why you should not see Shiela again.

   "I know this, that Mr. Cardross is very fond of you--that Mrs.
   Cardross is also--that every member of that most wholesome family
   cares a great deal about you.

   "As for their not being very fashionable people, their amiable
   freedom from social pretension, their very simple origin--all
   that, in their case, affects me not at all--where any happiness
   of yours is concerned.

   "I do like old-time folk, and lineage smacking of New
   Amsterdam; but even my harmless snobbishness is now so completely
   out of fashion that nobody cares. You are modern enough to laugh
   at it; I am not; and I still continue faithful to my Classons and
   Cuyps and Vetchens and Suydams; and to all that they stand for in
   Manhattan--the rusty vestiges of by-gone pomp and fussy
   circumstance--the memories that cling to the early lords of the
   manors, the old Patroons, and titled refugees--all this I still
   cling to--even to their shabbiness and stupidity and bad manners.

   "Don't be too bitter in your amusement, for after all, you are
   kin to us; don't be too severe on us; for we are passing, Garry,
   the descendants of Patroon and refugee alike--the Cuyps, the
   Classons, the Van Diemans, the Vetchens, the Suydams--and James
   Wayward is the last of his race, and I am the last of the French
   refugees, and the Malcourts are already ended. Pax!

   "True it begins to look as if the gentleman adventurer stock
   which terminates in the Ascotts and Portlaws might be revived to
   struggle on for another generation; but, Garry, we all, who
   intermarry, are doomed.

   "Louis Malcourt was right; we are destined to perish; Still we
   have left our marks on the nation I care for no other epitaph
   than the names of counties, cities, streets which we have named
   with our names.

   "But you, dear, you are wise in your generation and fortunate to
   love as you love. For, God willing, your race will begin the
   welding of the old and new, the youngest and best of the nation.
   And at the feet of such a race the whole world lies."

       *       *       *       *       *

These letters from Constance Palliser to her nephew continued during the
autumn and early winter while he was at work on that series of public
parks provided for by the metropolis on Long Island.

Once he was obliged to return to Pride's Hall to inspect the progress of
work for Mrs. Ascott; and it happened during his brief stay there that
her engagement was announced.

"I tell you what, Hamil," said Portlaw confidentailly over their cigars,
"I never thought I could win her, never in the world. Besides poor Louis
was opposed to it; but you know when I make up my mind--"

"I know," said Hamil.

"That's it! First, a man must have a mind to make up; then he must have
enough intelligence to make it up."

"Certainly," nodded Hamil.

"I'm glad you understand me," said Portlaw, gratified. "Alida
understands me; why, do you know that, somehow, everything I think of
she seems to agree to; in fact, sometimes--on one or two unimportant
matters, I actually believe that Mrs. Ascott thought of what I thought
of, a few seconds before I thought of it," he ended generously; "but,"
and his expression became slyly portentous, "it would never do to have
her suspect it. I intend to be Caesar in my own house!"

"Exactly," said Hamil solemnly; "and Caesar's wife must have no
suspicions."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was early November before he returned to town. His new suite of
offices in Broad Street hummed with activity, although the lingering
aftermath of the business depression prevented for the time being any
hope of new commissions from private sources.

But fortunately he had enough public work to keep the office busy, and
his dogged personal supervision of it during the racking suspense of
Shiela's illness was his salvation.

Twice a week his aunt wrote him from Sapphire Springs; every day he went
to his outdoor work on Long Island and forced himself to a minute
personal supervision of every detail, never allowing himself a moment's
brooding, never permitting himself to become panic-stricken at the
outlook which varied from one letter to another. For as yet, according
to these same letters, the woman he loved had never once mentioned his
name.

He found little leisure for amusement, even had he been inclined that
way. Night found him very tired; morning brought a hundred self-imposed
and complicated tasks to be accomplished before the advent of another
night.

He lived at his club and wrote to his aunt from there. Sundays were more
difficult to negotiate; he went to St. George's in the morning, read in
the club library until afternoon permitted him to maintain some
semblance of those social duties which no man has a right to entirely
