results.

"I’m going for a ride with my wife"—he meant drive—"just a buggy and an
old plug. She and I enjoy it, Miss Tennant."

To her surprise he took her hand between his own dry little palms and
pressed it.

"You’re a good girl," he said; "you and your sister—and Edgerton—he’s
all right—you’re good children—and all off the same tree, little
lady—all off the same old block in the beginning—that’s plain as
preaching.... Do you really like my Christine?"

"Yes, I do."

"And Jack?"

"Exceedingly."

"That’s right; they like you, too.  They ought to.  They’re good
children, and so are you.  Good-by."




                              *CHAPTER X*

                            *COMPOS MENTIS*


As Diana put her pony to a full gallop and rode him off, Edgerton’s
mount fell, and the young fellow lay sprawling on the sod.

He was on his feet immediately; so was his polo pony.  When Diana pulled
up, whirled her mount and came scurrying back, Edgerton had picked up
his mallet and stood resting against his saddle.

"All right, Jim?" she asked briefly.

"All right, thanks."

The color had left his face under the tan, and his expression was queer.

"You look rather white," she insisted. "Did Parsnip kick you?"

"It’s nothing," he said, smiling.  "Put Jack in; I’ve got some business
to talk over with Mr. Rivett."

"You’re sure you’re all right?"

"What a fuss you are!" he said, leading Parsnip across the field toward
a groom.

The girl looked after him, saw the groom slip a white wool polo coat
over the young man’s shoulders and take the pony, saw Edgerton drop his
hands into the pockets and stroll across the field toward the terrace;
then, lifting her mallet, she hailed Jack Rivett in a clear, ringing
call, and cantered away up field.

As Mr. Rivett senior stood waiting for his wife at the foot of the
terrace steps, wrapped in his old-fashioned linen duster and pulling on
a pair of worn driving gloves, Edgerton, in white from head to foot,
came across the lawn, the youthful antithesis of the older man—tall,
powerfully built, his smooth skin and short, thick hair burned by the
summer sun—a graceful, leisurely figure agreeable to see on anybody’s
lawn.

"Good morning!" he said pleasantly, stopping on the gravel drive.

"Good morning, Mr. Edgerton.  Are the young people amusing themselves?"

"I think so—thoroughly."

"You came a cropper?"

"I sometimes do."

"You are amusing yourself?"

"I always do."

"So do I," nodded Rivett, buttoning his gloves.  "Never was bored in my
life—poor compliment to oneself, Mr. Edgerton, to find life a bore."

Edgerton smiled and stood with his left hand in his coat pocket, looking
out at the flat field beyond, where half a dozen young people on lively
ponies swung their mallets and cantered leisurely about in pretense of
practice.

Presently Diana, Christine, and Inwood swung their ponies, and came
driving pell-mell down the field after the ball.

"Your cousins seem to be up to anything," commented Rivett.

"They were bred to everything worth while."

"Oh!  Is polo worth while, as you call it?"

"Do you wish to start such a complex discussion?" asked Edgerton,
laughing.

"No; my wife will be here in a moment.... You’re looking very pale,
young man," he added abruptly.  "Did that pony hurt you?"

"A little....  Mr. Rivett, do you need my services any longer?"

"I don’t need anybody’s services," said the little man dryly.  "I
never needed anybody in all my life—except my wife.  There’s no such
thing as a necessary man.  No man ever lived who couldn’t be
replaced....  What’s the matter?"

Edgerton said slowly: "I thought I’d go back to town and hunt up a job."

"Why?"

"Because there’s no reason for my being here.  There never was any
reason.  You knew it when I asked you to take me, but I didn’t—because I
didn’t know you and your family."

"That’s a compliment, isn’t it?"

"It’s just the truth.  I’m glad my cousins are with you....  I’d like to
go back now."

"Tired of us?"

"You don’t have to ask that."

"More compliments," said Rivett.  "What is wrong, then?"

"I am."

"Hadn’t noticed it."

Edgerton smiled faintly.  "More compliments? ... Mr. Rivett, I want to
go to town and hunt up a job, and get in the game.  That’s all."

"Can’t you wait a month and see us through the October shooting?"

Edgerton stepped nearer.

"I would, merely because you ask me, but I can’t.  I just want to get
away quietly, and not bother anybody....  I’ve broken my arm."

Mr. Rivett swung sharply and his eye-glasses glittered.

"Which?" he demanded.

"The left....  I’ll just run down to town and have it fixed up.  Don’t
say anything about it until I’ve left."

"Won’t you stay here and let us look after you?"

"I knew you’d say that.  You’ve been very nice to me.  Ask me again as a
guest.  I’ll be glad to come as a friend if you care for me that way."

Mr. Rivett’s unchanging eyes watched him.

"We’ll ask you.  My wife likes you.  So do I....  I don’t want to
interfere with a man who knows his own mind....  But do you think you
