Yet, in the same quick, agonised breath, she knew she was going to fight
for him--do battle in behalf of that broken and fireless altar where
love lay wounded.

There were many ways of doing battle, but only one right way. And she
had thought of many--confused, frightened, unknowing, praying for
unselfishness and for light to guide her.

But there were so many ways; and the easiest had been to forgive him,
surrender utterly, cling to him, love him with every tenderness and
grace and accomplishment and art and instinct that was hers--with all of
her ardent youth, all of her dawning emotion, all of her undeveloped
passion.

That had been the easier way in the crisis which stunned and terrified
her--to seek shelter, not give it; to surrender, not to withhold.

But whether through wisdom or instinct, she seemed to see farther than
the moment--to divine, somehow, that his salvation and hers lay not only
in forgiveness and love, but in her power to give or withhold; her
freedom to exact what justly was her due; in the preservation of her
individuality with all its prerogative, its liberty of choice, its
self-respect unshaken, its authority unweakened and undiminished.

To yield when he was not qualified to receive such supreme surrender
boded ill for her, and ultimately for him; for it made of her merely an
instrument.

Somehow she seemed to know that sometime, for her, would come a moment
of final victory; and in that moment only her utter surrender could make
the victory eternal and complete.

And until that moment came she would not surrender prematurely. She had
a fight on her hands; she knew it; she must do her best, though her own
heart were a sword that pierced her with every throb. For his sake she
would deny; for his sake remain aloof from the lesser love, inviolate,
powerful, mistress of herself and of her destiny.

And yet--she was his wife. And, after all was said and done, she
understood that no dual sovereignty ever is possible; that one or the
other must have the final decision; and that if, when it came to that,
his ultimate authority failed him, then their spiritual union was a
failure, though the material one might endure for a while.

And so, believing this, honest with herself and with him, she had
offered him her fealty--a white blossom and her key lying beside it in
the palm of her hand--in acknowledgment that the supreme decision lay
with him.

He had not failed her; the final authority still lay with him. Only that
knowledge had sustained her during the long night.

The car stopped at her establishment; she came out of her painful
abstraction with a slight start, flushed, and looked at him.

"Will you lunch with me, Jim?"

"I think I'll lunch at the club," he said, coolly.

"Very well. Will you bring the car around at five?"

"The car will be here for you."

"And--you?" She tried to smile.

"Probably."

"Oh! If you have any engagements----"

"I might make one between now and five," he said carelessly. "If I do,
I'll come up on the train."

She had not been prepared for this attitude. But there was nothing to
say. He got out and aided her to descend, and took her to the door. His
manners were always faultless.

"I hope you will come for me," she said, almost timidly.

"I hope so," he said.

And that was all; she offered her hand; he took it, smiled, and replaced
his hat after the shop door closed behind her.

Then he went back to the car.

"Drive me to Mrs. Hammerton's," he said curtly; got in, and slammed the
door.




CHAPTER XVI


A surprised and very doubtful maid admitted him to Mrs. Hammerton's tiny
reception room and took his card; and he fidgeted there impatiently
until the maid returned to conduct him.

Mrs. Hammerton sat at coffee in the combination breakfast and dining
room of her pretty little apartment. He had never seen her wear glasses,
but a pair, presumably hers, was lying across the morning paper on the
edge of the table.

Windows behind her threw her face into shadow against the sunlight, and
he could not clearly distinguish her features. A canary sang
persistently in the sunshine; a friendly cat yawned on the window sill.

"Have some coffee, James?" she asked, without greeting him.

"Thanks, I've breakfasted."

"Very well. There's a chair." She motioned dismissal to the maid. "And
close the door!" she added curtly.

The maid vanished, closing the door. Aunt Hannah poured more coffee for
herself; now she began to browse on toast and bacon.

"Have you seen the papers?" he asked bluntly.

Her eyes snapped fire: "That was a brave thing you did! I never knew
any of the Desboros were cowards."

He looked at her in angry astonishment.

"Well, what do you call it if it isn't cowardice--to slink off and
marry a defenseless girl like that!"

"Did you expect me to give you a chance to destroy me and poison
Jacqueline's mind? If I had been guilty of the thing with which you
charge me, what I have done would have been cowardly. Otherwise, it is
justified."

"You have been guilty of enough without that particular thing to rule
you out."

"If," he said, controlling his anger, "you really were appointed God's
deputy on earth, you'd have to rule out the majority of men who attempt
to marry."

"I'd do it, too," she remarked.

"Fortunately," he went on, "your authority for meddling is only self
delegated. You once threatened me. You gave me warning like a fair
adversary. But even rattlesnakes do that!"

He could see her features more plainly now, having become accustomed to
the light; and her scornful expression and the brilliant danger in her
beady eyes did not escape him. She darted at a bit of toast and
swallowed it.

"So," he ended calmly, "I merely accepted the warning and acted
accordingly--if you call that cowardly."

"I see. You were much too clever for me. In other words, you forestalled
me, didn't you?"

"Ask yourself, Aunt Hannah."

"No, I ask you. You did forestall me, didn't you, Jim?"

