"Buy ling?" asked the Chinaman.  He rolled a mandarin's ring carelessly
across the show-case.  "Gold; all heavy; velly old, velly good ling."

"What does it say?" asked Warrington, pointing to the characters.

"Good luck and plospeity; velly good signs."

It was an unusually beautiful ring, unusual in that it had no setting
of jade.  Warrington offered three sovereigns for it.  The Chinaman
smiled and put the ring away.  Warrington laughed and laid down five
pieces of gold.  The Chinaman swept them up in his lean dry hands.  And
Warrington departed, wondering if she would accept such a token.

By four o'clock he arrived at the Chinese tailors in the Suley Pagoda
Road.  He ordered a suit of pongee, to be done at noon the following
day.  He added to this orders for four other suits, to be finished
within a week.  Then he went to the shoemaker, to the hatter, to the
haberdasher.  There was even a light Malacca walking-stick among his
purchases.  A long time had passed since he had carried a cane.  There
used to be, once upon a time, a dapper light bamboo which was known up
and down Broadway, in the restaurants, the more or less famous bars,
and in the lounging-rooms of a popular club.  All this business because
he wanted her to realize what he had been and yet could be.  Thus,
vanity sometimes works out a man's salvation.  And it marked the end of
Warrington's recidivation.

When he reached his lodging-house he sought the Burmese landlady.  She
greeted him with a smile and a stiff little shake of the hand.  He owed
her money, but that was nothing.  Had he not sent her drunken European
sailor-man husband about his business?  Had he not freed her from a
tyranny of fists and curses?  It had not affected her in the least to
learn that her sailor-man had been negligently married all the way from
Yokohama to Colombo.  She was free of him.

Warrington spread out a five-pound note and laid ten sovereigns upon
it.  "There we are," he said genially; "all paid up to date."

"This?" touching the note.

"A gift for all your patience and kindness."

"You go 'way?" the smile leaving her pretty moon-face.

"Yes."

"You like?" with a gesture which indicated the parlor and its contents.
"Be boss?  Half an' half?"

He shook his head soberly.  She picked up the money and jingled it in
her hand.

"Goo'-by!" softly.

"Oh, I'm not going until next Thursday."

The smile returned to her face, and her body bent in a kind of kotow.
He was so big, and his beard glistened like the gold-leaf on the Shwe
Dagon Pagoda.  She understood.  The white to the white and the brown to
the brown; it was the Law.

Warrington went up to his room.  He was welcomed by a screech from the
parrot and a dignified salaam from James, who was trimming the wick of
the oil-lamp.  For the last year and a half this room had served as
headquarters.  Many a financial puzzle had been pieced together within
these dull drab walls; many a dream had gone up to the ceiling, only to
sink and dissipate like smoke.  There were no pictures on the walls, no
photographs.  In one corner, on the floor, was a stack of dilapidated
books.  These were mostly old novels and tomes dealing with geological
and mathematical matters; laughter and tears and adventure, sandwiched
in between the dry positiveness of straight lines and squares and
circles and numerals without end; D'Artagnan hobnobbing with Euclid!
Warrington was an educated man, but he was in no sense a scholar.  In
his hours of leisure he did not find solace in the classics.  He craved
for a good blood-red tale, with lots of fighting and love-making and
pleasant endings.

James applied a match to the wick, and the general poverty of the room
was instantly made manifest.

"Well, old sober-top, suppose we square up and part like good friends?"

"I am always the Sahib's good friend."

"Right as rain!"  Warrington emptied his pockets upon the table; silver
and gold and paper.  "Eh?  That's the stuff.  Without it the world's
not worth a tinker's dam.  Count out seventy pounds, James."

"Sixty-seven."

"Seventy or nothing," declared Warrington, putting his hands down upon
the glittering metals.  Rupees and sovereigns never lose their luster
in the East.

Calmly, then, James took sovereign after sovereign until he had
withdrawn the required sum.  "Gold is heavy, Sahib," he commented.

"Hang it, your hands are steadier than mine!"

"You go back home?"

"Yes.  Something like home.  I am going to Paris, where good people go
when they die.  I am going to drink vintage wines, eat truffles and
mushrooms and caviar, and kiss the pretty girls in Maxim's.  I've been
in prison for ten years.  I am free, free!"  Warrington flung out his
arms.  "Good-by, jungles, deserts, hell-heat and thirsty winds!
Good-by, crusts and rags and hunger!  I am going to live."

"The Sahib has fever," observed the unimaginative Eurasian.

"That's the word; fever.  I am burning up.  Here; go to the boat and
give the purser these six sovereigns.  Here are three more.  Go to the
Strand and get a bottle of champagne, and bring some ice.  Buy a box of
the best cigars, and hurry back.  Then put this junk in the trunk.  And
damn the smell of kerosene!"

James raised his hand warningly.  From the adjoining room came the
sound of a quarrel.

"Rupees one hundred and forty, and I want it now, you sneak!"

"But I told you I couldn't square up until the first of the month."

"You had no business to play poker, then, if you knew you couldn't
settle."

"Who asked me to play?" shrilled the other.  "You did.  Well, I haven't
got the money."

"You miserable little welcher!  That ring is worth a hundred and forty."

"You'll never get your dirty fingers inside of that."

"Oh, I shan't, eh?"

Warrington heard a scuffling, which was presently followed by a low
choking sob.  He did not know who occupied the adjoining room.  He had
been away for weeks, and there had been no permanent boarders before
that time.  He rushed fearlessly into the other room.  Pinned to the
wall was a young man with a weak pale face.  The other man presented
nothing more than the back of his broad muscular shoulders.  The
disparity in weight and height was sufficient to rouse Warrington's
sense of fair play.  Besides, he was in a rough mood himself.

"Here, that'll do," he cried, seizing the heavier man by the collar.
"It isn't worth while to kill a man for a handful of rupees.  Let go,
you fool!"

He used his strength.  The man and his victim swung in a half-circle
and crashed to the floor.

With a snarl and an oath, the gambler sprung to his feet and started
toward Warrington.  He stopped short.

"Good God!" he murmured; and retreated until he touched the foot-board
of the bed.




VI
