old tone and mode of address, and he himself recognized him now.

"Till nine-thirty, then.  At that time I shall notify Haggerty."

"The boat?"

"Oh, no.  I'm giving you that chance without conditions.  It's up to
Haggerty to find you.  There's one question I should like to ask you.
Were you in this sort of business while you were serving me?"

Mason laughed.  The real man shone in his eyes and smile.  "I was.  It
was very exciting.  It was very amusing, too.  I valeted you during the
day-time and went about my own peculiar business at night.  I entered
your service to rob you and remained to serve you; ten years.  I want
you always to remember this: to you I was loyal, that I stood between
you and death because you were the only being I was fond of.  You are
the one bit of sentiment that ever entered my life.  Well, I must be
off.  But I've had a jolly time of it, masquerading as a titled
gentleman.  What a comedy!  How the fools kotowed and simpered while I
looked over their jewels and speculated upon how much I could get for
them!  But I had my code.  I never pilfered in the houses of my hosts.
I set a fine trap for that simple young man down-stairs, and he fell
into it, head-first.  Trust an Englishman of his sort to see nothing
beyond his nose.  I'm off.  Good-by, Mr. Crawford.  I'm grateful."  The
man stepped out of the window and vanished into the night.

Crawford glanced at his watch; it was eight-ten.

"Do you hope he'll get away?" asked Forbes breathlessly.

"I don't know what I hope, Mort.  I'm rather dazed with the
unexpectedness of all this.  Let's see what you took from their
pockets."

A large diamond brooch, a string of fine pearls, and a bag of wonderful
polished emeralds.

"Mort, the man couldn't help it.  Why, here's a fortune for a prince;
and yet he remained here for more.  Well, he's gone; poor beggar."

They burrowed into the suit-cases and trunks.  A dark green bottle came
to light, Forbes took out the cork and carelessly sniffed.  A great
black wave of dizziness swept over him, and he would have fallen but
for Crawford.  The bottle fell.  Crawford put Forbes out into the hall
and ran back for the bottle, sensing a slight dizziness himself.  He
recognized the odor.  It was Persian.  He and Mason had run across it
unpleasantly, once upon a time, in Teheran.  He was not familiar with
the chemistry of the concoction.  He corked the bottle tightly.  Forbes
came in groggily.

"Well!  Did you ever see such an ass, Crawford?  To open a strange
bottle like that and sniff at it!"

"Here's an atomizer.  They must have used that.  Never touched their
victims."

"It evaporates quickly, though.  But the effect on a sleeping person
would be long.  Now, who the deuce is this chap Webb?  A confederate?"

"Still dizzy, eh?  No; Thomas is a dupe.  Don't you get it?  He's Lord
Monckton.  Come on; we'll go down and straighten out the kinks."

So they went down-stairs.  And Forbes tells me that when Thomas
acknowledged his identity, Kitty did not fall on his neck.  Instead,
she walked up to him, burning with fury: so pretty that Forbes almost
fell in love with her, then and there.

"So!  You pretended to be poor, and entered my home to make play behind
our backs!  Despicable!  We took you in without question, generously,
kindly, and treated you as one of us; and all the while you were
laughing in your sleeve!"

"Kitty!" remonstrated Killigrew, who felt twenty years gone from his
shoulders.

"Let me be!  I wish him to know exactly what I think of his conduct."
She whirled upon the luckless erstwhile haberdasher's clerk; but he
held out his hand for silence.  He was angry, too.

"Miss Killigrew, I entered your employ honestly.  I was poor.  I am
poor.  I have had to work for my bread every day of my life.  For seven
years I was a clerk in a haberdasher's shop in London.  And one day the
solicitors came and notified me that I had fallen into the title, two
hundred and twenty pounds, and those sapphires.  The estate was so
small and so heavily mortgaged that I knew I could not live on it.  The
rents merely paid the interest.  I was no better off than before.  The
cash was all that was saved out of an annuity."  From his inner
waistcoat pocket he produced a document and dropped it on the desk.
"There is the solicitor's statement, relative to the whole transaction.
And now I'll tell you the rest of it.  I've been a fool.  I was always
more or less alone.  I met this man Cavenaugh, or whatever he calls
himself, in a concert-hall about a year ago.  We became friendly.  He
came to me and bought his collars and ties and suspenders."

Kitty found herself retreating from a fury which far outmatched her
own; and as he gained in force, hers dwindled correspondingly.

Thomas continued.  "He was well-read, traveled; he interested me.  When
the title came, he was first to congratulate me.  Gave me my first real
dinner.  Naturally I was grateful for this attention.  Well, the upshot
of it was, we gambled; and I lost.  There was wine.  I suggested in the
spirit of madness that I play the use of my title for six months
against the money I had lost.  He agreed.  And here I am."

His fury evaporated.  He sank back into his chair and rested his head
in his hands.

"I ain't a detective," murmured Haggerty, breaking in on the silence
which ensued.  "I'm only fit t' chase dagos selling bananas without
licenses.  But I'm aching t' see this other chap.  I kinda see through
his game.  He's going t' interest me a hull lot."

Crawford consulted his watch again.  Nine.  "Haggerty, suppose you and
I knock the billiard balls around for half an hour?"

"Huh?"

"Half an hour."

"I got t' see that chap, Mr. Crawford."

"It's a matter of four or five thousand.  Do you want to risk it?"

"Come on, Haggerty!" cried Forbes, with good understanding.  He caught
the detective by the arm and pulled him toward the door.  But Haggerty
hung back sturdily.

"Is this straight, Mr. Crawford?"

"Half an hour; otherwise not a penny."

"All well an' good; but I'll hold you responsible if anything goes
wrong.  I'm not seeing things clear."

"You will presently."

"Four thousand for half an hour?"

"To a penny."

"You're on!"

The three of them marched off to the billiard-room.  Killigrew touched
Kitty's arm and motioned her to follow.  She was rather glad to go.
She was on the verge of most undignified tears.  When she had gone in
search of Mrs. Crawford, Killigrew walked over to Thomas and laid a
hand on the young man's shoulder.

"Thomas, will you go to Brazil the first week in September?"

"God knows, I'll be glad to," said Thomas, lifting his head.  His young
face was colorless and haggard.  "But you are putting your trust in a
double-dyed ass."

"I'll take a chance at that.  Now, Thomas, as no doubt you're aware, we
are all Irish in this family.  Hot-tempered, quick to take affront, but
also quick to forgive or admit a wrong.  You leave Kitty alone till
to-morrow."

"I believe it best for me to leave to-night, sir."
