Within a few feet of the front terrace, the young officer suddenly
halted.

"Monsieur," he said, very red, "it would seem, perhaps, more courteous
for me to leave my cards for all the ladies of the household.  Would it
not—under such unusual and unfortunate circumstances as those of this
evening?"

Warner looked at him gravely; he was very young, very ceremonious, very
much flushed.  Was it possible that Peggy Brooks had bowled over this
young gentleman with her first smile?

"I think," said Warner, very seriously, "that it might be considered
obligatory for an officer who takes away all the horses and motor cars
to leave his card for every lady in the family.  There are," he added,
"three."


Afterward, when the officer had taken his leave, and his escort of
hussars had trotted away with the horses, wagons, and automobiles,
Warner, much amused, related to the Countess the incident of the cards;
and he distributed them at dinner, reading the name engraved on his own
with some curiosity.

"Well, Peggy," he said, "you did murderous work with your smile this
evening."

She answered calmly:

"I hope so.  He was exceedingly nice looking."

"Le Vicomte d’Aurès," nodded Warner, "Captain of Cavalry!  Very polite,
that youngster; very prolific of visiting cards.  You should have seen
him blush, Peggy."

"I did.  I repeat that he is a nice boy, and I hope he comes back and
steals something else."

Philippa laughed; the Countess smiled indulgently upon her younger
sister, and gave the signal to rise.

"The family comes from the West, I think," she remarked to Warner, as
she took his arm.  "Goodness, Jim, what a nuisance!—Not a horse in the
stable, not a car to move about in.  It looks to me as though we were
marooned here....  But I am very happy to think that I could do even a
little for our Government. I wish I could do more."

"You may have plenty of chances, Ethra," he said.

They walked through to the north terrace and stood for a while watching
the conflagrations on the horizon.

The vast, slightly curved line of flickering points of fire no longer
twinkled and played through the darkness, and the muttering of the
cannonade had ceased. Only the three incendiary foci reddened the sky,
their illuminated vapors billowing up and spreading away for leagues to
the eastward.

There was a mist this night, delicately veiling the tops of the forest
trees, and the perfume of lilies from the gardens saturated the night
air.

Usually, when foggy conditions prevailed over the valley of the
Récollette, the lights of Ausone were visible as a pinkish tinge in the
sky.  But this night no such tint was apparent; no signal lamps sparkled
from the fort, not a light glimmered in the vast black void beyond,
where miles and miles of darkness stretched away unlighted even by the
wastes of star-set firmament above.

Ethra de Moidrey shrugged her pretty shoulders and turned back toward
the billiard room, whither Peggy Brooks had already repaired for
practice.

Philippa, remaining beside Warner, stood watching them through the
lighted windows.

She was wearing her first evening gown—one of Peggy’s gifts—a dainty
affair of palest blue; and her full, smooth cheeks and throat accented
the slim immaturity of her arms and shoulders.

She looked up, smiled faintly, and moved nearer with that unconscious
instinct of youth for seeking contact where confidence and trust is
placed.  Her slim fingers, touching his, nestled into his hand with an
eloquence unmistakable of innocent possession satisfied.

"You are only a very little girl yet, aren’t you, Philippa?" he said,
smiling, but touched by the youth of her and her frail shoulder resting
lightly against his own.

"I know I am, Jim.  I seem to be growing younger under the warm shelter
of your kindness—under the security of this roof and the quiet sense of
protection everywhere.

"It is as though I had been arrested in development since I left
school—as though youth and growth had stopped and only my mind had
continued growing older and older and more tired during these last six
years—dull, bewildering, ignoble years—lonely, endless years that
dragged their days after them like a chain, heavier, heavier——"

She pressed a little closer to his shoulder:

"I had nobody.  Do you understand?  I seem to know right from wrong,
but I don’t know how I know it.  Yet, I am old in some things—old and
wearied with a knowledge which still, however, remains personally
incomprehensible to me.  It’s just a vast accumulation of unhappy facts
concerning life as it is lived by many....  I always knew there were
such people as you—as these dear and gentle friends of yours; I never
saw them—never saw even any young girls after I left school—only the
women, young and old, who came to the cabaret, or who came and went
through the Ausone streets, or who sat knitting and gossiping under the
trees on the quay."

She laid her cheek against his shoulder with a little sigh.

"You are very wonderful to me," she murmured, partly to herself.

The night air had become a little fresher: he thought that she should
have some sort of wrap, so they entered the billiard room together,
where Peggy, awaiting her shot, slipped one arm around Philippa’s waist,
detaining her to caress her and whisper nonsense.

"You beautiful child, I want you to stay with me and not go star-gazing
with that large and sunburnt man.  You’ll stay, won’t you, darling?  And
we’ll go to the library presently and find a pretty red and gold book
full of armorial designs and snobbish information; and we’ll search very
patiently through those expensively illuminated pages until we find a
worthy family called D’Aurès——"

"Oh, Peggy!" said Philippa.  "Would you really take so much trouble?"

"Rather!" said Peggy coolly.  "I mean to write him some day and find out
how he is treating my pet Minerva runabout which he had the audacity to
appropriate without thanking me."

Philippa laughed rather shyly, not entirely comprehending the balance
between badinage and sincerity in Peggy’s threat, but realizing that any
freedom she permitted herself was her prerogative.

Warner, lingering at the other door, caught Peggy’s eye.

"You can’t have her, Jim!" she said with emphasis, and drew her closer.

So Warner went on to find a wrap for her, and entered the music room.

The next moment he halted, rigid, astounded.

Peering through the windows into the room were the dirty countenances of
Asticot and Squelette, their battered noses flattened white on the
glass, their ratty eyes fixed on him.




                             *CHAPTER XXV*


That the precious pair believed Warner to be paralyzed with terror was
evident.

As long as he remained motionless they glared at him, their faces and
