leave her body as easily as she undresses herself. It is no more
difficult to divest one's self of one's body than it is to put off one
garment and put on another.... And, somehow, I think Yulun will do it
to-night."

"Come here?"

"It would be like her." Tressa laughed. "Isn't it odd that she should
have become so enamoured of Mr. Benton--just seeing him there in the
moonlight that night at Orchid Lodge?"

For a moment the smile curved her lips, then the shadow fell again
across her eyes, veiling them in that strange and lovely way which
Cleves knew so well; and he looked into her impenetrable eyes in
troubled silence.

"Victor," she said in a low voice, "were you afraid to tell me that your
man had been murdered?"

After a moment: "You always know everything," he said unsteadily. "When
did you learn it?"

"Just before Mr. Recklow told you."

"How did you learn it, Tressa?"

"I looked into our apartment."

"When?"

"While you were telephoning."

"You mean you looked into our rooms from here?"

"Yes, clairvoyantly."

"What did you see?"

"The Iaglamichi!" she said with a shudder. "Kai! The Toug of Djamouk is
anointed at last!"

"Is that the beast of a Mongol who did this murder?"

"Djamouk and Prince Sanang planned it," she said, trembling a little.
"But that butchery was Yaddin's work, I think. Kai! The work of
Yaddined-Din, Tougtchi to Djamouk the Fox!"

They stood confronting each other, the length of the sitting-room
between them. And after the silence had lasted a full minute Cleves
reddened and said: "I am going to sleep on the couch at the foot of your
bed, Tressa."

His young wife reddened too.

He said: "This affair has thoroughly scared me. I can't let you sleep
out of my sight."

"I am quite safe. And you would have an uncomfortable night," she
murmured.

"Do you mind if I sleep on the couch, Tressa?"

"No."

"Will you call me when you are ready?"

"Yes."

She went into her bedroom and closed the door.

When he was ready he slipped a pistol into the pocket of his
dressing-gown, belted it over his pyjamas, and walked into the
sitting-room. His wife called him presently, and he went in. Her
night-lamp was burning and she extended her hand to extinguish it.

"Could you sleep if it burns?" he asked bluntly.

"Yes."

"Then let it burn. This business has got on my nerves," he muttered.

They looked at each other in an expressionless way. Both really
understood how useless was this symbol of protection--this man the girl
called husband;--how utterly useless his physical strength, and the
pistol sagging in the pocket of his dressing-gown. Both understood that
the only real protection to be looked for must come from her--from the
gifted and guardian mind of this young girl who lay there looking at him
from the pillows.

"Good-night," he said, flushing; "I'll do my best. But only one of God's
envoys, like you, knows how to do battle with things that come out of
hell."

After a moment's silence she said in a colourless voice: "I wish you'd
lie down on the bed."

"Had you rather I did?"

"Yes."

So he went slowly to the bed, placed his pistol under the pillow, drew
his dressing-gown around him, and lay down.

After he had lain unstirring for half an hour: "Try to sleep, Tressa,"
he said, without turning his head.

"Can't you seem to sleep, Victor?" she asked. And he heard her turn her
head.

"No."

"Shall I help you?"

"Do you mean use hypnosis--the power of suggestion--on me?"

"No. I can help you to sleep very gently. I can make you very drowsy....
You are drowsy now.... You are very close to the edge of sleep....
Sleep, dear.... Sleep, easily, naturally, confidently as a tired boy....
You are sleeping, ... deeply ... sweetly ... my dear ... my dear, dear
husband."




CHAPTER XI

YULUN THE BELOVED


Cleves opened his eyes. He was lying on his left side. In the pink glow
of the night-lamp he saw his wife in her night-dress, seated sideways on
the farther edge of the bed, talking to a young girl.

The strange girl wore what appeared to be a chamber-robe of frail gold
tissue that clung to her body and glittered as she moved. He had never
before seen such a dress; but he had seen the girl; he recognised her
instantly as the girl he had seen turn to look back at Tressa as she
crossed the phantom bridge over that misty Florida river. And Cleves
comprehended that he was looking at Yulun.

But this charming young thing was no ghost, no astral projection. This
girl was warm, living, breathing flesh. The delicate scent of her
strange garments and of her hair, her very breath, was in the air of the
room. Her half-hushed but laughing voice was deliciously human; her
delicate little hands, caressing Tressa's, were too eagerly real to
doubt.

Both talked at the same time, their animated voices mingling in the
breathless delight of the reunion. Their exclamations, enchanting
laughter, bubbling chatter, filled his ears. But not one word of what
they were saying to each other could he understand.

Suddenly Tressa looked over her shoulder and met his astonished eyes.

"Tokhta!" she exclaimed. "Yulun! My lord is awake!"

Yulun swung around swiftly on the edge of the bed and looked laughingly
at Cleves. But when her red lips unclosed she spoke to Tressa: and,
"Darling," she said in English, "I think your dear lord remembers that
he saw me on the Bridge of Dreams. And heard the bells of Yian across
