Jim."

He released her in silence. She walked slowly to the mantel and set
one slim foot on the fender.

Without looking around at him she said: "Does this spoil me for you,
Jim?"

"You darling----"

"Tell me frankly. Does it?"

"What on earth do you mean, Palla! Does it spoil me for you?"

"I've been thinking.... No, it doesn't. But I wondered about you."

He came over to where she stood.

"Dear," he said unsteadily, "don't you know I'm very desperately in
love with you?"

At that she turned her enchanting little head toward him.

"If you are," she said, "there need be nothing desperate about it."

"Do you mean you care enough to marry me, you darling?" he asked
impetuously. "Will you, Palla?"

"Why, no," she said candidly. "I didn't mean that. I meant that
I care for you quite as much as you care for me. So you need not
be desperate. But I really don't think we are in love--I mean
sufficiently--for anything serious."

"Why don't you think so!" he demanded impatiently.

"Do you wish me to be quite frank?"

"Of course!"

"Very well." She lifted her head and let her clear eyes rest on his.
"I like you," she said. "I even like--what we did. I like you far
better than any man I ever knew. But I do not care for you enough to
give up my freedom of mind and of conduct for your asking. I do not
care enough for you to subscribe to your religion and your laws. And
that's the tragic truth."

"But what on earth has all that to do with it? I haven't asked you to
believe as I believe or to subscribe to any law----"

Her enchanting laughter filled the room: "Yes, you have! You asked me
to marry you, didn't you?"

"Of course!"

"Well, I can't, Jim, because I don't believe in the law of marriage,
civil or religious. If I loved you I'd live with you unmarried. But
I'm afraid to try it. And so are you. Which proves that I'm not really
in love with you, or you with me----"

The door bell rang.

"But I do care for you," she whispered, bending swiftly toward him.
Her lips rested lightly on his a moment, then she turned and walked
out into the centre of the room.

The maid announced: "Mr. Estridge!"




CHAPTER VIII


Young Shotwell, still too incredulous to be either hurt or angry,
stood watching Palla welcoming her guests, who arrived within a few
minutes of each other.

First came Estridge,--handsome, athletic, standing over six feet, and
already possessed of that winning and reassuring manner which means
success for a physician.

"It's nice of you to ask me, Palla," he said. "And is Miss Westgard
really coming to-night?"

"But here she is now!" exclaimed Palla, as the maid announced her.
"--Ilse! You astonishing girl! How long have you been in New York?"

And Shotwell beheld the six-foot goddess for the first time--gazed
with pleasurable awe upon this young super-creature with the sea-blue
eyes and golden hair and a skin of roses and cream.

"Fancy, Palla!" she said, "I came immediately back from Stockholm, but
you had sailed on the Elsinore, and I was obliged to wait!--Oh!--"
catching sight of Estridge as he advanced--"I am so very happy to see
you again!"--giving him her big, exquisitely sculptured hand. "Except
for Mr. Brisson, we are quite complete in our little company of
death!" She laughed her healthy, undisturbed defiance of that human
enemy as she named him, gazed rapturously at Palla, acknowledged
Shotwell's presentation in her hearty, engaging way, then turned
laughingly to Estridge:

"The world whirls like a wheel in a squirrel cage which we all
tread:--only to find ourselves together after travelling many, many
miles at top speed!... Are you well, John Estridge?"

"Fairly," he laughed, "but nobody except the immortals could ever be
as well as you, Ilse Westgard!"

She laughed in sheer exuberance of her own physical vigour: "Only that
old and toothless nemesis of Loki can slay me, John Estridge!" And, to
Palla: "I had some slight trouble in Stockholm. Fancy!--a little
shrimp of a man approached me on the street one evening when there
chanced to be nobody near.

"And the first I knew he was mouthing and grinning and saying to me in
Russian: 'I know you, hired mercenary of the aristocrats!--I know
you!--big white battle horse that carried the bloody war-god!'

"I was too astonished, my dear; I merely gazed upon this small and
agitated toad, who continued to run alongside and grimace and pull
funny faces at me. He appeared to be furious, and he said some very
vile things to me.

"I was disgusted and walked faster, and he had to run. And all the
while he was squealing at me: 'I know you! You keep out of America, do
you hear? If you sail on that steamer, we follow you and kill you! You
hear it what I say? We kill! Kill! Kill!----'"

She threw up her superb head and laughed:

"Can you see him--this insect--Palla!--so small and hairy, with crazy
eyes like little sparks among the furry whiskers!--and running,
running at heel, underfoot, one side and then the other, and squealing
'Kill! Kill? Kill'----"

She had made them see the picture and they all laughed.

"But all the same," she added, turning to Estridge, "from that evening
I became conscious that people were watching me.

"It was the same in Copenhagen and in Christiania--always I felt that
somebody was watching me."

"Did you have any trouble?" asked Estridge.

"Well--there seemed to be so many unaccountable delays, obstacles
in securing proper papers, trouble about luggage and steamer
accommodations--petty annoyances," she added. "And also I am sure
that letters to me were opened, and others which I should have
received never arrived."

"You believe it was due to the Reds?" asked Palla. "Have they
emissaries in Scandinavia?"

"My dear, their agents and spies swarm everywhere over the world!"
said Ilse calmly.

"Not here," remarked Shotwell, smiling.

"Oh," rejoined Ilse quickly, "I ask your pardon, but America, also, is
