
"They drove us out o' Chambly. They took the Cedars. Montreal fell. St.
John's followed. Quebec is freed. We're clean kicked out o' Canada, and
marching up Lake Champlain, our rear in touch with the red-coats.

"If we stand and face about at Crown Point, we shall do more than I hope
for.

"Thomas is dead, Thompson and Irving taken, Arnold and Wayne wounded,
the army a skeleton, what with losses by death, wounds, disease, and in
prisoners.

"Had not Arnold broke into the Montreal shops and taken food and woolen
clothing, I think we had been naked now."

"Good heavens!" said I, burning with mortification, "I had not heard of
such a rout!"

"Oh, it was no rout, John," said he carelessly. "Sullivan marched us out
of that hell-hole in good order--whatever John Adams chooses to say
about our army."

"What does John Adams say?"

"Why, he says we are disgraced, defeated, dispirited, discontented,
undisciplined, diseased, eaten up with vermin."

"My God!" exclaimed Nick.

"It's true enough," said Dave, coolly. "And when John Adams also adds
that we have no clothing, no beds, no blankets, no medicines, and only
salt pork and flour to eat and little o' these, why, he's right, too.
Why not admit truth? Does it help to conceal it? Nenni, lads! It is best
always to face it and endeavour to turn into a falsehood tomorrow what
is disgracefully true today.

"So when I tell you that in three months our Northern Army has lost five
thousand men by smallpox, camp fever, bullets, and privation--that out
of five thousand who remain, two thousand are sick, why, it's the plain
and damnable truth.

"But any soldier who loses sleep or appetite over such cursed news
should be run through with a bayonet, for he's a rabbit and no man!"

After a silence: "Who commands them now?" I asked.

"Gates is to take them over at Crown Point, I hear."

This news chilled me, for Schuyler should have commanded. But the damned
Yankees, plotting their petty New England plots to discredit our dear
General, had plainly hoodwinked Congress; and now our generous and noble
Schuyler had again fallen a victim to nutmeg jealousy and cunning.

"Well," said I, "God help us all in Tryon, now; for a vain ass is in the
saddle, and the counsel of the brave and wise remains unheeded. Will Guy
Carleton drive us south of Crown Point?"

"I think so," said Ellerson, carelessly.

"Then the war will come among us here in Tryon!"

"Straight as a storm from the North, John."

"When?"

"Oh, that? God knows. We shall hold the lakes as long as we can. But
unless we are reinforced by Continentals--unless every Colony sends us a
regiment of their Lines--we can not hope to hold Crown Point, and that's
sure as shooting and plain as preaching."

"Very well," said I between clenched teeth, "then we here in Tryon had
best go about the purging of that same county, and physic this district
against a dose o' red-coats."

Ellerson laughed and rose with the lithe ease of a panther.

"I should be on my way to Albany," says he. "You tell me there are
horses at the Summer House, John?"

"Certainly."

We shook hands.

"You find Morgan's agreeable?" inquired Nick.

"A grand corps, lad! Tim Murphy is my mate. And I think there's not a
rifleman among us who can not shoot the whiskers off a porcupine at a
hundred yards." And to me, with a nod toward my Oneidas: "They are
painting. Do you march tonight, John?"

"A matter of cleaning out a Tory nest yonder," said I.

"A filthy business and not war," quoth he. "Well, God be with all
friends to liberty, for all hell is rising up against us. A thousand
Indians are stripped for battle on this frontier--and the tall ships
never cease arriving crammed with red-coats and Germans.

"So we should all do our duty now, whether that same duty lie in
emptying barrack slops, or in cleaning out a Tory nest, or in marching
to drum and fife, or guarding the still places of the wilderness--it's
all one business, John."

Again we shook hands all around, then, waving aside Joe de Golyer and
his proffered lantern, the celebrated rifleman passed lightly into the
shadows.

"Yonder goes the best shot in the North," said Nick.

"Saving only yourself and Jack Mount and Tim Murphy," remarked Godfrey
Shew.

"As for the whiskers of a porcupine," quoth Nick, with the wild flare
a-glimmering in his eyes, "why, I have never tried such a target. But I
should pick any button on a red coat at a hundred yards--that is, if I
cast and pare my own bullet, and load in my own fashion."

Silver swore that any rifle among us white men should shave an otter of
his whiskers, as a barber trims a Hessian.

"Sacr√© garce!" cried he, "why should we miss--we coureurs-du-bois, who
have learn to shoot by ze hardes' of all drill-masters--a empty belly!"

"We must not miss at Howell's house," said I, counting my people at a
glance.

The Saguenay, ghastly in scarlet and white, came and placed himself
behind me.

All the Oneidas were naked, painted from lock to ankle in terrific
symbols.

Thiohero was still oiling her supple, boyish body when I started a brief
description of the part each one of us was to act, speaking in the
Oneida dialect and in English.

"Take these bloody men alive," I added, "if it can be done. But if it
can not, then slay them. For every one of these that escapes tonight
shall return one day with a swarm of hornets to sting us all to death in
County Tryon!... Are you ready for the command?"

"Ready, John," says Nick.

"March!"

       

At midnight we had surrounded Howell's house, save only the east
approach, which we still left open for tardy skulkers.

A shadowy form or two slinking out from the tamaracks, their guns
trailing, passed along the hard ridge, bent nearly double to avoid
observation.

We could not recognize them, for they were very shadows, vague as
frost-driven woodcock speeding at dusk to a sheltered swamp.

But, as they arrived, singly and in little groups, such a silent rage
possessed me that I could scarce control my rifle, which quivered to
take toll of these old neighbors who were returning by stealth at night
to murder us in our beds.
