that we return here after two or three months in Austria, and here we
remain for at least two years."

"Why are you so sure of that?  Have you her actual promise?"

"It is understood.  I told her we should return and she knew that I
meant what I said."

"It is quite likely that she knew you meant it!  But I'd like you to
promise me that you will ask her to tell you exactly what she does
intend to do--when the honeymoon is over."

"What do you mean?" Clavering asked sharply.

"I mean, that although she told me nothing of her plans, it was
perfectly evident from her conversation that she intends to live her
life in Europe and play a great r√¥le there.  I infer that she is in
constant correspondence with political friends in Austria.  Do you mean
that she has never told you this?"

Clavering sat forward, frowning.  "No.  We--have had little time
together and have not wasted it on politics.  Did she tell you this?"

"Not she.  But I 'got' it.  I can't tell you just how, but my
intuitions are pretty good."

"Intuitions be hanged.  Your creative tract is prepared for action and
has been doing a little stunt all by itself.  Better get to work on it
and plough up a new book.  I don't doubt Mary has political friends in
Austria, and corresponds with them.  Why shouldn't she?  But she's not
committed to any definite date or action.  I'll swear to that.  She'd
have told me so honestly."

"Very well.  I've said my say.  But I wish----"  She fell silent and
sat very still for several moments regarding the point of her slipper.
Then she looked up and said brightly: "Don't you think it's time to let
the rest of them know what's going to happen?  It's hardly fair to your
other friends--and they are your friends, Clavey.  Of course they are
practically certain of it."

"I don't think she'll mind, particularly as the first sensation has
pretty well run its course--she thought she'd spare her own friends two
shocks at once.  But I fancy she intends to go out among them less and
less.  I'll ask her, and if she agrees, suppose you announce it?"

Miss Dwight bent down and removed a pinch of ashes from her slipper.
"Do--persuade her.  It would be a tremendous feather in my cap.  I'll
give you both a dinner and announce it then."

"Settled.  Well, I'm off.  Got my column to write."  He gathered up his
manuscript, and she went to the door with him.  As he held her hand, he
felt one of those subtle whispers along his nerves that had warned him
of danger before.  He dropped her hand with a frown.

"Look here, Gora," he said.  "You haven't any mistaken idea of
appealing to her, have you?"

"What do you take me for?" demanded Miss Dwight angrily.  "The father
in Camille?"

"Well, keep off the grass, that's all.  Ta, ta."




XL

When Mary Zattiany returned home at twelve o'clock after a tiresome
morning in Judge Trent's office she told the butler to send her
luncheon upstairs, and ascended to the seclusion of her room, delighted
with the prospect of a few hours she could call her own.  These hours
had been increasing during the past fortnight but were no less welcome.
Not a word of that dinner was known to any but those who had attended
it.  People do not foul their own nest unless they are ready to desert
it and sometimes not then.  Moreover, the women were too ashamed or too
humiliated with their failure to invite the criticism of their friends,
and although they avoided the subject among themselves, their agreement
to bury it was no less final for being tacit.  The men, with something
of the deliberation of male guests at a diplomatic dinner where there
has been an unfortunate incident involving dangerous possibilities if
known, called one another up on the telephone the next day and agreed
to "forget it."  Even Dinwiddie never heard of it.  As for Madame
Zattiany, she could be trusted to dismiss it from her contemptuous
mind.  Nevertheless, these young women, who had entertained her almost
constantly, pointedly omitted her from their luncheons and dinners and
parties--in her new lightheartedness she had been induced to attend
several parties during the past six weeks.  And they had little
difficulty in persuading others to follow their example.  The more
amiable of the younger women might have looked upon their attack that
night with horror if they had heard of it, as, indeed, several at the
dinner had done, but they were no more enthusiastic over the "foreign
invasion" than their militant sisters.  The remonstrances of the men
were unheeded, and when one or two tried to arrange theatre parties or
dinners in Madame Zattiany's honor they received graceful regrets.

Even the attitude of her older friends had changed, now that the
dramatic novelty of her return to them, and their first determined
enthusiasm, had worn off.  They were betraying more and more their
disapproval of what she had done, the more so perhaps, as the majority
of them, being excessively thin, might have accomplished a like result
had not their standards protected them.  This naturally inspired them
with a full realization of their superiority, which increased daily.

If she had made the attempt and failed it would have been bad enough,
for such violations of the law of orthodoxy insulted the code in which
she had been born and reared: but triumphantly to have succeeded in
making herself young again while the rest of them were pursuing their
unruffled way to the grave was a deliberate insult both to themselves
and to God.

Moreover, they hardly knew what to talk to her about, and although this
might still have been the case had she returned to them carrying aloft
the crinkled and spotted flag of time, so far apart their lines had
run, her scientific victory added an ever-increasing irritant.  Also,
she had never been a "woman's woman," and it was patent that, as ever,
she was far more animated in the company of men.  Inevitably, old
scandals were raked up.  They had been frowned upon in the days when
she was protected by her husband and the great position he gave her,
and the rumors had been dismissed for more interesting scandals, both
public and private, at home.  They no doubt would have remained in the
limbo of history had she returned looking no better than themselves,
but her ridiculous defiance of nature revived them, and these ladies
discovered that their memories were more lively than might have been
expected of their years.

It would be too much, as Mary told Clavering, to ask a violent
contradiction of human nature from worn out glands, and she bore them
no malice.  She only wondered that Jane Oglethorpe, Elinor Goodrich,
and Lily Tracy were still faithful in private--to the world all of them
preserved a united front; they would not even discuss her with their
children, much less their grandchildren; but they made up their minds
that it would be for the good of her soul to let her see, with no flaw
in their politeness, just what uncompromisingly sensible women of high
moral and social responsibilities thought of her.

Mary, being human, felt the pin-pricks, but was glad on the whole to be
rid of them.  Those first weeks of almost girlish pleasure in what was
to her a novel society, had vanished for ever on the night of her
dinner.  Scornful and indifferent she might be, but although they could
not kill her youth, they drove home to her what she had guessed in the
beginning, that the society and the companionship of young
people--fashionable young people, at least--were not for her.  Their
conversations, interests, shallow mental attitude to life, bored her.
That curious brief period of mental rejuvenescence had been due to the
novelty and excitement of being in love again, after long and arid
years.

And now, Judge Trent had told her that she would be free to leave in a
fortnight.  She had walked the three miles from Broad Street with a
buoyant step, and she had vowed that never, not for any consideration
whatever, would she set foot in America again.  Vienna was the city of
her heart as well as of her future exploits.  She would buy the old
Zattiany palace from her widowed niece-in-law and make it the most
famous rendezvous in Europe.  But of all this nothing to Clavering
until they were in the Dolomites.

She rang for her maid and exchanged her tweed walking suit for a tea
gown of violet velvet and snow white chiffon, with stockings and
slippers to match.  She expected no one but it was always a delight to
her to be exquisitely and becomingly dressed.  Even in the seclusion of
