the posse made a rush toward the door, bearing back the resisting and
now infuriated crowd. Shouts, cries, oaths, and savage imprecations
blended in wild discord; in the midst of which my blood was chilled by
the sharp crack of a pistol. Another and another shot followed; and
then, as a cry of pain thrilled the air, the fierce storm hushed its
fury in an instant.

"Who's shot? Is he killed?"

There was a breathless eagerness for the answer.

"It's the gambler!" was replied. "Somebody has shot Green."

A low muttered invective against the victim was heard here and there;
but the announcement was not received with a shout of exultation,
though there was scarcely a heart that did not feel pleasure at the
sacrifice of Harvey Green's life.

It was true as had been declared. Whether the shot were aimed
deliberately, or guided by an unseen hand to the heart of the gambler,
was never known; nor did the most careful examination, instituted
afterward by the county, elicit any information that even directed
suspicion toward the individual who became the agent of his death.

At the coroner's inquest, held over the dead body of Harvey Green,
Simon Slade was present. Where he had concealed himself while the mob
were in search of him, was not known. He looked haggard; and his eyes
were anxious and restless. Two murders in his house, occurring in a
single day, were quite enough to darken his spirits; and the more so,
as his relations with both the victims were not of a character to
awaken any thing but self-accusation.

As for the mob, in the death of Green its eager thirst for vengeance
was satisfied. Nothing more was said against Slade, as a participator
in the ruin and death of young Hammond. The popular feeling was one of
pity rather than indignation toward the landlord; for it was seen that
he was deeply troubled.

One thing I noticed, and it was that the drinking at the bar was not
suspended for a moment. A large proportion of those who made up the
crowd of Green's angry pursuers were excited by drink as well as
indignation, and I am very sure that, but for the maddening effects of
liquor, the fatal shot would never have been fired. After the fearful
catastrophe, and when every mind was sobered, or ought to have been
sobered, the crowd returned to the bar-room, where the drinking was
renewed. So rapid were the calls for liquor, that both Matthew and
Frank, the landlord's son, were kept busy mixing the various compounds
demanded by the thirsty customers.

From the constant stream of human beings that flowed toward the "Sickle
and Sheaf," after the news of Green's discovery and death went forth,
it seemed as if every man and boy within a distance of two or three
miles had received intelligence of the event. Few, very, of those who
came, but went first into the bar-room; and nearly all who entered the
bar-room called for liquor. In an hour after the death of Green, the
fact that his dead body was laid out in the room immediately adjoining,
seemed utterly to pass from the consciousness of every one in the bar.
The calls for liquor were incessant; and, as the excitement of drink
increased, voices grew louder, and oaths more plentiful, while the
sounds of laughter ceased not for an instant.

"They're giving him a regular Irish wake," I heard remarked, with a
brutal laugh.

I turned to the speaker, and, to my great surprise, saw that it was
Judge Lyman, more under the influence of drink than I remembered to
have seen him. He was about the last man I expected to find here. If he
knew of the strong indignation expressed toward him a little while
before, by some of the very men now excited with liquor, his own free
drinking had extinguished fear.

"Yes, curse him!" was the answer. "If they have a particularly hot
corner 'away down below,' I hope he's made its acquaintance before
this."

"Most likely he's smelled brimstone," chuckled the judge.

"Smelled it! If old Clubfoot hasn't treated him with a brimstone-bath
long before this, he hasn't done his duty. If I thought as much, I'd
vote for sending his majesty a remonstrance forthwith."

"Ha! ha!" laughed the judge. "You're warm on the subject."

"Ain't I? The blackleg scoundrel! Hell's too good for him."

"H-u-s-h! Don't let your indignation run into profanity," said Judge
Lyman, trying to assume a serious air; but the muscles of his face but
feebly obeyed his will's feeble effort.

"Profanity! Poh! I don't call that profanity. It's only speaking out in
meeting, as they say,--it's only calling black, black--and white,
white. You believe in a hell, don't you, judge?"

"I suppose there is one; though I don't know very certain."

"You'd better be certain!" said the other, meaningly.

"Why so?"

"Oh! because if there is one, and you don't cut your cards a little
differently, you'll be apt to find it at the end of your journey."

"What do you mean by that?" asked the judge, retreating somewhat into
himself, and trying to look dignified.

"Just what I say," was unhesitatingly answered.

"Do you mean to insinuate any thing?" asked the judge, whose brows were
beginning to knit themselves.

"Nobody thinks you a saint," replied the man, roughly.

"I never professed to be."

"And it is said"--the man fixed his gaze almost insultingly upon Judge
Lyman's face--"that you'll get about as hot a corner in the lower
regions as is to be found there, whenever you make the journey in that
direction."

"You are insolent!" exclaimed the judge, his face becoming inflamed.

"Take care what you say, sir!" The man spoke threateningly.

"You'd better take care what YOU say."

"So I will," replied the other. "But--"

"What's to pay here?" inquired a third party, coming up at the moment,
and interrupting the speaker.

"The devil will be to pay," said Judge Lyman, "if somebody don't look
out sharp."

"Do you mean that for me, ha?" The man, between whom and himself this
slight contention had so quickly sprung up, began stripping back his
coat sleeves, like one about to commence boxing.

"I mean it for anybody who presumes to offer me an insult."

The raised voices of the two men now drew toward them the attention of
every one in the bar-room.

"The devil! There's Judge Lyman!" I heard some one exclaim, in a tone
of surprise.

"Wasn't he in the room with Green when Willy Hammond was murdered?"
asked another.

"Yes, he was; and what's more, it is said he had been playing against
him all night, he and Green sharing the plunder."

This last remark came distinctly to the ears of Lyman, who started to
his feet instantly, exclaiming fiercely:

"Whoever says that is a cursed liar!"

The words were scarcely out of his mouth, before a blow staggered him
against the wall, near which he was standing. Another blow felled him,
and then his assailant sprang over his prostrate body, kicking him, and
stamping upon his face and breast in the most brutal, shocking manner.

"Kill him! He's worse than Green!" somebody cried out, in a voice so
full of cruelty and murder that it made my blood curdle. "Remember
Willy Hammond!"

The terrible scene that followed, in which were heard a confused
mingling of blows, cries, yells, and horrible oaths, continued for
several minutes, and ceased only when the words--"Don't, don't strike
him any more! He's dead!" were repeated several times. Then the wild
strife subsided. As the crowd parted from around the body of Judge
Lyman, and gave way, I caught a single glance at his face. It was
covered with blood, and every feature seemed to have been literally
trampled down, until all was a level surface! Sickened at the sight, I
passed hastily from the room into the open air, and caught my breath
several times, before respiration again went on freely. As I stood in
front of the tavern, the body of Judge Lyman was borne out by three or
four men, and carried off in the direction of his dwelling.

"Is he dead?" I inquired of those who had him in charge.

"No," was the answer. "He's not dead, but terribly beaten," and they
passed on.

Again the loud voices of men in angry strife arose in the bar-room. I
did not return there to learn the cause, or to witness the fiend-like
conduct of the men, all whose worst passions were stimulated by drink
into the wildest fervor. As I was entering my room, the thought flashed
through my mind that, as Green was found there, it needed only the bare
suggestion that I had aided in his concealment, to direct toward me the
insane fury of the drunken mob.

"It is not safe to remain here." I said this to myself, with the
emphasis of a strong internal conviction.

Against this, my mind opposed a few feeble arguments; but the more I
thought of the matter, the more clearly did I become satisfied, that to
attempt to pass the night in that room was to me a risk it was not
prudent to assume.

So I went in search of Mrs. Slade, to ask her to have another room
prepared for me. But she was not in the house; and I learned, upon
inquiry, that since the murder of young Hammond, she had been suffering
from repeated hysterical and fainting fits, and was now, with her
daughter, at the house of a relative, whither she had been carried
early in the afternoon.

It was on my lip to request the chambermaid to give me another room;
but this I felt to be scarcely prudent, for if the popular indignation
should happen to turn toward me, the servant would be the one
questioned, most likely, as to where I had removed my quarters.

"It isn't safe to stay in the house," said I, speaking to myself. "Two,
perhaps three, murders have been committed already. The tiger's thirst
for blood has been stimulated, and who can tell how quickly he may
spring again, or in what direction?"

Even while I said this, there came up from the bar-room louder and
madder shouts. Then blows were heard, mingled with cries and oaths. A
shuddering sense of danger oppressed me, and I went hastily
down-stairs, and out into the street. As I gained the passage, I looked
into the sitting-room, where the body of Green was laid out. Just then,
the bar-room door was burst open by a fighting party, who had been
thrown, in their fierce contention, against it. I paused only for a
moment or two; and even in that brief period of time, saw blows
exchanged over the dead body of the gambler!

"This is no place for me," I said, almost aloud, and hurried from the
house, and took my way to the residence of a gentleman who had shown me
many kindnesses during my visits at Cedarville. There was needed
scarcely a word of representation on my part, to secure the cordial
tender of a bed.

What a change! It seemed almost like a passage from Pandemonium to a
heavenly region, as I seated myself alone in the quiet chamber a
cheerful hospitality had assigned me, and mused on the exciting and
terrible incidents of the day. They that sow the wind shall reap the
whirlwind. How marked had been the realization of this prophecy,
couched in such strong but beautiful imagery!

On the next day I was to leave Cedarville. Early in the morning I
repaired to the "Sickle and Sheaf." The storm was over, and all was
calm and silent as desolation. Hours before, the tempest had subsided;
but the evidences left behind of its ravaging fury were fearful to look
upon. Doors, chairs, windows, and table's were broken, and even the
strong brass rod that ornamented the bar had been partially wrenched
from its fastenings by strong hands, under an impulse of murder, that
only lacked a weapon to execute its fiendish purpose. Stains of blood,
in drops, marks, and even dried-up pools, were to be seen all over the
bar-room and passage floors, and in many places on the porch.

In the sitting-room still lay the body of Green. Here, too, were many
signs to indicate a fierce struggle. The looking-glass was smashed to a
hundred pieces, and the shivered fragments lay yet untouched upon the
floor. A chair, which it was plain had been used as a weapon of
assault, had two of its legs broken short off, and was thrown into a
corner. And even the bearers on which the dead man lay were pushed from
their true position, showing that even in its mortal sleep, the body of
Green had felt the jarring strife of elements he had himself helped to
awaken into mad activity. From his face, the sheet had been drawn
aside; but no hand ventured to replace it; and there it lay, in its
ghastly paleness, exposed to the light, and covered with restless
flies, attracted by the first faint odors of putridity. With gaze
averted, I approached the body, and drew the covering decently over it.

No person was in the bar. I went out into the stable-yard, where I met
the hostler with his head bound up. There was a dark blue circle around
one of his eyes, and an ugly-looking red scar on his cheek.

"Where is Mr. Slade?" I inquired.

"In bed, and likely to keep it for a week," was answered.

"How comes that?"

"Naturally enough. There was fighting all around last night, and he had
to come in for a share. The fool! If he'd just held his tongue, he
might have come out of it with a whole skin. But, when the rum is in,
the wit is out, with him. It's cost me a black eye and a broken head;
for how could I stand by and see him murdered outright?"

"Is he very badly injured?"

"I rather think he is. One eye is clean gone."

"Oh, shocking!"

"It's shocking enough, and no mistake."

"Lost an eye?"

"Too true, sir. The doctor saw him this morning, and says the eye was
fairly gouged out, and broken up. In fact, when we carried him upstairs
for dead, last night, his eye was lying upon his cheek. I pushed it
back with my own hand!"

"Oh, horrible!" The relation made me sick. "Is he otherwise much
injured?"

"The doctor thinks there are some bad hurts inside. Why, they kicked
and trampled upon him, as if he had been a wild beast! I never saw such
a pack of blood-thirsty devils in my life!"

"So much for rum," said I.

"Yes, sir; so much for rum," was the emphatic response. "It was the
rum, and nothing else. Why, some of the very men who acted the most
like tigers and devils, are as harmless persons as you will find in
Cedarville when sober. Yes, sir; it was the rum, and nothing else. Rum
gave me this broken head and black eye."

"So you had been drinking also?"

"Oh, yes. There's no use in denying that."

"Liquor does you harm."

"Nobody knows that better than I do."

"Why do you drink, then?"

"Oh, just because it comes in the way. Liquor is under my eyes and nose
all the time, and it's as natural as breathing to take a little now and
then. And when I don't think of it myself, somebody will think of it
for me, and say--'Come, Sam, let's take something.' So, you see, for a
body such as I am, there isn't much help for it."

"But ain't you afraid to go on in this way? Don't you know where it
will all end?"

"Just as well as anybody. It will make an end of me or--of all that is
good in me. Rum and ruin, you know, sir. They go together like twin
brothers."

"Why don't you get out of the way of temptation?" said I.

"It's easy enough to ask that question, sir; but how am I to get out of
the way of temptation? Where shall I go, and not find a bar in my road,
and somebody to say--'Come, Sam, let's take a drink'? It can't be done,
sir, nohow. I'm a hostler, and I don't know how to be anything else."

"Can't you work on a farm?"

"Yes; I can do something in that way. But, when there are taverns and
bar-rooms, as many as three or four in every mile all over the country,
how are you to keep clear of them? Figure me out that."

"I think you'd better vote on the Maine Law side at next election,"
said I.

"Faith, and I did it last time!" replied the man, with a brightening
face--"and if I'm spared, I'll go the same ticket next year."

"What do you think of the Law?" I asked.

"Think of it! Bless your heart! if I was a praying man, which I'm sorry
to say I ain't--my mother was a pious woman, sir"--his voice fell and
slightly trembled--"if I was a praying man, sir, I'd pray, night and
morning, and twenty times every day of my life, for God to put it into
the hearts of the people to give us that Law. I'd have some hope then.
But I haven't much as it is. There's no use in trying to let liquor
alone."

"Do many drinking men think as you do?"

"I can count up a dozen or two myself. It isn't the drinking men who
are so much opposed to the Maine Law as your politicians. They throw
dust in the people's eyes about it, and make a great many, who know
nothing at all of the evils of drinking in themselves, believe some
bugbear story about trampling on the rights of I don't know who, nor
they either. As for rum-sellers' rights, I never could see any right
they had to get rich by ruining poor devils such as I am. I think,
though, that we have some right to be protected against them."

The ringing of a bell here announced the arrival of some traveler, and
the hostler left me.

I learned, during the morning, that Matthew, the bar-keeper, and also
the son of Mr. Slade, were both considerably hurt during the affrays in
the bar-room, and were confined, temporarily, to their beds. Mrs. Slade
still continued in a distressing and dangerous state. Judge Lyman,
though shockingly injured, was not thought to be in a critical
condition.

A busy day the sheriff had of it, making arrests of various parties
engaged in the last night's affairs. Even Slade, unable as he was to
lift his head from his pillow, was required to give heavy bail for his
appearance at court. Happily, I escaped the inconvenience of being held
to appear as a witness, and early in the afternoon had the satisfaction
of finding myself rapidly borne away in the stage-coach. It was two
years before I entered the pleasant village of Cedarville again.




NIGHT THE EIGHTH.

REAPING THE WHIRLWIND.


I was in Washington City during the succeeding month. It was the short,
or closing session, of a regular Congressional term. The implication of
Judge Lyman in the affair of Green and young Hammond had brought him
into such bad odor in Cedarville and the whole district from which he
had been chosen, that his party deemed it wise to set him aside, and
take up a candidate less likely to meet with so strong and, it might
be, successful an opposition. By so doing, they were able to secure the
election, once more, against the growing temperance party, which
succeeded, however, in getting a Maine Law man into the State
Legislature. It was, therefore, Judge Lyman's last winter at the
Federal Capital.

While seated in the reading-room at Fuller's Hotel, about noon, on the
day after my arrival in Washington, I noticed an individual, whose face
looked familiar, come in and glance about, as if in search of some one.
While yet questioning my mind who he could be, I heard a man remark to
a person with whom he had been conversing:

"There's that vagabond member away from his place in the House, again."

"Who?" inquired the other.

"Why. Judge Lyman," was answered.

"Oh!" said the other, indifferently; "it isn't of much consequence.
Precious little wisdom does he add to that intelligent body."

"His vote is worth something, at least, when important questions are at
stake."

"What does he charge for it?" was coolly inquired.

There was a shrug of the shoulders, and an arching of the eyebrows, but
no answer.

"I'm in earnest, though, in the question," said the last speaker.

"Not in saying that Lyman will sell his vote to the highest bidders?"

"That will depend altogether upon whom the bidders may be. They must be
men who have something to lose as well as gain--men not at all likely
to bruit the matter, and in serving whose personal interests no
abandonment of party is required. Judge Lyman is always on good terms
with the lobby members, and may be found in company with some of them
daily. Doubtless, his absence from the House, now, is for the purpose
of a special meeting with gentlemen who are ready to pay well for votes
in favor of some bill making appropriations of public money for private
or corporate benefit."

"You certainly can not mean all you say to be taken in its broadest
sense," was replied to this.

"Yes; in its very broadest. Into just this deep of moral and political
degradation has this man fallen, disgracing his constituents, and
dishonoring his country."

"His presence at Washington doesn't speak very highly in favor of the
community he represents."

"No; still, as things are now, we cannot judge of the moral worth of a
community by the man sent from it to Congress. Representatives show
merely the strength of parties. The candidate chosen in party primary
meetings is not selected because he is the best man they have, and the
one fittest to legislate wisely in national affairs; but he who happens
to have the strongest personal friends among those who nominate, or who
is most likely to poll the highest vote. This is why we find,' in
Congress, such a large preponderance of tenth-rate men."

"A man such as you represent Judge Lyman to be would sell his country,
like another Arnold."

"Yes; if the bid were high enough."

"Does he gamble?"

"Gambling, I might say, is a part of his profession. Very few nights
pass, I am told, without finding him at the gaming-table."

I heard no more. At all this, I was not in the least surprised; for my
knowledge of the man's antecedents had prepared me for allegations
quite as bad as these.

During the week I spent at the Federal Capital, I had several
opportunities of seeing Judge Lyman, in the House and out of it,--in
the House only when the yeas and nays were called on some important
measure, or a vote taken on a bill granting special privileges. In the
latter case, his vote, as I noticed, was generally cast on the
affirmative side. Several times I saw him staggering on the Avenue, and
once brought into the House for the purpose of voting, in so drunken a
state, that he had to be supported to his seat. And even worse than
this--when his name was called, he was asleep, and had to be shaken
several times before he was sufficiently aroused to give his vote!

Happily, for the good of his country, it was his last winter in
Washington. At the next session, a better man took his place.

Two years from the period of my last visit to Cedarville, I found
myself approaching that quiet village again. As the church-spire came
in view, and house after house became visible, here and there, standing
out in pleasant relief against the green background of woods and
fields, all the exciting events which rendered my last visit so
memorable, came up fresh in my mind. I was yet thinking of Willy
Hammond's dreadful death, and of his broken-hearted mother, whose life
went out with his, when the stage rolled by their old homestead. Oh,
what a change was here! Neglect, decay, and dilapidation were visible,
let the eye fall where it would. The fences were down, here and there;
the hedges, once so green and nicely trimmed, had grown rankly in some
places, but were stunted and dying in others; all the beautiful walks
were weedy and grass-grown, and the box-borders dead; the garden,
rainbow-hued in its wealth of choice and beautiful flowers when I first
saw it, was lying waste,--a rooting-ground for hogs. A glance at the
house showed a broken chimney, the bricks unremoved from the spot where
they struck the ground; a moss grown roof, with a large limb from a
lightning-rent tree lying almost balanced over the eaves, and
threatening to fall at the touch of the first wind-storm that swept
over. Half of the vines that clambered about the portico were dead, and
the rest, untrained, twined themselves in wild disorder, or fell
groveling to the earth. One of the pillars of the portico was broken,
as were, also, two of the steps that went up to it. The windows of the
house were closed, but the door stood open, and, as the stage went
past, my eyes rested, for a moment, upon an old man seated in the hall.
He was not near enough to the door for me to get a view of his face;
but the white flowing hair left me in no doubt as to his identity. It
was Judge Hammond.

The "Sickle and Sheaf" was yet the stage-house of Cedarville, and
there, a few minutes afterward, I found myself. The hand of change had
been here also. The first object that attracted my attention was the
sign-post, which at my earlier arrival, some eight or nine years
before, stood up in its new white garment of paint, as straight as a
plummet-line, bearing proudly aloft the golden sheaf and gleaming
sickle. Now, the post, dingy and shattered and worn from the frequent
contact of wheels, and gnawing of restless horses, leaned from its trim
perpendicular at an angle of many degrees, as if ashamed of the faded,
weather-worn, lying symbol it bore aloft in the sunshine. Around the
post was a filthy mud-pool, in which a hog lay grunting out its sense
of enjoyment. Two or three old empty whisky barrels lumbered up the
dirty porch, on which a coarse, bloated, vulgar-looking man sat leaning
against the wall--his chair tipped back on its hind legs--squinting at
me from one eye, as I left the stage and came forward toward the house.

"Ah! is this you?" said he, as I came near to him, speaking thickly,
and getting up with a heavy motion. I now recognized the altered person
of Simon Slade. On looking at him closer, I saw that the eye which I
had thought only shut was in fact destroyed. How vividly, now, uprose
in imagination the scenes I had witnessed during my last night in his
bar-room; the night when a brutal mob, whom he had inebriated with
liquor, came near murdering him.

"Glad to see you once more, my boy! Glad to see you! I--I--I'm not
just--you see. How are you? How are you?"

And he shook my hand with a drunken show of cordiality.

I felt shocked and disgusted. Wretched man! down the crumbling sides of
the pit he had digged for other feet, he was himself sliding, while not
enough strength remained even to struggle with his fate.

I tried for a few minutes to talk with him; but his mind was altogether
beclouded, and his questions and answers incoherent; so I left him, and
entered the bar-room.

"Can I get accommodations here for a couple of days?" I inquired of a
stupid, sleepy-looking man, who was sitting in a chair behind the bar.

"I reckon so," he answered, but did not rise.

I turned, and walked a few paces toward the door, and then walked back
again.

"I'd like to get a room," said I.

The man got up slowly, and going to a desk, fumbled about it for a
while. At length he brought out an old, dilapidated bank-book, and
throwing it open on the counter, asked me, with an indifferent manner,
to write down my name.

"I'll take a pen, if you please."

"Oh, yes!" And he hunted about again in the desk, from which, after a
while, he brought forth the blackened stump of a quill, and pushed it
toward me across the counter.

"Ink," said I--fixing my eyes upon him with a look of displeasure.

"I don't believe there is any," he muttered. "Frank," and he called the
landlord's son, going to the door behind the bar as he did so.

"What d'ye want?" a rough, ill-natured voice answered.

"Where's the ink?"

"Don't know anything about it."

"You had it last. What did you do with it?"

"Nothing!" was growled back.

"Well, I wish you'd find it."

"Find it yourself, and--" I cannot repeat the profane language he used.

"Never mind," said I. "A pencil will do just as well." And I drew one
from my pocket. The attempt to write with this, on the begrimed and
greasy page of the register, was only partially successful. It would
have puzzled almost any one to make out the name. From the date of the
last entry, it appeared that mine was the first arrival, for over a
week, of any person desiring a room.

As I finished writing my name, Frank came stalking in, with a cigar in
his mouth, and a cloud of smoke around his head. He had grown into a
stout man--though his face presented little that was manly, in the true
sense of the word. He was disgustingly sensual. On seeing me, a slight
flush tinged his cheeks.

"How do you do?" he said, offering me his hand. "Peter,"--he turned to
the lazy-looking bar-keeper--"tell Jane to have No. 11 put in order for
a gentleman immediately, and tell her to be sure and change the bed
linen."

"Things look rather dull here," I remarked, as the bar-keeper went out
to do as he had been directed.

"Rather; it's a dull place, anyhow."

"How is your mother?" I inquired.

A slight, troubled look came into his face, as he answered:

"No better."

"She's sick, then?"

"Yes; she's been sick a good while; and I'm afraid will never be much
better." His manner was not altogether cold and indifferent, but there
was a want of feeling in his voice.

"Is she at home?"

"No, sir."

As he showed no inclination to say more on the subject, I asked no
further questions, and he soon found occasion to leave me.

The bar room had undergone no material change, so far as its furniture
and arrangements were concerned; but a very great change was apparent
in the condition of these. The brass rod around the bar, which, at my
last visit was brightly polished, was now a greenish-black, and there
came from it an unpleasant odor of verdigris. The walls were fairly
coated with dust, smoke, and fly-specks, and the windows let in the
light but feebly through the dirt-obscured glass. The floor was filthy.
Behind the bar, on the shelves designed for a display of liquors, was a
confused mingling of empty or half-filled decanters, cigar-boxes,
lemons and lemon-peel, old newspapers, glasses, a broken pitcher, a
hat, a soiled vest, and a pair of blacking brushes, with other
incongruous things, not now remembered. The air of the room was loaded
with offensive vapors.

Disgusted with every thing about the bar, I went into the sitting-room.
Here, there was some order in the arrangement of the dingy furniture;
but you might have written your name in dust on the looking-glass and
table. The smell of the torpid atmosphere was even worse than that of
the bar-room. So I did not linger here, but passed through the hall,
and out upon the porch, to get a draught of pure air.

Slade still sat leaning against the wall.

"Fine day this," said he, speaking in a mumbling kind of voice.

"Very fine," I answered.

"Yes, very fine."

"Not doing so well as you were a few years ago," said I.

"No--you see--these--these 'ere blamed temperance people are ruining
everything."

"Ah! Is that so?"

"Yes. Cedarville isn't what it was when you first came to the 'Sickle
and Sheaf.' I--I--you see. Curse the temperance people! They've ruined
every thing, you see. Every thing! Ruined--"

And he muttered and mouthed his words in such a way, that I could
understand but little he said; and, in that little, there was scarcely
any coherency. So I left him, with a feeling of pity in my heart for
the wreck he had become, and went into the town to call upon one or two
gentlemen with whom I had business.

In the course of the afternoon, I learned that Mrs. Slade was in an
insane asylum, about five miles from Cedarville. The terrible events of
the day on which young Hammond was murdered completed the work of
mental ruin, begun at the time her husband abandoned the quiet,
honorable calling of a miller, and became a tavern-keeper. Reason could
hold its position no longer. When word came to her that Willy and his
mother were both dead, she uttered a wild shriek, and fell down in a
fainting fit. From that period the balance of her mind was destroyed.
Long before this, her friends saw that reason wavered. Frank had been
her idol. A pure, bright, affectionate boy he was, when she removed
with him from their pleasant cottage-home, where all the surrounding
