what he was about." This was the sentiment that prevailed, and each
member looked out for himself, leaving all the rest to him.

The Butterflies were quickening their stroke every moment, and
consequently were continuing to increase the distance between the two
boats. Every muscle was strained to its utmost tension. Every particle
of strength was laid out, until Tony, fearful that some of the weaker
ones might "make a slip," dared require no more of them. But they were
already more than two boats' lengths ahead of their rival, and he had
everything to hope.

Still the Zephyr pulled that same steady stroke. As yet she had made no
extraordinary exertion. Her crew were still fresh and vigorous, while
those of her rival, though she was every moment gaining upon her, were
taxing their strength to the utmost.

They rounded the stake boat, which had been placed nearly opposite the
mouth of the Rippleton River, and the Butterfly was still three lengths
ahead. They had begun upon the last two miles of the race. Though the
Zephyr still pursued her former tactics, her rival was no longer able to
gain upon her. The latter had thus far done her best, and for the next
half mile the boats maintained the same relative positions.

Frank was still unmoved, and there was some inward grumbling among his
crew. An expression of deep anxiety had begun to supplant the look of
hope and confidence they had worn, and some of them were provoked to a
doubt whether Frank, in the generosity of his nature, was not intending
to let Tony bear off the honors.

"Come, Frank, let her have, now!" said Tim, who could no longer restrain
his impatience.

"Silence! Not a word!" said the self-possessed coxswain.

It was in the "order of the day" that no member should speak during the
race; and none did, except Tim, and he could easily have been pardoned
under the circumstances.

Not yet did Frank quicken the stroke of the Zephyr, though at the end of
the next half mile she was only two boats' lengths astern of her
competitor, which had lost this distance by the exhaustion of her crew.
They had pulled three miles with the expenditure of all their strength.
They lacked the power of endurance, which could only be obtained by long
practice. "It is the last pound that breaks the camel's back;" and it
was so with them. With a little less exertion they might have preserved
some portion of their vigor for the final struggle, which was yet to
come.

They had begun upon the last mile. The crew of the Butterfly were as
confident of winning the race as though the laurel of victory had
already been awarded to them; and though their backs ached and their
arms were nearly numb, a smile of triumph rested on their faces.

"Now for the tug of war," said Frank, in a low, subdued tone, loud
enough to be heard by all his crew, but so gentle as not to create any
of that dangerous excitement which is sometimes the ruin of the best
laid plans.

As he spoke the motions of his body became a little quicker, and
gradually increased in rapidity till the stroke was as quick as was
consistent with perfect precision. The result of this greater
expenditure of power was instantly observed, and at the end of the next
quarter of a mile the boats were side by side again.

"They are beating us!" said Tony, in a whisper. "Dip a little
deeper--pull strong!"

The exciting moment of the race had come. The spectators on the shore
gazed with breathless interest upon the spectacle, unable, though
"Zephyr stock was up," to determine the result.

Not a muscle in Frank's face moved, and steadily and anxiously his crew
watched and followed his movements.

"Steady!" said he, in his low, impressive tone, as he quickened a trifle
more the stroke of the crew.

The Butterflies were "used up," incapable of making that vigorous effort
which might have carried them in ahead of the Zephyr.

"A little deeper," continued Frank. "Now for it!"

As he spoke, with a sudden flash of energy he drove his oarsmen to their
utmost speed and strength, and the Zephyr shot by the judges' boat full
a length and a half ahead of the Butterfly.

"Cease--rowing!" said he. "Ready--up!"

The Butterfly came in scarcely an instant behind, and her oars were
poised in air, like those of her rival.

A long and animating shout rang along the shore, when the result of the
race was apparent, and the band struck up "See the conquering hero
comes."




CHAPTER IX.

LITTLE PAUL.


"You have won the race, Frank, and I congratulate you," said Tony
Weston, as the Butterfly came alongside the Zephyr.

"Thank you, Tony; that is noble and generous," replied Frank.

"But it is the feeling in our club--isn't it, fellows?"

"Ay, ay, that it is!" shouted Little Paul. "Let us give them three
cheers, to show the folks on shore that there are no hard feelings."

The cheers were given lustily--at least, as lustily as the exhausted
condition of the Butterflies would permit. Each member of the defeated
club seemed to feel it his duty to banish even the semblance of envy;
and it was pleasant to observe how admirably they succeeded.

I do not wish my young readers to suppose that Tony's crew felt no
disappointment at the result; only that there were no hard feelings, no
petty jealousy. They had confidently expected to win the race, even up
to the last quarter of a mile of the course; and to have that hope
suddenly dashed down, to be beaten when they felt sure of being the
victors, was regarded as no trivial misfortune. But so thoroughly had
Tony schooled them in the necessity of keeping down any ill will, that
I am sure there was not a hard feeling in the club. Perhaps they
displayed more disinterestedness in their conduct after the race than
they really felt. If they did, it was no great harm, for their motives
were good, and they were all struggling to feel what their words and
their actions expressed.

"Zephyr, ahoy!" hailed Mr. Hyde, from the Sylph.

"Ay, ay, sir!"

"The prize is ready for the winner."

The oars were dropped into the water again, and the Zephyr pulled up to
the judges' boat.

"You have won the prize handsomely, Frank, and it affords me great
pleasure to present it to you," said Mr. Hyde, as he handed him a purse
containing the prize. "After the noble expressions of kindness on the
part of your rival, I am sure the award will awaken no feeling of
exultation in the minds of the Zephyrs, and none of envy in the
Butterflies. I congratulate you on your victory."

Frank bowed, and thanked the schoolmaster for his hopeful words; and the
Butterflies gave three cheers again as he took the prize. The Zephyr was
then brought alongside her late rival.

"Starboard oars--up!" said Frank.

"Larboard oars--up!" added Tony.

"What now, I wonder?" queried Fred Harper.

"Forward oarsman, step aboard the Butterfly," continued Frank.

"Forward oarsman, step aboard the Zephyr," said Tony.

Then the next member in each boat was passed over to the other, and so
on, till the whole starboard side of the Zephyr was manned by
Butterflies, and the larboard side of the Butterfly by Zephyrs.

"Ready--up!" said the coxswains, as they proceeded to get under way
again.

Thus, with the two clubs fraternally mingled, they slowly pulled towards
the nearest shore, while the band played its sweetest strains. The
spectators still lingered; and as the boats neared the land, they were
greeted with repeated cheers. Then, side by side, they pulled slowly
along the shore, within a few rods of the lake's bank, till they reach
the Butterflies' house, where they all landed.

And thus ended the famous boat race, over which the boys had been
thinking by day and dreaming by night for several weeks. The occasion
had passed; and if it was productive of any evil effects in the minds of
those who engaged in it, they were more than balanced by the excellent
discipline it afforded. They had learned to look without envy upon those
whom superior skill or good fortune had favored, and to feel kindly
towards those over whom they had won a victory. It was a lesson which
they would all need in the great world, where many a race is run, and
where the conqueror is not always gentle towards the conquered--where
defeat generates ill-will, envy, and hatred.

"A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another," said
Jesus--not only love one another when the sky is clear, and the waters
are smooth, but when the clouds threaten, and the stormy sea lashes with
its fury; not only when the arm of friendship and kindness holds us up,
but when all hearts seem cold, when all hands are closed, and all faces
frown upon us. It was this divine command that the circumstances of the
boat race tended to exemplify; and I am sure that both the conquerors
and the conquered were better prepared for the duty of life than if they
had had no such experience.

I do not mean to say that every boat race is a good thing, most
especially when it is made to be a gambling speculation by staking money
on the result--only that this one was, because those who conducted it
made it subservient to the moral progress of the boys.

"Well, Frank, I am glad you won the race," said Tony, with a smile which
testified to his sincerity. "Fortune favored us at the bridge, and gave
us the opportunity of winning the honors."

"And the profits too, Tony. Fifty dollars is nothing to us now," added
Fred, with a laugh.

"Thank you, Tony," replied Frank. "You are so noble that you almost make
me regret we won. But, my dear fellow, you have won a greater victory in
your own heart. I can envy you the possession of such noble feelings."

"Pooh, Frank!"

"I am sure I don't value the victory, because it has been won over you."

"We trained ourselves to feel right about the matter whichever way the
race went."

"Your heart is so near right that you don't need much training. But it
is time for us to return home."

"How about that picnic on the first of May?"

"My father has consented to it."

"So have our folks; we will have a glorious time of it. On Saturday
afternoon, if you say so we will visit Center Island, and set the May
pole."

"Agreed."

"But, Frank, school keeps--don't it?"

"Whew! does it?"

"It did last year; but the committee have talked of giving us the day. I
hope they will. Ask your father; he is one of them."

"I will. We can get the point settled before Saturday."

"I guess so."

"All aboard!"

The Zephyrs hastened on board, and in a few minutes were out of sight.
The Butterfly was hauled into her berth, everything was made "snug" and
tidy, and the boys hastened to their several homes. Of course it was not
easy for them to drive out of their minds the exciting events of the
day, and while all of them, except Tony, were sorry they had lost the
race, they had much to console them. They had won a victory over
themselves; and the consciousness of this triumph compensated for their
disappointment. Each of them, adopting the sentiment of their heroic
young leader, thought what a good fellow Frank Sedley was, and tried
to feel glad that he had won.

There was one of them, however, who did not think much about it after he
separated from his companions. Other considerations claimed his
attention; and before he reached his humble home, the race was banished
from his mind. He had a sick father, and the family had hard work to get
along. This was Little Paul.

His mother insisted upon sending him to school while there was anything
left to procure the necessaries of life; and as there was little for him
to do at home, he was allowed to join the club, because his parents knew
how much he loved the sports on the lake, and that nothing but good
influences would be exerted upon him in the association.

Paul Munroe was a good boy, in every sense of the word; and though he
had never been able to do much for his parents, they regarded him none
the less as one of their choicest blessings. As Tony expressed it,
Little Paul's heart was in the right place; and it was a big heart, full
of warm blood.

His father sat in an easy-chair by the kitchen stove as he entered, and
a smile played upon his pale blue lips as his eyes met the glance of his
loving son.

"Well, Paul, did you win the race?" he asked, in feeble tones.

"No, father; the Zephyrs beat. Frank Sedley rather outgeneraled Tony,
and his crew were more used to pulling than we. But Frank is a
first-rate fellow."

"Isn't Tony?"

"That he is! They are both first-rate fellows; I don't know where there
are two other such fellows in the world."

"You are right, Paul; they are good boys, and we shall be sorry to take
you away from them."

Little Paul looked inquiringly at his father. He had more than once
begged to be allowed to work in the Rippleton factories, that he might
earn something towards supporting the family; but his parents would
never consent to take him away from school and confine him in the noisy,
dusty rooms of the mills. His father's words suggested the idea that
they had consented to his request, and that he was to be allowed to work
for a living.

"'Squire Chase has been here to-day," added Mr. Munroe, sadly.

"Has he? What did he say?" asked Paul, a shade of anxiety gathering upon
his fine, manly face.

"We must leave our house, my son," replied the father, with a sigh.

"Won't he wait?"

"No."

"How did he act while he was here?"

"He was very harsh and unfeeling."

"The villain!" exclaimed Paul, with emphasis, as his check reddened with
indignation.

"He is a hard man, Paul; but reproaches are of no use. The note is due
on the first of May; I cannot pay it, so we must leave the house."

"Where are we to go, father?"

"Your grandfather, who has a large farm in Maine, has written for me to
come there; and your mother and I have decided to go."

Paul looked sad at the thought of leaving the pleasant scenes of his
early life, and bidding farewell to his cherished friends; but there was
no help for it, and he cheerfully yielded to the necessity. It was of no
use to think of moving the heart of 'Squire Chase--it was cold, hard,
and impenetrable. He was a close-fisted lawyer, who had made a handsome
fortune in the city by taking advantage of the distresses of others, and
it was not likely that he, having thus conquered all the nobler
impulses of his nature, would have any sympathy for Mr. Munroe in his
unfortunate condition.

The poor man had bought the little place he occupied a few years before
for seven hundred dollars--paying two hundred down, and giving his note,
secured by a mortgage, for the rest. The person of whom he had purchased
the place, whose lands joined it, had sold his estate to 'Squire Chase,
to whom, also, he had transferred the mortgage. The retired lawyer was
not content to remain quiet in his new home, and there repent of his
many sins, but immediately got up an immense land speculation, by which
he hoped to build a village on his grounds, and thus make another
fortune.

Mr. Munroe's little place was in his way. He wanted to run a road over
the spot where the house was located, and had proposed to buy it and the
land upon which it stood. He offered seven hundred and fifty dollars for
it; but it was now worth nine hundred, and Mr. Munroe refused the offer.
The 'Squire was angry at the refusal, and from that time used all the
means in his power to persecute his poor neighbor.

Then sickness paralyzed the arm of Mr. Munroe, and he could no longer
work. The money he had saved to pay the note when it should become due
was expended in supporting his family. With utter ruin staring him full
in the face, he sent for 'Squire Chase, and consented to his offer; but
the malicious wretch would not give even that now; and the land was so
situated as to be of but little value except to the owner of the Chase
estate. The 'Squire was a bad neighbor, and no one wanted to get near
him; so that Mr. Munroe could not sell to any other person.

The crafty lawyer knew that the poor man was fully in his power, and he
determined to punish him, even to his ruin. He hated him because he was
an honest, good man; because his life, even in his humbler sphere, was a
constant reproach to him. The note would be due on the first of May,
and he had determined to take possession in virtue of the mortgage.

Poor Paul shed many bitter tears upon his pillow that night; and from
the depths of his gentle heart he prayed that God would be very near to
his father and mother in the trials and sorrows that were before them.




CHAPTER X.

A UNANIMOUS VOTE.


On the following day Little Paul was missed at school, and some anxiety
was felt by his companions concerning him. It was feared that the
exertion of the race had proved too great for him, and that he was too
ill to come out. All the other boys appeared as usual, and none of them
seemed to be the worse for the violent exercise they had taken.

Before night, however, they learned that Little Paul was quite well, and
had been detained at home to assist his mother. This intelligence
removed their anxiety, and their fears lest boat racing should be deemed
an improper recreation, and dangerous to the health of the boys. Friday
and Saturday passed, and he did not appear at school; but it was said
that his mother was very busy, and nothing was thought of the
circumstance.

On Saturday afternoon the Butterfly club had assembled in their hall,
and were talking over the affairs of the association until the time
appointed for the excursion to Center Island. Little Paul had not come
yet, and the boys began to fear that they should be obliged to make the
excursion with only five oars on one side.

"What do you suppose is the reason?" asked Dick Chester.

"I have no idea; I hope nothing has happened, for Little Paul has not
been absent from school before this season," replied Tony.

"I hope not," added Henry Brown. "Suppose we send a committee to inquire
after him."

This was deemed an excellent suggestion, and Henry and Dick were
immediately appointed a committee of two, by the "chair," to attend to
the matter. They departed upon their mission, and after the boys had
wondered a while longer what kept Paul away, another topic was brought
up--a matter which was of the deepest interest to the young boatmen, and
which had claimed their attention during all their leisure moments for
several days.

I say their leisure moments; for the affairs of the club were not
permitted to interfere with any of the usual duties of the members. At
home and at school, it was required that everything should be done well
and done properly. As may be supposed, this was not an easy matter for
boys whose heads were full of boats and boating; and about once a week
the coxswains found it advisable to read a lecture on the necessity of
banishing play during work hours. "Whatsoever thy hands find to do, do
it with all thy might," was a text so often repeated that it had
virtually become one of the articles of the constitution.

The boys felt the necessity of following this precept. They realized
enough of the law of cause and effect to be aware that, if their home
and school duties were neglected, or slovenly done, boating would soon
obtain a bad reputation; so both parents and teacher found that the
clubs were a great help rather than a hindrance in the performance of
their several functions.

So strongly were the Zephyrs impressed with the necessity of not
permitting the club to interfere with home and school duties, that, at
the latter part of their first season, they had established a rule by
which any member who wilfully neglected his duties should be, for a
certain time, excluded from the club. And this rule was not a dead
letter. One Wednesday forenoon Charles Hardy had wasted his time in
school, and failed in his lessons. On his slate was found a drawing of a
club boat, manned by certain ill-looking caricatures, which explained
the cause of the defection. An excursion had been planned for that
afternoon, and when Charles presented himself at the boat-house, he was
politely informed that he could not go. In vain he pleaded; Fred Harper,
who was coxswain at the time, was very civil and very gentle, but he was
inflexible. And the culprit had the satisfaction of sitting upon a rock
on shore, and seeing what a fine time the fellows were having.

The effect was decidedly salutary, and another case of such discipline
did not again occur. The boys, zealous to keep their favorite sport in
good repute, adopted the regulation for the present year, in both clubs.
Without such precautions as these it was plain that boating would soon
become a nuisance, which neither parents nor teachers would tolerate.
Therefore the members of the clubs made it a point to keep their
"voyages," their plans and schemes, out of their minds at times when
their heads should be filled with, other matters. It was astonishing to
what an extent they succeeded; and boys would often be surprised to see
how well they can do, if they would only set about it earnestly and with
a determination to succeed.

The notable scheme which just now engrossed the attention of the
Butterflies was no less than the establishment of a "fleet of boats"
upon the lake. The dream of half a dozen boats, under command of
Commodore Frank Sedley, maneuvering on the water, performing beautiful
evolutions, and doing a hundred things which they could not then define,
was so pleasant, so fascinating, that they could not easily give it up.

There would be the commodore in his "flag boat," signalizing the fleet,
now bidding them pull in "close order," now ordering a boat out on
service, and now sending one to examine a bay or a harbor. And then, if
they could only get leave to explore Rippleton River, how the commander
of the squadron would send out a small craft to sound ahead of them, and
to buoy off the rocks and shoals, and how the people on the banks of the
stream would stare when they saw them moving in sections against the
sluggish current! Ah, a fleet of boats was such a brilliant ideal, that
I will venture to say more than one of the boys lay awake nights to
think about it.

I will not attempt to tell my young friends all the queer fancies
concerning the squadron in which they indulged. They were essentially
air castles, very beautiful structures, it is true, but as yet they
rested only on the clouds. But the means of realizing this magnificent
ideal was within their grasp. They had the money to buy the boats, and
the only question was, whether George Weston, the "director" of the
club, would permit the purchase.

"What have you done about the fleet, Tony?" asked Joseph Hooper.

"I have spoken to my brother about it," replied Tony, with a smile.

"What did he say?"

"He had no objection."

"Hurrah! We shall have the fleet then! And Tony, we shall go in for
having you commodore part of the time."

"That we will!" echoed half a dozen voices.

"You would make as good a commodore as Frank," added Joseph.

"I guess not," answered Tony, modestly. "Didn't you see how slick Frank
beat us in the race? If I had followed his tactics, we might have stood
some chance, at least."

"Some chance! Didn't we keep ahead of him till we had got almost home?"

"Yes; but that was a part of Frank's tactics. He let us get tired out,
and then beat us. But we haven't got the fleet yet, fellows, and we are
a pack of fools to count the chickens before they are hatched."

"You said George has no objections," replied Joseph, glancing anxiously
at Tony.

"He has not, but he wants to consult Captain Sedley before he consents."

The boys looked a little disconcerted at this intelligence, and a
momentary silence ensued.

"Do you think he will object, Tony?" asked one.

"I am pretty sure he will not."

"Have you said anything to Frank about it?"

"Yes; and he says the Zephyrs will put their money with ours, if we get
the fleet."

"Hurrah! I know his father will consent!"

"I have even got a hint from him that he should not object," added Tony,
very quietly.

"That is glorious! We shall certainly have the fleet then!" shouted
Joseph Hooper.

"I am pretty sure there will be no trouble about it. Almost everybody is
willing to admit now that the clubs are a good thing; that they keep the
fellows out of mischief, and stimulate them to do their duty at home and
at school. So much for our strict regulations. If we can get more boats,
and form more clubs, everybody concerned will be the better for it."

"That's the idea."

"We can get four small boats for our money--can't we?" asked one of the
boys.

"Frank thought we had better get different sized boats," replied Tony.

"For different kinds of service," added Joseph, demurely.

"Say, one eight-oar boat, one six-oar, and two four-oar," said Tony.

"That would be first rate! Then we could take in twenty-two fellows."

"Twenty-three; the commodore would not be the coxswain of any boat, but
command the whole."

The boys grew so nervous and excited during this fine discussion, that
they could hardly keep their seats. In imagination the fleet was already
afloat, and the broad pennant of Commodore Sedley was flying on board
the Zephyr.

"How long before we can get the boats, Tony?" asked a little fellow,
his eyes snapping with delight at the glorious anticipation.

"Perhaps they can be bought ready made. We need not wait for new ones.
In a few weeks, at least before vacation---- Hallo, Paul! I am glad you
have come."

Little Paul looked very sad as he entered Butterfly Hall. With a faint
smile he received the greetings of his friends.

"All aboard!" shouted Tony, as he rose front his chair. "You haven't got
your uniform on, Paul."

"I can't go with you, Tony," replied Little Paul, in a gloomy tone.

"Not go with us! Why not? What is the matter?"

"I must leave the club too," he added, in a husky voice.

"Leave the club!"

"We are going to move Down East."

"That's too bad!"

All the boys gathered round Little Paul, and there was a troubled look
upon their countenances.

"We cannot stay here any longer," continued the poor boy, as he dashed a
tear from his eye.

It was evident to all that some misfortune had overtaken the Munroe
family, and Little Paul's sorrows excited the deepest interest and
sympathy.

Without any solicitation on the part of his companions, the little
fellow told them the story of his father's trials, and the reason why he
was compelled to leave Rippleton.

"When is the money due, Paul?" asked Tony.

"On the first of May. My father has no money end he cannot pay the
note."

"How much did you say it was?"

"Five hundred dollars. It is a great sum for us."

"My father says 'Squire Chase is not any better than he ought to be,"
added Dick Chester, who had returned with Little Paul.

"He is a very hard man," replied Paul. "But I must go home again. I
shall see you before I leave town;" and the poor fellow turned away to
hide his tears.

"Poor Little Paul!" said Tony, when he had gone.

"How I pity him!" added Henry Brown.

"So do I," reiterated Joseph Hooper.

"How much do you pity him, fellows?" asked Tony, seating himself in his
arm-chair.

"So much that we would help him if we could," answered Henry.

"You can help him."

A deep silence ensued.

"Have you the nerve to make a great sacrifice, Butterflies?" exclaimed
Tony with energy.

"We have."

"I move you, Mr. Chairman, that our four hundred dollars be applied to
the relief of Little Paul's father," said Henry Brown, catching Tony's
idea.

"Second the motion," added Dick Chester, promptly.

"Bravo!" shouted Tony, slapping the table with his fist. "That's what I
call noble! But before we do it, just think what a fine thing the fleet
would be. It is a great sacrifice."

"Question!" called Joseph Hooper.

"Think well, fellows," said Tony. "Any remarks upon the subject will be
in order. It is a great question, and ought not to be hastily decided."

"Question!" shouted the whole club, wildly.

"Those in favor of applying the four hundred dollars to the relief of
Mr. Munroe will signify it," said Tony.

"All up!"

"It is a unanimous vote!"




CHAPTER XI.

BETTER TO GIVE THAN RECEIVE.


"All aboard!" shouted Tony, as soon as he had declared the vote: and the
boys hurried into the boat to be in readiness to join the Zephyr, which
was already upon the lake.

Tony's spirits were unusually buoyant. The sympathy and co-operation of
the club in regard to Little Paul's father was in the highest degree
grateful to his feelings. Perhaps his companions did not so cheerfully
resign the project of the fleet; perhaps they had acted upon the impulse
of the moment; but they were all to experience the benefit of doing a
good deed, and sacrificing their own gratification for the happiness of
others. Tony felt better for the sacrifice they had made, and probably
the rest of them shared his feelings. He was satisfied that they did not
fully realize what they had done, and with the determination to take a
fit opportunity to talk over the matter with them, he took his place in
the boat.

The Zephyrs were laying on their oars, waiting for the Butterfly when
she backed out of the boat house.

"You are late, Tony, which is rather odd for you," said Frank.

"We had a little business to attend to, which detained us," replied
Tony; "and while we are here we may as well tell you about it. We have
voted our money away."

"For the fleet?"

"No; we have given that up."

"Indeed! Given it up?" exclaimed Frank, not a little surprised at this
