which was directly under the guns of the Union battery.

"Stand by the fore halliards, Hapgood," said Tom, as the boat came about
again. "Let go!"

The foresail came down, and Tom sprang upon the pier, as the schooner came
up under its lee. In a moment the boat was made fast. By this time the
pickets appeared.

"Who comes there?" demanded the soldier.

"Friends!" replied Tom.

"Advance, friend, and give the countersign."

"Little Mac," whispered the soldier boy in the ear of the sentinel.

"Who are you?"

"Co. K." answered Tom.

"What's the row? The long roll was beat just now, and the whole regiment
is in line. What was that firing?"

"We have captured this boat, and five prisoners, one of them wounded, if
not dead."

"Bully for you," replied the picket.

They were soon joined by a squad of men, and Fred Pemberton and the
wounded rebel were conveyed to the hospital, while the four prisoners were
conducted to a secure place. Hapgood and Tom then hastened to the parade,
where the regiment was drawn up, and reported the events which had just
transpired. It was unanimously voted by officers and privates that the
picket guard had done "a big thing," and they were warmly and generously
commended for their skill and bravery.

Hapgood and Tom requested permission to go to the hospital and see their
companion. They found that the surgeon had already dressed his wound.

"Will he die?" asked Tom, full of solicitude for his friend.

"Die! no; it's a mere scratch. The ball ploughed into his cheek a little
way," replied the surgeon. "It isn't a bad wound. He was more scared than
hurt."

"I am glad it is no worse," said Captain Benson, who, with fatherly
solicitude for his men, had come to the hospital as soon as the company
was dismissed. "But what ails you, Tom? You look pale."

"Nothing, captain."

"Are you sure?"

"I don't think I am badly hurt. I believe one of those pistol balls grazed
my side; but I hardly felt it."

"Let me see," said the surgeon.

The doctor opened Tom's coat, and his gray shirt was found to be saturated
with blood.

"That's a worse wound than Pemberton's. Didn't you know it, Tom?"

"Well, of course I knew it; but I didn't think it was any thing," replied
Tom, apologetically. "I knew it wouldn't do to drop down, or we should all
be in Dixie in half an hour."

"You are my man for the present," said the doctor, as he proceeded to a
further examination of the wound.

Tom was hit in the side by one of the pistol bullets. As I have not the
surgeon's report of the case, I cannot give a minute description of it;
but he comforted Hapgood and the captain with the assurance that, though
severe, it was not a dangerous wound.

"Tom Somers, there's a sergeant's warrant in Company K for one of you
three men," said Captain Benson, when the patient was comfortably settled
upon his camp bed. "The colonel told me to give him the name of the most
deserving man in my company."

"Give it to Tom," said Hapgood, promptly. "He led off in this matter, and
ef't hadn't been for him, we should all have been on t'other side of the
river, and p'raps on t'other side of Jordan, afore this time. And then, to
think that the poor fellow stood by, and handled the boat like a
commodore, when the life-blood was runnin' out of him all the time! It
belongs to Tom."

"Give it to Tom," added Fred, who lay near the patient.

"No, Captain Benson," interposed Tom, faintly. "Hapgood is an old soldier,
and deserves it more than I do. Give it to him, and I shall be better
satisfied than if you give it to me."

"Tom Somers!" exclaimed old Hapgood, a flood of tears sliding down his
furrowed cheeks, "I won't stand nothin' of the sort! I'd jump into the
river and drownd myself before I'd take it, after what you've done."

"You are both worthy of it," added Captain Benson.

"Please give it to Hapgood," pleaded Tom. "He first proposed going out
after the little schooner."

"Give it to Tom, cap'n. It'll help heal his wound," said Hapgood.

"No; it would do me more good to have you receive it," protested Tom.

"Well, here, I can't have this battle fought in the hospital," interposed
the surgeon. "They are good friends, captain, and whichever one you give
it to, the other will be suited. You had better settle the case at
head-quarters."

"If you please, Captain Benson, I would like to have Hapgood stay with me
to-night, if he can be spared."

The veteran was promptly detailed for hospital duty, and the captain
returned to his quarters to decide the momentous question in regard to the
sergeant's warrant.




CHAPTER XXVI.

TOM IS SENTIMENTAL.


The little schooner which the picket guard had captured was loaded with
valuable supplies for the rebels, which of course were confiscated without
ceremony. The mail bag which was on board contained a great many letters
from traitors in Baltimore, some of whom were exposed by the capture of
their treasonable correspondence.

Tom's wound proved to be more serious than even the surgeon had
anticipated; but the best care which it was possible to give in a military
hospital was bestowed upon him. Old Hapgood, in recognition of his
services on that eventful night, was permitted to be near the patient as
much as the interests of the service would permit; and the old man was
happy when seated by the rude couch of the soldier boy, ministering to his
necessities, or cheering him with bright hopes of the future. A strong
friendship had grown up between them, for Tom's kind heart and brave
conduct produced a deep impression upon the old man.

"Here, Tom," said Captain Benson, as he approached the sufferer, a few
days after he entered the hospital, and laid a paper upon the bed. "Here's
a prescription which the colonel says you must take."

"What is it?" asked Tom, with a faint smile.

"A sergeant's warrant."

"Glory, glory, hallelujah, as we go marching on!" exclaimed old Hapgood,
jumping up like a youth of sixteen, and swinging his cap above his head.

"Shut up, there!" shouted the hospital steward. "Don't you know any better
than to make such a racket in this place?"

"I beg pardon, Jameson. I forgot where I was," apologized the veteran.
"The news was so good I couldn't help it. Our Tom is a sergeant now!"

"Not yet, Hapgood," replied Tom, feebly. "I can't accept it, Captain
Benson; it belongs to Hapgood, sir, and I shall feel a great deal better
if you put his name in place of mine."

"Don't do it, cap'n!" interposed the old man, vehemently. "Tom shall be a
brigadier general if the war lasts one year more. I should feel like a
whipped kitten if that warrant was altered."

"The matter has been fully and fairly considered at head-quarters, and
there is no such thing as altering the decision now; so, Tom, you can put
the stripes on your arm just as soon as you please."

Hapgood insisted, the surgeon insisted, and the captain insisted; and Tom
was too sick to hold way with them in an argument, and his name was placed
upon the roster of the company as a sergeant. He was proud of the
distinction which had been conferred upon him, though he thought Hapgood,
as an older and abler soldier, was better entitled to the honor than
himself.

It was six weeks before Tom was able to enter upon the actual enjoyment of
the well-merited promotion which he had won by his gallantry; but when he
appeared before the company with the chevron of the sergeant upon his arm,
he was lustily cheered by his comrades, and it was evident that the
appointment was a very popular one. Not even the grumblers, of whom there
is a full quota in every regiment, deemed it prudent to growl at the
decision of the officers. If any one ventured to suggest that he was too
young to be placed over older and stronger men, his friends replied, that
men in the army were measured by bravery and skill, not by years.

If my young readers wish to know why Tom's appointment was so well
received by his companions in arms, I can only reply, that he had not only
been brave and cheerful in the midst of peril and hardship, but he was
kind and obliging to his comrades. He had always been willing to help
those that needed help, to sympathize with those in trouble, and generally
to do all he could to render those around him happy.

Above all these considerations, Tom was a young man of high principle. He
had obeyed his mother's parting injunction, often repeated in the letters
which came to him from home, and had faithfully "read his Testament."
Without being a hypocrite or a canting saint, Tom carried about with him
the true elements of Christian character.

Tom had fought a greater battle than that in which he had been engaged at
Bull Run a hundred times, in resisting the temptations which beset him
from within and without. True to God and true to himself, he had won the
victory. Though his lot was cast in the midst of men who swore, gambled,
and drank liquor, he had shunned these vices, and loved the sinner while
he hated the sin. Such a person could not fail to win the respect of his
companions. Though he had been jeered at and insulted for being sober,
honest, and pious, he had fought down and lived down all these vilifiers,
and won their esteem.

It must be acknowledged that Tom's piety was of the robust type. He would
not allow any man to insult him; and after the chastisement he had given
Ben Lethbridge, not even those who were strong enough to whip him were
disposed to trespass upon his rights and dignity. Perhaps Tom's creed
needed a little revising; but he lived under martial law, which does not
take cognizance of insults and revilings. He was willing to be smitten on
the one cheek, and on the other also, for the good of his country, or even
his friends, but not to be wantonly insulted.

The influence of Tom's principles was not confined to himself, for "a
little leaven leaveneth the whole lump." This was particularly true of
Hapgood, who, more through Tom's preaching and practice than from any
strength in his own character, had steadily maintained his purpose to
abstain from intoxicating drinks, though occasional opportunities were
presented for the indulgence of his darling vice. Tom and he read the
Testament and other good books which were sent to the regiment, and both
profited by them.

When the soldier boy was discharged from the hospital, the surgeon gave
him a pair of woolen socks, from a case of them which had been sent by the
friends of the soldier in Boston and its vicinity. He was very much in
need of them, and from the depths of his heart he blessed the ladies who
had done this good work. He unrolled the socks, and proceeded to pull one
of them on. It was as good a fit as though his mother had knit it on
purpose for him.

"God bless the lady that knit these socks!" exclaimed Tom, as he began to
draw on the other.

"Amen!" replied Hapgood, who was watching the operation in full sympathy
with his protege.

"Eh! what's this?" added Tom, for his foot had met with an obstruction in
its passage down the leg.

He pulled off the sock, and thrusting his hand into it, took therefrom a
letter enclosed in an envelope.

"See that, uncle?" said he, exhibiting the prize.

"What is it, Tom? Open it quick," replied Hapgood.

The soldier boy broke the envelope, and took from it a note enclosing a
photograph. Tom looked at the picture with a feeling of pleasure, which
would have caused the original of the miniature, the author of the note,
and the author of the socks, to blush up to her eyes if she had beheld the
expression of admiration which glowed upon the handsome, manly face of the
young sergeant.

"By all that's lovely, isn't she a beauty!" exclaimed Tom, rapturously, as
he glanced from the picture to Hapgood, who was looking over his shoulder.

"She's hahnsome, and no mistake," replied the veteran, with a grim smile.

"Well, she is!" added Tom, whose eyes were riveted to the photograph.

"Well, why don't you read the letter, Tom?" demanded the old soldier,
after the young man had gazed with blushing cheek upon the sweet face of
the author of his socks for full five minutes.

"I guess I will," said Tom; but he did not; for the picture seemed to be
glory and beauty enough to satisfy him for the present.

"Read the letter, Tom!" shouted the veteran, after he had waited as long
as the nature of the case seemed to require.

The soldier boy carefully placed the photograph in the envelope, and
unfolded the letter. It was written in a beautiful hand, which looked as
soft and delicate as the fair fingers which had penned the lines. He
glanced at it as a whole, admired the penmanship, and the fairy-like
symmetry that make up the tout-ensemble of the page, and was about to
dissolve into another rhapsody, when Hapgood, who was not half so
sentimental as the sergeant, became impatient to know the contents of the
missive. Tom read it aloud to the stoical veteran; and though we cannot
clothe its sweet words in the fairy chirography which transported our
hero, and made the letter a dream of bliss to him, we shall venture to
present it to our curious readers, stiffened and hardened into the dull,
cold forms of the printer's art.

    No.----, RUTLAND STREET, BOSTON, Nov. 5, 1861.

    MY DEAR SOLDIER:--

    This is the first pair of socks I ever knit; and I send them to
    you with my blessing upon the brave defenders of my country. I
    hope they will keep your feet warm, and thus keep your heart warm
    towards God and our blessed land.

    Grandma says I am a silly girl, and I suppose I am; but if you
    feel half as much interest in me as I do in the person who will
    wear the first pair of socks I ever knit, you will wish to know
    how I look; therefore I send you my photograph.

    I very much desire to know whether my work has done any good;
    whether my socks are ever worn in a battle; and most of all, I
    desire to know how the noble fellow looks that wears them.
    Therefore I beg you to answer my letter, and also to send me your
    photograph, if you can conveniently.

    Now, my dear soldier, be brave and true, and, above all, do not
    run away from the rebels with my socks on your feet. You may
    retreat when your officers order you to retire; but if you are a
    coward, and find yourself compelled to run away, please pull them
    off before you do so, for I should die with mortification if I
    thought I had knit a pair of socks for a Union soldier to run away
    in.

    Truly yours, for our flag and our country.

    LILIAN ASHFORD.

"Well, if that gal ain't a trump, then there ain't no snakes in Virginny!"
exclaimed Hapgood. "She's got the true grit, and no mistake."

"That's so," replied the recipient of the gift, thoughtfully, as he bent
down, and began to pull off the sock which encased his left foot.

"What are you doing?" demanded Hapgood, surprised at this new movement of
his companion.

"I can't wear these socks yet, uncle," replied he.

"Why not?"

Don't she say she wants them worn in a battle?"

"Tom, you are a little fool!" added the veteran, petulantly. "Are you
going with cold feet just to please a silly gal, whose head is as full of
moonshine as an egg is of meat. Put on the socks, and keep your feet warm.
If you don't, I'll write to her, and tell what a fool you are."

Tom did put them on, but he could not help feeling that uncle Hapgood, as
he was familiarly called in the camp, did not understand and appreciate
his sentiments. The socks seemed to be too precious to be worn in the
vulgar mud of Maryland. To him there was something ethereal about them,
and it looked a little like profanation to put any thing emanating from
the fairy fingers of the original of that photograph, and the author of
that letter, upon his feet.

"Now you act like a sensible fellow, as you are, Tom," said Hapgood, as
the sergeant put on his army brogans.

"Well, uncle, one thing is certain: I never will run away from the rebels
with these socks on," added Tom, with a rich glow of enthusiasm.

"If Gen'l McClennon don't stir his stumps pretty soon, you'll wear 'em out
afore you git a chance to run away."

Tom, almost for the first time since he had been in the army, wanted to be
alone. With those socks on, it seemed just as though he was walking the
streets of the New Jerusalem, with heaven and stacks of silver-fringed and
golden-tinged clouds beneath his feet, buried up to the eyes in floods of
liquid moonshine.

If "grandma" really thought that Lilian Ashford was a silly girl, and if
Lilian really supposed so herself, it must be added, in justification of
her conduct, that she had given the soldier boy a new incentive to do his
duty nobly, and kindled in his soul a holy aspiration to serve God and his
country with renewed zeal and fidelity.




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE CONFEDERATE DESERTER.


While Tom was in the hospital, he received a letter from his sister,
informing him that his brother John had actually entered the navy, and
with his mother's consent. The news from home was so favorable, that the
soldier boy was pleased to hear that Jack had realized his darling wish,
and that he was now in his element.

Intelligence from home, accompanied with letters, papers, books, comforts,
and luxuries of various kinds, reached him every two or three weeks; and
when the news went back that Tom had been made a sergeant for gallant
conduct, there was a great sensation in Pinchbrook. The letters which
reached him after the receipt of this gratifying announcement contained
all the gossip of the place in regard to the important event. Of course,
Tom was delighted by these letters, and was more than ever determined to
be diligent and faithful in the discharge of his duties, and never to
disgrace the name he bore. He was confident his friends would never have
occasion to blush for his conduct--including the original of the
photograph, the author of the letter and of the socks.

Tom recovered from the effects of his wound, as we have before intimated,
and took his place in the regimental line as a sergeant. January and
February passed away without any very stirring events; but in the month of
March came indications of activity. The rebels began to draw in their
lines, by abandoning various points, till the nation was startled by the
evacuation of their strongly fortified position at Manassas, and the forts
in front of Budd's Ferry were suddenly left for the occupation of the
Federal troops.

Hooker's men crossed the Potomac, and Tom was once more on the sacred soil
of Virginia. Skirmishers were sent out in various directions, and though a
deserted camp, which had been hastily abandoned, was found, there were no
rebels to be seen. The Union boys were not disposed to leave their
investigations at this interesting point, and they pursued their way still
farther into the country. Somehow or other, Tom and his party did not
receive the order to return, and the enterprising young hero continued his
march in search of further adventures. It was altogether too tame for him
and the congenial spirits in his section to retire without seeing a live
rebel or two; and I am not sure, if their desire had not been gratified,
that they would not have penetrated to Fredericksburg, and captured that
citadel of rebellion in advance to General Augur, who visited the place in
April.

As it was, they stumbled upon the pickets of a rebel force, and as soon as
their uniform was identified they had the honor of being fired upon,
though none of them had the honor of being killed in the midst of their
virtual disobedience of orders. But their appearance created a panic among
the Confederates, who had no means of knowing that they were not the
pioneers of a whole division of Union troops, for General McClellan had
removed the spell which bound the loyal army to its camps, and corps,
divisions, and brigades were pushing forward into the dominion of the
traitors.

The alarm was given, and Tom saw that he was rushing into a bad scrape;
and as prudence is as much a requisite of the good soldier as bravery, he
ordered his men to fall back. Rebels are very much like ill-natured curs,
ever ready to pursue a retreating foe, or run away from an advancing one.
The Confederates chased them, and as the legs of the former seemed to be
in remarkably good condition, the sergeant came to the conclusion that it
would not be safe to run too fast.

"Halt!" shouted he; and the men promptly obeyed the order.

They discharged their muskets, and then made a demonstration towards the
enemy, who, obeying their instinct, ran away as fast as their legs would
carry them. Taking advantage of this movement on their part, Tom again
ordered a retreat.

"They are after us again," said Hapgood. "I hope there ain't no cavalry
within hearing. If there is, we may take a journey to Richmond."

"They have stopped to load their guns," replied Tom. "We will use our legs
now."

"See that, Tom!" said Hapgood, suddenly.

"What?"

"There's one of them rushing towards us all alone."

"He has thrown up his gun. The others are yelling to him to come back.
What does that mean?"

"He is a deserter; he wants to get away from them. There he comes."

"Yes, and there comes the rest of them--the whole rebel army--more than a
million of them," said Fred Pemberton. "It's time for us to be going."

"See! They are firing at him. Forward!" added Tom, leading the way.

The party rushed forward, for a short distance; but the dozen rebels had
been reënforced, and it was madness to rush into the very teeth of danger.
Tom ordered his men to halt and fire at will. The deserter, probably
finding that he was between two fires, turned aside from the direct course
he was pursuing, and sought shelter in the woods. The sergeant then
directed his men to retire, for whether the retreat of the runaway rebel
was covered or not, it was no longer safe to remain.

Fortunately the Confederates were more in doubt than the Unionists; and
perhaps expecting to fall upon a larger body of the latter, they abandoned
the pursuit, and returned to their posts. Nothing was seen of the deserter
for some time, and Tom concluded that he had lost his way in the woods, or
had missed the direction taken by the Federal scouts.

"He was a plucky fellow, any how," said one of the men, "to attempt to run
away in the very face of his companions."

"Well, he timed it well, for he started just when their guns were all
empty," added another.

"I'm not sorry he missed us," continued Hapgood. "I don't like a desarter,
no how. It goes right agin my grain."

"But he was running from the wrong to the right side," replied Tom.

"I don't keer if he was. Them colors on t'other side were his'n. He chose
'em for himself, and it's mean to run away from 'em. If a man's go'n to be
a rebel, let him be one, and stick to it."

"You don't know any thing about it, uncle. Thousands of men have been
forced into the rebel army, and I don't blame them for getting out of it
the best way they can. I should do so."

"That may be. Tom; that may be," added the veteran, taking off his cap and
rubbing his bald head, as though a new idea had penetrated it. "I didn't
think of that."

"He's a brave man, whoever he is, and whatever he is."

"He must want to get away from 'em pretty bad, or he wouldn't have run
that risk. I shouldn't wonder if they hit him."

"Perhaps he is wounded, and gone into the woods there to die," suggested
Tom.

"Halloo!" shouted some one in the rear of them.

"There's your man," said Hapgood.

"Halloo!" cried the same voice.

"Halloo, yourself!" shouted Hapgood in reply to the hail.

The party halted, and after waiting a few moments, the rebel deserter came
in sight. He was apparently a man of fifty; and no mendicant of St. Giles,
who followed begging as a profession, could have given himself a more
wretched and squalid appearance, if he had devoted a lifetime to the study
of making himself look miserable. He wore a long black and gray beard,
uncut and unkempt, and snarled, tangled, and knotted into the most
fantastic forms. His gray uniform, plentifully bedaubed with Virginia mud,
was torn in a hundred places, and hung in tatters upon his emaciated
frame. On his head was an old felt hat, in a terribly dilapidated
condition. He wore one boot and one shoe, which he had probably taken from
the common sewer of Richmond, or some other southern city; they were
ripped to such an extent that the "uppers" went flipperty-flap as he
walked, and had the general appearance of the open mouth of the mythic
dragon, with five bare toes in each to represent teeth.

As he approached, the unthinking soldiers of the party indulged in screams
of laughter at the uncouth appearance of the whilom rebel; and certainly
the character in tableau or farce need not have spoken, to convulse any
audience that ever assembled in Christendom. Rip Van Winkle, with the
devastations and dilapidations of five-and-twenty years hanging about him,
did not present a more forlorn appearance than did this representative of
the Confederate army.

"What are you laughing at?" demanded the deserter, not at all delighted
with this reception.

"I say, old fellow, how long since you escaped from the rag-bag?" jeered
one of the men.

"What's the price of boots in Richmond now?" asked another.

"Who's your barber?"

"Silence, men!" interposed Tom, sternly, for he could not permit his boys
to make fun of the wretchedness of any human being.

"We'll sell you out for paper stock," said Ben Lethbridge, who had just
returned from three months' service in the Rip-Raps for desertion.

"Shut up, Ben!" added Tom.

"Dry up, all of you!" said Corporal Snyder.

"Who and what are you?" asked Tom, of the deserter.

"I'm a Union man!" replied the stranger with emphasis; "and I didn't
expect to be treated in this way after all I've suffered."

"They thought you were a rebel. You wear the colors of the rebel army,"
answered the sergeant, willing to explain the rudeness of his men.

"Well, I suppose I do look rather the worse for the wear," added the
grayback, glancing down at the tattered uniform he wore. "I joined the
rebel army, after I had tried every way in the world to get out of this
infernal country; but I never fired a gun at a Union man. Seems to me,
sergeant, I've seen you before somewhere. What's your name? Where did you
come from?"

"Pinchbrook, Massachusetts; and most of us hail from the same place."

"Creation!" exclaimed the deserter. "You don't say so!"

"Your voice sounds familiar to me," added Tom; and for some reason his
chest was heaving violently beneath his suddenly accelerated respiration.

As he spoke, he walked towards the dilapidated rebel, who had not ventured
to come within twenty feet of the party.

"Did you say Pinchbrook?" demanded the stranger, who began to display a
great deal of emotion.

"Pinchbrook, sir," added Tom; and so intensely was he excited, that the
words were gasped from his lips.

"What's your name?"

"Thomas Somers," replied the sergeant.

"Tom!" screamed the deserter, rushing forward.

"Father!" cried Tom, as he grasped the hand of the phantom Confederate.

The soldiers of the party were transfixed with astonishment at this
unexpected scene, and they stood like statues gazing at the meeting of
father and son, till the final development of their relationship, when the
muscles of their faces relaxed, and the expression of wonder gave place to
joyous sympathy.

"Captain Somers, of Pinchbrook!" shouted old Hapgood; and the men joined
with him in a roar of intense satisfaction, that made the woods ring.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

ON THE PENINSULA.


The scene between Captain Somers and his son was very affecting and very
exciting; and if the soldiers had all been uncles and first cousins of the
parties, they could not have manifested more interest on the joyous
occasion. The father wept, and the son wept; for each, amid the terrible
experience of these troublous times, had hardly expected to meet the
other.

For several minutes they held each other by the hand, laughing and weeping
alternately, and neither being able to express the intense emotions which
agitated him. The men shouted and laughed in full sympathy with the
reunited sire and son.

"I'm glad to see you, Tom," said Captain Somers, as he wiped away the
tears that were sliding down upon his grizzly beard. "I haven't cried
before for thirty years; I'm ashamed of it, Tom, but I can't help it."

"I didn't expect to find you here, father, and clothed in the rebel
uniform; but I'm glad to see you in any uniform," replied the soldier boy.

"So you're in the army, Tom," continued the father, gazing with
satisfaction at the neat appearance of the sergeant.

"Yes, sir; I enlisted within a fortnight after we heard that the traitors
had bombarded Fort Sumter."

"I see you've got three stripes on your arm."

"Yes, Cap'n Somers," said Hapgood; "Tom was made a sergeant for gallant
conduct on the river in December; and he deserved his promotion too."

"I'm glad to see you with that uniform on your back, Tom; and glad to hear
that you have behaved well."

"I was in the battle of Bull Run, father, and was taken prisoner, but I
got away."

"Well, Tom, we'll hear about that bimeby," said the old man, stopping and
looking nervously into the face of his son. "I want to ask a great many
questions, Tom, but I hardly dare to do it. You know I haven't heard a
word from home since I left, and it's almost a year now."

"You needn't be afraid, father; the folks are all well. I have got a heap
of letters at the camp, and you shall read them all as soon as we get
there."

"Is your mother well, Tom?"

"First rate."

"And John?"

"Yes, sir; but he's gone into the navy. He was bound to be in the fight
any how."

"John's a chip of the old block. He wanted to snuff the salt water afore
he was a week old. John's a good sailor, and he ought to have a good lay
wherever he goes," added the father.

Captain Somers and Tom sat upon the ground for half an hour, until the
fugitive from the rebel army was in some degree rested after the hard run
he had had through the woods. The soldiers gathered around them, as much
interested as though they had been members of the Somers family. Tom's
father had a multitude of questions to ask about Pinchbrook and its
people, all of which were answered to his satisfaction.

The sergeant thought it was time for the party to move on, and his father
declared that he was able to walk any distance which would bring him
nearer to the home of his wife and children. The order was given, and the
little band resumed its march.

"How have you been all this time, father?" asked Tom, as he walked along
by the side of Captain Somers.

"I've been pretty fairly most of the time. I'm tough and hardy, or I
should have been dead afore this time. We've been half starved and half
frozen in the camp; but I managed to live through it, hoping and expecting
to get away from those rascally rebels."

"Where have you been all the time?" asked Tom. "Have you been in the rebel
army long?"
