would find his gold in time. On the present occasion he had encouraging
news, and related the particulars of the events which had occurred on
board of the yacht.

"I knowed it!" exclaimed Mr. Fairfield, when he had listened to Dock's
story. "I was sartain that boy took the money."

"I suppose it's a clear case enough now," added Dock. "Finding the bag
with your name on it settles the matter."

"But did you find all the money, Cap'n Vincent?" asked the old man,
nervously.

"No; only about fifty dollars of it."

"Didn't find no more?" added Mr. Fairfield, with a blank stare.

"No, but we shall find the rest of it. Mr. Watson's going to make an
awful fuss about it."

"About what?"

"About taking Levi up. I suppose they'll want you to swear to the bag."

"But I can't go out," said the old man with a grunt, when reminded of
the pains in his frame.

"Then the squire must come here, as he did when you swore before. I'll
go up, and see about it. But, Squire Fairfield, I shan't be able to do
much more for you, for I expect my vessel round here soon, and I shall
be busy fixing her up for the voyage to Australia."

"I hope I shall find the money afore you go," added the old man, with a
gloomy look.

"I hope so too, and I expect you will," replied Dock, as he left the
room to attend the examination.

In the mean time Levi had been conveyed to the office of Squire
Saunders, who, deeming the evidence of Mr. Fairfield absolutely
necessary, had decided to hold his court at the house of the miser; and
the old man was soon astonished by the appearance of the whole crowd of
officers, counsel, justice, and witnesses in his chamber.

Mr. Fairfield was examined first. He testified, with many a sigh and
groan, that he had deposited the four bags, each containing one
thousand dollars in gold, in the hole in the wall, which was pointed
out to the justice. He had marked his name on each bag, and he
identified that produced by Constable Cooke as one of the four. He was
asked if the ten half eagles were his property. He was disposed to
swear to them also; he had no doubt they were part of the money he had
lost; but when asked to state by what marks he recognized them, he was
unable to show wherein they differed from other coins of the same
value.

The officer then swore that he found the bag in a locker in the
state-room, with the money in it. Squire Cleaves, who had already been
fully instructed in the case by Mr. Watson, began to put disagreeable
questions to him, which appeared to make him nervous.

"You went off to the yacht with a search-warrant--did you, Mr. Cooke?"
asked the lawyer.

"I did, sir."

"Did you expect to find the money or the bag on board?"

"I did."

"Had any one told you the bag was there?"

"Well, I can't say any one told me it was there," replied Cooke, with
some embarrassment.

"You can't?"

"No, sir; I can't."

"What induced you to look for the money on board of the yacht?"

"I was pretty well satisfied that Levi stole that money, and being he
was goin' off on a cruise, I thought likely he would put some on't on
board to use. That's what made me expect to find it there," added
Constable Cooke, with a more satisfied expression on his face, for the
explanation he had given appeared to meet the exigencies of the case.

"Did you reason this out yourself, or did some one suggest the idea to
you?"

"Well, some one spoke to me about it, but----"

"Precisely so! Who spoke to you about it?"

"No one said much to me, and I----"

"But who said anything?" interposed the squire.

"Well, Captain Vincent said I might find the bag--he didn't say I
should find it."




CHAPTER X.

MR. C. AUGUSTUS EBÉNIER.


Squire Cleaves had brought out from the unwilling witness the fact that
he wanted, and Dock Vincent was put upon the stand. The learned counsel
adroitly conveyed the information that the witness had been convicted
of crime, and had served a term in the state prison--which, though it
did not exclude him from giving evidence, might affect his credibility.
This statement roused the ire of Dock, and he was cross and sullen,
which is a very bad state of mind to be in when subjected to the
torture of a skilful lawyer.

Dock described the manner in which he had assisted Mr. Fairfield in
finding his money. He had done all that an honest man and a good
neighbor should do to help a feeble old man; and it wasn't right for
"one-horse lawyers" to insult him.

"Do you consider yourself insulted, Captain Vincent?" asked the squire.

"Yes, sir; I do!"

"Have you been convicted of a crime?"

"What if I have? There was no justice in it," growled Dock.

"Have you served a term in the state prison?"

"If I have, it wasn't a fair thing; and a good many better men than you
or me have spent years in prison."

"Undoubtedly, but our best men don't usually graduate at the state
prison. You admit the facts as I stated them. Now, Captain Vincent, you
were employed by Mr. Fairfield in finding the money he lost."

"I said so; I was."

"Did you tell the constable he would find the bag on board of the
yacht?"

"No, sir; I did not."

"What did you tell him?"

"In my opinion, Levi stole that money. I didn't think so at first, but
his uncle convinced me he must have done it. I told the constable to
look for the money and the bags on board that vessel."

"Didn't you tell him he would find this bag in Levi's state-room?"

"No, sir; I did not."

"Didn't you tell him he might expect to find it there?"

"Perhaps I did; whether I did or not, I expected he would find it
there," answered Dock, casting a malicious glance at Levi.

"Why did you expect he would find it there?"

"Because I was satisfied Levi stole the money, and would use some of it
while he was gone on the cruise."

"Was that the only reason?"

"It was."

"Captain Vincent, do you know how that bag came in Levi's state-room?"
asked the lawyer, looking upon the floor, as though he considered the
question of little consequence.

"Yes, sir; I do."

"Please to state how it came there."

"Levi put it there."

"You are willing to swear that Levi put it there--are you?"

"Yes, sir; I am," replied Dock, promptly.

"Did you see him put it there?"

"Of course I didn't. I never was aboard of that yacht till this
morning."

"How can you swear that he put it there, then?"

"Because Constable Cooke found it there."

"Is that the only ground on which you swear Levi put it there himself?"

"That's ground enough."

"Answer my question, if you please."

"Yes, it is; and my belief that Levi robbed his uncle of his money."

"That will do; we shall give you the little end of the horn to crawl
out of before we get through," added Squire Cleaves.

Dock, sour and crabbed, sat down near the rocking-chair of Mr.
Fairfield; and Mr. Cæsar Augustus Ebénier, cabin steward of The Starry
Flag, Sr., was politely invited to take the stand. He appeared in his
best clothes, and his name, quality, and position on board of the yacht
were duly elicited by the magistrate.

"What do you know about the money or the bag?" asked Squire Saunders.

"I know all about it, your honor," replied the witness, with a radiant
smile.

"Who put them in the locker, where they were found?"

"I did, your honor."

"That nigger's been bribed to say that," interposed Dock, savagely.

"Who do you call a nigger?" demanded Mr. Cæsar Augustus Ebénier,
stepping briskly up to Dock, with his fists doubled up for use. "I
never was convicted of crime and sent to the state prison."

"Order!" called the justice.

Dock was the more disturbed of the two; but the constable quieted him,
while Mr. Watson patched up the wounded dignity of the cabin steward,
who was doubtless a much better man than Dock. He had formerly been the
body servant of a French gentleman in Louisiana, and he could read and
write, and spoke French fluently. He wrote his name "C. Augustus
Ebénier," and he insisted that his surname should be pronounced
A-ba-ne-a. He was a person of no little importance in his own
estimation, and had a southern negro's contempt for mean whites, of
whom Dock Vincent seemed to be the meanest specimen he had yet seen.



"Now, Mr. Ebony, we will proceed with this examination."

"A-ba-ne-a, if you please, your honor," suggested the witness, with the
politest of bows.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Ebénier," said the justice, with a smile. "You
placed the bag and the money in the locker--did you?"

"I did, your honor; in the captain's locker: but I didn't comprehend
what was in the bag at the particular moment when it was in my
possession."

"Exactly so."

"I was not precisely informed in regard to the nature of the contents
of the bag, which was agglomerated in a mass, and exceedingly heavy for
the bulk of the parcel, appearing to consist only of a portion of tow
cloth."

"Just so, Mr. Ebénier; we are fortunate in being able to understand
you."

"I beg your honor's pardon, but the initial E in my surname should be
pronounced like long a."

"Excuse me, monsieur," laughed the justice; "but my French is rather
rusty. Will you do me the favor to indicate in what manner the bag and
its contents came into your possession."

"With pleasure, your honor. Yesterday afternoon, just previous to
Captain Fairfield's going on shore----"

"Who?" asked Squire Saunders, who was not familiar with Levi's new
title.

"Captain Fairfield, your honor."

"You mean Levi?"

"No, your honor; far be it from me to commit the gross disrespect of
calling the captain of the yacht in which I sail by his Christian name.
Captain Levi Fairfield, your honor."

"Go on, then. I know whom you mean."

"Yesterday afternoon, just as Captain Fairfield was going on shore--I
disremember the precise time, but it was about five o'clock, post
meridian."

"That is sufficiently accurate, Mr. Ebénier. Do me the favor to
proceed."

"I beg your honor's pardon, but these interruptions have a tendency to
prevent me from following accurately and succinctly the thread of my
narrative."

The magistrate bowed, and laughed, as all in the room were doing except
Dock and Mr. Fairfield. The witness commenced his story again,
repeating everything he had said before; and the squire did not deem it
prudent to interrupt him again.

"I was located in a standing position near the entrance to the main
cabin; and your honor is aware that, in first-class yachts, the descent
commences in the standing-room, which in New York yachts is more
frequently called the cockpit. At a distance of not more than a quarter
of a marine league from our yacht lay a fishing schooner, which I was
informed by those who probably possessed an accurate knowledge of the
intended movements of the schooner, though I really could not now state
to your honor the names of the parties from whom I received this
intimation----"

"Not material," interposed the squire.

"The information I received may prove to be material, your honor. I was
credibly informed that the vessel intended to sail for the Grand Banks
or the coast of Labrador, I cannot now swear which, or, indeed, if it
was either of these localities. Possibly it was either, possibly it was
neither, or possibly it was both. I wish it particularly understood
that, under the solemnity of an oath, I do not state positively where
the vessel was going. Suffice it to say that she was going on a fishing
voyage; but whether for cod, haddock, mackerel, or halibut, or either,
or all, or a portion of these piscatorial inhabitants of the mighty
deep, I am entirely unable to say."

The court, counsel, and witnesses, with the exceptions before noted,
roared with laughter; and the cabin steward smiled complacently, as
though he was conscious of having made a point.

"I can only observe, under oath, that I was informed that the vessel
intended to depart in search of some of the numerous ichthyological
specimens that roam in finny herds through the boundless depths of the
sea--as soon as the tide turned."

"Excuse me, Mr. Ebénier, but what has all this to do with the money and
the bag?" asked the justice, choking down his laughter.

"I trust I shall be able to demonstrate, to the entire satisfaction of
your honor, that there is an intimate connection between these
circumstances and the suspicious articles discovered in the state-room
of Captain Fairfield."

"Go on, then. It is almost dinner time."

"A doray--an exceedingly anomalous craft to a resident of New York,
where I have had the honor to reside for several seasons--a doray----"

"You mean a dory--don't you?"

"I am really unable to pronounce the word according to any authorized
orthography, as it was never my good fortune to see the word in print.
I am not informed whether or not the acute accent is placed over the
final e."

"There is no e in the word. D-o-r-y."

"Ah, excuse me! It is not a French word, then, and it is quite proper
to call it a dory."

"Precisely so; and now, having settled this important point, that it is
a dory, and not a doray, will you inform the court where you got the
bag and the money?" said Squire Saunders, beginning to be a little
impatient.

But he might as well have attempted to make water run up hill as to
induce Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier to relate his story in any other than
his own way.

"A dory from the fishing vessel, about to depart on her voyage, paid a
visit of courtesy to the Starry Flag. The party which came in the dory
consisted of three persons, all of them fishermen, and all of them
young men. All, or a portion of them, were evidently personal friends
of the four worthy young men who collectively constitute the crew of
the yacht, of which I have the honor to be cabin steward. The persons
who came on board were not cabin visitors; I am not even aware that
they paid their respects to our excellent captain; but I feel compelled
to add that, while on board, they behaved with the utmost propriety. I
was located----"

"Avast there!" exclaimed the justice. "The court is adjourned till
after dinner. I hope the distinguished gentleman will be able to spin
out his yarn before bed time."




CHAPTER XI.

THE RESULT OF THE EXAMINATION.


The dignity of the court had been effectually swamped by the
grandiloquence of Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier, though it was evident that
he was a very important witness. Of course no one was invited to dine
at the miser's, and the court and witnesses went home to dinner. As a
compromise, Constable Cooke was asked to dine with his prisoner at Mr.
Watson's. At the appointed hour in the afternoon the court again
assembled in the house of the miser.

"Mr. Ebénier," said Squire Saunders, "you had proceeded in your
narrative, when the court adjourned, to the point where four of the
crew of the fishing vessel, about to depart in search of ichthyological
specimens, came on board of the yacht, which has the honor to have your
valuable services as steward."

"I beg your honor's pardon; I had the honor, not the yacht," interposed
Mr. Ebénier, bowing.

"Well, I should say that the honors were divided," replied the justice;
and his remark was regarded as a judicial joke. "If you could commence
where you left off; and go on, I should be under very great obligations
to you."

"I will make a persistent effort to do so, your honor," added the
obliging Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier. "As I had the honor to hear your
honor remark, the three young men from the fishing vessel, about to
depart, as aforesaid, were on board of our yacht, as aforesaid, and as
I was standing near the cabin door, as aforesaid,--now my narrative
progresses, your honor,--one of the young men from the fishing schooner
aforesaid, as Captain Fairfield was about to go over the side into his
boat, rushed up to me with the bag in his hand."

"You mean the shot-bag containing the gold--do you?" asked the squire,
now deeply interested in the substance of the story.

"I do, your honor; perhaps I should have said the bag aforesaid, which
I thought I had described with sufficient minuteness. The bag had
originally contained shot, if the words printed on it can be relied
upon----"

"In the name of the Constitution of the United States, don't repeat the
description of the bag!" protested the squire. "One of the young men
rushed up to you with the bag in his hand."

"The bag aforesaid, then, your honor. I affirm that he rushed up to
me, meaning that he walked briskly and rapidly towards me. He placed
the bag--the bag aforesaid, your honor--in my hand, extended for the
purpose of receiving it when I understood that he wished to commit it
to my keeping."

"Precisely so; what did he say?"

"He observed that the captain desired me to place the parcel--by which
I mean the bag aforesaid, with its contents, not then known to me--in
one of the lockers in his state-room. As nearly as I can remember,
though I should not be willing to swear to the precise phraseology of
the language he used, his words were, 'The captain wants you to put
this into the locker in his state-room.'"

"Didn't you ask him what it was?"

"No, your honor; I never ask any questions when the captain's orders
come to me. It is my duty to obey, without knowing the reasons for the
action I am directed to take. I went immediately to the captain's
state-room, and deposited the parcel--the bag aforesaid--in one of the
empty lockers. I supposed from its weight that it contained nails,
hinges, screws, or some other species of hardware."

"Did you see the captain hand it to the person who gave it to you?"

"No, your honor, I did not. Under the painfully disagreeable circumstances
 which have followed the dénouement of the depositing of the bag
 aforesaid in the locker, I wish to add, if my humble opinion is of any
 value to this honorable court, that I do not believe the captain gave
 the bag aforesaid to the person of whom I received it."

"Do you know the name of the man who gave it to you?" asked Squire
Cleaves.

"I can only reply that I heard him called Ben,--which I presume is an
abbreviation of Benjamin,--when addressed by his companions."

"It was Ben Seaver," said Levi. "He was on board at the time
mentioned."

"I have no knowledge whatever in regard to his patronymic," added the
cabin steward.

"Why do you say you don't believe the captain handed it to Ben?"
continued the justice.

"Because, your honor, the circumstances do not justify such a
conclusion on my part. It is not reasonable to suppose----"

"Confine yourself to the facts, Mr. Ebénier. We do not care to listen
to an argument," interposed the justice.

"I beg your honor's pardon; to facts, then, will I confine myself. The
captain went directly from the cabin to his boat, and the person whom
his companions called Ben came to me directly from the forecastle. I
did not see him hold any communication with the captain, though he
paused for a moment at the gangway, and looked over the rail into the
boat."

"Might not the captain have handed him the package then?"

"I don't think it was possible, your honor."

"What were the men on the forecastle doing?"

"They were coiling away a spare cable--all but Bob Thomas, who was to
pull the captain ashore; and the visitors were assisting them."

"That will do, Mr. Ebénier; we are much obliged to you for the lucid
manner in which you have given your testimony, which is very
important," said Squire Saunders.

Bob Thomas, who had pulled the captain ashore, and who had been in the
boat with him at the time when he was alleged to have sent the bag to
the steward, was next questioned. He had neither seen the bag, nor seen
Levi speak to Ben Seaver. The rest of the crew were examined, but
nothing was elicited from them. Each of them was asked what had passed
between Ben and himself, but the conversation related entirely to fish
and fishing. Mat Mogmore seemed to be slightly confused, which was
attributed to bashfulness, for his statements were as square as those
of his shipmates.

Ben Seaver, who appeared to be the only person that could solve the
mystery, had gone on a fishing voyage, and might not return for two
months or more. No one had seen him at the fire, when the money was
stolen; and it was not probable that he was the original thief,
whatever part he might have been employed to perform by the guilty
party.

Levi himself was then examined at great length. His statements,
covering the time from the fire down to the present moment, were clear
and positive. He knew nothing about the money; he had not given the bag
to Ben Seaver; had not spoken to him, except to pass the time of day
with him as an old acquaintance. When Dock and Mr. Fairfield declared
that Levi hated his uncle, Mrs. Fairfield disproved the statement by
adducing all the kind acts he had performed.

Squire Cleaves, for the defendant, then reviewed the testimony for and
against his client.

"It certainly has not been shown that Levi stole this money," said he.
"Nor has sufficient evidence been brought against him to render it
probable that he is guilty; not enough to justify your honor in
committing him for trial. This investigation has led us to follow the
bag from the captain's state-room to the hands of Ben Seaver. There we
are blocked, and can go no farther till this person's return from his
voyage. Mr. Watson proposes to charter a steamer, send her after the
fishing vessel, and bring back Ben Seaver. Then we can follow the bag
until it leads us to the feet of a conspiracy against my client."

"It is not necessary to send any steamer after the witness," said the
justice. "The only evidence, in this long examination, which has been
brought against the prisoner, is, that the bag was found in his
state-room. It has been shown, conclusively, that he did not place it
there, and probably did not cause it to be placed there. The defendant
is discharged." And Squire Saunders rose from his seat at the table.

The decision, though it had not been unexpected, caused a decided
sensation in the little audience assembled in the miser's chamber. Dock
Vincent was mad, Mr. Fairfield was in despair, and the constable was
disappointed. The victim had escaped, and the miser had obtained no
clew to the lost treasure. The justice took possession of the bag and
its contents, to be used when Ben Seaver returned. The audience
dispersed to talk over the event among themselves.

Levi's friends, including Mr. Gayles, who had listened with the deepest
interest to the proceedings, were satisfied that the whole affair was a
conspiracy. Mr. Watson's theory was, that Dock Vincent had robbed the
miser himself, and had employed the absentee to place the bag in Levi's
room, intending himself to be on the way to Australia before Seaver
returned. As the matter stood, nothing could be proved. But Mr. Gayles
declared that he should watch Dock Vincent and a "certain other
person," whose name he declined to mention, by night and by day, until
some evidence was obtained. It was not enough to vindicate the
innocent; the guilty must be exposed and punished.

"Then Levi didn't steal my money, arter all," said Mr. Fairfield to
Dock Vincent, after the other people had gone.

"Yes, he did. Levi's smart, and knows how to cover up his work."

"We don't know no more'n nothin' in the world what's come on't," sighed
Mr. Fairfield.

"Levi's got it; and it will come to light yet," repeated Dock.

"I donno whether he has or not."

"That nigger lied all the way through. Folks that tell the truth don't
spin no sich yarns as he did. If I catch that nigger in the right
place, I'll pound him till he tells the truth, for Levi certainly
bribed him to tell that story. He didn't say a word about Ben Seaver on
board the vessel. He only did it to get his master out of a
scrape--that's all, you may depend upon it."

"All I want's my money, and I don't keer much whether Levi took it or
not, if I only git it," groaned Mr. Fairfield.

"Don't be alarmed, Squire Fairfield. You'll get your money one of these
days--every dollar of it, for Levi's got money enough to make up for
what he spends. I've got some one in a situation to keep watch of him,
and something'll leak out before long. You keep a stiff upper lip,
Squire Fairfield, and it'll all come out right in the end," added Dock,
as he turned to leave.

"I don't feel quite so sartain as I did that Levi done it," replied Mr.
Fairfield.

"Yes, he did, and that nigger got him out of the scrape. Levi's smart,
and so's the nigger. Wasn't it cunning for him to say the bag was given
him by a man who has gone off on a fishing voyage? I can see through
that trick with my eyes shut. I shall keep an eye on Levi, and on that
nigger too," said the comforter, as he left the room.

Dock was sorely vexed at the result of the examination. He had been
confident that his victim would be committed for trial, but the
steward's testimony had saved him. He walked down towards his own
house; but he had not gone far before he discovered Mr. C. Augustus
Ebénier, going in the direction of the Point. With a little contrivance
on Dock's part, they came together out of sight and hearing of
everybody.




CHAPTER XII.

HOTEL DE POISSON.


If Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier had been a prudent colored man, he would
have avoided the meeting which Captain Dock Vincent contrived to bring
about, by dodging around the rocks, and again appearing in the
principal path. But he was not a prudent colored man; and when he saw
the dangerous individual before him, though he might easily have turned
aside so as to avoid him, he did not do so.

The steward was a very peaceable and well-disposed person on board the
yacht, and elsewhere, but under certain circumstances he was a
belligerent colored man. He had a very reasonable and decided objection
to being called a "nigger." He claimed that he was a gentleman, and
while he behaved like a gentleman, he declined to be insulted with
impunity. Mr. Ebénier saw the person who had applied this obnoxious
epithet to him during the examination. It is possible that his heart
beat a little quicker when he discovered the blackguard, as he regarded
him; but it is certain that he did not turn to the right or the left,
but proceeded on his way as though Dock had been a pygmy, instead of
the heavy, stout man he was.

"See here, you nigger," Dock began, when the steward was within hailing
distance.

"What do you want of me, you state-prison bird?" replied the colored
man.

"What's that you say?" demanded Dock, angrily.

"I asked you what you wanted of me, you state-prison bird," repeated
the steward.

"We'll settle that here," said Dock, rolling up his sleeves. "I don't
allow any man, white or black, to insult me."

"That's just my position exactly," added Mr. Ebénier, throwing off his
coat. "I don't allow any man, big or little, black or white, to insult
me."

The unexpected readiness of the steward to settle the question on the
spot rather startled and perplexed Dock, and he did not appear to be
quite so ready to "pitch in" as he supposed he was. It is sometimes
true of individuals, as it is of nations, that a readiness to fight is
the surest guarantee of peace.

"What do you mean by calling me a state-prison bird?" demanded Dock, in
less confident tones.

"What do you mean by calling me a nigger?" retorted the steward.

"Well, you are one--aren't you?"

"Well, you are a state-prison bird--aren't you?"

"Don't say that again!" said Dock, shaking his head.

"I'll say it twenty-five times more, if you call me a nigger as many
times as that."

"Aren't you a black man?"

"I am; but my heart isn't half so black as yours. I'm not a nigger,"
protested the colored man, stoutly; and it was evident in this instance
that the negro would fight, which was just the thing Dock didn't wish
him to do.

"Whatever you are, I won't dirty my hands licking a nigger," added the
bully.

"But I'll dirty mine by licking a state-prison bird, and you shall have
the satisfaction of being licked by a black man," said the steward,
stepping up towards his burly antagonist.

"Cool off, cuffee; I was only joking with you," continued Dock, with a
mighty effort to laugh.

"Don't call me cuffee. My name is C. Augustus Ebénier, and I am ready
to teach you good manners, without fee or reward."

