the next day came up a sweeping reinforcement of the enemy
under Grant and others, and took back the fortune of war into
their own hands, it seems."

"Perhaps that is doubtful too," observed my father.

"I see Beauregard asked permission to bury his dead."

"Many killed?" asked my father.

"Terribly many. There were large numbers engaged, and fierce
fighting."

So they can do it, I said to myself, amid all my heart-
beating.

"There will be of course, some variation of success," said my
father.

"The pendulum is swung all to one side, in these last news,"
said Mr. Dinwiddie.

"What next?"

"Fort Pulaski is taken."

"Pulaski!" my father exclaimed.

"Handsomely done, after a bombardment of thirty hours."

"I am surprised, I confess," said papa.

"The House of Representatives has passed a bill for the
abolition of slavery in the District."

"Oh, I am glad!" I exclaimed. "That is good."

"Is that all you think good in the news?" said Mr. Dinwiddie a
little pointedly.

"Daisy is a rebel," said papa.

"No, papa; not I surely. I stand by the President and the
Country."

"Then we are rebels, Dinwiddie," said papa, half wearily.
"Half the country is playing the fool, that is clear; and the
whole must suffer."

"But the half where the seat of war is, suffers the most."

"That will not last," said papa. "I know the South."

"I wonder if we know the North," said Mr. Dinwiddie. "Farragut
has run the gauntlet of the forts at the mouth of the
Mississippi and taken New Orleans."

"Taken New Orleans!" my father exclaimed again, rising half up
as he lay on the cushions of the divan.

"It was done in style," said Mr. Dinwiddie, looking along the
columns of his paper. "Let me read you this, Mr. Randolph."

Papa assented, and he read; while I turned my face to the
window again, and listened to Farragut's guns and looked at
Lebanon. What a strange hour it was! There was hope at work
and rejoicing; but it shook me. And the calmness of the
everlasting hills and the mingled sweetnesses of the air, came
in upon the fever of my heart with cooling and quieting power.
The sea grew a deeper blue as I listened and looked; the
mountains - what words can tell the mantle of their own purple
that enfolded them as the evening came on; and the snowy
heights of Sunnin and Kunisyeh grew rosy. I looked and I drank
it in; and I could not fear for the future.

I believe I had fallen into a great reverie, during which Mr.
Dinwiddie ended his reading and left the room. It was papa's
touch on my shoulder that roused me. He had come to my side.

"Are you happy, Daisy?" was his question.

"Papa? -" I said in bewilderment.

"Your face was as calm as if you had nothing to think about."

"I had been thinking, papa. I was thinking, I believe."

"Does this strange news make you happy?"

"Oh, no, papa; not that."

"What then?"

"Something that is no news, and that never can grow old, papa.
The mountains and the sea were just reminding me of it."

"You mean - what? You speak riddles, Daisy."

"Papa, you would give me everything good for me, if you
could."

He kissed me fondly.

"I would, my child. Whether I can, or no, that troubles me by
its uncertainty."

"Papa, my Father in heaven can, and will. There is no doubt
about His power. And so there is no uncertainty."

"Daisy! -" said papa, looking at me in a strange way.

"Yes, papa, I mean it. Papa, you know it is true."

"I know you deserve all I can give you," he said, taking my
face in his two hands and looking into it. "Daisy - is there
anybody in the world that loves you as well as I do?"

That was a little too much, to bring up my heart in words in
that manner. In spite of my composure, which I thought so
strong, I was very near bursting into tears. I believe my face
flushed and then grew pale with the struggle. Papa took me in
his arms.

"You shall have no trouble that I can shield you from," he
said tenderly. "I will put nothing between you and this young
man if he is worthy of you, Daisy. I will pat nothing. But
others may. My power reaches only a certain distance."

"Papa -" I began, but I could not say what I would.

"Well?3 - said he tenderly, stroking my hair, "what is it? I
would keep all trouble from you, my pet, if I could."

"Papa," I whispered, "that may not be best. We must leave
that. But papa, if you only knew what I know and were glad as
I am glad, - I think I could bear all the rest!"

"How shall I be glad as you are glad, Daisy?" he said, half
sadly.

"Papa, let Jesus make you happy!"

"You are talking Hebrew, my child."

"No, papa; for if you seek Him, He will make you happy."

"Come! we will seek him from to-day," my father said.

And that was my summer on Lebanon. My mother wrote that she
would not join us in Syria; she preferred to remain in Paris,
where she had my aunt Gary's company and could receive the
American news regularly. Her words were bitter and scornful
about the successes of the Northern army and McClellan's
fruitless siege of Yorktown; so bitter, that papa and I passed
them over without a word of comment, knowing how they bore on
my possible future.

But we, we studied the Bible, and we lived on Lebanon. And
when I have said that, I have said all. From one village to
another, higher and higher up, we went; pitching our tents
under the grand old walnut trees, within sight or hearing of
mountain torrents that made witcheries of beauty in the deep
ravines; studying sunrisings, when the light came over the
mountain's brow and lit our broken hillside by degrees, our
walnut tree tops and the thread of the rushing stream; and
sunsets, when the sun looked at us from the far-off
Mediterranean and touched no spot of Lebanon but to make a
glorified place of it. With Mr. Dinwiddie we took rides to
different scenes of wonder and beauty; made excursions
sometimes of a week or two long; we dreamed at Baalbec and
rejoiced under the Cedars. Everywhere papa and I read the
Bible. Mr. Dinwiddie left us for some time during the summer,
and returned again a few days before we left Lebanon and
Syria.

"So you are going to-morrow" - he said the last evening, as he
and I were watching the sunset from the edge of the ravine
which bordered our camping-ground. I made no answer, for my
heart was too full.

"It has been a good summer," he said. I bowed my head in
assent.

"And now," he said, "you push out into the world again. I feel
about you as I did when I saw your little craft just starting
forth, and knew there were breakers ahead."

"You do not know that now, Mr. Dinwiddie?" I said.

"I know there are rocks. If the sea should let you pass them
in quiet, it would be a wonder."

That was too true, I knew. I could only be silent.

"How do you feel?" he next asked.

"I know it is as you say, Mr. Dinwiddie."

"And in view of it? -"

"What can I do, - Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"Nothing to avoid the rocks. The helm is not in your hand."

"But I know in whose hand it is."

"And are willing to have it there?"

"More than willing," I said, meeting his eye.

"Then the boat will go right," he said, with a sort of accent
of relief. "It is the cross pulls with the oar, striving to
undo the work of the rudder, that draw the vessel out of her
course. The Pilot knows, - if you can only leave it to the
Pilot."

There was a pause again.

"But He sometimes takes the boat into the breakers," Mr.
Dinwiddie said.

"Yes," I said. "I know it."

"What then, Daisy, my friend?"

"What then, Mr. Dinwiddie?" I said, looking up at him. "Then
she must be broken to pieces."

"And what then? Can you trust the Pilot still?"

His great eyes were flashing and glittering as he looked at
me. No careless nor aimless thought had caused such an
interrogatory, I knew. I met the eyes which seemed to be
blazing and melting at once, but I answered only by the look.

"You may," he went on, without taking his eyes from mine. "You
may trust safely. Even if the vessel is shaken and broken,
trust even then, when all seems gone. There shall be smooth
waters yet; and a better voyage than if you had gone a less
wearisome way."

"Why do you say all this to me, Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"Not because I am a prophet," he said, looking away now, -
"for I am none. And if I saw such trials ahead for you, I
should have hardly courage to utter them. I asked, to comfort
myself; that I might know of a certainty that you are safe,
whatever comes."

"Thank you," I said, rather faintly.

"I shall stay here," he went on presently, "in the land of my
work; and you will be gone to-morrow for other scenes. It
isn't likely you will ever see me again. But if ever you need
a friend, on the other side of the globe, if you call me, I
will come. It is folly to say that, though," he said plucking
hastily at a spear of grass; - "you will not need nor think of
me. But I suppose you know, Daisy, by this time, that all
those who come near you, love you. I am no exception. You must
have charity for me."

"Dear Mr. Dinwiddie," I said reaching out my hand, - "if I
were in trouble and wanted a friend, there is no one in the
world that I would sooner, or - rather, or as soon or as lief,
ask to help me. Except -" I added, and could not finish my
sentence. For I had remembered there was an exception which
ought to be implied somewhere.

"I know," he said, wringing my hand. "I wish I could heap
blessings on the head of the exception. Now let us go in."

The next day we rode down to Beyrout, and took the steamer
that same evening.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A MASKED BATTERY


My Palestine holiday lasted, in some measure, all the way of
our journey home; and left me at the very moment when we
entered our Parisian hotel and met mamma. It left me then. All
the air of the place, much more all the style of mamma's dress
and manner, said at once that we had come into another world.
She was exquisitely dressed; that was usual; it could not have
been only that, nor the dainty appointments around her; - it
was something in her bearing, an indescribable something even
as she greeted us, which said, You have played your play - now
you will play mine. And it said, I cannot tell how, The cards
are in my hands.

Company engaged her that evening. I saw little of her till the
next day. At our late breakfast then we discussed many things.
Not much of Palestine; mamma did not want to hear much of
that. She had had it in our letters, she said. American
affairs were gone into largely; with great eagerness and
bitterness by both mamma and Aunt Gary; with triumphs over the
disasters of the Union army before Richmond, and other lesser
affairs in which the North had gained no advantage; invectives
against the President's July proclamation, his impudence and
his cowardice; and prophecies of ruin to him and his cause.
Papa listened and said little. I heard and was silent; with
throbbing forebodings of trouble.

"Daisy is handsomer than ever," my aunt remarked, when even
politics had exhausted themselves. But I wondered what she was
thinking of when she said it. Mamma lifted her eyes and
glanced me over.

"Daisy has a rival, newly appeared," she said. "She must do
her best."

"There cannot be rivalry, mamma, where there is no
competition," I said.

"Cannot there?" said mamma. "You never told us, Daisy, of your
successes in the North."

I do not think I flushed at all in answer to this remark; the
blood seemed to me to go all to my heart.

"Who has been Daisy's trumpeter?" papa asked.

"There is a friend of hers here," mamma said, slowly sipping
her coffee. I do not know how I sat at the table; things
seemed to swim in a maze before my eyes; then mamma went on, -
"What have you done with your victim, Daisy?"

"Mamma," I said, "I do not at all know of whom you are
speaking."

"Left him for dead, I suppose," she said. "He has met with a
good Samaritan, I understand, who carried oil and wine."

Papa's eye met mine for a moment.

"Felicia," he said, "you are speaking very unintelligibly. I
beg you will use clearer language, for all our sakes."

"Daisy understands," she said.

"Indeed I do not, mamma."

"Not the good Samaritan's part, of course. That has come since
you were away. But you knew once that a Northern Blue-coat had
been pierced by the fire of your eyes?"

"Mamma," I said, - "if you put it so, I have known it of more
than one."

"Imagine it!" said mamma, with an indescribable gesture of
lip, which yet was gracefully slight.

"Imagine what?" said papa.

"One of those canaille venturing to look at Daisy!"

"My dear," said papa, "pray do not fail to remember, that we
have passed a large portion of our life among those whom you
denominate canaille, and who always were permitted the
privilege of looking at us all. I do not recollect that we
felt it any derogation from anything that belonged to us."

"Did you let him look at you, Daisy?" mamma said, lifting her
own eyes up to me. "It was cruel of you."

"Your friend Miss St. Clair, is here, Daisy," my aunt Gary
said.

"My friend!" I repeated.

"She is your friend," said mamma. "She has bound up the wounds
you have made, Daisy, and saved you from being in the full
sense a destroyer of human life."

"When did Faustina come here?" I asked.

"She has been here a month. Are you glad?"

"She was never a particular friend of mine, mamma."

"You will love her now," said mamma; and the conversation
turned. It had only filled me with vague fears. I could not
understand it.

I met Faustina soon in company. She was as brilliant a vision
as I have often seen; her beauty was perfected in her
womanhood, and was of that type which draws all eyes. She was
not changed, however; and she was not changed towards me. She
met me with the old coldness; with a something besides which I
could not fathom. It gave me a secret feeling of uneasiness; I
suppose, because that in it I read a meaning of exultation, a
secret air of triumph, which, I could not tell how or why,
directed itself towards me and gathered about my head. It grew
disagreeable to me to meet her; but I was forced to do this
constantly. We never talked together more than a few words;
but as we passed each other, as our eyes met and hers went
from me, as she smiled at the next opening of her mouth, I
felt always something sinister, or at least something hidden,
which took the shape of an advantage gained. I tried to meet
her with perfect pleasantness, but it grew difficult. In my
circumstances I was very open to influences of discouragement
or apprehension; indeed the trouble was to fight them off.
This intangible evil however presently took shape.

I thought I had observed that for a day or two my father's
eyes had lingered on me frequently with a tender or wistful
expression, more than usual. I did not know what it meant.
Mamma was pushing me into company all this while, and making
no allusion to my own private affairs, if she had any clue to
them. One morning I had excused myself from an engagement
which carried away my aunt and her, that I might have a quiet
time to read with papa. Our readings had been much broken in
upon - lately. With a glad step I went to papa's room; a
study, I might call it, where he spent all of the time he did
not wish to give to society. He was there, expecting me; a
wood-fire was burning on the hearth; the place had the air of
comfort and seclusion and intelligent leisure; books and
engravings and works of art scattered about, and luxurious
easy-chairs standing ready for the accommodation of papa and
me.

"This is nice, papa!" I said, as the cushions of one of them
received me.

"It is not quite the Mount of Olives," said papa.

"No indeed!" I answered; and my eyes filled. The bustle of the
fashionable world was all around me, the storms of the
political world were shaking the very ground where I stood,
the air of our little social world was not as on Lebanon sweet
and pure. When would it be again? Papa sat thinking in his
easy-chair.

"How do you like Paris, my child?"

"Papa, it does not make much difference, Italy or Paris, so
long as I am where you are, and we can have a little time
together."

"Your English friend has followed you from Florence."

"Yes, papa. At least he is here."

"And your German friend."

"He is here, papa."

There was a silence. I wondered what papa was thinking of, but
I did not speak, for I saw he was thinking.

"You have never heard from your American friend?"

"No, papa."

"Daisy," said papa, tenderly, and looking at me now, - "you
are strong?"

"Am I, papa?"

"I think you are. You can bear the truth, cannot you?"

"I hope I can, -any truth that you have to tell me," I said.
One thought of terrible evil chilled my heart for a moment,
and passed away. Papa's tone and manner did not touch anything
like that. Though it was serious enough to awake my
apprehension. I could not guess what to apprehend.

"Did you get any clear understanding of what your mother might
mean, one day at breakfast, when she was alluding to friends
of yours in America? - you remember?"

"I remember. I did not understand in the least, papa."

"It had to do with Miss St. Clair."

"Yes."

"It seems she spent all the last winter in Washington, where
the society was unusually good, it is said, as well as
unusually military. I do not know how that can be true, when
all Southerners were of course out of the city - but that's no
matter. A girl like this St. Clair girl of course knew all the
epaulettes there were."

"Yes, papa - she is always very much admired. She must be that
everywhere."

"I suppose so, though I don't like her," said papa. "Well,
Daisy, - I do not know how to tell you. She knew your friend."

"Yes, papa."

"And he admired her."

I was silent, wondering what all this was coming to.

"Do you understand me, Daisy? - She has won him from you."

A feeling of sickness passed over me; it did not last. One
vision of my beautiful enemy, one image of her as Mr.
Thorold's friend, - it made me sick for that instant; then, I
believe I looked up and smiled.

"Papa, it is not true, I think."

"It is well attested, Daisy."

"By whom?"

"By a friend of Miss St. Clair, who was with her in Washington
and knew the whole progress of the affair, and testifies to
their being engaged."

"To whose being engaged, papa?"

"Miss St. Clair and your friend, - Colonel Somebody. I forget
his name, Daisy, though you told me, I believe."

"He was not a colonel, papa; not at all; not near it."

"No. He has been promoted, I understand. Promotions are rapid
in the Northern army now-a-days; a lieutenant in the regulars
is transformed easily into a colonel of volunteers. They want
more officers than they have got, I suppose."

I remained silent, thinking.

"Who told you all this, papa?"

"Your mother. She has it direct from the friend of your
rival."

"But, papa, nobody knew about me. It was kept entirely
private."

"Not after you came away, I suppose. How else should this
story be told as of the gentleman you were engaged to?"

I waited a little while, to get my voice steady, and then I
went on with my reading to papa. Once he interrupted me to
say, "Daisy, how do you take this that I have been telling
you?" - and at the close of our reading he asked again in a
perplexed manner, "You do not let it trouble you, Daisy?" -
and each time I answered him, "I do not believe it, papa."
Neither did I; but at the same time a dreadful shadow of
possibility came over my spirit. I could not get from under
it, and my soul fainted, as those were said to do who lay down
for shelter under the upas tree. A poison as of death seemed
to distil upon me from that shadow. Not let it trouble me? It
was a man's question, I suppose, put with a man's
powerlessness to read a woman's mind; even though the man was
my father.

I noticed from that time more than ever his tender lingering
looks upon me, wistful, and doubtful. It was hard to bear
them, and I would not confess to them. I would not and did not
show by look or word that I put faith in the story my father
had brought me, or that I had lost faith in any one who had
ever commanded it. Indeed I did not believe the story. I did
trust Mr. Thorold. Nevertheless the cold chill of a "What if?"
- fell upon me sometimes. Could I say that it was an
impossibility, that he should have turned from me, from one
whom such a thorn hedge of difficulties encompassed, to
another woman so much, - I was going to say, so much more
beautiful; but I do not mean that, for I do not think it. No,
but to one whose beauty was so brilliant and whose hand was so
attainable? It would not be an impossibility in the case of
many men. Yes, I trusted Mr. Thorold; but so had other women
trusted. A woman's trust is not a guarantee for the worthiness
of its object. I had only my trust and my knowledge. Could I
say that both might not be mistaken? And trust as I would,
these thoughts would rise.

Now it was very hard for me to meet Faustina St. Clair, and
bear the supercilious air of confident triumph with which she
regarded me. I think nobody could have observed this or read
it but myself only; its tokens were too exceedingly slight
and inappreciable for anything but the tension of my own heart
to feel. I always felt it, whenever we were in company
together; and though I always said at such times, "Christian
cannot love her," - when I was at home and alone, the shadow
of doubt and jealousy came over me again. Everything withers
in that shadow. A woman must either put it out of her heart,
somehow, or grow a diseased and sickly thing, mentally and
morally. I found that I was coming to this in my own mind and
character; and that brought me to a stand.

I shut myself up one or two nights - I could not command my
days - and spent the whole night in thinking and praying. Two
things were before me. The story might be somehow untrue. Time
would show. In the meanwhile, nothing but trust would have
done honour to Mr. Thorold or to myself. I thought it was
untrue. But suppose it were not, - suppose that the joy of my
life were gone, passed over to another; who had done it? By
whose will was my life stripped? The false faith or the
weakness of friend or enemy could not have wrought thus, if it
had not been the will of God that His child should be so
tried; that she should go through just this sorrow, for some
great end or reason known only to Himself. Could I not trust
Him -?

If there is a vulture whose claws are hard to unloose from the
vitals of the spirit, I think it is jealousy. I found it had
got hold of me, and was tearing the life out of me. I knew it
in time. O sing praise to our King, you who know Him! he is
mightier than our enemies; we need not be the prey of any. But
I struggled and prayed, more than one night through, before
faith could gain the victory. Then it did. I gave the matter
into my Lord's hands. If he had decreed that I was to lose Mr.
Thorold, and in this way, - why, I was my Lord's, to do with
as He pleased; it would all be wise and glorious, and kind
too, whatever He did. I would just leave that. But in the mean
time, till I knew that He had taken my joy from me, I would
not believe it; but would go on trusting the friend I had
believed so deserving of trust. I would believe in Mr. Thorold
still and be quiet, till I knew my confidence was misplaced.

It was thoroughly done at last. I gave up myself to God again
and my affairs; and the rest that is unknown anywhere else,
came to me at His feet. I gave up being jealous of Faustina.
If the Lord pleased that she should have what had been so
precious to me, why, well! I gave it up. But not till I was
sure I had cause.

What a lull came upon my harassed and tossed spirit, which had
been like a stormy sea under cross winds. Now it lay still,
and could catch the reflection of the sun again and the blue
of heaven. I could go into society now and please mamma, and
read at home to papa and give him the wonted gratification;
and I could meet Faustina with an open brow and a free hand.

"Daisy, you are better this day or two," papa said to me,
wistfully. "You are like yourself. What is it, my child?"

"It is Christ, my Lord, papa."

"I do not know what you can mean by that, Daisy," said papa,
looking grave. "You are not an enthusiast or a fanatic."

"It is not enthusiasm, papa, to believe God's promises. It
can't be fanaticism, to be glad of them."

"Promises?" said papa. "What are you talking of?"

"Papa, I am a servant of Christ," I said; I remember I was
arranging the sticks of wood on the fire as I spoke, and it
made pauses between my words; - "and He has promised to take
care of His servants and to let no harm come to them, - no
real harm; - how can I be afraid, papa? My Lord knows, - He
knows all about it and all about me; I am safe; I have nothing
to do to be afraid."

"Safe from what?"

"Not from trouble, papa; I do not mean that. He may see that
it is best that trouble should come to me. But it will not
come unless He sees that it is best; and I can trust Him."

"My dear child, is there not a little fanaticism there?"

"How, papa?"

"It seems to me to sound like it."

"It is nothing but believing God, papa."

"I wish I understood you," said papa, thoughtfully.

So I knelt down beside him and put my arms about him, and told
him what I wanted him to understand; much more than I had ever
been able to do before. The pain and sorrow of the past few
weeks had set me free, and the rest of heart of the last few
days too. I told papa all about it. I think, as Philip did to
Queen Candace's servant, I "preached to him Jesus."

"So that is what you mean by being a Christian," said papa at
last. "It is not living a good moral life and keeping all
one's engagements."

" 'By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified.'
Even you, papa, are not good enough for that. God's law calls
for perfection."

"Nobody is perfect."

"No, papa; and so all have come short of the glory of God."

"Well, then, I don't see what you are going to do, Daisy."

"Christ has paid our debt, papa."

"Then nobody need do anything."

"Oh, no, papa; for the free pardon that is made out for you
and me - the white robe that Christ counsels us to buy of Him
- waits for our acceptance and is given only on conditions. It
is ready for every one who will trust Christ and obey Him; a
free pardon, papa; a white robe that will hide all our
ugliness. But we must be willing to have it on the
