While Roswell was thus engaged Mark returned from his errand.

He looked about him in some uncertainty on entering the store, not
seeing either Mr. Baker or the chief clerk.

"Come here," said Roswell, in a tone of authority.

Mark walked up to the desk.

"So you are the new boy?" said Roswell, after a close scrutiny.

"Yes."

"It would be a little more polite to say 'Yes sir.'"

"Yes, sir."

"What is your age?"

"Ten years."

"Humph! You are rather young. If I had been consulted I should have
said 'Get a boy of twelve years old.'"

"I hope I shall suit," said Mark.

"I hope so," said Roswell, patronizingly. "You will find us very easy
to get along with if you do your duty. We were obliged to send away a
boy this morning because he played instead of going on his errands at
once."

Mark could not help wondering what was Roswell's position in the
establishment. He talked as if he were one of the proprietors; but his
youthful appearance made it difficult to suppose that.

"What is your name?" continued Roswell.

"Mark Manton."

"Have you been in any place before?"

"No, sir."

"Do you live with your parents?"

"My parents are dead."

"Then whom do you live with?"

"With my guardian."

"So you have a guardian?" said Roswell, a little surprised. "What is
his name?"

"Mr. Hunter."

"Hunter!" repeated Roswell, hastily. "What is his first name?"

"Richard I believe."

"Dick Hunter!" exclaimed Roswell, scornfully, "Do you mean to say that
he has charge of you?"

"Yes," said Mark, firmly, for he perceived the tone in which his friend
was referred to, and resented it. Moreover the new expression which
came over Roswell's face brought back to his recollection the evening
when, for the first time in his life, he had begged in Fulton Market,
and been scornfully repulsed by Roswell and his mother. Roswell's
face had at first seemed familiar to him, but it was only now that he
recognized him. Roswell, on the other hand, was not likely to identify
the neatly dressed boy before him with the shivering little beggar of
the market. But it recurred to him all at once that Dick had referred
to his ward as a match boy.

"You were a match boy?" he said, in the manner of one making a grave
accusation.

"Yes, sir."

"Then why didn't you keep on selling matches, and not try to get a
place in a respectable store?"

"Because Mr. Hunter thought it better for me to go into a store."

"Mr. Hunter! Perhaps you don't know that your guardian, as you call
him, used to be a boot-black."

"Yes, he told me so."

"They called him 'Ragged Dick' then," said Roswell, turning up his
nose. "He couldn't read or write, I believe."

"He's a good scholar now," said Mark.

"Humph! I suppose he told you so. But you mustn't believe all he tells
you."

"He wouldn't tell anything but the truth," said Mark, who was bolder in
behalf of his friend than he would have been for himself.

"So he did tell you he was a good scholar? I thought so."

"No, he told me nothing about it; but since I have lived with him I've
heard him read French as well as English."

"Perhaps that isn't saying much," said Roswell, with a sneer. "Can you
read yourself?"

"Yes."

"That is more than I expected. What induced Mr. Baker to take a boy
from the street is more than I can tell."

"I suppose I can run errands just as well, if I was once a match boy,"
said Mark, who did not fancy the tone which Roswell assumed towards
him, and began to doubt whether he was a person of as much importance
as he at first supposed.

"We shall see," said Roswell, loftily. "But there's one thing I'll
advise you, young man, and that is, to treat me with proper respect.
You'll find it best to keep friends with me. I can get you turned away
any time."

Mark hardly knew whether to believe this or not. He already began to
suspect that Roswell was something of a humbug, and though it was not
in his nature to form a causeless dislike, he certainly did not feel
disposed to like Roswell. He did not care as much for any slighting
remarks upon himself, as for the scorn with which Roswell saw fit to
speak of his friend, Richard Hunter, who by his good offices had won
the little boy's lasting gratitude. Mark did not reply to the threat
contained in these last words of Roswell.

"Is there anything for me to do?" he asked.

"Yes, you may dust off those books on the counter. There's the duster
hanging up."

This was really Roswell's business, and he ought to have been at work
in this way instead of reading; but it was characteristic of him to
shift his duties upon others. He was not aware of how much time had
passed, and supposed that Mark would be through before Mr. Barker
returned. But that gentleman came in while Roswell was busily engaged
in reading.

"Is that the way you do your work, Roswell?" asked his employer.

Roswell jumped to his feet in some confusion.

"I thought I had better set the new boy to work," he said.

"Dusting the books is your work, not his."

"He was doing nothing, sir."

"He will have plenty to do in carrying out parcels. Besides, I don't
know that it is any worse for him to be idle than you. You were reading
also, which you know is against the rules of the store." Roswell made
no reply, but it hurt his pride considerably to be censured thus in
presence of Mark, to whom he had spoken with such an assumption of
power and patronage.

"I wish I had a store of my own," he thought, discontentedly. "Then I
could do as I pleased without having anybody to interfere with me."

But Roswell did not understand, and there are plenty of boys in the
same state of ignorance, that those who fill subordinate positions
acceptably are most likely to rise to stations where they will
themselves have control over others.

"I suppose you have not been to dinner," said Mr. Baker, turning to
Mark.

"No, sir."

"You board in St. Mark's Place, I think you said?"

"Yes, sir."

"Very well, here is a parcel to go to East Ninth Street. You may call
and leave that at the address marked upon it, and may stay out long
enough for dinner. But don't be gone more than an hour in all."

"No, sir."

"I am glad that boy isn't my employer," thought Mark, referring of
course to Roswell Crawford, who, by the way, would have been indignant
at such an appellation. "I like Mr. Baker a great deal better."

Mark was punctual to his appointment, and in a little less than an hour
reported himself at the store again for duty.




CHAPTER XVII.

BAD ADVICE.


Roswell pursued his way home with a general sense of discontent. Why
should he be so much worse off than Richard Hunter, who had only been a
ragged boot-black three years before? The whole world seemed to be in a
conspiracy to advance Richard, and to keep him down. To think he should
be only earning six dollars a week, while Dick, whom he considered so
far beneath him, was receiving twenty, was really outrageous. And now
he had pushed a low dependent of his into Baker's store where Roswell
was obliged to associate with him!

Certainly Roswell's grievances were numerous. But there was one thing
he did not understand, that the greatest obstacle to his advancement
was himself. If he had entered any situation with the determination
to make his services valuable, and discharge his duties, whatever
they might be, with conscientious fidelity, he would have found his
relations with his employer much more agreeable and satisfactory.

Mrs. Crawford still kept the house in Clinton Place, letting nearly all
the rooms to lodgers. In this way she succeeded in making both ends
meet, though with considerable difficulty, so that she had not the
means to supply Roswell with the spending money he desired. Her nephew,
James Gilbert, Richard Huntley's predecessor as book-keeper, still
boarded with her. It will be remembered by the readers of "Fame and
Fortune," that this Gilbert, on being questioned by Mr. Rockwell as to
his share in the plot against Dick, had angrily resigned his position,
thinking, probably, that he should lose it at any rate.

It so happened that business was generally depressed at this time, and
it was three months before he succeeded in obtaining another place, and
then he was compelled to work for eight hundred dollars, or two hundred
less than he had formerly received. This was a great disappointment to
him, and did not help his temper much, which had never been very sweet.
He felt quite exasperated against Dick, whom, very much against his
wishes, he had seen the means of promoting to his own place. Indeed,
on this point, he sympathized heartily with Roswell, whose dislike to
Richard Hunter has already been shown.

"Well, mother," said Roswell, as he entered Mrs. Crawford's presence,
"I'm getting tired of Baker's store."

"Don't say so, Roswell," said his mother, in alarm. "Remember how long
it took you to get the place."

"I have to work like a dog for six dollars a week," said Roswell.

"Yes," said his cousin, with a sneer, "that's precisely the way you
work. Dogs spend their time running round the street doing nothing."

"Well, I have to work hard enough," said Roswell, "but I wouldn't mind
that so much, if I didn't have to associate with low match boys."

"What do you mean, Roswell?" asked his mother, who did not understand
the allusion.

"Baker hired a new boy to-day, and who do you think he turns out to be?"

"Not that boy, Ragged Dick?"

"No, you don't think he would give up Cousin James' place, where he
gets a thousand dollars a year, to go into Baker's as boy?"

"Who was it, then?"

"He used to be a ragged match boy about the streets. Dick Hunter picked
him up somewhere, and got him a situation in our store, on purpose to
spite me, I expect."

As the reader is aware, Roswell was mistaken in his supposition, as
Mark obtained the place on his own responsibility.

"The boot-black seems to be putting on airs," said Mrs. Crawford.

"Yes, he pretends to be the guardian of this match boy."

"What's the boy's name?"

"Mark Manton."

"If I were Mr. Baker," said Mrs. Crawford, "I should be afraid to take
a street boy into my employ. Very likely he isn't honest."

"I wish he would steal something," said Roswell, not very charitably.
"Then we could get rid of him, and the boot-black would be pretty well
mortified about it."

"He'll be found out sooner or later," said Mrs. Crawford. "You may
depend on that. You'd better keep a sharp lookout for him, Roswell. If
you catch him in stealing, it will help you with Mr. Baker, or ought
to."

This would have comforted Roswell more, but that he was privately of
opinion that Mark was honest, and would not be likely to give him any
chance of detecting him in stealing. Still, by a little management
on his part, he might cause him to fall under suspicion. It would of
course be miserably mean on his part to implicate a little boy in a
false charge; but Roswell was a mean boy, and he was not scrupulous
where his dislike was concerned. He privately decided to think over
this new plan for getting Mark into trouble.

"Isn't dinner ready, mother?" he asked, rather impatiently.

"It will be in about ten minutes."

"I'm as hungry as a bear."

"You can always do your part at the table," said his cousin
unpleasantly.

"I don't know why I shouldn't. I have to work hard enough."

"You are always talking about your hard work. My belief is that you
don't earn your wages."

"I should think it was a pity if I didn't earn six dollars a week,"
said Roswell.

"Come, James, you're always hard on Roswell," said Mrs. Crawford. "I am
sure he has hard times enough without his own relations turning against
him."

James Gilbert did not reply. He was naturally of a sarcastic turn,
and, seeing Roswell's faults, was not inclined to spare them. He might
have pointed them out, however, in a kindly manner, and then his young
cousin might possibly been benefited; but Gilbert felt very little
interest in Roswell.

Immediately after dinner Roswell took up his cap. His mother observed
this, and inquired, "Where are you going, Roswell?"

"I'm going out to walk."

"Why don't you go with your cousin?"

James Gilbert had also taken his hat.

"He don't want to be bothered with me," said Roswell, and this
statement Gilbert did not take the trouble to contradict.

"Why can't you stay in and read?"

"I haven't got anything to read. Besides I've been cooped up in the
store all day, and I want to breathe a little fresh air."

There was reason in this, and his mother did not gainsay it, but still
she felt that it was not quite safe for a boy to spend his evenings out
in a large city, without any one to look after him.

Roswell crossed Broadway, and, proceeding down Eighth Street, met a boy
of about his own age in front of the Cooper Institute.

"How long have you been waiting, Ralph?" he asked.

"Not long. I only just came up."

"I couldn't get away as soon as I expected. Dinner was rather late."

"Have a cigar, Roswell?" asked Ralph.

"Yes," said Roswell, "I don't mind."

"You'll find these cigars pretty good. I paid ten cents apiece."

"I don't see how you can afford it," said Roswell. "Your cigars must
cost you considerable."

"I don't always buy ten-centers. Generally I pay only five cents."

"Well, that mounts up when you smoke three or four in a day. Let me
see, what wages do you get?"

"Seven dollars a week."

"That's only a dollar more than I get," said Roswell.

"I know one thing, it's miserably small," said Ralph. "We ought to get
twice what we do."

"These shop-keepers are awfully mean," said Roswell, beginning to puff
away at his cigar.

"That's so."

"But still you always seem to have plenty of money. That's what puzzles
me," said Roswell. "I'm always pinched. I have to pay my mother all
my wages but a dollar a week. And what's a dollar?" he repeated,
scornfully.

"Well," said Ralph, "my board costs me all but a dollar. So we are
about even there."

"Do you pay your board out of your earnings?"

"I have to. My governor won't foot the bills, so I have to."

"Still you seem to have plenty of money," persisted Roswell.

"Yes, I look out for that," said Ralph Graham, significantly.

"But I don't see how you manage. I might look out all day, and I
wouldn't be any the better off."

"Perhaps you don't go the right way to work," said his companion,
taking the cigar from his mouth, and knocking off the ashes.

"Then I wish you'd tell me the right way."

"Why, the fact is," said Ralph, slowly, "I make my employer pay me
higher wages than he thinks he does."

"I don't see how you can do that," said Roswell, who didn't yet
understand.

Ralph took the cigar, now nearly smoked out, from his mouth, and threw
it on the pavement. He bent towards Roswell, and whispered something in
his ear. Roswell started and turned pale.

"But," he said, "that's dishonest."

"Hush!" said Ralph, "don't speak so loud. Oughtn't employers to pay
fair wages,--tell me that?"

"Certainly."

"But if they don't and won't, what then?"

"I don't know."

"Well, I do. We must help ourselves, that is all."

"But," said Roswell, "what would be thought of you if it were found
out?"

"There's plenty of clerks that do it. Bless you, it's expected. I heard
a man say once that he expected to lose about so much by his clerks."

"But I think it would be better to pay good wages."

"So do I, only you see they won't do it."

"How much do you--do you make outside of your salary?" asked Roswell.

"From three to five dollars a week."

"I should think they'd find you out."

"I don't let them. I'm pretty careful. Well, what shall we do this
evening? There's a pretty good play at Niblo's. Suppose we go there."

"I haven't got money enough," said Roswell.

"Well, I'll pay for both to-night. You can pay another time."

"All right!" said Roswell, though he did not know when he should have
money enough to return the favor. They crossed to Broadway, and walked
leisurely to Niblo's Garden. The performance lasted till late, and it
was after eleven when Roswell Crawford got into bed.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE FIRST STEP.


To do Roswell Crawford justice, the idea of taking money from his
employer had never occurred to him until the day when it was suggested
to him by Ralph Graham. The suggestion came to him at an unfortunate
time. He had always felt with a sense of bitter injustice that his
services were poorly compensated, and that his employer was making
money out of him. Yet he knew very well that there was no chance of
an advance. Besides, he really felt the need of more money to keep up
appearances equal to Ralph Graham, and some other not very creditable
acquaintances that he had managed to pick up. So Roswell allowed
Ralph's suggestion to recur to his mind with dangerous frequency. He
was getting familiar with what had at first startled and shocked him.

But it was not at once that he brought his mind to the point. He was
not possessed of much courage, and could not help fearing that he would
get himself into a scrape. It needed a little more urging on the part
of Ralph.

"Well, Roswell," said Ralph, a few evenings after the conversation
recorded in the last chapter, "when are you going to take me to the
theatre?"

"I didn't know I was going to take you at all," said Roswell.

"Come, there's no use in crawling off that way. Didn't I take you to
Niblo's last week?"

"Yes."

"And didn't you promise to take me some night in return?"

"I should like to do it well enough," said Roswell, "but I never have
any money."

"You might have some if you chose."

"The way you mentioned?"

"Yes."

"I don't like to try it."

"Then you are foolish. It's what half the clerks do. They have to."

"Do you think many do it?" said Roswell, irresolutely.

"To be sure they do," said Ralph, confidently.

"But I am sure it would be found out."

"Not if you're careful."

"I shouldn't know how to go about it."

"Then I'll tell you. You're in the store alone some of the time, I
suppose."

"Yes, when Mr. Baker and Mr. Jones are gone to dinner."

"Where is the money kept?"

"There are two drawers. The one that has the most money in it is kept
locked, and Mr. Baker carries away the key with him. He leaves a few
dollars in another drawer, but nothing could be taken from that drawer
without being missed."

"Does he keep much money in the first drawer?"

"I expect so."

"Then," said Ralph, promptly, "you must manage to get into that."

"But how am I to do it?" asked Roswell. "Didn't I tell you that it was
kept locked, and that Mr. Baker took the key?"

"I can't say you are very smart. Roswell," said Ralph, a little
contemptuously.

"Tell me what you mean, then."

"What is easier than to get a key made that will fit the drawer?
All you'll have to do is to take an impression of the lock with
sealing-wax, and carry it to a locksmith. He'll make you a key for two
shillings."

"I don't know," said Roswell, undecidedly. "I don't quite like to do
it."

"Do just as you please," said Ralph; "only if I carry you to the
theatre I expect you to return the compliment."

"Well, I'll think of it," said Roswell.

"There is another way you can do," suggested Ralph, who was full of
evil suggestions, and was perhaps the most dangerous counsellor that
Roswell could have had at this time.

"What is it?"

"If you make any sales while you are alone you might forget to put the
money into the drawer."

"Yes, I might do that."

"And ten to one Baker would never suspect. Of course he doesn't know
every book he has in his store or the exact amount of stationery he
keeps on hand."

"No, I suppose not."

"You might begin that way. There couldn't be any danger of detection."

This suggestion struck Roswell more favorably than the first, as it
seemed safer. Without giving any decided answer, he suffered the
thought to sink into his mind, and occupy his thoughts.

The next day when about the middle of the day Roswell found himself
alone, a customer came in and bought a package of envelopes, paying
twenty-five cents.

With a half-guilty feeling Roswell put this sum into his pocket.

"Mr. Baker will never miss a package of envelopes," he thought.

He sold two or three other articles, but the money received for these
he put into the drawer. He did not dare to take too much at first.
Indeed, he took a little credit to himself, so strangely had his ideas
of honesty got warped, for not taking more when he might have done so
as well as not.

Mr. Baker returned, and nothing was said. As might have been expected,
he did not miss the small sum which Roswell had appropriated.

That evening Roswell bought a couple of cigars with the money he had
stolen (we might as well call things by their right names), and treated
Ralph to one.

"There's a splendid play on at Wallack's," said he, suggestively.

"Perhaps we'll go to-morrow evening," said Roswell.

"That's the way to talk," said Ralph, looking keenly at Roswell. "Is
there anything new with you?"

"Not particularly," said Roswell, coloring a little, for he did not
care to own what he had done to his companion, though it was from him
that he had received the advice.

The next day when Roswell was again alone, a lady entered the shop.

"Have you got La Fontaine's Fables in English?" she asked. "I have
asked at half a dozen stores, but I can't find it. I am afraid it is
out of print."

"Yes, I believe we have it," said Roswell.

He remembered one day when he was looking for a book he wanted to read,
that he had come across a shop-worn copy of La Fontaine's Fables. It
was on a back shelf, in an out of-the-way place. He looked for it, and
found his memory had served him correctly.

"Here it is," he said, handing it down.

"I am very glad to get it," said the lady. "How much will it be?"

"The regular price is a dollar and a quarter, but as this is a little
shop-worn you may have it for a dollar."

"Very well."

The lady drew out a dollar bill from her purse, and handed it to
Roswell.

He held it in his hand till she was fairly out of the door. Then the
thought came into his mind, "Why should I not keep this money? Mr.
Baker would never know. Probably he has quite forgotten that such a
book was in his stock."

Besides, as the price of a ticket to the family circle at Wallack's
was only thirty cents, this sum would carry in him and his friend, and
there would be enough left for an ice-cream after they had got through.

The temptation was too much for poor Roswell I call him poor, because I
pity any boy who foolishly yields to such a temptation for the sake of
a temporary gratification.

Roswell put the money into his vest-pocket, and shortly afterwards Mr.
Baker returned to the store.

"Have you sold anything, Roswell?" he inquired, on entering.

"Yes, sir. I have sold a slate, a quire of notepaper, and one of Oliver
Optic's books."

Roswell showed Mr. Baker the slate, on which, as required by his
employer, he had kept a record of sales.

Mr. Baker made no remark, but appeared to think all was right.

So the afternoon passed away without any incident worthy of mention.

In the evening Roswell met Ralph Graham, as he had got into the habit
of doing.

"Well, Roswell, I feel just like going to the theatre to-night," were
his first words of salutation.

"Well, we'll go," said Roswell.

"Good! You've got money to buy the tickets, then?"

"Yes," said Roswell, with an air of importance. "What's the play?"

"It's a London play that's had a great run. Tom Hastings tells me it is
splendid. You take me there to night, and I'll take you to the New York
Circus some evening next week."

This arrangement was very satisfactory to Roswell, who had never
visited the circus, and had a great desire to do so. At an early hour
the boys went to the theatre, and succeeded in obtaining front seats
in the family circle. Roswell managed to enjoy the play, although
unpleasant thoughts of how the money was obtained by which the tickets
were procured, would occasionally intrude upon him. But the fascination
of the stage kept them from troubling him much.

When the performance was over, he suggested an ice-cream.

"With all my heart," said Ralph. "I feel warm and thirsty, and an
ice-cream will cool my throat."

So they adjourned to a confectionery establishment nearly opposite, and
Roswell, with an air of importance, called for the creams. They sat
leisurely over them, and it was nearly half past eleven when Roswell
got home.

"What keeps you out so late, Roswell?" asked his mother, anxiously, for
she was still up.

