5 eggs.

1 cup milk.

2 glasses sherry.

½ cup of powdered sugar.

Put the cakes in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish; pour the wine
over them, and cover while you make the custard. Heat the milk and pour
over the yolks of the eggs, beaten and strained, and half the sugar.
Return to the fire, and stir until quite thick. Pour this upon the
soaked cakes, slowly, that they may not rise to the top; put in the
oven, and when it is again very hot, spread above it the whites whisked
stiff with the rest of the sugar.

Bake ten minutes, or until the méringue is lightly browned and firm.
Serve in the baking-dish.

Eat cold. It will be found very nice.


APPLE SOUFFLÉ PUDDING. +

6 or 7 fine juicy apples.

1 cup fine bread-crumbs.

4 eggs.

1 cup of sugar.

2 table-spoonfuls butter.

Nutmeg and a little grated lemon-peel.

Pare, core and slice the apples, and stew in a covered farina-kettle,
without a drop of water, until they are tender. Mash to a smooth pulp,
and, while hot, stir in butter and sugar. Let it get quite cold, and
whip in, first the yolks of the eggs, then the whites—beaten very
stiff—alternately with the bread-crumbs. Flavor, beat hard three
minutes, until all the ingredients are reduced to a creamy batter, and
bake in a buttered dish, in a moderate oven. It will take about an
hour to cook it properly. Keep it covered until ten minutes before you
take it out. This will retain the juices and prevent the formation of a
crust on the top.

Eat warm with “bee-hive sauce.”


RICE SOUFFLÉ PUDDING. +

½ cup raw rice.

1 pint of milk.

6 eggs.

4 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.

1 table-spoonful butter.

Soak the rice in warm water enough to cover it well for two hours.
Put it over the fire in the same water, and simmer in a farina-kettle
until the rice is dry. Add the milk, shaking up the rice—not stirring
it—and cook slowly, covered, until tender throughout. Stir in the
butter, then the yolks of the eggs, beaten and strained, whatever
flavoring you may desire, and when these have cooled somewhat, the
whipped whites. Bake in a handsome pudding-dish, well buttered, half an
hour.

Eat warm—not hot—or very cold.


ARROWROOT SOUFFLÉ PUDDING.

3 cups of milk.

5 eggs.

1 large table-spoonful butter.

3 table-spoonfuls sugar.

4 table-spoonfuls Bermuda arrowroot, wet up with cold milk.

Vanilla or other flavoring.

Heat the milk to a boil, and stir into this the arrowroot. Simmer,
using your spoon freely all the time, until it thickens up well. Put in
the butter; take from the fire and beat into it the yolks and sugar,
previously whipped together. Stir hard and put in the whites, whisked
very stiff, and the flavoring.

Butter a neat baking-dish; put in the mixture and bake half an hour.

Sift powdered sugar over it, and serve immediately.


A VERY DELICATE SOUFFLÉ.

5 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately.

2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot wet up in 4 table-spoonfuls cold water.

4 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.

Rose-water flavoring.

Beat the sugar into the whipped yolks, and into the whites, little by
little, the dissolved arrowroot. Flavor and whisk all together. Butter
a neat mould, pour in the mixture until half way to the top, and bake
half an hour.

If quite firm, and if you have a steady hand, you may turn it out upon
a hot dish. It then makes a handsome show. It is safer to leave it in
the baking-dish. It must be served at once. It is very nice.


BATTER PUDDING. (Very nice.) +

1 quart of milk.

16 table-spoonfuls of flour.

4 eggs beaten very light.

Salt to taste.

Stir until the batter is free from lumps, and bake in two buttered pie
plates, or very shallow pudding-dishes.


APPLE AND BATTER PUDDING. (Very good.) +

1 pint of milk.

2 eggs, beaten light.

1 dessert-spoonful butter, rubbed in the flour.

¼ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water.

½ teaspoonful of cream of tartar, sifted in the flour.

A pinch of salt.

Flour enough for thin batter.

6 apples—well flavored and slightly tart.

Pare and core the apples and put them in a buttered pudding-dish. Pour
the batter over them and bake three-quarters of an hour. Eat hot with
hard sauce.



PUDDING-DISHES.

The baking-dish of “ye olden time” was never comely; often positively
unsightly. Dainty housewives pinned napkins around them and wreathed
them with flowers to make them less of an eyesore. In this day,
the pudding-maker can combine the æsthetic and useful by using the
enameled wares of MESSRS. LALANGE AND GROSJEAN, 89 BEEKMAN STREET,
NEW YORK. The pudding-dishes made by them are pretty in themselves,
easily kept clean; do not crack or blacken under heat, and are set on
the table in handsome stands of plated silver that completely conceal
the baking-dish. A silver rim runs around the top and hides even the
edge of the bowl. They can be had, with or without covers, and are
invaluable for macaroni, scallops, and many other “baked meats.”
Saucepans and kettles of every kind are made in the same ware by this
firm.


FRITTERS.

Not even so-called pastry is more ruthlessly murdered in the mixing and
baking than that class of desserts the generic name of which stands
at the head of this bake. Heavy, sour, sticky and oleaginous beyond
civilized comparison, it is no marvel that the compound popularly known
and eaten as “fritter” has become a doubtful dainty in the esteem of
many, the object of positive loathing to some.

I do not recommend my fritters to dyspeptics and babies, nor as a
standing dish to anybody. But that they can be made toothsome, spongy
and harmless, as well as pleasant to those blessed with healthy
appetites and unimpaired digestions, I hold firmly and intelligently.

Two or three conditions are requisite to this end. The fritters must be
quickly made, thoroughly beaten, of right consistency,—and they must
not lie in the fat the fraction of a minute after they are done. Take
them up with a perforated spoon, or egg-beater, and lay on a hot sieve
or cullender to drain before serving on the dish that is to take them
to the table. Moreover, the fat must be hissing hot when the batter
goes in if you would not have them grease-soaked to the very heart.
Line the dish in which they are served with tissue-paper fringed at the
ends, or a clean napkin to absorb any lingering drops of lard.


BELL FRITTERS. +

2 cups of milk.

2 cups of prepared flour.

3 table-spoonfuls sugar.

4 eggs, very well beaten.

A little salt.

½ tea-spoonful of cinnamon.

Beat the sugar into the yolks; add the milk, salt and seasoning, the
flour and whites alternately. Beat hard for three minutes.

Have ready plenty of lard in a deep frying-pan or Scotch kettle; make
very hot; drop in the batter in table-spoonfuls, and fry to a good
brown. Be careful not to scorch the lard, or the fritters will be
ruined in taste and color.

Throw upon a warm sieve or cullender as fast as they are fried, and
sift powdered sugar over them.

Eat hot with lemon sauce.


RUSK FRITTERS. +

12 stale rusks.

5 eggs.

4 table-spoonfuls white sugar.

2 glasses best sherry.

Pare all the crust from the rusk, and cut each into two pieces if
small—into three if large. The slices should be nearly an inch thick.
Pour the wine over them; leave them in it two or three minutes, then
lay on a sieve to drain. Beat the sugar into the yolks (which should
first be whipped and strained), then the whites. Dip each slice into
this mixture and fry in boiling lard to a light golden brown.

Drain well; sprinkle with powdered sugar mingled with cinnamon, and
serve hot, with or without sauce.


LIGHT FRITTERS.

3 cups stale bread-crumbs.

1 quart of milk.

4 eggs.

Salt and nutmeg to taste.

3 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.

Scald the milk and pour it over the crumbs. Stir to a smooth, soft
batter, add the yolks, whipped and strained, the seasoning, the
flour—then, the whites whisked very stiff. Mix well, and fry, by the
table-spoonful, in boiling lard. Drain; serve hot and eat with sweet
sauce.


CURRANT FRITTERS. (Very nice.)

2 cups dry, fine bread-crumbs.

2 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.

2 cups of milk.

½ pound currants, washed and well dried.

5 eggs whipped very light, and the yolks strained.

½ cup powdered sugar.

1 table-spoonful butter.

½ teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg.

Boil the milk and pour over the bread. Mix and put in the butter. Let
it get cold. Beat in, next, the yolks and sugar, the seasoning, flour
and stiff whites; finally, the currants dredged whitely with flour. The
batter should be thick.

Drop in great spoonfuls into the hot lard and fry. Drain them and send
hot to table.

Eat with a mixture of wine and powdered sugar.


LEMON FRITTERS. +

2 heaping cups of prepared flour.

5 eggs—beaten stiff. Strain the yolks.

½ cup cream.

Grated peel of half a lemon.

½ cup powdered sugar.

1 teaspoonful mingled nutmeg and cinnamon.

A little salt.

Beat up the whipped and strained yolks with the sugar; add the
seasoning and cream; the whites, at last the flour, worked in quickly
and lightly. It should be a soft paste, just stiff enough to roll
out. Pass the rolling-pin once or twice over it until it is about
three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut into small, circular cakes with a
tumbler or cake-cutter; drop into the hot lard and fry. They ought to
puff up like crullers. Drain on clean, hot paper. Eat warm with a sauce
made of—

Juice of 2 lemons.

Grated peel of one.

1 cup of powdered sugar.

1 glass wine.

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff.


APPLE FRITTERS.

8 or 10 fine pippins or greenings.

Juice of 1 lemon.

3 cups prepared flour.

6 eggs.

3 cups milk.

Some powdered sugar.

Cinnamon and nutmeg.

A little salt.

Pare and core the apples neatly, leaving a hole in the centre of each.
Cut crosswise into slices half an inch thick. Spread these on a dish
and sprinkle with lemon-juice and powdered sugar.

Beat the eggs light, straining the yolks, and add to the latter the
milk and salt, the whites and the flour, by turns. Dip the slices of
apple into the batter, turning them until they are thoroughly coated,
and fry, a few at a time, in hot lard. Throw upon a warm sieve as fast
as you take them out, and sift powdered sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg over
them.

These fritters require dexterous handling, but if properly made and
cooked, are delicious.

Eat with wine sauce.


RICE FRITTERS. +

2 cups of milk.

Nearly a cup raw rice.

3 table-spoonfuls sugar.

¼ pound raisins.

3 eggs.

1 table-spoonful butter.

1 table-spoonful flour.

Nutmeg and salt.

Soak the rice three hours in enough warm water to cover it well. At the
end of this time, put it into a farina-kettle, set in an outer vessel
of hot water, and simmer until dry. Add the milk and cook until it is
all absorbed. Stir in the butter and take from the fire. Beat the eggs
very light with the sugar, and when the rice has cooled, stir these in
with the flour and seasoning. Flour your hands well and make this into
flat cakes. Place in the middle of each two or three raisins which have
been “plumped” in boiling water. Roll the cake into a ball enclosing
the raisins, flour well and fry in plenty of hot lard.

Serve on a napkin, with sugar and cinnamon sifted over them. Eat with
sweetened cream, hot or cold.


CORN-MEAL FRITTERS.

3 cups milk.

2 cups best Indian meal.

½ cup flour.

4 eggs.

½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, sifted in flour.

1 table-spoonful sugar.

1 table-spoonful melted butter.

1 teaspoonful salt.

Beat and strain the yolks; add sugar, butter, milk and salt, the
soda-water, and then stir in the Indian meal. Beat five minutes hard
before adding the whites. The flour, containing the cream of tartar,
should go in last. Again, beat up vigorously. The batter should be just
thick enough to drop readily from the spoon. Put into boiling lard by
the spoonful. One or two experiments as to the quantity to be dropped
for one fritter will teach you to regulate size and shape.

Drain very well and serve at once. Eat with a sauce made of butter
and sugar, seasoned with cinnamon.

Some persons like a suspicion of ginger mixed in the fritters, or in
the sauce. You can add or withhold it as you please.


PEACH FRITTERS. (With Yeast.)

1 quart of flour.

1 cup of milk.

½ cup of yeast.

2 table-spoonfuls sugar.

4 eggs.

2 table-spoonfuls of butter.

A little salt.

Some fine, ripe freestone peaches, pared and stoned.

Sift the flour into a bowl; work in milk and yeast, and set it in a
tolerably warm place to rise. This will take five or six hours. Then
beat the eggs very light with sugar, butter and salt. Mix this with
the risen dough, and beat with a stout wooden spoon until all the
ingredients are thoroughly incorporated. Knead vigorously with your
hands; pull off bits about the size of an egg; flatten each and put in
the centre a peach, from which the stone has been taken through a slit
in the side. Close the dough upon it, make into a round roll and set
in order upon a floured pan for the second rising. The balls must not
touch one another. They should be light in an hour. Have ready a large
round-bottomed Scotch kettle or saucepan, with plenty of lard—boiling
hot. Drop in your peach-pellets and fry more slowly than you would
fritters made in the usual way. Drain on hot white paper; sift powdered
sugar over them and eat hot with brandy sauce.

You can make these of canned peaches or apricots wiped dry from the
syrup.


POTATO FRITTERS.

6 table-spoonfuls mashed potato—very fine.

½ cup good cream.

5 eggs—the yolks light and strained—the whites whisked very stiff.

2 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.

2 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.

Juice of 1 lemon. Half the grated peel.

½ teaspoonful nutmeg.

Work the cream into the potato; beat up light and rub through a sieve,
or very fine cullender. Add to this the beaten yolks and sugar. Whip to
a creamy froth; put in the lemon, flour, nutmeg, and beat five minutes
longer before the whites are stirred in. Have your lard ready and hot
in the frying-pan. Drop in the batter by the spoonful and fry to a
light brown. Drain on clean paper, and serve at once.

Eat with wine sauce.


CREAM FRITTERS. (Very nice.)

1 cup cream.

5 eggs—the whites only.

2 full cups prepared flour.

1 saltspoonful nutmeg.

A pinch of salt.

Stir the whites into the cream in turn with the flour, put in nutmeg
and salt, beat all up hard for two minutes. The batter should be rather
thick. Fry in plenty of hot sweet lard, a spoonful of batter for each
fritter. Drain and serve upon a hot, clean napkin.

Eat with jelly sauce. Pull, not cut them open.


ROLL FRITTERS, OR IMITATION DOUGHNUTS. +

8 small round rolls, stale and light.

1 cup rich milk.

2 table-spoonfuls sugar.

1 teaspoonful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon.

Beaten yolks of 3 eggs.

1 cupful powdered crackers.

Pare every bit of the crust from the rolls with a keen knife, and
trim them into round balls. Sweeten the milk with the sugar, put in
the spice; lay the rolls upon a soup-plate, and pour the milk over
them. Turn them over and over, until they soak it all up. Drain for a
few minutes on a sieve; dip in the beaten yolks, roll in the powdered
cracker, and fry in plenty of lard.

Drain and serve hot with lemon-sauce.

They are very good.


SPONGE-CAKE FRITTERS.

6 or 8 square (penny) sponge-cakes.

1 cup cream, boiling hot, with a pinch of soda stirred in.

4 eggs, whipped light.

1 table-spoonful corn-starch, wet up in cold milk.

¼ pound currants, washed and dried.

Pound the cakes fine, and pour the cream over them. Stir in the
corn-starch. Cover for half an hour, then beat until cold. Add the
yolks—light and strained, the whipped whites, then the currants thickly
dredged with flour. Beat all hard together. Drop in spoonfuls into the
boiling lard; fry quickly; drain upon a warmed sieve, and send to table
hot.

The syrup of brandied fruit makes an excellent sauce for these.


CURD FRITTERS.

1 quart sweet milk.

2 glasses white wine.

1 teaspoonful liquid rennet.

5 eggs, whipped light.

4 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.

2 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.

Nutmeg to taste.

Scald the milk, and pour in the wine and rennet. Take from the fire,
cover, and let it stand until curd and whey are well separated. Drain
off every drop of the latter, and dry the curd by laying for a few
minutes upon a soft, clean cloth. Beat yolks and sugar together, whip
in the curd until fully mixed; then the flour, nutmeg and whites. The
batter should be smooth, and rather thick.

Have ready some butter in a small frying-pan; drop in the fritters a
few at a time, and fry quickly. Drain upon a warm sieve, lay within a
dish lined with white paper, or a clean napkin; sift powdered sugar
over them, and eat with jelly sauce.

Odd as the receipt may seem in the reading, the fritters are most
palatable. In the country, where milk is plenty, they may be made of
cream—unless, as is too often the case, the good wife will save all
the cream for butter.




CONCERNING ALLOWANCES.

(CONFIDENTIAL—WITH JOHN.)


I do not like that word “allowance.” It savors too much of a stipend
granted by a lordling to a serf; a government pension to a beneficiary;
the dole of the rich to the poor. But since it has crept into general
use as descriptive of that portion of the wife’s earnings which she is
permitted to disburse more or less at her discretion, we must take it
as we find it.

Marriage is to a woman one of two things—licensed, and therefore
honorable beggary, or, a copartnership with her husband upon fair
and distinctly specified terms. When I spoke of the wife’s earnings
just now, it was not with reference to moneys accumulated by work or
investments outside of the home which she occupies with you and your
children. We will set aside, if you please, the legal and religious
fiction that you have endowed her with all—or half your worldly goods,
and put still further from our consideration the sounding oaths with
which you protested in the days of your wooing, that you cared nothing
for pelf and lucre—Cupid’s terms for stocks, bonds and mortgages,
houses and lands—except that you might cast them at her feet. If
you recollect such figures of speech at all, it is with a laugh,
good-humored, or shame-faced, and the plea that everybody talks in
the same way in like circumstances; that pledges thus given are in no
wise to be regarded as promissory notes. Hymen’s is a general court
of bankruptcy so far as such obligations go. Your wife is a sensible
woman, and never expected to take you at your word—at least, such hot
and hasty words as those, in which you declared yourself to be the
most abject of her slaves, and herself the empress of your universe,
including the aforementioned stocks, mortgages, houses and lands, real
and personal estate—all assets in esse and in posse.

Having cleared away, by a stroke of common sense, this gossamer, that
like other cobwebs, is pretty while the dew of early morning impearls
it, and only an annoyance afterward; particularly odious when it
entangles itself about the lips and eyes of him who lately admired
it—we will look at the question of the wife’s work and wages from a
business point of view—pencil and paper in hand.

First, we will determine what should be the salary of a competent
housekeeper; one who makes her employer’s interests her own; who rises
up early and lies down late, and eats the bread of carefulness; who is
not to be coaxed away by higher wages, and is never in danger of giving
warning if her “feelings are hurt;” if the servants are insubordinate,
or the master is given to fault-finding, and not always respectful to
herself. It would be to your interest, were you a widower, you confess,
to give this treasure two dollars a day—as women’s wages go. “And,” you
add in a burst of manly confidence, “she would be cheap at that.” But
we will put down her salary in round numbers, at $700 per annum.

Now comes the seamstress’ pay. Again, a “competent person,” one who
is ever in her place; whose work-hours number fourteen out of the
twenty-four, if her services are required by you or the children;
whose needle is always threaded, her eye ever vigilant; with whom
slighting and botching are things unknown by practice; who takes pride
in seeing each of the household trig and tidy; who “seeketh wool and
flax, and worketh willingly with her hands;” who is an adept in fine
needlework as in plain sewing, and not a novice in dress-making; who,
perchance, can “manage” boys’ clothes as well as girls—who will do it,
of a certainty, if you explain that you cannot afford tailors’ bills
for urchins under ten years of age; finally, who possesses that most
valuable of arts for a poor man’s wife,

  “To gar auld claes look a’maist as weel as new.”

Shall we allow to this nonpareil the wages of an ordinary seamstress
who “cannot undertake cutting and fitting,”—one dollar a day? Or, is
she entitled to the pay of a dressmaker’s assistant—half a dollar more?
I do not want to be hard with you. We will set her down for $450 a
year. And, again, we conclude that you have made a good bargain.

Next, the nursery-governess, and perhaps the most important functionary
in the household. She must, you stipulate, have charge of the children,
by day and night; guard morals, health and manners, besides teaching
the youngerlings the rudiments of reading and writing; must superintend
the preparation of the elder ones’ lessons for school-recitations,
and look to it that catechism and Bible-lesson are ready for
Sabbath-school; that musical exercises are duly practised; that
home is made so attractive to the boys that they shall not be drawn
thence by the questionable hilarity of engine-house and oyster-cellar.
A lady she must be, else how would your girls be trained to modest
and graceful behavior, and your friends be entertained as you deem
is due to you and to them, in your house? A responsible, judicious
person is indispensable to the comfort and health of you and yours;
one who does not regard the care of a young baby as “too confining;”
nor sleepless nights on account of it, a valid reason for “bettering
herself;” nor a brisk succession of measles, mumps and chicken-pox
cogent cause for informing you that she “didn’t engage for this sort of
work, and would you be suiting yourself with a lady as has a stronger
constitution—immediate, for her trunk is packed.”

Would a thousand dollars per annum provide you with such a hireling? I
knew a wealthy man who offered just that sum for a nursery-governess
during the protracted illness of his wife. She must be intelligent and
ladylike, he stated, qualified to undertake the education of the three
younger children. There were six in all, but there was a tutor for the
boys. The governess’ bed-room adjoined that of the little girls, the
