and absence of all colour that seems to belong to great palaces when the
owners are out of town, and the cold monotony of everything soothed him
a little. After wandering aimlessly for half an hour, he settled into a
regular walk, up and down the great ball-room, with its clere-story
windows and vaulted ceiling. Up and down, up and down, with an even,
untiring tread he paced, his eyes bent always on the floor and his hands
behind him. His walk was like clockwork, absolutely even and unchanging,
with its rhythmic echo and unvarying accuracy.

The broad daylight softened into shadow, and the shadow deepened into
gloom, but still he kept on his beat as though counting his steps and
measuring the time. There was a certain relief in it, though not from
his mastering thought, which held him in a vise and never relaxed for a
second, but from his terrible restlessness. It was an outlet to his
overwrought activity, and he did it monotonously, without any
consideration, because there was nothing else to do, and it would have
driven him mad to sit still for five minutes.

As the night came on, strange faces seemed to look upon him from the
gathering darkness. The thick, warm air took shape and substance, and he
could distinguish forms moving quickly before him that he could not
overtake. But there was no sensation of horror or fear with the
sight--he gazed curiously at the fleeting shadows and looked into their
faces as they came close to him and retreated, but he could not
recognise them, and did not ask himself whence they came nor whither
they were going, nor why he saw them. It seemed very natural somehow.

But at last, as he turned, there was one coming toward him that had more
substance than the rest, so that they all vanished but that one. It was
a woman, and she seemed moving towards him; but it was almost quite
dark. He came nearer; his waking senses caught the sound of her
footstep; she was no shadow--it was his wife coming back to him--it had
all been a fearful dream, and she was there again. He sprang forward
with a quick cry.

"Leonora! Oh, thank God!" and he fell forward into her arms.

"No, dearest brother--it is not Leonora--would God it were!"

Diana had come already--he could not tell how--and they stood together
in the dark, empty ball-room, clasped in each other's arms.




CHAPTER XIX.


Diana had found ample time to think over the situation during the
journey, and she was prepared for difficulties. Her brother could hardly
be in his right mind, she thought, and would certainly be on the verge
of doing something desperate, which she must prevent.

As was usual with her in sudden emergencies, she had been wonderfully
quiet. She was shocked and horrified at the news, but neither the shock
nor the horror were uppermost in her mind. What she most felt was an
unutterable and loving pity for her brother; and as she sat in the
express train and looked out of the window at the interminable miles of
vineyard and cornland, the kind, womanly tears gathered and fell softly.
She could not help it, and she would not. Poor fellow! he deserved all
her heart, and her soul's sympathy, and the tears thereof.

Marcantonio was in no state to reason or to be reasoned with. He had a
strange illusion for a moment, when he thought his wife had returned to
him, but he at once realised his folly and understood that Diana had
come to meet him--had come, doubtless, to prevent him from accomplishing
his vengeance. He had been so sure that she could not arrive until the
next morning that he had anticipated no interruption in his plans, and
he was angry with her for being in his way. She would watch him day and
night, and hinder all his movements. So long as she was with him it
would be impossible to do anything. He answered her very coldly.

"You have come already? I did not expect you so soon."

They moved towards the door, groping in the deep gloom, and presently
reached a room where there were lights. Then Diana saw her brother's
face and understood that he was mad or desperately ill, or both. The
ghastly colour, the bloodshot eyes, the trembling hand, she saw it all.
She had not known what change his trouble would make in him, but she
knew it would be great. But she was startled now that she was face to
face with him. It seemed too terribly real. She could not help it, she
bent her beautiful fair head on his shoulder and threw her arms about
him and sobbed aloud.

But Marcantonio only understood that she was there to keep him from his
ends, from the one thing in the world which he wished to do, and meant
to do, and surely would accomplish. As she leaned on him and shed those
bitter tears for him, he stood passive and dry-eyed, staring vacantly
above her at the wall, and his hands hung by his side, not offering to
support her or to comfort her. He only wished she were gone again and
had never come to trouble him.

It was only for a moment. Such outbursts of feeling were rare with
Diana; people said she was a piece of ice, heartless, and without
sympathy for any human being. They judged her by her face and by the
dignity of her manner, not knowing of the things she had done in her
life that were neither heartless nor cold. But now she recovered herself
quickly and dried her eyes, and made Marcantonio sit down. She looked at
him intently as though trying to understand him. He had never met her so
coldly before in his life; there must be a reason for it,--he was
evidently beside himself with suffering, but his temporary madness could
hardly take the form of a sudden dislike for herself unless there were
some cause.

"You did not expect me so soon," she said, speaking very gently. "It was
by a mere chance that I managed it."

"I am very sorry," said Marcantonio in a monotonous voice that had no
life in it, and seemed not his own. "If you had waited a little while I
could have saved you the journey."

"The journey is nothing," said she. "I am not tired at all, and I would
come across the world to be with you."

"Yes," said Marcantonio, "I know you would. It would have been better if
we had met further on."

"Further on?" she repeated, hoping he would give her some clue to his
intentions.

The old habit of confidence was too strong for him; he wished her away,
but he could not help speaking and telling her something. He had never
concealed anything from her.

"In Turin," he answered briefly.

"Ah,--is he there?" asked Diana in a low voice.

"He sent his box there,--he will go and get it."

"And then?"

"And then," said Marcantonio, the sullen fire burning in his reddened
eyes, "we shall meet."

Diana was silent for a moment, determining what to do. All this she had
expected, but she had not thought to find her brother so changed.

"Tell me, Marcantonio," she said earnestly, "did you think I would
prevent your meeting with him?" He hesitated. She took his hand and
looked into his face as though urging him to answer.

"Yes," he said hoarsely.

Diana understood. This was the reason of his evident annoyance at her
coming. He thought she meant to prevent him from fighting Batiscombe.

"You know better than that," she said gravely. Marcantonio turned upon
her quickly with an angry look.

"You prevented me before," he said. "If I had shot him then, this
trouble would not have come. You know it,--why do you look at me like
that?"

"If you had shot him before," said she, "this could not have happened.
But if he had shot you,--that was possible, was it not?--you gained
nothing. If neither of you had killed the other, there would have been a
useless scandal. The case is different."

If she had found her brother overcome with his sorrow and abandoned to
the suffering it brought, sensitive and shrinking from all allusion to
his shame, she would have acted very differently. But she found him
possessed of but one idea, how to kill Julius Batiscombe; he was hard
and unyielding; he seemed to have forgotten the wife he had loved so
well, in the longing to destroy the man who had stolen her away. She
felt no hesitation in speaking plainly of the matter in hand, since his
feelings needed no sparing. But her sympathy was so large and honest
that she did not feel hurt herself because he was cold to her; she
understood that he was scarcely in his right mind, and she could make
all allowance for him.

Marcantonio did not answer at once. But her influence on him, as she sat
there, was soothing, and he was gradually yielding under it--not in the
least abandoning his one idea, but feeling that she might not hinder its
execution after all.

"Do you mean to say," he asked suddenly, "that you will not try to
prevent my meeting with him?" He turned and looked into her eyes, that
met his honestly and fearlessly.

"Assuredly I will not prevent you," said she.

"Really and truly?"

"So truly that if I thought you had meant to leave him alone, I would
have tried to make you fight him."

Marcantonio laughed scornfully, in a way that was bad to hear. It had
never struck him that he could possibly have not wanted to fight. But in
a moment he was grave again.

"What a woman you are, Diana!" he exclaimed. It sounded more like
himself than anything he had said yet, and Diana was encouraged. But she
said nothing.

In her simple code, fighting was a necessary thing in the world. She had
been brought up among people who fought duels under provocation, and it
never entered her head that under certain circumstances there was
anything else to be done. Women often scream with terror at the mention
of such a thing, but very few of them will have anything to do with men
who will not fight when they are insulted. In preventing a challenge
after the affair at Sorrento she had done violence to her feelings for
the sake of Leonora's reputation. In the present instance that was no
longer at stake. It was perfectly clear that her brother must have
satisfaction from his enemy, as soon as might be.

She had never hesitated, therefore, in her view of Marcantonio's
situation, and when he put the question to her she answered it boldly
and naturally. But, somehow, he had not understood his sister before,
though he had yielded to her, and he was astonished at her readiness to
agree with him. He looked at her with a sort of admiration, and his
feeling towards her changed.

"Then you will help me to find him?" he asked.

"I will stay with you until you do," she answered.

"It is the same thing," said he. "Will you come to Turin with me at
once?"

"I will not leave you," she said. "We can go to Turin to-morrow, if you
like."

"No--to-night," he said, quickly. The idea of wasting twelve hours
seemed intolerable.

But Diana had made up her mind that he must rest a while before doing
anything more. She shuddered when she looked at his face and saw the
change wrought there in six and thirty hours.

"If we start now," she said, "we shall arrive in the evening. You could
do nothing at night. Rest until the morning, and then we will go. You
will need all the strength you have."

"I cannot rest," he said gloomily.

"You must try," answered Diana. "I will read to you till you are
asleep."

He rose and began to pace the room. The doubt that she intended to keep
him back sprang up again in his unsettled mind. He stopped before her.

"No," he said, "I will go to-night, and you need not come if you are too
tired. You want to prevent me from going at all--I see it in your
face."

Diana looked up at him as she sat. No one but a madman could have
doubted the faith of those grey eyes of hers, and as Marcantonio gazed
on them the old influence of the stronger character began to act. He
turned away impatiently.

"You always make me do what you like," he said, and began to walk again.

Diana forced herself to laugh a little.

"Do not be so foolish, dear boy," she said. "I want you to sleep
to-night, and to-morrow we will go to the world's end together. You will
lose twelve hours somewhere, because there are certain things that
cannot be done at night. Better make use of them now, and sleep, before
you are altogether exhausted. I promise to go with you to-morrow. Do you
mean to have an illness, or to go out of your mind? You will accomplish
one or the other in this way, and there will be an end of the whole
matter."

"Very well," said Marcantonio, unable to resist her will, "since you
promise it to me I will do as you please. But to-morrow morning I will
start, whatever happens."

"Very well," said Diana. "And now, dear brother, will you kindly give me
some dinner? I have scarcely had anything to-day."

"Dio mio!" cried Marcantonio, "what a brute I am!"

It was like him, she thought, to be angry at himself for having
forgotten to be hospitable. The words reassured her, for they sounded
natural. There had been moments during the conversation when she had
thought he was insane. Perhaps it was more his looks than his words,
however. At all events, as he rang the bell and ordered what was
necessary, she felt as though he were already better.

One of her reasons for wishing him to stay a night in Rome was that he
might immediately have a chance of growing calmer. Nothing distances
grief like sleep. Until the first impression had become less vivid in
his mind, she could not ask him questions about the circumstances of the
flight. She guessed that, although he was willing, and even anxious, to
talk of his future meeting with Batiscombe, it would be quite another
thing to make him speak of the past fact. And yet she knew nothing of
the details--not even exactly the time when it had all happened. She
half fancied that they must have got away by the sea, because it would
have been so simple; but she had no idea of how much Marcantonio knew,
nor whether the matter had yet in any way become public property. It was
necessary, she judged, that she should know something, at least, of the
circumstances. No one but Marcantonio could tell her, and before he
could be brought to speak he must be saved from the danger of a physical
illness which seemed to threaten him.

Before long dinner was ready. It was ten o'clock, and the meal had been
prepared for Marcantonio at eight; but he had behaved so strangely that
no one liked to go near him, and the servants supposed that if he wanted
anything he would ring the bell.

The two sat down opposite to each other. Diana was tired and hungry; she
had taken off her bonnet on arriving, and had gone straight to
Marcantonio, and now she would not leave him until she had seen him safe
in his room for the night. But in spite of the long journey, the
fatigue, and the great anxiety, she was the same, as queenly and
unruffled as ever, as smoothly and perfectly dressed, as quiet and
stately in her ways. No wonder she was the envy of half the women in
Europe. The half who did not envy her were those who had never seen her.

She watched Marcantonio as she sat opposite to him. It surprised her to
see that he ate well,--more than usual, in fact, and she attributed it
to a sudden improvement which had perhaps been brought about by her
arrival. She had expected that he would refuse to eat anything, and
would support his strength on strong coffee and tobacco. She thought
that at all events he would not be ill,--but, again, as she looked at
his face, its death-like yellowness frightened her, and the injected
veins of his eyeballs made his eyes look absolutely red.

They hardly spoke during the meal, for the servants came and went often,
and they could not speak any language together that would not be
understood.

After a time they were left alone, and they prepared to part for the
night. Diana laid her hand affectionately on her brother's forehead, as
though to feel whether it were hot. He looked so ill that it hurt her to
see him.

"You are worn out, dear boy," said she. "Go to bed and sleep."

"I will try," he said, rather submissively than otherwise. "But we will
go to-morrow, of course," he added quickly, turning to her with a
half-startled look.

"Of course," said she, reassuring him.

"Because," he said, "I told the detectives to telegraph to me there, and
I gave them my address at the hotel."

"Detectives?" repeated Diana, starting a little and looking surprised.
"What do you want them for?"

"Diavolo!" ejaculated Marcantonio savagely, "to find him, to be sure."

"Batiscombe is not the man to run away, or to need much finding," said
Diana, gravely, with an air of conviction. She did not like the idea.

"When men mean to be found they leave an address," said her brother,
between his teeth.

There was truth in what he said. Batiscombe ought to have let
Marcantonio know his whereabouts, it was the least a brave man could do,
and Batiscombe was undeniably brave. Diana felt a sharp sense of pain;
the idea that her brother was hunting down with detectives, like a
common malefactor, the man who had once loved her so well--the idea
that she was helping to find him in order that Marcantonio might kill
him if he could--it was frightful to her. She was bitterly atoning for
one innocent girlish fancy of long ago.

"Marcantonio," she said, almost entreatingly, "do not do it. Give up the
police. I am sure he will meet you without that"--

"Ah yes!" he interrupted, "you know him. Of course you will not help me!
I forgot that you were come to shield him,--you--I know you will not
help me!"

He spoke fiercely and brutally, as he had never spoken to her before.
But mad or not mad, Diana would not submit to such words from any one.
She turned white, and faced him in the light of the two great lamps that
burned on the table. The whole power and splendid force of her nature
gleamed in her eyes, and thrilled in the low, distinct tones of her
voice.

"What you say is utterly base, and ignoble, and untrue," she said
slowly.

He hung his head, for he knew he was wrong. He did not know what he
said; indeed he had hardly known what he was doing all that day.

"I am sorry, Diana," he said, at last, quite humbly. "I am not myself
to-day."

Her anger melted away instantly. Himself! No indeed, poor fellow, he was
not himself, and perhaps never would be his old self again. He was so
utterly wretched as he stood there before her with his head bent and his
hands clasped together, so forlorn and forsaken and pitiful, the moment
the sustaining force of his anger left him, that no human creature could
have seen him without giving him all sympathy and comfort. Diana went
close to him and put her arms about him, and kissed him, and her tears
wet his cheek. He suffered her to lead him quietly away to his rooms,
and she left him in the care of his faithful old servant.

"The signore is ill," she said. "Some one must watch in the outer room
all night, in case he wants anything."

Diana herself was exhausted, in spite of her strength and extraordinary
nerve. There were times when she broke down, as she had done at Sorrento
when she heard Julius and Leonora outside her window, but it was always
after the struggle was over, when she was alone. Moreover she had the
advantage of a perfectly serene past life, during which no serious
trouble had come near her, and her strength had increased with her
maturity. It all stood her in good stead now, and helped her to bear
what she had to suffer. She went to bed and slept a dreamless sleep
which completely restored her. It is the privilege of very calm and
evenly balanced natures to take rest when it can be had, and to bear
wakefulness and fatigue better in the long run than extremely active and
physically energetic people.

As for Marcantonio, he tossed upon his bed and dreamed broken dreams
that woke him again and again with a sudden start; he dreamed he had
found his man, and the excitement of the moment waked him. Then he
dreamed he was quarrelling with his sister, and was suddenly wide awake
at the sound of her reproachful voice. He was talking to Leonora,
pleading with her, and using all his eloquence to win her back, and she
laughed scornfully at him--and that waked him too.

But at last he slept soundly for an hour or two, just before daybreak,
and awoke feeling tired, but more restful. The dawn came stealing
through the windows, and he got up and moved about a little, with a
sensation of enjoyment in the cool, fresh air.

He looked into the glass, and started at his own face that he saw
reflected there. It seemed like a hideous mask of himself, all drawn and
distorted and pale. But had he looked at himself on the previous day he
might have seen an improvement now. He was deadly pale, but no longer
yellow, and his eyes had lost the redness which had frightened his
sister. He looked ill, but not crazy, and he felt that he could trust
himself to-day not to say the things he had said yesterday.

He would go to Turin of course--that was settled--unless Diana were too
tired; but he would not have admitted such a condition when he went to
bed the night before.

He rang the bell and ordered his things to be got ready. The old
servant, who had slept on a sofa outside, looked haggard and unshaved,
and stared suspiciously as he heard the order. But he did not dare to
make any remarks, as he would have done if his master had been well.
Marcantonio had been ill once before, when he was a boy of fifteen, and
had on that occasion, when he was delirious, shown a remarkable tendency
to throw everything within reach at the people about him when he did not
instantly get what he wanted. The old man remembered the fact, and was
silently obedient, for the Signor Marchese looked as though he were ill
again. The mildest people are often the most furious in the delirium of
a fever.




CHAPTER XX.


After all, Julius was not quite certain whether Leonora had fainted, or
was asleep. She had been comfortably settled in the boat at the first,
and a quarter of an hour had passed in hoisting and trimming the sails,
and bringing the craft before the wind. She might have fallen asleep
from sheer fatigue and weariness,--Julius could not tell. He bent far
down over the stern, and fetched up a few drops of water from the sea
with one hand, while the other supported Leonora's drooping head,--the
tiller could take care of itself for a moment,--and he sprinkled her
face softly and watched her; once more--and she opened her eyes as from
a pleasant dream, and looking up to his she smiled, and closed them
again. He bent down and spoke almost in a whisper.

"Darling, are you quite comfortable?" She moved her head in assent, the
quiet smile still playing on her lips. Then she lay quite still for a
while, and listened to the rush of the water, and the occasional dull,
wooden sound as the rudder moved a little on its hinges. The boat rolled
softly from side to side, in a long, easy motion and glided swiftly down
the bay.

Presently Leonora moved, sat up, and looked about her, at the sea, and
the land, and the fiery-crested mountain.

"Where are we going, Julius?" she asked, with a smile at the question.

"I am sure I don't know," said he, laughing. "There are lots of places
we can go to. Ischia, Capri,--Naples if you like. Select, dearest, there
is a good boat between us and the water, and we have the world before
us."

"But we must go somewhere where we can get some breakfast," said she
gravely. "And where I can buy things," she added, laughing again. "Do
you know that this is all I have got in the world to wear?"

"That is serious indeed," said Julius. "There are provisions and things
to drink in the boat, but there is no millinery. We had better go to
Naples."

"I think I could manage for one day," said Leonora, doubtfully. "I have
brought heaps of handkerchiefs, and hairpins, and cologne water,--they
are all in the bag."

"Handkerchiefs and hairpins!" repeated Julius, and laughed at the idea.
A woman leaves her husband, who worships her, scatters trouble and tears
and madness broadcast, and she thinks of handkerchiefs and hairpins, and
remembers where she has put them.

"Yes," said Leonora, "they will be very useful. We could go to Ischia
first, and to Naples to-morrow night,--or rather to-night, I should
say. That is,--if you think"--

"What, dear?" asked Julius.

"If you think it is quite--far enough."

"We cannot go very far. It is six or seven hours from here to Ischia, if
the wind holds. We should be there between six and seven o'clock."

"I think that would be best," said Leonora in a tone of decision. She
was silent for a moment. Presently she looked up into Batiscombe's face,
and her own was white and beautiful in the moonlight. "I wonder," she
said, "whether any one heard that noise the dogs made? Oh, the poor,
poor kitten,--it makes me quite cry to think of her!"

"Poor thing!" said Julius sympathetically. "But its ghost will not haunt
the gardens, for it was amply avenged."

"Yes indeed!" said Leonora. "Oh, Julius, you are so strong,--I like
you."

"Thanks," said Julius, "you are awfully good to like me." He laughed,
but his hand caressed her hair tenderly, and Leonora was happy.

"It was just like us," said she, "to stop there at the top of the steps
where we might have been seen in a moment--but I am glad. I hated those
dogs."

"It was just as well," said he. "They would very likely have made more
noise, and followed us."

"Oh yes--and just fancy the wrath when they are found to-morrow morning.
But they might have bitten you dreadfully--I was terribly frightened."

"I fancy there will be more wrath about you, my dear, than about the
dogs," said Julius, rather gravely.

"About me? Oh--I hardly know--perhaps. I do not think any one will mind
very much."

"What does it matter who minds, as you call it?" asked Julius, pushing
her thick hair from her forehead tenderly, and looking at her with
loving eyes. "What does it matter to us now? What can anything ever
matter again?"

"Nothing, nothing, nothing, dear," she answered softly, and her head
drooped happily upon his shoulder.

They were as though alone in the boat, for the broad sail was stretched
right across to catch the wind, and hid the men, who sat together
forward, chattering in a low voice in the incomprehensible dialect known
as the lingua franca, the free tongue in which all Mediterranean sailors
understand one another, from Gibraltar to Constantinople, and from
Smyrna to Marseilles. They did not care a rush what their master did,
nor where he went; they had some confidence in his knowledge of the sea
and of the coast, and they had entire confidence in themselves, whatever
wind might blow. It was nothing to them, who came from the north coast,
whether their broad-shouldered "signore" took a "bella signora" from
Naples or Sorrento for a midnight sail in his boat. He paid well, to
every man his wages, and he often gave them a few francs to drink his
health. They had never had so good a "padrone" before, and they asked no
questions, wisely distinguishing the side of the bread upon which a
bountiful providence had spread the most butter for their benefit. They
also said that nothing ever mattered much so long as they got their pay.

Leonora had found at last the desire of her heart,--the reckless, stormy
passion, careless of everything but itself and its object, of which she
had so often dreamed. She had found the man for her to love, and she did
love him to distraction. As for the rest of the world, she was more
persuaded than ever that there was nothing very much in anything after
all. What she had was wholly sufficient in the present, the future was a
future full of joy and love, and divested of everything that could
possibly be wearisome, and the past was cut off, murdered, dead and
buried out of sight.

But though she had killed it and thrown it away, as Julius had done with
the dogs, it had a ghost and a living memory that would haunt her for
many days and weeks, and months and years. A life is not a dream to be
forgotten, nor an old garment to be thrown aside at will. Life is an
ever present thing, and all our past is as much a part and parcel of
to-day as the marks we bear in our bodies are portions of ourselves, no
matter how we came by them, nor when.

Out of nothing, nothing can come. Out of confusion and vanity and pure
selfishness, out of confused and incoherent fragments of half-expressed
wisdom, out of the very vanity of vanities, which is the vanity of wise
words wrought into foolish phrases; out of the shell of an imaginary
self wrought fine and gilded to please the worst part of the real
self,--out of all these things, I say, what can come that is good? Or
can anything come of them which is truly evil, seeing that, one with
another, they are all but so many empty nothings, melted together and
lost in the great void that receives the failures of the soul-world?

If anything results from such a life, it must be the realisation of
nothing, which is the extinction and annihilation of that which is,--and
woe be to the destroyer. We may destroy all hold and anchorage of mind
and soul, we may reason ourselves into a disbelief in reality, in
matter, in daily life, in good and evil. But always when we think that
everything is done, and that our fabric of philosophy is faultless,
there arises the strong tide of human passion and creeps across the
sands to our tower. At first we may watch the waves from a long way off,
and laugh to see them break and overwhelm the very foolish people who
have no tower on the shore and must swim for their lives or perish. But
the tide rolls on toward us, and runs cruelly up, crashing and
thundering in its rising might, till it rends and tears our flimsy
castle out of the sands beneath our very feet, and we fall headlong into
the rushing waters. And then we too must struggle like the rest, if we
can; and if we cannot, we must sink to the bottom, while those who
learned when the tide was low and the water smooth, and have tried their
strength in many a brave buffet with the waves, swim strongly over our
drowned bodies.

It is easy to moralise, it is hard to live. That is the reason that
great moralists are generally either old men who have done with living
and would like to teach other people, or else young men and young women
who have not enough vitality to animate the most lymphatic oyster, but
who manage to float about by their own inflation. These latter never
save any one from drowning, and the former save very few. The people who
can help others are the strong ones who can catch them just below the
shoulder, by the arm, and support them and push them to land, themselves
doing all the work. That is a watery simile, but most similes are but
water, and can be poured into a tea-cup or into a bucket--they will take
the shape of either.

The night wore on, the full moon sinking slowly to the west, so that
after a time she was hidden from the lovers by the sails, and there was
a broad shadow behind them. Still the breeze blew fresh from the land
and carried them straight towards Ischia, and the boat rocked smoothly
over the rolling water. Leonora rested on the thick cushions, and her
head lay nestled in Batiscombe's arm while he held the tiller carelessly
with his other hand, steering by the wind, in the certainty of making
the right course. He did not speak, for he wanted her to rest, and so it
came about that before long she fell peacefully asleep, and Julius drew
a light shawl tenderly about her, and kissed her ruddy hair, and looked
out over the moonlit water, calmly as though he were sailing for his
pleasure.

He was thinking what strange things happened in his life, and wondering
within himself whether he could ever grow old and be like other people.
But he could never be like other people now, for he must live a life
apart from the world, and create an existence of a new kind, utterly
free from the ties and bonds and weariness of society. It would also be
without the amusements, the gayety, the glitter, and the flattery of
society. Batiscombe liked all that, too; but he thought he could do
without it very well. Just now the fascination of the hour was upon him.
The sweet sea-breeze, the moonlight on the water, the swirl of the
boat's wake--and, above all, the beautiful woman by his side sleeping so
gently and nestled so lovingly close to him,--it was all perfect.

But with a curious duality that belonged to him, he enjoyed the moment
and thought intensely of the future at the same time; not with any fear
or regret or even with the anticipation of remorse for what he had
done, but with a far-seeing love of combination, striving to know
exactly what would happen and to provide for it.

He went over in his mind the many places to which he might take Leonora,
and tried to select the most beautiful and the most retired--some ideal
spot, not yet invaded by society. Society, in the long run, gets the
best of everything; artists and poets and adventurous tourists may seek
out an inaccessible region and keep it to themselves for a while,
revelling in the solitude and driving off intruders by discouraging
civilisation and affecting a barbaric display of shirt-sleeves, paint,
and beards. But if the place is really beautiful, really healthy or
really convenient for flirting in the open air, there will surely come
at last a stray princess of eccentric disposition and fond of a little
discomfort. She will say it is simply too delightful, and so very
natural, you know; and in the course of a summer or two the society
battalion will encamp there, the houses will be newly painted, and there
will be a band and a casino, and a royal personage.

It is very hard to find the kind of place Julius wanted, and he thought
for a long time before he hit upon it. But at last he had a happy idea
and was pleased with himself for having it, as he always was. Very
cautiously he got a cigarette out of his pocket and lit it with one
hand, steadying the helm with his elbow. He did it so smoothly and
quietly that Leonora did not wake, and he puffed in silent enjoyment of
the tobacco, taking care that the smoke should not blow into her face.

It was very like Julius Batiscombe to risk waking her in order that he
might smoke, for he was a selfish man and knew it, and delighted in it.
But it came upon him in gusts, and was not always a part of him; only,
when it did come, it covered completely the better features of his
nature. In carrying away Leonora, he had done one of the most absolutely
selfish actions of his life, and for the time being there was nothing he
would not do so long as he could keep her with him and make her sure
that he loved her. He knew well enough that she loved him. He did not
want to know anything about his own motives. He was in love--that was
motive enough for anything.

As a matter of fact, deep down in his soul there were other incentives
at play; but he would not acknowledge that to himself. It was true that
since he had loved Diana he had never loved another woman as he loved
Leonora. There was a charm about her which he could not explain, which
overcame him and filled his whole life. His lingering feeling for Diana
was always real when no other passion was in the way, and it had never
happened before that any one of his affairs had crossed her path. But
now it had chanced at last, and the strong position she had taken
against him from the first had roused a bitter opposition in him. It
secretly delighted him to think of her anger, and sorrow, and
humiliation at the success of his enterprise. But, nevertheless, he
loved Leonora with all the strength of passion that remained to him, and
