into heavy streaks. If the oven is right, your loaves should be done in
about thirty-five minutes.

Set the loaves up on the edge of one end, leaning against the wall or
an upright board, that the air may dry the bottom, throw a dry cloth
over them and leave them to cool. When quite cold wrap in a clean thick
cloth and keep in a tin box or stone crock.

In this, as in other first attempts, let me warn you against being
disheartened by failure, partial or total. It would be far more strange
were you to accomplish perfection in one, or in half a dozen lessons,
than if your early efforts should be only moderately successful.

See that your yeast is lively and not sour, the flour good and dry,
then follow directions implicitly, and I think I can engage that the
result will not mortify you.




2

BREAD SPONGE AND BREAKFAST BREADS.


BREAD raised with what is known to bakers as a “sponge,” requires more
time and a trifle more work than the simpler form for which I have just
already given directions. But it keeps fresh longer, is softer and more
nutritious, and a second-rate brand of flour thus treated produces a
better loaf than when mixed up with yeast and water only. Sponge-making
is, therefore, an important if not an essential accomplishment in a
cook, be she novice or veteran.


Bread Sponge.


    Three potatoes of fair size, peeled and boiled mealy.

    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast.

    One tablespoonful of white sugar.

    One tablespoonful of butter.

    Three cups of lukewarm water in which the potatoes were
      boiled—strained through a coarse cloth.

    One heaping cup of sifted flour.

Put the potatoes into a large bowl or tray and mash them to powder with
a potato beetle, or a wooden spoon. While still hot, mix in the sugar
and butter, beating all to a lumpless cream.

Add a few spoonfuls at a time, the potato-water alternately with the
flour by the handful, beating the batter smooth as you go on until
all of the liquid and flour has gone in. Beat hard one minute before
pouring in the yeast. In hot weather, it is well to stir into the
yeast a bit of soda no larger than a grain of corn already wet up in a
teaspoonful of boiling water.

Now whip up the batter with a wooden spoon for another minute, and the
sponge is made.

Throw a cloth over the bowl and set by for five or six hours to rise.
If you intend to bake in the forenoon, make the sponge at bedtime. If
in the afternoon, early in the morning.

When the sponge is light sift a quart and a cup of flour into a bowl or
tray with two teaspoonfuls of salt. Into a hollow, like a crater in the
middle of the flour, empty your sponge-bowl, and work the flour down
into it. Wash out the bowl with a little lukewarm water and add this to
the dough. If it should prove too soft, work in, cautiously, a little
more flour. If too stiff, warm water, a spoonful at a time until you
can handle the paste easily. The danger is in getting it too stiff.

Now, knead and set for risings first and second, as you have already
been instructed. This sponge will be found especially useful in making


Graham Bread.

    One quart of Graham flour, one cup of white flour.

    One half cup of Indian meal.

    One half cup of molasses.

    Two teaspoonfuls of salt.

    Soda, the size of a pea.

    Half the quantity of sponge given in preceding receipt.

    Warm water for rinsing bowl—about half a cup.

Put the brown or Graham flour unsifted into the bread-bowl. Sift
into it white flour, meal and salt, and stir up well while dry. Into
the “crater” dug out in the middle, pour the sponge, warm water, the
molasses, and soda dissolved in hot water. Knead as you would white
bread, and set aside for the rising. It will not swell so fast as the
white, so give yourself more time for making it.

When light, knead well and long; make into two loaves, then put into
well-greased pans and leave for an hour, or until it becomes more than
twice the original size of the dough.

Take care that it does not burn in baking. The molasses renders it
liable to scorching. The oven must be steady, but not so hot as for
white bread, nor will the Graham bread be done quite so soon as that
made of bolted flour. Turn the pans once while baking, moving them as
gently as possible. If rudely shaken or jarred, there will be heavy
streaks in the loaves.

Graham bread is wholesome and sweet, and ought to be eaten frequently
in every family, particularly by young people whose bones and teeth are
in forming.

The phosphates which the process of “bolting” removes to a large extent
from white flour, go directly to the manufacture of bone, and these
also tend to nourish and strengthen the brain.


Tea-Rolls.

After mixing your bread in the morning either with sponge or with
yeast, divide the kneaded dough into two portions. Mould one into a
round ball, and set aside for a loaf as already directed. Make a hole
in the middle of the other batch and pour into it a tablespoonful of
butter, just melted, but not hot. Close the dough over it, dust your
hands and kneading-board with flour and work in the shortening until
the dough is elastic and ceases to be sticky. Put it into a floured
bowl, cover with a cloth and set away out of draught and undue heat,
for three hours. Knead it again, then, and wait upon its rising for
another three hours. The dough should be as soft as can be handled.

When it is light for the second time flour your board, rubbing in the
flour and blowing lightly away what does not adhere to the surface.
Toss the lump dough upon it and knead thoroughly for five minutes.
Flour a rolling-pin and roll the dough into a sheet not more than half
an inch thick. Cut this into round cakes with a biscuit-cutter or a
sharp-edged tumbler and fold, not quite in the middle, in the form of
turnovers, pinching the corners of the fold pretty hard to hinder the
flap of dough from flying up as the rising proceeds. Rub the bottom and
sides of a baking-pan with sweet lard or butter. Do this with a bit of
clean soft rag or tissue-paper, visiting every corner of the pan, but
not leaving thick layers and streaks of grease after it. Arrange the
rolls in regular rows in the pan about a quarter of an inch apart.

Cover with a cloth and set nearer the fire than you dared trust the
dough, and let them rise for an hour. Peep under the cloth two or three
times to see whether they rise evenly, and turn the pan around once
that all may be equally exposed to the heat.

When the time is up and the rolls are puffy and promising, set them in
a pretty quick oven and bake half an hour, turning the pan once in this
time, and covering with clean—never printed—paper, should they brown
too fast. Break the rolls apart from one another and eat warm. They are
also good cold, and if the directions be followed implicitly, very good
always.


Graham Rolls

Are made by treating the dough mixed for Graham bread as above and
following the foregoing receipt in every section, but allowing more
time for rising and baking. They are even better when cold than hot.


Breakfast Biscuit.

    Two cups of fresh milk slightly warmed.

    One quart and a cup of flour sifted.

    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast.

    One even tablespoonful of white sugar.

    One even teaspoonful of salt.

    Bit of soda as large as a pea, dissolved in hot water.

    One tablespoonful of butter, just melted, not hot.

    Yolk of one egg beaten light.

Sift the flour, salt and sugar into a bowl, hollow the heap in the
centre and pour in the milk, working down the flour into the liquid
with a spoon or your hands until it is thoroughly melted. Into a second
hollow pour the yeast and knead thoroughly for fifteen minutes. Wrap
bowl and biscuit in a thick cloth and set to rise where it will neither
become chilled nor sour over night. (Study the temperature in different
parts of the kitchen and kitchen closets to the end of finding the best
places for raising dough and sponge.)

Do all this at bedtime. Early in the morning turn out the dough upon
a floured board, work it for a minute into manageable shape; drill
several finger-holes in it and fill them with the melted butter, the
dissolved soda and the beaten yolk of egg. Pinch the dough hard to stop
the mouths of these cavities, and knead for ten minutes, carefully at
first, lest the liquids should be wasted, and more boldly when they are
absorbed by the paste. Roll out into a sheet half an inch thick with a
floured rolling-pin; cut into round cakes, set these closely together
in a well-greased pan; prick each with a fork and let them rise near
the fire for half an hour, covered with a light cloth.

Bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes in a quick oven, turning the
pan around once, quickly and lightly. Break apart from one another and
pile on a plate, throwing a clean doily or a small napkin over them.
Break open at table. Hot rolls and muffins should never be cut.

One word with regard to getting up early in order to give dough a
chance for the second rising. It is not a wholesome practice for any
woman—least of all a young girl to be out of bed two hours before she
eats her breakfast. Studying upon an empty stomach provokes dyspepsia
and injures the eyes. Active exercise in like circumstances tempts
debility and disease. Yet our bread and rolls must be looked after
at the proper time. Have yourself called on biscuit mornings an hour
earlier than usual. Rise, wash face and hands, rinse the mouth out and
brush back the hair. Put on stockings and slippers, such underclothing
as may be needed to prevent cold, a wrapper and the kitchen apron.
Cover your hair entirely with a handkerchief or sweeping cap. Before
beginning operations down-stairs eat a half-slice of dry bread or a
biscuit. You will not relish it, but take it all the same to appease
the empty, discontented stomach. Having made out your rolls and tucked
them up snugly for the final rise, return to your chamber for a
comfortable bath and toilet. When habited for the day in all except the
outer gown, collar, etc., slip on the wrapper again and run down to
put the biscuits in the oven. Unless it is too hot, they will get no
harm while you finish dressing in ten minutes, just in season to turn
the pan.

From the beginning of your apprenticeship in housewifery, learn how to
“dovetail” your duties neatly into one another. A wise accommodation of
parts and angles, and compactness in the adjustment of “must-be-dones”
are better than mere personal strength in the accomplishment of such
tasks as fall to women to perform. Master these, and do not let them
master you. Weave the little duties in and under and among what seem
to be the greater. While your bread is taking a three hours’ rise, you
are free in body and mind for other things. The grand secret of keeping
house well and without worry, lies in the art of packing and fitting
different kinds of work and in picking up the minutes. Other things
besides rising dough get on quite as well without your standing by to
watch them.




3

BREAKFAST BREADS.


UNDER this head may be classed muffins, griddle-cakes, crumpets, corn
bread, Sally Lunn, quick biscuits, and a dozen other varieties of warm
bread suitable for breakfast and tea. They furnish a very pleasant
variety in the daily bill of fare, and are extremely popular.

Nor are they unwholesome if properly made and cooked, and eaten by well
people. To weak and impaired digestive organs all kinds of warm bread
are hurtful.


English Muffins.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    Two cups of lukewarm water.

    Half a cup of yeast.

    One tablespoonful of butter melted, but not hot. One
      teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.

Sift the flour and salt into a bowl, make a hole in the middle and pour
in yeast and warm water. Stir down the flour gradually into the liquid,
and when all is in, beat hard with a wooden spoon. Should the mixture
be too stiff for this, add a little more water. It should be about half
as thick as bread-dough. Beat for five minutes and set aside to rise,
with a cloth thrown over the bowl, in a moderately warm corner.

Early in the morning stir the melted butter into the dough, beat hard
for two minutes, and leave for half an hour in the covered bowl in a
warm place—such as on a stool near the fire—turning it several times.

Grease muffin-rings well with sweet lard, arrange them upon a greased
griddle set over the fire and already warmed (not really hot), fill
about half-way to the top with batter, and bake quickly. When the dough
fills the rings and begins to look firm on the top, slip a knife under
one and peep at the under side. If it is delicately browned, turn the
rings over with a spatula or cake-turner. This must be done quickly and
dexterously, so as not to spill the batter.

When quite done, wrap a thick cloth about your fingers, take up the
muffin-rings one by one; pass a sharp knife around the inside of each,
to loosen the muffin, and shake it out upon a hot plate. Pile them up
neatly and cover with a clean napkin. These muffins must be broken, not
cut open, and buttered while hot.

The English split, toast and butter cold muffins.


Crumpets.

    Two cups of lukewarm milk.

    Two thirds of a cup of lukewarm water.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    One tablespoonful of white sugar.

    Half a teaspoonful of salt.

    Two tablespoonfuls of melted butter.

    Half a cupful of yeast.

    Soda the size of a pea, dissolved in a teaspoonful of
      boiling water.

Mix milk, yeast, water, sugar and salted flour as directed in former
receipt. Beat hard, and set to rise over night. In the morning work in
the butter and soda, beat up for one whole minute until the mixture is
light throughout, and half-fill greased patty-pans with it. Set these
in a baking-pan, cover with a cloth, and let them stand in a warm place
fifteen minutes before putting them into a steady oven. They should be
done in from twelve to fifteen minutes if the oven is right. If they
brown too fast, cover them with paper.


Quick Muffins.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    One tablespoonful of salt.

    Three cups lukewarm milk.

    Two eggs.

    One tablespoonful of melted butter.

    Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder.

Sift flour, baking-powder and salt twice through the sieve, to make
sure these are well mixed together. Beat the eggs very light. (By
all means have a Dover Egg-Beater for this purpose. It whips eggs to
a lovely froth with less labor and in less time than any other yet
invented.)

Stir melted butter, eggs and milk together in a large bowl, and to this
add the flour, a cupful at a time, stirring very quickly and lightly
down toward the middle of the bowl. Beat hard up one minute at the
last, to break flour-lumps; half-fill greased patty-pans with the
batter, and then bake in a quick oven.

Turn out and eat while puffy and hot.


Sally Lunn. (The “Genuine Article.”)

    One quart of sifted flour.

    One cup of warm milk.

    One of warm water.

    Four large tablespoonfuls of yeast.

    Two tablespoonfuls of melted butter.

    Four eggs.

    One tablespoonful of salt sifted with the flour.

    Soda the size of a pea, dissolved in a teaspoonful of
      boiling water.

Beat the eggs steadily four minutes. Have ready in a bowl the warmed
milk, water, melted butter and soda. Into this stir the salted flour,
cupful by cupful, until all is in. Beat smooth from lumps and add the
yeast. The eggs should now be whipped three minutes with the “Dover,”
in a cool bowl. They will not froth in a hot or warm one. When light,
beat well into the batter, and then beat up hard for a full minute.
A wooden spoon is best for this purpose. Butter a tin cake-mould well
in every part, and put in the batter. If there is more than enough
to half-fill the mould have two prepared, that the contents may not
overflow in rising.

Set in a moderately warm place for six hours at least, and then bake in
the mould for three quarters of an hour if there is but one loaf, half
an hour if there are two.

The oven must be steady and not very hot at first. Turn the mould twice
in this time keeping the oven door open as short a time as possible.
When you think the loaf is done, thrust a clean straw down into the
thickest part.

If it comes up as clean as when it went in, take out the bread. Slip a
knife around the edge to loosen it, and turn out upside down on a warm
plate.

Cut in triangular slices at table, holding the knife upright to avoid
crushing and making it heavy.


Quick Biscuits.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    Two heaping tablespoonfuls of sweet, firm lard.

    Two cups of new milk (warm from the cow if you can get
      it.)

    Two tablespoonfuls of baking powder.

    One teaspoonful of salt.

Sift salt, flour, and baking-powder twice into a bowl or tray. With
a clean sharp chopping-knife work the lard into this, turning and
chopping until no lumps are left. Into a hollow in the middle pour
the milk, working the flour downward until you have a soft, wet mass,
using the chopper for this purpose. Flour your pastry-board and your
hands, make the dough into a ball, handling it as little as possible,
and lay on the board. Roll out with a floured rolling-pin into a sheet
half an inch in thickness, and with very few strokes. Cut into round
cakes, sift flour lightly over the bottom of a baking-pan, and set your
biscuits—just not touching one another—in even rows within it.

Bake about twelve minutes in a quick oven. The dough should have a
rough appearance before it is baked, like what is known as “pebbled
morocco.” Too much handling will make it sleek without and tough within.

You can make excellent quick biscuits by the above receipt, by
substituting Hecker’s Prepared Flour for the barreled family flour,
and omitting the baking-powder. You will, however, probably be obliged
to add a little more milk, as prepared flour “thickens up” rather more
than other brands.




4

OTHER BREAKFAST BREADS.


Griddle Cakes.

IN making these, let quickness be the first, second and third rules.
Beat briskly and thoroughly; mix just as you are ready to send the
cakes to the table (except when yeast is used), bake, turn, and serve
promptly. Have all your materials on the table, measured and ready to
your hand. The griddle must be perfectly clean and wiped off with a dry
cloth just before you lay it on the stove. Heat it gradually at one
side of the stove or range, and when it is warm grease with a bit of
fat salt pork stuck firmly on a fork. The fat should be hissing hot,
but not scorching, when the batter is poured on. Before putting the
cakes on to fry, slip the griddle to the hottest part of the stove.
Drop the batter in great, even spoonfuls, and be careful not to spill
or spatter it.

M. H. PHILLIPS AND CO., of Troy, N. Y., manufacture a griddle with
three shallow cups sunken in an iron plate which moves on a hinge. When
the cakes are done on the lower side the turn of a handle reverses
the plate upon a heated surface. This makes the cakes of equal size
and thickness and saves the trouble of watching, spatula in hand, to
turn each one. It greatly simplifies the process of baking cakes, and,
lessens the heating labor of attending to them.

Be sure that each cake is done before you turn it. A twice-turned
“griddle” is spoiled.


Sour-milk Cakes.

    One quart of “loppered,” or of buttermilk.

    Three cups of sifted flour.

    One cup of Indian meal.

    One “rounded” teaspoonful of soda free from lumps.

    One teaspoonful of salt.

    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.

Sift flour, salt and meal into a bowl. In another mix the milk,
molasses and soda. Stir these last to a foam, and pour into the hollow
in the middle of the flour. Work down the flour into the liquid with
a wooden spoon until you have a batter, and beat hard with upward
strokes, two minutes. Bake at once. These are cheap, easy and good
cakes.


Hominy Cakes.

    Two cups of fine hominy boiled and cold. (Take the
      tough skin from the top before mixing in the batter.)

    One heaping cup of sifted flour.

    One quart of milk.

    Three eggs beaten very light.

    One tablespoonful of molasses.

    One teaspoonful of salt.

Rub the hominy with the back of a wooden spoon until all the lumps are
broken up. Wet it little by little with the milk and molasses, working
it smooth as you go on. Sift flour and salt together, and put in next.
Beat for a whole minute before adding the whipped eggs, and another
minute very hard, before baking. Stir up well from the bottom before
putting each fresh batch of cakes on the griddle.

These cakes if properly made, are tender, wholesome and delightful.


Graham Cakes.

    Two cups of Graham flour.

    One of sifted white.

    One heaping tablespoonful of Indian meal.

    Three cups of buttermilk, or loppered milk.

    One rounded teaspoonful of soda.

    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.

    One teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.

    Two eggs whipped very light.

    One tablespoonful melted butter.

Put Graham and salted white flour into a bowl with the Indian meal.
Stir up in another milk, molasses, soda and melted butter, and while
foaming pour into the hollowed flour. Work to a good batter and beat in
the eggs already whipped to a froth.

Beat one minute and bake at once.

This is a good standard breakfast hot bread.




5

EGGS.


MANY people do not know a well-boiled egg by sight or taste, yet
a fresh egg, boiled to a nicety, is one of the simplest, most
nutritious of breakfast dishes.


Boiled Eggs.

Select the cleanest eggs, wash them well, and lay them in lukewarm
water for five minutes. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of water on a
fast boil, and in quantity sufficient to cover the eggs entirely. Into
this put one egg at a time with a spoon, depositing each gently on the
bottom, and quickly.

Four minutes boils an egg thoroughly, if one likes the white set and
the yolk heated to the centre. Five minutes makes the white firm and
sets the yolk. Ten minutes boils both hard.

Take up the eggs with a split spoon or wire whisk. If you have no
regular egg dish, lay a heated napkin in a deep dish or bowl (also
warmed), put in the eggs as in a nest, cover up with the corners of the
napkin, and send directly to the table. They harden in the shells if
left long without being broken.

The best way to manage a boiled egg at the table is the English way of
setting it upright in the small end of the egg-cup, making a hole in
the top large enough to admit the egg-spoon, and eating it from the
shell, seasoning as you go on. Heat and taste are undoubtedly better
preserved by this method than by any other. Those who cannot afford
gold-washed spoons, can procure pretty ivory ones at a trifling cost,
or small teaspoons will serve the purpose.

Spoons smeared with eggs should be laid to soak in cold water
directly you have finished using them.


Custard Eggs.

Put the washed eggs in a saucepan of cold water and let them just come
to a boil, then take them up.

Or, lay them in a hot tin pail, cover them with boiling water, put the
top on the pail and leave them on the kitchen table for five minutes.
Drain off the water, pour on more boiling hot and replace the top.
Wrap a hot towel about the pail, and leave it four minutes before
dishing the eggs. They will be like a soft custard throughout, and more
digestible than if cooked in any other way.


Poached, or Dropped Eggs.

Into a clean frying-pan, pour plenty of boiling water, and a
teaspoonful of salt. Let it boil steadily, not violently. Wipe a cup
dry, break an egg into it, and pour, very cautiously and quickly, on
the surface of the water. Avoid spreading or breaking it. It will sink
to the bottom for an instant, but if the water is boiling hot, will
rise soon and be cooked in about three and a half minutes. Do not put
more than three into the pan at one time, or they will run into one
another.

Take them up with a perforated skimmer and lay on a hot, flat dish
in which a teaspoonful of butter has been melted. If the whites have
ragged edges, trim neatly with a sharp knife. When all are done, pepper
and salt lightly, put a bit of butter on each egg and send up very
hot.


Eggs on Toast.

Cut out with a sharp-edged tumbler or a cake cutter as many round
slices of stale bread as there are eggs to be cooked. Toast these
nicely, butter thinly; cover the bottom of a heated dish with them, and
pour on each a tablespoonful of boiling water. Set in the plate-warmer
or an open oven while you poach eggs as directed in the last receipt.

Lay each when done on a round of toast, pepper, salt and butter, and
serve.


Eggs on Savory Toast.

Toast rounds of stale bread as directed in preceding receipt, but
instead of moistening them with hot water, pour upon them, as they
lie in the dish, two tablespoonfuls of boiling gravy to each slice.
A half-cupful of gravy left over from yesterday’s roast or stew
skimmed free of fat, heated, thinned with a very little boiling water,
well-seasoned, then strained and boiled up quickly, makes this a
tempting dish.

Poach as many eggs as you have rounds of toast, and lay on these, with
pepper, salt and bits of butter.


Scrambled or Stirred Eggs.

    Nine eggs.

    One tablespoonful of butter.

    Half a teaspoonful of salt.

    A little pepper.

    Half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley very fine.

Break the eggs altogether in a bowl. Put the butter in a clean
frying-pan and set it on the range. As it melts, add pepper, salt and
parsley. When it hisses, pour in the eggs, and begin at once to stir
them, scraping the bottom of the pan from the sides toward the centre,
until you have a soft, moist mass just firm enough not to run over the
bottom of the heated dish on which you turn it out. Make it into a neat
mound. Some people prefer it without the parsley.

In serving everything, be careful that the rims of the dishes are
perfectly clean. The effect of the most delicious viand is spoiled by
drops or smears of food on the vessel containing it.

If you heap your scrambled eggs on a platter and lay parsley-sprigs
around, making a green fringe or border for the yellow hillock, you
have an elegant dish. Study to make plain things pretty when you can.


Bacon and Eggs.

Fry as many slices of ham, or what is known as breakfast-bacon, as
there are eggs to be cooked. Have the clean frying-pan warm, but not
hot, when the meat goes in. Turn the slices as they brown. When done,
take the pan over to the sink or table, remove the meat to a hot dish
and set where it will keep warm.

Strain the grease left in the pan through a bit of tarlatan or coarse
muslin into a cup. Wipe the frying-pan clean, pour in the strained fat
and return to the fire. If there is not enough to cover the bottom a
quarter of an inch deep, add a tablespoonful of butter. Break the eggs
one at a time in a cup, and when the fat hisses put them in carefully.

Few people like “turned” fried eggs. Slip a cake-turner or spatula
under each as it cooks to keep it from sticking. They should be done in
about three minutes. Do not put in more at once than can swim in the
fat without interfering with one another.
