
"Let them haul on it," replied the skipper laughing. "They will have a
nice time of it. Keep her away a little more, if you please."

Kidd had got hold of the painter, and Pell Sankland was trying to help
him; but the former could not haul in enough of the line to afford him a
chance to assist. The schooner had got under full headway, and there was
considerable strain on the rope. Three of the Topovers had repaired to
the bow while the other three were about in the middle of the barge. She
was loaded by the head, and as soon as the Goldwing began to force her
through the water at her own pace, the craft scooped up about half a
barrel of water.

Kidd was sailor enough to see what the matter was, and he hastily
retreated to the stern of the boat, followed by his companions. Not more
than one of them at a time could get hold of the painter, and there was
no danger that the marauders would haul the boat alongside the schooner.
But Kidd soon went forward again, after he had stationed his crew as
far aft as he could get them, and began to saw away with his knife at
the painter.

Matt let off the sheets, and kept the Goldwing away several points at
once. As he did so, Dory slacked off the painter as much as its length
would permit. When the schooner straightened the line again, she did it
with a violent jerk, at an angle with the length of the barge. The
effect was to tip the boat until her gunwale at the bow went under, and
she shipped another half barrel of water.

Kidd's nerves were not strong enough to stand this kind of treatment,
and he dreaded what might come next. He retreated to the stern; but not
till he had found that it would have taken him half an hour at least to
saw off the painter with his dull jack-knife. He realized that there was
nothing more he could do.

The four-oar boats were now within a short distance of the scene of the
strife. The crews had laid upon their oars most of the time, watching
the progress of the action. The Winooski had been taken, and the battle
was finished. It only remained to dispose of the prisoners. Dory had
given the order to head the schooner to the nearest land. The four-oar
boats reached the point off which the yacht had just come up into the
wind. Tom was handed into the boat with Mr. Jepson, who was greatly
amused at the exploits of the boys. He was put ashore, but the reef
pendant was removed from his arms only when he was safe on the beach.

The tender and the other four-oar boat landed the prisoners from the
Winooski, who had concluded not to make any resistance. As the boats
left the discomfited ruffians on the shore, Tom cast a large stone at
one of them, and the rest proceeded to follow his example. But no harm
was done, and the boats were soon out of the way of their missiles.

"Homeward bound!" shouted Dory, as soon as he had taken his crew from
the tender on board.

Two oarsmen were taken from each of the small boats, for the remaining
two could easily pull them across the lake with the wind, and
transferred to the Winooski. Thad Glovering in the Gildrock was close
by, for his party had no idea of leaving the scene while there was any
fun in prospect. The whole squadron, consisting of the Goldwing and the
four row-boats, were within talking distance of each other. The battle
had been fought and won, and there was nothing to do but go home. The
Gildrock was farthest out on the lake, and she led the way. All the
fleet were in the smoother water of the cove.

"The Chesterfields!" shouted Oscar Chester, when the Goldwing was fairly
under way. "They are just coming around the point; and they have half
the Topovers on board."

"We need not bother our heads any more about the Chesterfields or the
Topovers," replied Dory. "We have got our boats, and that was all I
wanted."

"All right," added Oscar, as he settled himself in his seat.

But the skipper soon came to the conclusions that it was not all right.
The Chesterfield barges had changed their course, and were headed for
the four Beech Hill boats which had just started for home. The Dasher
and the Racer were fully manned, while the Gildrock and Winooski had
each only one-third of a crew.

"That's bad," said Dory, who began to be very anxious for the safety of
the recaptured barges.

"I thought it might be," replied Oscar. "But I think we can give them
enough of it to satisfy them in a very few minutes."

"Do you mean a fight?" asked the skipper.

"Not a hand-to-hand fight, but if either of those barges attempts to
meddle with the Gildrock or the Winooski, I should run her down,"
answered Oscar, with a good deal of vim in his tones.

"I don't like to do anything of that kind," replied Dory, seriously.
"When we smashed the Dasher yesterday, I did not intend to give her such
a rap."

"I should say it would be for the Chesterfields and their new allies to
elect whether you smash them or not. But they are making for the
Gildrock, and of course they can easily take her from the four fellows
in charge of her."

"Of course I don't mean to let them take her from our fellows," added
Dory. "Keep her away; run for the Gildrock, if you please, Matt."

Thad Glovering pulled the stroke oar of the Gildrock, and he had already
discovered the danger that menaced him in the approach of the
Chesterfield barges. He was making his crew do their utmost; but the
barge had been headed off by the enemy, who were not seen until they
came around the point of land.

The improvement in the rowing of the Chesterfields was not very
manifest. They had evidently being practising since they obtained their
smashed barge from the builder who had repaired it, and it was just as
plain that they had adopted the stroke of the Beach Hill barges.

"The Topovers are helping them," said Oscar, who watched the Dasher with
the closest attention.

"I see they are," replied Dory; "and they are making very good headway."

A Topover had been placed on the thwart with each student as far as
their number would permit. Mad Twinker was in charge of the head boat,
and he was driving his crew to the limit of their power. But the
Goldwing, even in the higher wind near the weather shore, could make two
miles to the Dasher's one. Matt was directed to run close to the quarter
of the Gildrock; and the schooner came up with her not a moment too
soon, for in spite of Thad's best efforts, the Dasher was all ready to
pounce upon her intended victim. The Racer had continued on her former
course, and was making for the Winooski. It was clear that they intended
to capture both boats. When they had done this probably the
Chesterfields would be satisfied that they had got even with the
Beech-Hillers for the humiliation of the day before.

The Goldwing was almost before the wind, and she was surging down upon
the Dasher with tremendous speed and power. The Chesterfields did not
look behind them, and they could not have failed to take notice of the
Winooski's drill on the preceding day. Mad Twinker had no little nerve,
but he was appalled at the rushing, surging, roaring approach of the
Goldwing.

"Sheer off, or I shall run into you!" shouted Dory, on the half deck of
the schooner. "If you meddle with the Gildrock I'll smash your boat."

Mad could stand it no longer, and he let go one tiller line, and pulled
on the other with all his might. The Dasher whirled around in obedience
to her helm. The Goldwing came about; Dory hove his long line to the
Gildrock, and she was dragged out into the rough sea, out of the way of
her assailant. But the Winooski was by this time in the same peril, and
the schooner hastened to her assistance.




CHAPTER XVIII.

DORY DORNWOOD DEALS IN MORAL COURAGE.


Wash Barker, the former coxswain of the Racer, had resigned his office
partly because he declined to adopt a policy as vigorous as his
followers desired. Probably his successor possessed the qualities which
Wash lacked. Jeff Monroe had seen the Dasher cheated out of her prey, as
he regarded it, and he knew he was sure to be condemned by his
associates if he failed to capture the Winooski.

Nim Splugger was in the barge with him, and this worthy assured the
coxswain that Dory would not dare to run into him. It was all bully in
his opinion. The crew expressed their disapprobation in very emphatic
terms at the weakness of Mad Twinker in allowing himself to be cheated
out of his game.

The Goldwing had been obliged to beat up to the position of the
Winooski, and her approach was not so appalling as when she neared the
Dasher. But she had gone well to windward so as to get a good full, and
she was making at least eight knots when she came within hailing
distance of the Racer. Dory gave the same warning as before, and
repeated it several times. But the Racer did not budge. Her crew were
all ready to leap into the Winooski.

Dory had fully made up his mind to smash the Racer. A collision would
certainly accomplish her destruction. It was probable that the Goldwing
would bear the barge under her bottom, and thus go over her. The
coxswain and all his crew were very ignorant in regard to the management
of a boat, and could not realize the peril to which they were exposing
themselves.

Probably most of the crew of the Racer could not swim, and, even if they
could, some of them might be seriously injured if the schooner went over
the barge. There was more than a possibility that one or more lives
might be lost in the encounter. The skipper of the Goldwing shuddered
when he thought of such a catastrophe. At the worst, the Chesterfields
could only capture the Winooski; and that would not kill or hurt anyone.
It was not a case of life and death; in fact it was nothing more than a
frolic on the part of the Chesterfields.

In another instant the Goldwing would strike the Racer, and the
calamity the skipper dreaded must come, either in whole or in part. If
he "backed down," Oscar would laugh at him, and his other companions
would rail at him for timidity. But Dory had the moral courage to brave
any censure or sarcasm rather than expose the lives of the enemy.

"Down with the helm, Matt!" shouted he with startling energy.

Matt promptly obeyed, and the sails of the schooner shook in the wind.

"What did you do that for, Dory?" demanded Oscar Chester, utterly
disgusted at the backing down of the skipper.

But there was no time to answer the question. Instead of striking the
Racer, the Goldwing was struck by the barge on her broadside. But the
blow came at an angle of about forty-five degrees, and the stem slid off
by the stern. Still it was a hard rap, and the yacht shook under its
force. Doubtless her side was dented and scraped, but she sustained no
injury of any consequence.

"Keep your places, fellows!" yelled Jeff Monroe, as the rowers began to
stand up and think how they should save themselves, for they thought
the barge was smashed in the collision. "We are all right! Keep your
places!"

The Racer was not injured, but she was thrown from her course, and
brought up with her stern alongside the schooner. Two of her spoon oars
were broken, and two more of them lost overboard, for all the starboard
oars had been swept from the rowlocks by the contact with the yacht. The
crew were in utter confusion, for their discipline was not proof against
such a scene as that which had just transpired.

"Do you mean to drown us all?" demanded Jeff. "You have made a pretty
mess of it."

"You act as though you intended to drown yourself and your crew,"
replied Dory, as he directed Matt to fill away again.

"We shall get even with you yet!" retorted Jeff angrily.

The barge had come about, so that she was now in the trough of the sea,
though the waves were not heavy; but the motion served to increase the
confusion on board of her. The crew obeyed the order of the coxswain to
keep their seats for the simple reason that they could not stand up in
the rolling craft. In a few minutes Jeff had brought something like
order out of the snarl.

The discipline on board proved to be not more than skin deep, for about
every one of the crew had something to say, and a general jaw ensued.
Some of them blamed and scolded their coxswain, and hard words were used
before the Goldwing was out of hearing distance. The first business,
when the grumblers had "talked out," was to pick up the oars and the
pieces; and, by the time this was done, the Winooski was out in the
heaviest of the sea. The Goldwing stood off and on between the fleet she
was protecting and the barges of the Chesterfields. The Dasher had gone
to the assistance of the Racer.

"What under the canopy made you back down, Dory?" asked Oscar, in a more
gentlemanly tone than he had used before when he alluded to the subject.

"If one of those fellows had been drowned, I should not have forgiven
myself to my dying day," replied Dory.

"There was no danger of drowning any of them," added Oscar.

"I don't believe many of them can swim, and I think the Goldwing would
have gone over the Racer. Some of them might have been disabled, so that
they could not have swum, even if they had known how. In a word my
conscience would not let me run into the barge when it came to the
scratch. Though we may look upon the taking of any of our boats as a
serious thing, after all it was only a frolic on the part of the
Topovers and the Chesterfields. I could not risk killing or drowning a
single one of them. That's the whole of it."

"It would not have been your fault if one of them had been drowned, or
even half a dozen of them," replied Oscar.

"I think it would have been. If no one had been drowned or hurt in the
collision, some people would have thought we were smart. If a single
life had been lost, they would have said that the affair was nothing but
a boys' frolic, and that we had no right to proceed to such an extreme
measure as running into the barge half a mile from the shore," argued
Dory. "Those fellows are not used to the water, and half a dozen of them
might have been drowned. I am perfectly satisfied now with what I did."

"Though I was as much carried away by the excitement of the moment as
any of you, and was in favor of running into the barge, I think you did
just right, Dory," added Matt Randolph, convinced by the skipper's
logic.

"On cool second thought, I am willing to admit that Dory was right,"
said Oscar, as he glanced at the Chesterfield fleet. "We saved the
Winooski after all, and that was what we were fighting for."

"Those fellows have had enough of it for the present," chuckled Matt.
"They are pulling for the point where we landed Tom Topover, and very
likely they are going to pick him up."

"But we have no further business over here, and we will go home," said
Dory; and Matt headed the Goldwing for the mouth of the river.

"The Chesterfields will never be content to leave things as they are
now," suggested Oscar. "I know if I were one of them I should try to get
even with you."

"By and by they will learn to row a boat in a sea, and know something
about handling their craft; and then they will make a visit to Beech
Hill," added Matt.

"I think we shall be able to take care of ourselves," replied Dory,
shrugging his shoulders like a Frenchman.

"It looks as though they had formed an alliance with the Topovers, and I
am confident that Tom will never be satisfied until he has had a fight
with Dory and been thoroughly whipped," prophesied Oscar, who was sure
that the skipper could do it "every time."

With the fresh breeze the four row-boats made good time across the lake,
and were going into the river when the Goldwing dashed past them. This
time Matt brought the schooner up to the wharf without getting aground;
but at the V point, Dory gave him the bearings by which he steered
through this bad place with the current, and was confident that his
friend would never stick there again when he had any kind of fair play.

Captain Gildrock, with the instructors, were on the wharf when the
Goldwing arrived. The news of the taking of the boats by the Topovers
had been circulated in the town, and the principal was somewhat
disturbed by the occurrence, not especially by the stealing of the
barges, but more by his fears of what might result from a battle between
the students and the marauders. When Bates, who had learned the
particulars from Mr. Jepson, told him that Dory Dornwood was in command
of the expedition which had gone out to recover the boats, he was
somewhat relieved of his anxiety; for he had a great deal of confidence
in the skipper's judgment and discretion, though there was no knowing
what boys would do when they were excited.

"Where are the boats, Dornwood?" asked Captain Gildrock, as soon as the
party landed.

"They are coming up the river, sir," replied Dory.

"And where are Tom Topover and his gang?"

"We left them on the other side of the lake." Dory proceeded, without
any further questions, to make his report of the taking of the barges,
and the means by which he had recovered possession of them. He stated
the facts just as they were, without flourish or ornament, even to the
intention they had of smashing the Racer by running into her.

"I am heartily rejoiced that you did not do anything of that kind!"
exclaimed Captain Gildrock, with a considerable show of emotion for him.
"Nothing could have justified you in resorting to such a desperate
measure, unless it was to save life or honor. If one of those boys had
lost his life, it would have been the ruin of the Beech Hill Industrial
School; for popular opinion would have set against us, and we could not
have stemmed the tide."

"I was terribly excited when I thought of doing it," pleaded Dory.

"You have done well, my lad; you have behaved splendidly; but the
biggest and best thing you have done was to renounce a bad intention,"
added the principal, earnestly. "I cannot look upon this affair as
anything more than a boys' racket, and I am exceedingly thankful that no
catastrophe has come out of it."

"Should you excuse the Topovers for stealing the boat on the ground that
it was nothing but a racket, a frolic, something done for the fun of
it?" asked Matt Randolph very seriously.

"By no means; I would prosecute them for stealing the boats if it were
likely to result in anything but a fine which their poor parents would
have to pay," replied the captain. "No one should do wrong for the fun
of it; but there is such a thing as exaggerating a serious matter beyond
its proper proportions."

The arrival of the boats ended the conversation. Dinner was ready, and
everything proceeded at the institution in its usual order. The rebels
each dined alone in his room.




CHAPTER XIX.

SOMETHING MORE ABOUT THE BEECH HILL REBELLION.


After dinner the students resumed their study of the plans for the
boat-house and wharf. Some of them went over to the grove in the
afternoon, but nothing more was seen of the Topovers that day. The lake
was too rough to admit of the Chesterfields bringing them over in their
barges. Probably the young gentlemen of the Collegiate Institute got
enough of them before night.

The next morning the lake was smooth, and the two barges brought the
marauders to the head of Porter's Bay. Some of the Beech Hill students
were in the grove at the time, for it was a quiet place to work on the
plans. Bolly Millweed spent the whole day there, seated on the shore
where he could see the whole water front of the opposite side of the
lake.

The other students were not deeply absorbed in their study of
architecture, and they observed with interest the landing of the
Topovers. The Chesterfields appeared to be on excellent terms with their
allies, and quite a conference took place between them on the shore.
Doubtless the Beech Hill students were the subjects of the conversation,
for the Topovers frequently pointed in the direction of the estate, and
seemed to be explaining the nature of the locality to their patrons.

Mad Twinker and Jeff Monroe walked up the hill to the centre of the
grove, where they could see Beech Hill Lake and the school buildings.
But the visitors soon returned to the other side of the lake, and the
Topovers went to their homes. Most of the latter had been truants from
school, and very likely many of them were punished for their misconduct
either by their parents or their teachers.

Of course a great deal was said by the students at liberty about the
rebels; but those who wore the uniform were emphatic in their
condemnation of those who refused to put it on. The rebels were still
required to stay in their rooms, and their meals were sent in to them.
Each of them had been fitted by the tailor, and had taken his uniform to
his own apartment.

The principal had sent word to them that, when they desired to return
to their duties, all they had to do was to put on the uniform and take
their places with their schoolmates. Although they were forbidden to
communicate with one another or with the other members of the school, it
is probable that each one knew what the others were doing.

The rebellion had not worked as they intended and expected. Lew Shoreham
had been appointed the orator of the malcontents, and the battle was to
be fought out with words in the schoolroom. This was not the principal's
way of dealing with such cases. He gave the "jingo" element no chance at
all.

On one of the first days of the school he detected a couple of students
in the act of engaging in a fight. Investigation showed that there was
no grievance between the parties, and the battle was to see which was
"the best man." He locked them both up in the machine shop, and gave
them two hours to ascertain which was the best man. With no one to
witness the encounter they did not care to fight, and came out good
friends.

The rebels could not help feeling that their enterprise had already
"come to grief." Lew Shoreham's argument had been prepared, but it was
unspoken, and was likely to remain so while its author pined in the
solitude of his chamber. The malcontents could not confer together, for
Bates would not allow any two of them to meet in the halls. Bart
Cornwall tried to talk with Lick Milton in the next room, but the
remorseless jailer threatened to put him in the black hole if he said
another word; and he did not.

Each rebel, therefore, was compelled to think and act for himself. He
could not lean on his leader or his companions. Life Windham was one of
the most restless under his confinement. He liked to know what was going
on, and he found himself shut out from the world and all that was in it.
The principal had begun his announcement of the prizes for the best
plans when the conspiracy broke out. Life concluded that he must have
deferred the business till the rebellion was disposed of, and he
wondered what he had said to the rest of the students about the refusal
to wear the uniform.

Life fretted and worried over his situation until after dinner of the
second day. Then he went over the whole subject of the uniform in his
own mind. He thought he was abused and persecuted, but he could stand it
no longer. Impulsively he put on the uniform which hung at the head of
his bed. It was a good fit and he thought he looked well in it. He tried
on the cap with the monogram in front. It was neat and plain, and the
only objection he had to it was that it was part of the uniform.

He was so anxious to learn what was going on at the school, and what the
principal had said about the rebels when they left, that he went out
into the hall. Bates was on his feet the instant the door was opened.
The old man smiled when he saw that Windham wore the uniform, and as the
ex-rebel passed him, he saluted him as politely as though he had never
been his prisoner.

The dormitory was located near the rocks, at a little distance from the
lake, which could not be seen from its windows. Life Windham knew
nothing at all about the stealing of the boats by the Topovers, and the
lively scenes on the lake in the forenoon. It was after one o'clock, and
the students ought to be in the shops. He went there, but they were
deserted.

Life concluded that the principal had given the rest of the students a
vacation as a reward of merit for not joining the rebellion. He walked
to the lake. Seated in one of the four-oar boats, busily engaged in
drawing on a large sheet of brown paper, he found Dory. As
stroke-oarsman the ex-rebel sat next to the coxswain in the Winooski,
and he was more intimate with him than with any other student. When Dory
saw him getting into the boat, he rolled up his drawings, and put a
rubber band around them.

"Hallo, Dory!" said Life, as he walked aft in the boat.

"Glad to see you, Life," replied the coxswain. "You look well in the new
uniform."

"I couldn't stay in my room any longer, but I have not changed my
opinion in regard to making us wear a uniform," added Life, who could
not even now back wholly down. "But what are you doing? Why are the
fellows not in the shops?"

"One question at a time. I am trying to make a plan for a boat-house.
The principal gave the students three days to get up their plans, and
they are to be handed in day after to-morrow morning."

"Did the principal offer the prizes?" asked Life, astonished that it had
been done in the absence of the rebels.

"Of course he did; he had opened the subject before you left the
schoolroom."

"But I thought he would put it off after one third of the whole school
had left."

"He don't do things in that way," added Dory.

"But what are the conditions? Perhaps I am not too late, for I had some
ideas about a plan."

"We are not allowed to speak to anyone about the plans," answered Dory.
"Every fellow is put on his honor to say nothing to anyone about them."

"Then the eight fellows that object to being dressed like monkeys are to
be shut out from the competition!" exclaimed Life indignantly. "That is
about as unfair as anything can be."

"You had the same chance that the rest of us had, and you chose to stay
in your room rather than hear the terms on which the prizes were to be
given."

"We were standing up for a principle."

"Whew!" whistled Dory laughing. "The principle that you won't wear the
colors of the Beech Hill Industrial School."

"The principle that we won't be punished for the sins of others,"
retorted Life smartly.

"You are wrong on the fact, as I have shown you before."

"It's no use to argue the point with you: if the principal had only
been fair enough to hear what Lew Shoreham had to say, we should have
been fully justified."

"He never argues the point with those who refuse to obey."

"No matter. Have you heard anything more from the Chesterfields?"

"We had a smart brush with them this forenoon," answered the coxswain;
and he proceeded to tell the whole story of the encounter with the
Topovers and their allies.

Life Windham listened with breathless interest. It was the liveliest
affair of the whole season, and he had been shut up in his room. He was
vexed and indignant that he had not been permitted to take a hand in the
stirring enterprise. When he had finished the narrative Dory wanted to
work on his plan, and Life left him. He found all the other students at
liberty were engaged in the same way.

Life had to spend the afternoon by himself. Late in the day he saw Bob
Swanton come out of the dormitory with the uniform on. He was just
beginning to ask himself if he had not been a traitor to the "cause,"
and to the rebels engaged in it. He was glad to see one of them. Life
was pleased to have a companion, and they talked over the situation.

"Not the least notice seems to have been taken of us," said Swanton.

"Not the slightest," added Life. "Why, the principal did not even say a
single word about us after we left the schoolroom, and has not mentioned
us in any way."

"He is the oddest principal I ever heard of. I suppose he will let the
fellows stay in their rooms all winter," continued Bob Swanton, who had
pluck enough to fight, but not enough to be ignored.

"I have come to the conclusion that Lew Shoreham ought to have made his
argument when the order to put on the uniform was given," said Life,
rather sheepishly; "for the principal was certainly ready to hear all
the fellows had to say at that time. Lew didn't say a word about
punishing us for the sins of others then."

"I asked him why he did not, and he said he had not thought of it at
that time."

But the supper-bell ended the discussion, and the two ex-rebels went to
the house with the other students. Captain Gildrock saw them, but he
made no remark of any kind about their return to duty, or the fact that
they wore the uniform. The rest of the students seemed to be glad to see
them, but they would not allude to the rebellion.

The next morning. Harry Franklin and Phil Gawner appeared in uniform;
and at night only Lew Shoreham remained a prisoner. The next morning the
plans for the prizes were to be handed in, and when the school had
assembled, quite a number of the students had rolls of drawings in their
hands; but many of them had nothing to show for their three days' study
of architecture and engineering.

At the appointed hour the principal came in and took his place on the
platform. A moment later Lew Shoreham entered in full uniform, with the
cap in his hand.

"May I be permitted to make an explanation?" said the last of the
rebels, rising in his seat.

"In my private office at the close of the school," replied Captain
Gildrock.

That was not what the chief rebel wanted.




CHAPTER XX.

THE VISITING COMMITTEE AT BEECH HILL.


"I wish to protest----"

"Take your seat, Shoreham!" interposed the principal very sternly.

The last of the rebels obeyed, and did not appear to be at all angry or
indignant. Possibly he was about to protest in order to save
appearances. Most of the students smiled as they saw the young orator
deprived of his only chance to plead the cause to which he had been a
martyr for the last three days.

Captain Gildrock repeated the terms on which the prizes were to be
given, so that there should be no mistake in regard to them. The
ex-rebels listened, though the subject had little interest in the
competition, for they had ruled themselves out of it. Not the remotest
allusion was made to their misconduct.

"I have invited three gentlemen to spend a few days with me," continued
the principal. "One of them is an architect, another is a civil
engineer, and the third is a salesman in a hardware store in Boston.
They will form the committee to award the prizes for the best plans.
They will arrive this forenoon, and as soon as they come to a decision,
I shall inform you of the result."

The captain then instructed Mr. Darlingby to receive the plans and make
sure that there was no distinguishing mark on any of them except the
character on the envelope containing the name of the competitor. He was
to retain the envelopes and lock them up in the safe. As a further
precaution he was required to paste a piece of paper over the character
on the plans so that even this could not be seen by the committee.

The principal then left the schoolroom, declining even to see the rolls
of drawings. As soon as he had gone, sixteen plans were presented. This
was a greater number than the principal had expected. Mr. Darlingby
carried out the instructions given him, and sent the drawings to the
mansion house. The studies of the classes proceeded as usual during the
forenoon.

The three gentlemen who were expected appeared at dinner, and the
students regarded them with interest. In the afternoon they visited the
shops and inspected the tools and machinery. The first class were now at
work as carpenters, and the second as machinists.

"As soon as we have decided on the plans, all the students will be
carpenters for a time," said Captain Gildrock, who explained his plans
with considerable enthusiasm to the visitors. "I intend that the
students shall do almost all the work of building the new boat-house,
though I shall have laborers enough to do the lifting and digging."

"You have excellent tools and machinery in every department," suggested
Mr. Plint, the architect.

"Good tools do a great deal towards making good workmen," replied the
principal. "Every student has been instructed how to keep his tools in
good order. Of course there is a difference in them so far as skill is
concerned, but everyone can grind a chisel or plane-iron."

"One of the boys invented a piece of apparatus by which any desired
bevel can be given to a tool at the grindstone," interposed Mr. Jepson,
as he exhibited the machine to the visitors.

It was simply an iron plate, taken from a useless invention, and set at
the edge of the stone. It could be adjusted at any angle for a long or
a short bevel. Some of the work done with it was shown, and the guests
said it was as true as could be done by the manufacturers. On a bench
near the grindstone, which was turned by steam, were oil-stones of two
kinds, one rather coarse and the other fine. Lew Shoreham was putting a
chisel in order at one of them.

"That is the inventor of the grinding apparatus," said Mr. Jepson.

Shoreham was a lion for the time, and the visitors were introduced to
him. He was highly commended for his inventive power. When he had
finished whetting the chisel, Mr. Plint examined it, and declared that
it was sharp enough to shave with.

Thus far about all the work done by the students had been in fitting up
the shops, though each one had made a dressing-case for his room. In the
middle and at each end of the carpenters' shop was a case containing
forty-nine small drawers, which had been made by Corny Minkfield, Steve
Baxter and Ned Bellows, who were reckoned the best workmen in the second
class. They were natural mechanics, though they were rather low in
scholarship.

"But do they like to work?" asked Mr. Bridges, the civil engineer.

"They would work here from the time they get out of bed in the morning
till dark if we would let them," replied Mr. Brookbine. "I don't know
