While she slept a storm came on,--thunder rolled and lightning flashed,
the wind blew a gale, and rain poured,--but Rosy never waked till dawn,
when she heard men shouting outside,--

"Run, run!  The river is rising!  We shall all be drowned!"

Rosy ran out to see what was the matter, though the wind nearly blew her
away; she found that so much rain had made the river overflow till it
began to wash the banks away.

"What shall I do? what shall I do?" cried Rosy, watching the men rush
about like ants, getting their bags of gold ready to carry off before
the water swept them away, if it became a flood.

As if in answer to her cry, Rosy heard a voice say close by,--

      "Splash, dash!
      Rumble and crash!
    Here come the beavers gay;
      See what they do,
      Rosy, for you,
    Because you helped me one day."

And there in the water was the little fish swimming about, while an army
of beavers began to pile up earth and stones in a high bank to keep the
river back.  How they worked, digging and heaping with teeth and claws,
and beating the earth hard with their queer tails like shovels!

Rosy and the men watched them work, glad to be safe, while the storm
cleared up; and by the time the dam was made, all danger was over. Rosy
looked into the faces of the rough men, hoping her father was there, and
was just going to ask about him, when a great shouting rose again, and
all began to run to the pit hole, saying,--

"The sand has fallen in!  The poor fellows will be smothered!  How can
we get them out? how can we get them out?"

Rosy ran too, feeling as if her heart would break; for her father was
down in the mine, and would die soon if air did not come to him.  The
men dug as hard as they could; but it was a long job, and they feared
they would not be in time.

Suddenly hundreds of moles came scampering along, and began to burrow
down through the earth, making many holes for air to go in; for they
know how to build galleries through the ground better than men can.
Every one was so surprised they stopped to look on; for the dirt flew
like rain as the busy little fellows scratched and bored as if making an
underground railway.

"What does it mean?" said the men.  "They work faster than we can, and
better; but who sent them?  Is this strange little girl a fairy?"

Before Rosy could speak, all heard a shrill, small voice singing,--

      "They come at my call;
      And though they are small,
    They ’ll dig the passage clear:
      I never forget;
      We ’ll save them yet,
    For love of Rosy dear."

Then all saw a little gray mouse sitting on a stone, waving her tail
about, and pointing with her tiny paw to show the moles where to dig.

The men laughed; and Rosy was telling them who she was, when a cry came
from the pit, and they saw that the way was clear so they could pull the
buried men up.  In a minute they got ropes, and soon had ten poor
fellows safe on the ground; pale and dirty, but all alive, and all
shouting as if they were crazy,--

"Tom’s got it!  Tom’s got it!  Hooray for Tom!"

"What is it?" cried the others; and then they saw Tom come up with the
biggest lump of gold ever found in the mountains.

Every one was glad of Tom’s luck; for he was a good man, and had worked
a long time, and been sick, and could n’t go back to his wife and child.
When he saw Rosy, he dropped the lump, and caught her up, saying,--

"My little girl! she ’s better than a million pounds of gold."

Then Rosy was very happy, and went back to the hut, and had a lovely
time telling her father all about her troubles and her travels. He cried
when he heard that the poor mother was dead before she could have any of
the good things the gold would buy them.

"We will go away and be happy together in the pleasantest home I can
find, and never part any more, my darling," said the father, kissing
Rosy as she sat on his knee with her arms round his neck.

She was just going to say something very sweet to comfort him, when a
fly lit on her arm and buzzed very loud,--

      "Don’t drive me away,
      But hear what I say:
    Bad men want the gold;
      They will steal it to-night,
      And you must take flight;
    So be quiet and busy and bold."


"I was afraid some one would take my lump away.  I ’ll pack up at once,
and we will creep off while the men are busy at work; though I ’m afraid
we can’t go fast enough to be safe, if they miss us and come after,"
said Tom, bundling his gold into a bag and looking very sober; for some
of the miners were wild fellows, and might kill him for the sake of that
great lump.

But the fly sang again,--

      "Slip away with me,
      And you will see
    What a wise little thing am I;
      For the road I show
      No man can know,
    Since it’s up in the pathless sky."


Then they followed Buzz to a quiet nook in the wood; and there were the
eagle and his mate waiting to fly away with them so fast and so far that
no one could follow.  Rosy and the bag of gold were put on the mother
eagle; Tom sat astride the king bird; and away they flew to a great
city, where the little girl and her father lived happily together all
their lives.




[Illustration: Poor Billy dangling from a bough, high above the ground.
PAGE 146.]



                                  VII.

                           HOW THEY RAN AWAY.


Two little boys sat on the fence whittling arrows one fine day.  Said
one little boy to the other little boy,--

"Let’s do something jolly."

"All right.  What will we do?"

"Run off to the woods and be hunters."

"What can we hunt?"

"Bears and foxes."

"Mullin says there ain’t any round here."

"Well, we can shoot squirrels and snare woodchucks."

"Have n’t got any guns and trap."

"We ’ve got our bows, and I found an old trap behind the barn."

"What will we eat?"

"Here ’s our lunch; and when that’s gone we can roast the squirrels and
cook the fish on a stick.  I know how."

"Where will you get the fire?"

"Got matches in my pocket."

"I ’ve got a lot of things we could use.  Let’s see."

And as if satisfied at last, cautious Billy displayed his treasures,
while bold Tommy did the same.

Besides the two knives there were strings, nails, matches, a piece of
putty, fish-hooks, and two very dirty handkerchiefs.

"There, sir, that ’s a first-rate fit-out for hunters; and with the
jolly basket of lunch Mrs. Mullin gave us, we can get on tip-top for two
or three days," said Tommy, eager to be off.

"Where shall we sleep?" asked Billy, who liked to be comfortable both
night and day.

"Oh, up in trees or on beds of leaves, like the fellows in our books.
If you are afraid, stay at home; I ’m going to have no end of a good
time."  And Tommy crammed the things back into his pockets as if there
were no time to lose.

"Pooh!  I ain’t afraid.  Come on!"  And jumping down Billy caught up his
rod, rather ashamed of his many questions.

No one was looking at them, and they might have walked quietly off; but
that the "running away" might be all right, both raced down the road,
tumbled over a wall, and dashed into the woods as if a whole tribe of
wild Indians were after them.

"Do you know the way?" panted Billy, when at last they stopped for
breath.

"Yes, it winds right up the mountain; but we ’d better not keep to it,
or some one will see us and take us back.  We are going to be real
hunters and have adventures; so we must get lost, and find our way by
the sun and the stars," answered Tommy, who had read so many Boys’ Books
his little head was a jumble of Texan Rangers, African Explorers, and
Buffalo Bills; and he burned to outdo them all.

"What will our mothers say if we really get lost?" asked Billy, always
ready with a question.

"Mine won’t fuss.  She lets me do what I like."

That was true; for Tommy’s poor mamma was tired of trying to keep the
lively little fellow in order, and had got used to seeing him come out
of all his scrapes without much harm.

"Mine will be scared; she ’s always afraid I ’m going to get hurt, so I
’m careful.  But I guess I ’ll risk it, and have some fun to tell about
when we go home," said Billy, trudging after Captain Tommy, who always
took the lead.

These eleven-year-old boys were staying with their mothers at a
farm-house up among the mountains; and having got tired of the tame
bears, the big barn, the trout brook, the thirty colts at pasture, and
the society of the few little girls and younger boys at the hotel near
by, these fine fellows longed to break loose and "rough it in the bush,"
as the hunters did in their favorite stories.

Away they went, deeper and deeper into the great forest that covered the
side of the mountain.  A pleasant place that August day; for it was cool
and green, with many brooks splashing over the rocks, or lying in brown
pools under the ferns.  Squirrels chattered and raced in the tall pines;
now and then a gray rabbit skipped out of sight among the brakes, or a
strange bird flew by.  Here and there blackberries grew in the open
places, sassafras bushes were plentiful, and black-birch bark was ready
for chewing.

"Don’t you call this nice?" asked Tommy, pausing at last in a little
dell where a noisy brook came tumbling down the mountain side, and the
pines sung overhead.

"Yes; but I ’m awful hungry.  Let’s rest and eat our lunch," said Billy,
sitting down on a cushion of moss.

"You always want to be stuffing and resting," answered sturdy Tommy, who
liked to be moving all the time.

He took the fishing-basket, which hung over his shoulder by a strap, and
opened it carefully; for good Mrs. Mullin had packed a nice lunch of
bread and butter, cake and peaches, with a bottle of milk, and two large
pickles slipped in on the sly to please the boys.

Tommy’s face grew very sober as he looked in, for all he saw was a box
of worms for bait and an old jacket.

"By George! we ’ve got the wrong basket. This is Mullin’s, and he ’s
gone off with our prog.  Won’t he be mad?"

"Not as mad as I am.  Why did n’t you look?  You are always in such a
hurry to start. What shall we do now without anything to eat?" whined
Billy; for losing his lunch was a dreadful blow to him.

"We shall have to catch some fish and eat blackberries.  Which will you
do, old cry-baby?" said Tommy, laughing at the other boy’s dismal face.

"I ’ll fish; I ’m so tired I can’t go scratching round after berries.  I
don’t love ’em, either."  And Billy began to fix his line and bait his
hook.

"Lucky we got the worms; you can eat ’em if you can’t wait for fish,"
said Tommy, bustling about to empty the basket and pile up their few
possessions in a heap.  "There’s a quiet pool below here, you go and
fish there.  I ’ll pick the berries, and then show you how to get dinner
in the woods.  This is our camp; so fly round and do your best."

Then Tommy ran off to a place near by where he had seen the berries,
while Billy found a comfortable nook by the pool, and sat scowling at
the water so crossly, it was a wonder any trout came to his hook.  But
the fat worms tempted several small ones, and he cheered up at the
prospect of food.  Tommy whistled while he picked, and in half an hour
came back with two quarts of nice berries and an armful of dry sticks
for the fire.

"We ’ll have a jolly dinner, after all," he said, as the flames went
crackling up, and the dry leaves made a pleasant smell.

"Got four, but don’t see how we ’ll ever cook ’em; no frying-pan,"
grumbled Billy, throwing down the four little trout, which he had half
cleaned.

"Don’t want any.  Broil ’em on the coals, or toast ’em on a forked
stick.  I ’ll show you how," said cheerful Tommy, whittling away, and
feeding his fire as much like a real hunter as a small boy could be.

While he worked, Billy ate berries and sighed for bread and butter.  At
last, after much trouble, two of the trout were half cooked and eagerly
eaten by the hungry boys.  But they were very different from the nice
brown ones Mrs. Mullin gave them; for in spite of Tommy’s struggles they
would fall in the ashes, and there was no salt to eat with them.  By the
time the last were toasted, the young hunters were so hungry they could
have eaten anything, and not a berry was left.

"I set the trap down there, for I saw a hole among the vines, and I
should n’t wonder if we got a rabbit or something," said Tommy, when the
last bone was polished.  "You go and catch some more fish, and I ’ll see
if I have caught any old chap as he went home to dinner."

Off ran Tommy; and the other boy went slowly back to the brook, wishing
with all his might he was at home eating sweet corn and berry pie.

The trout had evidently gone to their dinners, for not one bite did poor
Billy get; and he was just falling asleep when a loud shout gave him
such a fright that he tumbled into the brook up to his knees.

"I ’ve got him!  Come and see!  He’s a bouncer," roared Tommy, from the
berry bushes some way off.

Billy scrambled out, and went as fast as his wet boots would let him, to
see what the prize was.  He found Tommy dancing wildly round a fat gray
animal, who was fighting to get his paws out of the trap, and making a
queer noise as he struggled about.

"What is it?" asked Billy, getting behind a tree as fast as possible;
for the thing looked fierce, and he was very timid.

"A raccoon, I guess, or a big woodchuck. Won’t his fur make a fine cap?
I guess the other fellows will wish they ’d come with us," said Tommy,
prancing to and fro, without the least idea what to do with the
creature.

"He ’ll bite.  We ’d better run away and wait till he ’s dead," said
Billy.

"Wish he ’d got his head in, then I could carry him off; but he does
look savage, so we’ll have to leave him awhile, and get him when we come
back.  But he’s a real beauty."  And Tommy looked proudly at the bunch
of gray fur scuffling in the sand.

"Can we ever eat him?" asked hungry Billy, ready for a fried crocodile
if he could get it.

"If he ’s a raccoon, we can; but I don’t know about woodchucks.  The
fellows in my books don’t seem to have caught any.  He ’s nice and fat;
we might try him when he ’s dead," said Tommy, who cared more for the
skin to show than the best meal ever cooked.

The sound of a gun echoing through the wood gave Tommy a good idea,--

"Let’s find the man and get him to shoot this chap; then we need n’t
wait, but skin him right away, and eat him too."

Off they went to the camp; and catching up their things, the two hunters
hurried away in the direction of the sound, feeling glad to know that
some one was near them, for two or three hours of wood life made them a
little homesick.

They ran and scrambled, and listened and called; but not until they had
gone a long way up the mountain did they find the man, resting in an old
hut left by the lumbermen.  The remains of his dinner were spread on the
floor, and he lay smoking, and reading a newspaper, while his dog dozed
at his feet, close to a well-filled game-bag.

He looked surprised when two dirty, wet little boys suddenly appeared
before him,--one grinning cheerfully, the other looking very dismal and
scared as the dog growled and glared at them as if they were two
rabbits.

"Hollo!" said the man.

"Hollo!" answered Tommy.

"Who are you?" asked the man.

"Hunters," said Tommy.

"Had good luck?" And the man laughed.

"First-rate.  Got a raccoon in our trap, and we want you to come and
shoot him," answered Tommy, proudly.

"Sure?" said the man, looking interested as well as amused.

"No; but I think so."

"What’s he like?"

Tommy described him, and was much disappointed when the man lay down
again, saying, with another laugh,--

"It’s a woodchuck; he’s no good."

"But I want the skin."

"Then don’t shoot him, let him die; that’s better for the skin," said
the man, who was tired and did n’t want to stop for such poor game.

All this time Billy had been staring hard at the sandwiches and bread
and cheese on the floor, and sniffing at them, as the dog sniffed at
him.

"Want some grub?" asked the man, seeing the hungry look.

"I just do!  We left our lunch, and I ’ve only had two little trout and
some old berries since breakfast," answered Billy, with tears in his
eyes and a hand on his stomach.

"Eat away then; I ’m done, and don’t want the stuff."  And the man took
up his paper as if glad to be let alone.

It was lucky that the dog had been fed, for in ten minutes nothing was
left but the napkin; and the boys sat picking up the crumbs, much
refreshed, but ready for more.

"Better be going home, my lads; it’s pretty cold on the mountain after
sunset, and you are a long way from town," said the man, who had peeped
at them over his paper now and then, and saw, in spite of the dirt and
rips, that they were not farmer boys.

"We don’t live in town; we are at Mullin’s, in the valley.  No hurry; we
know the way, and we want to have some sport first.  You seem to have
done well," answered Tommy, looking enviously from the gun to the
game-bag, out of which hung a rabbit’s head and a squirrel’s tail.

"Pretty fair; but I want a shot at the bear. People tell me there is one
up here, and I ’m after him; for he kills the sheep, and might hurt some
of the young folks round here," said the man, loading his gun with a
very sober air; for he wanted to get rid of the boys and send them home.

Billy looked alarmed; but Tommy’s brown face beamed with joy as he said
eagerly,--

"I hope you ’ll get him.  I ’d rather shoot a bear than any other animal
but a lion.  We don’t have those here, and bears are scarce. Mullin said
he had n’t heard of one for a long time; so this must be a young one,
for they killed the big one two years ago."

That was true, and the man knew it.  He did not really expect or want to
meet a bear, but thought the idea of one would send the little fellows
home at once.  Finding one of them was unscared, he laughed, and said
with a nod to Tommy,--

"If I had time I ’d take you along, and show you how to hunt; but this
fat friend of yours could n’t rough it with us, and we can’t leave him
alone; so go ahead your own way.  Only I wouldn’t climb any higher, for
among the rocks you are sure to get hurt or lost."

"Oh, I say, let’s go!  Such fun, Billy!  I know you’ll like it.  A real
gun and dog and hunter!  Come on, and don’t be a molly-coddle," cried
Tommy, wild to go.

"I won’t!  I’m tired, and I’m going home; you can go after your old
bears if you want to. I don’t think much of hunting anyway, and wish I
had n’t come," growled Billy, very cross at being left out, yet with no
desire to scramble any more.

"Can’t stop.  Good-by.  Get along home, and some day I ’ll come and take
you out with me, little Leatherstocking," said the man, striding off
with the dear gun and dog and bag, leaving Billy to wonder what he meant
by that queer name, and Tommy to console himself with the promise made
him.

"Let’s go and see how old Chucky gets on," he said good-naturedly, when
the man vanished.

"Not till I ’m rested.  I can get a good nap on this pile of hay; then
we’ll go home before it’s late," answered lazy Billy, settling himself
on the rough bed the lumbermen had used.

"I just wish I had a boy with some go in him; you ain’t much better than
a girl," sighed Tommy, walking off to a pine-tree where some squirrels
seemed to be having a party, they chattered and raced up and down at
such a rate.

He tried his bow and shot all his arrows many times in vain, for the
lively creatures gave him no chance.  He had better luck with a brown
bird who sat in a bush and was hit full in the breast with the sharpest
arrow.  The poor thing fluttered and fell, and its blood wet the green
leaves as it lay dying on the grass.  Tommy was much pleased at first;
but as he stood watching its bright eye grow dim and its pretty brown
wings stop fluttering, he felt sorry that its happy little life was so
cruelly ended, and ashamed that his thoughtless fun had given so much
pain.

"I ’ll never shoot another bird except hawks after chickens, and I won’t
brag about this one. It was so tame, and trusted me, I was very mean to
kill it."

As he thought this, Tommy smoothed the ruffled feathers of the dead
thrush, and, making a little grave under the pine, buried it wrapped in
green leaves, and left it there where its mate could sing over it, and
no rude hands disturb its rest.

"I ’ll tell mamma and she will understand; but I won’t tell Billy.  He
is such a greedy old chap he’ll say I ought to have kept the poor bird
to eat," thought Tommy, as he went back to the hut, and sat there,
restringing his bow, till Billy woke up, much more amiable for his
sleep.

They tried to find the woodchuck, but lost their way, and wandered
deeper into the great forest till they came to a rocky place and could
go no farther.  They climbed up and tumbled down, turned back and went
round, looked at the sun and knew it was late, chewed sassafras bark and
checkerberry leaves for supper, and grew more and more worried and tired
as hour after hour went by and they saw no end to woods and rocks.  Once
or twice they heard the hunter’s gun far away, and called and tried to
find him.

Tommy scolded Billy for not going with the man, who knew his way and was
probably safe in the valley when the last faint shot came up to them.
Billy cried, and reproached Tommy for proposing to run away; and both
felt very homesick for their mothers and their good safe beds at Farmer
Mullin’s.

The sun set, and found them in a dreary place full of rocks and blasted
trees half-way up the mountain.  They were so tired they could hardly
walk, and longed to lie down anywhere to sleep; but, remembering the
hunter’s story of the bear, they were afraid to do it, till Tommy
suggested climbing a tree, after making a fire at the foot of it to
scare away the bear, lest he climb too and get them.

But, alas! the matches were left in their first camp; so they decided to
take turns to sleep and watch, since it was plain that they must spend
the night there.  Billy went up first, and creeping into a good notch of
the bare tree tried to sleep, while brave Tommy, armed with a big stick,
marched to and fro below.  Every few minutes a trembling voice would
call from above, "Is anything coming?" and an anxious voice would answer
from below, "Not yet. Hurry up and go to sleep!  I want my turn."

At last Billy began to snore, and then Tommy felt so lonely he could n’t
bear it; so he climbed to a lower branch, and sat nodding and trying to
keep watch, till he too fell fast asleep, and the early moon saw the
poor boys roosting there like two little owls.

A loud cry, a scrambling overhead, and then a great shaking and howling
waked Tommy so suddenly that he lost his wits for a moment and did not
know where he was.

"The bear! the bear! don’t let him get me! Tommy, Tommy, come and make
him let go," cried Billy, filling the quiet night with dismal howls.

Tommy looked up, expecting to behold a large bear eating his unhappy
friend; but the moonlight showed him nothing but poor Billy dangling
from a bough, high above the ground, caught by his belt when he fell.
He had been dreaming of bears, and rolled off his perch; so there he
hung, kicking and wailing, half awake, and so scared it was long before
Tommy could make him believe that he was quite safe.

How to get him down was the next question. The branch was not strong
enough to bear Tommy, though he climbed up and tried to unhook poor
Billy.  The belt was firmly twisted at the back, and Billy could not
reach to undo it, nor could he get his legs round the branch to pull
himself up.  There seemed no way but to unbuckle the belt and drop.
That he was afraid to try; for the ground was hard, and the fall a high
one.  Fortunately both belt and buckle were strong; so he hung safely,
though very uncomfortably, while Tommy racked his boyish brain to find a
way to help him.

Billy had just declared that he should be cut in two very soon if
something was not done for him, and Tommy was in despair, when they
thought they heard a far-off shout, and both answered it till their
throats were nearly split with screaming.

"I seem to see a light moving round down that way," cried Billy from his
hook, pointing toward the valley.

"They are looking for us, but they won’t hear us.  I ’ll run and holler
louder, and bring ’em up here," answered Tommy, glad to do anything that
would put an end to this dreadful state of things.

"Don’t leave me!  I may fall and be killed! The bear might come!  Don’t
go! don’t go!" wailed Billy, longing to drop, but afraid.

"I won’t go far, and I ’ll come back as quick as I can.  You are safe up
there.  Hold on, and we ’ll soon get you down," answered Tommy, rushing
away helter-skelter, never minding where he went, and too much excited
to care for any damage.

The moon was bright on the blasted trees; but when he came down among
the green pines, it grew dark, and he often stumbled and fell. Never
minding bumps and bruises, he scrambled over rocks, leaped fallen
trunks, floundered through brooks, and climbed down steep places, till,
with a reckless jump, he went heels over head into a deep hole, and lay
there for a moment stunned by the fall.  It was an old bear-trap, long
unused, and fortunately well carpeted with dead leaves, or poor Tommy
would have broken his bones.

When he came to himself he was so used up that he lay still for some
time in a sort of daze, too tired to know or care about anything, only
dimly conscious that somebody was lost in a tree or a well, and that, on
the whole, running away was not all fun.

By and by the sound of a gun roused him; and remembering poor Billy, he
tried to get out of the pit,--for the moon showed him where he was.  But
it was too deep, and he was too stiff with weariness and the fall to be
very nimble.  So he shouted, and whistled, and raged about very like a
little bear caught in the pit.

It is very difficult to find a lost person on these great mountains, and
many wander for hours not far from help, bewildered by the thick woods,
the deep ravines, and precipices which shut them in.  Some have lost
their lives; and as Tommy lay on the leaves used up by his various
struggles, he thought of all the stories he had lately heard at the
farm, and began to wonder how it would feel to starve to death down
there, and to wish poor Billy could come to share his prison, that they
might die together, like the Babes in the Wood, or better still the Boy
Scouts lost on the prairies in that thrilling story, "Bill Boomerang,
the Wild Hunter of the West."

"I guess mother is worried this time, because I never stayed out all
night before, and I never will again without leave.  It’s rather good
fun, though, if they only find me.  I ain’t afraid, and it is n’t very
cold.  I always wanted to sleep out, and now I ’m doing it.  Wish poor
Billy was safely down and in this good bed with me. Won’t he be scared
all alone there?  Maybe the belt will break and he get hurt bumping
down. Sorry now I left him, he’s such a ’fraid-cat. There’s the gun
again!  Guess it’s that man after us.  Hi! hollo!  Here I am!  Whoop!
Hurrah! Hi! hi! hi!"

Tommy’s meditations ended in a series of yells as loud as his shrill
little voice could make them, and he thought some one answered.  But it
must have been an echo, for no one came; and after another rampage round
his prison, the poor boy nestled down among the leaves, and went fast
asleep because there was nothing else to do.

So there they were, the two young hunters, lost at midnight on the
mountain,--one hanging like an apple on the old tree, and the other
sound asleep in a bear-pit.  Their distracted mothers meantime were
weeping and wringing their hands at the farm, while all the men in the
neighborhood were out looking for the lost boys.  The hunter on his
return to the hotel had reported meeting the runaways and his effort to
send them home in good season; so people knew where to look, and, led by
the man and dog, up the mountain went Mr. Mullin with his troop. It was
a mild night, and the moon shone high and clear; so the hunt was, on the
whole, rather easy and pleasant at first, and lanterns flashed through
the dark forest like fireflies, the lonely cliffs seemed alive with men,
and voices echoed in places where usually only the brooks babbled and
the hawks screamed.  But as time went on, and no sign of the boys
appeared, the men grew anxious, and began to fear some serious harm had
come to the runaways.

"I can’t go home without them little shavers no way, ’specially Tommy,"
said Mr. Mullin, as they stopped to rest after a hard climb through the
blasted grove.  "He’s a boy after my own heart, spry as a chipmunk,
smart as a young cockerel, and as full of mischief as a monkey. He ain’t
afraid of anything, and I should n’t be a mite surprised to find him
enjoyin’ himself first-rate, and as cool as a coocumber."

"The fat boy won’t take it so easily, I fancy. If it had n’t been for
him I ’d have kept the lively fellow with me, and shown him how to hunt.
Sorry now I did n’t take them both home," said the man with the gun,
seeing his mistake too late, as people often do.

"Maybe they ’ve fell down a precipice and got killed, like Moses Warner,
when he was lost," suggested a tall fellow, who had shouted himself
hoarse.

"Hush up, and come on!  The dog is barkin’ yonder, and he may have found
’em," said the farmer, hurrying toward the place where the hound was
baying at something in a tree.

It was poor Billy, hanging there still, half unconscious with weariness
and fear.  The belt had slipped up under his arms, so he could breathe
easily; and there he was, looking like a queer sort of cone on the
blasted pine.

"Wal, I never!" exclaimed the farmer, as the tall lad climbed up, and,
unhooking Billy, handed him down like a young bird, into the arms held
up to catch him.

"He ’s all right, only scared out of his wits.  Come along and look for
the other one.  I ’ll warrant he went for help, and may be half-way home
by this time," said the hunter, who did n’t take much interest in the
fat boy.

Tommy’s hat lay on the ground; and showing it to the dog, his master
told him to find the boy.  The good hound sniffed about, and then set
off with his nose to the ground, following the zigzag track Tommy had
taken in his hurry. The hunter and several of the men went after him,
leaving the farmer with the others to take care of Billy.

Presently the dog came to the bear-pit, and began to bark again.

"He ’s got him!" cried the men, much relieved; and rushing on soon saw
the good beast looking down at a little white object in one corner of
the dark hole.

It was Tommy’s face in the moonlight, for the rest of him was covered up
with leaves.  The little round face seemed very quiet; and for a moment
the men stood quite still, fearing that the fall might have done the boy
some harm. Then the hunter leaped down, and gently touched the brown
cheek.  It was warm, and a soft snore from the pug nose made the man
call out, much relieved,--

"He ’s all right.  Wake up here, little chap; you are wanted at home.
Had hunting enough for this time?"

As he spoke, Tommy opened his eyes, gave a stretch, and said, "Hollo,
Billy," as calmly as if in his own bed at home.  Then the rustle of the
leaves, the moonlight in his face, and the sight of several men staring
down at him startled him wide awake.

