and below. He could not see the Bellevite in the darkness, for he had
directed the engineer to allow no light to be shown on board of her.
He had brought a little mathematics into his calculations, and he had
pointed the big gun of the steamer so as to cover the craft with the
walking-beam when she came in sight around this turn of the stream. By
this plan she was sure to come into the range of the piece, no matter on
which side of the channel she was moving.

"Now, Mr. Watts, I have a further duty for you to perform," said
Christy, as he explained his plan to the steward. "We shall go down the
river till we meet this steamer which conveys the enemy. As you are a
sailor as well as a caterer, you have a nautical eye, and when you have
seen this steamer you will know her again."

"Trust me for that. If it is the old tub I think it is, I know her
already," answered the steward.

"What steamer do you think it is?"

"The old Vampire; and if you give her much of a rap, she will go to the
bottom without the least difficulty."

"I don't care where she goes to, provided she don't put her passengers
on board of the Bellevite. But I am taking you down the river with me in
order that you may see her and know her."

"I shall know her as soon as I see her."

"As I said before, I shall run my horse back and get aboard of the
Bellevite as soon as I am satisfied that the enemy are moving up the
river," continued Christy.

"I am afraid I shall not be able to keep up with you if you run your
horse," suggested the steward.

"I don't want you to keep up with me. You can come along as leisurely as
you please, though you must not let the enemy get ahead of you."

"If the enemy are in the old Vampire, I could keep ahead of her on
foot."

"You had better keep ahead of her on your horse about a quarter of a
mile, or more; but your main duty will be here. I have brought with me
half a dozen Roman candles, and I am going to fix them in the ground on
this spot. Here is a bunch of matches," said Christy, handing it to him.

The steward watched the midshipman while he planted the fireworks in the
sand, and particularly marked the spot where they were located, for his
companion told him he was to fire them, and he must be ready to do so
without any delay.

"A boy could do that and like the fun of it," said Mr. Watts, laughing
at the simple duty he was to perform.

"But it is the time that you are to do it, and the boy might be
skylarking, or become impatient. This signal of the fireworks is to
assure us at the right moment that the Vampire, if it should be she,
is in the place where I expect her to be."

"I understand it perfectly."

"After I leave you, another steamer may come along, and get to this
point ahead of the Vampire; and I should be very sorry to blow her out
of the water, or sink her under it. You are to let us know by this
signal that it is the Vampire, and no other, that is coming round the
bend. You had better leave your horse a short distance from the river,
for that gun will make every pane of glass within a mile of it shake
when it is discharged."

"You may be sure that I will not be on his back at that time."

"Still further: I have planted six candles in the sand. You will light
only one of them when the steamer begins to round the bend. That will be
enough to inform us of the fact on board of the Bellevite."

"What are the others for?" asked the steward, taking a memorandum-book
from his pocket as though he intended to write his instructions.

"It is not necessary to write it. We shall not be able to see what
effect the shot produces after we fire. If the Vampire, always supposing
she is the one, is not hurt, light a second candle--only one of them. If
she should be disabled, you will light two candles."

Christy repeated what he had said, and was careful not to give the
steward too much to remember. As soon as the matter was fully
understood, the middy mounted his horse, and they proceeded on their
mission down the river. After they had ridden about three miles, Mr.
Watts insisted that the steamer was coming, and that it was the Vampire.

"I don't see anything," added Christy.

"Neither do I; but I know that the Vampire is coming up the river. If
you listen, you will hear a hoarse puffing; and nothing but that old ark
could make such a wheezy noise," replied the steward.

The middy heard it and was satisfied.




CHAPTER IX

THE APPROACH OF THE VAMPIRE


The Vampire, as the steward had no doubt it was, could not be less than
a mile distant from the spot where the two horsemen had halted in the
road. Christy was very familiar with this portion of the river, and
after he had listened a few moments, he was satisfied from the direction
of the sound he heard, that a mile was very nearly the exact distance.
The approaching steamer had to come around a small bend, the arc of
which made just a mile.

"I don't wish to blow up a dozen or twenty loyal citizens, and I must
make sure in some way that Captain Carboneer's party is on board of that
steamer," said Christy, as he led his horse into a field, and tied him
to a tree, the steward following his example.

"That would be a very bad thing to do," added Mr. Watts, as they walked
back to the river. "But I don't see why it is necessary to blow up even
any rebels on the present occasion. If that naval officer has forty men,
as you think he has, a shot from that long gun would make terrible havoc
among them if you succeeded in hitting her. You might kill half of
them."

"If we do they, and not we, will be responsible for it," added Christy,
somewhat appalled by the suggestion of his companion.

"If you have steam up on board of the Bellevite, why not get under way
and run down the river," continued Mr. Watts.

"Perhaps I am a coward, but I am afraid to do that," replied the
midshipman, thoughtfully.

"We all know that you are no coward, Christy, and if you don't send a
shot into the Vampire, it will not be because you are afraid."

"Although I know the river as well as any pilot in this vicinity, I
should not dare to run the Bellevite at full speed around such a bend
as the one off this spot," Christy explained. "We have not above half a
dozen trained sailors who know how to handle a cutlass on board, and all
the others will be needed in working the steamer. The coal-passers would
be good for nothing in repelling boarders."

"You think Captain Carboneer would board the steamer, do you?"

"I have no doubt he would. He is a naval officer, and he knows what
he is about. There are several ways that he might get a hold on the
Bellevite, and, if he got alongside of her, I am afraid it would be all
up with us, and we should have a fair chance to see the inside of a
Confederate prison. I am afraid to run the risk you suggest, Mr. Watts."

"You know best, and I don't mean to interfere; I only thought I would
suggest the idea," added the steward, as they reached the bank of the
river again.

After he had secured his horse, Christy had lighted a match and looked
at his watch. It was a quarter of one, and still the puffing of the
Vampire came from the same direction. It was plain enough to him that
the old tub was not a racer. But she showed herself beyond the bend in
about a quarter of an hour, indicating that her rate of speed, or rather
of slowness, was not more than four statute miles an hour. But this was
simply confirmation of what the steward had said on the subject. Yet she
was coming, though it was too dark on the river to see her in detail.
Though he strained his eyes to the utmost, Christy could not discover
any men on her forward deck.

"I think you had better move back where you cannot be seen," said the
midshipman, in a low tone, to his companion.

"Do you wish me to leave you alone, Christy?" asked the steward,
surprised at the request.

"That is just what I wish, for I don't care to have any one on board of
the Vampire see more than one person at this point," replied Christy,
still gazing through the gloom at the approaching steamer.

"Excuse me, Christy; but what are you going to do? I prefer to be within
supporting distance of you."

"I don't think I shall need any support. I am going to hail the Vampire,
and ask if Captain Carboneer is on board," replied the midshipman,
quietly.

"You are going to hail her!" exclaimed Mr. Watts. "Are you mad, Christy?
I should say that you were."

"You shall be your own judge on that point."

"But the moment you use the name of Captain Carboneer, they will take
the alarm, and the next thing will be a bullet through your head."

"I will take the risk of that," answered Christy. "But you need not go
far from the river on this dark night. There is a clump of bushes this
side of the road, and you may get behind it."

The steward was not at all satisfied with the situation, but he complied
with the request of the midshipman, and concealed himself behind the
bushes. Christy took a position on the very verge of the water. The
progress of the Vampire was made at the expense of a hideous noise, and
she was a craft not at all adapted to the purpose of the conspirators.
The middy watched her with the most intense interest as she approached
the point where he was stationed. There was no light to be seen on
board, and there appeared to be no men on her lower deck; but she had a
cabin and other rooms, in which a force as large as that of the captain
could be concealed.

"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted Christy, as soon as the Vampire was abreast of
the spot he occupied.

No answer came to this hail, and the midshipman repeated it, louder than
before.

"On shore!" replied a voice from the forward deck.

"Come up to the shore, and take me on board, will you?" continued
Christy, disguising his voice to some extent the better to answer his
purpose.

"Who is it?" demanded the person on board who acted as speaker; and
Christy could see his form very distinctly, as he stood at an open
gangway, and was the only person in sight on the lower deck.

"Brigster," replied Christy, chewing up the word he coined so that the
man could not possibly make it out.

"Are you alone, Brewster?" demanded the speaker from the steamer.

This was a hard question, and with less information than he had obtained
while in his cabin on board of the Florence, he would not have dared to
reply to it. But he knew something of the plan of the conspirators, and
he felt competent to answer.

"Three more back in the road," replied Christy, promptly; and he said
three so as to give the idea that the force on board might be increased
by this number. "Is Captain Carboneer on board of that steamer?" asked
the midshipman, coming to his main point.

  [Illustration: "Steamer, Ahoy!" shouted Christy.--Page 107.]

"He is, and we are all here but four," replied the speaker on the deck;
and Christy was satisfied that the captain was the person by this time,
for his language and his voice indicated that he was an educated man.

"We had no boat, and we could not get across the river to the creek,"
added Christy, to increase the confidence of the leader of the
expedition. "But we saw a boat half at mile up the river, and we
will come off there, if you say so."

"All right; come on board as soon as you can," added Captain Carboneer,
as he walked away from the gangway.

Mindful of the peril of the situation, Christy walked leisurely back
from the river, and soon joined Mr. Watts, who had been near enough to
hear the conversation between the captain and the midshipman.

"That was done very handsomely, Christy," said the steward.

"There was no great difficulty in handling such a matter when one knew
all about the plot as I did. The fault on the other side was that they
did not examine the cabin of the Florence before they discussed their
plans in the standing-room," replied Christy, as he unfastened his
horse, and sprang upon his back. "I have no time to spare now."

"There is nothing more to be done here, I believe," added Mr. Watts.

"Not a thing. You can ride back to the place where the Roman candles
are planted, and you need not hurry about it, for the Vampire don't
make more than four miles an hour. Now be particular to carry out my
instructions to the letter, Mr. Watts; and you can see that a great deal
depends upon which signal you may have occasion to give," added the
midshipman.

"I understand what I am to do perfectly, and I will do my duty
faithfully, you may be sure," replied the steward, as he mounted
his horse.

Christy did not wait for him, but put his steed into a dead run on
the moment. The road was only a cart-path, and it was so soft that the
horse's hoofs made no noise to betray his movements to the enemy. He
urged the willing beast to his utmost speed, for he was as much at home
in the saddle as he was in the rigging of a ship. Before the Vampire had
made another eighth of a mile, he had reached the place where the boat
had been left for his use. What to do with his horse was a question, for
the report of the big gun would set him crazy. But he knew that the men
must be at the house, and he turned the animal loose, satisfied that he
would go to the stable without any guidance.

Springing into the boat, he pulled to the Bellevite. At the
accommodation steps, he was challenged by Sampson, who demanded like
one in authority who and what he was, for the experience of the evening
had greatly sharpened his wits.

"Who is it?" he demanded, in a tone which implied his intention to have
a satisfactory answer. "Advance and give the word."

"Give the word!" exclaimed Christy. "I have no word to give."

"Then you can't come on board," replied Sampson dogmatically.

"I am Christy Passford, and I have not heard about any word," protested
the midshipman.

"You can't pour molasses down my back again," replied Sampson, with a
self-satisfied air.

"Don't be a fool, Sampson," added Christy, as he climbed upon the steps,
the lower part of which had been hoisted up.

"I have been a fool once, and I don't mean to be again," replied the
sentinel. "On deck, there! Bring a lantern out of the engine-room!"

"Don't bring a lantern in sight!" protested Christy impatiently.

"What's the row there, Sampson?" called Paul Vapoor, mounting the rail,
and looking through the darkness at the steps, down which the vigilant
sentinel had descended more than half way to the water.

"This fellow says he is Christy Passford; and I don't know whether it is
Christy or not," replied Sampson.

"Is that you, Christy?" asked Paul.

"Of course it is," replied the middy. "We are wasting time."

"He hasn't the word," added the sentinel.

"Pass him, Sampson; he is all right," said the engineer; and Christy
rushed up the steps, and leaped down upon the deck of the steamer.

"I gave out a word for all who had to leave the ship for any purpose
during the evening," Paul explained.

"Never mind that now," interposed the midshipman in command. "Have you
plenty of steam on?"

"Enough to give her fifteen knots," replied the engineer. "The cable
is buoyed, and the long gun loaded. I believe everything is in perfect
order to carry out your instructions, though we did not point the gun
when we loaded it, for I thought you would prefer to do that yourself,"
the engineer reported.

"All right, Paul," added Christy. "The steamer, whose name is the
Vampire, is on her way up the river, and I should say she would reach
the bend in about half an hour. Mr. Watts is down there, and I have
arranged certain signals with him."

The midshipman made a careful examination for himself of the ship.




CHAPTER X

A SHOT FROM THE LONG GUN


Christy Passford, as soon as he found that all the other preparations
for the decisive event had been made, turned his attention to the aiming
of the long gun. He had practised with it somewhat before; and in the
ambitious spirit of a boy, he had often amused himself by sighting over
the top of the piece.

There was no sort of duty on board of a vessel, even a war steamer, in
which he had not done his best to make himself a proficient. He had done
duty as an engineer, and even as a fireman. He had taken his trick at
the wheel as a quartermaster, and there was nothing he had not done,
unless it was to command a vessel, and he had done that on a small
scale. Doubtless he had no inconsiderable portion of a boy's vanity,
and he believed that he could do anything that anybody else could do;
or if he was satisfied that he could not, he studied and practised till
he did believe it.

Be it vanity or pride, Christy certainly believed in himself to a very
liberal extent, though his character was fortunately leavened with a
large lump of modesty. What he believed, he believed for himself, and
acted upon it for himself; so that he was not inclined to boast of his
accomplishments, and permitted others to find out what he was rather
than made it known in words himself. But his father had found it
necessary to restrain him to some extent, and he had not pushed him
forward as rapidly as he might have done till the dread notes of war
were heard on the land and the sea; and then he thought it would be
wrong to hold him back.

When Christy sighted along the great gun, he believed he could hit the
Vampire almost to a certainty; but he was not self-sufficient, and did
not often believe that he knew a thing better than any other person, and
he was not above taking the advice and instruction of others. It was
dark, but Christy had fixed upon an object at the bend below, of which
he intended to make use in firing the gun. It was a tree which painted
its outline on the horizon, and the decisive moment was to come when
the Vampire was in range with this tree. He adjusted the gun just as he
wanted it, and he was satisfied it would do just what he required of it.

He was not inclined to act on his own judgment and skill alone, and he
called Boxie, the old sheet-anchorman, who had been the captain of a gun
years before the midshipman was born, and pointed out the tree to him,
asking him to sight along the gun. He explained his plan to the old
salt, and then asked his opinion.

"You have aimed it too high, Mr. Passford," said the veteran, after he
had squinted a long time along the piece.

"How is it otherwise?" asked Christy.

"It is all right, sir; but the shot will pass over the steamer. Drop the
muzzle a trifle, and the shot will hull her, if you pull the lockstring
at the right time."

"I shall see that the string is pulled at the right time; thank you,
Boxie," added Christy, without depressing the gun as the old man
suggested, for he had a theory of his own which he intended to carry
out.

"But the ship may change her position a trifle," added Boxie.

"Of course, I mean to sight the gun again at the very moment we fire,"
replied Christy, looking at his watch, though he was obliged to go into
the engine-room to see what time it was.

It was after two, and the Vampire had had time enough to make the bend.
Christy wondered if Captain Carboneer was not looking for the four men
he had promised to put on board of the old steamer; but some promises
are better broken than kept, and the midshipman thought this was one of
them, though he did not consider the present occasion as any excuse for
lies, or the failure to keep his word, in the indefinite future.

The acting commander of the Bellevite--for such the middy was, and
no one disputed his authority--began to be very nervous at the
non-appearance of the enemy. He was afraid that some mishap had befallen
the Vampire; either that she had gone to the bottom or got aground,
though he had heard Captain Carboneer say that he was a pilot for this
part of the river.

Christy had mounted the gun carriage ready to take his final aim, and he
had been there at least half an hour. He was watching the point where
the Roman candles had been planted, and he had perfect confidence in
the judgment and fidelity of Mr. Watts. Boxie was stationed at the
lock-string, and held it in his hand, ready to speed the great shot
on its errand of destruction; but he hoped the midshipman would depress
the muzzle of the gun before he was called upon to pull the string. The
other sailors who had served on board of the Bellevite, and had been
drilled in handling the guns, were all in their stations, ready to load
the piece again as quickly as possible after it had been discharged.

The silence had become intense and painful to all, for apart from
the messenger of death and devastation which was about to be hurled at
the Vampire, the Bellevite was in danger of being captured, and had a
resolute enemy in front of her. The safety of the pet steamer depended
upon the skill and judgment of a mere boy, though everybody on board had
entire confidence in him. But the supreme moment came soon enough.

  [Illustration: "Christy sprang to the Gun."--Page 119.]

A hardly perceptible light at the point he was so closely watching,
first attracted the attention of Christy,--perhaps the lighting of the
steward's match. An instant later, the fireworks blazed up, and lighted
up the smooth surface of the sleeping river. No doubt the conspirators,
who had chosen darkness because their deeds were evil, were astounded to
see so much light suddenly thrown upon their enterprise.

Christy sprang to the gun, took a hasty sight, which satisfied him that
the position of the gun had not changed a particle. As the dark outline
of the Vampire passed in range of the selected tree, the midshipman
sprang down from the gun-carriage.

"Fire!" shouted he, in a determined though not very loud tone.

It was a tremendous explosion, and the echoes rolled out from the hills
as though they were armed with heavy guns, and were taking part in the
conflict. Probably the rattling windows and the shaking frames of the
houses roused all the sleepers within a mile of the ship.

The Bellevite was enveloped in the smoke from the discharge, and though
Christy mounted the carriage again to obtain a better view, he could see
nothing, for there was not wind enough to sweep it away at once. But the
young commander watched, with almost as much interest and anxiety as
before, the signal station he had established. But there was no occasion
for desperate haste, for the gun was ready for use a second time if the
first shot had failed to do its work. On the other hand, if the Vampire
was disabled, she would stay where she was, or drift down the river with
the turn of the tide, and it was just about "full sea" at this time.

The smoke was very aggravating to the midshipman, but he could not help
himself. The light air swept it away in time, and, with his strained
eyes, Christy discovered that two Roman candles were burning at the
signal station.

"Did you hit her, Christy?" asked Paul Vapoor, leaping on the
gun-carriage.

"I did," replied the midshipman, trying to control a certain feeling of
exultation that took possession of his mind, for he did not consider
that some of the party below might have been killed by the shot.

"I suppose you don't know anything about the effect of the shot yet?"
added Paul.

"I only know that the Vampire is disabled."

"How do you know that, for I can't see anything?"

"Do you see those two blue lights burning at the side of the river?"
asked Christy, as he pointed to the place.

"I see them, and they light up the river like a flash of lightning."

"They mean that the steamer is disabled; and for that reason she can't
come any nearer than she is now."

"But those villains will make their way to the shore, and there are
boats enough about here to enable them to get alongside, and lay us
aboard. This is not the end of the affair," said the engineer, very
seriously.

"Decidedly not; but I hope to have further information in the course of
a few minutes," replied Christy.

"Bellevite, ahoy!" shouted some one on shore.

"That is Mr. Watts; send Sampson on shore after him, and we shall
soon know the condition of affairs on board of the Vampire," added the
midshipman. "I told the steward to ride up as fast as he could after he
had satisfied himself that the steamer was disabled."

Sampson was gone but a few minutes, during which time Christy and
Paul consulted in regard to the next step to be taken, and the question
was promptly decided. The boat in which Sampson had gone to the shore
returned not only with the steward, but also with Mrs. Passford and Miss
Florry.

"What does this mean, mother?" asked Christy, astonished to see his
mother and sister come on board.

"It means that we were alarmed, and could not stay in the house any
longer," said Florry, taking it upon herself to answer.

"Your father has not come home yet, Christy, and I don't think he will
come to-night, for he said he might not be able to return in the last
train," added Mrs. Passford. "We came down to the shore with two of the
men, and saw Mr. Watts when he arrived on the horse."

"And I shall take the responsibility of having advised the ladies to go
on board of the Bellevite," interposed the steward.

"But you have not reported upon the condition of the enemy after the
shot hit the Vampire, Mr. Watts," said Christy, impatiently.

"The shot struck her walking-beam, smashed it all to pieces, and cleaned
it off completely. Of course, that disabled her. Very likely some of the
party on board of the Vampire are hurt, for the pieces did not all drop
into the water."

"Now, in regard to the ladies?" suggested the midshipman.

"It is for you to decide, Mr. Passford, whether or not the enemy are
likely to renew the attempt to capture the steamer. But it seemed to me,
whether they do anything more or not, it is not quite safe for the
ladies to be alone in the house with the servants, for these fellows
will be prowling about here in either case."

"I would not stay in the house for all the world!" protested Miss
Florry; and probably she thought that one of the prowlers would be Major
Pierson.

"You are quite right, Mr. Watts; I was not as thoughtful as you were,"
replied Christy, who took in the situation with this suggestion. "What
were they doing on board of the Vampire, Mr. Watts?"

"I did not wait to observe their movements, but the boat began to drift
down the river."

"Beg pardon, Mr. Passford, but the ship is swinging around, and you will
not be able to use that gun as it points now," said Boxie, touching his
hat to the young commander.

"Stand by your engine, Paul; we will get under way at once. Boxie, cast
off the cable, and let it run out. You buoyed it, did you not?" said
Christy, with a sudden renewal of energy, as he hastened to the
pilot-house, where Beeks and Thayer had been sent before.

"I buoyed the cable, sir," replied the sheet-anchorman.

"Then cast it off. Sampson, open the cabin for the ladies," added
Christy, as he disappeared in the pilot-house.

But the ladies preferred to go into the engine-room.




CHAPTER XI

THE BATTLE ALONGSIDE THE BELLEVITE


The signal lights at the bend of the river had burned out, and nothing
could be seen in that direction. The turn of the tide had carried the
wreck of the Vampire, if she was a wreck, down the stream, and beyond
what the steward had reported, nothing was known in regard to her. Mr.
Watts possessed himself of the single fact that her walking-beam had
been carried away by the shot, and he had not waited to ascertain
anything more. She was disabled, and he had been instructed to hasten up
the river as soon as he had assured himself of this fact, and made the
signal.

As the extent of the calamity to the enemy was unknown, the young
commander began to have some painful doubts in regard to the immediate
future. He had given the order to slip the cable, and he could hear the
rattle of the chain as it passed out through the hawse-hole. It was
evident enough to him that he had to run the gantlet of the party on
board of the Vampire in descending the river. As the shot had hit the
walking-beam of the steamer, it was not probable that she was seriously
injured in her hull, if at all.

Some of the enemy had doubtless been hurt by the fall of the pieces of
machinery, but Christy could not believe that the conspirators were
disabled, as the vessel was. The enemy might make an attempt to board
the Bellevite as she passed down the river, for the accident must have
rendered the party more desperate than before. In the face of a failure
to capture the Bellevite at her anchorage, which had seemed so easy a
matter to the leaders of the expedition, they would be ready to take any
chances of success that came in their way.

"Cable all out, sir," reported Boxie.

Not without some heavy doubts, Christy rang the bell to go ahead. He
had no one in the pilot-house with whom he could consult except the two
quartermasters, for Paul was in charge of the engine, and he could no
more leave it than the midshipman could leave the wheel. The propeller
began to turn, and the ship gathered headway. To add to the
responsibility of the young commander, his mother and sister had just
come on board, and were now seated on the sofa in the engine-room.

The Bellevite was moving down the river, and the only thing Christy
could do was to brace himself up to meet whatever might happen on the
trip. He did this at once, and a moment later he rang to go ahead at
full speed. He was approaching the bend of the river, and in a minute
or two more he would be able to see the Vampire. But Captain Carboneer
could no more see through the headland at the bend than he could, and
he hoped that the leader of the enemy had not yet discovered that the
Bellevite was under way.

The steamer increased her speed on the instant in response to the
signal, and she rushed forward at a velocity that would be fatal to the
Vampire if she happened to be in her path. But Christy was not disposed
to make an issue with the enemy when they met; he intended to defend the
Bellevite, if she was attacked, to the extent of his ability and small
force.

"There she is!" exclaimed Beeks, as the Bellevite began to change her
course to go around the bend.

Christy saw the Vampire as soon as the quartermaster, and he was glad
to find that she had drifted to the left bank of the river as far as
the depth of water would permit. As her engine was disabled, she had
no means of propulsion with which she could help herself. It was not
improbable that she was aground. She was not armed with a single heavy
gun, or with any gun, and she was entirely harmless.

Christy breathed more freely when he realized the situation of the
Vampire. Probably she was provided with one or more boats, and it was
possible that Captain Carboneer might attempt to board the Bellevite as
soon as he discovered her. The deck of the steam-yacht was not very far
above the water, and if a boat full of desperate men could get alongside
of the ship, it would not be a very difficult matter for them to mount
the side.

"Port a little," said Christy to the quartermasters at the wheel. "Keep
her well over to the west shore. Steady."

A moment later the steamer had her course for passing the Vampire, and
Christy left the pilot-house to obtain a better view of the situation
and movements of the enemy. It was not so dark as to prevent him from
seeing all that was going on upon her deck, for the Bellevite had to
pass within pistol-shot of her to avoid getting aground on the edge of
the channel.

Sampson and the rest of the old ship's company gathered near him, where
they could see over the rail. The oiler, as Paul Vapoor had instructed
him to do, had armed all these men with a cutlass and a revolver, and
very likely some or all of them would have been glad to make use of
them.

"They are loading into a boat on the port side of the Vampire, sir, and
it looks as though they intended to do something without delay," said
Sampson; and, as the steamer had come about since she was disabled, this
was the side nearest to the shore.

"I see that they are hurrying some movement with all their might,"
replied the midshipman, watching with the most intense interest the
operations of the enemy. "Sampson, get out half a dozen sixty-pound,
solid shot, and put them on the plankshear, twenty feet apart. Take all
hands with you, and hurry up."

The oiler asked no questions, though he might have been excused for
wondering what the young commander intended to do with shot without
powder. In a few minutes the shot were in place, as Christy had
directed. The midshipman was watching with all his eyes the movement of
the enemy, and, as the Bellevite approached the position of the wreck,
