know much about their boys, nor fathers either. I am glad I haven't a
son."

"I wouldn't be your son for a million dollars," said little Albert, who
resented the allusion to his big brother.

"Hey?" snarled Mack, opening his mouth and showing his tobacco-stained
tusks. "What business has a whipper-snapper like you to put in your
oar?"

"I ain't a whipper-snapper!" retorted Albert, who did not know the
meaning of the word, but concluded that it was not complimentary.

"Well, ma'am, what are you going to do? I can't stay here all day."

"Fred thought he would have the money by to-night. He asked if you
would call round after he got home."

"When is that?"

"He generally gets home at seven o'clock."

"Then I'll be here at seven, but if you haven't the money, then out you
go! Do you hear?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then mind you remember it. With so many swindling tenants a landlord
has a hard time."

He shambled off, and Mrs. Fenton breathed a sigh of temporary relief.
All the afternoon she felt troubled and anxious, and her anxiety
increased as the hours wore away.

"If Fred should be late as he sometimes is," she said to Bertie about
six o'clock, "I am afraid Mr. Mack will carry out his threat and turn
us out on the street."

"I won't let him," said Albert manfully.

"We can't help it," said Mrs. Fenton. "Do you think you could find your
way to the depot to meet Fred and hurry him home?"

"Oh, yes," answered the little boy. "I went there with Fred last week."

"You are sure you won't get lost?"

"What do you take me for, mother? I'd be ashamed to get lost anywhere
round the city."

"Then go, and tell Fred to hurry up. Mr. Mack is so strict and severe
that I am sure he won't wait a minute."

At seven o'clock precisely Mr. Mack returned and, looking at his watch,
said, "Time's up, ma'am."

"Wait just a few minutes!" pleaded Mrs. Fenton. "I expect Fred home
every minute."

"My time's valuable, ma'am. It is not likely the boy will have the
money any way.

"Won't you wait, then?

"Do you take me for a fool, ma'am? Here, Finnegan."

He had brought with him a man in his employ who for starvation wages
helped him move out tenants, and made himself useful in a general way.

"Here I am, Mr. Mack," said Finnegan.

"Just give me a hand with this bureau. We'll take that first."

"Oh, sir," pleaded Mrs. Fenton, "how can you be so merciless? In a few
minutes Fred will be here."

"I'm not a fool, ma'am. I told you I'd move you at seven o'clock, and
I'm a man of my word."

"Wait a minute and I'll see if I can borrow the money of Mrs. Sheehan."

"You ought to have thought of that before. I'll give you two minutes."

Mrs. Fenton sped down lo the rooms of Mrs. Sheehan on the next lower
floor.

"Can you lend me three dollars, Mrs. Sheehan?" asked Mrs. Fenton,
breathless. "Mr. Mack threatens to turn us out on the sidewalk."

"I wish I could, Mrs. Fenton," said Mrs. Sheehan heartily, "but I
bought my John a suit yesterday, and it's taken all my money except
seventy-five cents. I'd be glad to oblige you, indeed I would."

"I've no doubt of it," sighed the widow, for it was her last hope.

"Well, have you got the money?" asked Zebulon Mack, as she reappeared.

"No, sir."

"Just what I thought. Go ahead, Finnegan."

They took up the bureau and slowly moved to the door, and down the
staircase with it.

"It's a shame!" said Mrs. Sheehan, standing at her door.

"You'd better look out, ma'am! It may be your turn next," said the
landlord with a scowl. "If it is I won't wait for you a minute."

"It's a hard man, you are, Mr. Mack."

"I need to be," said Zebulon Mack grimly. "If I wasn't it's precious
little rent I'd get in."

The outlook for the Fentons was dark indeed.




CHAPTER V.

AN ADVENTURE ON THE TRAIN.

Fred was on board his regular train that same morning at the usual
hour, and started on his round of duty. He sold four morning papers,
but trade seemed rather dull. About eleven o'clock he went through the
first car distributing some packages of candy to the various
passengers. On reaching the end of the car he returned, collecting the
money for those purchased, and reclaiming those not wanted.

About midway of the car was a man of middle age, with small,
insignificant features, and a mean look. He seemed very much absorbed
in reading a penny paper when the train boy came up.

"Will you buy the package of candy?" asked Fred.

"What package?" asked the passenger, looking up.

"The one I left with you when I passed through the car."

"I don't know what you mean. You left no package with me."

"I remember distinctly leaving you a package."

"You are thinking of some other man."

"No, I am not."

"You are mistaken!" said the passenger, frowning.

"Will you be kind enough to get up and let me see if it is on the seat,
or has fallen underneath?"

"No, I won't."

Fred was convinced that the passenger had secreted the package, and was
scheming to cheat him out of the dime. He was a boy of spirit, and he
did not propose to be swindled.

"Sir," he said in a louder tone, "I am a poor boy trying to earn an
honest living. If you don't pay for this package I shall have to."

"That is none of my business. I shall not pay for what I haven't got.
Boy, you are very impertinent. I shall report you to the president of
the road."

"You may do so if you want to. I can't afford to give away my stock in
trade."

"Boy," interposed a pompous gentleman sitting opposite, "I quite agree
with this gentleman. You are not employed to insult passengers."

"Or to be cheated by them," said Fred hotly.

"If you treated me in this way, I would make it my business to have you
discharged."

"Even if I was right?"

"Of course you are not right. This gentleman's word outweighs yours."

"Why should it?"

"He is a respectable gentleman, and you are only a poor train boy."

"That may be, sir, but I always tell the truth."

"Like George Washington," sneered the stout gentleman.

Fred felt that he was losing his case, and the mean passenger smiled
with satisfaction. But his triumph was short-lived. The train boy found
an unexpected defender.

"The boy is right," said a young lady sitting directly behind the
passenger with whom Fred had his difficulty. "I saw this man take the
package and put it in his pocket. I have waited with some curiosity to
see whether he would persist in his attempt to cheat the boy out of his
money."

There was an instant revulsion of feeling. The attempted swindler
looked as if a bombshell had exploded at his feet.

"There is some error," he stammered. "The young lady is mistaken."

"I am not mistaken," said the young lady positively "If this man will
allow his pockets to be examined, the package will be found."

The man rose from his seat and prepared to leave the car.

"I ain't used to being insulted," he said.

"Gentlemen," said the young lady, "you have only to look at this man's
side-pocket to see that it contains the package."

The passenger wore a sack coat, and it was plain to all that the young
lady was right.

"I will pay for the package if the passenger is not honest enough to do
it himself."

"No, miss," said a rough-looking man who looked like a western miner.
"This man must pay, or I'll pitch him out of the car myself."

"I think you had better pay, sir," said the pompous looking man with an
air of disgust. "I took your part, because I supposed you were a
gentleman."

The other, without a word, drew out a dime from his pocket and handed
it to Fred. Then, looking very ill at ease, he left the car hurriedly,
and went as far forward as possible.

"Do you have many experiences like this?" asked the young lady, with a
smile.

"Yes, miss, quite frequently," aid Fred, "and it isn't the poor
passengers that try to cheat me. Sometimes I travel on emigrant trains,
but I never lost a cent by an emigrant. It is those who are able to
pay, like this man, who try to take advantage of me."

"Do you make good pay?"

"I average about a dollar a day."

"I suppose that is fair pay for a boy of your age."

"Yes, it is; but I need it all. I have a mother and brother to
support."

"Have you, indeed?" said the young lady sympathetically. "You can't all
three live on six dollars a week."

"Mother earns a little by sewing, but that isn't paid very well."

"Very true. So you sometimes get into difficulties?"

"We are in difficulties now. The rent is due, and we lack three dollars
to make it up."

"That is easily remedied," said the young lady. "It is my birthday
to-day, and I shall allow myself the luxury of doing good. Here are five
dollars which you will use to pay the landlord."

"Thank you, miss," said Fred gladly. "You have lifted a weight from my
mind. Our landlord is a strict man, and I was afraid we would be turned
out on the street."

"Miss, will you let me shake hands with you? You're a trump!"

It was the western miner who spoke, and he had come forward impulsively
from his seat, and was extending a rough, sunburned hand to the young
lady.

She did not hesitate a moment, but with a pleasant smile placed her
hand in his.

"I wish all high-toned gals was like you, miss," said the miner, as he
shook her hand heartily.

"I am sure you would do the same, sir," said Isabel Archer.

"Yes, I would, and I meant to if you hadn't got the start of me. You'll
excuse the liberty I took," said the miner.

"Oh, yes, certainly."

"I'm a rough miner, but----"

"You are a kind-hearted man. You may hereafter have it in your power to
help the boy."

"So I can," and the miner retreated to his seat.

Arrived at the Erie depot, Fred found his little brother waiting for
him.

"Oh, Fred," he said, "I hope you've got money for the rent. The
landlord said he would turn us out at seven o'clock if we didn't pay."

"And I am a little late," said Fred, anxiously.

"Let me go with you!" said the miner, "I want to see what sort of a
critter your landlord is. The mean scoundrel! It would do me good to
shake him out of his boots."

Zebulon Mack and his assistant had just succeeded in placing the bureau
on the sidewalk when Fred and his mining friend turned the corner of
the street.

"There's mother's bureau!" exclaimed Fred in excitement. "He's begun to
move us out."

"He has, hey?" said Sloan the miner. "We'll soon stop that."

"What are you doing here?" demanded Fred, hurrying up.

Zebulon Mack turned round, and eyed the boy with an ugly frown.

"I told your mother I'd move her out, and I've done it."

"Why didn't you wait for me? I've got the money."

"You have?"

"Yes, I have."

"Pay it over, then."

Fred was about to do so when the miner interposed.

"Don't pay him till he carries back the bureau!" said Sloan.

"You and your friend can do that!" said the landlord.

"If you don't catch hold of that bureau and take it back I'll wring
your neck, you mean scoundrel!" said the miner sternly.

Zebulon Mack looked into the miner's face and thought it wisest to
obey.

"Here, Finnegan!" he said sullenly. "Take hold, and don't be all night
about it."

When the bureau was in place, Fred, who had changed the five-dollar
bill, handed Mr. Mack the three dollars.

"Now, my friend," said the miner, "you can reckon up how much you made
by your meanness. You and that understrapper of yours must enjoy moving
bureaus. I only wish you'd got down the rest of the furniture, so that
I might have the satisfaction of seeing you carry it back."

The landlord glared at Tom Sloan as if he would like to tear him to
pieces. But he took it out in looks.

"Good night, sir," said the miner, "we don't care to have the pleasure
of your company any longer."

"I'll be even with you for all this," growled Mack.

"Don't feel bad, squire. You've got your money."

"Mother," said Fred, "this is my friend, Mr. Sloan."

"I am glad to see any friend of my boy," said Mrs. Fenton. "Won't you
stay and take supper with Fred?"

"I'd like to, ma'am, if it won't be intruding."

"Not at all," said Fred cordially. "I've had luck to-day, mother. A
beautiful young lady gave me five dollars."

"God bless her!" said Mrs. Fenton. "She couldn't have given it at a
better time."




CHAPTER VI.

MR. BASCOM'S PERIL.

Tom Sloan made himself very much at home with the Fentons. The widow
sent out for a steak, and this, with a cup of tea and some fresh rolls,
furnished a plain but excellent repast.

"I haven't eaten so good a supper for a long time," said the miner. "It
seems just like the suppers I used to get at home in Vermont."

"It was very plain," said Mrs. Fenton, "but probably you had a good
appetite."

"You are right there, ma'am."

Mr. Sloan remained chatting for a couple of hours. He told his new
friends that he had been away two years, spending the time in Nevada
and California.

"I hope you have had good luck, Mr. Sloan," said Fred.

"Yes, I've made a few thousand dollars, but I'm going back again next
month."

"To California?"

"No, to Colorado."

Fred and his mother exchanged looks.

"My father left us some land in Colorado," said the train boy--"a
hundred and twenty-five acres--but we can't find out whether it has any
value or not."

"Let me know where it is," said the miner, "and I'll find out and send
you word."

"Thank you! It will be a great favor," said Mrs. Fenton warmly. "A
cousin of my husband went out there three months since, and visited the
land. He reports that it is of no value, but offers to buy it for
twenty-five dollars. Fred thinks he wouldn't make the offer if it was
not worth a good deal more."

"That's where Fred's head is level. Depend upon it your cousin is foxy
and wants to take you in. I'll tell you just how the matter stands."

Mrs. Fenton produced her husband's papers, and Mr. Sloan made an entry
of the location in a small note-book which he carried.

"Don't worry about it any more, ma'am,'" he said. "I'll do all I can
for you, and I hope for your sake there's a gold mine on the land."

Mrs. Fenton smiled.

"I shall be satisfied with less than that," she answered.

"How long are you going to stay in New York?" asked Fred.

"I am going to Vermont to-morrow, and, likely as not I shan't come back
this way, but go West from Boston. Anyway you'll hear from me
occasionally. I ain't much of a writer, but I guess you can make out my
pot-hooks."

"I'll take the risk, Mr. Sloan," said Fred, "I am no writing master
myself, but my little brother Albert can draw nicely, and writes a
handsome hand. Bertie, bring your last writing-book."

The little boy did so, and exhibited it to the miner.

"Why, the kid beats my old teacher all hollow," said Sloan. "I've a
great mind to take him with me to Vermont, and have him start a writing
school."

"I'm afraid Albert couldn't keep order among the big boys."

"Well, there might be some trouble that way. How much do you weigh,
kid?"

"Ninety pounds," answered Albert.

"Well, that isn't exactly a heavy weight. But, Fred, I must be going
out and finding a room somewhere. Do you know of any good place?"

"There's a hotel close by. I'll go with you."

"Good evening, ma'am," said the miner, as he rose to go. "I may not see
you again just at present, but I'll look after that business of yourn.
Come here, kid, you ought to get a prize for your writing. Here's
something for you," and he handed the delighted boy a five-dollar gold
piece.

"Oh, ma, now may I have a new suit?" asked Albert.

"If you want a new suit," said the miner, "I haven't given you enough.
Here's another five to help along."

"You are very kind, sir," said Mrs. Fenton. "Albert is really in need
of clothes, and this will buy him something more than a suit."

"All the better, ma'am. I'm glad to have the chance of doing a little
good with my money."

"I wish all who have money were like you. I wish you health and good
fortune, and a safe return to your friends."

"Those are three good things, ma'am. If I get there I won't kick."

"Do you ever kick?" asked Albert, puzzled.

"I see you don't understand me, kid. It's a slang term we miners use. I
won't complain. That's a little better English, isn't it?"

Fred conducted Mr. Sloan to the hotel nearby and saw him secure a good
room. Then he was about to retire.

"Hold on a minute!" said the miner. "Come up to my room. I want to talk
a little to you on business."

"Certainly, Mr. Sloan."

Reaching the chamber, the miner unbuckled a belt that spanned his
waist, and drew therefrom a large sum in gold pieces. He counted out
five double eagles--a hundred dollars--and turning to Fred, said: "I
want you to keep that money for me till I come back."

"But, Mr. Sloan," said Fred surprised, "why not leave it with your
other money? I might lose it."

"I want you to put it in some savings bank in your own name, and, if
you need it, to draw out any part of it. I don't want that mean scamp,
the landlord, to get a chance to turn you out into the street."

"But I might not be able to pay it back, Mr. Sloan."

"I'll take the risk. I lend it to you without interest for a year, and
if you have to use any of it I won't sue you."

"You are very kind! It will make me feel much more easy in mind. I
wouldn't mind being turned into the street on my own account, but
mother couldn't stand it."

"Just so, Fred. You've got a good mother, and you must look out for
her."

"I don't often meet a good friend like you, Mr. Sloan."

"Oh, pshaw! you mustn't make too much of a little thing," said the
miner modestly. "I'm only giving you the interest on a hundred
dollars."

Fred walked slowly homeward, feeling very cheerful. He hoped he should
not need to use any of Mr. Sloan's kind loan, but it gave him a feeling
of relief to know that he had a fund to draw from in case of need.

On his way home, in passing a drinking saloon, Fred's attention was
drawn to two men who came out, arm in arm, both of whom appeared to be
under the influence of liquor. Something in the dress and figure of one
looked familiar. Coming closer Fred recognized his country friend,
Joshua Bascom.

"What, Mr. Bascom! Is this you?"

"Why, it's Fred!" said Bascom stopping short and trying to stand erect.

"Oh, come along!" said his companion impatiently.

"No, I want to see the train boy. Good night, old fellow!"

The other angrily protested against being shaken off, but Joshua
dropped his arm, and took Fred's instead.

"How came you with that man?" asked Fred.

"He's a jolly, sociable chap. Wanted to take me to a little card party,
but I guess it's too late."

"Did he meet you in the saloon?"

"No; he took me in there, and treated me to three glasses of milk
punch. I guess it's got into my head. Do you think I am--intoxicated,
Fred?"

"It looks very much like it, Mr. Bascom."

"I hope they won't hear of it at home. Dad would get the minister to
come and give me a talkin' to."

"I hope this stranger didn't get any of your money?"

"No; he wouldn't let me pay for a thing."

"He meant to get the money back. He was carrying you to some gambling
house, where he would have won all your money."

"You don't say!" exclaimed Joshua, panic-stricken. "I thought he was a
nice fellow."

"Be careful how you trust strangers, and don't go to any more drinking
saloons!"

"I won't," said Mr. Bascom, fervently.

"I will take you to your room, and you had better take a good long
sleep. If you want to go round, I'll call to-morrow evening, and go to
some place of amusement with you."

"I think Mr. Bascom had better go back to his farm soon," thought Fred,
as he returned from piloting Joshua home. "If he doesn't he is likely
to get into trouble."




CHAPTER VII.

FERDINAND MORRIS.

When Ferdinand Morris left the train after robbing Joshua Bascom, as
described in the first chapter, he was in excellent spirits. He had
effected his purpose, and got off scot free. He walked briskly away
from the station at which he got out, and didn't stop to examine the
wallet till he had got half a mile away.

When he discovered that it contained only ten dollars, he was filled
with disgust.

"What could the fellow mean by coming to the city with only ten dollars
in his pocketbook?" he muttered. "It's a regular imposition. It wasn't
worth taking. Here I am, stranded in the country, and my ticket of no
value, for only ten dollars! I should like to see my rural friend's
wo-begone look when he discovers the loss of his wallet, though."

This thought helped to reconcile Morris to the situation. The picture
which he had conjured up tickled his fancy, and he laughed heartily.
But his merriment was short-lived. Incidentally he noticed the loss of
the ring, and his countenance changed.

"My ring gone!" he exclaimed. "What can have become of it? It was worth
fifty dollars at least. I must have dropped it into that fellow's
pocket when I took his wallet. That's a pretty bad exchange. What an
unlucky chap I am! I am about forty dollars out of pocket."

The satisfaction of Mr. Morris was quite destroyed. There seemed little
hope of his recovering the ring, for he could not make known its loss
without betraying himself.

"I may as well be going back to New York," he said moodily. "If I meet
that fellow again, I must get up some scheme for recovering the ring
from him. He is a countryman and I can frighten him into giving it to
me. The worst of it is, the ring is not mine, and the owner will make a
fuss about it. She is inclined to be suspicious, and I shall find it
hard work to explain."

In a house on Lexington Avenue lived a maiden lady, close upon forty
years of age, though she called herself thirty-one. Miss Josephine
Harden had been left independent through the will of an aunt who had
left her the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars. She had been for
eight years an humble attendant, subject to the numerous whims and
caprices of her relative, but two years since had been repaid by a
legacy. Ever since Miss Marden had been looking about for a suitable
matrimonial partner. There were some difficulties in the way, for she
was thin, long-nosed, and with a yellow complexion. Three impecunious
bachelors, lured by her money, had paid her some attentions, but their
courage failed at last, and they silently slunk away. At length,
however, Ferdinand Morris met Miss Harden, and conceived the idea of
marrying her for her money. When he had once got possession of her
fortune, he proposed to leave her in the lurch.

Morris was a stylish-looking man, and the spinster received his
attentions very favorably. She knew very little about him except that
he was in some mysterious business about which he did not speak
definitely, except that it required him to travel constantly. Matters
progressed until they became engaged. At this point, rather reversing
the usual order of things, Miss Marden gave her suitor the ring which
he had now lost.

"If we don't marry," she said cautiously, "I shall expect you to give
it back."

"Certainly, my dear Josephine," said Morris, "but I shall hold you to
your promise."

"You might see some girl younger and fair," said Hiss Marden coyly.

"How could that be?" said Morris with mock ardor, as he bent over her
hand and kissed it with secret facial contortions. "Do you doubt my
love?"

"I try not to, Ferdinand, but I am no longer in my first youth. I
shudder to say it I am twenty nine."

"You were two years older last week," thought Morris.

"I--I don't feel so old," said the spinster, "but I am afraid it is a
fact."

"I don't believe you will ever be forty again," thought Morris. "By the
way, Josephine, have you thought of that investment I spoke to you
about? I can get a hundred shares of mining stock for you, at five
dollars a share--the inside price--while to the general public it is
only sold at ten."

"It may be as you say, Ferdinand, but my aunt lost money in mining
stocks, and I shall hardly dare to venture."

"Confound your aunt!" said Morris to himself. "I assure you, Josephine,
this is a chance to double your money in three months."

"Have you invested in it yourself, Ferdinand?"

"Oh, yes," answered Morris, glibly, "I have a hundred and fifty
shares."

Suspicious as she was, Miss Morris believed her suitor to be a man of
means, and did not doubt his statement.

"Then I hope for your sake it will prove a good investment."

"Confound her!" thought Morris, "there seems no chance to make her open
her purse strings. She has got to come down liberally, or I won't marry
her."

It was at Miss Marden's door that Ferdinand Morris rang on the evening
