'But I beseech you to consider,' said the Kadi, 'that by acting promptly
you could easily quell this revolution, in which I, by Allah, have no
part and will have none. For though many persons may just now desire
your overthrow, because they expect to get a share of the treasure in
the confusion, yet few are disposed to accept such a man as Abdullah ibn
Mohammed el Herir in your place. Even his own tribe are not all faithful
to him, and I am credibly informed that many look upon him as an
intruder, and would prefer the son of Abdul Kerim for sheikh, as would
be just, if the rights of birth were considered. And it would be an easy
matter to remove this Abdullah. I implore you to think of the matter.'

'Would this not be a murder?' asked Khaled, looking curiously at the
venerable preacher.

'Allah is merciful and forgiving,' replied the old man, looking down and
stroking his beard. 'And moreover, if you suffer Abdullah to go about a
few days longer he will certainly destroy you, whereas it is an easy
matter to give him a cup of such good drink as will save him from thirst
ever afterwards, and you would obtain quiet and the kingdom would be at
peace.'

'They shall not find me sleeping,' said Khaled, 'and so that I may only
slay a score of them first, I care not how soon I perish.'

'This is indeed a new kind of madness!' exclaimed the Kadi. 'I cannot
understand it. But I have done what I could, and I can do nothing more.'

'Nor is there anything more to be done,' said Khaled. 'But I thank you,
for it is clear that you have spoken from a good intention.'

So the Kadi went away again, and Khaled returned to Zehowah, caring not
at all whether he lived or died. But Zehowah began to watch him
narrowly.

'If this man were a Persian, an enemy and a traitor,' she thought, 'he
would now begin to take measures for his own safety, seeing that he is
threatened on every side. Yet he does not lift a hand to defend himself.
This can proceed only from one of two causes. Either he is a Jinn, as
he has told me, and they cannot kill him, and so he does not fear them;
or else he desires death, out of a sort of madness which has grown up in
him through this love of which he is always speaking.'




CHAPTER XI


In these days many of the Bedouin tribes came near the city and encamped
in great numbers within half a day's journey and less. Abdullah was
exceedingly busy with his preparations, and spent much time in talking
with other sheikhs, hardly making any concealment of his movements or
plans. For by this time it seemed clear to him that the greater part of
the people were with him, and every one spoke of the coming overthrow of
Khaled as an open matter. Khaled himself, too, was reported to be in
fear of his life, and he was no longer seen in the streets as formerly,
nor in the courts of the palace, nor even every day in the hall, but
remained shut up in the harem, and none saw him except the women and a
few slaves. Men said aloud that he was in great fear and distress, and
as this story gained credence, so Abdullah's importance increased, since
it was he who had brought such terror upon Khaled. All this was open
talk in the bazar, but Abdullah was himself somewhat suspicious,
supposing that Khaled must have a plan in reserve for defending his
possession of the throne. Abdullah, however, kept secret the manner in
which he intended to enter the palace, though he promised his adherents
to open to them the gates of the castle, and the doors of the treasure
chambers on a certain day, which he named, at the time of the first call
to prayer in the morning, warning all those who were with him to come
together in the great square before that hour in order to be ready to
help him, if necessary, and to overwhelm the guards of the palace if
they should make any resistance. But he did not know that the man of his
tribe who was kinsman to the chief of the beggars had overheard his talk
with his wife.

Meanwhile the beggars seemed to be multiplied exceedingly in Riad, for
whenever Abdullah went out of his house they came upon him, sometimes by
twos and threes and sometimes in scores, pressing close to him and
begging alms. They also cried out a great deal, praising his generosity
and praying for blessings upon him.

'Behold the sheikh of sheikhs!' they exclaimed. 'He bears gold in his
right hand and silver in his left. Yallah! Send him a long life and
prosperity, for he loves the poor and his name is the Alms-giver. He is
not El Herir but Er Rahman and his heart over-flows with mercy as his
purse does with small coins. Come, O brothers, and taste of his
charity, which is a perpetual spring of good water beside a palm tree
full of sugar-dates! Ya Abdullah, Servant of Allah, we love you! You are
our father and mother. Your kefiyeh is the banner which goes before our
pilgrimage. Come, O brothers, and taste of his charity.'

Abdullah was not dissatisfied with these words, and the beggars said
much more to the same effect, which he regarded as signs of his
popularity, so that he opened his purse from time to time and threw
handfuls of money into the crowd, not counting the cost since he
expected to be master of all the treasure in Riad within a few days. But
the beggars were disappointed, for they had hoped that he would turn out
to be avaricious, and endeavour to elude them by walking through narrow
and lonely streets, where they might catch him. So they pressed more and
more upon him every day, trying to exhaust his patience and his charity.
In this however they failed, not understanding that the vanity of such a
man is inexhaustible and knows no price. Abdullah, too, chose rather to
be abroad during the daytime than in the evening or the early morning,
for he desired to be seen by the multitude and spoken of as he went
through the market-place. Yet on the last evening of all he fell into
the hands of the Sheikh of the beggars, and evil befell him.

The hour of prayer was passed and it was almost the time when lights are
extinguished. Then Abdullah took his sword under his aba, and also a
good knife, which he had proved in battle, and which in his hand would
pierce a coat of mail as though it were silk. Almasta, his wife, also
made a bundle of woman's clothing and carried it in her arms. For they
intended to go to a lonely place by the city wall, that Abdullah might
there put on female garments, before entering the palace. He feared,
indeed, lest if it were afterwards known by what disguise he had
accomplished his purpose, he might receive some name in derision, from
which he should never escape so long as he lived. Yet he had no choice
but to dress as a woman, since he could not otherwise by any means have
gone into the harem.

As he came out of his house, accompanied only by Almasta he was seen at
once by the two beggars who were always on the watch. And then, wishing
to warn their companions, of whom many were lying asleep upon doorsteps
in the same street and in others close by, these two made haste to get
up, pretending to be lame and making a great clatter with their staves,
as they limped after Abdullah. Then he, who loved to exercise charity in
the market-place, but not in the dark where none could applaud him, made
a pretence of not seeing the poor men, and went swiftly on with Almasta
running by his side. But as he walked fast, the two beggars although
apparently lame increased their speed with his, and their clatter also.

'Does a sound man need a horse to escape from cripples?' asked Abdullah.
And he turned quickly into a narrow lane.

'It will be wiser to scatter a few coins to them,' said Almasta. 'They
will then stop and search for them in the dark. For these men are very
importunate and will certainly hinder us.'

But Abdullah was confident in his legs as a strong man and only walked
the faster, so that Almasta could with great difficulty keep beside him.
Then they heard the beggars running after them in the dark and calling
upon them.

'O Abdullah!' they cried. 'The light of your charitable countenance goes
before us like a lantern, and illuminates the whole street! Be merciful
and give us a small coin, and Allah will reward you!'

Then Abdullah stopped in the darkest part of the narrow lane, seeing
that they had recognised him, and conceiving that it would be a reproach
for a sheikh of pure blood to run from beggars; and he feared also that
it would be remembered against him on the morrow. He therefore made a
pretence of being diverted, and laughed.

'Surely,' he said, 'the lame men of Riad could outrun in a race the
sound men of any other city. And, by Allah, I have little money with me,
for I was going to a friend's house to receive a sum due to me for
certain mares; yet I will give you what I have, and I pray you, go in
peace.'

Thereupon he sought in his wallet for something to give them, and while
he was seeking they began to praise him after their manner.

'See this Abdullah!' they said. 'He is the father of the poor and
distressed, and is ever ready to divide all he has with us. Yallah!
Bless him exceedingly! Yallah! Increase his family!'

But when Abdullah had found the money and was putting it into their
hands, he was suddenly aware that instead of two beggars there were now
ten or more, and these again multiplied in an extraordinary manner, so
that he felt himself hemmed in on every side in a close press.

'O Allah!' he exclaimed. 'Thou art witness that unless these small coins
are multiplied a hundredfold, as the basket of dates by the Prophet at
the trench before Medina, I shall have nothing to give these worthy
persons.'

By this time the blind Sheikh of the beggars was present, and he pushed
forward, pretending to rebuke his companions.

'O you greedy ones!' he cried. 'How often have I told you not to be so
importunate? Yet you crowd upon him like wasps upon a date, presuming
upon the goodness of his heart, and when there is no more room you crowd
upon each other. Forgive them, O Abdullah!' he said, addressing him
directly, 'for they have the appetites of jackals together with the
understanding of little children. They would thrust into the dish a hand
as small as a crow's foot and withdraw it looking as big as a camel's
hoof. Their manners are also----'

'My friend,' said Abdullah, 'I have given what I can. Let me therefore
pass on, for my business is of importance, yet the throng is so great
that I cannot move a step. To-morrow I will distribute much alms to you
all.'

'The radiance of your merciful countenance is enough for us,' replied
the Sheikh of the beggars, 'and even I who am blind am comforted by its
rays as by those of the sun in spring, and my hunger is appeased by the
honey of your incomparable eloquence----'

'My friend,' said Abdullah, interrupting him again, 'I pray you to let
me go forward now, for I have a very important matter in hand, though it
is with difficulty that I tear myself away from your society and I would
willingly listen much longer to the words of the wise.'

Then the blind man turned to the other beggars, and his hearing told him
that by this time there were at least threescore in the street.

'Come, my brothers!' he cried. 'Let us accompany our benefactor to the
house of his friend, and afterwards we will wait for him and see that he
reaches his own dwelling in safety. Surely it is not fitting that a
sheikh of such great consideration should go about the streets at night
without so much as an attendant carrying a lantern. Let us go with him.'

Now these last words were the signal agreed upon, and even as Abdullah
began to protest that he desired no such honourable escort as the
beggars offered him, one came from behind and suddenly drew a thick
barley-sack over his head, so that his voice was heard no more, and he
was dragged down by the throat, while the one-eyed hunchback caught him
by the legs and bound his feet and four others laid hold of his hands
and tied them firmly behind him. Nor had Almasta time to utter a single
cry before she was bound hand and foot with her head in a sack, like her
husband. Then at a signal the beggars took up the two as though they had
been bales packed ready for a camel's back, and carried them away
swiftly into the darkness, towards the eastern gate where the blind man
lived in a ruined house together with three or four of his most trusted
companions. He also sent a messenger to his relation, the Bedouin, as
had been agreed. It was already quite dark in the streets and the few
persons who met the beggars did not see what they were carrying, nor ask
questions of them, merely supposing that they had lingered long in the
public square after evening prayers and were now returning in a body to
their own quarter.

The blind man's house was built of three rooms and a wall, standing in a
square around a small court. But only one of the rooms had a roof of its
own, though there was a sort of cellar under the floor of one of the
others which served at once as a lodging for beggars in winter, as a
storehouse for food when there was any in supply and as a place of
deposit for the ancient iron chest in which the common fund of money was
kept. To this vault the Sheikh of the beggars made his companions bring
the two prisoners, and having set them on the floor, side by side, he
proceeded to hold a council, in which the captives themselves had no
part, since their heads were tied up in dusty barley-sacks and they
could not speak so as to be heard.

'O my brothers!' said the blind man. 'Allah has delivered the enemies of
the kingdom into our hand, and it is necessary to decide what we will do
with them. Let the oldest and the wisest give their opinions first, and
after them the others, even to the youngest, and last of all I will
speak, and let us see whether we can agree.'

'Let us kill the man and bury him, and then cast lots among us for the
woman,' said one.

'No,' said the next, a man who had twice made the pilgrimage, and was
much respected, 'we cannot do this, for the man is a true believer, and
evil will befall us if we shed his blood. Let us rather keep him here,
and purify his hide every day with our staves, until Khaled is in no
more danger, and then we will take him to the palace and deliver him
up.'

'It is to be feared,' said the Sheikh of the beggars, 'that the man
might chance to die of this sort of purification, though indeed it be
very wholesome for him, and I am not altogether against it.'

'Let us make him our slave,' said a third who had himself been the slave
of a poor man who had died without heirs. 'The fellow is strong. Let us
buy millstones and make him grind barley for us in this cellar. In this
way he will not eat our food for nothing.'

After this many others gave advice of the same kind. But while they were
talking there was a great clattering and noise upon the stone steps
which led down into the cellar, and a man fell over the last step and
rolled over and over into the very midst of the council, railing and
lamenting.

'It is that ass of Egypt,' said the Sheikh of the beggars. 'I know him
by the clattering of the wooden hoofs he wears on his hands, and also by
his braying. Let him also give his opinion when he is recovered from his
fall.'

'It is strange and marvellous,' said one, 'that he who has no legs
should suffer so many falls, being, by the will of Allah, always upon
the earth. For when we first saw him we found him fainting upon the
ground, having fallen from the wall of a garden, though no man could
tell how he had climbed upon it.'

'I had been transported to the top of the wall as in a dream,' replied
the cripple, 'for there were dates in that garden. But having eaten too
greedily of them I fell asleep on the top and I dreamed that my body was
torn by hyænas; and waking suddenly I fell down. For the dates were yet
green.'

'This may or may not be true,' said the blind man. 'For you are an
Egyptian. Let us, however, hear what you have to advise in the matter of
Abdullah and his wife, whom we have taken prisoners.'

'I fear that you mock me, O my lord,' answered the man. 'But if I am
mocked, I will advise that this Abdullah be also made a sport of, for us
first, and for the people of Riad afterwards.'

'Tell us how this may be done, for a good jest is better than salt for
roasting, and the sheep lie here bound before us.'

'Take this man, then,' said the cripple, 'and uncover his face, and hold
him fast. Then let one of us get the razor and shave off all his beard
and his eyebrows, and the hair of his head even to the nape of his neck.
Then if he came suddenly before her who bore him and cried, "Mother,"
she would cover her face and answer, "Begone, thou ostrich's egg!" For
she would not know him. And to-morrow we will take his excellent clothes
from him and put them upon our Sheikh. But we will dress Abdullah in
rags such as would not serve to wipe the mud from a slave's shoes in the
time of the subsiding waters, and we will tie his hands under his
arm-pits and put a halter over his head and lead him about the city.
Then he will cry out against us to the people, saying that he is
Abdullah, but we will also cry out in answer: "See this madman, who
believes himself to be a sheikh of Bedouins though Allah has given him
no beard! O people of Riad, you may know that the spring is come, by the
braying of this ass."'

'Yet I see now that there may be wisdom in brayings,' said the Sheikh of
the beggars, 'though Balaam ibn Beor shut his ears against it, and was
punished for his cursing so that his tongue hung down to his breast, all
his days, like that of a thirsty dog. This is good counsel, for in this
way we shall not shed the man's blood, nor render ourselves guilty of
his death; but I think we shall earn a great reward from Khaled, and his
kingdom will be saved in laughter.'

During all this time Abdullah had not moved, knowing that he was in the
power of many enemies and beyond all reach of help, but when he heard
the decision of the Sheikh of the beggars he was filled with shame and
rolled himself from side to side upon the floor, as though trying to
escape from the bonds that held him. Almasta, for her part, lay quietly
where they had put her, for she saw that all chance of success was gone
and was pondering how she might take advantage of what happened, to save
herself.

Then the beggars laid hold of Abdullah and held him, while others took
the sack from his head. He was indeed half smothered with dust, so that
at first he could not speak aloud, but coughed and sneezed like a dog
that has thrust its nose into a dust-heap to find the bone which is
hidden underneath. But presently he recovered his breath and began to
rail at them and curse them. To this they paid no attention, but brought
the oil lamp near him, and one began to rub soap upon his face and head
while another got the razor with which the beggars shaved their heads
and began to whet it upon his leathern girdle.

'Do not waste the precious stones of your eloquence upon a barber,'
said the Sheikh of the beggars, 'but reserve your breath and the rich
treasures of your speech until you are brought as a plucked bird before
the people of Riad. Moreover we only wish to shave off your beard, but
if you are restless some of your hide will certainly be removed also,
whereby you will be hurt and it will be still harder for your friends to
recognise you to-morrow. It is also useless to shout and scream as
though you were driving camels, for you are in the cellar of my house
which is at a good distance from other habitations, on the borders of
the city.'

So Abdullah saw that there was no escape, and that his fate was about
his neck, and he sat still as they had placed him, while the one-eyed
hunchback shaved off his beard and the hair on his upper lip and his
eyebrows, and the lock at the back of his head.

When this was done the blind man put out his hand and felt Abdullah's
face.

'Surely,' he said, 'this is not a man's head, but the round end of a
walking-staff, rubbed smooth by much use.'

They also tied his hands under his arm-pits and put upon him a ragged
shirt with sleeves so that he seemed to have lost both arms at the
elbow.

'This is very well done,' said the hunchback turning his head from side
to side in order to see all with his one eye. 'But what shall we do
with the woman? Let us cast lots for her, and he who wins her shall
marry her, and we will hold the feast immediately, for we have not yet
supped and there is some of the camel's meat which we received to-day at
the palace.'

'O my brothers,' answered the Sheikh of the beggars, 'let us do nothing
unlawful in our haste. For this woman is certainly one of Abdullah's
wives, as you may see by her clothes, and unless he divorces her none of
us can take her for ourselves, seeing that she is the wife of a
believer. Take the sack from her head, however, and if she deafens us
with her screaming we can put it on again. But you must by no means put
her to shame by taking the veil from her face, for she may be an honest
wife, though her husband be a dog. If she has done well, we shall find
it out, and no harm will have come to her; but if she is a sharer in
this fellow's plans, her punishment will be grievous, since she will be
the wife of an outcast, having neither beard nor eyebrows and rejected
by all men.'

Some of the beggars murmured at this, but most of them praised their
Sheikh's wisdom, and would indeed have feared greatly to break the holy
law, being chiefly devout men who prayed daily in the mosque and
listened to the Khotbah on Friday. They therefore placed Almasta in one
corner of the cellar and Abdullah in another, so that the two could not
converse together, and then they took out such food as they had and
began to eat their supper, laughing and talking over the jest and
anticipating the reward which awaited them for saving Khaled.

In the meanwhile the night was advancing and many of Abdullah's friends
left their houses secretly and gathered in the neighbourhood of the
palace to wait for the first signal from within. By threes and by twos
and singly they came out of their dwellings, looking to the right and
left to see whether they were not the first, as men do who are not sure
of being in the right. All had their swords with them, and some their
bows also, and some few carried their spears, and they made no secret of
their bearing weapons; but under each man's aba was concealed the
largest barley-sack he could find in his house, and concerning this no
one of the multitude said anything to his neighbour, for each hoped to
get a greater share than the others of the gold and precious stones from
the fabulous treasure stored in the palace. Then most of these men sat
down to wait, as vultures do before the camel is quite dead. But not
long after the middle of the night they were joined by a great throng of
Bedouins from Abdullah's tribe. These had been admitted into the city by
the watchman according to the agreement, and passed up the great street
from the Hasa gate, in a close body, not speaking and making but little
noise with their feet as they walked; yet all of them together could be
heard from a distance, because they were so many, and the sound was like
the night wind among the branches of dry palm trees. After them, other
Bedouins came in from camps both near and far, some of them having made
half a day's journey since sunset; and they surrounded the palace on all
sides, and filled the great street, and the street which passes by the
mosque towards the Dereyiyah gate and all the other approaches to the
open square, sitting down wherever there was room, or leaning against
the closed shops of the bazar, or standing up in a thick crowd when they
were too closely pressed to be at ease. They talked together from time
to time in low tones, but when their voices rose above a whisper some
man in authority hushed them saying that the hour was not yet come.

'By this time Abdullah has slain Khaled,' said some, 'and the daughter
of the old Sultan is a prisoner.'

'And by this time,' said others, 'Abdullah is surely unlocking the
treasure chamber and filling a barley-sack with pearls and rubies. It is
certain that he who slays the lion deserves his bride, but we hope that
something will be left for us.'

'Hush!' said the voice of one moving in the darkness. 'Be patient. It is
not yet time.'

Then, for a space, a deep silence fell on the speakers and they crouched
in their places watching the high black walls of the palace and marking
the motion of the stars by the highest point of the tower. Before long
whispered words were heard again.

'It would have been more just if Abdullah had opened the gate to us as
soon as he had slain Khaled, for then we could have seen what he took.
But now, who shall tell us what share of the riches he is hiding away in
the more secret vaults?'

'This is true,' answered others. 'And besides, what need have we of
Abdullah to help us into the palace? Surely we could have broken down
the gates and slain the guards and Khaled himself without Abdullah's
help. Yet we, for our part, would not shed the blood of a man who has
always dealt very generously with us, nor do we believe the story of the
camels laden secretly in Haïl. However, what is ordained will take
place, and we shall undoubtedly receive plentiful gold merely for
sitting here to watch the stars through the night.'

'The story of the camels is not true,' said a certain man, speaking
alone. 'For I was of the drivers sent with them, and being hungry, we
opened one of the bales on the way. By Allah! There was nothing but
wheat in it, and it was white and good; but there was nothing else, not
so much as a few small coins----'

Then there was the sound of a blow, and the man who was speaking was
struck on the mouth, so that his speech was interrupted.

'Peace and be silent!' said a voice. 'They who speak lies will receive
no share with the rest when the time comes.'

But the man who had been struck was the strongest of all his tribe,
though he who had struck him did not know it. And the man caught his
assailant by the waist in the dark, and wrestled with him violently,
being very angry, and broke his forearm and his collar-bone and several
of his ribs, and when he had done with him, he threw him over his
shoulder so that he fell fainting and moaning three paces away.

'O you who strike honest men on the mouth in the dark, you have been
over-rash!' he cried. 'Go home and hide yourself lest I recognise you
and break such bones as you have still whole!'

'This is well done,' said one of the bystanders in a loud voice. 'For
the story of the camels laden secretly with treasure is a lie. I also
was with the drivers and ate of the wheat. Nor do I believe that Khaled
is a robber and a Persian.'

'We do not believe it!' cried a score of Bedouins together. 'And if we
have come here, it is to get our share like other men, since they tell
us that Khaled is dead. But now we believe that Abdullah has shut
himself into the palace and means to keep all for himself, and is
cheating us.'

These men were none of them of Abdullah's tribe, but as the voices grew
louder, Abdullah's kinsmen came up, and endeavoured to quiet the growing
tumult. The crowd had parted a little and the strong man stood alone in
the midst.

'We pray you to be patient,' said Abdullah's men, 'for the time is at
hand and the false dawn has already passed, though you have not seen it,
so that before long it will be day. Then the gates will be opened and
you shall all go in.'

'We have no need of your sheikh to open gates for us,' said the strong
man, in a voice that could be heard very far through the crowd. 'And
moreover it will be better for you not to strike any more of us, or, by
Allah, we will not only break your bones but shed your blood.'

At this there was a sullen cry and men sprang to their feet and laid
their hands upon their weapons. But a youth who had come up with
Abdullah's kinsmen, though not one of them, bent very low over the man
who had been thrown down and then spoke out with a loud and laughing
voice.

'Truly they say that crows lead people to the carcases of dogs!' he
said. 'This fellow is of the family which murdered my father, upon whom
may Allah send peace! Nor will I exceed the bounds of moderation and
justice.'

Thereupon the young man drew out his knife and immediately killed his
father's enemy as he lay upon the ground, and then he withdrew quickly
into the dark crowd so that none knew him. But though there was only the
light of the stars and the multitude was great, many had seen the deed
and each man stood closer by his neighbour and grasped his weapon to be
in readiness. The kinsmen of Abdullah saw that they were separated from
their own tribe and drew back, warning the others to keep the peace and
be silent, lest they should be cut off from their share of the spoil.
But their voices trembled with fears for their own safety, and they were
answered by scornful shouts and jeers.

'The young man says well that you are crows,' cried the angry men, 'for
you wish to keep the carcase for yourselves. Come and take it if you are
able!'

Now indeed the quarrel which had been begun by the blow struck in the
dark spread suddenly to great dimensions, for the words spoken were
caught up as grains of sand by the wind and blown into all men's ears.
Many were ready enough to believe that Abdullah cared only for
enriching himself and his tribe, and many more who had been persuaded to
the enterprise by the hope of gain turned again to their faith in Khaled
as the dream of gold disappeared from their eyes. Yet Abdullah's tribe
was numerous, and it was easy to see that if the dissension grew into a
strife of arms the fight would be long and fierce on both sides.

Then certain of those who were against Abdullah raised the cry that he
had slain Khaled and escaped with the treasure by a secret passage
leading under the walls of the city, which passage was spoken of in old
tales, though no one knew where to find it. But the multitude believed
and pressed forward in a strong body and began to beat against the
iron-bound gate of the palace with great stones and pieces of wood.
Abdullah's men came on fiercely to prevent them, but were opposed by
many, and as the wing of night was lifted and the dawn drank the stars,
the wide square was filled with the clashing of arms and the noise of a
terrible tumult.




CHAPTER XII


At the time when the beggars were carrying away Abdullah and his wife,
Khaled was sitting in his accustomed place, silent and heavy at heart,
and Zehowah played softly to him upon a barbat and sang a sad song in a
low voice. For she saw that gloominess had overcome him and she feared
to disturb his mood, though she would gladly have made him smile if she
had been able.

A black slave of Khaled's whom he had treated with great kindness had
secretly told him that there was a plan to enter the palace with evil
during that night, for the fellow had spied upon those who knew and had
overheard what he now told his master. He had also asked whether he
should not warn the guards of the palace, in order that a strict watch
should be kept, but Khaled had bidden him be silent.

'Either the guards are conspiring with the rest,' said Khaled, 'and will
be the first to attack me, or they are ignorant of the plan; and if so
how can they withstand so great a multitude? I will abide by my own
fate, and no man shall lose his life for my sake unless he desires to do
so.'

But he privately put on a coat of mail under his aba, and when he sat
down in the harem to await the end he would not let Zehowah take his
sword, but laid it upon his feet and sat upright against the wall,
looking towards the door.

'Since I have no soul,' he said to himself, 'this is probably the end of
all things. But there is no reason why I should not kill as many of
these murderers as possible.'

He was gloomy and desponding, however, since he saw that his hour was at
hand, and that Zehowah was no nearer to loving him than before. He
watched her fingers as she played upon the instrument, and he listened
to the soft notes of her voice.

'It is a strange thing,' he thought, 'and I believe that she is not able
to love, any more than my sword upon my feet, which is good and true and
beautiful, and ever ready to my hand, but is itself cold, having no
feeling in it.'

Still Zehowah sang and Khaled heard her song, listening watchfully for a
man's tread upon the threshold and looking to see a man's face and the
light of steel in the shadow beyond the lamps.

'The night is long,' he said at last, aloud.

'It is not yet midnight,' Zehowah answered. 'But you are tired. Will you
not go to rest?'

'I shall rest to-morrow,' said Khaled. 'To-night I will sit here and
look at you, if you will sing to me.'

Zehowah gazed into his eyes, wondering a little at his exceeding
sadness. Then she bowed her head and struck the strings of the
instrument to a new measure more melancholy than the last, and sang an
old song of many verses, with a weeping refrain.

'Are you also heavy at heart to-night?' Khaled asked, when he had
listened to the end.

'It is not easy to kindle a lamp when the rain is falling heavily,'
Zehowah said. 'Your sadness has taken hold of me, like the chill of a
fever. I cannot laugh to-night.'

'And yet you have a good cause, for they say that to-night the earth is
to be delivered of a great malefactor, a certain Persian, whose name is
perhaps Hassan, a notorious robber.'

Khaled turned away his head, smiling bitterly, for he desired not to see
the satisfaction which would come into her face.

'This is a poor jest,' she answered in a low voice, and the barbat
rolled from her knees to the carpet beside her.

'I mean no jesting, for I do not desire to disappoint you, since you
will naturally be glad to be freed from me. But I am glad if you are
willing to sing to me, for this night is very long.'

'Do you think that I believe this of you?' asked Zehowah, after some
time.

'You believed it yesterday, you believe it to-day, and you will believe
it to-morrow when you are free to make choice of some other man--whom
you will doubtless love.'

'Yet I know that it is not true,' she said suddenly.

'It is too late,' Khaled answered. 'The more I love you, the more I see
how little faith you have in me--and the less faith can I put in you.
Will you sing to me again?'

'This is very cruel and bitter.' Zehowah sighed and looked at him.

'Will you sing to me again, Zehowah?' he repeated. 'I like your sad
music.'

Then she took up the barbat from the carpet, but though she struck a
chord she could not go on and her hand lay idle upon the strings, and
her voice was still.

'You are perhaps tired,' said Khaled after some time. 'Then lay aside
the instrument and sleep.' He composed himself in his seat, his sword
being ready and his eyes towards the door.

But Zehowah shook her head as though awaking from a dream, her fingers
ran swiftly over the strings and gentle tones came from her lips. Khaled
listened thoughtfully to the song and the words soothed him, but before
she had reached the end, she stopped suddenly.

'Why do you not finish it?' he asked.

'If you have told me truth,' she answered, 'this is no time for singing
and music. But if not, why should I labour to amuse you, as though I
were a slave? I will call one of the women who has a sweet voice and a
good memory. She will sing you a kasid which will last till morning.'

'You are wrong,' said Khaled. 'There is no reason in what you say.'

But he reflected upon her nature, while he spoke.

'Surely,' he thought, 'there is nothing in the world so contradictory as
a woman. I ask of her a song and she is silent. I bid her rest,
supposing her to be weary, and she sings to me. If I tell her that I
hate her she will perhaps answer that she loves me. Min Allah! Let us
see.'

'You inspire hatred in me,' he said aloud, after a few moments.

At this Zehowah was very much astonished, and she again let the barbat
fall from her knees.

'You wished me to believe that you loved me, and this not long since,'
she answered.

'It may be so. I did not know you then.'

He looked towards the door as though he would say nothing further.
Zehowah sighed, not understanding him yet being wounded in that
sensitive tissue of the heart which divides the outer desert of pride
from the inner garden of love, belonging to neither but separating the
