Putney carried the laugh against Gerrish, but there were some of the
group, and there were many people in Hatboro', including most of the
women, who felt the want of exemplary measures in dealing with
Northwick's case. These ladies did not see the sense of letting those
girls live on just as if nothing had happened, in a house that their
father's crimes had forfeited to his victims, while plenty of honest
people did not know where they were going to sleep that night, or where
the next mouthful of victuals was to come from. It was not really the
houseless and the hungry who complained of this injustice; it was not
even those who toiled for their daily bread in the Hatboro' shops who
said such things. They were too busy, and then too tired, to think much
about them, and the noise of Northwick's misdeeds died first amid the
din of machinery. It was in the close, stove-heated parlors of the
respectable citizens, behind the windows that had so long commanded
envious views of the Northwicks going by in their carriages and sledges,
and among women of leisure and conscience, that his infamy endured, and
that the injuries of his creditors cried out for vengeance on those
daughters of his; they had always thought themselves too good to speak
to other folks. Such women could not understand what the Ponkwasset
Mills Company meant by not turning those girls right out of doors, and
perhaps they could not have been taught why the company had no power to
do this, or why the president, at least, had no wish to do it. When they
learned that his family still kept up friendly relations with the
Northwick girls, they were not without their suspicions, which were not
long in becoming their express belief, that the Hilarys were sharing in
the booty. They were not cruel, and would not really have liked to see
the Northwick girls suffer, if it had come to that; but they were greedy
of the vengeance promised upon the wicked, and they had no fear of
judging or of meting with the fullest measure.

In the freer air of the streets and stores and offices, their husbands
were not so eager. In fact, it might be said that no man was eager but
Gerrish. After the first excitement, and the successive shocks of
sensation imparted by the newspapers had passed, there came over the men
of Hatboro' a sort of resignation which might or might not be regarded
as proof of a general demoralization. The defalcation had startled them,
but it could not be said to have surprised any one; it was to be
expected of a man in Northwick's position; it happened every day
somewhere, and the day had come when it should happen there. They did
not say God was good and that Mahomet was His prophet, but they were
fatalists all the same. They accepted the accomplished fact, and,
reflecting that the disaster did not really concern them, many of them
regarded it dispassionately, even jocosely. They did not care for a lot
of rich people in Boston who had been supplying Northwick with funds to
gamble in stocks; it was not as if the Hatboro' bank had been wrecked,
and hard-working folks had lost their deposits. They could look at the
matter with an impartial eye, and in their hearts they obscurely
believed that any member of the Ponkwasset Company would have done the
same thing as Northwick if he had got the chance. Beyond that they were
mostly interested in the question whether Northwick had perished in the
railroad accident, or had put up a job on the public, and was possessing
his soul in peace somewhere in Rogue's Rest, as Putney called the
Dominion of Canada. Putney represented the party in favor of Northwick's
survival; and Gates, the provision man, led the opposite faction. When
Putney dropped in to order his marketing, he usually said something
like, "Well, Joel, how's cremation, this morning?"

"Just booming, Squire. That stock's coming up, right along. Bound to be
worth a hundred cents on the dollar before hayin', yet." This, or
something like it, was what Gates usually answered, but one morning he
asked, "Heard how it stands with the Ponkwasset folks, I suppose? They
say--paper does--that the reason the president hung off from making a
complaint was that he didn't rightly see how he could have the ashes
indicted. He believes in it, any way."

"Well," said Putney, "the fathers of New England all died in the blessed
hope of infant damnation. But that didn't prove it."

"That's something so, Squire. Guess you got me there," said Gates.

"I can understand old Hilary's not wanting to push the thing, under the
circumstances, and I don't blame him. But the law must have its course.
Hilary's got his duty to do. I don't want to do it for him."




XXI.


Hilary could not help himself, though when he took the legal steps he
was obliged to, it seemed to him that he was wilfully urging on the
persecution of that poor young girl and that poor old maid. It was
really ghastly to go through the form of indicting a man who, so far as
any one could prove to the contrary, had passed with his sins before the
tribunal that searches hearts and judges motives rather than acts. But
still the processes had to go on, and Hilary had to prompt them. It was
all talked over in Hilary's family, where he was pitied and forgiven in
that affection which keeps us simple and sincere in spite of the masks
we wear to the world. His wife and his children knew how kind he was,
and how much he suffered in this business which, from the first, he had
tried to be so lenient in. When he wished to talk of it, they all agreed
that Matt must not vex him with his theories and his opinions; and when
he did not talk of it, no one must mention it.

Hilary felt the peculiar hardships of his position, all the more keenly
because he had a conscience that would not permit him to shirk his duty.
He had used his influence, the weight of his character and business
repute, to control the action of the Board towards Northwick, when the
defalcation became known, and now he was doubly bound to respond to the
wishes of the directors in proceeding against him. Most of them believed
that Northwick was still alive; those who were not sure regarded it as a
public duty to have him indicted at any rate, and they all voted that
Hilary should make the necessary complaint. Then Hilary had no choice
but to obey. Another man in his place might have resigned, but he could
not, for he knew that he was finally responsible for Northwick's escape.

He made it no less his duty to find out just how much hardship it would
work Northwick's daughters, and he tried to lend them money. But Suzette
answered for both that her father had left them some money when he went
away; and Hilary could only send Louise to explain how he must formally
appear in the legal proceedings; he allowed Louise to put whatever
warmth of color she wished into his regrets and into his advice that
they should consult a lawyer. It was not business-like; if it were
generally known it might be criticised; but in the last resort, with a
thing like that, Hilary felt that he could always tell his critics to go
to the deuce, and fall back upon a good conscience.

It seemed to Louise, at first, that Suzette was unwilling to separate
her father from his office, or fully to appreciate his forbearance. She
treated her own father's course as something above suspicion, as
something which he was driven to by enemies, whom he would soon have
returned to put to confusion, if he had lived. It made no difference to
her and Adeline what was done; their father was safe, now, and some day
his name would be cleared. Adeline added that they were in the home
where he had left them; it was their house, and no one could take it
from them.

Louise compassionately assented to everything. She thought Suzette might
have been a little more cordial in the way she received her father's
regrets. But she remembered that Suzette was always undemonstrative, and
she did not blame her, after her first disappointment. She could see the
sort of neglect that was already falling upon the house, the expression
in housekeeping terms of the despair that was in their minds. The
sisters did not cry, but Louise cried a good deal in pity for their
forlornness, and at last her tears softened them into something like
compassion for themselves. They had her stay to lunch rather against her
will, but she thought she had better stay. The lunch was so badly cooked
and so meagre that Louise fancied they were beginning to starve
themselves, and wanted to cry into her tea-cup. The woman who waited
wore such dismal black, and went about with her eyes staring and her
mouth tightly pursed, and smelt faintly of horses. It was Mrs. Newton;
she had let Louise in when she came, and she was the only servant whom
the girl saw.

Suzette said nothing about their plans for the future, and Louise did
not like to ask her. She felt as if she was received under a flag of
truce, and that there could be no confidence between them. Both of the
sisters seemed to stand on the defensive with her; but when she started
to come away, Suzette put on her hat and jacket, and said she would go
to the avenue gate with her, and meet Simpson, who was coming to take
Louise back to the station.

It was a clear day of middle March; the sun rode high in a blue sky, and
some jays bragged and jeered in the spruces. The frost was not yet out
of the ground, but the shaded road was dry underfoot.

They talked at arm's length of the weather; and then Suzette said
abruptly, "Of course, Louise, your father will have to do what they want
him to, against--papa. I understand that."

"Oh, Sue--"

"Don't! I should wish him to know that I wasn't stupid about it."

"I'm sure," Louise adventured, "he would do anything to help you!"

Suzette put by the feeble expression of mere good feeling. "We don't
believe papa has done anything wrong, or anything he wouldn't have made
right if he had lived. We shall not let them take his property from us
if we can help it."

"Of course not! I'm sure papa wouldn't wish you to."

"It would be confessing that they were right, and we will never do
that. But I don't blame your father, and I want him to know it."

Louise stopped short and kissed Suzette. In her affectionate optimism it
seemed to her for the moment that all the trouble was over now. She had
never realized anything hopelessly wrong in the affair; it was like a
misunderstanding that could be explained away, if the different people
would listen to reason.

Sue released herself, and said, looking away from her friend: "It has
been hard. He is dead; but we haven't even been allowed to see him laid
in the grave."

"Oh, perhaps," Louise sobbed out, "he isn't dead! So many people think
he isn't--"

Suzette drew away from her in stern offence. "Do you think that if he
were alive he would leave us without a word--a sign?"

"No, no! He couldn't be so cruel! I didn't mean that! He is dead, and I
shall always say it."

They walked on without speaking, but at the gate Suzette offered to
return Louise's embrace. The tears stood in her eyes, as she said, "I
would like to send my love to your mother--if she would care for it."

"Care for it!"

"And tell your brother I can never forget what he did for us."

"He can never forget that you let him do it," said Louise, with eager
gratitude. "He would have liked to come with me, if he hadn't thought it
might seem intrusive."

"Intrusive! Your brother!" Sue spoke the words as if Matt were of
some superior order of beings.

The intensity of feeling she put into her voice brought another gush of
tears into Louise's eyes. "Matt is good. And I will tell him what you
say. He will like to hear it." They looked down the road, but they could
not see Simpson coming yet. "Don't wait, Sue," she pleaded. "Do go back!
You will be all worn out."

"No, I will stay till your carriage comes," said Suzette; and they
remained a moment silent together.

Then Louise said, "Matt has got a new fad: a young man that writes on
the newspapers--"

"The newspapers!" Suzette repeated with an intimation of abhorrence.

"Oh, but he isn't like the others," Louise hastened to explain. "Very
handsome, and interesting, and pale, and sick. He is going to be a poet,
but he's had to be a reporter. He's awfully clever; but Matt says he's
awfully poor, and he has had such a hard time. Now they think he won't
have to interview people any more--he came to interview papa, the first
time; and poor papa was very blunt with him; and then so sorry. He's got
some other kind of newspaper place; I don't know what. Matt liked what
he wrote about--about, your--troubles, Sue."

"Where was it?" asked Sue. "They were all wickedly false and cruel."

"His wasn't cruel. It was in the Abstract."

"Yes, I remember. But he said papa had taken the money," Sue answered
unrelentingly.

"Did he? I thought he only said if he did. I don't believe he said
more. Matt wouldn't have liked it so much if he had. He's in such bad
health. But he's awfully clever."

The hack came in sight over the rise of ground, with Simpson driving
furiously, as he always did when he saw people. Louise threw her arms
round her friend again. "Let me go back and stay with you, Sue! Or, come
home with me, you and Miss Northwick. We shall all be so glad to have
you, and I hate so to leave you here alone. It seems so dreadful!"

"Yes. But it's easier to bear it here than anywhere else. Some day all
the falsehood will be cleared up, and then we shall be glad that we bore
it where he left us. We have decided what we shall do, Adeline and I. We
shall try to let the house furnished for the summer, and live in the
lodge here."

Louise looked round at the cottage by the avenue gate, and said it would
be beautiful.

"We've never used it for any one, yet," Suzette continued, "and we can
move back into the house in the winter."

This again seemed to Louise an admirable notion, and she parted from her
friend in more comfort than she could have imagined when they met. She
carried her feeling of elation home with her, and was able to report Sue
in a state of almost smiling prosperity, and of perfect resignation, if
not acquiescence, in whatever the company should make Hilary do. She
figured her father, in his reluctance, as a sort of ally of the
Northwicks, and she was disappointed that he seemed to derive so little
pleasure from Sue's approval. But he generally approved of all that she
could remember to have said for him to the Northwicks, though he did not
show himself so appreciative of the situation as Matt. She told her
brother what Sue had said when she heard of his unwillingness to intrude
upon her, and she added that now he must certainly go to see her.




XXII.


A day or two later, when Matt Hilary went to Hatboro', he found Wade in
his study at the church, and he lost no time in asking him, "Wade, what
do you know of the Miss Northwicks? Have you seen them lately?"

Wade told him how little he had seen Miss Northwick, and how he had not
seen Suzette at all. Then Matt said, "I don't know why I asked you,
because I knew all this from Louise; she was up here the other day, and
they told her. What I am really trying to get at is, whether you know
anything more about how that affair with Jack Wilmington stands. Do you
know whether he has tried to see her since the trouble about her father
came out?"

Adeline Northwick had dropped from the question, as usual, and it really
related so wholly to Suzette in the thoughts of both the young men, that
neither of them found it necessary to limit it explicitly.

"I feel quite sure he hasn't," said Wade, "though I can't answer
positively."

"Then that settles it!" Matt walked away to one of Wade's gothic
windows, and looked out. When he turned and came back to his friend, he
said, "If he had ever been in earnest about her, I think he would have
tried to see her at such a time, don't you?"

"I can't imagine his not doing it. I never thought him a cad."

"No, nor I."

"He would have done it unless--unless that woman has some hold that
gives her command of him. He's shown great weakness, to say the least.
But I don't believe there's anything worse. What do the village people
believe?"

"All sorts of lurid things, some of them; others believe that the affair
is neither more nor less than it appears to be. It's a thing that could
be just what it is in no other country in the world. It's the phase that
our civilization has contributed to the physiognomy of scandal, just as
the exile of the defaulter is the phase we have contributed to the
physiognomy of crime. Public opinion here isn't severe upon Mrs.
Wilmington or Mr. Northwick."

"I'm not prepared to quarrel with it on that account," said Matt, with
the philosophical serenity which might easily be mistaken for irony in
him. "The book we get our religion from teaches leniency in the judgment
of others."

"It doesn't teach cynical indifference," Wade suggested.

"Perhaps that isn't what people feel," said Matt.

"I don't know. Sometimes I dread to think how deeply our demoralization
goes in certain directions."

Matt did not follow the lure to that sort of speculative inquiry he and
Wade were fond of. He said, with an abrupt return to the personal
ground: "Then you don't think Jack Wilmington need be any further
considered in regard to her?"

"In regard to Miss Sue Northwick? I don't know whether I quite
understand what you mean."

"I mean, is it anybody's duty--yours or mine--to go to the man and find
him out; what he really thinks, what he really feels? I don't mean, make
an appeal to him. That would be unworthy of her. But perhaps he's
holding back from a mistaken feeling of delicacy, of remorse; when if he
could be made to see that it was his right, his privilege, to be
everything to her now that a man could be to a woman, and infinitely
more than any man could hope to be to a happy or fortunate woman--What
do you think? He could be reparation, protection, safety, everything!"

Wade shook his head. "It would be useless. Wilmington knows very well
that such a girl would never let him be anything to her now when he had
slighted her fancy for him before. Even if he were ever in love with
her, which I doubt, he couldn't do it."

"No, I suppose not," said Matt. After a little pause, he added, "Then I
must go myself."

"Go, yourself? What do you mean?" Wade asked.

"Some one must try to make them understand just how they are situated. I
don't think Louise did; I don't think she knew herself, how the legal
proceedings would affect them; and I think I'd better go and make it
perfectly clear."

"I can imagine it won't be pleasant," said Wade.

"No," said Matt, "I don't expect that. But I inferred, from what she
said to Louise, that she would be willing to see me, and I think I had
better go."

He put his conviction interrogatively, and Wade said heartily, "Why, of
course. It's the only thing," and Matt went away with a face which was
cheerful with good-will, if not the hope of pleasure.

He met Suzette in the avenue, dressed for walking, and coming forward
with the magnificent, haughty movement she had. As she caught sight of
him, she started, and then almost ran toward him. "Oh! You!" she said,
and she shrank back a little, and then put her hand impetuously out to
him.

He took it in his two, and bubbled out, "Are you walking somewhere? Are
you well? Is your sister at home? Don't let me keep you! May I walk with
you?"

Her smile clouded. "I'm only walking here in the avenue. How is Louise?
Did she get home safely? It was good of her to come here. It isn't the
place for a gay visit."

"Oh, Miss Northwick! It was good of you to see her. And we were very
happy--relieved--to find that you didn't feel aggrieved with any of us
for what must happen. And I hope you don't feel that I've taken an
advantage of your kindness in coming?"

"Oh, no!"

"I've just been to see Wade." Matt reddened consciously. "But it doesn't
seem quite fair to have met you where you had no choice but to receive
me!"

"I walk here every morning," she returned, evasively. "I have nowhere
else. I never go out of the avenue. Adeline goes to the village,
sometimes. But I can't meet people."

"I know," said Matt, with caressing sympathy; and his head swam in the
sudden desire to take her in his arms, and shelter her from that shame
and sorrow preying upon her. Her eyes had a trouble in them that made
him ache with pity; he recognized, as he had not before, that they were
the translation in feminine terms, of her father's eyes. "Poor Wade," he
went on, without well knowing what he was saying, "told me that he--he
was very sorry he had not been able to see you--to do anything--"

"What would have been the use? No one can do anything. We must bear our
burden; but we needn't add to it by seeing people who believe that--that
my father did wrong."

Matt's breath almost left him. He perceived that the condition on which
she was bearing her sorrow was the refusal of her shame. Perhaps it
could not have been possible for one of her nature to accept it, and it
required no effort in her to frame the theory of her father's innocence;
perhaps no other hypothesis was possible to her, and evidence had
nothing to do with the truth as she felt it.

"The greatest comfort we have is that none of you believe it; and your
father knew my father better than any one else. I was afraid I didn't
make Louise understand how much I felt that, and how much Adeline did.
It was hard to tell her, without seeming to thank you for something that
was no more than my father's due. But we do feel it, both of us; and I
would like your father to know it. I don't blame him for what he is
going to do. It's necessary to establish my father's innocence to have
the trial. I was very unjust to your father that first day, when I
thought he believed those things against papa. We appreciate his
kindness in every way, but we shall not get any lawyer to defend us."

Matt was helplessly silent before this wild confusion of perfect trust
and hopeless error. He would not have known where to begin to set her
right; he did not see how he could speak a word without wounding her
through her love, her pride.

She hurried on, walking swiftly, as if to keep up with the rush of her
freed emotions. "We are not afraid but that it will come out so that our
father's name, who was always so perfectly upright, and so good to every
one, will be cleared, and those who have accused him so basely will be
punished as they deserve."

She had so wholly misconceived the situation and the character of the
impending proceedings that it would not have been possible to explain it
all to her; but he could not leave her in her error, and he made at last
an effort to enlighten her.

"I think my father was right in advising you to see a lawyer. It won't
be a question of the charges against your father's integrity, but of his
solvency. The proceedings will be against his estate; and you mustn't
allow yourselves to be taken at a disadvantage."

She stopped. "What do we care for the estate, if his good name isn't
cleared up?"

"I'm afraid--I'm afraid," Matt entreated, "that you don't exactly
understand."

"If my father never meant to keep the money, then the trial will show,"
the girl returned.

"But a lawyer--indeed you ought to see a lawyer!--could explain how such
a trial would leave that question where it was. It wouldn't be the case
against your father, but against you."

"Against us? What do they say we have done?"

Matt could have laughed at her heroic misapprehension of the affair, if
it had not been for the pity of it. "Nothing! Nothing! But they can take
everything here that belonged to your father--everything on the place,
to satisfy his creditors. The question of his wrong-doing won't enter. I
can't tell you how. But you ought to have a lawyer who would defend your
rights in the case."

"If they don't pretend we've done anything then they can't do anything
to us!"

"They can take everything your father had in the world to pay his
debts."

"Then let them take it," said the girl. "If he had lived he would have
paid them. We will never admit that he did anything for us to be ashamed
of; that he ever wilfully wronged any one."

Matt could see that the profession of her father's innocence was
essential to her. He could not know how much of it was voluntary, a pure
effect of will, in fulfilment of the demands of her pride, and how much
was real belief. He only knew that, whatever it was, his wish was not to
wound her or to molest her in it, but to leave what should be sacred
from human touch to the mystery that we call providence. It might have
been this very anxiety that betrayed him, for a glance at his face
seemed to stay her.

"Don't you think I am right, Mr. Hilary?"

"Yes, yes!" Matt began; and he was going to say that she was right in
every way, but he found that his own truth was sacred to him as well as
her fiction, and he said, "I've no right to judge your father. It's the
last thing I should be willing to do. I certainly don't believe he ever
wished to wrong any one if he could have helped it."

"Thank you!" said the girl. "That was not what I asked you. I know
what my father meant to do, and I didn't need any reassurance. I'm sorry
to have troubled you with all these irrelevant questions; and I thank
you very much for the kind advice you have given me."

"Oh, don't take it so!" he entreated, simply. "I do wish to be of use to
you--all the use that the best friend in the world can be; and I see
that I have wounded you. Don't take my words amiss; I'm sure you
couldn't take my will so, if you knew it! If the worst that anybody has
said about your father were ten times true, it couldn't change my will,
or--"

"Thank you! Thank you!" she said perversely. "I don't think we
understand each other, Mr. Hilary. It's scarcely worth while to try. I
think I must say good-by. My sister will be expecting me." She nodded,
and he stood aside, lifting his hat. She dashed by him, and he remained
staring after her till she vanished in the curve of the avenue. She
suddenly reappeared, and came quickly back toward him. "I wanted to say
that, no matter what you think or say, I shall never forget what you
have done, and I shall always be grateful for it." She launched these
words fiercely at him, as if they were a form of defiance, and then
whirled away, and was quickly lost to sight again.




XXIII.


That evening Adeline said to her sister, at the end of the meagre dinner
they allowed themselves in these days, "Elbridge says the hay is giving
out, and we have got to do something about those horses that are eating
their heads off in the barn. And the cows: there's hardly any feed for
them."

"We must take some of the money and buy feed," said Suzette, passively.
Adeline saw by her eyes that she had been crying; she did not ask her
why; each knew why the other cried.

"I'm afraid to," said the elder sister. "It's going so fast, as it is,
that I don't know what we shall do pretty soon. I think we ought to sell
some of the cattle."

"We can't. We don't know whether they're ours."

"Not ours?"

"They may belong to the creditors. We must wait till the trial is over."

Adeline made no answer. They had disputed enough about that trial, which
they understood so little. Adeline had always believed they ought to
speak to a lawyer about it; but Suzette had not been willing. Even when
a man came that morning with a paper which he said was an attachment,
and left it with them, they had not agreed to ask advice. For one thing,
they did not know whom to ask. Northwick had a lawyer in Boston; but
they had been left to the ignorance in which most women live concerning
such matters, and they did not know his name.

Now Adeline resolved to act upon a plan of her own that she had kept
from Suzette because she thought Suzette would not like it. Her sister
went to her room after dinner, and then Adeline put on her things and
let herself softly out into the night. She took that paper the man had
left, and she took the deeds of the property which her father had given
her soon after her mother died, while Sue was a little girl. He said
that the deeds were recorded, and that she could keep them safely
enough, and she had kept them ever since in the box where her old laces
were, and her mother's watch, that had never been wound up since her
death.

Adeline was not afraid of the dark on the road or in the lonely
village-streets; but when she rang at the lawyer Putney's door, her
heart beat so with fright that it seemed as if it must jump out of her
mouth. She came to him because she had always heard that, in spite of
his sprees, he was the smartest lawyer in Hatboro'; and she believed
that he could protect their rights if any one could. At the same time
she wished justice to be done, though they should suffer, and she came
to Putney, partly because she knew he had always disliked her father,
and she reasoned that such a man would be less likely to advise her
against the right in her interest than a friendlier person.

Putney came to the door himself, as he was apt to do at night, when he
was in the house, and she saw him control his surprise at sight of her.
"Can I see--see--see you a moment," she stammered out, "about some--some
law business?"

"Certainly," said Putney, with grave politeness. "Will you come in?" He
led the way into the parlor, where he was reading when she rang, and
placed a chair for her, and then shut the parlor door, and waited for
her to offer him the papers that rattled in her nervous clutch.

"It's this one that I want to show you first," she said, and she gave
him the writ of attachment. "A man left it this noon, and we don't know
what it means."

"It means," said Putney, "that your father's creditors have brought suit
against his estate, and have attached his property so that you cannot
sell it, or put it out of your hands in any way. If the court declares
him insolvent, then everything belonging to him must go to pay his
debts."

"But what can we do? We can't buy anything to feed the stock, and they
will suffer," cried Adeline.

"I don't think long," said Putney. "Some one will be put in charge of
the place, and then the stock will be taken care of by the creditors."

"And will they turn us out? Can they take our house? It is our
house--mine and my sister's; here are the deeds that my father gave me
long ago; and he said they were recorded." Her voice grew shrill.

Putney took the deeds, and glanced at the recorder's endorsement before
he read them. He seemed to Adeline a long time; and she had many fears
till he handed them back to her. "The land, and the houses, and all the
buildings are yours and your sister's, Miss Northwick, and your father's
creditors can't touch them."

The tears started from Adeline's eyes; she fell weakly back in her chair
and let them run silently down her worn face. After a while Putney said,
gently, "Was this all you wanted to ask me?"

"That is all," Adeline answered, and she began blindly to put her papers
together. He helped her. "How much is there to pay?" she asked, with an
anxiety she could not keep out of her voice.

"Nothing. I haven't done you any legal service. Almost any man you
showed those papers to could have told you as much as I have." She tried
to gasp out some acknowledgments and protests as he opened the doors for
her. At the outer threshold he said, "Why, you're alone!"

"Yes. I'm not at all afraid--"

"I will go home with you." Putney caught his hat from the rack, and
plunged into a shabby overcoat that dangled under it.

Adeline tried to refuse, but she could not. She was trembling so that it
seemed as if she could not have set one foot before the other without
help. She took his arm, and stumbled along beside him through the quiet,
early spring night.

After a while he said, "Miss Northwick, there's a little piece of advice
I should like to give you."

"Well?" she quavered, meekly.

"Don't let anybody lead you into the expense of trying to fight this
case with the creditors. It wouldn't be any use. Your father was deeply
involved--"

"He had been unfortunate, but he didn't do anything wrong," Adeline
hastened to put in, nervously.

"It isn't a question of that," said Putney, with a smile which he could
safely indulge in the dark. "But he owed a great deal of money, and his
creditors will certainly be able to establish their right to everything
but the real estate."

"My sister never wished to have anything to do with the trial. We
intended just to let it go."

"That's the best way," Putney said.

"But I wanted to know whether they could take the house and the place
from us."

"That was right, and I assure you they can't touch either. If you get
anxious, come to me again--as often as you like."

"I will, indeed, Mr. Putney," said the old maid, submissively. She let
him walk home with her, and up the avenue till they came in sight of the
house. Then she plucked her hand away from his arm, and thanked him,
with a pathetic little titter. "I don't know what Suzette would say if
she knew I had been to consult you," she suggested.

"It's for you to tell her," said Putney, seriously. "But you'd better
act together. You will need all your joint resources in that way."

"Oh, I shall tell her," said Adeline. "I'm not sorry for it, and I think
just as you do, Mr. Putney."

"Well, I'm glad you do," said Putney, as if it were a favor.

When he reached home, his wife asked, "Where in the world have you been,
Ralph?"

"Oh, just philandering round in the dark a little with Adeline
Northwick."

"Ralph, what do you mean?"

He told her, and they were moved and amused together at the strange
phase their relation to the Northwicks had taken. "To think of her
coming to you, of all people in the world, for advice in her trouble!"

"Yes," said Putney. "But I was always a great friend of her father's,
