
At this moment Obed's voice was heard.

"Come here, Harry; we'll make a litter to carry our friend there if he
is unable to walk."

"All right, Obed."

There might have been something in Obed's voice that betrayed him. At
any rate, the victim, looking up, eyed him keenly, and then, to the
surprise of the boys, gave a sharp whistle. Their suspicions were at
once kindled, and they started to run, but too late. From the underbrush
there sprang out three bushrangers, accompanied by Colson and Ropes, who
covered the boys with their weapons.

"Halt there!" exclaimed Fletcher in a tone of authority.

"Oh, it's you, is it?" said Obed with apparent coolness, though his
heart sank within him.

"Yes, it's I, Mr. Stackpole," returned Fletcher, with a grim smile. "I
hope you're better fixed than when we met last. I hear you've found a
nugget."

"One of those gentlemen with you can give you information about that,"
said Obed, indicating Colson.

Colson frowned and bit his lip.

"He has told us about it."

"Ask him for it, then. He broke into our tent the night we found it and
carried it off."

"Is this true?" demanded Fletcher, eying Colson suspiciously.

"No, it's a lie. The nugget is in charge of a mounted escort on the way
to Melbourne."

"What have you done with your nugget, Colson?" asked Obed.

Colson did not reply.

"There's no time to waste here. Stackpole, you and the boys will have to
go with us. Here, you two men, close behind them. We must not let them
escape."

The party started with the captives in the middle. It was decidedly a
bad outlook for our three friends.




CHAPTER XXXII.

OBED IN A TIGHT PLACE.

It must be confessed that the reflections of Obed and the two boys were
far from pleasant. The cup of happiness had been dashed from their lips
just as they had begun to taste it. Then again it was very mortifying to
watch the exultation of Fletcher and Colson, who had finally triumphed
over them after being successfully baffled.

"The worst of it is," said Obed to Harry, who was walking alongside of
him, "that them skunks have got the best of it. It's their time to crow
now."

"That's the way I feel," said Harry soberly. "I believe I would rather
have lost twice as much to anybody else."

"We haven't lost all, that's a comfort. They will take the money we have
with us, but if ever we escape to Melbourne, there is the nugget money
waiting for us."

Just then Colson stepped up with a smile on his face.

"It strikes me I've got about even with you, friend Stackpole," he
said.

"Don't call me friend, Colson; I don't own any man as friend who acts
like you. So you're a bushranger, are you?"

"Certainly not," answered Colson, amazed.

"It looks like it," remarked Obed significantly.

"I am merely in the company of the bushrangers just at present."

"Aiding and abetting them in their scheming. That's so, isn't it?"

"No."

"You haven't any interest in the plunder, then?"

Now, one of the bushrangers was within hearing, and Colson didn't
venture to say "No," or it would be virtually giving up his share of the
money taken from Obed and the boys.

"I don't care to answer any of your questions," he said stiffly.

"I don't wonder--not a mite, Colson. Still I'd like to ask one."

"What is it? I don't promise to answer it, though."

"Didn't you find that nugget rather heavy?" asked Obed slyly.

Colson didn't answer, but frowned, for the subject was a sore one.

"How many miles did you carry it, if I may be so bold?"

"I don't care to discuss the subject."

"I shouldn't if I were you. It makes me laugh when I think how you must
have looked when you found out it was nothing but common rock."

"How much does it weigh?" inquired Colson, in a tone of curiosity.

"Somewhere between fifty and five hundred pounds. Are you thinking of
attacking the guard? I wouldn't if I were you. They are prepared for
gentlemen of your kind. You'd be more likely to carry off lead than
gold."

"Confound the fellow!" thought Colson. "He looks as if he had the best
of me--I must worry him a little."

"Do you know that you are in a very ticklish position?" he asked.

"I can't say it's a position I fancy much. Did you put our friends here
on the track?"

"Yes, I did," answered Colson in a tone of satisfaction.

"I thought so. That identifies you with them, Colson. You may find it
used against you in a court of justice."

"I am no more a bushranger than you are," said Colson uneasily.

"I would respect you more if you was, Colson. They're open and
aboveboard, anyway. You want to profit by the same means, but sneak out
of it and say you're not a bushranger. It'll be hard to persuade the
courts of that."

"I have nothing to do with courts."

"You may have yet. Let me give you a piece of advice."

"What is it?" demanded Colson suspiciously.

"Join the band permanently. You're a man after Fletcher's own heart. You
and he will make a good match."

"Who is that mentioning my name?" asked Fletcher, who happened to be
within hearing.

"I took that liberty, squire. I've been advisin' Colson here to join
your band."

"What is that for?"

"I think it's a business that will suit him. His talents all lie in that
direction. He'll be like a brother to you, Fletcher."

"What did he say?"

"He don't like the idea. He seems to feel above you. He says he is only
keepin' company with you for a short time."

"Is that true?" demanded Fletcher, eying Colson with displeasure.

"I never said any such thing," said Colson eagerly. "He twists my words.
I have the greatest respect for the bushrangers, whom I regard as
gentlemen."

"Perhaps that is the reason you don't feel gratified to join them,
Colson?"

Fletcher laughed at this palpable hit, but Colson looked annoyed.

"I don't expect to remain in this section of the country long," said
Colson deprecatingly, for he was very much afraid of offending Fletcher.
"Of course I can't form any permanent ties."

"It might be better for you to leave, Colson. I've an idee that it isn't
good for your health to stay around here very long. You haven't made a
shinin' success so far. Now, as to that nugget which you stole----"

"Do you mean to insult me? I never took any nugget."

"That's so. You're right there, Colson. But you thought you had, all the
same. Fortunately, it's where you can't get at it."

"I have something to say on that point," said Fletcher. "I understand
the nugget is very valuable."

"I'm glad to hear it. You're a judge. I have an idee of that sort
myself."

"About how much does it weigh?"

"About seventy-five pounds. I don't mind gratifying your innocent
curiosity, Fletcher."

Fletcher's eyes sparkled.

"It must be very valuable," he said.

"I reckon it is."

"At what do you estimate it--twenty thousand dollars?"

"Not as much as that."

"It ought to come pretty near it, though."

Obed did not answer.

"It's a great prize. You were very lucky."

"So I thought at the time. I don't feel so certain, now," said Obed
dryly.

"I think half of it will be enough for you."

"What do you mean, Fletcher?"

"I mean that we shall want half of it."

"How are you going to get it?"

"We mean to hold you prisoner till half the proceeds are brought in from
Melbourne."

Obed's countenance fell. He had not thought of this.

Colson's eyes glistened with pleasure. Till that lucky suggestion was
made he saw no way of securing a share of the great prize.

"That's a nice scheme, Fletcher," said Obed, regaining his composure.

"So I think. You and the boys would still have a good sum of money. What
do you say? Shall we make a little friendly arrangement to that effect?
You could give me an order for half the sum realized, and on my securing
it you would be released."

"I shall have to talk it over with my partners here," returned Obed.
"They're equally interested with me."

"Better do so now."

"I won't till evenin', when we have more time."

Fletcher rode away under the impression that Obed was favorably disposed
to his plan.

"When I get the money," he said to himself, "I can decide whether to let
the fellow go or not. I don't care for the boys, but I'd like to give
this Yankee a good flogging, he's so confoundedly sarcastic. Plague take
it, the fellow doesn't know when he's down, but talks as if he was on
equal terms with me."

Meanwhile, though Fletcher did not know it, the train of bushrangers had
steadily advanced to the neighborhood of the place where the government
escort were encamped.

In fact, he was ignorant that they were so near. But Obed knew it, and
he was watching his opportunity to apprise his friends of his situation.
Harry had noticed the same thing. Lest he should make a premature
revelation, Obed placed his hand to his lips, as a sign of silence.
Harry understood, and seemed indifferent, but his heart was beating fast
with excitement.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE TABLES ARE TURNED.

It was certainly an oversight in Fletcher not to have ascertained the
situation of the government encampment. He was under the impression that
it was in a direction opposite to that in which they were moving, and
this determined his course. He was therefore wholly unconscious of
danger, and tranquil in mind, though his situation was critical.

Obed was puzzled to know in what manner to get the necessary
intelligence to his comrades. Chance gave him a suggestion. The man next
him wore round his neck a whistle--designed doubtless to use in case of
emergencies. It was of rather peculiar shape.

"That's an odd whistle you've got there, my friend," he said, "where did
you get it?"

"In Melbourne," answered the fellow unsuspiciously.

"I think I've seen one like it in the States. Let me look at it a
minute."

The bushranger allowed Obed to take it in his hand.

Suddenly Mr. Stackpole put it to his mouth, and gave a sharp, loud
whistle that awakened the echoes in the forest.

Like a flash Fletcher turned from his place at the head of the train and
eyed the bushranger with a frown. Obed had dropped the whistle, and was
walking on with an innocent look.

"What is this foolery, Hogan?" demanded Fletcher sharply. "Don't you
know better than to whistle?"

"I didn't, lieutenant," answered Hogan. "It was this man here."

"The Yankee?"

"Yes."

"How did he get the whistle?"

"He asked to look at it."

"What does this mean, Stackpole?" asked Fletcher angrily.

"Don't get riled, squire," said Obed imperturbably. "I just wanted to
try it, that's all. I had a whistle once a little like it. When I was
workin' for old Deacon Plummer in New Hampshire----"

"Confound old Deacon Plummer!" retorted Fletcher impatiently. "Don't you
know I might have you shot for what you've done?"

"Shot for whistling! Well, that beats all I ever heard of. I say,
squire, your laws are stricter than any I ever came across. I didn't
think I was doin' any harm."

"I will overlook it this time, but if you take any such liberty again,
I'll have you tied to a tree and whipped."

"That's better than bein' shot, anyway. I won't do it again, squire. I
aint particularly anxious to get into trouble."

"These Yankees are about as stupid and presuming as any people I ever
met," Fletcher remarked to the comrade who rode beside him. "That fellow
is a nuisance, but I mean to teach him a lesson before twenty-four hours
are over."

Obed and the two boys awaited with anxiety the result of the summons.
The camp was but an eighth of a mile away, but hidden by the trees.

"Will they hear it?" thought Obed.

It is doubtful whether this would have been the case, but luckily for
our three friends one of the escort--by name Warner--was taking a walk
in the woods, and heard the whistle. His curiosity was excited, and
peering through the trees he saw the bushrangers and their captives.

He was a man of promptness, and returning to the camp with all
expedition made a report to the officer in command.

"How many are there in the band?" inquired Captain Forbush.

Warner reported.

The captain immediately started, under Warner's guidance, with ten men,
and arranged to intercept the bushrangers.

The first intimation Fletcher had of his danger was the sudden
appearance of the government soldiers, who broke through the underbrush
and took the astonished bushrangers in the flank.

"Surrender instantly, or you are dead men!" exclaimed Forbush sternly.

Fletcher fell back in dismay, and was at first speechless with
consternation.

"Do you surrender?" repeated the government officer impatiently.

Fletcher's eye ran over the party that confronted him. They outnumbered
his own forces two to one. He felt that resistance would be useless.

"We will release our captives if you let us go," he said.

"So you would make conditions? You are in no condition to do that. We
propose to free your captives, and to take you to our camp."

"You had better not," said Fletcher, hoping to intimidate the officer.
"Our main band is close at hand, and they will avenge us."

"I'll take the risk," said Forbush indifferently. "Throw down your
arms!"

As this order was given with each of the bushrangers covered by the
weapons of his own party, the bushrangers found it prudent to comply.

"Very well; now follow me."

First, however, the rifles surrendered by the bushrangers were gathered
up, and in their defenseless condition they were marched to the
government camp. It added to Fletcher's annoyance that the weapons
dropped by his party were picked up and carried by their late captives,
Obed and the two boys.

"So you're comin' to make us a visit, Fletcher?" said Obed, with an
exasperating smile. "It's just as well as if we had gone home with you.
We shall be together anyway, and I know you value our society."

"I'd like to strangle you," muttered Fletcher.

"Thank you, but I don't think I should enjoy it. I've seldom met a
kinder-hearted man, Fletcher, but you have queer ways of showing it."

Probably the most discomfited members of the party were Colson and
Ropes. All their schemes had miscarried, and they felt that they were in
a genuine scrape. If they could only convince the officers that they
were innocent companions of the bushrangers, they might yet escape.
Accordingly, when they reached the camp Colson advanced to Captain
Forbush and said: "Ahem! captain, my friend Ropes and I wish to express
our thanks to you for your timely rescue, and would like to travel under
your escort to Melbourne."

"What does the man mean?" asked Forbush, turning to Obed.

"Suppose you ask him," suggested Obed, with a smile of enjoyment.

"Like your friends here we were captured, but a little earlier. I
hope--ha, ha!--you don't take us for bushrangers? That would be a great
joke, eh, Ropes?"

"Just so," answered Ropes.

"Suppose you ask Fletcher," again suggested Obed.

"Are these men followers of yours, Mr. Fletcher? They say you captured
them."

"They did, did they?" returned Fletcher, eying the two men in a manner
by no means friendly. "It is a lie. They came to me and reported that
your party were carrying a nugget to Melbourne, and wanted us to attack
you, and get possession of it. In that case they demanded a share of the
proceeds. The dogs! so they want to get favor at our expense, do they?"

"Do you know anything about them, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Captain
Forbush.

"Yes, captain, and I am convinced that my friend Fletcher tells the
exact truth. That skunk there [indicating Colson] tried to steal the
nugget the very night of its discovery, and broke into my cabin for the
purpose. He's a sly, underhand thief, and not to be compared with a bold
bushranger. I respect them for their pluck at any rate."

"Don't believe him! He's prejudiced against us," whined Colson.

"Gentlemen," said Captain Forbush, "I will comply with your request and
allow you to travel with me to Melbourne--under guard!"

Fletcher and the bushrangers looked pleased at this announcement. Their
own prospects were not very bright, but they were glad to find that
Colson and Ropes were to share their fate.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

FAREWELL TO MELBOURNE.

No further adventures or dangers befell the party on their way to
Melbourne. It was thought possible that Captain Ring, in charge of the
main body of the bushrangers, might attempt a rescue of his companions.
No such attack took place. It might have been that he feared the issue
of the conflict, but it is also possible that he experienced no poignant
regret at the capture of Fletcher, who, he well knew, would have been
glad to succeed him in command.

At first Fletcher was buoyed up by the hope of a rescue. Then, when that
hope faded out, he sought for an opportunity to escape. In one case he
would have succeeded but for the vigilance of Obed Stackpole. The
latter, awakening suddenly, saw Fletcher, who in some way had got out of
his fetters, stealing quietly away. He sprang to his feet and
intercepted the fugitive.

"What, Fletcher! you don't mean to say you are goin' to leave us without
sayin' goodby? We can't spare you, really."

Fletcher tried to shake himself free from the Yankee's detaining grasp.

"Let me alone, you scarecrow!" he exclaimed fiercely.

"Thank you for the compliment, Fletcher," said Obed. "I aint so han'some
as you are, that's a fact, but I guess I'm a good deal better."

As he spoke his grip became stronger, and Fletcher found his efforts to
escape absolutely futile.

"I should like to choke you," he said fiercely.

"I've no doubt you would, Fletcher. It would be a nice amusement for
you, but I'm not quite ready for the operation just yet. When I am I'll
let you know."

"But for you, I would have got away," said Fletcher, in bitter
disappointment.

"I guess you would. It's lucky I opened my eyes in time. There'd have
been mournin' in this camp if you'd got away, Fletcher. You're wastin'
yourself in the woods. You're fitted to adorn Melbourne society, and it
won't be my fault if you don't arrive there."

At that moment Captain Forbush awoke.

"What's happened?" he asked anxiously.

"One of our friends was takin' French leave, that's all," said Obed. "I
woke just in time to persuade him to stay a little longer."

"Ha! so Fletcher was trying to escape, was he? I am indebted to you, Mr.
Stackpole, for frustrating his plan. We can't spare him at all events. I
would rather lose any two of his companions."

"You see, Fletcher, how much we value your society," said Obed. "It was
cruel in you to leave us."

"You're a fool!" exclaimed Fletcher, darting a look of hate at Obed.

"You never did appreciate me, Fletcher. All I want is your good."

Fletcher was secured in such a way that escape was no longer possible.
In due time he and his comrades reached Melbourne as captives, and were
transferred to the civil authorities. It may be well to add here that
they were tried, and sentenced to a prolonged term of imprisonment.
Colson and Ropes fared a little better, their term being only half as
long. They submitted sullenly to their fate, but singularly seemed more
embittered against Obed Stackpole than against any of the officers
through whose hands they passed. Obed would have fared badly had he
fallen unprotected into their hands.

It was a joyful day for our young hero, as well as his three companions,
when they saw rising before them the roofs and spires of Melbourne.
During the weeks that had elapsed since their departure, they had not
only "roughed it," but they had met with a series of adventures which
were pleasanter to remember than to pass through. Twice they had been
captives, but each time they had been providentially rescued. Harry felt
that God had watched over him, and delivered him from danger and the
schemes of wicked men, and his confidence and trust in an Overruling
Power were stronger than ever.

It was some days before they secured the money resulting from the
disposal of the nugget. When the matter was finally arranged, they found
themselves in possession of about sixteen thousand dollars. This
included the sum realized from the sale of the mining claim.

"That gives us about five thousand three hundred dollars apiece," said
Harry, after a brief calculation.

"I can't believe it," said Jack, who really seemed bewildered by his
good fortune. "Why, it's wonderful!"

"So it is, Jack. I dare say you are the richest young sailor of your age
in the world."

"I don't know about that, but I feel as rich as a Vanderbilt."

"When does the next steamer start, Obed?"

"In four days. Can you be ready in that time?"

"I would get ready to start to-morrow if necessary."

"So would I. Melbourne is a nice city, but I'd rather be on dad's farm,
eatin' supper in the old kitchen, than in the best hotel here."

"After all, there's no place like home, Obed."

"That's a fact, but perhaps Jack doesn't feel so."

"My home isn't what it was once," said Jack soberly. "If mother hadn't
married again it would have been different, but I never can like or
respect my step-father."

"There's one place you ought to visit before you start for home, Harry,"
suggested Obed.

"I mean to see the city pretty thoroughly before I go, as I don't
imagine I shall ever come this way again."

"That's all right, but it isn't what I mean."

"What then?"

"Do you remember the old gentleman you saved from a ruffian the night
before you started for the mines?"

"Mr. Woolson, yes."

"You ought to call, you and Jack."

"I'll go this morning. Will you come too, Jack?"

"I'll go with you anywhere, Harry," said the young sailor, whose
affection and admiration for Harry were very strong.

About ten o'clock the boys entered the office of Mr. Woolson. It was
situated in one of the handsomest blocks in Little Collins Street, and
they learned that he was a wholesale merchant and importer.

"Is Mr. Woolson in?" Harry asked of a clerk.

"He is in the inner office. Have you business with him?"

"Yes."

Admitted into the inner office, the boys saw the old gentleman seated at
a large desk with a pile of papers and letters before him. They were by
no means certain that he would recognize them, but he did so instantly.

"I am glad to see you, my young friends," he said, rising and shaking
hands with them. "I have thought of you often, and of the great service
you did me. Have you just returned from the mines?"

"Yes, sir."

"I hope you have had good luck."

"Wonderful luck. Jack and I are worth over five thousand dollars
apiece."

"Bless my soul! Why it only seems a week since you went away."

"It is nearly three months, and seems longer to us, for we have passed
through a great deal."

"I shall be glad to hear a full account, but I have not time in business
hours. Will you do me the favor to dine with me at my house to-night and
spend the evening?"

"With pleasure, sir."

"Then I shall expect you. The hour is six o'clock sharp."

The boys met the engagement, and passed the time most agreeably. Jack
felt a little bashful, for Mr. Woolson lived in fine style, and Jack was
not used to an elegant house or table.

When the cloth was removed, Mr. Woolson asked the boys their plans.

"We intend to sail for New York next Saturday," said Harry. "That is as
far as we have got."

"If you were willing to stay in Melbourne, I would give you a place in
my counting-room."

"Thank you, sir, but I prefer to live in America."

"Then I will give you a letter to my nephew and business correspondent
in New York. He will further any business views you may have."

"Thank you, sir."

"And I will do the same for your friend, if he desires."

"Thank you, sir," said Jack, "but I mean to keep on as a sailor; I hope
some day to be a captain."

"I will give you a place on one of our ships, and you shall be promoted
as rapidly as you are qualified to rise."

Jack looked gratified, for he knew the value of so powerful a friend.

Late in the evening the boys took leave of the hospitable merchant, and
three days afterward they embarked for New York.




CHAPTER XXXV.

SOME OLD ACQUAINTANCES.

We will now return to America, and for the benefit of those readers who
are not familiar with Harry's early adventures, as narrated in the story
of "Facing the World," I will give a brief account of his story before
setting out on the voyage to Australia.

Left an orphan, with a scanty patrimony amounting to three hundred
dollars, Harry left it all in the hands of his father's friend, Mr.
Benjamin Howard of Ferguson, and set out, not in quest of a fortune, but
of a livelihood. He had been recommended by his father to seek a cousin
of his, John Fox of Colebrook, and place himself under his guardianship.
He visited Mr. Fox, but found him so mean and grasping that he left him
after a brief stay, preparing to face the world without assistance. Mr.
Fox, who had two children, Joel and Sally, was greatly disappointed, as
he bad hoped to get control of the boy's slender property, and convert
it to his own use. He pursued Harry, but was unable to overtake and
capture him.

Months passed, and John Fox heard nothing of his wandering relative.

One day, however, he came home triumphant.

"Well, Maria," he said, addressing his wife, "I've heard of Harry
Vane."

"You don't say!" ejaculated Joel, his face screwed up into an expression
