command of Lieutenant Ripley did not essentially differ from such a
force.




CHAPTER XIII

A NIGHT IN A JAIL AT JAMESTOWN


Lieutenant Ripley returned from the conference with the riflemen, and
reported that thirty of them were willing to enlist in such an
organization as that proposed; the others were unable to reply until
they had been home to their families. The lieutenant was confident that
he could raise the sixty proposed as a beginning within a reasonable
time, and the colonel had a similar confidence in the patriotism of the
loyal Kentuckians in that part of the State.

The men had finished their dinners, the prisoners had been paroled with
the approval of Major Lyon, who was beginning to be in a hurry to march
back to Jamestown as soon as the first company had rested from the hard
work of the day; and there had been much more of it than could be
indicated in the narrative of the principal events.

"I am sorry that we cannot take with us even a small company of those
riflemen, for I think they would be very useful in the course of a few
days," said Captain Gordon, after the major had given the order to form
the column for the march. "It is plain to everybody who knows anything
about the movements of the army that there will be a battle within a
week."

This statement seemed to fire the enthusiasm of the old lieutenant of
the Home Guards, and he talked apart with Colonel Halliburn very
earnestly for some time. Then he went over to the riflemen, who had
mounted their horses in readiness to return to their homes. He appeared
to have proposed something to them, and in a few minutes he hastened
back to the group of officers.

"Thirty-six of the riflemen desire to go with you as temporary
volunteers for immediate service," said Ripley. "Will you accept them,
Major Lyon?"

"I will, though I cannot take them as a part of my squadron, for our
ranks are now very full," replied the commander.

"I meant to have them go as an addition to your force, to be under your
command," replied the lieutenant.

"Of course there can be no objection to your going with us in this
manner, and you will bring up the rear of my command," added Major
Lyon, as the orderly sergeants reported that the companies were formed.

The officers took their proper places, and the order to march was given
to the captains. Life Knox and Milton were again ordered to scout the
road and its adjacent fields in advance. The wagons were ready to fall
in behind the riflemen, and the column moved. The company officers kept
in their places, but the major went where he pleased along the line.
When the column reached the foot of the hill, he fell back to the
second platoon of the first company, where Deck was riding on the left
of the first section.

"I was so busy that I neglected to ask the names of the men who were
killed in the action where you met the enemy on the road from
Columbia," said the major, as he wheeled his horse, and took his place
by the side of his son.

Deck had noticed that he had asked no questions when the report of the
killed was given to him; for something had called his attention away
from the subject at that moment. The lieutenant was glad to escape the
necessity in that presence of informing his father of the death of his
cousin; for this was a family matter, aside from military routine.

"I was glad you did not ask that question then," added Deck.

"I understand you, Dexter; for when I saw Sandy in the ranks I looked
for Orly Lyon; but I did not see him. Was he badly wounded?" inquired
the commander.

"Worse than that, for he was killed in the action. He fought bravely,
and he always did his duty faithfully; for, however it was with his
father and his brother, Orly's heart was in the work," replied Deck
with no little feeling.

The major was silent for a moment. It was evident that he was moved by
the news, though he always controlled himself; for the fact that his
two sons and two nephews were liable at any time to be struck down in
their youth was present to his mind when he had time to think of such
things. Orly was only sixteen, and he was the first of either his own
or his brother's family to pass over to the other shore.

"I am more sorry for his father and mother than for him; for he died in
defence of his country, and that is the death of the hero and patriot.
It will be a heavy blow to his poor mother; and, unlike her husband,
her heart was on the right side. She told me when her boys enlisted in
the Home Guard, a Secessionist body, that it broke her heart to have
her sons fight with the enemies of her country, but that she could be
even willing to have them sacrificed on the right side."

"Do you know where Uncle Titus is now, father?" asked Deck.

"He is in a prison-camp, the name of which I have in my valise in one
of the wagons. I shall write to him as soon as I have time, and to your
Aunt Meely."

In another hour the head of the column arrived in the midst of a
pouring rain at Jamestown, which is the capital of Russell County. It
was the 17th of January. It had been clear in the morning; but the rain
began to fall not a quarter of an hour before the column reached the
town. It was almost a deluge, and it was likely to continue into the
night. The Secessionist element was predominant in the place; but the
major took forcible possession of a number of buildings which would
afford shelter to his troopers and their horses.

He found several Unionists, who gave him all the information he needed
in regard to buildings, and he put some who attempted to prevent him
from occupying the buildings under arrest. The county prison was one of
the structures occupied; and the prisoners were confined in it, with
troopers enough lodging there to keep them in order.

"You'll catch fits when you fall in with Old Zollicoffer," said one of
the prisoners, as Life Knox, who was in charge of the jail, locked him
into the cell with half a dozen others.

"We uns 'll be very glad to see Old Zolly, and I reckon we shall pay
him a visit afore many days," replied the sergeant.

"If you do, you uns 'll git wiped out," added the man.

"Mebbe we shall do the wiping," said Life, as the keeper of the prison
came up to him.

"I reckon I needn't stop here no longer," said he. "But I'll show you a
room before I go, where you can sleep in a bed. It's where I sleep,
though I hain't got no prisoners in the jug just now. There ain't much
civil law afloat around here; and a Secesh man can kill a Union man,
and nothing said about it."

"I'm much obleeged to you; and I consayt that you ain't much of a
Secesh yourself," answered Life, as his conductor unlocked a door near
the entrance to the jail.

"I reckon I ain't," replied the keeper as he led the way into the room
and closed the door after him; "but it don't do for me to say much
about it here. Them fellers you brought in here would hang me to the
first tree they found if they knowed it."

The apartment was not a cell. It contained a bed and some furniture,
and the sergeant thought he could be very comfortable in it till
morning.

"Which way did your troopers come from, Sergeant?" asked the keeper.

"From the west. We left Millersville this morning," answered Life.

"We had a company of Cornfeds in town last night, and they started for
Millersville this mornin'. I reckon you hain't seen nothin' on 'em,
have you?" continued the keeper, as he seated himself on the bed while
the sergeant occupied the only chair in the room.

"Cornfeds is good," laughed Life; "but I cal'late they don't get much
of that sort of feed just now."

"Then I reckon you hain't seen 'em."

"I reckon that we uns have seen 'em; and I reckon them Cornfeds wish
just now that we hadn't seen 'em."

"Did you meet 'em?"

"I'll bet we did, about five miles from here; and about one-third on
'em got killed before they surrendered."

"Surrendered!" exclaimed the keeper. "I thought, when I heerd 'em talk,
that no Cornfeds ever did anything o' that sort."

"They got badly chawed up, and they couldn't help theirselves; that's
the whole on't. Is there any news floatin' about round here?" asked
Life.

"I reckon there is, lots on't. If Thomas ain't already camped round
here somewhere, he ain't fur off. They say he's waiting for some
general's brigade to jine 'im afore he goes for Old Zolly's
entrenchments," replied the keeper, whose name was Butters, as the
sergeant learned from him later.

"I reckon our major will find out where he is," added Life.

"This town is about fifteen miles from Mill Springs; and I consayt that
there will be a bigger battle than we have had in these parts, or
anywhere in the State, before long. General Thomas is sent down here to
clean out Old Zolly, and I reckon he'll do it," replied Butters. "I
wish I could have a hand in it."

"So you kin if you are so minded. You don't seem to have nothin' to do
here now. Ever been in the mili'try?"

"No; but I kin shoot a rifle nigh on to as good as old Ripley over to
Millersville, and he can beat any other man at it in Kaintuck."

"Ripley is here with a party of his riflemen, and I cal'late he'll take
you into his company if you want to go."

"Where is he now? I'd like to see him, for I've often been over to his
place to shoot with him," said Butters.

"He bunks in the jail with some of his company."

"I know a dozen others here who are in the same boat with me; and two
more on us were hanged a month ago for shooting a Cornfed sergeant for
killing two good Union men."

"I'll find Ripley for you," said Life, as he left the room, intent upon
adding more men to the loyal army.

He went through the jail, calling the name of the lieutenant till he
found him, and then conducted him to the room of the keeper. Ripley
gave his hand to Butters, and was very glad to see him. The bed was
wide enough for two, and Life invited the lieutenant to sleep with him.

"No; I reckon I'll take Lieutenant Ripley up to my house, for he's an
old friend of mine," interposed Butters; "and he's the only man that
can ever beat me shootin' with a rifle. I'm ready to jine for this
campaign under him."

"I have thirty-six men now, serving for a short time till we get things
settled, and I should like enough to make up a hundred," replied
Ripley, as he left the prison with Butters.

He had not been gone ten minutes before Lieutenant Lyon came in. The
sentinel on duty showed him Life's room. The visitor was wet to his
bones, as the French say; for he had been looking up some Union men his
father wished to see, and he had brought them to the hotel where the
officers were quartered. One of them was a captain, and another was his
host in the town; and the major had been directed to report to the
former.

Deck had been sent out to find him; for it was reported that he was in
Jamestown, and not in Harrison, where he had expected to find him, but
had not. His room had been taken from him for this officer, as he was
the lowest in rank of any commissioned officer. His father had sent
him out with directions to take a couple of men from the quarters of
Lieutenant Belthorpe, who was the officer of the day, and find a room
where he could in the town. But he knew that Life Knox was in command
at the jail, and he preferred to go there.

"You are wet to the skin, Leftenant!" exclaimed the sergeant, as he
admitted him to the room.

"Not the first time I have been so since we left Riverlawn," replied
Deck. "You have got a good room here, Life."

"Good enough; but I cal'late to camp on the floor, and give this bed to
you, Leftenant."

"Not at all, Life; the bed is big enough for both of us. I am not
afraid to sleep with you, if you are not with me."

"'Tain't quite reg'lar; but it's just as you say, Leftenant."

There was a fireplace in the room, and a pile of wood in the corner;
and the sergeant went to work at once to build a fire to dry his
officer. There was plenty of light wood, full of pitch, in the pile;
and in a few minutes a roaring fire was blazing on the hearth. Without
asking any questions he proceeded to remove Deck's coat, and assisted
him to take off the rest of his clothes, which had not been done before
except when he took his baths in the streams.

"Now jump into bed, Leftenant; give me your shirt, and I will dry the
whole of your duds. The room is warm now."

Deck had been so chilled by the rain that he was glad to comply with
the sergeant's requests. Life placed the nether garments on the chair
before the fire, and then moved up a light table, stretching his sabre
from one to the other to form a clothes-horse. At midnight he waked his
officer to have him put on the dry shirt, for Deck in the bed had slept
like a tired boy. After a look through the corridors of the prison,
Life went to bed himself.




CHAPTER XIV

THE AIDE-DE-CAMP OF THE GENERAL


When Life Knox left his bed at an early hour on the morning of the
18th, Deck was still sleeping, for no bugle had sounded to wake him.
The rain was still pouring in torrents when the sergeant looked out of
the window; and it was not probable that any military movements would
be made that day. Breakfast was served as usual, the cooks having taken
possession of an old tobacco dry-house the night before.

About nine o'clock, after Deck had gone to the hotel where the officers
were quartered, Butters, Lieutenant Ripley, and about twenty more,
marched into the jail. The keeper had been riding nearly all night, and
had secured this number of riflemen, though he had been obliged to seek
them, in part, miles distant from the town. They came with rifles and
belts, with powder and ball in horns and pouches, as those from
Millersville had appeared. They were ready for duty, and Butters
declared that every one of them could shoot very well with the rifles
they had used in their practice.

They were introduced by Lieutenant Ripley to the members of his command
lodged in the building, and they fraternized like brothers; for the
ability to use the rifle with skill and precision seemed to be the bond
which united them. The lieutenant of the sharpshooters now had
fifty-six men in his company. When Captain Gordon called at the prison,
he promoted Ripley to the rank of captain, and made Butters, who was
the second-best shot in the corps, lieutenant, though he could not give
them commissions. They were then marched to the tobacco dry-house, only
a small portion of which the cooks used, and drilled by the new
captain.

At the hotel, Major Lyon and Captain Woodbine, an aide-de-camp of the
commanding general, who had been sent to Harrison on account of his
intimate knowledge of this locality, and was a man of influence in a
neighboring county, were discussing the situation. Deck had found him,
after no little difficulty, at the house of one of his friends, and
reported to him the arrival of the Riverlawn Cavalry, re-enforced by a
company of volunteer sharpshooters from Adair County, under the command
of Captain Ripley.

"Ripley is an old man, isn't he?" asked Captain Woodbine.

"Sixty, I heard some one say, Captain; but I can assure you he is a
very able officer," replied Deck.

"I dare say he is, for I know him well. Now will you introduce
yourself, Lieutenant?" said the aide-de-camp with a smile, as he looked
over the wet form of the visitor.

"My name is Dexter Lyon, Captain."

"Any relation to the commander of your squadron?"

"His son; but I was promoted from the ranks on the petition of every
member of the first company, and all the officers of the squadron
except my father," replied Deck; and there was a blush on his wet
cheeks, for he feared that the military official would conclude that he
had been raised to his present rank by the influence of his father.

"A very commendable delicacy on the part of Major Lyon, but not always
manifested in such cases," added the captain. "I heard that one company
of Major Lyon's squadron had arrived at Harrison, and that the other
was coming by the way of Jamestown. Your company was late, and the
major went in search of it."

"We had several skirmishes with guerillas and foraging parties of the
enemy, which delayed us."

"Tell me about them," added Captain Woodbine, whose curiosity was
aroused; and he kept his eyes very steadily on the young lieutenant.

As modestly as he could, he related the events on the march of the
first company, taking care to call his command the "second platoon."
The affair at the house of Mr. Halliburn was mentioned; and the manner
in which the guerillas had been bagged excited the attention of the
officer, and he asked then who commanded the second platoon.

"I did, Captain," replied Deck, looking on the floor of the parlor.

"It was very adroitly done, and you exhibited very good strategy." Deck
bowed, and went on with his narrative. The fight in the road was then
mentioned, with its result only.

"This was the same force that captured the brigands, and brought them
as prisoners down to the road, was it?"

"The same, Captain."

"And you commanded it in the action that followed?"

"I did, Captain," replied Deck, looking at the ceiling of the room.

The battle of that day on the hill was then described; but in this
narration he contrived to keep himself in the shade. He gave the most
of the credit for the victory to the riflemen in the woods, though he
did not omit to credit Captain Gordon for his plan of battle.

"Where are these sharpshooters now? They appear to have been a very
useful body of men," inquired the aide-de-camp.

"Part of them returned to Millersville, where they belong, though
thirty-six of them have volunteered to go with us for the present
campaign, under the command of Captain Ripley."

"I must see Ripley," mused the official.

"He is at the jail with his men, or he went there with them," added
Deck.

"Our carriage is ready," said Captain Woodbine; "and there is room
enough in it for you."

It was a covered road-wagon, and Deck judged that the captain had
talked with him to pass away the time while he was waiting for the
conveyance. They were driven first to the hotel.

"I have heard a great deal about the Riverlawn Cavalry, as you call
them, though its two companies belong to the first cavalry regiment,"
said the captain when they were seated in the vehicle.

"Our men like the name," added the young lieutenant.

"They have rendered most excellent service under that name; and there
is nothing to prevent them from retaining it, especially while they are
on detached service."

Captain Woodbine was conducted by Major Lyon to the parlor occupied by
the officers, where he was presented to them, after which the major,
who was disposed to keep his affairs to himself, invited the
aide-de-camp to go with him to his room, where he had ordered a fire.

"Lieutenant Lyon, you must excuse me for questioning you so much this
evening; but I wanted to know more about you, for I think we shall have
use for you," said the captain, as he took the hand of Deck, and drew
him aside.

"I was very glad to give you the information you desired," replied
Deck, as the visitor followed his father.

"I have to report the arrival of my command, and it is my purpose to
move on to Harrison to-morrow," said the major as they entered the
room.

"You need not do that, for your command is nearer now where you will be
wanted than you would be at Harrison," added the captain as he and the
major seated themselves at a table before the fire. "I waited for you
till the time you were expected to arrive."

"I was ordered to look out for foragers and guerillas on my way; and I
was detained some time near Liberty, in driving off a party of
marauders, and I was a few hours late. My first company, which had the
shorter route, had not arrived, and I marched in search of it," Major
Lyon explained. "I found it about five miles from this town, delayed by
several skirmishes with the enemy."

"Your son told me all about them while we were waiting for the vehicle;
and he certainly distinguished himself, both by his management of the
affair with the guerillas, and by his bravery in the action with the
enemy's cavalry," said Captain Woodbine.

"He did very well," replied the major, proud of the good conduct of
Deck, though he was not inclined to praise him, preferring to leave
that to others. "I suppose the army which is to operate under General
Thomas is somewhere in this vicinity."

"A portion of it is at Logan's Cross Roads, as it is called;" and he
pointed out the locality on the major's map, which was spread out on
the table.

He indicated several other places where bodies of Union troops were, or
were supposed to be, located. They had been detained by the almost
impassable condition of the roads.

"But the general will attack the enemy in his intrenchments as soon as
he can concentrate a sufficient force for the purpose. This heavy rain,
I fear, will delay the advance of the troops in the rear; for it will
render the streams, especially Fishing Creek, impassable for the
baggage-trains."

"It does not usually rain as it does now for any great length of time?"
suggested Major Lyon.

"I have known such a rain to continue for several days; for I live over
in Whitley County, in the mountains, about thirty-five miles east of
Mill Springs."

"The mountains catch the clouds, and empty them, as they move from the
east or the west," added the major.

"We have plenty of rain at this season of the year. I have heard all
about the Riverlawn Cavalry, as your son says you prefer to call it. I
met Colonel Cosgrove at Louisville, and he gave me a full account of
what he called the Battle of Riverlawn. Of your fights with the Texan
Rangers at the railroad bridge, Munfordsville, and at Greeltop and
Plain Hill, I have read your reports. Without mentioning the nature of
the service that will be required of you, I will say that, at my
suggestion, the general has important duty for you, Major."

"Of course I am ready to obey the orders that come to me," replied the
commander.

For several hours longer Captain Woodbine described the topography of
the region in three counties, which he thought it very necessary for
him to understand.

"In our engagement with a full company of Tennessee cavalry, our first
company was aided by the Home Guard of Millersville; and the riflemen
of this body rendered very essential service as sharpshooters stationed
in the woods. These men volunteered to serve in this campaign, and we
have them with us. I hope I shall be permitted to make use of them.
They are well mounted, and every one of them is a dead shot. Captain
Gordon, commanding our first company, suggested the idea of organizing
a force of mounted riflemen, and a considerable number of them
volunteered, and came to Jamestown with us."

"They are simply volunteers under your command; and no application need
be made at headquarters to use them, and you can do so, Major," replied
the captain, who was understood as speaking for the commanding general;
and it was evident that he had influence with him.

At the stroke of midnight both of the gentlemen retired. When they
looked out of the window in the morning it was still raining; and it
was plain to them that no great progress could be made in military
movements while the country was inundated, as it appeared to be from
the hotel.

In the forenoon Captain Woodbine visited the companies, and looked over
the men; for he plainly depended upon the squadron for particular
service. He went to the jail and to the dry-house to see the riflemen
who were drilling there under the eye of Captain Ripley and several
sergeants from the companies.

Military movements on the eve of battle are not ordinarily impeded by
rain, for the soldiers march and fight in spite of the weather; but
when the flow of water is sufficient to inundate the country, the
situation sometimes compels a suspension of activity, owing to the
difficulty or impossibility of moving wagons and artillery. But at this
time General Thomas was awaiting the arrival of the regiments from
points farther north of his camp at Logan's Cross Roads, and nothing
could be done for this reason. But on the 18th the rain ceased; and on
the next day, which was Saturday, General Schoepf's brigade, a portion
of which had been sent forward before, arrived towards night, and was
placed in position.

That evening Captain Woodbine, who had been with the general in command
all day, called upon Major Lyon, and directed him to have his squadron,
with its volunteer riflemen, in column on the Millersville Road at
daylight in the morning of Sunday, for a reconnaissance in the
direction of the enemy's intrenched camp at Beech Grove. The major
reported that the rifle volunteers had been re-enforced to fifty-six
men by the efforts of Butters the jailer.

The commander of the squadron promptly issued his orders to his
officers to have his men ready to move at four o'clock Sunday morning.




CHAPTER XV

THE ATTEMPTED ESCAPE OF A WAGON-TRAIN


The details of the battle of Mill Springs, as it was generally called
when the accounts of it were published at the time, or, more properly,
Logan's Cross Roads, as General Thomas called it in his report to the
chief of staff of the Department of the Ohio, are too voluminous to be
given at length; and they have been published so many times in various
works that it is unnecessary to repeat them. Only such parts as relate
to the career of the "lieutenant at eighteen" will be introduced,
though incidentally some of the movements of the army will be included.

The general in his report says: "I reached Logan's Cross Roads, about
ten miles north of the intrenched camp of the enemy, on the Cumberland
River, on the 17th instant." On the night of his arrival he sent a
messenger to Colonel Stedman's camp, ordering him to send forward a
long train of wagons, that had halted in the road from the river, under
a strong guard, and himself to attack the enemy where they were
reported to be.

This train had not arrived at the headquarters of the general; but the
reason for its non-arrival was apparent, for the rain had begun to fall
in torrents on the afternoon of the 17th, and had continued to pour
down for two days. The road was inundated, and the creeks were
impassable. On Saturday morning at an early hour the pickets of
Wolford's cavalry encountered the enemy advancing upon the Union
forces. The Confederates were held in check until General Thomas could
order a force forward adequate to give them battle. This was the
beginning of the battle of Mill Springs.

The general's camp was on the left of the pike from the river. The
Fourth Kentucky, Second Minnesota, and Ninth Ohio were sent forward to
hold the enemy, and took positions near Logan's house, while Wetmore's
Battery was placed near the Somerset Road. The Confederates advanced on
the other side, almost to this road. Three regiments and a battery had
moved forward to the north side of a fence which extended east and west
on both sides of the pike.

General Crittenden, commanding the army, with his staff, had a position
just south of this fence, though Zollicoffer led the attacking
brigades. General Thomas immediately ordered an advance of his whole
force, and the fighting became general. It was a long and severe
battle, with alternate repulses and advances on both sides. The enemy
finally retreated to their intrenchments, ten miles distant, but did
not reach their works till after dark. As the enemy were marching to
the attack, the wagon-train had been discovered mired in a field to
which its escort had been driven by the unexpected approach of the
Confederates.

It was a long train, and must be loaded with provisions, forage, and
ammunition. The famished Southern soldiers, who had nothing but dry
bread, and that in small quantities, cast longing eyes at the mired
wagons; and a company of Tennessee cavalry was sent to capture them.
They were about a mile distant, and were moving a rod or two, in fits
and starts, at a time, towards the Jamestown Road, with the escort at
the wheels lifting them out of the soft soil. The guard was commanded
by a Minnesota lieutenant; and he had kept pickets out in the rear, who
had given him early notice of the approach of the enemy.

If the train continued on the pike, it was sure to be captured; but the
officer in command determined to make the attempt to escape with his
wagons, and with infinite labor and exertion he had made a mile on his
way to the road. He was certainly a plucky fellow; but he could not
fight a whole brigade of infantry with two companies of cavalry. He
had, therefore, taken his chance of reaching the Jamestown Road, and
fortunately he had posted himself on the roads and distances of the
locality.

The Riverlawn Cavalry, with its riflemen, were in the road some time
before Captain Woodbine, mounted on a magnificent steed, arrived at the
place of rendezvous. The company were at ease, and the aide-de-camp of
the general rode directly to the head of the column and saluted the
major.

"I may say now that this was to be a reconnaissance in force, though
your command is all the general can send for the purpose," said the
captain. "But I have heard of the advance of the enemy, and it may not
be necessary to feel of them; so you may send out the platoon under the
command of Lieutenant Lyon, in whom the captain appears to have
unlimited confidence, by a road I will point out to you, to reconnoitre
in the direction of the pike, on which and the road to Somerset the
general is encamped."

"Do you expect this force will find an enemy in that direction?" asked
the major.

"I do not, though it is possible. That heavy baggage-train must have
moved to the north by the pike, if it has not been captured before this
time. If Lieutenant Lyon should discover the escort, he will re-enforce
it, sending back a messenger to you, Major. If not too late, it is of
vital importance that this train be saved, for the general says it has
rations enough in its wagons to feed the Confederate army for a week at
least," replied the captain.

"How far is it to the pike?" inquired the major.

"It is about five miles; and till the platoon comes to a piece of wood,
the lieutenant will have a tolerable road, and through the forest,
which is over a half a mile across."

"How far is it to the woods?"

"Two miles, more or less. You had better send two scouts out in advance
of the platoon, and do so at once," added the captain; and the major
regarded his requests as orders coming directly from the general.

"Send Sergeant Knox and Private Milton to me," said Major Lyon, at the
suggestion of Captain Gordon, to Artie, his orderly. "I think Milton
knows all about the country in this vicinity."

"So much the better," replied the aide-de-camp, as the two scouts
saluted the major. "Milton, are you acquainted about here?"

"As well as in the dooryard of my father's house in Miltonville. I have
been to Fishing Creek as man and boy, and fished it for its whole
length," replied the new recruit.

"Do you know the road across the country to the Danville Pike? It is
nothing but a by-path to the woods."

"I know it very well, for I have ridden my horse over it fifty times,"
answered Milton.

"He will do, Major. Send them off at once."

"Excuse me for a suggestion. I think Lieutenant Lyon will do better if
he has about half of our riflemen with him," interposed Captain Gordon,
when the two scouts had galloped up the road on their mission.

"That is a good idea," added the captain.

"Rather too many men for a young man to command," said Deck's father,
shaking his head.

"He is the best officer in the squadron for this duty," persisted the
captain of the first company.

Major Lyon yielded the point, for the aide-de-camp had practically
ordered Deck to the command of the expedition. The lieutenant marched
his platoon ahead of the column, while Captain Ripley detailed thirty
of his men, under the command of Lieutenant Butters, to which position
the jailer had been elected by the company. Life Knox galloped
furiously in advance of Milton for half a mile, till the latter called
to him to halt.

"Here is the road across the country," shouted the recruit.

There was a fence across the entrance, which Milton removed without
dismounting, for it consisted of only two rails, within his reach. Life
rode through the opening, and started his horse into a gallop again.
The subsoil was of gravel, with a thin coating of loam on it, not more
than three inches deep, so that the animals had a good footing.

"Are we uns in a hurry?" asked Life, turning his head back to see his
fellow scout.

