the parent. The latter suffers tenfold more than if she, day by day,
inculcated the line-upon-line, protest-upon-protest system. That she
does not do this is sometimes due to mistaken kindness, but oftener to
self-indulgence or dread of disagreeable scenes, that brings a harvest
of misery as surely as he who sows the wind will reap the whirlwind.

A spoiled child is an undutiful child. This must be true. The constant
humoring and considering of one's whims will, in course of time,
produce a stunted, warped and essentially selfish character, that
considers the claims of gratitude and affection as nil compared with
the furtherance of personal aims and desires. Never having learned
self-control or obedience, parents and their timid remonstrances must
go to the wall before the passions or longings which these same
parents in days gone by have fostered. "Only mother" or "nobody but
father" are phrases that are so frequent as to become habitual, while
the "you yourself used to let me do this or that" is the burden of
many an excuse for misdemeanors. And after all the years of parental
indulgence, what is your reward? The spring is gone from your own
being, while your children will not let you live your life over again
in theirs.

We all recall Ã†sop's fable of the young man about to be executed, who
begged on the scaffold for a last word with his mother, and when the
wish was granted, stooped to her and bit off the tip of her ear, that
the pain and disfigurement might serve as a constant reminder of the
hatred he felt for the over-indulgence and lack of discipline which
had brought him to this shameful death. The hurt which the mother's
heart feels at the thought of causing her child's downfall is pain too
great to be endured.

The letting-alone principle is a short-sighted one. Even in infancy a
spoiled child may make such a nuisance of himself as to produce a
disagreeable impression upon all who know him,--an impression which it
takes many years of model behavior to eradicate. It is actual cruelty
to throw upon the child the work the parent should have performed. It
is easy to train the growing plant, but after the bark is tough and
the fibre strong it is a terrible strain upon grain and vitality to
bend it in a direction to which it is unaccustomed.

Much of the insubordination to be found in the children of the present
day is due to the growing habit of entrusting the little ones to
servants whose own wills and tempers are uncontrolled and untrained. A
child knows that his nurse has no right to insist upon obedience, and
he takes advantage of the knowledge until he is a small tyrant who is
conscious of no law beyond that of his own inclinations.

The prime rule in the training of children should be implicit
obedience. The child is happier for knowing that when a command or
prohibition is stated there is no appeal from the sentence, and that
coaxing avails naught. Uncertainty is as trying to small men and women
as to us who are more advanced in the school of life.

So much depends upon this great principle of obedience, that it is
marvelous that parents ever disregard it. I have known in my own
experience three cases in which it was impossible to make a child take
medicine, and death has followed in consequence. One of the most
painful recollections I have is of seeing a child six years old forced
to swallow a febrifuge that was not unpalatable in itself. The mother,
father, and nurse held the struggling boy, while the physician pried
open the set teeth and poured the liquid down his throat. Under these
circumstances it is probable that the remedy proved worse than the
disease.

I have not space to do more than touch upon the great influence of
early training on the future life. All my days I have been thankful
for the gentle but firm hand that, as a child, taught me moral
courage, self-denial and submission. The temptations of life have been
more easily resisted, the trials more lightly borne, because of the
years in which I was in training for the race set before me. We do not
want to enter our children on the course as unbroken, "soft" and wild
colts, whose spirits must be crushed before they will submit to the
work assigned them. They may be young, yet strong; spirited, yet
gentle; patient, yet resolute.




CHAPTER XXIV.

GETTING ALONG IN YEARS.


"Does your husband think a full beard becoming to him?" asked I of a
young wife.

Her twenty-three-year-old lord, whose good-looking face had been
adorned and made positively handsome by a sweeping brown moustache,
had, since our last meeting, "raised" an uneven crop of reddish
whiskers that shortened a face somewhat too round, and altogether
vulgarized what had been refined.

"No, indeed! He knows, as I do, that it disfigures him. It is a
business necessity to which he sacrificed vanity. The appearance of
maturity carries weight in the commercial world. His beard adds ten
years to his real age."

Being in an audience collected to hear an eminent clergyman last
summer, I heard an astonished gasp behind me, as the orator arose:

"Why he has shaved off his beard! How like a round oily man of God he
looks!"

"True," said another, "but fifteen years younger. He is getting along
in years, you see, and wants to hide the fact."

The last speaker sat opposite to me at the hotel table that day, and
in discussing the leader of the morning service, repeated the phrase
that had jarred upon my ear.

"It is fatal to a clergyman's popularity and to a woman's hopes to be
suspected of getting along in years."

I told the story of my bearded youth and asked:

"Where then is the safe ground? When is it altogether reputable for
one to declare his real age?"

"Oh, anywhere from thirty to forty-five! Before and after that term
life can hardly be said to be worth the living."

I smiled, as the rattler meant I should. But the words have stayed by
me, the more persistently that observation bears me out in the
suspicion that the merry speaker only uttered the thought of many
others.

"The years of man's life are three-score-and-ten," says the Word of
Him who made man and knew what was in man. The wearer of a body that,
with tolerably good treatment ought to last for seventy years, must
then, according to popular judgment, spend nearly half of that time in
learning how to play his part in the world, barely a fifth in carrying
out God's designs in and for him, and then remain for a quarter of a
century a cumberer of the home and earth. Such waste of strength, time
and accumulated capital would be cried out upon as wretched
mismanagement were the scheme of human devising.

The French proverb that "a woman" (and presumably a man) "is just as
old as she chooses to be," comes so much nearer what I believe was our
Creator's wise and merciful purpose in giving us life, that I turn
thankfully and hopefully to this side of the subject.

The best way to avoid growing old is not to be afraid of getting along
in years. To come down to "hard pan"--whence originates this
unwholesome dread of ripeness and maturity? It surely is not a fear of
death that makes us blanch and shrink back at the oft-recurring
mile-stones in the journey of life that brings all of us nearer the
goal towards which we are bound.

I once heard a young woman say, seriously:

"I hope that when I am forty-five, I may quietly die. I do not dread
death, but I do shudder at the idea of being laid on the shelf."

I do not mean to be severe when I assert that, nine times out of ten,
it is the victim's own fault that she is pushed out of the way, or, as
our slangy youth of to-day put it, "is not in it." It is your business
and mine to be in it, heart, soul, and body, and to keep our places
there by every effort in our power. A fear of that which is high, or
mental or physical inertia, or, to be less euphemistic and more exact,
laziness--should not deter us. This object is not to be accomplished
by adopting juvenile dress and kittenish ways. We should beautify old
age, not accentuate it by artificial means. When your roadster,
advanced in years and woefully stiff in the joints, makes a lame
attempt to imitate a gamboling colt, and feebly elevates his hind
legs, and pretends to shy at a piece of paper in the road, you smile
with contemptuous amusement and say:

"The old fool is in his dotage!"

But if he keeps on steadily to his work, doing the best he can, your
comment is sure to be somewhat after this fashion:

"This is truly a wonderful horse! He is just as good as on the day I
bought him, fifteen years ago!"

Let us determine to face the situation, when it is necessary, calmly
and sensibly. For, unlike the aforesaid horse, we do not expect to be
knocked on the head with a club, or quietly chloroformed out of
existence at a stated period. We would do well to follow our
optimistic principles, and look at the many benefits which, in the
words of the old catechism, "do accompany and flow from" this state.
If you have lived well, fifty is better than thirty, as the
sun-and-frost-kissed (not bitten) Catawba grape is better than the
tiny green sphere of June, and as maturity is nearer perfection than
crude youth. The tedious routine of the life-school, the hours spent
in acquiring knowledge for which you had no immediate use, are past.
The wisdom that must come with time and experience is yours.

Another of the great advantages in being near the top of the mountain
is that you can speak from superior knowledge words of comfort and
encouragement to those beneath you, who are still toiling over the
path you have trod. Such help from you who have "been there," and have
now successfully passed the most trying places, will do more to keep
up others' hearts than many sermons preached by one who knows it all
only in theory.

Since old age is inevitable, do not let us try to pretend that it is
not, and let us never act as if there were any hope of shunning it.
On the other hand, neither should we wish that it were possible for us
to evade it. It is just as much of a God-ordained period as youth, and
we ought to grow old in the manner in which God meant we should. He
meant us to keep heart and soul young by constant occupation and by
unselfish interest in the affairs of others.

I know one woman, past the fifties, who is, the young people declare,
"much more fun than any girl." Their enjoyments are hers, and she
laughs as heartily over their fun, sympathizes as sincerely in their
disappointments, as if she were thirty years younger than she is. In
fact, her sympathy is more genuine, for her age puts her completely
beyond the faintest suspicion of rivalry, and it is easier to tell of
one's defeats and triumphs when the listener is too far along in years
to be jealous or envious.

It should not be necessary for us to call courage into use to
reconcile us to our lost youth. Plain common sense is all that is
requisite. We have gained much on life in the past century. As science
has taught us how to ward off death, so has it instructed us in the
art of preserving youth far beyond middle age. Over my fireplace
hangs a portrait of my grandmother, one of the loveliest women of her
time.

She died at the age of fifty, and in it she wears a mob-cap and an old
woman's gown. For years before her death, she felt that she belonged
to the past generation, did not join in the younger people's
occupations, and claimed her place in the chimney-corner. In her day
the "dead-line" in a man's life was drawn at fifty. Now we know that
to be out of all reason. If the years of a man's life are
three-score-and-ten let us determine to move the dead-line on to
seventy, and claim that we are not old until we have reached that
point. And if, by reason of strength we can hold on to four-score, let
us push it on the ten years farther, and, taking courage, thank God
for this new lease of life.

We do not belong to the past generation, but to the acting, working,
living present. Our juniors are the rising generation, and no one
belongs to the past except those who have laid aside the burden of
life--light to some, wearisome to others--forever. They are the only
ones who have any excuse for stepping out of the ranks. They have done
so by their Captain's order. Let us, who remain, stand bravely in our
places, that we may be present or accounted for when the roll-call
containing our names is read.




CHAPTER XXV.

TRUTH-TELLING.


"Conformity to fact or reality. Exact accordance with that which is,
has been, or shall be."

I looked up Webster's definition of Truth yesterday, after overhearing
a conversation between two girls in the horse-car. They spoke so
loudly that not to hear would have been an impossibility. My attention
was first attracted to them by the name of a friend.

"Did you know of Mr. B.'s illness?" asked the younger and more
pronounced colloquist.

"Yes," responded the other; "I know he has had pneumonia, but I
understand that he is now convalescent."

"Oh, then, you haven't heard the latest!"

The discovery of her companion's ignorance acted upon the girl like
magic. She became vivacious, and beamed with the glow of satisfaction
kindled by the privilege of being the first to relate a morsel of
news.

"Well, my dear! Mamma and I were calling there, and while I was
talking to Miss B., I heard Mrs. B. tell my mother this awful thing.
You know Mr. B.'s sister is a trained nurse (I never did believe in
trained nurses!) and when he was taken so ill they sent for her to
come and take care of him. She got along tolerably well until a few
days ago when the doctor prescribed quinine for Mr. B. By mistake, she
gave him ten grains of morphine."

"What!"

"Yes, my dear, she did! It seems like an immense quantity, but, as I
wanted to be accurate (I always say that accuracy is a Christian
duty), I asked Miss B. how many grains her father took, and she said
'Ten!' Well! the poor victim slept thirty hours, and they were so
frightened that they sent for the doctor. He said that, fortunately,
no harm was done, but that it was an unpardonable piece of
carelessness. They discharged the nurse forthwith. She ought to have
been arrested and punished,--not turned loose upon a confiding
community."

"Yet you say she is his own sister?"

"Yes, indeed! and the family have always been perfectly devoted to
her! But they have sent her to the right-about now. It is too bad! A
family row is such an unfortunate thing. They may be thankful not to
have a murder-case to deal with!"

Strangely enough, I was en route for the house of my friend, Mrs.
B., and as the car, at this juncture, crossed the street on which she
lived, I motioned to the conductor to ring the bell, and alighted
before hearing more of that remarkable tale. Being acquainted with the
whole matter as it actually occurred, I was amused and indignant, as
well as curious, to learn how this girl had received the wretchedly
garbled version of an affair, the facts of which were these:

When Mr. B. was suddenly prostrated by an alarming attack of
pneumonia, his sister, a noble woman who had taken up as her life-work
the duties of a trained nurse in a Boston hospital, was telegraphed
for. As she had a serious case in charge, it was impossible to obey
the summons, and a New York nurse was engaged. Mr. B.'s physician had,
early in his illness, prepared some powders, each containing a minute
portion of morphine, and several had been administered to the patient.
Of late, he had taken five grains of quinine each morning. A few days
before the above mentioned harangue, the doctor ordered the nurse to
double the usual dose of quinine. She, carelessly, or misunderstanding
the directions, gave two of the morphine powders. The dose was not
large enough to cause more serious injury than throwing the patient
into a long and heavy sleep, and frightening his family. The doctor,
who had engaged the nurse, discharged her, as Mr. B. was so far
improved as to need only such care as his wife and daughter could
give him.

My curiosity prompted me to inquire of Mrs. B. and Miss B., without
divulging my motive, the particulars of the call they had received
from the horse-car orator. I learned that Mrs. B. had told the girl's
mother the facts of the case while the two daughters were talking
together. Miss B. said that they, now and then, overheard a few words
of the conversation between the older women, and that her companion
had made several inquiries concerning it. Among others was the query:

"How many grains of the medicine does your father take every day?"

Miss B., supposing she referred to the quinine, answered:

"Five, generally; but on the day of which mamma speaks, ten grains
were prescribed."

And from this scanty amount of rapidly acquired information had grown
the story to which I had been an amazed listener.

"Behold how great a matter a little fire kindleth!"

Yet this girl did not intend to lie. She gleaned scraps of a
conversation, and allowed a vivid imagination to supply the portions
she did not hear. Add to this the love of producing a sensation, which
is an inherent trait of many characters, and behold potent reasons for
seven-tenths of the cases of exaggeration which come to our notice,
romances constructed upon the "impressionist-picture" plan--a thing of
splash and glare and abnormal perspective that vitiates the taste for
symmetry and right coloring.

We all like to be the first to tell a story, and are anxious to relate
it so well that our listeners shall be entertained. That a tale loses
nothing in the telling is an established fact, especially if the
narrator thereof observes a lack of interest on the part of his
listeners. Then the temptation to arouse them to attention becomes
almost irresistible and unconsciously one accepts the maxim at which
we all sneer,--that it is folly to let the truth spoil a good story.
Every day we have occasion to hold our heads, reeling to aching with
conflicting accounts of some one incident, and repeat the question
asked almost nineteen hundred years ago:

"What is truth?"

We hear much of people who are "too frank." These destroyers of the
peace of mind of friend and foe alike pride themselves on the fact
that they are "nothing if not candid," and "always say just what they
think." Be it understood, this is not truthfulness. The utterance of
unnecessary and unkind criticism, however honest, is impertinence,
amounting to insolence.

When your "frank friend(?)" tells you that your gown does not fit,
that you dress your hair in such an unbecoming manner, that your
management of your household is not what it should be, she takes an
unwarrantable liberty. If traced back, the source of these remarks
would be found in a large percentage of instances, in a disagreeable
temper, captious humors, and a spirit that is anything but Christian.
One may be entirely truthful without bestowing gratuitous advice and
admonition.

People differ widely in their notions of veracity, and few would
endorse the technical definition with which this talk begins. Is it
because there is so much intentional falsehood, so much that is not in
"exact accordance with that which is, has been, or shall be," or that
standards of veracity vary with individual disposition, and what may
be classified as social climatic influences? Is it true that in morals
there is no stated, infallible and eternal gauge--"the measure of a
man--that is, of an angel?"

If a lie is something told "with the intention to deceive," as says
the catechism, a nineteenth century Diogenes would have need to search
in a crowd with an electric light in quest of a perfectly truthful
man.

For our comfort and hope be it recorded that there are men and women
who are uniformly veracious, and still courteous, who would not
descend to falsehood or subterfuge, yet who are never guilty of the
rudeness of making untactful speeches.

Were there more of such exceptions to the rule of inconsiderate,
exaggerated and recklessly mendacious talk that wounds ear and heart,
the "society lie" would be no more, and this flimsy excuse for
falsehood would be voted an article too tenuous and threadbare for
use.

Good people, so-called Christians, seldom appreciate what immense
responsibility is theirs in setting the example of telling the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Said an amiable woman to me
a few days ago:

"Mrs. Smith, who is a strict Sabbatarian, asked me yesterday if I had
ever been to a Sunday reception or tea. Now, while I do not generally
approve of them, I do, once in a great while, attend one. But, rather
than shock her by acknowledging the offence I lied out of it. It is
the only course left for the well-bred in such circumstances."

An hour later I saw her punish her child for denying that she had
committed some piece of mischief of which she was guilty. The mother's
excuse to herself probably was that the child told a lie, she, a
"society fib." Perhaps the smaller sinner had no reputation for
breeding to maintain.

The love for drink is not more surely transmitted from father to son
than is the habit of lying. Once begun in a family, it rears itself,
like a hooded snake, all along the line in generation after generation
and appears to be an ineradicable evil. It spreads, too, as specks in
a garnered fruit. We are startled by seeing it in children by the time
they can lisp a lie, and we note in them, with a sickening at heart,
the father's or grandfather's tendency to secretiveness or deceit, or
the mother's penchant for false excuses. We can scarcely bequeath a
greater sorrow to our offspring than to curse them before their birth
with this hereditary taint, which is, perhaps, one of the hardest of
all evils to correct. It may take the form of exaggerated speech, of
courteous or cowardly prevarication, or of downright falsehood, but,
in whatever guise, it is a curse to the owner thereof as well as to
his family. If you are so unfortunate as to have any symptom of it in
your blood, watch your boy or girl from infancy, and try, by all the
arts in your power, fighting against nature itself, even, to prevent
what is bred in the bone from coming out in the flesh.

We children of a larger growth can do much toward the correction of
this blemish in others as in ourselves by close guard over our own
speeches and assertions.

There are no sharper, more intolerant critics than the little ones,
and if they inherit the tendency to insincerity the only way in which
you can avert the much-to-be dreaded sin is by being absolutely
truthful yourself. Cultivate veracity as a virtue, as a grace, as a
vital necessity for the integrity of the soul. Prune excrescences in
the shape of loose statements; if you err in telling a wonderful
story, let it be in cutting down rather than in magnifying. A couple
of ciphers less are better than one too many. It is to be feared that
for many of us this would be a hard, although a wholesome task. The
trail of the serpent is over us all. We yield heedlessly to the
temptation to break promises, and to the habit of giving false reasons
to our children, little thinking that their grave, innocent eyes may
read our souls more clearly than those of older persons who are not so
easily deceived by our tongues. When your child, although a mere baby
in years, once discovers in you exaggeration or untruthfulness, he
remembers it always, and you, from that moment, lose one of the most
precious joys and sacred opportunities of your life--that of inspiring
his entire confidence and trust, and of leading the tiny feet in the
seldom-trodden path of Perfect Truth.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE GOSPEL OF CONVENTIONALITIES.


Young people are proverbially intolerant, so I listened patiently, a
few days since, to the outburst of an impetuous girl-friend.

"Oh," she exclaimed, "we are all such shams!"

"Shams?" I repeated, interrogatively.

"Yes, just that, shams through and through! We, you and I are no
exceptions to the universal rule of, to quote Mark Twain, 'pretending
to be what we ain't.' We are polite and civil when we feel ugly and
cross; while in company we assume a pleasant expression although
inwardly we may be raging. All our appurtenances are make-believes. We
wear our handsome clothes to church and concert, fancying that mankind
may be deceived into the notion that we always look like that. Food
cooked in iron and tin vessels is served in French china and cut
glass. When children sit down to table as ravenously hungry as small
animals, their natural instincts are curbed, and they are compelled to
eat slowly and 'properly.' You see it everywhere and in everything.
The whole plan of modern society, with its manners and usages, is a
system of shams!"

In contradistinction to this unsparing denunciation, I place Harriet
Beecher Stowe's idea of this "system of shams." In "My Wife and I" she
says:

"You see we don't propose to warm our house with a wood fire, but only
to adorn it. It is an altar-fire that we will kindle every evening,
just to light up our room, and show it to advantage. And that is what
I call woman's genius. To make life beautiful; to keep down and out of
sight the hard, dry, prosaic side--and keep up the poetry--that is my
idea of our 'mission.' I think woman ought to be what Hawthorne calls
'The Artist of the Beautiful.'"

Mrs. Stowe is in the right. In this commonplace, fearfully real world,
what would we do without the blessed Gospel of Conventionalities? In
almost every family there is one member, frequently the father of the
household, who, like my young friend, has no patience with
"make-believes" and eyes all innovations with stern disapproval and
distrust. It is pitiful to witness the harmless deceits practiced by
mothers and daughters, the wiles many and varied, by which they strive
to introduce some much-to-be-desired point of table etiquette to which
"Papa is opposed." Sometimes his protest takes the form of a
good-natured laugh and shrug accompanied by the time-battered
observation that "you can't teach an old dog new tricks." More
frequently overtures of this kind are repulsed by the gruff excuse:

"My father and mother never had any of these new-fangled notions and
they got on all right. What was good enough for them is good enough
for me!"

And so paterfamilias continues to take his coffee with, instead of at
the end of, his dinner, eats his vegetables out of little sauce plates
with a spoon, insists that meat, potatoes and salad shall all be
placed upon the table at once, and, if the father and mother than whom
he does not care to rise higher were, in spite of their excellence, of
the lower class, he carries his food to his mouth on the blade of his
knife, and noisily sips tea from his saucer. Evidently he does not
believe in shams, those little conventionalities, nearly all of which
have some excellent cause for existence, although we do not always
pause to examine into their raison d'etre. They may be founded upon
hygienic principles, or on the idea of the greatest good to the
greatest number. Many seemingly slight breaches of etiquette, if
practiced by everyone, would create a state of affairs which even the
most ardent hater of les convenances would deplore. If, for
instance, all men were so entirely a law unto themselves that they
despised the rule which commands a man to resign his chair to a lady,
what would become of us poor women? In crowded rooms we would have the
pleasure of standing still or walking around the masculine members of
the company, who would sit at ease. Were the unmannerly habit of
turning the leaves of a book with the moist thumb or finger indulged
in by all readers, the probabilities are that numberless diseases
would thus be transmitted from one person to another.

It argues an enormous amount of self-conceit in man or woman when he
or she calmly refuses to conform to rules of etiquette. In plain
language, we are none of us in ourselves pur et simple so agreeable
as to be tolerable without the refinement and polish of manners upon
which every "artist of the beautiful" should insist in her own house.
Too many mothers and housekeepers think that "anything will do for
home people." It is our duty to keep ourselves and our children "up"
in "the thing" in table and parlor manners, dress and the etiquette of
visiting, letter-writing, etc. Even among well-born people there are
certain small tokens of good breeding which are too often neglected.
One of these is what a college boy recently described in my hearing as
the "bread-and-butter letter." At my inquiring look he explained that
it was "the note of thanks a fellow writes to his hostess after
having made a visit at her house--don't you know?"

This note should be written as soon as possible after the guest
returns to her home, even if she has been entertained for only a
night. In it she informs her hostess of her safe arrival, and thanks
her for her kind hospitality. A few lines are all that is necessary.

It seems incredible that in decent society anyone should be so little
acquainted with the requirements of the drawing-room as to enter a
lady's parlor, and stop to speak to another person before first
seeking his hostess and paying her his respects. And yet I have seen
men come into a room and stop to chat first with one, then with
another friend, before addressing the entertainer. If, while searching
for the lady of the house in a parlor full of people, a man is
addressed by some acquaintance, he should merely make an apology and
pass on until he has found his hostess. After that he is free to talk
with whom he pleases.

It is to be hoped that when a man commits the rudeness of passing into
a room before a lady instead of giving her the precedence, it is from
forgetfulness. Certainly I have frequently been the amazed witness of
this proceeding. Forgetfulness, too, may be the cause of a man's
tilting back his chair until it sways backward and forward, meantime
burying his hands in the depths of his trousers pockets. But such
thoughtlessness is, in itself, discourtesy. No man or woman has a
right to be absorbed in his or her affairs to the extent of forgetting
what is due to other people.

The tricks of manner and speech contracted by a boy or young man
should be noticed and corrected by mother or sister before they become
confirmed habits. Such are touching a lady on arm or shoulder to
attract her attention, inquiring "What say?" or "Is that so?" to
indicate surprise, glancing at the addresses on letters given him to
mail, and consulting his watch in company. It would be difficult to
find a better rule for courtesy with which to impress a boy or girl
than the advice written by William Wirt to his daughter:

"The way to make yourself pleasing to others is to show that you care
for them. The world is like the miller at Mansfield 'who cared for
nobody, no, not he, because nobody cared for him.' And the whole world
will serve you so if you give it the same cause. Let all, therefore,
see that you do care for them, by showing what Sterne so happily calls
'the small sweet, courtesies of life,' in which there is no parade,
whose voice is to still, to ease; and which manifest themselves by
tender and affectionate looks, and little kind acts of attention,
giving others the preference in every little enjoyment at the table,
walking, sitting or standing."

There is one gross breach of good breeding which can hardly be due to
inattention. There is a homely proverb to the effect that one "should
wash her dirty linen at home," and it is to the violation of this
advice that I refer. Discussing home matters, complaining of the
actions of members of your family, or confiding their faults or
shortcomings to an outsider, even though she be your dearest friend,
is as great an act of discourtesy as it is contrary to all the
instincts of family love and loyalty. Your father may be a hypocrite,
your mother a fool of the Mrs. Nickleby stamp, your brother a
dissipated wretch, and your sister a professional shop-lifter, while
your husband combines the worst characteristics of the entire
family--but as long as you pretend to be on speaking terms with them,
stand up for them against all the rest of the world; and if matters
have come to such a pass that you have severed all connection with
them, let a proper pride for yourself and consideration for the person
to whom you are talking deter you from acknowledging their faults.
These persons are members of your family--that should be enough to
keep you forever silent as to their peccadilloes or sins. But, if you
do not feel this, for politeness' sake refrain from making your
listener supremely uncomfortable by your complaints. No true lady will
so far forget her innate ladyhood as to be guilty of this rudeness.

To fulfill what Mrs. Stowe calls our "mission," we women must insist
on the observance of the conventionalities at home. Husbands are
sometimes, even when "taken young," too obstinate to change; although,
to their credit be it said, if approached in the right way they will
generally try to correct tricks of speech or manner. But with our
children there should be no peradventure. Upon us is laid the
responsibility of making them what we choose, of developing them into
gentlemen, or neglecting them until they become boors. It is never too
early to begin. First impressions are lasting ones, and the child who,
from the beginning, is trained to observe the "small, sweet
courtesies," not only when in company, but in the nursery and with the
members of his own family, will never forget them. We often observe
"that man does as well as he can, but he is not the gentleman born."
That should, of itself, be a lesson to us mothers, to teach our
children, not only by precept but by example, to keep alive the
"altar-fire" of conventionality, and thus to make life warm,
beautiful, poetic. After all, may not what the impulsive girl whom I
quoted at the beginning of this talk termed the "sham" of life, be the
real, though hidden side? We read that "the things which are seen are
temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal."




CHAPTER XXVII.

FAMILIAR OR INTIMATE?


"What makes the difference between those two carriages?" I asked a
wagon builder, while examining two light vehicles of the same general
build and design. One cost twice as much as the other, and looked as
if it were worth four times as much.

"Some of it is in the material, but more in the finishing," was the
response. "This is of pretty fair wood, but simply planed and painted,
while this"--pointing to the more costly equipage--"is as hard as a
rock, and has been rubbed smooth, then polished until the surface is
as fine as silk. Then it is flowed all over with the best varnish,
left to dry ten days, and over-flowed again. That makes all the
difference in the look of wagons. Two of them may be built just alike,
and one will look like a grocer's errand-cart, while the other is a
regulation gentleman's turnout. It is all the effect of polish and
finish."

Involuntarily my mind reverted to Mr. Turveydrop and his modest
assurance that "we do our best to polish, polish, polish."

The carriage builder struck the right chord when he affirmed that
"finish made all the difference," and it applies as truly to flesh and
blood as to insensate wood. Only the wood has sometimes the advantage
of taking more kindly to improvement than do human free agents.

The rough places on which the effects of polish have not showed are
too numerous for me to touch upon more than a few of them in this
talk. We will acknowledge that the paint and varnish are not all that
is necessary. The wood must be hard and prepared for the flowing
process, if the wagon is to stand the scrutiny of critical eyes. Too
often the paint is laid on thickly--perhaps too thickly--over
indifferent material, and the first shock or scratch makes it scale
and flake off.

As the test of the genuineness of the polish must be its durability,
so intimacy is the standard by which we may judge of the finish of the
so-called well-bred man or woman. If the refinement be ingrain, the
familiarity which inevitably breeds contempt will never intrude
itself.

To come down to everyday particulars: One of the unwarrantable
familiarities is to enter a friend's house without ringing her
door-bell,--unless you have been especially requested to do so. No
ground of intimacy on which you and your friend may stand justifies
