she had intended. She had, in fact, no consciousness of any intention
but that of confining herself rigidly to her function. She could already
see that, in whatever he had now braced himself for, she was an element
he had not reckoned with. His preparation had been of a different
sort--the sort congruous with his having been careful to go first and
lunch solidly at the inn. He had not been forced to ask for her, but she
became aware, in his presence, of a particular desire to make him feel
that no harm could really come to him. She might upset him, as people
called it, but she would take no advantage of having done so. She had
never seen a person with whom she wished more to be light and easy, to
be exceptionally human. The account he presently gave of the matter was
that he indeed wouldn't have come if he had known she was on the spot;
because then, didn't she see? he could have written to her. He would
have had her there to let fly at his mother.

"That would have saved me--well, it would have saved me a lot. Of course
I would rather see you than her," he somewhat awkwardly added. "When the
fellow spoke of you, I assure you I quite jumped at you. In fact I've no
real desire to see Mummy at all. If she thinks I like it--!" He sighed
disgustedly. "I only came down because it seemed better than any other
way. I didn't want her to be able to say I hadn't been all right. I dare
say you know she has taken everything; or if not quite everything, why,
a lot more than one ever dreamed. You can see for yourself--she has got
half the place down. She has got them crammed--you can see for
yourself!" He had his old trick of artless repetition, his helpless
iteration of the obvious; but he was sensibly different, for Fleda, if
only by the difference of his clear face, mottled over and almost
disfigured by little points of pain. He might have been a fine young man
with a bad toothache; with the first even of his life. What ailed him
above all, she felt, was that trouble was new to him: he had never known
a difficulty; he had taken all his fences, his world wholly the world of
the personally possible, rounded indeed by a gray suburb into which he
had never had occasion to stray. In this vulgar and ill-lighted region
he had evidently now lost himself. "We left it quite to her honor, you
know," he said ruefully.

"Perhaps you've a right to say that you left it a little to mine." Mixed
up with the spoils there, rising before him as if she were in a manner
their keeper, she felt that she must absolutely dissociate herself. Mrs.
Gereth had made it impossible to do anything but give her away. "I can
only tell you that, on my side, I left it to her. I never dreamed either
that she would pick out so many things."

"And you don't really think it's fair, do you? You don't!" He spoke
very quickly; he really seemed to plead.

Fleda faltered a moment. "I think she has gone too far." Then she added:
"I shall immediately tell her that I've said that to you."

He appeared puzzled by this statement, but he presently rejoined: "You
haven't then said to mamma what you think?"

"Not yet; remember that I only got here last night." She appeared to
herself ignobly weak. "I had had no idea what she was doing; I was taken
completely by surprise. She managed it wonderfully."

"It's the sharpest thing I ever saw in my life!" They looked at each
other with intelligence, in appreciation of the sharpness, and Owen
quickly broke into a loud laugh. The laugh was in itself natural, but
the occasion of it strange; and stranger still, to Fleda, so that she
too almost laughed, the inconsequent charity with which he added: "Poor
dear old Mummy! That's one of the reasons I asked for you," he went
on--"to see if you'd back her up."

Whatever he said or did, she somehow liked him the better for it. "How
can I back her up, Mr. Gereth, when I think, as I tell you, that she has
made a great mistake?"

"A great mistake! That's all right." He spoke--it wasn't clear to her
why--as if this declaration were a great point gained.

"Of course there are many things she hasn't taken," Fleda continued.

"Oh yes, a lot of things. But you wouldn't know the place, all the
same." He looked about the room with his discolored, swindled face,
which deepened Fleda's compassion for him, conjuring away any smile at
so candid an image of the dupe. "You'd know this one soon enough,
wouldn't you? These are just the things she ought to have left. Is the
whole house full of them?"

"The whole house," said Fleda uncompromisingly. She thought of her
lovely room.

"I never knew how much I cared for them. They're awfully valuable,
aren't they?" Owen's manner mystified her; she was conscious of a return
of the agitation he had produced in her on that last bewildering day,
and she reminded herself that, now she was warned, it would be
inexcusable of her to allow him to justify the fear that had dropped on
her. "Mother thinks I never took any notice, but I assure you I was
awfully proud of everything. Upon my honor, I was proud, Miss Vetch."

There was an oddity in his helplessness; he appeared to wish to persuade
her and to satisfy himself that she sincerely felt how worthy he really
was to treat what had happened as an injury. She could only exclaim,
almost as helplessly as himself: "Of course you did justice! It's all
most painful. I shall instantly let your mother know," she again
declared, "the way I've spoken of her to you." She clung to that idea as
to the sign of her straightness.

"You'll tell her what you think she ought to do?" he asked with some
eagerness.

"What she ought to do?"

"Don't you think it--I mean that she ought to give them up?"

"To give them up?" Fleda hesitated again.

"To send them back--to keep it quiet." The girl had not felt the impulse
to ask him to sit down among the monuments of his wrong, so that,
nervously, awkwardly, he fidgeted about the room with his hands in his
pockets and an effect of returning a little into possession through the
formulation of his view. "To have them packed and dispatched again,
since she knows so well how. She does it beautifully"--he looked close
at two or three precious pieces. "What's sauce for the goose is sauce
for the gander!"

He had laughed at his way of putting it, but Fleda remained grave. "Is
that what you came to say to her?"

"Not exactly those words. But I did come to say"--he stammered, then
brought it out--"I did come to say we must have them right back."

"And did you think your mother would see you?"

"I wasn't sure, but I thought it right to try--to put it to her kindly,
don't you see? If she won't see me, then she has herself to thank. The
only other way would have been to set the lawyers at her."

"I'm glad you didn't do that."

"I'm dashed if I want to!" Owen honestly declared. "But what's a fellow
to do if she won't meet a fellow?"

"What do you call meeting a fellow?" Fleda asked, with a smile.

"Why, letting me tell her a dozen things she can have."

This was a transaction that Fleda, after a moment, had to give up trying
to represent to herself. "If she won't do that--?" she went on.

"I'll leave it all to my solicitor. He won't let her off: by Jove, I
know the fellow!"

"That's horrible!" said Fleda, looking at him in woe.

"It's utterly beastly!"

His want of logic as well as his vehemence startled her; and with her
eyes still on his she considered before asking him the question these
things suggested. At last she asked it. "Is Mona very angry?"

"Oh dear, yes!" said Owen.

She had perceived that he wouldn't speak of Mona without her beginning.
After waiting fruitlessly now for him to say more, she continued: "She
has been there again? She has seen the state of the house?"

"Oh dear, yes!" Owen repeated.

Fleda disliked to appear not to take account of his brevity, but it was
just because she was struck by it that she felt the pressure of the
desire to know more. What it suggested was simply what her intelligence
supplied, for he was incapable of any art of insinuation. Wasn't it at
all events the rule of communication with him to say for him what he
couldn't say? This truth was present to the girl as she inquired if Mona
greatly resented what Mrs. Gereth had done. He satisfied her promptly;
he was standing before the fire, his back to it, his long legs apart,
his hands, behind him, rather violently jiggling his gloves. "She hates
it awfully. In fact, she refuses to put up with it at all. Don't you
see?--she saw the place with all the things."

"So that of course she misses them."

"Misses them--rather! She was awfully sweet on them." Fleda remembered
how sweet Mona had been, and reflected that if that was the sort of plea
he had prepared it was indeed as well he shouldn't see his mother. This
was not all she wanted to know, but it came over her that it was all she
needed. "You see it puts me in the position of not carrying out what I
promised," Owen said. "As she says herself"--he hesitated an
instant--"it's just as if I had obtained her under false pretenses."
Just before, when he spoke with more drollery than he knew, it had left
Fleda serious; but now his own clear gravity had the effect of exciting
her mirth. She laughed out, and he looked surprised, but went on: "She
regards it as a regular sell."

Fleda was silent; but finally, as he added nothing, she exclaimed: "Of
course it makes a great difference!" She knew all she needed, but none
the less she risked, after another pause, an interrogative remark. "I
forget when it is that your marriage takes place?"

Owen came away from the fire and, apparently at a loss where to turn,
ended by directing himself to one of the windows. "It's a little
uncertain; the date isn't quite fixed."

"Oh, I thought I remembered that at Poynton you had told me a day, and
that it was near at hand."

"I dare say I did; it was for the 19th. But we've altered that--she
wants to shift it." He looked out of the window; then he said: "In fact,
it won't come off till Mummy has come round."

"Come round?"

"Put the place as it was." In his offhand way he added: "You know what I
mean!"

He spoke not impatiently, but with a kind of intimate familiarity, the
sweetness of which made her feel a pang for having forced him to tell
her what was embarrassing to him, what was even humiliating. Yes indeed,
she knew all she needed: all she needed was that Mona had proved apt at
putting down that wonderful patent-leather foot. Her type was misleading
only to the superficial, and no one in the world was less superficial
than Fleda. She had guessed the truth at Waterbath and she had suffered
from it at Poynton; at Ricks the only thing she could do was to accept
it with the dumb exaltation that she felt rising. Mona had been prompt
with her exercise of the member in question, for it might be called
prompt to do that sort of thing before marriage. That she had indeed
been premature who should say save those who should have read the matter
in the full light of results? Neither at Waterbath nor at Poynton had
even Fleda's thoroughness discovered all that there was--or rather, all
that there was not--in Owen Gereth. "Of course it makes all the
difference!" she said in answer to his last words. She pursued, after
considering: "What you wish me to say from you then to your mother is
that you demand immediate and practically complete restitution?"

"Yes, please. It's tremendously good of you."

"Very well, then. Will you wait?"

"For Mummy's answer?" Owen stared and looked perplexed; he was more and
more fevered with so much vivid expression of his case. "Don't you think
that if I'm here she may hate it worse--think I may want to make her
reply bang off?"

Fleda thought. "You don't, then?"

"I want to take her in the right way, don't you know?--treat her as if I
gave her more than just an hour or two."

"I see," said Fleda. "Then, if you don't wait--good-bye."

This again seemed not what he wanted. "Must you do it bang off?"

"I'm only thinking she'll be impatient--I mean, you know, to learn what
will have passed between us."

"I see," said Owen, looking at his gloves. "I can give her a day or two,
you know. Of course I didn't come down to sleep," he went on. "The inn
seems a horrid hole. I know all about the trains--having no idea you
were here." Almost as soon as his interlocutress he was struck with the
absence of the visible, in this, as between effect and cause. "I mean
because in that case I should have felt I could stop over. I should have
felt I could talk with you a blessed sight longer than with Mummy."

"We've already talked a long time," smiled Fleda.

"Awfully, haven't we?" He spoke with the stupidity she didn't object to.
Inarticulate as he was, he had more to say; he lingered perhaps because
he was vaguely aware of the want of sincerity in her encouragement to
him to go. "There's one thing, please," he mentioned, as if there might
be a great many others too. "Please don't say anything about Mona."

She didn't understand. "About Mona?"

"About its being her that thinks she has gone too far." This was still
slightly obscure, but now Fleda understood. "It mustn't seem to come
from her at all, don't you know? That would only make Mummy worse."

Fleda knew exactly how much worse, but she felt a delicacy about
explicitly assenting: she was already immersed moreover in the deep
consideration of what might make "Mummy" better. She couldn't see as yet
at all; she could only clutch at the hope of some inspiration after he
should go. Oh, there was a remedy, to be sure, but it was out of the
question; in spite of which, in the strong light of Owen's troubled
presence, of his anxious face and restless step, it hung there before
her for some minutes. She felt that, remarkably, beneath the decent
rigor of his errand, the poor young man, for reasons, for weariness, for
disgust, would have been ready not to insist. His fitness to fight his
mother had left him--he wasn't in fighting trim. He had no natural
avidity and even no special wrath; he had none that had not been taught
him, and it was doing his best to learn the lesson that had made him so
sick. He had his delicacies, but he hid them away like presents before
Christmas. He was hollow, perfunctory, pathetic; he had been girded by
another hand. That hand had naturally been Mona's, and it was heavy even
now on his strong, broad back. Why then had he originally rejoiced so in
its touch? Fleda dashed aside this question, for it had nothing to do
with her problem. Her problem was to help him to live as a gentleman and
carry through what he had undertaken; her problem was to reinstate him
in his rights. It was quite irrelevant that Mona had no intelligence of
what she had lost--quite irrelevant that she was moved not by the
privation, but by the insult: she had every reason to be moved, though
she was so much more movable, in the vindictive way, at any rate, than
one might have supposed--assuredly more than Owen himself had imagined.

"Certainly I shall not mention Mona," Fleda said, "and there won't be
the slightest necessity for it. The wrong's quite sufficiently yours,
and the demand you make is perfectly justified by it."

"I can't tell you what it is to me to feel you on my side!" Owen
exclaimed.

"Up to this time," said Fleda, after a pause, "your mother has had no
doubt of my being on hers."

"Then of course she won't like your changing."

"I dare say she won't like it at all."

"Do you mean to say you'll have a regular kick-up with her?"

"I don't exactly know what you mean by a regular kick-up. We shall
naturally have a great deal of discussion--if she consents to discuss
the matter at all. That's why you must decidedly give her two or three
days."

"I see you think she may refuse to discuss it at all," said Owen.

"I'm only trying to be prepared for the worst. You must remember that to
have to withdraw from the ground she has taken, to make a public
surrender of what she has publicly appropriated, will go uncommonly hard
with her pride."

Owen considered; his face seemed to broaden, but not into a smile. "I
suppose she's tremendously proud, isn't she?" This might have been the
first time it had occurred to him.

"You know better than I," said Fleda, speaking with high extravagance.

"I don't know anything in the world half so well as you. If I were as
clever as you I might hope to get round her." Owen hesitated; then he
went on: "In fact I don't quite see what even you can say or do that
will really fetch her."

"Neither do I, as yet. I must think--I must pray!" the girl pursued,
smiling. "I can only say to you that I'll try. I want to try, you
know--I want to help you." He stood looking at her so long on this that
she added with much distinctness: "So you must leave me, please, quite
alone with her. You must go straight back."

"Back to the inn?"

"Oh no, back to town. I'll write to you to-morrow."

He turned about vaguely for his hat.

"There's the chance, of course, that she may be afraid."

"Afraid, you mean, of the legal steps you may take?"

"I've got a perfect case--I could have her up. The Brigstocks say it's
simple stealing."

"I can easily fancy what the Brigstocks say!" Fleda permitted herself to
remark without solemnity.

"It's none of their business, is it?" was Owen's unexpected rejoinder.
Fleda had already noted that no one so slow could ever have had such
rapid transitions.

She showed her amusement. "They've a much better right to say it's none
of mine."

"Well, at any rate, you don't call her names."

Fleda wondered whether Mona did; and this made it all the finer of her
to exclaim in a moment: "You don't know what I shall call her if she
holds out!"

Owen gave her a gloomy glance; then he blew a speck off the crown of his
hat. "But if you do have a set-to with her?"

He paused so long for a reply that Fleda said: "I don't think I know
what you mean by a set-to."

"Well, if she calls you names."

"I don't think she'll do that."

"What I mean to say is, if she's angry at your backing me up--what will
you do then? She can't possibly like it, you know."

"She may very well not like it; but everything depends. I must see what
I shall do. You mustn't worry about me."

She spoke with decision, but Owen seemed still unsatisfied. "You won't
go away, I hope?"

"Go away?"

"If she does take it ill of you."

Fleda moved to the door and opened it. "I'm not prepared to say. You
must have patience and see."

"Of course I must," said Owen--"of course, of course." But he took no
more advantage of the open door than to say: "You want me to be off, and
I'm off in a minute. Only, before I go, please answer me a question. If
you should leave my mother, where would you go?"

Fleda smiled again. "I haven't the least idea."

"I suppose you'd go back to London."

"I haven't the least idea," Fleda repeated.

"You don't--a--live anywhere in particular, do you?" the young man went
on. He looked conscious as soon as he had spoken; she could see that he
felt himself to have alluded more grossly than he meant to the
circumstance of her having, if one were plain about it, no home of her
own. He had meant it as an allusion of a tender sort to all that she
would sacrifice in the case of a quarrel with his mother; but there was
indeed no graceful way of touching on that. One just couldn't be plain
about it.

Fleda, wound up as she was, shrank from any treatment at all of the
matter, and she made no answer to his question. "I won't leave your
mother," she said. "I'll produce an effect on her; I'll convince her
absolutely."

"I believe you will, if you look at her like that!"

She was wound up to such a height that there might well be a light in
her pale, fine little face--a light that, while, for all return, at
first, she simply shone back at him, was intensely reflected in his own.
"I'll make her see it--I'll make her see it!" She rang out like a silver
bell. She had at that moment a perfect faith that she should succeed;
but it passed into something else when, the next instant, she became
aware that Owen, quickly getting between her and the door she had
opened, was sharply closing it, as might be said, in her face. He had
done this before she could stop him, and he stood there with his hand on
the knob and smiled at her strangely. Clearer than he could have spoken
it was the sense of those seconds of silence.

"When I got into this I didn't know you, and now that I know you how can
I tell you the difference? And she's so different, so ugly and vulgar,
in the light of this squabble. No, like you I've never known one. It's
another thing, it's a new thing altogether. Listen to me a little: can't
something be done?" It was what had been in the air in those moments at
Kensington, and it only wanted words to be a committed act. The more
reason, to the girl's excited mind, why it shouldn't have words; her one
thought was not to hear, to keep the act uncommitted. She would do this
if she had to be horrid.

"Please let me out, Mr. Gereth," she said; on which he opened the door
with an hesitation so very brief that in thinking of these things
afterwards--for she was to think of them forever--she wondered in what
tone she could have spoken. They went into the hall, where she
encountered the parlor-maid, of whom she inquired whether Mrs. Gereth
had come in.

"No, miss; and I think she has left the garden. She has gone up the back
road." In other words, they had the whole place to themselves. It would
have been a pleasure, in a different mood, to converse with that
parlor-maid.

"Please open the house-door," said Fleda.

Owen, as if in quest of his umbrella, looked vaguely about the
hall--looked even wistfully up the staircase--while the neat young woman
complied with Fleda's request. Owen's eyes then wandered out of the open
door. "I think it's awfully nice here," he observed; "I assure you I
could do with it myself."

"I should think you might, with half your things here! It's Poynton
itself--almost. Good-bye, Mr. Gereth," Fleda added. Her intention had
naturally been that the neat young woman, opening the front door, should
remain to close it on the departing guest. That functionary, however,
had acutely vanished behind a stiff flap of green baize which Mrs.
Gereth had not yet had time to abolish. Fleda put out her hand, but Owen
turned away--he couldn't find his umbrella. She passed into the open
air--she was determined to get him out; and in a moment he joined her in
the little plastered portico which had small resemblance to any feature
of Poynton. It was, as Mrs. Gereth had said, like the portico of a house
in Brompton.

"Oh, I don't mean with all the things here," he explained in regard to
the opinion he had just expressed. "I mean I could put up with it just
as it was; it had a lot of good things, don't you think? I mean if
everything was back at Poynton, if everything was all right." He brought
out these last words with a sort of smothered sigh. Fleda didn't
understand his explanation unless it had reference to another and more
wonderful exchange--the restoration to the great house not only of its
tables and chairs, but of its alienated mistress. This would imply the
installation of his own life at Ricks, and obviously that of another
person. Such another person could scarcely be Mona Brigstock. He put out
his hand now; and once more she heard his unsounded words: "With
everything patched up at the other place, I could live here with you.
Don't you see what I mean?"

Fleda saw perfectly, and, with a face in which she flattered herself
that nothing of this vision appeared, gave him her hand and said:
"Good-bye, good-bye."

Owen held her hand very firmly and kept it even after an effort made by
her to recover it--an effort not repeated, as she felt it best not to
show she was flurried. That solution--of her living with him at
Ricks--disposed of him beautifully, and disposed not less so of herself;
it disposed admirably too of Mrs. Gereth. Fleda could only vainly wonder
how it provided for poor Mona. While he looked at her, grasping her
hand, she felt that now indeed she was paying for his mother's
extravagance at Poynton--the vividness of that lady's public plea that
little Fleda Vetch was the person to insure the general peace. It was to
that vividness poor Owen had come back, and if Mrs. Gereth had had more
discretion little Fleda Vetch wouldn't have been in a predicament. She
saw that Owen had at this moment his sharpest necessity of speech, and
so long as he didn't release her hand she could only submit to him. Her
defense would be perhaps to look blank and hard; so she looked as blank
and as hard as she could, with the reward of an immediate sense that
this was not a bit what he wanted. It even made him hang fire, as if he
were suddenly ashamed of himself, were recalled to some idea of duty and
of honor. Yet he none the less brought it out. "There's one thing I dare
say I ought to tell you, if you're going so kindly to act for me; though
of course you'll see for yourself it's a thing it won't do to tell
her." What was it? He made her wait for it again, and while she
waited, under firm coercion, she had the extraordinary impression that
Owen's simplicity was in eclipse. His natural honesty was like the scent
of a flower, and she felt at this moment as if her nose had been brushed
by the bloom without the odor. The allusion was undoubtedly to his
mother; and was not what he meant about the matter in question the
opposite of what he said--that it just would do to tell her? It would
have been the first time he had said the opposite of what he meant, and
there was certainly a fascination in the phenomenon, as well as a
challenge to suspense in the ambiguity. "It's just that I understand
from Mona, you know," he stammered; "it's just that she has made no
bones about bringing home to me--" He tried to laugh, and in the effort
he faltered again.

"About bringing home to you?"--Fleda encouraged him.

He was sensible of it, he achieved his performance. "Why, that if I
don't get the things back--every blessed one of them except a few
she'll pick out--she won't have anything more to say to me."

Fleda, after an instant, encouraged him again. "To say to you?"

"Why, she simply won't marry me, don't you see?"

Owen's legs, not to mention his voice, had wavered while he spoke, and
she felt his possession of her hand loosen so that she was free again.
Her stare of perception broke into a lively laugh. "Oh, you're all
right, for you will get them. You will; you're quite safe; don't
worry!" She fell back into the house with her hand on the door.
"Good-bye, good-bye." She repeated it several times, laughing bravely,
quite waving him away and, as he didn't move and save that he was on the
other side of it, closing the door in his face quite as he had closed
that of the drawing-room in hers. Never had a face, never at least had
such a handsome one, been so presented to that offense. She even held
the door a minute, lest he should try to come in again. At last, as she
heard nothing, she made a dash for the stairs and ran up.




IX


In knowing a while before all she needed, Fleda had been far from
knowing as much as that; so that once upstairs, where, in her room, with
her sense of danger and trouble, the age of Louis Seize suddenly struck
her as wanting in taste and point, she felt that she now for the first
time knew her temptation. Owen had put it before her with an art beyond
his own dream. Mona would cast him off if he didn't proceed to
extremities; if his negotiation with his mother should fail he would be
completely free. That negotiation depended on a young lady to whom he
had pressingly suggested the condition of his freedom; and as if to
aggravate the young lady's predicament designing fate had sent Mrs.
Gereth, as the parlor-maid said, "up the back road." This would give the
young lady more time to make up her mind that nothing should come of the
negotiation. There would be different ways of putting the question to
Mrs. Gereth, and Fleda might profitably devote the moments before her
return to a selection of the way that would most surely be tantamount to
failure. This selection indeed required no great adroitness; it was so
conspicuous that failure would be the reward of an effective
introduction of Mona. If that abhorred name should be properly invoked
Mrs. Gereth would resist to the death, and before envenomed resistance
Owen would certainly retire. His retirement would be into single life,
and Fleda reflected that he had now gone away conscious of having
practically told her so. She could only say, as she waited for the back
road to disgorge, that she hoped it was a consciousness he enjoyed.
There was something she enjoyed; but that was a very different matter.
To know that she had become to him an object of desire gave her wings
that she felt herself flutter in the air: it was like the rush of a
flood into her own accumulations. These stored depths had been
fathomless and still, but now, for half an hour, in the empty house,
they spread till they overflowed. He seemed to have made it right for
her to confess to herself her secret. Strange then there should be for
him in return nothing that such a confession could make right! How could
it make right that he should give up Mona for another woman? His
attitude was a sorry appeal to Fleda to legitimate that. But he didn't
believe it himself, and he had none of the courage of his suggestion.
She could easily see how wrong everything must be when a man so made to
be manly was wanting in courage. She had upset him, as people called it,
and he had spoken out from the force of the jar of finding her there. He
had upset her too, heaven knew, but she was one of those who could pick
themselves up. She had the real advantage, she considered, of having
kept him from seeing that she had been overthrown.

She had moreover at present completely recovered her feet, though there
was in the intensity of the effort required to do so a vibration which
throbbed away into an immense allowance for the young man. How could she
after all know what, in the disturbance wrought by his mother, Mona's
relations with him might have become? If he had been able to keep his
wits, such as they were, more about him he would probably have felt--as
sharply as she felt on his behalf--that so long as those relations were
not ended he had no right to say even the little he had said. He had no
right to appear to wish to draw in another girl to help him to an
escape. If he was in a plight he must get out of the plight himself, he
must get out of it first, and anything he should have to say to any one
else must be deferred and detached. She herself, at any rate--it was her
own case that was in question--couldn't dream of assisting him save in
the sense of their common honor. She could never be the girl to be drawn
in, she could never lift her finger against Mona. There was something in
her that would make it a shame to her forever to have owed her happiness
to an interference. It would seem intolerably vulgar to her to have
"ousted" the daughter of the Brigstocks; and merely to have abstained
even wouldn't assure her that she had been straight. Nothing was really
straight but to justify her little pensioned presence by her use; and
now, won over as she was to heroism, she could see her use only as some
high and delicate deed. She couldn't do anything at all, in short,
unless she could do it with a kind of pride, and there would be nothing
to be proud of in having arranged for poor Owen to get off easily.
Nobody had a right to get off easily from pledges so deep, so sacred.
How could Fleda doubt they had been tremendous when she knew so well
what any pledge of her own would be? If Mona was so formed that she
could hold such vows light, that was Mona's peculiar business. To have
loved Owen apparently, and yet to have loved him only so much, only to
the extent of a few tables and chairs, was not a thing she could so much
as try to grasp. Of a different way of loving him she was herself ready
to give an instance, an instance of which the beauty indeed would not be
generally known. It would not perhaps if revealed be generally
understood, inasmuch as the effect of the particular pressure she
proposed to exercise would be, should success attend it, to keep him
tied to an affection that had died a sudden and violent death. Even in
the ardor of her meditation Fleda remained in sight of the truth that it
would be an odd result of her magnanimity to prevent her friend's
shaking off a woman he disliked. If he didn't dislike Mona, what was the
matter with him? And if he did, Fleda asked, what was the matter with
her own silly self?

Our young lady met this branch of the temptation it pleased her frankly
to recognize by declaring that to encourage any such cruelty would be
tortuous and base. She had nothing to do with his dislikes; she had only
to do with his good-nature and his good name. She had joy of him just as
he was, but it was of these things she had the greatest. The worst
aversion and the liveliest reaction moreover wouldn't alter the
fact--since one was facing facts--that but the other day his strong arms
must have clasped a remarkably handsome girl as close as she had
permitted. Fleda's emotion at this time was a wondrous mixture, in which
Mona's permissions and Mona's beauty figured powerfully as aids to
reflection. She herself had no beauty, and her permissions were the
stony stares she had just practiced in the drawing-room--a consciousness
of a kind appreciably to add to the particular sense of triumph that
made her generous. I may not perhaps too much diminish the merit of that
generosity if I mention that it could take the flight we are considering
just because really, with the telescope of her long thought, Fleda saw
what might bring her out of the wood. Mona herself would bring her out;
at the least Mona possibly might. Deep down plunged the idea that even
should she achieve what she had promised Owen, there was still the
contingency of Mona's independent action. She might by that time, under
stress of temper or of whatever it was that was now moving her, have
said or done the things there is no patching up. If the rupture should
come from Waterbath they might all be happy yet. This was a calculation
that Fleda wouldn't have committed to paper, but it affected the total
of her sentiments. She was meanwhile so remarkably constituted that
while she refused to profit by Owen's mistake, even while she judged it
and hastened to cover it up, she could drink a sweetness from it that
consorted little with her wishing it mightn't have been made. There was
no harm done, because he had instinctively known, poor dear, with whom
to make it, and it was a compensation for seeing him worried that he
hadn't made it with some horrid mean girl who would immediately have
dished him by making a still bigger one. Their protected error (for she
indulged a fancy that it was hers too) was like some dangerous, lovely
living thing that she had caught and could keep--keep vivid and helpless
in the cage of her own passion and look at and talk to all day long. She
had got it well locked up there by the time that, from an upper window,
she saw Mrs. Gereth again in the garden. At this she went down to meet
her.




X


Fleda's line had been taken, her word was quite ready; on the terrace of
the painted pots she broke out before her interlocutress could put a
question. "His errand was perfectly simple: he came to demand that you
shall pack everything straight up again and send it back as fast as the
railway will carry it."

The back road had apparently been fatiguing to Mrs. Gereth; she rose
there rather white and wan with her walk. A certain sharp thinness was
in her ejaculation of "Oh!"--after which she glanced about her for a
place to sit down. The movement was a criticism of the order of events
that offered such a piece of news to a lady coming in tired; but Fleda
could see that in turning over the possibilities this particular peril
was the one that during the last hour her friend had turned up oftenest.
At the end of the short, gray day, which had been moist and mild, the
sun was out; the terrace looked to the south, and a bench, formed as to
