"I'll go up in the storeroom," began Mrs. Carrington, glancing the
young girl over. "Mother, I do believe that green velvet jacket would
fit Miss Jaqueline. You wouldn't believe that I was once quite as slim
as you?" to the young girl.

"I'm sure you're not to be called stout now," said the madam, who
despised a superabundance of flesh and yet hated leanness. She was a
fine, perfectly proportioned woman, straight as an arrow, in spite of
her more than seventy years.

"But it always was tight in the shoulders. You see, my dear, when
things are ordered abroad there's not an inch to alter them with--and
then I went in mourning. Would you like to come upstairs with me?"

Patricia had gone off to look at the guineas and peacocks who had
stoutly insisted upon early broods. Madam had gone over to the open
window with some fine needlework. Jaqueline followed her hostess up the
broad stairway, through the spacious hall lighted by the cupola above,
and into an ell where the main storeroom was snugly hidden.

What big old chests, with brass and iron clamps and binding and hinges!
A row of deep drawers that held the best family linen and napery,
some of it saved from destruction thirty years ago in the war that was
already half forgotten. There was a sweet scent about the room, made by
bunches of lavender, rosemary, and a sweet clover, much cultivated in
gardens, and the fragrance of dried rose leaves.

"There have been so many things laid by. We hoped there would be girls
to take them," and Mrs. Carrington gave a soft sigh. "What a merry
household you must be! There are younger girls----"

"Yes, Varina, our own sister, and Annis, mother's little girl."

"I am much interested in your new mother. She seems a very kindly,
amiable person. Back some distance she was connected with the
Carringtons, you know."

"And she was our own mother's cousin. Oh, we are all in love with her,
I assure you. And it is quite delightful for father to have someone
to consider him first of all. It's funny what marriage does to a
woman," and Jaqueline gave a light laugh. "I suppose we did try Aunt
Catharine, but she used to nag at father until sometimes he would lose
his temper. And now she is always quoting and admiring Mr. Conway, and
runs around after him as if he was a child. I am sure father is much
more delightful to live with, he is so merry and full of fun. Not but
what Mr. Conway is a gentleman and kind of heart."

"But your aunt was no longer a young girl."

"And falling in love is a queer happening. Love is writ blind," and
Jaqueline laughed daintily.

"The little girl of your mother's?--I was sorry not to see her. Is she
like her mother?"

"She is a shy, dainty little thing, with a sweet temper and a kind of
homesick way now and then, as if she longed to fly away somewhere with
her mother. Of course we all like her, and father has taken her to
his heart. Charles thinks her a nonesuch, since she is never weary of
hearing him read aloud. And though Charles is the youngest, Varina has
always been the baby, and I think she is jealous. It is very amusing at
times."

"I am glad you get along so well together. It must be a great pleasure
to your father to have a companion of his very own. And you girls will
presently marry."

"I mean to have a good, merry time first. What a pity the winter is
gone just as we have a new President! Congress will soon be adjourned,
and Jane says Washington is dismal in the summer."

She opened a box, where the garment had lain many a year, being taken
out at the annual cleaning, brushed carefully, and laid away again. It
had a high collar and lapels worked with veritable gold thread that had
not tarnished.

"Yes--many people do go away. The town has not improved as we all hoped
it would. But there is an old adage that Rome was not built in a day.
And we are a comparatively new country. Oh, here is the jacket!"

"Oh, how lovely!" cried Jaqueline.

"The buttons want rubbing up. We will take it to Betty, who can tell
if it needs altering. I keep the sleeves stuffed out with cotton so it
will not wrinkle or mat. A London tailor made it, yet it looks fresh as
if it had just been sent over."

They found Betty, who was supervising some of the sewing girls. Most of
the ordinary wearing clothes of the family and the servants' belongings
were made in the house. There was fine mending and darning, and much
drawn work done by some of the better-class house slaves.

Jaqueline tried on the pretty jacket, and there was not much alteration
to be made in it. The young girl felt curiously gratified as she
studied her slim figure in the mirror. She had never owned anything so
fine, and certainly it was most becoming.

"Then, Betty, alter the band of my black cloth skirt. That is the best
we can do just now."

"Oh, you are most kind!" and Jaqueline took both hands in a warm clasp,
while the glancing eyes were suffused with delight.

"And now if you both like we will go out for an airing, as I have some
errands to do."

Jaqueline was ready for any diversion. Ralph proposed to drive them, as
he had a little business to attend to.

There were several attractive shops in Georgetown, and the hairdressing
seemed to be brisk, judging from numerous signs. In one window were
wigs of various colors from fair to dark. Indeed, there had been a
great era of wigs for both men and women, and especially among the fair
sex, who thought even two wigs much cheaper than the continual bills of
the hairdresser, when they were crisped into curls, pinned up in puffs,
and a great crown laid on top of the head, built up in the artifices
known to fashion, to be surmounted by feathers. The wide hoop was
diminishing as well, and graceful figures were likely to be once more
the style.

The dinner-hour in most society families was at two, and at the
Carringtons' it was quite a stately meal, with often an unexpected
guest, made just as welcome as if by invitation. And to-day a Mr. and
Mrs. Hudson had driven up from Alexandria--old friends who had many
things to inquire about after a winter of seclusion, and most eager to
learn how the new President had been received, and whether there would
really be war.

No one was in a hurry. People truly lived then. Patricia thought it
rather stupid, as no one referred to her with any question or comment;
even Mr. Ralph, who had proved so entertaining all the morning,
scarcely noticed her, as he had to play the host. But Jaqueline quite
shone. When Mrs. Hudson heard she had been at the reception, she must
describe not only the ladies and their gowns, but whether Mr. Jefferson
was as ready to lay down the cares of state as most people said, and if
Mrs. Madison had not aged by the continual demands that had been made
upon her.

"For she is coming quite to middle life," said Mrs. Hudson.

"And could discount fully ten years," returned Ralph.

"They all paint and powder, I have heard. So much dissipation cannot be
good for women. But, then, she has no children to look after. Her son
is at school. It does make a difference if one brings up half a dozen
children and has to think of getting them settled in life."

She had had her share, good Mistress Hudson. Three daughters to marry,
which she had done well; one son to bury; one rambling off, whether
dead or alive no one knew; and one still left, a prop for declining
years, but his mother was as anxious to keep him single as Mrs.
Carrington was that her sons should marry.

They had risen from the table, and the horses had been ordered when Mr.
Carrington came in. He saw how Jaqueline's face lighted up.

"The days are a little longer, and we will have our ride yet," he said
in a whispered aside. But there was still some talking to do. Jaqueline
made her adieus and went to put on her habit. Standing in the hall
above, she waited until patience was a lost virtue.

Then Roger Carrington called to her.

"I thought they would never go, they prosed and prosed so!"

"We shall be old ourselves some day," he returned with a smile, "and
perhaps prose while young people are waiting."

Then he turned her around with gentlemanly grace, admiration in his
eyes.

"Is it the jackdaw that appears in borrowed plumes--some bird I
have heard tell of. Why birds should borrow plumes--I am shamefully
ignorant, am I not?" raising her eyes with a spice of mischief.

"Let us go and ask Ralph," he said with assumed gravity. "It will not
take him long to run through two or three tomes."

"And ride by moonlight?"

"There is no moon."

"Does she not look well, Roger? A tailor could not have fitted the
habit better. Do not go very far, for the air might grow chilly again."

"We will go up the creek a short distance."

Then he mounted her upon the pretty mare, his brother's favorite, for
Ralph had not cared to ride. Patricia looked on a little disappointed,
yet she did not really wish to go, for Madam Carrington had been
telling her a curious love story about a little maid who had been sent
over with a number of redemptioners, as those who were bound for a
number of years were called. She had attracted the pity of a kindly
man, who had purchased her years of service for his wife. Then the son
had fallen in love with her, which had roused the mother's anger, when
she sent her son to England to be educated and perhaps fall in love
with a cousin. The little maid was rather hardly treated, when someone
came to the colony in search of her, and it turned out that she was
well born and heiress to a grand estate, held by a relative who had
formed a villainous plot against her and reported her dead. Now that he
was dying without heirs, he was desirous of making tardy reparation.

There were few story books to fall into girls' hands in those days.
Swift and Sterne and Smollett were kept out of reach. Miss Burney was
hardly considered proper, and Miss Austen had not been heard of in the
Colonies.

Patricia was fond of old legends and ghost stories, with which the
plantation was rife, and which had grown up about old houses. Unhappy
lovers had a weird, fascinating interest for young girls, even if
the lives of the day were the reverse of sentimental. All through the
dinner she had been wondering if the little maid met her lover again;
but that she came back to America, she knew, for her portrait hung in
the hall among the Carrington ladies.

Ajax and Daphne rubbed noses, flung up their heads, and started off.
Tame enough now is the winding creek, which was rough and rapid then,
and which traveled from the upper edge of Maryland, gathering in many a
little stream, rushing along in some places over great stones, winding
about placidly in others, and then joining the Potomac.




CHAPTER VI.

A TOUCH OF NATURE.


There had been a breath of spring in the air for a day or two, and all
nature welcomed the softness, with the numerous sounds of awakening
life. Wild bees were out foraging. The catkins of the alders had
swelled to bursting, the maples were showing red, tufts of grass
were assuming the peculiar hazy, suggestive green through the furzy
deadness of winter, while here and there a field of grain displayed the
brilliance of a velvet carpet. The trees had that dreamy purplish tint
of springtime, and waved their leafless branches with wooing softness.

The road ran alongside of the brook and was in fair order for the time
of the year. Now and then some bird flung out a note of rejoicing.
They went by degrees down a valley until they struck a wild gorge with
overhanging rocks, where a multitude of crows were holding council, and
suddenly wheeled off, making a dark shadow over the path.

"A month later it will be beautiful," Roger Carrington said. "But I
suppose you have a surfeit over the Potomac?" nodding his head to the
southward. "Or perhaps you would have liked it better about Georgetown.
I fancied my mother had shown you everything worth seeing. Few people
know how fine the road is up this way."

He looked a little doubtfully at his companion. Perhaps she was too
young to appreciate it.

"I have never been this way before. We were out on the Potomac last
summer when we were visiting my sister, the first time we came to
Washington. Regulation philosophy considers home the best place for
children," and she smiled archly.

"I like large families. You can't think how your father interested us
in the description of you all. How many are there?"

"Five of us and the sister of adoption."

"Mrs. Mason quite charmed us. She has had a rather eventful life. There
is a brother----"

"We begin and end with boys. Charles would delight your brother Ralph.
Louis is in college. He has some aspirations for the law or political
life, but his present desire runs the way of pleasure and fun. The
college boys are quite adepts at mischief."

"You were down there?"

"My aunt married and went to Williamsburg, you know. And Uncle Conway
is connected with the college. Yes, I had a good, gay time. And I
like--fun."

She looked it, with the sparkle in her eye and the changing color on
her cheek. She was very pretty, but an eager child.

"And if we had some girls to make merry! Real girls, I mean, like
Patty, who is charming to have about. Suppose we keep her for the next
year or two?"

"You will have to settle that with Patty and father. And Patty has a
way of breaking out of bounds that might startle you. She is on her
best behavior now."

"And we cannot always keep up to the mark--is that what you mean me to
infer?"

"I couldn't, I am sure, if the mark was set high," and she laughed. "It
is, up to grandmamma's. And Dolly, who really is my aunt, you know,
is not much older than I am. We have royal times when she comes to
the plantation. But grandpapa is very strict and of the old--there's
a French word I ought to use," and she blushed. "My French will not
always come to the front; and so, you see, I cannot put on grand airs."

Carrington laughed. Her frankness was so piquant.

"Régime--that I think is the word you want."

"Yes. A man who believes we have had no manners since the days of
Washington and Mr. John Adams. Oh, do you truly think the country will
go to ruin and split up into fragments?"

"No, I really do not. Young countries, like young people, make
mistakes. Well, older countries do likewise. There have been many
changes in the policies of all governments, many rulers. I've quite
decided this will last my time out."

"I don't understand about the Non-Intercourse Act and all that. Father
thinks it would be good for the women not to get so much finery from
abroad. But, then, if we sell tobacco and other things to England and
France--why, it seems to me it is a good thing, a sort of give and
take. And grandpapa thinks Mr. Madison will finish what Mr. Jefferson
began, and that England will get hold of us again. Are you to go to the
levee?"

"Oh, yes."

"I am so glad! I am to make a real bow to Mrs. Madison. Oh, no; I
suppose it is a courtesy. I like to see people dressed up in pretty
clothes, and I have not been to the White House yet. And to see all the
grand men nearby, not simply in a jostling crowd. Don't you sometimes
feel a little afraid of them?"

There was a charming half-curiosity in her eyes, and a pretty smile
quivered about her red lips. What a child she was! If he was to ask her
to marry him both mother and grandmother would be quite content. As for
him--well, he had no drawing toward matrimony, but that innate chivalry
and admiration for all women so common in the men of that day, who were
trained to pay the highest respect to their mothers.

"I find myself wishing I was as wise and as experienced, and had the
clear insight that some of our best men have had, nay, have to-day. But
that comes with age and profound knowledge."

"Oh, don't get any older! I like the young men. And as for wisdom----"

She paused and colored, turning her face half away, but the roundness
of the young cheek and the graceful curve where it softly lost itself
in the white neck were truly lovely.

"We will dismiss wisdom and age," laughingly.

"Oh, where are we going!" She reigned her horse in sudden alarm.

"This is the last of the ravine. I wanted you to see the picture
beyond. Nay, there is nothing to fear."

The frowning rocks and overhanging trees on both sides almost shut
out the daylight. It did quite in summer when the foliage was thick.
Then it lightened, and the clear whistle of a bird rang out as if
heralding the end. The break was almost a level. The creek broadened
out here. The westward sun struck it and made beautiful reflections on
the undulating stretches of land. The leafless trees showed golden and
brown-red tints through the dun haze, the birches wore a rosy silver
light. Back of it the hills rose with the mysterious suggestiveness of
coming spring, full of quivering lights as the wind made perceptible
waves in the air.

"It is wonderful!" she said softly. "It is like those emotions one can
never describe, that penetrate every nerve, that make you feel half
awed. Oh, the world is beautiful!"

The eager, yet chastened, expression of her face moved him. She sat her
horse finely, girl as she was, her head proudly erect, her shoulders
in the velvet coat shaped exquisitely, the sleeve showing the arm's
perfect roundness at the top and the slope down to the slender waist.

He had meant to call her attention to this scene, but her quickness of
vision gratified him.

"It is my favorite prospect," he said. "I have watched it many a time
just at this hour in the afternoon. From early spring to midwinter the
sun makes a picture of it. We are rich in beautiful scenery, and when
we are done fighting and quarreling we should be a nation of artists.
So far we have only been inspired to portraits."

"It would be curious to be able to paint a picture. I never thought of
it before."

"That is genius, I suppose. Now, here is a nice clear bit of road. Let
us have a sharp canter out to that bend in the creek and back, then we
must hasten home before the evening dampness sets in."

Daphne threw up her head at the touch of the whip, and was off like
a flash. Roger Carrington allowed her to reach the bend first, to the
discomfiture of Ajax. Jaqueline turned her bright, rosy face, full of
smiling triumph.

"I accept," nodding with gallantry. "We should have been timed to a
second. You are an excellent rider."

"Seeing that I have been trained from babyhood it would be disgraceful
if I were not. Oh, what crazy things we have done--Louis and I! And
then we would bind ourselves by a solemn promise not to betray each
other. Children must have charmed lives!"

"You are hardly out of childhood yet."

"Wait until you see me in the gorgeousness of a train and a top-knot.
You will wonder at my dignity. Perhaps you will not recognize me. The
gown is pink. That may be some help."

"Pink. The pink roses are the sweetest, I believe."

She nodded with a spice of coquetry.

"And now are we to crawl through this dismal glade? Think of Indians
lying in ambush!"

"Nay, do not spoil a pleasant ride by such a grewsome suggestion."

He led the way, and they soon emerged to the open again. The Capital
loomed up; the scattered houses made quite a show, after all.

That evening Roger and she were partners at whist against his mother
and grandmother, and the ladies won.

The next day the girls went over to Washington.

"I wish your visit could have been longer," Mrs. Carrington said. "I
should have enjoyed asking in the young people about here and having a
dance."

Patricia was very sorry. She had been on the extreme confines of
young-ladyhood.

"It was just delightful!" Jaqueline explained to Mrs. Jettson. "Both
ladies are lovely, but Madam is grand and holds you in a little awe.
She looks like some old picture stepped out of a frame. And they are
just crazy over girls--no, you cannot imagine such stately ladies being
crazy over anything. They made so much of Patty that she put on airs."

"I'm almost as tall as you, Miss Jaqueline!"

"But you would look ridiculous with a train and your hair done up high,
and a mincing step----"

"I didn't think that you minced very much!" interrupted the younger.
"I saw you run down the garden walk, and Mr. Ralph said----" making a
sudden halt.

"Well, what did he say?"

Patty paused, for she recalled the fact that Mr. Ralph's comment had
been distinctly complimentary.

"Don't dispute, girls. Patty, you are nothing but a child, if you are
tall, and you know you wouldn't like to give up racing and climbing and
dancing to old Sam's fiddle. You girls do have the best of everything,
while poor Dolly and Marian----"

"I'm glad grandpapa isn't any real relation to me!" exclaimed Patricia.
"I like father a million times better."

"That comes of being a bachelor when you are married. I'm sure an old
maid couldn't be any queerer. But then Mr. Madison is said to be very
indulgent to his wife, and I'm sure he treats her like a prince. And
father seems to be just as bitter against him as he was against Mr.
Jefferson. It seems to me the world goes around just the same, no
matter who is President. Mr. Ralston came in this morning and begged
me to send for Marian. I couldn't tell him exactly why; and I'm sure
I wish Mrs. Greaves was back again, and there wouldn't be any look for
Marian."

"Lieutenant Ralston was over to the Carringtons' a while last evening,"
said Jaqueline, and somehow she flushed in a quick manner that
surprised herself, then added--"Mr. Carrington will be at the levee."

"Oh, of course. It will be a fine affair. And Congress will adjourn so
soon, I doubt if there will be another. There are to be state dinners
to the Cabinet and the diplomats, but next winter there will no doubt
be many gayeties. Jaqueline, you must run to bed and get your beauty
sleep, there is no knowing how late we will be up to-morrow night."

"I think Jane might feel a little sorry that I can't go," said Patty
lugubriously, as they were preparing for bed. "It's Marian all the
time."

"You don't understand, Patty----"

"Yes I do. That handsome young Mr. Ralston is in love with her, and
grandpapa is going to make her marry that old Mr. Greaves because he
has a big farm next to his. I'd marry the man I liked."

"Nonsense! I'm not thinking about marrying."

"Jaqueline, would you marry Mr. Roger?"

"I've understood that it was good manners to wait until you were
asked," turning to hide a blush.

"I mean to marry someone," answered the younger.

"Sleep on it first, Patty."

The next afternoon the hairdresser came and added much state to Mrs.
Jettson's appearance. There was pearl powder, a luxury to be indulged
in only on great occasions. And though rouge was used, Mrs. Jettson had
enough color of her own, and Jaqueline was resplendent with youth and
health.

This affair was in the state drawing room, which had grown rather
shabby. Congress was considering an appropriation of five thousand
dollars for refurnishing. The sofas were stiff, faded, and worn
threadbare, and the window hangings were limp and had lost their color.
But the light from the numerous candles softened and relieved the
impairment of time.

Mrs. Madison was in the yellow velvet; new gowns were not considered
necessary for every occasion. Her beautiful neck and arms, which still
kept the roundness of early womanhood, were adorned with strings of
pearls, the short puffed sleeves rendered still prettier by a fall of
exquisite lace. The skirt was drawn aside and displayed a white satin
petticoat embroidered with gold thread, and her slippers were adorned
with buckles that almost covered her dainty feet.

About her were arranged the members of the official family, the ladies
on one side, the gentlemen on the other. It was quite a little court.
Most of the senators and the wives who were brave enough to give up
home comforts to spend a winter in Washington had already met Mrs.
Madison; indeed, by this time there were not many among the strangers
who had not been presented.

And so Miss Jaqueline Mason made her bow to the first lady of the land
and glancing up with a quick rift of color caught the cordial smile
that came with a warm clasp of the hand.

"You have a good old Virginian name," she said. "Many of us are proud
to call it home. It is my second home, the first in my affection now,"
and she gave the child another sweet smile.

Jaqueline was more abashed than she had thought possible. She stepped
aside in a little confusion.

"Ah, here is Mr. Carrington. Shall I commend this young lady to your
care? There are some places she might like to see and some curiosities.
You are so much at home here."

Roger Carrington bowed. Mrs. Jettson had found a friend in the wife
of one of the more recent senators, and they were having a little
chat, as it was that lady's first visit to Washington to attend the
inauguration. So Roger slipped the fair hand within his arm, and they
began a tour of the still unfurnished White House, though much nearer
completion and in a better state than Abigail Adams had found it in her
brief sojourn.

Mrs. Madison's tact and grace had brought about a more congenial state
of affairs even while wife of the secretary of state. There was in
the conduct of both men and women a trifle of formality verging to a
certain grandeur, yet gracious and truly courteous. There was no mad
rush then for the first places.

Presently the company broke up into chatty little groups. Jaqueline
found herself quite a center in the midst of other centers. Here were
two or three elderly men who had known her father. She saw a young
neighbor in the throng whose eyes expressed so much amazement that she
could not help smiling. Lieutenant Ralston had come in his soldier
trappings, and there was quite a sprinkling of military men, with
others in the Continental costume that gave such a picturesque aspect.

Jaqueline had a fresh, girlish charm, and to-night she certainly
looked lovely. Women and girls, when they were admitted to society,
were expected to make themselves agreeable. No abstruse learning was
required, and though they might have strong political preferences they
were delicately veiled. Mrs. Madison had gone through four years of
unusual stress, and the few enemies she had made were only those who
envied her popularity. She had been discretion itself outwardly, and
her opinions, her conferences, and her advice had been lodged only in
her husband's bosom.

Jaqueline had no care, no experience to conceal, and she had already
tried her prentice hand on the students at Williamsburg. And that
natural art of making men pleased with themselves, that charming
deference, so great a factor in that day, was hers in an eminent
degree. Roger Carrington watched her as she caught up the merry
badinage and returned it with gay sparkles, and the pretty air that
was half girlish demureness, the other half the indefinable charm of
budding womanhood.

Lieutenant Ralston took her in to the refreshment table set in the
large dining room.

"I wonder when you will see Miss Floyd?" he began in a low tone. "I
hoped to the last moment that Mrs. Jettson could persuade her parents
to let her sister come for a few days. You go to the Pineries quite
often?"

"Why, yes--some of us. Father has a truly fervent regard for
grandmamma, and the girls come down frequently. They like better to
come to us, I think. There is no real fun in staying at the Pineries.
Of course when we were children we went dutifully."

She gave a soft, light laugh.

Ralston was considering. "Mrs. Jettson would be likely to know--of a
visit?" hesitatingly.

"She might--if we sent her the word."

"I wonder if you will ever feel friendly enough to invite me? I
like your father extremely. I was very glad to have the opportunity
of meeting him. And your mother. You know we are all interested in
Kentucky just now."

"I think my parents would give you a very pleasant visit," Jaqueline
said with a grave yet encouraging smile. The sort of conspiracy
interested her. It was quite tempting to be able to hold out a hand of
encouragement to Marian, who hated the dull life at the Pineries and
did so enjoy amusement. Then, a real love affair thrilled Jaqueline
with a delightful sensation.

He was considering how to obtain the invitation honorably, when she
furnished the key.

"I think you would like my brother Louis," she remarked with a becoming
shade of diffidence that went to his heart, it wore such a charming
air of innocence. "He will be home in the early summer, and he always
comes up to Mrs. Jettson's at once. Arthur takes a great interest in
him. He is to study law and the science of government, if there is such
a science. Father has an eye to the Presidency for him, I think."

They both laughed at that.

"The summer is a long way off," he commented rather despondingly.

"The robins are singing and violets are in bloom. At home, no doubt, I
shall find trailing arbutus."

"They are spring indications."

"You are hard to satisfy."

"Am I? Well, I would rather have that reputation than one of being
pleased with trifles."

"Sometimes the trifles prove very agreeable."

Mr. and Mrs. Cutts, Mrs. Madison's favorite sister, came sauntering
slowly down with a bevy of friends, greeting many of the guests.
She paused and glanced at Jaqueline. There was some of the charming
affability about her that characterized the wife of the President.
Indeed, she had been trained on the same lines.

"I should like to be certain of this young lady's name. I did not quite
catch it when she was introduced," Mrs. Cutts said in a tone that was
complimentary in itself.

Lieutenant Ralston presented his companion, who in turn was presented
to several other notables.

"Mason," she repeated. "Yes, I should guess you were a Virginian. My
sister, you know, adores her home at Montpellier. Are you anywhere in
her vicinity? That is, when she is in her true home? Though we have
both become endeared to this ugly, unfinished Washington that we all
have to look at by the eye of faith, and not only that, but make our
friends see through the same lenses. Lieutenant Ralston, shall we ever
have a Capital worthy of the nation?"

"That knowledge is not quite in my line," he returned laughingly.
"If war should come it will be my business to fight for it. And you
can recall the old adage that Rome was not built in a day. Is it a
historical fact or a Shaksperean apothegm? If the fact, we can take
courage and go on."

"Why, of course it took centuries to build imperial Rome," and Mrs.
Cutts' eyes twinkled with amusement.

"But they were always tearing down, you remember. Every emperor
demolished so much that his predecessor had done. There must have been
a good deal to start with."

"And we started with nothing. I wonder anyone had the courage to
leave lovely, refined, and gay Philadelphia for this desert! Now, if
the tent had even been pitched in Baltimore it would have been more
appropriate."

"But, you see, when we built a country we wanted to try our hand at
building a Capital to match. It will be fine enough when it is done,
in a dozen years or so. And it unites the warring factions. One city
cannot be jealous of another."

"Miss Mason, this young man bewilders me and leads me astray. See what
it is to be a soldier and a patriot. Now I am going to carry you off
and introduce you to some girls. Are you going to stay long enough to
go to a ball? Every Virginia girl dances."

She was so bright and pretty that Mrs. Cutts was oddly interested in
her.

"Oh, I adore dancing and riding! But I am afraid--my father is to send
for me in a few days. If he were coming himself I might beg off. Your
suggestion is so tempting."

"Perhaps you can. Now, here are some young people you must know," and
turning away from the elders she introduced Jaqueline to a merry group.

