fear, some conviction that I had an idea, some idea of her own that it
was the best thing to do. She came out as abruptly as Marian had done:
'If you hear anything against your father--anything I mean, except that
he's odious and vile--remember it's perfectly false.' That was the way
I knew--it was true, though I recall that I said to her then that I of
course knew it wasn't. She might have told me it was true, and yet have
trusted me to contradict fiercely enough any accusation of him that I
should meet--to contradict it much more fiercely and effectively, I
think, than she would have done herself. As it happens, however," the
girl went on, "I've never had occasion, and I've been conscious of it
with a sort of surprise. It has made the world, at times, seem more
decent. No one has so much as breathed to me. That has been a part of
the silence, the silence that surrounds him, the silence that, for the
world, has washed him out. He doesn't exist for people. And yet I'm as
sure as ever. In fact, though I know no more than I did then, I'm more
sure. And that," she wound up, "is what I sit here and tell you about
my own father. If you don't call it a proof of confidence I don't know
what will satisfy you."

"It satisfies me beautifully," Densher declared, "but it doesn't, my
dear child, very greatly enlighten me. You don't, you know, really tell
me anything. It's so vague that what am I to think but that you may
very well be mistaken? What has he done, if no one can name it?"

"He has done everything."

"Oh--everything! Everything's nothing."

"Well then," said Kate, "he has done some particular thing. It's
known--only, thank God, not to us. But it has been the end of him. You
could doubtless find out with a little trouble. You can ask about."

Densher for a moment said nothing; but the next moment he made it up.
"I wouldn't find out for the world, and I'd rather lose my tongue than
put a question."

"And yet it's a part of me," said Kate.

"A part of you?"

"My father's dishonour." Then she sounded for him, but more deeply than
ever yet, her note of proud, still pessimism. "How can such a thing as
that not be the great thing in one's life?"

She had to take from him again, on this, one of his long looks, and she
took it to its deepest, its headiest dregs. "I shall ask you, for the
great thing in your life," he said, "to depend on me a little more."
After which, just hesitating, "Doesn't he belong to some club?" he
inquired.

She had a grave headshake. "He used to--to many."

"But he has dropped them?"

"They've dropped him. Of that I'm sure. It ought to do for you. I
offered him," the girl immediately continued--"and it was for that I
went to him--to come and be with him, make a home for him so far as is
possible. But he won't hear of it."

Densher took this in with visible, but generous, wonder. "You offered
him--'impossible' as you describe him to me--to live with him and share
his disadvantages?" The young man saw for the moment but the high
beauty of it. "You are gallant!"

"Because it strikes you as being brave for him?" She wouldn't in the
least have this. "It wasn't courage--it was the opposite. I did it to
save myself--to escape."

He had his air, so constant at this stage, as of her giving him finer
things than any one to think about. "Escape from what?"

"From everything."

"Do you by any chance mean from me?"

"No; I spoke to him of you, told him--or what amounted to it--that I
would bring you, if he would allow it, with me."

"But he won't allow it," said Densher.

"Won't hear of it on any terms. He won't help me, won't save me, won't
hold out a finger to me," Kate went on; "he simply wriggles away, in
his inimitable manner, and throws me back."

"Back then, after all, thank goodness," Densher concurred, "on me."

But she spoke again as with the sole vision of the whole scene she had
evoked. "It's a pity, because you'd like him. He's wonderful--he's
charming." Her companion gave one of the laughs that marked in him,
again, his feeling in her tone, inveterately, something that banished
the talk of other women, so far as he knew other women, to the dull
desert of the conventional, and she had already continued. "He would
make himself delightful to you."

"Even while objecting to me?"

"Well, he likes to please," the girl explained--"personally. He would
appreciate you and be clever with you. It's to me he objects--that is
as to my liking you."

"Heaven be praised then," Densher exclaimed, "that you like me enough
for the objection!"

But she met it after an instant with some inconsequence. "I don't. I
offered to give you up, if necessary, to go to him. But it made no
difference, and that's what I mean," she pursued, "by his declining me
on any terms. The point is, you see, that I don't escape."

Densher wondered. "But if you didn't wish to escape me?"

"I wished to escape Aunt Maud. But he insists that it's through her and
through her only that I may help him; just as Marian insists that it's
through her, and through her only, that I can help her. That's what I
mean," she again explained, "by their turning me back."

The young man thought. "Your sister turns you back too?"

"Oh, with a push!"

"But have you offered to live with your sister?"

"I would in a moment if she'd have me. That's all my virtue--a narrow
little family feeling. I've a small stupid piety--I don't know what to
call it." Kate bravely sustained it; she made it out. "Sometimes,
alone, I've to smother my shrieks when I think of my poor mother. She
went through things--they pulled her down; I know what they were now--I
didn't then, for I was a pig; and my position, compared with hers, is
an insolence of success. That's what Marian keeps before me; that's
what papa himself, as I say, so inimitably does. My position's a value,
a great value, for them both"--she followed and followed. Lucid and
ironic, she knew no merciful muddle. "It's the value--the only one
they have."

Everything between our young couple moved today, in spite of their
pauses, their margin, to a quicker measure--the quickness and anxiety
playing lightning-like in the sultriness. Densher watched, decidedly,
as he had never done before. "And the fact you speak of holds you!"

"Of course, it holds me. It's a perpetual sound in my ears. It makes me
ask myself if I've any right to personal happiness, any right to
anything but to be as rich and overflowing, as smart and shining, as I
can be made."

Densher had a pause. "Oh, you might, with good luck, have the personal
happiness too."

Her immediate answer to this was a silence like his own; after which
she gave him straight in the face, but quite simply and quietly:
"Darling!"

It took him another moment; then he was also quiet and simple. "Will
you settle it by our being married to-morrow--as we can, with perfect
ease, civilly?"

"Let us wait to arrange it," Kate presently replied, "till after you've
seen her."

"Do you call that adoring me?" Densher demanded.

They were talking, for the time, with the strangest mixture of
deliberation and directness, and nothing could have been more in the
tone of it than the way she at last said: "You're afraid of her
yourself."

He gave a smile a trifle glassy. "For young persons of a great
distinction and a very high spirit, we're a caution!"

"Yes," she took it straight up; "we're hideously intelligent. But
there's fun in it too. We must get our fun where we can. I think," she
added, and for that matter, not without courage, "our relation's
beautiful. It's not a bit vulgar. I cling to some saving romance in
things."

It made him break into a laugh which had more freedom than his smile.
"How you must be afraid you'll chuck me!"

"No, no, that would be vulgar. But, of course, I do see my danger,"
she admitted, "of doing something base."

"Then what can be so base as sacrificing me?"

"I shan't sacrifice you; don't cry out till you're hurt. I shall
sacrifice nobody and nothing, and that's just my situation, that I want
and that I shall try for everything. That," she wound up, "is how I see
myself, and how I see you quite as much, acting for them."

"For 'them'?" and the young man strongly, extravagantly marked his
coldness. "Thank you!"

"Don't you care for them?"

"Why should I? What are they to me but a serious nuisance?"

As soon as he had permitted himself this qualification of the
unfortunate persons she so perversely cherished, he repented of his
roughness--and partly because he expected a flash from her. But it was
one of her finest sides that she sometimes flashed with a mere mild
glow. "I don't see why you don't make out a little more that if we
avoid stupidity we may do all. We may keep her."

He stared. "Make her pension us?"

"Well, wait at least till we have seen."

He thought. "Seen what can be got out of her?"

Kate for a moment said nothing. "After all I never asked her; never,
when our troubles were at the worst, appealed to her nor went near her.
She fixed upon me herself, settled on me with her wonderful gilded
claws."

"You speak," Densher observed, "as if she were a vulture."

"Call it an eagle--with a gilded beak as well, and with wings for great
flights. If she's a thing of the air, in short--say at once a
balloon--I never myself got into her car. I was her choice."

It had really, her sketch of the affair, a high colour and a great
style; at all of which he gazed a minute as at a picture by a master.
"What she must see in you!"

"Wonders!" And, speaking it loud, she stood straight up. "Everything.
There it is."

Yes, there it was, and as she remained before him he continued to face
it. "So that what you mean is that I'm to do my part in somehow
squaring her?"

"See her, see her," Kate said with impatience.

"And grovel to her?"

"Ah, do what you like!" And she walked in her impatience away.


IV

His eyes had followed her at this time quite long enough, before he
overtook her, to make out more than ever, in the poise of her head, the
pride of her step--he didn't know what best to call it--a part, at
least, of Mrs. Lowder's reasons. He consciously winced while he figured
his presenting himself as a reason opposed to these; though, at the
same moment, with the source of Aunt Maud's inspiration thus before
him, he was prepared to conform, by almost any abject attitude or
profitable compromise, to his companion's easy injunction. He would do
as she liked--his own liking might come off as it would. He would
help her to the utmost of his power; for, all the rest of that day and
the next, her easy injunction, tossed off that way as she turned her
beautiful back, was like the crack of a great whip in the blue air, the
high element in which Mrs. Lowder hung. He wouldn't grovel perhaps--he
wasn't quite ready for that; but he would be patient, ridiculous,
reasonable, unreasonable, and above all deeply diplomatic. He would be
clever, with all his cleverness--which he now shook hard, as he
sometimes shook his poor, dear, shabby, old watch, to start it up
again. It wasn't, thank goodness, as if there weren't plenty of that,
and with what they could muster between them it would be little to the
credit of their star, however pale, that defeat and
surrender--surrender so early, so immediate--should have to ensue. It
was not indeed that he thought of that disaster as, at the worst, a
direct sacrifice of their possibilities: he imaged--it which was enough
as some proved vanity, some exposed fatuity, in the idea of bringing
Mrs. Lowder round. When, shortly afterwards, in this lady's vast
drawing-room--the apartments at Lancaster Gate had struck him from the
first as of prodigious extent--he awaited her, at her request, conveyed
in a "reply-paid" telegram, his theory was that of their still clinging
to their idea, though with a sense of the difficulty of it really
enlarged to the scale of the place.

He had the place for a long time--it seemed to him a quarter of an
hour--to himself; and while Aunt Maud kept him and kept him, while
observation and reflection crowded on him, he asked himself what was to
be expected of a person who could treat one like that. The visit, the
hour were of her own proposing, so that her delay, no doubt, was but
part of a general plan of putting him to inconvenience. As he walked to
and fro, however, taking in the message of her massive, florid
furniture, the immense expression of her signs and symbols, he had as
little doubt of the inconvenience he was prepared to suffer. He found
himself even facing the thought that he had nothing to fall back on,
and that that was as great a humiliation in a good cause as a proud man
could desire. It had not yet been so distinct to him that he made no
show--literally not the smallest; so complete a show seemed made there
all about him; so almost abnormally affirmative, so aggressively erect,
were the huge, heavy objects that syllabled his hostess story. "When
all's said and done, you know, she's colossally vulgar"--he had once
all but said that of Mrs. Lowder to her niece; only just keeping it
back at the last, keeping it to himself with all its danger about it.
It mattered because it bore so directly, and he at all events quite
felt it a thing that Kate herself would some day bring out to him. It
bore directly at present, and really all the more that somehow,
strangely, it didn't in the least imply that Aunt Maud was dull or
stale. She was vulgar with freshness, almost with beauty, since there
was beauty, to a degree, in the play of so big and bold a temperament.
She was in fine quite the largest possible quantity to deal with; and
he was in the cage of the lioness without his whip--the whip, in a
word, of a supply of proper retorts. He had no retort but that he loved
the girl--which in such a house as that was painfully cheap. Kate had
mentioned to him more than once that her aunt was Passionate, speaking
of it as a kind of offset and uttering it as with a capital P, marking
it as something that he might, that he in fact ought to, turn about in
some way to their advantage. He wondered at this hour to what advantage
he could turn it; but the case grew less simple the longer he waited.
Decidedly there was something he hadn't enough of. He stood as one fast.

His slow march to and fro seemed to give him the very measure; as he
paced and paced the distance it became the desert of his poverty; at
the sight of which expanse moreover he could pretend to himself as
little as before that the desert looked redeemable. Lancaster Gate
looked rich--that was all the effect; which it was unthinkable that any
state of his own should ever remotely resemble. He read more vividly,
more critically, as has been hinted, the appearances about him; and
they did nothing so much as make him wonder at his aesthetic reaction.
He hadn't known--and in spite of Kate's repeated reference to her own
rebellions of taste--that he should "mind" so much how an independent
lady might decorate her house. It was the language of the house itself
that spoke to him, writing out for him, with surpassing breadth and
freedom, the associations and conceptions, the ideals and possibilities
of the mistress. Never, he flattered himself, had he seen anything so
gregariously ugly--operatively, ominously so cruel. He was glad to have
found this last name for the whole character; "cruel" somehow played
into the subject for an article--that his impression put straight into
his mind. He would write about the heavy horrors that could still
flourish, that lifted their undiminished heads, in an age so proud of
its short way with false gods; and it would be funny if what he should
have got from Mrs. Lowder were to prove, after all, but a small amount
of copy. Yet the great thing, really the dark thing, was that, even
while he thought of the quick column he might add up, he felt it less
easy to laugh at the heavy horrors than to quail before them. He
couldn't describe and dismiss them collectively, call them either
Mid-Victorian or Early; not being at all sure they were rangeable under
one rubric. It was only manifest they were splendid and were
furthermore conclusively British. They constituted an order and they
abounded in rare material--precious woods, metals, stuffs, stones. He
had never dreamed of anything so fringed and scalloped, so buttoned and
corded, drawn everywhere so tight, and curled everywhere so thick. He
had never dreamed of so much gilt and glass, so much satin and plush,
so much rosewood and marble and malachite. But it was, above all, the
solid forms, the wasted finish, the misguided cost, the general
attestation of morality and money, a good conscience and a big balance.
These things finally represented for him a portentous negation of his
own world of thought--of which, for that matter, in the presence of
them, he became as for the first time hopelessly aware. They revealed
it to him by their merciless difference. His interview with Aunt Maud,
none the less, took by no means the turn he had expected. Passionate
though her nature, no doubt Mrs. Lowder, on this occasion, neither
threatened nor appealed. Her arms of aggression, her weapons of
defence, were presumably close at hand, but she left them untouched and
unmentioned, and was in fact so bland that he properly perceived only
afterwards how adroit she had been. He properly perceived something
else as well, which complicated his case; he shouldn't have known what
to call it if he hadn't called it her really imprudent good-nature. Her
blandness, in other words, was not mere policy--he wasn't dangerous
enough for policy; it was the result, he could see, of her fairly
liking him a little. From the moment she did that she herself became
more interesting; and who knew what might happen should he take to
liking her? Well, it was a risk he naturally must face. She fought
him, at any rate, but with one hand, with a few loose grains of stray
powder. He recognised at the end of ten minutes, and even without her
explaining it, that if she had made him wait it had not been to wound
him; they had by that time almost directly met on the fact of her
intention. She had wanted him to think for himself of what she proposed
to say to him--not having otherwise announced it; wanted to let it come
home to him on the spot, as she had shrewdly believed it would. Her
first question, on appearing, had practically been as to whether he
hadn't taken her hint, and this inquiry assumed so many things that it
made discussion, immediately, frank and large. He knew, with the
question put, that the hint was just what he had taken; knew that she
had made him quickly forgive her the display of her power; knew that if
he didn't take care he should understand her, and the strength of her
purpose, to say nothing of that of her imagination, nothing of the
length of her purse, only too well. Yet he pulled himself up with the
thought, too, that he was not going to be afraid of understanding her;
he was just going to understand and understand without detriment to the
feeblest, even, of his passions. The play of one's mind let one in, at
the best, dreadfully, in action, in the need of action, where
simplicity was all; but when one couldn't prevent it the thing was to
make it complete. There would never be mistakes but for the original
fun of mistakes. What he must use his fatal intelligence for was to
resist. Mrs. Lowder, meanwhile, might use it for whatever she liked.

It was after she had begun her statement of her own idea about Kate
that he began, on his side, to reflect that--with her manner of
offering it as really sufficient if he would take the trouble to
embrace--it she couldn't half hate him. That was all, positively, she
seemed to show herself for the time as attempting; clearly, if she did
her intention justice, she would have nothing more disagreeable to do.
"If I hadn't been ready to go very much further, you understand, I
wouldn't have gone so far. I don't care what you repeat to her--the
more you repeat to her, perhaps the better; and, at any rate, there's
nothing she doesn't already know. I don't say it for her; I say it for
you--when I want to reach my niece I know how to do it straight." So
Aunt Maud delivered herself--as with homely benevolence, in the
simplest, but the clearest terms; virtually conveying that, though a
word to the wise was, doubtless, in spite of the advantage, not
always enough, a word to the good could never fail to be. The sense our
young man read into her words was that she liked him because he was
good--was really, by her measure, good enough: good enough, that is, to
give up her niece for her and go his way in peace. But was he good
enough--by his own measure? He fairly wondered, while she more fully
expressed herself, if it might be his doom to prove so. "She's the
finest possible creature--of course you flatter yourself that you know
it. But I know it, quite as well as you possibly can--by which I mean a
good deal better yet; and the tune to which I'm ready to prove my faith
compares favourably enough, I think, with anything you can do. I
don't say it because she's my niece--that's nothing to me: I might have
had fifty nieces, and I wouldn't have brought one of them to this place
if I hadn't found her to my taste. I don't say I wouldn't have done
something else, but I wouldn't have put up with her presence. Kate's
presence, by good fortune, I marked early; Kate's presence--unluckily
for you--is everything I could possibly wish; Kate's presence is, in
short, as fine as you know, and I've been keeping it for the comfort of
my declining years. I've watched it long; I've been saving it up and
letting it, as you say of investments, appreciate, and you may judge
whether, now it has begun to pay so, I'm likely to consent to treat for
it with any but a high bidder. I can do the best with her, and I've my
idea of the best."

"Oh, I quite conceive," said Densher, "that your idea of the best isn't
me."

It was an oddity of Mrs. Lowder's that her face in speech was like a
lighted window at night, but that silence immediately drew the curtain.
The occasion for reply allowed by her silence was never easy to take;
yet she was still less easy to interrupt. The great glaze of her
surface, at all events, gave her visitor no present help. "I didn't ask
you to come to hear what it isn't--I asked you to come to hear what it
is."

"Of course," Densher laughed, "it's very great indeed."

His hostess went on as if his contribution to the subject were barely
relevant. "I want to see her high, high up--high up and in the light."

"Ah, you naturally want to marry her to a duke, and are eager to smooth
away any hitch."

She gave him so, on this, the mere effect of the drawn blind that it
quite forced him, at first, into the sense, possibly just, of having
affected her as flip pant, perhaps even as low. He had been looked at
so, in blighted moments of presumptuous youth, by big cold public men,
but never, so far as he could recall, by any private lady. More than
anything yet it gave him the measure of his companion's subtlety, and
thereby of Kate's possible career. "Don't be too impossible!"--he
feared from his friend, for a moment, some such answer as that; and
then felt, as she spoke otherwise, as if she were letting him off
easily. "I want her to marry a great man." That was all; but, more and
more, it was enough; and if it hadn't been her next words would have
made it so. "And I think of her what I think. There you are."

They sat for a little face to face upon it, and he was conscious of
something deeper still, of something she wished him to understand if he
only would. To that extent she did appeal--appealed to the intelligence
she desired to show she believed him to possess. He was meanwhile, at
all events, not the man wholly to fail of comprehension. "Of course I'm
aware how little I can answer to any fond, proud dream. You've a
view--a magnificent one; into which I perfectly enter. I thoroughly
understand what I'm not, and I'm much obliged to you for not reminding
me of it in any rougher way." She said nothing--she kept that up; it
might even have been to let him go further, if he was capable of it, in
the way of poorness of spirit. It was one of those cases in which a man
couldn't show, if he showed at all, save for poor; unless indeed he
preferred to show for asinine. It was the plain truth: he was--on
Mrs. Lowder's basis, the only one in question--a very small quantity,
and he did know, damnably, what made quantities large. He desired to be
perfectly simple; yet in the midst of that effort a deeper apprehension
throbbed. Aunt Maud clearly conveyed it, though he couldn't later on
have said how. "You don't really matter, I believe, so much as you
think, and I'm not going to make you a martyr by banishing you. Your
performances with Kate in the Park are ridiculous so far as they're
meant as consideration for me; and I had much rather see you
myself--since you're, in your way, my dear young man, delightful--and
arrange with you, count with you, as I easily, as I perfectly should.
Do you suppose me so stupid as to quarrel with you if it's not really
necessary? It won't--it would be too absurd!--be necessary. I can
bite your head off any day, any day I really open my mouth; and I'm
dealing with you now, see--and successfully judge--without opening it.
I do things handsomely all round--I place you in the presence of the
plan with which, from the moment it's a case of taking you seriously,
you're incompatible. Come then as near it as you like, walk all round
it--don't be afraid you'll hurt it!--and live on with it before you."

He afterwards felt that if she hadn't absolutely phrased all this it
was because she so soon made him out as going with her far enough. He
was so pleasantly affected by her asking no promise of him, her not
proposing he should pay for her indulgence by his word of honour not to
interfere, that he gave her a kind of general assurance of esteem.
Immediately afterwards, then, he spoke of these things to Kate, and
what then came back to him first of all was the way he had said to
her--he mentioned it to the girl--very much as one of a pair of lovers
says in a rupture by mutual consent: "I hope immensely, of course, that
you'll always regard me as a friend." This had perhaps been going
far--he submitted it all to Kate; but really there had been so much in
it that it was to be looked at, as they might say, wholly in its own
light. Other things than those we have presented had come up before the
close of his scene with Aunt Maud, but this matter of her not treating
him as a peril of the first order easily predominated. There was
moreover plenty to talk about on the occasion of his subsequent passage
with our young woman, it having been put to him abruptly, the night
before, that he might give himself a lift and do his newspaper a
service--so flatteringly was the case expressed--by going, for fifteen
or twenty weeks, to America. The idea of a series of letters from the
United States from the strictly social point of view had for some time
been nursed in the inner sanctuary at whose door he sat, and the moment
was now deemed happy for letting it loose. The imprisoned thought had,
in a word, on the opening of the door, flown straight out into
Densher's face, or perched at least on his shoulder, making him look up
in surprise from his mere inky office-table. His account of the matter
to Kate was that he couldn't refuse--not being in a position, as yet,
to refuse anything; but that his being chosen for such an errand
confounded his sense of proportion. He was definite as to his scarce
knowing how to measure the honour, which struck him as equivocal; he
had not quite supposed himself the man for the class of job. This
confused consciousness, he intimated, he had promptly enough betrayed
to his manager; with the effect, however, of seeing the question
surprisingly clear up. What it came to was that the sort of twaddle
that was not in his chords was, unexpectedly, just what they happened
this time not to want. They wanted his letters, for queer reasons,
about as good as he could let them come; he was to play his own little
tune and not be afraid; that was the whole point.

It would have been the whole, that is, had there not been a sharper one
still in the circumstance that he was to start at once. His mission, as
they called it at the office, would probably be over by the end of
June, which was desirable; but to bring that about he must now not lose
a week; his inquiries, he understood, were to cover the whole ground,
and there were reasons of State--reasons operating at the seat of
empire in Fleet Street--why the nail should be struck on the head.
Densher made no secret to Kate of his having asked for a day to decide;
and his account of that matter was that he felt he owed it to her to
speak to her first. She assured him on this that nothing so much as
that scruple had yet shown her how they were bound together; she was
clearly proud of his letting a thing of such importance depend on her;
but she was clearer still as to his instant duty. She rejoiced in his
prospect and urged him to his task; she should miss him intensely--of
course she should miss him; but she made so little of it that she spoke
with jubilation of what he would see and would do. She made so much of
this last quantity that he laughed at her innocence, though also with
scarce the heart to give her the real size of his drop in the daily
bucket. He was struck at the same time with her happy grasp of what had
really occurred in Fleet Street--all the more that it was his own final
reading. He was to pull the subject up--that was just what they wanted;
and it would take more than all the United States together, visit them
each as he might, to let him down. It was just because he didn't nose
about and wasn't the usual gossipmonger that they had picked him out;
it was a branch of their correspondence with which they evidently
wished a new tone associated, such a tone as, from now on, it would
have always to take from his example.

"How you ought indeed, when you understand so well, to be a
journalist's wife!" Densher exclaimed in admiration, even while she
struck him as fairly hurrying him off.

But she was almost impatient of the praise. "What do you expect one
not to understand when one cares for you?"

"Ah then, I'll put it otherwise and say 'How much you care for me!'"

"Yes," she assented; "it fairly redeems my stupidity. I shall, with a
chance to show it," she added, "have some imagination for you."

She spoke of the future this time as so little contingent, that he felt
a queerness of conscience in making her the report that he presently
arrived at on what had passed for him with the real arbiter of their
destiny. The way for that had been blocked a little by his news from
Fleet Street; but in the crucible of their happy discussion this
element soon melted into the other, and in the mixture that ensued the
parts were not to be distinguished. The young man moreover, before
taking his leave, was to see why Kate had just spoken of the future as
if they now really possessed it, and was to come to the vision by a
devious way that deepened the final cheer. Their faces were turned to
the illumined quarter as soon as he had answered her question in
respect to the appearance of their being able to play a waiting game
with success. It was for the possibility of that appearance that she
had, a few days before, so earnestly pressed him to see her aunt; and
if after his hour with that lady it had not struck Densher that he had
seen her to the happiest purpose the poor facts flushed with a better
meaning as Kate, one by one, took them up.

"If she consents to your coming, why isn't that everything?"

"It is everything; everything she thinks it. It's the
probability--I mean as Mrs. Lowder measures probability--that I may be
prevented from becoming a complication for her by some arrangement,
any arrangement, through which you shall see me often and easily.
She's sure of my want of money, and that gives her time. She believes
in my having a certain amount of delicacy, in my wishing to better my
state before I put the pistol to your head in respect to sharing it.
The time that will take figures for her as the time that will help her
if she doesn't spoil her chance by treating me badly. She doesn't at
all wish moreover," Densher went on, "to treat me badly, for I believe,
upon my honour, funny as it may sound to you, that she personally
rather likes me, and that if you weren't in question I might almost
become her pet young man. She doesn't disparage intellect and
culture--quite the contrary; she wants them to adorn her board and be
named in her programme; and I'm sure it has sometimes cost her a real
pang that I should be so desirable, at once, and so impossible." He
paused a moment, and his companion then saw that a strange smile was in
his face--a smile as strange even as the adjunct, in her own, of this
informing vision. "I quite suspect her of believing that, if the truth
were known, she likes me literally better than--deep down--you yourself
do: wherefore she does me the honour to think that I may be safely left
to kill my own cause. There, as I say, comes in her margin. I'm not the
sort of stuff of romance that wears, that washes, that survives use,
that resists familiarity. Once in any degree admit that, and your pride
and prejudice will take care of the rest! the pride fed full,
meanwhile, by the system she means to practise with you, and the
prejudice excited by the comparison she'll enable you to make, from
which I shall come off badly. She likes me, but she'll never like me so
much as when she succeeded a little better in making me look wretched.
For then you'll like me less."

Kate showed for this evocation a due interest, but no alarm; and it was
a little as if to pay his tender cynicism back in kind that she after
an instant replied: "I see, I see; what an immense affair she must
think me! One was aware, but you deepen the impression."

"I think you'll make no mistake," said Densher, "in letting it go as
deep as it will."

He had given her indeed, she made no scruple of showing, plenty to
consider. "Her facing the music, her making you boldly as welcome as
you say--that's an awfully big theory, you know, and worthy of all the
other big things that, in one's acquaintance with people, give her a
place so apart."

"Oh, she's grand," the young man conceded; "she's on the scale,
altogether, of the car of Juggernaut which was a kind of image that
came to me yesterday while I waited for her at Lancaster Gate. The
things in your drawing-room there were like the forms of the strange
idols, the mystic excrescences, with which one may suppose the front of
the car to bristle."

"Yes, aren't they?" the girl returned; and they had, over all that
aspect of their wonderful lady, one of those deep and free interchanges
that made everything but confidence a false note for them. There were
complications, there were questions; but they were so much more
together than they were anything else. Kate uttered for a while no word
of refutation of Aunt Maud's "big" diplomacy, and they left it there,
as they would have left any other fine product, for a monument to her
powers. But, Densher related further, he had had in other respects too
the car of Juggernaut to face; he omitted nothing from his account of
his visit, least of all the way Aunt Maud had frankly at last--though
indeed only under artful pressure--fallen foul of his very type, his
want of the right marks, his foreign accidents, his queer antecedents.
She had told him he was but half a Briton, which, he granted Kate,
would have been dreadful if he hadn't so let himself in for it.

"I was really curious, you see," he explained, "to find out from her
what sort of queer creature, what sort of social anomaly, in the light
of such conventions as hers, such an education as mine makes one pass
for."

Kate said nothing for a little; but then, "Why should you care?" she
asked.

"Oh," he laughed, "I like her so much; and then, for a man of my trade,
her views, her spirit, are essentially a thing to get hold of; they
belong to the great public mind that we meet at every turn and that we
must keep setting up 'codes' with. Besides," he added, "I want to
please her personally."

"Ah, yes, we must please her personally!" his companion echoed; and the
words may represent all their definite recognition, at the time, of
Densher's politic gain. They had in fact between this and his start for
New York many matters to handle, and the question he now touched upon
came up for Kate above all. She looked at him as if he had really told
her aunt more of his immediate personal story than he had ever told
herself. That, if it were so, was an accident, and it put him, for half
an hour, on as much of the picture of his early years abroad, his
migratory parents, his Swiss schools, his German university, as she had
easy attention for. A man, he intimated, a man of their world, would
have spotted him straight as to many of these points; a man of their
world, so far as they had a world, would have been through the English
mill. But it was none the less charming to make his confession to a
woman; women had, in fact, for such differences, so much more
imagination. Kate showed at present all his case could require; when
she had had it from beginning to end she declared that she now made out
more than ever yet of what she loved him for. She had herself, as a
child, lived with some continuity in the world across the Channel,
coming home again still a child; and had participated after that, in
her teens, in her mother's brief but repeated retreats to Dresden, to
Florence, to Biarritz, weak and expensive attempts at economy from
which there stuck to her--though in general coldly expressed, through
the instinctive avoidance of cheap raptures--the religion of foreign
things. When it was revealed to her how many more foreign things were
in Merton Densher than he had hitherto taken the trouble to catalogue,
she almost faced him as if he were a map of the continent or a handsome
present of a delightful new "Murray." He hadn't meant to swagger, he
had rather meant to plead, though with Mrs. Lowder he had meant also a
little to explain. His father had been, in strange countries, in twenty
settlements of the English, British chaplain, resident or occasional,
and had had for years the unusual luck of never wanting a billet. His
career abroad had therefore been unbroken, and, as his stipend had
never been great, he had educated his children at the smallest cost, in
the schools nearest; which was also a saving of railway fares.
Densher's mother, it further appeared, had practised on her side a
distinguished industry, to the success of which--so far as success ever
crowned it--this period of exile had much contributed: she copied,
patient lady, famous pictures in great museums, having begun with a
happy natural gift and taking in betimes the scale of her opportunity.
Copyists abroad of course swarmed, but Mrs. Densher had had a sense and
