moment when, at last, stumbling into the smooth path left by the
Graham Glacier, we crawled through the mountain-wall, out of the
unknown land, and once more into a world protected by the Lord
Almighty.

A hunting-party of Elbon Indians brought us in to the post, and
everybody was most kind--that I remember, just before going into
several weeks of unpleasant delirium mercifully mitigated with
unconsciousness.

Curiously enough, Professor Van Twiller was not very much battered,
physically, for I had carried her for days, pickaback. But the awful
experience had produced a shock which resulted in a nervous condition
that lasted so long after she returned to New York that the wealthy
and eminent specialist who attended her insisted upon taking her to
the Riviera and marrying her. I sometimes wonder--but, as I have said,
such reflections have no place in these austere pages.

However, anybody, I fancy, is at liberty to speculate upon the fate of
the late Professor Smawl and William Spike, and upon the mules and the
gentle dingue. Personally, I am convinced that the suggestive
silhouettes I saw on that ghastly curtain of fog were cast by
beatified beings in some earthly paradise--a mirage of bliss of which
we caught but the colorless shadow-shapes floating 'twixt sea and
sky.

At all events, neither Professor Smawl nor her William Spike ever
returned; no exploring expedition has found a trace of mule or lady,
of William or the dingue. The new expedition to be organized by
Barnard College may penetrate still farther. I suppose that, when the
time comes, I shall be expected to volunteer. But Professor Van
Twiller is married, and William and Professor Smawl ought to be, and
altogether, considering the mammoth and that gigantic and splendid
apparition that bent from the zenith to the ocean and sent a
tidal-wave rolling from the palm of one white hand--I say, taking all
these various matters under consideration, I think I shall decide to
remain in New York and continue writing for the scientific
periodicals. Besides, the mortifying experience at the Paris
Exposition has dampened even my perennially youthful enthusiasm. And
as for the late expedition to Florida, Heaven knows I am ready to
repeat it--nay, I am already forming a plan for the rescue--but though
I am prepared to encounter any danger for the sake of my beloved
superior, Professor Farrago, I do not feel inclined to commit
indiscretions in order to pry into secrets which, as I regard it,
concern Professor Smawl and William Spike alone.

But all this is, in a measure, premature. What I now have to relate is
the recital of an eye-witness to that most astonishing scandal which
occurred during the recent exposition in Paris.




IX


When the delegates were appointed to the International Scientific
Congress at the Paris Exposition of 1900, how little did anybody
imagine that the great conference would end in the most gigantic
scandal that ever stirred two continents?

Yet, had it not been for the pair of American newspapers published in
Paris, this scandal would never have been aired, for the continental
press is so well muzzled that when it bites its teeth merely meet in
the empty atmosphere with a discreet snap.

But to the Yankee nothing excepting the Monroe Doctrine is sacred, and
the unsopped watch-dogs of the press bite right and left, unmuzzled.
The biter bites--it is his profession--and that ends the affair; the
bitee is bitten, and, in the deplorable argot of the hour, "it is up
to him."

So now that the scandal has been well aired and hung out to dry in the
teeth of decency and the four winds, and as all the details have been
cheerfully and grossly exaggerated, it is, perhaps, the proper moment
for the truth to be written by the only person whose knowledge of all
the facts in the affair entitles him to speak for himself as well as
for those honorable ladies and gentlemen whose names and titles have
been so mercilessly criticised.

These, then, are the simple facts:

The International Scientific Congress, now adjourned sine die, met
at nine o'clock in the morning, May 3, 1900, in the Tasmanian Pavilion
of the Paris Exposition. There were present the most famous scientists
of Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia, Italy, Switzerland, and the
United States.

His Royal Highness the Crown-Prince of Monaco presided.

It is not necessary, now, to repeat the details of that preliminary
meeting. It is sufficient to say that committees representing the
various known sciences were named and appointed by the Prince of
Monaco, who had been unanimously elected permanent chairman of the
conference. It is the composition of a single committee that concerns
us now, and that committee, representing the science which treats of
bird life, was made up as follows:

Chairman--His Royal Highness the Crown-Prince of Monaco. Members--Sir
Peter Grebe, Great Britain; Baron de Becasse, France; his Royal
Highness King Christian, of Finland; the Countess d'Alzette, of
Belgium; and I, from the United States, representing the Smithsonian
Institution and the Bronx Park Zoological Society of New York.

This, then, was the composition of that now notorious ornithological
committee, a modest, earnest, self-effacing little band of workers,
bound together--in the beginning--by those ties of mutual respect and
esteem which unite all laborers in the vineyard of science.

From the first meeting of our committee, science, the great leveller,
left no artificial barriers of rank or title standing between us. We
were enthusiasts in our love for ornithology; we found new inspiration
in the democracy of our common interests.

As for me, I chatted with my fellows, feeling no restraint myself and
perceiving none. The King of Finland and I discussed his latest
monograph on the speckled titmouse, and I was glad to agree with the
King in all his theories concerning the nesting habits of that
important bird.

Sir Peter Grebe, a large, red gentleman in tweeds, read us some notes
he had made on the domestic hen and her reasons for running ahead of a
horse and wagon instead of stepping aside to let the disturbing
vehicle pass.

The Crown-Prince of Monaco took issue with Sir Peter; so did the Baron
de Becasse; and we were entertained by a friendly and marvellously
interesting three-cornered dispute, shared in by three of the most
profound thinkers of the century.

I shall never forget the brilliancy of that argument, nor the modest,
good-humored retorts which gave us all a glimpse into depths of
erudition which impressed us profoundly and set the seal on the bonds
which held us so closely together.

Alas, that the seal should ever have been broken! Alas, that the
glittering apple of discord should have been flung into our
midst!--no, not flung, but gently rolled under our noses by the gloved
fingers of the lovely Countess d'Alzette.

"Messieurs," said the fair Countess, when all present, excepting she
and I, had touched upon or indicated the subjects which they had
prepared to present to the congress--"messieurs mes confr√®res, I have
been requested by our distinguished chairman, the Crown-Prince of
Monaco, to submit to your judgment the subject which, by favor of the
King of the Belgians, I have prepared to present to the International
Scientific Congress."

She made a pretty courtesy as she named her own sovereign, and we all
rose out of respect to that most austere and moral ruler the King of
Belgium.

"But," she said, with a charming smile of depreciation, "I am very,
very much afraid that the subject which I have chosen may not meet
with your approval, gentlemen."

She stood there in her dainty Parisian gown and bonnet, shaking her
pretty head uncertainly, a smile on her lips, her small, gloved
fingers interlocked.

"Oh, I know how dreadful it would be if this great congress should be
compelled to listen to any hoax like that which Monsieur de Rougemont
imposed on the British Royal Society," she said, gravely; "and because
the subject of my paper is as strange as the strangest phenomenon
alleged to have been noted by Monsieur de Rougemont, I hesitate--"

She glanced at the silent listeners around her. Sir Peter's red face
had hardened; the King of Finland frowned slightly; the Crown-Prince
of Monaco and Baron de Becasse wore anxious smiles. But when her
violet eyes met mine I gave her a glance of encouragement, and that
glance, I am forced to confess, was not dictated by scientific
approval, but by something that never entirely dries up in the
mustiest and dustiest of savants--the old Adam implanted in us all.

Now, I knew perfectly well what her subject must be; so did every man
present. For it was no secret that his Majesty of Belgium had been
swindled by some natives in Tasmania, and had paid a very large sum of
money for a skin of that gigantic bird, the ux, which has been so
often reported to exist among the inaccessible peaks of the Tasmanian
Mountains. Needless, perhaps, to say that the skin proved a fraud,
being nothing more than a Barnum contrivance made up out of the skins
of a dozen ostriches and cassowaries, and most cleverly put together
by Chinese workmen; at least, such was the report made on it by Sir
Peter Grebe, who had been sent by the British Society to Antwerp to
examine the acquisition. Needless, also, perhaps, to say that King
Leopold, of Belgium, stoutly maintained that the skin of the ux was
genuine from beak to claw.

For six months there had been a most serious difference of opinion
among European ornithologists concerning the famous ux in the Antwerp
Museum; and this difference had promised to result in an open quarrel
between a few Belgian savants on one side and-all Europe and Great
Britain on the other.

Scientists have a deep--rooted horror of anything that touches on
charlatanism; the taint of trickery not only alarms them, but drives
them away from any suspicious subject, and usually ruins,
scientifically speaking, the person who has introduced the subject for
discussion.

Therefore, it took no little courage for the Countess d'Alzette to
touch, with her dainty gloves, a subject which every scientist in
Europe, with scarcely an exception, had pronounced fraudulent and
unworthy of investigation. And to bring it before the great
International Congress required more courage still; for the person
who could face, in executive session, the most brilliant intellects in
the world, and openly profess faith in a Barnumized bird skin, either
had no scientific reputation to lose or was possessed of a bravery far
above that of the savants who composed the audience.

Now, when the pretty Countess caught a flash of encouragement in my
glance she turned rosy with gratification and surprise. Clearly, she
had not expected to find a single ally in the entire congress. Her
quick smile of gratitude touched me, and made me ashamed, too, for I
had encouraged her out of the pure love of mischief, hoping to hear
the whole matter threshed before the congress and so have it settled
once for all. It was a thoughtless thing to do on my part. I should
have remembered the consequences to the Countess if it were proven
that she had been championing a fraud. The ruffled dignity of the
congress would never forgive her; her scientific career would
practically be at an end, because her theories and observations could
no longer command respect or even the attention of those who knew that
she herself had once been deceived by a palpable fraud.

I looked at her guiltily, already ashamed of myself for encouraging
her to her destruction. How lovely and innocent she appeared, standing
there reading her notes in a low, clear voice, fresh as a child's,
with now and then a delicious upward sweep of her long, dark lashes.

With a start I came to my senses and bestowed a pinch on myself. This
was neither the time nor the place to sentimentalize over a girlish
beauty whose small, Parisian head was crammed full of foolish, brave
theories concerning an imposition which her aged sovereign had been
unable to detect.

I saw the gathering frown on the King of Finland's dark face; I saw
Sir Peter Grebe grow redder and redder, and press his thick lips
together to control the angry "Bosh!" which need not have been uttered
to have been understood. The Baron de Becasse wore a painfully neutral
smile, which froze his face into a quaint gargoyle; the Crown-Prince
of Monaco looked at his polished fingernails with a startled yet
abstracted resignation. Clearly the young Countess had not a
sympathizer in the committee.

Something--perhaps it was the latent chivalry which exists imbedded in
us all, perhaps it was pity, perhaps a glimmering dawn of belief in
the ux skin--set my thoughts working very quickly.

The Countess d'Alzette finished her notes, then glanced around with a
deprecating smile, which died out on her lips when she perceived the
silent and stony hostility of her fellow-scientists. A quick
expression of alarm came into her lovely eyes. Would they vote against
giving her a hearing before the congress? It required a unanimous vote
to reject a subject. She turned her eyes on me.

I rose, red as fire, my head humming with a chaos of ideas all
disordered and vague, yet whirling along in a single, resistless
current. I had come to the congress prepared to deliver a monograph on
the great auk; but now the subject went overboard as the birds
themselves had, and I found myself pleading with the committee to give
the Countess a hearing on the ux.

"Why not?" I exclaimed, warmly. "It is established beyond question
that the ux does exist in Tasmania. Wallace saw several uxen, through
his telescope, walking about upon the inaccessible heights of the
Tasmanian Mountains. Darwin acknowledged that the bird exists;
Professor Farrago has published a pamphlet containing an accumulation
of all data bearing upon the ux. Why should not Madame la Comtesse be
heard by the entire congress?"

I looked at Sir Peter Grebe.

"Have you seen this alleged bird skin in the Antwerp Museum?" he
asked, perspiring with indignation.

"Yes, I have," said I. "It has been patched up, but how are we to know
that the skin did not require patching? I have not found that ostrich
skin has been used. It is true that the Tasmanians may have shot the
bird to pieces and mended the skin with bits of cassowary hide here
and there. But the greater part of the skin, and the beak and claws,
are, in my estimation, well worth the serious attention of savants. To
pronounce them fraudulent is, in my opinion, rash and premature."

I mopped my brow; I was in for it now. I had thrown in my reputation
with the reputation of the Countess.

The displeasure and astonishment of my confr√®res was unmistakable. In
the midst of a strained silence I moved that a vote be taken upon the
advisability of a hearing before the congress on the subject of the
ux. After a pause the young Countess, pale and determined, seconded my
motion. The result of the balloting was a foregone conclusion; the
Countess had one vote--she herself refraining from voting--and the
subject was entered on the committee-book as acceptable and a date set
for the hearing before the International Congress.

The effect of this vote on our little committee was most marked.
Constraint took the place of cordiality, polite reserve replaced that
guileless and open-hearted courtesy with which our proceedings had
begun.

With icy politeness, the Crown-Prince of Monaco asked me to state the
subject of the paper I proposed to read before the congress, and I
replied quietly that, as I was partly responsible for advocating the
discussion of the ux, I proposed to associate myself with the Countess
d'Alzette in that matter--if Madame la Comtesse would accept the offer
of a brother savant.

"Indeed I will," she said, impulsively, her blue eyes soft with
gratitude.

"Very well," observed Sir Peter Grebe, swallowing his indignation and
waddling off towards the door; "I shall resign my position on this
committee--yes, I will, I tell you!"--as the King of Finland laid a
fatherly hand on Sir Peter's sleeve--"I'll not be made responsible for
this damn--"

He choked, sputtered, then bowed to the horrified Countess, asking
pardon, and declaring that he yielded to nobody in respect for the
gentler sex. And he retired with the Baron de Becasse.

But out in the hallway I heard him explode. "Confound it! This is no
place for petticoats, Baron! And as for that Yankee ornithologist,
he's hung himself with the Countess's corset--string--yes, he has!
Don't tell me, Baron! The young idiot was all right until the Countess
looked at him, I tell you. Gad! how she crumpled him up with those
blue eyes of hers! What the devil do women come into such committees
for? Eh? It's an outrage, I tell you! Why, the whole world will jeer
at us if we sit and listen to her monograph on that fraudulent bird!"

The young Countess, who was writing near the window, could not have
heard this outburst; but I heard it, and so did King Christian and the
Crown-Prince of Monaco.

"Lord," thought I, "the Countess and I are in the frying-pan this
time. I'll do what I can to keep us both out of the fire."

When the King and the Crown-Prince had made their adieux to the
Countess, and she had responded, pale and serious, they came over to
where I was standing, looking out on the Seine.

"Though we must differ from you," said the King, kindly, "we wish you
all success in this dangerous undertaking."

I thanked him.

"You are a young man to risk a reputation already established,"
remarked the Crown-Prince, then added: "You are braver than I.
Ridicule is a barrier to all knowledge, and, though we know that, we
seekers after truth always bring up short at that barrier and
dismount, not daring to put our hobbies to the fence."

"One can but come a cropper," said I.

"And risk staking our hobbies? No, no, that would make us ridiculous;
and ridicule kills in Europe."

"It's somewhat deadly in America, too," I said, smiling.

"The more honor to you," said the Crown-Prince, gravely.

"Oh, I am not the only one," I answered, lightly. "There is my
confr√®re, Professor Hyssop, who studies apparitions and braves a
contempt and ridicule which none of us would dare challenge. We
Yankees are learning slowly. Some day we will find the lost key to the
future while Europe is sneering at those who are trying to pick the
lock."

When King Christian, of Finland, and the Crown-Prince of Monaco had
taken their hats and sticks and departed, I glanced across the room at
the young Countess, who was now working rapidly on a type-writer,
apparently quite oblivious of my presence.

I looked out of the window again, and my gaze wandered over the
exposition grounds. Gilt and scarlet and azure the palaces rose in
every direction, under a wilderness of fluttering flags. Towers,
minarets, turrets, golden spires cut the blue sky; in the west the
gaunt Eiffel Tower sprawled across the glittering Esplanade; behind it
rose the solid golden dome of the Emperor's tomb, gilded once more by
the Almighty's sun, to amuse the living rabble while the dead
slumbered in his imperial crypt, himself now but a relic for the
amusement of the people whom he had despised. O tempora! O mores! O
Napoleon!

Down under my window, in the asphalted court, the King of Finland was
entering his beautiful victoria. An adjutant, wearing a cocked hat and
brilliant uniform, mounted the box beside the green-and-gold coachman;
the two postilions straightened up in their saddles; the four horses
danced. Then, when the Crown-Prince of Monaco had taken a seat beside
the King, the carriage rolled away, and far down the quay I watched it
until the flutter of the green-and-white plumes in the adjutant's
cocked hat was all I could see of vanishing royalty.

I was still musing there by the window, listening to the click and
ringing of the type-writer, when I suddenly became aware that the
clicking had ceased, and, turning, I saw the young Countess standing
beside me.

"Thank you for your chivalrous impulse to help me," she said, frankly,
holding out her bare hand.

I bent over it.

"I had not realized how desperate my case was," she said, with a
smile. "I supposed that they would at least give me a hearing. How can
I thank you for your brave vote in my favor?"

"By giving me your confidence in this matter," said I, gravely. "If we
are to win, we must work together and work hard, madame. We are
entering a struggle, not only to prove the genuineness of a bird skin
and the existence of a bird which neither of us has ever seen, but
also a struggle which will either make us famous forever or render it
impossible for either of us ever again to face a scientific audience."

"I know it," she said, quietly "And I understand all the better how
gallant a gentleman I have had the fortune to enlist in my cause.
Believe me, had I not absolute confidence in my ability to prove the
existence of the ux I should not, selfish as I am, have accepted your
chivalrous offer to stand or fall with me."

The subtle emotion in her voice touched a responsive chord in me. I
looked at her earnestly; she raised her beautiful eyes to mine.

"Will you help me?" she asked.

Would I help her? Faith, I'd pass the balance of my life turning
flip-flaps to please her. I did not attempt to undeceive myself; I
realized that the lightning had struck me--that I was desperately in
love with the young Countess from the tip of her bonnet to the toe of
her small, polished shoe. I was curiously cool about it, too, although
my heart gave a thump that nigh choked me, and I felt myself going red
from temple to chin.

If the Countess d'Alzette noticed it she gave no sign, unless the pink
tint under her eyes, deepening, was a subtle signal of understanding
to the signal in my eyes.

"Suppose," she said, "that I failed, before the congress, to prove my
theory? Suppose my investigations resulted in the exposure of a fraud
and my name was held up to ridicule before all Europe? What would
become of you, monsieur?"

I was silent.

"You are already celebrated as the discoverer of the mammoth and the
great auk," she persisted. "You are young, enthusiastic, renowned, and
you have a future before you that anybody in the world might envy."

I said nothing.

"And yet," she said, softly, "you risk all because you will not leave
a young woman friendless among her confr√®res. It is not wise,
monsieur; it is gallant and generous and impulsive, but it is not
wisdom. Don Quixote rides no more in Europe, my friend."

"He stays at home--seventy million of him--in America," said I.

After a moment she said, "I believe you, monsieur."

"It is true enough," I said, with a laugh. "We are the only people who
tilt at windmills these days--we and our cousins, the British, who
taught us."

I bowed gayly, and added:

"With your colors to wear, I shall have the honor of breaking a lance
against the biggest windmill in the world."

"You mean the Citadel of Science," she said, smiling.

"And its rock-ribbed respectability," I replied.

She looked at me thoughtfully, rolling and unrolling the scroll in her
hands. Then she sighed, smiled, and brightened, handing me the scroll.

"Read it carefully," she said; "it is an outline of the policy I
suggest that we follow. You will be surprised at some of the
statements. Yet every word is the truth. And, monsieur, your reward
for the devotion you have offered will be no greater than you deserve,
when you find yourself doubly famous for our joint monograph on the
ux. Without your vote in the committee I should have been denied a
hearing, even though I produced proofs to support my theory. I
appreciate that; I do most truly appreciate the courage which prompted
you to defend a woman at the risk of your own ruin. Come to me this
evening at nine. I hold for you in store a surprise and pleasure which
you do not dream of."

"Ah, but I do," I said, slowly, under the spell of her delicate beauty
and enthusiasm.

"How can you?" she said, laughing. "You don't know what awaits you at
nine this evening?"

"You," I said, fascinated.

The color swept her face; she dropped me a deep courtesy.

"At nine, then," she said. "No. 8 Rue d'Alouette."

I bowed, took my hat, gloves, and stick, and attended her to her
carriage below.

Long after the blue-and-black victoria had whirled away down the
crowded quay I stood looking after it, mazed in the web of that
ancient enchantment whose spell fell over the first man in Eden, and
whose sorcery shall not fail till the last man returns his soul.




X


I lunched at my lodgings on the Quai Malthus, and I had but little
appetite, having fed upon such an unexpected variety of emotions
during the morning.

Now, although I was already heels over head in love, I do not believe
that loss of appetite was the result of that alone. I was slowly
beginning to realize what my recent attitude might cost me, not only
in an utter collapse of my scientific career, and the consequent
material ruin which was likely to follow, but in the loss of all my
friends at home. The Zoological Society of Bronx Park and the
Smithsonian Institution of Washington had sent me as their trusted
delegate, leaving it entirely to me to choose the subject on which I
was to speak before the International Congress. What, then, would be
their attitude when they learned that I had chosen to uphold the
dangerous theory of the existence of the ux.

Would they repudiate me and send another delegate to replace me? Would
they merely wash their hands of me and let me go to my own
destruction?

"I will know soon enough," thought I, "for this morning's proceedings
will have been cabled to New York ere now, and read at the
breakfast-tables of every old, moss-grown naturalist in America before
I see the Countess d'Alzette this evening." And I drew from my pocket
the roll of paper which she had given me, and, lighting a cigar, lay
back in my chair to read it.

The manuscript had been beautifully type-written, and I had no trouble
in following her brief, clear account of the circumstances under which
the notorious ux-skin had been obtained. As for the story itself, it
was somewhat fishy, but I manfully swallowed my growing nervousness
and comforted myself with the belief of Darwin in the existence of the
ux, and the subsequent testimony of Wallace, who simply stated what he
had seen through his telescope, and then left it to others to identify
the enormous birds he described as he had observed them stalking about
on the snowy peaks of the Tasmanian Alps.

My own knowledge of the ux was confined to a single circumstance.
When, in 1897, I had gone to Tasmania with Professor Farrago, to make
a report on the availability of the so-called "Tasmanian devil," as a
substitute for the mongoose in the West Indies, I of course heard a
great deal of talk among the natives concerning the birds which they
affirmed haunted the summits of the mountains.

Our time in Tasmania was too limited to admit of an exploration then.
But although we were perfectly aware that the summits of the Tasmanian
Alps are inaccessible, we certainly should have attempted to gain them
had not the time set for our departure arrived before we had completed
the investigation for which we were sent.

One relic, however, I carried away with me. It was a single greenish
bronzed feather, found high up in the mountains by a native, and sold
to me for a somewhat large sum of money.

Darwin believed the ux to be covered with greenish plumage; Wallace
was too far away to observe the color of the great birds; but all the
natives of Tasmania unite in affirming that the plumage of the ux is
green.

It was not only the color of this feather that made me an eager
purchaser, it was the extraordinary length and size. I knew of no
living bird large enough to wear such a feather. As for the color,
that might have been tampered with before I bought it, and, indeed,
testing it later, I found on the fronds traces of sulphate of copper.
But the same thing has been found in the feathers of certain birds
whose color is metallic green, and it has been proven that such birds
pick up and swallow shining bits of copper pyrites.

Why should not the ux do the same thing?

Still, my only reason for believing in the existence of the bird was
this single feather. I had easily proved that it belonged to no known
species of bird. I also proved it to be similar to the tail-feathers
of the ux-skin in Antwerp. But the feathers on the Antwerp specimen
were gray, and the longest of them was but three feet in length, while
my huge, bronze-green feather measured eleven feet from tip to tip.

One might account for it supposing the Antwerp skin to be that of a
young bird, or of a moulting bird, or perhaps of a different sex from
the bird whose feather I had secured.

Still, these ideas were not proven. Nothing concerning the birds had
been proven. I had but a single fact to lean on, and that was that the
feather I possessed could not have belonged to any known species of
bird. Nobody but myself knew of the existence of this feather. And now
I meant to cable to Bronx Park for it, and to place this evidence at
the disposal of the beautiful Countess d'Alzette.

My cigar had gone out, as I sat musing, and I relighted it and resumed
my reading of the type-written notes, lazily, even a trifle
sceptically, for all the evidence that she had been able to collect to
substantiate her theory of the existence of the ux was not half as
important as the evidence I was to produce in the shape of that
enormous green feather.

I came to the last paragraph, smoking serenely, and leaning back
comfortably, one leg crossed over the other. Then, suddenly, my
attention became riveted on the words under my eyes. Could I have read
them aright? Could I believe what I read in ever-growing astonishment
which culminated in an excitement that stirred the very hair on my
head?

    "The ux exists. There is no longer room for doubt. Ocular
    proof I can now offer in the shape of five living eggs of
    this gigantic bird. All measures have been taken to hatch
    these eggs; they are now in the vast incubator. It is my plan
    to have them hatch, one by one, under the very eyes of the
    International Congress. It will be the greatest triumph that
    science has witnessed since the discovery of the New World.

          [Signed] "SUSANNE D'ALZETTE."

"Either," I cried out, in uncontrollable excitement--"either that girl
is mad or she is the cleverest woman on earth."

After a moment I added:

"In either event I am going to marry her."




XI


That evening, a few minutes before nine o'clock, I descended from a
cab in front of No. 8 Rue d'Alouette, and was ushered into a pretty
reception-room by an irreproachable servant, who disappeared directly
with my card.

In a few moments the young Countess came in, exquisite in her silvery
dinner-gown, eyes bright, white arms extended in a charming, impulsive
welcome. The touch of her silky fingers thrilled me; I was dumb under
the enchantment of her beauty; and I think she understood my silence,
for her blue eyes became troubled and the happy parting of her lips
changed to a pensive curve.

Presently I began to tell her about my bronzed-green feather; at my
first word she looked up brightly, almost gratefully, I fancied; and
in another moment we were deep in eager discussion of the subject
which had first drawn us together.

What evidence I possessed to sustain our theory concerning the
existence of the ux I hastened to reveal; then, heart beating
excitedly, I asked her about the eggs and where they were at present,
and whether she believed it possible to bring them to Paris--all these
questions in the same breath--which brought a happy light into her
eyes and a delicious ripple of laughter to her lips.

"Why, of course it is possible to bring the eggs here," she cried. "Am
I sure? Parbleu! The eggs are already here, monsieur!"

"Here!" I exclaimed. "In Paris?"

"In Paris? Mais oui; and in my own house--this very house, monsieur.
Come, you shall behold them with your own eyes!"

Her eyes were brilliant with excitement; impulsively she stretched out
her rosy hand. I took it; and she led me quickly back through the
drawing-room, through the dining-room, across the butler's pantry, and
into a long, dark hallway. We were almost running now--I keeping tight
hold of her soft little hand, she, raising her gown a trifle, hurrying
down the hallway, silken petticoats rustling like a silk banner in the
wind. A turn to the right brought us to the cellar-stairs; down we
hastened, and then across the cemented floor towards a long,
glass-fronted shelf, pierced with steam-pipes.

"A match," she whispered, breathlessly.

I struck a wax match and touched it to the gas-burner overhead.

Never, never can I forget what that flood of gas-light revealed. In a
row stood five large, glass-mounted incubators; behind the glass doors
lay, in dormant majesty, five enormous eggs. The eggs were
pale-green--lighter, somewhat, than robins' eggs, but not as pale as
herons' eggs. Each egg appeared to be larger than a large hogs-head,
and was partly embedded in bales of cotton-wool.

Five little silver thermometers inside the glass doors indicated a
temperature of 95¬∞ Fahrenheit. I noticed that there was an automatic
arrangement connected with the pipes which regulated the temperature.

I was too deeply moved for words. Speech seemed superfluous as we
stood there, hand in hand, contemplating those gigantic, pale-green
eggs.

There is something in a silent egg which moves one's deeper
emotions--something solemn in its embryotic inertia, something awesome
