staggered at the idea of a two-hundred-thousand-dollar fur coat; and
yet not long afterward there arrived in the city a titled Englishwoman,
who owned a coat worth a million dollars, which hard-headed insurance
companies had insured for half a million. It was made of the soft
plumage of rare Hawaiian birds, and had taken twenty years to make;
each feather was crescent-shaped, and there were wonderful designs in
crimson and gold and black. Every day in the casual conversation of
your acquaintances you heard of similar incredible things; a tiny
antique Persian rug, which could be folded into an overcoat pocket, for
ten thousand dollars; a set of five "art fans," each blade painted by a
famous artist and costing forty-three thousand dollars; a crystal cup
for eighty thousand; an edition de luxe of the works of Dickens for a
hundred thousand; a ruby, the size of a pigeon's egg, for three hundred
thousand. In some of these great New York palaces there were fountains
which cost a hundred dollars a minute to run; and in the harbour there
were yachts which cost twenty thousand a month to keep in commission.

And that same day, as it chanced, he learned of a brand-new kind of
squandering. He went home to lunch with Mrs. Winnie Duval, and there
met Mrs. Caroline Smythe, with whom he had talked at Castle Havens.
Mrs. Smythe, whose husband had been a well-known Wall Street plunger,
was soft and mushy, and very gushing in manner; and she asked him to
come home to dinner with her, adding, "I'll introduce you to my babies."

From what Montague had so far seen, he judged that babies played a very
small part in the lives of the women of Society; and so he was
interested, and asked, "How many have you?"

"Only two, in town," said Mrs. Smythe. "I've just come up, you see."

"How old are they?" he inquired politely; and when the lady added,
"About two years," he asked, "Won't they be in bed by dinner time?"

"Oh my, no!" said Mrs. Smythe. "The dear little lambs wait up for me. I
always find them scratching at my chamber door and wagging their little
tails."

Then Mrs. Winnie laughed merrily and said, "Why do you fool him?" and
went on to inform Montague that Caroline's "babies" were griffons
Bruxelloises. Griffons suggested to him vague ideas of dragons and
unicorns and gargoyles; but he said nothing more, save to accept the
invitation, and that evening he discovered that griffons Bruxelloises
were tiny dogs, long-haired, yellow, and fluffy; and that for her two
priceless treasures Mrs. Smythe had an expert nurse, to whom she paid a
hundred dollars a month, and also a footman, and a special cuisine in
which their complicated food was prepared. They had a regular dentist,
and a physician, and gold plate to eat from. Mrs. Smythe also owned two
long-haired St. Bernards of a very rare breed, and a fierce Great Dane,
and a very fat Boston bull pup--the last having been trained to go for
an airing all alone in her carriage, with a solemn coachman and footman
to drive him.

Montague, deftly keeping the conversation upon the subject of pets,
learned that all this was quite common. Many women in Society
artificially made themselves barren, because of the inconvenience
incidental to pregnancy and motherhood; and instead they lavished their
affections upon cats and dogs. Some of these animals had elaborate
costumes, rivalling in expensiveness those of their step-mothers. They
wore tiny boots, which cost eight dollars a pair--house boots, and
street boots lacing up to the knees; they had house-coats,
walking-coats, dusters, sweaters, coats lined with ermine, and
automobile coats with head and chest-protectors and hoods and
goggles--and each coat fitted with a pocket for its tiny handkerchief
of fine linen or lace! And they had collars set with rubies and pearls
and diamonds--one had a collar that cost ten thousand dollars!
Sometimes there would be a coat to match every gown of the owner. There
were dog nurseries and resting-rooms, in which they might be left
temporarily; and manicure parlours for cats, with a physician in
charge. When these pets died, there was an expensive cemetery in
Brooklyn especially for their interment; and they would be duly
embalmed and buried in plush-lined casket, and would have costly marble
monuments. When one of Mrs. Smythe's best loved pugs had fallen ill of
congestion of the liver, she had had tan-bark put upon the street in
front of her house; and when in spite of this the dog died, she had
sent out cards edged in black, inviting her friends to a "memorial
service." Also she showed Montague a number of books with very costly
bindings, in which were demonstrated the unity, simplicity, and
immortality of the souls of cats and dogs.

Apparently the sentimental Mrs. Smythe was willing to talk about these
pets all through dinner; and so was her aunt, a thin and angular
spinster, who sat on Montague's other side. And he was willing to
listen--he wanted to know it all. There were umbrellas for dogs, to be
fastened over their backs in wet weather; there were manicure and
toilet sets, and silver medicine-chests, and jewel-studded whips. There
were sets of engraved visiting-cards; there were wheel-chairs in which
invalid cats and dogs might be taken for an airing. There were shows
for cats and dogs, with pedigrees and prizes, and nearly as great
crowds as the Horse Show; Mrs. Smythe's St. Bernards were worth seven
thousand dollars apiece, and there were bull-dogs worth twice that.
There was a woman who had come all the way from the Pacific coast to
have a specialist perform an operation upon the throat of her Yorkshire
terrier! There was another who had built for her dog a tiny Queen Anne
cottage, with rooms papered and carpeted and hung with lace curtains!
Once a young man of fashion had come to the Waldorf and registered
himself and "Miss Elsie Cochrane"; and when the clerk made the usual
inquiries as to the relationship of the young lady, it transpired that
Miss Elsie was a dog, arrayed in a prim little tea-gown, and requiring
a room to herself. And then there was a tale of a cat which had
inherited a life-pension from a forty-thousand-dollar estate; it had a
two-floor apartment and several attendants, and sat at table and ate
shrimps and Italian chestnuts, and had a velvet couch for naps, and a
fur-lined basket for sleeping at night!

Four days of horses were enough for Montague, and on Friday morning,
when Siegfried Harvey called him up and asked if he and Alice would
come out to "The Roost" for the week-end, he accepted gladly. Charlie
Carter was going, and volunteered to take them in his car; and so again
they crossed the Williamsburg Bridge--"the Jewish passover," as Charlie
called it--and went out on Long Island.

Montague was very anxious to get a "line" on Charlie Carter; for he had
not been prepared for the startling promptness with which this young
man had fallen at Alice's feet. It was so obvious, that everybody was
smiling over it--he was with her every minute that he could arrange it,
and he turned up at every place to which she was invited. Both Mrs.
Winnie and Oliver were quite evidently complacent, but Montague was by
no means the same. Charlie had struck him as a good-natured but rather
weak youth, inclined to melancholy; he was never without a cigarette in
his fingers, and there had been signs that he was not quite proof
against the pitfalls which Society set about him in the shape of
decanters and wine-cups: though in a world where the fragrance of
spirits was never out of one's nostrils, and where people drank with
such perplexing frequency, it was hard to know where to draw a line.

"You won't find my place like Havens's," Siegfried Harvey had said. "It
is real country." Montague found it the most attractive of all the
homes he had seen so far. It was a big rambling house, all in rustic
style, with great hewn logs outside, and rafters within, and a winding
oak stairway, and any number of dens and cosy corners, and broad
window-seats with mountains of pillows. Everything here was built for
comfort--there was a billiard-room and a smoking-room, and a real
library with readable books and great chairs in which one sank out of
sight. There were log fires blazing everywhere, and pictures on the
walls that told of sport, and no end of guns and antlers and trophies
of all sorts. But you were not to suppose that all this elaborate
rusticity would be any excuse for the absence of attendants in livery,
and a chef who boasted the cordon bleu, and a dinner-table resplendent
with crystal and silver and orchids and ferns. After all, though the
host called it a "small" place, he had invited twenty guests, and he
had a hunter in his stables for each one of them.

But the most wonderful thing about "The Roost" was the fact that, at a
touch of a button, all the walls of the lower rooms vanished into the
second story, and there was one huge, log-lighted room, with violins
tuning up and calling to one's feet. They set a fast pace here--the
dancing lasted until three o'clock, and at dawn again they were dressed
and mounted, and following the pink-coated grooms and the hounds across
the frost-covered fields.

Montague was half prepared for a tame fox, but this was spared him.
There was a real game, it seemed; and soon the pack gave tongue, and
away went the hunt. It was the wildest ride that Montague ever had
taken--over ditches and streams and innumerable rail-fences, and
through thick coverts and densely populated barnyards; but he was in at
the death, and Alice was only a few yards behind, to the immense
delight of the company. This seemed to Montague the first real life he
had met, and he thought to himself that these full-blooded and
high-spirited men and women made a "set" into which he would have been
glad to fit--save only that he had to earn his living, and they did not.

In the afternoon there was more riding, and walks in the crisp November
air; and indoors, bridge and rackets and ping-pong, and a fast and
furious game of roulette, with the host as banker. "Do I look much like
a professional gambler?" he asked of Montague; and when the other
replied that he had not yet met any New York gamblers, young Harvey
went on to tell how he had gone to buy this apparatus (the sale of
which was forbidden by law) and had been asked by the dealer how
"strong" he wanted it!

Then in the evening there was more dancing, and on Sunday another hunt.
That night a gambling mood seemed to seize the company--there were two
bridge tables, and in another room the most reckless game of poker that
Montague had ever sat in. It broke up at three in the morning, and one
of the company wrote him a cheque for sixty-five hundred dollars; but
even that could not entirely smooth his conscience, nor reconcile him
to the fever that was in his blood.

Most important to him, however, was the fact that during the game he at
last got to know Charlie Carter. Charlie did not play, for the reason
that he was drunk, and one of the company told him so and refused to
play with him; which left poor Charlie nothing to do but get drunker.
This he did, and came and hung over the shoulders of the players, and
told the company all about himself.

Montague was prepared to allow for the "wild oats" of a youngster with
unlimited money, but never in his life had he heard or dreamed of
anything like this boy. For half an hour he wandered about the table,
and poured out a steady stream of obscenities; his mind was like a
swamp, in which dwelt loathsome and hideous serpents which came to the
surface at night and showed their flat heads and their slimy coils. In
the heavens above or the earth beneath there was nothing sacred to him;
there was nothing too revolting to be spewed out. And the company
accepted the performance as an old story--the men would laugh, and push
the boy away, and say, "Oh, Charlie, go to the devil!"

After it was all over, Montague took one of the company aside and asked
him what it meant; to which the man replied: "Good God! Do you mean
that nobody has told you about Charlie Carter?"

It appeared that Charlie was one of the "gilded youths" of the
Tenderloin, whose exploits had been celebrated in the papers. And after
the attendants had bundled him off to bed, several of the men gathered
about the fire and sipped hot punch, and rehearsed for Montague's
benefit some of his leading exploits.

Charlie was only twenty-three, it seemed; and when he was ten his
father had died and left eight or ten millions in trust for him, in the
care of a poor, foolish aunt whom he twisted about his finger. At the
age of twelve he was a cigarette fiend, and had the run of the
wine-cellar. When he went to a rich private school he took whole trunks
full of cigarettes with him, and finally ran away to Europe, to acquire
the learning of the brothels of Paris. And then he came home and struck
the Tenderloin; and at three o'clock one morning he walked through a
plate-glass window, and so the newspapers took him up. That had
suddenly opened a new vista in life for Charlie--he became a devotee of
fame; everywhere he went he was followed by newspaper reporters and a
staring crowd. He carried wads as big round as his arm, and gave away
hundred-dollar tips to bootblacks, and lost forty thousand dollars in a
game of poker. He gave a fete to the demi-monde, with a jewelled
Christmas tree in midsummer, and fifty thousand dollars' worth of
splendour. But the greatest stroke of all was the announcement that he
was going to build a submarine yacht and fill it with
chorus-girls!--Now Charlie had sunk out of public attention, and his
friends would not see him for days; he would be lying in a "sporting
house" literally wallowing in champagne.

And all this, Montague realized, his brother must have known! And he
had said not a word about it--because of the eight or ten millions
which Charlie would have when he was twenty-five!




CHAPTER IX


In the morning they went home with others of the party by train. They
could not wait for Charlie and his automobile, because Monday was the
opening night of the Opera, and no one could miss that. Here Society
would appear in its most gorgeous raiment, and, there would be a show
of jewellery such as could be seen nowhere else in the world.

General Prentice and his wife had opened their town-house, and had
invited them to dinner and to share their box; and so at about
half-past nine o'clock Montague found himself seated in a great balcony
of the shape of a horseshoe, with several hundred of the richest people
in the city. There was another tier of boxes above, and three galleries
above that, and a thousand or more people seated and standing below
him. Upon the big stage there was an elaborate and showy play, the
words of which were sung to the accompaniment of an orchestra.

Now Montague had never heard an opera, and he was fond of music. The
second act had just begun when he came in, and all through it he sat
quite spellbound, listening to the most ravishing strains that ever he
had heard in his life. He scarcely noticed that Mrs. Prentice was
spending her time studying the occupants of the other boxes through a
jewelled lorgnette, or that Oliver was chattering to her daughter.

But after the act was over, Oliver got him alone outside the box, and
whispered, "For God's sake, Allan, don't make a fool of yourself."

"Why, what's the matter?" asked the other.

"What will people think," exclaimed Oliver, "seeing you sitting there
like a man in a dope dream?"

"Why," laughed the other, "they'll think I'm listening to the music."

To which Oliver responded, "People don't come to the Opera to listen to
the music."

This sounded like a joke, but it was not. To Society the Opera was a
great state function, an exhibition of far more exclusiveness and
magnificence than the Horse Show; and Society certainly had the right
to say, for it owned the opera-house and ran it. The real music-lovers
who came, either stood up in the back, or sat in the fifth gallery,
close to the ceiling, where the air was foul and hot. How much Society
cared about the play was sufficiently indicated by the fact that all of
the operas were sung in foreign languages, and sung so carelessly that
the few who understood the languages could make but little of the
words. Once there was a world-poet who devoted his life to trying to
make the Opera an art; and in the battle with Society he all but
starved to death. Now, after half a century, his genius had triumphed,
and Society consented to sit for hours in darkness and listen to the
domestic disputes of German gods and goddesses. But what Society really
cared for was a play with beautiful costumes and scenery and dancing,
and pretty songs to which one could listen while one talked; the story
must be elemental and passionate, so that one could understand it in
pantomime--say the tragic love of a beautiful and noble-minded
courtesan for a gallant young man of fashion.

Nearly every one who came to the Opera had a glass, by means of which
he could bring each gorgeously-clad society dame close to him, and
study her at leisure. There were said to be two hundred million
dollars' worth of diamonds in New York, and those that were not in the
stores were very apt to be at this show; for here was where they could
accomplish the purpose for which they existed--here was where all the
world came to stare at them. There were nine prominent Society women,
who among them displayed five million dollars' worth of jewels. You
would see stomachers which looked like a piece of a coat of mail, and
were made wholly of blazing diamonds. You would see emeralds and rubies
and diamonds and pearls made in tiaras--that is to say, imitation
crowns and coronets--and exhibited with a stout and solemn dowager for
a pediment. One of the Wallings had set this fashion, and now every one
of importance wore them. One lady to whom Montague was introduced made
a speciality of pearls--two black pearl ear-rings at forty thousand
dollars, a string at three hundred thousand, a brooch of pink pearls at
fifty thousand, and two necklaces at a quarter of a million each!

This incessant repetition of the prices of things came to seem very
sordid; but Montague found that there was no getting away from it. The
people in Society who paid these prices affected to be above all such
considerations, to be interested only in the beauty and artistic
excellence of the things themselves; but one found that they always
talked about the prices which other people had paid, and that somehow
other people always knew what they had paid. They took care also to see
that the public and the newspapers knew what they had paid, and knew
everything else that they were doing. At this Opera, for instance,
there was a diagram of the boxes printed upon the programme, and a list
of all the box-holders, so that anyone could tell who was who. You
might see these great dames in their gorgeous robes coming from their
carriages, with crowds staring at them and detectives hovering about.
And the bosom of each would be throbbing with a wild and wonderful
vision of the moment when she would enter her box, and the music would
be forgotten, and all eyes would be turned upon her; and she would lay
aside her wraps, and flash upon the staring throngs, a vision of
dazzling splendour.

Some of these jewels were family treasures, well known to New York for
generations; and in such cases it was becoming the fashion to leave the
real jewels in the safe-deposit vault, and to wear imitation stones
exactly like them. From homes where the jewels were kept, detectives
were never absent, and in many cases there were detectives watching the
detectives; and yet every once in a while the newspapers would be full
of a sensational story of a robbery. Then the unfortunates who chanced
to be suspected would be seized by the police and subjected to what was
jocularly termed the "third degree," and consisted of tortures as
elaborate and cruel as any which the Spanish Inquisition had invented.
The advertising value of this kind of thing was found to be so great
that famous actresses also had costly jewels, and now and then would
have them stolen.

That night, when they had got home, Montague had a talk with his cousin
about Charlie Carter. He discovered a peculiar situation. It seemed
that Alice already knew that Charlie had been "bad." He was sick and
miserable; and her beauty and innocence had touched him and made him
ashamed of himself, and he had hinted darkly at dreadful evils. Thus
carefully veiled, and tinged with mystery and romance, Montague could
understand how Charlie made an interesting and appealing figure. "He
says I'm different from any girl he ever met," said Alice--a remark of
such striking originality that her cousin could not keep back his smile.

Alice was not the least bit in love with him, and had no idea of being;
and she said that she would accept no invitations, and never go alone
with him; but she did not see how she could avoid him when she met him
at other people's houses. And to this Montague had to assent.

General Prentice had inquired kindly as to what Montague had seen in
New York, and how he was getting along. He added that he had talked
about him to Judge Ellis, and that when he was ready to get to work,
the Judge would perhaps have some suggestions to make to him. He
approved, however, of Montague's plan of getting his bearings first;
and said that he would introduce him and put him up at a couple of the
leading clubs.

All this remained in Montague's mind; but there was no use trying to
think of it at the moment. Thanksgiving was at hand, and in countless
country mansions there would be gaieties under way. Bertie Stuyvesant
had planned an excursion to his Adirondack camp, and had invited a
score or so of young people, including the Montagues. This would be a
new feature of the city's life, worth knowing about.

Their expedition began with a theatre-party. Bertie had engaged four
boxes, and they met there, an hour or so after the performance had
begun. This made no difference, however, for the play was like the
opera-a number of songs and dances strung together, and with only plot
enough to provide occasion for elaborate scenery and costumes. From the
play they were carried to the Grand Central Station, and a little
before midnight Bertie's private train set out on its journey.

This train was a completely equipped hotel. There was a baggage
compartment and a dining-car and kitchen; and a drawing-room and
library-car; and a bedroom-car--not with berths, such as the ordinary
sleeping-car provides, but with comfortable bedrooms, furnished in
white mahogany, and provided with running water and electric light. All
these cars were built of steel, and automatically ventilated: and they
were furnished in the luxurious fashion of everything with which Bertie
Stuyvesant had anything to do. In the library-car there were velvet
carpets upon the floor, and furniture of South American mahogany, and
paintings upon the walls over which great artists had laboured for
years.

Bertie's chef and servants were on board, and a supper was ready in the
dining-car, which they ate while watching the Hudson by moonlight. And
the next morning they reached their destination, a little station in
the mountain wilderness. The train lay upon a switch, and so they had
breakfast at their leisure, and then, bundled in furs, came out into
the crisp pine-laden air of the woods. There was snow upon the ground,
and eight big sleighs waiting; and for nearly three hours they drove in
the frosty sunlight, through most beautiful mountain scenery. A good
part of the drive was in Bertie's "preserve," and the road was private,
as big signs notified one every hundred yards or so.

So at last they reached a lake, winding like a snake among towering
hills, and with a huge baronial castle standing out upon the rocky
shore. This imitation fortress was the "camp."

Bertie's father had built it, and visited it only half a dozen times in
his life. Bertie himself had only been here twice, he said. The deer
were so plentiful that in the winter they died in scores. Nevertheless
there were thirty game-keepers to guard the ten thousand acres of
forest, and prevent anyone's hunting in it. There were many such
"preserves" in this Adirondack wilderness, so Montague was told; one
man had a whole mountain fenced about with heavy iron railing, and had
moose and elk and even wild boar inside. And as for the "camps," there
were so many that a new style of architecture had been developed
here--to say nothing of those which followed old styles, like this
imported Rhine castle. One of Bertie's crowd had a big Swiss chalet;
and one of the Wallings had a Japanese palace to which he came every
August--a house which had been built from plans drawn in Japan, and by
labourers imported especially from Japan. It was full of Japanese
ware--furniture, tapestry, and mosaics; and the guides remembered with
wonder the strange silent, brown-skinned little men who had laboured
for days at carving a bit of wood, and had built a tiny pagoda-like
tea-house with more bits of wood in it than a man could count in a week.

They had a luncheon of fresh venison and partridges and trout, and in
the afternoon a hunt. The more active set out to track the deer in the
snow; but most prepared to watch the lake-shore, while the game-keepers
turned loose the dogs back in the hills. This "hounding" was against
the law, but Bertie was his own law here--and at the worst there could
simply be a small fine, imposed upon some of the keepers. They drove
eight or ten deer to water; and as they fired as many as twenty shots
at one deer, they had quite a lively time. Then at dusk they came back,
in a fine glow of excitement, and spent the evening before the blazing
logs, telling over their adventures.

The party spent two days and a half here, and on the last evening,
which was Thanksgiving, they had a wild turkey which Bertie had shot
the week before in Virginia, and were entertained by a minstrel show
which had been brought up from New York the night before. The next
afternoon they drove back to the train.

In the morning, when they reached the city, Alice found a note from
Mrs. Winnie Duval, begging her and Montague to come to lunch and attend
a private lecture by the Swami Babubanana, who would tell them all
about the previous states of their souls. They went--though not without
a protest from old Mrs. Montague, who declared it was "worse than Bob
Ingersoll."

And then, in the evening, came Mrs. de Graffenried's opening
entertainment, which was one of the great events of the social year. In
the general rush of things Montague had not had a chance properly to
realize it; but Reggie Mann and Mrs. de Graffenried had been working
over it for weeks. When the Montagues arrived, they found the Riverside
mansion--which was decorated in imitation of an Arabian palace--turned
into a jungle of tropical plants.

They had come early at Reggie's request, and he introduced them to Mrs.
de Graffenried, a tall and angular lady with a leathern complexion
painfully painted; Mrs. de Graffenried was about fifty years of age,
but like all the women of Society she was made up for thirty. Just at
present there were beads of perspiration upon her forehead; something
had gone wrong at the last moment, and so Reggie would have no time to
show them the favours, as he had intended.

About a hundred and fifty guests were invited to this entertainment. A
supper was served at little tables in the great ball-room, and
afterward the guests wandered about the house while the tables were
whisked out of the way and the room turned into a play-house. A company
from one of the Broadway theatres would be bundled into cabs at the end
of the performance, and by midnight they would be ready to repeat the
performance at Mrs. de Graffenried's. Montague chanced to be near when
this company arrived, and he observed that the guests had crowded up
too close, and not left room enough for the actors. So the manager had
placed them in a little ante-room, and when Mrs. de Graffenried
observed this, she rushed at the man, and swore at him like a dragoon,
and ordered the bewildered performers out into the main room.

But this was peering behind the scenes, and he was supposed to be
watching the play. The entertainment was another "musical comedy" like
the one he had seen a few nights before. On that occasion, however,
Bertie Stuyvesant's sister had talked to him the whole time, while now
he was let alone, and had a chance to watch the performance.

This was a very popular play; it had had a long run, and the papers
told how its author had an income of a couple of hundred thousand
dollars a year. And here was an audience of the most rich and
influential people in the city; and they laughed and clapped, and made
it clear that they were enjoying themselves heartily. And what sort of
a play was it?

It was called "The Kaliph of Kamskatka." It had no shred of a plot; the
Kaliph had seventeen wives, and there was an American drummer who
wanted to sell him another--but then you did not need to remember this,
for nothing came of it. There was nothing in the play which could be
called a character--there was nothing which could be connected with any
real emotion ever felt by human beings. Nor could one say that there
was any incident--at least nothing happened because of anything else.
Each event was a separate thing, like the spasmodic jerking in the face
of an idiot. Of this sort of "action" there was any quantity--at an
instant's notice every one on the stage would fall simultaneously into
this condition of idiotic jerking. There was rushing about, shouting,
laughing, exclaiming; the stage was in a continual uproar of
excitement, which was without any reason or meaning. So it was
impossible to think of the actors in their parts; one kept thinking of
them as human beings--thinking of the awful tragedy of full-grown men
and women being compelled by the pressure of hunger to dress up and
paint themselves, and then come out in public and dance, stamp, leap
about, wring their hands, make faces, and otherwise be "lively."

The costumes were of two sorts: one fantastic, supposed to represent
the East, and the other a kind of reductio ad absurdum of fashionable
garb. The leading man wore a "natty" outing-suit, and strutted with a
little cane; his stock-in-trade was a jaunty air, a kind of perpetual
flourish, and a wink that suggested the cunning of a satyr. The leading
lady changed her costume several times in each act; but it invariably
contained the elements of bare arms and bosom and back, and a skirt
which did not reach her knees, and bright-coloured silk stockings, and
slippers with heels two inches high. Upon the least provocation she
would execute a little pirouette, which would reveal the rest of her
legs, surrounded by a mass of lace ruffles. It is the nature of the
human mind to seek the end of things; if this woman had worn a suit of
tights and nothing else, she would have been as uninteresting as an
underwear advertisement in a magazine; but this incessant
not-quite-revealing of herself exerted a subtle fascination. At
frequent intervals the orchestra would start up a jerky little tune,
and the two "stars" would begin to sing in nasal voices some words
expressive of passion; then the man would take the woman about the
waist and dance and swing her about and bend her backward and gaze into
her eyes--actions all vaguely suggestive of the relationship of sex. At
the end of the verse a chorus would come gliding on, clad in any sort
of costume which admitted of colour and the display of legs; the
painted women of this chorus were never still for an instant--if they
were not actually dancing, they were wriggling their legs, and jerking
their bodies from side to side, and nodding their heads, and in all
other possible ways being "lively."

But it was not the physical indecency of this show that struck Montague
so much as its intellectual content. The dialogue of the piece was what
is called "smart"; that is, it was full of a kind of innuendo which
implied a secret understanding of evil between the actor and his
audience--a sort of countersign which passed between them. After all,
it would have been an error to say that there were no ideas in the
play--there was one idea upon which all the interest of it was based;
and Montague strove to analyze this idea and formulate it to himself.
There are certain life principles-one might call them moral
axioms--which are the result of the experience of countless ages of the
human race, and upon the adherence to which the continuance of the race
depends. And here was an audience by whom all these principles
were--not questioned, nor yet disputed, nor yet denied--but to whom the
denial was the axiom, something which it would be too banal to state
flatly, but which it was elegant and witty to take for granted. In this
audience there were elderly people, and married men and women, and
young men and maidens; and a perfect gale of laughter swept through it
at a story of a married woman whose lover had left her when he got
married:--

"She must have been heartbroken," said the leading lady.

"She was desperate," said the leading man, with a grin.

"What did she do?" asked the lady "Go and shoot herself?"

"Worse than that," said the man. "She, went back to her husband and had
a baby!"

But to complete your understanding of the significance of this play,
you must bring yourself to realize that it was not merely a play, but a
kind of a play; it had a name--a "musical comedy"--the meaning of which
every one understood. Hundreds of such plays were written and produced,
and "dramatic critics" went to see them and gravely discussed them, and
many thousands of people made their livings by travelling over the
country and playing them; stately theatres were built for them, and
hundreds of thousands of people paid their money every night to see
them. And all this no joke and no nightmare--but a thing that really
existed. Men and women were doing these things--actual flesh-and-blood
human beings.

Montague wondered, in an awestricken sort of way, what kind of human
being it could be who had flourished the cane and made the grimaces in
that play. Later on, when he came to know the "Tenderloin," he met this
same actor, and he found that he had begun life as a little Irish
"mick" who lived in a tenement, and whose mother stood at the head of
the stairway and defended him with a rolling-pin against a policeman
who was chasing him. He had discovered that he could make a living by
his comical antics; but when he came home and told his mother that he
had been offered twenty dollars a week by a show manager, she gave him
a licking for lying to her. Now he was making three thousand dollars a
week--more than the President of the United States and his Cabinet; but
he was not happy, as he confided to Montague, because he did not know
how to read, and this was a cause of perpetual humiliation. The secret
desire of this little actor's heart was to play Shakespeare; he had
"Hamlet" read to him, and pondered how to act it--all the time that he
was flourishing his little cane and making his grimaces! He had chanced
to be on the stage when a fire had broken out, and five or six hundred
victims of greed were roasted to death. The actor had pleaded with the
people to keep their seats, but all in vain; and all his life
thereafter he went about with this vision of horror in his mind, and
haunted by the passionate conviction that he had failed because of his
lack of education--that if only he had been a man of culture, he would
have been able to think of something to say to hold those
terror-stricken people!

At three o'clock in the morning the performance came to an end, and
then there were more refreshments; and Mrs. Vivie Patton came and sat
by him, and they had a nice comfortable gossip. When Mrs. Vivie once
got started at talking about people, her tongue ran on like a windmill.

There was Reggie Mann, meandering about and simpering at people. Reggie
was in his glory at Mrs. de Graffenried's affairs. Reggie had arranged
all this-he did the designing and the ordering, and contracted for the
shows with the agents. You could bet that he had got his commission on
them, too--though sometimes Mrs. de Graffenried got the shows to come
for nothing, because of the advertising her name would bring.
Commissions were Reggie's speciality--he had begun life as an auto
agent. Montague didn't know what that was? An auto agent was a man who
was for ever begging his friends to use a certain kind of car, so that
he might make a living; and Reggie had made about thirty thousand a
year in that way. He had come from Boston, where his reputation had
been made by the fact that early one morning, as they were driving home
from a celebration, he had dared a young society matron to take off her
shoes and stockings, and get out and wade in the public fountain; and
she had done it, and he had followed her. On the strength of the eclat
of this he had been taken up by Mrs. Devon; and one day Mrs. Devon had
worn a white gown, and asked him what he thought of it. "It needs but
one thing to make it perfect," said Reggie, and taking a red rose, he
pinned it upon her corsage. The effect was magical; every one exclaimed
with delight, and so Reggie's reputation as an authority upon dress was
made for ever. Now he was Mrs. de Graffenried's right-hand man, and
they made up their pranks together. Once they had walked down the
street in Newport with a big rag doll between them. And Reggie had
given a dinner at which the guest of honour had been a monkey--surely
Montague had heard of that, for it had been the sensation of the
season. It was really the funniest thing imaginable; the monkey wore a
suit of broad-cloth with collar and cuffs, and he shook hands with all
the guests, and behaved himself exactly like a gentleman--except that
he did not get drunk.

And then Mrs. Vivie pointed out the great Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden, who
was sitting with one of her favourites, a grave, black-bearded
gentleman who had leaped into fame by inheriting fifty million dollars.
"Mrs. R.-C." had taken him up, and ordered his engagement book for him,
and he was solemnly playing the part of a social light. He had
purchased an old New York mansion, upon the decoration of which three
million dollars had been spent; and when he came down to business from
Tuxedo, his private train waited all day for him with steam up. Mrs.
Vivie told an amusing tale of a woman who had announced her engagement
to him, and borrowed large sums of money upon the strength of it,
before his denial came out. That had been a source of great delight to
Mrs. de Graffenried, who was furiously jealous of "Mrs. R. C."

From the anecdotes that people told, Montague judged that Mrs. de
Graffenried must be one of those new leaders of Society, who, as Mrs.
Alden said, were inclined to the bizarre and fantastic. Mrs. de
Graffenried spent half a million dollars every season to hold the
position of leader of the Newport set, and you could always count upon
her for new and striking ideas. Once she had given away as cotillion
favours tiny globes with goldfish in them; again she had given a dance
at which everybody got themselves up as different vegetables. She was
fond of going about at Newport and inviting people haphazard to
lunch--thirty or forty at a time--and then surprising them with a
splendid banquet. Again she would give a big formal dinner, and perplex
people by offering them something which they really cared to eat. "You
see," explained Mrs. Vivie, "at these dinners we generally get thick
green turtle soup, and omelettes with some sort of Florida water poured
over them, and mushrooms cooked under glass, and real hand-made
desserts; but Mrs. de Graffenried dares to have baked ham and sweet
potatoes, or even real roast beef. You saw to-night that she had green
corn; she must have arranged for that months ahead--we can never get it
from Porto Rico until January. And you see this little dish of wild
strawberries--they were probably transplanted and raised in a hothouse,
and every single one wrapped separately before they were shipped."

All these labours had made Mrs. de Graffenried a tremendous power in
the social world. She had a savage tongue, said Mrs. Vivie, and every
one lived in terror of her; but once in a while she met her match. Once
she had invited a comic opera star to sing for her guests, and all the
men had crowded round this actress, and Mrs. de Graffenried had flown
into a passion and tried to drive them away; and the actress, lolling
back in her chair, and gazing up idly at Mrs. de Graffenried, had
drawled, "Ten years older than God!" Poor Mrs. de Graffenried would
carry that saying with her until she died.

Something reminiscent of this came under Montague's notice that same
evening. At about four o'clock Mrs. Vivie wished to go home, and asked
him to find her escort, the Count St. Elmo de Champignon--the man, by
the way, for whom her husband was gunning. Montague roamed all about
the house, and finally went downstairs, where a room had been set apart
for the theatrical company to partake of refreshments. Mrs. de
Graffenried's secretary was on guard at the door; but some of the boys
had got into the room, and were drinking champagne and "making dates"
with the chorus-girls. And here was Mrs. de Graffenried herself,
pushing them bodily out of the room, a score and more of them--and
among them Mrs. Vivie's Count!

Montague delivered his message, and then went upstairs to wait until
his own party should be ready to leave. In the smoking-room were a
number of men, also waiting; and among them he noticed Major Venable,
