by that? What kind of a blunder, and who was innocently wronged? No
use! And while he was thus racking his mind he heard steps on the
stairs. These steps were hurried. The door above shut noisily.

"By George! I'll attend to that this minute. We'll see what stuff this
yellow-haired boy is made of."

He mounted the stairs without sound. He grasped the handle of the door,
boldly pushed it open, and entered, closing the door and placing his
back against it.

The instant he saw the intruder the vintner snatched a pistol from the
drawer in the table and leveled it at Carmichael.

"Surely your majesty will not shoot an old friend?"








CHAPTER XX

THE KING


The vintner slowly lowered the pistol till it touched the table; then he
released it.

"That is better, your Majesty."

"Why do you call me that?"

"Certainly I do not utter it as a compliment," retorted Carmichael
dryly.

"You speak positively."

"With absolute authority on the subject, sire. Your face was familiar,
but I failed at first to place it rightly. It was only after you had
duped me into going after the veiled lady that I had any real suspicion.
You are Frederick Leopold of Jugendheit."

"I shall not deny it further," proudly. "And take care how you speak to
me, since I admit my identity."

"Oho!" Carmichael gave rein to his laughter. "This is Ehrenstein; here
I shall talk to you as I please."

The king reddened, and his hand closed again over the pistol.

"I have saved your majesty twice from death. You force me to recall it
to your mind."

The king had the grace to lower his eyes.

"The first time was at Bonn. Don't you recollect the day when an
American took you out of the Rhine, an American who did not trouble
himself to come round and ask for your thanks, who, in truth, did not
learn till days after what an important person you were, or were going
to be?" There was a bite in every word, for Carmichael felt that he had
been ill-treated.

"For that moment, Herr, I thank you."

"And for that in the garden below?"

"For that also. Now, why are you here? You have not come for the purpose
of recalling these two disagreeable incidents to my mind."

"No." Carmichael went over to the table, his jaws set and no kindly
spirit in his eyes. "No, I have another purpose." He bent over the
table, and with his face close to that of the king, "I demand to know
what your intentions are toward that friendless goose-girl."

"And what is that to you?" said the king, the smoke of anger in his
eyes.

"It is this much: if you have acted toward her otherwise than
honorably--Well!"

"Go on; you interest me!"

"Well, I promise to break every bone in your kingly body. In this room
it is man to man; I recognize no king, only the physical being."

The king pushed aside the table, furious. No living being had ever
spoken to him like that before. He swung the flat of his hand toward
Carmichael's face. The latter caught the hand by the wrist and bore down
upon it. The king was no weakling. There was a struggle, and Carmichael
found himself well occupied for a time. But his age and build were in
his favor, and presently he jammed the king to the wall and pinioned his
arms.

"There! Will you be patient for a moment?"

"You shall die for this insult!" said the king, as quietly as his hard
breathing would allow. He saw flashes of red between his face and the
other's.

"I have heard that before. But how?" banteringly.

"I will waive my crown; man to man!"

"Sword-sticks, sabers or hop-poles? Come," savagely, "what do you mean
by the goose-girl?"

So intent on the struggle were they that neither heard the door open and
close.

"Yes, my dear nephew; what do you mean by Gretchen?"

Carmichael released the king, and with feline quickness stooped and
secured the pistol which had fallen to the floor. Not sure of the new
arrival's purpose, he backed to the wall. He knew the voice and he
recognized its owner.

"Put it in your pocket, Mr. Carmichael. And let us finish this
discussion in English, since there are many ears about the place."

"His royal highness?" murmured the king.

"Yes, sire! True to life!"

Carmichael dropped the pistol into a pocket, and the king smoothed down
his crumpled sleeves.

"A fine comedy!" cried Herr Ludwig jovially, folding his arms over his
deep chest. "A rollicking adventure! Where's the story-book to match it?
A kingdom, working in the dark, headless; fine reading for these
sneaking journalists! Thunder and blazes!" with an amiability which had
behind it a good leaven of despair. "Well, nephew, you have not as yet
answered either Mr. Carmichael's question or my own. What do you mean by
Gretchen?"

"I love her," nobly. "And well for you, my uncle, that you come as you
do. I would have married her! Wrong her? What was a crown to me who,
till now, have never worn one save in speech? You have been the king."

"Bodies must have heads, kingdoms must have kings. I have tried an
experiment, and this is the result. I wanted you to be a man, a human
man; I wanted you to grow up unfettered by power; I wanted you to mingle
with peoples, here and there, so, when you became their head physician,
you could ably minister to their political diseases. And all this fine
ambition tumbles down before the wooden shoes of a pretty goose-girl.
Nothing makes so good a philosopher as a series of blunders and
mistakes. I am beaten; I admit it. I did my best to save you from this
tangle; but it was written that you should put your foot in it. But on
top of this you have made a greater mistake than you dream of, nephew.
The Princess Hildegarde is as fine a woman as ever your Gretchen. Mr.
Carmichael will agree to that," maliciously.

Carmichael gave no sign that he understood; but there was no mistaking
the prince regent's inference, however. The recipient of this compliment
stubbornly refused to give the prince the satisfaction of seeing how
neatly the barb had gone home.

"But, Mr. Carmichael, what is your interest in Gretchen?"

Carmichael trembled with joy. Here was an opening for a double shot. "My
interest in her is better than yours, for I have not asked her to become
a king's mistress."

His royal highness bit his lip.

"Uncle!" cried the king, horrified at this revelation.

"Mr. Carmichael evidently has applied his ear to some keyhole."

"No, thank you! The window was open. My clerk heard you plainly."

"Uncle, is this damnable thing true?"

"Yes. What would you? You were determined to make a fool of yourself.
But rest easy. She is ignorant where this offer came from, and,
moreover, she spurned it, as Mr. Carmichael's clerk will affirm. Oh,
Gretchen is a fine little woman, and I would to God she was of your
station!" And the mask fell from the regent's face, leaving it bitter
and careworn. "Our presence is known in Dreiberg; it has been known for
three days at least. And in coming up here I had another errand. Oh, I
haven't forgotten it. In the street there are at least ten soldiers
under the sub-chief of the police; rather a curious conjunction."

The king turned white. So it had come at last!

Carmichael ran to the rear window. He shrugged. "There's half a dozen in
the garden, too."

"Is there any way to the roofs?"

"None that would serve you."

"Mr. Carmichael," said the king, offering his hand, his handsome face
kindly and without rancor, "I should be an ungrateful wretch if I did
not ask your full pardon. I am indebted to you twice for my life, little
as it amounts to. And in my kingdom you will always be welcome. Will
you accept my hand, as one man to another?"

"With happiness, your Majesty. And I ask that you pardon my own hasty
words."

"Thank you."

"He is only young," sighed Ludwig.

The king emptied the drawer, put the contents in his pack, tied the
strings, and put it under his arm.

"What are you going to do?" asked the uncle, vaguely perturbed.

"I am going down to the soldiers. I am no longer a vintner, I am a
king!" And he said this in a manner truly royal.

"Gott!" burst from the prince regent. "This boy has marrow in his
bones, after all!"

"As you will find, dear uncle, the day after the coronation. You will,
of course, go down to them with me?"

"As I am your uncle! But the incarceration will not be long," Ludwig
grumbled. "There are ten thousand troops on the other side of the
passes, and they have been there ever since I learned that you had gone
a-wooing."

"Ten thousand? Well, they shall stay there," said the king
determinedly. "I shall not begin my reign with war. I am in the wrong; I
had no business to be here. Technically I have broken the treaty, though
not in spirit."

"What will you do?"

"Tell the duke the truth. He will not dare go far."

"He will be a good politician, too," said Ludwig, with a smile of
approval at Carmichael. "No, boy, there will be no war. And yet I was
prepared for it; nor was I wrong in doing so. Already, but for Herbeck,
there would be plenty of fighting in the passes. Ach! Could you but
see the princess!"

"I have seen her," replied the king. "Heaven would have been kinder had
I seen her months ago."

"Say to his serene highness, then, that you are willing to marry her."

"I'm afraid you do not understand, uncle," the king replied sadly. "I
have the supreme happiness to love and to be loved. Of that nothing can
rob me. And for some time to come, uncle mine, I shall treasure that
happiness."

"And the little Gretchen?"

"Yes, yes! I have been a scoundrel." And the king's eyes grew moist.
"You are happy, Mr. Carmichael; you have no crown to weigh against your
love."

"Has he not?" mocked Ludwig.

"That, uncle, is neither kind nor gallant."

And from that moment Carmichael's heart warmed toward the young man,
whose sorrow was greater than his own. For the king was giving up the
woman who loved him, while Carmichael was only giving up the woman he
loved, which is a distinction.

"I ask Mr. Carmichael's pardon," said Prince Ludwig frankly. "But my
temper has been sadly tried. Will you grant me a favor?"

"If it is in my power," said Carmichael.

"Go at once to our embassy and notify them what has taken place."

"I will do that at once. If only I could find some way for you to
escape!"

"There is none," said the king. "Come, uncle; let us see what is going
on down-stairs."

Carmichael followed them down.

"There they are, men!" cried the sub-chief. "You are under arrest!"

"I am the king of Jugendheit," calmly announced Frederick Leopold.
"Will you subject me to public arrest?"

"And I," said the uncle, "am Ludwig, prince regent. Let us go to prison
as quickly as possible, blockheads!"

The sub-chief laughed uproariously, and even the disciplined soldiers
smiled. The king of Jugendheit and the prince regent! This was a good
joke, indeed!

"Your majesty and your royal highness," said the sub-chief, his eyes
twinkling, "will do me, a poor sub-chief of the police, the honor of
accompanying me to the Stein-schloss."

"Lead on, lead on!" cried Ludwig. "But wait! I forgot. There can be no
harm in asking why we are arrested."

"You are accused of being military spies from Jugendheit. That is
sufficient for the present."

"Frederick, they do not believe us. So much the better!" Ludwig pursed
his lips into a whistle.

"May I retain this bundle?" inquired the king.

"Yes. I know what is in it. Forward, march!"

The soldiers formed into a square, and in the center the prisoners were
placed. Carmichael made as though to protest, but Prince Ludwig signed
for him to be silent.

"Remember!" he said.

The king looked in vain for Gretchen. Then he beckoned to Carmichael,
and whispered brokenly: "If you see her, do not tell her what has
happened. Better to let her think that I have gone. And she will see
nothing in the arrest of the king of Jugendheit."

"I promise."

The troop marched along the street, followed by many curious ones, and
many heads popped in and out of the gabled windows. Carmichael watched
them till they veered round a corner, and then he returned to the
consulate. There he left a note for the clerk, telling him that he would
not be in the office again that day. Directly after, he hurried off to
the Jugendheit embassy.

An hour later Gretchen appeared before Fräu Bauer. Gretchen had gone
home immediately after the termination of the fight in the garden. It
had been the will of her lord and master for her to remain at home
throughout the day; but this she could not do. She was worried.

"He was not hurt, Fräu?" she asked timidly.

"Oh, no! The two of them gave themselves up readily. They are snug in
the Stein-schloss by this time."

"The Stein-schloss!" Gretchen blanched. "Holy Mother, what has
happened?"

"Why, your vintner and Herr Ludwig were arrested an hour ago, accused of
being spies from Jugendheit."

"It is a lie!" cried Gretchen hollowly. She groped blindly for the door.

"Where are you going, Gretchen?" Fräu Bauer inquired anxiously.

"To her highness! She will save him!"

Her highness was dreaming. She had fallen into this habit of late. A
flame in the fireplace, a cloud in the sky, a dash of rain on the
window, all these drew her fancy. What the heart wishes the mind will
dream. Sunshine was without, clear, brilliant; shadow was within,
mellow, nebulous. But to-day her dream was short. A maid of honor
announced that the young woman Gretchen sought her presence.

"Admit her. She will be a tonic," said Hildegarde.

Gretchen appeared, red-eyed and disheveled. Instantly she flung herself
at the feet of the princess.

"Why, Gretchen!"

"They will not let me see him, Highness!" Gretchen choked.

"What has happened, child?"

"They have arrested him as a spy from Jugendheit, and he is innocent.
Save him, Highness!"

"How can I save him?"

"He is not a spy."

"That must be proved, Gretchen. I can not go to the Stein-schloss and
order them to liberate him." She lifted Gretchen to her feet.

"I have been there, and they will not let me see him. I love him so!"

"I can arrange that for you. I will go with you myself to the prison."

"Thanks, Highness, thanks!" Gretchen was hysterical.

The Stein-schloss had been the feudal keep; now it served as the city
prison. Its grim gray stones were battle-scarred and time-worn; a place
of deep dungeons, huge bolts and bars, and narrow slits in the stone for
windows. The prison was both civil and military, but was patrolled and
sentineled by soldiers. The king and his uncle had been given adjoining
cells on the ground floor. These cells were dry, and light entered from
the modern windows in the wall of the corridor. The princess and her
protégée were admitted without objection. The sergeant in charge of that
floor even permitted them to go into the corridor unattended.

Voices.

"Hush!" whispered her highness, pressing Gretchen's arm.

"Ach! Wail, dear nephew, beat your hands upon the bars, curse, waste
your breath on stone. Did I not warn you against this very thing when
you proposed this mad junket? Well, there are two of us. A fine scandal!
They will laugh at us for months to come."

"Woe to the duke for this affront!"

Gretchen started to speak, but the princess quickly put her hand over
the goose-girl's mouth.

"Ha! So war is gathering in your veins?"

"I will have revenge for this!"

"Good! Bang--bang! Slash and cut! War is a great invention--on paper.
Come, my boy; you were sensible enough when they brought us here.
Control yourself. Be a king in all the word implies. For my part, I
begin to see."

"And what do you see?"

"I see that the duke knows who we are, even if his police do not. He
will keep us here a day or two, and then magnanimously liberate us with
profuse apologies. We shall be escorted to the frontier with honors. His
highness loves a jest too well to let this chance escape. Besides, I see
in the glass the fine Italian hand of Herbeck. I have always heard that
he was a great statesman. Swallow your wrath, even if your tongue goes
down with it."

"Gretchen, Gretchen!" said the king.

Gretchen could stand it no longer. She wrenched herself free from the
grasp of the princess, who, with pitying heart, understood all now. Poor
unhappy Gretchen!

"Here I am, Leopold!" the goose-girl cried, pressing her body against
the bars and thrusting her hands through them.

"The devil!" murmured the man in the other cell.

"You here, Gretchen?" The king covered her hands with passionate
kisses.

"Yes, yes! They have made a dreadful mistake. You are no spy from
Jugendheit."

"No, Gretchen," said the voice from the next cell. "He is far worse than
that. He is the king, Gretchen, the king."

"Uncle!" in anguish.

"Let us have it over with," replied Prince Ludwig sadly.

"The king?" Gretchen laughed shrilly. "What jest is this, Leopold?"

The king, still holding her hands, looked down.

"Leopold?" plaintively.

Still he did not speak, still he averted his head. But God knew that his
heart was on the rack.

The princess, remaining in the background, not daring to interfere, felt
the smart of tears in her eyes. Ah, the poor tender little goose-girl!
The pity of it! This king was a scoundrel.

"Leo, look at me! You are laughing! Why, did we not work together in the
vineyards, and did we not plan for the future? Ah, yes! You are a king
only to me. I see. But it is a cruel jest, Leopold. Smile at me! Say
something!" Gretchen was hanging to the bars now; her body, held in the
vise of growing terror, was almost a dead weight.

"Gretchen, forgive me!" despairingly.

"He asks me to forgive him!" dully. "For what?"

"For being a villain! Yes," his voice keen with agony. "I am the king
of Jugendheit. But am I less a man for that? Ah, God help me, I have a
right to love like other men! Do not doubt me, Gretchen; do not think
that I played with you. I love you better than my crown, better than my
honor!"

"Take care, nephew!" came Prince Ludwig's warning. "Some one else is
near."

"I care not! Before all the world I would gladly proclaim it. I love
her. I swear that I shall never marry, that my heart is breaking!
Gretchen, Gretchen! My God, she is falling! Help her!" wildly; and he
shook the bars with supernatural strength till his hands were bleeding.

But Gretchen did not answer.




CHAPTER XXI

TWIN LOCKETS


Carmichael tramped about his room, restless, uneasy, starting at sounds.
Half a dozen times his cigar had gone out, and burned matches lay
scattered on the floor. He was waiting for Grumbach and his confrères.
Now he looked out of a window, now he spun the leaves of a book, now he
sat down, got up, and tramped again. Anything but this suspense. A full
day! The duel in the Biergarten; the king of Jugendheit and the prince
regent in the Stein-schloss; the flight of the ambassador to the palace,
more like a madman than one noted for his calm and circumspection;
Gretchen carried into the palace in a dead faint, and her highness
weeping; the duke in a rage and brought over only after the hardest
struggle Carmichael had ever experienced. And deeper, firmer, became his
belief and conviction that Grumbach's affair vitally concerned her
highness. What blunder had been made? He would soon know. He welcomed
the knock on his door. Grumbach came in, carrying under his arm a small
bundle. He was pale but serene, like a man who had put his worldly
affairs in order.

"Well, Captain, what did his Highness say?"

"Where are your companions?"

"They are waiting outside."

"The duke agrees. He will give us an audience at eight-thirty. I had a
time of it!"

"Did you mention my name

"No. I went roundabout. I also obtained his promise to say nothing to
Herbeck till the interview was over. Again he demurred, but his
curiosity saved the day. Now, Hans, the full story."

Grumbach spread out on the bed the contents of the bundle.

"Look at these and tell me what you see, Captain."

Carmichael inspected the little yellow shoes. He turned them over and
over in his hand. He shook out the folds of the little cloak, and the
locket fell on the bed.

"When did you get this?" he cried excitedly. "It is her highness'!"

"So it is, Captain; but I have carried it about me all these years."

"What?"

"Yes, Captain. Count von Herbeck is a great statesman, but he made a
terrible mistake this time. Listen. As sure as we are in this room
together, I believe that she whom we call the princess is not the
daughter of the grand duke."

Carmichael sat down on the edge of the bed, numb and without any clear
idea where he was. From the stony look on his face, Grumbach might have
carried the head of Medusa in his hand. The blood beat into his head
with many strange noises. But by and by the world became clearer and
brighter till all things took on the rosal tint of dawn. Free! If she
was not a princess, she was free, free!

The duke allowed the quartet to remain standing for some time. He strode
up and down before them, his eyes straining at the floor, his hands
behind his back. He was in fatigue-dress, and only the star of
Ehrenstein glittered on his breast. He was never without this order. All
at once he whirled round, and as a sailor plunges the lead into the
sea, so he plumbed the very deeps of their eyes as if he would see
beforehand what strange things were at work in their souls. "I do not
recognize any of these persons," he said to Carmichael.

"Your highness does not recognize me, then?" asked the clock-mender.

"Come closer," commanded the duke. The clock-mender obeyed. "Take off
those spectacles." The duke scanned the features, and over his own came
the dawn of recollection. "Your eyes, your nose--Arnsberg, here and
alive? Oh, this is too good to be true!" The duke reached out toward the
bell, but Carmichael interposed.

"Your highness will remember," he warned.

"Ha! So you have trapped me blindly? I begin to understand. Who is this
fellow Grumbach? Did I offer immunity to him?"

"I am Hans Breunner, Highness, and I ask for nothing."

"Breunner? Breunner? Hans Breunner, brother of Hermann, and you put
yourself into my hands?" The tone developed into a suppressed roar. The
duke took hold of Hans by the shoulders and drew him close. "You dog! So
you ask for nothing? It shall be given to you. To-morrow morning I shall
have you shot! Hans Breunner! God is good to me this night! Thanks, Herr
Carmichael, a thousand thanks! And I need not ask who that damnable
scoundrel is who has the black face and heart of a Gipsy. When I
recollect what I have suffered at your hands! If only the late king were
here, my joy would be complete!"

"Your Highness," said Von Arnsberg quietly, "all I have left in the
world are these two withered hands, and may God cut them off if they
ever wronged you in any act. I am innocent. Those letters purported to
have been written by me were forgeries. I could not prove this, so I
have been outlawed, with the sentence of death over my head. But
to-night I shall leave this palace a free man, and you shall ask pardon
for the wrong you have done me."

There was no fear in the voice; there was nothing but confidence. The
duke glared at the speaker somberly, recalling what Herbeck had often
said.

"What you say still remains to be proved. Now, what is at the bottom of
all this?" was the demand. "You men have not obtained this interview for
the sake of affirming your innocence. Herr Carmichael, here, declared to
me on honor that you were in possession of a great secret. Out with it,
without any more useless recrimination."

Hans replied not in words but in actions. He crossed the room to the
duke's desk and spread out his treasures under the flickering
candlelight. The duke, with a cry of terror, sprang toward the secret
drawer. His first thought was that the shoes and cloak, upon which only
his eyes ever rested now, had been stolen. He straightened. Nothing was
missing. He glanced from face to face, from the articles on the desk to
those in the drawer. He was overwhelmed. But he steadied himself; it was
no moment for physical weakness. Slowly, ignoring every one, he came
back to the desk and fingered the locket. Just then it was exceedingly
quiet in the room, save that each man heard the quick breathing of his
neighbor. The duke opened the locket, looked long and steadfastly at the
portrait, and shut it. Then he went to the drawer again and returned
with the counterparts. He laid them side by side. The likeness was
perfect in all details.

"Carmichael," he said, "will you please help me? My eyes are growing
old. Do I see these things, or do I not? And if I do, which is mine, and
what does this signify?" The tremor in his voice was audible.

Grumbach answered. "This, Highness. I took these from the little
princess with my own hands. They have never been out of my keeping.
Those you have I know nothing about."

The duke rubbed his eyes. "My daughter?"

"The Princess Hildegarde is not your daughter, Highness," said Hans
solemnly.

"Gott!" The duke smote the desk in despair, a despair which wrung the
hearts of those who witnessed it. "Herbeck! I must send for Herbeck!"

"Not yet, Highness; later," Grumbach said.

"But if not Hildegarde--I believe I must be growing mad!"

"Patience, your Highness!" said Carmichael.

"Patience!" wearily. "You say patience when my heart is dying inside my
breast? Patience? Who, then, is this woman I have called my child?"

"God knows, Highness!" Hans stood bowed before this parental agony.

"But what proof have you that she is not? What proof, I say?"

"Would there be two lockets, Highness?"

"More proof than this will be needed. Produce it. Prolong this agony of
doubt not another instant."

"Speak," said Hans to the Gipsy, who was viewing the drama with the
nonchalance of a spectator rather than a participant.

"Highness," said the Gipsy, bowing, "he speaks truly. He came with us.
For fear that the little highness might be recognized as we traveled, we
changed her clothes. He took them, together with the locket. One day the
soldiers appeared in the distance. We all fled. We lost the little
highness, and none of us ever knew what became of her. She wore the
costume of my own children."

"We shall produce that in time," said Von Arnsberg.

"Damnable wretch!" said the duke, addressing the Gipsy.

The other shrugged. He had been promised immunity; that was all he cared
about, unless it was the bag of silver and gold this old clock-mender
had given him a few hours gone.

"I am summoning her highness," said the duke, as he struck the bell.

"And, Highness," added Grumbach, "despatch some one for Gretchen, who
lives at number forty the Krumerweg."

"The goose-girl? What does she know? Ah, I remember. She is even now
with her highness. I shall send for them both."

Gretchen? Carmichael's bewilderment increased. What place had the
goose-girl in this tragedy?

"Now, while we are waiting," resumed the duke, his agitation somewhat
under control, "the proof, the definite proof!"

"Her highness stumbled one night," said Hans, "and fell upon the fire. I
snatched her back, but not before her left arm was badly burned."

The Gipsy nodded. "I saw it, Highness."

And that was why Grumbach went to the military ball with opera-glasses!
Carmichael was round-eyed. But Gretchen?

"The Princess Hildegarde has no scar upon either arm," continued
