swept out into a ringing and familiar song, and the two gipsy girls
sang, too--laughed and sang, holding the frosty goblets high in the
sparkling light.

It was evident to Neeland that the song was a favourite one with
Russians. Sengoun was quite overcome; they all touched goblets.

"Brava, my little Tziganes!" he said with happy emotion. "My little
compatriots! My little tawny panthers of the Caucasus! What do you
call yourselves in this bandbox of a country where two steps backward
take you across any frontier?"

His dancing partner laughed till her sequins jingled from throat to
ankle:

"They call us Fifi and Nini," she replied. "Ask yourself why!"

"For example," added the other girl, "we rise from this table and
thank you. There is nothing further. C'est fini--c'est
Fifi--Nini--comprenez-vous, Prince Erlik?"

"Hi! What?" exclaimed Sengoun. "I'm known, it appears, even to that
devilish name of mine!"

Everybody laughed.

"After all," he said, more soberly, "it's a gipsy's trade to know
everybody and everything. Tiens!" He slapped a goldpiece on the
table. "A kiss apiece against a louis that you don't know my comrade's
name and nation!"

The girl called Nini laughed:

"We're quite willing to kiss you, Prince Erlik, but a louis d'or is
not a copper penny. And your comrade is American and his name is
Tchames."

"James!" exclaimed Sengoun.

"I said so--Tchames."

"What else?"

"Nilan."

"Neeland?"

"I said so."

Sengoun placed the goldpiece in Nini's hand and looked at Neeland with
an uncomfortable laugh.

"I ought to know a gipsy, but they always astonish me, these Tziganes.
Tell us some more, Nini----" He beckoned a waiter and pointed
indignantly at the empty goblets.

The girls, resting their elbows on the tables, framed their faces with
slim and dusky hands, and gazed at Sengoun out of humorous,
half-veiled eyes.

"What do you wish to know, Prince Erlik?" they asked mockingly.

"Well, for example, is my country really mobilising?"

"Since the twenty-fifth."

"Tiens! And old Papa Kaiser and the Clown Prince Footit--what do
they say to that?"

"It must be stopped."

"What! Sang dieu! We must stop mobilising against the Austrians?
But we are not going to stop, you know, while Francis Joseph continues
to pull faces at poor old Servian Peter!"

Neeland said:

"The evening paper has it that Austria is more reasonable and that the
Servian affair can be arranged. There will be no war," he added
confidently.

"There will be war," remarked Nini with a shrug of her bare, brown
shoulders over which her hair and her gilded sequins fell in a bright
mass.

"Why?" asked Neeland, smiling.

"Why? Because, for one thing, you have brought war into Europe!"

"Come, now! No mystery!" said Sengoun gaily. "Explain how my comrade
has brought war into Europe, you little fraud!"

Nini looked at Neeland:

"What else except papers was in the box you lost?" she asked coolly.

Neeland, very red and uncomfortable, gazed back at the girl without
replying; and she laughed at him, showing her white teeth.

"You brought the Yellow Devil into Europe, M'sieu Nilan! Erlik, the
Yellow Demon. When he travels there is unrest. Where he rests there is
war!"

"You're very clever," retorted Neeland, quite out of countenance.

"Yes, we are," said Fifi, with her quick smile. "And who but M'sieu
Nilan should admit it?"

"Very clever," repeated Neeland, still amazed and profoundly uneasy.
"But this Yellow Devil you say I brought into Europe must have been
resting in America, then. And, if so, why is there no war there?"

"There would have been--with Mexico. You brought the Yellow Demon
here, but just in time!"

"All right. Grant that, then. But--perhaps he was a long time resting
in America. What about that, pretty gipsy?"

The girl shrugged again:

"Is your memory so poor, M'sieu Nilan? What has your country done but
fight since Erlik rested among your people? You fought in Samoa; in
Hawaii; your warships went to Chile, to Brazil, to San Domingo; the
blood of your soldiers and sailors was shed in Hayti, in Cuba, in the
Philippines, in China----"

"Good Lord!" exclaimed Neeland. "That girl is dead right!"

Sengoun threw back his handsome head and laughed without restraint;
and the gipsies laughed, too, their beautiful eyes and teeth flashing
under their black cascades of unbound hair.

"Show me your palms," said Nini, and drew Sengoun's and Neeland's
hands across the table, holding them in both of hers.

"See," she added, nudging Fifi with her shoulder, "both of them born
under the Dark Star! It is war they shall live to see--war!"

"Under the Dark Star, Erlik," repeated the other girl, looking closely
into the two palms, "and there is war there!"

"And death?" inquired Sengoun gaily. "I don't care, if I can lead a
sotnia up Achi-Baba and twist the gullet of the Padisha before I say
Fifi--Nini!"

The gipsies searched his palm with intent and brilliant gaze.

"Zut!" said Fifi. "Je ne vois rien que d'l'amour et la guerre aux
dames!"

"T'en fais pas!" laughed Sengoun. "I ask no further favour of
Fortune; I'll manage my regiment myself. And, listen to me, Fifi," he
added with a frightful frown, "if the war you predict doesn't arrive,
I'll come back and beat you as though you were married to a Turk!"

While they still explored his palm, whispering together at intervals,
Sengoun caught the chorus of the air which the orchestra was playing,
and sang it lustily and with intense pleasure to himself.

Neeland, unquiet to discover how much these casual strangers knew
about his own and intimate affairs, had become silent and almost
glum.

But the slight gloom which invaded him came from resentment toward
those people who had followed him from Brookhollow to Paris, and who,
in the very moment of victory, had snatched that satisfaction from
him.

He thought of Kestner and of Breslau--of Scheherazade, and the
terrible episode in her stateroom.

Except that he had seized the box in the Brookhollow house, there was
nothing in his subsequent conduct on which he could plume himself. He
could not congratulate himself on his wisdom; sheer luck had carried
him through as far as the rue Soleil d'Or--mere chance, and that
capricious fortune which sometimes convoys the stupid, fatuous, and
astigmatic.

Then he thought of Rue Carew. And, in his bosom, an intense desire to
distinguish himself began to burn.

If there were any way on earth to trace that accursed box----

He turned abruptly and looked at the two gipsies, who had relinquished
Sangoun's hand and who were still conversing together in low tones
while Sangoun beat time on the jingling table top and sang joyously
at the top of his baritone voice:

                            "Eh, zoum--zoum--zoum!
                            Boum--boum--boum!
                    Here's to the Artillery
                      Gaily riding by!
                    Fetch me a distillery,
                      Let me drink it dry--
                    Fill me full of sillery!
                    Here's to the artillery!
                            Zoum--zoum--zoum!
                            Boum--boum--boum!"

"Fifi!"

"M'sieu?"

"You're so clever! Where is that Yellow Devil now?"

"Pouf!" giggled Fifi. "On its way to Berlin, pardie!"

"That's easy to say. Tell me something else more expensive."

Nini said, surprised:

"What we know is free to Prince Erlik's friend. Did you think we sell
to Russians?"

"I don't know anything about you or where you get your information,"
said Neeland. "I suppose you're in the Secret Service of the Russian
Government."

"Mon ami, Nilan," said Fifi, smiling, "we should feel lonely
outside the Secret Service. Few in Europe are outside--few in the
world, fewer in the half-world. As for us Tziganes, who belong to
neither, the business of everybody becomes our secret to sell for a
silver piece--but not to Russians in the moment of peril!... Nor to
their comrades.... What do you desire to know, comrade?"

"Anything," he said simply, "that might help me to regain what I have
lost."

"And what do you suppose!" exclaimed Fifi, opening her magnificent
black eyes very wide. "Did you imagine that nobody was paying any
attention to what happened in the rue Soleil d'Or this noon?"

Nini laughed.

"The word flew as fast as the robber's taxicab. How many thousand
secret friends to the Triple Entente do you suppose knew of it half an
hour after it happened? From the Trocadero to Montparnasse, from the
Point du Jour to Charenton, from the Bois to the Bièvre, the word
flew. Every taxicab, omnibus, sapin, every bateau-mouche, every
train that left any terminal was watched.

"Five embassies and legations were instantly under redoubled
surveillance; hundreds of cafés, bars, restaurants, hôtels; all the
theatres, gardens, cabarets, brasseries.

"Your pigs of Apaches are not neglected, va! But, to my idea, they
got out of Paris before we watchers knew of the affair at all--in an
automobile, perhaps--perhaps by rail. God knows," said the girl,
looking absently at the dancing which had begun again. "But if we ever
lay our eyes on Minna Minti, we wear toys in our garters which will
certainly persuade her to take a little stroll with us."

After a silence, Neeland said:

"Is Minna Minti then so well known?"

"Not at the Opéra Comique," replied Fifi with a shrug, "but since
then."

"An artiste, that woman!" added Nini. "Why deny it? It appears that
she has twisted more than one red button out of a broadcloth coat."

"She'll get the Seraglio medal for this day's work," said Fifi.

"Or the croix-de-fer," added Nini. "Ah, zut! She annoys me."

"Did you ever hear of a place called the Café des Bulgars?" asked
Neeland, carelessly.

"Yes."

"What sort of place is it?"

"Like any other."

"Quite respectable?"

"Perfectly," said Nini, smiling. "One drinks good beer there."

"Munich beer," added Fifi.

"Then it is watched?" asked Neeland.

"All German cafés are watched. Otherwise, it is not suspected."

Sengoun, who had been listening, shook his head. "There's nothing to
interest us at the Café des Bulgars," he said. Then he summoned a
waiter and pointed tragically at the empty goblets.




CHAPTER XXXI

THE CAFÉ DES BULGARS


Their adieux to Fifi and Nini were elaborate and complicated by bursts
of laughter. The Tziganes recommended Captain Sengoun to go home and
seek further adventures on his pillow; and had it not been for the gay
babble of the fountain and the persistent perfume of flowers, he might
have followed their advice.

It was after the two young men had left the Jardin Russe that Captain
Sengoun positively but affectionately refused to relinquish possession
of Neeland's arm.

"Dear friend," he explained, "I am just waking up and I do not wish to
go to bed for days and days."

"But I do," returned Neeland, laughing. "Where do you want to go now,
Prince Erlik?"

The champagne was singing loudly in the Cossack's handsome head; the
distant brilliancy beyond the Place de la Concorde riveted his roving
eyes.

"Over there," he said joyously. "Listen, old fellow, I'll teach you
the skating step as we cross the Place! Then, in the first Bal, you
shall try it on the fairest form since Helen fell and Troy burned--or
Troy fell and Helen burned--it's all the same, old fellow--what you
call fifty-fifty, eh?"

Neeland tried to free his arm--to excuse himself; two policemen
laughed; but Sengoun, linking his arm more firmly in Neeland's,
crossed the Place in a series of Dutch rolls and outer edges, in which
Neeland was compelled to join. The Russian was as light and graceful
on his feet as one of the dancers of his own country; Neeland's
knowledge of skating aided his own less agile steps. There was
sympathetic applause from passing taxis and fiacres; and they might,
apparently, have had any number of fair partners for the asking, along
the way, except for Sengoun's headlong dive toward the brightest of
the boulevard lights beyond.

In the rue Royal, however, Sengoun desisted with sudden access of
dignity, remarking that such gambols were not worthy of the best
traditions of his Embassy; and he attempted to bribe the drivers of a
couple of hansom cabs to permit him and his comrade to take the reins
and race to the Arc de Triomphe.

Failing in this, he became profusely autobiographical, informing
Neeland of his birth, education, aims, aspirations.

"When I was twelve," he said, "I had known already the happiness of
the battle-shock against Kurd, Mongol, and Tartar. At eighteen my
ambition was to slap the faces of three human monsters. I told
everybody that I was making arrangements to do this, and I started for
Brusa after my first monster--Fehim Effendi--but the Vali telegraphed
to the Grand Vizier, and the Grand Vizier ran to Abdul the Damned, and
Abdul yelled for Sir Nicholas O'Connor; and they caught me in the Pera
Palace and handed me over to my Embassy."

Neeland shouted with laughter:

"Who were the other monsters?" he asked.

"The other two whose countenances I desired to slap? Oh, one was Abdul
Houda, the Sultan's star-reader, who chattered about my Dark Star
horoscope in the Yildiz. And the other was the Sultan."

"Who?"

"Abdul Hamid."

"What? You wished to slap his face?"

"Certainly. But Kutchuk Saïd and Kiamil Pasha requested me not
to--accompanied by gendarmes."

"You'd have lost your life," remarked Neeland.

"Yes. But then war would surely have come, and today my Emperor would
have held the Dardanelles where the Turkish flag is now flying over
German guns and German gunners."

He shook his head:

"Great mistake on my part," he muttered. "Should have pulled Abdul's
lop ears. Now, everything in Turkey is 'Yasak' except what Germans do
and say; and God knows we are farther than ever from St. Sophia....
I'm very thirsty with thinking so much, old fellow. Did you ever drink
German champagne?"

"I believe not----"

"Come on, then. You shall drink several gallons and never feel it.
It's the only thing German I could ever swallow."

"Prince Erlik, you have had considerable refreshment already."

"Copain, t'en fais pas!"

The spectacle of two young fellows in evening dress, in a friendly
tug-of-war under the lamp-posts of the Boulevard, amused the passing
populace; and Sengoun, noticing this, was inclined to mount a
boulevard bench and address the wayfarers, but Neeland pulled him down
and persuaded him into a quieter street, the rue Vilna.

"There's a German place, now!" exclaimed Sengoun, delighted.

And Neeland, turning to look, perceived the illuminated sign of the
Café des Bulgars.

German champagne had now become Sengoun's fixed idea; nothing could
dissuade him from it, nothing persuade him into a homeward bound taxi.
So Neeland, with a rather hazy idea that he ought not to do it,
entered the café with Senguon; and they seated themselves on a leather
wall-lounge before one of the numerous marble-topped tables.

"Listen," he said in a low voice to his companion, "this is a German
café, and we must be careful what we say. I'm not any too prudent and
I may forget this; but don't you!"

"Quite right, old fellow!" replied Sengoun, giving him an owlish look.
"I must never forget I'm a diplomat among these sales Boches----"

"Be careful, Sengoun! That expression is not diplomatic."

"Careful is the word, mon vieux," returned the other loudly and
cheerfully. "I'll bet you a dollar, three kopeks, and two sous that I
go over there and kiss the cashier----"

"No! Be a real diplomat, Sengoun!"

"I'm sorry you feel that way, Neeland, because she's unusually pretty.
And we might establish a triple entente until you find some Argive
Helen to quadruple it. Aha! Here is our German champagne! Positively
the only thing German a Russian can----"

"Listen! This won't do. People are looking at us----"

"Right, old fellow--always right! You know, Neeland, this friendship
of ours is the most precious, most delightful, and most inspiring
experience of my life. Here's a full goblet to our friendship! Hurrah!
As for Enver Pasha, may Erlik seize him!"

After they had honoured the toast, Sengoun looked about him
pleasantly, receptive, ready for any eventuality. And observing no
symptoms of any eventuality whatever, he suggested creating one.

"Dear comrade," he said, "I think I shall arise and make an incendiary
address----"

"No!"

"Very well, if you feel that way about it. But there is another way to
render the evening agreeable. You see that sideboard?" he continued,
pointing to a huge carved buffet piled to the ceiling with porcelain
and crystal. "What will you wager that I can not push it over with one
hand?"

But Neeland declined the wager with an impatient gesture, and kept his
eyes riveted on a man who had just entered the café. He could see only
the stranger's well-groomed back, but when, a moment later, the man
turned to seat himself, Neeland was not surprised to find himself
looking at Doc Curfoot.

"Sengoun," he said under his breath, "that type who just came in is
an American gambler named Doc Curfoot; and he is here with other
gamblers for the purpose of obtaining political information for some
government other than my own."

Sengoun regarded the new arrival with amiable curiosity:

"That worm? Oh, well, every city in Europe swarms with such maggots,
you know. It would be quite funny if he tries any blandishments on us,
wouldn't it?"

"He may. He's a capper. He's looking at us now. I believe he remembers
having seen me in the train."

"As for an hour or two at chemin-de-fer, baccarat, or roulette,"
remarked Sengoun, "I am not averse to a----"

"Watch him! The waiter who is taking his order may know who you
are--may be telling that gambler.... I believe he did! Now, let us
see what happens...."

Sengoun, delighted at the prospect of an eventuality, blandly emptied
his goblet and smiled generally upon everybody.

"I hope he will make our acquaintance and ask us to play," he said.
"I'm very lucky at chemin-de-fer. And if I lose I shall conclude that
there is trickery. Which would make it very lively for everybody," he
added with a boyish smile. But his dark eyes began to glitter and he
showed his beautiful, even teeth when he laughed.

"Ha!" he said. "A little what you call a mix-up might not come amiss!
That gives one an appetite; that permits one to perspire; that does
good to everybody and makes one sleep soundly! Shall we, as you say in
America, start something?"

Neeland, thinking of Ali-Baba and Golden Beard and of their undoubted
instigation by telegraph of the morning's robbery, wondered whether
the rendezvous of the robbers might not possibly be here in the Café
des Bulgars.

The gang of Americans in the train had named Kestner, Breslau, and
Weishelm--the one man of the gang whom he had never seen--as
prospective partners in this enterprise.

Here, somewhere in this building, were their gambling headquarters.
Was there any possible chance that the stolen box and its contents
might have been brought here for temporary safety?

Might it not now be hidden somewhere in this very building by men too
cunning to risk leaving the city when every train and every road would
be watched within an hour of the time that the robbery was
committed?

Leaning back carelessly on the lounge and keeping his eyes on the
people in the café, Neeland imparted these ideas to Sengoun in a low
voice--told him everything he knew in regard to the affair, and asked
his opinion.

"My opinion," said Sengoun, who was enchanted at any prospect of
trouble, "is that this house is 'suspect' and is worth searching. Of
course the Prefect could be notified, arrangements made, and a search
by the secret police managed. But, Neeland, my friend, think of what
pleasure we should be deprived!"

"How do you mean?"

"Why not search the place ourselves?"

"How?"

"Well, of course, we could be picturesque, go to my Embassy, and fill
our pockets with automatic pistols, and come back here and--well, make
them stand around and see how high they could reach with both hands."

Neeland laughed.

"That would be a funny jest, wouldn't it?" said Sengoun.

"Very funny. But----" He nudged Sengoun and directed his attention
toward the terrace outside, where waiters were already removing the
little iron tables and the chairs, and the few lingering guests were
coming inside the café.

"I see," muttered Sengoun; "it is already Sunday morning, and they're
closing. It's too late to go to the Embassy. They'd not let us in here
when we returned."

Neeland summoned a waiter with a nod:

"When do you close up inside here?"

"Tomorrow being Sunday, the terrace closes now, monsieur; but the café
remains open all night," explained the waiter with a noticeable German
accent.

"Thank you." And, to Sengoun: "I'd certainly like to go upstairs. I'd
like to see what it looks like up there--take a glance around."

"Very well, let us go up----"

"We ought to have some excuse----"

"We'll think of several on the way," rising with alacrity, but Neeland
pulled him back.

"Wait a moment! It would only mean a fight----"

"All fights," explained Sengoun seriously, "are agreeable--some more
so. So if you are ready, dear comrade----"

"But a row will do us no good----"

"Pardon, dear friend, I have been in serious need of one for an hour
or two----"

"I don't mean that sort of 'good,'" explained Neeland, laughing. "I
mean that I wish to look about up there--explore----"

"Quite right, old fellow--always right! But--here's an idea! I could
stand at the head of the stairs and throw them down as they mounted,
while you had leisure to look around for your stolen box----"

"My dear Prince Erlik, we've nothing to shoot with, and it's likely
they have. There's only one way to get upstairs with any chance of
learning anything useful. And that is to start a row between
ourselves." And, raising his voice as though irritated, he called for
the reckoning, adding in a tone perfectly audible to anybody in the
vicinity that he knew where roulette was played, and that he was going
whether or not his friend accompanied him.

Sengoun, delighted, recognised his cue and protested in loud, nasal
tones that the house to which his comrade referred was suspected of
unfair play; and a noisy dispute began, listened to attentively by the
pretty but brightly painted cashier, the waiters, the gérant, and
every guest in the neighbourhood.

"As for me," cried Sengoun, feigning to lose his temper, "I have no
intention of being tricked. I was not born yesterday--not I! If there
is to be found an honest wheel in Paris that would suit me. Otherwise,
I go home to bed!"

"It is an honest wheel, I tell you----"

"It is not! I know that place!"

"Be reasonable----"

"Reasonable!" repeated Sengoun appealingly to the people around them.
"Permit me to ask these unusually intelligent gentlemen whether it is
reasonable to play roulette in a place where the wheel is notoriously
controlled and the management a dishonest one! Could a gentleman be
expected to frequent or even to countenance places of evil repute?
Messieurs, I await your verdict!" And he folded his arms
dramatically.

Somebody said, from a neighbouring table:

"Vous avez parfaitement raison, monsieur!"

"I thank you," cried Sengoun, with an admirably dramatic bow.
"Therefore, I shall now go home to bed!"

Neeland, maintaining his gravity with difficulty, followed Sengoun
toward the door, still pretending to plead with him; and the gérant,
a tall, blond, rosy and unmistakable German, stepped forward to unlock
the door.

As he laid his hand on the bolt he said in a whisper:

"If the gentlemen desire the privilege of an exclusive club where
everything is unquestionably conducted----"

"Where?" demanded Neeland, abruptly.

"On the third floor, monsieur."

"Here?"

"Certainly, sir. If the gentlemen will honour me with their names, and
will be seated for one little moment, I shall see what can be
accomplished."

"Very well," said Sengoun, with a short, incredulous laugh. "I'm
Prince Erlik, of the Mongol Embassy, and my comrade is Mr. Neeland,
Consul General of the United States of America in the Grand Duchy of
Gerolstein!"

The gérant smiled. After he had gone away toward the further room in
the café, Neeland remarked to Sengoun that doubtless their real names
were perfectly well known, and Sengoun disdainfully shrugged his
indifference:

"What can one expect in this dirty rat-nest of Europe? Abdul the
Damned employed one hundred thousand spies in Constantinople alone!
And William the Sudden admired him. Why, Neeland, mon ami, I never
take a step in the streets without being absolutely certain that I am
watched and followed. What do I care! Except that towns make me sick.
But the only cure is a Khirgiz horse and a thousand lances. God send
them. I'm sick of cities."

A few moments later the gérant returned and, in a low voice,
requested them to accompany him.

They passed leisurely through the café, between tables where lowered
eyes seemed to deny any curiosity; but guests and waiters looked after
them after they had passed, and here and there people whispered
together--particularly two men who had followed them from the
sun-dial fountain in the rue Soleil d'Or to the Jardin Russe, across
the Place de la Concorde, and into the Café des Bulgars in the rue
Vilna.

On the stairs Neeland heard Sengoun still muttering to himself:

"Certainly I am sick of cities and narrow strips of sky. What I need
is a thousand lances at a gallop, and a little Kirghiz horse between
my knees."




CHAPTER XXXII

THE CERCLE EXTRANATIONALE


The suite of rooms into which they were ushered appeared to be
furnished in irreproachable taste. Except for the salon at the
further end of the suite, where play was in progress, the charming
apartment might have been a private one; and the homelike simplicity
of the room, where books, flowers, and even a big, grey cat confirmed
the first agreeable impression, accented the lurking smile on
Sengoun's lips.

Doc Curfoot, in evening dress, came forward to receive them, in
company with another man, young, nice-looking, very straight, and with
the high, square shoulders of a Prussian.

"Bong soire, mussoors," said Curfoot genially. "J'ai l'honnoor de
vous faire connaitre mong ami, Mussoor Weishelm."

They exchanged very serious bows with "Mussoor" Weishelm, and Curfoot
retired.

