if your book is a best seller it ought to worry you, Jim."

"You don’t think," he demanded sadly, "that there’s anything in me?"

"Oh, Jim!"—swiftly remorseful—"I was joking, of course."  And, seeing by
his grin that he was, too, turned up her nose, regretting too late her
hasty and warm-hearted remorse.

"How common, this fishing for praise and sympathy!" she remarked
disdainfully.  "Dad, does he bother you to death trying to read his
immortal lines to you at inopportune moments?"

Cleland Senior, in his arm-chair, white-haired, deeply ruddy, had been
laughing during the bantering passage at arms between the two he loved
best on earth.

He seemed the ideal personification of hale and wholesome age, sound as
a bell, very handsome, save that the flush on his face seemed rather
heavier and deeper than the usual healthy colour.

"Dad," exclaimed the girl, impulsively, "you certainly are the
best-looking thing in all New York!  I don’t think I shall permit you to
go walking alone all by yourself any more.  Do you hear me?"

She sprang up lightly, went over and seated herself on the arm of his
chair, murmuring close to his face gay little jests, odd, quaint
endearments, all sorts of nonsense while she smoothed his hair to her
satisfaction, re-tied his evening tie, patted his lapels, and finally
kissed him lightly between his eyebrows, continuing her murmured
nonsense all the while:

"I won’t have other women looking sideways at you—the hussies!  I’m
jealous.  I shall hereafter walk out with you.  Do you hear what I
threaten?—you very flighty and deceitful man!  Steve is going to
chaperon you everywhere you go."

John Cleland’s smile altered subtly:

"Not everywhere, Steve."

"Indeed, I shall!  Every step you take."

"No, dear."

"Why not?"

"Because—there is one rather necessary trip I shall have to make—some
day——"

A moment’s silence; then her arms around his neck:

"Dad!" she whispered, in breathless remonstrance.

"Yes, dear?"

"Don’t you—feel well?"

"Perfectly."

"Then," fiercely, "don’t dare hint such things!"

"About the—journey I spoke of?" he asked, smiling.

"Yes!  Don’t say such a thing!  You are not going!—until I go, too!"

"If I could postpone the trip on your account——"

"Dad!  Do you want to break my heart and kill me by such jokes?"

"There, Steve, I was merely teasing.  Men of my age have a poor way of
joking sometimes....  I mean to postpone that trip.  Indeed, I do,
Steve.  You’re a handful, and I’ve got to keep hold of you for a long
while yet."

Jim overheard that much:

"A handful?  Rubbish!" he remarked.  "Send her to bed at nine for the
next few years and be careful about her diet and censor her reading
matter.  That’s all Steve needs to become a real grown-up some day."

Stephanie had risen to face the shafts of good-natured sarcasm.

"Suppose," she said, "that I told you I had sent a poem to a certain
magazine and that it had been accepted?"

"I’d say very amiably that you are precocious," he replied tormentingly.

"Brute!  I did!  I sent it!"

"They accepted it?"

"I don’t know," she admitted, pink with annoyance; "but it won’t
surprise me very much if they accept it. Really, Jim, do you think
nobody else can write anything worth considering?  Do you really believe
that you embody all the talent in New York?  Do you?"  And, to Cleland
Senior: "Oh, Dad, isn’t he the horrid personification of everything
irritatingly masculine? And I’ll bet his old novel is perfectly
commonplace.  I think I’ll go up to his room and take a critical glance
at it——"

"Hold on, Steve!" he exclaimed—for she was already going.  She glanced
over her shoulder with a defiant smile, and he sprang up to follow and
overtake her.

But Stephanie’s legs were long and her feet light and swift, and she was
upstairs and inside his room before he caught her, reaching for the
sacred manuscript.

"Oh, Jim," she coaxed, beguilingly, "do let me have one little peep at
it, there’s a dear fellow!  Just one little——"

"Not yet, Steve.  It isn’t in any shape.  Wait till it’s typed——"

"I don’t care.  I can read your writing easily——"

"It’s all scored and cross-written and messed up——"

"Please, Jim!  I’m simply half dead with curiosity," she admitted.
"Be an angel brother and let me sit here and hear you read the first
chapter—only one little chapter.  Won’t you?" she pleaded with melting
sweetness.

"I—I’d be—embarrassed——"

"What!  To have your own sister hear what you’ve written?"

There was a short silence.  The word "sister" was meant to be reassuring
to both.  To use it came instinctively to her as an inspiration, partly
because she had vaguely felt that some confirmation of such
matter-of-fact relationship would put them a little more perfectly at
their ease with each other.

For they had not been entirely at their ease.  Both were subtly aware of
that—she had first betrayed it by her offered hand instead of the
friendly and sisterly kiss which had been a matter of course until now.

"Come," she said, gaily, "be a good child and read the pretty story to
little sister."

She sat down on the edge of his bed; he, already seated at his desk,
frowned at the pile of manuscript before him.

"I’d rather talk," he said.

"About what?"

"Anything.  Honestly, Steve, I’ll let you see it when it’s typed.  But I
rather hate to show anything until it’s done—I don’t like to have people
see the raw edges and the machinery."

"I’m not ’people.’  How horrid.  Also, it makes a difference when a girl
is not only your sister but also somebody who intends to devote her life
to artistic self-expression.  You can read your story to that kind of
girl, I should hope!"

"Haven’t you given that up?"

"Given up what?"

"That mania for self-expression, as you call it."

"Of course not."

"What do you think you want to do?" he asked uneasily.

"Jim, you are entirely too patronizing.  I don’t ’think’ I want to do
anything: but I know I desire to find some medium for self-expression
and embrace it as a profession."

That rather crushed him for a moment.  Then:

"There’ll be time enough to start that question when you graduate——"

"It is not a question.  I intend to express myself some day.  And you
might as well reconcile yourself to that idea."

"Suppose you haven’t anything worth expressing?"

"Are you teasing?" She flushed slightly.

"Oh, yes, I suppose I am teasing you.  But, Steve, neither father nor I
want to see you enter any unconventional profession.  It’s no good for a
girl unless she is destined for it by a talent that amounts to genius.
If you have that, it ought to show by the time you graduate——"

"You make me simply furious, Jim," she retorted impatiently.  "These few
months at college have taught me something.  And, for one thing, I’ve
learned that a girl has exactly as much right as a man to live her own
life in her own way, unfettered by worn-out conventions and unhampered
by man’s critical opinions concerning her behaviour.

"The dickens," he remarked, and whistled softly.

"And, further," she continued warmly, "I am astonished that in this age,
when the entire world tacitly admits that woman is man’s absolute equal
in every respect, that you apparently still harbour old-fashioned,
worn-out and silly notions.  You are very far out of date, my charming
brother."

"What notions?" he demanded.

"Notions that a girl’s mission is to go to parties and dance when she
doesn’t desire to—that a girl had better conform to the uninteresting
and stilted laws of the recent past and live her life as an animated
clothes-rack, mind her deportment, and do what nice girls do, and marry
and become the mother of numerous offspring; which shall be taught to
follow in her footsteps and do the same thing all over again, generation
after generation—ad nauseam!——  Oh, Jim!  I’m not going to live out my
life that way and be looked after as carefully as a pedigreed
Pekinese——"

"For Heaven’s sake——"

"For Heaven’s sake—yes!—and in God’s name, Jim, it is time that a
woman’s mind was occupied by something beside the question of clothes
and husbands and children!"

The boy whistled softly, stared at her, and she looked at him
unflinchingly, with her pretty, breathless smile of defiance.

"I want to live my own life in my own way.  Can’t I?" she asked.

"Of course——"

"You say that.  But the instant I venture to express a desire for any
outlet—for any chance to be myself, express myself, seek the artistic
means for self-utterance, then you tell me I am unconventional!"

He was silent.

"Nobody hampers you!" she flashed out.  "You are free to choose your
profession."

"But why do you want a profession, Steve?"

"Why?  Because I feel the need of it.  Because just ordinary society
does not interest me.  I prefer Bohemia."

He said:

"There’s a lot of stuff talked about studios and atmosphere and ’urge’
and general Bohemian irresponsibility—and a young girl is apt to get a
notion that she, also, experiences the ’cosmic urge’ and that
’self-expression’ is her middle name....  That’s all I mean, Steve. You
frequently have voiced your desire for a career among the fine arts.
Now and then you have condescended to sketch for me your idea of an
ideal environment, which appears to be a studio in studio disorder, art
produced in large chunks, and ’people worth while’ loudly attacking
pianos and five o’clock tea——"

"Jim!  You are not nice to me....  If I didn’t love you with all my
heart——"

"It’s because I’m fond of you, too," he explained. "I don’t want my
sister, all over clay or paint, sitting in a Greenwich village studio,
smoking cigarettes and frying sausages for lunch!  No!  Or I don’t want
her bullied by an ignorant stage director or leered at by an animal who
plays ’opposite,’ or insulted by a Semitic manager.  Is that very
astonishing?"

The girl rose, nervous, excited, but laughing:

"You dear old out-of-date thing!  We’ll continue this discussion another
time.  Dad’s been alone in the library altogether too long."  She
laughed again, a little hint of tenderness in her gaiety; and extended
her hand.  He took it.

"Without prejudice," she said.  "I adore you, Jim!"

"And with all my heart, Steve.  I just want you to do what will be best
for you, little sister."

"I know.  Thank you, Jim.  Now, we’ll go and find dad."

They found him.  He lay on the thick Oushak rug at the foot of the chair
in which he had been seated when they left him.

On his lips lingered a slight smile.

A physician lived across the street.  When he arrived his examination
was brief and perfunctory.  He merely said that the stroke had come like
a bolt of lightning, then turned his attention to Stephanie, who seemed
to be sorely in need of it.




                              *CHAPTER XI*


When such a thing happens to young people a certain mental numbness
follows the first shock, limiting the capacity for suffering, and
creating its own anodyne.

The mental processes resume their functions gradually, chary of arousing
sensation.

Grief produces a chemical reaction within the body, poisoning it.  But
within that daily visitor to the body, the soul, a profound spiritual
reaction occurs which either cripples it or ennobles it eternally.

Many people called and left cards, or sent cards and flowers.  Some
asked for Jim; among others, Chiltern Grismer.

"M-m-m’yes," he murmured, retaining the young man’s hand, "—my friend of
many years has left us;—m-m-m’yes, my friend of many years.  I am very
sorry to hear it; yes, very sorry."

Jim remained passive, incurious.  Grismer prowled about the darkened
room, alternately pursing up and sucking in his dry and slitted lips.
Finally he seated himself and gazed owlishly at the young man.

"And our little adopted sister?  How does this deplorable affliction
affect her?  May I hope to offer my condolences to her also?"

"My sister Stephanie is utterly crushed....  Thank you....  She is very
grateful to you."

"M-m-m’yes.  May I see her?"

"I am sorry.  She is scarcely able to see anybody at present.  Her aunt,
Miss Quest, is with her."

"M-m-m.  After all—but let it remain unsaid—m-m-m’yes, unsaid.  So her
aunt is with her?  M-m-m!"

Jim was silent.  Grismer sat immovable as a gargoyle, gazing at him out
of unwinking eyes.

"M-m-m’yes," he said.  "Grief was his due.  My friend of many years was
worthy of such filial demonstrations.  Quite so—even though there is, in
point of fact, no blood relationship between my friend of many years and
your adopted sister——"

"My sister could not feel her loss more keenly if she and I had been
born of the same mother," said the boy in a dull voice.

"Quite so.  M-m-m’yes.  Or the same father.  Quite so."

"I—I simply can’t talk about it yet," muttered the young fellow.  "If
you’ll excuse me——"

"Quite so.  Far better to talk about other things just at present,
m’yes, far wiser.  M-m-m—and so the young lady’s aunt has arrived?  Very
suitable, ve-ry suitable and necessary.  And doubtless Miss Quest will
take up her permanent residence here, in view of the—ah—m-m-m-m’yes!—no
doubt of it; no doubt."

"We have not spoken of that."

A moment later Miss Quest entered the room.

"Stephanie is awake and is asking for you," she said.  As the young man
rose with a murmured excuse. Miss Quest turned and looked at Chiltern
Grismer.

"Madame," he began, rising to his gaunt height, "permit me—my name is
Grismer——"

"Oh," she interrupted drily, "I’ve talked you over with the late Mr.
Cleland."

"My friend of many years, Madame——"

"We didn’t discuss your friendship for each other, Mr. Grismer," she
snapped out.  "Our subject of conversation concerned money."

"Ma’am?"

"An inheritance, in fact, which, I believe, you allege that you
legally converted to your own uses," she added, staring at him.

They sustained each other’s gaze in silence for a moment.

Then Grismer’s large, dry hand crept up over his lips and began a
rhythmical massage of the grim jaw.

"My friend of many years and I came to an understanding in regard to the
painful matter which you have mentioned," he said slowly.

"Yes?"

"Absolutely, Madame.  Out of his abundance, I was given to understand,
he had bountifully provided for your niece—m-m-m’yes, bounteously
provided.  Further, he gave me to understand that you, Madame, out of
the abundant wealth with which our Lord has blessed you, had indicated
your resolution to provide for the young lady."

There was an uncanny gleam in Miss Quest’s eyes. But she said nothing.
Grismer, watching her, softly joined the tips of his horny fingers.

"M-m’yes.  Quite so.  My friend of many years voluntarily assured me
that he did not contemplate reopening the unfortunate matter in
question—in point of fact, Madame, he gave me his solemn promise never
to initiate any such action in behalf of the young lady."

Miss Quest remained mute.

"And John Cleland was right, Madame," continued Grismer in a gentle,
persuasive voice, "because any such litigation must prove not only
costly but fruitless of result.  The unfortunate and undesirable
publicity of such a case, if brought to trial, could not vindicate my
own rectitude and the righteousness of my cause while gossip and scandal
cruelly destroyed the social position which the young lady at present
enjoys."

After another silence:

"Well?" inquired Miss Quest, "is there anything more that worries you,
Mr. Grismer?"

"Worries me, Madame?  I am not disturbed in the slightest degree."

"Oh, yes you are.  You are not disturbed over any possible scandal that
might affect my niece, but you are horribly afraid of any disgrace to
yourself.  And that is why you come into this house of death while your
’friend of many years’ is still lying in his coffin! That is why you
come prowling to find out whether I am as much a lady in my way as he
was a gentleman in his.  That’s all that disturbs you!"

"Madame——"

"Or, to put it plainer, you want to know whether you have to defend an
action, civil perhaps, possibly criminal, charging you with
mal-administration and illegal conversion of trust funds.  That’s all
that worries you, isn’t it?  Well—worry then!" she added venomously.

"Do I understand——"

"No, you don’t understand, Mr. Grismer.  And that’s another thing for
you to worry over.  You don’t know what I’m going to do, or whether I am
going to do anything at all.  You may find out in a week—you may not
find out for years.  And it is going to worry you every minute of your
life."

She marched to the staircase hall:

"Meacham?"

"Ma’am?"

"Mr. Grismer’s hat!"

Jim, seated beside the bed where Stephanie lay in the darkened room, her
tear-marred face buried in her pillow, heard the front door close.  Then
silence reigned again in the twilight of the house of Cleland.

Miss Quest peeped into the room, then withdrew.  If the young fellow
heard her at all he made no movement, so still, so intent had he been
since his father’s death in striving to visualize the familiar face.
And found to his astonishment and grief that he could not mentally
summon his father’s image before his eyes—could not flog the shocked
brain to evoke the beloved features. The very effort was becoming an
agony to him.

It began to rain about four o’clock.  It rained hard all night long on
the resounding scuttle and roof overhead.  Toward dawn the rain ceased
and the dark world grew noisy.  There was a cat-fight on the back fence.
The car wheels on Madison Avenue seemed unusually dissonant.  Very far
away, foggy river whistles saluted the dawn of another day.

There were a great many people at the funeral.  God knows the dead are
indifferent to such attroupements macabre, but it seems to satisfy
some morbid requirement in the living—friends, a priest, and a passing
bell.

Hoc erat in more majorum: hodie tibi; cras mihi.

The family—Jim, Stephanie and Miss Quest—sat together, as is customary.
The church was bathed in tinted sunlight streaming through stained glass
and falling over casket and flowers in glowing hues.  The dyed splendour
painted pew and chancel and stained Stephanie’s black veil with crimson.
Behind them a discreet but interminable string of many people continued.

When the first creeping note of the organ, ominous and low, grew out of
the silence, young Cleland felt Stephanie sway a little and remain
resting against his shoulder.  After a moment he realized that the girl
had lost consciousness; and he quietly passed his arm around her,
holding her firmly until she revived and moved again.

As for himself, what was passing before him seemed like a shadow scene
enacted behind darkened glass. There was nothing real about it, nothing
that seemed to appertain in any way to this dead father who had been a
comrade and beloved friend.  He looked at the casket, at the massed
flowers, at the altar, the surplices.  All were foreign to the intensely
human father he had loved—nothing here seemed to be in harmony with
him—not the crawling vibration of the organ, not the resonant,
professional droning of the clergy; not these throngs of unseen people
behind his back,—not the black garments he wore; not this slender,
sombre, drooping thing of crape seated here close beside him, trembling
at intervals, with one black-gloved hand gripping his.

A sullen hatred for it all began to possess him.  All this was
interrupting him—actually making it harder than ever for him to
visualize his father—driving the beloved phantom out from its familiar
environment in his heart into unrecognizable surroundings full of
caskets, pallid, heavy-scented flowers, surpliced clergymen whose
cadenced phrases were accurately timed; whose every move and gesture
showed them to be quite perfect in the "business" of the act.

"Hell," he muttered under his breath; and became aware of Stephanie’s
white face and startled eyes.

"Nothing," he whispered; "only I can’t stand this mummery!  I want to
get back to the library where I can be with father....  He isn’t in
that black and silver thing over there.  He isn’t in any orthodox
paradise.  He’s part of the sunlight out doors—and the spring air....
He’s an immortal part of everything beautiful that ever was.  When these
people conclude to let him alone, I’ll have a chance with him....  You
think I’m crazy, Steve?"

Her pale lips formed "No."

They remained silent after that until the end, their tense fingers
interlocked.  Miss Quest’s head remained bowed in the folds of her crape
veil.

The drive from the cemetery began through the level, rosy rays of a
declining sun, and ended in soft spring darkness full of the cheery
noises of populous streets.

Cleland had dreaded to enter the house as they drew near to it; its
prospective emptiness appalled him; but old Meacham had lighted every
light all over the house; and it seemed to help, somehow.

Miss Quest went with Stephanie to her room, leaving Jim in the library
alone.

Strange, irrelevant thoughts came to the boy’s mind to assail him,
torment him with their futility: he remembered several things which he
had forgotten to tell his father—matters of no consequence which now
suddenly assumed agonizing importance.

There in the solitude of the library, he remembered, among other things,
that his father would never read his novel, now.  Why had he waited,
wishing to have it entirely finished before his father should read this
first beloved product of his eager pen?

Stephanie found him striding about the library, lips distorted,
quivering with swelling grief.

"Oh, Steve," he said, seeing her in the doorway, "I am beginning to
realize that I can’t talk to him any more!  I can’t touch him—I can’t
talk—hear his voice—see——"

"Jim—don’t——"

"The whole world is no good to me now!" cried the boy, flinging up his
arms in helpless resentment toward whatever had done this thing to him.

Whatever had done it offered no excuse.




                             *CHAPTER XII.*


The reading of John Cleland’s will marked the beginning of the end of
the old régime for Stephanie Quest and for James Cleland.

Two short letters accompanied the legal document. All the papers were of
recent date.

The letter directed to Jim was almost blunt in its brevity:


MY DEAR SON:

I have had what I believe to have been two slight shocks of paralysis.
If I am right, and another shock proves fatal, I wish you, after my
death, to go abroad and travel and study for the next two years.  At the
end of that period you ought to know whether or not you really desire to
make literature your profession.  If you do, come back to your own
country and go to work.  Europe is a good school, but you should
practise your profession in your native land.

Keep straight, fit, and clean.  Keep your head in adversity and in
success.  Find out what business in life you are fitted for, equip
yourself for it, and then go into it with all your heart.

I’ve left you some money and a good name.  And my deep, abiding love.
My belief is that death is merely an intermission.  So your mother and I
will rejoin you when the next act begins.  Until then, old chap—good
luck!

FATHER.


To Stephanie he wrote:


STEVE, DEAR:

You have been wonderful!  I’m sorry I couldn’t stay to see you a little
further along the path of life.  I love you dearly.

Your aunt, Miss Quest, understands my wishes.  During the two years that
Jim is abroad, Miss Quest is to assume the necessary and natural
authority over you.  I have every confidence in her.  Besides, she is
legally qualified to act.

It is her desire and mine that you finish college.  But if you really
find yourself unhappy there after the term is finished, then it is Miss
Quest’s belief and mine also that you employ the period that otherwise
should have spent at Vassar, in acquiring some regular and legitimate
profession so that if ever the need comes you shall be able to take care
of yourself.

Miss Quest is inclined to think that a course in hospital training under
her direct supervision might prove acceptable to you.  This you could
have in the institution endowed by Miss Quest at Bayport.

Perhaps such a course may appeal to you more than a college education.
If so, I shall not be dissatisfied.

But after that if you still feel that your life’s work lies in the
direction of artistic self-expression, you will be old enough to follow
your own bent, and entitled to employ your opportunities toward that
end.

I have left you properly provided for: I leave you and Jim all the love
that is in my heart.

This is not the end, Steve, dear.  There is no end—just a little rest
between the acts for such old actors in life’s drama as your dad.
Later, you and Jim will join us behind the scenes—my wife and I—and we
shall see what we shall see!—my little girl!—my darling.

DAD.


The boy and the girl sat up late in the library that night discussing
the two letters which so profoundly concerned them.

Indeed, the old order of things was about to pass away before their
dismayed and saddened eyes—eyes not yet accustomed to the burning grief
which dimmed them—hearts not yet strengthened for the first heavy
responsibilities which they had ever borne.

"I can’t bear to leave you, Steve," said the boy, striving to steady his
voice.  "What are you going to do about college?"

"Well—I—I’ll go back to college and finish the term. Dad wanted it."

Neither dreamed of disobeying the desires expressed in the two letters.

"Will you finish college?" he asked.

"I don’t know.  I want to do what dad wished me to do....  I wonder what
a course in hospital training is like?"

"Down there at Bayport?"

"Yes....  After all, that is accomplishing something. And I like
children, Jim."

"They’re defective children down there."

"Poor little lambs!  I—I believe I could do some good—accomplish
something.  But do you know, Jim, it almost frightens me when I remember
that you will be away two years——"  She began to weep, lying there in
her big chair with her black-edged handkerchief pressed against her
face.

"I wish I could take you to Europe, Steve," he said huskily.

She dried her eyes leisurely.

"Couldn’t you?  No, you couldn’t, of course.  Dad would have said so if
it was what he wanted.  Well—then I’ll finish the term at Vassar.  You
won’t go before Easter?"

"No, I’ll be here, Steve.  We’ll see each other then, anyway....  Do you
think you’ll get along with your aunt?"

"I don’t know," said the girl.  "She means to be kind, I suppose.  But
dad spoiled me.  Oh, Jim! I’m—I’m too unhappy to c-care what becomes of
me now. I’ll finish the term and then I’ll go and learn how to nurse
sick little defective children while you’re away——" her voice broke
again.

"I wish you wouldn’t cry," said the boy;—"I’m—I can’t stand it——"

"Oh, forgive me!"  She sprang up and flung herself on the rug beside his
chair.

"I’m sorry!  I’m selfish.  I’ll do everything dad wished, cheerfully.
You’ll go abroad and educate yourself by travel, and I’ll learn a
profession.  And some day I’ll find out what I really am fitted to do,
and then I’ll go abroad and study, too."

"You’ll be twenty, then, Steve—just the age to know what you really want
to do."

She nodded, listlessly, kneeling there beside his chair, her cheek
resting on her clasped hands, her grey eyes fixed on the dying coals.

After a long silence she said:

