

Toward noon we came to a pool into which poured the stream with a golden
sound between two boulders mantled thick with moss.  And here Thusis
seated herself and laid aside her rod.

"I am hungry," she said, looking over her shoulder at me with the same
aloof composure that all the morning had reversed our rôles as master
and maid.

But even as she spoke she seemed to realize the actual situation: a
delicate color came into her cheeks and then she laughed.

"Isn’t it funny?" she said, springing to her feet. "Such presumption!
Pray condescend to unsling the basket and I shall give Don Michael his
lunch."

"Don Michael," said I, "will continue to do the dirty work on this
expedition.  Sit down, Thusis."

"Oh, I couldn’t permit——"

"Oh, yes, you could.  You’ve been behaving like a sporting duchess all
this morning.  Continue in that congenial rôle."

"What did you say?" she demanded, her gray eyes frosty and intent on me.

"I said you’ve been behaving like a duchess."

"Why do you say that?"

"Because it’s so."

She sat on her mossy throne, regarding me intently and unsmilingly.

"Don’t say that again,—please," she said, coldly.

"I was merely jesting."

"I know.  But please don’t say it in that way. Don’t use that
expression."

"Very well," said I, not relishing the snub.  And I laid out the lunch
in silence, during which operation I could feel Thusis was watching my
sulky features with amusement.

To make sure I looked up at her when I had finished, and caught the
little devils laughing at me out of both her eyes.

"Luncheon’s ready," said I, infuriated by her mockery.

"Monsieur is served," said Thusis, in a voice so diabolically meek that
I burst out laughing; and the girl, as though flinging discretion to the
summer breezes, leaped to her feet with a gay little echo of my laughter
and dropped down on the moss beside the woodland banquet.

"What do I care after all!" she said.  "From the beginning I’ve been at
no pains to deceive you. So in the name of the old gods let us break
bread together."

She picked up a bit of bread, sprinkled a pinch of salt on it, broke it,
and offered me half with a most adorable air.  And we ate together under
the inviolate roof of the high blue sky.

"Now," she said, "you’ll never betray me."

"You knew that in the beginning."

"Did I?  I don’t know.  I’ve been perfectly careless concerning you, Don
Michael."

"Was it from instinctive confidence, Thusis, or out of disdain?"

The girl laughed, not looking up but continuing to poke for olives with
a fork too large for the neck of the flask:

"Disdain you, Don Michael?  How could I?"

"I sometimes believe you do.  You behave very often as though I were a
detail of the surrounding landscape and quite as negligible."

"But it’s an attractive landscape and not negligible," she insisted,
still poking for elusive olives. "Your simile is at fault, Monsieur
O’Ryan."

"Thusis," said I, gravely consuming a sandwich, "you have made fun of me
ever since I laid eyes on you."

"You began it."

"How?"

"You made fun of my red hair."

"It is beautiful hair."

"Indeed?"

"You know it.  You know perfectly well how pretty you are."

"Señor!"

"In fact," said I, offering myself another sandwich, "you are unusually
ornamental.  I concede it.  I even admit that you resemble The Laughing
Girl."

"The cherished photograph on Monsieur’s dresser! Oh, that is too much
flattery.  What would the Admiral think to hear you say such things to
your housekeeper!  Don Michael, you are young and you are headed for
trouble.  I beg of you to remember your ancestors."

"How about yours, Thusis?"

"Mine?  Oh, they were poor Venetians.  Probably they ran gondolas for
the public—the taxis of those days, Don Michael—and lived on the tips
they received."

"Thusis?"

"Monsieur?"

"I’d be grateful for a tip—if you don’t mind."

"A tip?"

"Yes.  Just a little one."

The girl held out her glass and I filled it with cool Moselle.

"You’re such a nice boy," she said, and sipped her wine, looking at me
all the while.  She was so pretty that it hurt.

"A tip," she repeated musingly.  "That is the Anglo-Saxon slang for
information.  Is it then that you request information?"

"If you are willing."

"About what, pray?"

"About yourself, Thusis."

"That is unworthy curiosity."

"No, it isn’t curiosity."

She elevated her delicate nose, very slightly. "What, then, do you term
it, Don Michael?"

"Sympathy."

"Oh la!  Sympathy?  Oh, I know that kind.  It is born out of the
idleness of speculation and developed with an admixture of sentimental
curiosity always latent in men."

She laughed: "It’s nothing but emotion, Monsieur. Men call it budding
friendship.  But men really care for no women."

"Why do you say that?"

"It’s true.  Men seek friendship among men. Men like few or no women,
but almost any female. That is the real truth.  Why dodge it?"

"How old are you, Thusis?"

"Not old—as you mean it."

She had finished her luncheon, and now she leaned over and bathed her
lips and fingers in the icy stream.  There, like some young woodland
thing out of the golden age of vanished gods she hovered, playing at the
glimmering water’s edge, scooping up handfuls of golden gravel from the
bottom and letting them slide back through her dripping fingers.

"I’ll tell you this," she said, looking at the water: "I don’t like men.
I never did.  Any I might have been inclined to like I had already been
born to hate....  You don’t understand, do you?"

"No."

She smiled, sat erect, and dried her fingers on her handkerchief.

"Be flattered," she said.  "No other man before you has had even a
glimpse of my real self.  And I really don’t know why I’ve given you
that much.  I ask myself.  I don’t know....  But,"—and her sweet,
reckless laughter flashed—"the very devil seemed to possess me when I
first saw you, Don Michael.  I was amazingly careless.  But you were so
funny!  I was indiscreet.  But you were so solemn and so typically and
guilelessly masculine."

"Was I?" said I, getting redder and redder.

"Oh, yes!" she cried, "and you are still!  You are all man—the most
comprehensive type of your sex—the most logical, and the most
delightfully transparent!  Oh, you are funny, Don Michael.  You don’t
know it; you don’t suspect it; but you are! And that is why I read you
to the depths of your nice boyish mind and heart, and felt that I need
be at no pains to play my little rôle with you."

"Then," said I, "if you consider me harmless, why not trust me further?"

"I do trust you.  You know I’m not born a servant. You know, also, that
nevertheless I’m in service. So is my sister.  So is my friend,
Josephine Vannis.  So is my friend, Raoul Despres.  Well, then!  It
seems to me that I have trusted you, and that you know a great deal
about us all."

"That is not very much to know," said I, so naïvely that Thusis showered
the woods with her delicious laughter.

"Of course it isn’t much, Don Michael.  But just think how you can amuse
yourself in dull moments by trying to guess the rest!"

"I can’t imagine," said I, "what your object may be in taking service
here in this little lonely valley in the Swiss Alps.  If, as seems
probable, you all are agents of some power now at war—what on earth is
the use of coming here?"

Thusis smiled at me, then, resting on one arm, leaned over the cloth on
the moss and made me a little signal to incline one ear toward her.
When I did so she placed her lips close to my ear:

"You have promised always to treat us like your servants in the presence
of others.  Do you remember?"

I nodded.

"Then I ask no more of you than that, Don Michael....  Until your
country enters the war."

Her breath close to my ear—the girl’s nearness, and the sweet, fresh
youth of her, all were doing the business for me.

"Thusis?"

"Yes?"

"Lean nearer.  I want to whisper to you."

She inclined her dainty head: the fragrance of her hair interfered with
my articulation:

"My country," said I, "is not likely to go to war.... But I am."

She said, smilingly: "The fine army of Chile is organized and
disciplined on the German plan. Doubtless this fact, and the influence
of German drill-masters, prejudices many Chileans in favor of entering
this war."

I placed my lips close to her little ear:

"Don’t be silly," I whispered.

At that she straightened up with a breathless little laugh and sat
looking at me.

"You knew where I stood," said I.  "Why practice deception?"

"Yes," said she, "you are practically Yankee."

"So is that Viking, Smith."

"I know.  And the Yankees are at war."

"They are, God bless them."

"God bless them," she said; and her face grew very still and serious.

After a silence: "There is a common ground," she said, "on which we both
may stand.  And that is no-man’s land.  To redeem it I am long since
enlisted in the crusade....  Your heart, Monsieur, is enlisted too....
I knew that....  Else I had never trusted you."

"How did you know?"

She shrugged: "Long ago we had all necessary information concerning you
and your Viking friend. Yet for all that it was not prudent for me to so
carelessly reveal myself to you....  But when I saw you—" she laughed
mischievously—"as I have admitted, already, you inspired me to
indiscreet behavior.  And I didn’t resist—knowing you to be safe."

"Safe?"

"Certainly.  And so I permitted myself to relax—a little."

"In the cellar?"

"Yes....  And I nearly paid for it, didn’t I?"

"I ought to have kissed you," said I with sulky conviction.

"Do you think so?"

"I’m sorry I didn’t."

"I’m sorry, too."  She sprang to her feet, laughing and scared: "Wait!
Listen.  I’m sorry only because it was the only moment that ever could
have happened in my life when I might have submitted to that simple and
bourgeoise experience known as being kissed.  Now it can never happen
again, Don Michael.  And I shall journey, unsaluted, to my virgin tomb."

She lifted her gray eyes sparkling with malice:

"Because a young man was too timid to offer me the curious and unique
experience of being kissed, I must expire, eventually, in total
ignorance of that interesting process."

Her face changed subtly as I started to my feet, and something in the
beautiful altered features halted me.

After a moment’s silence: "It’s perfectly rotten of me," she said
slowly.  "But you, also, seem to realize that it can’t happen."

"You mean it can’t happen without forfeiting your friendship, Thusis?"

"Without incurring my hatred," she said in a curiously still voice, her
eyes as cold as grayest ice. "Do it, if you like," she added.  "I
deserve it.  But I shall hate myself and detest you....  Is it worth it?
Seriously, Mr. O’Ryan, is your revenge worth my deepest enmity?"

I shrugged.  "Thusis," said I pleasantly, "you take yourself very
seriously.  Don’t you?"

"Don’t you!" she demanded, flushing.

"I’m sorry, but I really can’t."  And I lighted a cigarette and picked
up my fishing-rod.

"You ask me," I continued, switching my flies out over the water,
"whether the possibly interesting operation of kissing you would be
worth your cataclysmic resentment.  How can I guess?  It might not even
be worth the effort involved—on my part. To be frank, Thusis, I’m not at
all convinced that you’d be worth kissing."

"Is that your opinion?" inquired the girl, nibbling at her under lip and
regarding me out of eyes that darkled and sparkled with something or
other I could not quite define.

"That is my opinion," said I pleasantly.  "Besides, I have a photograph
on my dresser which if chastely and respectfully saluted, would, no
doubt, prove quite as responsive to a casual caress as would you.  And
without any disagreeable results."

"Do you do that?" she asked, coloring brightly to the temples, her
teeth still busy with her lip.

"I don’t always make a practice of doing it."

"Have you ever done it?"

"I haven’t happened to."

"Do you intend to?"

"What’s the matter with you, Thusis?" I retorted impatiently.  "Does it
concern you what I do to that picture?"

"Yes, it does," she retorted, turning deeply pink.

"In what way?"

"You say the photograph of the Laughing Girl resembles me.  And if you
are under that impression I do not wish you to take liberties with it.
You have no right to—to kiss a picture because you think it looks
like—like somebody you don’t dare kiss!"

Her flushed audacity was irritating me.

"Don’t dare kiss you?" I repeated, switching my rod about in my
increasing exasperation.  "You’d better not repeat that, Thusis!"

Her flushed features quivered, then suddenly her eyes were full of
little devils all mocking me.

"I do repeat it," she said.  "You dare not!"

At the same instant my hook caught in a branch; I gave it a furious
jerk; crack!—my rod broke at the second joint.  And the clear laughter
of Thusis rang out uncontrolled.

"Alas," said she, "this nice young man is violently offended at
something or other."

An unfeigned damn escaped me.

"Mea culpa!" she exclaimed, breathless with laughter.  "Mea maxima
culpa!  This exceedingly nice young man is dreadfully offended."

Mad all through, I picked up the wreck of my rod and stood silent,
mechanically fitting together the splintered ends of the second joint.
Presently I was aware that she had come up behind me.

"I’m a beast," she said in a small, weak voice.

I said nothing.

"Are you very angry, Don Michael?"—sorrowful but subtly persuasive.

"I’ve ruined this rod," said I.

"You may take mine," humbly sweet.

But I feared her gifts and her contrition.

A light breath—a ghost of a sigh escaped her.

"I’m such a beast," she said....  "But I’ve never before taken the
trouble to be beastly to a man—if that flatters you at all, Don
Michael."

"It does not," said I, coolly.

"It should," she retorted.

"Do you know what I think?" said I, turning, after the manner of other
worms.

"What?"

"I think you overestimate your own importance. And that you’d be far
more attractive if you were not too bally busy thinking about yourself
every minute."

"If that is your opinion," she said, "we had better go home at once."

We went, in solemn silence.




                                 *VIII*

                        *THE KNEES OF THE GODS*


The afternoon was growing very warm.  Smith had stretched himself out on
his bed to read a novel and combat flies.  Occasionally he called out to
me demanding to know how soon we were going to have tea by the fountain.

Which incessantly reiterated question put me out of humor—for I was
writing another poem—and presently I got up, cursed him out, and slammed
the door.

Recently something—whatever it was—had driven me pell-mell toward
Parnassus.

As a matter of record, until I had purchased that photograph of The
Laughing Girl, I had never before written a poem or attempted to write
one, or even considered such an enterprise.

Nor had I most remotely suspected myself capable of producing poetry.
Neither had I, hitherto, desired to so express my thoughts and private
emotions.  Of what serious people call the "Urge" I had, hitherto, been
ignorant.

But since the photograph of The Laughing Girl had come into my
possession, hidden springs totally unsuspected had begun to gush and
bubble somewhere deep within me.  And, to my pleased astonishment, I
suddenly found myself not only endowed with the desire but also with the
ability to rhyme.

And now on this warm, quiet, flyful afternoon, and still considerably
upset over my morning on the trout stream with Thusis, I found myself at
my table, abandoning myself to an orgy of self-expression in verse.

Having slammed the door I now returned to my poem; and first I carefully
re-read as much of it as I had accomplished:

    To THUSIS

    I

      Slender girl with eyes of gray—
    Charming mystery called Thusis—
      Teach me all your lore, I pray!—
    How your loveliness seduces—
    How each dimple has its uses
      Leading men like me astray!

    II

      You display in gay array
    Deadly charms, without excuses;
      Are they fashioned to betray
    Hearts unwary, naughty Thusis?
    Are your russet hairs but nooses
      To ensnare some soul distrait?

    III

      Love’s a tyrant, sages say;
    What he chains he never looses,
      Making slaves of grave and gay,
    Dashing blades and gray recluses,
    Snaring with a thousand ruses
      One and all, alackaday!

    ENVOI

      Cupid’s sway the very deuce is!
      His caprices and abuses
        All endure and all obey.
      Laugh away my pretty Thusis
        He’ll get you some summer day!


I re-read the Envoi with satisfaction born of the pride of prophecy.
Also, no doubt, some slight personal bitterness gave an agreeable tang
to the couplets.

"Clever,—very clever," said I, dotting a few i’s and crossing several
t’s.  And, feeling better, I laid away the poem and began to walk up and
down the room exhilarated by my own genius.

"When a man," said I, "can turn out such verses"—I snapped my
fingers—"just like that!—he is in little danger of any sentimental
subjugation."

As I turned, my glance chanced to fall on The Laughing Girl, and, for
the first time, I thought I noticed a faint and delicate malice in her
laughing eyes.

"Good heavens," said I to myself, "how vividly she resembles Thusis!"

Oddly enough as I continued to walk to and fro in my room I began to
feel a trifle less gay, less confident regarding my prophetic poem
depicting the sentimental fate of Thusis.

"She’s really very lovely," thought I, "and three-quarters devil.
She’ll do mischief to man, yet. Probably she’s already done a good deal
to some poor young man....  Poor simpleton! ... Unhappy simp!"

I walked over and looked fixedly at The Laughing Girl.

"Poor simp," I murmured mechanically, not meaning anybody in particular.
But as I said it I lifted my absent and troubled eyes, and beheld my own
reflection in the mirror.  It shocked me.  Never had I believed myself
capable of a simper.  And by heaven I wore one now—a moon-eyed
sentimental simper upon my virgin features.

"Confound it!" said I furiously, "why should I look like that?  What’s
the matter with my face?"

Very deep somewhere within me, in a still and serene obscurity so far
unagitated and un-plumbed, something stirred.

"I—I’m not in d-danger of f-falling in love," said I in a scared voice.
"Am I?"

Something was the matter with my heart.  It had become irregular and
seemed frightened.

"If for one moment I supposed," said I, "that I were actually in the
slightest danger of—of——"

I looked at the Laughing Girl; looked away.  And went to a chair and sat
down.

After a long interval I gave tongue to my inmost convictions.  "It isn’t
done," said I.  "Fancy!  Ha-ha!"

But my laughter was a failure.

I looked up at the Admiral to steady myself.  I had never before
considered his features sardonic. He seemed to grin.

"W-what the devil’s the matter with everything to-day!" I exclaimed,
getting up and beginning to pace the room.

But there was no use blustering.  I suspected what the matter was.  I
was falling in love with Thusis.

"Good Lord!" said I in unfeigned distress, "an adventuress camouflaged
as a servant!  Has an O’Ryan come to this?"

Smith opened the door.  He was in his shirt sleeves and had a pipe in
one hand, a book in the other.

"Whatthehellsthematter?" he asked.  "You’re thumping about in here like
an epileptic cat."

I told him I was exercising.

"Well, you’d better exercise your legs down the stairs," he remarked;
"there’s a wagonful of tourists at the front door."

"The deuce there is!"

"Look out of the window and then get a wiggle on."

Sure enough!  From the window I beheld them. They already were
disembarking.

"Where’s Thusis!" I exclaimed.  "This is the limit.  It’s—it’s a
confounded nuisance."

"Better go below, mine host," said Smith, resuming his recumbent
attitude on his bed and opening his book.  He puffed at his pipe,
swatted a fly with a paper-knife, and looked at me.

"Mine host," he said, "you should greet your guests on the doorstep
wearing a napkin over one arm."

I turned on my heel and went out, and met Thusis in the hallway.

"What the dickens is all this?" I demanded. "Have those tourists the
impudence to come here and ask for accommodations in my house?"

She seemed surprised and also I thought a trifle excited.

"But, Monsieur, was it not understood?"

"Oh, yes, of course it was understood because the idiotic Swiss law must
be obeyed," said I, gnawing my lip in vexation.  "What do they
want—these tourists?  Tea?"

"I think," said Thusis, "they intend to stay."

"Over-night?"

"Longer, Monsieur."

"Hang it all!" I blurted out.  "That spoils our perfectly delightful
privacy."

Thusis observed me sideways.  She wore the fine chemisette of some sheer
stuff and the velvet bodice of the peasantry, both coquettish and cut
low.  Her straight short wool skirt and buckled slippers set off the
fascinating costume of the Canton; but no peasant ever possessed such
slender and thoroughbred loveliness.

I glanced down at her slim feet, at her hands so smooth and so prettily
fashioned; I looked up into her gray eyes uneasily.  And I thought to
myself that I’d show the door to any guest who tried any nonsense with
Thusis.

"Where are these tourists?" I asked sulkily.

"In the big lounging room."

As I started to descend the stairs Thusis touched me on the arm.  A tiny
and complex shock went quite through me at the contact.

"Don Michael?"

"Yes."

"Are you still vexed at me?"

"No."

"Because—I was rude to you.  I did provoke you. I did lay myself open
to light treatment from you. But—I do respect you, Don Michael."

"You are always laughing at me."

"I know.  It’s my way—if I like a person.... I plague them a little....
If I like them."

"But you not only plague me, you ridicule me!"

"You don’t understand.  You couldn’t understand. I myself don’t
understand why I laugh at you and torment you....  Because I never
before did that to a man....  To my sister—to my girl friends, yes.  But
never before to any man."

She stood near me, smiling, watching my expression.

"I like you, Don Michael," she said.

"And I you, Thusis."

"I know it.  It won’t do, either.  I mean that we may laugh a little
together, now and then.  But it is safer not to think of each other
as—as socially—equal."

I said magnanimously: "I am beginning to think of you in that way
already."

"Are you really?"  Her smile flashed out, mischievous, almost mocking.

"A servant?" she added.  "Possibly even an adventuress?  An agent,
anyway, in the service of some government not yours?  You consider
admitting such a woman on terms of social equality?  Oh, Don Michael!
If you like me as much as that you must care a little more for me than
mere liking."

"I do."

She began to laugh—a hushed, delicious sort of laughter, checked
suddenly by my quick flush.

"If I take the trouble to be serious with you," said I, "as much is due
me from you, I think."

It was, for me, utterly impossible to define the series of complex
expressions which succeeded one another in her face.

She seemed inclined to laugh again but bit her lip and looked at me out
of brilliant eyes.  Mirth, surprise, gay disdain, a fleeting
uncertainty, a slight blush,—then the familiar sweet mockery once
more—these I read and followed as I watched her.
