toward the policeman, crying, “Stop!”

There was no chance to parley in this emergency. I grabbed Carpenter
in a foot-ball tackle. I got one arm pinned to his side, and Mary,
good old scout, got the other as quickly. She is a bit of an
athlete--has to keep in training for those hoochie-coochies and
things she does, when she wins the love of emperors and sultans and
such-like world-conquerors. Also, when we got hold of Carpenter, we
discovered that he wasn’t much but skin and bones anyhow. We fairly
lifted him up and rushed him into the restaurant; and after the
first moment he stopped resisting, and let us lead him between the
aisles of diners, on the heels of the toddling T-S. There was a
table reserved, in an alcove, and we brought him to it, and then
waited to see what we had done.



XIV


Carpenter turned to me-and those sad but everchanging eyes were
flashing. “You have taken a great liberty!”

“There wasn’t any time to argue,” I said. “If you knew what I know
about the police of Western City and their manners, you wouldn’t
want to monkey with them.”

Mary backed me up earnestly. “They’d have mashed your face, Mr.
Carpenter.”

“My face?” he repeated. “Is not a man more than his face?”

You should have heard the shout of T-S! “Vot? Ain’t I shoost offered
you five hunded dollars a veek fer dat face, and you vant to go git
it smashed? And fer a lot o’ lousy bums dat vont vork for honest
vages, and vont let nobody else vork! Honest to Gawd, Mr. Carpenter,
I tell you some stories about strikes vot we had on our own lot--you
vouldn’t spoil your face for such lousy sons-o’-guns--”

“Ssh, Abey, don’t use such langwich, you should to be shamed of
yourself!” It was Maw, guardian of the proprieties, who had been
extracted from the car by the footman, and helped to the table.

“Vell, Mr. Carpenter, he dunno vot dem fellers is like--”

“Sit down, Abey!” commanded the old lady. “Ve ain’t ordered no stump
speeches fer our dinner.”

We seated ourselves. And Carpenter turned his dark eyes on me. “I
observe that you have many kinds of mobs in your city,” he remarked.
“And the police do interfere with some of them.”

“My Gawd!” cried T-S. “You gonna have a lot o’ bums jumpin’ on
people ven dey try to git to dinner?”

Said Carpenter: “Mr. Rosythe said that the police would not work
unless they were paid. May I ask, who pays them to work here? Is it
the proprietor of the restaurant?”

“Vell,” cried T-S, “ain’t he gotta take care of his place?”

“As a matter of fact,” said I, laughing, “from what I read in the
‘Times’ this morning, I gather that an old friend of Mr. Carpenter’s
has been paying in this case.”

Carpenter looked at me inquiringly.

“Mr. Algernon de Wiggs, president of the Chamber of Commerce, issued
a statement denouncing the way the police were letting mobs of
strikers interfere with business, and proposing that the Chamber
take steps to stop it. You remember de Wiggs, and how we left him?”

“Yes, I remember,” said Carpenter; and we exchanged a smile over
that trick we had played.

I could see T-S prick forward his ears. “Vot? You know de Viggs?”

“Mr. Carpenter possesses an acquaintance with our best society which
will astonish you when you realize it.”

“Vy didn’t you tell me dat?” demanded the other; and I could
complete the sentence for him: “Somebody has offered him more
money!”

Here the voice of Maw was heard: “Ain’t we gonna git nuttin’ to
eat?”

So for a time the problem of capital and labor was put to one side.
There were two waiters standing by, very nervous, because of the
strike. T-S grabbed the card from one, and read off a list of food,
which the waiter wrote down. Maw, who was learning the rudiments of
etiquette, handed her card to Mary, who gave her order, and then Maw
gave hers, and I gave mine, and there was only Carpenter left.

He was sitting, his dark eyes roaming here and there about the
dining-room. Prince’s, as you may know, is a gorgeous establishment:
too much so for my taste--it has almost as much gilded moulding as
if T-S had designed it for a picture palace. In front of Carpenter’s
eyes sat a dame with a bare white back, and a rope of big pearls
about it, and a tiara of diamonds on top; and beyond her were more
dames, and yet more, and men in dinner-coats, putting food into red
faces. You and I get used to such things, but I could understand
that to a stranger it must be shocking to see so many people feeding
so expensively.

“Vot you vant to order, Mr. Carpenter?” demanded T-S; and I waited,
full of curiosity. What would this man choose to eat in a “lobster
palace”?

Carpenter took the card from his host and studied it. Apparently he
had no difficulty in finding the most substantial part of the menu.
“I’ll have prime ribs of beef,” said he; “and boiled mutton with
caper sauce; and young spring turkey; and squab en casserole; and
milk fed guinea fowl--” The waiter, of course, was obediently
writing down each item. “And planked steak with mushrooms; and
braised spare ribs--”

“My Gawd!” broke in the host.

“And roast teal duck; and lamb kidneys--”

“Fer the love o’ Mike, Mr. Carpenter, you gonna eat all dat?”

“No; of course not.”

“Den vot you gonna do vit it?”

“I’m going to take it to the hungry men outside.”

Well, sir, you’d have thought the world had stopped turning round,
so still it was. The two waiters nearly dropped their order-pads and
their napkins; they did drop their jaws, and Mrs. T-S’s permanent
wave seemed about to go flat.

“Oh, hell!” cried T-S at last. “You can’t do it!”

“I can’t?”

“You can’t order only vot you gonna eat.”

“But then, I don’t want anything. I’m not hungry.”

“But you can’t sit here like a dummy, man!” He turned to the waiter.
“You bring him de same vot you bring me. Unnerstand? And git a move
on, cause I’m starvin’. Fade out now!” And the waiter turned and
fled.



XV


The proprietor of Eternal City wiped his perspiring forehead with
his napkin, and started rather hurriedly to make conversation. I
understood that he wanted to enjoy his dinner, and proposed to talk
about something pleasant in the meantime. “I vonna tell you about
dis picture ve’re goin’ to see took, Mr. Carpenter. I vant you
should see de scale we do tings on, ven we got a big subjic.
Y’unnerstand, dis is a feature picture ve’re makin’ now; a night
picture, a big mob scene.”.

“Mob scene?” said Carpenter. “You have so many mobs in this world of
yours!”

“Vell, sure,” said T-S. “You gotta take dis vorld de vay you find
it. Y’can’t change human nature, y’know. But dis vot you’re gonna
see tonight is only a play mob, y’unnerstand.”

“That is what seems strangest of all to me,” said the other,
thoughtfully. “You like mobs so well that you make imitation ones!”

“Vell, de people, dey like to see crowds in a picture, and dey like
to see action. If you gonna have a big picture, you gotta spend de
money.”

“Why not take this real mob that is outside the door?”

“Ha, ha, ha! Ve couldn’t verk dat very good, Mr. Carpenter. Ve gotta
have it in de right set; and ven you git a real mob, it don’t alvays
do vot you vant exactly! Besides, you can’t take night pictures
unless you got your lights and everyting. No, ve gotta make our mobs
to order; we got two tousand fellers hired--”

“What Mr. Rosythe called ‘studio bums’? You have that many?”

“Sure, we could git ten tousand if de set vould hold ‘em. Dis
picture is called ‘De Tale o’ Two Cities,’ and it’s de French
revolution. It’s about a feller vot takes anodder feller’s place and
gits his head cut off; and say, dere’s a sob story in it vot’s a
vunder. Ven dey brought me de scenario, I says, ‘Who’s de author?’
Dey says, ‘It’s a guy named Charles Dickens.’ ‘Dickens?’ says I.
‘Vell, I like his verk. Vot’s his address?’ And Lipsky, he says,
says he, ‘Dey tell me he stays in a place called Vestminster Abbey,
in England.’ ‘Vell,’ says I, ‘send him a cablegram and find out vot
he’ll take fer an exclusive contract.’ So we sent a cablegram to
Charles Dickens, Vestminster Abbey, England, and we didn’t git no
answer, and come to find out, de boys in de studios vas havin’ a
laugh on old Abey, because dis guy Dickens is some old time feller,
and de Abbey is vere dey got his bones. Vell, dey can have deir
fun--how de hell’s a feller like me gonna git time to know about
writers? Vy, only twelve years ago, Maw here and me vas carryin’
pants in a push-cart fer a livin’, and we didn’t know if a book vas
top-side up or bottom--ain’t it, Maw?”

Maw certified that it was--though I thought not quite so eagerly as
her husband. There were five little T-S’s growing up, and bringing
pressure to let the dead past stay buried, in Vestminster Abbey or
wherever it might be.

The waiter brought the dinner, and spread it before us. And T-S
tucked his napkin under both ears, and grabbed his knife in one hand
and his fork in the other, and took a long breath, and said:
“Good-bye, folks. See you later!” And he went to work.



XVI


For five minutes or so there was no sound but that of one man’s food
going in and going down. Then suddenly the man stopped, with his
knife and fork upright on the table in each hand, and cried: “Mr.
Carpenter, you ain’t eatin’ nuttin’!”

The stranger, who had apparently been in a daydream, came suddenly
back to Prince’s. He looked at the quantities of food spread about
him. “If you’d only let me take a little to those men outside!” He
said it pleadingly.

But T-S tapped imperiously on the table, with both his knife and
fork together. “Mr. Carpenter, eat your dinner! Eat it, now, I say!”
 It was as if he were dealing with one of the five little T-S’s. And
Carpenter, strange as it may seem, obeyed. He picked up a bit of
bread, and began to nibble it, and T-S went to work again.

There was another five minutes of silence; and then the picture
magnate stopped, with a look of horror on his face. “My Gawd! He’s
cryin’!” Sure enough, there were two large tears trickling, one down
each cheek of the stranger, and dropping on the bread he was putting
into his mouth!

“Look here, Mr. Carpenter,” protested T-S. “Is it dem strikers?”

“I’m sorry; you see--”

“Now, honest, man, vy should you spoil your dinner fer a bunch o’
damn lousy loafers--”

“Abey, vot a vay to talk at a dinner-party!” broke in Maw.

And then suddenly Mary Magna spoke. It was a strange thing, though I
did not realize it until afterwards. Mary, the irrepressible, had
hardly said one word since we left the beauty parlors! Mary, always
the life of dinner parties, was sitting like a woman who had seen
the ghost of a dead child; her eyes following Carpenter’s, her mind
evidently absorbed in probing his thoughts.

“Abey!” said she, with sudden passion, of a sort I’d never seen her
display before. “Forget your grub for a moment, I have something to
say. Here’s a man with a heart full of love for other people--while
you and I are just trying to see what we can get out of them! A man
who really has a religion--and you’re trying to turn him into a
movie doll! Try to get it through your skull, Abey!”

The great man’s eyes were wide open. “Holy smoke, Mary! Vot’s got
into you?” And suddenly he almost shrieked. “Lord! She’s cryin’
too!”

“No, I’m not,” declared Mary, vialiantly. But there were two drops
on her cheeks, so big that she was forced to wipe them away. “It’s
just a little shame, that’s all. Here we sit, with three times as
much food before us as we can eat; and all over this city are poor
devils with nothing to eat, and no homes to go to--don’t you know
that’s true, Abey? Don’t you know it, Maw?”

“Looka here, kid,” said the magnate; “you know vot’ll happen to you
if you git to broodin’ over tings? You git your face full o’
wrinkles--you already gone and spoilt your make-up.”

“Shucks, Abey,” broke in Maw, “vot you gotta do vit dat? Vy don’t
you mind your own business?”

“Mind my own business? My own business, you say? Vell, I like to
know vot you call my business! Ven I got a contract to pay a girl
tirty-five hunded dollars a veek fer her face, and she goes and gits
it all wrinkles, I ask any jury, is it my business or ain’t it? And
if a feller vants to pull de tremulo stop fer a lot o’ hoboes and
Bullsheviki, and goes and spills his tears into his soup--”

It sounded fierce; but Mary apparently knew her Abey; also, she saw
that Maw was starting to cry. “There’s no use trying to bluff me,
Abey. You know as well as I do there are hungry people in this city,
and no fault of theirs. You know, too, you eat twice what you ought
to, because I’ve heard the doctor tell you. I’m not blaming you a
bit more than I do myself--me, with two automobiles, and a whole
show-window on my back.” And suddenly she turned to Carpenter. “What
can we do?”

He answered: “Here, men gorge themselves; in Russia they are eating
their dead.”

T-S dropped his knife and fork, and Maw gave a gulp. “Oh, my Gawd!”

“There are ten million people doomed to starve. Their children eat
grass, and their bellies swell up and their legs dwindle to
broom-sticks; they stagger and fall into the ditches, and other
children tear their flesh and devour it.”

“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” wailed Maw; and the diners at Prince’s began
to stare.

“Now looka here!” cried T-S, wildly. “I say dis ain’t no decent way
to behave at a party. I say it ain’t on de level to be a feller’s
guest, and den jump on him and spoil his dinner. See here, Mr.
Carpenter, I tell you vot I do. You be good and eat your grub, so it
don’t git vasted, and I promise you, tomorrow I go and hunt up
strike headquarters, and give dem a check fer a tousand dollars, and
if de damn graftin’ leaders don’t hog it, dey all git someting to
eat. And vot’s more, I send a check fer five tousand to de Russian
relief. Now ain’t dat square? Vot you say?”

“What I say is, Mr. T-S, I cannot be the keeper of another man’s
conscience. But I’ll try to eat, so as not to be rude.”

And T-S grunted, and went back to his feeding; and the stranger made
a pretense of eating, and we did the same.



XVII


It happens that I was brought up in a highly conscientious family.
To my dear mother, and to her worthy sisters, there is nothing in
the world more painful than what they call a “scene”--unless
possibly it is what they call a “situation.” And here we had
certainly had a “scene,” and still had a “situation.” So I sat,
racking my brains to think of something safe to talk about. I
recalled that T-S had had pretty good success with his “Tale of Two
Cities” as a topic of conversation, so I began:

“Mr. Carpenter, the spectacle you are going to see this evening is
rather remarkable from the artistic point of view. One of the
greatest scenic artists of Paris has designed the set, and the best
judges consider it a real achievement, a landmark in moving picture
work.”

“Tell me about it,” said Carpenter; and I was grateful for his tone
of interest.

“Well, I don’t know how much you know about picture making--”

“You had better explain everything.”

“Well, Mr. T-S has built a large set, representing a street scene in
Paris over a century ago. He has hired a thousand men--”

“Two tousand!” broke in T-S.

“In the advertisements?” I suggested, with a smile.

“No, no,” insisted the other. “Two tousand, really. In de
advertisements, five tousand.”

“Well,” said I, “these men wear costumes which T-S has had made for
them, and they pretend to be a mob. They have been practicing all
day, and by now they know what to do. There is a man with a
megaphone, shouting orders to them, and enormous lights playing upon
them, so that men with cameras can take pictures of the scene. It is
very vivid, and as a portrayal of history, is truly educational.”

“And when it is done--what becomes of the men?”

Utterly hopeless, you see! We were right back on the forbidden
ground! “How do you mean?” I evaded.

“I mean, how do they live?”

“Dey got deir five dollars, ain’t dey?” It was T-S, of course.

“Yes, but that won’ last very long, will it? What is the cost of
this dinner we are eating?”

The magnate of the movies looked to the speaker, and then burst into
a laugh. “Ho, ho, ho! Dat’s a good vun!”

Said I, hastily: “Mr. T-S means that there are cheaper eating places
to be found.”

“Well,” said Carpenter, “why don’t we find one?”

“It’s no use, Billy. He thinks it’s up to me to feed all de bums on
de lot. Is dat it, Mr. Carpenter?”

“I can’t say, Mr. T-S; I don’t know how many there are, and I don’t
know how rich you are.”

“Vell, dey got five million out o’ verks in this country now, and if
I vanted to bust myself, I could feed ‘em vun day, maybe two. But
ven I got done, dey vouldn’t be nobody to make pictures, and
somebody vould have to feed old Abey--or maybe me and Maw could go
back to carryin’ pants in a push cart! If you tink I vouldn’t like
to see all de hungry fed, you got me wrong, Mr. Carpenter; but vot I
learned is dis--if you stop fer all de misery you see in de vorld
about you, you vouldn’t git novhere.”

“Well,” said Carpenter, “what difference would that make?”

The proprietor of Eternal City really wanted to make out the
processes of this abnormal mind. He wrinkled his brows, and thought
very hard over it.

“See here, Mr. Carpenter,” he began at last, “I tink you got hold o’
de wrong feller. I’m a verkin’ man, de same as any mechanic on my
lot. I verked ever since I vas a liddle boy, and if I eat too much
now, maybe it’s because I didn’t get enough ven I vas liddle. And
maybe I got more money dan vot I got a right to, but I know dis--I
ain’t never had enough to do half vot I vant to! But dere’s plenty
fellers got ten times vot I got, and never done a stroke o’ vork fer
it. Dey’re de vuns y’oughter git after!”

Said Carpenter: “I would, if I knew how.”

“Dey’s plenty of ‘em right in dis room, I bet.” And Mary added: “Ask
Billy; he knows them all!”

“You flatter me, Mary,” I laughed.

“Ain’t dey some of ‘em here?” demanded T-S.

“Yes, that’s true. There are some not far away, who are developing a
desire to meet Mr. Carpenter, unless I miss the signs.”

“Vere are dey at?” demanded T-S.

“I won’t tell you that,” I laughed, “because you’d turn and stare
into their faces.”

“So he vould!” broke in Maw. “How often I gotta tell you, Abey? You
got no more manners dan if you vas a jimpanzy.”

“All right,” said the magnate, grinning good naturedly. “I’ll keep
a-eatin’ my dinner. Who is it?”

“It’s Mrs. Parmelee Stebbins,” said I. “She boasts a salon, and has
to have what are called lions, and she’s been watching Mr. Carpenter
out of the corner of her eye ever since he came into the
room--trying to figure out whether he’s a lion, or only an actor. If
his skin were a bit dark, she would be sure he was an Eastern
potentate; as it, she’s afraid he’s of domestic origin, in which
case he’s vulgar. The company he keeps is against him; but
still--Mrs. Stebbins has had my eye three times, hoping I would give
her a signal, I haven’t given it, so she’s about to leave.”

“Vell, she can go to hell!” said T-S, keeping his promise to devote
himself to his dinner. “I offered Parmelee Stebbins a tird share in
‘De Pride o’ Passion’ fer a hunded tousand dollars, and de damn fool
turned me down, and de picture has made a million and a quarter
a’ready.”

“Well,” said I, “he’s probably paying for it by sitting up late to
buy the city council on this new franchise grab of his; and so he
hasn’t kept his date to dine with his expensive family at Prince’s.
Here is Miss Lucinda Stebbins; she’s engaged to Babcock, millionaire
sport and man about town, but he’s taking part in a flying race over
the Rocky Mountains tonight, and so Lucinda feels bored, and she
knows the vaudeville show is going to be tiresome, but still she
doesn’t want to meet any freaks. She has just said to her mother
that she can’t see why a person in her mother’s position can’t be
content to meet proper people, but always has to be getting herself
into the newspapers with some new sort of nut.”

“My Gawd, Billy!” cried Maw. “You got a dictaphone on dem people?”

“No, but I know the type so well, I can tell by their looks. Lucinda
is thinking about their big new palace on Grand Avenue, and she
regards everyone outside her set as a burglar trying to break in.
And then there’s Bertie Stebbins, who’s thinking about a new style
of collar he saw advertised to-day, and how it would look on him,
and what impression it would make on his newest girl.”

It was Mary who spoke now: “I know that little toad. I’ve seen him
dancing at the Palace with Dorothy Doodles, or whatever her name
is.”

“Well,” said I, “Mrs. Stebbins runs the newer set--those who hunt
sensations, and make a splurge in the papers. It costs like smoke,
of course--” And suddenly I stopped. “Look out!” I whispered. “Here
she comes!”



XVIII


I heard Maw catch her breath, and I heard Maw’s husband give a
grunt. Then I rose. “How are you, Billy?” gurgled a voice--one of
those voices made especially for social occasions. “Wretched boy,
why do you never come to see us?”

“I was coming to-morrow,” I said--for who could prove otherwise?
“Mrs. Stebbins, permit me to introduce Mrs. Tszchniczklefritszch.”

“Charmed to meet you, I’m sure,” said Mrs. Stebbins. “I’ve heard my
husband speak of your husband so often. How well you are looking,
Mrs.--”

She stopped; and Maw, knowing the terrors of her name, made haste to
say something agreeable. “Yes, ma’am; dis country agrees vit me
fine. Since I come here, I’ve rode and et, shoost rode and et.”

“And Mr. T-S,” said I.

“Howdydo, Mr. T-S?”

“Pretty good, ma’am,” said T-S. He had been caught with his mouth
full, and was making desperate efforts to swallow.

A singular thing is the power of class prestige! Here was Maw, a
good woman, according to her lights, who had worked hard all her
life, and had achieved a colossal and astounding success. She had
everything in the world that money could buy; her hair was done by
the best hair-dresser, her gown had been designed by the best
costumer, her rings and bracelets selected by the best jeweller; and
yet nothing was right, no power on earth could make it right, and
Maw knew it, and writhed the consciousness of it. And here was Mrs.
Parmelee Stebbins, who had never done a useful thing in all her
days--except you count the picking out of a rich husband; yet Mrs.
Stebbins was “right,” and Maw knew it, and in the presence of the
other woman she was in an utter panic, literally quivering in every
nerve. And here was old T-S, who, left to himself, might have really
meant what he said, that Mrs. Stebbins could go to hell; but because
he was married, and loved his wife, he too trembled, and gulped down
his food!

Mrs. Stebbins is one of those American matrons who do not allow
marriage and motherhood to make vulgar physical impressions upon
them. Her pale blue gown might have been worn by her daughter; her
cool grey eyes looked out through a face without a wrinkle from a
soul without a care. She was a patroness of art and intellect; but
never did she forget her fundamental duty, the enhancing of the
prestige of a family name. When she was introduced to a
screen-actress, she was gracious, but did not forget the difference
between an actress and a lady. When she was introduced to a strange
man who did not wear trousers, she took it quite as an everyday
matter, revealing no trace of vulgar human curiosity.

There came Bertie, full grown, but not yet out of the pimply stage,
and still conscious of the clothes which he had taken such pains to
get right. Bertie’s sister remained in her seat, refusing naughtily
to be compromised by her mother’s vagaries; but Bertie had a
purpose, and after I had introduced him round, I saw what he
wanted--Mary Magna! Bertie had a vision of himself as a sort of
sporting prince in this movie world. His social position would make
conquests easy; it was a sort of Christmas-tree, all a-glitter with
prizes.

I was standing near, and heard the beginning of their conversation.
“Oh, Miss Magna, I’m so pleased to meet you. I’ve heard so much
about you from Miss Dulles.”

“Miss Dulles?”

“Yes; Dorothy Dulles.”

“I’m sorry. I don’t think I ever heard of her.”

“What? Dorothy Dulles, the screen actress?”

“No, I can’t place her.”

“But--but she’s a star!”

“Well, but you know, Mr. Stebbins--there are so many stars in the
heavens, and not all of them visible to the eye.”

I turned to Bertie’s mamma. She had discovered that Carpenter looked
even more thrilling on a close view; he was not a stage figure, but
a really grave and impressive personality, exactly the thing to
thrill the ladies of the Higher Arts Club at their monthly luncheon,
and to reflect prestige upon his discoverer. So here she was,
inviting the party to share her box at the theatre; and here was T-S
explaining that it couldn’t be done, he had got to see his French
revolution pictures took, dey had five tousand men hired to make a
mob. I noted that Mrs. Stebbins received the “advertising” figures
on the production!

The upshot of it was that the great lady consented to forget her box
at the theatre, and run out to the studios to see the mob scenes for
the “The Tale of Two Cities.” T-S hadn’t quite finished his dinner,
but he waved his hand and said it was nuttin’, he vouldn’t keep Mrs.
Stebbins vaitin’. He beckoned the waiter, and signed his magic name
on the check, with a five-dollar bill on top for a tip. Mrs.
Stebbins collected her family and floated to the door, and our party
followed.

I expected another scene with the mob; but I found that the street
had been swept clear of everything but policemen and chauffeurs. I
knew that this must have meant rough work on the part of the
authorities, but I said nothing, and hoped that Carpenter would not
think of it. The Stebbins car drew up by the porte-cochere; and
suddenly I discovered why the wife of the street-car magnate was
known as a “social leader.” “Billy,” she said, “you come in our car,
and bring Mr. Carpenter; I have something to talk to you about.”
 Just that easily, you see! She wanted something, so she asked for
it!

I took Carpenter by the arm and put him in. Bertie drove, the
chauffeur sitting in the seat beside him. “Beat you to it!” called
Bertie, with his invincible arrogance, and waved his hand to the
picture magnate as we rolled away.



XIX


As it happened, we made a poor start. Turning the corner into
Broadway, we found ourselves caught in the jam of the theatre
traffic, and our car was brought to a halt in front of the “Empire
Varieties.” If you have been on any Broadway between the Atlantic
and Pacific oceans, you can imagine the sight; the flaring electric
signs, the pictures of the head line artists, the people waiting to
buy tickets, and the crowds on the sidewalk pushing past. There was
one additional feature, a crowd of “rah-rah boys,” with yellow and
purple flags in their hands, and the glory of battle in their eyes.
As our car halted, the cheer-leader gave a signal, and a hundred
throats let out in unison:

    “Rickety zim, rickety zam,
     Brickety, stickety, slickety slam!
     Wallybaloo! Billybazoo!
     We are the boys for a hullabaloo--Western City!”

It sounded all the more deafening, because Bertie, in the front
seat, had joined in.

“Hello!” said I. “We must have won the ball-game!”

“You bet we did!” said Bertie, in his voice of bursting
self-importance.

“Ball-game?” asked Carpenter.

“Foot-ball,” said I. “Western City played Union Tech today. Wonder
what the score was.”

The cheer leader seemed to take the words out of my mouth. Again the
hundred voices roared:

    “What was the score?
     Seventeen to four!
     Who got it in the neck?
     Union Tech!
     Who took the kitty?
     Western City!”

Then more waving of flags, and yells for our prize captain and our
agile quarter-back: “Rah, rah, rah, Jerry Wilson! Rah, rah, rah,
Harriman! Western City, Western City, Western City!
W-E-S-T-E-R-N-C-I-T-Y! Western City!”

You have heard college yells, no doubt, and can imagine the tempo of
these cries, the cumulative rush of the spelled out letters, the
booming roar at the end. The voice of Bertie beat back from the
wind-shield with devastating effect upon our ears; and then our car
rolled on, and the clamor died away, and I answered the questions of
Carpenter. “They are college boys. They have won a game with another
college, and are celebrating the victory.”

“But,” said the other, “how do they manage to shout all together
that way?”

“Oh, they’ve practiced that, of course.”

“You mean--they gather and practice making those noises?”

“Surely.”

“They make them in cold blood?”

I laughed. “Well, the blood of youth is seldom entirely cold. They
imagine the victory while they rehearse, no doubt.”

When Carpenter spoke again, it was half to himself. “You make your
children into mobs! You train them for it!”

“It really isn’t that bad,” I replied. “It’s all in good
temper--it’s their play.”

“Yes, yes! But what is play but practice for reality? And how shall
love be learned in savage war-dances?”

They tell us that we have a new generation of young people since the
war; a generation which thinks for itself, and has its own way. I
was an advocate of this idea in the abstract, but I must admit that
I was startled by the concrete case which I now encountered. Bertie
suddenly looked round from his place in the driver’s seat. “Say,” he
demanded, in a grating voice, “where was that guy raised?”

