said Mr. Olmney.

"I am sure your wisdom would not advise me to tell you that,
Sir. You will find nothing there, Mr. Olmney."

They went gaily on, careering about in all directions, and
bearing down upon every promising stump or dead pine-tree they
saw in the distance. Hugh and Mr. Olmney took turns in the
labour of hewing out the fat pine knots, and splitting down
the old stumps to get at the pitchy heart of the wood; and the
baskets began to grow heavy. The whole party were in excellent
spirits, and as happy as the birds that filled the woods, and
whose cheery "chick-a-dee-dee-dee" was heard whenever they
paused to rest, and let the hatchet be still.

"How one sees everything in the colour of one's own
spectacles!" said Fleda.

"May I ask what colour yours are to-day?" said Mr. Olmney.

"Rose, I think," said Hugh.

"No," said Fleda, "they are better than that  they are no
worse colour than the snow's own  they show me everything
just as it is. It could not be lovelier."

"Then we may conclude, may we not," said Mr. Olmney, "that you
are not sorry to find yourself in Queechy again?"

"I am not sorry to find myself in the woods again. That is not
pitch, Mr. Olmney."

"It has the same colour  and weight."

"No, it is only wet  see this, and smell of it  do you see
the difference? Isn't it pleasant?"

"Everything is pleasant to-day," said he, smiling.

"I shall report you a cure. Come, I want to go a little higher
and show you a view. Leave that, Hugh  we have got enough."

But Hugh chose to finish an obstinate stump, and his
companions went on without him. It was not very far up the
mountain, and they came to a fine look-out point  the same
where Fleda and Mr. Carleton had paused long before on their
quest after nuts. The wide spread of country was a white waste
now; the delicate beauties of the snow were lost in the far
view; and the distant Catskill showed wintrily against the
fair blue sky. The air was gentle enough to invite them to
stand still, after the exercise they had taken; and as they
both looked in silence, Mr. Olmney observed that his
companion's face settled into a gravity rather at variance
with the expression it had worn.

"I should hardly think," said he, softly, "that you were
looking through white spectacles, if you had not told us so."

"Oh  a shade may come over what one is looking at, you know,"
said Fleda. But seeing that he still watched her inquiringly,
she added 

"I do not think a very wide landscape is ever gay in its
effect upon the mind  do you?"

"Perhaps  I do not know," said he, his eyes turning to it
again, as if to try what the effect was.

"My thoughts had gone back," said Fleda, "to a time a good
while ago, when I was a child, and stood here in summer
weather  and I was thinking that the change in the landscape
is something like that which years make in the mind."

"But you have not, for a long time at least, known any very
acute sorrow?"

"No," said Fleda, "but that is not necessary. There is a
gentle kind of discipline which does its work, I think, more
surely."

"Thank God for gentle discipline!" said Mr. Olmney; "if you do
not know what those griefs are that break down mind and body
together."

"I am not unthankful, I hope, for anything," said Fleda,
gently; "but I have been apt to think that, after a crushing
sorrow, the mind may rise up again, but that a long-continued
though much lesser pressure in time breaks the spring."

He looked at her again with a mixture of incredulous and
tender interest, but her face did not belie her words, strange
as they sounded from so young and in general so bright-seeming
a creature.

"There shall no evil happen to the just," he said, presently,
and with great sympathy.

Fleda flashed a look of gratitude at him  it was no more, for
she felt her eyes watering, and turned them away.

"You have not, I trust, heard any bad news?"

"No, Sir  not at all."

"I beg pardon for asking, but Mrs. Rossitur seemed to be in
less good spirits than usual." He had some reason to say so,
having found her in a violent fit of weeping.

"You do not need to be told," he went on, "of the need there
is that a cloud should now and then come over this lower scene
 the danger that, if it did not, our eyes would look nowhere
else?"

There is something very touching in hearing a kind voice say
what one has often struggled to say to one's-self.

"I know it, Sir," said Fleda, her words a little choked  "and
one may not wish the cloud away  but it does not the less
cast a shade upon the face. I guess Hugh has worked his way
into the middle of that stump by this time, Mr. Olmney."

They rejoined him; and the baskets being now sufficiently
heavy, and arms pretty well tired, they left the further
riches of the pine woods unexplored, and walked sagely
homewards. At the brow of the table-land, Mr. Olmney left them
to take a shorter cut to the high road, having a visit to make
which the shortening day warned him not to defer.

"Put down your basket, and rest a minute, Hugh," said Fleda.
"I had a world of things to talk to you about, and this
blessed man has driven them all out of my head."

"But you are not sorry he came along with us?"

"O no. We had a very good time. How lovely it is, Hugh! Look
at the snow down there  without a track; and the woods have
been dressed by the fairies. Oh, look how the sun is glinting
on the west side of that hillock!"

"It is twice as bright since you have come home," said Hugh.

"The snow is too beautiful to-day. Oh, I was right! One may
grow morbid over books, but I defy anybody, in the company of
those chick-a-dees. I should think it would be hard to keep
quite sound in the city."

"You are glad to be here again, aren't you?" said Hugh.

"Very! O, Hugh!  it is better to be poor, and have one's feet
on these hills, than to be rich, and shut up to brick walls!"

"It is best as it is," said Hugh, quietly.

"Once," Fleda went on  "one fair day, when I was out driving
in New York, it did come over me with a kind of pang, how
pleasant it would be to have plenty of money again, and be at
ease; and then, as I was looking off over that pretty north
river to the other shore, I bethought me  'A little that a
righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.'
"

Hugh did not answer, for the face she turned to him, in its
half-tearful, half-bright submission, took away his speech.

"Why, you cannot have enjoyed yourself as much as we thought,
Fleda, if you dislike the city so much."

"Yes, I did. Oh, I enjoyed a great many things. I enjoyed
being with the Evelyns. You don't know how much they made of
me  every one of them  father and mother, and all the three
daughters  and uncle Orrin. I have been well petted, I can
tell you, since I have been gone."

"I am glad they showed so much discrimination," said Hugh;
"they would be puzzled to make too much of you."

"I must have been in a remarkably discriminating society,"
said Fleda, "for everybody was very kind."

"How do you like the Evelyns, on a nearer view?"
