  been promulgated,—which is unknown to the subject of it,—has ever
  been deemed most unjust and tyrannical. The reign of Caligula, were
  it obnoxious to no other reproach than this, would never cease to be
  remembered with abhorrence.

  The lawgivers of the slaveholding states seem, in the formation of
  their penal codes, to have been uninfluenced by these claims of the
  slave upon their compassionate consideration. The hardened convict
  moves their sympathy, and is to be taught the laws before he is
  expected to obey them; yet the guiltless slave is subjected to an
  extensive system of cruel enactments, of no part of which, probably,
  has he ever heard.

  Parts of this system apply to the slave exclusively, and for every
  infraction a large retribution is demanded; while, with respect to
  offences for which whites as well as slaves are amenable,
  punishments of much greater severity are inflicted upon the latter
  than upon the former.

This heavy charge of Judge Stroud is sustained by twenty pages of proof,
showing the very great disproportion between the number of offences made
capital for slaves, and those that are so for whites. Concerning this,
we find the following cool remark in Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, page 222,
note.

  Much has been said of the disparity of punishment between the white
  inhabitants and the slaves and negroes of the same state; that
  slaves are punished with much more severity, for the commission of
  similar crimes, by white persons, than the latter. The charge is
  undoubtedly true to a considerable extent. It must be remembered
  that the primary object of the enactment of penal laws, is the
  protection and security of those who make them. The slave has no
  agency in making them. He is indeed one cause of the apprehended
  evils to the other class, which those laws are expected to remedy.
  That he should be held amenable for a violation of those rules
  established for the security of the other, is the natural result of
  the state in which he is placed. And the severity of those rules
  will always bear a relation to that danger, real or ideal, of the
  other class.

  It has been so among all nations, and will ever continue to be so,
  while the disparity between bond and free remains.

[Sidenote: The State v. Mann. Dec. Term, 1829. 2 Devereaux’s North
           Carolina Rep. 265.]

A striking example of a legal decision to this purport is given in
Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, page 224. The case, apart from legal
technicalities, may be thus briefly stated:

The defendant, Mann, had hired a slave-woman for a year. During this
time the slave committed some slight offence, for which the defendant
undertook to chastise her. While in the act of doing so the slave ran
off, whereat he shot at and wounded her. The judge in the inferior court
charged the jury that if they believed the punishment was cruel and
unwarrantable, and disproportioned to the offence, in law the defendant
was guilty, as he had only a special property in the slave. The jury
finding evidence that the punishment had been cruel, unwarrantable and
disproportioned to the offence, found verdict against the defendant.
But on what ground?—Because, according to the law of North Carolina,
cruel, unwarrantable, disproportionate punishment of a slave from a
master, is an indictable offence? No. They decided against the
defendant, not because the punishment was cruel and unwarrantable, but
because he was not the person who had the right to inflict it, “as he
had only a SPECIAL right of property in the slave.”

The defendant appealed to a higher court, and the decision was reversed,
on the ground that the hirer has for the time being all the rights of
the master. The remarks of Judge Ruffin are so characteristic, and so
strongly express the conflict between the feelings of the humane judge
and the logical necessity of a strict interpreter of slave-law, that we
shall quote largely from it. One cannot but admire the unflinching
calmness with which a man, evidently possessed of honorable and humane
feelings, walks through the most extreme and terrible results and
conclusions, in obedience to the laws of legal truth. Thus he says:

  A judge cannot but lament, when such cases as the present are
  brought into judgment. It is impossible that the reasons on which
  they go can be appreciated, but where institutions similar to our
  own exist, and are thoroughly understood. The struggle, too, in
  the judge’s own breast, between the feelings of the man and the duty
  of the magistrate, is a severe one, presenting strong temptation to
  put aside such questions, if it be possible. It is useless, however,
  to complain of things inherent in our political state. And it is
  criminal in a court to avoid any responsibility which the laws
  impose. With whatever reluctance, therefore, it is done, the court
  is compelled to express an opinion upon the extent of the dominion
  of the master over the slave in North Carolina. The indictment
  charges a battery on Lydia, a slave of Elizabeth Jones.... The
  inquiry here is, whether a cruel and unreasonable battery on a slave
  by the hirer is indictable. The judge below instructed the jury that
  it is. He seems to have put it on the ground, that the defendant had
  but a special property. Our laws uniformly treat the master, or
  other person having the possession and command of the slave, as
  entitled to the same extent of authority. The object is the same,
  the service of the slave; and the same powers must be confided. In
  a criminal proceeding, and, indeed, in reference to all other
  persons but the general owner, the hirer and possessor of the slave,
  in relation to both rights and duties, is, for the time being, the
  owner.... But, upon the general question, whether the owner is
  answerable criminaliter, for a battery upon his own slave, or
  other exercise of authority of force, not forbidden by statute, the
  court entertains but little doubt. That he is so liable, has never
  been decided; nor, as far as is known, been hitherto contended.
  There has been no prosecution of the sort. The established habits
  and uniform practice of the country, in this respect, is the best
  evidence of the portion of power deemed by the whole community
  requisite to the preservation of the master’s dominion. If we
  thought differently, we could not set our notions in array against
  the judgment of everybody else, and say that this or that authority
  may be safely lopped off. This has indeed been assimilated at the
  bar to the other domestic relations; and arguments drawn from the
  well-established principles, which confer and restrain the
  authority of the parent over the child, the tutor over the pupil,
  the master over the apprentice, have been pressed on us.

  The court does not recognize their application. There is no likeness
  between the cases. They are in opposition to each other, and there
  is an impassable gulf between them. The difference is that which
  exists between freedom and slavery; and a greater cannot be
  imagined. In the one, the end in view is the happiness of the youth
  born to equal rights with that governor on whom the duty devolves of
  training the young to usefulness, in a station which he is
  afterwards to assume among freemen. To such an end, and with such a
  subject, moral and intellectual instruction seem the natural means;
  and, for the most part, they are found to suffice. Moderate force is
  superadded only to make the others effectual. If that fail, it is
  better to leave the party to his own headstrong passions, and the
  ultimate correction of the law, than to allow it to be immoderately
  inflicted by a private person. With slavery it is far otherwise. The
  end is the profit of the master, his security and the public safety;
  the subject, one doomed, in his own person and his posterity, to
  live without knowledge, and without the capacity to make anything
  his own, and to toil that another may reap the fruits. What moral
  considerations shall be addressed to such a being, to convince him
  what it is impossible but that the most stupid must feel and know
  can never be true,—that he is thus to labor upon a principle of
  natural duty, or for the sake of his own personal happiness? Such
  services can only be expected from one who has no will of his own;
  who surrenders his will in implicit obedience to that of another.
  Such obedience is the consequence only of uncontrolled authority
  over the body. There is nothing else which can operate to produce
  the effect. THE POWER OF THE MASTER MUST BE ABSOLUTE, TO RENDER THE
  SUBMISSION OF THE SLAVE PERFECT. I most freely confess my sense of
  the harshness of this proposition. I feel it as deeply as any man
  can. And, as a principle of moral right, every person in his
  retirement must repudiate it. But, in the actual condition of
  things, it must be so. There is no remedy. This discipline belongs
  to the state of slavery. They cannot be disunited without abrogating
  at once the rights of the master, and absolving the slave from his
  subjection. It constitutes the curse of slavery to both the bond and
  the free portions of our population. But it is inherent in the
  relation of master and slave. That there may be particular
  instances of cruelty and deliberate barbarity, where in conscience
  the law might properly interfere, is most probable. The difficulty
  is to determine where a court may properly begin. Merely in the
  abstract, it may well be asked which power of the master accords
  with right. The answer will probably sweep away all of them. But we
  cannot look at the matter in that light. The truth is that we are
  forbidden to enter upon a train of general reasoning on the subject.
  We cannot allow the right of the master to be brought into
  discussion in the courts of justice. The slave, to remain a slave,
  must be made sensible that there is no appeal from his master; that
  his power is, in no instance, usurped, but is conferred by the laws
  of man, at least, if not by the law of God. The danger would be
  great, indeed, if the tribunals of justice should be called on to
  graduate the punishment appropriate to every temper and every
  dereliction of menial duty.

  No man can anticipate the many and aggravated provocations of the
  master which the slave would be constantly stimulated by his own
  passions, or the instigation of others, to give; or the consequent
  wrath of the master, prompting him to bloody vengeance upon the
  turbulent traitor; a vengeance generally practised with impunity,
  by reason of its privacy. The court, therefore, disclaims the power
  of changing the relation in which these parts of our people stand to
  each other.

                  *       *       *       *       *

