difference of opinion except as to the length of the race. Tony, thought
that twice up and down the lake, making an eight-mile race, would be
best; but Frank felt sure that it was too long, and that it would tire
the boys too much. So it was finally agreed that they should pull only
once up and down, making about four miles.

As the Butterfly club were to meet that evening, Frank departed earlier
than he otherwise would have done, so as not to be considered an
intruder.

Tony's club were in high spirits that evening. The praise bestowed upon
them had created a strong feeling of self-reliance in their minds.
Their discipline had passed through a severe ordeal, and it was
pronounced perfectly satisfactory by all concerned. They had done hard
work, and done it well. Their success was the result of their excellent
discipline. It would have been in vain that they had as good a commander
as Tony, if promptness and obedience had been wanting.

"Now, boys," said Tony, when he had called the meeting to order, "we
have arranged all the details of the race, and if you like, I will tell
you about it."

"Tell us," said several.

The chairman proceeded to give them the substance of his conversation
with the coxswain of the Zephyr; and the rules they had adopted were of
course agreed to by all present.

The Butterfly boys, elated with the results of the bridge affair, were
confident that they should win the race. Tony, however, was not so
sanguine. He knew, better than they, how skilful Frank was; and, if the
Zephyr had not labored under the disadvantage of having a new member, he
would have been sure of being beaten.

"There is another subject which comes up for consideration to-night--I
mean the gift of Mr. Walker. He has left it so that it may be divided
among us, or held and used as common property," continued Tony.

The boys looked at each other, as if to pry into the thoughts of their
neighbors. There was a long silence, and it was in vain that Tony called
for the opinions of the members; they did not seem to have any opinions
on the subject.

"We will do just as you say, Mr. Chairman," said Little Paul.

"So we will," added Henry Brown.

"I shall not say," replied Tony. "It is a matter for you to decide.
George says we can put it in the Savings Bank, if we don't divide it,
and keep it till we find a use for it. Perhaps, though, some of your
parents may want it. If they do, we had better give each his share."

"Let us put it in the Savings Bank," said Dick Chester.

But Henry Brown looked at Little Paul, whose father was a very poor man,
and had not been able to work for several months.

"Perhaps we had better divide it," suggested he.

"If you agree to divide it, each member shall have a thirteenth part of
the whole four hundred dollars," added Tony.

"That wouldn't be right," replied Little Paul. "He gave a hundred to
you; and certainly you are better entitled to a hundred than we are to a
penny apiece."

"I will not take more than my share."

"We will only take what Mr. Walker awarded us," said Henry.

"That we won't," added several members.

"No!" shouted the whole club.

"But you shall, my lads," said Tony, stoutly. "George and I have
agreed to that."

"But the commander of the ship ought to have a bigger share than the
crew; besides, what could we have done without you?" argued Little Paul.

"And what could I have done without you?"

"It was your skill and courage, as the Mercury says, which did the
business."

"It was your prompt obedience that crowned our labors with success. I
tell you, boys, it is just as broad as it is long. The money shall be
equally divided."

"Then we won't divide it," said Henry Brown.

"Very well; I will agree to that. We shall be equal owners then,"
replied Tony, with a smile of triumph; for in either case his point was
gained.

"But what shall we do with it? Four hundred dollars is a heap of money.
What's the use of saving it up without having some idea of what we mean
to do with it?"

"We can put it to a dozen uses."

"What, for instance?"

"Why, enlarging our library; buying an apparatus, as the Zephyrs are
going to do; giving it to the poor," replied Tony. "But I was thinking
of something before the meeting."

The boys all looked at the chairman with inquiring glances.

"Out with it," said several of them.

"There are lots of fellows round here who would like to get into a boat
club."

"More than twenty," added Little Paul.

"We have money enough to buy another boat."

"Hurrah!" exclaimed several of the members, jumping out of their chairs
in the excitement of the moment. "Let us buy another boat!"

"What shall we call her?" added Dick Chestor.

Several of the boys began to exercise their minds on this important
question, without devoting any more attention to the propriety or the
practicability of procuring another boat. That question was regarded as
already settled.

"Ay, what shall we call her?" repeated Joseph Hooper.

"What do you say to the 'Lily?'"

"The 'Water Sprite?'"

"The 'Go-ahead?'"

"Name her after Mr. Walker."

"No; after Tony Weston."

"You are counting the chickens before they are hatched," added Tony,
laughing heartily.

"The--the--the 'Red Rover,'" said Joseph Hooper.

"That's too piratical," replied Little Paul.

"I wouldn't say anything about the name at present," suggested Tony.

"Wouldn't it be fine, though, to have three boats on the lake?"
exclaimed Henry.

"Glorious! A race with three boats!"

"Who would be coxswain of the new boat?"

"Fred Harper," said little Paul. "The fellows say he is almost as good
as Frank Sedley."

"If we had another boat we should want a commodore," continued Tony.
"And I was thinking, if we got another, that Frank would be the
commodore, and command the fleet. Then there would be a coxswain to each
boat besides."

"That would be first rate."

"Let us have the other boat."

"Hurrah! so I say."

"I suppose we could buy two six-oar boats for our money," added Tony.

"And have four in the fleet?"

"Perhaps three four-oar boats."

"Five boats in the fleet! That would be a glorious squadron!"

The boys could hardly repress the delight which these air castles
excited, and several of them kept jumping up and down, they were so
