"I should like to know first, Judge Harrison, what my instructions
were," said Mr. Linden, as his eyes likewise made search for the
missing doctor.

"O," said the Judge, "all right! I understood your feelings exactly. I
used that word because the right one didn't come. I have to do that
often. I've heard of the 'pen of a ready writer'--I'm sure I'd rather
have the tongue of a ready speaker; but it don't matter for me now. My
friends take me as they find me, and so will you, I have little fear.
Julius!--Here's my son, Dr. Harrison, Mr. Linden."

Dr. Harrison must have a word of introduction to the reader, though he
was one of those who need very little in actual life. He was a handsome
man, young but not very young, and came up at his father's call and
honoured the introduction to his father's guest, with that easy grace
and address which besides being more or less born with a man, tell that
much attrition with the world has been at work to take away all his
outward roughnesses of nature. He was handsomely dressed too, though
not at all in a way to challenge observation. His coat would have
startled nobody in Pattaquasset, though it might have told another that
its wearer had probably seen France, had probably seen England, and had
in short lived much in that kind of society which recognizes the fact
of many kinds of coats in the world. His greeting of Mr. Linden was
both simple and graceful.

"I am very happy to see you," he said as he shook hands. "I should
certainly have come to see you before, but I am more a stranger in
Pattaquasset than anybody. I have hardly been at home since I returned;
business has drawn me to other quarters--and I am only fortunate enough
to be in time for this occasion. It's a good time for me," said he
looking round,--"I can renew my old acquaintance with everybody at
once--I think all Pattaquasset is here."

"Not grown out of your remembrance, has it?" said Mr. Linden. "How long
have you been away?"

"Well--it's had time to grow out of everything! especially out of my
memory. I have not been here for five years--and then only for a few
days--and before that at College; so I may say I have hardly been here
since my boyhood. I don't know anybody but the old ones. I shall apply
to you, if you will allow me," said he, drawing himself and Mr. Linden
a little more apart from the centre of reception. "Who, for instance,
is that very--well-dressed--young lady just entering the
hall?--good-looking too."

The doctor's face was very quiet--so were his words; but his eye was
upon Miss Cecilia Deacon, who in a low-necked blue silk, with an amber
necklace and jet bracelets, was paying her respects to the Judge and
his daughter. With equal quietness Mr. Linden made answer.

"By the way," said the doctor suddenly, "I believe we owe this pleasant
occasion--very pleasant I think it is going to be--to you."

"Accidentally and innocently, I assure you."

"Yes--of course,"--said Dr. Harrison, with the air of one who needed no
information as to Mr. Linden's view of the subject, nor explanation as
to its grounds. "But," said he speaking somewhat low,--"my father has
the interests of the school--and indeed of all Pattaquasset--truly at
heart, and my sister has entered into all his feelings. I am a kind of
alien. I hope not to be so.--But, as I was saying, my father and sister
putting their heads together, have thought it would have a good effect
upon the boys and upon certain interests of the community through them
and their parents too, to give some little honours to the best students
among them--or to the cleverest boys--which, as you and I know, are not
precisely synonymous terms. Would you think well of such an expedient?
My father is very anxious to do nothing which shall not quite meet your
judgment and wish in the matter."

"I shall leave it in Judge Harrison's hands," said Mr. Linden after a
moment's silence: "I should be very sorry to gainsay his wishes in any
respect. And some of the boys deserve any honours that can be given
them."

"Do they?" said the doctor. "Can you indicate them to me?"

"No," said Mr. Linden smiling. "I shall leave you to find out."

"Leave me"--said the other. "How did you know what office they had
charged upon me? Well--I am making as long a speech as if I were a
member of Congress. By the way, Mr. Linden, can you imagine what could
induce a man to be that particular member of the body politic? it
occupies the place of the feet, I think; such members do little but run
to and fro--though I remember I just seemed to give them the place of
the tongue--unjustly. They don't do the real talk of the world."

"The real talk?" said Mr. Linden. "Indeed I think they do their
share."

"Of talk?" said the doctor with an acute look at his neighbour.
"Well--as I was saying--my sister has provided I believe some red and
blue, or red and something, favours of ribband--to be given to the boys
who shall merit them. Now to find out that, which you won't tell me, I
am to do, under your pleasure, some more talking--to them in public--to
see in short how well they can talk to me. Do you like that?"

"Better than they will, perhaps--as merit is sometimes modest."

"I assure you I would happily yield the duty into your hands--who would
do it so much better--but I suppose you would say as somebody
else--'Let my friend tell my tale.'--Who is that?" said the doctor
slowly and softly,--"like the riding pole of a fence--as little to
spare--and as rigid--isn't he?--and as long! Don't I remember him?"

"You ought--that is Mr. Simlins."

"Yes"--said the doctor musingly--"I remember him! I incurred his
displeasure once, in some boyish way, and if I recollect he is a man
that pays his debts. And that unfortunate--next--looks like the
perspective of a woman."

But this lady Mr. Linden did not know. She was little, in form and
feature, and had besides a certain pinched-in look of
diminutiveness--that seemed to belong to mind as well as body, temper,
and life--and had procured her the doctor's peculiar term of
description.

"The next thing is," said Dr. Harrison, as his eye slowly roved over
the assembled and assembling people--"who is to give the favours? My
sister of course does not wish to be forward in the business and I
don't--and you don't. I say, the prettiest girl here."

"I think the hands that prepared the favours should dispense them,"
said Mr. Linden.

"But she won't do it--and ladies have sometimes the power of saying
no--they're generally persuadable!--Who's that?" said the doctor with a
change of tone, touching Mr. Linden's arm,--"the one in white with a
red bouquet de corsage--she's charming! She's the one!"

"That is Miss Derrick."

"She'll do,"--said the doctor softly to his companion, as Faith paused
for a quick greeting of the Judge and then passed on out of
sight;--"she's charming--Do you suppose she knew what she was about
when she put those red leaves and roses together? I didn't know there
was that kind of thing in Pattaquasset."

"Yes, they look very well," said Mr. Linden coolly.

"Julius!" said Mrs. Somers, laying hold of the elbow of the suggestive
coat, "what do you mean by keeping Mr. Linden and yourself back here.
That's the way with you young men--stand off and gaze at a safe
distance, and then make believe you're fire proof."

"Don't make believe anything, aunt Ellen," said the young man lightly.
"Prove me. You can take me up to the cannon's mouth--or any other!--and
see if I am afraid of it."

"I shall prove you before I take you anywhere," said Mrs. Somers. "You
needn't talk to me in that style. But it's a little hard upon the boys
to keep Mr. Linden here out of sight,--half of them don't know whether
they're on their head or their heels till they see him, I can tell from
their faces."

"Mr. Linden," said the doctor with a gesture of invitation to his
companion,--"shall we go? Does it depend upon your face which of the
positions mentioned is to be assumed?"

The two gentlemen accordingly threaded their way to the scene of
action; passing, among others, Squire Deacon and Mr. Simlins whom Mr.
Linden greeted together. Mr. Simlins' answer was a mighty grasp of the
hand. Squire Deacon's deserved little attention, and got it.

The party were now on the lawn, at one side of which the boys had
clustered and were standing in expectation.

"I think, Mr. Linden," said the doctor, "if you will explain to the
boys what is to become of them in the next hour, I will go and see
about the fair distributor of the favours--and then I suppose we shall
be ready."

It was well Dr. Harrison chose such a messenger,--no one else could
have brought quietness out of those few dismayed minutes when the boys
first learned what was 'to become of them'; and the Judge would have
felt remorseful about his secret, had he seen the swift wings on which
Pleasure took her departure from the little group. It took all Mr.
Linden's skill, not to enforce submission, but to bring pleasure back;
perhaps nothing less than his half laughing half serious face and
words, could have kept some of the boys from running away altogether.
