pardon, say ‘Dolly’s willing,’ and there you are all taut and
ship-shape again.”

“I wouldn’t for the world, Dick. It would be very hard for you, very
awkward for me, and do no good in the end; for August is so proud
he’d never forgive you for such a trick, would never believe that I
‘had a heart’ after all you’ve said and I’ve done; and I should only
hear with my own ears that he thanked me for that No. Oh, why can’t
people know when they are in love, and not go heels over head before
they are ready!”

“Well, if that don’t suit, I’ll let it alone, for that is all I can
suggest; and if you like your woman’s way better, try it, only
you’ll have to fly round, because to-morrow is the last night, you
know.”

“I shan’t go, Dick.”

“Why not? we are going to give him the rose-wood set of things, have
speeches, cheers for the King of Clubs, and no end of fun.”

“I can’t help it; there would be no fun for me, and I couldn’t look
him in the face after all this.”

“Oh, pooh! yes, you could, or it will be the first time you dared
not do damage with those wicked eyes of yours.”

“It is the first time I ever loved any one.” Dolly’s voice was so
low, and her head drooped so much, that this brief confession was
apparently put away in Dick’s pocket, and being an exceedingly novel
one, filled that inflammable youth with a desire to deposit a
similar one in the other pocket, which, being emptied of its
accustomed contents, left a somewhat aching void in itself and the
heart underneath. After a moment’s silence, he said,--

“Well, if you won’t go, you can settle it when he comes here, though
I think we should all do better to confess coming home in the dark.”

“He won’t come here again, Dick.”

“Won’t he! that shows you don’t know Bopp as well as I. He’ll come
to say good-by, to thank mother for her kindness, and you and me for
the little things we’ve done for him (I wish I’d left the last
undone!), and go away like a gentleman, as he is,--see if he don’t.”

“Do you think so? Then I must see him.”

“I’m sure he will, for we men don’t bear malice and sulk and bawl
when we come to grief this way, but stand up and take it without
winking, like the young Spartan brick when the fox was digging into
him, you know.”

“Then, of course, you’ll forgive Fan.”

“I’ll be hanged if I do,” growled Dick.

“Ah ha! your theory is very good, sir, but your practice is bosh,”
 quoted Dolly, with a gleam of the old mischief in her face.

Dick took a sudden turn through the room, burst out laughing, and
came back, saying heartily,--

“I’ll own up; it is mean to feel so, and I’ll think about forgiving
you both; but she may stop up the hole in the wall, for she won’t
get any more letters just yet; and you may devote your epistolary
powers to A. Bopp in future. Well, what is it? free your mind, and
have done with it; but don’t make your nose red, or take the starch
out of my collar with any more salt water, if you please.”

“No, I won’t; and I only want to say that, as you owe the
explanation to us both, perhaps it would be best for you to tell
August your part of the thing as you come home to-morrow, and then
leave the rest to fate. I can’t let him go away thinking me such a
heartless creature, and once gone it will be too late to mend the
matter. Can you do this without getting me into another scrape, do
you think?”

“I haven’t a doubt of it, and I call that sensible. I’ll fix it
capitally,--go down on my knees in the mud, if it is necessary;
treat you like eggs for fear of another smash-up; and bring him home
in such a tip-top state, you’ll only have to nod and find yourself
Mrs. B. any day you like. Now let’s kiss and be friends, and then go
pitch into that pie for luncheon.”

So they did, and an hour afterward were rioting in the garret under
pretence of putting grandma’s things away; for at eighteen, in spite
of love and mischief, boys and girls have a spell to exorcise blue
devils, and a happy faculty of forgetting that “the world is hollow,
and their dolls stuffed with saw-dust.”

Dick was right, for on the following evening, after the lesson, Mr.
Bopp did go home with him, “to say good-by, like a gentleman as he
was.” Dolly got over the first greeting in the dusky hall, and as
her guest passed on to the parlor, she popped her head out to ask
anxiously,--

“Did you say anything, Dick?”

“I couldn’t; something has happened to him; he’ll tell you about it.
I’m going to see to the horse, so take your time, and do what you
like,” with which vague information Dick vanished, and Dolly wished
herself anywhere but where she was.

Mr. Bopp sat before the fire, looking so haggard and worn out that
the girl’s conscience pricked her sorely for her part in the change,
but plucking up her courage, she stirred briskly among the tea-cups,
asking,--

“What shall I give you, sir?”

“Thank you, I haf no care to eat.”

Something in his spiritless mien and sorrowful voice made Dolly’s
eyes fill; but knowing she must depend upon herself now, and make
the best of her position, she said kindly, yet nervously,--

“You look tired; let me do something for you if I can; shall I sing
for you a little? you once said music rested you.”

“You are kind; I could like that I think. Excoose me if I am dull, I
haf--yes, a little air if you please.”

More and more disturbed by his absent, troubled manner, Dolly began
a German song he had taught her, but before the first line was sung
he stopped her with an imploring--

“For Gott sake not that! I cannot hear it this night; it was the
last I sung her in the Vaterland.”

“Mr. Bopp, what is it? Dick says you have a trouble; tell me, and
let us help you if we can. Are you ill, in want, or has any one
wronged or injured you in any way? Oh, let me help you!”

Tears had been streaming down Mr. Bopp’s cheeks, but as she spoke he
checked them, and tried to answer steadily,--

“No, I am not ill; I haf no wants now, and no one has hurt me but in
kindness; yet I haf so great a grief, I could not bear it all alone,
and so I came to ask a little sympathy from your good Mutter, who
has been kind to me as if I was a son. She is not here, and I
thought I would stop back my grief; but that moosic was too much;
you pity me, and so I tell you. See, now! when I find things go
bright with me, and haf a hope of much work, I take the little store
I saved, I send it to my friend Carl Hoffman, who is coming from my
home, and say, ‘Bring Ulla to me now, for I can make life go well to
her, and I am hungry till I haf her in my arms again.’ I tell no
one, for I am bold to think that one day I come here with her in my
hand, to let her thank you in her so sweet way for all you haf done
for me. Well, I watch the wind, I count the days, I haf no rest for
joy; and when Carl comes, I fly to him. He gifs me back my store, he
falls upon my neck and does not speak, then I know my little Kind
will never come, for she has gone to Himmel before I could make a
home for her on earth. Oh, my Ulla! it is hard to bear;” and, with a
rain of bitter tears, poor Mr. Bopp covered up his face and laid it
down on his empty plate, as if he never cared to lift it up again.

Then Dolly forgot herself in her great sympathy, and, going to him,
she touched the bent head with a soothing hand; let her tears flow
to comfort his; and whispered in her tenderest voice,--

“Dear Mr. Bopp, I wish I could heal this sorrow, but as I cannot,
let me bear it with you; let me tell you how we loved the little
child, and longed to see her; how we should have rejoiced to know
you had so dear a friend to make your life happy in this strange
land; how we shall grieve for your great loss, and long to prove our
respect and love for you. I cannot say this as I ought, but, oh, be
comforted, for you will see the child again, and, remembering that
she waits for you, you will be glad to go when God calls you to meet
your Ulla in that other Fatherland.”

“Ah, I will go now! I haf no wish to stay, for all my life is black
to me. If I had found that other little friend to fill her place, I
should not grieve so much, because she is weller there above than I
could make her here; but no; I wait for that other one; I save all
my heart for her; I send it, but it comes back to me; then I know my
hope is dead, and I am all alone in the strange land.”

There was neither bitterness nor reproach in these broken words,
only a patient sorrow, a regretful pain, as if he saw the two lost
loves before him and uttered over them an irrepressible lament. It
