would explore the bed first; and the chimney seemed the most practicable.

There was no time for consideration, for the woman had already opened the
door, and was answering the questions of the Confederate officer; so Tom
sprang into the fireplace, and, by the aid of the projecting stones,
climbed up to a secure position. The chimney was large enough to
accommodate half a dozen boys of Tom's size. The fire had gone out, and
though the stones were rather warm in the fireplace, he was not
uncomfortable.

The fears of the lady of the house proved to be well grounded this time,
for the party had actually come in search of her "old man;" and what was
more, the officer announced his intention not to leave without him.

"He's gone away fur a week, and he won't be hum before the fust of August,
no how," said the woman resolutely, and adopting Tom's suggestion to the
letter.

"All nonsense, woman! He is about here, somewhere, and we will find him."

"You may, if you kin."

The officer then went out at the back door, as Tom judged by his
footsteps, and the woman asked one of the children what had become of the
other soldier man. The boy said he was up chimney. She then told them not
to tell the officer where he was.

"What shell I do?" said she, placing herself before the fireplace.

"Don't be alarmed. He will keep out of their way," replied Tom.

"But the officer man said he was gwine to stay 'bout yere till he gits
hum," moaned the poor woman.

"He will not do any such thing. Your husband has the woods before him, and
he won't let them catch him."

"Deary me! I'm 'feared they will."

"Where are they now?"

"They're gone out to look for him."

The officer and his men returned in a few moments, having satisfied
themselves that the proprietor of the place was not on the premises.

"Now we'll search the house," said the officer; and Tom heard them walking
about in the room.

Of course the militia man could not be found, and the officer used some
very unbecoming language to express his disapprobation of the skulker, as
he called him.

"Woman, if you don't tell me where your husband is, I'll have you
arrested," said he, angrily.

"I don't know myself. He's gone off over the mountains to git some things.
Thet's all I know about it, and if yer want to arrest me, yer kin."

But the officer concluded that she would be a poor substitute for an able
bodied man, and he compromised the matter by leaving one of the privates,
instructing him not to let the woman or the children leave the house, and
to remain till the skulker returned.

This was not very pleasant information for Tom who perceived that he was
likely to be shut up in the chimney for the rest of the day, and perhaps
be smoked or roasted out at supper time. Climbing up to the top of his
prison house, he looked over, and saw the officer and one private
disappear in the woods which lay between the house and the railroad.
Looking over the other way, he saw the coveted recruit approaching the
house from beyond the garden.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE REBEL SOLDIER.


Tom Somers was not very well satisfied with his situation, for the soldier
who had been left in possession of the house was armed with a musket, and
the prospect of escaping before night was not very flattering. The
patriarch of the family, who had such a horror of recruiting officers, was
approaching, and in a few moments there would be an exciting scene in the
vicinity.

Independent of his promise made to the woman to help her husband, if she
would not betray him, Tom deemed it his duty to prevent the so-called
Confederate States of America from obtaining even a single additional
recruit for the armies of rebellion and treason. Without having any
personal feeling in the matter, therefore, he was disposed to do all he
could to assist his host in "avoiding the draft." What would have been
treason in New England was loyalty in Virginia.

The unfortunate subject of the Virginia militia law was unconsciously
approaching the trap which had been set for him. He had, no doubt, come to
the conclusion, by this time, that the hungry soldier boy was not a
recruiting officer, or even the corporal of a guard sent to apprehend him,
and he was returning with confidence to partake of his noonday meal. Tom,
from his perch at the top of the chimney, watched him as he ambled along
over the rough path with his eyes fixed upon the ground. There was
something rather exciting in the situation of affairs, and he soon found
himself deeply interested in the issue.

The unhappy citizen owing service to the Confederate States climbed over
the zigzag fence that enclosed his garden, and continued to approach the
rude dwelling which the law had defined to be his castle. Tom did not dare
to speak in tones loud enough to be heard by the innocent victim of the
officer's conspiracy, for they would have betrayed his presence to the
enemy. Sitting upon the top stones of the chimney, he gesticulated
violently, hoping to attract his attention; but the man did not look up,
and consequently could not see the signals.

He had approached within ten rods of the back door of the house, when Tom,
fearing his footsteps might attract the attention of the soldier, ventured
to give a low whistle. As this was not heeded, he repeated the signal when
the man was within two or three rods of the house; but even this was not
noticed, and throwing his head forward, so that the sound of his voice
should not descend the chimney, he spoke.

"Halloo!" said he.

The man suddenly stopped, and looked up. Tom made signals with his hands
for him to leave; but this mute language appeared not to be intelligible
to him.

"Consarn yer picter, what are yer doin' up thar?" said the proprietor of
the castle, in tones which seemed to Tom as loud as the roar of the cannon
at Bull Run.

"Hush! Hush!" replied Tom, gesticulating with all his might, and using all
his ingenuity to invent signs that would convey to the militiaman the idea
that he was in imminent danger.

"You be scotched!" snarled the man. "What are yer doin'? What ails yer?"

"They are after you!" added Tom, in a hoarse whisper.

The fellow most provokingly refused to hear him, and Tom thought his skull
was amazingly thick, and his perceptions amazingly blunt.

"Now you come down from thar," said he, as he picked up a couple of
stones. "You act like a monkey, and I s'pose yer be one. Now make tracks
down that chimley."

But instead of doing this, Tom retreated into his shell, as a snail does
when the moment of peril arrives. The soldier in the house was not deaf;
and if he had been, he could hardly have helped hearing the stentorian
tones of his victim. Instead of going out the back door, like a sensible
man, he passed out at the front door, and in a moment more Tom heard his
voice just beneath him.

"Halt!" shouted the soldier, as he brought his musket to his shoulder.
"Your name is Joe Burnap."

"That's my name, but I don't want nothin' o' you," replied the embarrassed
militiaman, as he dropped the stones with which he had intended to assault
Tom's citadel.

"I want something of you," replied the soldier. "You must go with me.
Advance, and give yourself up."

"What fur?" asked poor Joe.

"We want you for the army. You are an enrolled militiaman. You must go
with me."

"Ill be dog derned if I do," answered Joe Burnap, desperately.

"If you attempt to run away, I'll shoot you. You shall go with me, dead or
alive, and hang me if I care much which."

Joe evidently did care. He did not want to go with the soldier; his
southern blood had not been fired by the wrongs of his country; and he was
equally averse to being shot in cold blood by this minion of the
Confederacy. His position was exceedingly embarrassing, for he could
neither run, fight, nor compromise. While matters were in this interesting
and critical condition, Tom ventured to raise his head over the top of the
chimney to obtain a better view of the belligerents. Joe stood where he
