This was a "clincher," and even Shuffles had not wit enough to escape
the conclusion of the dogmatic reasoner. The captain elect of the League
knew very well that nine persons who were not members had voted--that he
had secured his election by a gross fraud. He was afraid that Pelham,
disappointed by his defeat, would do something to compromise the
enterprise; but his own treachery had placed him in such a position that
he could say nothing without exposing himself.

"Of course it's all right," added Pelham, "I find we have plenty of
friends in the after cabin. As soon as you have any orders to give,
Captain Shuffles, I am in a position to execute them to the best
advantage."

"When I am ready, I will give them to you."

"It will be an easy matter now to obtain possession of the ship; in
fact, all you have to do is to order Captain Gordon to turn the command
over to you. He has been 'toggled,' and must obey his superiors--of
course he has been toggled; he couldn't have voted if he hadn't been."

Shuffles was terribly exercised by the repeated flings of his
disconcerted rival. He was already satisfied that the enterprise had
come to an end, unless Pelham could be quieted; and he was about to
propose a new ballot, when he was ordered by the quartermaster on duty
to take his trick at the wheel.

"What does all this mean?" demanded Pelham of the receivers, when the
captain-elect had gone to his duty.

"I only know that the captain and all the officers of the first part of
the port watch voted, and other fellows who would no more join this
thing than they would jump overboard," replied McKeon.

"How could they vote--how could the captain vote--without understanding
the whole thing?" demanded Pelham, perplexed at the inconsistency of the
facts.

"I think I know something about it," added Grossbeck.

"What do you know?"

"Haven't you heard of the new game?"

"What new game?"

"'Don't know Beans.'"

"Shuffles said something about it, but I did not comprehend his
meaning."

Grossbeck explained the game, whose history had been circulated among
"our fellows."

"And this game was played while the voting was going on?" said Pelham,
who began to see the trick which his rival had put upon him.

"I didn't know anything about it till supper time," answered Grossbeck.

"I see it all," continued Pelham. "The receivers were the 'butts,' and
about a dozen fellows voted for Shuffles, including Gordon and Kendall,
supposing they were simply playing 'Don't know Beans.'"

It did not require a great deal of penetration on the part of the fourth
lieutenant to comprehend the trick of his rival. He was indignant and
angry, and all the more so because he had been outwitted, even while he
was attempting to outwit his unscrupulous competitor.

The next day, the quarter watches off duty played "Don't know Beans" to
their satisfaction. It was found, when everybody was watching the
"butts," that very few could deposit their beans without detection. A
few hours' trial of the new pastime convinced all except "our fellows"
that it was a senseless game, and it was speedily abandoned.

On the nineteenth day of the voyage, the Young America encountered
another gale, but it was not nearly so severe as the one through which
she had passed when off Cape Sable. The ship ran for twelve hours under
close-reefed topsails; but as the gale came from the south-west, she
laid her course during the whole of it, and behaved herself to the
entire satisfaction of all on board. On the following day, the wind had
hauled round to the north-west, and the sea subsided, so that the ship
went along very comfortably.

Notwithstanding his doubts of the good faith of Pelham, who, however,
nominally adhered to the terms of the compact, Shuffles arranged his
plans for the capture of the ship. He had decided to defer the grand
strike until the ship had come up with Cape Clear, so that the faculty,
and all the students who would not take a part in the enterprise, might
be put on shore immediately. In the course of three days, the land would
probably be sighted. The rising was to take place in Pelham's watch, the
officers of which were members of the League. All the details had been
carefully arranged, and trusty "links" appointed to perform the heavy
work. As soon as the "old folks" had been locked up in the cabin, and
the new captain had taken the command, the ship was to be headed for the
shore. The great event was to come off at six o'clock in the afternoon
of the twenty-third or twenty-fifth day. The ship would be near the
coast for at least a part of two days. If she was within six hours' sail
of the land on the twenty-third day out, when Pelham would have the
second part of the first dog watch, the rising was to take place then;
if not, it was to be deferred till the twenty-fifth day, when the
watches were again favorable.

Shuffles communicated with his discontented first officer as often as he
could, and unfolded his plans without reserve. Pelham listened, and,
still professing his willingness to obey his superior officer, promised
to do all that was required of him.

"In your watch, Pelham, you will see that the helm is in the hands of
some of our fellows," said Shuffles.

"Certainly," replied Pelham, with more indifference than suited the
enthusiastic chief of the enterprise "By the way, Captain Shuffles, have
you laid out any work for Captain Gordon to do?"

"What's the use of talking to me about him now that we are on the very
point of accomplishing our purpose?" demanded Shuffles, with deep
disgust.

"You can't deny that Gordon is an able fellow, and, as a good commander,
of course you intend to give him some important position," chuckled
Pelham. "Have you appointed the rest of your officers yet?"

"To be sure I have."

"Have you given Gordon anything?"

"No!" growled Shuffles.

"No? Why, do you think the present captain of the ship will be content
to go into the steerage under the new arrangement?"

"He may go into the steerage or go overboard," answered the chief,
angrily.

"Accidentally, you mean."

"Pelham, if you intend to be a traitor, say so."

"I! My dear fellow, I don't mean anything of the kind. I am as true as
the pole star."

"Have you spoken to the captain about our affairs?"

"Not a word."

"Have you tried him by the signs?"

"I have, and he made no sign," laughed Pelham, who was not much
enamoured of the cabalistic clap-trap of the Chain.

"Then, of course, he is not a member."

"He must be; he voted," replied Pelham, maliciously.

"How many more times will you say that?"

"Perhaps fifty; perhaps a hundred," answered the fourth lieutenant,
coolly. "I shall say it until you are willing to acknowledge the trick
you put upon me."

"What trick?"

"O, I know all about it! Didn't you tell Kendall, the captain, and seven
or eight others, how to play 'Don't know Beans'?"

"If I did, it was to cheat them when they wanted to know what the beans
meant."

"You saw that the fellows threw away the beans, instead of voting for
you with them, and you invented your game to make the thing come out
right. No matter, Shuffles; I am bound by the compact we made, but I
shall persist in regarding Gordon, Kendall Foster, and others as
members. As you made them vote, you are responsible for them. That's
all."

"Don't let us quarrel about it, my dear fellow," said Shuffles, in soft,
insinuating tones.

"By no means."

"We will have a new election," suggested the chief.
