deck; and occasionally glanced at me. I thought he had something to say
to me; but he evidently did not like my close intimacy with Mr.
Solomons. During the day, I occasionally saw him, and he always appeared
to be watching me; but I carefully avoided him. On the following day,
however, I went forward to the bow alone.

"Passengers not allowed forward of that mark," said a sailor, pointing
to a chalk line drawn across the deck. "You are fined, sir."

"What for?" I asked.

"For crossing the line."

"Why don't you put up a notice, so that passengers need not cross it?" I
demanded.

"Because they wouldn't go over the line if we did, sir."

"How much is the fine?"

"Anything you please, sir."

It was a practical joke, one of Jack's tricks, and I paid the fine, amid
the laughter of half a dozen passengers, who had already been made
victims. As I retreated, I encountered E. Dunkswell. He looked sour and
savage.

"I want to see you," said he, gruffly.

"I don't want to see you," I replied, continuing on my walk aft.

"You have insulted me," he persisted, putting his hand on my shoulder.

"Insulted you!" I replied, pausing; for I was curious to know in what
manner I had insulted so vile a creature as he was.

"You have insulted me!" he repeated.

"You said that before. How?"

"You exchanged berths with that old chap you run with."

"I don't know that it concerns you if I did."

"It was the same as saying that I am not fit company for you," said he,
shaking his head.

"If it was, it was also saying that you were fit company for Mr.
Solomons," I replied; and I regarded this as a clincher in the line of
argument.

"It was not my pleasure to room with him."

"It is not my pleasure to room with you," I added.

"I consider your conduct as an insult to me, and I hold you responsible
for it."

"All right," I replied, cheerfully. "Hold away."

"If the old fellow don't go back to his room, there'll be a row."

"The old fellow will do as he pleases about that," I added; "but whether
he does or not, I shall not return to your room. I would sleep on the
main truck first."

"Do you mean to insult me again?"

"Insult you again!" I exclaimed, indignantly, for my blood was up at the
idea of a fellow like him putting on such airs. "No decent man could
stay in the room with you, as you were the first night."

"What do you mean by that?"

"You were as drunk as an owl, and made the room smell like a low
groggery."

"I confess that I took a little too much that night," said he, suddenly
changing his front, and apparently relieved to find that this was the
objection to him. "I shall not do it again."

"I shall keep away from you, any how," I added.

"Will you?" he continued, angry again. "That night I lost some valuable
articles from my trunk. No one but my room-mate could have taken them. I
intend to complain to the captain."

"Indeed! I had a similar experience. I had some valuable letters taken
from my valise; and they could have been taken only by my room-mate; but
I found them again, and I am satisfied. When you complain to the
captain, one story will be good till another is told."

Not wishing to talk with him any longer, I walked aft. He followed me,
uttering threats and imprecations, which I did not heed. E. Dunkswell
was a disappointed man. He had undertaken a mission which he was not
competent to perform. He had failed by his own folly. If he had kept
sober he might have retained my papers. He evidently felt his own
weakness, and realized that whiskey had caused him to make a mess of it.

His hostility was excited against me, and during the rest of the voyage
he watched me with an evil eye, and appeared to be waiting for an
opportunity to do something. For my own part, I felt that there was a
heavy discount on E. Dunkswell.




CHAPTER XXIV.

IN WHICH ERNEST LANDS AT CROOKHAVEN, AND PROCEEDS TO LONDON.


WE had a remarkably pleasant and quick passage, and on the eighth day
from New York, while we were at dinner, I heard the captain say to a
lady who sat near him, that we should be off Queenstown the next
morning, at six or seven o'clock. I was sorry that we were to approach
the land by night, for I wanted to see it.

"You can see it if you choose to sit up all night," laughed Mr.
Solomons.

"It will be rather too dark to see anything," I added.

"Not at all; it is about the full of the moon, and it will be as light
as day. You can turn in early, and sleep four or five hours. We shall be
off Crookhaven, where they throw over the despatch bag, about five or
six hours before we stop off Queenstown; that will make it about two in
the morning. If you will retire at eight, it will give you six hours'
sleep; and you can turn in again and finish your nap after you have seen
enough of the shore."

"I think I will do so, sir. What is the despatch bag you speak of?" I
asked.

"The despatches are put into a barrel and thrown overboard off
Crookhaven, where a steamer picks them up. They are taken ashore and
telegraphed to London. The despatches are simply the newspapers, from
which the news agent transmits the important items."

After dinner, when I went on deck, I found the carpenter preparing a
flour barrel for the despatches. A quantity of sand was put in the
bottom to make it stand up straight in the water. A pole was set up in
the barrel, like the mast of a vessel, to the top of which a blue-light
was attached, to be ignited when it was thrown overboard, in order to
enable the despatch steamer to find it readily. In the daytime a red rag
is sometimes attached to it, I was told by the carpenter. The papers
were placed in a water-tight can, and imbedded in the sand in the
barrel.

At sea almost anything creates an excitement, and the preparing the
despatch barrel was witnessed by many persons, among whom I noticed
Dunkswell. I had observed that he listened very attentively to all that
passed between Mr. Solomons and myself at the dinner table. I did not
regard this as very strange, for all on board were deeply interested in
everything which related to the progress of the steamer.

At eight o'clock I turned in, and went to sleep very soon. I had before
made a trade with one of the stewards to call me at two o'clock, and at
this hour he waked me. The night was beautiful; the moon shone brightly
on the silver waters, and the sea was quite smooth. I did not see a
single passenger on the hurricane deck. I made out the outline of some
high hills on the shore, and the glimmer of a couple of distant lights.
Three men were standing ready to throw over the despatch barrel as soon
as the small steamer should appear.

I was a boy then, and had a boy's curiosity to see how everything was
done. The hurricane deck was surrounded by an open railing, on the top
of which I placed myself, where I could see over the stern of the ship.
I was so accustomed to the water, and to high places, that I had no fear
of anything. I put my legs over, and sat facing astern.

"Don't sit there, young man; you'll certainly fall overboard," said the
officer of the deck, who had come aft to see that the barrel was ready
to go over.

"No danger of that," I replied, easily.

"Better get down, and come on board," added a quarter-master.

"I'm an old sailor," I answered, laughing at the caution.
