"I can only tell you what I think," I said.

"And that is precisely what I want to hear," he answered
earnestly.

"You will not agree to it, though, and I do not know that you
will even understand me. Mr. Marshall, I think that nothing is
insignificant which is done for God; and that everything which
is not done for Him, directly or indirectly, is insignificant
or worse."

"I do not understand -" he said thoughtfully. "In what sense
can a thing be 'done for God?' Unless it is building a church
or founding a hospital."

"Very few churches have been built for God," I said. "At
least I think so."

"Why, the old monks -" Mr. Marshall began. But just then our
missing companions came up, and he stopped. They had been
lured aside from the way by the sight of some game. We had no
more private talk; but Hugh Marshall was sober and thoughtful
all the rest of the day.

He sought such talks with me now whenever he could; and seemed
to enter into them like a man, with an earnest purpose to know
the truth and to do his work in the world if he could find it.
I grew, in a way, very fond of him. He was gentle, well-bred,
happy-tempered, extremely careful of my welfare and pleasure,
and regardful of my opinions, which I suppose flattered my
vanity; well-read and sensible; and it seemed to me that he
grew more agreeable every day.

The accounts from the seat of war in America were not very
stirring just then; nothing great was done or expected; and
the question of our young men's return to take part in what
was going on, was suffered for a time to fall out of sight.
Meanwhile we left Lucerne and went to Geneva. There was more
society, in a quiet way; and there was a fresh harvest of
pleasure to be reaped by me and for me in the domains of
nature.

CHAPTER XI.

A VICTORY


"Daisy, - you are very happy!" my father said one day when I
was sitting with him. We were looking out upon the lake, which
our windows commanded; but I found papa's look had come back
from the window to me.

"You are very happy!" he said.

"Yes, papa, - pretty happy."

"Pretty happy?" said he, putting his hand under my chin and
turning my face again round to him, and then kissing me.
"Pretty and happy, you mean."

"No, papa," I said laughing; - "I don't mean that."

"It is true, though," said he. "There was a bit of a smile
upon your mouth just now - before I spoke; - what were you
thinking of?"

"Papa, it is so glorious, - the lake and its shores in this
sunlight."

"That was all?"

"No, not quite all, papa."

"I thought not. What was the rest of it, Daisy?"

"Papa, I was thinking with joy, that I belong to the wonderful
One who made all that; and so, that the riches of his power
and glory are in a certain sense mine; - just as everything
good in you is mine, papa."

He folded me in his arms and kissed me again, very fondly.

"There is not much good in me, Daisy."

"Yes, papa, - for me."

"But there is a great deal in you, - for somebody."

"For you, papa."

"Nobody else, Daisy?"

He was holding me close in his arms and looking down into my
face. I believe the colour must have come into my cheeks.

"Ah, I thought so!" he said. "Even so soon, Daisy, you are
leaving me for somebody else."

"Papa!" I exclaimed, hiding my face in his neck, - "I will
never leave you, till you say so."

"Till I say so? I will not be over selfish, my dear child. I
do not mean that."

"Who is it to be, Daisy?" my mother's voice said behind us.

I started up in absolute terror. What had I said? and what did
she mean? I looked at her, speechless.

"Well?" she said laughing, "what is the matter? You need not
turn white about it. Is your father the only one to be in your
confidence? I will withdraw then."

"Stop! - Mamma!" I cried; "what are you saying? There is no
confidence. What are you talking about?"

"I only asked, who it was to be, Daisy? I thought you were
talking of leaving us, and naturally concluded it was to be
with somebody."

"Mamma - oh, mamma, I was speaking only in the abstract."

Mamma laughed. "In the abstract! Well, you will have to come
from generals to particulars, Daisy. Abstractions will not
satisfy anybody long."

I was in great difficulty and great confusion. Papa drew me
into his arms again and kissed my lips and cheeks and eyes, as
if he would have hid my blushes.

"You shall be as abstract as you like," he said; "and as long
as you like. I give you leave."

"That's nonsense, though, Mr. Randolph," said my mother,
standing at the back of his chair. "Daisy cannot live in
abstractions for ever. She must choose, and let her choice be
known; and the sooner the better. Nobody can guess it now. She
has been abstract enough."

I was in the greatest perplexity at this speech, which
conveyed to me no meaning whatever. Let my choice be known?
Did mamma know about Mr. Thorold? I knew she could not; but
then, what did she mean?

"There is no hurry, Felicia," said papa.

"I will not have Daisy marry any but an American, Mr.
Randolph."

"Agreed. There is no present likelihood that she will."

"But when we get to Florence, Mr. Randolph, and she is seen in
the great world, things may not absolutely be within your
control - or mine."

Mamma stood tapping her fingers upon the back of my father's
chair, and I thought her very odd indeed. Her last sentence,
however, had a word that I could answer. I stood up and faced
her.

"Mamma," I said, "I am going to say something that you will
not like."

"Then do not say it, Daisy."

"I would not, if I could help it. But you know, mamma, I am a
servant of God - I have not changed, - and I and the 'great
world' have nothing in common."

"Well? -" said mamma calmly.

"I do not belong to it. I have no place in it."

"No, of course. You are just out of school. A few months more
will change all that."

"No, mamma, - please!"

"Yes, Daisy, - please!" she said, tapping my cheek with her
finger, and then leaning forward to kiss me with smiling lips.
