
"I think I'll be going," said Dick, who did not feel quite so much at
ease, now that his young friends had left him.

"Wait a few minutes," said Mrs. Rockwell.

She rang the bell, and a servant brought up some cake and apples, of
which Dick was invited to partake.

I need not detail the conversation; but Mrs. Rockwell, with the tact of
a genuine lady, managed to draw out Dick, and put him quite at his ease.

"How old are you, Richard?" she asked.

"Fifteen," said Dick; "goin' on sixteen."

"You are getting to be quite a young man,--old enough to wear a watch.
Have you one?"

"No," said Dick, not suspecting the motive that led to her question.

"Will you allow me the pleasure of supplying the deficiency?" said Mrs.
Rockwell.

As she spoke, she drew from a box at her side a very neat gold watch and
chain, and placed it in Dick's hands.

Our hero was so astonished at first that he could scarcely believe that
this valuable present was intended for him.

"Is it for me?" he asked, hesitatingly.

"Yes," said Mrs. Rockwell, smiling pleasantly. "I hope you will find it
of service."

"It is too much," said Dick. "I do not deserve it."

"You must let me be the judge of that," said the lady, kindly. "Here is
the key; I nearly forgot to give it to you. I suppose you know how to
wind it up?"

"Yes," said Dick. "I understand that. I am very much obliged to you."

"You are very welcome. Whenever you look at it, let it remind you that
under all circumstances you can rely upon the friendship of Johnny's
parents."

Dick slipped the watch into a watch-pocket in his vest, for which he had
never before had any use, and attached the chain to his button-hole.

"How beautiful it is!" he said, in tones of admiration.

"It was bought at Ball & Black's," said Mrs. Rockwell. "If it should not
keep good time, or anything should happen to it, I advise you to take it
there, and they will repair it for you."

Dick perceived by his new watch that it was nearly ten o'clock, and rose
to go. He was kindly invited to renew his visit, and promised to do so.
Just as he was leaving the room, Mr. Rockwell handed a sealed envelope
to Dick, saying, "Put this in your pocket, Richard. It will be time
enough to open it when you get home."

Dick sped home much more quickly than he had come. He thought with
delight of Fosdick's surprise when he should see the new watch and
chain, and also with pardonable exultation of the sensation he would
produce at the table when he carelessly drew out his watch to see what
time it was.

When he reached his boarding-house, and went upstairs, he found Fosdick
sitting up for him.

"Well, Dick, what sort of a time did you have?" he asked.

"Tip-top," said Dick.

"Who did you see?"

"Mr. and Mrs. Rockwell, and two children,--Johnny, the one I fished out
of the water, and his sister, Grace. Johnny's a jolly little chap, and
his sister is a nice girl."

"Halloa, what's that?" asked Fosdick, suddenly espying the watch-chain.

"What do you think of my new watch?" asked Dick, drawing it out.

"Do you mean to say it is yours?"

"Yes. Mrs. Rockwell gave it to me."

"It's a regular beauty. Mr. Henderson has got one that he paid a hundred
dollars for; but it isn't as nice as yours."

"Seems to me I have no end of luck," said Dick. "I'll be a young man of
fortun' before I know it."

"People will think you are now, when they see you wear such a watch as
that."

"Johnny Nolan'd think I stole it, if he should see it," said Dick. "Poor
chap! I wish some luck would come to him. I saw him to-day lookin' just
as I used to before I met Frank."

"There's some difference between then and now, Dick."

"Yes. I was a rough chap in them days."

"In those days, Dick."

"In those days, and I don't know but I am now, but I'm trying to
improve. With you to help me, I think I'll grow up respectable."

"I hope we both will, Dick. But who's that letter from that you've just
taken out of your pocket?"

"Oh, I forgot. Mr. Rockwell handed it to me just before I came away, and
told me not to open it till I got home. P'r'aps it says that he hasn't
no more occasion for my valuable services."

"That isn't very likely, considering the present you have brought home.
But open it; I am curious to see what is in it."

The envelope was cut open, and a piece of paper dropped out.

Fosdick picked it up, and to his inexpressible amazement ascertained
that it was a check on the Park Bank for the sum of one thousand dollars
made payable to Richard Hunter, or order.

"A thousand dollars!" repeated Dick, overwhelmed with astonishment;
"you're only foolin' me. P'r'aps it's ten dollars."

"No, it's a thousand dollars. Read it yourself if you don't believe it."

"I wish you'd pinch me, Fosdick," said Dick, seriously.

"Certainly, if you wish it."

"That's enough," said Dick, hastily. "I only wanted to make sure I
wasn't dreamin'. I can't believe I'm worth a thousand dollars."

"You're a lucky fellow, Dick," said Fosdick, "and you deserve your luck.
I'm heartily glad of it."

"About the best luck I ever had was in meeting you," said Dick,
affectionately. "I'm goin' to give you half the money."

"No, you're not, Dick. Thank you all the same," said Fosdick, decidedly.
"It was meant for you, and you must keep it. I'll get along well enough.
If I don't, I know you'll help me."

"But I wish you'd take half the money."

"No, Dick, it wouldn't be right. But your new watch says it's getting
late, and we had better go to bed."

It was some time before Dick fell asleep. His good luck had so excited
him that he found it difficult to calm down sufficiently to sink into a
quiet slumber.




CHAPTER VI.

MR. GILBERT IS ASTONISHED.


When Dick woke up in the morning the first thing he thought of was his
watch, the next the check which he had received from Mr. Rockwell.

"I'll go to the bank this morning, and get my money," said he.

"How are you going to invest it, Dick?" asked Fosdick.

"I don't know," said Dick. "I'll put it in the savings bank till I
decide. That'll make more'n eleven hundred dollars. I didn't use to
think I ever'd be worth that, when I slept in boxes and old wagons."

"Eleven hundred dollars at six per cent. interest will yield you
sixty-six dollars a year."

