"I dare not hope so," sobbed she, uncovering her eyes, and glancing at
me. "I was sitting clear back, as far as I could get, looking into the
water, when this terrible thing happened. I was thrown into the river by
the shock, or I jumped in--I don't know which. I caught hold of that
stick, but I did not know what I was doing."

"But where was your mother?" I asked. "She may have been equally
fortunate."

"The boat was racing with another, and Mr. Spear asked my mother to go
forward, and see the furnaces under the boilers, which, he said, were
red hot. I was reading a book, and did not want to go. In two or three
minutes after they went, the boiler burst. My mother must have been very
near the furnaces when the explosion took place."

"Who was Mr. Spear?"

"He was the gentleman who was taking charge of us."

"But it is possible that your mother was saved."

"I wish I knew!" she exclaimed, with tremulous emotion. "Can't you
ascertain? I shall be so grateful to you!"

"I will try," I replied. "We are not more than ten miles from the place
where the accident happened, and I can return."

"O, I wish you would!"

"Do you wish to return?" I asked.

"She cannot go to-night," interposed Flora. "She is all worn out."

"I do not feel able to go," added the poor girl; "and I do not wish to
go unless my mother is saved."

"What is your mother's name?"

"Mrs. Goodridge."

"And yours?"

"Emily Goodridge."

"Where do you live?"

"In New Orleans. My father is a merchant there. I have been sick, and
the doctor said I must go to the North; but my mother--"

She could say no more, for her sobs choked her utterance. I assured her
I would do all I could to ascertain the fate of her mother. I went into
the other room, and changed my clothes, and wrote down the names which
Emily gave me, so that I need not forget them. After assuring myself
that everything was right in the house, I went out and hoisted the
sail. Taking the steering oar, I ran the raft up to the shore on the
Missouri side, as the wind was favorable in that direction. I secured
the craft in the strongest manner, in order to make sure that she did
not go adrift during the night.

I knew there was a village not far above, for I had seen the lights of
it through the window as I was talking to Emily. I went on shore, and
walked about a mile, which brought me to the place. I went into a store
that I found open on the levee, and inquired of the keeper in what
manner I could get to Cairo. He told me I could only go by a steamboat,
and that I might have to wait an hour, or a couple of days, for one.
But, while I was talking with him, a man came in and said there was a
boat coming up the river. The person who brought this pleasing
intelligence was rough looking, and I offered him a dollar if he would
put me on board of her. He accepted my proposition so good-naturedly
that I concluded the boat was coming up to the town; but she did not,
and he put me into a bateau, and pulled off to her. At first she would
not stop.

"Great news!" I shouted, at the top of my lungs.

Curiosity did what good-nature would not, and the boat stopped her
wheels long enough for me to jump on her deck.

"What do you mean by great news?" demanded a gentleman, who, I soon
found, was the captain. "Did you say that to make me stop the boat? If
you did, I'll heave you overboard."

"No, sir; I did not," I replied, with becoming promptness after the
threat he had used.

"What's your great news, then?" demanded he.

"Do you know what two steamers went up the river about two or three
hours ago?" I asked.

"Certainly I do--the River Queen No. 4 and the Centurion. They passed me
this morning. But what's your news, boy?"

"The Centurion blew up about seven o'clock, as she was going into the
Ohio River."

"The Centurion!" exclaimed he.

"Yes, sir."

"Is that so, or are you making up this story?"

"It is true, sir. I saved a young lady who was a passenger. I left her
below this village, and I want to go up and find out whether her mother
was lost, or not."

"What is her name?"

"Emily Goodridge."

"Goodridge? Do you know her father's name?"

I looked at my paper, and found the name was Edward F. Goodridge.

"He is one of the heaviest merchants in New Orleans," added the captain,
thoughtfully.

My news proved to be all I had represented it, and I was plied with
questions which I could not answer, by the passengers interested in the
fate of those on board of the unfortunate steamer. I could only tell
them that the boat had been blown all to pieces, and that there was
plenty of assistance at hand to save those who were thrown into the
water.

In less than an hour my news was fully confirmed on the arrival of the
steamer at Cairo. We were informed that the River Queen No. 4 was still
there, with the survivors of the disaster on board, and I hastened to
find her.




CHAPTER XXI.

FLORA AND HER PATIENT.


There was no difficulty, in finding the River Queen No. 4, for she was
the centre of a circle of melancholy interest, and a crowd of people had
gathered on the levee to hear the latest tidings of woe from her cabin,
now changed into a hospital. I care not to dwell upon the sad scene
which greeted my vision as I went on board of her, nor to describe the
horror with which I glanced at the long row of ghastly corpses which had
been taken from the water.

It was a sickening sight, and terrible were the groans and the wailings
of the sufferers which resounded through the boat. I learned that the
captain of the ill-fated steamer was among the dead. If it had not been
so, an hour in the midst of this horrible din of sighs, and wails, and
groans would have been an all-sufficient punishment, if he had a human
heart in his bosom, for the base crime of sacrificing those precious
lives to the stupid rivalry of the hour.

The officers and passengers had been engaged in making up lists of the
wounded and the dead. Among the latter I found the name of Mrs.
Goodridge and Mr. Spear. I shuddered as I realized that the worst fears
of Emily were confirmed. I informed the clerk of the boat that I had
saved one of the passengers, and her name was stricken from the list of
the dead, and added to that of the living.

I learned that the body of Mrs. Goodridge had been recovered, and that
friends on board of the steamer would take charge of it. There was
nothing more for me to do, and I fled, sick at heart, from the awful
spectacle. I went to a small hotel near the landing, and though I slept
heavily, awake or in my slumber, the scenes of death and woe I had
beheld still haunted my mind. I took an early breakfast, and then
endeavored to find a boat bound down the river. There was none in Cairo
that would start that day, and it might be several days before I could
obtain a passage. I could not think of prolonging the agonizing suspense
of our passenger on the raft, or of leaving the two females to the care
of so heavy a thinker as Sim Gwynn. If a squall or a sudden rise of the
river occurred, my assistant would be helpless; and if the raft broke
loose, he would not have wit enough to bring it up to the shore again.

I walked up and down the levee, thinking what I should do. I could not
charter a steamer, and there was no conveyance on the other side of the
Mississippi. While I was thus fretting at the delay, I came to a yard
where boats were kept for sale. Most of them were for the use of
steamers, and were far beyond my means; but I found a second-hand skiff,
which I purchased for ten dollars, including in the price a pair of good
