beside the vacant place, and began to pick up the old lady's bundles.

"Don't you tech them things," interposed their legal owner.

"This gentleman wants a seat," added the polite official.

"He can find one somewhere else. I don't want my bundles tipped round,
as though they didn't cost nothing."

"But we must have the seat, madam," insisted the conductor. "I believe
you pay for only one seat."

"Sakes alive! Can't a body have a place to put her things?"

"I will put them in the rack for you."

"I don't want them put in the rack."

"Well, madam, you can put them where you please, but this gentleman
must have the seat."

"I don't think much of them gentlemen that want to go a pestering a
poor lone woman like me. You let them things alone, sir!" snapped the
old lady.

"I will wait a reasonable time for you to dispose of them; but if you
don't take care of them, I shall put them in the baggage-car."

"I should like to see you do it! Hain't you got nothin' better to do
than tormenting an unprotected woman?"

Finding that he had a hard subject to deal with, the gentlemanly
conductor packed up the bundles, and tossed them into the rack,
heedless of the protest of the indignant owner. I confess that I rather
enjoyed the discomfiture of the old lady, who had compelled me to stand
for the accommodation of her bundles. She was unreasonable, and utterly
selfish, and I thought she deserved the defeat to which she was
compelled to submit.

"Here is a seat for you, Mr. Collingsby," continued the conductor, with
a great deal of deference in his tone and manner.

Mr. Collingsby! I straightway forgot all about the old lady in the
interest awakened by this name. The snaps, snarls, and growls with
which the woman saluted her new seat-mate were lost upon me, whether
they were or not upon the unfortunate subject of them. The name was not
a very common one, and I jumped to the conclusion that the dignified
gentleman was my uncle.

"Thank you," replied the traveller, rather coldly, after the hard
battle the official had fought for his sake.

"There will be plenty of seats when we reach the next station," added
the conductor, as he passed me.

For my own part, I was glad I had no seat, for I could now choose my
own position to study the features of Mr. Collingsby.




CHAPTER III.

IN WHICH PHIL MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF MRS. WHIPPLETON.


Mr. Collingsby, though not more than forty-two or three years old, was
quite stout; indeed, I should say that he was already qualified by his
proportions to be an alderman. I was disposed to regard him with great
respect, as he was my uncle--at least I had made up my mind that he
was. I certainly had no objection to acknowledging such a relation. He
corresponded with the description given by my father.

[Illustration: A MAN WITH CAPITAL TAKES WHATEVER SEAT IN THE CAR HE
FANCIES. Page 38.]

The dignified gentleman took up a fair half of the seat which was to be
divided between him and the old lady, and the latter wriggled, and
twisted, and squirmed for some time before she had adjusted her frame
and her dress to her own satisfaction. Mr. Collingsby took no notice
whatever of her, as it was evidently beneath his dignity to do so, or
even to be annoyed by her uneasy motions. Opening the newspaper he
carried in his hand, he began to read the leader, totally oblivious of
her presence. I rather liked his way of treating a disagreeable
subject; and just then, if I had been permitted to vote, I would
cheerfully have cast my ballot in his favor for an alderman of Chicago
or St. Louis.

The more I studied the face of my presumed uncle, the better I liked
him, though perhaps I was biassed by the relationship. He looked like a
very substantial man, though I should have regarded it as dangerous to
perpetrate a joke upon him. On the whole, therefore, I was entirely
satisfied to have him turn out to be the brother of my mother. In about
an hour the train stopped; and by this time I was ready to sit down.
But only one gentleman left the car in which I was riding; and he sat
directly opposite the dignified gentleman. I started for the vacant
seat; but, before I could secure it, Mr. Collingsby sprang quite
nimbly, for a person of his weight, into the place. Doubtless the
rudeness of the old lady had annoyed him, for he made haste to beat a
retreat.

However, I had the alternative of taking the seat just vacated, or
standing up still longer. I chose the former; and before the old lady
could transfer her bundles from the rack to the chair, I dropped into
it. I made myself as comfortable as possible, though my porcupine
companion hitched violently towards the middle of the seat, so as to
make sure that she had her full share of the space. She cast a savage
glance at me, as though she thought I had invaded her privileges; but I
endeavored to follow the example of my predecessor in the seat, and be
too dignified to be annoyed.

"Goodness knows! I am glad that hog has gone!" ejaculated the old lady,
with no little venom in her tones, and loud enough to have been heard
by Mr. Collingsby, if his dignity had not closed his ears to such an
unfeminine expression.

I did not deem it prudent to take any notice of her; and, across the
aisle, I read the headings in large type in Mr. Collingsby's newspaper,
for I had none of my own to help me in preserving my dignity, or rather
in cultivating it.

"Some folks don't know much," added the old lady, spitefully.

I was perfectly willing to grant the truth of this proposition, even
without knowing whether it was intended to apply to Mr. Collingsby or
to me; though I was compelled to believe it was all in the family, and
made no difference. It was undeniable that "some folks didn't know
much;" but I was forced to deduce the corollary that the old lady was
one of the unfortunates included in the proposition.

"I say, some folks don't know much," repeated the old lady, forcibly.
"That Mr. Collingsby needn't put on airs, and pretend he don't know me.
I know'd him the moment that conductor-man spoke his name. He ain't no
better'n I am. My son's his pardner in business."

I couldn't help looking at her then. Her lips wore pursed up, and she
was the very impersonation of offended dignity. Her remark rather
startled me, and if it was true, I wished to make her acquaintance.

"Perhaps he didn't recognize you," I ventured to suggest.

"Perhaps he didn't; but none are so blind as them that won't see. Yes,
that man is my son's pardner in business; and my son is every bit and
grain as good as he is, though I say it, who ought not to say it. My
name's Whippleton, and my son's name is Charles Whippleton. I s'pose
you've heard of the firm of Collingsby and Whippleton--hain't you?"

"I never did," I replied.

Mr. Collingsby read his newspaper, and did not appear to hear a word
that was said; but I fancied his dignity was subjected to a severe
trial.

"Where have you been all your life, if you never heard of Collingsby
and Whippleton, the biggest lumber firm in Chicago?" added the old
lady.

"I never was in Chicago," I replied.

"O, you never was! Well, it's a sight to see! You hain't seen much of
the world if you never was in Chicago. Well, you are like a chicken
that ain't hatched; all your troubles are to come. There's a great many
mean folks in the world; you'll find that out soon enough. For my part,
if there's anything in this world that I hate, it's mean folks,"
continued Mrs. Whippleton, glancing maliciously across the aisle at Mr.
Collingsby. "That man's meaner'n gravel-stone chowder."

The old lady dropped her voice a little, as though she meant to be
confidential on this point. I was rather sorry to have the character of
my presumed uncle damaged in this manner, but I was not sufficiently
acquainted with him to attempt a defence.

"It was meaner'n dirt for him to set down side of me, and not even say
how d'ye do! I hate mean folks. I ain't mean myself. There ain't a mean
bone in my body--no, there ain't, if I do say it, that oughtn't to say
it."

"Probably the gentleman did not recognize you," I suggested again.

"He didn't want to re-cog-nize me," she persisted, throwing a bitter
