
"I have worried a great deal about you and your family, sir," I
replied; "and it gives me new life to see you again. When did you
arrive?"

"We did not get ashore till after nine o'clock, too late to go out to
Glencoe, where my brother lives at the present time."

I wanted to tell him that his brother was in the very next room; but I
did not think that I had the right to complicate the affairs of others,
and I said nothing.

"What have you been doing, Phil?" asked Mr. Gracewood.

"I am a carpenter now; I work at the Plane and Plank, and am doing
first rate," I replied.

"I have a long story to tell you, but I suppose it is rather late to
begin it to-night."

"I am afraid it would be rather trying to the nerves of Mrs. Gracewood,
and we will postpone it," he replied, glancing at his wife.

"Do let me hear it, Phil," interposed Ella.

"I shall be very glad to tell you all about it, Ella; but it is too
late to-night; I must go home now."

"Where is your home, Phil?"

"I board with a widow lady, who is one of the best women in the world.
She has acted like a mother to me. I will come in the morning and see
you again."

I took my leave of the family; but as Mr. Gracewood followed me down
stairs, I had no opportunity to see Mr. Rockwood, as I had intended, to
inform him of the new arrival. I hastened home, and found my father and
Mrs. Greenough very much worried at my prolonged absence: but I had a
story that was worth telling to relate, and it was midnight before we
retired.

After breakfast the next morning I dressed myself in my best clothes;
and I could not help thinking that Ella would be willing to believe I
was not a bad-looking young fellow. My father was very feeble, but it
was a satisfaction to know that he was improving. Mrs. Greenough was
unwearied in her efforts to restore him to moral and physical health.
Probably his illness in a measure spared him from the cravings of his
appetite for drink. He sat in his easy chair a large portion of the day
reading the Bible, and such good books as our kind landlady provided
for his needs.

I hastened to the hotel to see my friends as soon as I could get away
from home. I called upon Mr. Rockwood first, and he assured me that his
patient was doing very well, but had not yet left his bed.

"I am afraid things are getting a little tangled here, sir," I
suggested.

"What do you mean, Phil? Does anything go wrong?" asked Mr. Rockwood.

"There was an arrival last night at this hotel," I continued, in a low
tone.

"Who?"

"Mr. Gracewood, from the upper Missouri," I replied, in a whisper.

"Is it possible!"

At this moment the invalid tottered through the open door, and stood
before us.

"I knew it!" said he; "I knew it!"

"What?" inquired Mr. Rockwood.

"That my brother had come. You need not attempt to conceal it from me.
I heard his voice all night long. He is in the next room."

The planter looked at me, and I looked at him. It was not probable
that the invalid had heard his brother's voice all night long; and it
was possible that, whatever the fact might be, he was laboring under a
delusion.

"Be calm, Mr. Gracewood," said the planter.

"Calm? I am as calm as the surface of a summer lake. Don't you see that
I am calm? I fear nothing now. I will not be a knave, and I will not be
a hypocrite. I heard my brother's voice last evening before I went to
sleep, and the sound of it haunted me all night. I will tell him the
whole story, for I will not let him believe that I am better than I am.
If God will forgive me, I know my brother will."

Mr. Gracewood explained the course of his thoughts during the long and
weary night he had passed. It was but the old story, that he who
sins must suffer; and his experience made me resolve anew to be always
true and faithful to the truth and the right; for if the conscience can
sting here, in the midst of the allurements of the world, what will it
not do in the hereafter?

  [Illustration: REUNION OF PHIL AND HIS FRIENDS. Page 292.]

Mr. Gracewood declared that he was ready to see his brother, and the
sooner the better. I was sent to prepare my excellent friend for the
interview. I found the family in their parlor, and was cordially
greeted by all of them. I told Mr. Gracewood that I had made the
acquaintance of old Matt's brother, and that he was a planter. I then
asked him to go with me and see him. He consented, but in the entry I
paused to tell him more.

"There is another brother here," I added, as he closed the door of the
parlor behind him.

"Another of Matt's brothers?"

"No, your brother."

"My brother!"

"Yes, sir; I am sorry to say he is in rather poor health."

"Where is he?"

"In the next room to yours. He is with Mr. Rockwood, who owns this
hotel."

"Let me see him at once. I hope he is not dangerously sick."

"No; but he is more troubled in mind than in body."

"Is he insane?"

"No, sir; he blames himself very much for something he has done."

"What has he done?" asked my friend, very much troubled.

"He has been gambling; but he regrets it so sincerely, that I am sure
he will be a better man than he ever was before. You shall see him now,
and I know you will be very gentle with him."

"It is not for me to condemn him; I can only condemn my own errors,"
said my Christian friend, as I led him into Mr. Rockwood's rooms.

The invalid rose as he entered, and extended his hand to his brother,
while the great tears rolled down his pale, wan cheek.

"I am glad to see you, Robert," said Henry. "I am sorry you are sick."

"I am sick at heart."

But I did not stay to hear the confession of the penitent. Ella went to
church and to Sunday school with me; and after the latter I conducted
her back to the hotel; for, besides the pleasure her company afforded
me, I wished to know the condition of affairs between the brothers. As
I had expected, they were easily reconciled. My excellent friend had no
malice in his heart; and though his brother's error must have given him
a severe shock, he was willing to cover the past with the repentance
that succeeded.

I dined with the family, and went to church in the afternoon; but I
spent the evening with my father. He was more cheerful than he had been
for several days, and assured me he had found a peace in the truths of
the gospel which he had never realized before. He was really happy; and
if there was ever a changed man in the world, he was the one.

"Philip, I am well enough to think of the future," said he. "It worries
me, too."

"It need not."

"I may not be able to do anything for some time, for I am very weak. I
suppose I must be made over anew."

"Don't disturb yourself at all about that," I replied. "I am getting
six dollars a week, and that will pay our board."

"I cannot live on your hard earnings, Philip," he added, shaking his
head. "I feel guilty even now; and I should not have come here to be a
burden to you, if I had not been a wreck of what I was once."

