

CHAPTER XXVIII.

ENCHANTMENT AND DISENCHANTMENT.


During a month after Easter, I was, so to speak, in a state of mental
somnambulism, seeing the visible things of this mortal life through an
enchanted medium, in which old, prosaic, bustling New York, with its dry
drudgeries and uninteresting details, became suddenly vivified and
glorified; just as when some rosy sunset floods with light the
matter-of-fact architecture of Printing-House Square, and etherealizes
every line, and guides every detail, and heightens every bit of color,
till it all seems picturesque and beautiful.

I did not know what was the matter with me, but I felt somehow as if I
had taken the elixir of life and was breathing the air of an immortal
youth. Whenever I sat down to write I found my inspiration. I no longer
felt myself alone in my thoughts and speculations; I wrote to another
mind, a mind that I felt would recognize mine; and then I carried what I
had written, and read it to Ida Van Arsdel for her criticisms. Ida was a
capital critic, and had graciously expressed her willingness and desire
to aid me in this way, to any extent. But was it Ida who was my
inspiration?

Sitting by, bent over her embroidery, or coming in accidentally and
sitting down to listen, was Eva; full of thought, full of inquiry;
sometimes gay and airy, sometimes captious and controversial--always
suggestive and inspiring. From these readings grew talks protracted and
confidential, on all manner of subjects; and each talk was the happy
parent of more talks, till it seemed that there was growing up an
endless series of occasions for our having long and exciting interviews;
for, what was said yesterday, in the reflections and fancies of the
night following, immediately blossomed out into queries and consequences
and inferences on both sides, which it was immediately and pressingly
necessary that we should meet to compare and adjust. Now, when two
people are in this state of mind, it is surprising what a number of
providential incidents are always bringing them together. It was
perfectly astonishing to us both to find how many purely accidental
interviews we had. If I went out for a walk, I was sure, first or last,
to meet her. To be sure I took to walking very much in streets and
squares where I had observed she might be expected to appear--but that
did not make the matter seem to me the less unpremeditated.

I had been in the habit of taking a daily constitutional stroll in
Central Park, and the Van Arsdels were in the habit of driving there, at
orthodox fashionable hours. In time, it seemed to happen that this
afternoon stroll of mine always brought forth the happy fruit of a
pleasant interview.

There was no labyrinth or bower or summer-house, no dingle or bosky
dell, so retired that I did not find it occasionally haunted by the
presence of this dryad.

True she was not there alone; sometimes with Ida, sometimes with Alice,
or with a lively bevy of friends--but it made no difference with whom,
so long as she was there.

The many sins of omission and commission of which the City Fathers of
New York are accused, are, I think, wonderfully redeemed and covered by
the beauties of the provision for humanity which they have made in
Central Park. Having seen every park in the world, I am not ashamed to
glorify our own, as providing as much beauty and cheap pleasure as can
anywhere be found under the sun.

Especially ought all lovers par excellence to crown the projectors and
executors of this Park with unfading wreaths of olive and myrtle. It is
so evidently adapted to all the purposes of falling in love and keeping
in love that the only wonder is that any one can remain a bachelor in
presence of such advantages and privileges! There is all the
peacefulness, all the seclusion, all the innocent wildness of a country
Arcadia, given for the price of a five cents' ride in the cars to any
citizen who chooses to be made moral and innocent.

The Central Park is an immortal poem, forever addressing itself to the
eye and ear in the whirl and bubble of that hot and bewildered city. It
is a Wordsworth immortalized and made permanent, preaching to the
citizens.

  "One impulse from a vernal mood
     May teach you more of man--
   Of moral evil, and of good--
     Than all the sages can."

Certainly during this one season of my life I did full justice to the
beauties of Central Park. There was not a nook or corner where wild
flowers unfolded, where white-stemmed birches leaned over still waters,
or ivies clambered over grottoed rocks, which I did not explore; and
when in the winding walks of "the Ramble" I caught distant sight of a
white drapery, or heard through budding thickets the silvery sounds of
laughing and talking, I knew I was coming on one of those pleasant
surprises for which the Park grounds are so nicely arranged.

Sometimes Eva would come with a carriage full of children, and with the
gay little fairies would pass a sunny afternoon, swinging them, watching
them riding in the little goat-carriages, or otherwise presiding over
their gaieties. We had, under these circumstances, all the advantage of
a tête-à-tête without any of the responsibility of seeking or prolonging
it. In fact, the presence of others was a salvo to my conscience, and to
public appearance, for, looking on Eva as engaged to another, I was very
careful not to go over a certain line of appearances in my relations to
her. My reason told me that I was upon dangerous ground for my own
peace, but I quieted reason as young men in my circumstances generally
do, by the best of arguments.

I said to myself that, "No matter if she were engaged, why shouldn't I
worship at her shrine, and cherish her unage as Dante did that of
Beatrice, and Tasso that of Eleanora d'Este?" and so on.

"To be sure," I reflected, "this thing can never come to anything; of
course she never can be anything to you more than a star in the heavens.
But," I said in reply, "she is mine to worship and adore with the
worship that we give to all beautiful things. She is mine as are fair
flowers, and the blue skies, and the bright sunshine, which cheer and
inspire."

I was conscious that I had in my own most sacred receptacle at home, a
little fairy glove that she had dropped, to which I had no claim; but I
said to myself, "When a leaf falls from the rose, who shall say that I
shall not gather it up?" So, too, I had one of those wonderful, useless
little bits of fairy gossamer, which Eve's daughters call a
pocket-handkerchief. I had yet so little sense of sin that I stole
that too, kept the precious theft folded in my prayer-book, and thought
she would never know it. I began to understand the efficacy that is
ascribed to holy relics, for it seemed to me that if ever any deadly
trouble or trial should come upon me, I would lay these little things
upon my heart, and they would comfort me.

And yet, all this while, I solemnly told myself I was not in
love,--oh, no, not in the least. This was friendship--the very
condensed, distilled essence of friendship, that and nothing more. To be
sure it was friendship set to a heroic key--friendship of a rare
quality. I longed to do something for her, and often thought how glad I
would be to give my life for her. Having a very active imagination,
sometimes as I lay awake at night I perpetrated all sorts of confusions
in the city of New York, for the sole purpose of giving myself an
opportunity to do something for her. I set fire to the Van Arsdel
mansion several times, in different ways, and, rushing in, bore her
through the flames. I inaugurated a horrible plot against the life of
her father, and rushing in at the critical moment, delivered the old
gentleman that I might revel in her delight. I became suddenly a
millionaire by the death of a supposititious uncle in the East Indies,
and immediately proceeded to lay all my treasures at her feet.

As for Mr. Wat Sydney, it is incredible the resignation with which I saw
him ship-wrecked, upset in stages, crushed in railroad accidents, while
I appeared on the scene as the consoling friend; not that I had, of
course, any purpose of causing such catastrophes, but there was a degree
of resignation attending the view of them that was soothing.

I had in my heart a perfect certainty that Sydney was unworthy of her,
but of course racks and thumbscrews should not draw from me the
slightest intimation of the kind, in her presence.

So matters went on for some weeks. But sometimes it happens when a young
fellow has long wandered in a beautiful dream of this kind, a sudden and
harsh light of reality and of common-sense, every-day life, is thrown
upon him in an unforeseen moment; and this moment at last arrived for
me.

One evening, when I dropped in for a call at the Van Arsdel mansion, the
young ladies were all out at a concert, but Mrs. Van Arsdel was at home,
and for some reason, unusually bland and motherly.

"My dear Mr. Henderson," she said, "it is rather hard on you to be
obliged to accept an old woman like me, as a substitute for youth and
beauty; but really, I am not sorry, on the whole, that the girls are
out, for I would like a little chance of having a free, confidential
talk with you. Your relations with us have been so intimate and kindly,
I feel, you know, quite as if you were one of us."

I replied, of course, that 'I was extremely flattered and gratified by
her kindness,' and assured her with effusion, and if I mistake not, with
tears in my eyes, that 'she had made me forget that I was a stranger in
New York, and that I should always cherish the most undying recollection
of the kindness that I had received in her family, and of the pleasant
hours I had spent there.'

"Ah, yes, indeed!" she said, "Mr. Henderson, it is pleasant to me to
