went on.

"It is all very well in the winter. But then I am going to school all
the while, and there isn't so much time for things. And I like driving
here better than in the park."

"What is the park?" Matilda inquired.

"You don't know!" exclaimed Norton. "That's good fun. Promise me, Pink,
that you will go with nobody but me the first time. Promise me!"

"Why, whom should I go with, Norton? Who would take me?"

"I don't know. Mamma might, or grandmother might, or aunt Judy.
Promise, Pink."

"Well, I will not, if I can help it," said Matilda. "But how funny it
is that I should be making you such a promise."

"Ay, isn't it?" said Norton. "There will be a good many such funny
things, you'll find."

"But how are these cousins of yours Jews, Norton, when their mother is
not a Jew?"

"Jewess," said Norton. "Why, because their father was,--a Jew, I
mean. He was a Spanish Jew; and my aunt and cousins have lived in Spain
till three years ago. How should a boy with his name, David
Bartholomew, be anything but a Jew?"

"Bartholomew is English, isn't it?"

"Yes, the name. O they are not Spaniards entirely; only the family has
lived out there for ever so long. They have relations enough in New
York. I wish they hadn't."

"But how are they Jews, Norton? Don't they believe what we
believe?"--Matilda's voice sunk.

"What we believe?" repeated Norton.

"Part of it, I suppose. They are not like Hindoos or Chinese. But you
had better not talk to them just as you talked to Mr. Richmond
to-night."

"But, Norton--I must live so."

"Live how you like; they have got nothing to do with your living.
Now, Pink, I think we'll overhaul those chestnuts,--if you've no
objection."

It was very exciting, getting the roasted fruit out from among the
ashes and coals, burning their fingers, counting the chestnuts, and
eating them; and then Norton prepared a second batch, that they might,
as he said, have some to give to Mr. Richmond. Eating and cooking, a
great deal of talk went on all the while. Eight o'clock came, and nine;
and still not Mr. Richmond. Norton went out to look at the weather, as
far as the piazza steps; and came in powdered with snow. It was thickly
falling, he said; so the two children went to work again. It was
impossible to sit there with the chestnuts and not eat them; so Norton
roasted a third quantity. Just as these were reclaimed from the ashes,
Mr. Richmond came in. He looked tired.

"So you have kept my hearth warm for me," he said; "and provided me
supper. Thank you."

"We have done no harm, sir, I hope," said Norton; "though it was in
your study."

"My study was the very place," said Mr. Richmond. "You cannot get such
a fire everywhere; and my fire does not often have such pleasant use
made of it. I shall miss you both."

"How soon shall we be ordered away, sir?" Norton asked.

"Your mother said to-morrow; but at the rate the snow is falling, that
will hardly be. It looks like a great storm, or feels like it rather.
It's impossible to see."

A great storm it proved the next morning. The snow was falling very
thick; it lay heaped on the branches of the pines, and drifted into a
great bank at the corner of the piazza, and blocked up the
window-sills. It was piled up high on the house steps, and had quite
covered all signs of path and roadway; the little sweep in front of the
house was levelled and hid; the track to the barn could not be traced
any longer. And still the snow came down, in gentle, swift, stayless
supply; fast piling up fresh beautiful feathers of crystal on those
that already settled soft upon all the earth. So Matilda found things
when she got up in the morning. The air was dark with the snow-clouds,
and yet light with a beautiful light from the universal whiteness; and
the air was sweet with the pure sweetness of the falling snow. Matilda
hurried down. It was Sunday morning.

"There'll be no getting away to-day," said Norton, as together they set
the breakfast in readiness.

"Miss Redwood can't come home either," said Matilda. She was privately
glad. A snowy Sunday at the parsonage, one more Sunday, would be
pleasant.

"You can't get to church either," Norton went on.

"Why Norton! This little bit of way? It isn't but half a dozen steps."

"It is several half dozen," said Norton; "and the snow is all of a foot
deep, and in places it has drifted, and there isn't a sign of anybody
coming to clear it away yet. I don't believe there'll be twenty people
in church, anyhow. It's falling as thick as it can."

"Mr. Ulshoeffer will clear it away in front of the church," said
Matilda. "Some people will come. There! there's somebody at our back
steps now."

Norton opened the kitchen door to see if it was true; and to his great
astonishment found Mr. Richmond, in company with a large wooden shovel,
clearing the snow from the steps and kitchen area.

"Good morning!" said the minister, from out of the snow.

"Good morning, sir. Mr. Richmond! isn't there somebody coming to do
that for you, sir?"

"I don't know who is to come," said the minister pleasantly. "You had
better shut the door and keep warm."

"Tell him breakfast is ready, Norton," Matilda cried.

"Well!" said Norton, shutting the door and coming in. "Do you mean to
say that Mr. Richmond shovels his own snow?"

"His own snow!" repeated Matilda, with a little burst of laughter.
"Which part of the snow is Mr. Richmond's?"

"What lies on his own ground, I should say. Why don't he have some one
come to do it?"

"I don't know," said Matilda; and she looked grave now. "I don't know
who there is to come to do it."

"There are people enough to do anything for money," said Norton. "Don't
he have somebody come to do it?"

"I don't know," said Matilda. "If he had, I do not think he would do it
himself."

"Then he gets very shabby treatment," said Norton; "that's all. I tell
you, shovelling snow is work; and cold work at that."

"I suppose the people can't give great pay to their minister," said
Matilda.

"Then they can come and clear away the snow for him. They have hands
enough, if they haven't the cash. I wonder if they let him do it for
himself always?"

"I don't know."

"Well, if I was a minister," said Norton, "which I am glad I'm not, I'd
have a church where people could give me enough pay to keep my hands
out of the snow!"

"Hush!" said Matilda. "Breakfast is ready, and Mr. Richmond is coming
in."

The little dining-room was more pleasant than ever that morning. The
white brightness that came in through the snowy air seemed to make fire
and warmth and breakfast particularly cosy. And there was a hush, and a
purity, and a crisp frost in the air, filling that Sunday morning with
especial delights. But Mr. Richmond eat his breakfast like a man who
had business on hand.

"Norton thinks there will not be many people at church, Mr. Richmond."

"There will be one," said Mr. Richmond. "And that he may get there, I
have a good deal of work yet to do."

"More snow, sir?" inquired Norton.

"All the way from here to the church porch."

