
Samuel Rodman left the shop and walked down the beach to the sail-boat
in which he had come. Donald was almost inspired by the idea which had
taken possession of him. If he could only carry on his father's
business, he could make money enough to support the family; and knowing
every stick in the hull of a vessel, he felt competent to do so. Full of
enthusiasm, he hastened into the cottage to unfold his brilliant scheme
to his mother. He stated his plan to her, but at first she shook her
head.

"Do you think you could build a yacht, Donald?" she asked.

"I am certain I could. Didn't you hear father say that my brig contained
every timber and plank that belongs to a vessel?"

"Yes, and that the work was done as well as he could do it himself; but
that does not prove that you can carry on the business."

"I want one or two men, if we build the Maud, because it would take too
long for me to do all the work alone."

"The Maud?"

"That was the yacht that father was to build next. I asked Sam Rodman to
give me the job, and he is going to talk with his father about it
to-night."

Mrs. Ramsay was rather startled at this announcement, which indicated
that her son really meant business in earnest.

"Do you think he will let you do it?" she asked.

"I hope he will."

"Are you sure you can make anything if you build the yacht?"

"Father made over three hundred dollars on the Sea Foam, besides his day
wages."

"That is no reason why you can do it."

"All his models, moulds, and draughts are in the shop. I know where they
are, and just what to do with them. I hope you will let me try it,
mother."

"Suppose you don't make out?"

"But I shall make out."

"If Mr. Rodman refuses to accept the yacht after the job is done, what
will you do?"

"I shall have her myself then, and I can make lots of money taking out
parties in her."

"Your father was paid for the Sea Foam as the work progressed. He had
received eight hundred dollars on her when she was finished."

"I know it; and Captain Patterdale owes four hundred more. If you let me
use some of the money to buy stock and pay the men till I get payment on
the job, I shall do very well."

"We must have something to live on. After I have paid the funeral
expenses and other bills, this money that Captain Patterdale owes will
be all I have."

"But Mr. Rodman will pay me something on the job, when he is satisfied
that the work will be done."

The widow was not very clear about the business; but she concluded, at
last, that if Mr. Rodman would give him the job, she would allow him to
undertake it. Donald was satisfied, and went back to the shop. He opened
his father's chest and took out his account book. Turning to a page
which was headed "Sea Foam," he found every item of labor and
expenditure charged to her. Every day's work, every foot of stock, every
pound of nails, every article of brass or hardware, and the cost of
sails and cordage, were carefully entered on the account. From this he
could learn the price of everything used in the construction of the
yacht, for his guidance in the great undertaking before him. But he was
quite familiar before with the cost of everything used in building a
boat. On a piece of smooth board, he figured up the probable cost, and
assured himself he could make a good job of the building of the Maud.

The next day was Saturday--two weeks after the organization of the yacht
club. There had been a grand review a week before, which Donald did not
attend. The yachtmen had taken their mothers, sisters, and other friends
on an excursion down the bay, and given them a collation at Turtle Head.
On the Saturday in question, a meeting of the club at the Head had been
called to complete the arrangements for a regatta, and the Committee on
Regattas were to make their report. Donald had been requested to attend
in order to measure the yachts. He did not feel much like taking part in
the sports of the club, but he decided to perform the duty required of
him. He expected to see Samuel Rodman on this occasion, and to learn the
decision of his father in regard to the building of the Maud.

After breakfast he embarked in the sail-boat which had belonged to his
father, and with a fresh breeze stood over to Turtle Head. He had dug
some clams early in the morning, and told his mother he should bring
home some fish which he intended to catch after the meeting of the club.
As the boat sped on her way, he thought of his grand scheme to carry on
his father's business, and everything seemed to depend upon Mr. Rodman's
decision. He hoped for the best, but he trembled for the result. When he
reached his destination, he found another boat at the Head, and soon
discovered Laud Cavendish on the bluff.

"Hallo, Don John!" shouted the swell, as Donald stepped on shore.

"How are you, Laud? You are out early."

"Not very; I came ashore here to see if I couldn't find some clams,"
added Laud, as he held up a clam-digger he carried in his hand--a kind
of trowel fixed in a shovel-handle.

"You can't find any clams here," said Donald, wondering that even such a
swell should expect to find them there.

"I am going down to Camden to stay over Sunday, and I thought I might
fish a little on the way."

"You will find some farther down the shore, where there is a soft beach.
Do you get off every Saturday now, Laud?"

"Get off? Yes; I get off every day. I'm out of a job."

"I thought you were at Miller's store."

"I was there; but I'm not now. Miller shoved me out. Do you know of any
fellow that has a good boat to sell?"

"What kind of a boat?"

"Well, one like the Skylark and the Sea Foam."

"No; I don't know of any one around here. Do you want to buy one?"

"Yes; I thought I would buy one, if I could get her about right. She
must be cheap."

"How cheap do you expect to buy a boat like the Sea Foam?" asked Donald,
wondering what a young man out of business could be thinking about when
he talked of buying a yacht.

"Four or five hundred dollars."

"The Sea Foam cost twelve hundred."

"That's a fancy price. The Skylark didn't cost but five hundred."

"Do you want to give five hundred for a boat?"

"Not for myself, Don John. I was going to buy one for another man. I
must be going now," added Laud, as he went down to his boat.

Hoisting his sail, he shoved off, and stood over towards Searsport.
Donald walked up the slope to the Head, from which he could see the
yacht club fleet as soon as it sailed from the city.




CHAPTER V.

CAPTAIN SHIVERNOCK.


Donald seated himself on a rock, with his gaze directed towards Belfast.
His particular desire just then was to see Samuel Rodman, in order to
learn whether he was to have the job of building the Maud. He felt able
to do it, and even then, as he thought of the work, he had in his mind
the symmetrical lines of the new yacht, as they were to be after the
change in the model which his father had explained to him. He recalled a
suggestion of a small increase in the size of the mainsail, which had
occurred to him when he sailed the Sea Foam. His first aspiration was
only to build a yacht; his second was to build one that would beat
anything of her inches in the fleet. If he could realize this last
ambition, he would have all the business he could do.

The yacht fleet did not appear up the bay; but it was only nine o'clock
in the morning, and possibly the meeting of the club would not take
place till afternoon. If any one had told him the hour, he had forgotten
