of one hundred and eighty dollars.  Many would think this a small
addition to an income, but it will enable us to live much more
comfortably.  You remember the ten-acre lot to the east of us,
belonging to the heirs of Reuben Todd.  It is excellent land, well
adapted for cultivation, and will fully double the value of my farm.

"You see, therefore, my dear son, that a new era of prosperity has
opened for us.  I am now relieved from the care and anxiety which for
years have oppressed me, and feel sure of a comfortable support.
Instead of accepting the half of your salary, I desire you, if
possible, to save it, depositing in some reliable savings
institution.  If you do this every year till you are twenty-one, you
will have a little capital to start you in business, and will be able
to lead a more prosperous career than your father.  Knowing you as
well as I do, I do not feel it necessary to caution you against
unnecessary expenditures.  I will only remind you that extravagance
is comparative, and that what would be only reasonable expenditure
for one richer than yourself would be imprudent in you."


Harry read this letter with great joy.  He was warmly attached to the
little home circle, and the thought that they were comparatively
provided for gave him fresh courage.  He decided to adopt his
father's suggestion, and the very next week deposited three dollars
in the savings bank.

"That is to begin an account," he thought.  "If I can only keep that
up, I shall feel quite rich at the end of a year."

Several weeks rolled by, and Thanksgiving approached.

Harry was toiling at his case one day, when Oscar Vincent entered the
office.

"Hard at work, I see, Harry," he said.

"Yes," said Harry; "I can't afford to be idle."

"I want you to be idle for three days," said Oscar.

Harry looked up in surprise.

"How is that?" he asked.

"You know we have a vacation from Wednesday to Monday at the Academy."

"Over Thanksgiving?"

"Yes."

"Well, I am going home to spend that time, and I want you to go with
me."

"What, to Boston?" asked Harry, startled, for to him, inexperienced
as he was, that seemed a very long journey.

"Yes.  Father and mother gave me permission to invite you.  Shall I
show you the letter?"

"I'll take it for granted, Oscar, but I am afraid I can't go."

"Nonsense!  What's to prevent?"

"In the first place, Mr. Anderson can't spare me."

"Ask him."

"What's that?" asked the editor, hearing his name mentioned.

"I have invited Harry to spend the Thanksgiving vacation with me in
Boston, and he is afraid you can't spare him?"

"Does your father sanction your invitation?"

"Yes, he wrote me this morning--that is, I got the letter this
morning--telling me to ask Harry to come."

Now the country editor had a great respect for the city editor, who
was indeed known by reputation throughout New England as a man of
influence and ability, and he felt disposed to accede to any request
of his.

So he said pleasantly, "Of course, Harry, we shall miss you, but if
Mr. Ferguson is disposed to do a little additional work, we will get
along till Monday.  What do you say, Mr. Ferguson?"

"I shall be very glad to oblige Harry," said the older workman, "and
I hope he will have a good time."

"That settles the question, Harry," said Oscar, joyfully.  "So all
you've got to do is to pack up and be ready to start to-morrow
morning.  It's Tuesday, you know, already."

Harry hesitated, and Oscar observed it.

"Well, what's the matter now?" he said; "out with it."

"I'll tell you, Oscar," said Harry, coloring a little.  "Your father
is a rich man, and lives handsomely.  I haven't any clothes good
enough to wear on a visit to your house."

"Oh, hang your clothes!" said Oscar, impetuously.  "It isn't your
clothes we invite.  It's yourself."

"Still, Oscar--"

"Come, I see you think I am like Fitz Fletcher, after all.  Say you
think me a snob, and done with it."

"But I don't," said Harry, smiling.

"Then don't make any more ridiculous objections.  Don't you think
they are ridiculous, Mr. Ferguson?"

"They wouldn't be in some places," said Ferguson, "but here I think
they are out of place.  I feel sure you are right, and that you value
Harry more than the clothes he wears."

"Well, Harry, do you surrender at discretion?" said Oscar.  "You see
Ferguson is on my side."

"I suppose I shall have to," said Harry, "as long as you are not
ashamed of me."

"None of that, Harry."

"I'll go."

"The first sensible words you've spoken this morning."

"I want to tell you how much I appreciate your kindness, Oscar," said
Harry, earnestly.

"Why shouldn't I be kind to my friend?"

"Even if he was once a printer's devil."

"Very true.  It is a great objection, but still I will overlook it.
By the way, there is one inducement I didn't mention."

"What is that?"

"We may very likely see Fitz in the city.  He is studying at home
now, I hear.  Who knows but he may get up a great party in your
honor?"

"Do you think it likely?" asked Harry, smiling.

"It might not happen to occur to him, I admit.  Still, if we made him
a ceremonious call--"

"I am afraid he might send word that he was not at home."

"That would be a loss to him, no doubt.  However, we will leave time
to settle that question.  Be sure to be on hand in time for the
morning train."

"All right, Oscar."

Harry had all the love of new scenes natural to a boy of sixteen.  He
had heard so much of Boston that he felt a strong curiosity to see
it.  Besides, was not that the city where the "Weekly Standard" was
printed, the paper in which he had already appeared as an author?  In
connection with this, I must here divulge a secret of Harry's.  He
was ambitious not only to contribute to the literary papers, but to
be paid for his contributions.  He judged that essays were not very
marketable, and he had therefore in his leisure moments written a
humorous sketch, entitled "The Tin Pedler's Daughter."  I shall not
give any idea of the plot here; I will only say that it was really
humorous, and did not betray as much of the novice as might have been
expected.  Harry had copied it out in his best hand, and resolved to
carry it to Boston, and offer it in person to the editor of the
"Standard" with an effort, if accepted, to obtain compensation for it.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE VINCENTS AT HOME.
