bundle tied up in a newspaper.

"If I get any money, I mean to buy a travelling-bag," she commented
internally.

"Tate me too," exclaimed Dot, clinging to Florence's dress: luckily her
hands were clean.

"Oh! you can't go, Dotty: Charlie will show you the beautiful chickens."

Dot set up a fearful cry, and wriggled herself out of Charlie's arms,
and Granny took her. Florence hurried through her good-bys, and was
glad to leave the confusion behind.

Granny indulged in a little cry afterward, and then went to her
ironing. Of course they must all flit from the old hive some time.
She could hardly persuade herself that Florence was fifteen,--almost a
young lady.

Joe and Hal wanted to hear all the particulars that evening. Charlie
dilated grandly on the magnificence of the ladies.

"It's real odd," said Joe. "Flossy always wanted to be a lady; and
maybe this is a step towards it. I wonder if I shall ever get to sea!"

"Oh, don't!" exclaimed Granny in a pitiful voice.

When Mrs. Green heard the news, she had to come over.

"I don't suppose they'd ever thought on't, if it hadn't been for me,"
she exclaimed. "They stopped to my house while their wagon was bein'
mended, and the sickly lookin' one seemed to be terribly interested in
your folks; so, thinks I, if I can do a good turn for a neighbor it's
all right; and I spoke a word, now and then, for Florence,--though it's
a pity her name hadn't been Mary Jane. I never did approve of such
romantic names for children. And I hope Florence will be a good girl,
and suit; for the Lord knows that you have your hands full!"

Charlie ran wild, as usual, through vacation. In one of her long
rambles in the woods she found a hollow tree with a rock beside it,
and her fertile imagination at once suggested a cave. She worked very
industriously to get it in order; brought a great pile of leaves for
a bed, and armsful of brush to cook with, and then besought Kit to run
away and live in the woods.

Kit tried it for one day. They had some apples and berries, and a
piece of bread taken from the pantry when Granny wasn't around. They
undertook to fish, but could not catch any thing; though Charlie was
quite sure, that, if Joe would lend her his pistol, she could shoot a
bird.

"Anyhow, we'll have a fire, and roast our apples," said Charlie,
undaunted.

"But it's awful lonesome, I think. S'pose we don't stay all night:
Granny'll be worried."

"Pooh!" returned Charlie with supreme disdain.

So she lighted her fire. The twigs crackled and blazed, and the flame
ran along on the ground.

"Isn't it splendid!" she exclaimed, "Why, it's almost like fireworks!
Oh, see, Kit! that dead tree has caught. We'll have a gay old time now."

Alas! Charlie's "gay old time" came to an ignoble end. Some one rushed
through the woods shouting,--

"Hillo! What the mischief are you at? Don't you know any better than to
be setting the woods on fire?"

It was Mr. Trumbull, looking angry enough. He bent the burning tree
over, and stamped out the blaze; then poked the fire apart, and crushed
the burning fragments into the soft ground. A dense smoke filled the
little nook.

"Whose work is this? You youngsters deserve a good thrashing, and I've
half a mind to take your hide off."

With that he caught Kit by the arm.

"He didn't do it," spoke up courageous Charlie. "He never brought a
leaf nor a stick; and you sha'n't thrash him!"

"What's he here for, then?"

"I brought him."

"And did you kindle the fire?"

"Yes," said Charlie, hanging her head a little.

"What for? Didn't you know that you might burn the woods down, in such
a dry time? Why, I could shut you up in jail for it."

That frightened Charlie a good deal.

"I didn't mean to--do any harm: we thought--we'd have a little
fun"--came out Charlie's answer by jerks.

"Fine fun! Why, you're Granny Kenneth's youngsters! I guess I'll have
to march you off to jail."

"Oh, let Kit go home!" cried Charlie with a great lump in her throat.
"It wasn't his fault. He didn't even want to come."

Something in the child's air and frankness touched Mr. Trumbull's
heart, and caused him to smile. He had a houseful of children at home,
every one of whom possessed a wonderful faculty for mischief; but this
little girl's bravery disarmed his anger.

"I want to explain to you that a fire like this might burn down a
handsome piece of woodlands worth thousands of dollars. All these large
trees are sent to the sawmill, and made into boards and shingles and
various things. So it would be a great loss."

"I'm very sorry," returned Charlie. "I didn't know it would do any
harm."

"If I don't take you to jail this time, will you promise never to do it
again?"

Charlie shivered a little at her narrow escape.

"I surely wouldn't," she said very soberly.

By this time Mr. Trumbull had the fire pretty well out.

"Well, don't ever let me catch you at it again, or you will not get off
so easily. Now trot home as fast as you can."

Charlie paused a moment, tugging at the cape of her sun-bonnet.

"I'm glad you told me about burning up the woods," she said. "I didn't
think of that."

Mr. Trumbull laughed pleasantly.

So the two walked homeward, Charlie in a more serious frame of mind
than usual.

"I tell you, Kit," she began at length, "out West is the place to have
a cave, and fires, and all that Hal had a book about it. Sometimes
children are kidnapped by Indians, and live in their tents, and learn
how to make bead-bags and moccasins"--

"I don't want to go;" and Kit gave his slender shoulders a shrug. "They
scalp you too."

"But they wouldn't me. I should marry one of the chiefs." Then, after a
rather reflective pause, "I'm glad we didn't burn down Mr. Trumbull's
woods: only I guess he wasn't in earnest when he said he would put me
in jail."

But for all that she begged Kit not to relate their adventure to
Granny, and perplexed her youthful brain for a more feasible method of
running away.

The house seemed very odd without Florence. The children's small errors
passed unrebuked; and they revelled in dirt to their utmost content.
For what with working out a day now and then, getting meals, patching
old clothes, and sundry odd jobs, Granny had her poor old hands quite
full. But she never complained.




CHAPTER X.

  WHICH SHOULD SHE CHOOSE?


The reality at Seabury far exceeded Florence Kenneth's expectations.
The hotel was really finer than that at Salem. And then, instead
of being maid, she found here a woman who waited upon Mrs. Osgood,
arranged her hair, kept her dresses in order, and did the small
errands. What was she to do, then?

Not very much, it seemed. She read aloud, and Florence was an
undeniably good reader; she embroidered a little, went every day for a
