the cousin for whom he retained his old, boyish love; but he had always
shrunk, even when seeing him, from attracting his observation. He did
not wish to be remembered in his rags, and so denied himself the
pleasure for which he yearned. But now he was satisfied with his
appearance. He felt that he was as well dressed as Charles himself, and
would do no discredit to him if they were seen in the street together.

He got on board an omnibus, and took his seat. A lady soon after
entered, and sat down beside him She drew out some money from her
purse, and, passing it to Ben, said, "Will you have the kindness to pass
up my fare, sir?"

"Certainly," said Ben, politely.

It was a small incident, but he felt, from the young lady's manner of
addressing him, that she looked upon him as her equal socially, and this
afforded him not a little pleasure. He wondered how he could have been
content to drift about the streets so long, clothed in rags. New hopes
and a new ambition had been awakened within him, and he felt that a new
life lay before him, much better worth living than the old life.

These thoughts occupied him as he rode up Broadway.

At length he left the omnibus, and took the shortest route to his
sister's house. When he ascended the steps, and rang the bell, he felt
rather a queer sensation come over him. He remembered very well the last
time he had ascended those same steps, carrying his cousin's valise. His
heart beat quick with excitement, in the midst of which the door was
opened by the servant.

He had already decided to ask for his cousin, preferring to make himself
known to him first.

"Is Charles Marston in?" he inquired.

"Yes, sir," said the servant. "Won't you come in?"

She threw open the door of the parlor, and Ben, entering, seated himself
in an arm-chair, holding his hat in his hand.

"I wonder if she'd asked me in here if I'd come in my rags?" he asked
himself, with a smile.

The servant went upstairs, where she found Charles in his own room,
writing a French exercise.

"Master Charles," she said, "one of your school-mates is in the parlor.
He wants to see you."

"All right. I'll go right down."

The mistake was quite a natural one, as boys who attended the same
private school frequently called for Charles.

Charles went downstairs, and entered the parlor. Ben rose as he entered.

"How are you, Charlie?" said Ben, rising, and offering his hand.

Charles looked in his face with a puzzled expression. It was not one of
his school-mates, as he had supposed; but it must be some one that knew
him intimately, or he would not have addressed him so familiarly.

"I ought to know you," he said, apologetically; "but I can't think who
it is."

"Don't you remember your Cousin Ben, Charlie?" asked our hero.

"Ben!" exclaimed Charles, in the greatest astonishment. He looked
eagerly in our hero's face for a moment, then impulsively threw his arms
around Ben's neck, and kissed him.

"I am so glad to see you, Ben," he said. "Where have you been all the
time?"

"Then you didn't forget me, Charlie?" said Ben, returning the embrace.

"No, Ben. I've thought of you many and many a time. We used to be such
good friends, you know. We will be again,--will we not?"

"I hope so, Charlie. That was one of my reasons for coming back."

"How did you know I was here?"

"I will tell you some time, Charlie; but not now. Is my sister at home?"

"Yes. I will call her. She will be very much surprised. We all thought
you--"

"Dead, I suppose."

"Yes; but I always hoped you would come back again."

"Don't tell Mary who it is. See if she recognizes me."

Summoned by Charles, Mrs. Abercrombie came down to the parlor. She was
merely told that a gentleman desired to see her.

When she entered the parlor, Ben rose from his seat.

She looked at him for a moment, and her face lighted up.

"It's Ben," she said. "O Ben, how could you stay away so long?"

"What, do you remember me, Mary?" asked our hero, in surprise.

"Yes. I knew you by your resemblance to Charles. We always remarked it
when you were young boys together."

As the two boys were standing side by side, the resemblance of which she
spoke was quite striking. Ben was the larger of the two; but their
features were similar, as well as the color of the hair and eyes, and
the similarity of their dress completed the illusion. Mrs. Abercrombie
surveyed her brother with satisfaction. She had been afraid he would be
coarse and vulgar after so many years of neglect, if he should ever
return; but here he was, to all appearance, a young gentleman of whom
she need not feel ashamed.

"Ben must share my room, Cousin Mary," said Charles. "We've got so much
to say to each other."

"I didn't know I was to stay," said Ben, smiling.

"You mustn't leave us again, Ben," said his sister. "Monday you must
start for home. Poor mother has mourned for you so long. She will be
overjoyed to see you again."

When Mr. Abercrombie came home, his new brother-in-law was introduced to
him. He received Ben cordially, and in a way to make him feel at home.
In the course of the morning Mr. Sampson called, and Ben was introduced
to him.

"There's something in your brother's voice that sounds familiar," he
said to Mrs. Abercrombie. "I think I must have met him before."

"He has not been with us for some years," said Mrs. Abercrombie, who did
not care to reveal that Ben was a returned prodigal.

"Probably I am deceived," said Mr. Sampson.

Ben, however, knew that Mr. Sampson had good cause to remember him. He
was afraid the servant who had brought him his breakfast some months
before in the basement might remember him; but there was no danger of
that. She never dreamed of associating the young gentleman, her
mistress's brother, with the ragged and dirty boy who had brought the
valise for Master Charles.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN.


On Sunday evening, Ben, in company with his sister, her husband, and
Charles, attended a sacred concert in Steinway Hall. As he stepped
within the vestibule, he saw two street boys outside, whom he knew well.
Their attire was very similar to that which he had himself worn until
the day before. They looked at Ben, but never thought of identifying him
with the baggage-smasher with whom they had often bunked together.

"See what it is," thought Ben, "to be well dressed and have fashionable
friends."

As he sat in a reserved seat but a little distance from the platform,
surrounded by well-dressed people, he was sometimes tempted to doubt
whether he was the same boy who a few days before was wandering about
the streets, a friendless outcast. The change was so complete and
wonderful that he seemed to himself a new boy. But he enjoyed the
change. It seemed a good deal pleasanter resting in the luxurious
bedchamber, which he shared with Charles at his sister's house, than the
chance accommodations to which he had been accustomed.

On Monday he started for Philadelphia, on his journey home.

We will precede him.

Mrs. Brandon sat in an arm-chair before the fire, knitting. She was not
old, but care and sorrow had threaded her dark hair with silver, and on
her brow there were traces of a sorrow patiently borne, but none the
