
“Lilian, how do you do?” cried Tom, entering the room, and grasping the
hand of my wife.

Poor Lilian! It was more than she could bear. She had no burden of
guilt on her pure soul, but she bore mine as though it had been her
own. She burst into tears, dropped into her chair, and covered her face
with her hands. She sobbed like an infant.

“Come, Paley, don’t take it too hardly,” said the generous Tom,
clapping me on the shoulder. “I received your letter, and of course I
know all about it.”

“Tom, I’m the most miserable fellow in the world,” I said, venturing to
look up at him.

“To be candid, Paley, I don’t wonder at it. You deserve it. But I
rejoice to know that you have come to take a right view of your past
conduct,” replied he, with the candor which always distinguished him.

“I deserve all the reproaches you can heap upon me. You need not spare
me, Tom.”

“It is not for me to reproach you, Paley; and I will not. I know how
much you must have suffered since you came to yourself.”

“You are pure-minded and innocent, Tom; and you can form no idea of it.”

“If you repent of your error, Paley—”

“I do repent, and I have asked my God to forgive me.”

“Give me your hand, Paley. Let us not say another word about it. All
shall yet be well with you, if you have made your peace with God,” said
Tom, as he took my hand and pressed it warmly.

“You are too kind, Tom.”

“But I am talking here while my wife is waiting for me,” added he.

“Your wife!”

“Yes,” replied he, with a smile which expressed the pleasure he felt at
being able to use the endearing term.

“Where is she?” asked Lilian.

“Down stairs; I will bring her up at once.”

“But stop, Tom,” interposed Lilian, with no little embarrassment in her
manner.

“What, Lilian?”

“Who is she?” asked my wife, timidly.

“Who is she?” exclaimed Tom, opening his eyes, and then laughing
merrily.

“It seems like an age since I left Boston, and I did not know but you
had changed your mind.”

“An age! Why, it is only three months. My wife, of course, is no other
than Bertha. We were talking seriously of marriage before you came
away. We had fixed the time when I received your letter, but we made it
two weeks earlier, so that we could take our bridal tour across the
Atlantic. I desired to see you because I could not write you what I
wanted to say.”

“You are more than a brother to me.”

“Wait till I bring Bertha up, before you say anything more. O, by the
way, she knows nothing at all about this affair with the bank. Don’t
say anything to her about it. It would only make her miserable for
nothing. Besides, everything is all right with you, Paley. It is, upon
my word.”

“How can we conceal it from her?” asked Lilian, as Tom left the room.

“We must do it, since he desires it,” I replied. “He says it is all
right with me, and if Bertha don’t know any thing about my conduct, I
suppose others do not.”

In a moment Tom appeared with his wife, who rushed into Lilian’s arms.
They kissed each other, and I think Bertha was the happiest being
I ever saw. My wife had not written anything about my crime to her
friends, because she feared to compromise me.

“Why didn’t you write to us before, Lilian?” demanded Bertha.

“I did, but my letters did not reach you, it seems,” replied my wife;
and I saw that she shuddered at the deception she was compelled to use.

“We thought you had gone to New Orleans.”

“No, we did not; but how is dear ma, and father and Ellen?”

“All very well; and very happy, after they had heard from you. You are
a rich man’s wife now, Lilian, and I hope—”

“Come, Paley, I must look after my luggage,” interposed Tom, who
evidently did not care to have me hear what his wife had to say.

I was somewhat astonished to hear Bertha call Lilian a rich man’s wife.
I could not fully comprehend it. I suppose from this that Aunt Rachel
had actually left me her property, as I had anticipated she would,
but the most that I had ever heard her rated at was thirty thousand
dollars, and according to the city standard, this would not make a very
rich man. I was willing to wait for an explanation, however, and I
followed Tom out of the room. We went down to the office, where rooms
for the newly married couple were secured near mine. The baggage was
sent up, and Tom and I took the parlor for a conference.

“I suppose you are anxious to know how your affairs stand in Boston,
Paley,” said my friend.

“I am only anxious to make my peace with God and man,” I replied,
earnestly. “I have sinned against God and man. I am a wretch.”

“That’s a fact, Paley; I can’t deny it. But repent and sin no more.”

“Tom, if it were not for my wife, I feel that I should be willing to
serve out my term in the State Prison. I feel that I have no right to
be exempted from the consequences of my crime; but Lilian would suffer
more than I should, if the law were to take its course.”

“Never mind the law. You must suffer the penalty of God’s law—you
need not fear man’s. When you left, Paley, I took your place. I soon
discovered what you had done to your books. I had nearly fainted away
when I found what you had been doing. There was a deficit of something
like twenty thousand dollars.”

“Just thirty-eight thousand, Tom,” I interposed.

“Then you were more ingenious than I took you to be,” added he, with
evident disgust.

“I am going to tell the truth.”

“Well, no one has investigated the matter very closely. Indeed, no one
knows anything about it but your uncle, Mr. Bristlebach, and myself;
not even the cashier.”

“That’s very strange,” I replied, wondering at the secrecy with which
the affair had been managed.

“I don’t know that it is. You wrote me that you had learned of your
aunt’s death. She died on the day after you left home. Your uncle
telegraphed to you in Albany, but was unable to ascertain where you
were. The funeral was deferred as long as possible for you, but you
did not return. Before your aunt was buried, I discovered what you had
been doing, and realized that you did not intend to return. I told your
uncle, and the president what I had ascertained, and we examined the
books. Captain Halliard cursed and swore like a madman, but after a
while he cooled off, and declared that the news would kill your mother.

“Mr. Bristlebach only added that the news would injure the bank, and it
would take a year to convince the public that it had lost only twenty
thousand dollars; for that was what the deficit appeared to be then,
though the rest of it would have soon become apparent, as the foreign
accounts were settled. It was therefore decided to say nothing about
it. After your aunt’s funeral, Squire—an old lawyer in Court Street, I
forget his name—”

“Squire Townsend.”

“Squire Townsend came to the bank and told your uncle he had your
aunt’s will, and that, after paying out a few small legacies, her
property was all left to you. This information settled the matter.
If you had property enough, the bank would lose nothing by you. Your
disappearance called forth a paragraph or two in the papers, but Mr.
Bristlebach caused others to be inserted to the effect that the bank
would not lose a dollar by your absence.”

“I saw all these items.”

“So you wrote me. Now, Paley, how much do you suppose your aunt left?”

“I don’t know. People used to say she was worth about twenty thousand
dollars, but finally the sum got up to thirty thousand,” I replied.
