
"Thank you," said Frank, knowing that Haynes would be provoked by his
appearing to accept the compliment in good faith.

Haynes scowled, but said no more. He drew a morning paper from his
pocket, and appeared to be absorbed in reading it.

At Canal street Frank rose to leave the car. He had not yet reached the
door, when Haynes sprang to his feet, followed him quickly, and,
grasping him by the arm, said, "Not so fast young man! Give me back my
pocket-book."

Frank was struck with amazement.

"What do you mean?" he asked, indignantly.

"I mean that you have relieved me of my pocket-book. Gentlemen," turning
to his fellow-passengers, "I demand that this boy be searched."

"You can search me if you like," said Frank. "You know very well that
your accusation is false."

"I shall be satisfied if you produce what is in your pockets."

"That's fair," said a passenger.

Our hero thrust his hand into his pocket. To his dismay he drew out a
Russia-leather pocket-book, of which he knew nothing.

"That is my pocket-book, gentlemen," said Haynes, triumphantly. "I can
tell you exactly what is in it. You will find two five-dollar bills, a
two and a one. Be kind enough to examine it, sir."

The pocket-book was examined, and, of course, Haynes was correct.

Suspicious glances were directed at poor Frank. Innocent as he was, he
was so overwhelmed by the suddenness of the charge, and the apparent
proof of it, that he looked confused and embarrassed.

"You are beginning early, my boy," said a tall gentleman, in a white
cravat,--a clergyman. "It is well that you are checked in the beginning
of a guilty career."

"Sir," said Frank, "I am as innocent as you are. This man is my enemy,
and he must have put the pocket-book in my pocket. He threatened some
time since to get me into a scrape."

"That story is rather too thin," said Haynes, looking around him with a
sneer. "You won't find any one here quite verdant enough to believe
it."

"There you are mistaken," said a gentleman who was seated directly
opposite to Haynes and Frank. "I believe it."

Haynes scowled at him malignantly.

"I really don't think it very important what you believe, sir. The boy
is evidently a professional thief, and you may belong to the same gang
for aught I know. I propose to give him in charge to the next policeman
we meet."

"Do so," said the stranger, coolly. "I shall be present at his trial,
and offer some important testimony."

"Indeed!" said Haynes, uneasily. "May I ask what it is?"

"Certainly. I saw you thrust the wallet into the boy's pocket! Of that
I am willing to make oath."

James Haynes turned pale. There was a sudden change in public opinion.
It was he who now had become an object of suspicion.

"Young man," said the clergyman, solemnly, "what could have induced you
to enter into such a wicked conspiracy against the poor boy?"

"Mind your own business!" said Haynes, rudely. "It is a lie."

"It is the truth," said the volunteer witness, calmly.

Here a policeman became visible from the car-window, leisurely walking
his beat on the western sidewalk.

"There's a policeman," said Frank's new friend. "Call him, and have the
boy arrested."

"He would be cleared by false testimony," said Haynes, sullenly. "I have
my money back, and will let him go."

"Then," said the stranger, rising, and displaying the badge of a
detective, "I shall arrest you on a charge of conspiracy."

Haynes was fairly caught in his own trap.

"This is a put-up job, gentlemen," he said. "Am I to be robbed first,
and arrested afterwards for exposing the thief?"

He looked about him appealingly; but in vain. Public sentiment was
wholly against him now.

"O you ould villain!" said a stout Irish woman, "to try to ruin the
poor b'ye. Hangin's too good for you."

This was rather an extreme sentiment; but Haynes saw that he was in
peril. He gave an unexpected spring, and, reaching the platform, sprang
out, running up a side street.

"Do you know him?" asked the detective of Frank.

"Yes, sir."

"How do you account for his hostility to you?"

Frank briefly recounted the story already known to the reader.

"He can easily be found then."

"I hope you will not arrest him, sir," said Frank. "He has been pretty
well punished already, and I don't think he will trouble me again."

"If he does, send for me," and the detective handed Frank his card and
address.

"It is fortunate for me," said the telegraph boy, "that you saw him put
the money in my pocket."

"You would have experienced some inconvenience; but the story you have
told me would have cleared you with the jury."

"My young friend," said the clergyman, "I owe you an apology. I too
hastily assumed that you were guilty."

"It looked like it, sir. You were quite justified in what you said. Mr.
Haynes did not appear to relish your remarks to him," added Frank,
laughing.

"His crime was greater and meaner than the one charged upon you. To
steal is certainly a grave offence,--yet sometimes it is prompted by
necessity; but a deliberate attempt to fasten a false charge upon a
fellow-creature is vastly more atrocious."

"So it is, sir," said the old Irish woman, nodding assent vigorously. "I
quite agree wid your honor. It is owtracious."

The passengers smiled at the old woman's mistake; but it was clear that
they agreed with her in sentiment.

Meanwhile the car had been speeding along, and was near its terminus.
Frank bethought himself that he had been carried considerably beyond
his destination.

He pulled the bell, and, as he got out, he said, "Thank you all for
taking my part."

"We don't quite deserve that," said one of the passengers, after Frank
had left the car. "I was at first of opinion that the boy was guilty."

"We have been saved from doing a great injustice," said the clergyman.
"It should be a lesson to all of us not to be too hasty in our
judgments."

James Haynes in his hurried exit from the car fully believed that he
would be pursued and arrested. He was relieved to find his fears
groundless. But he was disappointed at the failure of his scheme. He had
carefully prepared it, and for several days he had been in readiness to
carry it into execution whenever he should meet Frank. This morning had
brought the opportunity; but it had miscarried.

"But for that cursed detective I would have carried the thing through,"
he muttered. "He spoiled all. I hate that boy!"

But, though revengeful, Haynes was prudent. He gave up the thought of
injuring Frank because he saw that it would be dangerous to himself. He
did not remain long in New York, but soon joined his confederate in
Hartford.




CHAPTER XXVII.

