Smoking was the Scotchman's solitary extravagance, not a costly one,
however, as he never smoked cigars, but indulged only in a democratic
clay pipe.

John Miles threw himself on the ground between Tom and his Scotch
friend, and watched complacently the wreaths of smoke as they curled
upwards.

"Tom, you ought to smoke," he said. "You don't know how much enjoyment
you lose."

"Don't tempt the lad," said Ferguson. "It's a bad habit."

"You smoke yourself."

"That is true, but it isn't well for a growing boy. It can do him no
good."

"I smoked before I was as old as Tom."

"So did I, but I wish I had not."

"Well, perhaps you're right, but it's a comfort when a man's tired or
out of spirits."

"I am not troubled in that way," said Tom. "I mean with being out of
spirits."

"Youth is a hopeful age," said the Scotchman. "When we are young we are
always hoping for something good to befall us."

"And when one is older, how is it, Mr. Ferguson?"

"We fear ill more than we hope for good," he replied.

"Then I want to remain young as long as I can."

"A good wish, Tom. Some men are always young in spirit; but those that
have seen the evil there is in the world find it harder to be hopeful."

"You speak as if you had had experience of the evil, Mr. Ferguson."

"So I have," answered the Scotchman slowly. Then, after a pause, "I will
tell you about it: it's no secret."

"Not if it is going to pain you."

"Oh, the pain is past. It's only a matter of money, and those wounds
heal."

"Only a matter of money!" said John Miles to himself. "I must have
misjudged Ferguson. I thought money was all in all with him. I did not
think he would speak so lightly of it."

"When I was a young man," Ferguson began, "my father died, leaving me a
thousand pounds, and a small annuity to my mother. With this money I
felt rich, but I knew it would not support me, nor was I minded to be
idle. So I began to look about me, to consider what business I had best
go into, when a young man, about my own age, a clerk in a mercantile
house, came to me and proposed a partnership. He was to put in five
hundred pounds, and contribute his knowledge of business, which was
greater than mine. He was a young man of good parts, and had a brisk,
pleasant way with him, that made him a favorite in business circles. I
thought it was a good chance, and, after taking a little time for
thought, agreed to his proposal. So the firm of McIntire and Ferguson
was formed. We went into business, and for a time all seemed to go
well. As my partner chose to keep the books, I was not so clear as I
wished to be about matters, but we seemed to be prospering. One morning,
however, on coming to business, I found that my partner had disappeared,
after possessing himself of all the money he could collect on the credit
of the firm. Of course we were bankrupts, or rather I was, for he left
me to bear the brunt of failure."

"Have you ever seen him since, Mr. Ferguson?"

"From that day to this--twenty years--I have never set eyes on Sandy
McIntire."

"It was a mean trick to serve you, Ferguson," said Miles.

"Yes," said the Scotchman, soberly. "I minded the loss of money, but the
loss of confidence was a sore thought too, after all the trust I had put
in that man."

Presently Miles rose to go.

"I'll take care of your money, Tom," he said, "and do my best to get it
safely to your father."

"Thank you, John."

As Miles left the tent, he did not observe a crouching figure on the
other side of it. It was the figure of Bill Crane, a crony of Missouri
Jack, in fact, the man who helped him to fleece poor Peabody of his
scanty hoard.

Bill looked after Miles enviously.

"I wonder how much money he's got?" thought Bill. "I'd like some of it,
for I'm bust. I must tell Jack. I don't dare to tackle him alone."




CHAPTER IV.

A FOILED ROBBER.


In the grand rush to the newly discovered gold-fields all classes were
represented. There were men of education, representatives of all the
learned professions, men versed in business, and along with them
adventurers and men of doubtful antecedents, graduates of prisons and
penitentiaries. Bill Crane, introduced in the last chapter, belonged to
the latter undesirable class. He had served a term at Sing-Sing as a
housebreaker, and later another term in a Western penitentiary. He had
come to California with a prejudice against honest labor, and a
determination to make a living by the use of the peculiar talents on
which he had hitherto relied. He had spent a week at River Bend, chiefly
at the saloon of Missouri Jack, whom he found a congenial spirit, and
had picked up a little money from flats like the young Bostonian; but,
on the whole, he had found it an unprofitable field for the exercise of
his special talents.

"I must make a raise somehow," he bethought himself, "and then I'll make
tracks for some other settlement."

Precisely how to raise the fund of which he stood in need was difficult
to decide. Moneyed men were not plenty at River Bend. Captain Fletcher
and his party had been at work but a short time, and were not likely to
have collected much.

As we know, Bill Crane overheard a part of the closing conversation
between Tom and John Miles. From this he learned that Miles, besides his
own money, would be in charge of seventy-five dollars belonging to our
young hero. It was not much, but it was something.

"If the whole doesn't come to over two hundred dollars, I can make it
do," thought Crane. "It will get me out of this beastly hole, and carry
me to San Francisco."

John Miles slept by himself under a small tent at the northern end of
the small encampment. He looked like a man who ate well and slept well,
and this would be favorable to Bill Crane, who proposed to effect the
robbery in the night. He had half a mind to secure the aid of Missouri
Jack, but then Jack would expect to go shares in the "plunder," and
there was likely to be little enough for one. So Bill decided to make
the attempt alone.

In a small camp like that at River Bend, the movements and plans of each
individual were generally known. So it was generally understood that
John Miles intended to start on Thursday for the city.

The previous evening he spent with Tom and Ferguson, with whom he was
more intimate than any others of the party. He would not have been drawn
to the Scotchman, but for his being Tom's room-mate. Through him he came
to appreciate and respect the Scot's sterling virtues, and to overlook
his dry, phlegmatic manner.

"I hope you'll have good luck, Mr. Miles," said Tom.

"Thank you, my boy."

"I would join with my young friend Tom," said Ferguson, "if I were quite
clear in my mind whether good luck is the right term to use."

"Don't you think some men are luckier than others, Mr. Ferguson?" asked
Tom.

"Some men are more successful, doubtless; but what we call good luck,
generally comes from greater industry, good judgment, and, above all,
the prompt use of opportunities."

"There is something in that," said Miles; "but when two men work side by
side with equal industry, and one finds a nugget worth thousands of
dollars, while the other plods along at a few dollars a day, isn't there
some luck there?"

"It may be so," said the Scotchman, cautiously, "but such cases are
exceptional."
