  So I have gathered from my pots
  All that I have to fill
  The basket that I hang to-night,
  With heaps of love from Jill.”

“That’s perfectly sweet! Mine isn’t; but I meant it to be funny,” said
Molly, as if there could be any doubt about the following ditty:--

  “Dear Grif,
  Here is a whiff
  Of beautiful spring flowers;
  The big red rose
  Is for your nose,
  As toward the sky it towers.

  “Oh, do not frown
  Upon this crown
  Of green pinks and blue geranium
  But think of me
  When this you see,
  And put it on your cranium.”

“O Molly, you will never hear the last of that if Grif gets it,” said
Jill, as the applause subsided, for the boys pronounced it “tip-top.”

“Don’t care, he gets the worst of it any way, for there is a pin in that
rose, and if he goes to smell the mayflowers underneath he will find a
thorn to pay for the tack he put in my rubber boot. I know he will play
me some joke to-night, and I mean to be first if I can,” answered Molly,
settling the artificial wreath round the orange-colored canoe which held
her effusion.

“Now, Merry, read yours: you always have sweet poems;” and Jill folded
her hands to listen with pleasure to something sentimental.

“I can’t read the poems in some of mine, because they are for you; but
this little verse you can hear, if you like: I’m going to give that
basket to Ralph. He said he should hang one for his grandmother, and I
thought that was so nice of him, I’d love to surprise him with one all
to himself. He’s always so good to us;” and Merry looked so innocently
earnest that no one smiled at her kind thought or the unconscious
paraphrase she had made of a famous stanza in her own “little verse.”

  “To one who teaches me
  The sweetness and the beauty
  Of doing faithfully
  And cheerfully my duty.”

“He will like that, and know who sent it, for none of us have pretty
pink paper but you, or write such an elegant hand,” said Molly, admiring
the delicate white basket shaped like a lily, with the flowers inside
and the note hidden among them, all daintily tied up with the palest
blush-colored ribbon.

“Well, that’s no harm. He likes pretty things as much as I do, and I
made my basket like a flower because I gave him one of my callas, he
admired the shape so much;” and Merry smiled as she remembered how
pleased Ralph looked as he went away carrying the lovely thing.

“I think it would be a good plan to hang some baskets on the doors of
other people who don’t expect or often have any. I’ll do it if you can
spare some of these, we have so many. Give me only one, and let the
others go to old Mrs. Tucker, and the little Irish girl who has been
sick so long, and lame Neddy, and Daddy Munson. It would please and
surprise them so. Will we?” asked Ed, in that persuasive voice of his.

All agreed at once, and several people were made very happy by a bit of
spring left at their doors by the May elves who haunted the town that
night playing all sorts of pranks. Such a twanging of bells and
rapping of knockers; such a scampering of feet in the dark; such droll
collisions as boys came racing round corners, or girls ran into
one another’s arms as they crept up and down steps on the sly; such
laughing, whistling, flying about of flowers and friendly feeling--it
was almost a pity that May-day did not come oftener.

Molly got home late, and found that Grif had been before her, after all;
for she stumbled over a market-basket at her door, and on taking it
in found a mammoth nosegay of purple and white cabbages, her favorite
vegetable. Even Miss Bat laughed at the funny sight, and Molly resolved
to get Ralph to carve her a bouquet out of carrots, beets, and turnips
for next time, as Grif would never think of that.

Merry ran up the garden-walk alone, for Frank left her at the gate,
and was fumbling for the latch when she felt something hanging there.
Opening the door carefully, she found it gay with offerings from her
mates; and among them was one long quiver-shaped basket of birch bark,
with something heavy under the green leaves that lay at the top. Lifting
these, a slender bas-relief of a calla lily in plaster appeared, with
this couplet slipped into the blue cord by which it was to hang:--

  “That mercy you to others show
  That Mercy Grant to me.”

“How lovely! and this one will never fade, but always be a pleasure
hanging there. Now, I really have something beautiful all my own,” said
Merry to herself as she ran up to hang the pretty thing on the dark
wainscot of her room, where the graceful curve of its pointed leaves and
the depth of its white cup would be a joy to her eyes as long as they
lasted.

“I wonder what that means,” and Merry read over the lines again, while
a soft color came into her cheeks and a little smile of girlish pleasure
began to dimple round her lips; for she was so romantic, this touch
of sentiment showed her that her friendship was more valued than she
dreamed. But she only said, “How glad I am I remembered him, and how
surprised he will be to see mayflowers in return for the lily.”

He was, and worked away more happily and bravely for the thought of
the little friend whose eyes would daily fall on the white flower which
always reminded him of her.




Chapter XIX. Good Templars


“Hi there! Bell’s rung! Get up, lazy-bones!” called Frank from his room
as the clock struck six one bright morning, and a great creaking and
stamping proclaimed that he was astir.

“All right, I’m coming,” responded a drowsy voice, and Jack turned over
as if to obey; but there the effort ended, and he was off again, for
growing lads are hard to rouse, as many a mother knows to her sorrow.

Frank made a beginning on his own toilet, and then took a look at his
brother, for the stillness was suspicious.

“I thought so! He told me to wake him, and I guess this will do it;”
 and, filling his great sponge with water, Frank stalked into the next
room and stood over the unconscious victim like a stern executioner,
glad to unite business with pleasure in this agreeable manner.

A woman would have relented and tried some milder means, for when his
broad shoulders and stout limbs were hidden, Jack looked very young and
innocent in his sleep. Even Frank paused a moment to look at the round,
rosy face, the curly eyelashes, half-open mouth, and the peaceful
expression of a dreaming baby. “I must do it, or he won’t be ready for
breakfast,” said the Spartan brother, and down came the sponge, cold,
wet, and choky, as it was briskly rubbed to and fro regardless of every
obstacle.

“Come, I say! That’s not fair! Leave me alone!” sputtered Jack, hitting
out so vigorously that the sponge flew across the room, and Frank fell
back to laugh at the indignant sufferer.

“I promised to wake you, and you believe in keeping promises, so I’m
doing my best to get you up.”

“Well, you needn’t pour a quart of water down a fellow’s neck, and
rub his nose off, need you? I’m awake, so take your old sponge and go
along,” growled Jack, with one eye open and a mighty gape.

“See that you keep so, then, or I’ll come and give you another sort of a
rouser,” said Frank, retiring well-pleased with his success.

“I shall have one good stretch, if I like. It is strengthening to the
muscles, and I’m as stiff as a board with all that football yesterday,”
 murmured Jack, lying down for one delicious moment. He shut the open eye
to enjoy it thoroughly, and forgot the stretch altogether, for the bed
was warm, the pillow soft, and a half-finished dream still hung about
his drowsy brain. Who does not know the fatal charm of that stolen
moment--for once yield to it, and one is lost.

Jack was miles away “in the twinkling of a bedpost,” and the pleasing
dream seemed about to return, when a ruthless hand tore off the clothes,
swept him out of bed, and he really did awake to find himself standing
in the middle of his bath-pan with both windows open, and Frank about to
pour a pail of water over him.

“Hold on! Yah, how cold the water is! Why, I thought I was up;” and,
hopping out, Jack rubbed his eyes and looked about with such a genuine
surprise that Frank put down the pail, feeling that the deluge would not
be needed this time.

“You are now, and I’ll see that you keep so,” he said, as he stripped
the bed and carried off the pillows.

“I don’t care. What a jolly day!” and Jack took a little promenade to
finish the rousing process.
