would storm. Then at least I should have run the same danger,--I hoped
it would be dangerous.”

“I don’t understand what you mean,” he said.

“I forced that wretched creature to go with you that day when you said
it was going to be rough; and I shall have her blood upon my hands if
she dies.”

“Is it possible,” cried Libby, pulling in his useless oars, and leaning
forward upon them, “that she has gone on letting you think I believed
there was going to be a storm? She knew perfectly well that I didn’t
mind what Adams said; he was always croaking.” She sat looking at him in
a daze, but she could not speak, and he continued. “I see: it happened
by one chance in a million to turn out as he said; and she has been
making you pay for it. Why, I suppose,” he added, with a melancholy
smile of intelligence, “she’s had so much satisfaction in holding you
responsible for what’s happened, that she’s almost glad of it!”

“She has tortured me!” cried the girl. “But you--you, when you saw that
I did n’t believe there was going to be any storm, why did you--why
didn’t--you”--

“I did n’t believe it either! It was Mrs. Maynard that proposed the
sail, but when I saw that you did n’t like it I was glad of any excuse
for putting it off. I could n’t help wanting to please you, and I
couldn’t see why you urged us afterwards; but I supposed you had some
reason.”

She passed her hand over her forehead, as if to clear away the confusion
in which all this involved her. “But why--why did you let me go on
thinking myself to blame”--

“How could I know what you were thinking? Heaven knows I didn’t dream of
such a thing! Though I remember, now, your saying”--

“Oh, I see!” she cried. “You are a man! But I can’t forgive it,--no,
I can’t forgive it! You wished to deceive her if you did n’t wish to
deceive me. How can you excuse yourself for repeating what you did n’t
believe?”

“I was willing she should think Adams was right.”

“And that was deceit. What can you say to it?”

“There is only one thing I could say,” he murmured, looking hopelessly
into her eyes, “and that’s of no use.”

She turned her head away. Her tragedy had fallen to nothing; or rather
it had never been. All her remorse, all her suffering, was mere farce
now; but his guilt in the matter was the greater. A fierce resentment
burned in her heart; she longed to make him feel something of the
anguish she had needlessly undergone.

He sat watching her averted face. “Miss Breen,” he said huskily, “will
you let me speak to you?”

“Oh, you have me in your power,” she answered cruelly. “Say what you
like.”

He did not speak, nor make any motion to do so.

A foolish, idle curiosity to know what, after all that had happened,
he could possibly have to say, stirred within her, but she disdainfully
stifled it. They were both so still that a company of seals found it
safe to put their heads above water, and approach near enough to examine
her with their round soft eyes. She turned from the silly things in
contempt that they should even have interested her. She felt that from
time to time her companion lifted an anxious glance to the dull heavens.
At last the limp sail faintly stirred; it flapped; it filled shallowly;
the boat moved. The sail seemed to have had a prescience of the wind
before it passed over the smooth water like a shadow.

When a woman says she never will forgive a man, she always has a
condition of forgiveness in her heart. Now that the wind had risen
again, “I have no right to forbid you to speak,” she said, as if no
silence had elapsed, and she turned round and quietly confronted him;
she no longer felt so impatient to escape.

He did not meet her eye at once, and he seemed in no haste to avail
himself of the leave granted him. A heavy sadness blotted the gayety of
a face whose sunny sympathy had been her only cheer for many days. She
fancied a bewilderment in its hopelessness which smote her with still
sharper pathos. “Of course,” she said, “I appreciate your wish to do
what I wanted, about Mrs. Maynard. I remember my telling you that she
ought n’t to go out, that day. But that was not the way to do it”--

“There was no other,” he said.

“No,” she assented, upon reflection. “Then it ought n’t to have been
done.”

He showed no sign of intending to continue, and after a moment of
restlessness, she began again.

“If I have been rude or hasty in refusing to hear you, Mr. Libby, I am
very wrong. I must hear anything you have to say.”

“Oh, not unless you wish.”

“I wish whatever you wish.”

“I’m not sure that I wish that now. I have thought it over; I should
only distress you for nothing. You are letting me say why sentence
shouldn’t be passed upon me. Sentence is going to be passed any way. I
should only repeat what I have said. You would pity me, but you couldn’t
help me. And that would give you pain for nothing. No, it would be
useless.”

“It would be useless to talk to me about--loving.” She took the word on
her lips with a certain effect of adopting it for convenience’ sake in
her vocabulary. “All that was ended for me long ago,--ten years ago. And
my whole life since then has been shaped to do without it. I will tell
you my story if you like. Perhaps it’s your due. I wish to be just. You
may have a right to know.”

“No, I haven’t. But--perhaps I ought to say that Mrs. Maynard told me
something.”

“Well, I am glad of that, though she had no right to do it. Then you can
understand.”

“Oh, yes, I can understand. I don’t pretend that I had any reason in
it.”

He forbore again to urge any plea for himself, and once more she was
obliged to interfere in his behalf. “Mr. Libby, I have never confessed
that I once wronged you in a way that I’m very sorry for.”

“About Mrs. Maynard? Yes, I know. I won’t try to whitewash myself; but
it didn’t occur to me how it would look. I wanted to talk with her about
you.”

“You ought to have considered her, though,” she said gently.

“She ought to have considered herself,” he retorted, with his unfailing
bitterness for Mrs. Maynard. “But it doesn’t matter whose fault it was.
I’m sufficiently punished; for I know that it injured me with you.”

“It did at first. But now I can see that I was wrong. I wished to tell
you that. It isn’t creditable to me that I thought you intended to flirt
with her. If I had been better myself”--

“You!” He could not say more.

That utter faith in her was very charming. It softened her more and
more; it made her wish to reason with him, and try gently to show him
how impossible his hope was. “And you know,” she said, recurring to
something that had gone before, “that even if I had cared for you in
the way you wish, it could n’t be. You would n’t want to have people
laughing and saying I had been a doctress.”

“I shouldn’t have minded. I know how much people’s talk is worth.”

“Yes,” she said, “I know you would be generous and brave about
that--about anything. But what--what if I could n’t give up my
career--my hopes of being useful in the way I have planned? You would
n’t have liked me to go on practising medicine?”

“I thought of that,” he answered simply. “I didn’t see how it could
be done. But if you saw any way, I was willing--No, that was my great
trouble! I knew that it was selfish in me, and very conceited, to
suppose you would give up your whole life for me; and whenever I thought
of that, I determined not to ask you. But I tried not to think of that.”

“Well, don’t you see? But if I could have answered you as you wish, it
wouldn’t have been anything to give up everything for you. A woman
isn’t something else first, and a woman afterwards. I understand how
unselfishly you meant, and indeed, indeed, I thank you. But don’t let’s
talk of it any more. It couldn’t have been, and there is nothing
but misery in thinking of it. Come,” she said, with a struggle for
cheerfulness, “let us forget it. Let it be just as if you hadn’t spoken
to me; I know you did n’t intend to do it; and let us go on as if
nothing had happened.”

“Oh, we can’t go on,” he answered. “I shall get away, as soon as Maynard
comes, and rid you of the sight of me.”

“Are you going away?” she softly asked. “Why need you? I know that
people always seem to think they can’t be friends after--such a thing as
