"Of course you don't. But you will be glad of the shirts, won't you?" 

"Very glad, and thankful." 

"But is two dollars a proper price?" inquired Rotha a little jealously. 

"It is an uncommon price." 

"What could make him offer an uncommon price?" 

"I don't know. It is not the way of the world, so perhaps he is not one 
of the world." 

"He's a Christian, you mean?" 

"Yes." 

"Do Christians always do the right thing?" 

"Real Christians do, when they know what the right thing is. I am too 
tired to talk, Rotha." 

Rotha bestirred herself and set the little table. Not very much went on 
it, besides the cups and plates; but there was a loaf of bread, and Rotha 
made a slice of toast; and Mrs. Carpenter sipped her tea as if she found 
it refreshing. 

"I wish I had a good tumbler of milk," sighed Rotha; "real milk, not like 
this. And I wish you had some Medwayville cream, mother. I think, if I 
ever get back into the country again, I shall go wild." 

"I sometimes think you are a little of that here," said Mrs. Carpenter. 

"Not wild with joy, mother." 

Mrs. Carpenter sipped her tea, and stretched out her feet towards the 
small stove, and seemed to be taking some comfort. But her face was thin 
and worn, the hands were very thin; a person with more experience than 
her young daughter would have been ill content with her appearance. 

"Mother, now can you tell me my question? What do you mean by a 
'gentleman.'" 

"Perhaps not just what Mrs. Marble means by it." 

"Well, I'll tell you. This person was very well dressed, but clothes do 
not make it, do they, mother?" 

"Certainly not." 

"He has got a nice face, and he seemed to know always just what to do and 
to say; I can't tell you what I mean exactly; but I should think, to look 
at him and hear him, that he knew everything and had seen all the world. 
Of course he hasn't and doesn't; but that is the sort of feeling I have 
when I look at him." 

Mrs. Carpenter smiled. 

"Did you never see anybody before of whom you thought so?" 

"Never. I never did," said Rotha. "The people who come here on business, 
don't know the least bit how to behave; and the people at dear old 
Medwayville did not. O they were kind and good as they could be, some of 
them; but mother, they could not make a bow to save their lives, and they 
would stand and sit all sorts of ways; and they wouldn't know when they 
had done talking, nor how to do anything nicely." 

"Perhaps this man was stiff," said Mrs. Carpenter amused. 

"He was not stiff in the least; but mother, what is a gentleman?" 

"I do not know how to tell you, Rotha. Your description sounds very much 
like one." 

A day or two after, Mr. Digby came again, and had an interview with Mrs. 
Carpenter. This time he paid no attention to Rotha, and I think the 
little girl was somewhat disappointed. The next day he came again and 
brought with him the bundle of shirts. He inquired now very kindly into 
Mrs. Carpenter's state of health, and offered to send his own physician 
to see her. But she refused; and the manner of her refusal persuaded Mr. 
Digby that she was aware of her own condition and believed no medicine 
would be of avail. He was much of the same opinion himself; and indeed 
was inclined to suspect that there was more need of good food than of 
drugs in this case. More difficult at the same time to administer. 

A few days passed, and Mr. Digby again came. 

He found Mrs. Carpenter steady at her work, but looking very worn and 
pale. Rotha was just putting on the small tea kettle. Mr. Digby sat down 
and made kind inquiries. The answers were with the sweet patient 
composure which he saw was habitual with Mrs. Carpenter. 

"How is your appetite?" he asked. 

"I suppose I am not enough in the open air and stirring about, to have it 
very good." 

"Have you much strength for 'stirring about'?" 

"Not much." 

"People cannot have strength without eating. Rotha, what time do you give 
your mother her dinner?" 

"Now," said Rotha. "I put the kettle on just as you came in." 

"I saw you did. But what is the connection, may I ask, between dinner and 
the tea kettle?" 

"Rotha makes me a cup of tea," said Mrs. Carpenter smiling. "I can hardly 
get along without that." 

"Ah!--Mrs. Carpenter, I have had a busy morning and am--which I am sorry 
you are not--hungry. May I take a cup of tea with you?" 

"Certainly!--I should be very glad. Rotha, set a cup for Mr. Digby, dear. 
But tea is not much to a hungry man," she went on; "and I am afraid there 
is little in the house but bread and butter." 

"That will do capitally. If you'll furnish the bread and butter, I will 
see what I can get for my part. If you'll excuse the liberty, Mrs. 
Carpenter?" 

Mrs. Carpenter would excuse, I think, whatever he might take a fancy to 
do. She had seen him now several times, and he had quite won her heart. 

"Mother," said Rotha, as soon as their visiter had gone out, "what is he 
going to do?" 

"I do not know. Get something for dinner, he said." 

"Do you like him to do that?" 

"Do what?" 

"Bring us dinner." 

"Don't be foolish, Rotha." 

"Mother, I think he is doing what he calls a 'kindness.'" 

"Have you any objection?" 

"Not to his doing it for other people; but for you and me-- Mother, we 
have not come to receiving charity yet." 

"Rotha!" exclaimed her mother. "My child, what are you thinking of?"

"Having kindnesses done to us, mother; and I don't like it. It is not Mr. 
Digby's business, what we have for dinner!" 

"I told him we had not much but bread." 

"Why did you tell him?" 

"He would have found it out, Rotha, when he came to sit down to the 
table." 

"He had no business to ask to do that."

"I think you are ungrateful." 

"Mother, I don't want to be grateful. Not to him." 

"Why not to him, or to anybody, my child, that deserves it of you?" 

"He don't!"--said Rotha, as she finished setting the table, rather in 
dudgeon. "What do you suppose he is going to bring?" 

"Rotha, what will ever become of you in this world, with that spirit?" 

"What spirit?" 

"Pride, I should say." 

"Isn't pride a good thing?" 

"Not that ever I heard of, or you either," Mrs. Carpenter said with a 
sigh. 

