frost was like a white curtain shutting him out from the world; it was
to be hoped that he found comfort in playing on his tambourine within.
This time Herr Scheffel was at home, and he had a hope concerning a
place in another choir. Anne returned to Lancaster cheered. As she
walked homeward from the railway station down the hard country road,
darkness was falling, and she wondered why the faithful Li was not there
as usual to meet her. When she came within sight of the half-house, it
was blazing with light; from every window radiance streamed, smoke
ascended from the chimneys, and she could see figures within moving
about as if at work. What could it mean? She went up the steps, opened
the door, and entered. Was this her barren home?

Workmen were putting the finishing touches to what seemed to have been
an afternoon's labor; Li, in a fever of excitement, was directing
everybody. Through the open door Nora could be seen moving to and fro
amid barrels, boxes, and bags. The men had evidently received their
orders, for as soon as the young mistress of the house appeared they
hastily concluded their labors, and, taking their tools, vanished like
so many genii of the ring. Anne called them back, but they were already
far down the road. Li and Nora explained together that the men and two
wagon-loads of furniture had arrived at the door of the half-house at
two o'clock, and that the head workman, showing Mr. Dexter's card, had
claimed entrance and liberty to carry out his orders; he had a rough
plan of the rooms, sketched by Dexter, and was to follow his directions.
Li and Nora, already warm adherents, entered into the scheme with all
their hearts, and the result was that mademoiselle's little house was
now carpeted, and warmed, and filled from top to bottom. The bare
store-room was crowded, the cupboards garnished; there were easy-chairs,
curtains, pictures, and even flowers--tea-roses in a vase. The furniture
was perhaps too massive, the carpets and curtains too costly for the
plain abode; Dexter always erred on the side of magnificence. His
lavishness had been brought up at Caryl's as a testimony against him,
for it was a decided evidence of newness. But on this gloomy freezing
winter night no one could have the heart to say that the rich fabrics
were not full of comfort both to the eye and touch, and Anne, sinking
into one of the easy-chairs, uncertain what to do, was at least not at
all uncertain as to the comfort of the cushioned back; it was luxurious.

Later, in her own room, she sat looking at the unexpected gifts which
faced her from all sides. What should she do? It was not right to force
them upon her; and yet how like him was the lavish quick generosity! In
her poverty the gift seemed enormous; yet it was not. The little home
possessed few rooms, had seemed hardly more than a toy house to the city
workmen who had hastily filled it. But to Anne it seemed magical. Books
had been bought for her also, the well-proved standard works which
Dexter always selected for his own reading. In his busy life this
American had not had time to study the new writers; he was the one
person left who still quoted Addison. After looking at the books, Anne,
opening the closet door by chance, saw a long cedar case upon the floor;
it was locked, but the key was in an envelope bearing her name. She
opened the case; a faint fragrance floated out, as, from its wrappings,
she drew forth an India shawl, dark, rich, and costly enough for a
duchess. There was a note inside the case from Dexter--a note hastily
written in pencil:

     

"DEAR MISS DOUGLAS,--I do not know whether this is anything you can
wear, but at least it is warm. On the night I first met you you
were shivering, and I have thought of it ever since. Please accept
the shawl, therefore, and the other trifles, from your friend, G. D."

     

The trifles were furs--sable. Here, as usual, Dexter had selected the
costly; he knew no other way. And thus surrounded by all the new luxury
of the room, with the shawl and the furs in her hands, Anne stood, an
image of perplexity.

The next day the giver came out. She received him gravely. There was a
look in her eyes which told him that he had not won her approval.

"Of course I do not intend to trouble you often with visits," he said,
as he gave his furred overcoat to Li. "But one or two may be allowed, I
think, from such an old friend."

"And to such a desolate girl."

"Desolate no longer," he answered, choosing to ignore the reproach of
the phrase.

He installed himself in one of the new arm-chairs (looking, it must be
confessed, much more comfortable than before), and began to talk in a
fluent general way, approaching no topics that were personal. Meanwhile
old Nora, hearing from Li that the benefactor of the household was
present, appeared, strong in the new richness of her store-room, at the
door, and dropping a courtesy, wished to know at what hour it would
please him to dine. She said "your honor"; she had almost said "your
highness." Her homage was so sincere that Anne smiled, and Dexter
laughed outright.

"You see I am expected to stay, whether you wish it or not," he said.
"Do let me; it shall be for the last time." Then turning to Nora, he
said, "At four." And with another reverence, the old woman withdrew.

"It is a viciously disagreeable afternoon. You would not, I think, have
the heart to turn out even a dog," he continued, leaning back at ease,
and looking at his hostess, his eyes shining with amusement: he was
reading her objections, and triumphing over them. Then, as he saw her
soberness deepen, he grew grave immediately. "I am staying to-day
because I wish to talk with you, Anne," he said. "I shall not come
again. I know as well as you do, of course, that you can not receive me
while you have no better chaperon than Nora." He paused, looking at her
downcast face. "You do not like what I have done?"

"No."

"Why?"

"You have loaded me with too heavy an obligation."

"Any other reason?"

"I can never repay you."

"In addition?"

"It is not right that you should treat me as though I were a child."

"I knew you would object, and strongly; yet I hope to bring you over yet
to my view of the case," said Dexter. "You say that I have placed you
under too heavy an obligation. But pray consider what a slight affair
the little gift seems to me. The house is very small; I have spent but a
few hundreds; in all, with the exception of the shawl and furs, not much
over five. What is that to an income like mine? You say you can never
repay me. You repay me by accepting. It seems to me a noble quality to
accept, simply and generously accept; and I have believed that yours was
a noble nature. Accept, then, generously what it is such a pleasure to
me to give. On my own side, I say this: the woman Gregory Dexter once
asked to be his wife shall not suffer from want while Gregory Dexter
lives, and knows where to find her. This has nothing to do with you; it
is my side of the subject."

He spoke with much feeling. Anne looked at him. Then she rose, and with
quiet dignity gave him, as he rose also, her hand. He understood the
silent little action. "You have answered my expectation," he said, and
the subject was at an end forever.

After dinner, in the twilight, he spoke again. "You said, an hour or two
ago, that I had treated you as though you were a child. It is true; for
you were a child at Caryl's, and I remembered you as you were then. But
you are much changed; looking at you now, it is impossible that I should
ever think of you in the same way again."

She made no reply.

"Can you tell me nothing of yourself, of your personal life since we
parted? Your engagement, for instance?"

"It is ended. Mr. Pronando is married; he married my sister. You did not
see the notice?" (Anne's thoughts were back in the West Virginia
farm-house now with the folded slip of newspaper.)

"No; I was in the far West until April. I did not come eastward until
the war broke out. Then you are free, Anne? Do not be afraid to tell me;
I remember every word you said in Miss Vanhorn's little red parlor, and
I shall not repeat my mistake. You are, then, free?"

"I can not answer you."

"Then I will not ask; it all belongs to the one subject, I suppose. The
only part intrusted to me--the secret of your being here--I will
religiously guard. As to your present life--you would rather let this
Herr Scheffel continue looking for a place for you?"

"Yes."

"I will not interfere. But I shall write to you now and then, and you
must answer. If at the end of a month you have not obtained this
position you are hoping for--in a church choir, is it not?--you must let
me know. Will you promise?"

"I promise."

"And bear in mind this: you shall never be left friendless again while I
am on earth to protect you."

"But I have no right to--"

"Yes, you have; you have been more to me than you know." Here he paused,
