place in the rudder-head. Though he still used the tiller-rope he had
brought into service, it was comparatively easy to steer the boat. He
could now work her quicker than before, and more effectually counteract
the sharp gusts of wind.

The Goldwing was now out of the Gut; and this arm of the lake, near the
channel, between the two great islands, was from three to five miles
wide. But she was now under the lee of the west shore, and she would not
get the full strength of the blast until she had gone about two miles
farther.

By this time Dory had fully made up his mind what to do. His programme
for avoiding the Sylph was made out. His natural pride would not permit
him to fall into his uncle's hands if it was possible, even at no little
risk, to avoid such a catastrophe. He had ceased to wonder what his
uncle wanted of him. Captain Gildrock had heard bad stories about him,
and he seemed to be prepared to believe them all. He thought it probable
that his uncle had heard of his discharge from the steamer, and very
likely he had found a place for him. But he did not want his uncle to
assist him. This was all he could surmise in regard to the present
chase.

To the eastward of the Gut was St. Alban's Bay, which extended about
three miles into the land, on the Vermont side of the lake. At the
northerly entrance to this bay were three islands. Potter's Island, the
largest of them, was over a mile in length. South-west of it, and about
half a mile distant, was Ball Island. This island was three miles from
Ladd's Point, off which the Goldwing was running with the wind on her
beam.

Dory had decided to run across the lake in the direction of Ball Island.
He intended to bring into use the tactics which had enabled him to beat
the Missisquoi, though he did not expect her pilot to run her aground in
any attempt to follow the schooner into shoal water. As well as he could
estimate the speed of the Goldwing, she could make two miles to the
steamer's three. He had two miles the start of her. When he reached Ball
Island the steamer would be half a mile behind him.

Between Potter's and Ball Island the water was shoal, and the bottom
rocky. At the ordinary stage of the water, it was from eight to thirteen
feet deep; but now it was only from two to seven feet deep. The Sylph
would not dare to go through the opening, while Dory was sure of seven
feet near the larger island. He had his plan arranged for another
movement after this one; but he desired to see how the first scheme
worked before he gave much consideration to a second.

Beyond these islands the wind had a rake of five miles, and the roughest
water and the heaviest wind must be met after he had passed them. He was
not sure that the Goldwing could stand it. Before he was half way across
the lake he found she had all she could stand under. But he determined
to put her through, keeping out of trouble by letting off the sheet, and
touching her up, as occasion might require. He cast frequent glances
behind him, to obtain the earliest knowledge of the approach of the
Sylph. He was less than half a mile from the southern point of the large
island, and she could not yet be seen.

The skipper wondered if she had not given up the chase.




CHAPTER XXVII.

DORY MAKES A HARBOR FOR THE NIGHT.


Dory could not see any reason why his uncle should follow him at all,
and especially not why he should chase him in the night and the storm.
It seemed to him not improbable that the Sylph had abandoned the
pursuit, and gone up the lake.

While he was hoping the chase was ended on the part of his uncle, the
Goldwing came up with the south-west point of the large island. Beyond
it the sea looked very ugly, and it would shake the schooner up in a
very lively manner in the next mile and a half she had to make. Dory did
not care to take any needless risks; and, if the steamer had given up
the chase, he intended to get under a lee, and anchor till morning.

He looked back once more before the boat reached a position where he
could not see the other side of the lake. To his regret he saw the
Sylph just coming into view beyond Ladd's Point. She had not given it
up. He wished he had made another half mile, and then she could not have
seen the schooner; for she would have been behind the island. She could
see him plainly enough now, and she headed for the south of Ball Island.

Having passed through the channel between the islands, the weather there
proved to be a perfect muzzler. The Goldwing labored heavily in the
angry chop sea, and it was all Dory could do to keep her right side up.
In a few minutes more it seemed quite impossible to do so, and Dory let
go the mainsail halyards. Whether he was caught or not, he could no
longer carry all sail. He had put the schooner before it, but he had to
come up into the wind to get in the mainsail.

The young skipper's calculations had been within bounds, and he could
afford the time he spent in reducing sail. With more experience he would
have taken in sail from choice rather than necessity, for a boat don't
sail any faster by being crowded with more sail than she can carry. The
foresail was a large one, and it almost becalmed the jib. It was all the
sail she needed, and Dory soon saw that he was going faster than at any
time before.

A run of a mile and a half more brought the boat up with the extreme end
of St. Alban's Point. An eighth of a mile west of it was a small island.
Here was another of those channels which the low water rendered
available for the purpose of the skipper in eluding his swift pursuer.
The channel was about four feet deep; and Dory hauled in the fore sheet,
and went through it. Under the lee of the island the skipper found the
water quiet. Throwing the boat up into the wind, he ran forward, and
hauled down the jib. Then he threw over the anchor, leaving the foresail
set.

It was getting dark, and the manoeuvring could not be kept up much
longer. It would be fifteen or twenty minutes before the Sylph could
come up with St. Alban's Point. The Goldwing was behind the island, and
he did not think the people on board of her would discover where she
was. If they did, she could not follow him through the shoal passage. If
she got out her boats again, he could run off to the northward under the
foresail. All he had to do was to watch and wait.

He had still a considerable supply of ham and hard-bread and cheese in
the cabin; and, while he watched and waited, he ate his supper. Before
he had eaten all he wanted, he saw the bow of the Sylph beyond the point
of the little island. She had stopped her screw, and this made it
evident to Dory that his uncle suspected he had gone through one of the
openings to the other side of the islands.

The skipper of the Goldwing was tired of the chase, but he did not
intend to be captured by his uncle. He could hear the escaping steam on
board of the Sylph, and he knew that she was not more than a quarter of
a mile distant from him. Captain Gildrock would get out his boats again,
and send them through the passage, where the steamer could not go.
Weighing the anchor, he stood off to the north-west under the foresail
only.

Though the wind was blowing almost a gale, the schooner went along very
well under the foresail. She had not made half a mile before Dory saw
the Sylph standing down the bay again. This movement called for
reflection on the part of the skipper. He was not quite willing to
believe that his uncle would allow himself to be caught again by the
old strategy. If she were going around to the north side of the islands,
it was a five-miles' run; and it would take her half an hour to do it.

After thinking the matter over for some time, he concluded that his
uncle was using strategy. If he was really going around the islands, he
had left the boats where they could intercept him if he resorted to the
old dodge. He decided not to be caught in any trap, and therefore he
continued on his way to the northward. Ahead of him was Wood's Island,
and he changed his course enough to carry the boat to the leeward of it.

It was getting to be quite dark, and the chase could not be continued
much longer. It was less than two miles to Wood's Island, and he was
soon up with the southern point of it. It was now too dark for him to
see the boats, if they had come through from the bay. Dead to windward
he at last discovered a green light, which he had no doubt was the
starboard signal-lantern of the Sylph.

The steamer was really going around the islands. He watched this light
with deep interest, and in a few minutes he made out the red light.
Both the port and the starboard lights were now to be seen, and this
indicated that the Sylph was coming towards him. But she was nearly
three miles distant, and at present he had nothing to fear from her.

The Goldwing was now up with the cape that extends out from the east
side of the island. For half a mile beyond it, was a shoal of rocks and
sand; so that the steamer could not come within that distance of the
shore until after she had passed this shoal. The coast-line of the
island now trended to the west. Taking another look in the direction of
the steamer, he found he could see only her red, or port, light. This
indicated that she had headed to the eastward, and was going towards the
place where Dory had anchored.

The schooner carried no lights, and it was impossible that those on
board of the Sylph had seen her in the darkness. She had gone in to the
shoals between the large island and the main shore to pick up her boats.
Dory was quite satisfied with the present aspect of his case. The
darkness would fight out the rest of the battle for him.

A quarter of a mile behind the point on Wood's Island there was a bay,
into which he ran the schooner. He hauled the centre-board entirely up,
and then worked the boat as far as he could towards the land. When she
