one at a time in a cup, and when the fat hisses put them in carefully.

Few people like “turned” fried eggs. Slip a cake-turner or spatula
under each as it cooks to keep it from sticking. They should be done in
about three minutes. Do not put in more at once than can swim in the
fat without interfering with one another.

Take up as fast as they cook, trim off ragged and rusty edges and lay
on a hot platter. Drain each to get rid of the fat, as you take it out
of the pan.

When all are dished, lay the ham or bacon neatly about the eggs like
a garnish. Pepper all lightly. Ham for this purpose should be cut in
small narrow slices.

Drop sprays of parsley on the rim of the dish.


Baked Eggs.

Put a tablespoonful of butter in a pie-plate, and set in the oven until
it melts and begins to smoke. Take it to the table and break six eggs
one by one into a cup, pouring each in turn into the melted butter
carefully. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, put a tiny bit of butter
on each and set in the oven to bake until the eggs are “set”—that is,
when the whites are firm and the yolks skimmed over, but not hard. Four
minutes in a quick oven should do this. Send to table at once.

If you have a few spoonfuls of nice chicken gravy, you can strain and
use it instead of butter.


Scalloped Eggs.

    Six eggs.

    Half a cupful of nice gravy skimmed and strained.
      Chicken, turkey, game and veal gravy are especially
      good for this purpose. Clear soup may also be used.

    Half a cupful of pounded cracker or fine dry
      bread-crumbs.

    Pepper and salt.

Pour the gravy into a pie-plate and let it get warm before putting in
the eggs as in last receipt. Pepper, salt and strew cracker crumbs
evenly over them. Bake five minutes. Serve in the pie-plate.


Dropped Eggs with White Sauce.

Drop or poach the eggs; put them on a hot, flat dish and pour over them
this sauce boiling hot.

    In a saucepan put half a cupful of boiling water.

    Two or three large spoonfuls of nice strained gravy.

    A little pepper.

    A quarter teaspoonful of salt.

When this boils stir in a heaping teaspoonful of flour wet up smoothly
with a little cold water to keep it from lumping. Stir and boil one
minute and add a tablespoonful of butter. Stir steadily two minutes
longer, add, if you like, a little minced parsley, and pour the sauce
which should be like thick cream, over the dished eggs.


Omelette.

    Six eggs.

    Four teaspoonfuls of cream.

    Half a teaspoonful salt.

    A little pepper.

    Two tablespoonfuls of butter.

Whip whites and yolks together for four minutes in a bowl with the
“Dover” egg beater. They should be thick and smooth before you beat in
cream, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a clean frying-pan, set on
one side of the stove where it will keep warm but not scorch. Pour the
beaten mixture into it and remove to a place where the fire is hotter.
As it “sets,” slip a broad knife carefully around the edges and under
it, that the butter may find its way freely to all parts of the pan.

When the middle is just set, pass a cake-turner carefully under one
half of the omelette and fold it over the other. Lay a hot platter
upside down above the doubled mass and holding frying-pan and dish
firmly, turn the latter quickly over, reversing the positions of the
two, and depositing the omelette in the dish.

Do not be mortified should you break your trial omelette. Join the bits
neatly; lay sprays of parsley over the cracks and try another soon. Be
sure it is loosened from the pan before you try to turn it out; hold
pan and dish fast in place; do not be nervous or flurried, and you will
soon catch the knack of dishing the omelette dexterously and handsomely.

I have given you ten receipts for cooking eggs. It would be easy to
furnish as many more without exhausting the list of ways of preparing
this invaluable article of food for our tables. I have selected the
methods that are at once easy and excellent, and adapted to the ability
of a class of beginners.




6

BROILED MEATS.


IT has been said that the frying-pan has ruined more American
digestions than all the other hurtful agencies combined. It
is certainly true that while the process of frying properly
performed upon certain substances does not of necessity, make them
unwholesome—the useful utensil does play altogether too important a
part in our National cookery. Broiled meats are more wholesome, more
palatable, and far more elegant. Certain things should never be fried.
That beefsteak should never make the acquaintance of the frying-pan
is a rule without an exception.

The best gridirons for private families are the light, double
“broilers,” made of tinned wire and linked together at the back with
loops of the same material. They are easily handled, turned and
cleansed, and when not in use may be hung on the wall out of the way.
It is well to have two sizes, one for large steaks, the smaller for
birds, oysters, and when there is occasion to broil a single chop or
chicken-leg for an invalid.


Beefsteak.

Never wash a steak unless it has fallen in the dirt or met with other
accident. In this case cleanse quickly in cold water and wipe perfectly
dry before cooking.

Have a clear hot fire and do not uncover that part of the stove above
it until you have adjusted the steak on the broiler. If you use the
ordinary iron gridiron, lay the meat on it the instant it goes over the
fire, but have it already warm and rub the bars with a bit of fresh
suet.

When the meat has lain over the coals two minutes and begins to
“sizzle,” turn it and let the other side cook as long. Watch it
continually and turn whenever it begins to drip. Do this quickly to
keep in the juices. If these should fall in the fire in spite of your
care, lift it for an instant and hold over a plate or dish until the
smoke is gone. Broiled meats flavored with creosote are not uncommon,
but always detestable. The knack of broiling a steak well is to turn it
so often and dexterously that it will neither be smoked nor scorched.

Ten minutes should cook it rare, if the fire is right and the steak
not very thick. Cut with a keen blade into the thickest part when the
time is up. If the heart is of a rich red-brown—not the livid purple of
uncooked flesh, carry broiler and meat to a table where stands a hot
dish. Lay the steak on this. In a saucer have a liberal tablespoonful
of butter cut into bits, and with these rub both sides of the smoking
steak, leaving unmelted pieces on the top. Sprinkle it also on both
sides with pepper and salt—about half a teaspoonful of salt and a third
as much pepper for a large steak. All this must be done quickly.
Before you begin to cook the steak, prepare the butter and measure the
salt and pepper. Cover the dish closely. If you have not a block-tin
dish-cover, lay over the steak another dish, made very hot in the oven,
and set both with the meat between them in the plate-warmer, or in an
open oven, or somewhere where it will keep hot for three minutes.

Serve—i. e. put on the table—as hot as possible and on warm plates.
Unless you have a hot water dish, do not send the steak into the
dining-room until all have taken their places.

Sometimes steak is tough. You shake your head over it as it comes from
the butcher’s basket. I know of an enterprising meat merchant who
objected to a wealthy customer because he would have choice cuts. He
was willing to pay double for them, but as the worthy seller observed:
“We must sell second-best cuts, and he’d ought to take his turn.”
