

When they got aboard the king went for me, and shook me by the collar,
and says:

"Tryin' to give us the slip, was ye, you pup! Tired of our company,
hey?"

I says:

"No, your majesty, we warn't-- please  don't, your majesty!"

"Quick, then, and tell us what  was  your idea, or I'll shake the
insides out o' you!"

"Honest, I'll tell you everything just as it happened, your majesty.
The man that had a-holt of me was very good to me, and kept saying he
had a boy about as big as me that died last year, and he was sorry to
see a boy in such a dangerous fix; and when they was all took by
surprise by finding the gold, and made a rush for the coffin, he lets
go of me and whispers, 'Heel it now, or they'll hang ye, sure!' and I
lit out. It didn't seem no good for  me  to stay--I couldn't do
nothing, and I didn't want to be  hung  if I could get away. So I
never stopped running till I found the canoe; and when I got here I
told Jim to hurry, or they'd catch me and hang me yet, and said I was
afeard you and the duke wasn't alive now, and I was awful sorry, and
so was Jim, and was awful glad when we see you coming; you may ask Jim
if I didn't." Jim said it was so; and the king told him to shut up,
and said, "Oh, yes, it's  mighty  likely!" and shook me up again, and
said he reckoned he'd drownd me. But the duke says:

"Leggo the boy, you old idiot! Would  you  'a' done any different?
Did you inquire around for  him  when you got loose? I don't remember
it."

So the king let go of me, and begun to cuss that town and everybody in
it. But the duke says:

"You better a blame' sight give  yourself  a good cussing, for you're
the one that's entitled to it most. You hain't done a thing from the
start that had any sense in it, except coming out so cool and cheeky
with that imaginary blue-arrow mark. That  was  bright--it was right
down bully; and it was the thing that saved us. For if it hadn't been
for that they'd 'a' jailed us till them Englishmen's baggage come--and
then--the penitentiary, you bet! But that trick took 'em to the
graveyard, and the gold done us a still bigger kindness; for if the
excited fools hadn't let go all holts and made that rush to get a look
we'd 'a' slept in our cravats to-night--cravats warranted to  wear,
too--longer than  we'd  need 'em."

They was still a minute--thinking; then the king says, kind of
absent-minded like:

"Mf! And we reckoned the  niggers  stole it!"

That made me squirm!

"Yes," says the duke, kinder slow and deliberate and sarcastic, " we 
did."

After about a half a minute the king drawls out:

"Leastways, I did."

The duke says, the same way:

"On the contrary,  I  did."

The king kind of ruffles up, and says:

"Looky here, Bilgewater, what'r you referrin' to?" The duke says,
pretty brisk:

"When it comes to that, maybe you'll let me ask what was  you 
referring to?"

"Shucks!" says the king, very sarcastic; "but  I  don't know--maybe
you was asleep, and didn't know what you was about."

The duke bristles up now, and says:

"Oh, let  up  on this cussed nonsense; do you take me for a blame'
fool? Don't you reckon I know who hid that money in that coffin?"

" Yes, sir! I know you  do  know, because you done it yourself!"

"It's a lie!"--and the duke went for him. The king sings out:

"Take y'r hands off!--leggo my throat!--I take it all back!"

The duke says:

"Well, you just own up, first, that you  did  hide that money there,
intending to give me the slip one of these days, and come back and dig
it up, and have it all to yourself."

"Wait jest a minute, duke--answer me this one question, honest and
fair; if you didn't put the money there, say it, and I'll b'lieve you,
and take back everything I said."

"You old scoundrel, I didn't, and you know I didn't. There, now!"

"Well, then, I b'lieve you. But answer me only jest this one more--now
 don't  git mad; didn't you have it in your mind to hook the money and
hide it?"

The duke never said nothing for a little bit; then he says:

"Well, I don't care if I  did, I didn't  do  it, anyway. But you not
only had it in mind to do it, but you  done  it."

"I wisht I never die if I done it, duke, and that's honest. I won't
say I warn't goin' to do it, because I  was ; but you--I mean
somebody--got in ahead o' me."

"It's a lie! You done it, and you got to  say  you done it, or--"

The king began to gurgle, and then he gasps out:

"'Nough!--I  own up! "

I was very glad to hear him say that; it made me feel much more easier
than what I was feeling before. So the duke took his hands off and
says:

"If you ever deny it again I'll drown you. It's  well  for you to set
there and blubber like a baby--it's fitten for you, after the way
you've acted. I never see such an old ostrich for wanting to gobble
everything--and I a-trusting you all the time, like you was my own
father. You ought to been ashamed of yourself to stand by and hear it
saddled on to a lot of poor niggers, and you never say a word for 'em.
It makes me feel ridiculous to think I was soft enough to  believe 
that rubbage. Cuss you, I can see now why you was so anxious to make
up the deffisit--you wanted to get what money I'd got out of the
'None-such' and one thing or another, and scoop it  all! "

The king says, timid, and still a-snuffling:

"Why, duke, it was you that said make up the deffersit; it warn't me."

"Dry up! I don't want to hear no more out of you!" says the duke. "And
 now  you see what you  got  by it. They've got all their own money
back, and all of  ourn  but a shekel or two  besides . G'long to bed,
and don't you deffersit  me  no more deffersits, long 's  you  live!"

So the king sneaked into the wigwam and took to his bottle for
comfort, and before long the duke tackled  his  bottle; and so in
about a half an hour they was as thick as thieves again, and the
tighter they got the lovinger they got, and went off a-snoring in each
other's arms. They both got powerful mellow, but I noticed the king
didn't get mellow enough to forget to remember to not deny about
hiding the money-bag again. That made me feel easy and satisfied. Of
course when they got to snoring we had a long gabble, and I told Jim
everything.




CHAPTER XXXI


We dasn't stop again at any town for days and days; kept right along
down the river. We was down south in the warm weather now, and a
mighty long ways from home. We begun to come to trees with Spanish
moss on them, hanging down from the limbs like long, gray beards. It
was the first I ever see it growing, and it made the woods look solemn
and dismal. So now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger, and
they begun to work the villages again.

First they done a lecture on temperance; but they didn't make enough
for them both to get drunk on. Then in another village they started a
dancing-school; but they didn't know no more how to dance than a
kangaroo does; so the first prance they made the general public jumped
in and pranced them out of town. Another time they tried to go at
yellocution; but they didn't yellocute long till the audience got up
and give them a solid good cussing, and made them skip out. They
tackled missionarying, and mesmerizing, and doctoring, and telling
fortunes, and a little of everything; but they couldn't seem to have
no luck. So at last they got just about dead broke, and laid around
the raft as she floated along, thinking and thinking, and never saying
