well as studied much.

"You Massachusetts girls are always raving about self-culture, and ready
for queer new ways. I'm contented with the old ones, and want to be let
alone and finished off easily," said Nelly, the pretty New Yorker.

"Well, I go with Sally, and want to get all I can in the way of health,
learning, and manners while I'm here; and I'm real glad Miss Orne has
come, for Madame's old-fashioned, niminy priminy ways did fret me
dreadfully. Miss Orne is more like our folks out West,--spry and strong
and smart, see if she isn't," said Julia, with a decided nod of her
auburn head.

"There she is now! Girls, she's running! actually trotting up the
avenue--not like a hen, but a boy--with her elbows down and her head up.
Do come and see!" cried Kitty, dancing about at the window as if she
longed to go and do likewise.

All ran in time to see a tall young lady come up the wide path at a good
pace, looking as fresh and blithe as the goddess of health, as she
smiled and nodded at them, so like a girl that all returned her salute
with equal cordiality.

"She gives a new sort of interest to the old treadmill, doesn't she?"
said Nelly, as they scattered to their places at the stroke of nine,
feeling unusually anxious to appear well before the new teacher.

While they pull down their jerseys and take up their books, we will
briefly state that Madame Stein's select boarding-school had for many
years received six girls at a time, and finished them off in the old
style. Plenty of French, German, music, painting, dancing, and
deportment turned out well-bred, accomplished, and amiable young ladies,
ready for fashionable society, easy lives, and entire dependence on
other people. Dainty and delicate creatures usually, for, as in most
schools of this sort, minds and manners were much cultivated, but bodies
rather neglected. Heads and backs ached, dyspepsia was a common ailment,
and poorlies of all sorts afflicted the dear girls, who ought not to
have known what "nerves" meant, and should have had no bottles in their
closets holding wine and iron, cough mixtures, soothing drops and
cod-liver oil for weak lungs. Gymnastics had once flourished, but the
fashion had gone by, and a short walk each day was all the exercise they
took, though they might have had glorious romps in the old coach-house
and bowling-alley in bad weather, and lovely rambles about the spacious
grounds; for the house was in the suburbs, and had once been a fine
country mansion. Some of the liveliest girls did race down the avenue
now and then, when Madame was away, and one irrepressible creature had
actually slid down the wide balusters, to the horror of the entire
household.

In cold weather all grew lazy and cuddled under blankets and around
registers, like so many warmth-loving pussies,--poor Madame's rheumatism
making her enjoy a hot-house temperature and indulge the girls in
luxurious habits. Now she had been obliged to give up entirely and take
to her bed, saying, with the resignation of an indolent nature:--

"If Anna Orne takes charge of the school I shall feel no anxiety. She
is equal to anything."

She certainly looked so as she came into the school-room ready for her
day's work, with lungs full of fresh air, brain stimulated by sound
sleep, wholesome exercise, and a simple breakfast, and a mind much
interested in the task before her. The girls' eyes followed her as she
took her place, involuntarily attracted by the unusual spectacle of a
robust woman. Everything about her seemed so fresh, harmonious, and
happy, that it was a pleasure to see the brilliant color in her cheeks,
the thick coils of glossy hair on her spirited head, the flash of white
teeth as she spoke, and the clear, bright glance of eyes both keen and
kind. But the most admiring glances were on the dark-blue jersey that
showed such fine curves of the broad shoulders, round waist, and plump
arms, without a wrinkle to mar its smooth perfection.

Girls are quick to see what is genuine, to respect what is strong, and
to love what is beautiful; so before that day was over, Miss Orne had
charmed them all; for they felt that she was not only able to teach but
to help and amuse them.

After tea the other teachers went to their rooms, glad to be free from
the chatter of half a dozen lively tongues; but Miss Orne remained in
the drawing-room, and set the girls to dancing till they were tired,
then gathered them round the long table to do what they liked till
prayer-time. Some had novels, others did fancy-work or lounged, and all
wondered what the new teacher would do next.

Six pairs of curious eyes were fixed upon her, as she sat sewing on some
queer bits of crash, and six lively fancies vainly tried to guess what
the articles were, for no one was rude enough to ask. Presently she
tried on a pair of mittens, and surveyed them with satisfaction, saying
as she caught Kitty staring with uncontrollable interest:--

"These are my beautifiers, and I never like to be without them."

"Are they to keep your hands white?" asked Maud, who spent a good deal
of time in caring for her own. "I wear old kid gloves at night after
cold-creaming mine."

"I wear these for five minutes night and morning, for a good rub, after
dipping them in cold water. Thanks to these rough friends, I seldom feel
the cold, get a good color, and keep well," answered Miss Orne,
polishing up her smooth cheek till it looked like a rosy apple.

"I'd like the color, but not the crash. Must it be so rough, and with
cold water?" asked Maud, who often privately rubbed her pale face with
a bit of red flannel, rouge being forbidden except for theatricals.

"Best so; but there are other ways to get a color. Run up and down the
avenue three or four times a day, eat no pastry, and go to bed early,"
said Miss Orne, whose sharp eye had spied out the little weaknesses of
the girls, and whose kind heart longed to help them at once.

"It makes my back ache to run, and Madame says we are too old now."

"Never too old to care for one's health, my dear. Better run now than
lie on a sofa by and by, with a back that never stops aching."

"Do you cure your headaches in that way?" asked Nelly, rubbing her
forehead wearily.

"I never have them;" and Miss Orne's bright eyes were full of pity for
all pain.

"What do you do to help it?" cried Nelly, who firmly believed that it
was inevitable.

"I give my brain plenty of rest, air, and good food. I never know I have
any nerves, except in the enjoyment they give me, for I have learned how
to use them. I was not brought up to believe that I was born an
invalid, and was taught to understand the beautiful machinery God gave
me, and to keep it religiously in order."

Miss Orne spoke so seriously that there was a brief pause in which the
girls were wishing that some one had taught them this lesson and made
them as strong and lovely as their new teacher.

"If crash mittens would make my jersey set like yours I'd have a pair at
once," said Cordy, sadly eyeing the buttons on her own, which seemed in
danger of flying off if their plump wearer moved too quickly.

"Brisk runs are what you want, and less confectionery, sleep, and
lounging in easy chairs;" began Miss Orne, all ready to prescribe for
these poor girls, the most important part of whose education had been so
neglected.

"Why, how did you know?" said Cordy, blushing, as she bounced out of her
luxurious seat and whisked into her pocket the paper of chocolate creams
she was seldom without.

Her round eyes and artless surprise set the others to laughing, and gave
Sally courage to ask what she wanted, then and there.

"Miss Orne, I wish you would show us how to be strong and hearty, for I
do think girls are a feeble set now-a-days. We certainly need stirring
up, and I hope you will kindly do it. Please begin with me, then the
others will see that I mean what I say."

Miss Orne looked up at the tall, overgrown girl who stood before her,
with broad forehead, near-sighted eyes, and narrow chest of a student;
not at all what a girl of seventeen should be, physically, though a
clear mind and a brave spirit shone in her clever face and sounded in
her resolute voice.

"I shall very gladly do what I can for you, my dear. It is very simple,
and I am sure that a few months of my sort of training will help you
much; for you are just the kind of girl who should have a strong body,
to keep pace with a very active brain," answered Miss Orne, taking
Sally's thin, inky fingers in her own, with a friendly pressure that
showed her good will.

"Madame says violent exercise is not good for girls, so we gave up
gymnastics long ago," said Maud, in her languid voice, wishing that
Sally would not suggest disagreeable things.

"One does not need clubs, dumb bells, and bars for my style of exercise.
Let me show you;" and rising, Miss Orne went through a series of
energetic but graceful evolutions, which put every muscle in play
without great exertion.

"That looks easy enough," began Nelly.

"Try it," answered Miss Orne, with a sparkle of fun in her blue eyes.

