rose quickly and went out. A thought had struck her and she at once put
into execution the plan it suggested.

She took a parasol and went out of the hotel, hatless and gloveless,
into the garden of orange trees which lies between the buildings and the
gate. She strolled leisurely along the path towards the exit, on one
side of which is the porter's lodge, while the little square stone box
of a building which is the telegraph office stands on the other. She
knew that just before twelve o'clock Ruggiero and his brother were
generally seated on the bench before the lodge waiting for orders for
the afternoon. As she expected, she found them, and she beckoned to
Ruggiero and turned back under the trees. In an instant he was at her
side. She was startled to see how pale he was and how suddenly his face
seemed to have grown thin. She stopped and he stood respectfully before
her, cap in hand, looking down.

"Ruggiero," she said, "will you do me a service?"

"Yes, Excellency."

"Yes, I know--but it is something especial. You must tell no one--not
even your brother."

"Speak, Excellency--not even the stones shall hear it."

"I want you to find out at the telegraph office whether your master has
sent a telegram anywhere this morning. Can you ask the man and bring me
word here? I will walk about under the trees."

"At once, Excellency."

He turned and left her, and she strolled up the path. She wondered a
little why she was doing this underhand thing. It was not like her, and
whatever answer Ruggiero brought her she would gain nothing by it. If
San Miniato had spoken the truth, then he had really believed the
engagement already binding, as her mother had said. If he had lied, that
would not prevent his really telegraphing within the next half hour,
and matters would be in just the same situation with a slight difference
of time. She would, indeed, in this latter case, have a fresh proof of
his duplicity. But she needed none, as it seemed to her. It was enough
that he should have acted his comedy last night and got by a stratagem
what he could never have by any other means. Ruggiero returned after two
or three minutes.

"Well?" inquired Beatrice.

"He sent one at nine o'clock this morning, Excellency."

For one minute their eyes met. Ruggiero's were fierce, bright and clear.
Beatrice's own softened almost imperceptibly under his glance. If she
had seen herself at that moment she would have noticed that the hard
look she had observed in her own face had momentarily vanished, and that
she was her gentle self again.

"One only?" she asked.

"Only one, Excellency. No one will know that I have asked, for the man
will not tell."

"Are you sure? What did you say to him? Tell me."

"I said to him, 'Don Gennaro, I am the Conte di San Miniato's sailor.
Has the Conte sent any telegram this morning, to any one, anywhere?'
Then he shook his head; but he looked into his book and said, 'He sent
one to Florence at nine o'clock.' Then I said, 'I thank you, Don
Gennaro, and I will do you a service when I can.' That was for good
manners. Then I said, 'Don Gennaro, please not to tell any one that I
asked the question, and if you tell any one I will make you die an evil
death, for I will break all your bones and moreover drown you in the
sea, and go to the galleys very gladly.' Then Don Gennaro said that he
would not tell. And here I am, Excellency."

In spite of all she was suffering, Beatrice laughed at Ruggiero's
account of the interview. It was quite evident that Ruggiero had
repeated accurately every word that had been spoken, and he looked the
man to execute the threat without the slightest hesitation. Beatrice
wondered how the telegraph official had taken it.

"What did Don Gennaro do when you frightened him, Ruggiero?" she asked.

"He said he would not tell and got a little white, Excellency. But he
will say nothing, and will not complain to the syndic, because he knows
my brother."

"What has that to do with it?" asked Beatrice with some curiosity.

"It is natural, Excellency. For if Don Gennaro went to the syndic and
said, 'Signor Sindaco, Ruggiero of the Children of the King has
threatened to kill me,' then the syndic would send for the gendarmes and
say, 'Take that Ruggiero of the Children of the King and put him in, as
we say, and see that he does not run away, for he will do a hurt to
somebody.' And perhaps they would catch me and perhaps they would not.
Then Bastianello, my brother, would wait in the road in the evening for
Don Gennaro, and would lay a hand on him, perhaps, or both. And I think
that Don Gennaro would rather be dead in his telegraph office than alive
in Bastianello's hands, because Bastianello is very strong in his hands,
Excellency. And that is all the truth."

"But I do not understand it all, Ruggiero, though I see what you mean. I
am afraid it is your language that is different from mine."

"It is natural, Excellency," answered the sailor, a deep blush spreading
over his white forehead as he stood bareheaded before her. "You are a
great lady and I am only an ignorant seaman."

"I do not mean anything of the sort, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quickly,
for she saw that she had unintentionally hurt him, and the thought
pained her strongly. "You speak very well and I have always understood
you perfectly. But you spoke of the King's Children and I could not make
out what they had to do with the story."

"Oh, if it is that, Excellency, I ask your pardon. I do not wonder that
you did not understand. It is my name, Excellency."

"Your name? Still I do not understand---"

"I have no other name but that--dei figli del RÃ¨--" said Ruggiero. "That
is all."

"How strange!" exclaimed Beatrice.

"It is the truth, Excellency, and to show you that it is the truth here
is my seaman's license."

He produced a little flat parchment case from his pocket, untied the
thong and showed Beatrice the first page on which, was inscribed his
name in full.

"Ruggiero of the Children of the King, son of the late Ruggiero, native
of Verbicaro, province of Calabria--you see, Excellency. It is the
truth."

"I never doubt anything you say, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quietly.

"I thank you, Excellency," answered the sailor, blushing this time with
pleasure. "For this and all your Excellency's kindness."

What a man he was she thought, as he stood there before her, bareheaded
in the sun-shot shade under the trees, the light playing upon his fair
hair and beard, and his blue eyes gleaming like drops from the sea! What
boys and dwarfs other men looked beside him!

"Do you know how your family came by that strange name, Ruggiero?" she
asked.

"No, Excellency. But they tell so many silly stories about us in
Verbicaro. That is in Calabria where I and my brother were born. And
when our mother, blessed soul, was dying--good health to your
Excellency--she blessed us and said this to us. 'Ruggiero, Sebastiano,
dear sons, you could not save me and I am going. God bless you,' said
she. 'Our Lady help you. Remember, you are the Children of the King.'
Then she said, 'Remember' again, as though she would say something more.
But just at that very moment Christ took her, and she did not speak
again, for she was dead--good health to your Excellency for a thousand
years. And so it was."

"And what happened then?" asked Beatrice, strangely interested and
charmed by the man's simple story.

"Then we beat Don Pietro Casale, Excellency, and spoiled all his face
and head. We were little boys, twelve and ten years old, but there was
the anger to give us strength. And so we ran away from Verbicaro,
because we had no one and we had to eat, and had beaten Don Pietro
Casale, who would have had us put in prison if he had caught us. But
thanks to Heaven we had good legs. And so we ran away, Excellency."

"It is very interesting. But what were those stories they told about you
in Verbicaro?"

"Silly stories, Excellency. They say that once upon a time King Roger
came riding by with all his army and many knights; and all armed
because there was war. And he took Verbicaro from the Turks and gave it
to a son of his who was called the Son of the King, as I would give
Bastianello half a cigar or a pipe of tobacco in the morning--it is true
he always has his own--and so the Son of the King stayed in that place
and lived there, and I have heard old men say that when their
fathers--who were also old, Excellency--were boys, many houses in
Verbicaro belonged to the Children of the King. But then they ate
everything and we have had nothing but these two hands and these two
arms and now we go about seeking to eat. But thanks to Heaven--and
