to whom faith and the knowledge that comes by way of it were the leaves
of an abandoned text-book.  For so many years had the tenets of the
Christian religion been put out of my practical life, even as I put
aside the opinions of the laity concerning the treatment of disease,
that I do not over-emphasize; I speak the simplest truth in saying that
my first experience of death had not in any sense revived the vividness
of lost belief to me.  As the old life had ended had the new begun.
Where the tree had fallen it did lie.  What was habit before death was
habit after.  What was natural then was natural now.  What I loved
living I loved dead.  That which interested Esmerald Thorne the man
interested Esmerald Thorne the spirit.  The incident of death had
raised the temperature of intellect; it had, perhaps, I may say, by
this time quickened the pulse of conscience; but it had in no wise
wrought any miracle upon me, nor created a religious believer out of a
worldly and indifferent man of science.  Dying had not forthwith made
me a devout person.  Incredible as it may seem, it is the truth that up
to this time I had not, since the moment of dissolution, put to myself
the solemn queries concerning my present state which occupy the
imaginations of the living so much, while yet death is a fact remote
from their experience.

It was the habit of long years with me, after the manner of my kind, to
settle all hard questions by a few elastic phrases, which, once
learned, are curiously pliable to the intellectual touch.  "Phenomena,"
for instance,--how plastic to cover whatever one does not understand!
"Law,"--how ready to explain away the inexplicable!  Up to this point
death had struck me as a most unfortunate phenomenon.  Its personal
disabilities I found it easy to attribute to some natural law with
which my previous education had left me unfamiliar.  Now, standing
baffled there in that incredible manner half of tragedy, half of the
absurd,--even the petty element of the undignified in the position
adding to my distress,--a houseless, homeless, outcast spirit, struck
still in the heart of that great town, where in hundreds of homes was
weeping for me, where I was beloved and honoured and bemoaned, and
where my own wife at that hour broke her heart with sorrow for me and
for the manner of my parting from her,--then and there to be beaten
back, and battered down, and tossed like an atom in some primeval
flood, whithersoever I would not,--what a situation was this!

Now, indeed, I think for the first time, my soul lifted itself, as a
sick man lifts himself upon his elbows, in his painful bed.  Now,
flashing straight back upon the outburst of my defiance and despair,
like the reflex action of a strong muscle, there came into my mind, if
not into my heart, these impulsive and entreating words:--

"What art Thou, who dost withstand me?  I am a dead and helpless man.
What wouldst Thou with me?  Where gainest Thou Thy force upon me?  Art
Thou verily that ancient Myth which we were wont to call Almighty God?"

Simultaneously with the utterance of these words that blast of Will to
which I have referred fell heavily upon me.  A Power not myself
overshadowed me and did environ me.  Guided whithersoever I would not,
I passed forth upon errands all unknown to me, rebelling and obeying as
I went.

"I am become what we used to call a spirit," I thought, bitterly, "and
this is what it means.  Better might one become a molecule, for those,
at least, obey the laws of the universe, and do not suffer."

Now, as I took my course, it being ordered on me, it led me past the
door of a certain open church, whence the sound of singing issued.  The
finest choir in the city, famous far and near, were practising for the
Sunday service, and singing like the sons of God, indeed, as I passed
by.  With the love of the scientific temperament for harmony alert in
me, I lingered to listen to the anthem which these singers were
rendering in their customary great manner.  With the instinct of the
musically educated, I felt pleasure in this singing, and said:--

"Magnificently done!" as I went on.  It was some moments before the
words which the choir sang assumed any vividness in my mind.  When they
did I found that they were these;--

"For God is a Spirit.  God is a Spirit: and they that worship Him must
worship Him in spirit"--


Now it fell out that my steps were directed to the hospital; and to the
hospital I straightway went.  I experienced some faint comfort at this
improvement in my lot, and hurried up the avenue and up the steps and
into the familiar wards with eagerness.  All the impulses of the healer
were alive in me.  I felt it a mercy for my nature to be at its own
again.  I hastened in among my sick impetuously.

The hospital had been a favourite project of mine; from its start,
unreasonably dear to me.  Through the mounting difficulties which
blockade such enterprises, I had hewn and hacked, I had fathered and
doctored, I had trusteed and collected, I had subscribed and directed
and persisted and prophesied and fulfilled, as one ardent person must
in most humanitarian successes; and I had loved the success
accordingly.  I do not think it had ever once occurred to me to
question myself as to the chemical proportions of my motives in this
great and popular charity.  Now, as I entered the familiar place, some
query of this nature did indeed occupy my mind; it had the strangeness
of all mental experiences consequent upon my new condition, and
somewhat, if I remember, puzzled me.

The love of healing?  The relief of suffering?  Sympathy with the
wretched?  Chivalry for the helpless?  Generosity to the poor?
Friendship to the friendless?  Were these the motives, all the motives,
the whole motives, of him who had in my name ministered in that place
so long?  Even the love of science?  Devotion to a therapeutic creed?
Sacrifice for a surgical doctrine?  Enthusiasm for an important
professional cause?  Did these, and only these, sources of conduct
explain the great hospital?  Or the surgeon who had created and
sustained it?

Where did the motive deteriorate?  Where did the alloy come in?  How
did the sensitiveness to self, the passion for fame, the joy of power,
amalgamate with all that noble feeling?  How much residuum was there in
the solution of that absorption which (outside of my own home) I had
thought the purest and highest of my interests in life?

For the first of all the uncounted times that I had entered the
hospital for now these many years, I crossed the threshold questioning
myself in this manner, and doubting of my fitness to be there, or to be
what I had been held to be in that place.  Life had carried me gaily
and swiftly, as it carries successful men.  I had found no time, or
made none, to cross-question the sources of conduct.  My success had
been my religion.

I had the conviction of a prosperous person that the natural emotions
of prosperity were about right.  Added to this was something of the
physician's respect for what was healthful in human life.  Good luck,
good looks, good nerves, a good income, an enviable reputation for
professional skill, personal popularity, and private happiness,--these
things had struck me as so wholesome that they must be admirable.
Behind the painted screen which a useful and successful career sets
before the souls of men I had been too busy or too light of heart to
peer.  Now it was as if, in the act or the fact of dying, I had moved a
step or two, and looked over the edge of the bright shield.

Thoughts like these came to me so quietly and so naturally, now, that I
wondered why I had not been familiar with them before; it even occurred
to me that being very busy did not wholly excuse a live man for not
thinking; and it was something in the softened spirit of this strange
humility that I opened the noiseless door, and found myself among my
old patients in the large ward.

Never before had I entered that sad place that the electric thrill of
welcome, which only a physician knows, had not pulsated through it,
preceding me, from end to end of the long room.  The peculiar
lighting of the ward that flashes with the presence of a favourite
doctor; the sudden flexible smile on pain-pinched lips; the yearning
motion of the eyes in some helpless body where only the eyes can stir;
the swift stretching-out of wasted hands; the half-inaudible cry of
welcome: "The doctor's come!" "Oh, there's the doctor!"  "Why, it's the
doctor!"--the loving murmur of my name; the low prayer of blessing on
it,--oh, never before had I entered my hospital, and missed the least
of these.

I thought I was prepared for this, but it was not without a shock that
I stood among my old patients, mute and miserable, glancing piteously
at them, as they had so often done at me; seeking for their
recognition, which I might not have; longing for their welcome, which
was not any more for me.

The moans of pain, the querulous replies to nurses, the weary cough or
plethoric breathing, the feeble convalescent laughter,--these greeted
me; and only these.  Like the light that entered at the window, or the
air that circulated through the ward, I passed unnoticed and unthanked.
Some one called out petulantly that a door had got unfastened, and bade
a nurse go shut it, for it blew on her.  But when I came up to the
bedside of this poor woman, I saw that she was crying.

"She's cried herself half-dead," a nurse said, complainingly.  "Nobody
can stop her.  She's taking on so for Dr. Thorne."

"I don't blame her," said a little patient from a wheeled-chair.
"Everybody knows what he did for her.  She's got one of her
attacks,--and look at her!  There can't anybody but him stop it.
Whatever we're going to do without the doctor"--

Her own lip quivered, though she was getting well.

"I don't see how the doctor could die!" moaned the very sick woman,
weeping afresh, "when there's those that nobody but him can keep alive.
It hadn't oughter to be let to be.  How are sick folks going to get
along without their doctor?  It ain't right!"

"Lord have mercy on ye, poor creetur," said an old lady from the
