land; but I will be shot if it is sweet and decorous to marry for it.
And practically that is what it amounts to. Men marry for the sake of
others, rarely for their own, and as for women, whatever their reasons
may be, plaudite sed cavite, cives! Eden, I am positive, married out
of pique. It is nonsense to think that she could have any large
affection for a man twice her age; and now that she is not only tired of
him, but hates him to boot, he ought to be gentlemanly enough not to
play the dog in the manger. No, it isn't that. I will admit that he is
well enough in his way, provided that way is out of mine. The difficulty
is that he doesn't seem to keep out of hers. Major premiss,
then--Eden-hates Usselex. Minor premiss--Usselex keeps her from me.
Ergo. Eliminate Usselex, and she is mine. The logic of that is
admirable; the only fault with it is that it doesn't give a hint as to
the manner in which Usselex is to be eliminated. He may eliminate
himself, it is true; but that is a possibility that it is hardly worth
while to count on. And, meanwhile, I know Eden well enough to be aware
that until he does she will decline to listen to me."

Maule had reached the upper part of the Avenue. The night was chill and
clear as our December nights are apt to be. There was a foretaste of
snow in the air, and in that foretaste a tonic. And suddenly the
cathedral loomed, huge, yet unsteepled, as though the designers had lost
heart in its carcass and faith as well. The sky seemed remote and
unneighborly. In the background the moon glinted in derision, and
directly overhead was a splatter of callous stars.

The scene did not divert the channel of his thoughts. He walked steadily
on, leaving behind him the dogma that time had fossilized and man had
forgot. He was indifferent to creeds. The apathy of the stars told him
nothing of worlds to which our own is unknown. In the derision of the
moon he did not see the sneer of a sphere that is dead. The foretaste of
snow in the air brought him no memory of the summer that had gone, and
when he reached the park the leafless trees that spring would regarment
left him unimpressed. The identity of birth and death, the aimlessness
of all we undertake, were matters to which he had never given a thought.
And had the beggar who presently accosted him been a thinker capable of
explaining that life is an exhalation, that we respire, aspire, and
expire, unconscious as is the tree of the futility of it all, Dugald
Maule would have dismissed him with the same indifferent shrug. He was
instinct with aims that end with self. His mind was centered on Eden,
and until he solved the problem she had suggested, he had no thought of
time that life devours or of time that devours life.

And as he tried to devise some form of campaign, suddenly he was visited
by an idea which he grasped and detained. It was, that if Eden hated her
husband a cause for that hatred must exist, and could he but discover it
he would then have something tangible wherewith to work. Certainly, he
told himself, it could not be money; nor did Usselex look like a man
that drank. "I wonder," he mused, "whether it can be that he treats her
badly. H'm. I know very little about Usselex. He may be Chesterfield one
hour and Sykes the next. There are plenty of men of that stamp. If he
is, that poor little thing deserves consolation. No, it can hardly be
that--Eden is too high-spirited to submit to brutality. She would leave
him at once, and everyone would approve. Whereas, if Usselex has got
himself entangled by some woman, Eden, out of sheer pride, would remain
where she is. Nothing can be more galling than the pity which is
manifested for a woman whose husband disports himself abroad. It is
shameful, the world says; and inwardly the world thinks, when a woman
wins a man and fails to hold him, the fault is not his, but hers. Eden
understands that, of course, and if there is a woman in the matter, that
is the reason why she continues to reside on the sunnyside of Fifth
Avenue. But then, it may not be that. I may be miles away. Though if it
is, nothing could be more favorable. It would be becoming of Eden to
keep her misfortune to herself, but it would be unwomanly on her part
not to desire revenge; and what better revenge could she have against
the man whom she married out of pique than in the arms of the man by
whom that pique was excited? But, bah! All this is pure conjecture. I
haven't a fact to go on. I know little or nothing of Usselex, and I
doubt very much whether Eden would be willing to supply me with any
information. The only thing for me to do is to cull a few facts, season
them to suit her taste, and serve hot. At this stage a false step would
be fatal. I must be careful of my cookery. To-morrow, in the absence of
facts, I will see what I can do in the way of condiments; et alors, en
route pour Cyth√®re."

So mused Mr. Maule; then, having reached the end of his tether, he
turned back again in the direction of his home.

The next morning, however, the plan of campaign which he had been
devising was not a whit more tangible to him than it had been during his
midnight stroll. He drank some coffee hopefully, and tried to lose
himself in a damp copy of the Times. But in vain. The coffee brought
him no comfort, and through the columns of the paper came the sultriness
of Eden's eyes. The obituary of a famous general failed to detain his
attention. The intelligence that an emperor was moribund lent no zest
to the day. Mechanically his eyes scanned the Court Calendar; a case in
which he was to appear was numbered therein, but he let it pass
unnoticed. And presently, finding himself occupied in memorizing the
advertisement of a new soap, he tossed the paper from him and started on
his way down town.

It was late when he reached his office. In the corner of the room a fat
little man sat patiently twirling his thumbs, and on a desk were a
number of letters.

"What do you want?" Maule asked. His voice was gruff and inhospitable.

The fat little man started, and then fumbled in a pocket. "Dere was dot
morhgige----" he began.

"Come again, then," Maule interrupted; "I am busy."

"Dot morhgige--" the little man persisted.

"Go to hell with your mortgage," Maule shouted, and slammed a door in
his face.

This rite accomplished, he felt better. The brutality which he had
displayed to the corpulent dwarf pleasured him. He only regretted that
the man had not insisted further, that he might have kicked him down
the stairs. What was a mortgage to him, forsooth, when he had Eden for a
goal? The episode, trivial though it was, had stirred his pulse and left
the effect of a tonic. He smiled, and opened his letters. As he read
them his clerk appeared. With him he consulted for a minute and then
started for court. On his return there was the little fat man again, and
beating a tatoo on the window was Reginald Maule, ex-Minister to France.

"Well, Uncle Regy," he exclaimed, "how are you? Mr. Driscoll," he called
out to the clerk, "attend to that Dutch beast, will you? Uncle Regy,
step this way."

He led Mr. Maule into the inner office and graciously accepted a cigar.
He was in great good-humor again. While in court a luminous idea had
visited him, a plan of campaign which he proposed to elaborate at his
ease. It was alluring as spring, and instinct with promises of success.
Already he roamed in dreams forecast.

"Dugald," the uncle began, "I did not see you at the Matriarch's, last
night."

Until recently Maule had not seen his uncle for several years. But
during these years the uncle had not changed. He had the same agreeable
manner, the same way of seating himself, the same sarcastic fold about
his lips which Maule remembered of old. Even the cut of his waistcoat
was unaltered. Apparently nothing had happened to him; he had contented
himself with continuing to be.

"No," the nephew answered, and flicked the ashes from his cigar. "No,
something else turned up and----"

"Exactly. If I had met you there I should not have come here. Now, I
want a word with you in regard to the estate. Are you busy?" And the
ex-Minister settled himself in his chair with the air of a man confident
that, whatever else might demand attention, his own affairs would take
precedence.

Thereupon, for some little time, nephew and uncle discussed matters of
personal and common interest; and when at last these matters had been
satisfactorily determined, the afternoon had begun to wane. At last the
ex-Minister stood up to go.

"By the way," he said, his hand on the door, "who was it that Petrus
Menemon's daughter married? I looked for her last night. When I saw her
at the opera I could have sworn it was her mother. Same type, same eyes,
same carriage of the head. She made me feel twenty years younger, I give
you my word she did."

"She is pretty," Maule answered, negligently.

"Pretty? She is more intoxicating than the dream of a fallen angel. She
is better looking than her mother. Hum, hum. You don't see such women in
France. What did you say her name is?"

"She married a man named Usselex."

"Usselex? What Usselex?"

"What Usselex I can't tell you. But there seems to be only one, and she
caught him. He has more money than Incoul, Jerolomon, and Bleecker
Bleecker put together."

"You don't mean John Usselex, the banker?"

"Oh, but I do, though."

The ex-Minister opened the door and looked out into the outer room,
then, assured that no one was listening, he resumed his former seat,
crossed his legs, and meditatively beat his knee. In his face was an
expression which a psychologist would have admired, a commingling of the
vatic and the amused, accentuated by sarcasm.
