delusion of a morbid imagination. There are no men like those I have
dreamed of. The ocean rolls between the actual and the ideal.

She did Cryder some injustice in the earlier part of her meditations. He
was really very fond of her. There were many things about her that he
liked immensely. She was beautiful, she was artistic, she had a fine
mind, and, above all things, she was the fashion, and he had carried her
off. But he never rushed at a woman and kissed her the moment he entered
the room; he did not think it good taste. Moreover, she looked
particularly handsome in that black-velvet gown and stiff white ruff,
and her position in that carved, high-backed chair was superb. His eye
was too well pleased to allow the interference of his other senses.
After a time he went over and lifted her face and kissed her. She
shrugged her shoulders a little but made no resistance.

                 




                              CHAPTER XIX.


                            TASTELESS FRUIT.

She began to have an absurdly married feeling. When she had made up her
mind to drift on the wave she had chosen, she had consoled herself with
the thought that, if love was a disappointment, the situation was
romantic. By constantly reminding herself that she was the heroine of
“an experience,” she could realize in part her old wild dreams. To
create objective illusion was a task she soon renounced. No matrimonial
conditions were ever more prosaic and matter-of-fact than the various
phases of this affair.

The evenings were long and very pleasant. Cryder smoked innumerable
cigarettes in the most comfortable chair in the library, and was never
dull. Hermia began to get rather fond of him in a motherly sort of way.
One night he had a cold and she gave him a dose of quinine; occasionally
she sent him certain of her cook’s dainty concoctions. She always had a
little supper for him on his particular evenings, and took care that his
favorite dishes were prepared.

She had her intervals of disgust and fury with fate, but they were
becoming less frequent. Like all tragic and unversed women she was an
extremist. She had dreamed that life was one thing; her particular
episode had taught her that it was another. There was no medium nor
opposite pole; she had been wrong in every theory.

Ennui was her worst enemy. Sometimes she got tired of the very sound of
Cryder’s voice—it ceased so seldom. She longed for variety of any sort,
for something to assure her that she was not as flatly married as Bessie
and her husband. One day when she was more bored than usual Helen Simms
came in.

“How brilliant you look!” she exclaimed. “What is the matter with
you?”

“Ennui; life is a burden.”

“Where is Ogden Cryder? I thought he had put ennui to flight.”

“He is charming,” said Hermia, “and I am having that flirtation with him
that you advised; but even that is getting a little monotonous.”

“I will tell you what you want,” exclaimed Helen, decidedly. “You want
to see something of the champagne side of life. You have had enough of a
flirtation by a library fire in a feudal room; it is time you did
something a little more risqué! Get Mr. Cryder to take you to some
awfully wicked place to dine—some place which would mean social
ostracism were you found out—only you mustn’t be found out. There is
nothing actually wrong in it, and the danger gives one the most
delightful sensation.”

Hermia elevated her nose. “I hate anything ‘fast,’” she said. “I prefer
to keep out of that sort of atmosphere.”

“Oh, nonsense! It is the spice of life; the spice without the vulgarity.
To have all the appearance of being quite wicked, and yet to be actually
as innocent as a lamb—what more stimulating? It is the only thing which
has saved my valuable life. I always amuse myself picturing how poor
papa would look if he should suddenly descend upon me. Then after the
dinner take a drive through the park in a hansom—at midnight! You quite
feel as if you were eloping; and yet—with none of the disagreeable
consequences. You elope, and that is the end of you. You drive through
the park in a hansom, and go home and to bed like a good little girl.
The next week—you drive through the park in another hansom. Then you
feel that life is worth living. Some night you and Mr. Cryder, Mr.
Winston and myself will have a tear.”

“No!” exclaimed Hermia; “I abominate that sort of thing, and I will not
go.”

But Helen, unconsciously, had appalled her. Was there no other escape
from ennui? What a prospect! Mrs. Dykman had promised to take her to
Europe. She determined to make that lady hasten her plans and go at
once.

                 




                              CHAPTER XX.


                         A COMMONPLACE MEETING.

Quintard, after an absence of five years, had returned to New York to
find Hermia Suydam the sensation of the year. He saw her first at the
Metropolitan Opera-House, and, overhearing some people discussing her,
followed the direction of their glances. She had never looked more
radiant. Her hair shone across the house like burnished brass; her eyes
had the limpid brilliancy of emeralds, and the black lashes lay heavy
above and below them; her skin was like ivory against which pomegranate
pulp had been crushed, and her mouth was as red as a cactus-flower. Her
neck and arms and a portion of her bust were uncovered. Although it was
a first night and most of her sister belles were present, her peculiar,
somewhat barbaric beauty glittered like a planet in a firmament of
stars.

Quintard left his seat at the end of the second act and walked back and
forth in the lobby until he met Ralph Embury.

“Do you know Miss Suydam?” he asked the lively little journalist.

Embury hastened to assure him that he had the honor of Miss Suydam’s
acquaintance.

“Then introduce me,” said Quintard.

Embury went at once to ask Miss Suydam’s permission for the desired
presentation, and, returning in a few moments, told Quintard to follow
him. Cryder gave his chair to Quintard, and Hermia was very gracious.
She talked in a low, full voice as individual as her beauty—a voice
that suggested the possibility of increasing to infinite volume of
sound—a voice that might shake a hearer with its passion, or grow
hoarse as a sea in a storm. Quintard had never heard just such a voice
before, but he decided—why, he did not define—that the voice suited
its owner.

She said nothing beyond the small-talk born of the conditions of the
moment, but she gave him food for speculation, nevertheless. Had it not
been absurd, he would have said that twice a look of unmistakable terror
flashed through her eyes. She was looking steadily at him upon both
occasions—once he was remarking that he was delighted to get back to
America, and again that he had last seen Tannhäuser at Bayreuth.

He was also perplexed by a vague sense of unreality about her. What it
meant he could not define; she was not an adventuress, nor was her
beauty artificial. While he was working at his problems the curtain went
down on the third act, and she rose to go. She held out her hand to him
with a frank smile and said good-night. When she had put on her wraps
she bent her head to him again and went out of the door. Then she turned
abruptly and walked quickly back to him. The color had spread over her
face, but the expression of terror had not returned to her eyes. They
were almost defiant.

“Come and see me,” she said quickly.

He bowed. “I shall be delighted,” he murmured; but she left before he
had finished.

“She is lovely,” he thought, “but how odd! What is the matter with her?”

                 




                              CHAPTER XXI.


                           BACK TO THE PAST.

Hermia gave a little supper after the opera, and, when the last guest
had gone, she went up to her room and sank down in a heap before her
bedroom fire. As she stared at the coals, the terrified look came back
to her eyes and remained there. She had received a shock. And yet
Quintard had only uttered a dozen sentences, and these she could not
recall. And she had never seen him before. Had not she? She closed her
