"I suppose it was, captain; but we Yankees cannot very well help what
was born in our blood; and I have heard that some of your honest and
high-toned people have made bigger steals than this one. While I have
carried off only four twelve-pounders, your folks have taken entire
forts, including scores of guns of all calibres," replied Christy,
amused at the view the fat gentleman took of his operations.

"Our people took nothing that did not belong to them, for the forts were
within our territory," retorted the soldier.

  [Illustration: Captain Rowly protests.]

"That was just my case. I have the honor to be an officer of the United
States Navy, and as these guns happened to be within the territory of
our government, of course it was all right that I should take them."

"You stole the vessels after I ordered you to stop," muttered Captain
Rowly.

"Precisely so; but, being in a hurry just then, I hadn't time to stop,"
laughed Christy.

"Where are you going now? You knew I was on the deck of this schooner,
and you have brought me off here where I didn't want to come. I am not
used to the water, and I am afraid I shall get sea-sick," continued the
fat officer.

"Perhaps we may be able to provide a nurse for you if you are very
sick."

"Why don't you answer my question, and tell me where you are going?"
demanded the soldier.

"We are going out here a mile or two farther, just to take the air and
get up an appetite for breakfast."

"But I object!"

"Do you indeed?"

"And I protest!"

"Against what?"

"Against being carried off in this way. You knew I was on board of the
schooner."

"I confess that I did know you were on board, though I must add that it
was your own fault."

"I had a right on board of the vessel."

"I don't deny it. You have a sword at your side; but as you neglected to
use it, you will excuse me if I ask you to give it to me," added
Christy, reaching out for the weapon.

"Give you my sword!" exclaimed Captain Rowly.

"It is a formality rather insisted upon on such occasions as the
present."

"I don't see it."

"You don't? Then I must say that I think you are rather obtuse, Captain
Rowly, and I shall be under the painful necessity of helping you to see
it. As a prisoner of war--"

"As what?" demanded the soldier.

"I regard you as a prisoner of war, and I must trouble you to give me
your sword in token of your surrender."

"I was not taken in a battle."

"Very true; your men fought the battle after you had left them. I have
no more time to argue the question. Will you surrender your sword, or
will you have the battle now? Two or three of my men will accommodate
you with a fight on a small scale if you insist upon it."

"Don't you intend to send me back to the Keys?" asked the captain, whose
military education appeared to have been neglected, so that his ideas of
a state of war were very vague.

"I have not the remotest idea of doing anything of the sort. Your sword,
if you please."

"This sword was presented to me by the citizens of my town--"

"Here, Boxie and Lanon, relieve this gentleman of his sword," added
Christy, as he saw the young lady coming up the companion way.

"Oh, I will give it up, if you really say so; but this is a queer state
of things when my sword, presented to me by my fellow-citizens, is to be
taken from me without any warrant of law," said Captain Rowly, as he
handed the sword to Christy, who returned it when it had done its duty
as a token of submission.

The prisoner was marched to the forecastle of the Havana, and put under
guard. Christy walked towards the young lady, who had evidently dressed
herself for the occasion. She was not only young, but she was beautiful,
and the young commander of the expedition was strongly impressed by her
grace and loveliness. He had heard her speak in the gloom of the early
morning, and she had a silvery voice. He could not but wonder what she
was doing on board of a blockade runner.

"Good morning, Miss ---- I have not the pleasure of being able to call
you by name," Christy began as he touched his cap to her, and bowed his
involuntary homage.

"Miss Pembroke," she added.

"I trust you are as comfortable as the circumstances will permit, Miss
Pembroke. I hope you have ceased to be alarmed, as you were when I saw
you before."

"I am not alarmed, but I am exceedingly anxious in regard to the future,
Mr. ----"

"Mr. Passford."

"I only wish to know what is to become of us, Mr. Passford."

"You speak in the plural, Miss Pembroke, as though you were not alone."

"I am not alone, sir; my father, who is an invalid, is in the cabin. The
excitement of this morning has had a bad effect upon him."

"I am sorry to hear it. I suppose you embarked in this steamer with the
desire to reach some other place?"

"We reside in the State of New York, and all that remain of our family
are on board of this steamer, and all we desire is to get home. We have
lived two years in Southern Georgia for my father's health."

Christy thought they would be able to reach New York.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE BEARER OF DESPATCHES


Christy had assured himself that the father of the beautiful young
lady was a loyal citizen, and then he pointed out to her in what manner
they might reach their home, which was at Newburgh on the Hudson. Mr.
Pembroke was not a wealthy man, though he had the means of supporting
what was left of his family comfortably. But Christy had to ask to be
excused, as the Bronx was but a short distance from the Havana.

He directed Mr. Amblen to stop her, so as to permit the gunboat to
come alongside of her. As the Bronx came within hailing distance of
the steamer towing the schooners, a hearty cheer burst from the crew on
the forecastle of the former, for the prizes alongside of the Havana
indicated the success of the expedition. The sea was smooth, and the
naval steamer came alongside of the port schooner, and Christy, who had
put himself in position to do so as soon as he understood her intention,
sprang lightly on board of her.

Captain Blowitt was on the quarter deck, and the commander of the
expedition hastened into his presence. Of course Christy could not help
realizing that he had been successful, however the circumstances had
aided him, and he felt sure of his welcome.

The commander of the Bronx was a man that weighed two hundred pounds,
and his fat cheeks were immediately distended with laughter as soon as
he saw his executive officer hastening towards him. He almost doubled
himself up in his mirth as he looked into the young man's sober face,
for Christy was struggling to appear as dignified as the importance of
the occasion seemed to require of him. But the commander restrained
himself as much as he could, and extended his hand to the first
lieutenant, which the young man accepted, and received a pressure that
was almost enough to crush his feebler paw. In spite of himself, he
could not help laughing in sympathy with his superior.

"I am sorry you did not bring it all off with you, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Blowitt, as soon as he was able to speak, for his risibles
seemed to have obtained complete control of him.

