“Not since we were here together.”

“I thought you saw her very often. I had a note from her yesterday. I
suppose you know?”

“I know nothing. What is it?”

“Old Mr. Craik is very ill—dying, they say. She wrote to tell me so,
explaining why she had not been here.”

George’s eyes suddenly gleamed with a disagreeable light. The news was
as unexpected as it was agreeable. Not, indeed, that George could ever
hope to profit in any way by the old man’s death; for he was naturally
so generous that, if such a prospect had existed, he would have been the
last to rejoice in its realisation. He hated Thomas Craik with an honest
and disinterested hatred, and the idea the world was to be rid of him at
last was inexpressibly delightful.

“He is dying, is he?” he asked in a constrained voice.

“You seem glad to hear it,” said Constance, looking at him with some
curiosity.

“I? Yes—well, I am not exactly sorry!” His laugh was harsh and unreal.
“You could hardly expect me to shed tears—that is, if you know anything
of my father’s misfortunes.”

“Yes, I have heard something. But I am sorry that I was the person to
give you the news.”

“Why? I am grateful to you.”

“I know you are, and that is precisely what I do not like. I do not
expect you to be grieved, but I do not like to see one man so elated
over the news of another man’s danger.”

“Why not say, his death!” exclaimed George.

Constance was silent for a moment, and then looked at him as she spoke.

“I hardly know you, Mr. Wood. This is only the second time I have seen
you, and I have no right to make remarks about your character. But I
cannot help thinking—that——”

She hesitated, not as though from any embarrassment, but as if she could
not find the words she wanted. George made no attempt to help her,
though he knew perfectly well what she wanted to say. He waited coldly
to see whether she could complete her sentence.

“You ought not to think such things,” she said suddenly, “and if you do,
you ought not to show it.”

“In other words, you wish me to reform either my character or my
manners, or both? Do you know that old Tom Craik ruined my father? Do
you know that after he had done that, he let my father’s reputation
suffer, though my father was as honest as the daylight, and he himself
was the thief? That sounds very dramatic and theatrical, does it not? It
is all very true nevertheless. And yet, you expect me to be such a
clever actor as not to show my satisfaction at your news. All I can say,
Miss Fearing, is that you expect a great deal of human nature, and that
I am very sorry to be the particular individual who is fated to
disappoint your expectations.”

“Of course you feel strongly about it—I did not know all you have just
told me, or I would not have spoken. I wish every one could forgive—it
is so right to forgive.”

“Yes—undoubtedly,” assented George. “Begin by forgiving me, please, and
then tell me what is the matter with the worthy Mr. Craik.”

“Mrs. Trimm seems to think it is nervous prostration—what everybody has
nowadays.”

“Is she very much cut up?” George asked with an air of concern.

“She writes that she does not leave him.”

“Nor will—until——” George stopped short.

“What were you going to say?”

“I was going to make a remark about the human will in general and about
the wills of dying men in particular. It was very ill-natured, and in
direct contradiction to your orders.”

“I suppose she will have all his fortune in any case,” observed
Constance, repressing a smile, as though she felt that it would not suit
the tone she had taken before.

“Since you make so worldly an inquiry, I presume we may take it for
granted that the mantle of Mr. Craik’s filthy lucre will descend upon
the unwilling shoulders of Mrs. Sherrington Trimm. To be plain, Totty
will get the dollars. Well—I wish her joy. She is not acquainted with
poverty, as it is, nor was destitution ever her familiar friend.”

“Why do you affect that biblical sort of language?”

“It seems to me more forcible than swearing. Besides, you would not let
me swear, I am sure, even if I wanted to.”

“Certainly not——”

“Very well, then you must forgive the imperfections of my style in
consideration of my not doing very much worse. I think I will go and ask
how Mr. Craik is doing to-day. Would not that show a proper spirit of
charity and forgiveness?”

“I hope you will do nothing of the sort!” exclaimed Constance hastily.

“Would it not be a proof that I had profited by your instruction?”

“I think it would be very hypocritical, and not at all nice.”

“Do you? It seems to me that it would only look civil——”

“From what you told me, civility can hardly be expected from you in this
case.”

“I am not obliged to tell the servant at the door the motive of my
curiosity when I inquire after the health of a dying relation. That
would be asking too much.”

“You can inquire just as well at Mrs. Trimm’s——”

“Mr. Craik’s house is on my way home from here—Totty’s is not on the
direct line.”

“I hope you—how absurd of me, though! It is no business of mine.”

George could not say anything in reply to this statement, but an
expression of amusement came over his face, which did not escape his
companion. Constance laughed a little nervously.

“You are obliged to admit that it is none of my business, you see,” she
said.

“I am in the position of a man who cannot assent without being rude, nor
differ without impugning the known truth.”

“That was very well done, Mr. Wood,” said Constance. “I have nothing
more to say.”

“To me? Then I herewith most humbly take my leave.” George rose from his
seat.

“I did not mean that!” exclaimed the young girl with a smile. “Do not
go——”

“It is growing late, and Mr. Craik may be gathered to his fathers before
I can ring at his door and ask how he is.”

“Oh, please do not talk any more about that poor man!”

“If I stay here I shall. May I come again some day, Miss Fearing? You
bear me no malice for being afflicted with so much original sin?”

“Its originality almost makes it pardonable. Come whenever you please.
We shall always be glad to see you, and I hope that my sister will be
here the next time.”

George vaguely hoped that she would not as he bowed and left the room.
He had enjoyed the visit far more than Constance had, for whereas his
conversation had somewhat disquieted her sensitive feeling of fitness,
hers had afforded him a series of novel and delightful sensations. He
was conscious of a new interest, of a new train of thought, and
especially of an odd and inexplicable sense of physical comfort that
seemed to proceed from the region of the heart, as though his body had
been cheered, his blood warmed, and his circulation stimulated by the
assimilation of many good things. As he walked up the Avenue, he did not
ask himself whether he had produced a good or a bad impression upon Miss
Fearing, nor whether he had talked well or ill, still less whether the
young girl had liked him, though it is probable that if he had put any
of these questions to his inner consciousness that complacent witness
would, in his present mood, have answered all his inquiries in the way
most satisfactory to his vanity. For some reason or other he was not
curious to know what his inner consciousness thought of the matter. For
the moment, sensation was enough, and he was surprised to discover that
sensation could be so agreeable. He knew that he was holding his head
higher than usual, that his glance was more confident than it was wont
to be, and his step more elastic, but he did not connect any of these
