It turned out to be a letter. It was handed in at that moment, and was
received by the mother without trembling hands or feverish eagerness,
or any other of the manifestations common in the case of long delayed
answers to imperative telegrams. She polished her glasses with
tranquility and thoroughness, pleasantly gossiping along, the while,
then opened the letter and began to read aloud:



  KENILWORTH KEEP, REDGAUNTLET HALL,
  ROWENA-IVANHOE COLLEGE, THURSDAY.


  DEAR PRECIOUS MAMMA ROSSMORE:

Oh, the joy of it!--you can’t think. They had always turned up their
noses at our pretentions, you know; and I had fought back as well as I
could by turning up mine at theirs. They always said it might be
something great and fine to be the rightful Shadow of an earldom, but to
merely be shadow of a shadow, and two or three times removed at that--
pooh-pooh! And I always retorted that not to be able to show four
generations of American-Colonial-Dutch Peddler-and-Salt-Cod-McAllister-
Nobility might be endurable, but to have to confess such an origin--
pfew-few! Well, the telegram, it was just a cyclone! The messenger came
right into the great Rob Roy Hall of Audience, as excited as he could
be, singing out, “Dispatch for Lady Gwendolen Sellers!” and you ought to
have seen that simpering chattering assemblage of pinchbeck aristocrats,
turn to stone! I was off in the corner, of course, by myself--it’s where
Cinderella belongs. I took the telegram and read it, and tried to faint-
-and I could have done it if I had had any preparation, but it was all
so sudden, you know--but no matter, I did the next best thing: I put my
handkerchief to my eyes and fled sobbing to my room, dropping the
telegram as I started. I released one corner of my eye a moment--just
enough to see the herd swarm for the telegram--and then continued my
broken-hearted flight just as happy as a bird.

Then the visits of condolence began, and I had to accept the loan of
Miss Augusta-Templeton-Ashmore Hamilton’s quarters because the press was
so great and there isn’t room for three and a cat in mine. And I’ve been
holding a Lodge of Sorrow ever since and defending myself against
people’s attempts to claim kin. And do you know, the very first girl to
fetch her tears and sympathy to my market was that foolish Skimperton
girl who has always snubbed me so shamefully and claimed lordship and
precedence of the whole college because some ancestor of hers, some time
or other, was a McAllister. Why it was like the bottom bird in the
menagerie putting on airs because its head ancestor was a pterodactyl.

But the ger-reatest triumph of all was--guess. But you’ll never. This is
it. That little fool and two others have always been fussing and
fretting over which was entitled to precedence--by rank, you know.
They’ve nearly starved themselves at it; for each claimed the right to
take precedence of all the college in leaving the table, and so neither
of them ever finished her dinner, but broke off in the middle and tried
to get out ahead of the others. Well, after my first day’s grief and
seclusion--I was fixing up a mourning dress you see--I appeared at the
public table again, and then--what do you think? Those three fluffy
goslings sat there contentedly, and squared up the long famine--lapped
and lapped, munched and munched, ate and ate, till the gravy appeared in
their eyes--humbly waiting for the Lady Gwendolen to take precedence and
move out first, you see!

Oh, yes, I’ve been having a darling good time. And do you know, not one
of these collegians has had the cruelty to ask me how I came by my new
name. With some, this is due to charity, but with the others it isn’t.
They refrain, not from native kindness but from educated discretion. I
educated them.

Well, as soon as I shall have settled up what’s left of the old scores
and snuffed up a few more of those pleasantly intoxicating clouds of
incense, I shall pack and depart homeward. Tell papa I am as fond of him
as I am of my new name. I couldn’t put it stronger than that. What an
inspiration it was! But inspirations come easy to him.


  These, from your loving daughter,
  GWENDOLEN.


Hawkins reached for the letter and glanced over it.

“Good hand,” he said, “and full of confidence and animation, and goes
racing right along. She’s bright--that’s plain.”

“Oh, they’re all bright--the Sellerses. Anyway, they would be, if there
were any. Even those poor Latherses would have been bright if they had
been Sellerses; I mean full blood. Of course they had a Sellers strain
in them--a big strain of it, too--but being a Bland dollar don’t make it
a dollar just the same.”

The seventh day after the date of the telegram Washington came dreaming
down to breakfast and was set wide awake by an electrical spasm of
pleasure.

Here was the most beautiful young creature he had ever seen in his life.
It was Sally Sellers Lady Gwendolen; she had come in the night. And it
seemed to him that her clothes were the prettiest and the daintiest he
had ever looked upon, and the most exquisitely contrived and fashioned
and combined, as to decorative trimmings, and fixings, and melting
harmonies of color. It was only a morning dress, and inexpensive, but he
confessed to himself, in the English common to Cherokee Strip, that it
was a “corker.” And now, as he perceived, the reason why the Sellers
household poverties and sterilities had been made to blossom like the
rose, and charm the eye and satisfy the spirit, stood explained; here
was the magician; here in the midst of her works, and furnishing in her
own person the proper accent and climaxing finish of the whole.

“My daughter, Major Hawkins--come home to mourn; flown home at the
call of affliction to help the authors of her being bear the burden
of bereavement. She was very fond of the late earl--idolized him, sir,
idolized him--”

“Why, father, I’ve never seen him.”

“True--she’s right, I was thinking of another--er--of her mother--”

“I idolized that smoked haddock?--that sentimental, spiritless--”

“I was thinking of myself! Poor noble fellow, we were inseparable com--”

“Hear the man! Mulberry Sel--Mul--Rossmore--hang the troublesome name
I can never--if I’ve heard you say once, I’ve heard you say a thousand
times that if that poor sheep--”

“I was thinking of--of--I don’t know who I was thinking of, and it
doesn’t make any difference anyway; somebody idolized him, I recollect
it as if it were yesterday; and--”

“Father, I am going to shake hands with Major Hawkins, and let the
introduction work along and catch up at its leisure. I remember you very
well in deed, Major Hawkins, although I was a little child when I saw
you last; and I am very, very glad indeed to see you again and have you
in our house as one of us;” and beaming in his face she finished her
cordial shake with the hope that he had not forgotten her.

He was prodigiously pleased by her outspoken heartiness, and wanted to
repay her by assuring her that he remembered her, and not only that but
better even than he remembered his own children, but the facts would not
quite warrant this; still, he stumbled through a tangled sentence
which answered just as well, since the purport of it was an awkward and
unintentional confession that her extraordinary beauty had so stupefied
him that he hadn’t got back to his bearings, yet, and therefore couldn’t
be certain as to whether he remembered her at all or not. The speech
made him her friend; it couldn’t well help it.

In truth the beauty of this fair creature was of a rare type, and may
well excuse a moment of our time spent in its consideration. It did not
consist in the fact that she had eyes, nose, mouth, chin, hair, ears, it
consisted in their arrangement. In true beauty, more depends upon right
location and judicious distribution of feature than upon multiplicity of
them. So also as regards color. The very combination of colors which
in a volcanic irruption would add beauty to a landscape might detach it
from a girl. Such was Gwendolen Sellers.

The family circle being completed by Gwendolen’s arrival, it was decreed
that the official mourning should now begin; that it should begin at six
o’clock every evening, (the dinner hour,) and end with the dinner.

“It’s a grand old line, major, a sublime old line, and deserves to be
mourned for, almost royally; almost imperially, I may say. Er--Lady
Gwendolen--but she’s gone; never mind; I wanted my Peerage; I’ll fetch
it myself, presently, and show you a thing or two that will give you a
realizing idea of what our house is. I’ve been glancing through Burke,
and I find that of William the Conqueror’s sixty-four natural ch--my
dear, would you mind getting me that book? It’s on the escritoire in our
boudoir. Yes, as I was saying, there’s only St. Albans, Buccleugh and
Grafton ahead of us on the list--all the rest of the British nobility
are in procession behind us. Ah, thanks, my lady. Now then, we turn to
William, and we find--letter for XYZ? Oh, splendid--when’d you get it?”

“Last night; but I was asleep before you came, you were out so late; and
when I came to breakfast Miss Gwendolen--well, she knocked everything
out of me, you know--”

“Wonderful girl, wonderful; her great origin is detectable in her
step, her carriage, her features--but what does he say? Come, this is
exciting.”

“I haven’t read it--er--Rossm--Mr. Rossm--er--”

“M’lord! Just cut it short like that. It’s the English way. I’ll open
