"Go, yourself? What do you mean?" Wade asked.

"Some one must try to make them understand just how they are situated. I
don't think Louise did; I don't think she knew herself, how the legal
proceedings would affect them; and I think I'd better go and make it
perfectly clear."

"I can imagine it won't be pleasant," said Wade.

"No," said Matt, "I don't expect that. But I inferred, from what she
said to Louise, that she would be willing to see me, and I think I had
better go."

He put his conviction interrogatively, and Wade said heartily, "Why, of
course. It's the only thing," and Matt went away with a face which was
cheerful with good-will, if not the hope of pleasure.

He met Suzette in the avenue, dressed for walking, and coming forward
with the magnificent, haughty movement she had. As she caught sight of
him, she started, and then almost ran toward him. "Oh! You!" she said,
and she shrank back a little, and then put her hand impetuously out to
him.

He took it in his two, and bubbled out, "Are you walking somewhere? Are
you well? Is your sister at home? Don't let me keep you! May I walk with
you?"

Her smile clouded. "I'm only walking here in the avenue. How is Louise?
Did she get home safely? It was good of her to come here. It isn't the
place for a gay visit."

"Oh, Miss Northwick! It was good of you to see her. And we were very
happy--relieved--to find that you didn't feel aggrieved with any of us
for what must happen. And I hope you don't feel that I've taken an
advantage of your kindness in coming?"

"Oh, no!"

"I've just been to see Wade." Matt reddened consciously. "But it doesn't
seem quite fair to have met you where you had no choice but to receive
me!"

"I walk here every morning," she returned, evasively. "I have nowhere
else. I never go out of the avenue. Adeline goes to the village,
sometimes. But I can't meet people."

"I know," said Matt, with caressing sympathy; and his head swam in the
sudden desire to take her in his arms, and shelter her from that shame
and sorrow preying upon her. Her eyes had a trouble in them that made
him ache with pity; he recognized, as he had not before, that they were
the translation in feminine terms, of her father's eyes. "Poor Wade," he
went on, without well knowing what he was saying, "told me that he--he
was very sorry he had not been able to see you--to do anything--"

"What would have been the use? No one can do anything. We must bear our
burden; but we needn't add to it by seeing people who believe that--that
my father did wrong."

Matt's breath almost left him. He perceived that the condition on which
she was bearing her sorrow was the refusal of her shame. Perhaps it
could not have been possible for one of her nature to accept it, and it
required no effort in her to frame the theory of her father's innocence;
perhaps no other hypothesis was possible to her, and evidence had
nothing to do with the truth as she felt it.

"The greatest comfort we have is that none of you believe it; and your
father knew my father better than any one else. I was afraid I didn't
make Louise understand how much I felt that, and how much Adeline did.
It was hard to tell her, without seeming to thank you for something that
was no more than my father's due. But we do feel it, both of us; and I
would like your father to know it. I don't blame him for what he is
going to do. It's necessary to establish my father's innocence to have
the trial. I was very unjust to your father that first day, when I
thought he believed those things against papa. We appreciate his
kindness in every way, but we shall not get any lawyer to defend us."

Matt was helplessly silent before this wild confusion of perfect trust
and hopeless error. He would not have known where to begin to set her
right; he did not see how he could speak a word without wounding her
through her love, her pride.

She hurried on, walking swiftly, as if to keep up with the rush of her
freed emotions. "We are not afraid but that it will come out so that our
father's name, who was always so perfectly upright, and so good to every
one, will be cleared, and those who have accused him so basely will be
punished as they deserve."

She had so wholly misconceived the situation and the character of the
impending proceedings that it would not have been possible to explain it
all to her; but he could not leave her in her error, and he made at last
an effort to enlighten her.

"I think my father was right in advising you to see a lawyer. It won't
be a question of the charges against your father's integrity, but of his
solvency. The proceedings will be against his estate; and you mustn't
allow yourselves to be taken at a disadvantage."

She stopped. "What do we care for the estate, if his good name isn't
cleared up?"

"I'm afraid--I'm afraid," Matt entreated, "that you don't exactly
understand."

"If my father never meant to keep the money, then the trial will show,"
the girl returned.

"But a lawyer--indeed you ought to see a lawyer!--could explain how such
a trial would leave that question where it was. It wouldn't be the case
against your father, but against you."

"Against us? What do they say we have done?"

Matt could have laughed at her heroic misapprehension of the affair, if
it had not been for the pity of it. "Nothing! Nothing! But they can take
everything here that belonged to your father--everything on the place,
to satisfy his creditors. The question of his wrong-doing won't enter. I
can't tell you how. But you ought to have a lawyer who would defend your
rights in the case."

"If they don't pretend we've done anything then they can't do anything
to us!"

"They can take everything your father had in the world to pay his
debts."

"Then let them take it," said the girl. "If he had lived he would have
paid them. We will never admit that he did anything for us to be ashamed
of; that he ever wilfully wronged any one."

Matt could see that the profession of her father's innocence was
essential to her. He could not know how much of it was voluntary, a pure
effect of will, in fulfilment of the demands of her pride, and how much
was real belief. He only knew that, whatever it was, his wish was not to
wound her or to molest her in it, but to leave what should be sacred
from human touch to the mystery that we call providence. It might have
been this very anxiety that betrayed him, for a glance at his face
seemed to stay her.

"Don't you think I am right, Mr. Hilary?"

"Yes, yes!" Matt began; and he was going to say that she was right in
every way, but he found that his own truth was sacred to him as well as
her fiction, and he said, "I've no right to judge your father. It's the
last thing I should be willing to do. I certainly don't believe he ever
wished to wrong any one if he could have helped it."

"Thank you!" said the girl. "That was not what I asked you. I know
what my father meant to do, and I didn't need any reassurance. I'm sorry
to have troubled you with all these irrelevant questions; and I thank
you very much for the kind advice you have given me."

"Oh, don't take it so!" he entreated, simply. "I do wish to be of use to
you--all the use that the best friend in the world can be; and I see
that I have wounded you. Don't take my words amiss; I'm sure you
couldn't take my will so, if you knew it! If the worst that anybody has
said about your father were ten times true, it couldn't change my will,
or--"

"Thank you! Thank you!" she said perversely. "I don't think we
understand each other, Mr. Hilary. It's scarcely worth while to try. I
think I must say good-by. My sister will be expecting me." She nodded,
and he stood aside, lifting his hat. She dashed by him, and he remained
staring after her till she vanished in the curve of the avenue. She
suddenly reappeared, and came quickly back toward him. "I wanted to say
that, no matter what you think or say, I shall never forget what you
have done, and I shall always be grateful for it." She launched these
words fiercely at him, as if they were a form of defiance, and then
whirled away, and was quickly lost to sight again.




XXIII.


That evening Adeline said to her sister, at the end of the meagre dinner
they allowed themselves in these days, "Elbridge says the hay is giving
out, and we have got to do something about those horses that are eating
their heads off in the barn. And the cows: there's hardly any feed for
them."
