"In charge of the commissioner, who will send it under escort to
Melbourne."

Colson expected this intelligence. Still he looked downcast. The chance
of getting hold of it under such circumstances seemed very small.

"What did the claim go for?" questioned Ropes.

"Three hundred pounds. Frank Scott bought it."

"That's a pretty steep price."

"Yes, but there may be another nugget."

"And there may not."

"Then he'll be a loser. Of course there's a risk."

"Is the Yankee going to stay around here?" asked Colson.

"No; he and the two boys are going to Melbourne. I believe they are
going back to America."

"It's a shame that such a prize should go to Americans," said Colson, in
a discontented tone.

He would have been very glad to head a movement for robbing Obed and the
boys of the proceeds of their lucky discovery, on this flimsy ground.
But Tom Lewis was a fair-minded man.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," said he. "They found it, and
they have a right to it. Of course, I'd rather it had been me; but it
wasn't, and there's an end of it."

"Some people are born lucky!" grumbled Colson, as Lewis walked away. "I
never had any luck."

"The nugget you found wasn't quite so valuable," returned Ropes grimly.

"No; I tugged away for nothing. My arms and shoulders are stiff enough
this morning. And now the nugget is out of our reach."

"But not the three hundred pounds," said Ropes significantly.

"The price of the claim?"

"Yes."

"That's true, but it won't do us any good."

"The Yankee will carry that with him. It's worth trying for."

The suggestion seemed to strike Colson favorably. The two held a
whispered consultation, which seemed to yield mutual satisfaction. They
were, indeed, congenial spirits, and agreed upon one point, that it was
better to make a living by knavery than by doing honest work for honest
wages. Yet there is no harder or more unsatisfactory way of living than
this. Ill-gotten gains seldom benefit the possessor, and the plans of
wicked men often fail altogether.

Gradually the two had drawn near to the claim, and at last drew the
attention of Obed and the boys.

Obed's thin face lighted up with satisfaction as he recognized the man
who had attempted to steal the nugget.

"Good-mornin', squire," he said politely. "You look kind of tired, as if
you was up late last night."

Colson eyed him sharply. "Does he suspect?" thought he. "Yes," he
answered, in an indifferent tone, "I didn't rest very well."

"Where did you pass the night?"

"'Round here," he answered vaguely.

"You look as if you had been taking a long walk."

"You are very observing," said Colson, not over pleased.

"I always was. It pays a man--sometimes."

"I hear you've struck it rich," said Colson, not caring to take notice
of the other's significant tone.

"Found a nugget, they tell me," interpolated Ropes. "How big was it?"

"Weighs about seventy-five pounds!"

"That is luck!" said Colson, with a sickly smile. He could scarcely help
groaning as he thought of his loss.

"Well, yes, it is tolerable hefty. I reckon me and the boys will be able
to take it easy for a few years. But we came near losin' it, after
all."

"How's that?" Colson asked, but he did not venture to meet Obed's
glance.

"Some skunk saw us bringin' back the nugget, and prowled round till he
thought we was all asleep. Then he got into the cabin and carried it
off. That is, he thought he did, but we was a little too sharp for him.
We tied up a big rock in my handkerchief, and I guess he had a sweet
time carryin' it off."

"Ha, ha! A good joke!" said Colson, but his laughter was mirthless.

"I thought you'd enjoy the joke, squire," said Obed. "How I pity the
poor fellow! His arms must ache with luggin' the old rock. The best of
it is we know the fellow that took it."

"You do?" ejaculated Colson, his jaw dropping.

"Yes, Harry woke up just in the nick of time and saw him scootin' out of
the cabin. If I should tell the boys 'round here, I reckon they'd lynch
him!" added Obed quietly.

"Just so," assented Colson, but his face was of a sickly hue, and taking
Ropes by the arm he hurried him away.

"That fellow's well scared," said Obed, turning to his two young
companions. "I reckon he'll make himself scarce till we're out of the
way."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.

Obed and the boys made arrangements to travel with the party sent by the
commissioner as an escort to the nugget and other sums intrusted to it
by different miners. The strong guard gave them a sense of security
which they would not have had under other circumstances.

They were all in high spirits. They were no longer penniless
adventurers, but, though not rich, were possessed of enough gold to make
them feel so. Now that they were well fixed they were all filled with a
strong desire to see their home across the sea.

"I suppose, Obed, you'll be getting married soon after you reach home?"
said Harry.

"The very first thing I shall do will be to pay off the mortgage on
dad's farm," said Mr. Stackpole. "I want to see him a free man, with a
home that can't be taken from him. Then I'll look after the other
matter."

"You are right, Obed. I only wish I had a father to help and care for,"
said Harry soberly.

"I've got a step-father," said Jack, "but I don't feel much like helping
him."

"You have a mother, Jack."

"Yes, but I shall have to be careful about giving her money, for her
husband would get it away from her before long."

"Well, boys, we won't borrow trouble before the time comes. For all I
know Suke Stanwood may have got tired of waitin' for me, and married
some other feller."

"In that case, Obed, I suppose you would die of a broken heart."

"Not much, but I don't mind sayin' that I should feel uncommon blue."

Two days elapsed before Obed and his party started on their return trip.
Meanwhile Colson and Ropes had disappeared. The boys had expected to see
them about the camp, but they had vanished.

"I wonder what has become of them?" said Harry, just as they were
starting.

"I reckon they're hatchin' some new mischief, wherever they are,"
returned Obed composedly. "You maybe sure they're not engaged in any
honest work."

"Perhaps Colson is trying to sell his nugget," suggested Jack with a
