“I’ll see about it this very evenin’, dear.”

“Oh, thank you! thank you!”

The mother, a slim young thing, came to visit Dil on Sunday, with
pretty, chubby, two-year-old Nelly, who was not shy at all, and came and
hugged Dil at once. Her prettiness was not of the spirituelle order,
as Bess’s would have been under any circumstances. The eyes were merry
and wondering, the voice a gay little ripple, and comforted Dil
curiously.

And through the course of the week several “incidental” ones came. It
was like old times.

“Seems to me it’s nawful tough to be nussin’ kids,” said Patsey; “but,
Dil, you’ve chirked up an’ grown reel jolly. You’re hankerin’ arter
Bess, an’ can’t forgit. An’ ef the babies make ye chipper, let ’em come.
I only hope they won’t take any fat offen yer bones, fer youse most a
skiliton now. But sounds good to hear youse laugh agen.”

“I’d like just a little fat in my cheeks,” she made answer.

Patsey brought her home a white dress one day, and said they would all
go down to Coney Island some Sunday.

“I wouldn’t dast to,” she said. “I’d be that afeared o’ meetin’ mother.
She used to go las’ summer. An’ if she should find me—”

“Yer cudden’t find anybody, les’ yer looked sharp. An’ youse er that
changed an’ sollumn lookin’ an’ big-eyed, no one’d know yer.”

“But you knew me,” with a grateful little smile.

Patsey grinned and rolled his eyes.

“I was a-layin’ fer ye.”

“You can take me up to Cent’l Park, Patsey. I’d like to go so much.”

“That’s the talk, now! So I will. We’ll all go. We’ll have a reg’lar
persesh, a stunner, an’ take our lunch, like the ’ristocrockery!”

Dil did brighten up a good deal. Baby kisses helped. She was starving
for love, such as boys did not know how to give. She used to take Nelly
out walking, and imagine her her very own. The mother instinct was
strong in Dil.

Having the washing done did ease up the work; though one would have
considered it no sinecure to feed five hungry boys. Now and then her
head would ache, and occasionally something inside of her would flutter
up in her throat, as it had when Bess died, and she would stretch out
her hands to clasp some warm human support, her whole body in a shiver
of vague terror.

If John Travis would only come. She could not disbelieve in him. Last
autumn in the moment of desperate despair he had come, bringing such a
waft of joy and satisfaction. There were so many things she wanted to
ask him. She began to hope, in a vague way, that the Lord had come for
Bess, for she wanted her in that beautiful heaven. But the mystery was
too great for her untrained mind. And there intruded upon her thought,
the horror of that moment when she knew Bess was dead.

The hot weather was very trying. Hemmed in on all sides by tall
buildings, her own room so small, with a window on a narrow space hardly
six inches from the brick wall of the next house, there was little
chance for air. The boys seemed to sleep through anything.

So the weeks passed on with various small delights and events. The boys
would go off and spend their money when they needed clothes, and then
would follow heroic efforts at economizing. Dil had such shrewd good
sense, and they did listen to her gentle advice. They were a gay,
rollicking lot, but their very spirits seemed to be of a world she had
passed by. It was as if she was on the way to some unknown land, not
quite a stranger, but a sojourner.

Owen was a really tolerable boy, and bade fair to keep out of the reform
school. They all mended of their swearing; they were ready to wait on
her at a word.

The white frock was a beauty. Shorty brought her some pink ribbons that
made her look less pale, and she had a wreath of wild roses on her hat
that Mrs. Brian gave her.

They made ready for their excursion one beautiful Sunday morning in
July. There had been a tremendous shower the night before, and all
nature was fresh and glowing. The very sky was full of suggestions in
its clear, soft blue, with here and there a white drift.

Oh, how lovely the park looked! Dil had to pause in a strange awe, as if
she was hardly prepared to enter. It was like the hymn that was always
floating intangibly through her mind—the fields and rivers of delight,
the fragrant air, the waving trees and beds of flowers, the beautiful
nooks, the bridges, the winding paths that seemed leading into delicious
mysteries.

The boys were wild over the animals. They were irrepressible, and soon
tired out poor Dil. She had to sit down and press her hand on her heart.
There was a strange sinking, as if she was floating off, like the fleecy
white drifts above her.

“Youse air nawful white!” cried Patsey in alarm. “An’ ther’s sich a
queer blue streak acrost yer lip. Air ye sick?”

She drew a long breath, and the world seemed to settle again, as she
raised her soft eyes with a smile all about them.

“No, Patsey—I’m only a bit tired. Let me sit an’ get rested.”

She took the sunbrowned hand in hers with a mute little caress that
brought a strange flush to the lad’s face.

“Youse jist work too hard wid dem babies an’ all.”

“I’m only going to have Nelly next week, an’ the Leary baby is to go in
the country with his mother to live. ’Twasn’t nothin’ but a queer
flutt’rin’ like, an’ it comes sometimes in the night when I can’t be
tired. It’s all over now;” and she looked bright and happy, if still
pale.

Patsey seemed hardly satisfied.

“I think it’s the hot weather. It’s been so hot, you know. An’ to-day’s
splendid! I’ll get better when cool weather comes, I’m most sure. You
an’ the boys take a good long walk, an’ I’ll stay here with the lunch,
an’ get all rested up. An’ I’ll make b’leve it’s heaven; it’s so
beautiful.”

“See here, Dil, don’t yer go an’ be thinkin’ ’bout—’bout heaven an’
sich—”

Patsey swallowed over a big lump in his throat, and winked vigorously.

“Bess an’ I used to talk about it,” she said in a soft, disarming
fashion. “We thought ’twas some-wers over the river there,” nodding her
head. “But I’ll jes’ sit still in some shady place, an’ I won’t go
to-day,” with a soft, comforting laugh.

The boys protested at first. But Dil had a way of persuading them that
was quite irresistible. They were boys to the full, and to sit still
would have half killed them. They found a lovely nook, where she could
see the lake and the boats, and the people passing to and fro in their
Sunday attire. There were merry voices of little ones that touched her
like music.

She sat very still, with the lunch-basket at her feet. Occasionally some
one cast a glance at the pale little girl in her white gown, with the
wild roses drooping over the brim of her hat. A friendly policeman had
seen the pantomime and the departure of the boys, and meant to keep
guard that no one molested her.

Dil could understand being ill from some specific disease; but she did
not feel ill, only tired. It was a different kind of fatigue from that
back in Barker’s Court, for then she could fall asleep in a moment. Now
the nights were curiously wakeful. And the babies were heavy, even if
there were only two of them.

The refreshing atmosphere and the tranquil, beautiful pictures all about
her intensified the thought of the heaven she was going to “make b’leve”
about. She could picture it out, up and up, through country ways and
flowers, wild roses maybe. Houses where they took you in and fed you,
and put you to bed in such soft, clean beds. Queer people too, who
couldn’t understand, and were wanting to turn back,—people who were
afraid of lions and Giant Grim. She called up all the pictures she could
remember, and they floated before her like a panorama.

“Though I can’t get it out straight myself,” and she sighed in helpless
confusion. “I ain’t smart as little Bess was, an’ can’t see into things.
But I could push Bess along, an’ Mr. Travis would be Mr. Greatheart for
us, an’ he’d know the way on ’count of his being book learned. An’ we’d
just be kerful an’ not get into briars and bad places.”

Was that Bess laughing softly, as she did sometimes when her poor back
didn’t hurt, and her head didn’t ache. The sweet, lingering sound seemed
to pervade the summer air. She could see the time-worn wagon, the rug
made of odds and ends, that they had both considered such a great
achievement. There was the sweet, pallid face, not quite as it had
looked in those last days, but resembling more the beautiful picture
that had gone to the flames, the crown of golden hair, the mysterious,
fathomless eyes, with a new knowledge in them, that Dil felt had not
been garnered in that old, pinched life.
