at the door waiting for the tourists when they had disposed of the lunch,
and they seated themselves for a drive.

"I warn you," said Sir Modava, as the carriages drove off, "that you will
find little here to interest you, after visiting, as you have, the
principal cities of India."

"We are about tired of sight-seeing," added Mrs. Belgrave rather languidly;
and this was about the situation of most of the party.

They passed the People's Park, an inviting enclosure, with ponds and
pleasant walks, to the Black Town, which contains the homes of the natives,
though there are plenty of shops; and it is crossed by several good
avenues. They came to a street like that called The Strand in Calcutta, and
they drove the whole length of it. They passed into Fort St. George, which
seemed to be a city of itself. Leaving it, they crossed the little river
that meanders through the town, and flows into the ocean at this point.

On this shore road were the principal public buildings of the city, and
near the end of it was St. Thomas's Cathedral. This is said to be the site
where the apostle of this name, "Doubting Thomas," was martyred. Early
tradition buried him in Edessa, in Mesopotamia, but a later account sent
him to India; but this is something for learned doctors to discuss. At St.
George's Cathedral the party entered to see the statue, made by Chantrey,
of Bishop Heber, who looks gently and tenderly upon a native convert at his
feet.

They rode all over the town, and found several ponds, called tanks; and the
great fort is washed on one side by the river. The second day the party
were driven into the suburbs. At a rocky point on the river they found a
party of half-naked men washing sheets and pillow-cases. The ladies were
interested, and the carriages stopped to enable them to see the operation.
They had something like washboards, laid on the bank of the stream, which
they were hammering with all their might with the sheets, standing in the
shallow water as they did so. Mrs. Blossom declared they must tear them all
to pieces, and she was quite indignant at the way it was done.

Another day finished Madras; and, though there was little to see, compared
with the places they had visited before, Mrs. Belgrave declared they had
had a good time. On the morning following they went on board of the
Guardian-Mother, and she sailed for Ceylon.




                                 CHAPTER XXXVII

                        THE FAREWELL TO CEYLON AND INDIA


If the tourists had been in a safe place they would have been glad to see a
cyclone on the shore of Madras, on Napier bridge for instance; and it would
have been a grand spectacle to observe the great billows rolling in on the
beach, breaking at a distance of a thousand feet from the land. But they
had all seen great waves, and they were not anxious to see them here. At
her ordinary speed, the Guardian-Mother would arrive at Colombo at one
o'clock the next day. The weather was fine, and the passengers assembled in
Conference Hall to talk with the three experts on board about the various
places they had visited in India.

Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava were full of information, which they adorned
with stories from history and mythology. The good people from Von Blonk
Park were sorry they had not seen the Temple and Car of Juggernaut, though
they had been fully described to them. They had visited the missions in
Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras, as well as wherever they had found them
elsewhere. They were much interested in them, and regretted that they had
not been able to devote more time to them.

The next forenoon, with the northern shore of Ceylon in sight from the
deck, Lord Tremlyn went upon the rostrum, with the map of the island, and a
portion of the main shore included, on the frame. Though the ship was in
ten degrees of north latitude, the weather was delightful and the sea was
smooth. The thermometer stood at 70°, and the ladies declared that the
temperature was just right.

"You know the location of the island on the southeast of India, and it
takes in about four degrees of latitude and two of longitude, without going
into the matter too finely, with an area of twenty-four thousand seven
hundred and two square miles; about the size of your State of West
Virginia, I find, or as large as three or four of your New England States.
Perhaps the most lovely scenery in the whole world is to be found in this
island. The Greeks and Romans visited it, and it is mentioned in 'The
Arabian Nights,' under the name of Serendib.

"The mountains are near the southern part, and the highest one is Mount
Pedrotallagalla,--don't forget the name, my young friends,--eight thousand
two hundred and sixty feet high. In your visit to Ceylon you will go to
Candy, which will please those with a sweet tooth better than Kandy, as it
is often spelled. Many precious stones are found in Ceylon; and the pearl
fishery is a very important source of wealth, though its value is variable
in different years. In six years only out of the last thirty have the
fisheries been productive, and in the other twenty-four they yielded hardly
anything. In those six years, the largest yield, in 1881, was not quite
sixty thousand pounds, while the smallest noted was ten thousand pounds.

"The fisheries are under government regulation. An official announces when
the work is permitted, and then it lasts only from four to six weeks.
Thirteen men and ten divers are generally the crew of each boat, five of
the latter going down into the water while the other five rest. Each diver
has a stone, weighing forty pounds, attached to a line long enough to reach
the bottom, with a loop near the weight, into which he puts his foot. The
water varies in depth from fifty-four to seventy-eight feet. They work
quickly; for a minute is the usual time they remain in the water, though
some can stand it twenty seconds longer.

"One would suppose that the sharks, which abound in these waters, would
make it dangerous business; but very few accidents occur, for the commotion
about the boats seems to scare them away. When the diver gives the signal
he is hauled up, with his bag of oysters, as rapidly as possible. But the
ladies know more about pearls than I do, and I will say no more about them.

"There are many rivers in Ceylon, rising in the high land, and flowing into
the sea; but none of them are as long as the Mississippi. The climate of
the island is simply magnificent; the average heat in Colombo on the high
lands never exceeds 70°. I shall permit you to describe the flowers after
you have seen them; but the vegetation generally of the island is
exceedingly luxuriant. In regard to animals, the tiger does not reside in
Ceylon. The elephant, generally without any tusks, is the chief ruler in
the forests here. The bear and the leopard are found. There is no end of
monkeys. There are sixteen kinds of bats here, and all your base-ball clubs
could be supplied from the stock; and there is a flying fox, which might
amuse you if you could catch one. He is a sort of bat; and the more of them
you shoot, the better the farmer will be pleased, for they feed on his
fruit. Plenty of birds of all sorts are found in the island. The crocodile
is the biggest reptile found in Ceylon."

"But the snakes, your lordship?" suggested Felix.

"There are a few poisonous snakes; and the two worst are the cobra and the
ticpolonga, the latter a sort of viper; and the former is an old friend of
yours, Mr. McGavonty. The people are called Singhalese, but more generally
Cingalese, and are believed to be the descendants of immigrants from the
region of the Ganges. There are other races here, as the Malabars. The
religion of Ceylon is the Buddhist, and it has a very strong hold upon the
natives here as well as in Burma.

"Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, is said to have visited Ceylon three
times, and to have preached his doctrines here. His sacred footstep on
Adam's Peak, 7,420 feet high, the second highest elevation in the island,
is still adored by the people. But the most sacred relic here is the tooth
of Gautama, kept in an elegant shrine and carefully guarded at Candy. But
it is said to be well known that the Portuguese destroyed the original; and
the substitute is a discolored bit of ivory, without the least resemblance
to a human tooth. There are many temples, sacred caverns, some of them
sculptured like those near Bombay.

"There is something like ancient history in connection with Ceylon, dating
back to 543 B.C.; but it would be hardly edifying to follow it. It has also
a Portuguese, a Dutch, and a British period; and it was finally annexed to
the British crown by the Treaty of Amiens, in 1802.

"Thirty years ago coffee was the principal commercial production of the
island; but a kind of fungus attacked the leaves of the trees, and within
ten years the planters were obliged to abandon its cultivation to a great
extent, though it is still raised. Cacao, which is the name of the
chocolate-tree, while cocoa is the name of the product, is cultivated to a
considerable extent; so are cinchona, cardamoms, and various spices; though
Bishop Heber's lines--

                 'What though the spicy breezes
                  Blow soft o'er Ceylon's isle,'

are not applicable to the island as formerly.

"It has become evident in very recent years that Ceylon might become a
great tea-growing region, and the planters are now largely engaged in its
culture. A dozen years ago only 3,515 pounds were raised; ten years later
over 12,000,000 pounds of tea was the crop; and this year it is still
greater. The population in 1891 was 3,008,466. It has a governor, who rules
with an executive council of five, of which the officer in command of the
troops is one."

"Can your lordship tell me the salary of the governor-general of India?"
asked Captain Ringgold.

"I figured it up at one time in your money, and forgot to mention it. If I
remember rightly, it was $125,400; and that of the governor of Ceylon is
$20,000," replied Lord Tremlyn. "The former gets two and a half times the
salary of your President. I have nothing more to say of the island, but
after a concert by the band, Sir Modava will tell you something about the
