hands that held her work. Her thick flaxen hair, straightly parted and
smoothed away from its low growth on the forehead, half hid small fresh
ears, unpierced. Long lashes, too white for beauty, cast very faint
light shadows as she looked down; but when she raised the lids, the
dark-blue eyes were bright, with wide pupils and a straight look, quick
to fasten, slow to let go, never yet quite softened, and yet never
mannishly hard. But, in its own way, perhaps, there is no look so hard
as the look of maiden innocence can be. There can even be something
terrible in its unconscious stare. There is the spirit of God's own
fearful directness in it. Half quibbling with words perhaps, but surely
with half truth, one might say that youth "is," while all else "has
been"; and that youth alone possesses the present, too innocent to know
it all, yet too selfish even to doubt of what is its own--too sure of
itself to doubt anything, to fear anything, or even truly to pray for
anything. There is no equality and no community in virtue; it is only
original sin that makes us all equal and human. Old Lucifer, fallen,
crushed, and damned, knows the worth of forgiveness--not young Michael,
flintily hard and monumentally upright in his steel coat, a terror to
the devil himself. And youth can have something of that archangelic
rigidity. Youth is not yet quite human.

But there was much in Clare Bowring's face which told that she was to be
quite human some day. The lower features were not more than strong
enough--the curved lips would be fuller before long, the small nostrils,
the gentle chin, were a little sharper than was natural, now, from
illness, but round in outline and not over prominent; and the slender
throat was very delicate and feminine. Only in the dark-blue eyes there
was still that unabashed, quick glance and long-abiding straightness,
and innocent hardness, and the unconscious selfishness of the
uncontaminated.

Standing on her feet, she would have seemed rather tall than short,
though really but of average height. Seated, she looked tall, and her
glance was a little downward to most people's eyes. Just now she was too
thin, and seemed taller than she was. But the fresh light was already in
the young white skin, and there was a soft colour in the lobes of the
little ears, as the white leaves of daisies sometimes blush all round
their tips.

The nervous white hands held the little bag lightly, and twined it and
sewed it deftly, for Clare was clever with her fingers. Possibly they
looked even a little whiter than they were, by contrast with the dark
stuff of her dress, and illness had made them shrink at the lower part,
robbing them of their natural strength, though not of their grace. There
is a sort of refinement, not of taste, nor of talent, but of feeling and
thought, and it shows itself in the hands of those who have it, more
than in any feature of the face, in a sort of very true proportion
between the hand and its fingers, between each finger and its joints,
each joint and each nail; a something which says that such a hand could
not do anything ignoble, could not take meanly, nor strike cowardly, nor
press falsely; a quality of skin neither rough and coarse, nor over
smooth like satin, but cool and pleasant to the touch as fine silk that
is closely woven. The fingers of such hands are very straight and very
elastic, but not supple like young snakes, as some fingers are, and the
cushion of the hand is not over full nor heavy, nor yet shrunken and
undeveloped as in the wasted hands of old Asiatic races.

In outward appearance there was that sort of inherited likeness between
mother and daughter which is apt to strike strangers more than persons
of the same family. Mrs. Bowring had been beautiful in her youth--far
more beautiful than Clare--but her face had been weaker, in spite of the
regularity of the features and their faultless proportion. Life had given
them an acquired strength, but not of the lovely kind, and the complexion
was faded, and the hair had darkened, and the eyes had paled. Some faces
are beautified by suffering. Mrs. Bowring's face was not of that class.
It was as though a thin, hard mask had been formed and closely moulded
upon it, as the action of the sea overlays some sorts of soft rock with a
surface thin as paper but as hard as granite. In spite of the hardness,
the features were not really strong. There was refinement in them,
however, of the same kind which the daughter had, and as much, though
less pleasing. A fern--a spray of maiden's-hair--loses much of its beauty
but none of its refinement when petrified in limestone or made fossil in
coal.

As they sat there, side by side, mother and daughter, where they had sat
every day for a week or more, they had very little to say. They had
exhausted the recapitulation of Clare's illness, during the first days
of her convalescence. It was not the first time that they had been in
Amalfi, and they had enumerated its beauties to each other, and renewed
their acquaintance with it from a distance, looking down from the
terrace upon the low-lying town, and the beach and the painted boats,
and the little crowd that swarmed out now and then like ants, very busy
and very much in a hurry, running hither and thither, disappearing
presently as by magic, and leaving the shore to the sun and the sea. The
two had spoken of a little excursion to Ravello, and they meant to go
thither as soon as they should be strong enough; but that was not yet.
And meanwhile they lived through the quiet days, morning, meal times,
evening, bed time, and round again, through the little hotel's programme
of possibility; eating what was offered them, but feasting royally on
air and sunshine and spring sweetness; moistening their lips in strange
southern wines, but drinking deep draughts of the rich southern
air-life; watching the people of all sorts and of many conditions, who
came and stayed a day and went away again, but social only in each
other's lives, and even that by sympathy rather than in speech. A corner
of life's show was before them, and they kept their places on the
vine-sheltered terrace and looked on. But it seemed as though nothing
could ever possibly happen there to affect the direction of their own
quietly moving existence.

Seeing that her daughter did not say anything in answer to the remark
about the past being written in a foreign language, Mrs. Bowring looked
at the distant sky-haze thoughtfully for a few moments, then opened her
book again where her thin forefinger had kept the place, and began to
read. There was no disappointment in her face at not being understood,
for she had spoken almost to herself and had expected no reply. No
change of expression softened or accentuated the quiet hardness which
overspread her naturally gentle face. But the thought was evidently
still present in her mind, for her attention did not fix itself upon her
book, and presently she looked at her daughter, as the latter bent her
head over the little bag she was making.

The young girl felt her mother's eyes upon her, looked up herself, and
smiled faintly, almost mechanically, as before. It was a sort of habit
they both had--a way of acknowledging one another's presence in the
world. But this time it seemed to Clare that there was a question in the
look, and after she had smiled she spoke.

"No," she said, "I don't understand how anybody can forget the past. It
seems to me that I shall always remember why I did things, said things,
and thought things. I should, if I lived a hundred years, I'm quite
sure."

"Perhaps you have a better memory than I," answered Mrs. Bowring. "But
I don't think it is exactly a question of memory either. I can remember
what I said, and did, and thought, well--twenty years ago. But it seems
to me very strange that I should have thought, and spoken, and acted,
just as I did. After all isn't it natural? They tell us that our bodies
are quite changed in less time than that."

"Yes--but the soul does not change," said Clare with conviction.

"The soul--"

Mrs. Bowring repeated the word, but said nothing more, and her still,
blue eyes wandered from her daughter's face and again fixed themselves
on an imaginary point of the far southern distance.

"At least," said Clare, "I was always taught so."

She smiled again, rather coldly, as though admitting that such teaching
might not be infallible after all.

"It is best to believe it," said her mother quietly, but in a colourless
voice. "Besides," she added, with a change of tone, "I do believe it,
you know. One is always the same, in the main things. It is the point of
view that changes. The best picture in the world does not look the same
in every light, does it?"

"No, I suppose not. You may like it in one light and not in another,
and in one place and not in another."

"Or at one time of life, and not at another," added Mrs. Bowring,
thoughtfully.

"I can't imagine that." Clare paused a moment. "Of course you are
thinking of people," she continued presently, with a little more
animation. "One always means people, when one talks in that way. And
that is what I cannot quite understand. It seems to me that if I liked
people once I should always like them."

Her mother looked at her.

"Yes--perhaps you would," she said, and she relapsed into silence.

Clare's colour did not change. No particular person was in her thoughts,
and she had, as it were, given her own general and inexperienced opinion
of her own character, quite honestly and without affectation.

"I don't know which are the happier," said Mrs. Bowring at last, "the
people who change, or the people who can't."

"You mean faithful or unfaithful people, I suppose," observed the young
girl with grave innocence.

A very slight flush rose in Mrs. Bowring's thin cheeks, and the quiet
eyes grew suddenly hard, but Clare was busy with her work again and did
not see.

"Those are big words," said the older woman in a low voice.

