that letter. And I began to work again. But I didn't get on as well as
I'd oughter; I can't understand why. That day, now, when I first saw
you--when you ran in to help me--I hadn't been feeling sick at all;
there warn't no sense in my tumbling down that way all of a sudden."

One lovely afternoon in November Prudence's bed was carried out to the
front of the dark little house.

The cow-shed was gone. A straight path, freshly paved, led down to a
swing gate set in a new paling fence, flower beds bordered the path, and
in the centre of the open spaces on each side there was a large rose
bush. The fence was painted a glittering white; there had been an
attempt at grass; currant bushes in straight rows bordered the two
sides.

Prudence lay looking at it all in peaceful silence. "It's mighty purty,"
she said at last, with grateful emphasis. "It's everything I planned to
have, and a great deal nicer than I could have done it myself, though I
thought about it goodness knows how many years!"

"I'm not surprised that you thought about it," the American answered.
"It was the view you were longing for--fancy its having been cut off so
long by that miserable stable! But now you have it in perfection."

"You mean the view of the garden," said Prudence. "There wasn't much to
look at before; but now it's real sweet."

"No; I mean the great landscape all about us here," responded the
American, surprised. She paused. Then seeing that Prudence did not lift
her eyes, she began to enumerate its features, to point them out with
her folded parasol. "That broad Umbrian plain, Prudence, with those tall
slender trees; the other towns shining on their hills, like Perugia over
there; the gleam of the river; the velvety blue of the mountains; the
color of it all--I do believe it is the very loveliest view in the whole
world!"

"I don't know as I've ever noticed it much--the view," Prudence
answered. She turned her eyes towards the horizon for a moment. "You see
I was always thinking about my front yard."

"The front yard is very nice now," said the American. "I am so glad you
are pleased; we couldn't get snowballs or Missouri currant, so we had to
take roses." She paused; but she could not give up the subject without
one more attempt. "You have probably noticed the view without being
aware of it," she went on; "it is so beautiful that you must have
noticed it. If you should leave it you would find yourself missing it
very much, I dare say."

"Mebbe," responded Prudence. "Still, I ain't so sure. The truth is, I
don't care much for these Eyetalian views; it seems to me a poor sort of
country, and always did." Then, wishing to be more responsive to the
tastes of this new friend, if she could be so honestly, she added, "But
I like views, as a general thing; there was a very purty view from
Sage's Hill, I remember."

"Sage's Hill?"

"Yes; the hill near Ledham. You told me you knew Ledham. You could see
all the fields and medders of Josiah Strong's farm, and Deacon
Mayberry's too; perfectly level, and not a stone in 'em. And the
turnpike for miles and miles, with three toll-gates in sight. Then, on
the other side, there were the factories to make it lively. It was a
sweet view."

A few days afterwards she said: "People tell us that we never get what
we want in this world, don't they? But I'm fortunate. I think I've
always been purty fortunate. I got my front yard, after all."

      

A week later, when they told her that death was near, "My! I'd no idea I
was so sick as that," she whispered. Then, looking at them anxiously,
"What'll become of Nounce?"

They assured her that Nounce should be provided for. "You know you have
to be sorter patient with her," she explained; "but she's growing
quicker-witted every day."

Later, "I should like so much to see Jo Vanny," she murmured, longingly;
"but of course I can't. You must get Bepper to send him my love, my
dearest, dearest love."

Last of all, as her dulled eyes turned from the little window and rested
upon her friend: "It seems a pity--But perhaps I shall find--"




NEPTUNE'S SHORE


I

Old Mrs. Preston had not been able to endure the hotel at Salerno. She
had therefore taken, for two months, this house on the shore.

"I might as well be here as anywhere, saddled as I am with the
Abercrombies," she remarked to her cousin, Isabella Holland. "Arthur may
really do something: I have hopes of Arthur. But as to Rose, Hildegarde,
and Dorothea, I shall plainly have to drag them about with me, and drag
them about with me, year after year, in the hope that the constant
seeing of so many straight statues, to say nothing of pictures, may at
last teach them to have spines. Here they are now; did you ever see such
shoulders, or rather such a lack of them? Hildegarde, child, come here a
moment," she added, as the three girls drew near. "I have an idea. Don't
you think you could hold your shoulders up a little? Try it now; put
them up high, as though you were shrugging them; and expand your chest
too; you mustn't cramp that. There!--that is what I mean; don't you
think, my dear, that you could keep yourself so?"

Hildegarde, with her shoulders elevated and her long chin run out, began
to blush painfully, until her milk-white face was dyed red. "I am afraid
I could not keep myself so long, aunt," she answered, in a low voice.

"Never mind; let them down, then: it's of no use," commented Mrs.
Preston, despairingly. "Go and dance for twenty-five minutes in the
upper hall, all of you. And dance as hard as you can."

The three girls, moving lifelessly, went down the echoing vaulted
corridor. They were sisters, the eldest not quite sixteen, all three
having the same lank figures with sloping shoulders and long thin
throats, and the same curiously white, milk-white skin. Orphans, they
had been sent with their brother Arthur to their aunt, Mrs. Octavia
Preston, five years before, having come to her from one of the West
India Islands, their former home.

"Those girls have done nothing but eat raw meat, take sea baths, and
practise calisthenics and dancing ever since I first took charge of
them," Mrs. Preston was accustomed to remark to intimate friends; "yet
look at them now! Of course I could not send them to school--they would
only grow lanker. So I take them about with me patiently, governess and
all."

But Mrs. Preston was not very patient.

The three girls having disappeared, Isabella thought the occasion
favorable for a few words upon another subject. "Do you like to have
Paulie riding so often with Mr. Ash, Cousin Octavia? I can't help being
distressed about it."

"Don't be Mistering John Ash, I beg; no one in the world but you,
Isabella, would dream of doing it--a great swooping creature like
that--the horseman in 'Heliodorus.'"

"You mean Raphael's fresco? Oh, Cousin Octavia, how can you think so?
Raphael--such a religious painter, and John Ash, who looks so
dissipated!"

"Did I say he didn't look dissipated? I said he could ride. John Ash is
one of the most dissipated-looking youths I have ever met," pursued Mrs.
Preston, comfortably. "The clever sort, not the brutal."

"And you don't mind Paulie's being with him?"

"Pauline Euphemia Graham has been married, Pauline Euphemia Graham is a
widow; it ill becomes those who have not had a tithe of her experience
(though they may be much older) to set themselves up as judges of her
conduct."

Mrs. Preston had a deep rich voice, and slow enunciation; her simplest
sentences, therefore, often took on the tone of declamation, and when
she held forth at any length, it was like a Gregorian chant.

"Oh, I didn't mean to judge, I'm sure," said Isabella; "I only meant
that it would be such a pity--such a bad match for dear Paulie in case
she should be thinking of marrying again. Even if one were sure of John
Ash--and certainly the reverse is the case--look at his mother! I am
interested, naturally, as Paulie is my first cousin, you know."

"Do you mean that your first cousin's becoming Mrs. John Ash might
endanger your own matrimonial prospects?"

"Oh dear no," said poor little Isabella, shrinking back to her
embroidery. She was fifty, small, plain, extremely good. In her heart
she wished that people would take the tone that Isabella had "never
cared to marry."

"Here is Pauline now, I think," said Mrs. Preston, as a figure appeared
at the end of the hall.

