"Yes, he is in. Will you send up your card?"

I hastily inscribed my name on a card and sent it up to his room.

The bell-boy soon returned.

"The Count will be glad to see you, sir," he said. "Will you follow me?"

"He is getting ceremonious," I reflected. "I thought he would come down
to see me."

I followed the bell-boy to a room on the second floor.

"Dr. Fenwick?" he said, as the door was opened.

I saw facing me a tall, slender, dark-complexioned man of about
forty-five, a perfect stranger to me.

"I wished to see Count di Penelli," I stammered, in some confusion.

"I am the Count," he answered, courteously.

"But the Count I know is a young man."

"There is no other Count di Penelli."

"Pardon me!" I said, "but a young man calling himself by that name was
for two months a fellow boarder of mine."

"Describe him, if you please," said the Count, eagerly.

I did so.

"Ah," said the Count, when I concluded, "it is doubtless my valet, who
has been masquerading under my title. He ran away from me at the West,
nearly three months since, carrying with him three hundred dollars. I
set detectives upon his track, but they could find no clue. Is the
fellow still at your boarding-house?"

"No, Count, he eloped a week since with a widow, another of our
boarders. I believe they are in Philadelphia."

"Then he has deceived the poor woman. Has she got money?"

"A little. I don't think she has much."

"That is what he married her for. Doubtless he supposed her wealthy. He
had probably spent all the money he took from me."

"I hope, Count, for the sake of his wife, you will not have him
arrested."

Count di Penelli shrugged his shoulders.

"I will let him go at your request, poor devil," he said. "Why did she
marry him?"

"For his title."

"Then the heart is not concerned?"

"I never discovered that Mrs. Wyman had a heart."

"Probably both will be heartily sick of the marriage, perhaps are so
already."

"Thank you for your information, Count."

"And I thank you for yours. Good-morning!"

I said nothing at the boarding-house of the discovery I had made. Why
should I? So far as the rest of the boarders knew Mrs. Wyman was a
veritable Countess.




CHAPTER XXI.

AFTER THREE MONTHS.


The curtain falls and rises again after an interval of three months.

There have been some changes in our boarding-house. Prof. Poppendorf
still occupies his accustomed place, and so does Miss Blagden. The young
reporter still sits at my left, and entertains me with interesting
gossip and information about public affairs and public men with whom he
has come in contact.

But the young woman from Macy's has left us. She has returned to her
country home and is now the wife of her rustic admirer, Stephen Higgins.
I think she has done wisely. Life in the great stores is a species of
slavery, and she could save nothing from her salary. When Prof.
Poppendorf heard of her marriage, he looked depressed, but I noticed
that his appetite was not affected. A true Teuton seldom allows anything
to interfere with that.

Mrs. Gray has received two or three notes from the Countess di Penelli.
They treated of business matters solely. Whether she has discovered that
her husband's title is spurious I cannot tell. I hear, however, from a
drummer who is with us at intervals, that she is keeping a
boarding-house on Spring Garden street, and that her title has been the
magnet that has drawn to her house many persons who are glad in this way
to obtain a titled acquaintance.

As for myself I am on the high road to a comfortable income. I was
fortunate enough to give my rich patient so much relief that I have
received the large check he promised me, and have been recommended by
him to several of his friends. I have thought seriously of removing to
a more fashionable neighborhood, but have refrained--will it be
believed?--from my reluctance to leave the Disagreeable Woman. I am
beginning to understand her better. Under a brusque exterior she
certainly possesses a kind heart, and consideration for others. Upon
everything in the shape of humbug or pretension she is severe, but she
can appreciate worth and true nobility. In more than one instance I have
applied to her in behalf of a poor patient, and never in vain.

Yet I am as much in the dark as ever as to her circumstances and
residence. Upon these subjects I have ceased, not perhaps to feel, but
to show any curiosity. The time was coming, however, when I should learn
more of her.

One day a young girl came to my office. Her mother kept a modest lodging
house on West Eleventh street, and she had been my patient.

"Any one sick at home, Sarah?" I asked.

"No, doctor, but we have a lodger who is very low with a fever. I think
he is very poor. I am afraid he cannot pay a doctor, but mother thought
you would be willing to call."

"To be sure," I said, cheerfully, "I will be at your house in an hour."

An hour found me ringing at the door of Mrs. Graham's plain lodging
house.

"I thought you would come, Dr. Fenwick," said the good woman, who
personally answered the bell. "You come in good time, for poor Mr.
Douglas is very sick."

"I will follow you to his room."

He occupied a small room on the third floor. It was furnished in plain
fashion. The patient, a man who was apparently nearing fifty, was
tossing restlessly on his bed. Poorly situated as he was, I could see
that in health he must have been a man of distinguished bearing.
Poverty and he seemed ill-mated.

"Mr. Douglas," said the landlady, "this is Dr. Fenwick. I took the
liberty of calling him, as you are so ill."

The sick man turned upon me a glance from a pair of full, black eyes.

"Dr. Fenwick," he said, sadly, "I thank you for coming, but I am almost
a pauper, and I fear I cannot pay you for your services."

"That matters little," I replied. "You need me, that is enough. Let me
feel your pulse."

I found that he was in a high fever. His symptoms were serious. He
looked like a man with a constitution originally strong, but it had been
severely tried.

"Well?" he asked.

"You are seriously ill. I am not prepared just now with my diagnosis,
but I can tell better in a day or two."

"Shall I be long ill?" he asked.

"It will take time to recover."

"Shall I recover?" he asked, pointedly.

"We will hope for the best."

"I understand. Don't think I am alarmed. Life has few charms for me. My
chief trouble is that I shall be a burden to you and Mrs. Graham."

