"But when you know the results?" objected Wimpole.  "It seems to me that
it may be different."

"Then it is fear!  Then one is afraid to do right because one knows that
one risks being hurt!  What sort of morality would that be? It would be
contemptible."

"But suppose that it is not only yourself who may be hurt, but some one
else?  One should think of others first.  That is right, too."  He could
not help saying that much.

Helen hesitated a moment.

"Yes," she answered presently.  "But no one else is concerned in this
case."

"I will leave your friends out of the question," said Wimpole.  "Do you
think it will do Archie any good to live under the same roof with his
father?"

Helen started perceptibly.

"Oh, why did you say that!" she exclaimed in a low voice, and as she
leaned over the window-sill again she clasped her hands together in a
sort of despairing way.  "Why did you say that!" she repeated.

Wimpole was silent, for he had not at first realized that he had found a
very strong argument.  As yet, being human, she had thought only of
herself, in the first hours of her trouble. He had recalled all her past
terrors for her unfortunate son, and the memory of all she had done to
keep him out of his father’s way in old days.  He had been a mere boy,
then, and it had been just possible, because his half-developed mind was
not suspicious.  Now that he was grown up, it would be another matter.
The prospect was hideous enough, if Harmon should take a fancy to the
young man, and make him his companion, and then fall back into his old
ways.

"Why did you say it?  Why did you make me think of that?"  Helen asked
the questions almost piteously.  "I should have to send Archie
away--somewhere, where he would be safe."

"How could he be safe without you?"  The argument was pitilessly just.

But, after all, her life and happiness were at stake.  Wimpole saw right
in everything that could withhold her from the step to which she had
evidently made up her mind.

"And if I refuse to go back to my husband, what will become of him?" she
asked, still clasping her hands hard together.

"He could be properly taken care of," suggested Wimpole.

"And would that be forgiveness?"  Helen turned to him again
energetically.

"It would be wisdom, at all events."

"Ah, now you come back to your argument!" Her voice changed.  "You are
pressing me to do what is wise, not what is right.  Don’t do that!
Please don’t do that!"

"Do you forgive him?" asked the colonel, very gravely.

Again she paused before answering him.

"Why should you doubt it?" she asked in her turn.  "Don’t you see that I
wish to go back to him?"

"You know what I mean.  It is not the same thing.  You are a very good
woman, and by sheer force of goodness you could make an enormous
sacrifice for the sake of what you thought right."

"And would not that be forgiveness?"

"No.  If you freely forgave him, it would be no sacrifice, for you would
believe in him again. You would have just the same faith in Harmon which
you had on the day you married him.  If forgiveness means anything, it
means that one takes back the man who has hurt one, on the same real,
inward terms with oneself on which one formerly lived with him.  You
cannot do that, for it would not be sane."

"No, I cannot quite do that," Helen answered, after a moment’s thought.
"It would not be true to say that I had even thought I could. But then,
if you put it in that way, it would be hard to forgive any one, and it
would generally be foolish.  There is something wrong about your way of
looking at it."

"I am not a woman," said Wimpole, simply. "That is what is the matter.
At the same time, I do not see how you, as a woman, are ever going to
reconcile what you believe to be your duty to Harmon with what is
certainly your duty to your son."

"I must," said Helen.  "I must."

"Then you must do it before you write to Harmon, for afterwards it will
be impossible. You must decide first what you will do with Archie to
keep him out of danger.  When you have made up your mind about that, if
you choose to sacrifice yourself, nobody can prevent you.  At least you
will not be ruining him, too."

He saw no reason for not putting the case plainly, since what he said
was true.  Yet as he felt his advantage, he knew that by pressing it he
was increasing her perplexity.  In all his life he had never been in so
difficult a position.  She stood close beside him, her arm almost
touching his, and he had loved her all his life, as few men love, with
an honesty and purity that were more than quixotic.  What there was
left, he could have borne for her sake, even to seeing her united again
with Henry Harmon.  But the thought of the risk she was running was more
than he could bear.  He would use argument, stratagem, force, anything,
to keep her out of such a life; and when he had succeeded in saving her,
he would be capable of denying himself even the sight of her, lest his
conscience should accuse him of having acted for himself rather than for
her alone.

He remembered Harmon’s face as he had last seen it, coarse, cunning,
seamed with dissipation, and he looked sideways at Helen, white, weary,
bruised, a fast fading rose of yesterday, as she had called herself.
The thought of Harmon’s touch was more than he could bear.

"You shall not do it!" he exclaimed, after a long silence.  "I will make
it impossible."

Almost before he spoke the last words, he had repented them.  Helen drew
herself up and faced him, one hand on the window-sill.

"Colonel Wimpole," she said, "I know that you have always been my best
friend.  But you must not talk in that way.  I cannot allow even you to
come between me and what I think is right."

He bent his head a little.

"I beg your pardon," he answered, in a low voice.  "I should have done
it--not said it."

"I hope you will never think of it again," said Helen.

She left the window, and felt in the dark for matches, on the table, to
light a small candle she used for sealing letters.  It cast a faint
light up to her sad face.  Wimpole had stayed by the window, and watched
her now, while she looked towards him over the little flame.

"Please go, now," she said gravely.  "I cannot bear to talk about this
any longer."




                              CHAPTER VIII


After the door had closed, Helen stood a moment by the table,
motionless.  Then she sat down by the feeble light of the taper and
wrote upon a sheet of paper her husband’s address and one
word--’forgiven.’  She looked at the writing fixedly for a minute or
two, and then rang the bell.

"Have this telegram sent at once, please, and bring me a lamp and
dinner," she said to the servant.

With the lamp came Archie, following it with a sort of interest, as
children do.

"You must have been in the dark ever so long, mother," he said, and just
then he saw her white face.  "You are not looking all right," he
observed.

Helen smiled, from force of habit, rather wearily.  The servant began to
set the table, moving stealthily, as though he were meditating some
sudden surprise which never came. He was a fairly intelligent Swiss,
with an immense pink face and very small blue eyes.

Helen watched him for a moment, and sighed. The man was intellectually
her son’s superior, and she knew it.  Any one else might have smiled at
the thought, as grotesque, but it had for her the cruel vividness of a
misfortune that had saddened all of her life which her husband had not
embittered.  She envied, for her son, the poor waiter’s little powers of
mental arithmetic and memory.

"What’s the matter, mother?" asked Archie, who sat looking at her.

