
A second or third cousin lived with the Odells, and did a great deal of
the housework. She was not "real bright," and had some queer ways. Her
immediate relatives were dead; and the Odells had taken her from a
feeling of pity, and a fear lest at last she would be sent to the
poor-house. She had an odd way of talking incoherently to herself, and
nodding her head at almost everything; yet she was good-tempered and
always ready to do as she was told. But the worst was her lack of
memory; you had to tell her the same things everyday,--"get her started
in the traces," Mr. Odell said.

Mrs. Odell put a cot in the girls' room for Hanny, since there was
plenty of space. And Polly seemed to find so many funny stories to tell
over that Hanny fell asleep in the midst of them, and woke up in the
morning without a bit of homesick feeling. Then Mr. Odell was going to
the mill, and he took Polly and Hanny along, and they had a rather
amusing time.

Hanny was very much interested in the process, and amazed when she found
how they made the different things out of the same wheat. They used
"middlings" for pancakes at home, when her mother was tired of
buckwheat. Not to have had griddle-cakes for breakfast would have been
one of the hardest trials of life for men and boys through the winter.
It warmed them up of a cold morning, and they seemed to thrive on it.

Mr. Odell was very willing to explain the processes to Hanny. Polly
wanted to know if she thought of going into the milling business, and
suggested that she never would be big enough. Then they ran round to
look at the water-wheel and the little pond where the stream was dammed
so there would be no lack of water in a dry time.

They had a drawing pattern in school just like it, except that it lacked
the broken rustic bridge a little higher up. She would take a new
interest in drawing it now.

It was noon when they reached home, and Hanny felt real hungry, though
Mrs. Odell declared she didn't eat more than a bird. She was glad her
girls were not such delicate little things.

They went out on the shady back stoop afterward. Janey was sewing the
over-seam in a sheet that her mother wanted turned. When she had
finished, and picked out the old sewing, she was free. Then she said
they would go down to the Bristows' and have a good game of hide and
seek. They always had such fun at the Bristows'.

Polly brought out her basket of carpet-rags,--a peach basket nearly
full.

"I just hate to sew carpet-rags!" she declared.

"Couldn't I help you?" asked Hanny.

"Why, to be sure you could, if you would, and knew how to sew."

"Of course I know how to sew," said Hanny, rather affronted.

"Oh, I was only in fun! I'll find you a thimble. It's in my work-box
that was given me on Christmas. It's real silver, too. Mother's going to
change it when she goes to New York, only she never remembers. My
fingers are so fat. Oh, Hanny, what a little mite of a hand! It'll never
be good for anything."

"I have made a whole shirt myself, and I have hemstitched, and done
embroidery, and I wipe dishes when I haven't too many lessons,"
interposed the little girl.

"You can't make your own frocks," in a tone of triumph.

"No. Miss Cynthia Blackfan comes and does it. Can you?"

"No, she can't," said Janey, while Polly threw her head back and
laughed, showing her strong white teeth. "And she could no more make a
shirt than she could fly. You're real smart, Hanny. I'm two years older,
and I've never made a whole one. I'm going to try though, and father's
promised me a dollar when I do it all by myself."

Polly had found the thimble. It wasn't any prettier than Hanny's, though
Polly begged her "to be real careful and not lose it."

"Now you can just sew hit or miss; and then you can put in a long strip
of black, 'cause there's more black than anything else. Oh, dear, I do
hate to sew rags!"

"What kind of sewing do you like?" asked Janey, in a tone that would
have been sarcastic in an older person.

"I just don't like any kind. Hanny, do you know that some one has
invented a sewing-machine?" and Polly looked up with the triumph of
superior wisdom.

"Oh, yes, I saw it at the Institute Fair. And there's a place on
Broadway where a woman sits in the window and sews. It's very queer; but
we think it doesn't sew real nice."

Polly was for the moment nonplussed. Hanny did seem to know almost
everything. Then curiosity overcame her.

"Does it do really and truly sewing?"

"Why, yes. When you come down, I'll ask Joe to take us over to see it."

"Carpet-rags?"

"Well--I don't know. Long straight seams, and hems and stitching."

"Well, I'm going to have one when I'm married. I wonder if they cost
very much!"

"There'll be lots of things for you to do before you are married. And
some girls don't have any chance. You'll want to know how to keep
house--"

"I like housekeeping. You just go from one thing to another. I'll have
some one to cook and peel potatoes and all that. And we'll keep a horse
and waggon, and I shall go to ride every day."

Janey laughed. "Just now, you had better sew carpet-rags."

"And I'll never have any rag carpets. I will give away all the old
clothes."

"I'm afraid you'll never have much of anything, nor a husband either,
Polly Odell," said her mother. "You talk, and leave the rags for Hanny
to sew."

Polly turned scarlet, and sewed very industriously.

"I'd like to see a sewing-machine," began Janey, presently. "How does it
go?"

"There is a strap around a wheel that is fast to a frame. You put your
feet on, so, and just make them go up and down after you have started
the wheel with your hand. The needle goes through, and something catches
the thread, then it goes through again, and that makes the stitch. It is
very curious."

"You know a good many things, don't you, Hanny?" said Janey, admiringly.

Hanny coloured.

"I can beat her all out running, I know; and I'll bet a penny she can't
jump over the creek."

"And don't you dare her to, Polly. Remember how you fell in. Oh, Hanny,
she was a sight to behold!"

"Well--it had been raining, and the ground was soft, so I slipped a
little on the start. But I've done it time and again."

"And you're a regular tomboy. Girls don't train around that way in the
city."

Janey had begun to rip out the old seam. She sighed a little, and wished
she was sewing carpet-rags. That was such easy work.

"Hanny sews a great deal faster than you," she said to Polly. "See what
a pile she has. I will wind them up."

It made quite a ball, and was a little rest from the ripping, that
sounded so easy and yet was tedious. But Janey persevered, and finally,
after turning about a time or two, came to the middle with a sigh of
relief. Polly had been working like a steam-engine for ten minutes, and
picked out a good many long pieces, so she had a ball as large as
Hanny's.

Then they put on their sun-bonnets, and ran down to the Bristows', which
was in the turn of the road. There were three girls,--one of nine who
was almost as big as Hanny, and the one of eleven, much taller.

They all had a good drink of buttermilk: Mrs. Bristow had just been
churning. Then they went out to the barn and played "hide-and-seek," and
had a noisy, jolly time. They sat down and fanned themselves with their
aprons, and presently started out for some blackberries.

"There's a German settlement down below, and the children are up here
every day picking berries. You can't have anything now, unless it is
planted in your own garden. We have some lovely big blackberries, when
they get ripe."

Then the girls ran a race. Hanny was out of breath presently, and
