
"Do you know my father?" asked Clarence in considerable surprise.

"I am on my way to call upon him."

"I don't think it will do any good. He never gives money to tramps."

"I have a great mind to give you another shaking up," said the man,
and in some fear Clarence edged away from him.

It was evident that this shabby-looking stranger had not a proper
respect for those who were in a higher station.

"I will tell him not to give you anything," continued Clarence.

"Like father, like son," said the stranger thoughtfully, apparently
not disturbed by the boy's threats.

Evidently he was no common tramp, or he would have been more
respectful to the son of the man from whom he was probably about to
ask a favor.

"You just wait till you see my father. He'll give you a lecture that
you won't soon forget."

"You'd better get on your wheel, boy, and go right along," said the
stranger calmly.

"Do you know where my father lives?"

"Yes, at yonder fine house. I see him sitting out on the piazza. Shall
we go along together?"

"No, I don't keep such company as you. Tramps are not my style."

"And yet some day you may be as poor and friendless as myself."

"That isn't very likely; my father is a very rich man."

"I knew him when he was poor."

More and more puzzled by the independent manner of this shabby
stranger, Clarence made a spurt, and soon found himself in the grounds
of his father's house.

"With whom were you talking, Clarence?" asked Stephen Ray, as his son
joined him on the piazza.

"One of the most impudent tramps I ever came across," answered
Clarence. "He made an attack upon me, and pulled me from my bicycle."

Stephen Ray's cheek flamed with anger. An insult to his son was an
insult to him.

"Why did he do this? How dared he?" he demanded angrily.

"Because I happened to touch him as I passed," answered Clarence.

"He actually pulled you from your bicycle?" asked Stephen Ray, almost
incredulous.

"Yes."

"I should like to meet him. I should feel justified in ordering his
arrest."

"You will have a chance to meet him. He told me he was going to call
upon you there he is now, entering the gate."

Stephen was glad to hear it. He wanted to empty the vials of his wrath
on the audacious offender. He prided himself on his grand manner.

He was accustomed to seeing men of the stamp of this stranger quail
before him and show nervous alarm at his rebukes. He had no doubt that
his majestic wrath would overwhelm the shabby outcast who had
audaciously assaulted his son and heir.

He rose to his feet, and stood the personification of haughty
displeasure as the poor man, who dared his anger, walked composedly up
the path. He now stood by the piazza steps.

"It is well you have come here," began the squire in a dignified tone.
"My son tells me that you have committed an unprovoked outrage upon
him in dragging him from his wheel. I can only conclude that you are
under the influence of liquor."

Stephen Ray waited curiously to hear what the man would say. He was
prepared for humble apologies.

"I am no more drunk than yourself, if that is what you mean, Stephen
Ray," was the unexpected reply.

Squire Ray was outraged and scandalized.

"You must be drunk or you would not dare to talk in this way. Who
authorized you to address me in this familiar way?"

"You are only a man, I believe, Stephen Ray. I have addressed you as
respectfully as you have spoken to me."

"Respect to you?" repeated Mr. Ray, disdainfully. "Has the time come
when we must be respectful to tramps?"

"A poor tramp is quite as deserving of respect as a rich rascal."

"What do you mean by that?" demanded the squire suspiciously.

"It was a general remark."

"It is well that it was. But it has no application in the present
instance. If you are poor I will give you a quarter, but only on
condition that you apologize to my son."

The stranger laughed.

"Why should I apologize to your son?" he asked.

"You pulled him off his bicycle. Do you deny it?"

"No, I do not. Do you know what he did?"

"He brushed against you with his wheel, he tells me, accidentally."

"So that is his version of it? He deliberately ran into me."

"I gave you warning. I said 'Out of the way, there!'" interrupted
Clarence.

"Yes, but you had no right on the side walk. That is meant for
foot-passengers."

"It seems to me, sir, that you are remarkably independent for a man of
your rank. Even if it had been as you say, you had no right to assault
my son. I might have you arrested on your own confession, but I will
forbear doing so on condition that you leave town at once."

"I have a little business with you, first, Stephen Ray."

"If you expect alms, you have come to the wrong man. I don't believe
in encouraging beggars."

"I know very well that you are not charitable. You see, I used to be
acquainted with you."

"Who are you?"

"My name is Benjamin Bolton."

Stephen Ray looked startled.

"Benjamin Bolton!" he repeated, half incredulous. "I can't believe
it."




CHAPTER XXV.

A STARTLING DISCLOSURE.

"Look at me closely, Stephen Ray," said the strange visitor. "I think
you will see some traces of the Bolton you used to know."

Stephen Ray, somewhat discomposed, did examine his visitor closely.
Against his will he was obliged to acknowledge the resemblance of the
man before him to one who in past times had had an intimate
acquaintance with his affairs.

"You may be Benjamin Bolton," he said after a pause, "but if so, you
have fallen off greatly in your appearance. When I first knew you, you
were well dressed and--"

"Respectable, I suppose you mean to say?"

"Well, respectable, if you will have it so. Now you look more like a
tramp than a lawyer."

"True as gospel, every word of it. But it isn't too late to mend.
That's an old proverb and a true one. It is quite in the line of
possibility that I should get back to the position from which I fell."
