have as much left as you would suppose. Besides, we have to buy our
costumes, and some of them are quite expensive."

In spite of these drawbacks the Fogsons evidently looked upon Bertram as
a wealthy young man.

At length they rose from the table. Jed had never before eaten such a
meal since he entered the poorhouse, and he felt in a degree envious of
Mr. and Mrs. Fogson, who probably fared thus every day. When he
considered, however, how they nearly starved the poor people of whom
they had charge he felt indignant, and could not help wishing that some
time they might exchange places with the unfortunate paupers.

He went out to the yard again, and resumed his work at the woodpile.
Harry Bertram strolled out and lazily watched him.

"I suppose you never did work of this kind, Mr. Bertram?" said Jed.

"Oh yes, I lived for nearly a year with an aunt who required me to
prepare all the wood for the kitchen stove. I can tell you one thing,
though, I did not enjoy it, and when I left her I retired forever from
that line of business."

"Are you going to stay in Scranton to-day?"

"No; I must be getting over to Duncan. We have taken on a new actor and
shall be obliged to have a rehearsal. Will you go along with me?"

"I should like to, but it would only get me into trouble. I will start
about four o'clock, and go over to Dr. Redmond's to get the suit of
clothes he promised me."

"I suppose you won't have to take a trunk of clothes from here?"

"About all the clothes I own are on my back. If I leave any behind me,
anyone is welcome to them."

"Do you think there will be any difficulty in your getting away?"

"I think I can slip off without being noticed."

"Do you think they will go after you?"

"They might if they suspected where I was going."

"Then I shall have to help you. Join me at the theatre, and it will go
hard if, between us, we cannot foil the enemy."

"Thank you, Mr. Bertram. You are a real friend."

"Some people say I am everybody's friend but my own. You can judge for
yourself about that when you know me better."

Harry Bertram walked off whistling, and Jed was left to his reflections.
It is needless to say that he felt in an excited mood, for it seemed to
him that he had come to a turning-point in his life. As far back as he
could remember he had been an inmate of the Scranton poorhouse.

When Mr. and Mrs. Avery were in charge he had not minded this much, such
was the kindness with which he was treated by those good people. But
when, through the influence of Squire Dixon, they were removed and Mr.
and Mrs. Fogson put in their place he began to feel the bitterness of
his position. The three months which had passed since then seemed to him
like so many years. But now he had resolved, once for all, to end his
thralldom, and go out into the great world and see what he could do for
himself.

Circumstances favored him.

About half-past three Mr. Fogson called him down.

"I want you to go to Squire Dixon's and carry this letter," he said.

Jed's heart leaped with joy. It at once occurred to him that Squire
Dixon lived only about twenty rods from Dr. Redmond, and that he could
call at the doctor's house after doing his errand.

"Is there any answer?" he asked.

"No; I have asked the squire to call here this evening, if he can. He is
the overseer, and I wish to consult him."

"Very well, sir."

Jed took the letter, glad that no answer would be required. Even if
there had been, he would have neglected to bring it, for he could not
afford to throw away this chance of escape.

The distance from the poorhouse to Squire Dixon's residence was about
three-quarters of a mile. Jed covered it in less than fifteen minutes.

In the front yard Percy Dixon was strutting about with the airy
consequence habitual to him.

"What brings you here?" he asked rudely.

"I've come with a note for your father. After I've delivered it I will
stop a little while and play with you if you want me to."

"You needn't trouble yourself. I don't care to play with paupers."

"Don't call me that again, Percy Dixon!" said Jed, his patience worn
out.

"What will happen if I do?" demanded Percy tauntingly.

"I may be obliged to give you a thrashing."




CHAPTER X.

JED REACHES DUNCAN.


Percy Dixon's face flushed with resentment.

"Do you know who you are talking to?" he demanded.

"Yes," answered Jed coolly. "I am talking to a boy who thinks a great
deal more of himself than any one else does."

"I would punish you, but I don't want to dirty my hands with you. I'll
tell my father, and he'll see that old Fogson flogs you."

Jed smiled. He never meant to see Fogson again if he could help it, but
he was too wise to impart his plans to Percy.

At this moment his father came up to the gate, and as he opened it his
attention was drawn to Jed.

"Have you come here with any message for me?" he asked.

"I have a note for you."

"Give it to me."

"Humph!" said the squire, casting his eye over the note. "Mr. Fogson
asks me to call this evening. I will do so."

"Very well, sir."

"Father," interrupted Percy, "there is to be a play performed at Duncan
this evening."

"Is there?"

"Yes; I saw a bill in the post-office. It's the 'Gold King,' I believe.
May I go?"

"I don't know," said the squire, hesitating. "Mr. Fogson wants me to
call at the poorhouse."

"If you don't care about going, I can drive mother and Alice over. You
know you promised we should attend the next theatrical performance
anywhere near."

"If your mother and Alice would like to go I have no objection. You must
drive carefully, and you can leave the horses in the hotel stable."

"All right," said Percy joyfully. "Did you ever go to a theatre?" he
asked Jed in a patronizing tone.

"No."

"I have been quite often," said Percy complacently. "But, of course,
paupers can't attend amusements."

"You may change your mind this evening," thought Jed.

Jed went at once to the doctor's house. Dr. Redmond had just arrived
from a round of visits.

"Good morning, Jed," he said pleasantly.

"Good morning, Dr. Redmond."

"Do you want to see me?"

