Struggling fiercely, the crank was hurried down the stairs by the two
official guardians, and then Mr. Rockwell, who was an old man, quietly
fainted away.

When he came to, he said feebly, "I am very much upset. I think I will
go home. Call a cab, my boy."

Mark soon had one at the door.

"Now, I want you to go with me and see me home. I don't dare to go by
myself."

Mark helped the old gentleman into his cab, and up the stairs of his
dwelling. Mr. Rockwell paid the cab driver adding, "Take this boy back
to my office. What is your name, my boy?"

"Mark Mason, No. 79."

Luther Rockwell scribbled a few lines on a leaf torn from his memorandum
book, and gave it to Mark.

"Present that at the office," he said. "Come round next week and see
me."

"Yes, sir," answered Mark respectfully, and sprang into the cab.

As he was riding through Madison Avenue he noticed from the window his
uncle Solon and Edgar walking slowly along on the left hand side. At the
same moment they espied him.

"Look, father!" cried Edgar in excitement. "Mark Mason is riding in that
cab."

"So he is!" echoed Mr. Talbot in surprise.

Catching their glance, Mark smiled and bowed. He could understand their
amazement, and he enjoyed it.

Mechanically Mr. Talbot returned the salutation, but Edgar closed his
lips very firmly and refused to take any notice of his cousin.

"I don't understand it," he said to his father, when the cab had passed.
"Doesn't it cost a good deal to ride in a cab in New York?"

"Yes. I never rode in one but once, and then I had to pay two dollars."

"And yet Mark Mason, who is little more than a beggar, can afford to
ride! And last evening he was at the theater in company with a
fashionable young lady. Telegraph boys must get higher pay than he
said."

"Perhaps, Edgar," suggested his father with an attempt at humor, "you
would like to become a telegraph boy yourself."

"I'd scorn to go into such a low business."

"Well, I won't urge you to do so."

Meanwhile Mark continued on his way in the cab. As he passed City Hall
Park Tom Trotter, who had just finished shining a gentleman's boots,
chanced to look towards Broadway. As he saw his friend Mark leaning back
in the cab, his eyes opened wide.

"Well, I'll be jiggered!" he exclaimed. "How's that for puttin' on
style? Fust thing you know Mark Mason will have his name down wid de
Four Hundred!"

It did not occur to Mark to look at the paper given him by Mr. Rockwell
till he got out of the cab.

This was what he read:

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. NICHOLS: Give this boy ten dollars.

LUTHER ROCKWELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

His eyes flashed with delight.

"This is a lucky day!" he exclaimed. "It's worth while running the risk
of being blown up when you're so well paid for it."

Nichols, the chief clerk, at once complied with his employer's
directions.

"You're a brave boy, 79," he said. "If it hadn't been for you, we'd all
have been blown higher than a kite. How did you leave Mr. Rockwell?"

"He seems pretty well upset," answered Mark.

"No wonder; he's an old man. I don't mind saying I was upset myself, and
I am less than half his age. You were the only one of us that kept his
wits about him."

"Somehow I didn't think of danger," said Mark. "I was considering how I
could get the better of the crank."

"You took a great risk. If the valise had fallen, we'd have all gone up,
and he pointed significantly overhead. I am glad Mr. Rockwell has given
you something. If he had given you a hundred dollars, or a thousand, it
wouldn't have been too much."

"He told me to call at the office next week."

"Don't forget to do it. It will be to your interest."




CHAPTER VI.

"THE EVENING GLOBE."


WHILE Mark was passing through these exciting scenes Mrs. Mason went
about her daily duties at home, anxiously considering how the rent was
to be paid on the following day. Mark had not told her of his gift from
Maud Gilbert, intending it as a surprise.

As she was washing the breakfast dishes, there was a little tap at the
door. To her surprise, the visitor turned out to be Mrs. Mack, of the
floor above, to whom Mark had applied for a loan without success. As
Mrs. Mack seldom left her room, Mrs. Mason regarded her with surprise.

"Come in and sit down, Mrs. Mack," she said kindly.

She had no regard for the old woman, but felt that she deserved some
consideration on account of her great age.

Mrs. Mack hobbled in and seated herself in a rocking-chair.

"I hope you are well," said Mrs. Mason.

"Tollable, tollable," answered the old woman, glancing curiously about
the room, as if making an inventory of what it contained.

"Can't I give you a cup of tea? At your age it will be strengthening."

"I'm not so very old," said the old woman querulously. "I'm only
seventy-seven, and my mother lived to be eighty-seven."

"I hope you will live as long as you wish to. But, Mrs. Mack, you must
make yourself comfortable. Old people live longer if they live in
comfort. Will you have the tea?"

"I don't mind," answered Mrs. Mack, brightening up at the prospect of
this unwonted luxury.

She did not allow herself tea every day, on account of its cost. There
are many foolish people in the world, but among the most foolish are
those who deny themselves ordinary comforts in order to save money for
their heirs.

The tea was prepared, and the old woman drank it with evident enjoyment.

"Your boy came up yesterday to borrow three dollars," she began then,
coming to business.

"Yes, he told me so."

"He said he'd pay me Saturday night."

"Yes, he gets two weeks' pay then."

"I--I was afraid he might not pay me back, and I can't afford to lose so
much money. I'm a poor old woman."

"Mark would have paid you back. He always pays his debts."

"Yes; I think he is a good boy. If I thought he would pay me back, I--I
think I would lend him the money. He offered to pay me interest."

"Yes; he would pay you for the favor."

"If--if he will pay me four dollars on Saturday night I will lend him
what he wants."

