
"Go down there, both of you, and see if you can see or hear anything
of him."

"All right, Tim."

And the two left the saloon and took a westerly route toward the North
River piers.

Three hours later they returned.

"Have you heard anything?" asked Bolton. "Did you see Dodger?"

"No; we didn't see him."

"But you heard something?"

"Yes; we found a boy, a friend of his, that said the last he saw of
Dodger was last evenin'."

"Where did he see him?"

"Near the pier of the Albany boats."

"What was he doin'?"

"Carryin' a valise for a man."

"What kind of a man? How did he look?"

"He had gray hair and gray whiskers."

Tim was puzzled by the description.

If, as he suspected, Curtis were concerned in the abduction, this man
could not have been he.

"The man was a passenger by the Albany boat, I suppose?"

"No; that was what looked queer. Before the Albany boat came in the
man was lyin' round with his valise, and the boy thought he was goin'
off somewhere. But when the boat came in he just mixed in with the
passengers, and came up to the entrance of the pier. Two boys asked to
carry his valise, but he shook his head till Dodger came round, and he
engaged him right off."

Tim Bolton nodded knowingly.

"It was a plan," he said. "The man wanted to get hold of Dodger. What
puzzles me is, that you said he was an old man."

"His hair and beard were gray."

"And Curtis has no beard, and his hair is black."

"But the boy said he didn't look like an old man, except the hair. He
walked off like a young man."

Tim Bolton's face lighted up with sudden intelligence.

"I'll bet a hat it was Curtis in disguise," he soliloquized.

"That's all we could find out, Mr. Bolton," said Briggs, with another
longing look at the bar.

"It is enough! You have earned your whiskey. Walk up, gentlemen!"

Hooker and Briggs needed no second invitation.

"Will either of you take a note for me to Mrs. O'Keefe? For another
drink, of course."

"I will, Tim," said Hooker, eagerly.

"No; take me, Mr. Bolton," entreated Briggs.

"You can both go," said Tim, generously. "Wait a minute, and I'll have
it ready for you."

He found a half sheet of note paper, and scribbled on it this message:

    "Mrs. O'Keefe:--Tell Miss Linden that I have a clew. I am
    almost surtin her cozen has got away with Dodger. He won't
    hurt him, but he will get him out of the city. Wen I hear
    more I will right.

                                                 "T. Bolton."




Chapter XXVI.
Bolton Makes A Discovery.


"I see it all," Bolton said to himself, thoughtfully. "Curtis Waring
is afraid of the boy--and of me. He's circumvented me neatly, and the
game is his--so far my little plan is dished. I must find out for
certain whether he's had anything to do with gettin' Dodger out of the
way, and then, Tim Bolton, you must set your wits to work to spoil his
little game."

Bolton succeeded in securing the services of a young man who had
experience at tending bar, and about eight o'clock, after donning his
best attire, he hailed a Fourth Avenue surface car and got aboard.

Getting out at the proper street, he made his way to Madison Avenue,
and ascended the steps of John Linden's residence.

The door was opened by Jane, who eyed the visitor with no friendly
glance.

"What do you want?" she asked, in a hostile tone.

"Is Mr. Waring at home?"

"I don't know."

"Is Miss Florence at home?"

"Do you know her?" she asked.

"Yes; I am a friend of hers."

Jane evidently thought that Florence must have made some queer
friends.

"Have you seen her lately?" she asked eagerly.

"I saw her to-day."

"Is she well?"

"Yes; she is well, but she is in trouble."

"Is she---- Does she need any money?"

"No; it isn't that. The boy Dodger has disappeared, and she is afraid
something has happened to him."

"Oh, I am so sorry! He was a good friend of Miss Florence."

"I see you know him. I am trying to help him and her."

"But you asked for Mr. Waring?" said Jane, suspiciously.

"So I did. Shall I tell you why?"

"I wish you would."

"I think he has something to do with gettin' Dodger out of the way,
and I'm goin' to try to find out."

"He won't tell you."

"You don't understand. I shall make him think I am on his side. Was he
at home last night?"

"He went away at dinner time, and he didn't come home till after
twelve. I ought to know, for he forgot his latchkey, and I had to get
up and let him in. I won't do it again. I'll let him stay out first."

"I see; he was with Dodger, no doubt. Did you say he was in?"

"No, sir; but he will be in directly. Won't you step into the
library?"

"Shall I meet the old gentleman there?" asked Bolton, in a tone of
hesitation.

"No. He goes up to his chamber directly after dinner."

"How is he?"

"I think he's failing."

"I hope there is no immediate danger," said Bolton, anxiously.

"No; but he's worrying about Miss Florence. It's my belief that if she
were at home, he'd live a good while."
