"Run. I should."

"No; I should make them a speech--a long one--oh, dreadfully long and
wearisome. I should talk and talk and talk, and repeat myself, and pile
platitude on platitude, and maunder on and on and on. And about
luncheon-time I should have a delicious repast served me, and I'd
continue my speech as I ate. And after that I'd ramble on and on until
dinner-time. And I should dine magnificently up there on the dais, and,
between courses, I'd continue my speech----"

"You'd choose the last man to go to sleep," he said simply.

"How did you guess it!" she exclaimed, vexed. "I--it's too bad for you
to know everything, Mr. Seabury."

"I thought you were convinced that I didn't know anything?" he said,
looking up at her. His voice was quiet--too quiet; his face grave,
unsmiling, firm.

"I? Mr. Seabury, I don't understand you."

He folded his hands and rested his chin on the knuckles. "But I
understand you, Miss Gay. Tell me"--the odd smile flickered and went
out--"Tell me, in whose house am I?"

Sheer shame paralyzed her; wave on wave of it crimsoned her to the hair.
She sat there in deathly silence; he coolly lighted another cigarette,
dropped one elbow on his knee, propping his chin in his open palm.

"I'm curious to know--if you don't mind," he added pleasantly.

"Oh--h!" she breathed, covering her eyes suddenly with both hands. She
pressed the lids for a moment steadily, then her hands fell to her lap,
and she faced him, cheeks aflame.

"I--I have no excuse," she stammered--"nothing to say for myself ...
except I did not understand what a--a common--dreadful--insulting thing
I was doing----"

He waited; then: "I am not angry, Miss Gay."

"N-not angry? You are! You must be! It was too mean--too
contemptible----"

"Please don't. Besides, I took possession of your sleigh. Bailey did the
business for me. I didn't know he had left the Austins, of course."

She looked up quickly; there was a dimness in her eyes, partly from
earnestness; "I did not know you had made a mistake until you spoke of
the Austins," she said. "And then something whispered to me not to tell
you--to let you go on--something possessed me to commit this folly----"

"Oh, no; I committed it. Besides, we were more than half-way here,
were we not?"

"Ye-yes."

"And there's only one more train for Beverly, and I couldn't possibly
have made that, even if we had turned back!"

"Y-yes. Mr. Seabury, are you trying to defend me?"

"You need no defense. You were involved through no fault of your own in
a rather ridiculous situation. And you simply, and like a philosopher,
extracted what amusement there was in it."

"Mr. Seabury! You shall not be so--so generous. I have cut a wretchedly
undignified figure----"

"You couldn't!"

"I could--I have--I'm doing it!"

"You are doing something else, Miss Gay."

"W-what?"

"Making it very, very hard for me to go."

"But you can't go! You mustn't! Do you think I'd let you go--now? Not
if the Austins lived next door! I mean it, Mr. Seabury. I--I simply must
make amends--all I can----"

"Amends? You have."

"I? How?"

"By being here with me."

"Th-that is--is very sweet of you, Mr. Seabury, but I--but they--but
you--Oh! I don't know what I'm trying to say, except that I like
you--they will like you--and everybody knows Lily Seabury. Please,
please forgive----"

"I'm going to telephone to Beverly.... Will you wait--here?"

"Ye-yes. Wh-what are you going to telephone? You can't go, you know.
Please don't try--will you?"

"No," he said, looking down at her.

Things were happening swiftly--everything was happening in an
instant--life, youth, time, all were whirling and spinning around her in
bewildering rapidity; and her pulses, too, leaping responsive, drummed
cadence to her throbbing brain.

She saw him mount the stairs and disappear--no doubt to his room, for
there was a telephone there. Then, before she realized the lapse of
time, he was back again, seating himself quietly beside her on the broad
stair.

"Shall I tell you what I am going to do?" he said after a silence
through which the confused sense of rushing unreality had held her mute.

"Wh-what are you going to do?"

"Walk to Beverly."

"Mr. Seabury! You promised----"

"Did I?"

"You did! It is snowing terribly.... It is miles and miles and the snow
is already too deep. Besides, do you think I--we would let you walk!
But you shall not go--and there are horses enough, too! No, no, no! I--I
wish you would let me try to make up something to you--if I--all that
I can possibly make up."

"At the end of the hall above there's a window," he said slowly. "Prove
to me that the snow is too deep."

"Prove it?" She sprang up, gathering her silken skirts and was on the
landing above before he could rise.

He found her, smiling, triumphant, beside the big casement at the end of
the hallway.

"Now are you convinced?" she said. "Just look at the snowdrifts. Are you
satisfied?"

"No," he said, quietly--too quietly by far. She looked up at him, a
quick protest framed on her red lips. Something--perhaps the odd glimmer
in his eyes--committed her to silence. From silence the stillness grew
into tension; and again the rushing sense of unreality surged over them
both, leaving their senses swimming.

"There is only one thing in the world I care for now," he said.

"Ye-yes."

"And that is to have you think well of me."

"I--I do."

"--And each day--think better of me."

"I--will--probably----"

"And in the end----"

She neither stirred nor turned her eyes.

"--In the end--Listen to me."

"I am wi-willing to."

[Illustration: "'Only one person in the world can ever matter to
me--now.'"]

"Because it will be then as it is now; as it was when even I didn't know
it--as it must be always, for me. Only one person in the world can ever
matter to me--now.... There's no escape from it for me."

"Do--do you wish to--escape?"

"Cecil!" he said under his breath.

       

"They're dancing, below," she said leaning over the gallery, one soft
