Rage blinded me. Doubtless I made some noise and talked wildly of
seeking Dunmore, and I know I found myself struggling with Mount to
leave the room. But I was an infant in his grasp, and presently I sat
down again, perforce, while Mount and Renard reasoned with me somewhat
sternly.

"The sooner you leave Pitt the safer for you," said Mount. "The town
talks of little but your accusation of Dunmore last night. You may
think yourself safe because you are Sir William Johnson's deputy, but
I know that Dunmore and Butler will treat you as they did your
messenger if you give them half a chance. What's to prove that the
Cayugas be not your murderers? Tush, lad! This is no time for boyish
fury. Get your kinswoman, Miss Warren, out of this town. Get her out
to-night. Are you waiting for Dunmore's escort and horses? You will
see neither, save perhaps in pursuit of you. Why, lad, the Governor is
crazed with the disgrace you have brought upon him! Trust me, he will
stop at nothing where he can strike unseen."

"You mean he will not answer my letter or accord me escort?" I asked,
astonished.

"If he furnished you escort, it would be an escort of murderers who
would take care you never saw Johnstown," said the Weasel.

"Can't you feel that you are in a trap?" asked Mount. "Gad! it should
pinch you ere this!"

"And you leave it to us to open it for you," added the Weasel, sagely.
"We are none too safe here ourselves. Mayhap some of those same
pamphlets and ballads and books may be sold hereabouts to our
discredit."

"I also think that Cade and I have outstayed our welcome," said Mount,
with a grin. "If we meet your friend Butler, run we must."

At that moment Rolfe came up from below, bearing in his hand a letter
for me, and saying that it had been brought hither by a servant in
Lady Shelton's livery.

I took the letter; the seal had already been broken, and I glared at
Rolfe and pointed to it.

"Ay," he observed, shaking his head; "the slavering servant fetched it
so. It may be accident; it may be design, Mr. Cardigan. You best know,
sir, who may be your foes in Pittsburg town, and what they might gain
by a knowledge of your letters."

"The inn, here, is closely spied," observed Mount, coolly. "Doubtless
my lady Shelton's lackeys can be bribed as well as the King's
ministers."

"The sooner we leave the happier we shall be," said the Weasel,
cheerfully. "Jimmy Rolfe, that stout post-chaise, well provisioned,
and four strong horses might help us to-night--eh, friend?"

"I cannot pay for that," I said, blankly, looking up from my letter.

"The chaise is yours," said Rolfe, resentfully. "Pay when you can,
sir; I trade not with friends in need." And he went out,
disrespectfully slamming the door.

"A rare man," said Mount, "but touchy, lad, touchy. Give the devil his
due and Jim Rolfe would wear shillings on his coat-tails."

"He is a loyal friend," I said, reddening. "I have much to learn of
men."

"And men have much to learn of you, lad!" said Mount, heartily. "Come,
sir, read your nosegay, and may it bring you happiness! Weasel, turn
thy back and make pretence to catch flies."

I went over to the window, and, leaning against the bars, opened the
violated letter and read it carefully:

      "DEAR COZZEN MICHAEL,--I am not permitted to accompany you
      today to Johnstown it being a racing day and I pledged to
      attend with Lady Shelton and divers respectable ladies and
      gentlemen.

      "And oh Micky why did you say such things to Lord Dunmore
      last night? I have been ill of it all night and in a fever
      for fear they may harm you, though Lady Shelton assures me
      your person is safe, being a deputy of Sir William, and
      further says that you are an unmannerly and bold rebel and
      desires not your presence in her house, and desires me to
      inform you. Oh Micky what have you done? I do not desire any
      longer to wed Lord Dunmore and be a Countess, but I had not
      thought to have you speak so to Lord Dunmore. He came here
      last evening in a white fury and showed me the letter you had
      written to him. He says that you are not the messenger he
      expected, though you may be a deputy, and he vows he will not
      be so vilely used, and he will not give me up but will
      publish the banns to-day in Pitt, come what may. Which has
      frightened me so I write to you that I do not wish to be a
      countess any more and would be glad to go to Aunt Molly and
      Sir William.

      "I will rise from bed at eleven o'clock to-night and go out
      into the orchard with Black Betty. Pray you cozzen, greet me
      with a post-chaise and take me away from these dreadful,
      dreadful people.

        "Your cozzen,
           "FELICITY.

      "Postscriptum

      "To witt, I will not wed you though we be affianced, and I
      will wed no man upon your recommendation. With your own
      affairs I pray you be dilligently active and concern yourself
      not with mine hereafter."

When I had again read the letter I examined the wax. The paper had
been carelessly folded and more carelessly sealed; and I called to
Mount and the Weasel, pointing out that, though the letter was
unsealed, the wax itself had not been broken.

"I do not think," said I, "that this letter has deliberately been
tampered with. This is only carelessness."

"It was certainly sealed and folded in haste," remarked the Weasel,
poking at the wax with his forefinger.

Mount also pretended to believe that negligence or haste accounted for
the open letter, and, satisfied, we sat down to discuss the measures
to be taken for a fortnight flight.

I had a mind to follow Silver Heels to the races, trusting that I
might find a moment to warn her most solemnly not to fail us. Mount
thought the idea most wise, offering to bear me company, and the
Weasel agreed to remain and assist Rolfe to equip and furnish our
post-chaise with the necessaries for a long journey.

It was understood between us that Silver Heels and Black Betty were to
ride in the chaise, and I with them; that Mount and the Weasel would
sit the horses as postilions, and that Shemuel should ride atop. It
was further decided that, as the northern and western frontier were
impassable in view of the border war, we should take the post-road to
the Virginia border, make for Williamsburg, and from there turn north
across Maryland and the Jerseys, reaching Johnstown through New York
and Albany.

I gave the Weasel money to purchase powder and ball, which we all
lacked, and to buy for me a silver watch and a rifle or firelock to
replace the loss of my own. Also, I charged him to purchase pistols
for me and for Shemuel, with flint and ball for the same, and to
sharpen our knives and hatchets against need.

"You waste breath," observed Mount, yawning. "The Weasel never
neglects to file his claws for battle."

"Very well," said I, wincing; "it seems that of us all I alone know
nothing of my own affairs."

"You will learn," said the Weasel, kindly, and I was obliged to
swallow their well-meant patronage and follow Mount to the street.

"If I had my way," said I, resentfully, "I would take Miss Warren from
the races and set out by noon."

"If I had my way," observed Mount, "I should not try to escape
to-night at all."

"Why not?" I asked, in surprise.

"Because of that unsealed letter."

"But we agreed it was accident!"

"Ay, we agree, but mayhap there are others yet to disagree."

"Nonsense!" I said.

"Doubtless," said Mount, with the faintest trace of irony, enough to
flavour his mild smile with that mockery which hurts the pride of very
young men.

Offended, I strode on beside him, and neither he nor I offered to
speak again until Mount suddenly stopped in the middle of the King's
Road and looked back.
