impressed one not only with a sense of security, but a sense of power
that she was minded to rebel against.

They talked late. Why could she not slyly disappear, as she often did,
and leave him with Uncle Denys, since he would remain all night?

But she shook off the mysterious chain with an effort and rose and
wished them good-night in a timid sort of way, though she stood up very
straight.

He caught her hand. “I am tempted to wish there could be no nights for a
long while,” he said. “They are not good nights.”

“Think how sleepy we should get. And mine are always good,” laughing
lightly. But she did not go across and kiss Uncle Denys.

There were several busy days, and friends that proffered André a warm
welcome. The Valbonais cousins were wedded long ago, but they claimed
him quite as cordially, and the old people were proud enough of him. The
Marchands offered him their home, and were delighted to have him drop
in. Then he was being asked to dine or sup with the Chouteaus, and he
was at the Government House, for his intelligent understanding of other
subjects besides commercial matters made him a desirable guest.

Renée experienced a curious sensation, as if she was being neglected.
She had lost her old power over him, which was mortifying. He teased her
a little, then he let her trifle with him and say saucy things. But it
was like a bird with a chain; he brought her back, he let her see it was
only playing. Then she grew indignant and flounced away, met him coldly
the next time, or was proud and silent.

Uncle Gaspard never raised a finger in the matter.

“I do not like him. I almost hate him!” she cried vehemently one day.
“Of course, I know he saved me in that dreadful peril, but he has been
thanked a hundred times over. And we do not owe him anything.”

“Oh, yes,” Uncle Gaspard said tenderly, as he pressed her to his heart.
“I owe him a great deal. For if I had lost you——”

“And you could never give me to any one else?”

“Well, whoever wanted one would have to take both.”

Presently the trafficking was about over. The Indians had gone to their
respective lodges, the voyageurs sailed up the river, and now only
occasional boats and canoes came in. André was not so busy. He joined
the parties on their rambles when he was certain Renée would be among
them. He did not hesitate to make himself agreeable to other
demoiselles. She could not help drawing contrasts. He had certain ways
of the better class, though social lines were not strongly marked and
few people knew what culture meant. He talked Spanish fluently; he was
quite an adept in English, though he had acquired a little of that
before. But the difference was largely one of manner, the small,
delicate attentions that went to her heart and understanding. Uncle
Gaspard always had some of them, M. Marchand also, and a few of the
others. The rather rough good nature had much honesty, but it was not so
flattering to a girl of Renée’s cast.

There were times when she was quite as jealous as she had ever been of
Uncle Gaspard. Yet it was strange to be so shaken by his coming when she
told herself she did not care for him, to have the touch of his hand
thrill through every nerve, to have the steady glance of his eye conquer
the spirit of rebellion until there was nothing left except the thin
outside crust, that would surely fall at the next assault if she did not
run away. This was cowardly, too, and she despised herself for it, but
she was not the first who had escaped in this fashion.

He was amused. In the earlier days he had experienced a great terror at
the thought of losing her. It might be the elder man’s wisdom had helped
open his eyes. He liked her piquant independence, and he learned, too,
there was a mood of most fascinating dependence as well. But she never
wholly gave up.

“Is it true you are going back to New Orleans?” Renée asked one day in
her charming, but imperious fashion.

“Yes, ma’m’selle. And I must start in another month.”

He looked so brave and dignified, his clear eyes shining, his shoulders
thrown back, his head securely poised, as if he could lead an army.
There was not his match in all St. Louis. Oh, yes, Uncle Gaspard and M.
Marchand, and Madame Chouteau’s splendid sons, who had risked various
dangers! And M. Marchand had carried off the pretty Wawataysee when he
knew if they should be captured he would be put to cruel tortures and
death. Well, had not André escaped with them both when a like fate would
have awaited him in being taken?

“You care nothing for us now, André,” in her most plaintive tone, a
hundred times more dangerous than her pride tinctured with sweetness.
And the sorrow that flooded her beautiful brown eyes almost swept him
from his standing-ground.

“Yes, ma’m’selle, I care a great deal. I love M. Denys as an elder
brother. And you—” hesitatingly.

She blushed scarlet and her eyes drooped.

“No, you want the gayety and the excitement and the crowds of pretty
women and the theatres. We are dull and simple here, yet I think we are
good and happy and honest and true. And, then, you are all absorbed in
money-making. Uncle Gaspard said you would be a rich man before you
died. But they do dreadful things in New Orleans, and drink and carouse.
You may be murdered some day, and then what will all the money be
worth?”

She looked so aggrieved, so bewitching in her regret that, after all,
was half assumed, though she would not confess it to herself even, that
he had much ado to keep tranquil.

“Ma’m’selle, I go because I see it is quite necessary. A man who hopes
for advancement must study the interest of those who have his welfare at
heart and can favor him in many ways. Then I hold the key to much of the
business at that end of the line, and I do not see who there is to put
in my place. It is true the life here is simple and delightful. There
one has a good deal of sharp dealing to fight against, since he must
meet men of all governments and all sorts of schemes. If M’sieu Chouteau
could go—but he cannot. Do not for a moment think it is the gayety and
the pretty women.”

“Then you will go. There is no use in arguing.”

She turned away. How distractingly pretty she was this morning in the
old garden, herself a part of its bloom! Over the gate she had given him
a rose, and renewed friendship after a dispute.

“I must go. I have passed my word. Renée—” in a beseeching tone.

She half turned, like a bird who wonders whether he will fly or not, but
her lowered eyes had a laugh in them.

“Renée, you know I love you——”

“No, I do not.” He could see the swelling of her bosom that sent a throb
up to her throat. “You do nothing for me now. You are off with the men.
You are—oh, so very charming to the girls!” with a cutting little
emphasis. “And you are always talking to Uncle Gaspard about business——”

“And last night you ran away to bed without even a good-night!” with
upbraiding in his voice.

“Oh, did you miss me? I never supposed you would. I was tired sitting
there, thinking my own thoughts.”

“Now we have plenty of time; tell them to me,” and his persuasive tone
penetrated her inmost being. What foolish things could she repeat? Her
face was scarlet.

“You know now I love you. I have told you so in words. I have told it in
many other ways. I confessed it to M. Denys before I went away and he
bade me wait patiently. For two years I have carried you in my heart,
yes, longer than that. You had your fling about other women; no one has
ever moved me. Every night I said, ‘One more day has gone, and at the
last I shall go back to the little girl in old St. Louis that I carried
in my arms all one night when she was worn out with fatigue and hunger
and cold. Renée——”

“I cannot leave Uncle Denys. I have said hundreds of times I never
would,” and her voice was sweet with pathos that penetrated his inmost
soul.

“But you need not. We have planned that. I will be a son to him in all
his declining years. No, you need never be separated.”

“Then you will stay!” exultingly. If she could once conquer she would be
generous and consent afterward. Did not love yield everything?

“I must go. We three will go.” His breath came in a gasp, his eyes
deepened with fervor, he caught both her hands; he could have clasped
her in his arms in a transport of rapture. Only—she stood up so straight
and resolute.

“So you have planned all this!” she cried in a passion that had a pang
for her as well as him. “And I am not anywhere. It makes no difference
what I want. I am like any bale of merchandise tossed from one to the
other. That is all a woman is worth! But you will find I am not to be
bandied about.”

She had lashed her emotion into tears, and pulled away her hands with an
impatient gesture.
